learn the rudiments of their language of culture, namely Latin, but incidentally gave them a tool for writing the vernacular correctly. (Spelling in French
was quite variable in the sixteenth century. As Estienne was a printer, he had a stake in the standardization of the written language.) Over the
following century, as both English and French absorbed more words from each other and from classical languages, alphabetical listings of
technical, philosophical, and foreign words became quite popular. In 1604, a Coventry schoolmaster, Robert Cawdrey, brought out a work whose
lengthy title explains the social and cultural basis for dictionary making ever since: A Table Alphabeticall of hard usual English wordes, with the
interpretation thereof by plaine English words, gathered for the benefit & help of Ladies, gentlewomen, or any other unskilful person. Whereby
they more eas-ilie and better understand many hard English wordes, which they shall heare or read in the Scriptures, Sermons, or elsewhere,
and also be made able to do the same aptly themselves.
The step from compiling such socially useful works for the improvement of the undereducated classes to making dictionaries of all words may
seem natural. It could be accounted for by the spread of literacy, the growth of the book trade, an obsession with the making of more and more
specialized glossaries, and the wish to bring all this language lore together in one place. But that would be a retrospective illusion. Intellectually,
there is a huge gulf between works, however extensive, that lay down the meanings of “hard” or technical or foreign terms to help less well-educated
folk, and an attempt to list all the words that are spoken by the speakers of a given language. To make that leap you have to think of the language
you speak as a finite entity. “The English language” has to be conceptualized not as a social practice but as a thing in itself. That is why the history
of the English dictionary is the history of the invention of a “language” in the sense that we now understand that word.
Dictionaries alone aren’t responsible for the thingification of natural languages, but they crystallized a peculiar modern view of what it means to
have a language. The spread of the printed book is also a major factor in the converging circumstances and technologies that gave us the ideas
that have dominated modern language study ever since, and profoundly affected our understanding of what translators do.
GPDs, from Samuel Johnson’s to Webster’s and from Brock-haus to Robert, list the words that are part of the language. In so doing they also tell
us that the language we speak is a list of words. From its origin in the Hebrew Bible, the nomenclaturist understanding of what a language is was
given a huge, definitive boost by the emergence of the modern typographical mind.
Which words are entitled to be listed in a dictionary that gives not a field-restricted set of words but the words of a whole language? Well, the
words that people use. All of them? To the extent that is even possible, GPDs forfeit their historical claim to be instruments of improvement. That’s
the arm wrestling. Laying down what words mean and how they should best be used, as was Cawdrey’s laudable plan, runs directly counter to the
wider project of listing all the words people actually use with the varied meanings they may give to them. That’s why monolingual reference
dictionaries have grown so impractically large. The solution to that problem is vividly illustrated by the career of one of Georges Perec’s fictional
characters:
Cinoc … pursued a curious profession.As he said himself, he was a “word-killer”: he worked at keeping Larousse dictionaries up to date.
But while other compilers sought out new words and meanings, his job was to make room for them by eliminating all the words and
meanings that had fallen into disuse.
When he retired … he had disposed of hundreds and thousands of tools, techniques, customs, beliefs, sayings, dishes, games,
nicknames, weights and measures … He had returned to taxonomic anonymity hundreds of varieties of cattle, species of birds, insects
and snakes, rather special sorts of fish, kinds of crustaceans, slightly dissimilar plants and particular breeds of vegetables and fruit; and
cohorts of geographers, missionaries, entomologists, Church Fathers, men of letters, generals, Gods & Demons had been swept by his
hand into eternal obscurity.5
GPDs of any language, and quite especially those using an alphabetical script, are always of potentially infinite size, because no language can
have fixed boundaries in time or space, and there can be no ultimate, definitive division of a social practice into a finite set of components. To
escape from this dilemma while pursuing the broad project of mapping a particular language, Peter Mark Roget devised his Thesaurus (“treasure”
in Greek), which uses not the arbitrary order of the alphabet but the natural order of the world as its organizing principle. He established six general
classes of “real things,” which are not material things but ideas: Abstract Relations, Space, Matter, Intellectual Faculties, Voluntary Power, and
Sentient and Moral Powers. These he divided into categories, then broke down each category into lesser groups of ideas, and only at this point
does he list all the words and expressions that may be used to communicate the idea. “Sentient and Moral Powers,” for example, incorporates the
category of “Personal Affections,” one of whose groups is constituted by “Discriminative Affections,” among which figures the subgroup
“Aggravation.” That’s where you find a raft of words and phrases including anger, ire, fury, to get up someone’s nose, to piss someone off, and to
get someone’s goat—a long list of synonyms all of which express some quality or variety of aggravation. Roget’s Thesaurus is an extraordinary
achievement. Its structure harks back to those Sumerian word hoards on clay tablets sorted by thematic category, but as it contains very few words
like polyester, recitative, or crankset, it offers no support at all to those who would like to see a language as a list of the names of things. Rather, it
displays to a spectacular degree the sheer redundancy of the vocabulary set that we have, with dozens of words giving only minutely different
shades of meaning for almost exactly the same thing (anger, ire, fury …). Roget shows language to be a rich, illogical, and complicated tool for
making fine and often arbitrary distinctions—for discriminating, separating out, and saying the same thing in different ways.
The thesaurus was not designed as a resource for translators, but it serves translation in two distinct and equally important ways. The first is
eminently practical. Browsing Roget’s lists of quasi-synonyms and cognate words helps a writer—who may also be a translator at that point—to
identify a term to express a more precise shade of meaning than the word that first came to mind. In the second place, however, a thesaurus says
on every page that to knowa language is to knowhowto say the same thing in different words. That is precisely what translators seek to do.
Roget’s wonderful Thesaurus reminds them that in one language as well as between any two, all words are translations of others.
TEN
The Myth of Literal Translation
With bilingual dictionaries to get them started and Roget’s Thesaurus to help them polish their work to a nice finish, translators ought not to find it
too hard to tell us what the words on the page really mean. In practice, however, it’s the words on the page that hang like a dark veil over what a
piece of written language means. Words taken one by one obscure the force and meaning of a text, which is why a word-for-word translation is
almost never a good job. This isn’t a new insight: arguments against literal translation go back almost as far as written translation itself.1
After immersing himself for several years in the history of translation, George Steiner discovered that it consisted very largely of repeated
arguments over this same point. “Over some two thousand years of argument and precept,” he wrote with perceptible frustration, “the beliefs and
disagreements voiced about the nature of translation have been almost the same.”2
When Don Quixote’s favorite bedtime book, Amadis de Gaula, appeared in French, for example, the translator gave his patron two reasons for
not having stuck to the literal meanings of the Spanish words:
I beg you to believe I did it both because many things appeared to me to be inappropriate for people in courtly circles with respect to the
customs and standards of our day, and on the advice of some of my friends who saw fit for me to free myself from the usual
punctiliousness of translators, precisely because [this book] doesn’t deal with material where such persnickety observance is necessary.3
These twin justifications for “free” translation—literal translation just isn’t appropriate for the target audience and isn’t suited to the original, either—
were familiar themes in the sixteenth century, as they had been for many centuries already. In fact, few commentators on translation have ever come
out in favor of a literal or word-for-word style. Literal translation is precisely what translators in the broad Western tradition don’t do. But if literal
translation is not a widespread practice, why do so many translators feel a need to shoot it down—often with overwhelming force? Octavio Paz, the
Mexican poet and man of letters, stated the standard view in more recent times: No digo que la traducción literal sea imposible, sino que no es
una traducción: “I’m not saying a literal translation is impossible, only that it’s not a translation.”4
How back far does it go? There are references to the issue in the writings of Cicero (106–43 B.C.E.) and Horace (65–8B.C.E.), but a long
sentence written by Saint Jerome, the first translator of the Bible into Latin and subsequently the patron saint of translators, can be taken as the first
full formulation of the lopsided dispute between “literal” and “free.” In 346 C.E., when he was near the end of his labors, Jerome wrote a letter to his
friend Pammachius to counter the criticisms that had been made of the translations he had done so far. Jerome said this about how he had gone
about his task:
Ego enim non solum fateor, sed libera voce profiteor me in interpretatione Graecorum absque scripturis sanctis ubi et verborum ordo
mysterium est non verbum e verbo sed sensum exprimere de sensu.
A provisional translation would give the following sense: “Thus I not only confess but of my own free voice proclaim that apart from translations of
sacred scriptures from the Greek, where even the order of the words is a mysterium, I express not the word for the word but the sense for the
sense.”
Jerome’s expression verbum e verbo, “the word … for the word,” can be considered synonymous with “literal” translation, and his sensum
exprimere de sensu, “to express the sense for the sense,” corresponds to the idea of “free” translation. He proclaims that he doesn’t do “literal”
except when translating “sacred scriptures from the Greek.” That seems clear until you realize that the exception clause drives a cart and horses
through the main claim, because what Jerome did throughout his long life was to translate sacred scripture, more than half of which he translated
from Greek.
Jerome also says he abandons sense-for-sense translation not just when translating scripture from Greek but specifically ubi et verborum ordo
mysterium est, in those places “where even the order of the words is a mysterium.” As the meaning of the word mysterium is uncertain, there’s no
final agreement as to what Jerome was really talking about. At the root of Western arguments about how best to translate lies a mystery word that
nobody is quite sure how to translate.
In late Latin written by Christians, mysterium most often means a holy sacrament. Jerome’s sentence therefore seems to recommend sticking to
the exact order of the words of the Greek New Testament because its word order is sacred. Louis Kelly understands Jerome to be saying:
Not only do I admit, but I proclaim at the top of my voice, that in translating from Greek, except from Sacred Scripture, where even the
order of the words is of God’s doing, Ihave not translated word for word, but sense for sense.5
This reading supports the view that Jerome is not really defending “sense for sense” translation, as he first seems to be doing, but “word for word.”
But why would Jerome treat Greek word order as sacrosanct and not do the same for the scriptures he translated from Hebrew and Aramaic? The
“Greek exception” doesn’t make a lot of sense if holiness is the dominant reason for mimicking the word order of the source.
However, Jerome may have meant something else by mysterium. He may have wanted to explain his approach to an issue that confronts every
translator at some point: what to do with expressions that you don’t understand. It’s a real problem for all translators, because every utterance ever
made in speech or writing has something blank or fuzzy or uncertain about it.
In ordinary speaking, listening, and reading, we cope with the gaps in various ways. An impenetrable phrase may be treated as a transmission
error—a mispronunciation, a typo, a scribal glitch. We have no trouble replacing it with what we instantly guess to be the true form, and in spoken
interaction we do this automatically, without noticing the corrections that we bring to what we hear. When reading, we use the context to prompt a
meaning that fits. Where the context isn’t good enough to allow this, we just skip it. We skip-read all the time! Nobody knows the meanings of all the
French words in Les Misérables, but that’s never stopped anyone from enjoying Hugo’s novel. However, translators are not granted the right to
skip. That’s a serious constraint. It hardly arises in most kinds of language use; it’s one of the few things that sets a problem for translation that is
almost unique to it.
Jerome was working with many different sources, but his main text for the Old Testament was the Greek Septuagint, translated from now lost
Hebrew sources several centuries earlier. According to legend, it had been commissioned around 236 B.C.E. by Ptolemy II, the Greek-speaking
ruler of Egypt, for his new library in Alexandria. He had sent men to Judea to round up learned Jews who understood the source text, then wined
and dined them and set them up at Paphos (on the island of Cyprus) to get down to work. There were seventy (or seventy-two) participants in this
foundational translation workshop, which is why the text they produced is called the Septuagint—a way of writing (not translating) the Greek word
meaning “seventy.”
The Seventy wrote not in the language of Homer and Sophocles but in koiné, the popular spoken language of the Hellenistic cultures dotted
around the Middle East. They also wrote it in a peculiar way, perhaps because koiné was their vehicular language and not completely native to
them. So it would hardly be surprising if some words, phrases, and sentences in it baffled Saint Jerome seven centuries later. One telltale sign of
the Seventy’s difficulty with Greek is the way they handled Hebrew words referring to Jewish religious mysteries. For example, they represented the
Hebrew as Xερoυβ µ, which is not a translation, but just the same word sounded out in a different alphabet. Jerome followed style—he
wrote out approximately the same sounds in Latin script, making cherubim. English Bible translators have done the same, giving us a Hebrew
masculine plural form (-im) for a concept that has stumped all translators since the third century B.C.E. In addition, the transfer of letters through
three scripts and four languages has altered the sound of the word almost beyond recognition, from “kheruvím” to “cherubim.”
This way of dealing with an untranslatable by not translating it while making it pronounceable (sound translation, homophonic translation: see
here) could be considered the primary, original meaning of the term literal translation. It represents a foreign word by putting in place of the letters
of which it is made the corresponding letters of the script of the target language. But we do not call that literal translation nowadays—we call it
transliteration. And it probably wasn’t what Jerome had in mind in the famous passage from his letter to Pammachius.
What, then, did Jerome mean by mysterium? Here’s an alternative translation of the mystery passage by a canon of Canterbury Cathedral:
For I myself not only admit but freely proclaim that in translating from the Greek (except in the case of the holy scriptures where even the
order of the words is a mystery) Irender sense for sense and not word for word.
To put it in a slacker style, “I translate word for word only where the original—even its word order—is completely impenetrable to me.” That is, of
course, what translators have always done. For the most part, they transmit the sense; where the sense is obscure, the best they can do—because
unlike ordinary readers they are not allowed to skip—is to offer a representation of the separate words of the original. This may even explain the
style of the translation of the extract quoted here. Maybe Derrida’s translator, far from trying to sound foreign, was simply baffled.
What, then, is a literal translation? Not a substitution of letters, since we call that transliteration.A one-for-one substitution of the separated written
words? Maybe. When confronted with a decidedly loose French translation of “The Jumping Frog of Calaveras County,” Mark Twain decided to
back-translate his story into English using a single-word substitution device intended as the opposite of his French translator’s overuse of
rephrasing.
THE FROG JUMPING OF THE COUNTY OF CALAVERAS
It there was one time here an individual known under the name of Jim Smiley; it was in the winter of ’49, possibly well at the spring of ’50, I
no me recollect not exactly. This which me makes to believe that it was the one or the other, it is that I shall remember that the grand flume
is not achieved when he arrives at the camp for the first time, but of all sides he was the man the most fond of to bet which one have seen,
betting upon all that which is presented, when he could find an adversary; and when he not of it could not, he passed to the side opposed.6
This schoolboy prank mocks French, French grammar, the school teaching of French, and so forth. But the main thing it demonstrates is Octavio
Paz’s point: “literal translation” is not impossible, but it is not a translation. You can only understand the target text if you can do a reverse
substitution of the words of the source and read the French through its representation in English. In other words, to make any sense of “The Frog
Jumping” you have to know French, whereas the whole purpose of translation of any kind is to make the source available to those readers of the
target who do not know the source language. A translation that makes no sense without recourse to the original is not a translation. This axiom
incidentally explains why the meaning of cherub will forever remain a speculation.
The term literal also hides other mysteries. It is used to refer not only to a translation style that barely exists but to say something about the way an
expression is supposed to be understood.
The distinction between the literal and figurative meanings of words has been at the heart of Western education for more than two millennia. The
literal meaning of an expression is supposed to be its meaning prior to any act of interpretation, its natural, given, standard, shared, neutral, plain
meaning.
However, when we say, “It was literally raining cats and dogs last night,” we mean the adverb literally in a figurative sense. Studies of large
corpora of recorded speech have shown that the majority of the uses of literal and literally in English are figurative; similar results would no doubt
be extracted from written texts in all European languages.7 This is a curious irony, because expressions that mean one thing and its opposite were
a thorn in the flesh of precisely those Greek thinkers who invented the distinction between literal and figurative in the first place. But language is like
putty. The figurative use of literal is one among a thousand cases of expressions meaning this and its opposite, depending on what you use them
to mean.
Literal is an adjective formed from the noun littera, meaning “letter” in Latin. A letter in this sense is a written sign that belongs to a set of signs,
some subsets of which can be used to communicate meanings. Speech communicates meaning, writing communicates meaning—but letters on
their own do not have any meaning. That’s what a letter is—a sign that is meaningless except when used as part of a string. The expression “literal
meaning,” taken literally, is a contradiction in terms, an oxymoron, and a nonsense.
What we probably meant in the distant past when we asserted that something was “literally true” in order to emphasize that it was really true, true
to a higher degree than just being true, was that it was among those rare things that were worthy of being “put into letters,” of being written down. All
the uses of literal with respect to meaning and translation implicitly value writtenness more highly than oral speech. They are now among the
surviving linguistic traces of the fantastic change in social and cultural hierarchies that the invention of writing brought about. They carry the shadow
of the early stages of literacy in the Mediterranean basin between the third and first millennia B.C.E., when alphabetic scripts first arose together
with the texts that through translation and retranslation have shaped and fed Western civilization ever since. This is presumably why the same words
and the same terms still persist in debates about how best to translate.
Yet even in the modern era we do not always know quite what we mean when we claim that something is literally true, and even less when we call
a translation a literal one.
Toward the end of the nineteenth century, a Franco-Egyptian mountebank with a medical degree and a talent for social climbing and free
composition in French published a new version of The Arabian Nights. It was a commercial and cultural success, feeding a wave of interest in the
Sexy Orient among the elite, and it impressed many writers of the day, including Marcel Proust. The translator, Joseph-Charles Mardrus, knew
Arabic, and he used some Arabic texts as the basis of his rewriting of the collection of ancient Eastern tales, which he titled, in a daring Arab-ism in
French, Les Mille Nuits et Une Nuit, with a subtitle as clear as can be: Traduction littérale et complète du texte arabe, “The Thousand Nights and
One Night: A Complete and Literal Translation of the Arabic Text.”8
The subtitle is less a description than an assertion of status. Calling the work “complete” is obviously intended to give it a higher value than
previous versions—but why should “literal” have seemed to Mardrus an effective way of enhancing the status of his work?
It wasn’t a slip: Mardrus’s preface emphasizes and magnifies the meaning of his subtitle:
Only one honest and logical method of translation exists: impersonal, barely modulated literalism … It is the greatest guarantee of truth …
The reader will find here a pure, inflexible word-for-word version. The Arabic text has simply changed alphabet: here it is in French writing,
that’s all …9
Mardrus was not a conventional translation theorist, and scholars of Middle Eastern languages claimed that he was not a translator, either. A
professor of Arabic at the Sorbonne demonstrated that there were no textual sources for many passages and stories in Mardrus’s entertaining and
readable compilation. But Mardrus was a personage on the Parisian cultural scene and would not suffer such slings and arrows without returning
fire. Friends came to his defense: André Gide argued that despite the demonstrations of Professor Gaudefroy-Demombynes, Mardrus’s work was
“more authentic than the original.”10 The translator’s own riposte built on Gide’s extraordinary claim. Academic critics learned Arabic in the
classroom, not from living in the Middle East.
To carry out a translation of this kind properly, to give a definitive reflection of the Arabic mind and its genius … you must be born and you
must have lived in the Arabic world; … to translate decently the spirit and the letter of stories of this kind, you must have heard them
spoken out loud in a local accent, with ethnic gestures and appropriate intonation by storytellers in full possession of their material.11
Mardrus’s translation was therefore the “literal” version of an essentially oral source. His written word in French stands for the spoken word of
Arabic culture. If academic critics insist on having a textual source for the authentic Arabian Nights, which he wrote, well, no problem: “One day, in
order to please M. Demombynes, I want to settle once and for all the Arabic text of The Arabian Nights by translating my French translation into
Arabic.”
What stands out from this literary squabble is that the idea of what a literal translation consists of is culturally conditioned to a high degree.
Mardrus wanted to say that his work was authentic, that it gave the true voice of the Arabic culture that he rightly or wrongly regarded as his special
native privilege to possess. His solution to the argument—to manufacture a source to give textual scholars the evidence they demanded—may
appear quite nutty, but it is not illogical from Mardrus’s point of view.
What all other Western commentators mean by “literal translation,” on the other hand, is unrelated to authenticity, truthfulness, or plainness of
expression. It really refers only to the written form of words, and even more particularly to the representation of words in an alphabetic script. When
that technology for the preservation of thought was still relatively new, and for those many centuries when it was not widely shared and was used for
a restricted range of needs and pursuits (law, religion, philosophy, mathematics, astronomy, and, occasionally, the entertainment of the elite), it
made sense to attach high prestige to the writtenness of written texts.
But in a world of near-universal literacy, that’s to say, for the last two or three generations, where alphabetic script is used for entirely ordinary
tasks (to label packaged food; to advertise underwear; and to write blogs, horror comics, and pulp fiction), the fact that something is worthy of being
written down in letters gives it no added value at all. “Literal” isn’t “Word Magic” anymore, it’s just a hangover from the past. The terms of debate
about translation and meaning need to be updated, and the long-lasting scrap between literal and free should now be laid to rest.
However, there is one important area where the transposition of meanings at the level of individual words is a valuable, inescapable tool: in
school and, more particularly, in foreign-language lessons.
There are many different ways of teaching languages. The Ottomans rounded up youngsters in conquered lands and brought them back as
slaves to be trained as dil o lan, or “language boys,” in Istanbul. Modern direct methods are gentler but rely on the same understanding of how
languages are best learned—through total immersion in a bain linguistique, a kind of baptism of the brain.
Throughout the period of learned Latin in Western Europe, immersion was not an option. There was no environment in which everybody spoke
Latin as a native tongue, and so the language had to be taught by teachers, in classrooms, through writing. Reprising Roman methods in the
teaching of Greek, the European language-teaching tradition was heavily skewed toward the use of translation as the means of imparting written
skills in the foreign tongue, and also as a means of assessing students’ progress toward that aim. The teaching of modern European languages in
schools and universities got off the ground toward the end of the nineteenth century and borrowed its methods from the translation-based traditions
in the teaching of Latin and Greek. It is generally reckoned to have been a disaster. However, if the aim of learning Latin (or French, or German) is
to be able to read texts in that language fluently and also perhaps to be able to compose and thus to correspond with other users of Latin or French
or German (whose native languages may be quite varied), then translation and composition skills are quite appropriate educational aims.
Translation-based language teaching is no longer in fashion, but its ghost still inhabits a number of misconceptions about what translation is or
should be.
Teaching a foreign language when an actual linguistic environment is not available and in the absence of technologies that allow a linguistic
environment to be simulated (television, radio, film, sound recording, and the Web) was obliged to rely on writing—on slates or on chalkboards, in
exercise books or in print. With only those tools available it’s not obvious how to explain that the expression y is to be
understood as “I have a big house” unless you also explain that it can be broken down into “At me big house” and use this item-by-item
representation of the foreign in English disguise to introduce basic grammatical features—for instance, the fact that Russian doesn’t have a definite
or indefinite article; that adjectives agree in number, gender, and case with the nouns they qualify; that there is no place for the verb to be in a
Russian expression of this kind; and that possession may be expressed by a preposition before a personal pronoun, which has to be put into the
appropriate grammatical case. Indeed, the grammar explanation I’ve just given is almost meaningless until you have seen it in action in a written
expression and been told what each written item stands for.
Some people call this “literal translation,” but it would be better to adopt a distinct term for the parallel, item-by-item explication of an expression
in a foreign language for the purpose of teaching how the foreign language works. “Wording” is invaluable, and I don’t think even the most direct of
direct methods can do without it at some point. In fact, language learners taught by other methods always reinvent wording for themselves when
grappling with a sentence just beyond the level of competence they have reached.
“Wording” gives you a first approach to the shape and order of the language you are learning. It helps not so much to translate as to produce
acceptable expressions in the foreign tongue. To translate into the foreign language, you learn first of all to put the source into foreign dress. You
learn that “My father has a big car” must first be translated into “At father big car” before you can even start to slot in the Russian expressions that
will add up to the sentence with the stated meaning.
Wording is neither a language nor a translation, just an uncommonly helpful intermediate stage in learning how to read and write in a foreign
tongue. School translation into L2 also gives the instructor a means of checking whether students have grasped and remembered the shape and
order of the language. It’s not a test of an abstract grammar point but of grammar in a context of use. That’s how I learned languages at school.
Given good teachers and keen students, it works.
But often it does not. Worse still, it often leaves ex–school students who failed the test pieces with a horror of doing translations, and sometimes
a lingering resentment of those who can.
Since the expansion of education in the nineteenth century down to the present day, facing-page printed translations of standard works in foreign
languages have helped countless students improve their grasp of grammar and vocabulary and allowed them also to read foreign works at greater
speed and thus to understand them more completely. Some facing-page translation series, particularly of Latin and Greek, use techniques very
close to wording and are often called “cribs.” Others aim at a more fluent target text, but the constraint of fitting paragraph to paragraph, if not quite
line to line, limits the reorganization of material and rephrasing normally found in a literary translation. Penguin Parallel Texts, in the U.K., and the
series currently published by Folio in France are of great use to foreign-language learners of Italian, Spanish, Russian, and so forth, and also to
people like me who were taught a language long ago and are glad to have some help when revisiting the key texts of youth.
Wording translation and facing-page translation (which almost always uses matching sentence length) are not “bad” ways to translate. They are
language operations with specific finali-ties, serving communicative and educational purposes proper to them and to nothing else. Translation is
not just one thing; how best to do it depends on what you are doing it for.
However, wording is not what people mean when they call something a literal translation. The so-called literal translation of
is not “At me big house” but “I have a big house.” That’s to say, all that is actually meant by calling something a literal translation is a version that
preserves meaning in grammatical forms appropriate to the language of the translation. Octavio Paz was right to say that there is no such thing as
a literal translation! It’s just a translation—a plain, ordinary, actual translation of the source. The left-side player in the long and frustrating game of
squash between “literal” and “free” doesn’t really exist. It’s just the shadow of another, more ancient world. But shadows can be quite frightening
even when you know they don’t exist.
ELEVEN
The Issue of Trust: The Long Shadow of Oral Translation
There used to be many good reasons to mistrust translators. War, diplomacy, trade, and exploration are activities where trust is both crucial and
difficult to grant—and also the key fields in which translators work. If you don’t know the language of your enemy or your partner, you depend entirely
on the people who do—and there’s nothing like dependency to foster resentment and fear.
The user’s mistrust is a big issue in all kinds of translation, but its role ought to be rather different in the two main branches of language work: oral
translation and the translation of written texts. Oral mediation—the translation of live speech, straightaway and in situ—has been around for much
longer than writing. In all likelihood it’s been a human language skill since the emergence of speech itself, tens if not hundreds of thousands of years
ago. For up to 90 percent of its history, translating, alongside language itself, has been an exclusively spoken affair. The inheritance of oral
translating affects how we think about translation even now.
Writing transformed and multiplied the uses of language and naturally affected the ways in which it is possible to think and talk about it. We are
now so thoroughly accustomed to the existence and use of script that it’s hard to imagine what life is like for someone who does not know how to
read or write. It’s harder still to imagine living and speaking in a society in which nobody has an inkling that anything like writing could exist. But
those are the circumstances in which translation first emerged, and where it stayed for tens of thousands of years. Indeed, the archaeological
evidence that we have of the origins of script suggests that alphabetic writing emerged in multilingual cities and empires in the Middle East, where
translation was already of paramount importance.1
The fundamental difference between oral cultures and those that have writing is that only in the latter can an utterance be brought to life a second
time. In “primary orality,” language is nothing other than speech, and speech vanishes without a trace the moment it is done.2 Translation likewise.
You can check, evaluate, test, or trust a translation only when you have a means of returning to it later on.
This would be of purely antiquarian interest if everything had changed overnight upon the invention of script. But that was obviously not the case.
The mental transformation that writing prompted did not happen all at once; in some respects, it did not begin to affect the vast mass of humanity
until a few generations ago.3 Residues of the older oral order persisted for millennia, and persist even now. They affect our feelings and fears about
translation quite directly.
A clue to the enduring presence of orality in our now thoroughly typographical world is the way we still use the word word. It does not always mean
the hazy and problematic items you find printed as headwords in dictionaries. In fact, in much of our everyday use of language it means something
else.
When I “give you my word” that I’ll do the washing-up tonight, I am not giving you a “word” in the dictionary sense. I am making a promise, and
grounding your trust in the promise thus made in the fact that the person speaking the promise is me.
“My word” is simply my saying of it. In this usage, word means not a unit of speaking but the act of speech itself. Similarly, when I call a friend “a
man of his word,” I make no reference to his using some particular lexical item. I mean to say that whatever my friend undertakes to do by an act of
speech is to be taken seriously, because it was he who said it.
In French, the distinction between “word as act” and “word as unit” is made clearer by the general use of parole for the first and mot for the
second. In German, too, there is a trace of the fundamental divide in the meaning of the word word in the two different plurals of Wort—Worte for
acts of speech and Wörter for entries in a Wörterbuch.
There is of course a real connection between these two divergent associations of word. Both of them name the smallest handy unit of speech. It’s
just that since the invention of alphabetic script we’ve grown completely accustomed to thinking that the true form of what we say is the way it looks
when written down. “Scriptism,” as Roy Harris called the illusion that a language consists of things called words, has served us well for a few
thousand years, but it has a downside as well. It makes it harder to understand what translation does.
The uses in many Western languages of words meaning “word” to refer to acts of speech are perseverating traces of primary orality. The status
of any utterance in a mental world without script derives mainly from the identity of the speaker, much less from the “meanings” of the “words” that
are spoken. The concepts in scare quotes are probably not even thinkable without writing. The indeterminacy of the flow of speech and the
dependence of meaning on the human context in an oral culture are pinpointed with affection and insight by Tolstoy in his portrait of the illiterate
peasant-philosopher Platon Karatayev, in War and Peace:
Platon could never recall what he had said a moment before, just as he could never tell Pierre [Bezukhov] the words of his favourite song
… He did not understand and could not grasp the meaning of words apart from their context … His words and actions flowed from him as
smoothly, as inevitably and as spontaneously as fragrance exhales from a flower. He could not understand the value or significance of any
word or deed taken separately.4
“Translating” in this kind of cultural circumstance calls for a special kind of trust. If the force of an utterance is intimately linked to the identity of the
speaker, then it can’t be conveyed by any other speaker. That fundamental rule has to be suspended for oral translation to come into existence,
since it requires the listener to take the words of the translator as if they had been uttered by the speaker of a foreign tongue. Oral translation in a
world without writing creates and relies on a fiction—perhaps the earliest fictional invention of all. The first great leap forward in the history of
translation must have been when some two communities found a way of agreeing that the speech of the translator was to be taken as having the
same force as the immediately prior speech of the principal.
It’s not hard to account for the existence of bilinguals in early human societies: taking brides from different communities and taking slaves from
vanquished enemies are ancient practices, and both of them can easily result in people who understand two different languages. But there’s a
great difference between bilingualism and translation. For the latter to exist, huge intellectual and emotional obstacles to taking the word of another
for the word of the source have to be overcome. They can be overcome only by a shared willingness to enter a realm in which meaning cannot be
completely guaranteed. That kind of trust is perhaps the foundation of all culture.
But that trust is never granted without reservation. To conduct negotiation or trade between two communities speaking mutually
incomprehensible tongues, the principal relies on the translator and is in his power, just as the translator serves one master only and is entirely in
his power. The situation is guaranteed to create anxiety, suspicion, and mistrust.
The fear of imperfect or deceptive performance by an oral translator affects the translation protocols for private meetings between world leaders
today. Each side brings along his or her own oral translator. When the British prime minister talks to the French president in confidential, face-to-
face encounters, the person employed by Her Majesty’s Government speaks in French on behalf of the prime minister, and the French translator
similarly speaks back the French president’s words in English. Such two-handed, one-way speech translation, out of the mother tongue and into the
foreign, is never seen in public.5 These arrangements hark back directly to the issue of trust in oral translation. Translators are no longer slaves, but
states still have greater recourse against employees who have signed confidentiality agreements than against a translator hired by the other side.
This costly double dose of oral interpreting is rare, but not solely because it is expensive. Outside of private head-of-state encounters, almost all
speech by politicians, diplomats, and public figures begins and ends its life on the page. Delegates at the United Nations General Assembly and
Security Council, for example, read from prepared texts, and often the interpreters translating the speech simultaneously into (any five out of)
English, French, Spanish, Russian, Chinese, and Arabic have the original text in front of them. All six language versions are recorded on tape and
these recordings are used by the UN Documentation Division to produce the “Verbatim,” the official written record of what was said. This allows
translation errors to be trapped and corrected, but, more significantly, it allows delegates to correct what they actually said. The “Verbatim,” the
final official repository of UN proceedings, is not actually verbatim at all—it’s a rewritten version of a written text that passed through an untrusted
oral stage in the interim. In large areas of national and international affairs, speech has now become a secondary medium, a by-product of writing.
But this is a very recent state of affairs. Our thoughts and feelings about language and translation, together with many of the things we say about it,
have much older sources.
Between the fifteenth and early twentieth centuries, the Ottoman Empire held in its not always steady sway mostly illiterate populations speaking
a great number of different languages. Throughout these five centuries, the administration of this vast and elaborate state was carried out in
Ottoman Turkish—a partly artificial hybrid of Turkish, Persian, and Arabic vocabulary held together by Turkish grammar, with some Persian syntax
added on, written in an adapted Arabic script that was not particularly well suited to it. It was the official language of the court at Istanbul, but outside
the circle of imperial grandees and civil servants Ottoman Turkish did not have many speakers. Its written form was of course used for the state’s
labyrinthine archives—by some accounts, the Ottomans even kept records of people’s dreams.6 However, one characteristic of Ottoman society
was a paranoid suspicion of forgery, and as a result writing was not used for all purposes of state. Strong residues of orality—of a trust in personal
speech over the impersonal technology of writing—affected the management of public affairs and, most especially, its use of translators.
Ottoman society, like those of the Greeks and the Romans, made slaves of a significant proportion of its subjects, and it recruited translators
from among the young boys sent back from the provinces to Istanbul as obligatory payment for the protection the empire provided. Most of these
enforced bilinguals served the internal needs of the empire, since they spoke one of its regional languages and received an education in Ottoman
Turkish. Its external translation needs for trade, war, and diplomacy were served mostly by other means.
The Ottomans were Muslims and could therefore communicate with many of the peoples on the southern and eastern borders of the empire in
Arabic, which was either a native or a vehicular tongue over a wide area. But contact with Western Europe was not so easy. In no region of the
empire were any of the Western languages taught. Initially, therefore, the training of cadres who could handle relations with the West was farmed
out to the Republic of Venice, which had long-standing ties with many parts of the Mediterranean that had fallen into Ottoman hands.
From the late fifteenth century on, Venice dispatched plenipotentiaries on two-year postings to Istanbul to run the bailo, which was something like
a translator’s school. It recruited adolescent apprentices called “language boys”—giovani di lingua, a translation of the Turkish dil o lan—across
the Venetian and Ottoman territories and turned them into loyal, Italian-speaking Venetian subjects capable of talking to the Turks. Many of the
recruits came from the Greek-speaking Roman Catholic community that had settled in a quarter of Istanbul called Pera, or Phanari in Greek, and
Phanariots eventually became a hereditary “translation caste” within the stratified world of Ottoman society. By the early seventeenth century, the
whole business of translation at the highest levels of the Ottoman state was in the hands of closely linked families of Phanariots, whose status was
partly protected by the fact that many of them also held Venetian citizenship by inheritance. But they did not translate very much into or out of Greek:
they were trained to translate Ottoman Turkish into Italian, and sometimes Arabic as well. They became richly rewarded grandees. Based in
Istanbul, they sent their sons to Italian universities before bringing them back to continue the family trade.7
Diplomacy, spying, and administrative intrigue were all part of the job done by these Ottoman translators, called tercüman. This Turkish term has
come into English as dragoman, but in only slightly altered forms it can be found in dozens of other languages that had contact with the Turks.
Azerbaijani trcüm∂çi, Amharic ästärgwami, Dari tarjomân, Persian motarjem, Uzbek tarzhimon ( ), Arabic mutarjim, Moroccan Arabic t
rzman, and Hebrew metargem ( ) are all sound translations of tercüman. But whether written as dragoman or as tercüman, the Ottoman
word for “translator” is not a Turkish word at all. It is first found in a language spoken in Mesopotamia in the third millennium B.C.E., as a translation
of the even more ancient Sumerian word eme-bal. Akkadian targumannu thus has a descendant by way of Turkish tercüman in an admittedly
obsolete but still extant word of English—probably the only word with a stable meaning whose history can be traced in writing over a period of five
thousand years.8 The spread of one of the most widely used root words for “translator” from one of the cradles of writing in ancient Mesopotamia
can hardly be bettered as evidence for the immensely greater antiquity of the practice of translation itself.
Top Ottoman dragomans became the equals of ambassadors. The first to be granted the title “Grand Dragoman” by the sultan was appointed in
1661 under the reign of Küprölü Ahmed Pasha—the famous Albanian grand vizier Quprili, whose many adventures are turned into fiction in the
novels of Ismail Kadare. 9 A later grand dragoman, Aléxandros Mavrokordátos, founded a dynasty that eventually acquired princely status. His
direct descendants became the royal family of Romania.
Because they were diplomats and negotiators using speech and not writing for the most delicate matters, dragomans dealt with their written
tasks along lines more characteristic of oral translation. Dragomans altered the pasha’s language to put it in a form best suited to performing the
act that the principal intended. They did this in order to remain faithful to the sultan—for disloyalty was punishable by death, if not worse. Far from
being “free,” the dragomans’ reformulation of the words of the source expressed subservience to their principal’s intention. Despite appearances to
the contrary—substantial amounts of contraction, expansion, and recasting—dragomans stuck rigidly to their brief, which was not to translate the
sultan’s words but his word.
For example, when Sultan Murad II granted permission for English merchants to trade in the Ottoman lands, his original letter in Turkish refers to
Queen Elizabeth as “having demonstrated her subservience and devotion and declared her servitude and attachment” to the sultan. For onward
communication to the English court the letter was translated by the grand dragoman into Italian, which was still the international language of the
Ottoman Empire.10 In Italian, however, the letter doesn’t say nearly as much: it expresses the elaborate Turkish formula economically as sincera
amicizia.11
Is this a “free” translation or an “unfaithful” one? I don’t think either term is appropriate. The dragoman’s occlusion of the words for “subservience”
and “servitude” is not an expression of his freedom but of the political and administrative constraints of his own position. He knows that his own
master will never regard the queen of England as a monarch of equal power; and as a seasoned diplomat he also knows that Elizabeth I cannot
possibly accede to the expression of her “servitude” to the sultan, even in a conventional flourish.
Western embassies in Istanbul did not use the official court interpreters in the service of the Ottoman court, who were bound to be loyal to their
sovereign. They employed less eminent, and mostly non-Muslim, bilinguals to be found in Istanbul. As they became less and less familiar with oral
culture over the several centuries of Ottoman rule, Western diplomats increasingly described their Levantine intermediaries as unreliable and
untrustworthy folk. In the first place, they grumbled, at least half of what they wrote and pretended to be translation “from English” was pure invention,
in the following style:
Having bowed my head in submission and rubbed my slavish brow in utter humility and complete abjection and supplication to the
beneficent dust beneath the feet of my mighty, gracious, condescending, compassionate, merciful benefactor, my most generous and
open-handed master, I pray that the peerless and almighty provider of remedies may bless your lofty person, the extremity of benefit,
protect my benefactor from the vicissitudes and afflictions of time, prolong the days of his life, his might and his splendor …
Also, every scrap of information they gleaned from translating for a foreign embassy was put up for sale. As one English ambassador put it, since
these dragomans “with large families live upon a small salary and are used to Oriental luxury, the temptation of money from others is with difficulty
withstood by them.”12
It’s easy to see why such dragomans should adapt their work to their audience—they were Ottoman subjects and stood to lose far more from
displeasing the authorities than from misrepresenting their foreign employers:
Fear tied their tongues: they would much rather risk their employer’s displeasure than the brutal fury of an angry pasha … At times,
ingenious interpreters … were known to improvise imaginary dialogues—to substitute speeches of their own inspiration for those really
made.13
They were suspect in any case for the mere fact of working for a foreign embassy. Why double the risk by failing to address local potentates with
the florid servility to which they were accustomed? Adding a few paragraphs of eternal devotion wasn’t mistranslation. It was life insurance. “All
things considered, the wonder is not so much that Dragomans fulfilled their perilous task inadequately, as that they dared undertake it at all.”14
Fidelity was obviously a major issue for Ottoman dragomans, but it didn’t mean what translation commentators in the West seem to mean by
“fidelity to the source.” Dragomans needed to prove that they were faithful to the padishah or to the particular Ottoman grandee they were
addressing.
It was the grandest of the Phanariot dragomans who paid the highest price for suspected disloyalty. In 1821, the Greek provinces of the Ottoman
Empire rose up in revolt. Because they were Greeks as well as Catholics, Phanariot families in Istanbul came under immediate suspicion. Their
leader, Grand Dragoman Stavraki Aristarchi, was hanged for treason. Why? Because, as had long been said in the Ottomans’ international
language, Traduttore/traditore! Translators are traitors anyway!
This exotic adage has percolated into all Western languages, in Italian and in translation, and has become one of the most commonly touted
pieces of expertise about translation in circulation. But save in quite exceptional cases it is wrong, and always was. The translation practice of the
dragomans was generally subservient to an outstanding degree—subservient to the purpose of the original, and subservient to the dragomans’ real
masters. Treachery was what the masters feared, not what the translators performed. But even if Phanariots did on occasion make deals for
themselves by misrepresenting their commissioners, the connection between “translating” and “treachery” is of no relevance to modern, thoroughly
print-based societies. In a world where you can check the translation against the original, even when it has the form of speech (thanks to the sound-
recording devices we have used for the past one hundred years), the principal grounds for the fear and mistrust of linguistic intermediaries that is
endemic to oral societies no longer exist. Yet people go on saying traduttore/traditore, believing they have said something meaningful about
translation. A thoughtful translator such as Douglas Hofstadter still feels he needs to counter it with a pun in the title of an essay, “Trader/Translator.”
15 We may now live in a sophisticated, wealthy, technologically advanced society—but when it comes to translation, some people seem to be stuck
in the age of the clepsydra.
Traditional mistrust of oral interpreters in the Middle East affected Western tourists when visits to the region became practical and prestigious for
individuals in the nineteenth century. Tourists had to rely on local intermediaries for contact with the authorities, and hereditary dragoman families
turned themselves into guides, guesthouse brokers, and go-betweens for the purchase of antiquities and other delights. As they performed their
tasks according to their own traditions of highly adaptive translation, they were despised and scorned. “Dragomania,” the fear and loathing of the
intermediaries who ran rings around all but the most canny Western travelers, made a major contribution to the stereotype of the “wily Oriental
gentleman” of colonial-era travelogues.16
The tropes of “fidelity” and “betrayal” in translation commentary do not come to us only from a vanished Ottoman past. In seventeenth-century
France, several translators of the Greek and Latin classics thought it best to amend the originals to make them correspond more closely to the
standards of politeness that ruled behavior and writing at the Court of Versailles. Swearwords and references to bodily functions were simply cut
out, as were whole passages referring to drinking, homosexuality, or the sharing of partners. Confident in the absolute rightness of the courtly
manners of France, these translators tried to produce translations that were fitter for their target audience, and also (in their view) better and more
beautiful works. They were saving the Greeks from themselves by editing out all those primitive blemishes. Purposefully and intentionally adaptive,
these many classical texts refashioned for courtiers (or for children) were dubbed les belles infidèles, literally, “beautiful unfaithful [ones] [feminine].”
These two adjectives juxtaposed imply a missing noun between them, and the absent word is obviously traductions, “translations.” At bottom, the
phrase les belles infidèles says only “beautiful free translations.” However, French adjectives preceded by an article (a, the) can also be taken as
nouns, just like “the poor” or “the unwashed” in English. So because its form is feminine and plural, les belles can also mean “[the] beautiful
women,” and the whole phrase, les belles infidèles, read that way around, may be taken to say “beautiful women who cheat.” This construction of
the phrase allowed for the invention of another adage that has burdened translation commentary ever since. Translations, this saying goes, are like
women. Si elles sont belles, elles sont infidèles, mais si elles sont fidèles, elles ne sont pas belles—“If they are good-looking, youcan’t trust them
to be faithful, and if they stick by their mates, it’s because they’re old frumps.” That’s a fairly free translation by conventional standards, but it is
exactly what the adage implies (while also being translatable in its other dimension as “Aesthetically pleasing ones are adaptive, and nonadaptive
ones are just plain”). The shadow of such sexist nonsense falls even today upon a French publishing house with an otherwise admirable list of
translated works—Les Belles Infidèles.
Sexist language has been the object of long and mostly successful campaigns in France as in the English-speaking world, but only rarely has it
been observed that outside the context of politeness as it was understood in the French seventeenth century, les belles infidèles, whether used as
a three-word catchphrase or in the longer adage that was built from it, is an insult to women. Most people let it pass because they think it is a
statement about translation. It is not. It’s about male anxiety—to the point of misogyny. It applies to translation, I suspect, only because, like other
versions of the betrayal motif, it says just how frightening translation can seem.
Some critics have argued that a good translation is one that is faithful to its source. The corollary would be that a bad one counts as some kind of
a betrayal and therefore justifies to some degree the worn-out and disreputable clichés we’ve tried to demolish. The corollary would be plausible if
we knew what we meant in saying that a faithful translation is a good one. Why indeed is the term faithful applied to translation at all? True, a good
spouse is a loyal one, and a decent spy is not a traitor. We also used to ask of servants and family retainers that they be faithful to their masters.
But translators aren’t married to their originals, nor do they work for the CIA. The repeated insistence on “fidelity” as a criterion of quality in
translation has certainly led many to describe themselves as servants of their originals. In so doing, they reenact the historical and prehistoric
origins of their profession—the exercise of skills possessed by slaves.
Slavery was abolished in Brazil in 1880. Time to move on.
TWELVE
Custom Cuts: Making Forms Fit
Chinese people love to pass around shunkouliu on oral grapevines. These are satiric rhythmical sayings, often consisting of quatrains with seven-
syllable lines. The regularity of the form is audible and also visible in writing, because each Chinese character corresponds to one syllable. Here’s
a jingle of that kind:
Compact, patterned, dense, allusive, bitter, and humorous … translating a shunkouliu is a tall order. So why bother to try? Yet despite the odds,
this barbed rhyme about New China’s old guard can be tailored into a pleasing and meaningful shape in a language completely unrelated to its
original tongue. Here’s how it can be done, step by step.
1. Translated character for character
Hard hard bitter bitter four ten years
One morning return to untie release before
Already thus return to untie release before
Just-at year change fate in-fact for whom?
2. Translated group for group
Strenuous, strenuous forty years
One morning return to before Liberation
Given that return to before Liberation
In those days revolution in fact for whom?
3. Explanation, sense for sense
An extremely strenuous forty years
And one morning we [find ourselves having] returned
to before Liberation
And given that we’ve returned to before
Liberation
[We might ask] who, in fact, the revolution back in
those days was for.
4. Plain translation
An extremely strenuous forty years
And suddenly we’re back to before Liberation
And given our return to before Liberation
Who, in fact, was the revolution for?
5. Adding some rhythm
An extremely strenuous forty years
And suddenly we’re back to ’forty-nine,
And since we’ve gone back to ’forty-nine
Who, in fact, was it all for?
6. Matching words to Chinese syllables
For forty long years ever more perspiration
And we just circle back to before Liberation
And speaking again of that big revolution
Who, after all, was it for?
7. Adding rhyme
Forty long years crack our spine
Back we go to ’forty-nine
Since we go to ’forty-nine
Back then who was it all for?
8. First polish
Forty years we bend our spine
And just go back to ’forty-nine
And having gone to ’forty-nine
Whom back then was this for?
9. Adaptation, with double rhyme
Blood sweat and tears
For forty long years
Now we’re back to before
Who the hell was it for?
10. As a word rectangle (6 × 4)
We had sweat, toil, and tears
For more than forty bloody years
Now we’re back to square one
For whom was it all done?
11. Isogrammatical lines (21 × 4)
Blood sweat and tears
Over forty long years
Now it’s utterly over
Who stole the clover?
12. Sounded out in Chinese
Xin xin ku ku si shi nian
yi zhao hui dao jie fang qian
ji ran hui dao jie fang qian
dang nian ge ming you wei shui
What’s been done in the later versions of this translation is to exploit the flexibility of English to simulate artificially the patterned visual effect of a
script whose appearance naturally represents patterned sound. Counting characters and spaces along the line isn’t usually considered a
translator’s task, but it’s really just one variant of the need in a whole variety of fields to make words fit shapes.
Strip cartoons are not redrawn when they are translated, and of the four-color plates used, only the black-and-white one with the lettering is
remade for international sales. The cartoon translator has to make his version fit physically into the bubble spaces left blank by the three other
plates. A very small amount of flexibility is provided by being able to alter the size of hand-drawn lettering—but limits are set by the requirement of
legibility. The cartoon translator also has very little freedom to move meanings around between frames, since the captions must fit the picture, right
down to the details of what the depicted characters are doing with their arms and hands. If you thought translating Proust might be difficult, just try
Astérix:
The “Breton” cousin of the Gaulish heroes speaks a parody of schoolbook English in French, with word-for-word renderings of “I say,” “a bit of luck,”
and “shake hands.” Moreover, his name, Jolitorax, is a pun on “fair chest,” “pretty thorax,” which is not remotely funny in English. The translator
Anthea Bell deftly reinstates the caricatural nature of the representation of English in French by inserting “Oh” and “old boy,” and she substitutes a
rather better pun of her own for the name. Doing all that within the confines of a physical space that can take only so many letters makes this
translation an exploit, a victory over language itself. But only slightly lesser feats are performed every day by professionals and amateurs the world
over who translate Japanese manga into English or Belgian graphic novels into Portuguese, and so on. Graphic translation is much bigger
business than literary fiction and probably rivals the translation of cookbooks in volume and turnover. Studying translated captions of works of this
kind is an education in the flexibility of human languages and human minds. Nothing ever fits easily, but in the end a really surprising amount of form
and content can be made to fit external constraints of nonlinguistic (bubble size) and paralinguistic (gestural) kinds.
Subtitling is a smaller business, but the skills it engages are of the same kind. It has become conventional to regard average moviegoers as
capable of reading only about fifteen characters per second; and in order to be legible on a screen as small as a television set, no more than thirty-
two alphabetic characters can be displayed in a line. In addition, no more than two lines can be displayed at a time without obscuring significant
parts of the image, so the subtitler has around sixty-four characters, including spaces, that can be displayed for a few seconds at most to express
the key meanings of a shot or sequence in which characters may speak many more words than that. The limits are set by human physiology,
average reading speeds, and the physical shape of the movie screen. It’s really amazing that it can be done at all.
A further constraint on subtitling is the convention that a subtitle may not bleed across a cut: if you have someone chatting to his neighbor on an
airplane seat and then a cut to a shot of the plane landing, for example, the subtitle must disappear at or just before the cut, and the following
caption may not appear before the next audio sequence begins. Consequently, a film has to be decomposed into the “spots” in which subtitling
may occur. The delicate job of “spotting” (made a lot easier if the film distributor can provide a transcript of the voice track) may or may not be done
by the translator hired to write the captions. Usually, at least two people are involved. It follows almost automatically from this that subtitles do not
offer a translation of all the words spoken, and in particularly fast-talking films they can offer only a compression or a résumé.
Stringent formal constraints in film translation are believed to have had important retroactive effects on original work. Filmmakers dependent on
foreign-language markets are well aware of how little spoken language can actually be represented in on-screen writing. Sometimes they choose to
limit the volubility of their characters to make it easier for foreign-language versions to fit all the dialogue on the screen. Ingmar Bergman made two
quite different kinds of films—jolly comedies with lots of words for Swedish consumption, and tight-lipped, moody dramas for the rest of the world.
Our standard vision of Swedes as verbally challenged depressives is in some degree a by-product of Bergman’s success in building subtitling
constraints into the composition of his more ambitious international films. It’s called the “Bergman effect,” and it can be observed in the early films
of István Szabó and Roman Polanski, too.
The supposed Bergman effect in film may actually be only a “keyhole” example of a much wider modern trend. Steven Owen has argued that
some contemporary poets from China, for example, write in a way that presupposes the translation of their work into English—and that all writing in
foreign languages that now aspires to belong to “world literature” is built on writers’ effective internalization of translation constraints.1
Subtitling into English is a very small part of the translation world because so few foreign films are screened in the United States. At present there
are only two American companies that provide subtitling services (and neither of them do only that), and they rely on a loose network of translators
whose main jobs are elsewhere. Paid derisory sums at piece rates, the tiny band of English-language subtitlers are among the least-loved and
least-understood language athletes of the modern media world.
In many countries, dubbing is preferred. It is rarely done into English nowadays, because American audiences insist on complete lip-synching, so
that no trace remains of the foreignness of foreign-language films. To make a translation of speech such that when pronounced it matches the lip
movements of the original speaker—measured in fractions of a second—is no trivial task. But it’s not only the microseconds that count. The
translated dialogue is also constrained by facial gestures and movements of the body, even when those are not the customary accompaniment of
the words spoken in the target language. The writers of dubbing scripts are not just athletes; they are world-class gymnasts of words—but almost
never credited with their achievements in the English-speaking world.
The popularity of English-language films worldwide means that most American and British films are dubbed in multiple versions for sale abroad.
Dubbing skills are much more widely used and appreciated in German, Italian, Spanish, and many other languages. One result of this asymmetry
that is quite perceptible on-screen is that perfect lip synchronization is not always felt to be necessary by non -English-language audiences.
American and Brazilian soap operas broadcast on Russian television channels frequently have voice tracks that bleed (when dialogue continues
beyond the point at which the characters’ lips stop moving)—but the voices of familiar actors are characteristically those of well-known “dub stars”
in the target tongue. Everyone in Germany knows the voice of “Robert De Niro,” for example, and knows also whose actual voice it is—that of
Christian Brückner, a prizewinning star among audiobook readers, too, nicknamed “The Voice” in the German-language media press. Meryl
Streep’s German voice is that of Dagmar Dempe, for all her films; Gabriel Byrne has been voiced by Klaus-Dieter Klebsch throughout his career
since 1981. German moviegoers would be discombobulated if Russell Crowe, in his next blockbuster appearance, didn’t have the voice that really
is his—that of Thomas Fritsch.2 The French voices of Homer and Marge Simpson, Philippe Peythieux and Véronique Augereau, have their pictures
in newspapers. 3 In this respect as in others, English speakers find in the language culture of almost any other country a truly foreign land.
In Palestine, biblical Hebrew ceased to be a spoken language among Jews long before the Roman occupation. From perhaps as early as the
fifth century B.C.E., Aramaic interpreters read out a translation of the words of the service sotto voce, just after or even while the rabbi was
speaking or chanting the more ancient tongue. Eventually, the words of suchAramaic whisper translations (called chuchotage in the modern world
of international interpreters) were written down, mostly in small fragments, and these targums now provide precious linguistic and historical records
for scholars of Judaism. For contemporary rebroadcasts of British and American television soaps and comedy programs in Eastern and Central
European languages, the targum device—low-volume voice-over translation—has been reinvented. Lectoring, as it is now called, often astounds
English-language visitors to Poland or Hungary. It doesn’t make even a nod toward aural realism: a single voice speaks on behalf of all characters
of both genders, and the original English-language sound remains clearly audible.
Lectoring is obviously cheaper and quicker to do than dubbing, as it requires a smaller team of translators and performers. The high volumes of
English-language media imported into the smaller European countries would make it difficult to find all the linguistic trapeze artists you would need
to dub everything in lip synch while the shows were still “hot.” So lectoring is a rational solution—but its underlying justification is not economic at all.
As in the synagogues of Palestine and Syria long ago, lectoring is done for people who view the original language as endowed with prestige.
English is nowadays seen as a cultural asset and an object of desire. Lectoring allows English-language learners to check that they have
understood correctly and to improve their English as they enjoy the film. The Hungarian viewer of The Colbert Report wants to experience authentic
American comedy, and the lector—like an interpreter performing chuchotage at a high-level meeting of heads of state—serves primarily as a
check on the viewer’s grasp of the real thing. How much of Colbert’s political satire can be truly grasped by a Hungarian viewer of a lectored
episode is slightly beside the point: something gets through. Because the original has not been erased by translation, that something is better than
naught.
Lectoring makes no attempt to fit form to form. But in a medium of much greater cultural distinction than TV and film, even the wish to do so has
been derided as futile and vain. Vladimir Nabokov is famous among students of translation for his thundering assault on the folly of trying to
translate rhyme by rhyme. His notorious comments accompany his own annotated translation of Pushkin’s novel in verse, Eugene Onegin. Any
attempt to reproduce the wry, light, witty, and rhythmical movement of the special form of the sonnet Pushkin used, Nabokov declared, was bound to
misrepresent the poet’s true meaning and was therefore to be abhorred. Nabokov’s views on poetry translation have colored many arguments in
the translation-studies field with a peculiarly vituperative tone. What he said needs to be understood in context. It is unfortunate that Nabokov put his
strong opinions in such absolute and radical terms as to distract attention from the real issues.
Attempts to render a poem in another language fall into three categories. (1) Paraphrastic: offering a free version of the original, with
omissions and additions prompted by the exigencies of form, the conventions attributed to the consumer and the translator’s ignorance.
(2) Lexical (or constructional): rendering the basic meaning of words (and their order). This a machine can do under the direction of an
intelligent bilinguist. (3) Literal: rendering, as closely as the associative and syntactical capacities of another language allow, the exact
contextual meaning of the original. Only this is a true translation … Can a rhymed poem like Eugene Onegin be truly translated with a
retention of its rhymes? The answer is, of course, no. To reproduce the rhymes and yet translate the entire poem literally is mathematically
impossible.4
This statement (mimicking and also reversing John Dryden’s much earlier distinction of imitation, paraphrase, and meta-phrase) introduces
Nabokov’s own nonrhyming translation of Pushkin’s novel, accompanied by an immensely long and learned, line-by-line commentary on the
meanings of Pushkin’s verses. The main work is not the translation at all but Nabokov’s appropriation of it through his inflated peritext. Master of
style in two languages and a uniquely skillful crafter of translingual puns, Nabokov laid down his writer’s mantle on the altar of Pushkin and adopted
what he called “the servile path.”5 There’s a profound reason for his frankly uncharacteristic modesty in this case. Who can rival Pushkin? No
Russian can dream of doing such a thing—yet every Russian writer also dreams of unseating Pushkin from his throne. For the Russian writer that
Nabokov still was twenty years after the adoption of English as his literary tongue, translating Pushkin was not a straightforward translation task.
Let’s consider what the stakes were for Nabokov (but for no one else) in recasting Pushkin in English verse. It’s safe to assume that Nabokov
could have done so like no other had he let himself dare. He would have set himself up as Pushkin’s rival. More than that: he would have written
Eugene Onegin himself.
At much the same time as Nabokov started his plain prose version of Pushkin, Georges Perec read Herman Melville’s story of a New York clerk,
“Bartleby the Scrivener.” It seemed to him quite perfect, and he wished he had written it himself. But I can’t do that! he wailed in a letter to a friend,
because Melville wrote it first.6 The same sense of having been already outwritten—of having been robbed in advance of a glory that could perhaps
have been his—lies at the root of Nabokov’s strange operation with Pushkin’s sublime verse.
In fact, Nabokov had done some stanzas of Onegin into English verse in the 1950s already—but then turned around in fright. He could see he
was not Pushkin. Later on, he adopted his servile path of pseudo-literal translation not because it was relevant to the study or practice of literary
translation but because it helped hide that embarrassing fact.
Nabokov’s public lesson in poetry translation quoted above is threadbare and misleading. There are far more ways than three of translating fixed
form. A “paraphrase” is not the only alternative to a “lexical” translation, and the latter can in no way even now be done directly by a machine. The
“literal” style Nabokov proposes and claims to use is just what anyone else would call plain prose. Nabokov’s introduction to his exhaustive
exploration of all the allusions and referential meanings of the words of Pushkin’s novel tells us many interesting things (about Nabokov, about
Russia, about language and style) but nothing about the translation of form.
Onegin has attracted many gifted translators, and there are several versions now available that give good approximations of Pushkin’s verse. A
secondhand copy of one of these, by Charles Johnson, published in 1977, fell into the hands of a polyglot Indian postgrad at Stanford around 1982,
who was charmed and entranced by a whole novel in fourteen-line stanzas with alternating masculine and feminine rhymes in ababccddeffegg
order and frequent use of enjambment. Vikram Seth decided to make this form his own. He composed a story of his own life in the same regular
form. The Golden Gate—“The Great California Novel” according to Gore Vidal—set Seth on the path to literary glory. Fifteen years later, The
Golden Gate in its turn fell into the hands of an Israeli scholar, Maya Arad, who was entranced by the stanza form relayed to her by Seth from
Charles Johnson’s version of Pushkin, whose Yevgeny Onegin she then read in the original. She appropriated the form for her own novel in verse,
Another Place, a Foreign City, published to great acclaim in Hebrew in 2003. Here is one ofArad’s 355 stanzas translated into English byAdriana
Jacobs. Though the rhymes have gone, old Onegin’s zest for St. Petersburg partying remains intact in twenty-first-century Tel Aviv:
Faster! Faster! No dawdling! Eat up!
Where will we go this time?
Who knows! The opera? The cinema?
The theater? Or a restaurant?
The city’s riches seem endless
Until it loses consciousness.
Faster—draining every minute—
Until the hour hand strikes midnight.
Sleep? Too bad! We’re still running
On full and the night is still young.
Let’s go party! Let’s find a club!
The night is tender and inviting.
December’s here, can you believe?
It feels like spring in Tel Aviv!
If the formal constraints of Eugene Onegin can be used to tell stories of America and Israel, why can they not be used to equal poetic effect to tell
the very story that Pushkin told? Nabokov claims this is “mathematically impossible.” Mathematics has nothing to do with it. What he meant was that
he wasn’t going to try.
Gilbert Adair was faced with a challenge of no lesser “mathematical impossibility” when he set out to translate Georges Perec’s La Disparition, a
novel written exclusively with French words and expressions that do not contain the letter e. Writing without the letter e is hard to do for more than a
short paragraph because we are simply not accustomed to conceptualizing words in terms of the letters by which they are set down in writing. It
takes time and effort to learn the trick—but once you have taught yourself to do it, you can say as much as Perec learned to say in French. And
more! Adair decorated his translation, called A Void, with many quips and interpolations of his own, and replaced Perec’s e-less parodies of
famous French poems with e-less versions of well-known English-language verse:
“Sybil,” said I, “thing of loathing—Sybil, fury in bird’s clothing!
By God’s radiant kingdom soothing all man’s purgatorial pain,
Inform this soul laid low with sorrow if upon a distant morrow
It shall find that symbol for—oh for its too long unjoin’d chain—
Find that pictographic symbol, missing from its unjoin’d chain”
Quoth that Black Bird, “Not Again.”
And my Black Bird, still not quitting, still is sitting, still is sitting
On that pallid bust—still flitting through my dolorous domain;
But it cannot stop from gazing for it truly finds amazing
That, by artful paraphrasing, Isuch rhyming can sustain—
Notwithstanding my lost symbol Isuch rhyming still sustain—
Though Ishan’t try it again!
Translators working in many languages in widely separated cultural fields—manga, subtitles, political jingles, experimental fiction, poetry, and
popular verse—confront and overcome stringent formal constraints. Moreover, the forms themselves are often transported across historical,
linguistic, and cultural space. These facts make it seem unwise to claim that anything is impossible. The only impossible things in translation are
those that haven’t been done.
A less prejudiced way of understanding the work that translators do is to look more closely at the effects of successful match-ings of strict form.
Has GilbertAdair improved Edgar Allan Poe? How come that the very diluted version of the Onegin stanza inAdriana Jacobs’s translation of Maya
Arad’s imitation of Vikram Seth’s imitation of Charles Johnson’s verse translation of Pushkin resurrects something of the lightness and joy of
Onegin’s youth? How has Anthea Bell made Astérix even funnier in English than in French? And why did anyone ever think that translating verse by
verse was a dead end? The truth is quite the opposite. When you have to pay attention to more than one dimension of an utterance—when your
mind is engaged in multilevel pattern-matching pursuits—you find resources in your language you never knew were there.
Of course there’s never a match that is 100 percent, because that’s not the way of the world. Just as it would be silly to claim that high-quality
tailoring is “mathematically impossible” because we’ve never had a suit that was an absolutely perfect fit, it would be unwise to deny the possibility
of translating form just because we’ve not yet done so in a way that is utterly impeccable in every respect.
THIRTEEN
What Can’t Be Said Can’t Be Translated: The Axiom of Effability
When the baggage carousel comes to a halt and his suitcase isn’t there, the weary traveler goes to the airline service desk and complains that his
suitcase has been lost. The desk clerk quite reasonably asks for evidence—a baggage stub, for instance—and a detailed description of what has
gone missing, so that it may more easily be found.
People who claim that poetry is what gets lost in translation could be asked to follow a like routine. Granted, there’s no check-in desk for poetic
effects, so the missing ticket stub can be excused. But it’s not unreasonable to request a description of the missing goods. If you can’t provide one,
claiming that something called “poetry” has been lost is like telling an airline it has mislaid an item that has no identifiable characteristics at all. It
doesn’t cut a lot of ice.
A reader who says that poetry is what has been lost in translation is also claiming to be simultaneously in full possession of the original (which is
poetry) and of the translation (which is not). Otherwise there would be no knowing if anything has been lost, let alone knowing that it was poetry.
A good knowledge of the two languages involved isn’t sufficient to justify the claim that what has been lost in translation is poetry. You could make
a convincing case only if you knew both languages and their poetic traditions sufficiently well to be able to experience the full scope of poetic effects
in both of them. Not many people meet the standard, but there’s nothing unreasonable about the test.
You would have to meet this entrance requirement to declare a loss of poetry in either direction—in a translation from a foreign language into
your own (say, on reading George Chapman’s version of Homer) or from your own language into a foreign one (if, for example, you wanted to say
that the French or Spanish or Japanese version of John Ashbery’s poem “Rivers and Mountains” just doesn’t move you as the English one does).
Only if you have these skills in language and in poetry can you make a credible claim that something has been lost; but even if you do have them,
you will find it hard to tell the desk clerk just what it is.
It would not be relevant to your complaint to say that the relationship between sound and meaning is not the same in the translation as in the
original. With the sounds changed because the language is different and the meaning preserved broadly if never precisely, the relationship
between the two—a relationship all linguists since Ferdinand de Saussure insist is an arbitrary one—must perforce be other.
The belief that the poeticalness of poetry is just that relationship between sound and sense is widespread in the teaching of English and other
modern languages. However, it doesn’t follow from this at all that once a poem is translated it has lost its poeticalness. The new poem in the new
language representing and re-creating the poem in the old also possesses a relationship between its sound and its meaning. It is not the same as
the original, but that is no reason—no reason at all—to claim that it is devoid of poetry. Of course, the new poem may be awful when the original
was sublime. Few poets write sublime verse every time. But it stands to reason that the quality of a poem in translation has no relation to its having
been translated. It is the sole fruit of the poet’s skill as a poet, irrespective of whether he is also writing as a translator.
You may not like the poem by Douglas Hofstadter quoted at the start of this book. You may like the poem by Clément Marot much more. But all
that you could reasonably say about the difference is that Hofstadter is (in this instance) a less charming writer of poetry than Marot. If you didn’t
know that Hofstadter’s trisyllabic verse transposes sentiments first expressed by someone else in a form that has a quite strict relationship to it, you
might still not like it—but you wouldn’t think of justifying your disappointment by saying that poetry is what has been lost in translation. And since that
is the case—as it is the case with many lines of poetry you undoubtedly know in your own language without knowing they have semantic and formal
correspondences to lines or stanzas written in another language before them—you can’t justify your dislike of Hofstadter’s translation by saying that
its less than perfect quality is related to the way that poetry gets lost in translation. Exactly the same argument applies if you like Hofstadter’s poem
much more than you like Marot’s. Or if you had been led to believe that Marot’s French, far from being prior to it, had been inspired by “Gentle gem
…” In fact, for the vast majority of poems, the ordinary reader has few reliable ways of establishing whether and to what degree it can be counted as
a translation. Poets have been imitators, plagiarists, surreptitious importers, and translators since the beginning of time.
Dante, Joachim du Bellay, Alexander Pope, Ludwig Tieck, August Wilhelm von Schlegel, Boris Pasternak, Rainer Maria Rilke, Ezra Pound,
Jacques Roubaud, Robert Lowell, C. K. Williams—think of a great poet, and you’ve almost certainly thought of a translator, too. In the Western
tradition there is no cutoff point between writing poems and writing translations or writing poems in translation. Poetic forms—the sonnet, the
ballad, the rondeau, the pantoum, the ghazal—have migrated among languages as diverse as French, Italian, Russian, Persian, English, and Malay
over the last eight hundred years. Poetic styles—Romantic, Symbolist, Futurist, Acmeist, Surrealist—are common European properties, as typical
of German as of Polish poetry. Every so-called poetic tradition is made of other traditions. Against the dubious adage that poetry is what is lost in
translation we have to set the more easily demonstrable fact that, from many points of view, the history of Western poetry is the history of poetry in
translation.
Despite this, toward the end of 2007 there were 666 Web pages in English that quoted the adage “poetry is what is lost in translation”;1 and by
April 2010, when I ran the search again, the tally had risen to 15,100. Even more stunning is that in all but a handful of cases this adage was
attributed to the American poet Robert Frost. But nobody has ever been able to find Frost saying anything like it in his works, letters, interviews, or
reported sayings. 2 Like so many other received ideas about translation, this one turns out to have no foundation in fact.
All the same, it is true that poetry provides translators with a task that is not only difficult but in some senses beyond translation altogether. Like
many people, I have a great fondness for poems that I learned in my youth. I’m attached to them in a special way and treasure the very sound as
well as the sense that they have. As I was a student at the time, I read poetry in foreign languages—mostly in order to learn the language they were
in. Istruggled to understand them, and probably for that reason they have stuck in my mind ever since.
Wer, wenn ich schriee, hörte mich denn aus der Engel Ordnungen? und gesetzt selbst, es nähme einer mich plötzlich ans Herz: ich
verginge von seinem stärkeren Dasein.
For me, no English translation can have the same weight or familiarity or perfection or mystery—nor can any paraphrase in German. I cherish these
sounds and words of a language I wanted to master and which I learned in part through the unscrambling and memorization of just these lines. The
emotion that for me and me alone is wrapped up in the opening of Rilke’s Duino Elegies derives from my past, and although I can tell you about it
in this roundabout way, you can’t share it directly with me. What can’t be shared can’t be translated—obviously enough. But that doesn’t make the
poem untranslatable for anyone else:
Who, if I cried, would hear me among the angels’ hierarchies? and even if one would take me suddenly to his heart: I would die of his
stronger existence.
I might have translated the lines that way when I was learning German by learning Rilke. The English says pretty much what the German says. Is it
poetry? That’s a judgment everyone makes independently, by criteria that have absolutely nothing to do with the quality of the translation. This one,
in fact, wasn’t done by a poet or by a translator. It was done (with a little help from a friend) by a machine translation service available for free on the
Internet.
Personal, quasi-biographical reasons for valuing poems are probably very common. We may say that we treasure a line or a rhyme or a lyric “in
and for itself,” but it’s easier to demonstrate that poems often get attached to us, or we get attached to poems, in contexts that endow the
attachment with personal emotion. It does not matter whether the focus of such affective investment and aesthetic appreciation was first written in
another language and then translated, or written in the language in which we read it. In any case, you can’t tell. A Russian reader may know that
Pasternak’s — is a translation, but if she hasn’t been told, she has no way of assessing—and no reason to ask—
whether it is more or less poetical than Shakespeare’s “To be or not to be, that is the question.”
We can grant that emotional relationships to things, including poems and forms of language, may be ultimately incommunicable. However,
beliefs about the uniqueness and ineffability of emotional attachments have no relevance to the question of whether poetry is translatable. That is a
much less abstruse matter.
Some people doubt that there are any affects or experiences that cannot be expressed, on the commonsensical grounds that we could say
nothing about them and would therefore have no way of knowing if they existed for other people. The philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein presumably
meant to adopt an agnostic position on this issue in the famous last line of his Tractatus when he wrote, “What one cannot talk about must be left in
silence.” 3 The infinite flexibility of language and our experience of shared emotion in reading novels and poems and at the movies must also cast
doubt on whether there are any human experiences that cannot in principle be shared. On the other side of this thorny tangle is the intuitive
knowledge that what we feel is unique to us and can never be fully identified with anything felt by anyone else. That inexpressible residue of the
individual is ineffable—and the ineffable is precisely what cannot be translated.
Should translation studies pay any attention to the ineffable, or to notions, intuitions, feelings, and relations that are held to be unspeakable?
Oddly enough, anguished engagement with the problem of ineffable essences is not at all characteristic of Bible translation, where you might
expect to find mystical and religious issues taken seriously. Instead, it has preoccupied secular scholars of the twentieth century, from Walter
Benjamin to George Steiner and Antoine Berman. I would rather approach this boundary of translation from the opposite direction, for it seems to
me more important to realize not that the ineffable is a problem for translation, but that translation is one big problem for the ineffable.
Let’s imagine a crew returning from a space flight at some future point in time. They’ve visited a faraway Earth-like planet and are holding a
press conference at NASA headquarters. They have something spectacular to announce. Yes, KRX291 is inhabited, they say, and, what’s more,
the little green men that live on it have a language.
“How do you know that?” a journalist asks.
“Well, we learned to communicate with them,” the captain responds.
“And what did they say?”
“We can’t tell you that,” the captain answers coolly. “Their language is entirely untranslatable.”
It’s not hard to predict how our descendants would treat the captain and his crew. They would have the astronauts treated for flight-induced
insanity, and, if that proved to be unjustified, treat them as liars, or as laughingstocks. Why so? Because if the inhabitants of the distant planet did
have a language, and if the space crew had learned it, then it must be possible for them to say what the aliens had said. Must, not should: radically
untranslatable sounds do not make a language simply because we could not know it was a language unless we could translate it, even if only
roughly.
There are intermediate and problematic positions, of course. Not all utterances can be translated even when we are quite sure they are in a
language. Egyptian hieroglyphs were indecipherable until two brilliant linguists, Thomas Young and Jean-François Champollion, worked out how to
do it with the help of the Rosetta stone. More generally still, we can’t translate from languages we don’t know. But to claim that something is in a
language is to posit that, with the appropriate knowledge, it can be translated.4
Translation presupposes not the loss of the ineffable in any given act of interlingual mediation such as the translation of poetry but the irrelevance
of the ineffable to acts of communication. Any thought a person can have, the philosopher Jerrold Katz argued, can be expressed by some
sentence in any natural language; and anything that can be expressed in one language can also be expressed in another. What cannot be
expressed in any human language (opinions vary as to whether such things are delusional or foundational) lies outside the boundaries of translation
and, for Katz, outside the field of language, too. This is his axiom of effability. One of the truths of translation—one of the truths that translation
teaches—is that everything is effable.
Especially poetry. America and Britain are awash with poetry magazines, and every year small publishers put out hundreds of slim volumes
containing poems in translation. Our present army of amateur poetry translators is keeping poetry alive. Poetry is not what is lost but what is gained
from their work.
An individual poem may have a quality that, for any one of us, is so personal and unique that it might as well be ineffable, but the issue of
unspeakable ideas arises much more obviously in a quite different domain. It is in our interactions not with works of genius but with other species
that the ineffable looms before us like a brick wall.
On a short trip to SouthAmerica, Romain Gary picked up a twenty-three-foot-long python, whom he called Pete the Strangler and then donated to
a private zoo in California. When he was consul general in Los Angeles, Gary used to go and see Pete in his enclosure.
We would stare at each other in absolute astonishment, often for hours, deeply intrigued and wondering, awed and yet incapable of giving
each other any kind of explanation about what had happened to us, and how and why it had happened, unable to help each other with
some small flash of understanding drawn from our respective experiences. To find yourself in the skin of a python or in that of a man is
such a mysterious and astonishing adventure that the bewilderment we shared had become a kind of fraternity, a brotherhood beyond and
above our respective species.5
Maybe Gary was right to feel that a python can no more imagine what it is like to be one of us than we can imagine what the mental world of a
reptile is like—and it’s typically generous of him to allow a fearful and pea-brained monster like Pete the Strangler a reciprocating intuition of the
ineffability of human life. On the other hand, many nonhuman species—and perhaps all living things—do communicate with one another, and some
most definitely communicate with us. Dog owners, to take the most obvious example, easily distinguish among the meanings of different kinds of
bark. But the dog language we can access is a fairly limited thing. It consists of a small set of individual signals. Signals are generally treated as the
isolated vehicles of specific pieces of information—“There’s an intruder in the house,” “Hello and welcome,” or “Take me for a walk.” They can’t be
combined with one another to produce more complex meanings—as far as we know, dog language has no grammar. In addition, the set of signals
possessed by domesticated dogs—like the signals used by monkeys or bees—is inherited and fixed. There’s no new word formation going on in
dogs, just as the signaling system of traffic lights is incapable of producing more than “slow down,” “stop,” “get ready,” and “go.” (The green-and-
orange “get ready” combination is used in the U.K., as a courtesy to drivers of ancient sports cars with gearshift sticks.) Those are the main criteria
by which human language is distinguished from all other kinds of communication by most modern theorists of language. Monkeys can say only what
they have to say, and nothing else; whereas human signaling systems are forever changing and always capable of adapting themselves to new
circumstances and needs. These are fairly persuasive reasons for keeping animal language outside the field of “language proper” and far away
from the concerns of translation. But we could try to be as generous and as imaginative as Romain Gary. From such a perspective, human
language may well seem to a dog to be just as limited and inflexible a signaling system as linguists imperiously declare dog language to be.
From infancy to the onset of puberty, children of every culture have always known that animals have things to say to them. There’s no folklore in
the world that doesn’t similarly break the alleged barrier between human and other.6 But in our Western, script-based cultures, growing up (which is
so heavily entwined with formal education that it might as well be treated as the same thing) involves unlearning the instinctive childhood
assumption of communicative capacity in nonhuman species. No wonder our philosophers and priests have long insisted that language is the
exclusive attribute of humans. That self-confirming axiom makes children not yet fully human and in real need of the education they are given.
However, the traditional reasons for making a radical separation between “signaling” and “speaking” are not quite as hard-edged as they are
often made to seem. Some animal signaling systems that have been studied (among ants and bees, for instance, where the channels are not by
voice but by physical and chemical means) communicate what for us would be extremely elaborate geographic and social information. Whales emit
long streams of haunting sounds when they gather in a school in waters off the coast of Canada. The tonal and rhythmic patterns of whale song are
of such complexity as to make it quite impossible to believe that what we can hear (and pick up on instruments more sensitive than human ears) is
just random noise. Even more striking is the recent behavior of a group of monkeys in a Colchester, England, zoo: they have added two new
gesture signals to their prior repertoire of communicative behavior. Even if the “monkey sense” of these gestures is not absolutely certain, they are
indisputably meaningful signs within the community, and indisputable inventions of the monkeys themselves.7
But what makes the communicative behavior of ants, bees, whales, monkeys, dogs, and parrots mysterious to us, what takes cross-species
communication into the realm of the ineffable, is the fact that, save for a very limited range of noises from a limited range of long-domesticated
pets, nobody knows how to translate “animal signals” into human speech or vice versa. When and if we ever can translate nonhuman noises into
human speech, species-related ineffabilities will evaporate like the morning haze.
Translation is the enemy of the ineffable. One causes the other to cease to exist.
FOURTEEN
How Many Words Do We Have for Coffee?
The number of New Yorkers who can say “good morning” in any of the languages spoken by the Inuit peoples of the Arctic can probably be counted
on the fingers of one hand. But in any small crowd of folk in the city or elsewhere you will surely find someone to tell you, “Eskimo has one hundred
words for snow.” The Great Eskimo Vocabulary Hoax was demolished many years ago,1 but its place in popular wisdom about language and
translation remains untouched. What are interesting for the study of translation are not so much the reasons this blooper is wrong but why people
cling to it nonetheless.2
People who proffer the factoid seem to think it shows that the lexical resources of a language reflect the environment in which its native speakers
live. As an observation about language in general, it’s a fair point to make—languages tend to have the words their users need and not to have
words for things never used or encountered. But the Eskimo story actually says more than that. It tells us that a language and a culture are so closely
bound together as to be one and the same thing. “Eskimo language” and “the [snowbound] world of the Eskimos” are mutually dependent things.
That’s a very different proposition, and it lies at the heart of arguments about the translatability of different tongues.
The discovery and understanding of what makes different languages different and also the same has a curious modern history. In a lecture on the
culture of the Hindus given in London to the Asiatic Society in 1786, an English judge posted to Bengal made a claim that overturned long-held
beliefs in the superiority of the languages of the “civilized” West and the lesser jargons of the rest of the world:
The Sanscrit language, whatever be its antiquity, is of a wonderful structure; more perfect than the Greek, more copious than the Latin,
and more exquisitely refined than either, yet bearing to both of them a stronger affinity, both in the roots of verbs and the forms of
grammar, than could possibly have been produced by accident; so strong indeed, that no philologer could examine them all three, without
believing them to have sprung from some common source, which, perhaps, no longer exists; there is a similar reason, though not quite so
forcible, for supposing that both the Gothic and the Celtic, though blended with a very different idiom, had the same origin with the
Sanscrit; and the old Persian might be added to the same family.3
This is generally reckoned to be the starter’s gun in a fascinating race that lasted for much of the nineteenth century to map all the world’s
languages and to work out how they were related to one another, in “family trees” each springing from a single progenitor. But even on the Old
Continent some languages—Albanian, for example—didn’t seem to have any close relatives at all, and one of them stuck out like a sore thumb.
Basque, spoken in parts of northern Spain and southwestern France, was just so different as to resist any kind of “family” treatment. Wilhelm von
Humboldt, elder brother of the great explorer Alexander, learned this strange idiom and wrote a grammar of it,4 and in so doing developed the
intellectual tools that in watered-down form ultimately led to the Great Eskimo Vocabulary Hoax.
Von Humboldt was struck not so much by the list of words that Basque has for different things as by the radically different structure of the
language. It seemed to him that the grammar of Basque was the core and also the mirror of Basque culture. The observation was generalized into
a theory: insofar as the formal properties of different languages are different from one another, each of the world’s languages gives access to a
different mental world.5 Basque cannot be “reduced” to French, German, or anything else. It is just itself—the embodiment and the root cause of
“Basqueness.” Different languages, von Humboldt saw, were different worlds, and the great diversity of natural languages on the planet should be
seen as a treasure house of tools for thinking in other ways.
The observation “other people just don’t think the way we do” was made long before von Humboldt’s essays appeared, but for most of human
history it was dealt with quite easily. In Greek eyes, “barbarians” who couldn’t speak Greek were obviously not capable of saying anything
interesting. Similarly, for the grammarians of seventeenth-century France, other languages could barely allow their speakers to engage in
approximations to real thought, which was truly possible only in Latin and French. It must have taken great courage to express von Humboldt’s
insight in the colonial era, when the otherness of other languages was generally thought to confirm the intellectual inferiority of people less fortunate
than the French (or the Greeks, or the Romans, and so forth). Like Sir William Jones, the Bengal judge, von Humboldt dared to assert that other
languages offered speakers of “West European” a wonderful mental resource.
Colonial expansion and conquest brought Europeans into contact with languages that were even more different than Basque. Some of them,
dotted here and there around the globe in no obvious pattern, are very different indeed. Imagine a language in which there is no term for “left” or
“right” but only expressions for laterality cast in terms of cardinal orientation. “There’s a fly on your southwest leg” might mean “left” or “right,”
depending on which way the speaker and his interlocutor are facing. (This is less unfamiliar than it first sounds: in contemporary Manhattanese we
use cardinal orientation whenever we say “go uptown from here.” To the dismay of many a lost tourist, that can’t be translated into tournez à gauche
or à droite unless you also know which of the four cardinal points you are facing.) Speakers of Kuuk Thaayorre (Cape York, Australia), for example,
lay out ordered sets (say, numbers from one to ten, or photographs of faces aged from babyhood to maturity) not from “left” to “right” or the other
way around but starting from east—wherever east happens to be with respect to the table at which their anthropological linguist interrogator is
seated.6
But languages can be even weirder than that. In Nootka, a language spoken on the Pacific coast of Canada, speakers characteristically mark
some physical feature of the person addressed or spoken of either by means of suffixes or by inserting meaningless consonants in the body of a
word. You can get a very faint idea of how this works from vulgar infixes such as “fan-bloody-tastic” in colloquial English. In Nootka, however, the
physical classes indicated by these methods are children, unusually fat or heavy people, unusually short adults, those suffering from some defect of
the eye, hunchbacks, those that are lame, left-handed persons, and circumcised males.7
One example of the radical difference of human languages was made famous by the American linguist Benjamin Lee Whorf, who had learned
and studied many Native American languages. In the language of the Hopi (but also in quite a few others, distributed with no obvious pattern around
the globe), there is a grammatical category called evidentials. For each noun-phrase, the grammar of Hopi marks not so much the categories of
definiteness or indefiniteness (“a farmer,” “the farmer”) but whether the thing or person referred to is within the field of vision of the speaker. “The
farmer I can see” has a different form from “the farmer I saw yesterday,” which is different again from the form of “the farmer you told me about.” As
a result, the English sentence “The farmer killed the duck” is quite untranslatable into Hopi without a heap of information the English sentence
doesn’t give you—notably, whether the farmer in question is present to the speaker as he speaks and whether the duck is still lying around. If you
speak Hopi, of course, and are speaking it to other Hopi speakers in an environment where the duck and the farmer are either with you or not, you
know the answers to these questions and can express your meaning grammatically. What you can’t translate in a meaningful way is the sentence
“The farmer killed the duck” out of context. But as we have seen in earlier chapters, this kind of untranslatability holds for any de-contextualized
sentence in any language. The use of Hopi-type grammars as evidence of the untranslatability of tongues is really a red herring. Isolated,
unsituated, written example sentences are often more hindrance than help when it comes to thinking about translation.
However, the rapid exploration of the diversity of human languages in the nineteenth century also led people to wonder in what ways the
languages of less developed peoples were different from “civilized” tongues. Greek had “produced” a Plato, but Hopi had not. Was this because
so-called primitive languages were not suited to higher thought? Or was it the lack of civilization itself that had kept primitive languages in their
irrational and alien states? Von Humboldt’s hypothesis of an indissoluble bond between language and mentality could be used to argue either way
around. Were there any general features of the languages of “natives” that marked them off as a class from those few languages that were spoken
by the civilized nations of the world? And if so, what were they?
Explorer-linguists observed quite correctly that the languages of peoples living in what were for them exotic locales had lots of words for exotic
things, and supplied subtle distinctions among many different kinds of animals, plants, tools, and ritual objects. The evidence piled up at a
disproportionate rate simply because the explorers wanted to know first of all what all these strange objects in their new environment were called.
Accounts of so-called primitive languages generally consisted of word lists elicited from interpreters or from sessions of pointing and asking for
names.8 But the languages of these remote cultures seemed deficient in words for “time,” “past,” “future,” “language,” “law,” “state,” “government,”
“navy,” or “God.” Trique, a language spoken in Mexico, has no word for “miracle,” for example, only specific words for “heal the sick,” “part the
waters,” and so forth.9 Consequently, it was difficult to translate into such languages most of the things that colonial administrators and missionaries
needed to say. How could these strange folk be granted the benefits of civilization if the languages they spoke did not allow for the expression of
civilized things? More particularly, the difficulty of expressing “abstract thought” of the Western kind in many Native American and African languages
suggested that the capacity for abstraction was the key to the progress of the human mind.
Savages will have twenty independent words each expressing the act of cutting some particular thing, without having any name for cutting
in general; they will have as many to describe birds, fish and trees of different kinds, but no general equivalents for the terms “bird,” “fish”
or “tree.”10
The “concrete languages” of the non-Western world were not just the reflection of the lower degree of civilization of the peoples who spoke them but
the root cause of their backward state. By the dawn of the twentieth century, “too many concrete nouns” and “not enough abstractions” became the
conventional qualities of “primitive” tongues.
That’s what people actually mean when they repeat the story about Eskimo words for snow. The multiplicity of concrete terms “in Eskimo”
displays its speakers’ lack of the key feature of the civilized mind—the capacity to see things not as unique items but as tokens of a more general
class. We can see that all kinds of snow—soft snow, wet snow, dry snow, poudreuse, melting snow, molten snow, slush, sleet, dirty gray snow,
brown muddy snow, banks of snow heaped up by wind, snowbanks made by human hand, avalanches, and ski runs, to name but fourteen—are all
instances of the same phenomenon, which we call “snow”; “Eskimos” see the varieties, not the class. (This isn’t true of real Inuit people, only of the
Eskimos who figure in the Great Eskimo Vocabulary Hoax.)
Translation between “civilized” and “primitive” languages distinguished in this way was clearly impossible. The solution was to teach colonial
subjects a form of language that would enable them to acquire civilization, and the obvious tool to carry out the mission civilisatrice was the
language of the imperial administrators themselves. In some cases, as in the Spanish conquest of the Americas, the impoverished resources of
native languages were seen as such a threat to the spread of civilization that the languages and their written records had to be eradicated. But the
destruction of the Maya codices wasn’t solely an expression of naked power, religious fervor, and racism.11 The suppression of lesser tongues was
not a policy reserved by the Spanish for other continents—it was already the European norm. France had already begun its long campaign to stop
people speaking anything that was not French within its own borders. Breton, Basque, Provençal, Alsatian, Picard, Gascon, and many other rural
patois were almost hounded out of existence by laws and institutions over a period of several hundred years. The long pan-European drive toward
“standard languages” was powered not only by political will, economic integration, urbanization, and other forces at play in the real world. It also
expressed a deeply held belief that only some languages were suited to civilized thought.
What, then, can it mean to “think in Hopi”? If it means anything, can it be called “thought”? The linguist Edward Sapir came up with a revolutionary
answer in the early part of the last century. Breaking with millennial practice and prejudice, he declared that all languages were equal. There is no
hierarchy of tongues. Every variety of human language constitutes a system that is complete and entire, fully adequate to performing all the tasks
that its users wish to make of it.
Sapir didn’t argue this case out of political correctness. He made his claims on the basis of long study of languages of many different kinds. The
evidence itself brought him to see that any attempt to match the grammar of a language with the culture of its speakers or their ethnic origins was
completely impossible. “Language,” “culture,” and “race” were independent variables. He turned the main part of von Humboldt’s legacy—European
linguistic nationalism—upside down.
Sapir showed that there is nothing “simple” about the languages of “simple” societies—and nothing especially “complex” about the languages of
economically advanced ones. In his writings on language he showed like no one before him just how immensely varied the forms of language are
and how their distribution among societies of very different kinds corresponds to no overarching pattern. But he did not reject every part of the
inheritance of von Humboldt’s study of Basque. Different languages, because they are structured in different ways, make their speakers pay
attention to different aspects of the world. Having to mark presence or absence in languages that have evidentials (see here and here), or being
obliged to mark time in languages of the Western European type, lays down what he called mind grooves—habitual patterns of thought. The
question for translation (and for anthropology) is this: Can we jump the grooves and move more or less satisfactorily from one “habitual pattern” to
another?
The view that you can’t ever really do this has become known as the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, despite the fact that Edward Sapir never
subscribed to the idea. The trouble with the simple form of this misnamed prejudice—that translation is impossible between any two languages
because each language constructs a radically different mental world—is that if it were true you would not be able to know it. The parable of the
NASA captain’s report of an alien language, given here, is one way to show how flawed the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis really is. A more sophisticated
version of the same line of thinking runs up against equally powerful blocks. If we grant that different languages provide different kinds of tools for
thinking but allow for substantial overlaps—without which there could be no translation—we are left with the idea that there are just some things in,
let us say, French that can never be expressed in English, and vice versa. There would then be an area of “thinking in French” that was “ineffable” in
any other tongue. That contradicts the axiom of effability, which, as we argued in chapter 13, is the sine qua non for translation to exist. It makes no
difference to the argument against it whether the ineffable is held to be an attribute of God or of poetry, or a property of French.
Sapir actually had much more interesting things to tell us about languages and the way they relate to social and especially intellectual life. Greek
and Latin have served as the vehicles of sophisticated thinking that deals in abstract entities. Both have grammatical features that make it easy to
create abstract nouns from verbs, adjectives, and other nouns. A strong trace of the grammatical facility for creating abstract entities in classical
languages can be seen in those large parts of the English vocabulary that have Latin and Greek roots: human humanity, just justice, civil civility,
translate translation, calculus calculate calculation, and so forth. Sapir’s point was that instead of saying that Latin and Greek are well suited to
abstract thought, we should say, rather, that abstract thought is well suited to Greek and Latin and view the particular kinds of philosophical
discourse that were developed by their speakers as a consequence of the grammar they used. The mind grooves laid down by the forms of a
language are not prison walls but the hills and valleys of a mental landscape where some paths are easier to follow than others. If Plato had had
Hopi to think with, he would not have come up with Platonic philosophy, that’s for sure—and that’s probably not a merely retrospective illusion
based on the observable fact that there’s no Hopi speaker who thinks he is Plato. Hopi thinkers think something else. That does not make Hopi a
primitive language unsuited to true thought. It means that speakers of what Sapir called “Average West European” are poorly equipped to engage
in Hopi thought. To expand our minds and to become more fully civilized members of the human race, we should learn as many different languages
as we can. The diversity of tongues is a treasure and a resource for thinking new thoughts.
If you go into a Starbucks and ask for “coffee,” the barista most likely will give you a blank stare. To him the word means absolutely nothing. There
are at least thirty-seven words for coffee in my local dialect of Coffeeshop Talk (or tok-kofi, as it would be called if I lived in Papua New Guinea).
Unless you use one of these individuated terms, your utterance will seem baffling or produce an unwanted result. You should point this out next time
anyone tells you that Eskimo has a hundred words for snow. If a Martian explorer should visit your local bar and deduce from the lingo that Average
West Europeans lack a single word to designate the type that covers all tokens of small quantities of a hot or cold black or brown liquid in a
disposable cup, and consequently pour scorn on your language as inappropriate to higher forms of interplanetary thought—well, now you can tell
him where to get off.
FIFTEEN
Bibles and Bananas: The Vertical Axis of Translation Relations
Let’s start with the math. For any three languages there are 3 × 2 = 6 different translation relations: French Russian, Russian French; French
German, German French; Russian German and German Russian. Among any four there are 4 × 3 = 12; for n languages there are n × (n–1)
directions of translation possible. So, since there are approximately seven thousand known languages in the world, there are 24,496,500 pairs of
languages between which translation could in principle take place in either direction, giving rise to nearly 49 million potentially separate translation
practices, each with its own tools and conventions. Translation is a universal capacity of human societies, and a level playing field of that size
cannot be ruled out on purely theoretical grounds. In reality, however, the number of language pairs with established practices of translation is
infinitesimal compared with all those that could exist.
Translation does not happen every which way nowadays and never has. But in which ways does it happen? The fundamental answer, though a
very broad one, is that it happens either UP or DOWN. As these are technical terms of my own invention, I’ve put them in small capitals.
Every human language serves as a full means of communication for some community, and in that sense there is no hierarchy among them. But
acts of translation, which are rarely isolated events, typically exploit and support an asymmetrical relationship between source and target tongues.
Translation UP is toward a language of greater prestige than the source. The prestige may be the fruit of ancient tradition—as it was when
Akkadian was translated into Sumerian in the Assyrian era, for example, or when translation into Latin was used to spread news of Marco Polo’s
adventures far and wide (see here).At other times UP may be toward a language with a larger readership—typically, when then the target tongue is
used, like French in nineteenth-century Russia, as a vehicle of intercultural communication. It may also simply be the language of the conquerors, or
of a people with greater economic power, such as Russian in the Central Asian lands in the period of the U.S.S.R. Prestige can be located in a
language also because it is the preferred vehicle of religious truths. Arabic, Latin, and Sanskrit, among others, have played this role at different
times.
Translation DOWN is toward a vernacular with a smaller audience than the source, or toward one with less cultural, economic, or religious
prestige, or one not used as a vehicular tongue. Translation from German into Hungarian during the dual kingdom of the Austro-Hungarian Empire,
for example, was DOWN, as is translation from English nowadays into any other tongue.
The rank order of languages when seen as pairs is extremely hard for any individual act of translation to shift, but it is not stable over long periods
of time. Sumerian, Greek, Syriac, Latin, English, and French, to take obvious examples, have seen their places in the pecking order change
dramatically over the centuries. In addition, the ranking is often not all-encompassing. In specific fields, the relationship can be reversed or
substantially modified. The standing of German as the language of a prestigious philosophical tradition means that shifting Kant, Hegel, or
Heidegger into English (or French) is usually handled by translators as if they were translating DOWN; the translations of French novels into English
in the nineteenth century exhibited the most obvious signs of that same direction of travel.
What distinguishes translating UP from translating DOWN is this: translations toward the more general and more prestigious tongue are
characteristically highly adaptive, erasing most of the traces of the text’s foreign origin; whereas translations DOWN tend to leave a visible residue
of the source, because in those circumstances foreignness itself carries prestige. When Marcel Duhamel launched the Série Noire crime-fiction
imprint in Paris just after the Second World War, for example, he ensured that the translations of the American novels he aimed to make popular in
France used plenty of Americanisms in French. He went further: he insisted that his French-language authors (who provided more than half the
texts) adopt American-sounding pseudonyms to deceive readers into thinking they were getting the real thing.
However, the complexity and contradictions of language hierarchies are most richly illustrated by the history of Bible translation—in the West, to
begin with, but subsequently worldwide.
Bible translation got off to a slow start. The first foreign-language version of the Jewish Torah was the Septuagint, written in koiné Greek around
236 B.C.E. (see here). Other Greek-language versions followed, but it was not until shortly before the start of the Christian era that it came into
Latin, around the same time that the Jews themselves began writing down the oral translations they had long practiced to make their holy texts
accessible in Aramaic. Five centuries later there were still only eleven languages possessing versions of the Old and New Testaments (Greek,
Latin, Aramaic, Syriac, Coptic, Armenian, Georgian, Old Gothic, Ge’ez, and Persian); and five more centuries were needed for the total to grow to
nineteen, around the end of the first millennium. By the time printing was invented in the late fifteenth century, there were maybe fifty; by 1600 there
were sixty-one, by 1700 there were seventy-four, and by 1800 there were eighty-one. A remarkable number, admittedly, but small change
compared to what happened thereafter. In the course of the nineteenth century, more than five new languages were added every year, bringing the
total to 620 by the turn of the twentieth century. Then things really began to shift. On average, one new Bible translation was completed every month
between 1900 and 1999, and so, by the year 2000, the number of languages possessing all or part of the Old and New Testaments in translation
shot up to 2,403.1
Despite its roots in ancient and medieval times, in quantitative terms Bible translation is a preponderantly twentieth-century affair. Throughout
many decades of that era, much of it was overseen by one man, Eugene Nida, who has long been the most respected authority on Bible translation
in the world.
Nida never translated the Bible himself. He worked as linguistic consultant to the United Bible Societies, helping to exercise quality control over a
great number of Bible translation projects that arose after the Second World War. In that capacity, he lectured all over the world and sought to
explain in layman’s terms some of the contentious issues of language and culture that have been tackled from a different perspective in chapters of
this book.
Nida made a distinction between two kinds of equivalence in translation: formal equivalence, where the order of words and their standard or
common meanings correspond closely to the syntax and vocabulary of the source; and dynamic equivalence (later renamed functional
equivalence), where the translator substitutes for source-text expressions other ways of saying things with roughly the same force in the culture of
the receiving society. He was an unashamed proponent of the view that, as far as the Bible was concerned, only dynamic equivalence would do. In
that sense he was renewing the translator’s defense of the right to be free and not “literal.” Nida’s overriding concern, which is also that of the
United Bible Societies, is that the holy scriptures be brought to all people—and that what is brought to them be the scriptures, as nearly as can be
managed. A Bible that makes no immediate sense in the target language, or Bibles that can be read or understood only by trained theologians or
priests, are not well suited to missionaries’ aims. Nida’s preference for dynamic equivalence was in the first place an encouragement to translators
to sacrifice whatever was necessary to “get the message across.” As he titled one of the chapters of the handbook he co-authored with Jan de
Waard: “Translating Means Translating Meaning.”2
As explained see here, this approach is characteristic of translating UP. Yet the source languages of the scriptures—Hebrew, Greek, and Latin
—are still, without doubt, and especially for adherents to the faith, much nearer the essence of the texts’ religious meaning than any of the
vernacular translations they could turn out. Seen in this light, twentieth-century Bible translation ought to be the largest case study we have of
translating DOWN—translating from a language of prestige to a local idiom, from a “general language of truth” to a specific vernacular. However,
the majority of Bible translations that Nida oversaw were not from Greek or Latin (and Hebrew even less) but from the American versions of the
Bible in English, and from two influential Spanish versions, the Reina-Valera of 1909 and a simplified text called Dios Habla Hoy (“God Speaks
Today”).3 These are, of course, the “general languages” or “dominant idioms” in many parts of the world nowadays.
Retranslation (translating a text that is already a translation) is not a modern departure for the Bible. Only the Aramaic targums and the Greek
Septuagint were translated directly from biblical Hebrew. The Armenian, Coptic, Old Latin, Syriac, Ge’ez, Persian, and Arabic translations of the
Old Testament were done from the Greek; the Georgian Bible was probably first translated from Armenian (though it may have also used the Syriac
and the Greek); the Old Gothic likewise, probably with some reference to Latin versions. Jerome used Hebrew and Aramaic texts to complement
the Septuagint for his long-influential version of the Old Testament in Latin, and the original Greek for the New Testament. Early German
translations of the Bible in the fifteenth century were done from Jerome’s Latin, as were the first Bibles in Swedish. Martin Luther was the first
among European translators to use Greek and Hebrew as source texts; his German formulations were, however, copied by many translators into
other European languages, who sometimes used Luther’s version as their sole source (the Icelandic Bible is a case in point). The Bible was not
translated into French until the sixteenth century—from Latin and Italian, not from Hebrew or Greek. The first complete English Bible, by Miles
Coverdale, also had no contact with the original languages but drew on Jerome’s Latin, a later Latin translation by Erasmus, and Luther’s German.
The use of modern European translations to retranslate the scriptures into nearly two thousand mostly non-European tongues in the last hundred
years is therefore no innovation in the long history of these texts, but it raises issues of great magnitude. It confirms and drives the perception of
English and Spanish, not of Hebrew or Greek, as “languages of truth”; their status as the source for Bible translation is hard to separate from the
political, economic, and cultural status of the speakers of these two vehicular tongues.
Translating DOWN from a dominant to a vernacular language is typically accompanied by substantial imports of vocabulary and syntactic
constructions from the source. Such was the process that enriched and expanded Syriac when it was used as a vehicle for the preservation of
Greek medicine and astronomy. Such was the process that altered and enhanced French when it became the target language for mass translation
from Italian in the sixteenth century. Such was the process that Schleiermacher strongly recommended for German as the recipient of the treasures
of Greek philosophy in the early nineteenth century. Target-language modification was also, in fact, the fate of English at the hands of the translation
committee established by King James I. “The Lord Our God,” for instance, is less a Jacobean way of expressing the first-person plural possessive
in English than it is a calque of Hebrew grammar: the corresponding expression in the Torah, , pronounced “adonai ilehenu,” can be
worded out as “God, the Lord-Our.”
The spread of English-language terms in the field of electronic communications into almost all the vehicular languages of the world (computer,
Internet, to surf, hardware, USB, and so forth) is a contemporary reminder of what a language hierarchy is. The French would rather not be so
reminded, and their government set up the Commission Générale de Terminologie et de Néologie in 1996 to push back the tide of foreign words. It
may have more success than King Canute, but Iwouldn’t bet on it.
Target-language modification through translations of prestigious works from a language of higher status may in some instances be imposed on
the receiving cultures, but in most cases it is not. More characteristically, it arises from the wishes and needs of the translating community itself. (It
hardly needs pointing out that there were no “Hebrews” around to spur King James’s translators to bend English into shapes more typical of
Hebrew grammar.) But Bible translation in the twentieth century is a different kettle of fish. The agents of modern Bible translation into indigenous
languages are closely involved in the missionizing project itself, and many of them are American as well.
They work into languages they have learned long after the critical age of language acquisition—they are what we termed L2 translators see here
of this book. They therefore run the same kind of risk of creating unintentionally comical or offensive effects as do the creators of international
signage in Croatian seaside hotels. Nida’s main concern was to try to ensure they did not.
Bible translation into non-European languages, which began with European colonial expansion as early as the seventeenth century, was highly
inventive from the start. Albert Cornelius Ruyl, a junior trader in the Dutch East India Company with unusual linguistic skills, first taught himself Malay
—a regional contact language—when he began his service in Sumatra. He wrote a grammar, then translated the Gospel of Matthew from Dutch.
Ruyl altered and adapted Malay as he went along, using words from Arabic, Portuguese, and Sanskrit when he knew no corresponding term in
Malay. But he also did something more.
Where the Dutch version of Matthew talks of a fig tree, Ruyl’s version has pisang—which means a banana tree in Malay. The substitution was
justified by the fact that there were no figs on Sumatra. But what really marks it as special is that it signals a new ideology in the age-old business of
translating DOWN. Ruyl initiated the principle of cultural substitution that Nida would theorize and promote three centuries later.
From Hebrew into Greek, from Greek into Latin, from Syriac into Arabic, and so forth, when the receiving language didn’t have a word for some
item, it got a new one—the word of the source language, adapted to its new linguistic home. Not so from Dutch into Malay. The receiving language
did not get a new word for a new thing. It got a substitute thing, with its existing word.
Douglas Hofstadter once asked, “How do you say ‘jazzercise’ inAramaic?” He meant it as a mind game, not as a question about what the small
group of Aramaic speakers in contemporary Jerusalem would say if they joined a gym and found themselves doing aerobics to a Dave Brubeck
track. There is no reason why speakers in the ancient world should have had a word for a thing they did not have, but speakers of Aramaic or any
other language today would have to choose one of three ways of making up a word for jazzercise. They might import the word as it stands, making
whatever modifications in form that are needed to allow it to function in a sentence. Or they might take two Aramaic words with meanings
analogous to “syncopated music” and “exercise” and run them together to make a new compound in imitation of the English. Finally, they might take
an existing Aramaic word and expand its use to include musical stretch-and-jump. Those are the three ways in which new things can be
represented in any receiving language—by a foreignism (the first option), a calque (second option), or a semantic expansion. Each of them
changes the target language by one item, with possible repercussions over time on the use and form of other words. But cultural substitution would
simply put some other, more or less analogous activity current in the world of Aramaic speakers in the place of “jazzercising.”
That’s what Ruyl did to Malay: he didn’t invent a new word for a new thing (“fig”), he used an existing word to say something else (“banana”). It
worked only because there are no figs on Sumatra. When the referent of a term is available, such as a musical gym in an Aramaic-speaking
quarter of Tel Aviv, cultural substitution can’t work as a way of translating an exotic term.
Imagine: Sir Walter Raleigh presents Queen Elizabeth I with an amazing root vegetable he’s brought back from the New World and beseeches
Her Majesty to reward him for the discovery of … the turnip. It wouldn’t have worked because it was not a turnip. When you have a potato in your
hand, you can’t call it by the name of anything that you could be holding in your other hand. “Cultural substitution” is a naming and translation device
that is suited exclusively to things that aren’t there. You can’t just expand the meaning of turnip by using it to name things that aren’t turnips.
Similarly, when Ruyl wrote pisang for “fig,” he did not expand the meaning of the Malay term. No new class of tree suddenly arose that included both
bananas and figs. What this kind of cultural substitution really says is that you can’t really understand, and we’re not going to try to explain. Have a
banana instead.
Analogy-based substitutions are frequent in non-European Bible translations. “White as snow” in the Bible text may become “white as a
cockatoo’s feathers” in languages spoken in areas where snow has never been seen, or “white as a cotton boll” in some languages of South
America. In Asmat, a language spoken in a swampy area of Indonesian Papua where houses are all built on stilts, the parable of the wise builder
who builds on stone and the foolish builder who builds on sand turns into a story about a wise builder “who builds a house on stilts made of iron
wood … while the foolish builder is the one who builds a house on stilts made of white wood” (white wood being used only for temporary hunting
shacks, because it rots quickly).4
Nida reports examples of even more extensive cultural transpositions he encountered and approved. In many parts of Africa, he says, casting
branches in the path of a chief expresses contempt, whereas in the Gospels it is done to mark Jesus’s return to Jerusalem as a triumph. Similarly,
fasting is not easily seen as a form of devotion in many parts of the world—it is more likely to be understood as an insult to God.5 Revision of the
Gospel’s account of Palm Sunday and of the role of fasting in the Old Testament is both absolutely necessary to avoid giving the wrong message to
African readers and at the same time impossible without profoundly altering the story being told. Nida’s job was to help produce texts that were
functionally equivalent to the Bible considered not as sacred script but as the repository of a sacred story.
Nida also promoted the use of native speakers of indigenous languages as full partners and, wherever possible, as prime movers in Bible
translation projects. That’s because reliable judgments about the appropriateness of cultural substitutes are not easily made by L2 speakers. If
acceptability is the paramount aim, then L1 speakers are in a much better position to invent and adapt. Their intuitions about acceptability are the
ones that count.
Nida’s insistence on adaptive translation can be understood in two ways. First, it follows from the beliefs he shares with other Christians that a
religious truth must be accessible to all humans, whatever their culture and language. Equally important, however, is Nida’s wish to respect the
cultures that Bible translators inevitably affect and alter by their work. Adaptive translation is a compromise between these two contradictory
aspirations. It helps the receiving culture accept and integrate something completely new by using terms that are already familiar.
Nida’s position is not popular among translation-studies scholars, particularly those mainly concerned with the translation of literary works. They
might point out how preposterous it would be in the translation of an oral epic from an African language into English to replace banyan with
chestnut on the grounds that banyan trees are nowhere to be seen in England’s green and pleasant land. Such attacks miss the main point, which
is this: translating UP doesn’t normally use the same techniques as translating DOWN. There’s no good reason to think that a single
undifferentiated set of practices or principles should or ever will hold sway over the whole vast field of translation. The hierarchical relationship
between source and target isn’t the sole determinant of the methods that translators may use, but it affects quite fundamentally what they do and
how they do it.
Cultural substitution, for example, can at times be used in translating UP, but to different effect. Arthur Waley’s influential translations of Chinese
and Japanese poetry and prose give us English-sounding “Lords” and “Ladies” in place of altogether different social ranks in the ancient societies
of the Far East. Waley’s reasons for making these substitutions are as complicated as Nida’s approval of cockatoo in place of snow. On the one
hand, “Lords” and “Ladies” protects English-language readers from having to acquire too much arcane information about a culture they don’t
especially wish to learn about. On the other hand, the use of domestic markers of high status reinvests the foreign society represented with
recognizable signals of prestige, and thus makes it worth learning about. Translators’ strategic decisions are always two-edged swords.
The technique that seems furthest removed from cultural substitution is the intentional alteration of the target language. Bible translation once
again provides us with some extreme examples. In the twentieth century, several scholarly Bible retranslation projects have sought to restore the
foreignness of the scriptures for readers already familiar with them in more adaptive forms. The Context Group of the Society of Biblical Literature,
for example, argues that “the Bible is not a Western Book” and that it was “not written for us.”6 Members of the group point out that because
language cannot be isolated from the social context in which it is embedded, and because the ancient Middle East is a completely alien land, the
Hebrew Bible cannot be fully represented in a translation that makes ordinary sense today.7 Their program of defamiliarizing biblical texts follows in
the footsteps of Martin Buber and Franz Rosenzweig, Jewish theologians who retranslated the Old Testament into German in the 1920s so as to
restore what they saw as the poetic, religious, and communal characteristics of their faith as it was in the beginning. 8 To achieve this, they
reproduce the word repetitions and patterns of sound found in the Hebrew at the expense of easy legibility. Thus, where Exodus 3:14–15 in a barely
updated version of the King James translation of 1611 is fairly accessible—
And God said unto Moses, IAM THAT IAM; and he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, IAM hath sent me unto you. And
God said moreover unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the
God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath sent me unto you: this is my name for ever, and this is my memorial unto all generations
—the Buber-Rosenzweig translation, which respects the line breaks of the Hebrew, as well as many other features of that ancient tongue, would
sound something like this if it were put into English in like manner:
God said to Moshe:
Iwill be-there howsoever Iwill be-there.
And he said:
Thus shall you say to the Children of Israel:
IAM THERE sends me to you.
And God said further to Moshe:
This shall you say to the Children of Israel:
HE,
the God of your fathers
the God of Avraham, the God
of Yitzhak, and the God of Yaakov,
sends me to you.
That is my name for the ages,
that is my title
generation unto generation.9
Both Nida and Buber were concerned with translating from a “language of truth” into a vernacular—both were translating DOWN, as were Luther,
Ruyl, and King James’s translators. One major difference among them lies not in the direction of travel but in the broader location of their particular
language pairs in the world hierarchy of tongues: Hebrew, German, Dutch, and Malay occupy places that are not interchangeable with one another.
But the main difference is what the translators thought their respective audiences needed and desired. For Ruyl, seventeenth-century Sumatrans
needed to learn the story and its overall meaning; but in Buber’s mind, what German Jews in the Weimar Republic needed to learn was what the
authentic, original community of Jews had believed. These differences produce curious flips and loops in translation history, whose course has
been more sinuous than any theory can easily accommodate.
Buber’s “foreignizing” approach is characteristic of those major programs of translations DOWN—from Greek into Syriac, Italian into French, and
Latin into most Western languages—that have left lasting imprints on the receiving language. Ruyl’s and Nida’s strongly adaptive approach, on the
other hand, is obviously more often found in translations UP—from vernaculars, be they regional or exotic, into central languages that don’t want to
know too much about the source. Modern Bible translation has thus produced a reversal of age-old trends.
By insisting on as much respect for the (foreign) target culture as possible, Nida’s recommended style of translating scriptures DOWN applies
procedures more commonly found in translations UP; whereas the exoticizing style of Buber (and, after him, of Henri Meschonnic in France), which
has been more typically applied to translation DOWN in the last few thousand years, is motivated by scrupulous respect for the radical difference of
a now almost inaccessible culture and form of speech.
Both methodologies seek to pay respect where respect is due: there is no conflict in overall motivation. But where Buber has little respect for the
linguistic norms of contemporary German, Nida doesn’t think that the specific qualities of snow matter very much when set beside the overriding
aim of getting the message across.
The degree to which either of these ideas of translation can affect the receiving language and culture doesn’t really depend on their intrinsic
merits as translation methodologies or on the brilliance of their users. It depends on volume. Leaving the special features of Bible translation to the
side, we can say that the reciprocal flow of translations between any two languages is never equal and in most cases utterly unbalanced. The
direction of flow is the key to understanding which way is UP, and what happens down below.
SIXTEEN
Translation Impacts
Some Bible translations have had profound and lasting effects on the receiving language. Luther’s Bible is considered the first monument of
modern German, and the King James Bible remains an inescapable reference point in the history of English. However, such impacts are not typical
of translation in general. Individual translators do not often produce the smallest ripple in the target culture. However, continuing waves of translated
works in particular fields always leave the receiving language in a significantly different shape.
That was clear to Friedrich Schleiermacher when he set out to explain how the Greek classics should best be translated into German. It wasn’t
any one book that would make the difference, he insisted, but only large-scale translation of Greek philosophy and drama that could help the
German language “to flourish and develop its own perfect power through the most varied contacts with what is foreign.”1 But depending on the
relation between the original and the receiving society, the target may get hit in radically different ways.
English-language translations of French critical theory from the 1960s to the 1990s, for example, have made abstract discourse about literature
in English sound much more like French than it ever did before. In the reverse direction, the language of celebrity journalism in French has been
quite transformed by the mass import of English-language styles: la presse people (pronounced pi-pol) exhibits unmistakable signs of what is now
denounced as the homogenization of tongues.
It’s not just a matter of vocabulary. A small but quite profound change in the way dialogue is introduced in Swedish narrative can be traced back
to its source in translations of English-language novels.2 Constructions of the following type are ten a penny in modern English fiction of all kinds:
1. “Don’t try,” she said with disdain.
2. “It doesn’t matter,” he said calmly.
3. “And now you must go to sleep,” he said in a tone that was friendly but authoritative.
4. “Get out,” said Frank abruptly.
The grammar of Swedish does not make this kind of construction impossible. However, placing a verb of saying together with a modifier (“with
disdain,” “calmly,” “abruptly”) after direct speech is fairly unusual in Swedish novel-writing style. In a representative corpus of thirty novels written
originally in Swedish, the construction occurs 64 times, but in a parallel corpus of about the same size consisting of novels translated into Swedish
from English, it occurs 484 times. This “fingerprint” of English—of one of the English novel’s habitual “dialogue props”—has now been integrated
into original writing in Swedish, where it is characteristic not of literary fiction in general but of detective fiction in particular. It’s one of those small
yet significant merg-ings of language and style that are often attacked as unintended results of globalization. But Swedish detective fiction has had
sweet revenge. Its language may have been infiltrated by an English-language device for the presentation of dialogue, but hard-boiled Swedish
crime fiction by Henning Mankell and Stieg Larsson has now conquered the world’s bestseller lists.
Merging of another kind has been vigorously proposed by the American lawyer Preston Torbert. In his work for U.S. companies doing business
in China, he has had to deal with hundreds of contracts that had to be written in two languages—English and Chinese—and have equal validity and
force in two jurisdictions. It’s a tall order because their legal traditions have grown up in isolation over many centuries and don’t have many
matching terms.3
One difficulty arises from what is called the “class presumption” in American law. If a contract says that one of its clauses applies to “any house,
apartment, cottage, or other building” on some piece of land, for example, that “other building” means, by the force of the class presumption, only
another building of the class constituted by “house, apartment, cottage”—that is to say, a residential building. This construction of the sentence is
contrary to English usage in a nonlegal context, where “other building” may plausibly refer to a factory, a space station, or a folly.
Chinese does not have a term for “class presumption,” and its legal culture does not allow for it, either. If the restriction expressed in English is
translated without additional modification, the Chinese characters for other building refer equally plausibly to a factory or a workshop as to a
residential building, a meaning that the “class presumption” of American legal English specifically excludes. You could, of course, insert additional
Chinese characters to say “or any other similar building,” “or any other building of the same class,” “or any other residential construction.” But if it
came to a dispute in court, a smart lawyer might be able to claim that the two versions of the contract were not exactly equivalent, since the English
contains no words that correspond to the added characters.
The solution proposed by Torbert is to draft the English in such a way that its Chinese translation is not a problem—that is to say, to modify the
source-language text to make it better suited to translation into the target language. Moreover, such a change would make American legalese less
arcane, which is of benefit to everybody. The solution is so simple that it makes you wonder whyAmerican contracts have not always said “house,
apartment, cottage, or other similar building.” Torbert’s answer is that it is because legal drafters have not had Chinese to help them until now.
Chinese can teach English-language lawyers how to say what they mean.
Translation impacts such as these are obviously tiny. French, English, Swedish, and Chinese have not been altered by them, just lightly
massaged at the edges—at least, so far. But the translation of the Gospels into Bosavi, a language spoken by small communities of rain-forest
dwellers on the Great Papuan Plateau, has had much more far-reaching effects.4
Before the Bosavi were converted to Christianity in the 1970s, their culture (somewhat like that of ancient Rome) did not recognize sincerity as a
concept. It was what people said in public that was taken seriously; private thoughts and the conformity of outward behavior with inner states was
not a concern. But sincerity—the correspondence between saying something and meaning it—is integral to the message that Christian
missionaries brought. The Asia Pacific Christian Mission regarded vernacular languages as “the shrine of a people’s soul” and was therefore
committed to teaching the gospels in Bosavi. However, none of the missionaries was a field linguist, and none became fluent in the language. In
addition, Bosavi people in general spoke no other tongue: for trade contacts, they had always relied on speakers in bordering villages who could
translate through a neighboring language and, in more recent times, on the regional contact language, Tok Pisin.
The missionaries used the Nupela Testamen, the New Testament translated into Tok Pisin—not from Latin or Greek but from the simplified
English text called the American Good News Bible, first published in 1966, aimed at children and uneducated adults. Use of the intermediary
language limited the mission’s initial contact to a small group of young Bosavi men who had worked outside the area and acquired some Tok
Pisin. The missionaries taught them basic literacy and then set them on the road as missionizers themselves. At the rudimentary services these
new converts organized in the small villages, they read aloud from the Nupela Testamen, then improvised an oral translation into Bosavi, either in
small sections or after a whole passage. Given the translation method, it’s not surprising that they introduced many Tok Pisin words and ways of
saying into Bosavi as they went along. But the true impact of these “language turners” lies at a deeper level than that.
Bosavi is one of the many languages that possess evidentials, grammatical forms that indicate how something is known—by sight, by hearsay,
or by deduction (see here). Tok Pisin, by contrast, does not. So when it came to improvising a Bosavi version of the Tok Pisin version of the Good
News version of a Bible story focused on the difference between what people thought and what they said, the newly minted Papuan missionaries
had a huge problem, exemplified by the phrases in italics below:
Jesus said to the paralyzed man, “My son, your sins are forgiven.” Some teachers of the law who were sitting there thought to
themselves, “How does he dare talk like this? This is blasphemy!” God is the only one who can forgive sins. At once Jesus knewwhat
they were thinking, so he said to them, “Why do you think such things? Is it easier to say this to a paralyzed man, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’
or to say ‘Get up, pick up your mat, and walk’? I will prove to you then, that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins.” So he
said to the paralyzed man, “Itell you, get up, pick up your mat, and go home!”
Tok Pisin uses na long bel belong, literally “in belly of them,” to express “in their hearts” or “in their minds,” and in the Nupela Testamen this phrase
stands together with tingting, “think,” to express the fact that the teachers of the law “thought” something without saying so. The Bosavi oral
translators couldn’t say anything quite so ungrounded in evidence. One recorded version has Jesus knowing by direct visual evidence what the men
of law were thinking—the evidential suffix -lo: b is added to the verb for “think.” Also, it adds a tag, a: la: sa: lab, to the whole line, meaning
something like “it says,” or at any rate grounding the source of the knowledge not in the actual speaker but in some external authority. But versions
varied among different preachers and occasions quite considerably, until a formal borrowing (a syntactic calque) from Tok Pisin became accepted
as a new way of referring to “inner thought,” thought not evidenced by words spoken aloud: kufa, literally, “of belly,” prefixed to the verb for “think.”
The effort of translation has altered the language of Bosavi, and with it, a whole mental world. “Private thoughts” are now “belly-think” in Bosavi, or,
to put it the other way around, thanks to frontline and improvised language mediation, what a speaker of Bosavi can now do with his belly has
undergone a huge change.
Changes brought about in the life of the Bosavi by the missionary effort obviously go far beyond the grammar and vocabulary of their language.
However, the change in the way speakers of Bosavi can now conceptualize and refer to “inner life” is not only an effect of conversion to Christianity
but also a direct impact of translation—the translation of the gospels from Tok Pisin into the Bosavi tongue.
Most commentaries on the effects of translation on receiving cultures of the remote or recent past use words such as enrich, extend, and
improve to describe how the target was hit. But when we can see and hear it happening in our own present time, quite other metaphors crop up:
distort, mangle, and homogenize come to mind. The role of evidentials in Bosavi grammar has been irreparably diminished by the improvised
calques from Tok Pisin that provide a way of talking about things that have no evidential status at all. From some points of view that has mangled a
unique and irreplaceable mental world. Similarly, we could say that the mass import of English-style celebrity gossip into French media has
produced a stylistic monstrosity that cheapens the language itself. However, in other times and places, much greater lexical and stylistic changes of
the same nature have given rise not to lamentation but to feelings of the opposite kind. For example, Japanese translators imported many scientific
terms from European languages in the late nineteenth century, and most users of those new terms considered their language had been enriched by
them. Similarly, in the fourth to eighth centuries C.E., Syriac (a Semitic language closely related to Aramaic) is said to have flowered in the hands of
Severus Sebokht, a bishop, scholar, and translator who imported quantities of Greek words and expressions together with the mathematical,
medical, and astronomical knowledge of the ancient Greeks that the Latin West had ignored (and would not rediscover for centuries, until Arabic
translations of those Syriac translations of Greek science were translated once again in the middle of the twelfth century C.E., in Toledo [Spain], by
Gerard of Cremona, into Latin, for wider distribution throughout Europe).5
The Christian fundamentalists who converted the Bosavi people may indeed believe they enriched the language of the souls they have saved;
and I suppose there may have been Syrian naysayers all those years ago who thought the mass import of Greek terms had wrecked their own
ancient tongue. But the fact is that attitudes toward language change induced or accelerated by translation are not motivated exclusively by feelings
about language or about translation. They arise from deeply seated and far less tractable ideas.
The first of these is the place you think your language ought to occupy in the hierarchy of translation tongues. For many people, especially those
caught in the mind-set of a monolingual European nation-state, this is a sensitive topic; because the imagined rank of a language often conflicts
with reality, this can give rise to collective hypocrisy and spite. French people who look down on the use of English words that they nonetheless
import by the bucketload are in this kind of plight. They are not alone.
The second major constituent of attitudes toward language change propelled by translations is the value you place on what it is that the new
vocabulary brings. Translation impacts on a receiving language can’t really be separated from the impact that the translated material has. At
different times, translations may flood receiving cultures with Hollywood glitz, shipbuilding techniques, religious salvation, saucy stories about Marie
Antoinette—just about anything that’s ever been thought worth writing down. The value you attach to the linguistic traces of such flows is subordinate
to your need or desire for the material that the translations in question make available for the first time.
The damage done to other cultures by lopsided translation flows is no different from the benefits brought to receiving languages by lopsided
translation flows. The real damage and the real benefits lie not in translation as such, or in its impacts on receiving languages, but in the nature of
the works that translation spreads.
SEVENTEEN
The Third Code: Translation as a Dialect
What language do you speak? That sounds like a merely factual inquiry with an uncomplicated answer, whatever it is. But as I was reading an
American newspaper during the financial crisis of 2008, I learned that the U.S. treasury secretary was about to unveil the big megillah to put an end
to the tsunami that was rocking Wall Street at the time. What language was that? Well, English—but only sort of. It was also, marginally, in Hebrew
(mediated by Yiddish) and in Japanese, too. I can translate it into French—M. Paulson s’apprête à dévoiler la bonne méthode pour calmer la
tourmente des marchés—but that doesn’t prove the sentence was in English, only that I understood it. I can back-translate the French sentence in
any number of ways—but that would only show that “English” is a far from determinate thing.
Translators working into English are confronted on every page with decisions about the nature, scope, identity, and audience of the language
they are writing. I write in a personal idiom that bears traces of my upbringing in England, my long stay in Scotland, and my present life on the East
Coast of the United States. When I write a translation, however, I have to make choices in every paragraph about what variety of written English to
use. As is well known, spellings, numbering systems, greetings, and curses, as well as several hundred common vocabulary items, have different
forms in different parts of the English-speaking world. It drives me mad. How do Iknow what is “English” and what is something else?
The practical solution is this: I write the way I like, and then a skillful copy editor amends my prose to make it conform to the style appropriate to
the output and the target audience of a particular publishing house. But that is only the outward form of the solution. The target audience of most
English-language publishing houses, for most of the books they put out, is indeterminately large, and includes American, Australian, Indian,
Canadian, and South African readers—each large grouping feeling most at home in significantly different varieties of the spoken and written
tongue. So what gets edited out in any of my translations—and in any translated literary or nonfiction work of more than local interest—are those
quirks of language that mark it as belonging to any geographical variety of English. In other words, I get de-Britted if I am being edited for U.S.
publication and de-Yanked (a less difficult job, since my Americanisms are few and far between) when a London publisher takes the lead. What you
get at the end of the process is “English-minus”—ideally, a common center ground of the English language, stripped of vocabulary and turns of
phrase that are not understood or understood in different ways in any part of the messy spread of what is still called, for want of a better word, the
English tongue.
The language of translations in English is therefore not a representation of a language spoken or written anywhere at all. Because its principal
feature is to be without regional features, it’s hard to see from outside—and that’s precisely the point of this sophisticated stylistic trick. “Tranglish”
is quite different in nature from the clumsy International English of social science and global journalism. It’s smooth and invisible, and it has some
important advantages. Detached with skill and craft by professional language doctors from any regional variety of the tongue, it is much easier to
translate than anything actually written in “English” by a novelist from, say, Queensland, Ireland, Wessex, or Wales. But as it is already translated
(from French, in my case, but this would be just as true if I were working from Russian or Hindi), any remaining strangeness in the prose, in the ears
of a speaker of any of the myriad varieties of English the world over, is automatically construed as a trace of the foreign tongue, not of the
translator’s identity. The “translator’s invisibility,” eloquently denounced by Lawrence Venuti as a symptom of the anti-intellectual, antiforeign bias of
Britain and America,1 is also the unintended result of the unbounded nature of the English language itself.
The suspicion that the language of translated works is not quite the same as the language the translations purport to be in has given rise to
scholarly work based not on anecdotes and intuition but on the automated analysis of quite large bodies of translated texts in machine-readable
form. These techniques allow insights into what is now called the “third code”—the language of translations seen as a dialect that can be
distinguished from the regular features of the target language.2 In one such investigation, it’s been found that English novels in French translation
have at least one language feature that seems quite at variance with novels originally written in French.
When you want to add emphasis to one part of a French sentence, you take it out of its normal grammatical place and put it right at the start,
replacing it in its ordinary location with a pronoun or dummy word. For example, if you want to disagree with what your children ask for as a treat at
the fair, you can say—in English—“But I want ice cream,” using the tone of your voice to stress that ice cream is what you want when the kids are
clamoring for cotton candy. The regular way to do this in French is to put I in a special form at the head and then to repeat it: Moi, je veux une
glace. “Left dislocation,” as this feature of French is most often called, is pretty common in all sorts of circumstances in speech and writing, not just
in arguments with kids. In a corpus of extracts from recent prizewinning novels written in French, it occurred 130 times in an expanse of around
45,000 words. But in a parallel corpus extracted from similarly well-seen novels translated around the same time into French, it occurred only 58
times. The difference is quite marked and can’t be explained by any individual translator’s style. A “third code” does seem to exist.3
What’s even more interesting and especially relevant to understanding translation is that the use of left dislocation in the corpus of translations
into French is highly concentrated in one kind of context—in dialogue. In the corpus of texts originally written in French, however, more than half of
the occurrences crop up in third-person narrative. None of the occurrences of left dislocation in the entire double corpus is grammatically wrong or
stylistically inappropriate, but it seems clear that the language norm to which translators of English novels in French adhere (whether they know it or
not) is not identical to the language use of novel-writers in French.
The reason for this particular feature of the “third code” in French is not difficult to find. French grammar books and the teaching of French in
schools have traditionally categorized left dislocation as typical of oral speech. Translators seem to have internalized that lesson, even though it
runs counter to the observable practice of native writers of French. Translators therefore tend to write in a normalized language and are more
attentive to what is broadly understood to be the correct or standard form. In fact, anyone who has personal experience of translation work knows
this truth. Translation tends toward the center—to whatever linguistic regularities are conceptualized as belonging to the standard language,
irrespective of what native speakers typically say. The plight of the English translator edited into “English-minus” is therefore not exceptional in the
world of translation. French translators seem to get to the same place even before copy editors go over their work.
The movement of translation toward the standard form of the receiving language can be highlighted by the fate of regional and social dialects.
Bournisien, one of the minor characters of Flaubert’s Madame Bovary, speaks with turns of phrase and vocabulary items that are comically typical
of the region where the action is set—rural Normandy in the 1830s. English obviously does not have a conventional way of representing the speech
of nineteenth-century countryfolk from Normandy. In principle, a translator could make Bournisien speak in English like a Wessex farmer out of
Thomas Hardy or a Scottish preacher invented by Walter Scott. But representing one regional dialect of the source by some regional dialect of the
target is rarely attempted in translation. 4 Most people currently think it is just silly to make a Bavarian dairy farmer use Texas cowboy slang, or to
have a woman on the St. Petersburg tram express herself in Mancunian in order to suggest her geographic and linguistic distance both from the
capital and the standard language. The culture of translation as it presently exists in English as well as in French and many other languages
eradicates regional variation in the source. It drives written representations of dialectal speech toward the center.
An obvious case of movement toward the center occurs in Charles Baudelaire’s translation of Edgar Allan Poe’s “The Gold Bug.” The African
American slave in the story, Jupiter, is represented as speaking in this manner: “Dar! dat’s it!—him never plain of notin—but him berry sick for all
dat.” Baudelaire doesn’t try to find a dialect of French to fit, he just says what Jupiter means to say in standard French: Ah! Voilà la question!—il ne
se plaint jamais de rien, mais il est tout de même malade.
What else could Baudelaire have done? No resources were available in nineteenth-century French to match an English convention for the
representation of African American vernacular.5
Strange to say, the same treatment is not generally accorded to variations in form and style that correspond not to region but to social class.
High-flown, pompous, elegant, or regal forms of language in the source are generally represented by forms of corresponding social rank in the
target. Real difficulties arise only when the class register is low, and especially when the language of the source represents the speech forms of
uneducated folk. This difficulty runs through all kinds of translating, not just literary prose. No consecutive interpreter, for example, would think of
adopting lower-class diction to reproduce for the benefit of a visiting foreign dignitary the kind of language spoken to him by a factory hand or
collective farm worker: it would surely seem disrespectful and cause a mighty scandal. In written prose, too, translators shy away from giving the
uncouth truly uncouth forms of language in the target text. The reason is obvious—grammatical mistakes, malapropisms, and other kinds of
“substandard” language must not be seen to be the translator’s fault. It’s actually easier to translate the ravings of a certified lunatic than the
intentionally rude and vulgar language of many modern novels. The outright sanitization of bawdy classics carried out in seventeenth-century France
(see here) is quite out of fashion—but something of the same sort goes on in almost any translation project.
The “third code” effects that have been revealed in translations (in French, but also in Norwegian, Swedish, and English) and the strong prejudice
against regional variation are, even so, mere sidelights on the less easily pinpointed but far more general tendency of all translations to adhere
more strongly than any original to a normalized idea of what the target language should be. To put that a different way: translation always takes the
register and level of naturally written prose up a notch or two. Some degree of raising is and always has been characteristic of translated texts—
simply because translators are instinctively averse to the risk of being taken for less than fully cultivated writers of their target tongue. In important
ways, translators are the guardians and, to a surprising degree, the creators of the standard form of the language they use.
EIGHTEEN
No Language Is an Island: The Awkward Issue of L3
The invention of printing, the rise of dictionaries, the spread of literacy, and the establishment of nation-states are probably the main forces that
have led us to accept without question that one language is not another, and that the boundaries between, say, English and Yiddish, French and
Italian, are real, insuperable, and firmly fixed. The idea that a translation always occurs between an L1 and an L2, between a “source” and a
“target,” is only one reflection of this specific culture of language, where different ways of speaking are conceptualized as distinct entities with clear
lines between them. But it was not always thus.
On his return to Genoa in 1298 C.E., Marco Polo was flung into jail. He wasn’t put in solitary, and had the additional good fortune to find an old
acquaintance inside. Marco Polo told the tale of his great adventures on the Old Silk Road to his cellmate, Rustichello da Pisa, who wrote it all
down. Marco spoke in what we would call Italian, and Rustichello wrote his words down in French. The “original” Divisament du Monde (The
Travels of Marco Polo) was in all probability an improvised translation, and it contains a telltale sign of the way it was composed: the first-person
pronoun we sometimes designates Marco and Rustichello, sometimes Rustichello and his readers, sometimes Marco and his companions.1 This
kind of person-switching is typical of oral translation and makes it pretty certain that Marco spoke his account in one dialect and that Rustichello
wrote it down in another. You can see the same phenomenon of “unstable anchoring” in Claude Lanzmann’s Shoah, a French-language film about
the present traces of the extermination of European Jewry in the period of 1941 to 1944. Shoah is quite exceptional among movies because it
does not edit out of the final cut the many acts of two-way translation between the French of the interviewer and the Polish, Yiddish, Hebrew, Czech,
and German spoken by survivors and informants. (That is partly why it lasts nine hours.) In many sequences, the translator switches between
repeating the words of the speaker without changing the orientation of the speech (as in: “I saw the trains being shunted …”) and giving the
information provided by the interviewee in indirect report (as in: “He said that he used to see the trains being shunted …”). On occasions, when
Lanzmann wants to pick up on an evasive answer and press the witness further, he falls into the same language-situational trap himself and asks
the interpreter, not the witness, “What does that really mean?” Instead of transforming such a riposte into a question in Polish for the witness (“What
did you really mean by that?”), the Polish interpreter answers Lanzmann directly in French in her own voice, giving him a personal explanation of
what the witness had meant to say.2 Such alternations are natural, almost unavoidable departures from the artificial interpreting norm, which
overrides the fundamental equation of speaker and voice. In two-way human interaction using a linguistic intermediary who is physically present, it
is uncommonly difficult to maintain the fiction of the translator’s nonexistence. Even at the UN, where professionals observe strict rules of
noninterference and are put in soundproof glass boxes just to make sure, interpreters still occasionally break off from reproducing the other’s
speech (using the same personal pronouns and tenses as the original speaker) and resort to a third-person report when something arises that lies
outside the common run of diplomatic speech. Nikita Khrushchev, the Soviet leader in the 1950s and 1960s, was notorious for his impromptu use
of impenetrable Russian proverbs and jokes, and his interpreters would often find themselves saying—in the third person—“the general secretary
of the CPSU just made a joke.”
Marco Polo and his translator-scribe were using two related but different languages to tell the world about the fantastic diversity of human
societies. They were living among a welter of partly intercomprehensible dialects of an originally common tongue, but only one of them was well
suited to bringing news of Shangdu to the West—and that was French. In the lands bordering the Mediterranean in the late Middle Ages, French
was roughly the equivalent of what English is today;3 the hybrid features of the first manuscript of The Travels might best be likened to the “Globish”
written by nonnative speakers the world over nowadays.
But as soon as the manuscript of The Travels got into circulation, other scribes did what any copy editor would do in the modern world—they
tidied it up, subjected it to what French publishers call the toilette du manuscrit, and put it into what was considered, respectively, “proper French,”
“proper Tuscan,” and, for purposes of wider distribution and retranslation, “proper Latin,” too. By the end of the fourteenth century, there were
versions in Czech, Gaelic, German, Tuscan, and Venetian, as well as French, all of them retranslated from the Latin translation, which had itself
been done from an early version in the Italian dialect of Venice, based on a source that was either the text of the first known manuscript or
something very close to it.4 These progressive emendations of Marco Polo’s narrative mostly suppressed the voice switches of the original
translation and turned it into a more situationally consistent narrative. That’s because those later scribes were not translating the traveler’s speech
but a story that already was a written text. You could say that something very important was lost; you could also say that The Travels became a
classic of exploration literature precisely because, like many modern novels, it was rewritten by professionals. Then as now, the borderline between
translating and improving a text—between “helping the reader” and “trashing the source”—is not at all clear-cut.
The borderline between translating and rewriting is in fact no more wiggly than the one between source and target language in the case of many
extended texts. Tolstoy’s War and Peace is an oft-quoted example of this. In the Russian original, parts of the novel are in French. This reflects the
language practice of its characters—Russian aristocrats of the early nineteenth century used French for much of their social and intellectual lives.
Indeed, when challenged by a Freemason to speak of his hopes and desires, Pierre Bezukhov found himself unsure of how to answer, “being
unaccustomed to speak of abstract matters in Russian.”5
Translating War and Peace into French is both impossible and easy. Reproduced without alteration in French, the French speech of Russian
aristocrats loses all its meaning as a marker of class, and there is no way of indicating by linguistic means alone that a sentence spoken in French
is different from the other sentences that are (by force of translation) in French as well. The title page of the French translation may well say Traduit
du russe, but that is only partly true. It is “translated” from French as well.
Identical translation problems arise in a vast array of European fiction. The first page of Balzac’s Le Père Goriot contains a sentence in English
(“All is true!”) that has an entirely different environment and force when reproduced in an English translation of the text. But what can you do?
Translate “All is true!” back into French? Or alter the spelling to “Oll eez troo” to indicate it having been thought by a Frenchman with an atrocious
accent? Balzac had no qualms about altering the orthography of French to represent the regional accent of Nucingen, a Jewish banker from
Alsace, who also appears in Le Père Goriot. Current conventions don’t allow translators to do that to the diction of narrators—but there’s no strictly
logical reason for withholding a lousy accent from Balzac’s narrator, too.
In fact, the more you read in any language, the harder it gets to find an extended text written in that language alone. Two novels I read last year
with much pleasure illustrate this point. Michael Chabon’s The Yiddish Policemen’s Union is an entertaining fantasy of a Yiddish-speaking colony
in modern-day Alaska. The English dialogue of the characters is understood to represent a translation from Yiddish—or rather, from an imaginary
state of Yiddish enriched by fifty years of further existence as a living, growing language on American soil. Chabon’s text is a wonderful hybrid of
real and imaginary languages that play with one another—and a translation of it into any other tongue could hardly be considered a translation “from
English” alone. Similarly, English, August by Upamanyu Chatterjee mixes Hindi and Bengali with standard literary English to create a language
picture of its central character, Agastya, nicknamed August in his English-language boarding school. A keen reader who speaks only English could
use it to learn a number of Bengali and Hindi words, just as a reader of the short stories of Junot Díaz can pick up a good amount of Spanish from
his hybrid, “Spanglish” texts. But Tolstoy, Balzac, Chabon, Chatterjee, and Díaz don’t switch around between tongues just to provide language
lessons. They do so because language alternation (called “code switching” in some kinds of language study) is endemic to all kinds of language
use.
I used to have a friend who ran a bank branch in a rural backwater of southwestern France. We always spoke to each other in French, but
whenever he came across me in the street or a field, he would begin by saying “Peace and love,” which he pronounced pissanlerv. In the same
period I knew a Scottish doctor who used to hurry his children along by saying “the tooter the sweeter,” blending tout de suite with something like
“the sooner the better.” Both those acquaintances were speaking in a language (respectively, French and English) but they were also speaking
another at the same time (respectively, English and French).
Translation is usually thought of as a process involving only L1 and L2, or source and target tongues. But, as we’ve seen, sources typically
include smaller or larger amounts of L3, a language that is not either of translation’s traditional twins. When L3 is L2 (as in the case of War and
Peace translated into French), it is inevitably rubbed out, but when it is not (in a Swedish translation of Chabon’s novel, for example), it’s not at all
obvious how it should be handled. Mind-boggling though they may seem, these problems are not marginal to the way language is commonly used
and therefore not irrelevant to translation, either. However convinced we may be that different languages are different things and not to be confused
with one another, in practice we never stop muddling them up. The borderline between, say, English and French is more ragged and foggy than
grammars and dictionaries would have us believe. “Sayonara, amigo!” may not be an officially English way of saying farewell, but few English
speakers have any trouble in knowing what it means.
NINETEEN
Global Flows: Center and Periphery in the Translation of Books
The Harvill Press was founded in London in 1948 to publish literary works of high quality from other languages, initially from Eastern Europe. By the
time of its fiftieth anniversary, it was proud to announce that it had published English translations of works originally written in forty-three different
tongues. In Paris, Ismail Kadare’s French publisher regularly informs readers of jacket blurbs that the Albanian novelist’s works have been
translated into “more than forty languages.” Are these the same ones? With only a few exceptions, the answer is yes. Nowadays there are only
about fifty languages between which imports and exports of translated books occur with any regularity.1 That represents a minute fragment of global
linguistic diversity, yet it covers a large proportion of the population of the world. That’s because translation languages are, by necessity, vehicular
ones, read (if not also spoken) by vastly more people than those who have them as their native tongues.
But what of the rest? All or part of the Jewish and Christian scriptures exist in nearly twenty-five hundred languages. Some of these also have
translations of legal and administrative texts, and a few possess news or gossip magazines and a small quantity of popular fiction. But what’s
obvious from these numbers is that more than half the world’s languages probably receive no translations at all, and all but fifty or so export almost
nothing, either. Print translation happens only in special places. That’s not to minimize its importance but to point to the peculiarly asymmetric
relations that have always obtained among the different forms of speech on this planet.
UNESCO, the cultural arm of the United Nations Organization, has attempted since its founding to keep track of the global flow of translations
through the Index Translationum, which is now available as a searchable database on the Web. It can be used as a rough measure of the huge
imbalances in translation in the world today.
Chinese is spoken by about a quarter of the world’s population, and in a well-balanced and reciprocating global society you would expect it to be
the receiver of about a quarter of the translations done in the world. The truth is nothing like that at all.
Taking seven world languages of different kinds for the ten years from 2000 to 2009, Chinese is the receiving language of just over 5 percent of
all the translations done in all directions among these tongues—barely more than Swedish, whose speakers number less than 1 percent of the
speakers of Chinese. But the picture in the reverse direction is even worse. Only 863 books were translated from Chinese into Swedish, Hindi,
Arabic, French, German, and English combined, whereas more than twice that number of books written in Swedish were published in Chinese,
Hindi, Arabic, French, German, and English combined.
Books translated between seven languages, 2000–2009 inclusive
Nearly 80 percent of all translations done in all directions between these seven languages over a decade—104,000 out of 133,000—are
translations from English. Conversely, barely more than 8 percent of all translations done in the same set are translations into English—whereas
French and German between them are the receiving languages of 78 percent of all translations.
The asymmetry is striking and, in some senses, quite alarming. Granted, published books do not provide the only channel of intercultural
communication; in addition, the data stored by UNESCO may not be complete, and its search engine may have its own quirks. But the overall
picture—which is confirmed by what any traveler can see in any airport bookstore in the world today—must be broadly true. Translations from
English are all over the place; translations into English are as rare as hen’s teeth.
It is neither accurate nor even interesting to pin the responsibility for our lopsided translation world on the Almighty Dollar alone.2 Translation
flows measured in this way also fail to give a particularly convincing map of military power in our own or recent centuries. The initial spread of
British English around the globe was certainly the fruit of colonial expansion—but the huge scope and increasing pace of its dominance followed
the dismantling of empire that began in 1947. The imperial hypothesis fails to explain why French, Spanish, Portuguese, and Dutch, the languages
of equally far-flung and densely populated empires between the sixteenth and twentieth centuries, are nowhere near the top of today’s global
translation tree. For every work in Spanish translated into English in the first decade of the twenty-first century, fifteen were translated from English
into Spanish. Yet there are almost as many native speakers of Spanish (around 350 million) as of English (400 million) on the planet today.
Translation DOWN often takes place for mostly practical reasons from the language of dominance to the languages used by peoples living within
the field of domination. In the Hapsburg Empire, for example, laws, regulations, official announcements, and daily news were translated from
German, the language of the court and imperial administration, into the seventeen official languages of that ramshackle state. But books didn’t
follow behind to any great extent. No lively culture of literary translation sprang up into Slovene, Slovak, Serbo-Croatian, Ruthenian, Czech, and so
forth. That’s because there was a much more straightforward way of becoming a cultivated citizen of the Austro-Hungarian Empire: by learning
German. In like manner, many serious books in English about history, science, literature, and the arts cannot be commercially translated into
Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, or Dutch because interested readers in these communities read them in English already. Economic, military, and
cultural domination obviously affects translation flows, but typically not in direct or straightforward ways. A truly dominant language that has a great
army and a well-filled treasury behind it—say, Latin throughout the period of the Romans’ domination of Europe and the Mediterranean—is the one
tongue from which you do not ever need to translate. People just learn it, because without it their prospects are blocked. English does not dominate
the world in the way that Latin did, because it is massively translated into vernaculars. Translation is the opposite of empire.
When speakers of Spanish, Portuguese, and English spread into the New World between the fifteenth century and the eighteenth, they did not
initiate translations into any of the languages of the native inhabitants of the Americas. They created empires. But when Soviet Russia consolidated
its hold on the many peoples of Siberia, the Caucasus, and Central Asia in the 1920s, it did so with firm political convictions that were explicitly
anti-imperial. To demonstrate and implement those self-directed beliefs, the Soviet Union launched a huge program of translation from and into the
indigenous languages of what were called “the nationalities”—Kazakh, Turkmen, Georgian, Azerbaijani, and so on. There was a good deal of
hypocrisy in the Soviet stance, but the important thing to realize is that only translation could serve as a public alibi for what was in most other ways
a classic instance of imperial expansion. Russian literary classics were made available in Kazakh, Ingush, Daghestani, and so on, but translation
UP was a necessary complement. Two-way trade was needed to demonstrate the truly anti-imperial nature of the Union.
The problem Soviet language planners faced was that it takes a long time to establish functioning translation relations between two languages.
Schools have to be established to educate a generation of bilinguals, who then have to develop their own translation tools and conventions. It can’t
be done overnight, however great the need. But Soviet Russia was a revolutionary enterprise in a great hurry to usher in a new world. That’s why it
began to cheat. Native poets in the main non-Russian languages were hard to find, and it was even harder to find Russian poets able to translate
them. The Soviet solution was to invent them. Dzhambul Dzhabayev is the most famous example of Soviet pseudo-translation, partly because the
deception was so long drawn out. A well-known Kazakh folksinger at the time of the Revolution, Dzhabayev was compelled to lend his name to
patriotic poems written in Russian by a whole factory of hacks, who presented them as having been translated from Kazakh. Dzhabayev was
translated into many other languages—from Russian, in fact, but always officially from Kazakh. Because “Kazakhstan’s national poet” lived to the
age of ninety-nine, the Moscow song factory was able maintain the illusion for many decades.3
However, not all empires treat the language of the conquerors as the conquering language. In many known instances, a culture of translation
sprang up that gave prestige and authority to the language of the conquered. When the Akkadians overran Sumer around 2250 B.C.E., they did not
sweep away the much older culture and language of their new subjects. They adopted Sumerian script—the wedge-shaped letters made by
incising wet clay with the sharpened tip of a reed—and treated the (linguistically unrelated) Sumerian language as a cultural asset. Laws and
legends, rules and chronicles were translated from Sumerian into Akkadian, and knowledge of Sumerian became the mark of an educated man
throughout the many centuries of Akkadian and Assyrian civilization. Despite having ceased to be associated with any political, military, or
economic authority, and progressively disconnected from any identifiable ethnicity as well, Sumerian went on being used as a sacred, ceremonial,
literary, and scientific language in Mesopotamia until the first century C.E.—giving it a life span as a source of translations DOWN of approximately
three thousand years. English has a long way to go to equal that.
Between the fifth and third centuries B.C.E., Greek-speaking seafarers spread their language far and wide in small pockets stretched out along
coastlines from Marseilles to Odessa, and Alexander the Great took it overland as far as Egypt and Afghanistan. But the role of Greek as a source
language for translation has nothing to do with Macedonian military might. Even before it conquered and occupied the Greek peninsula at the start
of the second century B.C.E., Rome became eager to take possession of Greece’s culture and thought. In due course the language of the
conquered was recognized as a repository of cultural and intellectual prestige. The learning of Greek became the main content of a proper
education in ancient Rome and translation into Latin the main skill associated with high rank.
The stories of Sumerian and Greek oblige us to be more than doubtful about economic, military, and political explanations of the translation map
of the world today. In one sense, of course, these ancient examples of the languages of subject peoples being invested with cultural prestige
through translation are exceptional, because there don’t seem to be any good examples in medieval or modern times. When the Normans
conquered England, they did not adopt Anglo-Saxon as their language of culture—they carried on using French and let the common folk speak a
Franco-Saxon mishmash that eventually turned into English. When the French seized the throne of Sweden in the Napoleonic Wars, they didn’t start
translating from Swedish. In fact, the new Swedish royal family and its court carried on speaking French for more than a hundred years—and their
descendants still maintain a palace in Nice.
But we could just as easily take the opposite view. The general history of translation in the European sphere in the last few hundred years may
itself be an exception to a longer-running norm. And even within that domain there are examples of languages of culture and translation being
retained against political or military logic. Latin remained dominant, both as the source language of translations DOWN and as the target language
of many vernacular texts principally for the purpose of retranslation into other vernaculars that had no translation relations between them for more
than a thousand years after the fall of Rome. Jews have continued to use Hebrew for more than three millennia despite having had a thousand
practical reasons for dropping it like a hot brick.
What makes a language culturally dominant, today as at all other times, has no relationship to the number of centurions, tanks, or missiles it has
to back it up or the quantity of gold in its treasury. A culturally dominant language is one that maintains significant volumes of translation activity
between itself and a significant number of languages that have smaller bilateral translation relations between them. The dominance of Latin in
fourteenth-century Europe, for example, is not just exemplified by the way in which The Travels of Marco Polo was spread; it was created and
maintained by just that kind of use, as the interlanguage that enabled the same (or a similar) text to be made available in languages such as Czech
and Gaelic, between which bilateral translation skills were practically nonexistent. It had nothing to do with the economic or military power of “native
Latin speakers,” of whom there were precisely none.
The position of English as source and target for the vast bulk of translation done in the world to date is brought out by ranking the most popular
source languages for translations into any selection of languages you care to choose. This table shows the main source languages for translations
of books into thirteen widely spoken languages since UNESCO first started keeping records:
Top four source languages
What’s clear is that English, French, and German dominate translation worldwide. Russian has a perhaps surprising role in fourth place, but the
eight others that appear on this ranking—Spanish and Italian three times each; Sanskrit twice; Japanese, Finnish, Bengali, Arabic, and Malayalam
only once each; and Chinese not at all—are peripheral to the global business of translating books.
The raw numbers of translated books on which this ranking is based produces an even more startling picture of the pyramidal structure of global
translation today. Of the nearly 1 million translations used to compile the ranking, more than 650,000 are translations from English, and a further 10
percent of the total number consists of translations into English. English is the medium as source or target of 75.12 percent of all translation acts.
What these figures also show is that around 42 percent of all the translations recorded in the UNESCO database between the thirteen languages
listed above have taken place in closed circuit between just three of them—English, French, and German. This is not an ineluctable consequence of
the fact that of the million books we are dealing with, more than 47 percent were published in one of those three languages, too. Culture is not the
prerogative of any part or place in the world, but book culture—and, within it, the culture of translation—is heavily concentrated in Britain, the United
States, France, and Germany.
As a result, at any truly representative gathering of translators from across the globe, between 70 and 90 percent of delegates must be L1
speakers of a language other than English. To put it another way: if you would really like your children to earn their living as translators, you’ll give
them a much better chance if you don’t raise them in Britain or America. This also explains why translation is much less easy to see and understand
when you are based in the English-speaking world. You don’t meet many translators in the normal course of life in London, Sydney, or Cork—but
they’re all over the place in Geneva and Berlin.
The flow of translations has always had a hierarchical structure: the present situation reproduces a pattern that can be observed many times in
the historical past. Translation typically takes place not between languages felt by their speakers to be on an equal footing but between those that in
some respect have a vertical relationship between them. Laws, commands, instructions, and treaties are translated DOWN—from Sumerian,
Greek, and Latin in ancient times; from German in the Hapsburg Empire; from Ottoman Turkish in the long period of Ottoman sway in the
Mediterranean basin—into vernaculars spoken by people who need to grasp what the rules and agreements that affect them are. Novels, plays,
philosophical and mathematical treatises, and religious texts may accompany them, but not always. Out of these kinds of situations the world over
have grown ideas among the speakers of culturally dominant tongues that their language is inherently superior and the only true vehicle of thought.
In the Muslim world, for example, there was little doubt in past centuries about which language was top:
The perfect language is the language of the Arabs and the perfection of eloquence is the speech of the Arabs, all others being deficient.
The Arabic language among languages is like the human form among beasts. Just as humanity emerged as the final form among
animals, so is the Arabic language the final perfection of human language and of the art of writing, after which there is no more.4
Seventeenth-century French grammarians made much the same assertion about French, and similar expressions of confidence in the superiority of
Greek, Persian, Latin, Chinese, and who knows how many others among the world’s temporarily dominant tongues could easily be lined up.
Obviously, there are no rational grounds for such kinds of linguistic preference: all languages can be made to serve whatever ends their speakers
wish to achieve. But the feeling that a difficult foreign text makes real and proper sense only when it’s been put into the language we prefer to use
for thinking hard thoughts can easily ambush an otherwise sensible mind. Years ago I sat in a library in Konstanz trying to make sense of Hegel by
reading him very slowly in German, with a pencil in my hand. It was hard going, and I never really got the hang of it. I sneaked a look at what the
German student in the next carrel was reading. It was Hegel, too—but in English translation! Well, I thought to myself with relief, if even native
speakers use the English translation as a guide to Hegel’s thought … Such experiences can easily lead you into a barely conscious, self-
comforting persuasion that your language alone is the one in which real meaning is to be found. But however great the service that a clarifying,
explanatory translation of a foreign text may provide, we should always resist the false conclusion that the target language—whatever language it is
—is “better” at expressing this or that kind of thought.
Despite their numerical insignificance, translators into English play an important role in the international trade in books. Because it is the most
translated language in the world, it is far easier to get a book into any other language if it exists in English already—whatever language its original
language was. But English is by no means the only “pivot tongue” in the world.
French continues to play a significant role as a conduit for global translation from less widely spoken languages. France’s proud tradition of
openness to other cultures is one of the reasons why this is so. In the twentieth century, many of its leading writers—Romain Gary, Samuel Beckett,
Eugène Ionesco, Andreï Makine, and Jorge Semprún, for example—were immigrants who had chosen to write in French. However, a more
important reason for the continuing role of French in the circulation of cultural goods is not one that the defenders of French culture really like very
much. French has long been the most widely taught foreign language in the English-speaking world, which makes it the main interlanguage for
English and American publishers and literary scouts.
German also remains a crossroads for literature from little-studied languages. Jaan Kross, the Estonian author of The Czar’s Madman,
Professor Marten’s Departure, and many other wonderful novels, was first translated into German, and that was what brought him to the attention of
international literary scouts. The role of German as medium for exophonic writers has actually been growing strongly in recent years. Alongside
several Japanese, Bulgarian, and Turkish novelists who have chosen to write in German, a Mongolian shaman called Galsan Tschinag is translated
from his German translations into many other European tongues.5
In the Middle Ages, Arabic was the pivot language that allowed Greek philosophy to be translated into European tongues—in some cases,
written in Hebrew script. In the period from 1880 to 1930, Japanese was the relay language for translations of Russian literature into Chinese.6
Even in the last fifty years, a handful of international literary careers have emerged from translation into languages outside the top three. They
include the works of Bernardo Atxaga, first written in Basque, which reached a wider readership initially through their translation into Spanish, and
from Spanish into French; and the Chuvash poetry of GennadyAigui, translated independently into English and French from its Russian translation.
But the use of pivot languages can be a risky affair. The Belarusan novelist Vasil Byka , for example, was translated into Russian, which provided
first entry to the world concert of books. However, Soviet translators did not dare reproduce his meaning too closely. In Alpijskaja Balada (Alpine
Ballad; 1963), the hero tries to explain to a naïve foreigner about his country, saying, “It will get better someday. Things cannot go on being lousy
forever.” In Russian translation, the sentence reads: “The collective farm is good.” After such distortions, Byka started to translate his own works
into Russian soon after they had been published and also Russianized his name to Vasil Bykov. This allowed the Soviet authorities to present him
as a Russian novelist, concealing the fact that his works were originally written in another (related) tongue. In Bykov’s case, translation UP simply
absorbed a writer in a “minor” language into the regionally dominant one.7
However, even in places not afflicted by political appropriation of that kind, the drift away from small languages toward a dominant tongue has
been felt again and again. In the late nineteenth century, an editorialist for the Japanese daily newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun opined that his country
had much to give to the world beyond Mount Fuji and Lake Biwa—it had magnificent literary works such as Genji Monogatari or Bakin’s Nans
Satomi Hakkenden. But the distance between Japanese and the European languages was too great to make translation feasible, in his view:
However great our future writers may be, their fame will never succeed in crossing beyond our borders … And so Iwould like to suggest to
the public spirited men of the world that they engage themselves in the writing of English … In this day and age, it is self-evident that a
man with great ambitions should study English writing. Study it, and strive, by using the language, to make his glory shine abroad. There is
nothing great about a fame solely garnered in the context of this pathetic string of islands.8
Typical in this respect of a culture that feels peripheral to the conversation of the world, the Japanese journalist jumped to a conclusion that many
have followed in the last hundred years. Maryse Condé, the distinguished French writer from Guadeloupe, has admitted that were she fifty years
younger she would probably have chosen English instead of French as her language of expression. Edwidge Danticat, a French-speaking writer
from Haiti who is fifty years younger, has done just that.
If you do write in a minor language—and all languages, even French, are minor ones now—getting translated into English is the summit of your
ambition. If you write in Italian, you’re quite likely to get translated into Spanish, and if you write in Finnish, you’re almost certain to get translated into
Swedish for the significant minority of Finnish citizens for whom Swedish is L1. But getting translated into Spanish or Swedish is unlikely to get your
work out into the wider world. Whatever language you write in, the translation that counts is the English one.
English speakers are obviously not directly responsible for the use of English as a pivot, because the only folk for whom English is never a pivot
language are the speakers of English themselves. Like all interlanguages of the past, English is made into a pivot by speakers of other tongues.
China’s Confucius Institute, for instance, has commissioned an international team of scholars to make the philosophical and literary treasures of
classical Chinese accessible to the rest of the planet. The Wu Jing Project aims to translate the Five Classics (a conventional term referring to a
large number of separate texts, about twenty-five hundred pages in all) into “the major languages of the world.” However, these difficult works will
not be translated into French, German, Spanish, Russian, Arabic, Hebrew, Hindi, and Malay from the original Chinese. The dissemination of The
Five Classics into the eight languages selected will be done “on the basis of the English translation,” which will be treated, once it has been done,
as the reference text.9
The position of English-language translators of literary texts from languages that have not been widely taught in the rest of the world is therefore
unique. They control their source texts’ access not just to their target audience, but through the international trade in books and sometimes through
double translation as well, they may open or shut the door to the rest of the world.
The solar structure of the global book world wasn’t designed by anyone. With its all-powerful English sun, major planets called French and
German, outer elliptical rings where Russian occasionally crosses the path of Spanish and Italian, and its myriad distant satellites no weightier than
stardust, the system is all the more remarkable for being in stark contradiction to the weblike network of cross-cultural relations that most people
would like to see. But the orbital image of translation flows is only a metaphor. The structure of global translation is not a natural phenomenon but a
cultural one. If enough people really want it to change—it will.
TWENTY
A Question of Human Rights: Translation and the Spread of International Law
Translation studies as currently practiced in the academy concentrates heavily on the circulation of books, especially books of literary merit. But
despite the six-figure numbers bandied about in our survey of global translation, literary works make up only a small part of translation in the world
today.
Legal texts are translated in vaster quantities than books and in more varied directions. Dreary as it may seem to all but legal eagles, the
translation of law is a prerequisite for the construction and maintenance of a global society. Without it, business and diplomacy would come to a
stop. But there’s something quite important to learn from it. Law is the very model of an untranslatable text, because the language of law is self-
enclosed and refers to nothing outside of itself. In practice, however, laws do get translated, because they must.
In France you can say impossible n’est pas français when you want to assert that something hard can nonetheless be done. “Impossible” doesn’t
exist in other languages, either, when it comes to translation. Translation is a voluntary act.
Layfolk the world over know why the law is untranslatable. It’s written in a language of its own that is almost impossible to understand, and what
can’t be understood can’t be translated. We pay our lawyers good money just to reassure us that they understand the small print on the contract
we’re about to sign without reading it through to the end.
The words of law often look like words of the language you speak, but when they are legal terms, they are not. They don’t refer to anything outside
of the social institution and intellectual system that the law constructs. You may have a pretty good idea what murder means when you use it in an
English sentence, but what looks like murder to you may be first degree, second degree, manslaughter, homicide, or even collateral damage in a
legal description of the event. The offense committed is determined by the legal system in force in the place where the killing occurred, and within
that system it is determined only by the definitions of the offenses that the system distinguishes—by the words of the law as it has come to be
written down.
In the first years of the twentieth century, a professor of linguistics at the University of Geneva gave a course of lectures about the nature of human
languages. Ferdinand de Saussure never wrote the lectures down, but after his early death in 1913 students put their notes together and produced
a Course in General Linguistics, which has served as a breviary for much of the thinking about language that has gone on since then. Whether or
not Saussure’s teaching should be regarded as the last word on what language is overall, it’s an excellent tool for getting at the reasons why the
language of law is such a tricky thing to translate.1
Saussure was already very learned in the history of languages, but in his lectures on general linguistics he sought to explain what a language is
as a whole and systematic entity at any given point in time. His account was grounded in what was then a revolutionary new definition of the
linguistic sign. A sign possesses both a material existence as a string of sounds or written marks, which he called the “signifier” (in French,
signifiant); but it necessarily also has a power to mean—a “significandum,” or sig-nifié. The sign is neither a signifier nor a significandum, but their
combination, in a pairing so tight that the one can no more be separated from the other than the two sides of a single sheet. However, unlike a
piece of paper, the two sides of the sign are attached to each other for no necessary reason—they just are attached that way. A sign in Saussure’s
teaching has five special qualities. It has to be inherited, because the signs of a language can never be invented on the spot. It has to be shared,
because signs mean what we agree they should mean, not just what some individual thinks they mean. It has to be unchangeable, because nobody
can turn table into cable just for fun and still be using the same sign. It has to be free to be combined with other signs in an act of speech or writing.
Finally, the inner relationship between signifier and signified that makes the two together coalesce as a sign has to be arbitrary: you can’t explain
why the letters T-A-B-L-E as distinct from any others can be used to refer to a “table” except by saying they just do.
What, then, allows us to know that this sign is not that sign? That table and cable represent two different signs? Because they differ in respect of
something that is a structural part not of “language” in any abstract sense but of the language called English. That is to say, the difference between
the sounds represented by t and c is a basic element of the structure of the English language—and the entire structure that is the English language
consists exclusively of sets of differences or oppositions of this fundamental kind. A language is then nothing other than a system of differences,
because a sign in any language is exhaustively defined by all the things that it is not. What makes English not French or Chinese, for example, is
the specific set of differences on which it is built. Rising and falling tones, for example, exist in any act of speech, but they are not parts of English.
On the other hand, tones are signs in Chinese. Similarly, the difference between the sounds usually written as l and r is part of English but not of
Japanese. To map the differences that are made use of in a language is to map the structure of the language itself.
Saussure’s approach to language makes each actual language sui generis, “of its own kind,” that is to say, an internally coherent system that can
never be satisfactorily mapped onto any other. The automatic consequence is that no sign in any one language is fully identifiable with any sign in
any other equally unique system of signs. Throughout the twentieth century, the Saussurean doctrine of the sign provided a reason for disregarding
translation and ignoring the resources it gives for understanding how languages are used.
Saussure certainly didn’t have law in mind when he pursued this rich train of thought, but his doctrine of the sign is directly applicable to it. Law is
a systematic use of language that relies for its coherence on the precise distinctions it makes between its own constituent terms. In any given legal
language, “murder” is what the book of statutes and the records of cases judged have said it is—not what the ordinary language sign murder might
be taken to mean among layfolk. Law is a system of signs.
Legal systems have different histories, different norms, different distinctions and ways of doing things. Even when the languages of different legal
systems look the same—as in English and Scottish law, for example—the terms they use are not interchangeable. Each one is truly sui generis,
constituted exclusively by the particular distinctions it makes. That’s the reason you can’t translate legal language—except that you must.
Defendants in many parts of the world are entitled to understand their own trial, and courts are obliged to find translators and interpreters for
whatever languages are involved. They often have to scour far and wide. A request for an English–Hungarian interpreter for a murder trial in rural
Scotland landed on my doorstep thirty years ago. The brave person who took on this awesome responsibility in the end had never seen a
courtroom before and was barely more aware of the meaning of what was going on than the defendant herself. In the state of New Jersey today, the
courts service employs many hundreds of mostly parttime interpreters, predominantly in Spanish, at low rates of pay and with little supervision. In
New York City, where no fewer than 140 languages are represented, finding language intermediaries for court cases is a huge administrative task.
In South Africa, too, where eleven languages now have official status, court interpreting is often a lamentable mess.2 The language rights of
linguistic minorities are important achievements, but their implementation often leaves a lot to be desired.
Court interpreting of this kind is internal to a single system of law: where the minority language does not have a strictly equivalent term—for
prosecutor, attorney, or QC, for example—the source-language term is mostly used, as it is indeed the proper term for the individual or instance
that matters at that point. But the interpreter may also have to add explanations or rephrase what is said in altogether different terms in order to
make sure that what are understood are not just the words but the force and real-world consequences of the expression used. It is an extremely
difficult and responsible job. It is rarely recognized as such.
Legal translation between the official languages of countries that have more than one—Canada, Belgium, or Finland, for example—is not exactly
easy, but it is usually better rewarded and less stressful, partly because the translators often have legal training themselves. The issue of the
incommensurability of legal systems does not really affect this kind of work, since it is the same language of law that is being expressed in both
tongues. All the same, it is crucial that the two versions be construed in exactly the same way. Given the natural anisomorphism of languages, that
is often very difficult to achieve. Law translation in such circumstances tends toward a homogenization of tongues—creating similar-sounding
formal equivalents in the two versions of the law—to reduce the risk of a clever lawyer exploiting an apparent verbal discrepancy between two
versions of the same text.
The trend toward making legal languages look the same when put into a different tongue seems to be driven on the one hand by a rather naïve
idea of how languages work and on the other by an overriding concern that laws be seen as the same by all who fall under their sway. An illustration
of the seemingly irresistible drift toward homogenized transnational legalese is provided by the history of the words used to express the broadest
and least national juridical principle of all—the notion of fundamental human rights.
In 1789, the new revolutionary regime in France drew up its famous declaration of the rights of man and called it the Déclaration des droits de
l’homme et du citoyen. Its purpose was to sweep away the religious and feudal underpinnings of the legal system inherited from the monarchy and
to establish, under the authority of a Supreme Being who could not be called God lest that be seen as a sop to the Catholic Church, the basic rights
of the citizen in his relationship to the new French state.
There was no question of these rights being accorded to any who were not fully emancipated citizens.As no one had yet thought of enfranchising
women, the use of a masculine term, homme, was not just a convenience of language—it was what the declaration meant to say. It established and
made explicit the rights of male subjects who were also citizens.
Unlike French or English, German has a noun for “human being” that covers men and women without distinction—ein Mensch is just any member
of the human race. The other word for “man,” Mann, refers exclusively to a male, and in many contexts it also means “husband” or “married man.”
That’s why Männerrechte can’t serve as a translation of droits de l’homme—it could too easily be taken to cover conjugal and domestic affairs,
which “human rights” obviously do not. So French droits de l’homme was quite naturally represented by Menschenrechte in German translation. In
fact, the declaration needed translating into German within a few years of its drafting, because large parts of what is now Germany were conquered
by France and incorporated into the republic and then the empire, where they stayed until 1814.
Because Mensch cannot be translated directly into English without saying either more or less than the original, it became customary to refer to
Menschenrechte in English as Human Rights, even though the phrase “Rights of Man” had been made famous by Thomas Paine’s pamphlet of
1791. The English formula of a generalizing adjective plus a plural noun (human + rights) is the third alternative form of a concept that began as a
plural noun plus a singular noun phrase linked by a genitive (droits + de + l’homme) that had transited by way of a noun-plus-noun compound of
which both parts are plural (Menschenrechte ). These changes in grammatical form engendered subtle shifts in implication that became apparent
only in later times. “Human rights” was intended as a “translation” of les droits de l’homme et du citoyen, but it was something more, and something
less. It went on to acquire a life—and a power—all its own.
From the inception of the United Nations Organization in 1945, Eleanor Roosevelt, the widow of the U.S. president, devoted her energies to
promoting the declaration of a World Charter of Human Rights, which was duly adopted in 1948. In its official French version it is called Déclaration
universelle des droits de l’homme. But one major thing had changed since the phrase droits de l’homme had first been monumentalized in 1789:
in 1946, Frenchwomen became entitled to vote and were now citizens in the same sense (or almost the same sense) as men. The traditional use of
the masculine homme to mean Mensch began to seem discriminatory. By the 1970s, French feminist campaigners were clamoring for a parallel
declaration of les droits de la femme, even though such a thing, if it had ever been made, would most likely have excluded women from the
provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights—which would have been counterproductive, to say the least.
The German Menschenrechte would have solved the problem for everybody, but German is not an official UN language.3 So it was the English
adjectival formulation that was transported back into nearly all other European languages of the Germanic and Romance families—Italian diritti
umani, Spanish derechos humanos, Swedish mänskliga rättigheter, and so on.
In French, however, the expression droits humains has a real problem: humain means, indistinctly, what we mean by human and what we mean
by humane. Consequently, to call human rights droits humains in standard French puts them closer to humanitarian concerns, which are not the
principal objects of laws on human rights.
These areas of ambiguity have led to the exclusion of the term human rights from many international instruments that deal with them: the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1966), the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (1966), the
Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women (1979), and the Convention Against Torture (1984) all avoid the term, and even
Europe, home of the original formulation, felt the need to complement it in the title of its European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights
and Fundamental Freedoms (1953). With the passage of time and because of the spread of the ideas that it conveyed, human rights slowly
ceased to be a term of law. As it percolated into general use, it found itself expelled from juridical language. Which is precisely what the systematic
nature of legal language would require.
This has created an awkward issue for French. The historical priority of the revolutionary decree of 1789 has made France unwilling to dispense
with what it still regards as the classical, transparent formulation of the idea.
The solution found was to change the language to make the old formulation still fit for use. The word Homme written with an uppercase letter now
refers to men and women indistinctly and is the declared exact written equivalent of the German Mensch; whereas homme with a lowercase initial
letter refers only to males. Although legally enforceable, the distinction is hard for people to remember. I’ve read many newspaper articles where
upper- and lowercase homme are used in alternation, as substitutes for each other.
Russian, on the other hand, retains even in its current constitution a form of words copied directly and somewhat unnaturally from eighteenth-
century French: , “rights and freedoms of man and citizen,” with the masculine serving for the general
and the word for “human being” being used in place of the more plausible , “humanity.”
Despite this French-style solution to the problematic status of a phrase that began life in French but has come back to plague it, the adjective-
plus-noun version of “human rights” has continued to spread across all European languages—even in German, where it is hardly needed. In
journalism and general usage, menschliche Rechte, patterned directly on human rights, is now used as an uncontentious alternative to
Menschenrechte, which remains the proper term. Despite French language laws, moreover, droits humains is heard more and more often as the
functional equivalent of droits de l’Homme. Rama Yade, French secretary of state “chargée des droits de l’Homme” from 2007 to 2009, was
frequently called (and also called herself) the minister for droits humains.
It’s quite likely that this new use of humain in French will shunt its parallel sense of “humane” into the cognate word hu-manitaire and cause a
minor reorganization of the lexical and semantic environment.
With the assistance of San Marino, the smallest member state of the UN, the Commission for Human Rights (UNCHR) encourages and
disseminates translations of the Universal Declaration into all languages. The set currently exceeds three hundred, from Abkhaz to Zulu, and what is
obvious from the effort so far is that, with only a few possible exceptions to add to Russian, the source language for translation is not French but
English.
The intellectual, political, moral, and other consequences of the homogenization of languages into a single structure for the semantic field of “the
human” is beyond the scope of this book. What we can say, however, is that the history and present state of the translation of human rights
provides clear evidence that international law tends to create a language of its own. In this instance, which is undoubtedly typical, the language of
international law—whatever language it seems to be in—is increasingly calibrated to English-language norms.
It could be seen as historical revenge, for England was under the thumb of Law French for many centuries. French was the language of law
imposed by the Norman Conquest in 1066, but it was understood only by the ruling class. It continued to be used for centuries in the courts, in spite
of or probably because of the fact that the majority of the population didn’t have a clue as to what was being said. But Law French underwent its
own process of contamination from below over a period of six hundred years, adopting phrases, words, and grammatical structures from the
actually dominant tongue. By the seventeenth century, the official language of English justice sounded like something out of the late Miles Kington’s
comic column for The Times (London):
Richardson, ch. Just. de C. Banc al Assises at Salisbury in Summer 1631. fuit assault per prisoner la condemne pur felony que puis son
condemnation ject un Brickbat a le dit Justice que narrowly mist, & pur ceo immediately fuit Indictment drawn per Noy envers le Prisoner,
& son dexter manus ampute & fix al Gibbet sur que luy mesme immediatement hange in presence de Court.4
Quite different problems arise when a court of law seeks not only to prosecute defendants speaking a different tongue but to do so in a
jurisdiction that has authority in a transnational sphere. The idea of there being an international law—universal norms of legitimate behavior not
determined by any one sovereign state—is very recent. It first dawned in horrified reaction to the sufferings of troops in the Crimean War in 1857–
58, then took its initial form in the various Geneva conventions about the rules of combat. The first major institution resting on an idea of
international law was the League of Nations, set up in the aftermath of the First World War. But it was only the Second World War and awareness of
the unspeakable persecutions carried out by the Nazi state that finally prompted sovereign nations to abandon their historical prerogatives and to
establish a jurisdiction that sat above them all.
Translation was at the heart of the International Military Tribunal that opened in Nuremberg, Germany, in November 1945. What had to be
established first was the overall legal procedure to be used, and that was no straightforward task. Two of the victorious Allies used a common-law
system, and the other two, France and the U.S.S.R., like defeated Germany, had different but related versions of what is called civil law. In civil-law
systems, defendants make opening and closing statements but do not participate in any other part of their own trial. They sit in a special place and
cannot be subject to further examination, since that is supposed to have been conducted exhaustively by the examining magistrates, who brief the
prosecuting team. In the common-law tradition, on the contrary, a defendant is held to be innocent until found guilty and is therefore treated formally
as just another witness to the crime. That’s the reason American courtroom dramas are so much more exciting than French versions of the same
genre. The Nuremberg court adopted a mixed system: it was not a jury trial, as it would have been had it been conducted entirely within British or
American systems, but a tribunal judged by an international panel of judges. But it did impose cross-examination on the defendants, who were
called to the witness box in German. However, in German, “witness” is Zeuge, and a Zeuge cannot give testimony at his own trial. The arguments
about how to proceed at the Nuremberg Trials were not only about language but about the incommensurable differences among the languages,
institutions, and customs of different languages of law. Law translation in international affairs always runs up against huge obstacles of that kind: law
words do not mean the same thing when translated, and the institutions they serve are not the same.
Over the last sixty years, the scope and implementation of international law has expanded at a prodigious rate. The sought-after effect—sought
after by political will but implemented by legal translation teams—is to bring the different meanings of words belonging to incommensurable
systems of law into greater harmony, or, as critics of this process protest, to homogenize and standardize the idea of what the law is. Karen
McAuliffe reports that lawyer-linguists working at the European Court of Justice are aware that European Union law is a legal system “built from
approximations of law and language from different legal cultures and different legal languages, which come together to form a new supranational
legal system with its own language.”5
This is exactly what the Saussurean theory of the sign would entail. What language scholars rarely take into account is that, given sufficient effort
and political will, new systems can be made.
TWENTY-ONE
Ceci n’est pas une traduction: Language Parity in the European Union
This Treaty, drawn up in a single original in the Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Greek, Irish, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish
languages, the texts in each of these languages being equally authentic, shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the Italian
Republic, which will transmit a certified copy to each of the governments of the other signatory States. Pursuant to the Accession Treaty of
1994, the Finnish and Swedish versions of this Treaty shall also be authentic. Pursuant to the Accession Treaty of 2003, the Czech,
Estonian, Hungarian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Slovak and Slovene versions of this Treaty shall also be authentic.
So reads a recent version of the basic language rule of the European Union. It was originally laid down inArticle 248 of the Treaty of Rome, which
first set up the European Economic Community in 1957: that body, and any offices under its authority, was to communicate with the governments of
each of the member states in the language of the member state in question. It sounds a modest requirement, but it was actually a revolution. Unlike
all previous empires, communities, treaties, and international organizations, the European Union has no one language and no finite set of
languages, either. It speaks in all the languages that it needs, whatever they may be. An act of political will made the previously ungrammatical
expression “a single original in Danish, Dutch, English …” an authoritative rule.
To begin with, there were six states—Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany, and Italy—and four languages involved: French,
Dutch, German, and Italian. The EU has grown meanwhile and now has twenty-seven states using twenty-four different languages. But whether we
are dealing with four or twenty-four languages, the revolutionary meaning of the basic rule, ill understood when adopted and not widely
acknowledged even now, is that in the whole huge mass of paper put out by the EU, there are no translations. Everything is the original, already.
Each language version of a law, regulation, directive, or letter emanating from the commission or any of its institutions has the same force, the
same authority, the same validity as any other. Nothing is a translation—except that everything is translated. This has been the unprecedented
language rule under which increasingly large numbers of people have now lived and worked for more than fifty years.
You might think it would have made a difference to what people say about translation, but for the most part it has not. Since it is theoretically
impossible to have more than one original of a text in the long-standing traditions of literary study and language teaching, people have tended to
disregard the language reality of the EU, to denigrate it as a waste of a huge amount of money, or have uttered dire warnings of the risks it incurs.
However, I’ve yet to meet a translator who has turned down a well-paid job in Brussels or Strasbourg on language-theoretical grounds.
The language rule of the Treaty of Rome was obviously not thought up by philosophers, linguists, or translators, let alone by theorists. It arose
from the need to make all members of this daring new venture feel they had equal respect and equal rights—to abolish what I have dubbed
translation UP and DOWN. It was invented by politicians for eminently political reasons. What’s more, those politicians and several generations of
their successors have been prepared to devote substantial sums of money to making the language-parity rule work. DG Translation (the translation
division of the European civil service) currently employs 1,750 linguists and 600 support staff, and spends vast amounts of money to produce
millions of pages of administrative and legal prose every year—probably more than has ever been spent on translation by any community ever
before.1
From the 1960s it became fashionable to think, in a manner attributed to Michel Foucault, that language is power and that all power is language.
The EU language story, like George Orwell’s polemical invention of “Newspeak” in Nineteen Eighty-Four, doesn’t invalidate that entirely—but it
does go to show that, in the last analysis, power is power. Language is no less a possible object of political will than any other human activity.
The language-parity rule has many interesting consequences. It means that no official EU text can be faulted or dismissed or even queried on
grounds of it having been incorrectly translated from the original, since every language version is in the original. Faced with a single original in
twenty-four different languages, none of the inherited and traditional issues of translation commentary has much purchase. You could call this a
political fiction. But it is not theoretical. It exists.
Paired texts in different languages each having equal force are nothing new, in fact. The Rosetta stone bears a decree written in 196 B.C.E. in
honorific legalese to record a tax amnesty granted to temple priests in Egypt. It was carved on a slab of basalt in koiné Greek, in demotic Egyptian,
and in hieroglyphics.
The decree was clearly intended to have the same force for three different groups of people among its potential addressees. Commonly treasured
as the source of the clues that led to the decipherment of hieroglyphic script, the Rosetta stone should also be taken as proof that the founders of
the EU were not seeking the impossible when they adopted the language-parity rule.
The written history of the two main languages of the original EU also began with a bilingual edict. The Oath of Strasbourg was sworn in 842 C.E.
by two grandsons of Charlemagne who ganged up on a cousin they suspected of trying to elbow them out of their inheritance. Charles and Louis
spoke different languages—the one having an early dialect of German, the other an early dialect of what would become French. Each swore
allegiance to the other in the language of his ally. This was not just feudal politeness. The oath was written down so it could be copied and taken
around and read out to the armies of Charles and Louis. Louis did not need it to tell his own people not to fight Charles, nor did Charles need it to
tell his own people not to fight Louis’s men. Each needed to give assurance to the other side that he was no longer an enemy but an ally in the
common fight against the cousin, Lothaire. That is why they produced a bilingual screed, with the texts in the two languages in parallel columns,
each intended not to say exactly the same thing, but to have exactly the same force when read aloud to bands of illiterate soldiers. The Strasbourg
Oath, the founding document of two languages and also the key to the geographical shape that European nations have taken since then, is also the
founding document of the EU’s language norm.
But there is a catch. It’s unlikely that the signatories of the oath actually spoke to each other in either of the languages written down. They probably
used Latin for face-to-face negotiation of the terms of the treaty and then left their scribes to find a way of writing down the agreement in the
(previously unrecorded) languages of their troops. So although there is no explicit original of the Oath of Strasbourg, it is very likely there was an
implicit master text that would have been the out-turn of a bargaining session in learned Latin that was probably translated by scribes or educated
slaves into Old High German and Old French, respectively.
It’s an open secret that the EU also possesses an interlanguage for most practical uses in the corridors of the Berlaymont building, in the
canteens and private meeting rooms—and it’s English. However, it is definitely not the case that EU texts are first written in English and then
translated. Things work in an altogether more interesting way. A panel or subcommittee meets to draft a regulation. It uses one of the four official
working languages of the EU—German, French, English, Italian—but there are always other language drafters present. The first draft is argued over
not only for content but also for how it is going to be expressed in the other working languages. The draft is then translated and the committee
reconvenes with the drafters to smooth out difficulties and inconsistencies in the different versions. The drafters are indistinguishably language
professionals and civil servants participating in the development of the substantive text of EU regulations. The back-and-forth movement of the draft
between the committee and the drafting departments produces, in the end, a text all consider equal in all its versions, and in that sense the
“language fiction” of the EU’s rule of parity is not fictional at all.
The European Court of Justice in Luxembourg (ECJ), which resolves questions of law that cannot be answered by any of the national appeals
courts of the states that make up the EU, is run in a slightly different way. It has a single working language, which is French. All documents used at
every level by the court are either written in French or translated into French by members of the army of language professionals who work there.
However, plaintiffs—who may be member states or authorities within a national jurisdiction—may bring cases in whichever language they wish,
which is normally the language of that state. The language of the state becomes “the language of the case,” and all documents in the file, whatever
their source, must be translated into that language. More work for (different members) of the law-and-language team. But that is only half the story.
The legal decisions of the court are made by all or some of the twenty-seven European advocates general, one appointed by each of the member
states. The ultimate authority consists of a set of distinguished judges collectively speaking and writing all twenty-four languages of the EU. They
use French for lunchtime conversation, informal consultations, and committee discussion, but they give their all-important opinions on the cases
before them in their home tongues. For example, a case brought by the Portuguese government against a Bavarian dairy-farming consortium that
is judged by the Estonian advocate general involves translations in five directions—POR FRE, FRE POR, FRE GER, GER FRE, and EST
FRE, allowing four additional transmissions by relay from French POR [FRE] GER, GER [FRE] POR, EST [FRE] POR, and EST [FRE]
GER. The three remaining directions (see here for the math), from French, Portuguese, and German into Estonian, are not needed because,
except when giving his opinion, the advocate general operates in the language of the court, which is French. However, since the rulings of the ECJ
have force in the entire EU, legal opinions are not released and do not come into effect until they have been translated into all twenty-four of the
official tongues. Every section of the 750-strong corps of lawyer-linguists at the ECJ becomes involved at some stage in every decision that is
made.
Euroskeptics treat this lavish provision of multidirectional translation at the ECJ as a scandal of waste—a mere job-creation scheme. It’s true
things didn’t happen that way in the appeal courts of the multilingual Ottoman and Hapsburg states, and the ECJ does cost a lot to run. It’s also true
that the law of unintended consequences means that language parity as implemented in the steel-and-glass palace on the Kirchberg Plateau
creates very awkward disparities of its own. If you are a trained lawyer from Malta, Estonia, or Hungary with excellent French and a good
knowledge of one other European language, the job opportunities in Luxembourg are very attractive indeed. The effect is that Malta, Estonia, and
Hungary have difficulty recruiting such individuals for their own national civil services, where their skills are very much in need. But if you are a British
lawyer with excellent French and one other European language under your belt, you have far more lucrative careers waiting for you in London and
New York, and the ECJ thus has a chronic shortage of translators into precisely those languages it most frequently needs.
But the EU cannot exist without the ECJ. If the ECJ were to abandon its own version of the language-parity rule, it’s not obvious how European
law could have force in any of its twenty-seven member states. That’s why for the last fifty years, all supposedly commonsensical or budgetary
objections to its translation regime have been overruled. The political will to make Europe work is too strong and too grand to let translation issues
stand in its way. Europe really has built a radically new kind of translation world.
What’s quite specific to the ECJ, however, is that it does not employ translators as such. Language professionals in the Kirchberg complex are
all also lawyers, and they are involved in the work of the court at many levels beyond strict language transfer.
Lawyer-linguists have access to confidential material and work under the same procedural rules as lawyers; they also advise on drafting, down to
the small details that might produce ambiguities when expressed in other languages. The work of a lawyer-linguist is much more than translation—it
is the manipulation of the law as language and language as law.2
Many of the cases brought before the ECJ arise from conflicting interpretations in different member states of regulations made by the European
authorities—in effect, clashes between different interpretations of different language versions of what is held to be the same text. Given that all
language versions have force of law, how does the court deliver the judgment of Solomon that this version is to be preferred over that one?
They can’t call either version a translation since all versions are originals; because the court’s working language is French, moreover, there are
almost always three texts or formulations involved. On rare occasions, the taboo term translation mistake has been used—for example, when the
German version of a regulation about the import of sour cherries used the term Süßkirschen, “sweet cherries,” instead.3 Such an easy judgment is
untypical of the court’s work. More frequently the court has to decide what the law was intended to achieve, over and above any one of its linguistic
expressions. In monolingual national cultures of law, the best evidence of the legislator’s intention lies in the words of the law, and much traditional
legal argument is about the meanings of words. In European law, you have to go one further than that. Questions of legal interpretation in the
appeals court of the EU are also always questions about language in twenty-four different forms.
Let’s suppose in some practical circumstance not foreseen by the drafters of an EU directive there is a substantive difference in the force of the
French and the German texts, and that this has given rise to a complaint by France that Germany is not applying EU law correctly. The ECJ has to
decide whether France is right. But since there is no master text (in Latin, for instance) to provide a higher authority or a standard of judgment, the
court has basically only two ways of working out what it thinks. Using the skills of its divisions of lawyer-linguists, it can list all the language versions
that support the French interpretation and all those whose sense in the context of the case leans more toward the German interpretation—and grant
victory to the larger group, whichever it is. But the ECJ does not have to proceed by this kind of “majority verdict.” It may identify one language
version that it considers to have expressed the legislative intention of the directive more clearly, or more precisely, than any of the others.
Both these procedures hark back to the tools developed by the Church Fathers for establishing the “word of God” through comparisons of the
different translations of the Bible (principally, the Greek and Latin ones). What has been called the “Augustinian approach” to the interpretation of
European law effectively seeks to establish a meaning that transcends any one of its language versions but which animates them all. It runs into
some fairly obvious problems.
In Peterson v. Weddel & Co., Ltd., the issue was a criminal prosecution within the U.K. for violation of a regulation setting limits on the operations
of trucks. An EU regulation exists that allows member states to make exemptions from the general rule for the “transport of animal carcasses or
waste not intended for human consumption.” The firm that had been fined in the U.K. had been transporting animal carcasses to butchers’shops,
which clearly intended to sell them for human consumption. But the trucking firm claimed it was exempted from the rule by the EU clause just quoted
and was appealing against an English court’s refusal to allow it to get away with its behavior. The trucking firm’s lawyers claimed that waste not
intended for human consumption and animal carcasses in general (whether intended for human consumption or not) were exempted, whereas the
English courts had considered that the exemption applied only to waste and animal carcasses not intended for human consumption. It may sound
arcane, but the issue was clear enough: Was the trucking firm cheating on the rules or was it not?
The issue at the heart of this case is a familiar problem in the language of law and in language in general: When you have a list of nouns followed
by a qualifying or restricting phrase, where do you put the punctuation? Does the restricting phrase restrict every member of the list, or only the last
one? Does the expression “children and women with babes in arms” include children with babes in arms or does it not?
In daily usage, we leave disambiguation of this kind to common sense and context. In law, it’s fertile ground for persnickety legalese. When this
issue came before the ECJ, however, the lawyers, the linguists, and especially the lawyer-linguists began by reviewing and comparing all twenty-
four language versions of the exemption. They found one among them—the Dutch text—where the restriction to goods “not intended for human
consumption” precedes both “animal carcasses” and “waste.” It does so for almost exclusively grammatical reasons. The court treated it as a
godsend, however, not as a grammatical variant of the same ambiguous text. It chose to regard the Dutch order of words as a clearer and more
precise expression than all the others of the true intention of the law—and turned down the appeal. The trucking firm had to pay the fine.4
Let’s assume that the EU body that first thought of exempting certain classes of trucks from general rules was thinking about trucks full of
potentially rotting and smelly flesh. What’s of interest here is not the ECJ’s final judgment, with which we can easily agree, but the reasoning it used
to justify itself. The reasoning is of a very simple grammatical kind: it says that qualifications preceding a list of nouns apply to all nouns in the list.
This semantic principle is made manifest in the Dutch version, but all the others, which for grammatical or stylistic rules put the qualification at the
end of the list, must be taken as expressing the same thought.
The reasoning does not make sense in most of the languages of the EU and especially not in the court’s working language, French, where all
kinds of qualifiers, including simple adjectives attached to single nouns, follow and do not precede the noun. Where does the ECJ’s insight into the
clarity of Dutch come from? The most likely answer is the grammar of English. It is English, not French, Spanish, or Hungarian, that lends intuitive
support to the view that “not-intended-for-human-consumption animal carcasses and waste” is a less ambiguous expression than “animal
carcasses and waste not intended for human consumption.” Despite the huge and conscious efforts it makes in precisely the opposite direction,
the ECJ cannot resist the slow but steady homogenization of the languages it uses to uphold European law.
I don’t mean to snipe at this particular judgment or to undermine the important work that the legal-cum-linguistic contortionists of Luxembourg do.
However, the comparative method used to establish the ultimate intention of a law—a method that can be likened to Saint Augustine’s practice of
biblical exegesis—must itself be conducted in a language. Suppositions and assumptions about the meanings of words, grammatical structures,
and rhetorical turns are necessarily rooted in one language, not suspended on a hook from a supralinguistic legal sky. In the polyglot corridors and
canteens at Kirchberg, however, where you may start a conversation with a Spanish judge in French and switch to German to say hello to a nice
person from Prague, it’s a truth that is easy to forget. As one lawyer working there said to me when Ivisited, he never really thinks about which of his
four languages he is speaking or writing at any given time—he switches without conscious effort, as if he were just shifting the weight of his
shoulder bag from the left to the right side. The outcome of such unconscious linguistic determinations of legal finagling is that the meaning and
grammar of twenty-four languages have begun to merge into an ECJ language culture that is all its own—sui generis, in Saussure’s terms, or “Euro-
speak” in common language. As one of the few scholars to have studied the language maze of Luxembourg closely puts it, “The unique situational
factors in the production of European jurisprudence have led to a hybridization of law and language.” It seems to me—admittedly an outsider and
an amateur in this field—that the underlying structure of this new hybrid, even though it is formally expressed through the medium of French, is
provided by the English tongue.
Some people from both “Europhile” and “Euroskeptic” factions think that it would be better if European institutions were run in English anyway.
This is because the language-parity rule of the EU is a constant cause for delay and also tends to make official decisions and opinions more
contorted and obscure than they really need to be. As stated earlier, the rulings of the ECJ come into force when they are published,
simultaneously, in all the official languages of the EU. Judges are therefore under constant if discreet pressure from their permanently overworked
lawyer-linguists to keep it short. European jurisprudence is thus typically tight-lipped and does not provide the many pages of argument and
justification that normally accompany a ruling from the House of Lords or the U.S. Supreme Court. The laudable political aim of treating all the
languages of Europe as equal produces the unwanted but perhaps inevitable result that ECJ rulings are sometimes so pithy as to defy
comprehension in any of them.
TWENTY-TWO
Translating News
In 1838, when traveling on a slow boat to Trieste, the poet Robert Browning imagined how in times past news was brought from Ghent in Belgium
to Aix in Germany:
Isprang to the stirrup, and Joris, and he;
Igallop’d, Dirck gallop’d, we gallop’d all three …
What he doesn’t say, however, is how the mounted couriers turned the information they bore from Flemish into German, which is what people
understand inAix. In ages past, news rushed from any EuropeanA to B would most likely have been issued and received in French. But nowadays
we are accustomed to receiving topical information in print and on radio, television, and the Web in our home languages, with minimal lag between
event and report. But how do good and bad tidings now get from Shenzhen to Chicago, from Marseille to Melbourne, from Rio to Ryazan?
Electronic media account for the speed but do not explain how political and human events deemed to be news happen in a language that is rarely
our own but reach us almost instantaneously in the language that is.
The quantity of information flowing around the globe in uncountable languages might be taken to suggest that in some hidden anthill a busy troop
of language insects lives on permanent standby, ready to turn news from any of the world’s languages into all the others at the drop of a hat. But it
can’t be so, because that would require almost 49 million separate teams of language ants (see here)—and a human anthill of that size would be
difficult to hide. Even if a hypothetical global news translation HQ served only 80 vehicular languages, it would still require 6,320 different language
desks. Given a forty-hour workweek for each translator and allowing for sudden peaks in demand when great events happen in Paris or Peoria, you
couldn’t house the enterprise in anything less than the Empire State Building. But no skyscraper in New York, London, or Rio houses a world news
translation center. In fact, news bureaus the world over have hardly any translators on their staff at all. Like the lawyer-linguists at the European Court
of Justice, language mediators in the news business are almost always something else as well.
Most of the world’s languages are spoken by quite small groups, and news media do not exist in many of these tongues. Even so, there are
hundreds of languages—perhaps more than a thousand—that have some modest level of news service in print or on the air. Latin, for example, has
daily thirty-minute news bulletins broadcast from Helsinki; Gaelic has seven hours of programming per day, part of which is news, on BBC Alba TV.
But most consumer news media don’t make the news, save on rare occasions. Most of them are themselves consumers of worldwide agency
services, called wires, which process and put out news in no more than half a dozen tongues. The main hubs are Reuters (the first news agency in
the world, founded in 1851), Associated Press (AP), Agence France-Press (AFP), and Inter Press Service (IPS), massively supplemented in
recent years by CNN, Al Jazeera, the BBC on the Web, and, for financial news especially, the Bloomberg wire.1
News of flooding in Bangladesh or a coup d’état in Rwanda or Kyrgyzstan does not come to you, wherever you are, from Dhaka, Kigali, or
Bishkek. It comes to your local news source from the agencies, in English, French, Spanish, German (all agencies), Portuguese (Reuters, AFP),
Dutch (AP only), or Arabic (Reuters since 1954 and AFP since 1969). It is rewritten almost instantaneously by journalists working for your local
paper or radio station from whichever language version they receive from one or more of the wires. The global transmission languages are those of
the colonial empires of the nineteenth century, plus Arabic. Chinese, Japanese, Hindi, Indonesian, and all other languages are not in the game.
Journalists who compose the articles and stories you actually read often have language skills, but they do not think of themselves as translators.
They would be offended if you said that’s what they are—even if some news stories you can read in the London press, for example, are very close
indeed to what you read in yesterday’s Le Monde. Journalists think of their jobs as turning plain information into arresting, entertaining, or readable
prose suited to the culture, interests, and knowledge of the people who read them—and that’s more than what most people think translation is. The
pecking order is reflected in pay and conditions of service the world over: “journalist” outranks “translator” everywhere.
The language operations performed in news-agency work are of particular interest because they are predicated not only on the total invisibility of
translation but also on anonymity and impersonality. A note originating in language A reaching an agency desk is transformed into a wire in
language B in a way that fits it for reuse in the culture of language B without respect for any of the discursive, stylistic, or cultural features of the
original. Agency work does not seek to respect the text or its origin, only the facts that lie behind the narrative. The resulting wire is a collective
composition and also a reduction or expansion attributable to no one individual, only to the service provider. The wire text is then reformulated in the
other languages in which that particular agency operates, again with additions and subtractions, all designed to achieve maximum clarity and
usefulness in languages C through N, and made available worldwide so as to be rewritten a fourth time in any of the languages used by subscribers
to the service. In its fourth redaction the story may be completely recontextualized in a news article attributed to a local journalist. That is to say,
before you read a speech in English originally made in Tehran and in Farsi about an hour after it has been uttered, it may have been reformulated in
Arabic byAl Jazeera’s man in Iran, then rewritten as an English wire by the AP bureau in Kuwait before being rephrased by a journalist in London;
similarly, the news of an earthquake in Thailand may have been first reported in French by AFP’s Bangkok bureau and then issued on AFP’s
English-language service from Paris before being rewritten into Farsi for the Iranian TV news a few minutes later. The structure of this elaborate
network of skilled professionals producing international news ensures that the different language versions of a given note do not ever say exactly
the same thing. They are held to communicate the same information, but the ways in which it is communicated are calibrated to well-founded
assumptions about the political, social, religious, intellectual, moral, and other sensitivities that are prevalent in the receiving language and culture.
In these circumstances, how can you possibly know that the news is true? Well, you can’t. You just trust the news, which means that even if you
don’t realize it and often claim the opposite in dinner party talk, you trust journalist-translators completely. How else could you believe that you know
the first thing about what’s going on in the world?
Paradoxically, but not unreasonably, global news is a local product. This is not because of any linguistic obstacles to the circulation of
information. Rather, it is because communication tasks in this field are subordinated to the real or perceived constraints imposed by the receiver.
To get the nugget of new news from Ghent to Aix, contemporary postilions adjust, adapt, excise, or add almost anything to the source save that part
of the reference deemed to be “news.” In a relatively short rhetorical leap, you could use this to reassert the radical position that all facts about the
world are linguistic constructions and nothing else. But news agencies and the people who work in them are not interested in deconstruction. They
pursue their trade with the firm conviction that the information they disseminate in different linguistic and rhetorical versions lies beyond language, in
the domain of the real.
The way that translating is integrated into other kinds of language work in global news distribution is far from unique. In transnational law (at the
ECJ, for instance), in diplomacy, and in the work of many international organizations, no precise boundary can be drawn between translation, on the
one hand, and drafting, editing, correcting, reformulating, and adapting a text, whether written in the same or in some other tongue, on the other. In
these many important domains, translating is just one element in the progressive refinement and wider circulation of texts.
Two side effects of the manner in which news is transmitted among different languages and communities of users are worth noting. The first is
that it makes the “translatedness” of news completely invisible. However, even if the occlusion of translation is the express intention of the EU’s
language-parity rule, it is not a fatality in the circulation of news and could easily be countered.A report of the latest speech by the Iranian president,
for example, could perfectly well be attributed to a named journalist’s adaptation of a Reuters English-language wire originating in Kuwait based on
a report in Arabic from Al Jazeera that had provided the information from listening to a radio broadcast in Farsi from Tehran. The second
consequence of our collective unwillingness to track the language history of the things we are told by the media is to make us believe that the
provision of international news is a straightforward matter, dependent only on the marvels of satellite telephones and data transmission. It is not. It is
a burdensome business carried out by talented linguist-journalists working under tight constraints of time.
TWENTY-THREE
The Adventure of Automated Language-Translation Machines
The reluctance of European peoples to retain Latin or to adopt some other transmission language—such as Esperanto—for the dissemination of
important information has created a costly and difficult set of translation tasks, carried out under time pressures unimaginable in earlier ages. Now
that nearly all other aspects of news transmission are carried out not by couriers but by electronic devices, it seems natural to ask why the core
activity itself cannot be handled likewise, by automatic translation machines.
Although it is still in its infancy, machine translation has had an eventful and uneven history. It first arose in dramatic historical circumstances and
in response to an overriding political need. It wasn’t initiated by an explicit act of political will, like the language rules of the European Union, but its
launching ground was the climate of terror at the start of the Cold War. The United States had developed and used the atomic bomb. For the time
being it had a monopoly on this terrible weapon. How long would the monopoly last? When would the Soviet Union catch up? One way of guessing
the answer was to comb through all the research journals being published in the U.S.S.R., looking for clues as to the state of knowledge in the
relevant disciplines.1 The journals were in Russian. The United States needed either to train up a veritable army of Russian–English scientific
translators—or to invent a machine that would do the job for them.
But it takes a long time to constitute a large group of translators from a language not widely known. There was no obvious source of English-
educated, scientifically literate Russian translators in 1945, and so the authorities began to look toward machines. There were good reasons to
think they could help with the urgent task of tracking the Soviets’ ability to design an atomic bomb.
The Second World War had fostered great advances in cryptography, the making and breaking of secret codes. Statistical techniques had been
developed for decoding messages even when the language that had been encoded was not known. The astounding successes of the code
breakers at the Bletchley Park site in England prompted some thinkers to wonder whether language itself could not be treated as a code. In a
famous memorandum written in July 1949, Warren Weaver, then a senior official with the Rockefeller Foundation, found it “very tempting to say that
a book written in Chinese is simply a book in English which was coded into the ‘Chinese code.’ If we have useful methods for solving almost any
cryptographic problem, may it not be that with proper interpretation we already have useful methods for translation?”2
Weaver was aware of the pioneering work of Claude Shannon and others in the nascent disciplines of information theory and cybernetics and
could see that if language could be treated as a code, then there would be huge development contracts available for mathematicians, logicians,
and engineers working on the new and exciting number-crunching devices that had only just acquired their modern name of “computers.” But the
temptation to see “language as code” comes from much deeper sources than just an intuition that it would create interesting jobs for very smart
boys.
A code, or cipher, is a way of representing a piece of information in a way that is receivable only if the (secret) key to the code is available.
However sophisticated the key, however complicated the algorithm that turns the “source” into “code,” there is always a discoverable relationship
between the expression in code and the encoded expression. If a language itself is a code of that kind, what does it encode? There’s only one
possible answer in the long Western tradition of thinking about language since the time of the Greeks, and that answer is: meaning (sometimes
called “thought”). A translation machine would need to strip away from the actual expression in language A all that is “code,” so as to access the
real thing that it encodes, namely, the actual, irreducible, plain, and basic meaning of the expression. It’s really no more than a rehearsal of the
ancient idea that language is the dress of thought. Weaver himself proposed the following analogy:
Think of individuals living in a series of tall closed towers, all erected on a common foundation. When they try to communicate with one
another, they shout back and forth, each from his own closed tower. It is difficult to make the sounds penetrate even the nearest towers,
and communication proceeds very poorly indeed. But when an individual goes down his tower, he finds himself in a great open basement,
common to all the towers. Here he establishes easy and useful communication with the persons who have also descended from their
towers.3
That dream of “easy and useful communication” with all our fellow humans in the “great open basement” that is the common foundation of human life
expresses an ancient and primarily religious view of language and meaning that has proved very hard to escape, despite its manifestly hypothetical
nature. For what language would humans use to communicate with one another in the “great open basement”? The language of pure meaning. At
later stages in the adventure of machine translation and modern linguistics, it came to be called “interlingua” or “the invariant core” of meaning and
thought that a communication in any language encodes.
The task that machine-translation pioneers set themselves was therefore almost identical to the task of the translator as expressed by many
modern theorists and philosophers: to discover and implement the purely hypothetical language that all people really speak in the great open
basement of their souls.
How was that to be done by machines? Plenty of intellectual machinery already existed that seemed designed for the purpose. Ever since the
Romans started teaching their young to read and write Greek, language learners in Western tongues have always been told they have two basic
tasks: to acquire vocabulary in the foreign tongue, and to learn its grammar. That’s why we have bilingual dictionaries separate from our grammar
books, which give the set of rules by which the “words” in the vocabulary may be combined into acceptable strings. That’s what a language is, in our
ancient but undimmed language theology: a Meccano set, made up of one part nuts, bolts, girders, beams, cogwheels, and perforated bars (let’s
say, prepositions, verbs, nouns, adjectives, particles, and determiners) and, for the other part, rules about how to fix them together. A nut goes on a
bolt but not on a cogwheel, just as a verb clicks on a subject before and an object after …
It was theoretically possible at the start of the machine-translation adventure (and it soon became practically possible as well) to store a set of
words on a computer, divided into the grammatical classes the Greeks and Romans devised. It was equally possible to store two sets of words,
one for Russian, one for English, and to tell the computer which English word matched which Russian one. More dubious was the proposition
implicit in Weaver’s fable that you could bring people down from their separate towers to the common basement—that’s to say, tell a computer
what to do to unwrap the meaning of a sentence from the form of the sentence itself. To do that, the computer would first need to know the entire
grammar of a language. It would have to be told what that consists of. But who knows the entire grammar of English? Every language learner
quickly realizes that systematic regularities are frequently overruled by exceptions of arbitrary kinds. Every speaker of a native language knows that
she can (and frequently does) break the “rules” of grammar. A complete linguistic description of any language remains an aspiration, not a reality.
That is one of the two reasons why the first great phase of machine translation hit the skids. The second is that even humans, who can be assumed
to be in full possession of the grammar of their language, still need a heap of knowledge about the world in order to fix the meaning of any
expression—and nobody has figured out how to get a computer to know what a sentence is about. A classic conundrum that computers could not
solve is to attribute the correct meanings to the words in the following two sentences: “The pen is in the box” and “The box is in the pen.”
Understanding them calls on knowledge of the relative sizes of things in the real world (of a pen-size box and a sheep pen, respectively) that can’t
be resolved by dictionary meanings and syntactic rules. In 1960, the eminent logician Yehoshua Bar-Hillel, who had been hired by MIT specifically
to develop “fully automated high-quality translation,” or FAHQT, sounded a testy retreat:
I have repeatedly tried to point out the illusory character of the FAHQT ideal even in respect to mechanical determination of the syntactical
structure of a given source-language sentence … There exist extremely simple sentences in English—and the same holds, I am sure, for
any other natural language—which, within certain linguistic contexts, would be … unambiguously translated into any other language by
anyone with a sufficient knowledge of the two languages involved, though I know of no program that would enable a machine to come up
with this unique rendering unless by a completely arbitrary and ad hoc procedure …4
That pretty much put an end to easy money from the grant-giving foundations. But the establishment of the European Union in 1957 provided a new
political impetus—and a new funding source—for the development of the tools that Bar-Hillel thought impossible.Ambitions were scaled down from
FAHQT to more feasible tasks. As computers grew in power and shrank in size, they could more easily be relied upon for tasks that humans find
tiresome, such as checking that a given term has been translated the same way each time it occurs in a long document. They could be used for
compiling and storing dictionaries not just of technical terms but of whole phrases and expressions. The era not of fully automatic translation but of
CAT—computer-aided translation—began. Private companies started developing proprietary systems, for although the big demand came from
transnational entities such as the EU, there was a real need for such tools among major companies producing aircraft, automobiles, and other
goods to be sold all over the world.
It is easier to achieve good results from CAT when the input conforms not to a natural language in its raw and living state but to a restricted code,
a delimited subspecies of a language. In an aircraft-maintenance manual you find only a subset of the full range of expressions possible in English.
To produce the hundred or so language versions of the manual that are needed through an automatic-translation device, you do not need to make
the device capable of handling restaurant menus, song lyrics, or party chitchat—just aircraft-maintenance language. One way of doing this is to pre-
edit the input text into a regularized form that the computer program can handle, and to have proficient translators post-edit the output to make sure
it makes sense (and the right sense) in the target tongue. Another way of doing it is to teach the drafters of the maintenance manuals a special,
restricted language—Boeinglish, so to speak—designed to eliminate ambiguities and pitfalls within the field of aircraft maintenance. This is now a
worldwide practice. Most companies that have global sales have house styles designed to help computers translate their material. From computers
helping humans to translate we have advanced to having humans help computers out. It is just one of the truths about translation that shows that a
language is really not like a Meccano set at all. Languages can always be squeezed and shaped to fit the needs that humans have, even when that
means squeezing them into computer-friendly shapes.
Computer-aided human translation and human-aided computer translation are both substantial achievements, and without them the global flows
of trade and information of the past few decades would not have been nearly so smooth. Until recently, they remained the preserve of language
professionals. What they also did, of course, was to put huge quantities of translation products (translated texts paired with their source texts) in
machine-readable form. The invention and the explosive growth of the Internet since the 1990s has made this huge corpus available for free to
everyone with a terminal. And then Google stepped in.
Using software built on mathematical frameworks originally developed in the 1980s by researchers at IBM, Google has created an automatic-
translation tool that is unlike all others. It is not based on the intellectual presuppositions of Weaver, and it has no truck with interlingua or invariant
cores. It doesn’t deal with meaning at all. Instead of taking a linguistic expression as something that requires decoding, Google Translate (GT)
takes it as something that has probably been said before. It uses vast computing power to scour the Internet in the blink of an eye looking for the
expression in some text that exists alongside its paired translation. The corpus it can scan includes all the paper put out since 1957 by the EU in
two dozen languages, everything the UN and its agencies have ever done in writing in six official languages, and huge amounts of other material,
from the records of international tribunals to company reports and all the articles and books in bilingual form that have been put up on the Web by
individuals, libraries, booksellers, authors, and academic departments. Drawing on the already established patterns of matches between these
millions of paired documents, GT uses statistical methods to pick out the most probable acceptable version of what’s been submitted to it. Much of
the time, it works. It’s quite stunning. And it is largely responsible for the new mood of optimism about the prospects for FAHQT, Weaver’s original
pie in the sky.
GT could not work without a very large preexisting corpus of translations. It is built upon the millions of hours of labor of human translators who
produced the texts that GT scours. Google’s own promotional video doesn’t dwell on this at all.At present it offers two-way translation between fifty-
eight languages, that is to say, 3,306 separate translation services, more than have ever existed in all human history to date. Most of these
translation relations—Icelandic Farsi, Yiddish Vietnamese, and dozens more—are the newborn offspring of GT: there is no history of translation
between them, and therefore no paired texts, on the Web or anywhere else. Google’s presentation of its service points out that given the huge
variations among languages in the amount of material its program can scan to find solutions, translation quality varies according to the language
pair involved.5 What it does not highlight is that GT is as much the prisoner of global flows in translation as we all are. Its admirably smart
probabilistic computational system can offer 3,306 translation directions only by using the same device as has always assisted intercultural
communication: pivots, or intermediary languages. It’s not because Google is based in California that English is the main pivot. If you use statistical
methods to compute the most likely match between languages that have never been matched directly before, you must use the pivot that can
provide matches with both target and source.
The service that Google offers appears to flatten and diversify interlanguage relations beyond the wildest dreams of even the EU’s most
enthusiastic language-parity proponents. But it is able to do so only by exploiting, confirming, and increasing the central role played by the most
widely translated language in the world’s electronic databank of translated texts, which can only be the most consistently translated language in all
other media, too.
A good number of English-language detective novels, for example, have probably been translated into both Icelandic and Farsi. They thus
provide ample material for finding matches between sentences in the two foreign languages; whereas Persian classics translated into Icelandic are
surely far fewer, even including those works that have themselves made the journey by way of a pivot such as French or German. This means that
John Grisham makes a bigger contribution to the quality of GT’s Icelandic–Farsi translation device than Halldór Laxness or Rumi ever will. And the
real wizardry of Harry Potter may well lie in his hidden power to support translation from Hebrew into Chinese.
GT-generated translations themselves go up on the Web and become part of the corpus that GT scans, producing a feedback loop that
reinforces the probability that the original GT translation was acceptable. But it also feeds on human translators, since it always asks users to
suggest a better translation than the one it provides—a loop pulling in the opposite direction, toward greater refinement. It’s an extraordinarily clever
device. I’ve used it myself to check I had understood a Swedish sentence more or less correctly, for example, and it is used automatically as a
Webpage translator whenever you use a search engine. Of course, it may also produce nonsense. However, the kind of nonsense a translation
machine produces is usually less dangerous than human-sourced bloopers. You can usually see instantly when GT has failed to get it right, because
the output makes no sense, and so you disregard it. (This is why you should never use GT to translate into a language you do not know very well.
Use it only to translate into a language in which you are sure you can recognize nonsense.) Human translators, on the other hand, produce
characteristically fluent and meaningful output, and you really can’t tell if they are wrong unless you also understand the source—in which case you
don’t need the translation at all.
If you remain attached to the idea that a language really does consist of words and rules and that meaning has a computable relationship to them
(a fantasy to which many philosophers still cling), then GT is not a translation device. It’s just a trick performed by an electronic bulldozer allowed to
steal other people’s work. But if you have a more open mind, GT suggests something else.
Conference interpreters can often guess ahead of what a speaker is saying because speakers at international conferences repeatedly use the
same formulaic expressions. Similarly, an experienced translator working in a familiar domain knows without thinking that certain chunks of text
have standard translations that she can slot in. At an even more basic level, any translator knows that there are some regular transpositions
between the two languages she is working with—the French impersonal pronoun on, for example, will almost always require the English sentence
to be in the passive; adjectives following a noun in French will need to be put in front of the equivalent English noun; and so on. These automatisms
come from practice and experience. Translators don’t reinvent hot water every day, and they don’t recalculate the transformation “French on
English passive construction” each time it occurs. They behave more like GT—scanning their own memories in double-quick time for the most
probable solution to the issue at hand. GT’s basic mode of operation is much more like professional translation than is the slow descent into the
“great basement” of pure meaning that early machine-translation developers imagined.
GT is also a splendidly cheeky response to one of the great myths of modern language studies. It was claimed, and for decades it was barely
disputed, that what was so special about a natural language was that its underlying structure allowed an infinite number of different sentences to be
generated by a finite set of words and rules. A few wits pointed out that this was no different from a British motorcar plant capable of producing an
infinite number of vehicles each one of which had something different wrong with it—but the objection didn’t make much impact outside Oxford. GT
deals with translation on the basis not that every sentence is different but that anything submitted to it has probably been said before. Whatever a
language may be in principle, in practice it is used most commonly to say the same things over and over again. There is a good reason for that. In
the great basement that is the foundation of all human activities, including language behavior, we find not anything as abstract as “pure meaning”
but common human needs and desires.All languages serve those same needs, and serve them equally well. If we do say the same things over and
over again, it is because we encounter the same needs and feel the same fears, desires, and sensations at every turn. The skills of translators and
the basic design of GT are, in their different ways, parallel reflections of our common humanity.
In September 2009, the new administration in the White House issued a science policy road map, titled A Strategy for American Innovation. The
last section of this document calls for science and technology to be harnessed to address the “‘Grand Challenges’ of the 21st Century,” of which it
gives half a dozen examples, such as solar cells “as cheap as paint” and intelligent prosthetics. The last line of the whole strategy puts among these
long-range targets for national science policy the development of “automatic, highly accurate and real-time translation between the major languages
of the world—greatly lowering the barriers to international commerce and collaboration.”6 Not every science policy target is achieved, but with
serious backing from the U.S. administration now in place for the first time since 1960, machine translation is likely to advance far beyond the state
in which we currently know it.
TWENTY-FOUR
A Fish in Your Ear: The Short History of Simultaneous Interpreting
Speech predates writing by eons, and oral translation is far, far older than the written kind. Because speech is such an ephemeral thing—it’s gone
in a puff of warm air, which is all it is in the material sense—nothing can be known directly about speech translation for almost the entire duration of
its history. Two things caused a huge change in the twentieth century: the invention of the telephone by Alexander Graham Bell in 1876, and a
political need of the most pressing kind.
The Nuremberg Trials of Nazi war criminals in 1945 was one of the most important courts of law in modern history and also an unprecedented
event in the history of translation. The panel of judges and the prosecuting teams came from the four Allied powers—the United States, Great
Britain, France, and the Soviet Union—speaking three different languages, and the defendants spoke a fourth language, German. Nothing like this
had ever happened before. In courts located in a national jurisdiction, interpreters read consecutively, repeating in the language of the court what
the foreign defendant has just said, and then repeating what the court says to the defendant (when the client is not being addressed directly, it may
be done at low volume in a “whisper translation,” or chuchotage). Two-way oral translation of this normal kind obviously slows down the
proceedings. But four-way translation? In twelve directions? Consecutive interpreting would have so lengthened the International Military Tribunal’s
case that everyone might have lost the thread. For the Nuremberg Trials, something new was needed.
Technology for speeding up multilingual interaction already existed. The Filene-Finlay Speech Translator had been tried out a few times in the
1920s by the International Labour Organization in Geneva. Users of the system had a telephone in front of them, and when a delegate could not
understand what was being said she picked up the handset, dialed in to the exchange, and heard the speech in a different language (only two—
French and English—were involved at that time). The translators sat at the back listening to the speech and speaking their translation of it into a
soundproof awning called a Hushaphone, connected directly to the telephone exchange. The original Speech Translator was also used in 1934 for
Adolf Hitler’s address to a Nazi Party rally in Nuremberg for live broadcast on French radio.1
The Speech Translator was designed and promoted not for rapid two-way interaction in multiple languages but for speeches read aloud from
prepared written text—what Germans call gesprochene Sprechsprache, “spoken speech language,” the standard genre of politicians and public
figures the world over. The Filene-Finlay device was acquired by IBM in the 1930s, and the company offered a complete set of partly secondhand
but much enhanced and extended equipment for free to the International Military Tribunal in Nuremberg. This act of generosity was to prove an
epochal event in the way in which we now conceive the possibility of international communication.
Members of the court, including the defendants, were equipped with headphones and microphones, from which wires trailed over the courtroom
floor to the exchange. Wires ran from the exchange to four separate translation teams in different compartments. That made for a lot of complicated
wiring, but the real magic was what happened in the interpreters’ booths.
Members of the court had switch dials to select which language channel they wished to listen to. The output was produced by four teams of three
interpreters each. The English team had a German interpreter, a Russian interpreter, and a French interpreter sitting side by side, listening on
headphones, and repeating in English what was said in the other languages; the setup was the same in the three other booths. Altogether, thirty-six
interpreters were recruited from among the three hundred language professionals hired by the court and the prosecution and defense teams to
work at this brand-new and not obviously manageable task of instantaneous oral translation. Each of the twelve-strong teams worked eighty-five-
minute shifts on two days out of three and was expected to rest in between. From the very start of the new profession, simultaneous interpreting
was recognized as being one of the most exhausting things you can do with a human brain.
The difficulty is not only high-speed language transfer. The difficulty is that the sound of your own voice diminishes your ability to hear what the
other person is saying. That’s why we take turns in conversation and speak over someone else only when we really do not want to hear what he has
to say. A simultaneous interpreter must learn to overrule the natural tendency not to listen when talking, and not to talk when listening. Simultaneous
interpreting exists only because some very adept people can train themselves to do such an unnatural thing. Try it yourself: switch on a TV news
broadcast and repeat at your own normal speaking volume exactly what the newscaster says. If you can keep that up without losing a sentence for
ten minutes or more, then maybe you, too, could be a simultaneous interpreter—provided you know another two languages extremely well. Millions
of people know three languages well enough to be interpreters, but only a small proportion of them can manage the exhausting trick of dividing
attention between what you are saying and what you are hearing—without missing a word.
The trickiest part of high-speed language transfer is that politicians and diplomats do not characteristically use short, simple sentences without
subordinate clauses, or leave long gaps between them. They tend to drone on with sausagelike strings of evasive circumlocutions: “I am instructed
by my ambassador to inform this august assembly that contrary to rumors reported in one of the organs of the capitalist press no authorized agent
of the state has knowingly exported to any other country any materials covered by the international convention on …” Unfortunately, there is no
convention on the export of long-windedness, and so interpreters have to begin reformulating sentences of this kind without knowing for sure where
they will go, what their real point is, or what alteration to the structure of the starting point the end of the sentence will bring. Extremely sophisticated
mental skills are required to “hold” features of meaning in provisional formulations until the real topic of the sentence is finally let out of the bag. An
interpreter who has to repair a sentence after it has begun (as we all do in normal speech) loses valuable time. The ability to pick the right formulae
in a flash and to keep the sentence loose enough to cope with what may crop up next is acquired by experience and practice—together with an
uncommonly developed capacity for finding instant matches between sentence patterns that are grammatically and stylistically far apart.
Most of the people involved in preparing the Nuremberg Trials doubted this newfangled setup would work. We owe the modern world of
conference interpreting more to the can-do attitude of the victorious U.S. Army than to the considered judgment of prosecutors, judges, and
language professionals. Chief doubter among them was Richard Sonnenfeldt, the head of the U.S. prosecution team’s translation service. He’d
been picked from a motor pool in Salzburg by General “Wild Bill” Donovan to serve as translator in the long interrogations of the defendants that
preceded the trials. He’d interrogated the Nazi top brass on behalf of four-star generals and was asked to take charge of the simultaneous-
interpreting team during the trials. Sonnenfeldt turned the job down because he was intimidated by the speed requirement and by his own lack of
familiarity with legal terminology. But the main reason he backed off from running the world’s first simultaneous-interpreting service was his
professional opinion that either the people or the system, or both, would break down.2
He was right about the glitches. Microphones and headsets went on the blink; lawyers and witnesses (including the chief U.S. attorney, Robert H.
Jackson) spoke too fast; on more than one occasion, an interpreter burst into tears on hearing testimony from Rudolf Höss, the ice-cold
commandant of Auschwitz. But, despite the obstacles, the system worked. Hermann Göring is said to have remarked to Stefan Hörn, one of the
court translators, “Your system is very efficient, but it will also shorten my life!”3
The speech-translation system inaugurated at the Nuremberg Trials launched a new era in international communication. The interpreters’
achievements not only created a new skill and a new profession but had an immediate and far-reaching effect on world affairs. First of all, every
new international agency wanted a simultaneous-translation system straightaway and thought it could just be bought at the store. In February 1946,
when the Nuremberg speech-translation system was barely run in, the first General Assembly of the newborn United Nations Organization adopted
as its second resolution that “speeches made in any of the six languages of the Security Council shall be interpreted into the other five languages.”4
Thereafter all the dependent agencies—from the International Labour Organization to the Food and Agriculture Organization, from UNESCO to the
World Bank—acquired the equipment and sought to recruit the personnel to produce the magical illusion that every delegate would always be able
to understand what any other delegate was saying as he or she was in the process of saying it.
This led outsiders to take for granted that the diversity of languages was no longer an impediment to collective international action and world
harmony. Insiders—diplomats and negotiators in all the new bodies set up by the UN—were under no such illusion. As one student of international
law points out, texts and speeches produced in multilingual form at high speed may be grammatically correct, but they are never quite coherent. The
small deviations that arise, over which delegates argue for hours on end, “intensify the collective awareness of the importance of translation.”5 But
the early years of simultaneous interpreting were also years of great hope for a new world order ruled by “jaw-jaw” in place of the preceding
decades of “war-war.” In those circumstances, the general public easily forgot just what a fragile and mysterious feat was being accomplished by a
very small group of language gymnasts in the glass boxes in the rear of the assembly hall.
It hardly needs explaining why simultaneity in translation is an illusion. You cannot translate anything until you have heard what it is: translation is
always a “speaking after.” The impression of simultaneity is created by a bag of impressive language tricks. First, many speeches are read out
from a prepared text. Diplomats sometimes provide the translation teams with the text in advance of the meeting—often only just in advance, but
even a few minutes’ head start takes away a lot of stress. Second, international meetings are dominated by speeches of a fairly predictable kind.
Once you acquire experience of the kind of business being conducted and of the formulaic language it uses, you can run ahead of what is actually
said and give yourself a little brain space to listen for the all-important variations that the speaker might introduce. Contraction and change of
orientation are also used for nonformulaic digressions: “The Soviet delegate has just made a joke” can replace the telling of a long Russian
shaggy-dog tale. But, even so, the skill of the “conference interpreter” (the term that has come to replace oral translator, simultaneous translator,
and speech translator) calls for high levels of concentration and mental agility. There are few people who can do it at all, and even fewer who want
to do it day in and day out.
Sixty years of experience have not made it any easier to predict whether an individual can be turned into a conference interpreter or not. Even
now, between half and three quarters of all students admitted to interpreter training courses fail to enter the profession.6 At the beginning, in the
aftermath of the Second World War, the disastrous history of the twentieth century had produced many thousands of people with outstanding
language skills in several of the six official international languages (Spanish, English, French, Chinese, Russian, and Arabic)—children of refugees
from the Russian Revolution brought up in Shanghai and educated at the Lycée Français, where they learned English, young refugees from
German-occupied France who had spent months or years in Cuba or Mexico awaiting a U.S. visa before going to college in New York, and so on.
The first generation of the elite of the translating professions consisted mostly of young people from backgrounds of that kind, who remained in post
for thirty years and more. These founding mothers and fathers of the conference-interpreting community have now retired, and it has proved difficult
to replace them. The lack of personnel is particularly acute for the two most-needed languages in world affairs today—Arabic and Chinese. Even
the Russian- and French-into-English booths are getting harder to fill.
The structure of conference interpreting at the UN and its agencies and at most other international gatherings that can afford it is not now quite as
it was at the Nuremberg Trials. The rules invented for that first experiment were that all interpreters should work only into their “native” language
(now called their A language, “A” standing for “active”), and that all interpreting should be done from the “original.” With six UN languages currently
in operation, that would require six teams of five translators, or thirty people in all, to service a single meeting. The job is now reckoned to be as
stressful as the work of air traffic controllers; the eighty-five-minute slots used at Nuremberg have been replaced with a routine of alternating thirty-
minute shifts (the Chinese and Arabic booths change over every twenty minutes) through a normal (short) working day—so that in fact you would
need sixty people, not thirty, to service an international meeting if the original rules were still applied. There just aren’t sixty people with those high-
level and variegated skills that can be gathered at any one time in any one place in the world, not even in New York City. The following schema
allows the illusion of seamless language transfer to be achieved with a team of just fourteen members:
In the French booth: two interpreters, one listening in Spanish and English, the other listening in Russian and English, and giving out in
French
In the English booth: two interpreters, one listening in French and Russian, the other listening in Spanish and French, and giving out in
English
In the Spanish booth: two interpreters, both listening in English and French, and giving out in Spanish
In the Russian booth: two interpreters, both listening in either Spanish or French as well as English, and giving out in Russian
In the Chinese booth: three interpreters working shifts, taking in English and Chinese and giving out in Chinese and English
In the Arabic booth: three interpreters working shifts, taking in French or English and Arabic and giving out in Arabic and English or
French
In other words, Chinese gets into Spanish, French, and Russian by relay from the English channel, and Arabic gets into Spanish and Russian by
relay either from English or, most often, from French; Spanish and Russian get into Chinese by relay from the English channel, and into Arabic by
relay from French. If the Russian interpreter in the English booth has gone to the bathroom, then the Russian channel also gets into English by relay
from the French booth; similarly, if the Spanish interpreter in the French booth has a nosebleed, Spanish gets into French by relay from English.
Relay, or double translation, is in principle a bad idea, as the possibility of error is increased, as is the time lag between the delegate’s speech
and the output in listeners’ headphones. Also, the fact that Chinese and Arabic interpreters work both into their A language and from it into English
is not a good idea—working both ways at once more than doubles the mental stress involved. But the devices of relay (double translation) and
retour (one interpreter working in two directions) are godsends for the UN officials whose task is to ensure the smooth running of the meetings.
Without relay and retour the whole system would be vastly more expensive—and it’s not exactly cheap as it is.
In the European Union, further refinements are used to ensure that meetings of a body with twenty-four official languages can be coped with. Full
symmetrical interpreting under Nuremberg rules—that’s to say, each translation direction being supplied by a single dedicated interpreter—would
require a team of 552 interpreters, exceeding by far the number of delegates taking part in any meeting, and that’s clearly not feasible. The system
works like this:
When all participants in a meeting understand at least one of the EU’s working languages (English, French, German, and Italian)—and this is
nearly always the case—then an asymmetrical language regime is used. “Asymmetry” means that participants may speak in any of the official
languages (as long as they let the interpreting service know which one ahead of time), but may listen in only one of the four working languages.
Such a meeting would be said to have a “24:4” language regime. If each translation direction were served by a dedicated individual, that would
require up to eighty interpreters per session, which is still far too many.
The number is further reduced by interpreters with two A languages who can work into both, a device called cheval, but also, most crucially, by
retour—interpreters who work into their B language as well. The greatest economy of all is of course made by relay. When the Lithuanian delegate
speaks, an interpreter with Lithuanian B provides a simultaneous German translation, which the German–English, German–French, and German–
Italian interpreters use for their versions in the working languages (and in a 24:4 regime, no further language versions are required). In this example,
the hub or pivot language is German; for other languages at the same imaginary meeting, the hub may be English, French, or Italian, bringing the
total number of actual bodies needed to service a meeting under 24:4 to a maximum of twenty-eight, and quite a lot fewer if (for example) the
Portuguese–French interpreter also does Spanish when French is the hub language, or the Swedish–German interpreter also does Danish when
German is the pivot. Because all EU interpreters must have two B languages, the use of asymmetric regimes together with cheval, retour, and relay
suffice to provide just about affordable simultaneous interpreting in Brussels and Luxembourg, and at the European Parliament in Strasbourg.7
At the UN, the system is often invisible to users. Interpreters are placed at the rear or the side of the assembly hall behind soundproofed and
tinted glass screens. You can attend a dozen meetings without even realizing the interpreters are physically present—so it’s only natural they should
get taken for granted. What’s more insidious than the occlusion of the interpreting magic, however, is the impression that anything you say can be
simultaneously heard in all other tongues. Conference interpreting, glamorous though it is, buries the real difficulties—and the real interest—of
language transfer beneath sophisticated, almost circuslike tricks of the language trade. It makes people think that it’s only a matter of time before
we can all have a device to stick in our ear—the “Babel fish” of The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy—to provide us with instant communication
with all the peoples on earth.
Unlike most translators in written mode and a high proportion of consecutive interpreters, conference interpreters are rarely specialists in any
particular field and come closest to being pure language professionals. Few domain-specific organizations are sufficiently large to justify having
salaried interpreters on their books: only sixty-seven organizations in the world employ members ofAIIC (the interpreters’ professional body) as full-
time staff, and only four (the UN in Geneva and New York, and two of the International Criminal Tribunals in The Hague) employ more than ten. As a
result, most of the three thousand members of AIIC (and a roughly equal number of nonmembers) work freelance and travel from conference to
conference, dealing with all sorts and kinds of topics. Fast-talking yet good listeners, interpreters must be both alert and relaxed, able to tolerate
unspeakably boring harangues but also quick to pick up the gist when something entirely new comes on the agenda. They belong to a rare breed.
They might become even rarer, because there are several threats to the survival of the species. First, the precipitous decline in the teaching of
foreign languages in the English-speaking world in the last fifty years means that there are ever fewer entrants to the profession with English A. If
you prevented boys from having bicycles, then the Tour de France would become a celebration of geriatric fitness in a decade or two, and then
stop. If you don’t teach native English speakers two languages out of Spanish, Russian, Chinese,Arabic, and French intensively to high levels while
they are young, you will not have candidates for interpreter training within ten or fifteen years. There are many English–Spanish bilinguals, of course,
but very few of them have another UN language to the requisite degree of fluency. If the requirement were lowered from two to one foreign language
for English A, then the system could be run on relay and retour, and staffing problems would be less acute. However, because ten applicants to a
translators’ school produce no more than five entrants, and because barely one third of those graduating will be found good enough to enter the
profession, large investment in language education throughout the English-speaking world is urgently needed. Without it, the next cohort of our
politicians and diplomats, businessmen and consultants, human rights campaigners, international lawyers, and policy wonks may well be reduced
to stuffing fish in both ears.
A second threat to maintaining current language practice in international organizations is that some states may become unwilling to finance
simultaneous interpretation into languages that are ceasing to be global vehicular tongues—but the replacement of Russian (for example) may
prove politically impossible for many decades yet, and nobody has a clear idea of what might replace French.
But the bigger threat looming on the horizon is something that’s going on right now in research labs in New Jersey and elsewhere. Using the
technology of speech recognition that allows a widely available word processor to generate text from speech, alongside the speech synthesis
systems that power today’s automated answering machines, the FAHQT target that current U.S. science policy encourages could well become
FAHQST—fully automated, high-quality speech translation. Experimental systems not very far from commercial release already produce running
English text from Spanish speech. I may not live to see or hear it, but many of you probably will: automated interpreting for the secondary orality of
predictable international diplomatic prose, for tourist inquiries at hotel reception desks, and maybe for other uses as well.
You will then enter the era of tertiary orality. It will be another world.
TWENTY-FIVE
Match Me If You Can: Translating Humor
A relatively uncontentious way of saying what translation does is this: it provides for some community an acceptable match for an utterance made in
a foreign tongue. This doesn’t go very far, but as it applies equally well to conference interpreting, comic strips, legal contracts, and novels, it’s a
reasonable place to start.
What it leaves open are three huge questions:
1. What makes a match acceptable?
2. Which of the infinite catalog of qualities that any utterance has are those that a translation may or must make match?
3. What do we mean by “match,” anyway?
Those are the questions that translation studies has always sought to answer, sometimes under heavy academic disguise. “Translation quality
evaluation criteria,” for example, is a label for answers to question 1. But whatever way you ask these three questions, the answers are not easy to
provide.
All sorts of criteria may be involved in judgments made by different people at different times about the acceptability of a match—theoretical
criteria, or practical, social, or cultural ones, and no doubt, on occasions, purely arbitrary ones, too (such as the translator is a famous prizewinner
and must have got it right). Trying to rank these criteria or to distribute them to classes of situations where they might apply seems too complicated
by half. It is perhaps more fruitful to work in from the outside edge and to begin by looking at places where matches are commonly believed to be
extremely difficult to find.
One area flagged by nearly all translation commentary as being match-poor is utterances that raise a laugh or a smile. Here’s an old Soviet joke
about Stalin:
Stalin and Roosevelt had an argument about whose bodyguards were more loyal and ordered them to jump out of the window on the fifteenth
floor. Roosevelt’s bodyguard flatly refused to jump, saying, “I’m thinking about the future of my family.” Stalin’s bodyguard, however, jumped out of
the window and fell to his death. Roosevelt was taken aback.
“Tell me, why did your man do that?” he asked.
Stalin lit his pipe and replied: “He was thinking about the future of his family, too.”1
Well, that’s a translation (from Russian), and even in Russian it’s a translation already, because exactly the same joke has been told over the
centuries about other brutal potentates, starting with Peter the Great. We can safely assume that this joke form can be preserved together with its
point in any human language under two conditions that are only incidentally linguistic ones: the target language must possess an expression for
“thinking about your family” that can apply to two slightly different projects (to provide support for your spouse and children, and to protect them from
persecution); and that the listener understands or can guess that evil potentates punish disobedient underlings by persecuting their relatives. These
two conditions may not be met in all cultures and languages in the world, but they are surely widely available. The “untranslatability of humor” hasn’t
survived the very first dig of the spade.
Provided the two general conditions given above can be met, the jump-for-Stalin joke can be rejiggered to fit a wide variety of other historical and
geographical locales in the same language or any other, and still be the same joke. There are very many transportable, rewritable joke patterns of
that kind—including those politically incorrect ethnic disparagements of near neighbors that you hear in structurally identical form when the French
talk about Belgians, Swedes about Finns, the English about the Irish, and so on.
Translating these kinds of circulating jokes means matching the pattern made by the interplay of presupposition and meaning that constitutes the
point, and then rewriting all the rest to suit. An ability to recognize the match is not rare, and may be almost universal. But the ability to find a good
match is one that only some people have. However, we don’t have to go far to find humorous uses of language that work in a slightly different way.
A Brooklyn baker became deeply irritated by a little old lady who kept standing in line to ask for a dozen bagels on a Tuesday morning despite
his having put a big sign in his window to say that bagels were not available on Tuesday mornings. When she got to the head of the line for the fifth
time in a row, the baker decided not to shout and scream but to get the message through this way instead.
“Lady, tell me, do you know how to spell cat—as in catechism?”
“Sure Ido. That’s C-A-T.”
“Good,” the baker replies. “Now tell me, how do you spell dog—as in dogmatic?”
“Why, that’s D-O-G.”
“Excellent! So how do you spell fuck, as in bagels?”
“But there ain’t no fuck in bagels!” the little old lady exclaims.
“That’s precisely what I’ve been trying to tell you all morning!”
There are different ways of saying what the point of this—admittedly paltry—joke is. It makes a character speak out loud a truth she had been
unable to internalize. There’s no reason to suppose that matches cannot be found in any language to make fun of some person in the same way.
The overall point is made by playing on a difference between written and oral language: structurally similar plays can probably be found and
constructed in any language that has an imperfectly phonetic writing system. But once we get down to the implementation of these two features,
hunting for matches becomes much more difficult. The assimilation of the present participle of a taboo word to the stem of that word plus the
preposition in is possible only because in English the distinguishing mark of the first—the final consonant, g—is habitually dropped in colloquial
speech. That’s a low-level, local feature of a particular language, and it turns on the slight mismatch between its spoken and written forms. A
structural match in any other language would most likely have to turn on a phonetically and grammatically different feature that may or may not allow
the same point—making someone stupid say what they don’t want to understand by diverting their attention from the issue through an intentionally
deceptive spelling game.
What’s usually considered to be at issue in humor of this kind is the capacity that all languages have for referring to themselves, and thus for
playing games with words. Metalinguistic expressions—sentences and phrases that refer to some aspect of their own linguistic form—carry
meanings that are by definition internal to the language in which they are couched. “There ain’t no fuck in bagels” may be vulgar and silly, but it is a
good-enough example of a metalinguistic expression. It is not about bagels, only about the spelling and pronunciation of a word of the English
language seen exclusively as a word and not as a sign. “Plays on the signifier” are traditionally viewed as the dark corner of language, where
translation becomes a paradoxical, impossible challenge.
That would be a valid position if the criteria for an acceptable match obligatorily included matching the signifiers themselves. But they obviously
do not. What a translation makes match never includes the signifiers themselves. It would not count as a translation if it did.
Just as only some jokes exploit the metalinguistic function of language, so not all self-referring expressions are funny. Especially not those used
as example sentences by philosophers of language, such as:
1. There are seven words in this sentence.
It is no trouble to find a matching sentence in German:
2. Es gibt sieben Wörter in diesem Satz.
However, that particular translinguistic match is regarded as a happenstance—an arbitrary and irrational coincidence in a particular case. What’s
usually seen as problematic about sentences such as (1) is that they cannot reliably be translated into other tongues, and they thus appear to
contradict the axiom of effability—that any thought a person can have can be expressed by some sentence in any natural language, and that
anything that can be expressed in one language can also be expressed in another (see chapter 13).
The real problem with a sentence such as (1) is that it can’t be translated into English, either. “This sentence consists of seven words” rephrases
(“translates”) (1), but by doing so it becomes counterfactual, which (1) is not. Likewise, rephrasing it in French produces an untruth if you think that
translation means matching signifiers one by one with equivalents provided by pocket dictionaries:
3. Il y a sept mots dans cette phrase.
The main cause of problems is solutions, an American wit once declared, and the conundrums created by rephrasing self-referring sentences
taken out of any context seem to be good examples of that. That’s because (3) is not the only way you can express (1) in French. Indeed, it’s just
about the least plausible version you could come up with. A better match would be:
4. Cette phrase est constituée par sept mots.
But because philosophy is written by philosophers and not translators, the clash between (1) and (3) is taken to be a demonstration of a wider,
general truth:
Translation between languages cannot preserve reference (what a sentence is about), self-reference (what a sentence says about itself)
and truth-value(whether the sentence is right or wrong) at the same time.2
This would explain in a nutshell why puns and plays on words and all those kinds of jokes that exploit specific features of the language in which they
are expressed cannot be translated. Because this is presented as a general assertion, it can be disproved by a single persuasive counterexample.
But the reason it is wrong is not contained in any counterexample. The flaw in the axiom lies in its failure to say what it means by “translate.” So
here’s my idea of a better approximation to the truth about translation:
Arduously head-scratching, intellectually agile wordsmiths may simultaneously preserve the reference, self-reference, and truth value of an
utterance when fate smiles on them and allows them to come up with a multidimensional matching expression in their own language.
In chapter 52 of Georges Perec’s Life A User’s Manual, a depressed young man called Grégoire Simpson wanders around Paris and stares for
hours at shop windows. He saunters into a covered arcade and gazes at the display of a printer’s wares—dummy letterheads, wedding invitations,
and joke visiting cards. Here’s one of them:
Adolf Hitler
Fourreur
Fourreur is the French word for “furrier,” but it is also an approximate representation of the way the German word Führer is pronounced in French.
The joke is a metalinguistic and self-referring one, provided you know who and what Hitler was, know in addition that a furrier and a dictator are
different things, and are able to subvocalize the French word as if it were a German sound and vice versa. What needs matching to make a
translation of this joke is not any one of these particular things in French but the relationship between them—the pattern of mismatched sounds and
meanings between two tongues, one of which has to be German.
Icame up with this:
Adolf Hitler
German Lieder
It took a while to find, and it took a stroke of luck. It may well be not the only or the best possible translation of Perec’s joke visiting card, but it
matches well enough in the dimensions that matter. It plays a sound game between English and German, and it relies on the same general field of
knowledge. It doesn’t preserve all dimensions of the original—what ever does?—but it matches enough of them, in my honest but not very humble
opinion, to count as a satisfactory translation of a self-referring, metalinguistic, and interlingual joke.
Humorous remarks, shaggy-dog tales, witty anecdotes, and silly jokes are untranslatable only if you insist on understanding “translation” as a low-
level matching of the signifiers themselves. Translation is obviously not that. The matches it provides relate to those dimensions of an utterance
that, taken together, account for its principal force in the context in which it is uttered.
That still doesn’t tell us what we mean by “match.” But we’re getting closer.
TWENTY-SIX
Style and Translation
Translations typically alter numerous features of the source in order to produce matches for those of its dimensions that count in the context it has.
But there is one traditionally perceived quality of written and spoken language that is identified not with any particular dimension of an utterance but
with the overall relationship between them—its style.
Style is more than genre. Kitchen recipes are typically translated not into something as vague and undifferentiated as “English” but into “kitchen
recipese,” the genre constituted by the conventional features that kitchen recipes have in our tongue.
In like manner, you don’t translate French poetry into “English” but into poetry, as the American poet and translator C. K. Williams insists. Poetry
is a characteristic social and cultural use of language and can therefore count as a genre in our sense, but it comes in many different forms. Beyond
the genre, a poetry translator has to choose the particular style that he is going to use.
Twenty years ago, Eliot Weinberger and Octavio Paz brought out a curious essay-cum-anthology titled Nineteen Ways of Looking at Wang
Wei—nineteen different English translations of a poem by a Chinese poet of the eighth century C.E., . Setting aside all their arguments about
which of these “ways of Wei” is to be preferred, what is quite obvious is that they represent nineteen different ways of writing poetry in English,
nineteen “styles” of fairly recognizable kinds (Eliot-ish, Ashbery-ish, free verse–ish, and so forth). Ten years later, Hiroaki Sato brought out One
Hundred Frogs, a compilation of actually rather more than a hundred already published English versions of a famous haiku by Matsuo Bash :
Furu ike ya
kawazu tobikomu
mizu no oto
I
The old pond
A frog jumped in,
Kerplunk!
II
pond
frog
plop!
III
A lonely pond in age-old stillness sleeps …
Apart, unstirred by sound or motion … till
Suddenly into it a lithe frog leaps.
If “style” is the term that names the principal means of distinguishing the differences among these three versions of Bash ’s haiku, then it means
something that is not an individual property of, say, the poetry of Allen Ginsberg, John Masefield, and Ogden Nash but a collective property of
poetry written in that style—in Ginsberg-ish, Masefield-ish, and Nash-ish, so to speak (one of them was written by Ginsberg, in fact). Style in this
sense is eminently imitable, and not just for comic effect. Students of musical composition develop their skills by writing in the manner of Mozart or
Bach, and writers also practice at writing like Flaubert, 1 or writing like Proust.2 The following pieces are not by William Wordsworth, T. S. Eliot, or
J. D. Salinger—but it does not take much more than vague memories of school to know which among them is Eliot-ish, Salinger-ish, and Lake
Poet–ish, respectively:
There is a river clear and fair
’Tis neither broad nor narrow
It winds a little here and there—
It winds about like any hare;
And then it holds as straight a course
As, on the turnpike road, a horse,
Or, through the air an arrow
and
Sunday is the dullest day, treating
Laughter as a profane sound, mixing
Worship and despair, killing
New thought with dead forms.
Weekdays give us hope, tempering
Work with reviving play, promising
A future life within this one
and
Boy, when Isaw old Eve Ithought Iwas going to flip. Imean it isn’t that Eve is good-looking or anything like that, it’s just that she’s different.
Idon’t know what the hell it is exactly—but you always know when she’s around.All of a sudden Iknew there was something wrong with old
Eve the minute I saw her. She looked nervous as hell. I kinda felt sorry for her—even though she’s got one of my goddam ribs, so I went
over to talk to old Eve.
“You look very, very nice, Adam,” she said to me in a funny way, like she was ashamed of something. “Why don’t you join me in some
apple?”
These examples could lead us to believe that the translation of style is an exercise in pastiche, the translator’s task being the choice of an existing
style in the target culture to serve as a rough match for the “other.” Many literary translators go about their job in just that way. On reading a new work
in French, for example, I certainly do run through in my mind the kinds of English style that might fit, and when starting on a new job, I often rifle
through the books on my shelf to remind myself of the particularities of the “style match” I have in my head. But this idea of style as a culturally
constituted set of linguistic resources characteristic of an author, period, literary genre, or school clashes with another widespread idea of what a
“style” is: the irreducible difference of any individual’s unique forms of language. In brief: If style is “inimitable,” how come it can be imitated?
The muddle about what style is began in the gilded halls of the Académie Française, an institution set up by Louis XIV to promote and defend the
French language. In 1753, a natural scientist was invited to take his place as one of the forty “immortals,” as members are called. Georges-Louis
Leclerc, Comte de Buffon, an eminent botanist, mathematician, and natural historian, gave an extraordinary acceptance speech that has since
become known as the “Discourse on Style.” In it he sought to reassure his audience—the thirty-nine academicians who had just elected him—that
the promotion of a mere scientist to such elevated rank would not topple rhetoric from its proper place at the pinnacle of French culture. He may
even have been sincere—but I wouldn’t count on it. In his much-quoted but mostly misunderstood conclusion, Buffon emphasized that what matter
above all are the arts of language. Scientific discoveries, he declared, are really quite easy to make, and will quickly perish unless they are
explained with elegance and grace. That is because mere facts are not human achievements—they belong to the natural word and are therefore
hors de l’homme, “outside of humankind.” Eloquence, by contrast, is the highest evidence of human agency and genius: le style est l’homme
même.
This meaning of style, as a synonym for elegance and distinction, continues to motivate most modern uses of the word and its cognates. Stylish
clothes are those considered elegant by some group of people; to ski or to dance or to serve cucumber sandwiches in style is likewise to do these
things with fashionable grace. Buffon’s style is a social value. Nobody is free to construct his or her own idea of what is stylish, save by getting other
people to agree. Similarly, stylish writing conforms to a shared notion, however vague, of what is fashionable, appropriate, socially elevated, and so
on in the way you speak and write.
Matching posh for posh in translating between languages used by cultures with linguistic forms that correspond to hierarchical social structures is
no sweat. Where the social structures of the source culture are more elaborate than those of the target, a degree of flattening occurs: the different
social implications of Estimado señor and Apreciado señor at the start of a formal letter in Spanish, for example, can’t be represented in English,
which can say only “Dear Sir.” To compensate for losses of this kind, which can be far more substantial when translating between cultures as
unrelated to each other as Japanese and French, for example, the translator may invent target-language analogues for distinctions that belong to
the social world of the original, and be accused variously of quaintness, condescension, or fidelity to the source. But there are even less tractable
issues involved when the social register of the language used in the source is low. There is a seemingly inevitable bias against representing forms
of language recognized in the source culture as regional, uncouth, ill-educated, or taboo by socially matching forms in the target tongue—
presumably because doing so risks identifying the translator as a member of just such a marginal or subordinated class. As a result, translation
usually takes the social register of the source up a notch or two. The social dimension of “style” doesn’t flow easily from tongue to tongue.
The novelist Adam Thirlwell has argued that the meaning of the word style changed in 1857.3 In the convincing story he tells, style flipped over,
almost in one go, from being a description of the elegance of a whole manner of expression to being about just one subelement in the composition
of prose—the sentence. The culprits for this radical reduction of style were Gustave Flaubert, his novel Madame Bovary, and the many comments
Flaubert made about sentences in his partly teasing letters to his girlfriend, Louise Colet. Since 1857 or thereabouts, Thirlwell argues, critics and
readers have needlessly restricted their idea of a writer’s style to those low-level features of grammar and prosody that can be exhaustively
identified between a capital letter and a period. Henri Godin, writing about “the stylistic resources of French” just after the Second World War, was
quite certain that style and syntax are the same thing and reach their point of perfect harmony in the writing of … Flaubert.4
Because the grammatical forms, the sounds of individual words, and the characteristic voice rhythms of any two languages do not match (if they
did we would call them the same language), the “Flaubert shift” made style instantly untranslatable. Thirlwell’s main aim is to show that this is
nonsense—and that the novel is a truly international and translinguistic form of art.
At some point in the course of the nineteenth century, the idea of style as “the aesthetics of the sentence” got thoroughly muddled up with a
completely different tradition that came to France and Britain from German universities. Scholars in departments of Romance philology tended to
justify the attention they paid to canonical writers on the grounds that their works represented special, innovative uses of language, distinct from the
norms of the speech community, and were therefore important factors in the course of linguistic change. Poets, they argued, were not simply users
of language but the creators of it; a language was not a smooth and rounded whole but a gnarled old potato marked by bumps and dents that
speak the history of its creation. “Style research,” or Stilistik, pursued with fervor for a hundred years, and reaching its brilliant peak in the essays of
Leo Spitzer (1887–1960), was an exciting but quite circular pursuit: the language of a “great work” becomes a fine-grained map of the ineffable
individuality of some great writer’s “self”; but the “self” or the essence of, let us say, Racine is entirely constituted by what can be mapped through
his language, subjected to a particular kind of analysis of his style. Style in this sense is inimitable by definition—that’s the point of it. And if it can’t
be imitated in the same language, it’s not even worth trying to translate it.
But it isn’t true. Most of the features of language use that Spitzer identified as significant aspects of Racine’s “self,” for example, can also be
found in the language of Racine’s contemporaries writing in the same literary genres. Yet the remarkable tenacity of the philologists’ principle that
every great writer has a manner that is unique and inimitable led people to reinvent the very history of the idea of “style.” They went back to Buffon’s
famous “Discourse,” took his maxim that le style c’est l’homme même (“style is what makes us human”), lopped off the last word, and recycled the
remainder—le style, c’est l’homme—so as to prove that “the style is the man.” As the noted Oxford scholar R. A. Sayce put it in his 1953 study
Style in French Prose, “details of style … reveal the deeper intentions and characteristics of a writer, and they must be dictated by some inner
reason.”5
“Style” thus has a very curious history. A sentence uttered in 1753 as a defense of literary eloquence came to be touted around as a pithy
formulation of the idea that no two people speak or write in exactly the same way because no two speakers are the same person.
It’s indisputable that every speaker of any language has an idiolect, a characteristic set of (ir)regularities that is not identical to the usage of any
other person. Why this should be so is discussed see here of this book, but it should be obvious that there are no intellectual, psychological, or
practical obstacles to speaking in the same way as some other person (impersonators and pasticheurs do it all the time). But the fact of linguistic
variation at the individual level has some very practical applications—such as catching out forgers. Among the early applications of computers to
the humanities were statistical programs for identifying the authorship of suspect documents. The programs themselves rested on rival theories
about what “style” was: typical patterns in individuals’ use of verbs, or vocabulary, or other parts of speech, that were unfalsifiable by anyone else; or
else that “rare pairs” (two words occurring typically together) could be used to identify and distinguish different authors; or that the position in the
sentence of common words was what gives the identity of the writer away. This last guess was called “positional stylometry” and was developed in
the 1970s byA. Q. Morton and Sidney Michaelson at Edinburgh University. Results of their computer program were admitted as evidence in court
in many cases and also used to make scholarly hypotheses about the provenance of different parts of the Hebrew Bible.
“Style” in this individual sense cannot possibly be the object of translation. It would make no sense to try to simulate in English the statistically
irregular positioning of, say, the negative particle pas in some French original.
Two interesting consequences ensue. If “style” is such an individual attribute that it cannot even be controlled by the writer (thus allowing sleuths to
catch forgers out), then every translator has a “style” of that kind in his target language, and the style of all his translations must be more like itself
than it can ever be like the style of the authors translated. I often wonder, in fact, whether my English versions of Georges Perec, Ismail Kadare,
Fred Vargas, Romain Gary, and Hélène Berr—whose characteristic uses of French are manifestly quite different—are all, stylistically speaking, just
examples of Bellos. By some accounts, they have to be: computational stylistics gives no quarter on that score. Secretly, though, I am quite happy
that it should be so. After all, those translations are my work. But it will be known for sure only by some large computer program.
All the same, style can’t be swept away just like that. Admittedly, we do not mean “elegance,” as Buffon did, when we talk about literature and
translation, even if we still do when we talk about clothes or cucumber sandwiches. We do not mean statistical regularities in the way we place the
indefinite article, though we do when we gratefully accept a court ruling on the incompatibility of the style of our uncle’s alleged will with its claimed
authorship.
We mean something else, not so difficult to express: “style” is the reason a novel by Dickens is just Dickens’s, why a piece of P. G. Wodehouse
—even if it were written by somebody else—is still in its essence a piece of Wodehouse. Style is, if not the man, then the thing! It is what makes any
work uniquely itself.
I also know a Dickens when I see one. But that’s trivial. The question is: At what level is the Dickensianity of any text by Dickens located? In the
words, the sentences, the paragraphs, the digressions, the anecdotes, the construction of character, or the plot? Because I, translator, can give you
the plot, the characters, the anecdotes, and the digressions; I can even give you the paragraphs, and most of the time I can give you a fair
approximation to the sentences, too. But Icannot give you the words. For that, you have to learn English.
For Thirlwell, novelistic “style” is the name of a holistic entity that comes somewhere between “a writer’s special way of looking at the world” and
“a writer’s own way of writing novels.” Characteristic uses of sentence structures and sound patterns are certainly a part of the latter, and maybe of
the former, too—but only a part. Style in Thirlwell’s sense—the most usable and purposeful sense—is something much larger. If it were not, it would
disappear in translation. The circulation of novels among all the vehicular languages of the world and their incontestable conversations with one
another demonstrate without a shadow of doubt that style does survive translation. The means that translators use to ensure this are no more than
the common skills used in all translation tasks.
In sum, the widespread notion that style is untranslatable is just a variant of the folkish nostrum that a translation is no substitute for the original.
There is no more truth to it than there is in the idea that humor can’t be preserved by rephrasing in the same or another tongue.
There is a difference between translating jokes and translating style, however. The first is typically done by concentrated effort; the second is
better done by taking a slight distance from the text and allowing its underlying patterns to emerge by their own force in the process of rewriting in a
second tongue. What they have in common is this: finding a match for a joke and a match for a style are both instances of a more general ability
that may best be called a pattern-matching skill.
We’re still short of an answer to the question of what we mean by “match,” but we’re getting closer.
TWENTY-SEVEN
Translating Literary Texts
In the English-speaking world, there are no job postings for literary translators and few openings for beginners. Insofar as it is remunerated at all,
literary translation is paid at piece rates equivalent to a babysitter’s hourly charge. It is pursued mainly by people who have other sources of income
to pay the rent and the grocer. There are a few exceptions, but literary translation into English is for the most part done by amateurs.
Yet it plays a central part in the international circulation of new literary work. The disparity between global role and local recognition is perhaps the
greatest curiosity of the whole trade. Literary translation into any language has features that mark it off from most other kinds of language work. To
begin with, it usually has liberal time constraints compared with work in commercial, legal, or technical fields. It also engages the translator’s
responsibility in less daunting ways. Translation mistakes in court, in hospitals, and in maintenance manuals may cause immediate harm to others.
Making a mess of a masterpiece certainly has consequences, but they don’t threaten the translator or the client in comparable ways. Producing
fluent prose to stand in place of a story told in German or Spanish is also more entertaining than writing an English-language summary of a Russian
document on border issues in the Barents Sea. All these things make sense of the fact that the rewriters of foreign novels in English translation
have low pay and low profiles. They don’t have too hard a time.
It could hardly be more different in Japan. Motoyuki Shibata is without question the most famous translator from English in the country: his
publisher puts out the Motoyuki Shibata Translation Collection, and bookshops set aside whole sections for it. His name does not just appear on
the dust jacket but is printed in the same type size as the author’s name.
Japanese literary translators have much the same status as authors do in Britain and America. Many author-translators are household names,
and there’s even a celebrity-gossip book about them: Honyakuka Retsuden 101, “The Lives of the Translators 101.”
Many other countries give translators greater symbolic and material rewards than America or Britain. In Germany, literary translators are usually
granted a significant royalty on the books they translate; French literary translators, too, are better paid than their American counterparts. In the
English-speaking world, almost all literary translators have a day job to support their avocation, but in France, Germany, Japan, and elsewhere you
can use translating as your day job to finance a second calling—such as writing fiction of your own.
These discrepancies in the social and economic context of literary translation among the Far East, Continental Europe, and the anglophone
world reflect the asymmetry in the global flow of translations. The situational contexts of literary translation are so different when translating UP and
translating DOWN—toward the center, or toward the periphery, in Pascale Casanova’s terms1—that they cannot fail to have broad effects on the
way the task is done.
In cultures that lie on the periphery of the global circulation of literary works, what is wanted is access to the center. The cultural standing of literary
works in translation is determined in the first place by the simple fact that they give access to the foreign. In central languages, on the other hand,
the foreignness of a new book is of no special importance. New writing from abroad has to win its place in the culture by other means. But as there
is only one central language at the moment, the gulf in translation practice lies between English and the rest.
Translating the new into English nearly always uses a fluent and relatively invisible translation style. This is obviously related to the fact that, like
budding authors, literary translators of previously unknown work have a hard struggle finding a publisher to take them on. But, in practice, few books
arrive in English as the direct result of a translator’s efforts. Most international literature that is published has been picked by commissioning editors
whose opinions are formed by pitches from international literary scouts, foreign publishers, and gossip at book fairs around the world. Literary
translators almost always get to hear about their next book when a publisher is already committed to bringing it out.
There aren’t many publishing executives in Britain and the United States who read foreign languages other than French. One result of this almost
embarrassing situation is that translation into French is, if not quite a precondition, then a very useful introduction for a work in any other language
seeking entry to world literature.2 The international careers of writers such as Ismail Kadare and Javier Marías, for example, hinged at the start on
their works being read in French translation by publishers in America and Britain. But many works are acquired for translation by editors relying
exclusively on reports and “buzz,” and the English translator is often the only person in the chain who really knows very much about the book or its
author at all. It’s a daunting position, with responsibilities going far beyond the already difficult business of producing an acceptable and effective
translation.
Retranslation of ancient and modern “classics” takes place under a quite different set of real-world constraints. It gives rise to arguments about
the translator’s responsibilities that are distinct from those that rule the translation of new work.
Just after the end of the Second World War, Penguin Classics brought out a new translation of Homer’s Odyssey, by E. V. Rieu. It was an
unexpected success. As the company’s website records, the liveliness of Rieu’s style “proclaimed that this was a book that anyone—everyone—
could, and should, read.”3 The classics were no longer restricted to the privileged few.
“Classic” here means Greek and Roman literature. Earlier translations had been done mostly to accompany the learning of Latin and Greek in
the classier kind of schools, and so Rieu’s colloquial version was a revelation for less privileged folk. Its success and the long series that followed
also reflected an important social aspiration of postwar Britain—to give much greater educational opportunities to the broad public than it had ever
had before. The early Penguin Classics were mostly of ancient and medieval texts, including Neville Coghill’s famous rendering of Chaucer, but the
series soon came to include literature ranging from ancient Egypt to the closing years of the nineteenth century. A collective enterprise of that kind
was sustained by a conscious and explicit culture of translation. “It is the editor’s intention to commission translators who can emulate his own
example and present the general reader with readable and attractive versions of the great books in modern English, shorn of the unnecessary
difficulties and erudition, the archaic flavour and the foreign idiom that renders so many existing translations repellent to modern taste.”4 Rieu’s
marching orders point firmly toward an adaptive translation style. At the start, he tried to recruit academics but found that very few of them could
write English of the kind he appreciated. He turned to professional writers such as Robert Graves, Rex Warner, and Dorothy L. Sayers, with
personalities ranging from the scholarly to the idiosyncratic. But a stringent house style was imposed on these versions, and the result is that the
first two hundred Penguin Classics read as if they had all been written in the same language—fluent, unpretentious British English, circa 1950. It
was a remarkable achievement. The series certainly did educate millions, and it is undoubtedly one of the historical sources of the strong
preference in English-language translation for adaptive, normalizing, or domesticating styles.
However, the social and cultural aspirations of these early retranslations are not necessarily those that motivate later retranslation projects. Save
at special moments such as 1945 (or the immediate aftermath of the Russian Revolution, when Maksim Gorky launched his “World Literature”
publishing house), retranslation is nearly always a strictly commercial affair.
Copyright is a modern invention, dating from 1708, but international copyright is even more recent. First sketched out in bilateral treaties in the
1850s, modern arrangements for the translation of literary works were first codified in the 1920s. The Berne Convention, which has since become
the Universal Copyright Convention, doesn’t allow a publisher to put out a translation without purchasing that right from the owner of the original text.
But when a publisher does acquire the right to publish a foreign work in translation, he becomes the sole owner of the translated work for as long as
the edition remains in print.5 He has a monopoly in the target language—until the original work falls into the public domain.
International copyright protection is now set at seventy years from the author’s death or from first publication, in the case of posthumous works.
Marcel Proust died in 1922, and the last volume of A la recherche du temps perdu was published in 1927. Franz Kafka died in 1924, and his most
famous works came out in 1925 (The Trial), 1926 (The Castle), and 1927 (America). English-language publishers of these perennial works lost
their monopoly toward the end of the last century. Freud died in 1939, and so his works are now also “free of rights.” Publishers generally seek to
retain some part of their market share in these hardy perennials by commissioning retranslations. That’s why over the last twenty years there has
been a steady output of “new” Prousts, Kafkas, and Freuds.
The legal constraints on the international circulation of literary texts explain why there is only one translation available for most works first
published since the First World War. Retranslation is not a practice that has any application to most of world literature created after the birth of the
last generation but two.
A retranslator, whether working with older texts or with ones that have just become available at the seventy-year limit of protection, has to cope
with ambiguous and conflicting demands. If the new translation is to be copyrighted as a new text, then it has to be measurably different from any
other translation. The easiest way to ensure originality is to not even look at earlier versions, since the chance of any two translators coming up
blind with the same target formulation is nil. On the other hand, a retranslator also needs to be able to explain why the new translation is better than
the existing one, and to do that you have to read what is already there. The older version may help—it may be very useful indeed—but it always gets
in the way of inventing a fresh solution to the trickier parts of the text. I don’t envy retranslators of modern classics one bit. They have to steer a
clifftop path between inadvertent plagiarism and gratuitous change.
In some cases, a new translation is amply justified by the discovery or publication of the full or unexpurgated or corrected version of a text that
had originally been brought out on the basis of a censored or imperfect manuscript (such is the case of Mikhail Bulgakov’s The Master and
Margarita). In the case of work that has been intensively studied over several decades, a new translation may be able to incorporate readings and
interpretations that were not available to the first. But the general principle that old translations need redoing “every generation or two” is not well
supported by these individual cases. It is supported with arithmetical exactitude by the law of international copyright and the commercial interests it
creates.
Yet despite these major differences between translating and retranslating, and between translating into English and into other tongues, the
translation of literary works of all kinds has a feature that distinguishes it from all other translation tasks. We like to believe that a literary work,
insofar as it really belongs to literature, is unlike all others—it is unique, not routine, and essentially just itself. This creates a real problem.
Translating serious nonfiction calls on skills and knowledge that literary translators don’t need (knowledge of the field, for a start), but there’s no
special problem about knowing what linguistic norms the target text should meet. You naturally want to make a book about archaeology resemble
other well-regarded books about archaeology in the receiving culture. When translating UP, the norms for nonfiction are those of original work in the
same field done by speakers of the receiving language.
But difficult questions arise when the specific field of a nonfiction work is new or not easy to classify. There is perhaps no better example of the
uncertain borderline between literary and informational translation than the works of Sigmund Freud.
Despite his worldwide fame, Freud’s complete works have been translated in full only into English, Italian, Spanish, and Japanese. Based on the
complete works published in German in London in 1942, James Strachey’s English version is regarded by many as a masterwork of translation
and by others as a betrayal of Freud. The long-running controversy over what kind of English should represent Freud’s writing turns on the question
of the genre to which Freud’s writing should be attached. Does it belong to social science? Or is it more properly thought of as literary work?
Strachey took it for granted that psychoanalysis was a science. Scientific terminology in English traditionally relies on Latin and Greek roots to
forge new words for new concepts. However, Freud himself wrote in a language that uses compounds of quite ordinary words in the natural and
social sciences. Thus, where in English we use bits of Greek for hydrogen and oxygen, German uses only “plain words”: Wasserstoff is “water
stuff,” Sauerstoff is “sour stuff,” but such terms are no less technical and precise than their Greek-based counterparts in English. Consequently,
where Freud says Anlehnung (“leaning on”), Strachey coins anaclisis, and for Schaulust (“see-pleasure”), he invents scopophilia. Many now
common words of English—ego, id, superego, empathy, and displacement, for example—were all first invented in Strachey’s translation of Freud,
to replace the equally technical but less recondite neologisms of the original: Ich, Es, Überich, Einfühlung, and Verschiebung.6
Strachey’s approach is quite unexceptionable if Freud’s writings are seen as contributions to social or medical science. We can test that in a
back-translation exercise. What could Freud have written had he wanted to coin a term in German for the English neologism scopophilia? The
norms of German-language science writing of his era would have led him inevitably toward a compound noun such as Schaulust.
If, on the other hand, works such as The Interpretation of Dreams are assimilated not to science but to literary creation, then Strachey’s English,
which gives a version that is tonally and stylistically distant from the original, could easily be seen as a misrepresentation.
In France, a large and coordinated team has been engaged since the 1980s in producing the first “Complete Works” in French. The enterprise
aims to restore the German specificity of Freud, treating him less as the inventor of a new science than as a writer of a particular (and rather
strange) kind of literary prose. Indeed, the team’s leaders have declared that Freud didn’t write German at all but “Freudish,” “a dialect of German
that is not German but a language invented by Freud.” The result is widely regarded as incomprehensible in French—but then, if “Freudish” isn’t
German, it wouldn’t have been easy to read in the original, either …7
The tangled disputes over Freud in English and French would not arise if it were clear how to categorize the field to which his work belongs. In
most social-science translation, the problem does not arise. Because it is believed in many places that the best work in social science is done in
the United States, translation of social science from English typically retains some linguistic features of the original, to authenticate the quality of the
work. But in literature, there is no such collective agreement about where the “top model” lies. Should a new foreign novel in translation conform to
the manner and style of some existing writer of English prose? Some would say, Of course not! What we want is something different from the
familiar patterns of Philip Roth. Others would say, Of course it should! We want to read something that matches our existing conception of novelistic
style in English prose. The book may have been written in Albanian or Chinese, but if it’s a good novel, then it should sound like one—of the kind
we know.
There is no resolution to this squabble. You could say that literary translation is easy because, in the last analysis, you can do what you like. Or
you could say that literary translation is impossible, because whatever you do, serious objections can be raised. Literary translation is different from
all other kinds. It serves readers in a quite special way. Modestly, often unwittingly, but inevitably, it teaches them on each occasion what translation
is.
TWENTY-EIGHT
What Translators Do
Speakers of any natural language repeat themselves and others all the time, and to do so they use their natural facility to rephrase together with a
well-filled toolbox:
• they can replace one word with another of like meaning (synonymy)
• they can take one part of the expression and replace it with a longer and more elaborate one (expansion)
• they can take one part of the expression and replace it with a dummy, an abbreviation, a short form, or nothing at all (contraction)
• they can take one part of the expression and move it to a different position, rearranging the other words in appropriate ways (topic shift)
• they can use the relevant tool from their language kit to make one part of the expression stand out as more important than the others
(change of emphasis)
• they can add expressions that relate to facts or states or opinions implicit in the original in order to clarify what they (or their interlocutor)
just said (clarification)
• but if they try to repeat exactly what has been said with the same tone, pitch, words, forms, and structures, they do not succeed (unless
they are also gifted, sharp-eared, and well-trained impersonators, and probably employed in the music hall)
Translators do exactly the same things when they repeat the words of another, and the fact that their “afterspeech” is in what we call another tongue
makes no difference at all to the range of discursive devices they use.
But they use these tools to support an overriding aim that is not necessarily relevant to voluntary or inadvertent repetition in interaction in the
same tongue. They seek to preserve the force of the original utterance—not only the overall meaning of what has been said but the meaning that
the saying of it has, and to do so in a way that is appropriate to the specific context in which the second formulation is to be heard or used. They are
not trying to change anything—whereas when we repeat something without translating it, we usually intend to make some small or large difference
to it.
Here’s a tiny example of the kind of changes translators make in order not to change anything much at all. In the multilingual “in-flight magazine”
supplied to travelers on the Eurostar train, a page is devoted to graphics demonstrating the size and achievements of the whole enterprise of high-
speed rail through the Channel Tunnel. One of the bubbles features “334.7 km/h,” which is glossed in English as “The record breaking top speed
(208 mph) a Eurostar train reached in July 2003 when testing the UK High Speed 1 Line.” It is followed by the following French text:
Le record de vitesse d’un train Eurostar établi en juillet 2003 lors du test d’une ligne TGV en Grande-Bretagne.
The suppression of the “miles per hour” speed in the French translation might be seen as simply conventional—but the obvious reason for its
omission is that it is of no relevance to French readers, who do not generally know how far a mile is anyway. More interesting is the French
assertion that 208 miles per hour was the top speed of the train doing the test, whereas the English asserts that the train’s top speed broke a
record. What record? Well, in Britain, just about every record—no train had ever gone faster on a British track. But it’s not a record for France,
where TGVs have exceeded that speed many times. So for the French not to be frankly counterfactual, the translator has to rephrase and
recontextualize. However, the real subtlety in the recontex-tualization is when the “UK High Speed 1 Line” becomes just “a high-speed line in Great
Britain” in French. French readers do not need to know the embarrassing fact that Britain still has only one such line, when the French have many,
and so they had also better not be told the proper name of a piece of railway engineering that is unique exclusively in British terms. Now linked
more closely than ever by a fast train, Britain and France still provide two quite different contexts of use for even the simplest expressions.
Translations naturally rephrase the message to adapt it to its alternative context of use.1
Literary translators have a less clear idea of the “context of use” of their work than translators of all other kinds. Actually, they don’t know for sure
that it will have any end use at all. Many translated works (including many of great merit) sell pitifully small numbers of copies and disappear into a
black hole. The only real “client” of a literary translation is an imaginary reader—the reader that each translator invents in his head.
That’s the real reason why, when it comes to the transmission of cultural goods, translators tell themselves they are trying to produce an
equivalent effect.
There are two difficulties with this commonly mentioned criterion of translation art: “equivalent” and “effect.”
Translations do have effects. They may make readers laugh or weep or rush to the library to find more books of the same kind. They can even
have quite sinister effects, as the following historical anecdote shows.
In 1870, Otto von Bismarck, the German chancellor, released a statement to the press about his sovereign’s negative reaction to a request from
the French ambassador that the German royal family should commit itself to never accepting the throne of Spain. The statement also reported that
the Kaiser didn’t want to talk to the French ambassador again and had sent him a message to stay away by the hand of the “adjutant of the day”:
Seine Majestät der König hat es darauf abgelehnt, den französischen Botschafter nochmals zu empfangen, und demselben durch
den Adjutanten vom Dienst sagen lassen, daß Seine Majestät dem Botschafter nichts weiter mitzuteilen habe.
The “adjutant of the day”—Adjutant vom Dienst—names a high-ranking courtier, an aristocratic aide-de-camp. But it happens to be almost
identical to a word of French—adjudant. When Bismarck’s statement was received in Paris it was instantly translated by the Havas news agency
service and wired to all newspapers, which reprinted it in the “special extra” that went on sale straightaway. In the Havas version, Adjutant is not
translated, but left in its original form. The effect of that one word was enormous. French adjudant means “warrant officer” (“sergeant-major” in
Britain). It therefore seemed that the French ambassador had been treated with grievous disrespect by having had a message from the Kaiser
taken to him by a messenger of such low rank. The French were outraged. Six days later, they declared war.
It’s likely that the overall effect—the outbreak of war—was what Bismarck intended at that time, but it is implausible that he sought to achieve it by
drafting a statement in such a way as to lead to its being misunderstood through the existence of a false cognate of a German word in French.After
all, Bismarck didn’t decide to leave Adjutant in German in French translation—the Havas agency did.
In life generally, and in translation in particular, we are not very good at calculating the effects that our words and actions will have.
When translating a crime novel by Fred Vargas, I came across a comically grandiloquent passage of direct speech that recycled a famous line
from Victor Hugo. To re-create what I thought would be an equivalent effect of misplaced hyperbole I substituted a barely altered quotation from a
speech by Winston Churchill. It didn’t work. A reviewer reprimanded me for inserting Churchillian language where the original had none. Can I
blame her for not knowing what motivated the effect that I sought? Of course not. Using “Churchill” for “Hugo” was just an entertaining mind game.
You can’t require readers to notice that the switch was supposed to produce an equivalent effect, because there’s no way of assessing whether it
does that or not.
A similarly futile submission to the doctrine of equivalent effect can be found among the cans of sound recordings used by Jacques Tati for his
Oscar-winning movie, Mon Oncle. Before it was released, Tati conceived the ambition of producing an English-language version himself. He
reshot several scenes that included public signage, painting over École, Sortie, and so on with School, Exit, et cetera. It was then pointed out to
him that the change of visible language would create confusion as to where the action was really located. His solution to that problem was to
change the background music track of the English-language version to make it sound more French, and that’s why the Tati archive contains cans
labeled ambiance française pour version anglaise—“French atmospheric music for the English version.” That didn’t work, either. Despite the care
with which it was done, My Uncle never had an “equivalent effect” because distributors and audiences loved the French original so much. The
English version with its “French effects” ran for a few weeks in a single movie theater in New York and then disappeared for fifty years.
Servile adherence to the ideology of equivalent effect can lead translators a merry dance and give rise to unforeseen effects—if they are seen at
all. The investigator at the center of an unfinished “literary thriller” by Georges Perec called “53 Days” is looking into the disappearance of a thriller
writer by the name of Serval. He comes across Serval’s last unfinished novel on the writer’s desk and is told by the typist that one chapter of it at
least was copied out from another book. The investigator looks more closely at the two texts—Perec gives us the two-page original, which he
invented—and notices that some of the words have been changed in the plagiarized version. Oddly, they are all twelve-letter words, and there are
twelve of them. He writes them out in capital letters, and they naturally make two word-squares:
LAMENTATIONS RESURRECTION
CALLIGRAPHIE STENOGRAPHIE
SECHECHEVEUX TAILLECRAYON
SACHERMASOCH ROBBEGRILLET
MITRAILLEUSE KALEIDOSCOPE
READERDIGEST HEBDOMADAIRE
CARICATURALE PAROXYSTIQUE
INTEMPORELLE METAPHYSIQUE
FOOTBALLEUSE OCEANOGRAPHE
HAMPTONCOURT CHANDERNAGOR
QUELQUECHOSE JENESAISQUOI
FORTDEFRANCE SALTLAKECITY
The investigator stares at the two lists for a while, but as he can’t see any sense in them, he puts them aside. End of chapter.
One day, when I had already started translating the novel, a graduate student burst into my office in Manchester to ask if I had noticed that the
diabolical Perec had actually placed a huge clue in the word list printed in the left-hand column (shown above). Reading one letter per row from top
left to bottom right in a diagonal line, you get the name of a mountain massif in southeastern France that is also the first word in the title of a famous
novel by Stendhal. I hope you can see. At the time, nobody—not even the editors and publishers of Perec’s posthumous novel—had seen it. Bravo!
Isaid to the student. So what am I supposed to do?
What I did in mindless implementation of the idea of equivalent effect was this: I doctored the English translation of the pseudo-extract to make it
include twelve twelve-letter words that, when written out as a list, preserve reference, self-reference, and truth value with respect to Perec’s left-hand
column:
LAMENTATIONS
CALLIGRAPHER
FACUPROSETTE
SACHERMASOCH
MORTARBARREL
NEWYORKTIMES
EXORBITANTLY
CRAFTYARTFUL
HUNDREDMETRE
HAMPTONCOURT
CLEARLYGUESS
FORTDEFRANCE
But having replanted the invisible clue, and feeling rather pleased with myself, I went one further and invented a purely fictional list to stand in lieu of
the twelve words that Serval had used to mask the original. These words had to fit plausibly into the same places in the plagiarized text, so my
choices for List 2 had a retroactive effect on List 1 and consequently on the sentence formulations in the translation of the supposed source. Rome
wasn’t built in a day. But because the task was so mind-bendingly tricky I decided to give it a personal point that is not present in the French. Here
are the two lists in English:
LAMENTATIONS BENEDICTIONS
CALLIGRAPHER PENCRAFTSMAN
FACUPROSETTE KALEIDOSCOPE
SACHERMASOCH CARLOFRUGONI
MORTARBARREL DEDIONBOUTON
NEWYORKTIMES SMITHSWEEKLY
EXORBITANTLY TOOEVIDENTLY
CRAFTYARTFUL STUPIDFUTILE
HUNDREDMETRE TRAMPOLINING
HAMPTONCOURT TRIPOLITANIA
CLEARLYGUESS ALMOSTINTUIT
FORTDEFRANCE NORTHDETROIT
Is the effect “equivalent,” after all that work? I’m not aware that my simulation of the game Perec played has had any effect on readers at all. Or else
the fan mail is twenty years late.
An even more obvious trouble with the idea of an equivalent effect is that there’s no scale available for measuring equivalence. “Effects,”
especially holistic impressions left by extended works, can’t be extracted from people and measured against one another. Nor can any one reader
give an independent measure of the effects made on her by two language versions of the same text. That’s because a reading of a text always
happens in a language—not in between. The distinction between language A and language B is problematic enough, but one thing is sure: there is
no linguistic no-man’s-land in the middle, just as there is no midpoint between Dover and Calais where you can stand on the water and look on
French and English from the outside at the same time.
A bilingual reader may have a perfectly trustworthy judgment of whether a translation communicates the same meaning as its source. But can
such a person, however smart and subtle, ever reasonably say that this “Baudelaire in German translation” has on her an effect equivalent to the
effect that that “Baudelaire poem in French” has? Such an assertion would be radically unverifiable—and in my view it is also a meaningless string
of words. “Baudelaire in French” has a whole range of different effects on me at different times, and it surely has an even wider range of effects on
the community of readers as a whole. Of which one does the “effect” of a translation aim to be the equivalent?
The truth of literary translation is that translated works are incommensurable with their source, just as literary works are incommensurable with
one another, just as individual readings of novels and poems and plays can be “measured” only in discussion with other readers. What translators
do is find matches, not equivalences, for the units of which a work is made, in the hope and expectation that their sum will produce a new work that
can serve overall as a substitute for the source.
That’s why Douglas Hofstadter’s version of the poem by Clément Marotgiven here of this book is a translation of it. It matches many (but not all)
of the semantic, stylistic, and formal features of the source. You may not like it—that’s your affair. But you cannot claim that it is not a translation on
the grounds that its overall effect, or one of its subunits, or some specific feature, is not “equivalent” to the source.
A match may be found through all or any of the means that we have for rephrasing something in our own or any other tongue.
What counts as a satisfactory match is a judgment call, and is never fixed. The only certainty is that a match cannot be the same as the thing that
it matches.
If you want the same thing, that’s quite all right. You can read the original.
TWENTY-NINE
Beating the Bounds: What Translation Is Not
What translators do includes all the things that speakers normally do when speaking their own tongues. But just because translation involves
everything of that kind, not everything of that kind is usefully thought of as translation. Beyond its ability to call on all and any among the resources of
natural languages, translation has features that are specific to it. What they are and what they have been is what this book tries to say.
Like language itself, translation has no rigidly fixed limits, and similarly fuzzy borderlines can be found in many other arts. A violinist may add his
own cadenza, or modify a cadenza written by someone else, and still without question be the performer of Mendelssohn’s Concerto in E. An actor
may modify the lines of his role on some occasions and not others and still be performing the same part. In translation, likewise, the point where a
reformulation ceases to count as a match for the source is open to negotiation within frameworks that vary widely among different traditions and
genres.
In India, where average West European ideas about translation have no roots, stories, myths, legends, and religious texts have moved for
millennia between different languages—under the guise of adaptations or retellings of the source. In the West, poets have frequently taken
possession of a source by using it as a springboard for a new creation in the same or another tongue. The lyrics Raymond Queneau wrote for a
song that was sung by Juliette Gréco—“Si tu crois, fillette, fillette …”—have a source in a poem by Pierre de Ronsard and could count as a
translation from French into French, just as Robert Lowell’s Imitations, explicitly modeled on poems in other tongues, can count as translations, too,
without ceasing to be genuinely new things.
To ask whether what Queneau did with Ronsard is a translation or something else is to ask a question about the meaning of words—specifically,
the meaning of the word translation. That’s an inquiry that can lead us down many quaint historical, linguistic, and cultural back alleys. In medieval
times, for example, a “translation” occurred when the relics of a saint were taken from one shrine to another (the Russian word retains the
same sense). In the ocean, a translation wave is one that transmits forward movement, and in law translation is the transfer of property. No end of
other entertaining contexts for the word can be found: the way a ceiling crab walks (translation latérale, in French), direct passage from earth to
heaven (the translation of Enoch), and so forth. Roman Jakobson, a linguist of great renown, tried to sort out the field by dividing it into three. He
distinguished translation between media (“transposition”) from translation between different states of the same language (“intralingual translation”),
and both of those from “translation proper”—translation between languages. Jakobson’s attempt at clarification actually introduced a great muddle
that has to be tackled before the end of this book.
Many cultural practices have a broad structure that can be described, like translation, as consisting essentially of “before” and “after.” Knitting,
cooking, and the production of automobiles are processes that start with some source material (a ball of wool, edible ingredients, or a range of
separately manufactured parts) and end up with something that is radically different (a sweater, a meal, or a car). English is flexible enough to allow
us to say without risk of being seriously misunderstood that our partner has translated a few dozen tubes of dried durum wheat into a plate of
spaghetti—or to say that by putting on a tuxedo I have translated myself into a swell—but users of English are wise enough to know that such
statements have no relevance to translation itself.
In like manner, what a playwright does when he adapts a narrative text for performance onstage has no more relevance to translation than knitting
does. Jakobson’s proposal to regard switching media as a form of translation is a red herring, and it’s not clear to me why he should ever have
come up with it. But his many readers over the past decades have swallowed the bait and treat stage and film adaptation of novels and other prose
as particular instances of translation itself.
Making a movie calls on numerous skills and resources that have no connection with any of the things translators do or use. To call David Lean’s
Doctor Zhivago a translation of Pasternak’s novel is not only to disregard the specificity of film art but to make such woolly use of the word
translation as to fit it to refer to any kind of transformation at all. Knitting included.
The popularity of the idea that everything is translation is no doubt a contemporary reflection of an ancient tradition of thought—in fact, an ancient
tradition of thought about thought. It was obvious even to the Greeks that if words began as the proper names of things, then the many words that do
not name things that can be seen in the world must be the names of mental states. Call them ideas. In fact, even for things that can be seen, the
word does not name any one of them but only that which allows all of them to be seen as instances of an idea. Thus tree is not the proper name of
this oak or that aspen, it names the idea of a tree—a mental representation of treeness that allows all actual trees to be recognized as such. In this
way of thinking, all linguistic expressions are the external form of thoughts. What we do when we speak to each other is to transmit mental images
through a process of translation, thus:
This diagram of “telementation,” or thought transmission, is actually taken from Ferdinand de Saussure’s Course in General Linguistics, which,
despite its profound innovations, firmly maintained the long tradition of treating language as the dress of thought.
This visual representation of linguistic interaction does not, in fact, require A and B to be speaking the same language. As long as bothA and B
know languages L1 and L2, then the process of understanding speech that is displayed—translating a sound stream into a mental image, then
producing a sound stream to represent a mental image for the interlocutor to translate inwardly in turn—would be exactly the same. You come to the
same conclusion that language is thought in translation and thought is language translated if you extend the diagram to introduce person C, a
translator mediating between A and B speaking in different tongues. C would look exactly the same, with identical lines of transmission between
mouth, ear, and brain. Adding translation makes no difference to the model because the model already says that everything is translation already.
As a consequence, Saussure’s Course, as well as the bulk of work on language that has taken place in its shadow, pays no attention to translation
between languages at all.
I don’t know whether language is possible without thought—on the face of it, it must be, since so many people speak without thinking—and I
wouldn’t dare contribute to the unending argument about whether thought is possible without words. The sole contribution I feel confident of making
is to say that assimilating all uses of language to translation on the grounds that all speech is a mental translation of thought seriously diminishes
our capacity to understand what the practice of translation between languages is about.
To avoid such objections, some scholars use the term transcoding to refer to the transformation of work in one medium into an altogether
different thing (a play into a movie, a musical into a film, but most often a novel into anything else). It’s a tactic that has even more damaging effects,
since it leads people into thinking that all expressions can be treated as instances of some kind of code. Codes are clever and useful things, but as
early adventures in machine translation proved without appeal, languages don’t behave like codes at all. Turning a play into a movie has not the
slightest analogy to or connection with turning a coded message into another code, and to call it transcoding is to use a figure of speech based on
not bothering to think what you might mean by “code.”1
The fellows of Oxford colleges inspect the properties the colleges own in various parts of the country by annual outings when (in principle if not in
fact) they process around the perimeter. It’s called “beating the bounds,” and that’s what we’ve now done with translation.
One of its sides is as unbounded as the line of a shore—tides rise and fall, and coasts can change shape. But other boundaries are clearly
marked. Translation does not extend in every direction. Its own field is quite large enough.
THIRTY
Under Fire: Sniping at Translation
By always saying some other thing a second time, and saying it in a different way, an act of translation inevitably makes the new utterance your
own. A journalist rephrasing an agency wire, a lawyer-linguist readjusting the expression of an opinion given by a judge at the European Court of
Justice, a writer putting Pushkin into English verse or prose—translators of these and all other kinds possess the outcome of their work in a
personal way. Translation cannot but be, in some measure, an appropriation of the source.
Possession, appropriation, making something your own—these are words from the language of the passions. What then of desire and its
natural companions, jealousy and hurt?
It’s a curious fact that much translation commentary in Western languages contains unmistakable signs of anger and hurt. Schoolmasters, book
critics, even theorists routinely disparage other translators—bad translators, “servile,” “mechanical,” second-rate translators—with a range of insults
that could easily be thrown about in a lovers’ tiff. You have a tin ear! You write dull, wooden, clunky prose! You have taken one liberty too many!
What makes you think such license is allowed? What you have done, young man, is called betrayal! Ignoramus! Cheat! Commoner! Thief!
In 1680, John Dryden, in his thoughtful translator’s preface to Ovid’s Epistles, cast anathema on a rival translator, Spence, for having replaced
“the fine raillery and Attic salt of Lucian” with the “gross expressions of Billingsgate.”1 How uncouth!
The philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer denigrated those “people of limited intellectual abilities” who “use only worn-out patterns of speech in their
own language, which they put together so awkwardly that one realizes how imperfectly they understand the meaning of what they are saying … so
that [their translations are] not much more than mindless parrotry.”2 Oafs!
“One of the main troubles with would-be translators is their ignorance,” sniped Vladimir Nabokov. Examples he quotes are introduced by him as
“dreadful,” “incredibly coy,” and “grotesquely trite.”3
José Ortega y Gasset summed up a view that has been expressed without serious interruption since the beginning of the whole debate: “Almost
all translations done until now are bad ones.”4
It seems implausible that anyone would ever make such a statement about any other human skill or trade. Let’s just try it out: “Almost all
firefighters up to now have been bad ones.” “Almost all mathematical proofs devised up to now are bad ones.” “Almost all novels written before
mine are second rate.” “Almost all the women I met before you were dreadful.” If you said any of these things except the last, you would be out of
your mind—and the exception is granted only because we permit a degree of insanity in what we say about affairs of the heart. Translators, whose
working lives are not sexy in the least, use the language of love to talk about their work. How strange!
But these circumstances make it not strange at all that laypeople don’t have a high regard for translators. When it comes to defending the
profession, translation commentators lead the field in throwing most of its work in the direction of the garbage dump.
Most people encounter translation at school in foreign-language lessons. Success in learning a foreign tongue comes at that gratifying moment
when, all of a sudden, you find you are able to read and perhaps even think in the foreign tongue without the need to translate in your head. At that
point you leave translation behind. It’s a second-rate support for those who’ve not studied hard enough. And if you go on to study the classical or
foreign languages at a higher level, using translations becomes almost taboo.
It’s a curious paradox. The disparagement of translation emanates most powerfully from those very circles where the ability to translate (at least
in the technical sense) is most likely to be found. It is reinforced in many universities by departments of modern languages that grudgingly permit the
teaching of literature in translation only if it’s restricted to a separate program in comparative literature. Of course, their colleagues in history,
English, philosophy, sociology, anthropology, and even mathematics use translated works all the time. But modern-language departments don’t
seem to notice that at all.
Not all translation commentary is negative, but the range of terms available for complimenting a translator on her work is remarkably small. When
book reviews pay any attention at all to the translation of a translated work under review and don’t use the opportunity to trot out one or more of the
false platitudes we’ve tried to demolish in other chapters of this book, they recycle one of a small set of standard words of praise: fluent, witty, racy,
accurate, brilliant, competent, and stylish. You would have to comb through a great quantity of book reviews to find any nods toward translators that
step outside of this set and its quasi-synonyms. Translation-quality evaluation criteria are hard to establish, as we pointed out; critical language to
express such evaluations seems even harder to find.
When you are using translation as a language-learning device, what you want to know when you’ve done one is whether you got it right. Since few
members of the English-speaking community ever get much further than that in acquiring a foreign language, what most people want to know when
they have a translation in front of them is the same as what they needed to know at school. We are taught to value “rightness” very highly when we
are young, and teachers exploit the competitive spirit to make children internalize the concept. Being wrong is a shameful thing, and the aspiration
toward getting the right answer stays with us for a long time. It acts as a focus for self-esteem, and for many other feelings, often passionately held.
When a lay reader asks of a translation, “But is it right?” a question of almost moral importance is implied. But it is the wrong question. If it could be
abandoned entirely, then many of the passions that make translation commentary such a vituperative business would abate and maybe one day
disappear.
A translation can’t be right or wrong in the manner of a school quiz or a bank statement. A translation is more like a portrait in oils. The artist may
add a pearl earring, give an extra flush to the cheek, or miss out the gray hairs in the sideburns—and still give us a good likeness. It’s hard to say
just what it is that allows viewers to agree that a portrait captures the important things—the overall shape as well as that special look in the eye. The
mysterious abilities we have for recognizing good matches in the visual sphere lie near to what it takes to judge that a translation is good. But the
users of a translation, unlike the friends of a portraitist’s sitter, don’t have full access to the model (they would barely need the translation if they did).
That’s probably why translation raises such passionate responses. There’s no choice but to trust the translator. When it comes to speech and
writing, and for reasons that are by now, Ihope, quite clear, people are an untrusting lot.
THIRTY-ONE
Sameness, Likeness, and Match: Truths About Translation
For a repeated utterance in a different natural language to count as a translation of the source, it must give the same information and have the
same force. It may make explicit information that is unstated in the source (by inserting it into the text or by adding footnotes); and it may also, but
less frequently, omit information because it is assumed to be too widely known among intended readers to merit the same prominence given to it in
the source. But within these areas of tolerance, sameness of information and force is a widely respected norm for the translator’s art.
It’s worth remembering that these are not the only features of an utterance that could in principle be preserved in a repetition of it in some other
tongue. It would not be hard to reproduce the exact pattern of commas and periods when moving a text between, say, English and French, but
nobody bothers to do that. (I did once work briefly with an author who insisted that his punctuation was an inalienable feature of his style, but this
only confirmed my initial impression that he was slightly mad.) A competent translator with a lot of time on her hands could easily preserve the word
and character count of a source by paragraph, sentence, or line, but these kinds of sameness are not considered relevant to the translator’s task.1
Nor does the notion of sameness extend to the selection or distribution of the letters of the source—though there is an exception in Douglas
Hofstadter’s replacement of the title of Françoise Sagan’s La Chamade by That Mad Ache. In the translation of poetry and song lyrics, sameness
in the syllable count, line by line, may be accepted as a constraint, and approximate sameness in length of script is a requirement for strip cartoon
legends, for road signage, and for museum and exhibition captions. But these are all regarded as special cases. Everywhere else, the requirement
of sameness stops at information and force.
In speech translation, tone, pitch, gestures of the face and hands, and the stamping of feet are thrown to the winds, even though they transmit
major clues as to how the speech is to be understood.
In all the many other dimensions and levels of an utterance in speech or writing the criterion of translation is not to be the same but to be like.
A is like B only in respect of C. This is a way of saying that when a thing is compared with some other thing, the act of comparing rests on a third
term that is neither A nor B. What makes soupe de poisson like “chowder”? The comparator (called ter-tium comparationis in the old rhetoric)
could be “soup” (but that would be a poor kind of likeness), or “seafood” (that’s richer, both are soups made from fish), or the fact that they are both
eaten hot, or that they are both available in cans, or that there are cans of both on that shelf. The “likeness” of soupe de poisson and “chowder” is a
variable, and its value varies in accordance with the comparator used or implied in any given context of use.
The dimensions of an utterance where likeness is the relevant criterion of translation are of many different kinds. Register, tone, rhythm, style, and
wit can only ever be said to be like one another in respect of something external to the text itself. For example, to judge that writing iambic
pentameters in English is like Racine’s use of the twelve-syllable line is to base likeness on the social and cultural values of poetic forms in two
different environments. In both English and French verse, these are the commonest, most frequently used forms, and thus like each other in that
respect. But they are not like each other in any other way. Writing twelve-syllable lines in English to represent French verse, on the other hand, is
like the original only in respect of the number 12, but quite unlike it in respect of the underlying rhythms of English, which is a stress-timed language,
and of French, which is not.
By choosing which dimensions to connect in a relationship of likeness and the extent to which the likeness is made visible, a translation
hierarchizes the interlocking, overlaying features of the original. To that extent at least, translations always provide an interpretation of the source.
It’s more obvious in literary texts with relatively few practical constraints, but the same underlying situation holds for all acts of translation between
languages.
The nub of the question is this: Given that a translation preserves the information and the general force of the original, in what respect is it
possible to say that its manner or style or tone is like those features of its source?
Georges Perec wrote in a wide variety of styles, but a characteristic feature of all his writing is that important information is placed at the very
end, making you realize that up to that point you hadn’t understood the main import of the sentence or paragraph—or even the novel. At the level of
sentences and paragraphs it is easier to do this in French than in English literary prose, which typically introduces new information in a different
manner. Nonetheless, by exploiting the notorious flexibility of English sentence structure and bending it a fair bit, I respected Perec’s “late release”
technique as far as I could. By the very fact of doing so I offered an interpretation of Perec’s style, but the likeness of my prose to his is a tightly
focused and fragile thing. Because I had to take greater liberties with English than he did with French, my writing is not “like” Perec’s at all in
respect of linguistic norms.
No translation is the same as its source, and no translation can be expected to be like its source in more than a few selected ways. Which
dimensions are selected depends on the conventions of the receiving culture, the nature of the field involved, or even the whim of the commissioner
of the translation. But any utterance is such a multidimensional and many-faceted thing that no translator is ever short of a little elbow room. To put it
the other way around, no set of social, practical, linguistic, or generic constraints ever determines completely how a translation is to be done.
If meaning and force are kept the same and if in a limited set of other respects a translation is seen to be like its source, then we have a match.
Translators are matchmakers of a particular kind. It’s not as simple as the marriage of content and form. Just as when we match faces and
portraits, we rely on multiple dimensions and qualities to judge when a translation has occurred.
Children’s puzzle books exploit and psychologists study our ability to recognize and manipulate the distinct but overlapping relations I’ve called
same, like, and match.
Translators use that ability in the specific fields of speech and writing in a foreign tongue. Not all of them are great at their job, and not many have
the time and leisure to wait for the best match to come. But when we say that a translation is an acceptable one, what we name is an overall
relationship between source and target that is neither identity, nor equivalence, nor analogy—just that complex thing called a good match.
That’s the truth about translation.
THIRTY-TWO
Avatar: A Parable of Translation
On a recent visit to India, where I was trying to learn more about translation, I took an afternoon off to go to the movies and watched a faded copy of
what Ibelieve is the most expensive film ever made. To my delight and surprise, Avatar turned out to be a parable about translation, and that’s why I
bring it in at the end of this book.
The hero of James Cameron’s science-fiction fantasy is a human transformed by a laboratory technique into another being—nine feet tall, with a
prehensile tail and amazing skydiving skills. His task is to penetrate the society of same-looking beasts causing trouble for a galactic mining
company, and then to send back to his controllers the information they need to get the local inhabitants out of their way. He is still a human being
under his impressive new shape.
But now that he has become a Pandoran in outward appearance, our hero becomes Pandoran in other ways, too. He goes native, so to speak,
and becomes loyal to the community that has now accepted him as one of its own. These strange beings are fighting to remain themselves and to
pursue the lives they have always had. Our hero makes their right to be different his own.
But respect for difference is clearly intended in the film to be an expression of a human value. So is our hero one of them, or still, at bottom, one
of us? Is the mining company the vector of humanity—or are the awkward beasts in its way the true embodiment of our aspirations and souls?
The movie doesn’t quite answer the question at the end. It is the question that translation sets and must also leave open. How can a hugely
modified transmogrification of some utterance—incorporating on occasions the verbal equivalent of a nine-foot-long tail—still remain, at some
fundamental level, what it was?
Like Cameron’s fantasy, the practice of translation rests on two presuppositions. The first is that we are all different—we speak different tongues
and see the world in ways that are deeply influenced by the particular features of the tongue that we speak. The second is that we are all the same
—that we can share the same broad and narrow kinds of feelings, information, understandings, and so forth. Without both of these suppositions,
translation could not exist.
Nor could anything we would like to call social life.
Translation is another name for the human condition.
Afterbabble: In Lieu of an Epilogue
In most intellectual disciplines, the stories of the Hebrew Bible are no longer used as sources or tools for thought. Translation studies is an
exception. Scholars and essayists in this field continue to pay extravagant attention to the account of the origin of linguistic diversity given in the
Bible.1 It’s far from obvious that their time is well spent.
The Tower of Babel comes from a story told in Genesis 11. The first verse states that in the beginning “the whole earth was of one language, and
of one speech.”
This is not very plausible. Nothing we know or can observe about human linguistic behavior makes it likely that there ever was a single form of
speech.
The rest of this section of the Bible, Genesis 11:2–9, offers an account of how the ancestors of the Jewish people got from their hypothetical
state of linguistic unity to the condition of diversity that manifestly characterized the part of the world they lived in some three to four thousand years
ago.
The voluminous tradition of Babel commentary weaves religious, philosophical, historical, cultural, archaeological, and philological speculations
around the story told in Genesis. Do these verses contain a trace of historical events? Or should we read them rather as a fable designed to
account for the way things are, or the way they were long ago? For the purposes of this book, it does not matter whether there really was a ziggurat
honoring the Assyrian god Marduk near the place now called Babil (in Iraq), or whether it was visited by Herodotus, or when it fell down. For an
understanding of language and translation, it doesn’t matter if or how the Bible story is related to the Sumerian Incantation of Nudimmud. Nor does
it make any difference whether we pick from the welter of Babel commentaries those which assume that linguistic diversity is a Dreadful Mess (the
vast majority, in fact), those that claim it has a Silver Lining, or those few who argue that it is a Very Good Thing.2
What matters is whether we allow Genesis 11:1 to close our minds to other ways of imagining the origin of human speech. Cynics might say
that’s what religious texts are supposed to do. But translation is not a matter of faith. It’s much more interesting than that.
The supposition of an original common form of speech has been taken to mean that intercomprehensibility is the ideal or essential nature of
language itself. Such an assumption makes translation a compensatory strategy designed only to cope with a state of affairs that falls short of the
ideal. It licenses, indirectly but no less strongly, all the many attempts there have been to devise languages that for some if not all purposes improve
upon those that we have.3
This contentious foundation of the Babel story acquired implicit if unintended support in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries from the scholarly
work of historical linguists. They sought to group languages into “families” and to reconstruct the hypothetical progenitors of these cousin tongues,
as well as the rules by which each had received its inheritance. The discovery of a family likeness among Sanskrit, Greek, Latin, and Old Persian
opened a new vista into the past, toward a single source for a whole spectrum of languages spoken between northern India and the Atlantic Ocean.
These exciting advances made it easy to see the historical derivation of modern languages like a cascade trickling down the mountainside of
time, branching out into streams and rivers.At the now inaccessible top of the hill, there must have been a single source—Proto-Indo-European, for
the great family that joins the languages of northern India to many of those of the West; and, at an even more remote altitude, Nostratic, the
supposed ancestor of Indo-European and other language groups of Europe and Asia; and, high above that, “proto-World,” the language of ante-
Babel, the original and unitary human tongue.
Some saw the underlying meaning of linguistic change and diversification through spectacles borrowed from Darwinism. For them, the growth in
complexity from single-cell life forms to the magnificent machinery of humankind served as a model for understanding the “evolution of language,”
from the rough-and-ready speech of hunter-gatherers to the refinements of the Académie Française. Others saw language change as a perpetual
fall from the economy and mystery of the ancient tongues to the confusing multiplicity you can hear in the street. But behind these scholarly (and
often schoolmasterly) pursuits lay a single barely questioned assumption—that all languages are, at bottom, the same kind of thing, because, at the
start, they were the same thing. In fact, there was rather better evidence of the contrary. The Babel story may say that in the beginning all language
was one—but what it shows is that, for a single people in the third or second millennium B.C.E., linguistic diversity was a major fact of life.
However, if we accept the proposition that all languages are instances of the same kind of thing, we have to ask: What is it that makes them the
same? The most influential answer to this question in the twentieth century has been: a grammar.
The idea that a grammar is the common property of all human languages looks like a hypothesis—something you could test against data, then
either abandon or refine. But that’s not the main way in which it has actually been used. Characteristically, the “grammaticality hypothesis” is an
axiom, a circular foundation stone. The axiom “explains” why animal and mechanical signaling systems are not languages. Since traffic lights and
the barking of dogs seem to have either no discernible rules of combination or no ability to create new combinations, they have no grammar, and
because all languages have a grammar in order to count as languages, dog barking and traffic lights are not languages. QED.
In a similarly circular way, the axiom of grammaticality pushes to the edge of language study all those uses of human vocal noises—ums, hums,
screams, giggles, mumbles, stammers, exclamations, and interjections, alongside ellipses, nonsense words, gargles, cooing, baby talk, pillow talk,
and so forth—that don’t decompose neatly into nouns, verbs, and periods.
Even leaving out the whole range of “ungrammatical” and “nonlinguistic” uses of vocal sounds, the variability and range of the things that the
grammars of actual languages regulate make it very hard to see what it can mean to say that a grammar is what all languages have in common.
Inevitably, it prompts a second question: What is it that all grammars have in common?
It is hard to find an existing grammatical category that is common to all forms of human speech. Many languages do without determiners such as
a and the (Russian and Chinese, for example). Many languages do without gender (in Finnish there is no distinction among “he,” “she,” and “it”).
Numerous major and minor languages in the world do not mark number (Chinese, again, has no special form for dual or plural). It’s fairly obvious
that you don’t really need adjectives—even in English, you can use “tomato” or “beetroot” if you want to call something red; prefixes allow you to
distinguish between big and small versions of the same thing (English minibus, French hypermarché), just as suffixes do in Italian (uomaccio, “big
man”), Latin (homunculus , little man) and Russian ( , “little lion”). The Argentinean wit Jorge Luis Borges thought up a language without
nouns—where verbs and adverbs sufficed for all expressions. “It moons bluely” is all you would need to refer to the presence of a blue-tinted moon
in the sky. Aspect is only properly grammati-calized in some languages (Russian, for example), and tense is clearly redundant even in languages
that have it. “I go to Paris tomorrow” is perfectly good English, just as Napoléon entre dans Moscou en août 1812 is normal French, with the
explicit expressions of time (“tomorrow,” “1812”) making the grammatical marking of time unnecessary. Only some languages have evidentials;
vast numbers of them have no prepositions and many others have no agglutinations. The concept of case is virtually absent from English (it subsists
in the distinction we still make between he and him, she and her—and that’s about it) and totally alien to Chinese.
And so it goes on. Mood is not part of English grammar (we use separate words, such as may, should, ought, and so forth), but it provides
Albanian with an elaborate set of resources for expressing all sorts of affective qualities, including admiration. Vowel harmony is a basic feature of
Hungarian: you say a moz-iba if you went to the movies, but az étterembe if you went to the restaurant, because the “o” and “i” sounds of the first
require the suffix -ba to match them, and the “é” and “e” sounds of the second call for the suffix to be -be. Nothing like that happens in the vast
majority of the world’s languages.
The hunt for what all grammars share—“Universal Grammar”—has been going on for a long while, and has got about as far as the search for the
Holy Grail.4 However, at one level, the answer is obvious, because it is definitional: all grammars regulate the ways in which free items may be
combined to make an acceptable sentence.
The trouble with that is obvious: “sentence” is a grammatical concept to begin with. Sentencehood is not an observable quality of acts of natural
speech. It’s not just in the poetry of Mallarmé that we have difficulty in knowing where to put the period. Just listen to your children! They never finish
their sentences properly.
It is true that we can make sentences in any human language. But it is just as true that most of our actual uses of speech do not involve anything
that looks much like a grammatical sentence. When we write, of course, we usually try to write in sentences. But not always.
The second major problem with the axiom of grammaticality—with the idea that what makes a language a language is its having a grammar—is
that no living language has yet been given a grammar that accounts for absolutely all of the expressions (including sentences) that are uttered by
speakers of that language. The “grammar of English”—or any other language—has not yet been completed, and it’s a fair guess that it will always
remain a work in progress.
Flaws of this magnitude in aerodynamics or the theory of probability would not have allowed the Wright brothers to get off the ground, or Las
Vegas resorts to turn a profit.
The Achilles’ heel of a linguistic theory that places grammar at its core could be put like this: since universal grammar remains elusive and no
exhaustive grammar of any single form of speech has yet been devised, every speaking subject on this planet knows something that grammar does
not.
So let us put the Bible story and school-learned wisdom aside. Let us also suppose that there is something about every form of human behavior
that we recognize as a language that all languages have in common. What is it? What is it that unambiguously identifies some set of sounds made
by humans as a language?
It’s a huge question, and it’s hard to know where to begin. But let us try to do so without any presuppositions. One of the first things we can easily
observe has to do with our hands.
There is no form of language in the world that is ever spoken aloud without accompanying hand movements. Indeed, the greater the effort of
concentration on live speech, the more the speaker needs to move his or her hands. Try watching the conference interpreters behind their glass
screens in Luxembourg or Geneva. Although absolutely nobody is supposed to be looking at them, all of them—whether they are speaking
German, Estonian, Arabic, or Dutch—gesticulate wildly, simply in order to keep the flow of speech up to speed. Hand movement is a profound,
unconscious, inseparable part of natural speech.
We could therefore start from the reliable and repeatable observation that natural speech is a partly but obligatorily manual activity.5 Here’s an
obvious exception that proves the rule. In most languages, television newscasters do not gesticulate at all but keep their hands on or under the
desk, or use them just to shuffle the papers in front of them. That is because they are only pretending to talk to you. What they are actually doing is
reading words written on the teleprompter screen. Similarly, a lecturer who moves his hands is almost certainly ad-libbing—actually talking to you,
in the forms of natural speech. One who is reading written lecture notes aloud characteristically keeps his hands to his side or on the desk.
Speaking is not the same thing as reading aloud from written text.
Conversely, delicate fingerwork of a nonlinguistic kind almost always prompts movement of the lips. Have you watched anyone threading a
needle? Few people can do it without pursing or twisting their mouths.
What links hand and mouth? The most obvious connection is feeding. The hand—of humans, but also of many other primates—is used to take
food to the mouth, which is also the organ of speech.
Eating and speaking are two separate activities that have a great deal in common. They both involve hand and mouth. Moreover, they use almost
all of the same muscles. That is perhaps why trying to do both at the same time is regarded as uncouth. For infants and young children, whose
muscular control is not yet fully developed, it can also be quite dangerous.
Speaking can be seen in this light as a parasitic use of organs whose primary function is to ensure survival. But what, then, was the original
function of this wonderful, additional, alternative use of lips and tongue and of the muscles that control breathing and swallowing? In what way did it
correlate with other uses of hands and arms?
There are considerable variations in the communicative force of hand and arm use among different cultures and communities, but they are not
nearly as extensive as the bewildering range of different sounds, words, and grammatical structures among the languages of the world. A slap on
the back, a shrug of the shoulders, and a punch in the gut don’t have exactly the same meaning the world over, but they are far more “transportable”
than any word or sound I can make. Even a cry for help, a burst of laughter, or a squeal of pain is less intercomprehensible between different
language cultures than a touch on your arm.
Articulated language, however and whenever it emerged, in one group of our ancestors or among many, added a communicative channel that
was radically different from hand use. It was far less transportable than the resources available up to that point. That is likely to have been the
reason it caught on.
In most domains of life we are well aware that what a thing was invented for and what is actually done with it bear no necessary relationship to
each other. The umbrella may have been designed to protect us from the rain, but on one notorious occasion one such device was used to
assassinate a dissident on Waterloo Bridge. Matchsticks owe their existence to a wish to make ignition widely and cheaply available, but they are
also very serviceable toothpicks. What a thing is “for” and what it can be used to do must be kept apart. It is very odd that almost no serious thinking
about language and translation has ever bothered to observe this basic rule.
The plain fact of linguistic diversity suggests very strongly that speech did not arise in order to communicate with members of other groups of like
beings. If that is what it was for, our ancestors got it badly wrong. They should have dropped it on the spot.
Similarly, there is no particular reason to think that language first arose in order to allow members of the same group to communicate with one
another. They did that already—with their hands, arms, bodies, and faces. Many species clearly do. You can watch them at it in the zoo.
“Communication” is what we think we do when we speak or write, largely because that is what we have been taught at school. But when we watch
and listen to humans “behaving linguistically,” as spectators at the human zoo, what we see and hear is something altogether different.
Like other uses of lips and hands, such as smiling, stroking, pouting, and punching, vocal noise establishes bonds between people who need or
wish to be linked together in some way—for mutual support, to establish rank, or to declare hostility, for example. From that perspective, the
babysitter who coos at an infant in a crib is performing a language act of the same general kind as the ambitious student who greets me with a
rising tone on the last syllable of “Good morning, sir.” If these acts are communicative, then we must redefine communication not as the
transmission of mental states from A to B (and even less as the transmission of “information”) but as the establishment, reinforcement, and
modification of immediate interpersonal relations. But it would be better to say: that’s not communication, that’s language. Language is a human
way of relating to other humans.
Among the larger primates such functions are carried out through the much studied practice of grooming. Grooming bonds mother and child, it
bonds males in hierarchical rank (the “pecking order”), it establishes bonds between males and females prior to copulation, and it generally binds
together the entire clan or group of cohabiting animals. But it is a time-consuming business. There is a point of population growth where it can’t
easily serve its purpose anymore. Robin Dunbar has suggested that a group of fifty-five animals is just about as large as a grooming-based
community can get before it has to split up. When it does, no cross-grooming is possible: you belong to either the old group or the new one. You do
not pick fleas off the fur of chimps that are not of “your kind.”6
There is a striking fit between this picture of social construction among primates and the way people actually talk.Articulated language allows the
group size to increase greatly but not infinitely. The way any individual talks is part of his identity as a member of a specific community, defined by
region, area, city, maybe even street, and certainly by clan or family. What’s called dialectal variation, which is just another aspect of linguistic
diversity, performs a similar structuring function to the grooming habits of chimpanzees. To put this broad understanding in a nutshell: language is
ethnicity.
Ethnicity in this sense has nothing to do with lineage, heredity, race, blood group, or DNA. It means how a social group constitutes and identifies
itself.
The bewildering variety of diction that can be heard among the inhabitants of the British Isles gives a spectacular demonstration of the fine-
grained group-membership function of the way people speak. Different sounds are used to communicate membership of communities based in
Essex, Norfolk, the three Rid-ings of Yorkshire, Newcastle, Edinburgh, Aberdeen, Orkney, Shetland, Lewis, Glasgow, Liverpool, Manchester,
Birmingham, North Wales, South Wales, Somerset, Scilly, Solent, and Kent, and in addition, the diction of London, now called Estuarine, is audibly
divided in two, depending on whether you live on the north or south bank of the Thames’s muddy maw. On top of this, specific phonologies override
or else merge with these regional markers to locate the speaker in the pecking order of British society, from the “Mayfairditsch” of wealth and
privilege to the related but not identical speech of those educated at private schools (called public schools), public schools (called grammar
schools), and the rest. Some, of course, learn to speak not from their classmates but from listening to the BBC (which I think must have been the
case for me) and signal thereby their allegiance to an idea of “educated speech” as the dialect of (cultural) authority. In Britain, you just can’t escape
the messages about region and class that come from anyone who opens his or her mouth.
In the musical My Fair Lady, based on G. B. Shaw’s stage play Pygmalion, which itself rewrites a far more ancient myth, Professor Higgins
asks, “Oh! why can’t the English teach their children how to speak?” We must answer, Oh! but they do, Professor Higgins. They teach them to
declare themselves to be Geordies and Aberdonians, Etonians and lads on the Clapham omnibus, ladies from Morningside or fishermen from
Newquay. If you are British, you just can’t not notice. Alongside its role as a planetary interlanguage in print, English speech—like any other—is a
highly pixelated way of telling people who you are.
That is something that all forms of human speech share, and it is perhaps the only thing that is truly universal about language. Every language tells
your listener who you are, where you come from, where you belong. Linguistic diversity, including the subtle differentiation in diction within
intercomprehensible forms of speech, is the mechanism by which this primordial social function is performed.
The differential function of speech goes even further than that. No two individuals make exactly the same sounds, even when they are speaking
the same local variant of a language. All my mother-in-law ever needed to say when she rang was Allo! C’est moi! A waste of breath, I would think
every time. But the unreflecting purpose of her phatic expression was only partly to “establish the channel.” What it did was confirm an interpersonal
relationship based on the irreducible difference between her and me. Every act of speech does just that—whatever you say.
Individual diction and forms of speech do not vary because they need to for any physical, intellectual, or practical reasons—impersonators
demonstrate that it is possible to adopt the voiceprint of someone else if you train yourself hard enough. Individual speech varies because one of
the fundamental and perhaps original purposes of speaking is to serve as a differentiating tool—not only to differentiate where you come from, what
rank and clan and/or street gang you belong to, but to say “Iam not you but me.”
Babel tells the wrong story. The most likely original use of human speech was to be different, not the same.
In parts of the world that are sparsely populated and where travel is made perilous by physical obstacles—high mountains, waterless deserts, or
thick jungle—linguistic diversity is extremely high. That is because the various indigenous communities of Papua New Guinea, the great Australian
plains, and the Amazon basin do not often come into contact with one another. Even in a wealthy country such as Switzerland, the physical
obstacles to contact between its many high valleys over the centuries have left their mark in the continued cohabitation of four main languages. But
in other parts of the world where geography is more conducive to travel, and thus to contact, interchange, trade, and war, linguistic diversity is much
reduced. Languages merge when people do.
Let us therefore abandon the old image of linguistic diversity as a picture of rivulets splitting and dividing as they course down the mountainside
from a single glacier tip. We should see it rather as the always provisional result of a multiplicity of springs, wells, ponds, and snowmelts furrowing
down into valleys to meet and merge in broader, deeper rivers. English is once again a fairly extreme example—its identifiable sources include the
Germanic language of the Angles and Saxons, the French learned by the Norman soldiers who overran the island in 1066, together with ample
helpings of Latin, a dash of Danish, a sprinkling of Celtic, and bits and bobs from at least a hundred languages around the world. Just at the
moment it seems to be bursting its already wide banks and spilling into many other streams. But it’s not really anything to worry about. There is no
greater likelihood of all languages being gobbled up by English than of the Amazon and the Volga flowing into the same sea. In any case, as we
have seen, the primordial mechanism of linguistic differentiation makes English no less a tool for marking difference than any other tongue.
It follows from this that translation does not come “After Babel.” It comes when some human group has the bright idea that the kids on the next
block or the people on the other side of the hill might be worth talking to. Translating is a first step toward civilization.
Hundreds of thousands, maybe millions of years elapsed between the emergence of speech sounds to perform the social bonding functions of
grooming and the invention of alphabetic script. In the course of that forever-hidden eon, human communities found that they could do vastly more
things with speech than just keep their families, clans, and tribes in good order.
Translation deals with most of those other things. It does not and cannot attempt to perform or mimic or replicate the interpersonal functions of
human speech. As we noted in an earlier chapter, translators do not match dialect for dialect when translating between established languages.
“Hallo, darling,” “Howzitgaun?” and “Wotcha, mate” are forms of greeting that declare the speaker to be, respectively, a fashionista, a Glaswegian,
and a Londoner. They may serve as translations of bonjour, monsieur, but the task they perform, involuntarily and obligatorily, is to claim
membership of that community and not any other. It makes no sense to imagine transporting the ethnic, self-identifying dimension of any utterance.
Absolutely any other formulation of the expression, in the same or any other dialect or language, constructs a different identity.
If you’re looking for the ineffable, stop here. It’s blindingly obvious. It’s not poetry but community that is lost in translation. The community-building
role of actual language use is simply not part of what translation does.
But translation does almost everything else. It is translation, more than speech itself, that provides incontrovertible evidence of the human
capacity to think and to communicate thought.
We should do more of it.
ALSO BY DAVID BELLOS
Balzac Criticism in France, 1950–1900:
The Making of a Reputation
Georges Perec: A Life in Words
Jacques Tati: His Life and Art
Romain Gary: A Tall Story
EDITOR AND TRANSLATOR
Essays on Seventeenth-Century French Literature, by Leo Spitzer
Notes
1. WHAT IS A TRANSLATION?
Douglas Hofstadter, Le Ton Beau de Marot: In Praise of the Music of Language (New York: Basic Books, 1997), 1a.
2. IS TRANSLATION AVOIDABLE?
Harish Trivedi, “In Our Own Time, on Our Own Terms: ‘Translation’ in India,” in Translating Others, ed. Theo Hermans (Manchester, U.K.: St.
Jerome, 2006), 1:102–19.
Claire Blanche-Benveniste, “Comment retrouver l’expérience des anciens voyageurs en terres de langues romanes?” in S’entendre entre langues
voisines: vers l’intercompréhension, eds. Virginie Conti and François Grin (Chêne-Bourg, Switzerland: Georg, 2008), 34–51. On lingua franca,
see John Holm, An Introduction to Pidgins and Creoles (Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, 2000).
Different authorities give different figures, ranging from five to seven thousand. We’re using the higher estimate, but the actual figure doesn’t really
matter for the argument of this book.
These figures, taken from Wikipedia, include nonnative users of the languages concerned. Because many people speak two or more of the world’s
major languages, the total population of the “top thirteen” may exceed the total population of the world. Figures for total native or first-language
speakers show a different picture: Mandarin Chinese, 863 million; Hindi, 680 million; English, 400 million; Spanish, 350 million; Arabic, 280 million;
Russian, 164 million; Japanese, 130 million; German, 105 million; French, 80 million; Turkish, 63 million; Urdu, 60 million; Indonesian, 17 million;
Swahili, 10 million—a total of 3.2 billion, or just over half the world’s population.
One obvious answer is: Portuguese. But despite its importance for large and far-flung communities in Europe, South America, and Africa, its role
as a vehicular language is minimal.
J. N. Adams, Bilingualism and the Latin Language (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2003), gives a detailed portrait of the relations
between Latin and the other languages of Rome and its possessions. Many texts discussed byAdams show Latin in contact with other languages,
but none of his material could be classed even approximately as a Latin translation of a non-Latin text.
Georges Perec, “Experimental Demonstration of the Tomatotopic Organization in the Soprano,” in Cantatrix Sopranica et autres écrits
scientifiques (Paris: Seuil, 1991).
According to Claude Hagège, Dictionnaire amoureux des langues (Paris: Plon, 2009), 109, Konstantin Päts, the last president of independent
Estonia, also made a broadcast in Latin in August 1939, for the same reasons.
Elisabeth and Jean-Paul Champseix, 57, Boulevard Staline. Chroniques albanaises (Paris: La Découverte, 1990).
Adapted from Georges Perec, Life A User’s Manual, trans. David Bellos (Boston: David R. Godine, 2009), 125.
3. WHY DO WE CALL IT “TRANSLATION”?
Michael Emmerich, “Beyond Between: Translation, Ghosts, Metaphors,” posted online at www.wordswithoutborders.org, April 2009.
Ibid.
Bambi B. Schieffelin, “Found in Translating: Reflexive Language Across Time and Texts in Bosavi,” in Consequences of Contact: Language
Ideologies and Sociocultural Transformations in Pacific Societies, eds. Miki Makihara and Bambi B. Schieffelin (New York: Oxford University
Press, 2007), 141–65.
From Andrew Chesterman, Memes of Translation: The Spread of Ideas in Translation Theory (Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 1997), 61.
From The Book of Rites, after 206 B.C.E., as quoted by Martha Cheung in Target 17, 1 (2005): 29.
Taken respectively from the first Chinese dictionary, second century C.E.; Kong Yingda, seventh century C.E.; Jia Gongyan, also seventh century;
and a Buddhist monk, Zan Ning, as quoted (and translated) by Martha Cheung in ibid., 33, 34.
For the time being, Iam using translation to refer to interlingual communication of all kinds, spoken and written. Interpreting, which deals exclusively
with speech, is the subject of chapter 24.
“A small man’s son is astounded by the food market,” from Luis d’Antin van Rooten, Mots d’heures: Gousses, Rames (New York: Grossman,
1967).
4. THINGS PEOPLE SAY ABOUT TRANSLATION
See Leo Spitzer, Essays on Seventeenth- Century French Literature, trans. and ed. David Bellos (Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press,
1983), 253–84, for the whole story.
Quoted in Lev Loseff, On the Beneficence of Censorship: Aesopian Language in Modern Russian Literature (Munich: Otto Sagner, 1984), 78.
Lev Loseff, “The Persistent Life of James Clifford: The Return of a Mystification,” Zvezda (January 2001), in Russian.
5. FICTIONS OF THE FOREIGN
Lawrence Venuti, The Translator’s Invisibility: A History of Translation (New York: Routledge, 1995), 20 and passim.
Jean Rond d’Alembert, “Observations sur l’art de traduire,” in Mélanges de littérature . . . (Amsterdam: Chatelain, 1763), 3:18. My translation.
M. C**** de L***, Dangerous connections: or, letters collected in a society, and published for the instruction of other societies (London, 1784).
Fred Vargas, Have Mercy on Us All, trans. David Bellos (London: Harvill, 2003).
Directed by David Ka-Shing for the Yellow Earth Theatre and Shanghai Dramatic Arts Center, performed in Stratford-upon-Avon, London, and
Shanghai in 2006.
Friedrich Schleiermacher, “Über die verschiedenen Methoden des Über-setzens,” a paper read in 1813 to the Royal Academy of Sciences in
Berlin, in a new translation by Susan Bernofsky, in The Translation Studies Reader, ed. Lawrence Venuti, 2nd ed. (New York: Routledge, 2004).
An earlier and more widely available translation by Waltraud Bartscht omits several passages.
From chapter 2 of Jacques Derrida’s Of Grammatology (1967), trans. Gayatri Chakravorti Spivak (Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University
Press, 1974).
Mariagrazia Margarito, “Une valise pour bien voyager … avec les ital-ianismes du français,” Synergies 4 (2008): 63–73.
Antoine Volodine, “Écrire en français une littérature étrangère,” chaoïd 6 (2002).
David Remnick, “The Translation Wars,” The NewYorker, November 7, 2005.
Ibid. See also Gary Saul Morton, “The Pevearsion of Russian Literature,” Commentary (July–August 2010), which takes a much harsher line.
Mariusz Wilk, The Journals of a White Sea Wolf, trans. Daniusa Stok (London: Harvill, 2003), uses the device to great effect.
6. NATIVE COMMAND
In some countries the children of immigrant parents are not even granted a nationality. Statelessness can be seen as the “zero condition” of what is
acquired by the fact of being born—and also an infringement of international conventions on fundamental rights.
G. T. Chernov, Osnovy sinkhronnogo perevoda (Moscow: Vysshaia shkola, 1987), 5–8.
Lynn Visson, Sinkhronni perevod s russkogo na angliiskii (Moscow, 2007), 15–16; summary version in English in Lynn Visson, “Teaching
Simultaneous Interpretation into a Foreign Language,” Mosty 2, 22 (2009): 57–59.
7. MEANING IS NO SIMPLE THING
From LINGUIST List 2.457, September 3, 1991, available at http://linguistlist.org/issues/2/2-457.html.
8. WORDS ARE EVEN WORSE
Roman Jakobson, “On Linguistic Aspects of Translation,” in On Translation, ed. Reuben Brower (New York: Oxford University Press, 1959), 232.
This is just a simple explanation of Zipf’s law, which says that the frequency of any word is inversely proportional to its rank in the frequency table.
Thus the most frequent word will occur approximately twice as often as the second most frequent word and three times as often as the third most
frequent word. As a result, just 135 different words account for half of all the word occurrences in an English-language corpus of about one million
words.
Leonard Bloomfield, Language (New York: Henry Holt & Co., 1933), 140.
It may not be arbitrary at all from a historical point of view: the two words light come from quite different origins, whereas all the meanings of head
come from a single source.
Additional subrules apply to alphabetic sequences that include the symbols - and * (as in “back-up” and the proprietary name “E*Trade”); in some
languages there are additional typographical marks such as ¿ or ¡, but these and other features found in languages with alphabetical or syllabic
scripts don’t alter the structure of the rules or the basic idea of what a word is—for a computer.
Hayley G. Davis, Words: An Integrational Approach (New York: RoutledgeCurzon, 2001), has many hilarious examples of English speakers’ utter
confusion about what a word is.
Anna Morpurgo Davies, “Folk-Linguistics and the Greek Word,” in Fest-schrift for Henry Hoenigswald, eds. George Cardon and Norman Zide
(Tübingen: Narr, 1987), 263–80.
9. UNDERSTANDING DICTIONARIES
Jonathon Green, Chasing the Sun: Dictionary-Makers and the Dictionaries They Made (London: Jonathan Cape, 1996), 40–41.
JanAssmann, “Translating Gods: Religion as a Factor of Cultural (Un) Translatability,” in The Translatability of Cultures: Figurations of the Space
Between, eds. Sanford Budick and Wolfgang Iser (Palo Alto, CA: Stanford University Press, 1996), 25–36.
Information from Christoph Harbsmeier, Language and Logic in Traditional China, forming volume VII.1 of Joseph Needham’s Science and
Civilisation in China (Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, 1998), 65–84; and Endymion Wilkinson, Chinese History: A Manual
(Harvard University Press, 1998), 62–94.
Philitas of Cos, Átaktoi glôssai, or “Disorderly Words,” explains the meanings of rare Homeric and other literary words; the oldest surviving full
Homeric lexicon is byApollonius the Sophist, from the first century C.E. The first Sanskrit word list, Amarako a, was written byAmara Sinha in the
fourth century C.E.
Georges Perec, Life A User’s Manual, trans. David Bellos (Boston: David R. Godine, 2009), 327.
10. THE MYTH OF LITERAL TRANSLATION
According to Naomi Seidman, “One would be hard put to name a major defence of word-for-word translation before the modern period.” Faithful
Renderings: Jewish-Christian Difference and the Politics of Translation (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2006), 75.
George Steiner, After Babel, 3rd ed. (New York: Oxford University Press, 1998), 251.
Nicolas Herberay des Essarts, translator’s preface to Amadis de Gaule (1540), ed. Michel Bideaux (Paris: Honoré Champion, 2006), 168. My
translation.
Octavio Paz, Un poema di John Donne: Traducción literaria y literali-dad (Barcelona: Tusquets, 1990), 13.
Quoted by one of Kelly’s former colleagues at Ottawa University on Unprofessional Translation (blog).
Mark Twain, The Jumping Frog, in English, then in French, then clawed back into a civilized language once more by patient, unremunerated toil
(New York: Harper & Bros., 1903), 39–40.
Michael Israel, “The Rhetoric of ‘Literal Meaning,’” in The Literal and Non-Literal in Language and Thought, eds. Sean Coulson and Barbara
Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk (Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang, 2005), 147–238.
See Dominique Jullien, Les Amoureux de Schéhérézade: Variations sur les Mille et Une Nuits (Geneva: Droz, 2009), for a discussion of the
cultural issues surrounding Mardrus’s translation.
Quoted in ibid., 107. My translation.
André Gide, in La Revue blanche, XXI:475 (January 1900), quoted in Jullien, Amoureux de Schéhérézade, 110.
J.-C. Mardrus, letter to the editor in Revue critique d’histoire et de littérature XLI.26:515 (June 1900), quoted in Jullien, Amoureux de
Schéhérézade, 85.
11. THE ISSUE OF TRUST
Roy Harris, The Origin of Writing (London: Duckworth, 1986), 177. Writing has been invented four times: by the Maya, in pre-ColumbianAmerica;
in China; in ancient Egypt; and in Mesopotamia. All modern writing systems derive from just two of these inventions, and all alphabetic scripts from
just one.
The term primary orality was coined by Walter J. Ong. See his Orality and Literacy: The Technologizing of the Word (London: Methuen, 1982).
Universal literacy was first achieved in most Western European countries at some point between 1860 and 1920. In other parts of the world it is
even more recent than that; and in many of them it remains a long way off.
Leo Tolstoy, War and Peace, trans. Rosemary Edmonds (London: Penguin Books, 1957), 1153.
In practice, when relations are cordial, the ancient protocol is often abandoned, and the two translators take it in turn to translate both ways in
twenty-minute shifts, just as they would when working in more public encounters. But for discussions on major topics between heads of state and of
government, there can be no question of having only one translator present.
Ismail Kadare’s Palace of Dreams (New York: William Morrow, 1993) is an ironic fiction about Ottoman dream records with some basis in
historical fact.
See E. Natalie Rothman, “Interpreting Dragomans: Boundaries and Crossings in the Early Modern Mediterranean,” Comparative Studies in
Society and History 51:4 (2009): 771–800, for far more detail than is possible here.
Ziggurat (a pyramidal temple) is generally reckoned to be the only other word of Akkadian in English, but it came into the language only in the
nineteenth century.
The Three-Arched Bridge (New York: Arcade, 1997) and “The Blinding Order” (published in Agamemnon’s Daughter, New York: Arcade, 2006)
complement The Palace of Dreams in this respect.
French started to be used in this role in the seventeenth century, and in the nineteenth it displaced Italian entirely.
The example is from Bernard Lewis, From Babel to Dragomans: Interpreting the Middle East (New York: Oxford University Press, 2004), 29.
Ibid., 27.
George Abbott, Under the Turk in Constantinople (New York: Macmillan, 1920), 46, quoted in Judy Laffan, “Navigating Empires: ‘British’
Dragomans and Changing Identity in the Nineteenth-Century Levant,” unpublished Ph.D. thesis, University of Queensland, Australia.
Ibid.
Preface to Françoise Sagan, That Mad Ache, trans. Douglas Hofstadter (New York: Basic Books, 2009).
See Allan Cunningham, “Dragomania: The Dragomans of the British Embassy in Turkey,” Middle Eastern Affairs 2 (1961): 81–100.
12. CUSTOM CUTS
Stephen Owen, “World Poetry,” a review of Bei Dao’s The August Sleepwalker, trans. Bonnie McDougall, NewRepublic, November 1990.
For a list of foreign film stars and their established German voices, see the Deutsche Synchronsprecher website, www.deutsche-
synchronsprecher.de.
Le Monde, August 7, 2010: 14.
Vladimir Nabokov, “Introduction,” in Eugene Onegin: A Novel in Verse by Aleksandr Pushkin (New York: Routledge, 1964), I:vii–ix.
Vladimir Nabokov, “The Servile Path,” in On Translation, ed. Reuben Brewer (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1959), 97–110.
Georges Perec, letter to Denise Getzler (circa 1963), Littératures (Toulouse) 6 (spring 1983): 63.
13. WHAT CAN’T BE SAID CAN’T BE TRANSLATED
See www.packingtownreview.com/blog, post dated December 2, 2007.
Thom Satterlee, “Robert Frost’s Views on Translation,” Delos (1996): 46–52; Satterlee finds a kind of source in an essay by Ezra Pound, “How I
Began” (1913), but which claims the opposite: “I would know what was accounted poetry everywhere, what part of poetry was ‘indestructible,’ what
part could not be lost in translation.”
Ludwig Wittgenstein, Tractatus Logico-philosophicus (1921), Proposition 74: Wovon man nicht sprechen kann, davon muß man schweigen.
English-language philosophers since Willard Van Orman Quine have treated this issue at length. My position reflects that of Donald Davidson as I
understand it from the commentary provided by J. E. Malpas in “The Intertranslatability of Natural Languages,” Synthese 78 (1989), 233–64.
Romain Gary, White Dog (1970; repr., Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2004), 5.
Marshall Sahlins, The Western Illusion of Human Nature (Chicago: Prickly Paradigm, 2008), takes this argument much further. Christine
Kenneally, The First Word: The Search for the Origins of Language (New York: Penguin, 2007), gives an up-to-date report on current research that
is fast undermining the distinction between “language” and “signal” and between human and nonhuman communication.
Mark E. Laidre and Jessica L. Yorzinski, “The Silent Bared-Teeth Face and the Crest-Raise of the Mandrill (Mandrillus sphinx): A Contextual
Analysis of Signal Function,” Ethology 111 (2005): 143–57. A standard introduction to the field of animal sign systems is Thomas A. Sebeok, How
Animals Communicate (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1977).
14. HOW MANY WORDS DO WE HAVE FOR COFFEE?
Laura Martin, “‘Eskimo Words for Snow’: A Case Study in the Genesis and Decay of anAnthropological Example,” American Anthropologist 88:2
(1986): 418–23, explained and defended by Geoffrey Pullum in The Great Eskimo Vocabulary Hoax and Other Irreverent Essays on the Study of
Language (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1991), 159–73.
Inuit languages are agglutinative and typically express what would be complex expressions in English by suffixes and prefixes added to the stem
word. As a result, Inuits have uncountably many “words” for everything. Each word form contains indicators of qualities and roles that in English
would be expressed by many separate words. It’s as pointless to say that some Inuit language has twenty or sixty or eighty words for “snow” as to
say that Hungarian has seventeen words for “Anna.”
Published in The Works of Sir William Jones (London: Robinson and Evans, 1799).
Wilhelm Freiherr von Humboldt, Prüfung der Untersuchungen über die Urbewohner Hispaniens vermittelst der vaskischen Sprache (Berlin:
Dümmler, 1821).
Wilhelm Freiherr von Humboldt, Über die Entstehung der gramma-tischen Formen und ihren Einfluss auf die Ideenentwicklung (Berlin: König.
Akad. der Wissenschaften, 1823).
See Lera Boroditsky’s report on this language at www.edge.org/3rd_culture/boroditsky09/boroditsky09_index.html.
Edward Sapir, “Abnormal Types of Speech in Nootka” (1915), in Selected Writings in Language, Culture and Personality, ed. David G. Mandel-
baum (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1956), 179–96.
Hilary Henson, British Social Anthropologists and Language (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1974), 11.
Mildred L. Larson, Meaning-Based Translation (Lanham, MD: University Press of America, 1984), 158.
E. J. Payne, History of the NewWorld Called America (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1899), II:103, quoted in Henson, British Social Anthropologists,
10.
See Michael Coe, Breaking the Maya Code (London: Thames & Hudson, 1999).
15. BIBLES AND BANANAS
Figures from Philip Noss, ed., A History of Bible Translation (Rome: Edizioni di Storia et letteratura, 2007), 24.
Jan de Waard and Eugene A. Nida, From One Language to Another: Functional Equivalence in Bible Translating (Nashville, TN: Nelson, 1986).
Edesio Sánchez-Cetina, “Word of God, Word of the People,” in Noss, History, 395.
Daud Soeslo, “Bible Translation in Asia–Pacific and the Americas,” in Noss, History, 165–66, 175.
Eugene Nida, Fascinated by Languages (Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 2003).
Richard Rohrbaugh, The New Testament in Cross-Cultural Perspective (Eugene, OR: Cascade, 2007), quoted in The Social Sciences and
Biblical Translation, ed. Dietmar Neufeld (Atlanta: Society of Biblical Literature, 2008), ix.
Neufeld, Social Sciences, 3.
Leora Batnitsky, “Translation as Transcendence: A Glimpse into the Workshop of the Buber-Rosenzweig Bible Translation,” NewGerman Critique
70 (1997): 87–116.
Gott sprach zu Mosche / Ich werde dasein, als der ich dasein werde. / Und sprach: / So sollst du zu den Söhnen Jifsraels sprechen: / ICH BIN
DA schickt mich zu euch / Und weiter sprach Gott zu Mosche: / So sollst du den Söhnen Jifsraels sprechen: / ER, / der Gott eurer Väter / der
Gott Abrahams, der Gott / Jitzchaks, der Gott Jakobs / schickt mich zu euch. / Das ist mein Name in Weltzeit / das mein Gendenken,
Geschlecht für / Geschlecht.
16. TRANSLATION IMPACTS
Friedrich Schleiermacher, “Über die verschiedenen Methoden des Über-setzens,” trans. Susan Bernofsky, in The Translation Studies Reader,
2nd ed., ed. Lawrence Venuti (New York: Routledge, 2004).
Martha Gellerstam, “Fingerprints in Translation,” in In and Out of English: For Better, for Worse, ed. Gunilla Anderman (Bristol: Multilingual Matters,
2005), from whom the following material is taken.
Preston M. Torbert, “Globalizing Legal Drafting: What the Chinese Can Teach Us About Ejusdem Generis and All That,” The Scribes Journal of
Legal Writing (2007): 41–50.
All the information in the following paragraphs is borrowed and summarized from Bambi Schieffelin, “Found in Translating: Reflexive Language
Across Time and Texts in Bosavi,” in Consequences of Contact: Language Ideologies and Sociocultural Transformations in Pacific Societies,
ed. Miki Makihara and Bambi B. Schieffelin (New York: Oxford University Press, 2007), 141–65.
Quoted by Scott L. Montgomery, Science in Translation (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2000), 68.
17. THE THIRD CODE
Lawrence Venuti, The Translator’s Invisibility: A History of Translation (New York: Routledge, 1995).
Sara Laviosa, Corpus-Based Translation Studies: Theory, Findings, Applications (New York: Rodopi, 2002).
Mairi McLaughlin, “(In)visibility: Dislocation in French and the Voice of the Translator,” French Studies 61:2 (2008): 53–64.
Exceptions include Rosemary Edmonds’s translation of War and Peace (London: Penguin Books, 1957), in which Platon Karataev speaks a
generic folk dialect of English vaguely indebted to Yorkshire.
See Ineke Wallaert, “The Translation of Sociolects:A Paradigm of Ideological Issues in Translation?,” in Language Across Boundaries, eds. Janet
Cotterill and Anne Ife (London: Continuum in association with British Association for Applied Linguistics, 2001), 171–84.
18. NO LANGUAGE IS AN ISLAND
Simon Gaunt, “Translating the Diversity of the Middle Ages: Marco Polo and John Mandeville as ‘French’ Writers,” Australian Journal of French
Studies XLVI.3 (2009): 235–48.
Claude Lanzmann and Simone de Beauvoir, Shoah: The Complete Text of the Acclaimed Holocaust Film (New York: Da Capo, 1995), provides
an English translation of the subtitles only. Crosslinguistic interactions can be studied only by watching the film.
Cyril Aslanov, Le Français au Levant (Paris: Champion, 2006), resurrects the often-forgotten “Empire of French” that spread from Sicily and
Cyprus to the (French-speaking) Kingdom of Jerusalem between 1100 and 1400 C.E.
Gaunt, “Translating the Diversity,” 237.
Leo Tolstoy, War and Peace, trans. Rosemary Edmonds (London: Penguin Books, 1957), 417.
19. GLOBAL FLOWS
The figure is remarkably stable for other major or central languages. Gisele Sapiro (“Globalization and Cultural Diversity in the Book Market,”
Poetics 38:4 [2010]: 419–39) logs forty-two source languages for literary translations published in France between 1984 and 2002. A relatively new
American adventure in literary translation on the Web—WordsWithoutBorders.org—has widened the net to include more than seventy source
languages, but it has yet to affect book publishing in traditional form to any significant degree.
For a brief exposition of the dollar delusion, see Michel Onfray’s article “Les deux bouts de la langue,” Le Monde, July 10, 2010.
See Gideon Toury, “Enhancing Cultural Change by Means of Fictitious Translations,” available at spinoza.tau.ac.il/~toury/works.
Rasa’il Ikhwan al-Safa (Cairo: al-Maktaba al-Tijariyya al-Kubra, 1928), III:152, quoted in Bernard Lewis, From Babel to Dragomans: Interpreting
the Middle East (New York: Oxford University Press, 2004), 31.
Katharina Rout, “Fragments of a Greater Language,” in Beyond Words: Translating the World, ed. Susan Ouriou (Banff, AB: Banff Center Press,
2010), 33–37.
Jessica Ka Yee Chan, “Translating Russia into China: Lu Xun’s Fashioning of an Antithesis to Western Europe,” paper given at the MLA
Conference, Philadelphia, 2009.
Arnold B. McMillin, “Small Is Sometimes Beautiful: Studying ‘Minor Languages’ at a University with Particular Reference to Belarus,” Modern
Language Review101:4 (October 2006): xxxii–xliii.
Anonymous editorial, Yomiuri Shimbun, June 23, 1888, translated by Michael Emmerich.
“The Wu Jing Project: A New Translation of the Five Chinese Classics into the Major Languages of the World; an International Project Sponsored
by the Confucius Institute Headquarters, Beijing, China,” project description kindly supplied by Martin Kern.
20. A QUESTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
There are two English translations: Course in General Linguistics, trans. Wade Baskin and Peter Owen (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1960); and
Course in General Linguistics, trans. Roy Harris (London: Duckworth, 1983). The second is to be preferred.
See Rosemary Moeketsi, “Intervention in Court Interpreting: South Africa,” in Translation as Intervention, ed. Jeremy Munday (London/New York:
Continuum, 2007), 97–117.
Like Japanese, however, it does have unofficial status. The German Translation Section, funded jointly by the German, Swiss, Lichtenstein, and
Austrian governments, provides German-language services at UN headquarters in New York.
Quoted in Sir Frederick Pollock, A First Book of Jurisprudence for Students of the Common Law(New York: Macmillan & Co., 1896), 283.
Karen McAuliffe, “Translation at the Court of Justice of the European Communities,” in Translation Issues in Language and Law, eds. Frances
Olsen, Alexander Lorz, and Dieter Stein (New York: Palgrave, 2009), 99–115 (specifically, See Here). Emphasis is mine.
21. CECI N’EST PAS UNE TRADUCTION
The separate Directorate-General for Interpretation also has a huge budget—it is the largest interpreting service in the world by far.
Karen McAuliffe, “Translation at the Court of Justice of the European Communities of the European Communities,” in Translation Issues in
Language and Law, eds. Frances Olsen, Alexander Lorz, and Dieter Stein (New York: Palgrave, 2009), 105.
Lubella v. Hauptzollamt Cottbus, quoted in Lawrence Solan, “Statutory Interpretation in the EU: The Augustinian Approach,” in Olsen, Lorz, and
Stein, Translation Issues, 49.
Ibid., 35–53.
22. TRANSLATING NEWS
Susan Bassnett and Esperanca Bielsa, Translation in Global News (New York: Routledge, 2009), is the principal source of information and
examples given in this chapter.
23. THE ADVENTURE OF AUTOMATED LANGUAGE-TRANSLATION MACHINES
See Michael Gordin, Red Cloud at Dawn: Truman, Stalin, and the End of the Atomic Monopoly (New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2010), for a
well-documented account of the intelligence-gathering machinery of the period.
Warren Weaver, “Translation,” in Machine Translation of Languages: Fourteen Essays, eds. W. N. Locke and A. D. Booth (Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press, 1955), 15.
Weaver, quoted in MT News International 22 (July 1999): 6.
Yehoshua Bar-Hillel, “A Demonstration of the Nonfeasibility of FullyAutomatic High-Quality Translation” (1960), in Language and Information (New
York: Addison-Wesley, 1964), 174.
See www.youtube.com/watch?v=_GdSC1Z1Kzs.
Available at www.whitehouse.gov/administration/eop/nec/StrategyforAmericanInnovation, section 3.D.
24. A FISH IN YOUR EAR
Martine Behr and Maike Corpataux, Die Nürnberger Prozesse: Zur Be-deutung der Dolmetscher für die Prozesse and der Prozesse für die
Dolmetscher (Munich: Meidenbauer, 2006), 25–30.
Richard W. Sonnenfeldt, Witness to Nuremberg (New York: Arcade, 2006), 51.
Francesca Gaiba, The Origins of Simultaneous Interpretation: The Nuremberg Trial (Ottowa: University of Ottawa Press, 1998), 110.
Provisional Rules of Procedure of the Security Council (1946), Rule 42.
Annelise Riles, “Models and Documents: Artefacts of International Legal Knowledge,” The International and Comparative Law Quarterly 48:4
(October 1999): 819.
Denis Peiron, “La France à court d’interprètes,” Le Monde, March 8, 2010, raised a cry of alarm at the shortage of French candidates for language
jobs in the European Union; Brigitte Perucca, in “Un monde sans interprètes,” Le Monde, March 19, 2010, reports that barely 30 percent of
candidates for interpreter posts in all international organizations pass the first-stage tests.
The Council of Europe is distinct from the European Parliament, though it also sits in Strasbourg. Its official languages are English and French, but
it provides German, Italian, and Russian interpreting as “additional working languages” at its own expense.
25. MATCH ME IF YOU CAN
Arvo Krikmann, Netinalju Stalinist— - —Internet Humour About Stalin (Tartu, Estonia: Eesti Kir-jandusmuuseum,
2004), joke no. 11, quoted by Alexandra Arkhipova in “Laughing About Stalin,” paper given at a conference, Totalitarian Laughter, Princeton, NJ,
May 2009.
For a fuller discussion of this thorny field of study, see W. D. Hart, “On Self-Reference,” Philosophical Review79 (1970): 523–28.
26. STYLE AND TRANSLATION
Georges Perec, Things: A Story of the Sixties, trans. David Bellos [1965] (Boston: David R. Godine, 1990), takes his exercise in Flaubert to an
unusual pitch of intensity by incorporating a dozen or so sentences that really are by Flaubert.
Jean Rouaud, Fields of Glory, trans. Ralph Manheim (New York: Arcade, 1998), is a good example of how an imitation of Proust’s “inimitable”
French style can be represented as such in another language.
Adam Thirlwell, The Delighted States (New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2008).
Henri Godin, Les Ressources stylistiques du français contemporain (1948; 2nd ed., Oxford: Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1964), 2, 3.
R. A. Sayce, Style in French Prose: A Method of Analysis (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1953), 5.
27. TRANSLATING LITERARY TEXTS
Pascale Casanova, The World Republic of Letters, trans. M. B. De-Bevoise (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1999).
Spanish could plausibly take over the role of “first interlanguage” in literary translation, but Isee no sign of that happening yet.
See www.penguinclassics.co.uk/static/penguinclassicsaboutus/index.html.
Ibid.
English-language rights may be acquired for the entire world and they are then called WELR (World English Language Rights) or else, for one or
another of its territories, “U.K. and Commonwealth” or “North America,” sometimes further subdivided into “U.S.A.” and “Canada.”
See Mark Solms, “Controversies in Freud Translation,” Psychoanalysis and History 1 (1999): 28–43.
Elisabeth Roudinesco, “Freud, une passion publique,” Le Monde, January 7, 2010.
28. WHAT TRANSLATORS DO
Eurostar Metropolitan, June 2010: 5. The changes make it clear that this sentence was translated from English into French, and not vice versa. A
back-translation of the French would probably give “Top speed reached in July 2003 by a Eurostar train during testing of a high-speed line in the
U.K.”
29. BEATING THE BOUNDS
Roman Jakobson and Abraham Moles proposed an influential Communication Model in which the role of natural language is played by something
they called a “code.” They didn’t really mean a code as such, but the metaphor has stuck.
30. UNDER FIRE
John Dryden, “On Translation,” in Theories of Translation: An Anthology of Essays from Dryden to Derrida, eds. Rainer Schulte and John
Biguenet (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1992), 31.
Arthur Schopenhauer, Parerga und Paralipomena (1800), extract translated by Peter Mollenhauer as “On Language and Words,” in Schulte and
Biguenet, eds., Theories of Translation, 34.
Vladimir Nabokov, “Problems of Translation: Onegin in English,” Partisan Review 22:5 (Fall 1955), reprinted in Schulte and Biguenet, eds.,
Theories of Translation, 137, 140.
José Ortega y Gasset, “La Miseria y el esplendor de la traducción,” La Nación (Buenos Aires) (June 1937), trans. Elisabeth Gamble Miller, in
Schulte and Biguenet, eds., Theories of Translation, 98.
31. SAMENESS, LIKENESS, AND MATCH
For a counterexample where the character count is respected in translation line by line, see chapter 51 of Perec’s Life A User’s Manual, trans.
David Bellos (Boston: David R. Godine, 2009); and chapter 12 of this book, See Here, version 11.
AFTERBABBLE
A small selection: Walter Benjamin, “The Task of the Translator” (1923), in Theories of Translation: An Anthology of Essays from Dryden to
Derrida, eds. Rainer Schulte and John Biguenet (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1992); George Steiner, After Babel (New York: Oxford
University Press, 1975); Paul Zumthor, Babel ou l’inachèvement (Paris: Seuil, 1997); Daniel Heller-Roazen, Echolalias (Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press, 2005); Jacques Derrida, “Des Tours de Babel,” in Psyché: L’Invention de l’autre (Paris: Galilée, 2007).
For example, François Ost, Traduire: Défense et illustration du multilin-guisme (Paris: Fayard, 2009). Ost’s long first chapter runs through many
of the possible interpretations of the Babel story.
See Arika Okrent, In the World of Constructed Languages (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2008), for a witty and accessible
account of the long history of language-improvement schemes.
That is not to say that neogrammarians have been wasting their time. The epic adventure of transformational grammar that began in 1957 remains
for many people more stimulating than all the legends of the Arthurian Cycle put together.
For a fuller discussion of gesture in the evolution of language, see Christine Kenneally, The First Word: The Search for the Origins of Language
(New York: Penguin, 2007), 123–38.
The classic statement of the evolutionary relationship between grooming and language is Robin Dunbar’s Grooming, Gossip and the Evolution of
Language (London: Faber, 1996). Although Dunbar remains committed to monogenesis (a single origin for all varieties of speech), his work
provides numerous valuable insights that have been borrowed in simplified form in various places in this book.
Caveats and Thanks
As I’ve tried to write about translation between natural languages, I’ve not mentioned the use of the word as a technical term in mathematics, logic,
and some branches of computer science. That would be a different book.
I’ve also failed to say anything about the uses and pitfalls of translation in the military, in war zones, and in hospitals. I plead ignorance. There is
surely a lot to be learned from the courageous language mediators who work in these fields.
Readers familiar with translation studies may notice other omissions. Some of them are intentional. George Steiner’s After Babel is still in print,
and my reasons for not commenting further on Walter Benjamin’s essay “The Task of the Translator” can be found in Cambridge Literary Review3
(June, 2010): 194–206.
Many of the brains I have picked are mentioned in footnotes and references, but other people and institutions have given me hints, memories,
insights, and material in less formal ways. I hope I have not missed out any of my treasured and sometimes involuntary helpers, present and alas in
some cases past, who receive here the expression of my sincerest thanks: Ruth Adler, Valerie Aguilar, Esther Allen, Srinavas Bangalore, Alex
Bellos, Nat Bellos, George Bermann, Susan Bernofsky, Jim Brogden, Olivia Coghlan, Karen Emmerich, Michael Emmerich, Denis Feeney,
Michael Gordin, Jane Grayson, Tom Hare, Roy Harris, Susan Harris, James Hodson, Douglas Hofstadter, Susan Ingram, Adriana Jacobs, David
Jones, Graham Jones, Patrick Jospin, Joshua Katz, Sarah Kay, Carine Kennedy, Martin Kern, Judy Laffan, Ella Laszlo, Andrew Lendrum, Perry
Link, Simone Marchesi, Heather Mawhinney, Ilona Morison, Sergey Oushakine, Claire Paterson, Georges Perec, Katy Pinke, Mr. Pryce, Kurt
Riechenberg, Anti Saar, Kim Scheppele, Bambi Schieffelin, “Froggy” Smith, Jonathan Charles Smith, Lawrence Venuti, Lynn Visson, Kerim Yasar,
Froma Zeitlin; the Library of the École de Traduction et d’Interprétation (ETI), University of Geneva; the staff and resources of the Firestone Library,
Princeton, New Jersey; the speakers and listeners at the Translation Lunches at Princeton since their inception in 2008; and the four cohorts of
students from the classes of 2008 through 2013 who by taking the TRA 200 Thinking Translation course obliged me to think, a lot.
Index
The index that appeared in the print version of this title does not match the pages of your eBook. Please use the search function on your eReading
device to search for terms of interest. For your reference, the terms that appear in the print index are listed below.
Abkhaz
abstract thought
Académie Française
Achebe, Chinua, Things Fall Apart
Adair, Gilbert
adjectives
Afghanistan
Africa
African American vernacular
Agence France-Press (AFP)
Aigui, Gennady
AIIC
Akkadian
Albania
Albanian
Alexander the Great
Alexandria
alien language
Al Jazeera
alphabet
Alsatian
American Good News Bible
Amharic
Amoritic
Anadalams
analogy-based substitutions
Anglo-Saxon
animal language
anisomorphism
Apollonius the Sophist
Arabian Nights, The
Arabic; as UN language
Arad, Maya; Another Place, a Foreign City
Aramaic
Aristarchi, Stavraki
Armenian
Ashbery, John, “Rivers and Mountains,”
Asia
Asmat
Associated Press (AP)
Assyrian
Astérix
astronomy
asymmetrical language regime
atomic bomb
Atxaga, Bernardo
Augustine, Saint
Austin, J. L.
Austro-Hungarian Empire
Avatar (film)
axioms: of effability; of grammaticality
Azeri
Babelfish
Babel story
Babylon
bailo
Balzac, Honoré de, Le Père Goriot
Bar-Hillel, Yehoshua
Bash , Matsuo
Basque
Batum Worker, The
Baudelaire, Charles
BBC
Beckett, Samuel
behavior, linguistic
Belgium
Bell, Anthea
belles infidèles, les
Bengali
Benjamin, Walter
Bergman, Ingmar
Berlin
Berman, Antoine
Berne Convention
Berr, Hélène
Bible; Babel story; English; German; Hebrew; Spanish; translation
bilingualism; dictionaries
Bismarck, Otto von
Bloomfield, Leonard
book reviews
book trade; growth of
Borges, Jorge Luis
Bosavi
Breton
Browning, Robert
Buber, Martin
Buddhism
Buffon, Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de; “Discourse on Style,”
Bulgakov, Mikhail, The Master and Margarita
Byka , Vasil
Byrne, Gabriel
calque
Cameron, James
Camus, Albert, The Outsider
cartoons
Casanova, Pascale
category term
Catholicism
Cawdrey, Robert; A Table Alphabeticall of hard usual English wordes …
Celentano, Adriano
Cervantes, Miguel de; Don Quixote
Chabon, Michael, The Yiddish Policemen’s Union
Champollion, Jean-François
Chaplin, Charlie
Chapman, George
Charlemagne
Chatterjee, Upamanyu, English, August
Chaucer, Geoffrey
cheval
children; language acquisition
China
Chinese ; dictionaries ; poetry; shunkouliu; as UN language
Chomsky, Noam; Syntactic Structures
Christianity; missionaries
chuchotage
Churchill, Winston
Chuvash
Cicero
Clifford, James
CNN
code; breakers; switching
Coghill, Neville
Colbert Report, The
Cold War
colonialism
color terms
Columbus, Christopher
commentary, translation
computer-aided translation (CAT)
computer(s); Google Translate; translation
concrete languages
Condé, Maryse
conference interpreting; simultaneous
confidentiality agreements
contact language
context; meaning and
Coptic
copyright
Council of Europe
Coverdale, Miles
cribs
Crimean War
Cuba
cultural substitution
cuneiform script
Cyprian
Czech
Daghestani
d’Alembert, Jean
Dangerous Liaisons
Danish
Dante
Danticat, Edwidge
Dari
Derrida, Jacques
Descartes, René
DG Translation
dialect; translation as; variation
dialogue
Díaz, Junot
Dickens, Charles
diction, variety of
dictionaries; bilingual; Chinese; French; general purpose; history of; multilingual; pocket; rhyme; size of; special purpose
Dictionnaire de l’Académie
Diderot, Denis, Encyclopédie
diversity of language
Doctor Zhivago (film)
dog language
Dostoyevsky, FyodorThe Brothers Karamazov; Crime and Punishment
dragomania
dragomans
drama
Dr. Strangelove (film)
Dryden, John
dubbing
du Bellay, Joachim
Duhamel, Marcel
Dunbar, Robin
Dutch
Dzhabayev, Dzhambul
education; teaching languages; university
effects of translation; equivalent
Egypt; hieroglyphs
Elamite
electronic media
Eliot, T. S.
Elizabeth I, Queen of England
Emmerich, Michael
emotional attachments
English ; Bible; British; dictionaries; EU language parity and; foreign-soundingness and; identification of words; as language of science;
literary translation and; phonology of; role in global translation; as a second language; subtitling into; as UN language
equivalence; dynamic; formal
equivalent effect
Erasmus
Eskimo
Esperanto
Estienne, Robert
Estonian
ethnicity, language as
Etruscan
etymology
Europe; colonialism; EU language-parity rule; see also specific countries and languages
European Court of Justice (ECJ)
European Union (EU); establishment of; language-parity rule; simultaneous interpreting
evidentials
facing-page translation
FAHQT
faithful translation
Farsi
features of meaning
felicity, conditions of
fidelity
figurative meaning
Filene-Finlay Speech Translator
film; Avatar as parable of translation; dubbing; equivalent effect; lectoring; meaning and; spots; subtitles; titles
Finnish
fish, see Babelfish
Five Classics, The
Flaubert, Gustave
Folio
foreignizing
foreign-soundingness
Foucault, Michel
France; literary translators; seventeenth-century; World War II
French ; dictionaries; EU language parity and; foreign-soundingness and; grammar; human rights terminology; role in global translation;
sounds; as UN language
Freud, Sigmund; copyright; German specificity of; The Interpretation of Dreams
Frost, Robert
Gaelic
García Márquez, Gabriel
Gary, Romain; Adieu Gary Cooper; Lady L; Mangeurs d’étoiles; White Dog
Gascon
Ge’ez
Geneva Conventions
genres
Georgian
Gerard of Cremona
German ; Bible; EU language parity and; foreign-soundingness and; Freud and; human rights terminology; identification of words; role in global
translation
Germany; literary translators; Nazi; Nuremberg Trials; universities; World War II
gibberish
Gide, André
Ginsberg, Allen
globalization; computer translation; news translation and; translation and spread of international law
global translation; Nuremberg Trials; spread of international law and; UN
Goddard, Paulette
Godin, Henri
Google Translate (GT)
Göring, Hermann
Gorky, Maxim
Gothic
grammar; axiom of grammaticality; Basque; Bosavi; evidential; French; Hopi; Swedish
graphic radicals
graphic translation
Graves, Robert
Great Britain; variety of diction
Great Escape, The (film)
Great Eskimo Vocabulary Hoax
Great Papuan Plateau
Greece
Greek ; identification of words; literature; teaching
greetings
grooming
Guilleragues; The Letters of a Portuguese Nun
habitual patterns of thought
hand movement
Hapsburg Empire
Harris, Roy
Harvill Press
head (term)
headlines
Hebrew; Bible
Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich
Heidegger, Martin
Hindi
Hofstadter, Douglas
Homer; Odyssey
homme
homonymy
homophony
hon’yaku
Hopi
Horace
Höss, Rudolf
Hoxha, Enver
Hugo, Victor; Les Misérables
human rights; terminology; translation and international law
humor; translating
Hungarian; identification of words
Hungary
Hurritic
hypernym
hyponym
IBM
Icelandic
idiolect
illiteracy
immersion
impacts, translation
Index Translationum
India
Indian
Indonesian
ineffability
Ingush
interlingua
International Labour Organization
Internet; Google Translate
Inter Press Service (IPS)
interpreting; simultaneous
intuition
Inuit languages
Ionesco, Eugène
Iran
Islam
isolation
Israel
Istanbul
Italian
Italy
It’s Complicated (film)
Jackson, Robert H.
Jacobs, Adriana
Jakobson, Roman
James I, King of England
Japan; Edo period; literary translators
Japanese
Jerome, Saint
Jerusalem
Jews
Johnson, Charles
Johnson, Samuel; dictionary
jokes, translation of
Jones, Sir William
journalism
Kadare, Ismail; Chronicle in Stone
Kafka, Franz; America; The Castle; The Metamorphosis; The Trial
Kannada
Kant, Immanuel
Katz, Jerrold; axiom of effability
Kazakh
Kelly, Louis
Khrushchev, Nikita
koiné
Korean
Kross, Jaan
Kuuk Thaayorre
language: acquisition; axiom of grammaticality; barrier; behavior; as code; cultural domination and; cultural and intellectual differences;
dictionaries; diversity of; as ethnicity; EU language-parity rule; first-learned; flexibility of; globalization and; hierarchies; humorous uses of;
imperfect matching of; isolation and; legal; as a list of names for things; machine translation; native; news translation and; original common
form of; primitive; selfhood and; simultaneous interpreting; standard; teaching; as thought in translation; translation impacts; UN; unification;
vehicular; written; see also source-text language; specific languages; target language
Lanzmann, Claude
Larsson, Stieg
Latin ; disappearance as spoken language; teaching
law; class presumption in; copyright; EU language-parity rule and; international law and human rights; minority language and; Nuremberg
Trials; as system of signs; translation
Law French
League of Nations
lectoring
left dislocation
Leibniz, Gottfried Wilhelm von
letter
Li Bai
Lifshitz, Emmanuel
likeness
Linear B
lingua franca
Linnaeus, Carl
listening
literacy; spread of
literal meaning
literal translation; teaching languages and; terminology
literary translation; copyright and; retranslation
Lithuania
Lithuanian
loanwords
London
L1 translation
Lowell, Robert; Imitations
L2 translation
L3 translation
Luther, Martin
Luxembourg
machine translation; Google Translate
Macpherson, James; Fingal, an Ancient Epic Poem in Six Books
Makine, Andreï; Le Testament français
Malay
Mallarmé, Stéphane
Mandarin, see Chinese
manga
Mankell, Henning
Mao Zedong
Marathi
Mardrus, Joseph-Charles; Les Mille Nuits et Une Nuit
Marías, Javier
Marotément
Masefield, John
match; lack of matching words
mathematics
Mavrokordátos, Aléxandros
Maya
McAuliffe, Karen
meaning; context and; features of; film and; genre and; literal vs. figurative; literal translation and; nonverbal communication and; orality and;
symptomatic meaning; translation and; words and
Mei Ying-tso
Melville, Herman, “Bartleby the Scrivener,”
Mendeleyev, Dmitri
Mensch
Meschonnic, Henri
Mesopotamia
metalinguistic expression
metaphor
metonymy
Mexico
Middle Ages
Middle East, oral translation in
missionaries, Christian
Modern Times (film)
Monde, Le
Mon Oncle (film)
Morgenstern, Christian, “The Fish’s Lullaby,”
Moroccan Arabic
Morocco
Morton, A. Q.
Moscow
mother tongue
mouth
multilingualism; dictionaries; simultaneous interpreting
Murad II, Sultan
Muslims
My Fair Lady (musical)
mysterium
Nabokov, Vladimir
names, words as
Nash, Ogden
native language
Nazism; abuse of science; Nuremberg Trials
Netherlands
news translation
New Testament
Newton, Isaac
New York
NewYorker, The
Nida, Eugene
nomenclaturism
nonfiction translation
nonverbal communication
Nootka
Norwegian
Nostratic
nouns
numbers
Nupela Testamen
Nuremberg Trials; speech-translation system
Oath of Strasbourg
Ogden. K.; The Meaning of Meaning
Old Testament
oral translation; mistrust of; Nuremberg Trials; Ottoman Turk; simultaneous interpreting; UN
original text; passing off translation as; translation as substitute for
Ortega y Gasset, José
Orwell, George, Nineteen Eighty-Four
Ottoman Turkish
Ottoman Turks; translators
Ovid, Epistles
Oxford English Dictionary
Paine, Thomas
Pakistan
Palestine
Papavrami, Tedi
Papua New Guinea
Paris
Pasternak, Boris
Paz, Octavio; Nineteen Ways of Looking at Wang Wei
Penguin Classics
Penguin Parallel Texts
Perec, Georges; La Disparition; “53 Days,”; Life A User’s Manual
performative verbs
Persian
Peterson v. Weddel & Co., Ltd.
Pevear, Richard
Phanariots
philosophy
Picard
pivot
Plato
Pliny
Poe, Edgar Allan; “The Gold Bug,”
poetry; emotional attachments to; forms; ineffability and; magazines; shunkouliu; style; translation
Poland
Polanski, Roman
Polish
politics; EU language-parity rule and; jingles; law translation and; long-windedness; oral translation and; simultaneous interpreting and
Polo, Marco
polysemy
Pope, Alexander
Portugal
Portuguese
positional stylometry
Pound, Ezra
prepositional verbs
primal orality
primates
primitive languages
printing, invention of
promise
Proto-Indo-European
Proto-World
Proust, Marcel
Provençal
pseudo-translation
Ptolemy II
punctuation
Pushkin, Alexander; Eugene Onegin
Queneau, Raymond
Quprili
Racine, Jean
relay (double) translation
religion; Bible translation
Renaissance
retour
retranslation; copyright and; of literary texts
Reuters
rewriting and translation, borderline between
rhetoric
rhyme: dictionary; shunkouliu; translation
Richards. A.
Rieu, E. V.
Rilke, Rainer Maria; Duino Elegies
Roget, Peter Mark; Thesaurus
Romanticism
Rome
Ronsard, Pierre de
Roosevelt, Eleanor
Rosenzweig, Franz
Rosetta stone
Roth, Philip
Roubaud, Jacques
Russia; humor; literature; Revolution; Soviet
Russian ; role in global translation; as UN language
Rustichello da Pisa, The Travels of Marco Polo
Ruthenian
Ruyl, Albert Cornelius
Sagan, Françoise, La Chamade
Salinger, J. D.
sameness
Sanskrit
Sapir, Edward
Sato, Hiroaki, One Hundred Frogs
Saussure, Ferdinand de; Course in General Linguistics; doctrine of the sign
Sayce, R. A., Style in France Prose
Sayers, Dorothy L.
Schleiermacher, Friedrich; “The Different Methods of Translating,”
Schopenhauer, Arthur
science; language of
Scotland
script; invention of
Sebokht, Severus
selective foreignism
selfhood, and language
semantics; historical
sense-for-sense translation
sentence meanings, differences between
Septuagint
Série Noire
Seth, Vikram; The Golden Gate
sexist language
Shakespeare, William; King Lear; Macbeth
Shalamov, Varlam
Shannon, Claude
Shaw, G. B., Pygmalion
Shibata, Motoyuki
Shoah (film)
shunkouliu
sign, linguistic
signaling
signifier
simultaneous interpreting; EU; Nuremberg Trials; UN
Singin’in the Rain (film)
Sinha, Amara
slaves; as translators
Slovak
Slovene
Smetona, Antanas
social class
Solzhenitsyn, Aleksandr; One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich
Sonnenfeldt, Richard
Sophocles
sound translation
source-text language; hierarchical relationship between target language and; L1 translation
South Africa
South America
Spain; conquest of Americas
Spanglish
Spanglish (film)
Spanish; Bible; Castilian; as UN language
speech; differential function of; hand movement and; original common form of; thought transmission and; see also oral translation
Spitzer, Leo
Spivak, Gayatri Chakravorti
spoken speech language
Stalin, Joseph
statelessness
Steiner, George
Strachey, James
Strasbourg Oath
Strategy for American Innovation, A
Streep, Meryl
style; individual sense of; poetry; research; sheets; terminology; translation of
substitute; analogy-based; cultural; of translation for original text
subtitles
Sumatra
Sumerian; dictionaries
Surrealism
Swahili
Swedish
Switzerland
Symbolism
symptomatic meaning
syntax
Syria
Syriac
Szabó, István
Tagalog
Tamil
target language; hierarchical relationship between source language and; L2 translation; modification
targums
Tartu
Tati, Jacques
teaching languages; immersion; translation-based
technology; machine translation; simultaneous interpreting
teenagers, loss of language proficiency in
telementation
television; dubbing; lectoring; newscasters
tercüman
thesauruses
third code
Thirlwell, Adam
thought transmission
Tieck, Ludwig
titles
Tok Pisin
Tolstoy, Leo; War and Peace
Torah
Torbert, Preston
tourism
Tranglish
transcoding
translation: Avatar as parable of; avoidability of; Bible; borderline between rewriting and; boundaries and; commentary; cultural domination
and; definitions; as dialect; dictionaries and; disparagement of; diversity of language and; DOWN; effects on receiving cultures; equivalent
effect; etymological roots of; EU language-parity rule and; foreign-soundingness of; global; Google; hierarchical relationship between source
and target languages; humor; impacts; impossibility of; ineffability and; literal; literary; L3; machine; making forms fit; meaning and; native
language and; news; nonfiction; oral; passed off as original work; pseudo-; relations; sameness, likeness, and match; simultaneous
interpreting; sound; spread of international law and; of style; as substitute for original text; terminology; UP; variability of; word-for-word ; words
and
transliteration
treachery
Treaty of Rome
Trique
trust; oral translation and
Tschinag, Galsan
Turkish
Twain, Mark, “The Jumping Frog of Calaveras County,” 107–108
typo
typography
Ugaritic
Umbrian
UNESCO
unification, language
United Bible Societies
United Nations; Commission for Human Rights; General Assembly; simultaneous interpreting; translation; World Charter of Human Rights
United States
Universal Declaration of Human Rights
universities, languages taught in
unstable anchoring
Urdu
utterance; meaning and; oral translation
Uzbek
Vargas, Fred
vehicular languages
Venice
Venuti, Lawrence
“Verbatim,” 121–22
verbs; performative; prepositional
vernacular languages; African American; translating DOWN to
vocabulary
Volapük
Volodine, Antoine
Volokhonsky, Larissa
Voltaire
von Humboldt, Wilhelm
von Schlegel, August Wilhelm
vulgar language
Waard, Jan de
Waley, Arthur
Wall Street Journal
Walpole, Horace; The Castle of Otranto
Warner, Rex
Weaver, Warren
WELR
whale language
whisper translation
Whorf, Benjamin Lee
Williams. K.
Wittgenstein, Ludwig, Tractatus
Wodehouse, P. G.
Wolof
word-for-word translation
wording
Word Magic
words; dictionaries; diversity of; identification of; lack of matching; literal vs. figurative meanings; literal translation; meaning and; as names of
things; terminology
Wordsworth, William
World Bank
World Trade Organization
World War I,
World War II
written language; difference between oral language and; origins of script
Wu Jing Project
Yade, Rama
Yevtushenko, Yevgeny
Yiddish
Yoruba
Young, Thomas
Yugoslavia
Zacuto, Abraham
Zamenhof, Lejzer
Zipf’s law
Zulu
Permissions
See Here “Ma mignonne”: English translation of Marot, reproduced with the kind permission of Professor Douglas Hofstadter.
See Here “Recent observations”: Scientific pastiche, from Cantatrix Sopranica et autres écrits scientifiques, 1991, Éditions du Seuil, Paris, ©
Georges Perec; published in the U.K. as Cantatrix Sopranica: Scientific Papers of Georges Perec (London: Atlas Press, 2008).
See Here “One consequence of this”: Anadalam 1, from La Vie mode d’emploi (ed. Magné), 1978, Hachette-Littératures, p. 141, © Georges
Perec; published in the U.K. as Life A User’s Manual, 2008, Vintage, p. 110, © David Bellos, reprinted by permission of The Random House
Group, Ltd.; and in the United States as Life A User’s Manual, new edn., 2009, David R. Godine, p. 125, © David Bellos.
See Here “Of all the characteristics”: Anadalam 2, from La Vie mode d’emploi (ed. Magné), 1978, Hachette-Littératures, p. 142, © Georges Perec;
published in the U.K. as Life A User’s Manual, 2008, Vintage, p. 110, © David Bellos, reprinted by permission of The Random House Group, Ltd.;
and in the United States as Life A User’s Manual, new ed., 2009, David R. Godine, p. 125, © David Bellos.
See Here “If the translation”: Japanese translation terms, from Michael Emmerich, “Beyond Between: Translation, Ghosts, Metaphors,” posted
online at wordswithoutborders.org, April 2009, reproduced with the kind permission of Professor Michael Emmerich.
See Here “Fisches Nachtgesang”: Finnish translation of the sight-poem courtesy of the translator Reijo Ollinen, originally quoted in Andrew
Chesterman, Memes of Translation, John Benjamins, 1997, p. 61.
See Here “Un petit d’un petit”: French version of Humpty Dumpty, from Luis d’Antin van Rooten, Mots d’Heures, Gousses, Rames, Grossman,
1967.
See Here “Sa bella giu satore”: Gibberish song from Charlie Chaplin’s Modern Times, 1936, courtesy of the Chaplin estate, copyright © Roy
Export S.A.S. All rights reserved.
See Here “The positive and the classical”: From De La Grammatologie, Jacques Derrida, © Éditions de Minuit; published in English as Of
Grammatology , Jacques Derrida. Translated by Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak. © 1998 The Johns Hopkins University Press. Reprinted with
permission of The Johns Hopkins University Press.
See Here “My mother language”: Letter from Estonian translator, reproduced with the kind permission of Anti Saar.
See Here “In order to give”: Leonard Bloomfield, from Leonard Bloomfield, Language, Henry Holt & Co., 1933, p. 140.
See Here “Cinoc …”: Perec’s word-killer, from La Vie mode d’emploi (ed. Magné), 1978, Hachette-Littératures, p. 341, © Georges Perec;
published in the U.K. as Life A User’s Manual, 2008, Vintage, pp. 287–88, © David Bellos, reprinted by permission of The Random House Group,
Ltd.; and in the United States as Life A User’s Manual, new ed., 2009, David R. Godine, p. 327, © David Bellos.
See Here “Platon could never recall”: From War and Peace, by Leo Tolstoy, translated by Rosemary Edmonds, © Penguin Classics.
See Here “ ”: Shunkouliu, reproduced with the kind permission of Professor Perry Link, University of California at Riverside.
See Here “I’m Asterix!”: Astérix 1, © 2011 Les éditions Albert René/Goscinny-Uderzo.
See Here “Je suis Astérix!”: Astértix 2, © 2011 Les éditions Albert René/Goscinny-Uderzo.
See Here “Attempts to render a poem”: Nabokov on translation, from Eugene Onegin: A Novel in Verse byAleksandr Pushkin, translated and with
a commentary by Vladimir Nabokov, Routledge, 1964, Vol. 1, pp. vii–ix, © Princeton University Press.
See Here “Faster! Faster!”: Israeli “Onegin stanza,” from Another Place, a Foreign City, by Maya Arad, copyright © by Xargol Books Ltd., Tel-Aviv,
2003; translated into English by Adriana Jacobs and reproduced with her kind permission.
See Here “‘Sybil,’ said I”: Sybil, from La Disparition, Georges Perec, 1969, Éditions Denoël, in the translation, A Void, by Georges Perec,
translated by Gilbert Adair, published by Harvill Press, pp. 107–108. Reprinted by permission of The Random House Group, Ltd.
See Here “We would stare”: Pete the Strangler, from White Dog, Romain Gary, 1970. Reprinted courtesy of the author’s estate and The University
of Chicago Press, 2004, p. 51.
See Here “The perfect language”: From From Babel to Dragomans: Interpreting the Middle East, Bernard Lewis, Oxford University Press, 2004,
© of and reprinted with permission from The British Academy.
See Here “However great”: Japanese newspaper editorial, translation reproduced with the kind permission of Professor Michael Emmerich.
See Here “Think of individuals”: Warren Weaver, from Warren Weaver, “Translation,” in Machine Translation of Languages, by William N. Locke
and A. D. Booth (eds.), published by The MIT Press. 2
See Here “Ihave repeatedly tried”: FAHQT, from “A Demonstration of the Nonfeasibility of FullyAutomatic High Quality Translation,” Yehoshua Bar-
Hillel, 1960, in Language and Information—Selected Essays on their Theory and Application, Addison-Wesley Publ./Jerusalem Academic,
1964, p. 174.
See Here “Adolf Hitler”: Joke visiting card 1, from La Vie mode d’emploi (ed. Magné), 1978, Hachette-Littératures, p. 341, © Georges Perec;
published in the U.K. as Life A User’s Manual, 2008, Vintage, pp. 287–88, © David Bellos, reprinted by permission of The Random House Group,
Ltd.; and in the United States as Life A User’s Manual, new ed., 2009, David R. Godine, p. 327, © David Bellos.
See Here “Adolf Hitler”: Joke visiting card 2, from La Vie mode d’emploi (ed. Magné), 1978, Hachette-Littératures, p. 341, © Georges Perec;
published in Permissions and Acknowledgements in the U.K. as Life A User’s Manual, 2008, Vintage, pp. 287–88, © David Bellos, reprinted by
permission of The Random House Group, Ltd.; and in the United States as Life A User’s Manual, new ed., 2009, David R. Godine, p. 327, © David
Bellos.
See Here “The old pond”: Haikus, from One Hundred Frogs: From Matsuo Bash to Allen Ginsberg, by Hiroaki Sato, 1995, Weatherhill, Shamb-
hala Publications Inc., Boston, MA, © Allen Ginsburg, © James Kirkup, and © Curtis Hidden Page.
See Here “There is a river”: Wordsworth pastiche, by Catherine M. Fanshawe, extracted from The Faber Book of Parodies, Simon Brett (ed.),
1984, Faber & Faber.
See Here “Sunday is the dullest day”: T. S. Eliot pastiche, from The Sweeniad, by Myra Buttle (aka Victor Purcell), Secker & Warburg, 1958.
Extracted from The Faber Book of Parodies, Simon Brett (ed.), 1984, Faber & Faber.
See Here “Boy, when I saw old Eve”: J. D. Salinger pastiche, from Adam & Eve & Stuff Like That, by Ed Berman. Extracted from The Faber Book
of Parodies, Simon Brett (ed.), 1984, Faber & Faber.
See Here “LAMENTATIONS”: 53 Days, from 53 Jours, Hachette-Littératures, 1989, © Georges Perec; published in the U.K. as 53 Days, by
Georges Perec, translated by David Bellos, published by Harvill Press, 1994, p. 61, reprinted by permission of The Random House Group, Ltd.;
and in the United States as 53 Days, David R. Godine, p. 61, © David Bellos.
A Note About the Author
David Bellos is the director of the Program in Translation and Intercultural Communication at Princeton University, where he is also a professor of
French and comparative literature. He has won many awards for his translations, including the Man Booker International translator’s award. He
received the Prix Goncourt for his biography of Georges Perec and has also written biographies of Jacques Tati and Romain Gary.
Copyright © 2011 by David Bellos
All rights reserved
Originally published in 2011 by Particular Books, an imprint of
Penguin Books, Great Britain
Published in the United States by Faber and Faber, Inc.
Faber and Faber, Inc.
An affiliate of Farrar, Straus and Giroux
18 West 18th Street, New York 10011
www.fsgbooks.com
Designed by Jonathan D. Lippincott
eISBN 9780865478725
First eBook Edition : September 2011
First American edition, 2011
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Bellos, David.
Is that a fish in your ear? : translation and the meaning of everything / David Bellos.
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 978-0-86547-857-2 (alk. paper)
I. Title.
P306.B394 2011
418’.02—dc23
2011022237
