14
• psychological
The physiological hypothesis is exemplified by the experiments conducted by Berlin and Kay
(1969) and Rosch (1973), which were introduced in the previous section (see p.11). The
results suggest a connection between physiological salience in colours and the establishment
of the mental lexicon. However, this hypothesis is unlikely to apply to examination of the
prototype of prepositions. This is because there is no physiological system here, in contrast to
sight for the light frequencies of colours, to perceive the differences of prepositional senses,
which vary from locative to metaphorical.
The referential hypothesis concerns the attributes shared by the members of category.
This hypothesis states that the prototype shares a maximum number of attributes with the
non-prototypical members of category. Preposition through is assumed to have an attribute of
‘traversal’, e.g., …with light coming through a pane of glass <S1B-015 #097>. The attribute
of physically traversing an object seems less likely to be shared by the ‘by means of’ sense, as
in The winch…operated through a crown block <W2A-031 #091>. Presumably, metaphor and
metonymy, which are examined in Section 2.4, may be involved in the semantic extension of
the traversal attribute. Establishing a semantic network of prepositions may possibly
contribute to comparing different senses of a preposition and discovering the sharing of
attributes between the members of a category. Moreover, ‘cue validity’ (Lakoff, 1978:
52-54; Rosch, 1978; Taylor, 2008: 45), which represents the degree of probability of a
particular attribute occurring in a member of the category, closely relates to prototypicality,
because a prototypical member shares a maximum number of attributes (Taylor, 2008). For
example, flying is a strong cue validity to belonging to the BIRD category, whereas having a
long neck is unlikely to predict a prototype of birds.
The statistical hypothesis states that the prototype is the most frequently experienced
member in the category and that its frequency in relation to the other members determines its
15
prototypicality. Although this proposition is controversial, I would argue that frequency may
relate to prototypicality, but not in a straightforward way (Bybee and Hopper, 2001; Geeraerts,
2007; Gibbs, 2006; Goldberg, 2006; Taylor, 2008). Given that high frequency does not
necessarily determine which is the prototype, high frequency “may well be a symptom of
prototypicality, not its cause” (Taylor, 2003: 56). A prototype is likely to have originated in
our innate ability to categorize. Despite the great exposure of a temporal sense caused by high
frequency, we still perceive spatial relationship as the prototype of prepositions. In addition,
the occurrence of spatial configuration, for example, There is a pen on the desk, may not be so
frequent in language production, because, to anyone who sees the two entities and
understands the relation, the spatial configuration is too obvious to describe in words. The
example is expected to occur exclusively in reply to questions such as Is there anything on the
desk? (Shortall, personal communication, 2007). However, as the spatial relationship is also
applied to metaphorical senses, such as time, the concept of the locative sense in the use of
prepositions is frequent and pervasive with figurative interpretations. Hence, I believe that
frequency may still be to some extent a clue to discovering prototypicality.
Geeraerts (2007) favours the psychological hypothesis due to cognitive economy in
categorization, that is, “[t]he most information can be provided with the least cognitive effort”
(Rosch, 1977 cited in Geeraerts, 2007: 169), whereby a prototype can incorporate the
members bearing similar nuances into an individual concept. For this reason, a core concept
framed by language users has been sought by means of eliciting tasks (Cuyckens, Sandra and
Rice, 1997; Levinson and Wilkins, 2006; Sandra and Rice, 1995) as well as the description of
‘introspective judgements’ written in a synonym dictionary (Geeraerts, 2007: 177). In order to
find the central concept by eliciting tasks, a number of prepositions were examined by sorting
tasks, similarity judgements and acceptability decisions.
As claimed by the hypotheses given on prototype discussed above, what is projected
16
at the centre of language users’ categories may be a plausible candidate for a prototype.
Nevertheless, the inferences from statistical evidence may to some extent contribute to
specifying the prototype of a category. Taylor (2003: 119) asked 13 English speakers to write
down as many sentences containing over as came to mind. The result was given as follows:
17 instances He jumped over the wall
13 instances Come over here
12 instances The lesson is over
10 instances Do it over again
Given that adverbial senses are included, the spatial sense appeared frequently. More
importantly, in 11 instances out of 17, the sense of He jumped over the wall were written at
the top of the answer sheet. In other words, the spatial sense occurred first to 65% of the
subjects. It can thus be implied that frequency may to a certain extent relate to prototypicality.
It is probably the case that what first comes to mind is spoken and written with greater
frequency (the converse is also the case).
Taylor (2003: 64) suggests three approaches to specifying prototype:
• prototype-as-exemplar approach
• prototype-as-subcategory approach
• prototype-as-abstraction approach
The ‘prototype-as-exemplar’ approach seeks to specify prototype by concrete examples.
Language users who are asked what a prototype is are capable of providing specific examples.
As far as over is concerned, examples such as The cat jumped over the wall (Tyler and Evans,
2003a: 9) and The plane flew over the hill (Lakoff, 1987: 421) were cited as typical
illustrations of over. Although these may be prototypes, it is unlikely that these sentences
encourage the grouping in the category of any senses expressed by over. Due to ‘cognitive
17
economy’ (Ungerer and Schmid, 2006; 71), whereby we expend the least effort possible on
categorization, it is unlikely that a large number of spatial configurations of over would be
adopted as the prototype. For this reason, the prototype-as-exemplar approach is less likely to
specify prototype (Taylor, 2003). Rather, a concept which entails a variety of senses of a
preposition may serve as prototype in order to lessen the cognitive strain on language users.
The ‘prototype-as-subcategory’ approach aims to decode the attributes of the
prototype. This view complements the hypothesis of Geeraerts (2007) and is adopted for
analysing the spatial configuration and movement denoted by prepositions. First, at least two
entities are involved in the relationship of prepositions: for instance, ‘the cat’ and ‘the wall’ in
Tyler and Evans’ example above. The features of the two components have been extensively
investigated (Lakoff, 1987, Langacker, 1987; Tyler and Evans, 2003a) and the analysis is
more fully discussed in section 2.3 Trajector and Landmark, below. The ‘path’ movement is
considered a key attribute of the composition of the prototype sense of over. As in the above
examples, ‘the cat’ and ‘the plane’ make a path trajectory in relation to the other entities, ‘the
wall’ and ‘the hill’ respectively. It can be concluded that there are three elements generating
the sense of prototype: two entities and the spatial/movement configuration. These three
elements are analysed in more depth throughout this study.
The ‘prototype-as-abstraction’ approach, for its part, focuses on the abstract concept
of the prototype. The theory holds that abstraction gives rise to a mental representation of the
concept. This seems to conform to the psychological hypothesis suggested above by Geeraerts
(2007), since the judgement depends on the introspection and intuition of language users. The
mental representations of over (Figure 2.4 below) are likely to be the outcome of the
‘prototype-as-abstraction’ and ‘prototype-as-subcategory’ approaches. The spatial relations
established by preposition over are abstractly conceptualised by eliminating trivial
descriptions: specifically, the colour of the box and the details of the town are withdrawn from
18
mental representation. Such a process of selection is defined as ‘schematisation’ (Talmy,
2007: 766, cf. ‘idealisation’, Langacker, 1987: 803). Moreover, the diagrams, which are the
reflection of the mental image, also indicate the key constituents of the spatial configuration
of over. The example below (Figure 2.4), The plane flew over the town, illustrates that one
entity is ‘the plane’, which moves and is located at the centre of attention; the other, ‘the
town’, stays and remains as the background; and the broken arrows show the movement of the
plane. As a consequence, it may be concluded that the relationship expressed by prepositions
is conceptualised into an abstraction with the essential components highlighted.
To sum up, the prototype of prepositions is likely to be specified on a psychological
hypothesis (Geeraerts, 2007) and also by sub-categorization and abstraction (Taylor, 2003).
The internal and external structures of the prototype can be illustrated by the mental
representation, which derives from the intuition of language users. The simplified model of
prepositions is decoded into the three main components: one entity being the focus of
attention, another the background and the third the indicator of the spatial relationship and
movement. This section has provided accounts of the central member of a category and we
discuss non-central members in the following section.
Figure 2.4 Mental representations of Jump over the box and The plane flew over
the town (Lindstromberg, 1998:113)
19
2.2.2 Semantic network
Semantic network closely relates to the prototype theory. Prototype effects are a phenomenon
in human categorization which make a particular member of category prominent and as a
result makes the other members less prominent4
. However, the low profile members are
associated with the prototype and the connections constitute an interrelated network with each
member of the category sharing a common attribute.
Lakoff (1987: 74-75 and 83; 2007: 134) provides an illustrative example of the
structure of a semantic network. Nowadays various kinds of mother exist in society: namely,
>stepmother<, >adoptive mother<, >birth mother<, >natural mother<, >foster mother<,
>biological mother<, >surrogate mother<, >unwed mother< and >genetic mother<. An
idealised mother, on the one hand, who gives birth to a child, brings it up, possesses custodial
rights and satisfies other conditions, is the most likely to be the prototype of the ‘mother’
category5
. The given types of mother, on the other hand, are categorized into non-prototypical
members of the category, largely because they do not share the attributes which the
prototypical mother is expected to possess. These peripheral members do not irrationally form
the network under the name of mother. Rather, particular attributes function to associate the
peripheral members with a central member and the other members. For example, the attribute
of nurturance serves to relate >stepmother<, >adoptive mother< and >foster mother<. Giving
birth is the attribute connecting >birth mother<, >natural mother< and >surrogate mother<.
And a genetic issue concerns the link between >biological mother< and >genetic mother<.
These attributes associating the members of a network are called ‘clusters’ (Lakoff, 2007:
136). The clusters of nurturing the child, giving birth and sharing genes are located at the
4
Lakoff (2007: 136) argues that there are three sources of prototype effects: graded scale models whereby
prototype is determined by measureable features, such as rich; classical models which depend on standards
in society, for example, bachelor; and cluster models, which are discussed in the main text above.
5
ICM is the abbreviation of Idealised Cognitive Model proposed by Lakoff (1987). It is a mental
representation of a typical theory and knowledge of the world to which language users belong (Evans
2007a).
20
centre of the related members and associate with the prototype, an idealised mother. The
connection of the central and peripheral members through clusters establishes a ‘radial
category’ (Lakoff, 1987: 91), as illustrated in Figure 2.5 below.
The numbered clusters are associated with the prototype of mother located at the centre of the
network. One of the numbered clusters (number 2), which corresponds to the attributes of
nurturing the child, relates >stepmother<, >adoptive mother< and >foster mother< to one
another in the cluster and at the same time the members in the subcategory interrelate by
sharing certain attributes with each other. The extensions from the prototype to clusters and
via the clusters which function as secondary centres are described as radial.
1
2
3
4 5
6
7
Figure 2.5 Idealised semantic network with radial category (adapted from Sandra
and Rice, 1995: 96; Rice, 1996: 137)
21
A radial semantic network is applicable to the description of prepositions. Lakoff
(1987: 436) also provides an account of the semantic network of over, as illustrated in Figure
2.6 above. The network was established on the basis of schemas which represent a mental
representation of different senses of over: schema 1 ‘above-across’, schema 2 ‘above’,
schema 3 ‘covering’, schema 4 ‘reflexive’, schema 5 ‘excess’ and schema 6 ‘repetition. The
function of schemas in the network seem analogous to the clusters which specify the attributes
of members. Schema 3, ‘covering’, for example, is associated directly and indirectly with the
3. MX..P. RO 3. MX..RO
3. P. E.RO
3. MX..P
3. RO
3. MX
3. P.E. 3
1
2 4 4. RFP
6
2. 1DTR 1. X.NC
1. VX.NC
1. V.NC
1. V.NC.G
5
1. X.C
1. VX.C
1. V.C
1. VX.C.E
1. X.C.E
Figure 2.6 Semantic network of over by Lakoff (1987: 436)
P, path; E, end-point; MX, multiplex; RO, rotated; 1 DTR, one dimensional; RFP, reflexive path;
X, extended; V, vertical; C, contact; NC, no contact; VX, vertical extended
22
members of the sub-category. The attributes of the cluster are decomposed into MX
(multiplex), P (path), E (end-point) and RO (rotated) and their combination gives rise to the
different ‘covering’ senses assigned to the members. For example, the covering sense of over
in The guards were posted over the hill (Lakoff, 1987: 428) is assumed to have the attribute of
multiplex (MX) in that scattered points, the guards, cover an entity which is construed as a
planar, the hill. In addition to the MX, the path attribute (P) contributes to conveying the
covering by the sum of movements of an entity, as in I walked all over the hill (ibid.: 429).
In contrast, the semantic network of over established by Tyler and Evans (2003a,
Figure 2.7 below) suggests that the clusters of ‘A-B-C trajectory’ and ‘up’ should be extended
to the derived senses. The former cluster represents the movement from the starting-point
through the mid-point to the end, while the latter indicates vertical lifting. The mental
representation of the A-B-C trajectory is hypothesised as being associated with those of the
temporal sense, the completion and the transfer. It should be noted that peripheral senses can
emerge indirectly from the prototype. The ‘over-and-above’ sense, for example, is in the
network through the extension from the ‘up’ cluster and the ‘more’ sense. This ‘meaning
chain’ (Taylor, 2003: 110) is likely to contribute to the establishment of a semantic network,
since a derived sense cannot be linked to the prototype without the interference of the cluster
and senses in the network.
23
The semantic network of over which is given here shows that the prototype at the
centre is surrounded by the peripheral senses and connected through clusters which represent
attributes and which group similar senses together. The referential hypothesis suggested by
Geeraerts (2007) is likely to be supported by a semantic network where the prototype shares
more attributes than the peripheral members of the category. In the following section we
explore two entities involved in relationships expressed by prepositions.
2.2.3 Trajector and landmark
The locative sense is highly likely to be prototypical in terms of the senses of prepositions and
the semantic network is assumed to consist of the prototype and the derived senses. The
components of the prototype have to be understood before an association can be found
between the central and peripheral senses. As the diagrams of the prototypes of prepositions
are simply illustrated (Figure 2.3 above), the spatial relationship is established by at least two
PROTO-SCENE
Covering
Examining
Focus-of-
attention
Reflexive
Repetition
A-B-C
Trajectory
Cluster
Up Cluster
On-the-
other-side-
of
Above-and-
beyond
(ExcessI)
Completion
Transfer
Temporal
Preference
Control
More
Over-and-
above
(ExcessII)
Figure 2.7 Semantic network of over by Tyler and Evans (2003a: 80)
24
of the entities involved: one is the centre of attention and likely to be movable, and the other
is the background and referenced to the first. The cognition of making one thing
‘foregrounded’ (Lee, 2001:4) and at the same time holding the other in the background is a
common phenomenon of human perception. This contrast is based on a basic antithesis in
cognition: ‘figure’ and ‘ground’ (Herskovits, 1988; Langacker, 1987; Talmy, 2000). A
well-known optical illusion, Rubin’s vase (Figure 2.8 below), shows how our construal alters
in the relationship between figure and ground. Anyone who sees the black as salient finds two
faces in profile. Alternatively, anyone who perceives the white as highlighted sees a white
vase. Cognitive linguists posit that human perception, which interacts closely with the world,
is actively involved in establishing the meaning of a word. In other words, meaning represents
the way in which a language user ‘construes’ an entity or event as a result of perceptions
(Tsuji, 2003: 22). Construal, a creative ‘way of seeing’ (Evans and Green, 2006: 467), is one
of the essential and central notions in cognitive linguistics. What is construed becomes
‘conceptualised’ (Langacker, 1989) – coding reality as a concept, from the language user’s
viewpoint – and is assigned to a language form as its meaning, based on human cognition and
experience. ‘Conceptualisation’ in cognitive linguistics is deemed equivalent to the meaning
of language (Langacker, 1987).
Figure 2.8 Rubin’s vase
25
The relationship between figure and ground is frequently observed in language. In
terms of the relations, such as subject and object; adjective and qualified noun; and main
clause and subordinate clause, one is foregrounded and the other is backgrounded (Langacker,
1987). Figure and ground applied to prepositions are coined as the ‘trajector’ and the
‘landmark’ (ibid.: 231). For example, the configuration of entities denoted by the preposition
in indicates the thing in the container as the ‘trajector’ and the container as the ‘landmark’
(Figure 2.9).
Figure 2.9 Trajector and landmark (adapted from Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 184)
The landmark serves as a reference object to the trajector and is characterised as a
large, fixed object in the spatial configuration of the preposition (Herskovits, 1988). The
nature is reflected in the noun phrase following near as in example (1) below. The smaller
object, as landmark, bicycle, is expressed by a different phrase pattern, where the bicycle is, as
in the paraphrase (ii). This is because we perceive that the first sentence violates a general law
of landmark in relative size and immovablity. Sandra and Rice (1995) advocate that the nature
of the landmark is important to the analysis of the locative sense of prepositions.
(1) (i) *Mary’s house is near the bicycle.
(ii) Mary’s house is near where the bicycle is.
(Herskovits, 1988: 274)
Landmark (LM)
Trajector (TR)
26
Talmy (2007) recounts the asymmetry between trajector and landmark, which in his account
are named ‘primary object’ and ‘secondary object’ respectively 6
. The trajector (TR,
hereinafter) is characterised as movable, small, simple, of great relevance, salient and
dependent, whereas the landmark (LM, hereinafter) is described as a reference entity,
relatively located, large, complex, of less relevance, backgrounded and independent (Table 2.1
below).
Primary object Secondary object
· ·
· More movable · More permanently located
· Smaller · Larger
· · Geometrically more complex in its treatment
· · Earlier on the scene/in memory
· Of greater concern/relevance · Of lesser concern/relevance
· Less imediately perceivable · More immediately perceivable
· More salient, once perceived ·
· More dependent · More independent
More recently on the scene/in
awareness
Has unknown spatial (or temporal)
properties to be determined
Geometrically simpler (often pointlike)
in its treatment
Acts as a reference entity, having known properties
that can characterise the primary object's unknowns
More backgrounded, once primary object is
Table 2.1 Features of primary object and secondary object (Talmy, 2007: 771)
Despite the fact that the description is comprehensive, some of the features require
discussion. For example, the description that the TR is geometrically simpler than the LM
implies that the TR is simple and non-multilayered, unlike the LM of Figure 2.9 above; a box
is geometrically decomposed into the inside of the entity, the outside and its boundary. But in
fact the TR also has a complex structure in its spatial relation. As shown in Figure 2.10 below,
the TR in the relation of through to the LM consists of three elements: the first part at the
outside of the LM (TR A), the inside (TR B) and the second part of the outside (TR C). As in
example (2) below, a spatial configuration of protrusion expressed by through indicates that
more than one element of the TR exists both inside and outside the LM: a part of the route
6
Herskovits (1988: 274) designates the Figure entity as the ‘located object’ and the Ground as the
‘reference object’.
27
goes from the outside towards Brussels (TR A), another part of the route crosses the inside of
the LM (TR B) and the other runs away from the city (TR C).
(2) I think it [the route] actually goes through Brussels, doesn't it, the motorway.7
<S1A-021 #197>
Figure 2.10 Trajector and landmark of through (Langacker, 1987: 239)
The nature of the TR and the LM is likely to affect the choice of prepositions. As
seen in example (3) below, the TRs are different but have the same LM, tube, in both. In terms
of the relation between TR and LM, the only exception, snake, is unable to occur with
preposition through. However, given that the TR and the LM are essential to the choice of
prepositions, there is a possibility that the verb also requires the spatial sense to be generated.
The sentences of example (4) have the same trajector, bike, and the same verb, sped, but it
appears with different prepositions, through and into, in accordance with the LMs, tunnel and
sports hall respectively. This implies that the TR and LM are susceptible to co-occurrence
with a particular preposition and this feature is reflected in the choice of prepositions. As a
7
The trajector and landmark in relation to prepositions are shaded in the example sentences.
TR B
TR C
TR A
SPACE
28
consequence, I would like to hypothesise that the combination of TR and LM is likely to
predict the sense of the preposition, taking into consideration that verb is also an influential
factor in the sense.
(3) (i) The ball rolled through the tube.
(ii) The trickle flowed through the tube.
(iii) *The snake lay through the tube.
(4) The bike sped through the tunnel.
The bike sped into the sports hall.
This section has reported how the proposition of TR and LM relate to the description
of the spatial relation expressed by the prepositions. I conclude that, on the basis of the
asymmetric nature of the TR and the LM, the combination could to a certain extent indicate
the senses of the prepositions. However, we still observe some evidence of the locative sense.
In the following sections I demonstrate that this approach of combining TR and LM for the
task of describing the preposition’s senses is also reasonable for the metaphorical senses.
2.3 Embodiment and image schema
Until recently, body and mind were considered to be independent faculties in the Western
philosophical tradition. The body was believed to distract the mind and to be inferior in the
hierarchy of the human system from the time of the ancient Greeks, such as Plato and
Aristotle (Gibbs, 2006). In a similar vein, Descartes (1984) claimed the dualism of body and
mind: that is, our body is separate from the mind, where our thoughts, desires and volitions
originate. Human bodies were seen as being isolated from human minds and the world where
we live. Moreover, as Saussure argues, it is believed that the relationship between an entity
and its name is arbitrary and no particular reason underlies any connection between them. The
29
two sets of dualities led to the separation between ‘body and mind’ and that between
‘language and the world’. Yet, opposing the traditional belief, Merleau-Ponty (1962) and other
philosophers, such as Kant, Husserl and Heidegger in the school of phenomenology, underline
the importance of embodied experience to the understanding of the world (Verela et al., 1993)
and argue that the interaction between them, given the existence of bodies, gives rise to the
rationale of our knowledge of the world.
‘Embodiment’ is the theory of human cognition which suggests that our bodily
experience, which we recurrently undergo in everyday life, provides the rationale and
foundations for the conceptualisation of the external world. Cognitive linguists hold that body
and mind are closely interrelated and in turn posit that linguistic structure is determined on the
basis of embodied experience (Johnson, 1987; Lakoff, 1987). As far as prepositions are
concerned, research in developmental psychology shows that young children are likely to
understand the concept of in, that is, ‘containment’, through recurrent experiences of
interaction with certain things around them. Their experiences, such as putting a thing in a
box or a bag, and coming into a room, are hypothesised to form the basis of understanding the
concept of containment. As children grow up, the concept of physical relationship is
eventually extended into atypical containment, as in John is in England (Vandeloise, 2003:
419), and non-physical containment, as in such time expressions as in the afternoon.
Most of the spatial relationship of the prepositions can be represented by the trajector
and the landmark. For instance, containment denoted by preposition in is decomposed into
‘content’ (TR) and ‘container’ (LM) and support denoted by on into ‘bearer’ and ‘burden’
(Vandeloise, 1994; 2003: 394). The concept of prepositions is bodily experienced through the
spatial relationship composed of the TR and the LM and the concept of the physical
configuration is metaphorically projected onto the non-physical relationship. To put it another
way, the metaphorical sense of prepositions shares a certain number of features of the spatial
30
relationship; the bodily-experienced relationship of the TR and the LM is applied to the
figurative uses of prepositions. For example, the experiment conducted by Beitel at el. (1997)
shows that a metaphorical support conveyed by on, as in The family depends on the father,
was understood in a similar fashion to an example of physical support, as in The vase is on the
table (see page 36). I would then argue that analysis of the TR and the LM is essential in order
to interpret not only the physical but also the metaphorical sense of prepositions. However, a
question arises as to why we construe most of the usages of in as derivatives of containment.
The abstract image of containment which we retain helps us with the interpretation of a
number of types of containment.
‘Image schemas’ are a set of conceptual templates which help us to understand the
vast variety of spatial and metaphorical relationships which we recurrently experience in
everyday life by means of making them converge into a general relationship8
. Image schemas,
which are based on embodied experiences, help us to structure abstract images (Johnson,
1987). For example, we bodily experience the concept of containing by seeing something in a
container and finding ourselves in a closed space. The image schema of container, which
derives from such embodied experiences, is applied to understanding an abstract containing,
as in All mistakes point up the limitations inherent in the technology (Francis et al., 1986: 446,
my underlining). Drawing on the argument of Immanuel Kant, Johnson (1987) explains image
schemas by comparing them to a geometric figure: if you imagine a triangle, the image is
unlikely to precisely correspond to any triangle which we might observe in the real world.
This is because triangles have different sizes of angles and sides of different lengths. However,
we construe a triangle-shaped object as a triangle with the help of the general image which is
retained in our thought. Similarly, image schemas represent the basic concepts which are
8
Johnson (1987) calls image schemas ‘image schemata’. In this study I will employ ‘image schemas’ as it
is often found in the research.
31
repeatedly experienced through kinaesthetic interactions with objects in the real world. Image
schemas are claimed to be pre-linguistic concepts, because some experiments suggest that
babies who do not speak are familiar with the function of container (Mandler, 1992,
Vandeloise, 2003). The spatial relationship of prepositions, which consists of the TR and the
LM, is closely related to image schemas: namely, in can be conceptualised into ‘container’, on
into ‘surface’, and over, as in The cat jumped over the wall, into ‘path’.
CONTAINER BALANCE COMPULSION BLOCKAGE COUNTERFORCE RESTRAINT REMOVAL
ENABLEMENT ATTRACTION MASS-COUNT PATH LINK CENTRE-PERIPHERY
CYCLE NEAR-FAR SCALE PART-WHOLE MERGING SPLITTING
FULL-EMPTY MATCHING SUPERIMPOSITION ITERATION CONTACT PROCESS
SURFACE OBJECT COLLECTION
Table 2.2 List of image schemata (Johnson, 1987: 126)
Image schemas are topologically flexible, yet have a certain tolerance level for the
appropriateness of the concept. For example, in terms of containment, we express a spatial
relationship; even in cases such as Figure 2.11 below, we might say The pear is’in’ the bowl.
Strictly speaking, the pear is located outside the sphere of the bowl, but we construe the
relationship of containment as being established between the fruit and the container. This
suggests two different aspects of image schemas. Containment can be topologically
Figure 2.11 Pear in the bowl (Vandeloise, 1994 :171)
32
interpreted to the extent that the TR and the LM functions appropriately to the image schema.
The term ‘topology’ originates from geometry and means that the spatial relationship can be
extended flexibly to the point where it breaks down. Take Figure 2.11, for example: the
container (LM), the bowl, is construed to be extended into the sphere of the content (TR), the
pear. The reason why the relationship of containment does not fail is that the LM ‘functions’
as container vis-à-vis the TR although the TR is located outside the LM. The nature of the TR
and the LM determines whether the function is performed. Vandeloise (1994: 173, my
underlining in (5) and (6) below) points out that a bulb and a cap can acceptably establish the
relationship of container, because the LM, the cap, serves to hold the TR, the bulb, whereas
the LM, the cap, cannot stand as the container for the TR, the bottle. As a result, it could be
implied that the nature of the TR and the LM allows us to construe the spatial configuration
topologically. Hence, I would argue that the combination of the TR and the LM is essential for
interpreting prepositions, since their relationship to each other indicates the function.
(5) The bulb is in the cap.
(6) *The bottle is in the cap.
The function of the TR and LM is also reflected in the way in which we construe
them. ‘Image-schema transformations’ (Lakoff, 1987, Johnson, 1987) occur when a particular
aspect of the TR, the LM or the path movement is highlighted. Take (7), for example: the
scattered places where many sanctuaries are located are construed as an aggregation of places
as though they loosely covered the country, but in fact the actual appearance of the TR in the
external world is that of a set of points. Such alteration of construal is described as ‘multiplex
to mass’ transformation (Johnson, 1987: 26). Likewise, the image-schema transformation is
seen in example (8) below, where the hands of Stevenson, as the LM, are construed as a space
which has a mass volume which the TR, the ball, can traverse.
33
(7) …many sanctuaries that at that point had existed all over the country and the
free access,.. <S1B-001 #004>
(8) … and it [the ball] goes through the hands of Stevenson who ran off the
boundary. <S2A-013 #006>
The other transformations are related to the path schema which is often represented by
prepositions over and through. The image-schema transformation of ‘following a trajectory’
(ibid.,: 26) encourages us to see the path of the TR as a continuum from the starting point to
the end-point. As seen in (9), the trajectory which the TR, the route, makes is construed as a
single path through Brussels to the end. It should be noted that, by definition, the route
functions to allow vehicles to travel from one place to another, and therefore it is associated
with the concept of the continuum of the trajectory. While the following trajectory
transformation underlines the whole journey of the TR on the one hand, the ‘path-focus to
end-point focus’ transformation (ibid.: 26), on the other hand, foregrounds the destination of
the TR’s trajectory on its own. Example (10) shows that the TR, the vault, is located at the
end-point from the participant in the scene, you, and the speaker of the utterance, through the
LM, the main sanctuary area. As a result of taking a look, the trajectory of seeing ends up at
the end-point where the TR corresponds with the mid-point and the rest is grounded. As we
have seen, image-schema transformations are deeply involved in the interpretation of
prepositions. For this reason, the nature and function of the TR and the LM should be
examined to analyse the senses of prepositions
(9) I think it [the route] actually goes through Brussels, doesn't it, the motorway.
<S1A-021 #197>
(10) Uhm, you see, of course, the detail here of, the of of of, the vault that’s over
the main sanctuary area,… <S2A-060 #066>
34
A seminal study conducted by Beitel et al. (1997) examining the embodiment and the
attributes of preposition on demonstrates that the senses of the preposition are controlled by a
number of image schemas which are closely associated with embodied experiences. In the
first experiment, the subjects were asked to stand on a table and rate the appropriateness of
image schemas based on the embodied experience. As a result, five image schemas were
chosen to represent the concept of on: SUPPORT, PRESSURE, VISIBILITY, COVERING
and CONSTRAINT. Subsequently, thirty-seven sentences containing locative and
metaphorical uses of on were scored according to their relevance to the five image schemas.
For example, the locative sense, as in The vase is on the table, was rated SUPPORT (6.46),
PRESSURE (4.58), VISIBILITY (6.54), COVERING (4.75) and CONSTRAINT (4.29).
Finally, further subjects separate from those in the previous experiments were asked to
classify the thirty-seven sentences and the different usages appeared to be grouped in a way
which related closely to the classification of the five image schemas – 82% of the uses were
correctly classified in accordance with the image schemas. These results provide us with a
number of implications about the relationship between prepositions and image schemas. First,
image schemas exist and intuitively associate the concept of prepositions with kinaesthetic
experiences that we repeatedly have in interactions with the external world. In the experiment,
the experience of sitting, rocking and various interactions with a table encouraged the subjects
to identify the image schemas of on. Secondly, image schemas are innately available in
human cognition. As the third experiment confirmed, without any indication of image
schemas we can differentiate image schemas in the same surface structure yet with distinctive
senses of on. Most importantly, the senses of prepositions can be represented by more than
one image schema; or rather, the combination of image schemas and the degree of relatedness
are likely to predict the senses. Similar senses of the preposition share the rating pattern of the
image schemas. Figure 2.12 below illustrates the fact that the dependence sense of on has an
35
identical distribution pattern in the ratings of the five image schemas. High ratings were given
to the aspect of SUPPORT (6.17 of The family depends on the father and 5.79 of He lives on a
pension). Medium ratings were given to PRESSURE (4.04 and 3.17, respectively) and
CONSTRAINT (4.00 and 4.88), and low ratings were given to VISIBILITY (2.33 and 1.83)
COVERING (1.67 and 1.92).
SUPPORT PRESSURE VISIBILITY COVERING CONSTRAINT
The family depends on the father. 6.17 4.04 2.33 1.67 4.00
He lives on a pension. 5.79 3.17 1.83 1.92 4.88
0.00
1.00
2.00
3.00
4.00
5.00
6.00
7.00
Supp Press Visib Cover Const
Image schemas
Ratings
The family depends on the father. He lives on a pension.
Figure 2.12 Distribution patterns of the dependence sense of on (adapted from Beitel et al., 1997)
Figure 2.13 below shows that the locative sense differs in the distribution pattern of
the image schemas; however, it almost corresponds to the dependence sense in terms of high
and medium ratings, namely, SUPPORT (6.46), PRESSURE (4.58) and CONSTRAINT
(4.29). To put it more accurately, the locative sense, as in The vase is on the table, is assigned
no low ratings in the five image schemas, including VISIBILITY (6.54) COVERING (4.75).
Conversely, it is no surprise that VISIBILITY and COVERING are relatively absent in the
36
dependence sense compared to the locative. Given that the extent of the attribution is
distinctive, the distribution pattern of image schemas relates to different senses of the
preposition. Not all the attributes, which are represented by the image schemas are possessed
by any sense of on; rather, some of the attributes relate to a particular sense, namely,
SUPPORT, PRESSURE and CONSTRAINT, which relate to the sense of dependence.
Sharing some, but not all, of the attributes is likely to feature as a family resemblance in
categorization, indicating that a member of a category has a partial similarity, in common with
the other members.
Supp Press Visib Cover Const
The family depends on the father. 6.17 4.04 2.33 1.67 4.00
He lives on a pension. 5.79 3.17 1.83 1.92 4.88
The vase is on the table. 6.46 4.58 6.54 4.75 4.29
0.00
1.00
2.00
3.00
4.00
5.00
6.00
7.00
Supp Press Visib Cover Const
Image schemas
Ratings
The family depends on the father.
He lives on a pension.
The vase is on the table.
Figure 2.13 Distribution patterns of the locative and dependence senses of on (adapted from Beitel et
al., 1997)
Not only can the senses of the preposition be decomposed into image schemas, but
those of the verbs can also be decomposed into particular image schemas. Gibbs et al. (1994)
carried out similar experiments to those conducted by Beitel et al. (1997). One of these was
37
an experiment aimed at discovering the principal image schemas related to the concept of ‘to
stand’. Their study produced some image schemas common to those of preposition on (Table
2.3 below). The two sets of twelve image schemas were chosen by the experimenters from
twenty-seven image schemas suggested by Johnson (1987, see Table 2.2 on page 31).
BLOCKAGE, CENTRE-PERIPHERY, LINKAGE, RESISTANCE and PATH were given
relatively medium ratings for the image schemas of both ‘on’ and ‘to stand’. This may imply
that the image schemas represented by the preposition can be triggered by the verb at the
same time. For example, in The clock stands on the mantel (Gibbs et al., 1994: 244), the
locative sense is likely to be inferred at the same time from the CENTRE-PERIPHERY of
both on and to stand. In the same manner, metaphorical standing as in We stand on 30 years of
experience (ibid.: 243) is conveyed by the LINKAGE of the words. I would in turn argue that
the analysis of the sense of prepositions should not be given for prepositions on their own, but
that the contribution of the co-occurring verb should be examined too.
Image schemas
Image schemas
Image schemas
Image schemas Ratings
Ratings
Ratings
Ratings Image schemas
Image schemas
Image schemas
Image schemas Ratings
Ratings
Ratings
Ratings
SUPPORT 6.43 BALANCE 6.83
PRESSURE 5.83 VERTICALITY 5.50
VISIBILITY 5.80 CENTER-PERIPHERY 5.21
COVERING 5.67 RESISTANCE 4.46
CONSTRAINT 4.50 LINKAGE 4.33
ATTRACTION 4.17 CONTAINER 4.29
CENTER-PERIPHERY 3.73 ENABLEMENT 4.21
BLOCKAGE 3.67 ATTRACTION 4.08
RESISTANCE 3.33 BLOCKAGE 3.92
LINKAGE 3.13 FULL-EMPTY 3.92
PATH 1.97 CYCLE 3.79
NEAR-FAR 1.77 PATH 3.21
Preposition
Preposition
Preposition
Preposition on
on
on
on Verb
Verb
Verb
Verb to stand
to stand
to stand
to stand
Table 2.3 Ratings of the image schemas of on and to stand (Beitel et al. 1997: 248, Gibbs et al., 1994:
238, my highlighting)
The hypothesis that the sense should be attributed to more than one word is the
38
central thesis of phraseology in corpus linguistics. The studies of image schemas in cognitive
linguistics also suggest that the concept, which closely relates to the sense, arises from a
phrase. Lindner (1983) examined about 600 cases of ‘verb + out’ (e.g., TAKE out, SPREAD out,
THROW out, PICK out) and more than 1100 cases of ‘verb + up’ and concluded that a small
number of image schemas indicate the concepts of almost all instances of verb-particle
constructions. Technically speaking, out and up are not prepositions but are sometimes
grammatically categorized as adverbs. However, supposing the words denote a spatial
relationship, out and up are called ‘spatial particles’ (Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 61), and so is
over. I would claim that no clear distinction between prepositional and adverbial over is made
in the sense of over, which conveys locative and metaphorical uses. Once again, the
involvement of other components, such as the verb, should be taken into consideration when
exploring the sense of prepositions.
Let us turn back to an extension of the physical sense of over. The preposition
figuratively denotes ‘more’ as in If you are over age 60, … <W2D-004 #089>. It is claimed
that the sense derived from the locative use may be one of the image schemas, namely,
SCALE (Johnson, 1987: 121). However, it can be considered as a reflection of the MORE IS UP
(Grady, 1997). In the following section, we will see the way in which the extension of the
spatial sense of prepositions is extended into the figurative sense.
2.4 Metonymy and metaphor
Prepositions demonstrate not only a spatial relationship, composed of TR and LM, which can
be bodily experienced, but also a metaphorical one. Take over, for example. It is used to
indicate the sense of ‘more’, as in the example: If you are over age 60,…<W2D-004 #089>. It
also has a sense of ‘control’, as in …when George Bush took over America…<S2B-021 #019>.
These metaphorical senses do not indicate that the TR is physically located above the LM.
39
Technically, you are not located above age 60, nor is George Bush above America. However,
the ‘more’ and ‘control’ senses are represented by the preposition over, largely because we
construe them as being associated with the spatial relationship of over. In other words, the
metaphorical sense of prepositions derives from the physical one, and metaphor and
metonymy are to a large extent involved in the derivation of prepositional senses. In this
section, we explore the way in which the spatial sense of prepositions develops into the
metaphorical ones and metaphor and metonymy contribute to the development of the senses.
Metaphor is sometimes thought to be simply a rhetorical device which aims to make
language imposing to readers. Lakoff and Johnson (1980), however, counter the traditional
views of metaphor which have been dominant in Western thought since the time of Aristotle.
The traditional theory of metaphor explains the example, JULIET IS THE SUN
9
, by claiming that
Juliet and the sun are thought to share ‘similarities’: they are both shining; they make you
warm; you cannot live without them; and so forth. For this reason, it was assumed that
metaphor was made possible by virtue of the similar attributes of the elements involved.
Cognitive linguists, however, cannot accept the assumption that metaphor works like this. The
rationale of metaphor is not similarity; rather, it is argued, its nature is that characteristics are
projected from element A onto element B. As shown in Figure 2.14 below, Sun is the concept
(‘source domain’) which maps particular attributes onto the other concept, Juliet (‘target
domain’). Not all the attributes of the source domain are available to be mapped onto the
target domain. For instance, a distinctive attribute of sun, which causes sunburn eventually
leading to skin cancer, is not recalled from the metaphor JULIET IS THE SUN; only certain
attributes – but not every one - of the source domain are chosen to be mapped onto the target
domain. Therefore, metaphorical mapping is inferred to be partial, not based on the whole
(Lakoff and Johnson, 1980). Some particular attributes of the source domain are ‘highlighted’
9
The concept of metaphor and metonymy is represented as ‘A IS B’ in small capital font.
40
and mapped onto the target domain. The cognitive process, highlighting, is found in the
process of making metaphor. As a result, it is argued that metaphor is not merely a rhetorical
technique; it is rather the representation of cognitive activities.
Metaphor, then, represents forms of cognition on the part of language users, such as
construal and inference, and is not simply the oratorical manipulation of words. Metaphor is
employed as a means of understanding an ambiguous concept by comparing it with a specific
concept familiar to the language users. Such metaphor at the conceptual level (Evans and
Green, 2006) may possibly result from the human mind’s subjective construal in order to
discover a similar ‘attribute’ in the process of the ‘categorisation’ (discussed earlier in section
2.1) which links the two entities expressed in a metaphor. Metaphor to a large extent relies on
‘embodiment’ (see section 2.3 above), which is one means whereby we construe reality. For
example, in the HEALTHY IS UP; SICK IS DOWN metaphor, as in He fell ill (Kövecses, 2002: 36,
my underlining), the vertical direction sets up the concept of the metaphor on the basis of the
embodied experience whereby we perceive upright as being good. ANGER IS HEAT, as in As a
source domain target domain
:domain
:partially
mapped
in domain
: concepts
: mapping
Figure 2.14 Mapping from the source domain to the target domain (adapted from Takao
2003: 202)
41
child I had a real hot temper (Kövecses, 2000: 85, my underlining), is assumed to derive from
the experience of increased body temperature when we get angry. Metaphor allows the
projection of ‘image schemas’ onto abstract entities and associates an abstract relationship
with our image schemas (Barcelona, 2000, Boers, 1996). In conclusion, metaphor is closely
related to bodily experiences.
The concepts formulated by embodied experience correspond to image schemas,
which function in nature as a source of metaphors (Evans and Green, 2006). Image schemas
are a set of concepts which help us to understand what we encounter. The path schema
indicates that an entity travels from one place to another. In terms of metaphor, an abstract
entity, for example, can travel from one thing to another which is not supposed to be a
container. This is called the ‘conduit metaphor’ (Reddy, 1979: 166). As shown in (11) and (12)
below (ibid.: 166-67, my underlining), the abstract entity, feelings, is construed as capable of
entering a person, me; likewise, each concept transforms into words through the process of
change. In this case, change is construed as the path from one form to the other. Three types
of metaphor are employed in terms of mapping abstract entities: ‘ontological metaphor’,
‘structural metaphor’ and ‘orientational metaphor’ (Lakoff and Johnson, 1980: 25). First,
ontological metaphor contributes to our construal of seeing an abstract concept as a concrete
entity: here, feelings and concept are seen as capable of moving. Secondly, structural
metaphor provides a particular structure of the source domain with the abstract target domain:
here, feelings are seen to be able to travel from person to person. Thirdly, orientational
metaphor helps us construe the orientation between domains: here, concept is thought to
change into words. These metaphors in which our construal is actively involved are likely to
allow abstract entities to function in the same way as concrete ones. As has been seen, the
metaphorical senses of through and into in the examples below seem to relate to the path
schema which originates from the embodied experience of travelling from one place to
42
another.
(11) None of Mary’s feelings came through to me with any clarity.
(12) You have to put each concept into words very carefully.
Metonymy, which can provide a word with semantic extensions, stands for an entity
by referring to another adjacent to that entity (Momiyama and Fukada, 2003: 83). In
comparison with metaphor, which is accounted for by the nature of mapping on the basis of
‘similarity’, metonymy is assumed to be based on ‘contiguity’ and ‘proximity’ (Jakobson,
2003: 46; Kövecses and Radden, 1998: 37). In the sentence, The ham sandwich is waiting for
his check (Lakoff and Johnson 1980: 35)10
, for instance, the ham sandwich does not, in fact,
literally stand for the food but by metonymy represents the person who ordered it. This could
imply that the speaker foregrounds the ham sandwich as figure and the person as ground. It
exemplifies the metonymy of THE PART FOR THE WHOLE, whereas the whole represents the part
in the metonymy of THE WHOLE FOR THE PART. For example, in My pencil broke (Boers, 1996:
29), the broken part is not the whole of the pencil, but its lead point. A place, for example,
metonymically implies an institution and those who work in this institution. An example of A
PLACE FOR AN INSTITUTION, could be The White House isn’t saying anything (Lakoff, 1987:
91), indicating that the American government or the president is the agent of the statement. An
object, such as clothing, instruments and so forth, can stand for the user in metonymic
fashion: AN OBJECT FOR THE PERSON USING IT, as in The suits don’t know how the assembly line
operates (Boers, 1996: 29), is the metonymy which represents that clothing refers to those
who wear it. In addition to these metonymies, a variety of metonymies refer to a part of an
entity, place and incident instead of the whole or vice versa. That is, a place can stand for the
10
Synecdoche, which refers to the part for the whole, can be categorized as a special usage of metonymy.
Traditional rhetoric also foregrounds part of an entity out of the whole, as in ‘There are a lot of good heads
(=intelligent people) in the university’ (Lakoff and Johnson, 1980: 36).
43
events which occur in the place, as in Don’t let El Salvador become another Vietnam (Lakoff,
1987: 91), and a producer may represent the product, as in Have you ever read Shakespeare?
Principal types of metonymy are listed below:
THE PART FOR THE WHOLE
THE WHOLE FOR THE PART
APLACE FOR AN INSTITUTION
AN OBJECT FOR THE PERSON USING IT
APLACE FOR THE EVENTS
APRODUCER FOR THE PRODUCT
(Boers, 1996; Kövecses and Radden, 1998; Lakoff 1987; Lakoff and Johnson, 1980)
Metaphor is hypothesised to map a set of attributes ‘across’ two different domains, that is,
from the source domain onto the target domain, while metonymy is assumed to map the
structure composed of attributes ‘within’ one domain which entails the whole phenomenon
where the members of the metonymy appear (Boers, 1996; Goossens, 2003; Rice et al., 1999).
In other words, metonymical mapping takes place in a particular sequence where the members
are seen. Take A PRODUCER FOR THE PRODUCT for example: Shakespeare wrote his work and
his publication is at the end of the sequence of production. Such an imaginable sequence of
incidents is defined as the ‘idealized cognitive model’ (abbreviated to ‘ICM’, Lakoff, 1987:
xv), representing ‘a theory about some aspect of the world’ (Evans, 2007a: 104), which is the
sequence of events proceeding as expected. Metonymy takes place within a single domain on
the basis of the ICM, whereas in metaphor two domains are involved.
On the surface, metaphor and metonymy seem to be mutually exclusive categories
because of the element of the mapping of two domains in metaphor and one domain in
metonymy. However, this is not the case. In fact, metaphor and metonymy can be both used in
44
one figurative expression at the same time and the semantic extension is interwoven in a
complex manner. Such a synthesis of metaphor and metonymy is dubbed as ‘metaphtonymy’
(Goossens, 2003: 362). As in (13) below, close-lipped metonymically indicates that lips are
the body part that speaks, instead of the whole upper body of the person speaking. This THE
PART FOR THE WHOLE metonymy is associated with the metaphor, CLOSING LIPS IS SILENCE.
Close-lipped suggests muteness, even though the people who are close-lipped, the Brisbane
Entertainment Centre – this is also AN INSTITUTION FOR THE PEOPLE WORKING metonymy – do
not actually close their lips. It can thus be implied that the CLOSING LIPS IS SILENCE metaphor
develops from THE PART FOR THE WHOLE metonymy. Such interrelation between metaphor and
metonymy is defined as ‘metaphor from metonymy’ (ibid.: 362). Another type of
metaphtonymy is ‘metonymy within metaphor’ (ibid.: 365). As shown in (14) below, the
metaphor CATCHING EAR IS LISTENING is associated with the metonymy THE PART FOR THE
WHOLE between the ear and the person, here, the minister. These examples of metaphtonymy
suggest that the co-occurrence of metaphor and metonymy is ubiquitous in semantic extension.
In the same manner, the synthesis of metaphor and metonymy may give rise to an extension
from the locative sense to the metaphorical senses of prepositions. Note, therefore, that the
involvement of both metaphor and metonymy should be considered in analysing the semantic
extension of prepositional senses.
(13) The Brisbane Entertainment Centre is close-lipped about a Lion King
booking… (Bank of English)
(14) She caught the minister’s ear and persuaded him to accept her plan. (Goossens,
2003: 365)
The temporal sense of prepositions results from relatively conventional patterns
of extension from the locative sense (Casasanto and Boroditsky, 2008; Evans, 2007b; Givón,
45
1979; Jackendoff, 1983; Lakoff and Johnson, 1980; Langacker, 1987; Radden, 1985; Talmy,
1988; Traugott, 1985). The TIME IS SPACE metaphor (Rice et al., 1999: 107) is commonly used
for a derived sense of prepositions. As indicated in Table 2.4 below, most of the prepositions,
apart from with, under, off and out of, have a temporal sense which is highly likely to be
semantically associated with the locative sense.
at on in by with through about over under from off out of
time + + + + - + + + - + - -
+: use of the temporal sense -: absence of the temporal sense
Table 2.4 The temporal sense of prepositions (adapted from Dirven, 1993: 84)
The association was accounted for by physiological experiments carried out by Casasanto and
Boroditsky (2008). The subjects were exposed to different kinds of stimuli in order to decide
the lapse of time. In one experiment, the subject saw a line on a computer screen and heard
the sound of a buzzer. As the line got longer, they felt that the time of the sound got longer too.
The results of these experiments suggest that our temporal judgements are prone to change by
obtaining irrelevant information about space. In addition, asymmetry between space and time
was observed, in that the influence of space on time was more pronounced than that of time
on space. As a consequence, it can be inferred that space may be the more fundamental of the
two concepts. For this reason, it can be argued that the temporal sense is likely to be the
foremost metaphorical extension from the prototypical locative sense of prepositions.
Despite my claim that time is the first derivation from space, it seems unlikely that
the locative sense and the temporal are associated in any straightforward way (Rice et al.,
1999). In the experiment by Rice et al., the subjects were asked to classify 50 different
sentences containing on – 20 spatial, 20 abstract and 10 temporal – on a screen by moving
them with a mouse to form groups of similar sentences. The results of the sorting task indicate
46
that the spatial and temporal use of the preposition are clearly differentiated; however, another
factor is likely to contribute to the classification of different uses of prepositions.
‘Concreteness and abstractness’ also seem to be involved in grouping the prepositional senses
of the spatial and temporal, as well as of the abstract. This may imply that the spatial and
non-spatial senses of preposition should be analysed with consideration of a number of related
factors.
Time is conceptualised when one treats one idea as a ‘moving’ object and the other as
a ‘landscape’ across which events move (Rice et al., 1999: 109). Evans (2007b: 751-53)
points out that the concepts are relevant to cognitive models: ‘the moving time model’ and
‘the moving ego model’. The former indicates that time is moving while ego-centric people
remain (Figure 2.15 below). In terms of the theory of spatial configurations, it can be
suggested that time is highlighted as the trajector (TR) which shifts from the future through
the present towards the past, while a person is backgrounded as the landmark (LM) of moving
time. In (15), for example, the events, such as Christmas, graduation and the deadline, seem
to come toward the ego. The latter demonstrates that the ego is the trajector which is located
in the present and is moving towards the future (Figure 2.16); here, the person is highlighted
and the time is backgrounded. In (16), for example, the ego, here we and she, seem to
approach the events, here, Christmas and the deadline.
47
Both models are based on our construal about time whereby the language referring to time
changes. The TRs of the moving time model are events, such as Christmas, graduation and
the deadline and the landmarks are not observed explicitly, although they can be inferred as
the content of the brackets of (15)a, us, indicates. However, the TRs of the moving ego model
are pronouns referring to persons, here, we and she, and the LMs are clearly indicated after
the verb or the preposition. As a result, I would argue that the different types of time
expression relate to our construal and that the difference is likely to correspond with the
occurrence of particular kinds of trajector and the phrase pattern in which the trajector and the
landmark are observed in language. It follows that analysis of the TR and the LM, as well as
the phrase pattern, is likely to provide a useful insight into the description of the metaphorical
EGO
future
present
past
EGO
future
present
past
Figure 2.15 The moving time model (Evans, 2007b: 751)
Figure 2.16 The moving ego model (Evans, 2007b: 753)
48
sense, including the temporal sense, of prepositions.
(15) a. Christmas is getting closer (to us).
b. Graduation is coming up.
c. The deadline has passed.
(Evans, 2007b: 753)
(16) a. We’re moving up on Christmas.
b. We’re approaching my favourite part of the piece.
c. She’s passed the deadline.
d. We’ll have an answer within two weeks.
e. The meetings were spread out over a month.
(ibid.: 754)
As well as this extension to the temporal sense, the prototypical locative sense of
prepositions develops into other metaphorical senses. Image schemas are likely to be essential
to development. As Tyler and Evans (2003a) illustrate in Figure 2.17 below, the clusters of
‘A-B-C trajectory’ and ‘up’ function as the nodes of the derived senses from the locative sense
of over (‘proto-scene’ in Figure 2.17). Technically, the A-B-C trajectory represents the path
schema which indicates the movement from one place to another, and the upwards direction
seems to be relevant to the ‘scale’ schema (Johnson, 1987: 126) which encourages us to
measure increase and decrease. As discussed above, bodily experience is reflected in the
conceptualisation of image schemas; that is, embodiment is likely to be the basis of the
metaphorical extension.
49
In addition to the image schemas, metaphor and metonymy are heavily involved in the
extension of the metaphorical sense. One of the derived senses through the A-B-C trajectory
cluster, the completion sense, as in …the fighting is over relatively quickly <W2E-006 #084>,
seems to be mapped via the ACTIVITY IS JOURNEY metaphor. In other words, when we reach
the end of a journey, we finish it. In the same manner, reaching the end of the A-B-C
trajectory metaphorically represents the completion of the activity, the fighting. The ‘more’
sense, as in If you are over age 60,…<W2D-004 #089>, seems to derive from the MORE IS UP
metaphor, which means that the vertical elevation corresponds to the increase of quantity or
number. The control sense, as in …when George Bush took over America…<S2B-021 #019>,
seems to originate from the metaphor of HIGHER IS STRONGER and at the same time metonymy
is also involved in that America is inferred from A PLACE FOR AN INSTITUTION. This sense is
likely to be developed through the metaphtonymy of metaphor within metaphor. In terms of
2
2.A
2.B
2.C
2.D
2.E
5.A
5.B 5.C
5.A.1
4.A
6.A
3
4
6
PROTO-SCENE
Covering
Examining
Focus-of-
attention
Reflexive
Repetition
A-B-C
Trajectory
Cluster
Up Cluster
On-the-
other-side-
of
Above-and-
beyond
(ExcessI)
Completion
Transfer
Temporal
Preference
Control
More
Over-and-
above
(ExcessII)
Figure 2.17 The semantic network for over (Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 80)
50
the TR and LM that co-occur with the metaphorical senses of over, my data show that
distinctive TRs and LMs are seen in a particular sense –discussed in detail in Chapters Six
through Eight. For example, the LMs denoting number frequently occur in the ‘more’ sense
and metonymic LMs which represent A PLACE FOR AN INSTITUTION are frequently found. This
may be because the syntagmatic relationship based on word combination is related to
specifying the metaphorical and metonymic sense (Dirven, 2003).
In conclusion, the metaphorical sense of prepositions is highly likely to derive from
the spatial sense which functions as the prototype of the semantic network. Metaphor and
metonymy are likely to contribute to the semantic extension by highlighting particular
attributes of the source domain and mapping them onto the target domain. As metaphor and
metonymy are claimed to be a fundamental cognitive process of conceptualisation (Goossens,
2003, Kövecses and Radden, 1998, Rice et al. 1999), the metaphorical senses of prepositions
are unlikely to be arbitrary, but are rather systematically motivated by our embodied
experiences and construal.
2.5 Phraseology
’Phraseology’ in corpus linguistics is generally defined as the study of word combinations and
phrases. As Wray (2002: 9) observes, units made up of a word combination have many names,
such as ‘lexical phrases’ (Nattinger and DeCarrioco, 1992), ‘composites’ (Cowie, 1988),
‘phrasemes’ (Melčuk, 1988), ‘prefabricated routines and patterns’ (Krashen, 1981), ‘sentence
stems’ (Pawley and Syder, 1983), ‘formulae’ (Peters, 1983), and ‘formulaic language’ (Wray,
1999), although several of these terms may be defined differently. Likewise, Hunston and
Francis (2000: 7) cite a number of terminological variations referring to “sequences of
morphemes that are more or less fixed in form”. Phraseology may be defined narrowly as
linguistic phenomena, such as collocation (discussed in more detail below), phrases and
51
complement patterns (Hunston, 2002: 137-138). Cowie’s wider definition, however, includes
recurring complete utterances in discourse – e.g., How are you? as an unlikely enquiry about
someone’s physical state (Cowie, 1994). This study will adopt Hunston’s focus on word
behaviour, which interrelates with one or more constituent(s) in a string of text.
Even before phraseology began to be studied in corpus linguistics, it was largely
perceived and postulated that units could be composed of more than one word, conveying a
particular meaning which did not belong to the individual words within the unit. Such lexical
units – namely, phrasal verbs (e.g. look after) and other idiomatic sequences (e.g. spill the
beans) – were thought to assist learners of English with their production. They have, in fact,
been effectively utilised in classrooms where English is taught. It is surmised that relatively
fixed word combinations are used as short cuts in speech and written production and that
these may assist the fluency of speakers and writers (Pawley and Syder 1983; Nattinger and
DeCarrico 1992). However, accounts of the features of such units were at first limited and the
combination of words and sequences within them was imagined to be firmly fixed.
It still remains unclear how multi-word sequences can be identified as units. Three
explanations have been offered. First, because native-speakers can intuitively identify them,
Foster (2001) carried out a study in order to identify what native-speaker intuition saw as
fixed ‘chunks’. Second, with the help of computer-assisted analysis, statistical frequency can
reveal the strength of word-combinations. Sinclair (1991b: 489) has since developed this
notion, with “the examination by computer of large collections of texts”, to re-assess “the
nature and structure of language”. Third, the notion of ‘unit of meaning’ (Sinclair, 1991a: 6-9)
can be used to identify the constitution of a multi-word sequence. The unit does not
necessarily coincide with grammatical units such as Subject, Verb, Object and Adjunct.
Unlike single words, which are often ambiguous, units of meaning express a single meaning
(Sinclair, 1991a). The phrase unit can represent the attitude of the speaker/writer, although the
52
attitude may be occasionally difficult to detect from the individual components of the unit.
There are four prominent features of units of meaning: ‘collocation’, ‘colligation’, ‘semantic
preference’ and ‘semantic prosody’.
COLLOCATION the co-occurrence of words
COLLIGATION the co-occurrence of words with grammatical choices
SEMANTIC PREFERENCE the co-occurrence of words with semantic choices
SEMANTIC PROSODY expressing attitudinal and pragmatic meaning.
Table 2.5 Definitions of collocation, colligation, semantic preference and semantic prosody (Sinclair,
2004: 174)
Core
PROSODY
PREFERENCE negative
negative
negative
negative visibility
visibility
visibility
visibility
COLLIGATION
adjective
modal verb
verb
adjective
preposition
COLLOCATION
small
small
small
small
faint
faint
faint
faint
weak
weak
weak
weak
difficult
difficult
difficult
difficult
invisibile
invisibile
invisibile
invisibile
can/could
can/could
can/could
can/could
…
…
…
…
see
see
see
see
visible
visible
visible
visible
naked eye
naked eye
naked eye
naked eye
Semantics Grammar
difficulty
difficulty
difficulty
difficulty
with
with
with
with
to
to
to
to
the
the
the
the
Table 2.6 Lexical description of naked eye (adapted from Sinclair, 2003: 151)
The above accounts of units of meaning reveal the fusion of the two polarities: lexis
and grammar. Until the hybrid language description of lexis and grammar was established,
grammar was described under the conventional rules of language of prescribed grammar,
which dictated that a word or phrase could replace anything in a grammatical structure, as
long as it fitted the assigned word-class slot: for example, a noun phrase could slot into
Subject or Object. Such a ‘slot-and-filler’ model of language accounts for the underlying
‘open-choice principle’ (Sinclair, 1991a: 109). Sinclair finds that many phrases are not, in fact,
53
accounted for by this model. To give an example, naked eye appears to attract other words
such as the preceding the core words; with and to, prior to the; see and visible coming before
the prepositions (Table 2.6 above). The co-occurring words fall into certain grammatical
categories: determiner, preposition, verb and adjective. These words surrounding naked eye
show particular semantic choices denoting visibility and difficulty. On the basis of
phraseological observations, Sinclair judges that the meanings of phrases are attributed to the
whole phrase but not to the individual components. The phrase naked eye with the words
which surround it denotes a particular meaning, that seeing the true nature of something is
difficult (Table 2.6 above). This alternative principle underpinning a text of language is
defined as the ‘idiom principle’ (ibid.: 110). More importantly, the idiom principle plays an
essential part in interpreting a text (Hunston, 2002), because the idiom principle, in general,
takes priority over the open-choice principle (Sinclair, 1991a), and does not apply
simultaneously (Hunston and Francis, 2000); but if the idiom principle fails to interpret the
phrase, then the hearer switches to the open-choice principle (Sinclair, 1991a: 113). The
principles each guide “the way in which meaning arises from text” (ibid.: 109). For example,
the interpretation of a joke illustrates our use of both the idiom principle and the open-choice
principle (Hunston and Francis, 2000: 22-23).
2.6 Lexical priming
Sinclair’s (1991a) analytical approach to lexical items illuminates the co-occurrence of words,
namely, collocation. Partington (1998) provides the three definitions of collocation based on
text, statistics and psychology11
. The textual definition encompasses the relationship of words
within a text, as Sinclair (1991a: 170) explains: it is defined as “the occurrence of two or more
words within a short space of each other in a text”. Under this definition, the feature of
11
Stubbs (1996; 2002) focuses on the interpretation of collocations, which indicates what may influence
language users when establishing them: culture and educational publications, in particular.
54
collocation is proximity and co-occurrence of words in a text. The statistical definition is that
collocation does not occur randomly, but occurs “with greater than random probability in its
(textual) context” (Hoey, 1991: 6-7). A psychological definition appears in two versions. The
strong version of the psychological definition is that collocation arises from the mind of
language users. Partington (1998:16) claims that collocation “is part of a native speaker’s
communicative competence”. Stubbs (1996; 2002), in contrast, focuses on the interpretation
of collocations, which indicates what may influence language users in establishing them:
culture and educational publications, in particular. Note, however, that collocation in a text is
first reflected in the mind of language users and afterwards the collocation appears in the use
of language. The weak version is that collocation occurs due to what lies beneath the text. It is
suggested that collocation represents word association, which is formed by more than
randomness: collocation may be a cohesive device (Halliday and Hasan, 1967). This
proposition originates from Leech’s ‘collocative meaning’ (1974: 20), indicating that the
meaning of the words in collocation leads to the association of the words.
Drawing on the work of the proponents of the psychological definition of collocation,
Hoey (2005: 5) interprets the semantic association of collocation by relating their realisation
to the psychological associations in speakers’ minds, to which he gives the coinage ‘lexical
priming’. Just as words attract collocations, so words are ‘primed’ (in the speaker’s mind) as
‘target’ words in collocations (ibid.,: 8). Hoey also notes that each person’s language
experience may be different and her/his own experience may encourage her/him to prime
particular words for particular collocations 12
. In this respect, priming is a personal
phenomenon in psychological processes in language. Yet groups of language users must
maintain some homogeneity in language if they are to communicate with each other.
12 It was open to question whether it is the word or the speaker that is primed (Hunston, 2007, personal
communication). Hoey (2005: 15) argues that “[w]ords are never primed per se; they are only primed for
someone”.
55
Recalling Stubbs’ notion that collocations conform to cultural and educational norms, lexical
priming is considered to have an ‘external harmonising mechanism’ in each community –
defined by education, literary and religious tradition and the mass media – to which the
language user is particularly exposed (Hoey, 2005: 181-182). Hoey thus accounts for lexical
priming being personal, as well as being specific to certain domains and genres (ibid.: 19).
Lexical priming is a concept of lexical behaviour. For Hoey, ‘semantic association’
encompasses the psychological association of a language user with a word or word sequence
(ibid.: 24). The psychological mechanism in lexical choice may account for language
creativity, such as Chomskian linguists claim, allowing language users to create new
sentences. As long as the words being chosen belong to the same semantic association,
infinite variations of sequence can occur: “lexical priming can account for what is natural but
also what is possible” in language (ibid.: 17; 153). As regards grammar, Hoey (ibid.: 63; 161)
contends that lexical priming and semantic association adopt the same position as pattern
grammar (Hunston and Francis 2000): for instance, ‘PERSON(S) + BE + blackmailed/bullied +
into + V-ing’ which is exemplified in pattern grammar, is considered to be realised by sharing
the priming of ‘V n into n’. Lexical priming and semantic association, as psychological
aspects of language, derive, it seems, from the phraseological work of collocation (Sinclair
1991a; 2004), corpus-driven grammar (Francis, 1993) and pattern grammar (Hunston and
Francis, 2000).
Investigation into corpora reveals the way in which the different senses of similar
words and polysemous words are seen in a particular language environment. The approach of
finding distinctive collocations is based on a theory that different collocations and different
patterns appear in different senses. First, a corpus study into similar words was given: an
account of the different senses in the verbs BEGIN and START (Biber et al., 1998). The corpus
data compiled from fiction and academic prose showed the difference in colligation, which is
56
the frequent collocation in grammatical choice. Although these verbs are seemingly
interchangeable, with to-clauses and ing-clauses able to follow them, the data show that BEGIN
is more frequently followed by to-clause and is more commonly used as a transitive verb,
whereas START is more often used as an intransitive verb. In addition, the pattern of BEGIN +
to-clause illustrates a distinctive sense of the verb in academic prose which denotes activities
by human or concrete objects, as shown below in (17). This finding suggests that collocation
and pattern both shed light on superficially subtle yet essential differences in similar lexical
items.
(17) a. First, one begins to question the need for frequent note regurgitation of
words…
b. Elsewhere, sociologists have begun to disclose the social conditioning of the
natural sciences.
c. The original mass of gas cooled and began to contract.
(Biber et al., 1998: 100, my underlining)
Corpus analysis is also given to describing the different senses of polysemy (Hoey,
2005). Consequence is a polysemous word which conveys ‘result’ and ‘importance’ as in (18)
and (19) below:
(18) As a consequence (= result), ethics is the topic in feminist therapy that has
been most thoroughly theorized and subjected to questions and debate. (Bank
of English)
(19) Booth’s predicament would have little consequence (= importance) had it not
added a further molehill to the mountain of trouble and doubt established
before. (Hoey, 2005: 83)
Hoey’s corpus analysis reveals the distinctive features of sense: frequency and collocation.
The ‘result’ sense (1640 instances, 90.7%) occurs much more frequently than the ‘importance’
57
sense (169 instances, 9.3%). The collocations of grammar choice, colligations, characterise
the pattern of the different senses in that, first, no consequence of the sense was found as
Subject, indicating that consequence (= importance) is not used as topic. Second, consequence
(= result) is unlikely to occur with particular deictic, such as any, some and no. Further results
of the lexical features of consequence in the different senses are shown in Table 2.7 below. As
a result, polysemy is highly likely to be accounted for by frequency, collocation and pattern.
consequence consequence
(= result) (= importance)
Collocation with any － ＋
Collocation with of － ＋
Colligation with subject and complement Positive Negative
Semantic association with logic ＋ －
Semantic association with negative evaluation ＋ －
Semantic association with denial － ＋
Textual colligation with theme Positive Negative
Table 2.7 The contrasting collocations, semantic associations, pragmatic associations, colligations and
textual colligations of the two uses of consequence (Hoey, 2005: 87)
In the light of the results of such analysis, Hoey (2005: 82) proposes the ‘drinking
problem’ hypothesis on the nature of polysemy. When you hear the phase, ‘drinking problem’,
it is natural to think about having a problem involving alcoholism. It is unlikely to be
associated with a problem with swallowing liquid. If you explain the problem to a doctor, you
call it ‘problem drinking’. This hypothesis holds that different collocations and patterns are
segmented in accordance with the different senses of a polysemous word:
Where it can be shown that a common sense of a polysemous word is primed to
favour certain collocations, semantic associations, and/or colligations, the rarer sense
of that word will be primed to avoid those collocations, semantic associations and
colligations. The more common use of the word will make use of the collocations,
semantic associations and colligations of the rarer word but, proportionally, less
58
frequently. (Hoey, 2005: 82)
Based on this hypothesis, the lexical features of polysemous reason, which means ‘cause’,
‘rationality’ and ‘logic’, were investigated. Suppose that the collocations and colligations of
the central sense of reason (= cause) are not the same as those of the other senses (=
rationality, logic); the different collocations and colligations, and maybe the semantic
associations and patterns, too, help us to differentiate the lexical environments of the
polysemous word. Hoey (2005) confirmed this hypothesis by deducing the lexical features of
reason (= rationality, logic) from the more common sense (= cause), resulting in the
attestation that reason (= rationality, logic) avoids occurring with the, pronoun/there BE reason
structure, being Subject with BE, or occurring in Theme. Therefore, I would argue that
collocation and pattern allow us to describe the different meanings of a polysemous word.
In summary, the theory of phraseology is likely to hold that the different senses of
polysemy can be described by collocation and pattern. The association between linguistic
expression and sense is assumed to originate from psychological priming in language users.
However, such a psycholinguistic hypothesis is refuted by Teubert (2010), who claims that
sense lies in language, not in the minds of language users.
2.7 Approaches of corpus linguistics to prepositions
Cognitive linguists investigate the senses of prepositions from the supposition that
prepositions on their own have an independent meaning, whereas, to my knowledge, few
researchers in corpus linguistics have looked for the senses of prepositions alone. It is likely
that prepositions are dependent on the other components of a phrase, such as verb, adjective
and noun, and that the prepositional phrase conveys meaning. This assumption underpins the
concept of ‘core’, “which is invariable and constitutes the evidence of the occurrence of the
59
item as a whole” (Sinclair, 2004: 141). Moreover, Collins Cobuild Grammar Patterns 1
(Francis et al., 1996) and 2 (Francis et al., 1998) provide patterns of phrases containing
prepositions; however, they focus on the core words as in V into/over/through, ADJ over n, N
over/into n and into N13
. Sinclair (1991a) examines the preposition of and shows a number of
phrases containing the preposition, such as the kind of… and both of… In his analysis, the
preceding noun (N1) and the following noun (N2) are highlighted, rather than the sense of the
preposition, and Sinclair suggests that the two types of phrase containing of are classified by
identifying the headword. The phrases which have the N2 as headword are subcategorised
into ‘measure’ (e.g., a couple of weeks), ‘focus’ (e.g., the middle of a sheet) and ‘support’ (e.g.,
the position of France). In these categories, the N1 offers some of the function of providing
additional information to the N2. The other type of of phrase has double headwords, which
signify that the N1 and N2 have equal status as headwords: titles (e.g., the Duchess of
Bedford) and nominalizations of the structure of verb-subject or verb-object (e.g., the British
view of the late senator, reflection of light). In these ways, such a given content word as noun,
verb or adjective gives rise to dependency of the preposition on the sense of the phrase.
Non-content words (subsidiary words, such as prepositions), are unlikely to contribute to
establishing phrase and pattern. As phrase and pattern are closely related to meaning in the
theories of corpus linguistics, the weak hypothesis, induced from the theories of phraseology,
is that prepositions are unlikely to be the principal elements in conveying the sense of the
prepositional phrase. The strong version, rather, is likely to be that prepositions have no
meaning and only contribute to emphasising an aspect of the co-occurring content words, as
shown above in the examples of of phrases.
Is it unlikely that prepositions take an integral part of the phrase and contribute to
13
The upper case of V, ADJ and N represents the core of the phrase. V stands for verb, adj for adjective and
n for noun (Francis et al., 1996; 1998).
60
conveying the meaning of the phrase? It is not impossible that the preposition has a semantic
association and attracts certain collocates to formulate a prepositional phrase. Kennedy (1991)
attempts to describe the different senses of prepositions between and through. He extracted
from the LOB (Lancaster-Oslo/Bergen) corpus the words which occur before and after the
prepositions. The result indicates that nouns and pronouns frequently precede between (65.7%
of tokens) and verbs often come before through (43.2%). In many cases numbers follow
between (34.0%) and the prepositional phrase containing through tends to occur at the clause
final (32.3%). Moreover, particular senses of the prepositions were found with particular
collocations of noun and verb. His conclusion is that collocation, in this case the particular
preceding nouns and verbs and the following phrases, can differentiate the language
behaviour and senses of the prepositions. Based on this, I would argue that the semantic
association of collocation is likely to be a two-way attraction between words, as opposed to a
unidirectional attraction from such ‘core’ words as verb, adjective and noun to preposition. It
still remains in dispute whether the preposition in the phrase has a meaning or not. Moreover,
as Sinclair (1991: 111) remarks, “many phrases have an indeterminate extent”: the boundary
of the phrase which denotes meaning is fuzzy. To what extent does a preposition contribute to
the meaning of the phrase and the clause?
In corpus linguistics, phrasal verbs have been investigated as the main subject of the
collocations related to prepositions. As the proper use of phrasal verbs is difficult for learners
of English to master, the overuse and underuse of phrasal verbs is investigated by employing a
learner corpus (Nesselhauf, 2005). The Collins Cobuild Dictionary of Phrasal Verbs (Sinclair
et al., 2002), which is based on an analysis of a corpus of enormous size, the Bank of English,
providing a particle index of phrasal verbs. The index categorises the senses of phrasal verbs
according to the embedded particle. For example, the index of over lists as many as seven
senses (ibid. : 41-43 in appendix): ‘movement and position’ (e.g., GO over), ‘overflowing and
61
overwhelming feelings’ (e.g., BOIL over), ‘falling and attacking’ (e.g., FALL over), ‘covering
and hiding’ (e.g., GLOSS over), ‘considering and communicating’(e.g., RUN over), ‘changing
and transferring’ (e.g., HAND over) and ‘ending and recovering’ (e.g., GET over). Despite the
elaborate classification, it is surprising that most of the senses overlap the senses of over
proposed by Tyler and Evans (2003a, see Chapter 6). If the sense of phrasal verb could be
categorized by the particle, the particle would contribute much to the sense, whereas the verb
might do little. This appears to contradict the supposition above, that the preposition is a
dependent element of the phrase as opposed to verb, adjective and noun. I would argue that
the incorporated particle of the phrasal verb, such as the preposition or adverb after the verb,
is involved in establishing the meaning. The preposition in the phrasal verb does contribute to
the meaning.
Again, it should be noted that in the semantic association, the preposition and other
words are attracted each other. The study conducted by Gardner and Davies (2007) supports
my hypothesis. They quantify frequent phrasal verbs in the British National Corpus and
demonstrate that the top 20 lexical verbs, such as GO, COME, TAKE and the like, occur
frequently with some of 16 particles, such as over, through, out, up, on, etc. The results
indicate that the combinations of verbs and particles are not uniformly frequent. Particular
combinations are frequently found: for example, COME over, TAKE over, GET through, GO
through. The uneven attraction between the verb and particle of phrasal verbs suggests that
collocation is determined for some reason. Corpus analysis is expected to reveal the
contributing factor of collocation behind the text.
Collins Cobuild Grammar Patterns 1 (Francis et al. 1996) and 2 (Francis et al. 1998)
classify the patterns containing prepositions. Prepositions are not the core of classification, as
in ADJ over n, N over/into n and into N; however, the patterns are classified according to
different prepositions, such as V into n, V over n and V through n. This implies that the senses
62
of the pattern can be differentiated by the embedded preposition. In other words, it is certain
that the sense of V into n differs from that of V over n, since the difference between into and
over to a certain extent relates to the semantic difference between the patterns V into and V
over. Hence, prepositions are not irrelevant to the sense of pattern. In the same manner as that
involving the verb, adjective and noun, the preposition is an element in the sense of pattern,
although it is not clear how far the preposition gets involved in the sense. The patterns of N
into n and into N indicate the different core words of the patterns. N into n represents the N1,
the capitalised N, as the core of the semantic association of the pattern, whereas into N is
composed by the core N2, which follows the preposition. N into n contains of two nouns
which function in the relationship of verb-subject (cf. Sinclair, 1991a), as in their entrance
into the war, their incursion into the exclusion zone and the inquest into the deaths of two
firefighters (Francis et al., 1998: 174, my underlining). By contrast, into N does not
necessitate the co-occurrence of the noun preceding the preposition, because the phrase tends
to follow the verb as in There’s now a real danger that the country will slip into anarchy
(Francis et al., 1998: 304, my underlining). The studies on collocation related to prepositions
suggest that verb, adjective, noun preceding preposition and following noun co-occur with
preposition. Put another way, these words have a semantic association with the preposition, as
illustrated in Figure 2.18 below. Given that collocation differentiates the senses of
polysemous words, prepositions, which have different senses in a single orthographic form,
can be distinguished by the relation of the co-occurring nouns, verb and adjective. My
methodology in this study is applied to the method in order to explain how the preceding and
following nouns, and also the verb, are associated with different senses of prepositions.
63
2.8 Meaning and lexical representation
The question about what determines meaning, which widely varies according to the context,
has been challenged by cognitive linguists and corpus linguists. As has been seen in the
previous sections, their approaches differ in that mind, embodied experiences and
encyclopaedic knowledge of language users are considered to relate to meaning in cognitive
linguistics, whereas it is assumed in corpus linguistics that combinations of words and phrases
produced by language users represent meaning construction. Although the theoretical
backgrounds are distinct, namely claiming that meaning is determined by language users or
language itself, there is one common point at which the key factor of meaning construction is
agreed: that is, ‘collocation’. It is a principal argument of corpus linguistics that develops by
focusing on tendencies of co-occurrence of words. Cognitive linguists claim that such
“selectional tendencies in terms of collocational patterns” (Evans, 2009: 67) indicate the way
in which we use lexical representation which relates to conceptual structure of meaning. As
some corpus linguists argue (e.g., Hoey, 2005), collocation can represent our psychological
processing of meaning construction.
‘LCCM Theory’ (lexical concept and cognitive model theory), suggested by Evans
(2009), holds that language does not directly relate to meaning, but rather that two facets
interrelate in meaning construction by language: ‘lexical representation’ and ‘semantic
composition’. Evans argues that language is composed in order to encode highly conceptual
noun verb preposition noun
Figure 2.18 Semantic associations of collocation with preposition
64
information and facilitates access to non-linguistic content which is insufficiently indicated by
the lexical representation. In other words, language, which is represented by words,
morphemes, idiomatic phrases and grammatical construction, is only a vehicle that triggers a
conventionalised way of interpretation of meaning. Language is not directly associated with
meaning; lexical representation, which works under the rules of language, and semantic
composition, which relates to non-linguistic information, complement each other for
interpretation of meaning.
Before the development of LCCM theory, it was assumed that language was the
representation of a stable meaning (Brugman and Lakoff, 1988; Lakoff, 1987) and that
meaning could be completely decoded only by language. In addition, polysemy was
considered to have different senses associated with a phonological form (vehicle) and stored
in the mental lexicon of language users. Such full specification interpretation (Lakoff, 1987:
422) excludes the involvement of entities concerned in the context and flexibility of meaning.
Opposed to the obsolete approach to meaning, LCCM Theory concerns a subtle
context-dependent meaning which varies according to the entities involved in the
configuration. Therefore, noun collocates, which indicate the entities involved, should be
analysed to investigate interpretation of meaning. In this section, I present how LCCM Theory
is compatible with the theory of ‘phraseology’ which suggests the relationship between lexical
representation and meaning.
2.8.1 Lexical representation and semantic composition
In the classic approach to meaning in cognitive linguistics, lexical representation was
considered to express semantic composition which leads to interpretation of meaning. In
LCCM Theory (Evans, 2009), these processes of language and meaning are clearly
differentiated. As shown in Figure 2.19 below, LCCM Theory consists of ‘lexical
65
representation’ and ‘semantic composition’. Lexical representation is divided into symbolic
units and cognitive models. Symbolic units are composed of phonological forms and lexical
concepts. In the classic approach, phonological form and lexical concepts were assumed to be
identical. In other words, language was thought to express meaning. The research on
polysemy of prepositions in particular (e.g., Brugman and Lakoff, 1988; Lakoff, 1987)
showed that a phonological form, such as over, could convey more than one sense. In contrast,
LCCM Theory argues that language is unlikely to represent meaning in a straightforward way.
Lexical representation is not directly linked with semantic composition; lexical concepts
related to cognitive models are associated through lexical representation with semantic
composition in which non-linguistic information is involved.
LCCM Theory is not the first time that the segregation of lexical representation and
semantic composition has been argued. Before the development of this theory, some
researchers had already implied that lexical representation is not fixed and does not precisely
lexical
concept
integration
interpretation
LCCM Theory
Lexical
representation
Semantic
composition
symbolic
units
cognitive
models
lexical
concept
selection
fusion
vehicles lexical
concepts
Figure 2.19 Architecture of LCCM Theory (Evans, 2009: 75)
66
correspond to semantic composition (e.g., Allwood, 2003; Croft and Cruse, 2004; Evans,
2009; Taylor, 2003; Zlatev, 2003). Rather, lexical representation is flexible so that a creative,
unconventional use of words can be realised. Take John baked Mary a cake for example.
Unlike GIVE and send, BAKE is not used as a ditransitive construction verb, which has two
object nouns: recipient and thing. However, the semantic composition of ‘X INTENDS Y TO
RECEIVE Z’ makes it possible that BAKE can co-occur with the recipient noun and thing noun.
Goldberg (1995, 2006) coins this form-meaning relationship as ‘Cognitive Construction
Grammar’. To put it another way, it can be argued that the form of John baked Mary a cake
has the underlining meaning of X INTENDS Y TO RECEIVE Z and the lexical representation
carries “meaning independently of the words in the sentence” (Goldberg, 1995: 1). It follows
that theories of corpus linguistics, such as ‘semantic prosody’ (Sinclair, 2003), which holds
that meaning is conveyed by phrase, and ‘pattern grammar’ (Hunston and Francis, 2000),
which suggests that meaning can be specified by collocation patterns, can be compatible with
Cognitive Construction Grammar.
Moreover, Evans (2009: 36) argues that “grammar is no longer viewed as
constituting an abstract set of rules which operates word. Rather, the lexicon and grammar
form a continuum, each consisting of bipolar symbolic units comprising a form and meaning:
… known as the lexicon-grammar continuum”. Semantics and syntax are not considered to be
separated in corpus linguistics, too; rather, they interrelate to determine the use of words and
grammar form, which is called ‘lexico-grammar’ (Francis, 1993). The example of BAKE also
indicates the English ditransitive verb of X INTENDS Y TO RECEIVE Z: for example, the
subject role must be filled with a volitional agent who intends transfer (Goldberg, 1995). Such
selectional tendencies of words are also suggested in corpus linguistics, such as collocation,
typical co-occurrence of words, and colligation, grammatical preference in word selection. In
conclusion, in both cognitive linguistics and corpus linguistics segregation of lexical
67
representation and semantic composition is agreed and collocation is the key factor to reveal
form and meaning relationships in terms of meaning construction. Note that, although corpus
linguists are unlikely to imply this overtly, cognitive linguists hypothesise that lexical
representation functions to prompt a particular meaning which is unable to interpret only
linguistic information.
2.8.2 LCCM Theory concerning polysemy
LCCM Theory (the theory of lexical concept and cognitive models; Evans, 2009) suggests
that semantic structure and conceptual structure are established at distinct levels and lexical
concepts encoded by the phonological form provide access to cognitive models which contain
non-linguistic conceptual knowledge. LCCM Theory has made two substantial contributions
to the research of meaning construction: segregation between lexical representation and
semantic composition, and restriction of the function of lexical representation in meaning
interpretation.
Unlike Cognitive Grammar, proposed by Langacker (1987), which holds that lexical
representation incorporates the nuances of encyclopaedic knowledge, an independent yet
corresponding lexical representation is hypothesised to help us to interpret meaning owing to
our encyclopaedic knowledge induced from context. As a result, Evans (2009) notes that it is
important to analyse how far lexical representation contributes to semantic composition of
meaning by virtue of agreement between the lexical concept and cognitive model. Yet, few
empirical analyses of the relationship between lexical representation and semantic
composition have been so far carried out. This study, which investigated more than one
thousand instances of lexical representation, is likely to demonstrate the contribution of
lexical representation and encyclopaedic knowledge to interpreting meaning.
Before the advent of LCCM Theory, the contribution of lexical representation, which
68
is known as ‘linguistic prompt’ (Fauconnier and Turner, 1998), to meaning-construction
processes had already been discussed. However, the focus of the analysis was on the
conceptual system of language users; it was not concerned with lexical representation related
to meaning. Langacker’s Cognitive Grammar (2008) as well as Croft and Cruse’s approach
(2004), on the other hand, takes into account the contribution of lexical representation, but in
the theory lexical representation is thought to accurately represent our process of
interpretation including the information concerning encyclopaedic knowledge, which is
difficult to encode in lexical representation. As discussed above, Goldberg (1995, 2006)
suggests that meaning is not limitedly conveyed by lexical representation: lexical concept
which derives from meaning can be reflected in lexical representation. Her theory of
‘Cognitive Construction Grammar’ adopts the same position as LCCM Theory, that lexical
representation is somehow associated with meaning. In contrast, LCCM Theory suggests that
lexical representation prompts processes of semantic composition and gives access to
non-linguistic encyclopaedic knowledge which is necessary for a reasonable interpretation of
meaning. In addition, it is suggested in LCCM Theory that lexical representation and sense do
not necessarily exist in a one-to-one relationship; rather, a single phonological form can be
conventionally associated with more than one sense. Such one-to-many relationships between
form and meaning are found in polysemy.
Collocation is the key element of ‘selectional tendencies’ which demonstrate
processes of prompting meaning construction (Evans, 2009: 67). This proposition agrees with
Hoey’s ‘lexical priming’ (2005) which is applied to differentiate a polysemous word by
looking at its collocation. In LCCM Theory, polysemy is hypothesised to be a linguistic
phenomenon in which a single lexical representation is associated with a number of lexical
concepts framed thorough processes of semantic composition. Unlike LCCM Theory,
preceding studies concerning polysemy in cognitive linguistics were less concerned with
69
lexical representation. Polysemy was assumed to emerge from a single abstract mental
representation which underlies the mental lexicon of language users (Brugman and Lakoff,
1988; Lakoff, 1987). After the theory of meaning independent of context, interaction with
linguistic environment, such as collocation and grammatical construction, was considered to
mediate semantic composition (Allwood, 2003; Croft and Cruse, 2004; Zlatev, 2003). In the
light of the new approach, LCCM Theory evolves the hypothesis, in that a single lexical
representation is associated with different semantic concepts which mutually relate to a
greater or lesser extent.
LCCM Theory sheds light on a new approach to meaning construction which
indicates lexical representation functions to prompt the access to meaning interpretation, and
suggests that collocation represents semiotic processes of meaning construction. As suggested
by the proposer of the theory (Evans, 2009), it can be adopted to investigate the form and
meaning relationship of prepositions which have polysemous senses under a single
phonological form. Little empirical research into the relationship, however, has been so far
carried out. My research, by analysing corpus data, explores how far the lexical
representations of prepositional phrases correspond to the senses of prepositions.
2.9 Summary of the chapter
This chapter has been devoted to discussing how the spatial and non-spatial senses of
prepositions have been investigated by means of the approaches of cognitive linguistics. The
central theses of cognitive linguistics are embodiment and prototype, which provide the
rationales for the structuring of the semantic network of prepositions. The prototype of
prepositions is likely to be determined by physiological factors, the referential, the statistical
and the psychological (Geeraerts, 2007). It can thus be argued that these factors result from
the effects of embodiment and construal. The prepositional sense is decomposed into two
70
constituents: the trajector (TR) is highlighted and the landmark (LM) is backgrounded. Image
schemas are actively involved in the establishment of the locative sense, as well as the
metaphorical ones. As some experiments demonstrate, not only the spatial sense but also the
non-spatial is likely to occur in accordance with particular types of verb, TR and LM. In the
next chapter we explore the way in which another linguistic approach, corpus linguistics,
attempts to describe the senses of prepositions.
I also have explored in this chapter the feasibility of using corpus analysis in
describing polysemous prepositions. Corpora are data which represent the language used in
practice, as opposed to artificial data invented by armchair linguists. Corpus analysis attempts
to describe the features of language which have not been found by conventional linguistics
methods, resulting in the development of new concepts, such as units of meaning and the
idiom principle. The new approach reveals that collocation is closely related to the meanings
of phrases. As for prepositions, particular nouns and verbs frequently occur with particular
prepositions. Moreover, it is likely that semantic association is observed in particular senses
of polysemous prepositions. However, even though corpora are powerful tool for language
investigation, it is not clear what gives rise to collocation. It remains an open question
whether collocation depends on the individual knowledge of each language user or on society.
However, I would argue that the semantic association between words makes it easier to find
the linguistic environment of different senses of prepositions, regardless of our basic
uncertainty over what associates words which are said to be collocated.
71
3. DATA AND METHODOLOGY
My hypothesis is that the senses of prepositions can be predicted by the nature of the noun
phrases indicating the trajector (TR) and the landmark (LM). The TR and the LM are
considered to be the elements by which the spatial relationship of prepositions can be
established (Langacker, 1987). To my knowledge, few researchers investigating the senses of
prepositions have used corpus data. In other words, descriptions of the senses of prepositions
tend to rely on the intuitive knowledge of the researchers. As a non-English speaker, I would
not wish to resort to my intuition. Corpora are an invaluable tool to represent the use of
language by native English-speakers objectively1
.
Moreover, the machine-readable data facilitate further insights into language,
particularly concerning frequency and connections between words. The frequency of words
and phrases suggests the level of typicality in language. As regards the senses of prepositions,
it has been suggested that a frequent sense can be a possible prototype if the statistical
hypothesis is considered to be plausible (Geeraerts, 2007: 168, see section 2.2.1). Statistical
scores based on frequency, such as T-scores and MI scores, indicate which words frequently
co-occur. A string of co-occurring words can suggest a pattern composed of the words. The
theory which allows me to propose my hypothesis on prepositions and their collocations is
that different collocations denote different senses of polysemous words (e.g., Hoey, 2005: 87).
That is to say, different senses of prepositions can be predicted by their collocations and
pattern. Based on this hypothesis, I carried out corpus research into the collocations and
patterns co-occurring with prepositions in order to identify their senses.
1
The representativeness of data should be borne in mind when corpora are investigated (Hunston, 2002). The
language data should be collected from the appropriate target language users. This study aims to explore how
English speakers use the different senses of prepositions in relation to the collocations of the TR and the LM.
The ICE GB corpus is therefore a proper source of data to represent their language use.
72
3.1 Corpus data
The corpus data of this study is the ICE GB corpus (the British component of the International
Corpus of English), which was compiled by University College, London. The corpus, at one
million words, is not as large as the reference corpora which aim to represent a wide variety
of language: for example, the Bank of English (http://www.titania.bham.ac.uk/docs/
svenguide.html) contains 450 million words and the BNC (British National Corpus, http://
corpora.lancs.ac.uk/BNCweb/home.html) has 100 million words. Despite its relatively small
size, the corpus design of the ICE GB is so organised that 500 texts of about 2000 words each
cover a broad range of spoken and written uses of language: the sub corpora of the spoken
texts are dialogues, monologues and mixed, whereas those of the written texts are
non-professional writing, correspondence, academic writing, non-academic writing, reportage,
instructional writing, persuasive writing and creative writing (http://www.ucl.ac.uk/
english-usage/projects/ice-gb/design.htm). With such a variety of language uses, therefore,
lack of representativeness is unlikely to be a problem.
The advantage of the ICE GB corpus is that the texts are parsed and annotated with
part-of-speech tags into 20 word classes, and with grammatical tags with more than 90
indicators of function and category. These tags allowed me to retrieve the prepositional
phrases containing over, into and through which co-occur with the trajector noun and the
landmark noun. The string search of clauses containing a verb and prepositions makes it
easier to extract the phrases from the corpus. While the landmarks of prepositions tend to be
found in the noun phrases which follow them, the trajectors can be found in either the noun
phrase as subject, as in example (1) below, or the noun phrase as object directly after the verb,
as in (2) below. I carried out another string search of clauses containing a verb followed by an
object noun phrase and the prepositions. This led to the extraction of the instances where the
trajector followed the verb.
73
(1) A mist hung over the river. <W2F-013 #071>
(2) ‘Friday's announcement about Ravenscraig had cast an immediate shadow
over the jobs at the terminal’, he said. <W2F-015 #022>
① ②
V prep V O prep
over 382 98 480 402
into 647 83 730 648
through 381 75 456 316
①＋②
TR LM
combination
Table 3.1 Instances of V prep and V O prep retrieval from the ICE GB
Table 3.1 shows the number of instances that retrieved the strings of ‘verb +
over/into/through’ and ‘verb + object noun phrase + over/into/through’. In general, the
instances of the V prep structure appear to outnumber those of the V O prep. As the aim of
this study is to examine the relationship between the senses of the prepositions and the
collocations of the trajector noun and the landmark noun, all instances missing either the
trajector or the landmark were excluded from the research data. Specifically, examples (3) and
(4) below illustrate adverbial over and through, which occur without the LM. The LMs can be
inferred from the context referring to earth and ground in relation to the explicit trajectors. As
for into, although its adverbial use was hardly ever found, there were many duplicate
instances referring to the same phrase in the data; they were manually removed from the data
set. In addition, the instances with an uncertain TR and LM were not examined for the
purpose of classifying the TR and the LM.
(3) It was completely frozen over. <S1A-014 #205>
(4) The ball goes through to David Ripley, for no run. <S2A-013 #077>
74
3.2 HCA classification
402 instances of phrases containing over, 648 instances of into, and 316 instances of through
were examined in order to test my hypothesis that particular collocations of the TR and the
LM co-occur in one particular sense of the prepositions. Their TR and LM nouns were
manually classified into human beings (H), concrete objects (C) or abstract objects (A) and I
examined whether there is a relationship between the combinations of the nouns and the sense
of the prepositions. The frequencies of the different combinations of the TR and the LM, such
as HH (human TR and human LM); HC (human TR and concrete object LM); HA (human TR
and abstract object LM); CH (concrete object TR and human LM); CC (concrete object TR
and concrete object LM); CA (concrete object TR and abstract object LM), AH (abstract
object TR and human LM); AC (abstract object TR and concrete object LM); and AA
(abstract object TR and abstract object LM), were statistically tested in order to find overused
and underused combinations.
To classify the TR and the LM, I adopted the HCA classification due to my
hypothesis that our construal of the world relates to the way in which we determine the senses
of polysemous prepositions. If this is the case, it follows that the TR and the LM may be
classified into categories which are reflected by our construal. Schönefeld (2006: 307) uses
five categories to classify the trajector in relation to the posture verbs of English, German and
Russian. Schönefeld’s results suggest that the equivalent verbs in the different languages have
distinctive collocations for the trajector. The categories of the trajector are human beings,
concrete objects, abstract objects, personified objects and animals.
(5) …and FOR SALE signs hanging dispiritedly over sagging wooden doors.
(TR) (LM)
<W2F-006 #025>
75
In this study, I restricted the categories in terms of the TR and the LM nouns to three:
human beings (H), concrete objects (C) and abstract objects (A). As language users associate
the senses of posture verbs with embodied experiences, recurrent experiences of the spatial
configuration of prepositions may relate to the mental representations among language users
(Beitel et al., 1997, Gibbs et al., 1994). The trajector is the focused entity in the spatial
configuration of prepositions, while the landmark is the background (see section 2.2.3, above).
As in (5) above, the subject or the agent, ‘FOR SALE signs’, is the trajector, while the noun
phrase after the preposition, ‘sagging wooden doors’ is the landmark. The first reason for
reducing the categories to three is that Schönefeld’s five categories (2006: 307) lead to as
many as 25 (five by five) combinations of the TR and the LM. Having too many combinations
is likely to lessen the frequency of each combination. Low frequencies may make it difficult
to statistically test the differences in the frequency of the HCA combinations. The three
categories of the HCA narrow it down to nine combinations of TR and LM as illustrated in
Table 3.2 below.
H C A
H HH HC HA
C CH CC CA
A AH AC AA
LM
TR
Table 3.2 HCA combinations of the TR and the LM
The second reason is that members of Schönefeld’s category of personified objects can be
categorised into one of the HCA categories. One of the purposes of this study is to describe
metaphorical extensions of prepositional senses. Metaphors are expressions which highlight
an aspect of a concrete object and map it onto an abstract object (cf. Lakoff and Johnson,
76
1980). The TR of example (6) below, a final eye, does not literally refer to the concrete
object’s ‘visual organs’, but to the abstract object ‘glance’, which is metonymically
highlighted, since the word co-occurs with the examine sense of over (see section 2.4).
Personified objects also exhibit such metonymical highlighting of the TR and the LM, as in
(7) below; the United Nations is specified by the context as the people working for the
organisation. Such ‘intentional objects’, in which entities are motivated in their actions by
human desire, are classified as members of the human category (Anscombe, 2002). The
interpretation of the metonymy of the TR and the LM depends on the context. In other words,
collocations which suggest their context are likely to determine the interpretation of
personification.
(6) I do not think I have changed the meaning at all, but perhaps it would be as
well for <unclear-word> to cast a final eye over it anyway. <W2A-030
#008>
(7) He said the United Nations had no control over the military action. <S1B-027
#113>
3.2.1 Experiment on the HCA classification
15 postgraduates of English Department of the University of Birmingham were asked to
classify the 18 instances of the ICE GB corpus (Table 3.3 below)2
, which I found difficult to
classify into one of the HCA categories. The first languages of the participants were diverse:
three English-speakers, one Romanian, one Serbian/Croatian, two Japanese and eight Chinese.
It is possible that the classification of instances by those who speak English as a second
language may differ from that made by native speakers. However, this experiment is
worthwhile, since it shows how the HCA classification is performed. Note that no strict
criteria of classification were given to the participants; they classified the instances according
2
The Serbian/Croatian postgraduate did not answer questions (5) and (12) and the Japanese postgraduate did
not answer questions (3), (9) and (18). Therefore, the number of answers to the five questions is 14.
77
78
to their intuition.
Table 3.3 shows that the results can be divided into four types of cases: 1) cases
where most of the participants agreed with the category; 2) cases where a questioned entity
was somewhat evenly classified into H, C or A; 3) cases where it was classified into H or A;
and 4) cases where it was classified into C or A. As for the most agreed classification, the
cut-off point of broad agreement was 70 per cent. In other words, if more than 70 per cent of
the participants agreed, the classification is assumed to be by general consent. For example,
nerve injuries of Q10, the shot of Q12, the world of Q17 and the coalition of Q18 were
mostly classified as abstract objects (A). These results seem to suggest that intangible objects
tend to fall into the category of abstract objects. As in (8) below, the shot of Q12 refers to the
action of smacking a ball according to the context, not to any such concrete object as a ball
itself.
(8) Q12: Again, power is obtained by transferring the weight forwards, so try to
step into the shot. <W2D-013 #084>
(9) Q16: Just to run through the batsmen who scored the runs Taylor four Benson
forty-three Hinks twenty-five in only twenty one twenty-one balls Graham
Cowdrey fifteen Nigel Long five Matthew Fleming that delightful fifty-one
Steve Marsh six. <S2A-013 #041>
(10) Q15: We'll run through the Arsenal line-up.<S2A-018 #017>
Metonymy seems to be the main concern for the classification. While the batsmen of
Q16 were largely classified into human (80%), in a similar context the classification of the
Arsenal line-up of Q15 was divided into three: three (20%) chose H, six (40%) chose C and
six (40%) chose A. Both words metonymically refer to the list of players, not to people;
however, the participants were likely to be affected by the literal meaning of the batsmen,
resulting in their being classed as belonging to the human category. Such evenly classified
79
entities make explicit the problem of classifications where metonymy is involved. The
classification of [t]hird World countries and the United Nations, as in (11) and (12)
respectively, was disputed, in that more than half of the judgements inclined to abstract
objects, whereas some considered them to be human or concrete objects. This is because
[t]hird World countries and the United Nations metonymically refer to those who organise
and control them. The classification of either H or A, as in (13), also depicts an effect of
metonymy. Technically, the Faculty of Arts is an organisation in a university, but it is obvious
in this context that the phrase refers to the group of people who work in it. Metonymy should
be taken into consideration when implementing the HCA classification.
(11) Q5: … Third World countries and which have displayed rapid economic and
industrial growth over the past three to four decades. <W1B-013 #003>
(12) Q6: He said the United Nations had no control over the military action.
<S1B-027 #113>
(13) Q2: … she just appointed people she knew who were active in the union and
who came into the faculty of arts,.. <S1B-075 #079>
Metonymy also appears to be involved in the classification of either C or A. Some of
the participants identified the entities of questions 7 and 9 as referring to a concrete object, in
accordance with the literal sense (Q7: five answers and Q9: eight in Table 3.3), whereas
others saw the entities in question as referring to an abstract object (Q7: nine answers and Q9:
six). If, on the one hand, the place of the final bend is highlighted in the construal of the
participants, it is construed as a concrete object. If, on the other hand, the action of running
into the corner is highlighted, it is construed as an abstract object. It is therefore obvious that
metonymy is involved in the classification of HCA; however, it is probably difficult to make a
definitive judgement as to which category to choose. This is because cognitive categories are
fuzzy, not clear-cut, and overlapping between categories can occur (Ungerer and Schmid,
80
2006).
(14) Q7: And they lead to forces acting on the structural elements which are usually
then distributed through the height of the building. <S2A-025 #029>
(15) Q9: As they come into the final bend now it's going to be Chris Louis who
takes the chequered flag. <S2A-012 #084>
Given that the boundaries of the HCA categories are fuzzy, objective criteria for the
HCA classification should be given, for the purpose of clarifying the research. Based on the
findings from the experiment, I propose the following criteria for HCA classification:
human (H): animate entities, such as human beings and animals, are categorised into this
category. Intentional objects, such as groups and organisations, also fall into this. e.g.,
people, population, monkeys, company, the United Nations, powerless minorities
concrete objects (C): tangible objects are categorised into this category. Metonymy is taken
into consideration when referring to action and concept, although the literal sense of
the word indicates a concrete object. e.g., vehicle, light, station, area, the Atlantic,
New York
abstract object (A): intangible objects. The words of concrete objects metonymically refer to
the action and the concept in which the concrete object is involved. Such cases fall
into the category of abstract objects. e.g., troubles, agreement, believing, period, year,
fashion, power
In order to decode the metonymic reference of the TR and the LM, the context should be
examined by reading the preceding and following lines, as well as the whole concordance line
itself. I manually performed the HCA classification according to the context in which the TR
and the LM appear. In the following section I outline my hypothesis regarding the HCA
combinations of the TR and the LM.
3.2.2 Metaphorical extension of the HCA combinations
The aim of this study is to provide an account of the preposition senses in relation to the noun
81
phrases realising the TR and LM. The HCA classification can describe different senses of the
preposition according to combination, on the cognitive linguistic grounds that our embodied
experiences are reflected in language. For this reason, it is assumed that the basic conception
of prepositions is formulated through physical experiences. For example, the basic concept of
into, penetration, is highly likely to be experienced by a scene where a concrete object enters
another concrete object. Not only the concept of into, but also that of other prepositions which
denote locative sense, emerges from the relationship of physical entities, since the spatial
cognition which we primitively acquire from an early age is argued to give rise to the
conceptualisation of language (Lakoff and Johnson, 1980). I would hypothesise that the
combination of concrete objects, i.e., concrete object TR and concrete object LM (CC), will
be the configuration mostly seen with the prepositions denoting the central sense (Table 3.4
below).
H C A
H HH HC HA
C CH CC CA
A AH AC AA
LM
TR
Table 3.4 CC combination as the central sense
Secondly, the sense which has the second highest level of frequency involving a
concrete object may be called the first peripheral sense. This is partly because the
involvement of a human being as either TR or LM, when the focal point of the scene lies on
the inside of the TR or LM, may be less objectively observed than the CC combination. A
human TR and a concrete object LM (HC), and a concrete object TR and a human LM (CH)
would be seen with a preposition denoting the first peripheral senses from the central sense
82
(Table 3.5 below).
H C A
H HH HC HA
C CH CC CA
A AH AC AA
LM
TR
Table 3.5 HC and CH combinations as peripheral senses
Thirdly, a human TR and a human LM may be the last configuration which we can
experience bodily, although admittedly the situation where someone speaks of entering
someone else is relatively rare and somewhat specialised. However, physical entities which
we can see in the world tend to be more frequently experienced than abstract ones. Therefore,
the HH combination is hypothesised to co-occur with the second peripheral sense of the
preposition (Table 3.6 below).
H C A
H HH HC HA
C CH CC CA
A AH AC AA
LM
TR
Table 3.6 HH combination as a peripheral sense
Finally, the combinations involved in an abstract object are categorised as ones
relevant to figurative senses, on the cognitive linguistic grounds that figurative senses are
considered to come into play as a result of the conceptual projection of a physical
configuration onto a metaphoric domain (Evans, 2007a). For instance, in But, will Mason’s
83
probable superior power come into play and wear him down late on <S2A-009 #103>, the
configuration of power into play is probably analogous to a path movement in which an entity
shifts to the other side. Thus, the combination containing an abstract object is relevant to
figurative senses which derive from a physical configuration.
H C A
H HH HC HA
C CH CC CA
A AH AC AA
TR
LM
Table 3.7 Combinations containing an abstract object as peripheral senses
It could, as a consequence, be hypothesised that the HCA combination of the TR and
LM relate to the central sense and the peripheral senses as shown in Table 3.8 below. The
table indicates that the CC combination (1) may closely relate to the central sense of into, and
the other combinations may be relevant to the peripheral senses in the order of the numbers (2
to 9) from configurations which can be experienced physically all the way to abstract ones.
The relation of the HCA combinations to the central sense forms a ‘radial category’,
suggested as a theoretical structure of a semantic network (Lakoff, 1987, cf. 2.1
Categorisation).
84
H C A
H 4 2 5
C 3 1 6
A 7 8 9
LM
TR
Table 3.8 HCA combinations in the order of the central to peripheral senses
The HCA combinations were employed to examine the relationships of the form of
the phrase containing the preposition, the TR and the LM and the senses of prepositions over,
into and through. The form of the phrases was detailed, describing the pattern containing the
verb. If the HCA combinations could correspond to the senses of the prepositions, a semantic
network of prepositions based on the collocations could be established which would be unlike
a conventional semantic network based on the similarities of the senses as judged by the
intuition of researchers. The analyses of the semantic networks of the prepositions are
explained in detail in the following chapters.
3.3 Prototypicality of the senses of prepositions
In the previous section, we have seen the phases in the combination of the TR and LM of the
preposition-centred phrase from CC (concrete object TR and concrete object LM) to AA
(abstract object TR and abstract object LM). My hypothesis is that there is a relationship
between the senses of prepositions and the combination of their TR and LM. In order to find
the correlation, various senses of prepositions ought to be arranged in the order of
prototypicality, which represents that the locative sense is highly likely prototypical whereas
the metaphorical sense is less prototypical.
Some textbooks, dictionaries and linguistic studies suggest the prototypicality of the
85
senses of prepositions. For example, a textbook for EFL (English as Foreign Language)
learners, English Grammar in Use (Murphy, 2004: 246), introduces the locative sense of
prepositions into understanding their diverse senses, as in at the bus stop, on the table and in
the room. Similarly, a dictionary for learners of English, Collins COBUILD Advanced
Learner’s English Dictionary, starts the entries of the 25 different senses of over with the
position and movement sense (Sinclair et al., 2003: 1022). If language teachers provide
learners with information about metaphor and semantic extension, the learners can develop
their learning starategy (Littlemore and Low, 2006). As for linguistic research, the locative
sense, which is suggested as ‘proto-scene’ by Tyler and Evans (2003a: 50), is situated as the
centre of the semantic network of over. The arrangement in the diagram implies that the
locative sense is prototypical and the other senses in periphery are less prototypical. It can be
concluded from these evidences that it is possible to perceive prototypicality of the senses of
prepositions. However, the question as to the extent to which one sense is more prototypical
than the others, for people other than the analyst, remains unanswered.
I asked 13 native students of a correspondence course in English at the University of
Birmingham to put nine sentences containing different senses of into in order of their
prototypicality on a continuum. Table 3.9 below shows their answers to the nine sentences to
which numbers from ‘i’ to ‘ix’ were assigned. The participants were made anonymous by
labelling them ‘A’ to ‘M’, and my hypothesised order is also shown in the Y column. My
hypothesis is that the locative and movement sense comes to the top of the list, while the other
metaphorical senses are lower. This hypothesis was proved plausible. Firstly, the
‘penetration’3
sense, in It was when Charles came into the room <S1A-018 #256>, was
observed to be in top place in most of their answers (11 out of 13, 85%). Secondly, the senses
which can be bodily experienced tend to be placed in high ranking following the movement
3
More details of the senses of into are provided in Chapter 7.
86
87
sense: the ‘orientation’ sense, as in The door opened directly into the living room <W2F-006
#054>, and the ‘affecting surface’ sense, as in …when Lambert’s Daimler crashed into a
sports car last May, <S2B-017 #055>. Thirdly, the other senses were given degrees of
prototypicality from four to nine. In other words, those senses were considered less
prototypical than the senses of ‘penetration’, ‘orientation’ and ‘affecting surface’. It can,
therefore, be concluded that the senses of prepositions can be arranged in the order of
prototypicality.
It should be noted that arrangement in the order of prototypicality is unlikely to be
clear-cut, but is rather as fuzzy as semantic category (see section 2.1 above). For example,
participants J and M (shaded columns in Table 3.9) assigned the same number to more than
one sense. Moreover, participant B provided all the senses with number one (the most
prototypical) and commented that all the senses fundamentally signify a movement from outer
to inner. This seems to imply that we see the prototypical sense extend metaphorically into the
other senses.
3.4 Summary of the chapter
This chapter has presented the data and the methodology of this research. Despite its
relatively small size of one million words, the ICE GB corpus represents a wide variety of
spoken and written forms of language and the parsed data in the corpus help me to specify the
TR and the LM in relation to the prepositions over, into and through. If the correlation
between the sense and the form is observed, the HCA combinations of the TR and the LM
according to the classification criteria may allow us to describe the polysemous senses of the
prepositions in terms of their collocations and patterns. The HCA combinations also have the
potential to provide an alternative account of the semantic network of prepositions by
mapping the senses in the diagram on the basis of the collocations. In the following chapters,
88
the analyses of over, into and through are given for the purpose of testing the hypothesis that
there is a relationship between sense and collocation.
89
4. PILOT STUDY: TR AND LM COMBINATIONS IN SEVEN PREPOSITIONS
This pilot study tested the hypothesis that the trajector (TR) and landmark (LM) noun
combination differs as regards prepositions and can characterise their language behaviour.
One hundred concordance lines for the seven prepositions, namely in, on, at, against, over,
through and into, following the verb were extracted from the Bank of English. The phases of
the verb (VB) and the preposition were selected in the following manner. First, the wordlist
was compiled in order to see which prepositions occur frequently. Table 4.1 below shows that
monosyllabic prepositions occur most frequently, followed by prepositions with more than
two syllables. Subsequently, the incidence of verbs with these prepositions in the Bank of
English was tabulated in comparison with those of the prepositions.
raw frequency
1 VB+ TO 1,068,594 OF 1
2 VB+ IN 408,529 TO 2
3 VB+ ON 273,909 IN 3
4 VB+ FOR 243,437 FOR 4
5 VB+ WITH 239,194 ON 5
6 VB+ AT 148,926 WITH 6
7 VB+ ABOUT 120,091 AS 7
8 VB+ FROM 112,533 AT 8
9 VB+ AS 107,166 BY 9
10 VB+ OF 91,655 FROM 10
11 VB+ INTO 80,631 ABOUT 11
12 VB+ BY 48,451 THAN 12
13 VB+ OVER 47,961 AFTER 13
14 VB+ LIKE 43,507 INTO 14
15 VB+ THROUGH 42,357 LIKE 15
16 VB+ AFTER 23,968 OVER 16
17 VB+ AGAINST 20,007 THROUGH 17
18 VB+ WITHOUT 13,129 AGAINST 18
19 VB+ BETWEEN 12,336 BETWEEN 19
20 VB+ THAN 6,266 WITHOUT 20
Table 4.1 Incidence of VB + preposition in the Bank of English and the ranking of frequent
prepositions
The distribution of human beings (H), concrete objects (C) and abstract objects (A)
of the trajector (TR) and the landmark (LM) was statistically tested by the chi-square test,
90
which indicates departures in the observed frequency of occurrence from the expected
frequency indicated by the total distribution. Subsequently, the residuals were employed
between the observed and the expected frequencies to carry out a cluster analysis. This
provided a dendrogram to show the HCA distribution pattern common to the prepositions.
Note, however, that a dendrogram is supposed to indicate a tentative linkage amongst
variables on a statistical basis and further investigation is required to discover how far the
dendrogram can explain the clustering of the prepositions. The significant combination of H,
C and A with their concordance lines is in turn detailed in relation to the clustering of the
prepositions shown in the dendrogram.
4.1 Chi-square test of the distribution of HCA combinations
Appendix 1 illustrates the 3x3 distribution composed of human beings, concrete objects and
abstract objects in combination with prepositions. The TR and LM nouns which precede and
follow an active verb and preposition fall into the categories of HH, HC, HA, CH, CC, CA,
AH, AC and AA – these pairs of letters represent the TR and the LM object. In other words,
HH stands for the combination of human being TR and human being LM. The distributions
containing on (p=0.0066), at (p=0.0022), over (p=0.0008), through (p=0.0002) and into
(p=0.0001) turn out to be statistically significant, whereas the TR and LM of in (p=0.3704)
and against (p=0.055) are not distributed significantly in terms of the HCA classification. As a
result, the residuals of the significant frequencies are analysed to discover which TR and LM
combinations can be called significantly distributed:
91
OVERUSE
OVERUSE
OVERUSE
OVERUSE TR LM frequency
+*** p <0.001 A at A 24 AA
C over C 14 CC
C through C 21 CC
A into A 16 AA
+** p <0.01 C on C 9 CC
H at C 28 HC
A over A 12 AA
C into C 13 CC
+* p < 0.05 A on A 22 AA
A through A 9 AA
H into H 7 HH
UNDERUSE
UNDERUSE
UNDERUSE
UNDERUSE
-*** p <0.001 H at A 30 HA
A at C 1 AC
C through A 3 CA
A into C 3 AC
-** p <0.01 C over A 2 CA
-* p < 0.05 A on C 3 AC
A over C 3 AC
H through C 27 HC
A through C 2 AC
C into A 2 CA
Table 4.2 Overuse and underuse of subject and object combinations
Table 4.2 shows that the CC combination occurs excessively with over, through and
into, for example in (1), (2) and (3) below. This implies that it might frequently be expressed
in everyday language that a concrete entity as the TR, which is the agent of action, traverses
another concrete object as the LM. In Example (1), the TR, cloud, is located in relation to the
LM, Norway, and the TR and the LM of Examples (2) and (3) are related in a space
configuration.
<overused CC>
(1) There was a cloud hanging over Norway as they arrived for training at the
Stade Lescure.
(2) Mr Jones said the toddler's teeth had also gone through her lips.
92
(3) Two people died when a commuter train crashed into the buffers at the station.
Similarly, abstract objects in combination with abstract objects (AA) are frequently
used in terms of the TR and LM combination (Examples 4-7). Given that a concrete object
traversing an entity is physically experienced on a regular basis in the lives of language users,
such physical experiences establish mental representations of CC combinations illustrated by
the TR and the LM. The mental representation of a spatial configuration, which is associated
with ‘image schemas’ (see section 2.3 above and cf. Johnson, 1987: 126), can be
metaphorically projected onto the TR and LM relationship between abstract objects. Example
(5) shows that an abstract object, the secret to its success, is described as being situated in an
abstract position, a lower level, as though the secret were physically placed at some point in
space. Consequently, the overuse of CC and AA could imply a ‘parallel configuration’ in
which the TR and the LM are concrete objects or abstract objects. The configuration, which
derives from physical experience and their metaphorical projection, is frequent in language.
<overused AA>
(4) But if the real power of the model lies in gauging the performance of the
whole organ, the secret to its success lies at a lower level.
(5) However, the wedding industry has since grown into a competitive,
pressure-selling industry and after five years,…
(6) And as my initial meaning to my clients will change over time, so will theirs to
me.
(7) …but against calcite the angle depends on the proportion of carbon dioxide to
water;…
Underused combinations, such as CA and AC, clearly indicate that non-parallel
configuration appears to be infrequent. Again, drawing on the thesis of image schemas,
93
mental representations applicable to language originate from physical experiences. The
scarcity of CA and AC may be due to the fact that the configuration cannot be directly
observed by language users. Take Example (8), for instance: it is impossible to see the flames
pass through my heart, and so the configuration of the TR and the LM is described
metaphorically. Likewise, in (10) the abstract object, quality, co-occurs with concrete objects,
French products. These non-parallel combinations turn out to be underused.
<underused CA>
(8) `At one point I stood in the fire and the flames came through my heart as light
came through…
(9) They [islands in the South Pacific] went into myth because no one could tell if
what they had seen was true.
<underused AC>
(10) It [quality] excels in French products, notably wine, dairy and even bread.
(11) Tension rises over salmon, by Danny Westneat, Seattle Times staff reporter:
Tension is rising again between Native Americans and non-Indians over
salmon,…
Despite the fact that CC and AA combinations were generally overused, the same
category of the TR and LM in parallel was not used frequently, nor were expressions based on
physical experiences alone. Only HH with into (p=1.969) is somewhat overused, but the
combination with other prepositions is not. It is highly likely that a human being will relate to
a concrete object (HC), e.g., You walk into a room, should it be the case that physical
experiences are closely linked to mental representations in the use of language. It could also
be suggested that such expressions associated with direct experiences are prototypical, in
comparison to figurative expressions. Nevertheless, HC is solely overused with at (p=3.113)
referring to a place where an action is performed and, surprisingly, HC with through (p=
94
-2.306), co-occurring with verbs denoting movement, is underused.
To sum up, the summary provided by the overuses and underuses of the HCA
combinations of the TR and the LM is as follows:
 The distributions containing on (p<0.01) and at (p<0.05) are significant and those with
over (p<0.001), through (p<0.001) and into (p<0.001) turn out to be highly significant.
 CC and AA combinations are overused, while CA and AC are underused.
 CC overuse with over, into, through and on;
AA overuse with at, over, into, through and on;
CA underuse with over, into and through;
AC underuse with at, over, into, through and on
4.2 Cluster dendrogram and analysis of the clustering
Figure 4.1 Dendrogram of the residuals of HCA combinations
The dendrogram is formulated by the correlation of variables which are clustered according to
relative distance. However, as mentioned earlier, this clustering is thought of as tentative, not
95
conclusive. Thus, another study is required to interpret clustering. Figure 4.1 above illustrates
the clustering of HCA (human beings, concrete objects and abstract objects) in distribution,
based on the values of the departures (= residuals) from the expected frequency. In other
words, the dendrogram indicates the resemblances of HCA distributions in the preposition
groupings. To provide a detailed account of the clustering, Table 4.3 below shows the
residuals of HCA combinations; the overused and underused combinations, with the
preposition groupings, are put in order of the similarity of their distribution patterns.
HH HC HA CH CC CA AH AC AA
1.839 -1.053 0.113 -1.197 3.542 -2.934 -1.153 -2.273 2.866
+*** -** -* +**
1.709 -0.455 -0.503 -1.089 3.196 -2.469 -1.072 -1.796 2.313
+** -* +*
1.969 0.422 -1.441 -1.153 3.081 -2.517 -1.329 -3.314 4.032
+* +** -* -*** +***
1.498 -2.306 1.725 -1.147 4.215 -3.777 -0.718 -2.237 2.527
-* +*** -*** -* +*
AGAINST 0.243 -2.181 1.410 -1.558 2.572 -0.422 0.996 0.352 -1.237
IN -0.879 1.494 -1.181 0.533 0.090 -0.271 0.533 -1.900 1.703
0.958 3.113 -3.541 -0.915 0.639 -0.048 -0.526 -3.689 3.806
+** -*** -*** +***
AT
OVER
ON
INTO
THROUGH
Table 4.3 Residuals and significant overuses and underuses
On the whole, as discussed in the previous section, the overuse of CC and AA, and
the underuse of CA and AC, individualise the clustering of the groups over, on, into and
through. Among these, over and on are found to cluster together more favourably than the
other prepositions. Contrastingly, the co-occurring verbs may shed light on preferential
clustering: over and on tend to follow verbs denoting static situations, such as hanging, lying,
extending, fitting with over and lying and left with on. By contrast, into and through are prone
to occur with verbs denoting movement from one place to another: digging, came, flood,
96
fallen with into and passed, break, had gone, move, echoed, running with through, as in
Examples (12) and (13) below respectively.
(12) They [positively charged sodium ions] flood into the cell from outside, where
their concentration is high, bringing their positive charge with them.
(13) The wooden clogs of the strolling musician echoed through the empty, frozen
streets with a clear, hollow clop-clop sound…
The cluster composed of over and on then merges with into. The preposition group is
characterised by the overuse of the HH combination in terms of statistical testing. The
residual (1.969) appears to be significant, despite the fact that it does not differ very much
from over (1.839) and on (1.709). Given that HH with through accounts for 1.498, the
combination of the trajector and landmark of human beings in terms of the four prepositions
tends to be overused although the residuals, except for into, are statistically insignificant. As a
result, it can be inferred that parallel combinations HH, CC and AA show positive residuals
relevant to overuse. Interestingly, the HC combination of into characteristically indicates a
positive residual in contrast with the negative residuals of over, on, into and through; in and at
are also overused in the combination. By studying the verbs I attempted to discover relevance
in the meaning, but could find only basic locative meanings in both the positive and negative
HC combinations.
Through is merged into the cluster over, on and into. The underused HC combination
(-2.306) and the positive residual of HA (1.725) are distinctive, as is the distribution of
through. With the verbs GO, COME and PASS, the HC combinations represent the lapse of time
or experience (Example 14).
(14) I think it's difficult you know I'm not sure of – I think the group did go through
a time where it felt quite cohesive and bonded but I think it's sort of
disintegrated again…
97
Subsequently, against is clustered at approximately a 0.5 correlation value. This
merger suggests that the HCA combinations are distinguished from the prepositions in the
other cluster branch. However, the shared features of against can be inferred from the
residuals: the HC (-2.181), CH (-1.558) and CC (2.572) are closer to the cluster than in and at
appear to be, while at the same time the monosyllabic prepositions make a cluster at the other
margin.
The in and at cluster appears at the other side of the other prepositions. This may be
due to the distinctive pattern individualised by the HC (1.494 and 3.113), the CC (0.090 and
0.639) and the CA (-0.271 and -0.048), and then the distribution pattern of the residuals runs
counter to those of the other prepositions. The overuse of HC may imply that in and at tend to
be used for a person acting in/at a certain place.
Residuals distributions H/C/A* patterns
-5.000
-4.000
-3.000
-2.000
-1.000
0.000
1.000
2.000
3.000
4.000
5.000
HH HC HA CH CC CA AH AC AA
HCA combinations
Residuals
OVER
ON
INTO
THROUGH
AGAINST
IN
AT
Figure 4.2 HCA distribution patterns in the trajector-centred order
Figure 4.2 illustrates the distribution patterns of HCA combinations with the lines
representing the residuals in the preposition groups. It is obvious that the distribution patterns
of over, on, into and through appear to be identical; this pattern sharply increases at the CC
98
and the AA and decreases to negative residuals at the CA, the AH and the AC. In and at, in
contrast, remain relatively steady at around the neutral value of residuals. As regards human
being TR combinations, the HH, the HC and the HA are randomly scattered in positive and
negative residuals.
Residuals distributions *H/C/A patterns
-5.000
-4.000
-3.000
-2.000
-1.000
0.000
1.000
2.000
3.000
4.000
5.000
HH CH AH HC CC AC HA CA AA
HCA combinations
Residuals
OVER
ON
INTO
THROUGH
AGAINST
IN
AT
Figure 4.3 HCA distribution patterns in the landmark-centred order
Figure 4.3 above shows the HCA distribution pattern of the manner in which the
landmark is centred. In the combinations with human being objects, the HH, the CH, and the
AH, suggest that the parallel combination HH is overused while the other but non-parallel CH
and AH are underused. Interestingly, the distributions of in and at are found to be distinct
from the other prepositions: the CH, the AH and the HC with in are overused, while the
residuals of the others are underused, and the distribution line of at demonstrates an
excessively overused HC and underused AC and HA. This could imply that at tends to be
used to indicate that a human being is staying at or performing at a certain location. In
summary, this section has attested the following:
99
 The dendrogram in Figure 4.2 demonstrates the clustering of the prepositions under
review according to the residuals of the HCA combinations.
 The distribution patterns of the residuals explain the reason for the clustering.
4.3 Summary of the chapter
This pilot study has investigated how the distribution of the trajector (TR) and the landmark
(LM) combinations differs for the seven prepositions: in, on, at, against, over, through and
into. The distribution of HCA combinations indicates the different linguistic behaviour of the
TR and LM collocates. The residuals, based on the frequency of the HCA combinations,
provide a dendrogram of the prepositions. The distribution patterns of the combinations are
effectively interpreted by the clustering and reveal how the HCA combinations are frequently
found in the similar pattern of the prepositions. As a result, the combinations of on, at, over,
through and into appear to be significantly distributed. Of these prepositions, on, over,
through and into fall into one branch of the dendrogram, indicating that their distribution
pattern of the HCA combinations is similar. Although the HCA combinations with on seem
worth investigating, the polysemous senses, which vary among the forty-three senses
presented in Collins COBUILD Advanced Learner’s English Dictionary (Sinclair et al., 2003),
are too diverse to examine here.
Over, into and through were investigated in this study for the following reasons. First,
these prepositions appeared to fall into the same branch of the dendrogram, based on the
distribution pattern of the HCA combinations. Second, the prepositions have a similar mental
representation of the spatial configuration. The ‘path’ movement, which seems to relate to the
‘path’ image schema (see section 2.3 above), is shared in the prototypical sense of over, into
and through. Third, some research into the senses of over has been undertaken (Brugman,
1981; 1988; Dewell, 1994, Lakoff, 1987; Tyler and Evans, 2003a) and this is comparable with
the results of this study. In the following chapter, the preceding studies are revisited, to see
100
whether the hypothesis of HCA combinations is compatible with them.
101
5. THE MEANING COMPONENTS OF OVER
5.1 The polysemy and semantic network of over
Prepositions are considered to be words which bear several meanings, even though their
linguistic form remains consistent. For instance, the preposition over can denote several
different physical and non-physical relationships between two entities.
(1) They 're, […] they 're now flying over us <S2A-019 #096>1
(2) Now Tony we’ll just go over the basic procedures to start your bike before you
sit on it… <S2A-054 #053>
The examples above indicate a spatial configuration and a metaphorical relation using over as
in (1) and (2). Although the identical linguistic form over is used, the meanings are distinct
from one another. Example (1) can be paraphrased as being located “above and across”, while
(2) implies that the agent somehow metaphorically “transverses and inspects” the procedures.
Polysemy has been discussed in linguistics from two viewpoints. In earlier research,
it was contended that a polysemous word incidentally happens to bear different meanings as a
homonym, a word which is pronounced the same as another word but conveys different
information: bank was assumed to have the meanings both of a financial organisation and of
the higher land bordering a river. However, this is not the case for prepositions, because the
different meanings provide a common image, blending a primary sense of the preposition and
the way in which language users intuitively perceive it. Take over, for example: the uses of
over in (1) and (2) signify different things but at the same time share the proposition of ‘an
entity traversing another’ which is understood, and the meanings attributed to over are all
likely to derive from the central schema. Consequently, prepositions are assumed not to have
several wholly disconnected meanings, but to establish a lexicon for their users based on a
1
The code number in brackets represents the data code and sentence number of the ICE GB. All the instances
with brackets hereafter are excerpts of the corpus.
102
principled core schema of spatial configuration (Tyler and Evans, 2003a).
Cognitive linguists set out to explore semantic networks on the basis of human
construal, human ways of seeing the world, and they attempt to account for the functioning of
the categorization of meanings in networks. It is postulated that different meanings of a
polysemous word form a semantic network which extends from the primary sense (Rosch,
1975) to its sub-categories, described as a ‘radial category’ (Lakoff, 1987). The members of
the categories do not necessarily share the same features; rather, some particular features are
shared by some of the members – cf., Wittgenstein’s ‘family resemblance’ (Wittgenstein,
1953) – and the semantic network is fuzzily composed of the central schema and the derived
senses on the periphery (Zadeh, 1965)2
. In the same way, the semantic networks of
prepositions have been described as a radial category (Dirven, 1993; Sandra and Rice, 1995;
Tyler and Evans, 2001, 2003a and 2003b). The core schema of prepositions is thought to
closely relate to kinaesthetic experiences (Lakoff, 1987; Lakoff and Johnson, 1999). This is
largely because the spatial configuration represented by a preposition is learned by means of
experiencing it in routine, everyday activities. Kolstad (1991) (cited in Mandler, 1992) shows
that a baby as young as five-and-a-half months old was surprised to see that a container
without a bottom, which was constructed for the purpose of the experiment, could hold
something inside it. This implies that even infants recognise the violation of embodied
principles, in this case, containment. In addition, basic embodied experiences are considered
to generate mental representations of spatial configurations, such as CONTAINER, UP-DOWN,
FRONT-BACK, IN-OUT, SURFACE, SOURCE-PATH-GOAL and other image schemas (Lakoff, 1987;
Lakoff and Johnson, 1999). Cognitive linguists argue that the central meaning of prepositions
originates from their mental representation based on embodied experiences; the derived
senses, which are associated with one another as sub-schemas in the semantic network, are
2
See section 2.2.2 ‘Semantic network’ for more details.
103
invoked by means of foregrounding a particular feature of the central meaning. In other words,
the core meaning of over, above and across, is embodied by the experiences in which we
repeatedly see one entity go over another, as seen in (1), and a salient feature of the central
schema, such as eye movement across and throughout, is extended by over to give the sense
of examining, as in (2).
The studies of over attempt to explore the nature of the polysemous preposition on
the basis that human construal and embodied experiences assign the following attributes to
the establishment of the semantic network:
• the central schema of the preposition and the rationally derived meanings
• the motivations which associate the core meaning with the derived
• the sentential components which are involved in implying the derived meanings
This approach seems in a way analogous to investigating the evolution of the animal kingdom.
The research is carried out by comparing similar kinds of animal and classifying them into
sub-categories in a tree diagram and deriving the root of the animals in a particular family
from the evidence of fossil animals. In like manner, linguists set out the semantic network of a
preposition which is composed of its different meanings and illuminate its central concept in
its relation to kinaesthesia and perception. In the following section, we will see how
research in cognitive linguistics has illuminated the understanding of the central schema,
motivations and relevant components of the meanings of over.
5.2 The case studies of OVER
5.2.1 The central schema of OVER
The polysemous aspects of over were first thoroughly examined in relation to human
104
cognition by Brugman (1981, 1988) and Lakoff (1987). Brugman challenged the then current
proposition that the multiple meanings of a lexical item were arbitrary and irrationally
associated as homonyms, and concluded that seemingly disparate meanings of over are
interrelated by mental representations generated through embodied experiences. Drawing on
her analysis, Lakoff (1987) argues that ‘image schemas’, conceptual prototypes to encourage
the understanding of spatial configurations, are likely to play an essential part in interpreting
the diverse meanings of over. This assumption in turn gives rise to the primary mental
representation of over (Figure 5.1 below) and the central schema is exemplified as in (3):
(3) The plane is flying over the hill.
(4) Sam walked over the hill.
(5) Sam climbed over the wall.
As seen in the figure above, the central schema of over suggested by Lakoff (1987)
represents the linear, flat movement of the trajector (TR), which is the focused entity of the
two referents in the sense of disposition in space, above and across the landmark (LM), the
other entity functioning as background (Langacker, 1987). The drawback of this central
schema is that a number of ad hoc trajectories caused by the outline of landmark are
subsumed within the derivable senses of over (Tyler and Evans, 2003a): the trajectory of (4) is
LM
TR
Figure 5.1 The central schema of over, adapted from Lakoff (1987: 419)
105
a path curved in an arc along the profile of the hill, while that of (5) climbs up and down
tracing the rectangular shape of the wall. Given that prototypical schemas can vary to a
certain extent, Lakoff’s semantic network of over is overwhelmingly complex, due to the
semantic attributes of contact, horizontal/vertical extension, and end-point focus. In contrast,
Dewell (1994, 2007) suggests that the core schema of over is a curved arc trajectory (Figure
5.2 below). His prototypical representation is assumed to exclude the unnecessary settings of
landmark in terms of outline, and he points out that over denotes the LM under the influence
of the TR, unlike above, which conveys the detachment of the TR from the sphere of the LM
(cf. Keep your head above [*over] water. (ibid.: 374).
Figure 5.1 and Figure 5.2 illustrate that the central schemas presented by Lakoff
(1987) and Dewell (1994) provide a description of over as ‘path’, a route caused by
movement from one place to another, rather than a static spatial relationship between TR and
LM. It should, however, be noted that, given that cognitive linguistics relies mainly on human
construal, the rationale seems to a large extent subjective and intuitive and it is difficult to
establish objective criteria. Contrary to this, the ‘proto scene’ of over (Figure 5.3 below), the
mental representation of spatial configurations related to prepositions, is defined on the
following grounds: 1. earliest attested meaning, 2. predominance in the semantic network, 3.
use in composite form, 4. relation to other prepositions, and 5. grammatical predictions (Tyler
LM
TR
Figure 5.2 The central schema of over, adapted from Dewell (1994: 353)
106
and Evans, 2001, 2003a, 2003b). ‘The earliest attested meaning’ is identified by the
diachronic development of the meanings of the preposition, and the original meaning is
assumed to be associated with the primary sense, namely that over originates from the
Sanskrit upari denoting ‘higher’ and the Old Teutonic comparative form ufa denoting ‘above’
(Tyler and Evans, 2003: 48). Its ‘use in composite form’ suggests that the over sense denoted
in compound words and phrasal verbs, such as overlook and look over, can be directly
attributed to the primary sense. ‘Predominance in the semantic network’ indicates the extent
to which the central meaning is associated with the other members of the semantic network. It
thus follows that the most common configuration of derived senses is a plausible candidate
for being the primary sense. A relationship to other prepositions is likely to challenge the
central schemas of Lakoff (1987) and Dewell (1944), because the diagrams are unlikely to
distinguish the sphere of over or above. ‘Grammatical prediction’ indicates the traceability of
derived meanings to the primary sense, which elucidates the semantic extension of the
meanings (Tyler and Evans, 2003a). Tyler and Evans’ central schema, unlike those of the
previous two writers, represents a static spatial configuration and not a path. It should be
borne in mind that it is still under debate whether path or static configuration is more likely as
the central schema of over (Dewell, 2007, Gucht et al., 2007). Hence, the three candidates for
the primary scene of over remain somewhat plausible and reasonable. The following section
will discuss how the derived senses emerge and are associated with one another in the
semantic network.
TR
LM
sphere of
LM
Figure 5.3 The proto scene of over (after Tyler and Evans 2003a: 66)
107
5.2.2. Motivations behind the semantic network
A key tenet of cognitive linguistics is that human construal and perception specifically relate
to the use and system of language (Lakoff, 1987; Lakoff and Johnson, 1999; Langacker, 1987;
Talmy, 2000; Ungerer and Schimid, 2006). Such flexible construal allows image schemas,
conceptual prototypes of interpretation, to extend the applicability of a word and transform
the prototype into an ad hoc interpretation. To put it another way, perception can be
transformed, such that the end-point is foregrounded in the course of the path (path focus ⇔
end-point focus); scattered points are seen as a plane surface in aggregate when observed
from a distance (multiplex ⇔ mass). These alternations of perception which accurately reflect
our embodied experiences are defined as ‘image schema transformations’ (Dewell, 1994;
Kreitzer, 1997; Lakoff, 1987) and in this manner facilitate the extension of meanings in a
semantic network.
In addition to image schema transformations, metaphor and convention in language
are involved in the extension of meaning and the establishment of a semantic network.
Metaphor functions as not only a tool of rhetoric in literature and speech, but also as a
representation of the foregrounding of a salient feature and its mapping onto a figurative
setting. For instance, the control sense of over – e.g., …or even when he told a British
audience: We in India have long ago forgiven you for ruling over us. <W2B-011 #070> – is
likely to derive from a metaphor that people located above have authority over other people
below. Such a metaphor may originally have emerged by the projection of a primary sense;
nevertheless, as the figurative use is reiterated over years, it is conventionalised as a social
and cultural norm in language. Take the temporal sense of over, for example; the locative
senses of such prepositions as in, on, at, have been used since the remote past, and in a similar
way over is conventionally used to denote the lapse of a certain period. Arguably, it might be
difficult to clearly identify whether image schema transformation, metaphor, metonymy or
108
convention should be attributed to a derived meaning in terms of semantic extension. Rather,
all of them may complement each other to create derived senses in the semantic network.
All possible interpretations of physical and non-physical configuration cannot be
assumed to be derivable senses in a semantic network. Tyler and Evans (2003a: 55) point out
that the member of a network, ‘sense’, should be differentiated from the ad hoc (to put it
simply), above-located sense, as the proto scene shown in Figure 5.3 above, can be a member
of the interpretation, ‘on-line meaning’, merely applicable to a particular configuration3
, for
example, to the semantic network of over, whereas an atypical spatio-configuration, as in The
hummingbird hovered over the flower (Figure 5.4 below), should be treated as a temporary
meaning of the member of the network. The distinction, however, remains disputable, since it
rests on the criterion that the sense lies in the memory of language users (Lakoff, 1987) while
the on-line meaning does not (Tyler and Evans, 2003a). Obviously, both are conventionally
committed to memory through routine use; where they differ is that the sense is determined by
partially sharing the principal features of a lexical item, whereas the on-line meaning is
marginally extended. Therefore, I would agree that image schema transformations, metaphor,
metonymy and convention are highly likely to be involved together in furnishing the senses of
a semantic network and on-line interpretations (Dewell, 1994; Kövecses, 2002; Tyler and
Evans, 2003a). In the next section, we will examine whether any other factor can determine
the sense and meaning of over.
3
From here onward, I will use the term ‘sense’ as a member of semantic network as well as the meanings of
the polysemous preposition over.
109
5.2.3. Sentential components of senses of over
Two mutually opposed suppositions can be made about sentential components. The
interpretation of over can be determined either exclusively by the preposition which
comprehensively illustrates any configuration between the TR and LM, ‘full specification
interpretation’(Lakoff, 1987), or by the preposition, the verb, and the object for which over
provides a minimal configuration and the others provide complementary additional
information, which is defined as ‘minimal specification interpretation’ (Lakoff, 1987: 420).
The studies of over, so far, despite their attempts to explore the senses of the
preposition, seem to imply the involvement of other sentential components. Dewell (1994:
355-57) illustrates the trajectory of over by classifying examples into any of three types:
downward, upward, and freeze-frame at the peak, giving the examples below (6)-(8):
(6) Sam fell over the cliff. (downward trajectory)
(7) The plane climbed right over the city. (upward trajectory)
(8) The plane should be over Baltimore by now. (freeze-frame at the peak)
Obviously, the verbs – fell, climbed, be – to certain extent relate to the interpretation of the
trajectories and it seems difficult to claim that over alone determines the different
interpretations. Likewise, Kreitzer (1997: 299) accounts for the integration of the different
LM (flower)
TR
(hummingbird)
Figure 5.4 Configuration of an on-line meaning as in The hummingbird hovered over the flower
110
schemas, the dynamic path inferred by climb and come, and the static configuration denoted
by over (Figure 5.5 below).
Furthermore, Tyler and Evans (2001, 2003a, 2003b) point out that ‘world knowledge’ is
essential in terms of the interpretation of language. Since encyclopaedic knowledge is
obligatory in cognitive linguistics, the information on phenomena in the world is highly likely
to be woven into the semantics. Take Figure 5.4 above again, for example; without the
knowledge of hummingbirds, which can hover in the air, the mental representation of the
configuration could hardly arise in the mind of the language user. It follows that the
encyclopaedic knowledge of the bird and its relationship with flowers, its peculiar way of
drinking the nectar, may give rise to the interpretation. Consequently, I would conclude that
full specification interpretation is unlikely to account for the interpretation of over; rather, the
involvement of other sentential components should be examined.
It is generally acknowledged that language refers to the real world; however, doubts
arise over the claim that language represents all possible conceptualisations by the users:
TR
LM
climb
(component schema)
over
(relational schema)
The plane climbed
high over the city
(integrative schema)
Figure 5.5 Component, relational, and integrative schema (Kreitzer, 1997)
TR
LM
climb
(component schema)
over
(relational schema)
The plane climbed
high over the city
(integrative schema)
111
The big bone of contention in contemporary cognitive linguistic theory is the
extent to which language and conceptualisation are separable and how to prove
that experimentally (Kleiner, 2005: 775).
Linguistic relativity, the discussion of how far language is associated with human construal,
turns out to be the key to the exploration of the senses of over. I would agree theoretically that
language functions as “a sufficient cue for conceptualisation” (Tyler and Evans, 2001: 743).
Language, although ‘a minimal prompt’ (Tyler, 2006: 972), provides enough information to
trigger a full conceptualisation to enable language users to communicate with each other.
Corpus research is unlikely to reveal all the conceptualisations of language users through
language, for here psychological elicitation experiment is needed, as Kleiner suggests; but
corpus research could shed new light on the extent to which linguistic form prompts, and its
combinations relate to, different senses. In the light of this rationale, in the following sections
I carry out some corpus research into the relation between the senses of over and sentential
components such as verb, subject and object.
5.3 Corpus research on the guiding senses of over
This section describes the research into the ICE GB corpus; this attempted to empirically
explore in particular the distribution of the senses of over and the occurrence of verbs in these
different senses. I will go through the senses of the semantic network of over suggested by
Tyler and Evans (2001, 2003a, 2003b), since this network clearly illustrates the connections
between the senses, the central and peripheral senses and the semantic extension from centre
to periphery (Figure 5.6 below).
112
Figure 5.6 The semantic network for over (Tyler and Evans 2003a: 80)
Note, however, that some have cast doubt on the structure of the semantic network by
challenging the central schema and motivation of the semantic extension. On the one hand,
Dewell (2007) argues that the route sense, which corresponds to the A-B-C trajectory in
Figure 5.6, is more probably appropriate as the primary schema in the sense that it should be
the most predominant and derivable in a semantic network (cf. 5.2.1 The central schema of
over). Although this may be true, Dewell fails to accommodate an alternative semantic
network centring on the path sense. On the other hand, Gucht et al. (2007) claim that the
covering sense is unlikely to be an independent sense, because the context enables us to
topologically extend from the proto scene to the derived sense. But this proposition may
discount most types of semantic extension. Consequently, the semantic network of Figure 5.6,
in the present state of research, is most probably plausible. For this reason, this study draws
primarily on the seminal work of Tyler and Evans (2003a).
2
2.A
2.B
2.C
2.D
2.E
5.A
5.B 5.C
5.A.1
4.A
6.A
3
4
6
PROTO-SCENE
Covering
Examining
Focus-of-
attention
Reflexive
Repetition
A-B-C
Trajectory
Cluster
Up Cluster
On-the-
other-side-
of
Above-and-
beyond
(ExcessI)
Completion
Transfer
Temporal
Preference
Control
More
Over-and-
above
(ExcessII)
113
This corpus research aims to discover the linguistic environment of the core and
derived senses of over created in actual language use. The example sentences given by
cognitive linguists tend to be somewhat artificial and plain in order to highlight the points of
their argument. Empirical language data from a corpus could unveil a hidden association and
pattern between the node word, in this study over, and other sentential components. Moreover,
the frequency and infrequency of a particular sense in the semantic network could suggest
which senses are recurrently experienced in the use of language. Unfortunately, the corpus
data is unlikely to test the semantic network of Figure 5.6 since it is theoretically based on the
five criteria discussed earlier in 5.2.1, unlike frequency and presence of words in which
corpus research has its great strength. However, the frequency of the senses could add the
conceptual model of the semantic network to empirical information as to which sense is
recurrently experienced by using it. This implies that a frequent sense is more entrenched than
other senses of the semantic network of language users. In the following section a corpus
research will be undertaken.
5.3.1 Overview of the distribution of senses
This study analyses a parsed one-million-word corpus, the British Component of the
International Corpus of English (ICE GB), for the purpose of finding the TR (subject) and LM
(prepositional complement, noun phrase following a preposition) with the help of a parsed
tree diagram. 480 instances containing the sequence of ‘verb + preposition over’, e.g., look
over, were extracted and manually classified into the fifteen different senses shown in Figure
5.6 above. It should be noted that the senses of the semantic network intrinsically overlap
each other: in other words, they are not clear-cut categories. However, for the purpose of the
present research the instances examined were classified into the single most appropriate sense
of the semantic network.
114
Observed N % Expected N Residual std. residual
40 8.3% 32.0 8.0 1.41
2A 110 22.9% 32.0 78.0 13.79
2B 18 3.8% 32.0 -14.0 -2.47
2C 6 1.3% 32.0 -26.0 -4.60
2D 19 4.0% 32.0 -13.0 -2.30
2E 90 18.8% 32.0 58.0 10.25
43 9.0% 32.0 11.0 1.94
13 2.7% 32.0 -19.0 -3.36
4A 36 7.5% 32.0 4.0 0.71
5A 18 3.8% 32.0 -14.0 -2.47
5A1 11 2.3% 32.0 -21.0 -3.71
5B 50 10.4% 32.0 18.0 3.18
5C 1 0.2% 32.0 -31.0 -5.48
18 3.8% 32.0 -14.0 -2.47
6A 7 1.5% 32.0 -25.0 -4.42
480 100.0%
semantic network
1
2
3
4
5
6
Table 5.1 Distribution of senses of over in the ICE GB
Table 5.1 illustrates the distribution of the senses: the observed frequency, the
expected frequency, the residuals and the standardised residuals. The expected frequency is
calculated on the hypothesis that the senses are equally distributed. Although admittedly they
are not supposed to occur evenly, the expected frequency provides us with a benchmark of the
distribution. Based on the difference in frequency between the observed and the expected, the
standardised residuals are calculated according to a normal distribution.
The result shows that the distribution is localised in a few senses and the senses are
overused: 2A on-the-other-side-of (110 instances, 22.9%), 2E temporal (90 instances, 18.8%)
and 5B control (50 instances, 10.4%). The three senses occupy virtually half of the instances
(52.1%). The other senses only account for less than ten percent each; in particular, the shaded
cells are statistically underused. These findings in turn follow that the use of over is unequally
distributed and frequently occurs in the given senses. This may imply that language users are
recurrently exposed to particular senses of semantic network and the recurrent senses are
possibly entrenched and closely associated with the word over, although they are the
115
peripheral senses in terms of the semantic network. This result draws a conclusion that the
frequent sense is not necessarily the ‘core sense’ of semantic network (Shortall, 2007), largely
because the prototype in cognitive linguistics is not defined by frequency, but by the
versatility of the central schema. Nevertheless, the frequency of the derived senses suggests
which senses the language user closely associates with the linguistic form of over.
5.3.2 Sense and the sentential components in the corpus
In this section, the instances containing over will be analysed in terms of the co-occurring
components, such as verb and nouns, with the intention of revealing a tendency for the
co-occurring words to relate to a particular sense of the semantic network shown in Figure 5.6.
It should be noted that there exist no clear-cut boundaries amongst the senses, rather the
senses overlap to a certain extent. The sense of over of (9) seems to denote that loose shirts
are located on jeans as classified into proto scene (1) which represent the TR locating above
the LM, while at the same time some may interpret the sense as covering (3) in that the shirts
conceal the lower layer, jeans. Likewise, reading example (10) one may consider it as locating
above sense that a cook has to stay at stove bending forward over a pan, while the over may
possibly derive from a mental representation that a cook repeatedly stirs sauce in a pan as
repetition sense (6A) (Littlemore, 2009 personal communication). It is possible that both
interpretations are correct. The present study attempts not to apply stringent criteria of
classification, but to distribute empirical instances from a corpus into a most reasonable one
of the over senses for further research, taking into consideration the proposition of cognitive
linguistics that our categorization is innately fuzzy (cf. section 2.1 above).
(9) They are not allowed to wear very short skirts and they're not to wear allowed
[sic.] to wear loose shirts over jeans. <S1A-054 #158>
(10) …you must have spent hours slaving over the stove. <S1A-071#316>
116
Furthermore, this research does not aim to analyse phrasal verbs, but to describe all the
instances of verb and over, not being restricted by a conventional category of phrasal verbs.
Phrasal verbs are two- or three-word clusters composed of a verb and a preposition or an
adverb denoting an idiomatic meaning (Taylor, 2002). For instance, put over means
successfully conveying ideas and opinions and explain them, as in Minority groups had the
chance to come into the studio and put over their point of view (ibid.: 400, my underlining).
Unlike the idiomatic meaning, the over of (11) literally signifies location. This study will thus
provide a comprehensive account of co-occurring nouns and verbs as found in text,
irrespective of phrasal verb or literal-meaning verb and particle combination.
(11) Well, I am sure we could uh develop uh a very tasteful chiffon scarf of some
sort, not to put over our heads and with our rollers underneath. <S1B-021
#077>
Again, I would like to confirm before investigation what will be analysed in the instances
containing over in each sense of the semantic network:
• combination of trajector (TR) and landmark (LM)
• co-occurring verb
• pattern of phrase and clause structure
Proto scene (1)
The proto scene of over represents the TR as located above, and not necessarily in contact
with the sphere of the LM (Figure 5.3 above). This static configuration schema arises from
disputing the claim that the central schema of over is based on an above and across movement
(cf. 5.2.1 the central schema of OVER). The central schema is exemplified in text as follows
117
(Tyler and Evans 2003a: 65, Lakoff 1987: 421)4
.
(12) The picture is over the mantel5
.
As Kreitzer (1997) suggests, let us assume that the verb preceding over may be involved in
establishing the configuration. The following verbs occur in the sentences classified under the
proto scene:
BLOW, CAST, HANG, HIT, HOOK, KNEEL, LEAN, LIFT, LOOM, PLACE, PLAY, PUT, ROAR, SHIT,
SLAVE, STAND, THWACK, TOUCH, WARM, WAVER, WEAR, WHIZZ
6
No instance containing BE over is found in terms of the proto scene sense; however,
HANG seems to denote a similar static state of the TR located above the LM. Now we will see
the concordance lines of the corpus data. Interestingly, (13) alone shows a physical
configuration, while an abstract entity in (14), shame, is metaphorically overlaid.
(13) A mist hung over the river. <W2F-013 #071>
(14) British resolve has been greater to get on with the conflict because the
historical shame of the 1930s, when dictators were allowed to spread their evil
across Europe unchecked, still hangs over us. <W2E-002 #050>
The outline of TR and LM can be transformed according to context. Such topological
features are observed in the data. Unlike the proto scene, the TR forms into an extended
outline as a human figure ((15) and (16) below). Although Lakoff (1987) claims that physical
extension of TR and LM gives rise to a different sense, it is reasonable to assume that such a
4
From example (12) onward in section 5.3.2, unless specifically stated, the numbered examples without a
code number and brackets are excerpts from Tyler and Evans (2003a), for the purpose of comparing their
intuitively generated instances with corpus data.
5
The TR and LM are shaded in the examples from (12) onward.
6
The concordance lines containing the verbs are shown in Appendix 2 [pp. 327-358], TR and LM
combinations with over in alphabetical order of verb and ICE GB sentence instances.
118
peculiar configuration is an application of the proto scene. This is because the transformation
does not affect the configuration of the proto scene and it is accurately reflected in the
knowledge of the world, in this case the shape of the human body.
(15) She leaned over the washbasin to rinse her face and hands. <W2F-008 #139>
(16) …he growled, his voice wavering as he kneeled over her crouched body, his
mouth close to her pretty ear. <W2F-008 #123>
Figure 5.7 The mental representation of (15) and (16)
Likewise, the spatial configuration of (17) and (18) does not precisely correspond to the proto
scene; the TR is located on the LM (Figure 5.8 below). The mental representation associated
with the interpretation of (17) and (18) may derive not only from the verbs, TOUCH and PUT,
but also from the prepositional complement, the top and heads. These findings naturally imply
that the subject (TR) and prepositional complement (LM) are likely to help to accommodate a
particular mental representation of the spatial configuration indicated by a preposition.
(17) And it [the ball]’s just touched over the top of the crossbar, is it. <S2A-010
#175>
(18) Well, I am sure we could, uh, develop, uh, a very tasteful chiffon scarf of some
sort, not to put over our heads and with our rollers underneath. <S1B-021
#077>
LM
TR
119
Figure 5.8 The mental representation of (17) and (18)
Most importantly, it should be noted that a non-physical entity is likely to assign a
figurative meaning to the relation between TR and LM. Abstract nouns, curse and threat, can
be assumed to be placed above and at the same time to HANG over (19) and LOOM over (20)
connoting a negative ‘semantic prosody’ (Sinclair, 2003, 2004), evaluative meaning expressed
by a phrase, with the help of the abstract TRs.
(19) Does some sort of curse hang over the place? <W2F-016 #069>
(20) But it’s a threat that still looms over him. <S2B-040 #064>
There exists a stark contrast between a static schema of over, spatial configuration
representing an entity above the other (Tyler and Evans, 2003a), and path schema, arced
movement from one side to another (Dewell, 1994). Obviously, the former schema can be
assumed to require the involvement of two entities which function as trajector and landmark
in terms of spatial scene (Langacker, 1987). It could, therefore, be hypothesised that the
instances of over denoting static proto scene tend to retain a noun phrase, otherwise called
prepositional complement (PC) with respect to prepositional phrase, functioning as ground
after the preposition. Table 5.2 illustrates the presence of a PC following over which conveys
a static sense in comparison to the phrase pattern, such as with or without direct object, and
LM
TR
120
passive.
with prepositional
complement
without prepositional
complement
Verb + over
blow,hang, hook, kneel,
lean, loom, put, roar,
shit, slave,waver
Verb + O + over
cast, hit, thwack, warm,
wear
BE V-ed + over lift, place, play
Table 5.2 Verbs and sentence structures in the sense of proto scene
No instance without a PC is found in the data. This implies that the proto scene sense cannot
be independently used without a contrastive entity with the trajector. In addition to the
presence of PCs, the phrase pattern is likely to characterise the sense of the spatial
configuration. Examples (21) and (22) show that in order to indicate the focus on an object,
such as paw and transparent overlay (TR), these sentences are in the passive voice with such
landmarks (LM) as object and display panel.
(21) Moreover if a paw was tapped just before it was due to be lifted the paw would
then be reflexively lifted an increased amount, as if being lifted over an object.
<W1A-016 #060>
(22) Words, pictures or symbols are drawn on a transparent overlay and this
[overlay] is placed over the display panel. <W2B-039 #083>
A similar configuration can be expressed in a different manner. For instance, examples (23)
and (24) indicate that the TR, hands, hovers over the LM, jars and bowl. Whereas (23)
denotes the hovering of hands alone, (24) adds the meaning of warming to the spatial
configuration by emerging as verb + direct object + over structure.
121
(23) You like? he asked, his hands wavering over jars of honey, marmalade and jam.
<W2F-013 #085>
(24) Even then it’s a welcome chance to warm freezing hands over a steaming bowl
of food… <W2B-024 #101>
To sum up, the instances from corpus data have revealed that the proto scene over
closely relates to such co-occurring words as TR, LM, verb as well as phrase pattern. A
topological extension in particular is related to particular verbs retaining the spatial
configuration the TR above the LM. The consistent presence of a noun phrase following over
may imply the close association of the TR and the LM to specify the spatial relationship.
Moreover, the phrase structure, such as an object noun after transitive verb and passive voice,
appears to relate to the difference of connotation.
A-B-C Trajectory Cluster
On-the-other-side-of (2A)
The sense of the A-B-C trajectory is theoretically based on the mental representation
prompted by the sentence The cat jumped over the wall (Figure 5.9 below). This reminds us
of the scene, such that (A) the cat, the TR, diagonally jumps off the ground; it passes above
and across the wall, the LM (B); and the cat makes a landing from the air onto the ground (C).
Tyler and Evans (2003a) define the sequence of the movement as the A-B-C trajectory and
argue that the mental representation of it is associated with the derived senses, such as
‘on-the-other-side-of’, ‘above-and-beyond’, ‘completion’, ‘transfer’ and ‘temporal’. This
mental representation appears to be identical with Dewell’s (1994) central schema of over
(Figure 5.2 above); however, Tyler and Evans do not regard it as a central schema possibly
related to all the derived senses; they set a limit to the association of the A-B-C trajectory
schema with particular senses.
122
Figure 5.9 The cat jumped over the wall (Tyler and Evans, 2003a)
The sense of on-the-other-side-of is one of the senses in the A-B-C trajectory cluster (Figure
5.6 above). The image schema transformation of the end-point focus is likely to give rise to
this sense. That is to say, the on-the-other-side-of sense originates from the path movement
and, as a result of foregrounding the end point of the movement (Tyler and Evans, 2003a),
over in this sense comes to express the result in which the TR reaches a destination, the LM.
The verbs found in the sentences of the sense are as follows:
BE, CLATTER, CLIMB, COME, CROSS, DIRECT, ESTABLISH, GET, GO, LEAP, ORIGINATE, PASS,
PEEP, REACH, SPEED, STUMBLE, TAKE, TRANSMIT, TRAVEL, WALK
Of these verbs, several clearly indicate a path schema, movement from one place to another,
such as CLIMB, CROSS, GO, LEAP, PASS, TRAVEL and WALK. But an impediment in the course of
travelling seems to be highlighted by STUMBLE. As noted earlier, Tyler and Evans’ supposition
of the on-the-other-side-of sense is based on highlighting a destination at which the TR
intends to arrive. While (25) and (26) seem to indicate a destination implicitly, namely the
place behind the wall, (27) is unlikely to show the destination in the context because of
highlighting an impediment to the crossing. Therefore, this may imply that foregrounding the
halfway course of the path is reflected in the on-the-other-side-of sense (cf. the ‘profiled
central region’ in Dewell, 1994: 355).
A
C
B
123
(25) My nails are growing longer and I’ve developed a new habit of climbing over
the garden walls at the back of the house. <W1B-001 #070>
(26) I was just on the entrance to the pub and OK leapt over the wall. <S1A-047
#267>
(27) When Mundy stumbled over a chair and fell he was attacked by Marshall “in a
frenzy” and stabbed and slashed on the left leg. <W2C-012 #084:4>
The on-the-other-side-of sense is assumed to be an independent sense, largely
because it is assumed to be unable to derive from the proto scene, the TR located above in the
sphere of the LM (Tyler and Evans 2003a, 2003b). As in John lives over the hill (Tyler and
Evans 2003a: 82), the focus of the speaker tends to shift to the place behind the TR (hill),
rather than the middle of the path. This sense in the data is observed nowhere except the two
sentences containing BE over ((28) and (29)). Only certain verbs referring to a static state may
lead to the sense of end-point focus. In conclusion, the findings from (25) to (29) are likely to
account for the fact that the verb to a certain extent integrates with over in terms of the
interpretation of the sentence and the establishment of a particular spatial configuration of the
two entities involved.
(28) The flat was over a disused garage. <2F-006 #024>
(29) Uhm, you see, of course, the detail here of, the of of of, the vault that’s over
the main sanctuary area,… <S2A-060 #066>
The idiom of LOOK/CHECK over shoulder implies that the focus of attention is not given to the
noun after over, ‘shoulder’, rather something for which the speaker feels fear, such as ‘threat’
and ‘danger’ as in (30) and (31). Similar to BE over earlier, this expression implicitly
emphasises a non-physical entity behind the TR; that is, it refers to a tense atmosphere behind
someone’s shoulder.
(30) He looks over his shoulder to make sure there’s no threat to his position in the
124
first three. <S2A-008 #193>
(31) Steve checks over his, uh, shoulder to see if there are any dangers. <S2A-006
#112>
GET over does not seem to correspond to the sense mentioned so far. This phrasal
verb means overcoming hardship and difficulties, which are not physical entities. To my
knowledge, there has been no research on over senses which discuss GET over. I classified this
use into the on-the-other-side-of group of senses, since the phrase seems to be associated with
the scene as though a person were climbing over adversity and eventually gets through it;
however, there still remains some doubt whether it should be categorized into the
on-the-other-side-of group of senses. Interestingly, this interpretation occurs specifically in the
case that a human being is the TR and an abstract object, such as a matter causing distress
((32) and (33)) is the LM. It could thus be argued that the overcome sense linked to GET over
may be a derivative interpretation from the on-the-other-side-of sense.
(32) I was getting over it [jaundice]. <S1A-028 #054>
(33) Oh yes, well, you know, you must get over it [death of David] as best as you
can. <S1A-049 #017>
125
with prepositional
complement
without prepositional
complement
Verb + over
be, come, check, cross,
clatter, climb, get, go,
get, hand, leap, live,
look, originate, pass,
peep, see, speed, stare,
stumble, travel, walk
bowl, come, go, push,
rush, wander, pull,
send, take
Verb + O + over
bring, express, get,
have, leave, map, see,
get, invite, reach, take
carry, pop
BE V-ed + over
marry, direct, establish,
transmit, run
get, invite, push, send,
take
Table 5.3 Verbs and sentence structures in the sense of on-the-other-side-of
As has been seen in the account of proto scene, the verbs co-occurring with the over
of the on-the-other-side-of sense are classified according to the sentence structure. Obviously,
many verbs are used without a noun phrase following the preposition unlike those in the proto
scene sense discussed above. The verbs followed by over alone without a prepositional
complement denote a movement from one place to another, such as CARRY, COME, GO, PUSH,
PULL, SEND, and TAKE. This might be largely because the on-the-other-side-of sense denotes
path movement which does not necessarily require the involvement of TR and LM. In other
words, the absence of LM, which is materialised as adverbial over, seems unlikely to affect
the description of path movement (Tyler and Evans, 2001, 2003a). As a result, such an
identical verb as COME used with over is expressed with a noun phrase ((34) and (35)) and
occasionally without it when the path movement is specially foregrounded ((36) and (37)).
(34) So he came over here and he got the cheque off me. <S1A-008 #275>
(35) Use a bag that will go over your shoulder, or wear a small one across your
126
body under a jacket or coat or a shoulder bag with a short strong strap and
good fastenings. <W2D-009 #073>
(36) This guy called Randy from California who came over. <S1A-078 #228>
(37) But he said, said that he had started to go over. <S1B-068 #094>
So far the three candidates for the central schemata of over have been discussed:
above and across (Figure 5.1); path (Figure 5.2); and static locative schema (Figure 5.3). In
relation to the co-occurring verbs with over, the path schema seems the most likely to be
productive in terms of the interpretation of spatial configuration. Compared to other languages,
English verbs are unlikely to bear the meaning of path (Levinson and Wilkins, 2006; Talmy,
2000). For instance, moved down in English is composed of a verb and particle denoting a
path downward, while with the Spanish equivalent verb bajar, the path meaning is packaged
in the one word alone. This may imply that some verbs in English are unlikely to
independently denote path sense. Nevertheless, admittedly one verb packaging and that of
verb plus particle are both available as in the English go in vs. enter (Levinson and Wilkins,
2006). The possibility still remains that both verb and over are involved in the interpretation
of configuration, largely because the integration of the schemata of verb and preposition may
give rise to a particular trajectory of path movement. Therefore, further analysis of the central
schema is due.
Above-and-beyond (Excess I) (2B)
Over in the above-and-beyond sense belongs to the A-B-C trajectory cluster and the sense
differs from that of on-the-other-side-of, because in this case what is highlighted is excess
over a limit and also the end-point after movement. Take (38) for instance: the speaker
specifies the destination, his head, at which the agent, it [the ball], is expected to arrive, but in
fact it goes over this point, contrary to expectations. In the on-the-other-side-of sense, the
127
prepositional complement after over indicates a place to move with the result that the agent
remains there after the movement. The agent may not arrive at the destination in the
above-and-beyond sense; rather, it happens to remain at a different place where the speaker
does not expect it to move. Accordingly, over in the above-and-beyond sense can be assumed
to require a noun phrase which indicates a contemplated destination; in other words, one
could speculate that the instances of this sense would fall into the category which has a
prepositional complement following the preposition.
(38) It [the ball] goes over his head, takes a knock off Kenny, Sanson goes behind
for a corner on the near side,… <S2A-005 #169>
with prepositional
complement
without prepositional
complement
Verb + over
be, bounce, come,
drift, fly, go, grow,
loft, loop, pass, run
Verb + O + over loft
BE V-ed + over play
BE V-ed + O + over give
Table 5.4 Verbs and sentence structures in the above-and-beyond sense
The data in Table 5.4 above indicate that the presence of the prepositional
complement after over identifies the linguistic features of the above-and-beyond sense.
Physical marks of the expected destination, such as point and length, as well as abstract ones,
such as level and lap, are found to follow over in this sense. Interestingly, many sports terms
are also discovered, namely baseline, bar, touchline, crossbar, goal keeper and touchline level.
This may be because many occasions in sports call for a judgement of whether something is
128
inside or outside of a line. Therefore, the excess of a target landmark may be frequently
expressed in the given register. Still, part of the human body, head, turns out to be the most
frequent PC in the sense, with 5 instances out of 18; this may imply the centrism of human
beings in construal, on the basis of the principal argument of cognitive linguistics that we
construe the world subjectively and our construal is reflected in our language.
According to Kreitzer (1997), an integrated configuration in the space sense of over
is established by the amalgamation of the schemas of the co-occurring verb and the
preposition (see 5.2.3 Sentential components of senses of over). If this is so, an identical verb
plus over phrase should bear similar senses, but in fact it does not. Yet we have observed in
fact that COME over and GO over are assigned to the above-and-beyond sense as well as the
on-the-other-side-of sense discussed in the previous section. I would argue that an essential
part is played by the prepositional complement in differentiating the two senses in the phrases.
The PC of the above-and-beyond sense represents a breakpoint or separator line ((39) and
(40)), while the on-the-other-side-of sense indicates a flat surface and is unlikely to function
as a delimiter of excess. In conclusion, the world knowledge of the PC, e.g., the feature of
separation, may help to interpret the subtly different senses of COME over and GO over.
(39) The number eight Robinson and Brian Rigney both came straight over the top
of Leonard. <S2A-002 #075>
(40) That [the ball] too has gone high over the crossbar for another goal kick to the
Soviet Union. <S2A-001 #041>
Completion (2C)
The sense of completion is unlikely to derive from a relationship between TR and LM, since
the TR is always explicit but the LM rarely is – possibly, however, the LM could occasionally
be deduced from context. In (41), the TR, the fighting, functions as a subject of completion,
while a contrasted LM is obscure. The absence of the LM violates the central schema of over,
129
whereby the presence of both TR and LM is essential to the establishment of a spatial
configuration.
(41) The political damage may be limited if the fighting is over relatively quickly.
<W2E-006 #084>
Similar to the account of the on-the-other-side of sense (2A), one could speculate that the
completion sense is assigned alone by adverbial over, which highlights the path movement of
TR. That is, a movement from beginning to end is foregrounded without a clear reference to
the route. The corpus data illustrate that the verbs are not followed by a noun phrase, with the
exception of one example with BE. Hence, the completion sense over is an adverb which is
independent from a LM and conveys path schema.
with prepositional
complement
without prepositional
complement
Verb + over be, close, end
Verb + O + over get
Table 5.5 Verbs and sentence structures in the completion sense
Not only verb but also noun phrase co-occurring over contribute to the interpretation
of the completion sense. As was seen earlier, GET over can be interpreted as an overcoming
sense (see page 124). Nevertheless, (42) is unlikely to denote the overcoming of a difficulty.
The reason is that the noun phrase, the story, in between get and over encourages us to decode
the sentence containing the combination as meaning completion7
. Consequently, the noun
phrase which follows over is likely to be involved in establishing the over senses, as has been
7 (42) can be decoded as ‘get [verb] + the story [object] + over [complement]’. As the over qualifies the
object noun, it can be grammatically categorized as either adjective or adverb.
130
observed in the account of the above-and-beyond sense.
(42) it’s to get the story over, so you have mountain, mountain, mountain…
<S2B-059 #027>
Transfer (2D)
More than half of the instances of the transfer sense, 9 out of 19, are discovered to involve the
verb hand. The verb outlines the environment of over which is associated with the sense of
transfer; thus, the variation of sentence structures containing HAND over should be described.
As in a model sentence provided by Tyler and Evans (2003a: 86): Sally turned the keys to the
office over to the janitor [my underlining], a movable and handy entity is conceivably
assumed to be delivered to a person. Yet the corpus in question sheds light on the fact that, as
opposed to the model sentence, a person and the abstract entity also frequently occur ((43)
and (44)). The phrase structure of (45) can be considered as a variation caused by particle
movement (Biber et al., 2002). Despite the alternation, a transferred entity is obvious in both
types of the given structures.
HAND + O + over to someone
(43) Yes, right. I’ll hand you over to Giles for a second. <S1A-095 #177>
(44) Unfortunately she handed the case over to Miss Jenkins. <S1B-063 #259>
HAND over + O + to someone
(45) But I had to hand over the money to Bardell. <S1B-063 #104>
No transferred entity is referred to when ‘authority’ is metaphorically given to another person,
as in (46). This implies that without mentioning authority the particular phrase, ‘HAND over to
someone’, could implicitly refer to the unwritten authority. The phrase is also idiomatically
employed to mean that a speaker gives another a turn of speech, namely We will, erm, if there
is a suitable moment take a break in the middle of it, erm, but I’ll now hand over to MX to
start off (Bank of English, my underlining). However, no instance of the idiom is found in my
131
data even in the speech register of the corpus analysed.
HAND over to someone
(46) In order to assess the relative weight of such theories, he suggests, we must
hand over to the analyst of probabilities. <W2A-007 #102>
Temporal (2E)
The temporal sense over is readily identified with a following noun phrase as in (47).
Christmas refers metonymically to the period of time in which the agent is asked what s/he
will be doing. A prepositional phrase of over and a temporal noun together convey a meaning
equivalent to during.
(47) What are you doing over Christmas? <S1A-040 #198>.
The data analysed show that three types of temporal noun frequently occur with the
preposition of time sense: ‘countable unit of time’, ‘period of time’ and ‘event and activity’.
Countable unit of time:
century(-ies), day(s), decades, hours, months, nights, seasons, summer, weekend, winter,
year(s)8
Unspecified period of time:
count, cycle, period, time
Event and activity:
Christmas, course, distance, lunch, meals
The first group of nouns is used to indicate a certain period of time in accordance with
calendar days and months as in (48), while those of the second group do not specify a
particular date but announce the length of time in the nouns, for example in (49) below.
Obviously, lunch and meals are unlikely to be categorized as temporal nouns; however, they
are metonymically assigned to the meaning of a period within which an action is performed
8
Day(s) and year(s) in brackets represent the fact that instances of singular and plural of the words are
discovered in the data, while the nouns in the plural occur only in the plural form.
132
out while having food, as in (50).
(48) So that what we’ve got here is a plot of the heat that is received averaged over
the year, uhm, at a particular latitude. <S2A-043 #055>
(49) …and it’ll be, it’ll be, uh, produced over, autumn and Christmas period in
ninety-two this next this year, and uhm…<S1A-058 #231>
(50) …and we were impressed by the calibre of the recent graduates which we met
over lunch and afterwards. <W1B-026 #039>
Conceivably, a prepositional phrase containing the temporal nouns alone could be
used to predict a temporal sense, namely, as in (47), the period of time over Christmas seems
to be implied independently of the verb phrase, are doing. In order to examine the proposition,
a number of frequent verbs with a temporal sense, most of which denote a sense of transition
and increase, were compared with the given nouns in terms of the likelihood of collocation
with over.
MI T MI T
average (1) 7.72 17.86 decades (2) 8.05 25.34
change (1) 8.65 37.85 hours (2) 8.80 29.16
develop (1) 8.86 23.44 months (2) 7.27 39.13
double (1) 8.67 21.49 year (3) 8.56 73.52
increase (1) 8.12 28.06 years (2) 8.58 141.34
occur (1) 9.03 16.79 cycle (3) 8.46 7.98
produce (1) 8.00 12.04 time (1) 8.54 67.41
reduce (2) 7.85 9.55 period (2) 8.19 53.76
rise (1) 8.03 24.36 Christmas (1) 8.84 27.87
lunch (1) 9.00 22.12
meals (1) 7.84 3.59
NOUN
VERB
Table 5.6 MI and t-score of co-occurring verbs and nouns with temporal over
Table 5.6 shows the MI scores and t-scores of the verbs and the nouns co-occurring with over
obtained from the Bank of English. By definition, the former statistical index represents
‘strength of collocation’ in relation to over on the one hand, and the latter represents ‘certainty
133
of collocation’, on the other (Hunston, 2002: 73). The result demonstrates that, although the
MI scores do not differ in the verbs and nouns, several nouns, such as year, years, time and
period, surpass them in the t-score9
. It could be implied as a result that the verbs and nouns
may contribute equally to convey the temporal sense of over in terms of frequency; however
the given nouns which characterise temporal features are likely to co-occur more frequently
than the verbs. Kreitzer (1997) claims that the configuration of over is inferred from the
integration of the schemas of verb and preposition, but in fact the noun possibly also
contributes to the interpretation of the configuration.
Covering (3)
The sense of covering is explained by reference to a setting, as in (51). The TR, tablecloth, is
located above or upon the LM, table, and at the same time the TR conceals the existence of an
entity below, out of sight. To the extent that the TR screens the LM, spatial configuration can
be applied to a topological relation in which they are not located above and below. As implied
in (52), if the configuration is clearly described, the covering thing can be placed on the wall –
for example, a poster on a notice board – as well as on the ceiling in such a way as to prevent
water from dripping through (Tyler and Evans, 2003a, 2003b).
(51) The tablecloth is over the table. (Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 90)
(52) You could’ve sheeted it over or something. <S2A-069 #164>
The concealing function was considered to determine the covering sense of over. Yet
the analysed data provide another insight into the sense. Examples (53) and (54) illustrate that
concealing is unlikely to outweigh another feature of the sense, namely ‘distributive location’
(Dewell, 2007; Jackendoff, 1990; Lakoff, 1987). The attempt of the TRs, sanctuaries and
9
Statistically, the t-score is estimated by the subtraction of expected frequency from the observed frequency
and then being divided by the standard deviation. The MI score is the observed frequency divided by the
expected frequency and then converted to a binary logarithm (Hunston, 2002).
134
cannabis, is not to hide the land below them, since obviously the scattered entities are
incapable of concealing the LM. Human construal is reflected in this type of transformation
which shifts from scattered points towards a planar covering. As discussed above (see section
5.2.2), the transformation of schemas from multiplex into mass is reflected in a number of
aspects of language (Lakoff, 1987).
(53) …many sanctuaries that at that point had existed all over the country and the
free access,.. <S1B-001 #004>
(54) He would say that if it [cannabis] was grown over here it would be lighter in
colour. <S2A-068 #100>
Likewise, an image schema transformation from multiplex into mass is also observed in the
movement throughout making a path, a ‘multiplex path’ (Lakoff, 1987: 429). The TR is not
located in an unrelated manner; rather, the passing points are conceived to construct a
pathway strung between them. Such a tight track of movement is construed as if it were a
planar cover. The unrestricted movement of the TR within a sphere of the LM can be
discerned in (55) and (56):
(55) He’s going all round Italy Austria Switzerland all over the place inter rail, so.
<S1A-081 #274>
(56) …and ensure that our children’s children will be able to see a barn owl silent
as a cloud, drifting over the fields of our countryside. <S2B-031 #114>
‘Lacunal covering’, which should be distinguished from the concealing sense, indicates that
the TR veils the LM more densely than the covering of distributive location and multiplex
path; however, there still remain some gaps in the cover, which is unlikely to have been aimed
to conceal the entity underneath ((57)). Surfaces loosely covered by the TRs are merely
highlighted by multi-directional covering as honey spreads over a pancake (Dewell, 1994).
135
(57) Mulching materials such as straw or hay, or sheets of black polythene, can also
be spread over the soil surface to prevent weeds from competing with crops.
<W2B-027 #117>
As discussed above, four types of covering should be taken into account to describe
the covering sense of over. As the schema of covering shifts from points to planar, the
transformation of construal takes place from multiplex to mass at the same time. Scattered
points of distributive location are not recognised as cover when a speaker looks at them at
close range; however, when looked down on from a distance, the points are construed as a
collective planar formed by dots (Dewell, 1994; Lakoff, 1987).
Figure 5.10 Geometric transition of covering sense, partly adapted from Lakoff (1987)
The verbs in the covering sense are classified into the four sub-categories shown in
Table 5.7 below. The verbs in the distributive location are those which signify the action of
placing, such as DEPOSIT and DISPLAY, as well as causing incidents, such as CAUSE, DESTROY
and HAPPEN. The multiplex path, for its part, is expressed with the verbs which are associated
with such movement as DRIFT, GALLIVANT, GO and MOVE. Lacunal and concealing covering
occurs with different types of verb, such that those which in their concealing covering recall
TR
distributive
location
multiplex
path
lacunal
covering
concealing
covering
POINTS LINEAR PLANAR
136
the covering attributes which derive from an entity of the noun form, such as COVER, CUP,
GLOSS, PAPER and SHEET. It could be concluded as a result that the verbs to a large extent
correspond to the sub-categorized covering senses. If this is the case, do the other components
in the clause harmonise with the meaning of the verbs in the given coverings?
distributive location
cause, deposit, destroy,
detect, develop, display,
disintegrate, exist, grow,
happen, set, split, use
multiplex path
arrive, drift, gallivant, go,
move,
lacunal covering
achieve, close, froze, hit,
record, sprawl, spread
concealing covering
bundle, cover, cup, gloss,
paper, sheet, slide
Table 5.7 Covering senses and the co-occurring verbs
First, Table 5.8 below shows that concrete objects, such as bomb and sanctuaries,
often precede the verbs and at the same time the nouns referring to places which follow, for
instance, Scandinavia, island, area and country. This in turn implies that distributive location
covering is represented by indicating that non-intentional entities are situated in a place. Thus,
the sequence of a concrete object followed by a verb of action or cause, and a prepositional
phrase, over, plus a place, can be considered to be the phrasal frame of the distributive
location covering. Therefore, in terms of the covering sense the combination of the TR and
LM could predict the over sense of distributive location covering.
137
TR
TR
TR
TR verb
verb
verb
verb LM
LM
LM
LM
W 2C 029 008 smoke
smoke
smoke
smoke cause ...havoc over a … large part of planet
part of planet
part of planet
part of planet
W 2A 030 080 mach of sulphur dioxide
sulphur dioxide
sulphur dioxide
sulphur dioxide is eventually deposited over Scandinavia
Scandinavia
Scandinavia
Scandinavia
W 2C 001 043 bomb
bomb
bomb
bomb destroyed over Lockerbie
Lockerbie
Lockerbie
Lockerbie
S 2B 001 072 traces of chemical
traces of chemical
traces of chemical
traces of chemical had been detected over a wide area
area
area
area
S 2A 024 054 it [Ionic]
it [Ionic]
it [Ionic]
it [Ionic] 's developed over
S 2A 024 065 Ionic
Ionic
Ionic
Ionic developing over there
there
there
there
W 2B 028 112 images of the birds are displayed all over the island
island
island
island
S 1A 088 152 plutonium
plutonium
plutonium
plutonium is going to distintegrate over a … large area of…
area of…
area of…
area of…
S 1B 001 004 sanctuaries
sanctuaries
sanctuaries
sanctuaries that ...had existed all over the country
country
country
country
S 2A 058 154 epidermal keratinocytes
epidermal keratinocytes
epidermal keratinocytes
epidermal keratinocytes start to grow over
S 2A 068 100 it [cannabis]
it [cannabis]
it [cannabis]
it [cannabis] was grown over here
here
here
here
S 2B 013 047 actually what
what
what
what 's happened over the Gulf
the Gulf
the Gulf
the Gulf
S 2B 029 078 [we]
[we]
[we]
[we] now set over commands
commands
commands
commands
S 2A 034 058 these [results]
these [results]
these [results]
these [results] can be split over a complete network
network
network
network
W 1A 006 050 these forms
forms
forms
forms use symbols over certain points
points
points
points
ICE sentence code
Table 5.8 TR and LM in distributive location covering senses
Second, Table 5.9 below illustrates that the features of the co-occurring subject noun
(trajector) and the noun phrase following the preposition (landmark) closely relate to the path
covering sense. Unlike the distributive location, the nouns referring to human beings, such as
thousands, children and personal pronouns, appear overwhelmingly as trajector and places in
which a flat surface is highlighted as a feature, such as fields, surface and world, are
remarkably found as landmarks. As a result, a distinctive combination of trajectory and
landmark emerges from the mental representation that people move around on the surface of
the ground.
TR
TR
TR
TR verb
verb
verb
verb LM
LM
LM
LM
S 2B 027 110 thousands
thousands
thousands
thousands [people] arrive from all over Europe
Europe
Europe
Europe
S 2B 031 114 a barn owl
barn owl
barn owl
barn owl drifting over the fields
fields
fields
fields of... country side
W 2F 013 041 she
she
she
she went gallivanting all over the world
world
world
world
S 1A 081 274 He
He
He
He 's going all over the place
place
place
place inter rail
W 2A 036 034 the probe
probe
probe
probe has moved over the… surface
surface
surface
surface of interest
S 2A 027 016 this
this
this
this [superstition] went all over the world
world
world
world
ICE setence code
Table 5.9 TR and LM in multiplex path covering senses
Third, in a similar manner to the multiplex path, human beings and personal pronouns are
overrepresented as trajectors, while abstract entities, such as consequences, thoughts,
parapraxes, theories and cracks, as landmarks, occupy a position after over.
138
TR
TR
TR
TR verb
verb
verb
verb LM
LM
LM
LM
S 2A 014 159 He
He
He
He 's bundled over
S 1B 069 184 a void
void
void
void which was covered over
W 2F 012 002 [policemen]
[policemen]
[policemen]
[policemen] cupped his hand over his ear
ear
ear
ear
S 1B 031 066 [people]
[people]
[people]
[people] to gloss over the real consequences
consequences
consequences
consequences
W 2B 001 120 I was tempted to gloss over certain thoughts
thoughts
thoughts
thoughts
S 1A 090 073 He
He
He
He glossed over that
that
that
that
W 2A 002 062 he
he
he
he glosses over the parapraxes
parapraxes
parapraxes
parapraxes
W 1A 004 079 [I]
[I]
[I]
[I] glossing over the theories
theories
theories
theories
S 2B 006 041 for the Tories
the Tories
the Tories
the Tories to paper over the cracks
cracks
cracks
cracks
S 2A 069 164 you
you
you
you could've sheeted it over
S 2A 041 002 for copper
copper
copper
copper sliding over copper
copper
copper
copper
ICE setence code
Table 5.10 TR and LM in concealing covering
The concealing covering sense is used in a metaphorical manner which highlights the function
of shrouding facts and thoughts, rather than physically obscuring an entity, as in (58) below.
The landmark of (59) seems to be a tangible entity, but it refers in fact to metaphorical cracks.
Thus, disagreeing with Kreitzer’s (1997) claim that the integration of verb and over
schemata determines the interpretation of movement, it appears that trajector and landmark
contribute to the interpretation of a metaphorical configuration derived from a spatial
configuration. Consequently, not only verbs but also nouns as trajectors and landmarks need
to be analysed for the task of describing the senses of over.
(58) In case I was tempted to gloss over certain thoughts, I decided to share the
diary which had helped me admit to myself what I was now admitting to the
listeners. <W2B-001 #120>
(59) The Labour leader Neil Kinnock will argue in his speech that Mrs Thatcher’s
not fit to govern and that challenge or no challenge to her leadership it’s
impossible for the Tories to paper over the cracks.. <S2B-006 #041>
Examining (4)
Over conveys the examining sense in some particular contexts. Verbs relevant to vision turn
out to be diffused in the examining sense: CAST [eyes], [eyes] DART, LOOK, READ, and STARE
((60)-(62)). The frequent use of visual verbs may stem from the fact that we examine a case
by means of eyesight. Here we can exemplify that our kinaesthetic experiences are reflected
in language.
139
(60) I do not think I have changed the meaning at all, but perhaps it would be as
well for [unclear-word] to cast a final eye over it anyway. <W2A-030 #008>
(61) He says, well, if you think God doesn’t love you, you only need look over the
border to Edom… <S2A-036 #020>
(62) I’m just going to try and get myself a better vantage point because I’m sort of
staring over the side of a building and all I can see is bricks at the moment
<S2A-008 #104>
However, GO over, which seems irrelevant to visual sensation, is also employed frequently in
this sense ((63) and (64)). This may be largely because the examining sense derives from a
metaphor that GOING IS SEEING
10
: that is, if you go through a path, then you will know what it
is like.
(63) And then if you go over that again, you’ve then got find by date results
reduced which is another pair of facing pages, <S1B-017 #157>
(64) Now, Tony, we’ll just go over the basic procedures to start your bike before
you sit on it. <S2A-054 #053>
Likewise in the account of concealing covering which was discussed in the previous
section, other components of the clause apart from the verb and over also provide insight into
the examining sense. Personal pronouns, such as I, you, we and me, as trajectory are
overwhelmed, while at the same time the pronouns of anaphoric reference, such as it, that,
this and them, as landmark, frequently appear to follow over (Table 5.11 below). This might
imply that the examining sense is often employed in a situation where the speaker verbalises it
in order to instruct the listener, occasionally including the speaker him/herself. This empirical
proposition is likely to be endorsed by the fact that a large number of instances occur in the
spoken register – S of the ICE sentence code in Table 5.11 below represents spoken; and the
verbs follow either modals, such as will and need, or auxiliary phrases, such as want to and
10
The concept of metaphor is represented in small capitals.
140
let’s, whereby an action is to be carried out.
TR verb LM
W 2A 030 008 for him to cast over eye it [agreement]
S 1A 045 099 their eyes dart over all over the hall
S 1B 017 157 if you go over that [analysis]
S 1B 064 139 let me go over this
S 2A 038 027 while I go over them [definitions]
S 2A 054 053 we just 'll go over the basic procedures
S 2A 028 086 [you] Having got over this [message]
S 2A 036 020 you need look over the border to Edom
W 1B 003 166 I read your letter over
S 2A 008 104 I 'm staring over the side of a building
W 2F 004 037 I went over it again
ICE setence code
Table 5.11 TR and LM in examining sense
In the light of the analysis of this section, it could be concluded that other
components of the clause, in particular the nouns of trajector and landmark, could provide a
semantic account of the examining sense.
Focus-of-attention (4A)
The focus-of-attention sense of over is accounted for by the fact that an equivalent preposition
about can replace it. It follows that the abundance of the verbs denoting speech and talk, such
as ASSERT, COMPROMISE, EXPRESS, NEGOTIATE and TALK, which closely relate to the context of
speech acts, are often observed in instances of this sense ((65)-(67)).
(65) It might help to clear my mind if I could talk it over with someone. <W2F-011
#030>
(66) It’s clear the coalition is not in a mood to negotiate over its demands with the
main issues expected to be resolved tomorrow. <S2B-004 #041>
(67) Interest in possible damage to the ozone layer was first raised in the early
1970s, when atmospheric chemists expressed concern over the possible
damaging effects of CFCs … in the atmosphere. <W2B-030 #036>
Despite the fact that these verbs of speech and talk seem neutral in terms of context,
the verbs which express feeling followed by over in the focus-of-attention sense look likely to
141
be relevant to a negative context: BROOD, FIGHT, FUSS, GRIEVE and LINGER
11
.
(68) But she broods over Nellie’s earlier insinuations about Caroline’s destiny.
<W2B-009 #104>
(69) Like Isis I cannot but grieve over the dismembered body of my mother and try
best I can to put back together the parts of her,… <W1A-008 #005>.
The evaluative and pragmatic meaning of the context is inferred by sets of small phrases,
rather than one word alone (Sinclair, 2003, 2004). The concept, ‘semantic prosody’, which
accounts for the semantic interrelationship of phrases offering a specific context, helps to
provide a clear account of the focus-attention sense. The co-occurring subject nouns and those
following over draw such negative inferences as disagreement and difficulty: for instance,
charges, conflict, confusion, controversy, demand, disagreement, incident, insinuation, issue,
problem, seizure, and rift. In addition to the given verbs and over, the nouns referring to a
problematic setting seem to be involved in establishing such negative contexts.
(70) These infrequent disagreements tended to arise over charges by me of
dishonesty or untruthfulness in a politician. <W2B-015 #052>
(71) The conflict could have just as well been over the seizure and control of
Imperial estates, granaries and potteries … <W1A-001 #030>
(72) That’s right and my confusion was over the question. <S1B-062 #094>
Co-occurring nouns with the preposition can differentiate the polysemy of a phrasal
verb. Hang over has been discussed in the account of the proto scene (see page 124). In the
above-located sense, the phrasal verb means that a ‘place’ is physically overlaid, while that of
example (73) is metaphorically interpreted to denote about, largely because ‘demand’ cannot
be physically underneath. Thus, the nature of co-occurring nouns with over, that is, to have
11
These verbs correspond to some of the instances of the ‘grieve’ group provided by the grammar pattern of
V over n (Francis et al., 1996: 236).
142
trajector and landmark contribute to a certain extent to the interpretation of the polysemous
phrasal verb containing over.
(73) According to the spokesman, a large question mark also hangs over the Iraqi
demand for reciprocity. <S2B-004 #023>
Up cluster
The semantic network of over illustrates that the up cluster consists of the four subcategory
senses which share its semantic features (see Figure 5.6). Whereas the other cluster of over
senses, the A-B-C trajectory cluster, represents horizontally arced movement, the senses in the
up cluster closely relate to vertical augmentation (Tyler and Evans, 2003a). Based on
experiences thorough living, we learn that as the height of an entity gets taller, its quantity
increases at the same time. For example, imagine cardboard boxes, with their content
increasing as they are accumulated. In the same manner, we recognise that the entity in the
upper position is semantically associated with increase, excess, control and preference.
More (5A)
The analysis of this section will examine whether the instances of the more sense of over
show a distinctive distribution of co-occurring verbs and TR/LM nouns. The results indicate
that verbs denoting amount and numbers as LM appear to occur frequently.
The over of this sense can be paraphrased with ‘more than’ and tends to occur with a
following noun phrase of numbers. The mental representation of the more sense derives from
an image that one entity (TR) is higher than the other (LM) which is referred to a point of
reference (Figure 5.11 below). More sense is used to contrast one thing with another in terms
of excess. Without a numerical benchmark the relation of ‘the exceeding’ (TR) and ‘the
exceeded’ (LM) cannot be established. As shown in Table 5.12 below, figures and percentage
are frequently found in the landmark column ((74) and (75)). As a result, the distinctive LMs
143
which represent a numerical benchmark are likely to be closely associated with the over of
more sense.
Figure 5.11 The mental representation of more sense (Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 98)
(74) If you are over age 60, or will be 60 in the current tax year, and you are
unemployed you may claim Unemployment Benefit as usual. <W2D-004
#089>
(75) At home Hertfordshire County Council says twenty teaching jobs will be cut
in order to save over four hundred and fifty thousand pounds. <S2B -015
#076>
TR verb LM
W 1A 013 023 they [China and India] would account for over a half of world trade
W 2C 004 079 which offer amounts to just over 56% of the share
W 2D 002 039 if you are over pension age
W 2D 004 058 whose profits or gains are over a certain amount
W 2D 004 089 you are over age 60
S 2A 039 051 [Citizen's Advice Bureaux] to deal with over eight million cases
S 2B 027 119 The pilgrimage was established over a 1000 years ago
S 2A 039 052 courts handle over 97%
W 2B 012 113 unemployment had increased over 400,000 in 4 months
W 2B 014 018 traffic increased by over 27%
S 1A 027 262 She is over seventy
W 2B 023 033 the patient is over the age of twenty
S 2B 015 076 [Council] in order to save over 450,000 pounds
S 1B 056 018 if patients suffer heart attacks over the age of 70
S 1A 095 084 they [sixteen overs] were over eight
S 1A 096 197 they [seven hundred people] were over that
W 2D 004 034 if you were over 16
ICE setence code
Table 5.12 TR and LM in the more sense
LM
TR
144
Quantity as well as number seems to be a suitable candidate for LM in this sense.
Amount generally implies an uncertain quantity which cannot indicate a figure. In (76), the
quantity unit is used as a threshold of profits to classify class contributions. Table 5.12 shown
above seems to indicate that age is a non-numeric LM too, but in fact the word is followed by
a phrase indicating a particular number, in the case of (77) pension age 65 or 70. In turn,
number, amount and age are the frequent LMs of the more sense.
(76) Self-employed people whose profits or gains are over a certain amount may
have to pay Class 4 contributions as well as Class 2 contributions. <W2D-004
#058>
(77) You cannot get Unemployment Benefit: after the age of 65 if you are a woman,
or 70 if you are a man, or if you are over pension age and the pension you will
get… <W2D-002 #039>
Verbs denoting quantity, namely ACCOUNT for, AMOUNT, AVERAGE and INCREASE,
occupy the instances of the more sense. Some of the verbs are also frequently found in those
of the temporal sense (2E): So that what we've got here is a plot of the heat that is received
averaged over the year, uhm, at a particular latitude <S2A-043 #055> and uh, spending on
training has increased over the last four years by sixty per cent in real terms at a
time…<S1B-059 #025>. Suppose that the senses of over are generated from the combination
of verb and over: AVERAGE over and INCREASE over should be interpreted in the one sense of
either temporal or more. However, the nature of the LM allows us to differentiate the two
senses. The LM of the temporal sense, over the year, indicates a period of time in which a
change takes place, whereas that of the more sense shows amount of change, over 12 minutes.
Given that world knowledge is assumed to be an important factor of interpretation (Tyler and
Evans, 2003a), it could be more specific to argue that knowledge of the LM contributes to
differentiating the two senses. Increase and over also can be interpreted in the same sense,
145
however the presence of by highlights the nature of amount of change, rather than period of
time. Again, not only the verb, but also the LM, is likely to contribute to a large extent to the
interpretation of the over senses.
(78) The size distribution by volume measured by the FSSP averaged over 12
minutes in the dense haze is shown in Fig. 6,… <W2A-029 072>
(79) Unemployment had increased by over 400,000 in the last four months alone.
<W2B-012 #113>
Such verbs denoting quantity as ACCOUNT for, AMOUNT, AVERAGE and INCREASE, also
retain a distinctive feature of the co-occurring subject. Non-human subjects, such as offer, size
distribution, unemployment and traffic, tend to occur with verbs followed by a prepositional
complement of number or unit. Cognitive linguists argue that the two entities whose
configuration is established by a preposition are defined as trajector (TR) and landmark (LM)
individually (Langacker, 1987; Ungerer and Schimid, 2006). In this case, the non-human
subject is the trajector and the number or unit prepositional complement is the trajector. The
reason why the distinctive combination of TR and LM is frequent can be understood by
examining the nature of the TR and LM. Non-human entities can be counted, averaged or
increased and the amount can be represented by numbers. As a result, a pattern containing the
more sense over is discovered, as shown in Figure 5.12 below by analysing the co-occurring
subject and prepositional complement which relate in terms of TR and LM configuration.
Figure 5.12 Clause pattern of the more sense of over with quantity verbs
ACCOUNT for
AMOUNT
AVERAGE
INCREASE
non-human number or unit
over
(TR) (LM)
146
Likewise, age also appears in a particular clause pattern. Age is mainly applied to humans and
indicates how old they are. Therefore, it is not surprising to find it frequent that a human
being is the TR and the verb is BE followed by over age (Figure 5.13 below). In other words,
the TR and LM combination of human being and age is likely to occur frequently with BE
over. As a consequence, I would argue that, given that the verb is related to the senses of
preposition, the co-occurring nouns also contribute to them to a certain extent, due to the fact
that the particular combination of TR and LM nouns is found in a particular sense.
Figure 5.13 Clause pattern of the more sense of over with be and over
Over-and-above (Excess Ⅱ
Ⅱ
Ⅱ
Ⅱ) (5.A.1)
The over-and-above sense is categorized as one of the excess senses: the other is the
above-and-beyond sense (Excess I) in the A-B-C trajectory cluster. As the over-and-above
sense belongs to the up cluster, the mental representation which is reflected in the sense is
different from that of the above-and-beyond sense. If so, does the different mental
representation of the senses attract a different TR and LM? In other words, is there any
difference in terms of the co-occurring subject and prepositional complement in the two
different excess senses and belonging clusters? In this section, the analysis of the instances of
the over-and-above sense will suggest a difference of verb, TR and LM between the excess of
the A-B-C trajectory cluster (Excess I) and that of the up cluster (ExcessⅡ).
The above-and-beyond sense derives from the mental representation of the A-B-C
trajectory. A TR goes to a destination further than where an LM is located; the trajectory is
described rather horizontally. On the other hand, the over-and-above sense is associated with a
BE
human age
over
(TR) (LM)
147
concept that the TR in a container increases upward and vertically, and then crosses over the
boundary of the LM. As in (80), the TR, potatoes, metonymically refers to the boiling water
and over indicates that the TR spills over the outside of the pan which has the potatoes inside.
The movement of the TR is vertically upward. By contrast, the TR of (81) moves horizontally
as bullets fly across the air. The movement of the two different excesses is associated with
horizontal overrun (Excess I) and vertical overflow (Excess II) respectively.
(80) I'm just stood there watching the potatoes boil over. <S1A-016 #337>
(81) …the bullets were going over our head very close to our head because he ran
right past us,.. <S2A-050 #160>
Figure 5.14 The mental representation of the excess senses
The verbs which co-occur with the over of the over-and-above sense show its nature
of vertical overflow: BOIL, POUR and SPILL (Table 5.13 below). In particular, the nature of
overflow of SPILL is highlighted by a following phrase of into the interior, as in (82). They
provide a clear contrast with the verbs of the other excess sense, which convey a horizontal
movement such as GO, LOOP and PASS. Hence, it could be argued that particular verbs occur in
accordance with the sense of over.
Above-and-beyond (excess I)
horizontal
Over-and-above (excess II)
vertical
148
(82) And the big numbers spill over into the interior as well. <S2A-055 #092>
TR verb LM
W 2F 001 111 Cassie 'd be over the moon
S 1A 016 337 watching the potatoes boil over
S 2B 027 142 The excitement boils over
S 2A 003 232 England charge over the top
S 2A 016 060 Conichev goes over the top of him
W 2B 008 088 Bernstein rather goes over the top
S 1A 087 258 that 's going over the top a little bit
S 2A 017 190 it [header] 's knocked over the top though
S 2A 002 200 The whole of Ireland pour over the top there
S 2A 055 092 the big numbers spill over into the interior
W 2A 017 069 psycho-political game which spills over into a spiral of images
ICE setence code
Table 5.13 TR and LM of the over-and-above sense (Excess II)
The over-and-above sense appears to be followed frequently by a distinctive noun –
top as part of phrase ‘over the top’. The landmark top is unlikely to be a physical boundary; it
is rather an imaginary boundary which the speaker considers as a limit of acceptance and
toleration. For instance, (83) seems to indicate that an action, that, might be unacceptable
because it is beyond capacity. Similarly, (84) suggests that Bernstein’s performance exceeds
the expectation of the speaker in terms of his jazz solos. The boundaries which function as
LMs in the instances are not as obvious as the LMs of the above-and-beyond sense (Excess I).
The horizontal excess is expressed with the physical boundary, such as baseline, bar,
touchline, crossbar, goal keeper and touchline level (see section Above-and-beyond (Excess I)
(2B)). On the other hand, the LM of over-and-above (Excess II) tends to be an imaginary
boundary. Although the two senses of over convey excess, the over-and-above sense seems to
be associated with metaphorical excess, while the above-and-beyond relates to physical
excess. This proposition could be supported by the instance of (85) which metaphorically
denotes the overflow of excitement.
(83) But that's going over the top a little bit. <S1A-087 #258>
(84) In his most recent recording for DG, Bernstein rather goes over the top with
his jazzing of the solos in Gershwin. <W2B-008 #088>
149
(85) The excitement boils over. <S2B-027 #142>
Control (5B)
As well as the senses which have been discussed so far, over conveys a sense of control (Tyler
and Evans, 2003a). The sense may derive from a spatial configuration where one entity is
located above the other. Taking a higher position carries a connotation of being superior to
others. A stronger animal physically takes a higher position to subdue the other. In a
metaphorical manner, the superior in a social hierarchy assumes authority to control the
inferior. We will examine the data as to how the co-occurring verb and nouns with over are
semantically associated with the physical and metaphorical sense of control.
Of 49 instances of the control sense, more than half (27 instances) contain TAKE and
over. Apart from the four instances whose phrase structure is TAKE + noun phrase+ over, most
of them appear to contain a phrasal verb of TAKE over as in (86) and (87). TAKE basically
denotes acquisition from an owner. Therefore, it is not surprising that the verb occurs
frequently with the control sense of over, since it denotes a transfer of control from a previous
authority to a new one.
(86) But when George Bush took over America was slipping into a recession.
<S2B-021 #019>
(87) Today is the twenty-fourth of May and the local streets have been taken over
by the gypsies who are about to parade the icon of Sarah from the church
down to the sea from where she came,… <S2B-027 #138>
HAVE is also found as a frequent occurring verb of the control sense. However, unlike TAKE,
the verb does not occur without an object noun, control. In other words, HAVE tends to appear
in the phrase of HAVE control over…. This implies that TAKE over is diffused to convey a
control meaning by the verb and over combination alone, while *HAVE over is unlikely to
150
denote a control meaning without a particular noun of control. The difference between the
linguistic representations lies in the linguistic features of the verbs. Therefore, the difference
between TAKE over and HAVE control over illustrates to what extent a verb conveys a particular
meaning.
(88) During the C19th people who claimed they had no control over their
inappropriate behaviour were seen as malingerers or fakers. <W1A-007 #027>
(89) In this way, the control we have over our own lives and environments is
constantly eroded. <W2B-013 #010>
The analysis of the corpus data reveals that other frequent verbs of the sense appear
to be categorized into two groups: one is the verb which represents a different type of control.
For instance, RULE and WIELD signify a general control, whereas PRESIDE refers to the control
of assembly as a chairman and LORD highlights the arrogance of the person who believes
themselves to have control over other people. The other group of control verbs is associated
with victory, namely, TRIUMPH and WIN. The phrase TRIUMPH/WIN over is likely to emerge from
a metaphor that CONTROL IS RETAINED BY VICTORY
12
. Given that the verbs mentioned co-occur
with the control sense of over, they are likely to contribute to the slightest nuances of the
phrasal verbs.
(90) During the trial, it's been my task to, preside over the trial and decide any
questions of law, which may have, arisen. <S2A-061 #003>
(91) … and, I'm, I'm rather scared that, you know, that would seem rather artificial
to her and as an attempt to win her over. <S1A-031 #186>
Let us turn to the co-occurring nouns. We will see whether the TR and LM with the
control sense of over retain any particular semantic features. Personal pronouns as TR account
12
The concept of metaphor is represented in small capitals, while the lemma of a verb is in italic small
capitals.
151
for 40 % of the instances (20 out of 49 instances). This implies that the entity in authority or
control tends to be the person; in other words, the situation where a person gains control is
described in language more than that involving other agents, such as animals. The prevalence
of human control is also reflected in the use of such nouns as the United Nations, authorities,
company/-ies and agencies. These nouns do not indicate the buildings of the institutions, but
metonymically refer to the people who work for them. Thus, virtually the control by the
institutions is taken by people. As a result, the TR of the control sense is disposed to be
human beings or metonymically represented institutions.
(92) He said, the, uh, the United Nations had no control over the military action.
<S1B-027 #113>
(93) At present a company wanting to take over another has to show that it is not
against the public interest. <W2B-013 #053>
The LMs of the control sense vary from person to place, action and feeling as a target
of being controlled. Interestingly, non-physical entities can be also controlled in a certain way.
For instance, responsibility and desire are controlled in a similar manner to when military
action and transactions are in control. Consequently, the TR and LM combination provides a
deep insight into control: human beings control persons, places, actions and feelings. To
summarise, the control sense of over turns out to retain the linguistic environment where
human being or institution as subject is followed by control verbs and the targets of control,
which vary from human beings to abstract entities.
(94) For example, he presided over transactions involving the transfer of property
rights and might be approached to find a solution to village problems.
<W1A-003 #062>
(95) The only remaining problem will be that it may take several years before the
logic of this situation triumphs over the desire to make a quick profit.
152
<W2E-008 #041>
Preference (5C)
The preference sense of over belongs to the up cluster, which is based on a spatial
configuration in which one entity is located above the other. The configuration gives rise to a
metaphorical superiority in terms of selection, as in (96) and (97) provided by (Tyler and
Evans, 2003a: 103). For example, the league table tends to list items ranked in descending
order with the highest item at the top. This kind of experience is associated with the notion
that a preferable item is located above one less favoured.
(96) I would prefer tea over coffee.
(97) I like Beethoven over Mozart.
Surprisingly, only one instance is found in the 480 instances of over. It is thus
impossible to indicate a tendency of the linguistic behaviours of the co-occurring words due
to the insufficiency of examples. Nevertheless, compared with the instance of (98) from data,
the examples given by Tyler and Evans seem to be so artificial that no other supplementary
components to the TR, LM and verb are added. On the other hand, the empirical data from
corpus as in (98) shows the richness of co-occurring words and complexity of the sentence
structure. Given that research in cognitive linguistic tends to employ artificial sentences as
example, corpus data may provide us with the opportunity to cast light on an unexpected
finding that cannot be inferred from the artificial example.
(98) Yet, however, much one might prefer the trilogy over earlier texts, the criteria
of purity, continuity and authenticity create more problems than they solve.
<W2A-004 016>
153
Reflexive (6)
The reflexive sense has been discussed as one of the principal senses of over (Dewell, 1994;
Lakoff 1987; Tyler and Evans, 2003a, 2003b). The sense derives from the mental
representation that the starting position and the trajectory of the TR are portrayed even after
moving to another position (Figure 5.15 below). For instance, with The fence fell over (Lakoff,
1987: 433; Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 104), although the fence lies down at the moment of the
utterance, the path starting from a higher point is reflected in the co-occurring verb which
denotes falling, that is, FALL. As a result, it could be argued whether the reflexive sense is
generated from the combination of particular verbs and over alone, otherwise whether the
typical TR and LM occur with the verb phrase. The data analysis will indicate that the
co-occurring TR and LM, as well as the verb, provide the account of the linguistic behaviour
of the reflexive over.
Figure 5.15 The mental representation of the reflexive sense (adapted from Tyler and Evans, 2003a:
104)
154
TR verb LM
W 2F 001 097 you 'll bend over that table
S 2A 050 133 make him bend over at that point
W 2F 010 050 Catherine bent over the wrists
W 2F 011 014 her blonde head was bent over a set of papers
W 1B 020 150 I have bent over backwards
S 1A 061 144 my dustbin has been blown over
S 1B 032 005 if I fall over
W 1B 004 089 Anyhow I didn'y fall over
W 2F 016 142 caused her to fall over cliff
W 2F 015 104 found troops be falling over themselves [troops]
S 1A 081 135 Phil fell over on wild ponds
S 1A 040 434 I 've knocked over the thing
W 2F 001 131 and [he] lean over it [table]
S 1A 003 110 if you want to roll over
S 1B 010 160 the pendulum has swung over to the side
W 1B 005 144 I was ready to tip beer over one of them [blokes and girls]
S 2A 062 001 the plaintiff tripped over a drain
W 2F 017 021 old woman tripped over a stool
S 1B 017 154 if you turn over the page
S 2A 061 107 if you turn over [page]
S 2A 054 060 this will turn the engine over
W 2B 035 026 the missle turned over to a pre-selected angle
S 1B 032 135 the composer turning over [score]
ICE setence code
Table 5.14 TR and LM of the reflexive sense
Table 5.14 above suggests that BEND, FALL and TURN, which indicate the trajectory of
motion, are the frequent verbs with the reflexive sense of over. BEND and TURN recall an arced
trajectory from the starting point to the finish: ‘to bend over wrists’ means bending the wrist
from a usual position with the hand and lower arm stretching to a relatively unusual angle
((99)). The resulting position alone is not highlighted in the reflexive sense, but the trajectory
from start to end is portrayed as path and such particular verbs as BEND and TURN co-occur
with over. In the same manner, FALL over is associated with the path from up to down ((100)).
As far as the combination of the verb and over is concerned, the words seem to be
semantically harmonised to convey the meaning of reflexive movement. In other words, the
connotation of the co-occurring verbs with over is unlikely to contradict the reflexive sense. If
so, which words create the sense, verb or preposition? I would argue that the combination of
sentence components, verb and nouns, contributes to the interpretation of the preposition.
(99) Catherine bent over the wrists, straining to hear. <W2F-010 #050>
(100) Phil fell over on wild ponds and dipping ponds. <S1A-081 #135>
155
Repetition (6A)
The repetition sense of over derives from the reflexive sense, according to the semantic
network. This is because this sense is associated with the concept that the trajectory starts
from a point and returns there (Figure 5.16 below). The returning path is metaphorically
portrayed as repetition of action. For example, in (101) this means a course of an event and
the sentence indicates that the course will be experienced in the same manner again – as it
were literally passing the route of the events. In this section, we will observe whether the
co-occurring verb corresponds to the repetition sense, and to what extent the TR and LM
characterise the linguistic behaviour of the repetition over.
(101) You know, this happens over and over again. <S1B-048 #140>
Figure 5.16 The repetition sense (Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 105)
TR verb LM
W 2B 001 036 I did not want to have to explain my illness over and over again
S 1B 048 140 this happens over and over again
S 1A 016 042 Do you read the book over and over again
S 2B 039 016 Mr Gorbachev refers over and over again
S 1B 023 025 [we] to renew experience over and over again
S 1A 016 037 I keep watching the film over and over again
ICE setence code
Table 5.15 TR and LM of the repetition sense
156
Six instances of the repetition sense are found in the data. Some of the verbs suggest
the feature of repetition: obviously, RENEW literally refers to repetition. On the other hand,
READ and WATCH denote the action in which the agent proceeds along the contents of a book or
film. The story of the book and film consists of a series of events and the reader and watcher
pass through the events in the course of the story. If they wish to read or watch it again, they
need to go back to the start of the story. The action makes a path from beginning to end. In
terms of the association of verb, noun and preposition, ‘read the book’ and ‘watching the film’
seem plausible to co-occur with the repetitive over.
(102) And do you read the book over and over again. <S1A-016 #042>
(103) I keep watching the film over and over again. <S1A-016 #037>
As shown in the examples above, the repetition sense tends to be expressed by the
phrase ‘over and over’. The twofold over phrase is not followed by a noun phrase, which
indicates that the over is highly likely to be adverb qualifying the preceding verb. The
accounts of the over senses in this chapter have suggested that adverbial over is based on the
path schema in general. This in turn implies that the repetition sense is likely to emerge from
the path schema. The data also shows that the TR of the repetition over tends to be person and
people which are expressed by personal pronouns. This finding runs counter to my
presupposition that it might be only the noun referring to events or the thing to be repeated,
such as song and story. Yet, in fact, the repetition sense can be employed in the sense that a
person reiterates an action of speech and watching such as EXPLAIN, READ, REFER and WATCH.
In conclusion, the analysis of the data has revealed that the over sense corresponds to the
meanings of the co-occurring verbs and the LMs, and the TR falls into human beings, which
occur somewhat frequently, and events.
157
5.3.3 Implications about the analysis of the over senses in the semantic network
In the previous sections we have observed the analysis of the over senses suggested by Tyler
and Evans (2003a, 2003b) and the linguistic environment, in particular, the co-occurrence of
the verbs with TR and LM nouns. This summary of the analysis will account for the findings
as to
1) how the central schemas of over, above or path schema, are associated with the derived
senses
2) to what extent the verb contributes to the interpretation of the over senses
3) whether the TR and LM are involved in conveying the nuances of the senses.
The three types of the central schemas of over have been presented in section 5.2.1:
flying above and cross (Figure 5.1); path from one place to another (Figure 5.2); locating
above and hovering in the air (Figure 5.3). The analysis of the corpus indicates that, given that
the schema of flying above and cross is limitedly employed in such a few spatial
configurations as flying airplane, the schemas of path and hovering in the air give rise to the
derived senses of over. The several senses of the preposition are likely to emerge from
associations with the prototypical schemas by highlighting an aspect of configuration and
using metaphor. The covering sense (3) is likely to derive from highlighting the concealing
and spreading attributes of an entity located above; examining (4) and repetition (6) senses
originate from metaphorical inferences of path movement, namely that PASSING AN EYE IS
EXAMINATION and TRACING THE PATH IS REPETITION, respectively. The derived senses are
traceable to the prototypical schemas, although they seem to radically develop from the
central schemata. Over-and-above (Excess II) sense (5A1) is inferred from the metaphor that
MORE QUANTITY ULTIMATELY OVERFLOWS, and the association of the more sense with over is
based on our kinaesthetic experiences, such that UP IS MORE QUANTITY. Consequently, the
derived senses form a network which gradually expands from the central schema to the highly
158
developed senses thorough the sense clusters, for instance the up cluster, which functions as
sub category of the central schema and sets up a ‘radial network’ (Lakoff, 1987a).
Despite Tyler and Evans’s claim that the semantic network of over consists of the
proto scene and the two sub-clusters, I would argue that the schemas of locating above and
hovering, which is equivalent to the proto scene, and path, equal to the A-B-C trajectory
cluster, are likely to be the source of the derived senses. The other sub-cluster, the up cluster,
is unlikely to be a genuinely independent source of the senses, rather it seems derivable by
adding the metaphor MORE IS UP to the locating above schema. On the other hand, locating
above and path schemas make a sharp contrast of spatial configuration between verticality and
horizontality. Covering (3) and control (5B) senses are based on the concept that two entities
establish a vertical configuration together with verbs ‘GLOSS’ and ‘STAND’, whereas
2
2.A
2.B
2.C
2.D
2.E
5.A
5.B 5.C
5.A.1
4.A
6.A
3
4
6
PROTO-SCENE
Covering
Examining
Focus-of-
attention
Reflexive
Repetition
A-B-C
Trajectory
Cluster
Up Cluster
On-the-
other-side-
of
Above-and-
beyond
(ExcessI)
Completion
Transfer
Temporal
Preference
Control
More
Over-and-
above
(ExcessII)
Figure 0.1 Radial network of the over senses (adapted from (Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 80))
Figure 5.17 Radial network of the over senses (adapted from Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 80)
159
on-the-other-side-of (2A), completion (2C) and temporal (2E) and other senses derive from a
physically and figuratively horizontal path movement, such as physically crossing over a
bridge and advancing the stream of time in a metaphorical way. Of the senses of over, there
exists a sense which may arise from both locating above schema and path: that is, the
examining sense (4). When examining, the vantage point is located above the document
examined as exemplified by the co-occurring verb ‘CAST’, and at the same time the path of eye
movement runs through the surface of the document as represented by the frequent verb ‘GO’.
It could be therefore argued that the senses of over are unlikely to divide as the derived senses
into one of the two central schemas, rather some senses derive from the amalgamation of
locating above schema and path. Figure 5.18 below illustrates the degree to which the senses
of over associate with the central schemas. As a result, the central schemas might be assumed
to be relevant to each derived sense of over, varying the degree of relevance from the one pole
to the other.
Figure 5.18 Degree of the relevance to the central schemas
Now we turn to the verb. The data analysis has suggested that the meaning of the
co-occurring verb corresponds to the over sense as a whole. The proto scene over (1), which
locating above path
focus-of attention
(4A)
more (5A)
over-and-above
(5A1)
control (5B)
preference (5C)
reflexive (6)
repetition (6A)
on-the-other-side-of
(2A)
above-and-beyond
(2B)
completion (2C)
transfer (2D)
temporal (2E)
proto scene (1)
covering (3)
examining (4)
160
represents a spatial configuration of one entity locating above the other, occurs frequently
with locating verbs such as LIFT and place. By contrast, COME and GO, denoting path
movement, are diffused with the sense of the on-the-other-side-of (2A) which belongs to the
A-B-C trajectory cluster. A considerable highlighting of path schema is likely to affect the
function of over and the structure of phrase: over is an adverb which does not have to precede
a noun phrase like a preposition. The transfer sense (2D) denotes delivering something ‘by
hand’ and it is expressed correspondingly with a denominalised verb ‘HAND’ which derives
from the noun of the same linguistic form. LOOK, READ and STARE are frequently used to
convey the sense of examining (4) which is carried out by seeing. The control sense (5B) of
over tends to occur with verbs signifying authority and victory, such as PRESIDE, RULE, WIN and
TRIUMPH. Some particular verbs, such as BEND, FALL and TURN, appear to be associated with
the trajectory implied by the reflexive sense (6). It could then be concluded that the meaning
of the verb semantically corresponds to the sense of the co-occurring over.
Kreitzer (1997) argues that a complex spatial configuration which is expressed by a
phrase containing over is generated from the synthesis of the schemas of the preposition and
verb. A diagonal path implied by ‘CLIMB over’ is assumed to be the mixture of the schemas of
climbing and over, as illustrated earlier in Figure 5.5. If so, is any type of spatial configuration
interpreted by verb and preposition alone? In other words, does a given verb and preposition
combination, a so-called ‘phrasal verb’, convey a particular sense in a limited way? This is
not the case. As illustrated in examples (104) to (115), phrasal verbs are polysemous phrases
which have several meanings within an identical linguistic form. In order to convey a nuance
of meanings, the co-occurring nouns might help to differentiate the meanings of sentences
containing an identical phrasal verb. However, in fact only a few implicitly suggest the
semantic association of preposition with other sentential components, such as verb and nouns
(Kreitzer, 1997; Tyler and Evans 2003a, 2003b). I would agree that the co-occurring nouns
161
also play an essential part in the interpretation of the over senses. Let us now turn to analysis
of the polysemous phrasal verbs.
Hang over is used in the sense of proto scene (1) and focus-of-attention (4A). The
proto scene represents a spatial configuration in which one entity is located above the other; in
(104) concrete objects, FOR SALE signs, hover above the other concrete objects, sagging
wooden doors. Such spatial configuration is often experienced in the life of language users
and represented by the linguistic form of ‘HANG over’. On the other hand, no one could see
that a large question mark is physically hanging above a demand as in (105). This examining
sense may arise from metaphorically mapping the spatial configuration like (105) onto the
description of the situation where the Iraqi demand for reciprocity is in question. As a result,
the nature of the co-occurring nouns before and after the preposition is likely to contribute to
interpreting the different senses.
<HANG over>
(104) …, with broken windows and FOR SALE signs hanging dispiritedly over
sagging wooden doors. (1) <W2F-006 #025>
(105) According to the spokesman, a large question mark also hangs over the Iraqi
demand for reciprocity. (4A) <S2B-004 #023>
Likewise, GO over is found in several senses of over. On-the-other-side-of sense (2A) and
above-and-beyond sense (2B) specify concrete objects as attributes of the spatial
configuration. Despite the absence of the agent of the phrasal verb, (106) indicates that a
person crosses over a box of seeds; the bullets go beyond our head which refers to the target
of the bullets as in (107). The difference of the two senses is likely to lie in the nature of the
TR and LM: a box is large enough to go over to the other side and the bullet goes past the
target when missing it. Examining sense (4) and over-and-above sense (5A1) distinctively
162
occur with an abstract noun phrase, particularly as TR following over. Neither the basic
procedures nor the top are capable of being physically passed through. In a similar manner to
HANG over, metaphorical mapping from physical configuration onto abstract takes place in
terms of the interpretation of the senses. The top with the over-and-above preposition
functions as boundary of excess. Again, you can see that the nature of the co-occurring noun,
TR and LM, clarifies the subtle nuances of the over senses.
<GO over>
(106) Wouldn't be very large but it'd be big enough to go over a box of seeds. (2A)
<S1A-007 #063>
(107) … and the bullets were going over our head very close to our head because he
ran right past us,… (2B) <S2A-050 #160>
(108) Now Tony we'll just go over the basic procedures to start your bike before you
sit on it. (4) <S2A-054 #053>
(109) …but that's going over the top a little bit. (5A1) <S1A-087 258>
The derived senses of the preposition are directly or only indirectly relevant to the
central schema; the senses of over are highly likely to derive from the locating above and path
schemas. The mental representation of the central schema can be conceptually represented by
the spatial configuration between the two entities: trajector (TR) and landmark (LM). To put it
another way, the reciprocal relationship between TR and LM may contribute to the
interpretation of the derived senses of the preposition. It could follow that the examination of
the combination of TR and LM might provide us with an experimental account of the diverse
senses of over. The analysis of BE over suggests that the combination of places, the flat (TR)
and a disused garage (LM), may give rise to the locative sense of on-the-other-side-of (2A) in
(110); the combination of abstract thoughts, my confusion (TR) and the question (LM), is
associated with the focus-of-attention sense (4A) in (113); and over co-occurring with human,
163
she (TR), and number, seventy (LM), can be interpreted as the sense of more in terms of age
(114). Admittedly, this analysis is unlikely to apply to all instances of the over senses; in
particular, the sentence containing adverbial over does not retain a noun phrase following the
preposition, as in (111). Despite such weakness, the TR and LM combination could predict
the senses of over to a certain extent on the basis of cognitive linguistic theory about
prepositions.
<BE over>
(110) The flat was over a disused garage. (2A) <W2F-006 024>
(111) The political damage may be limited if the fighting is over relatively quickly.
(2C) <W2E-006 #084>
(112) That was over Christmas I think that happened. (2E) <S1A-093 #313>
(113) That's right and my confusion was over the question (4A) <S1B-062 #094>.
(114) She is over seventy. (5A) <S1A-027 #262>
(115) Privatisation of these great utilities has loosened what little public control
there was over gas over electricity over all the telephones… (5B) <S2B-036
#093>
Nevertheless, a question remains unanswered as to which word – verb, over or noun
– is responsible for the establishment of the sense: does the preposition play a central role in
the combination? Some cognitive linguists seem to imply that the preposition is an
independent source which assigns a number of derived senses (Dewell, 1994, 2007; Dirven,
1993; Gucht et al., 2007; Lakoff 1987). Otherwise, as the valency theory (Fillmore, 2008;
Thomas et al., 2004) suggests that the verb is accompanied by a direct or ditransitive object,
does the verb determine which preposition and noun can follow? I would agree with the
theory of phraseology that a meaning arises from a set of phrases. None of the constituents of
clause independently contribute to the interpretation of a spatial configuration. Such words as
164
verb, noun or preposition are highly likely to interrelate to the occurrence. Take the
configuration of Figure 5.19 below for instance, the combination of cat and wall infers that a
cat is capable of moving to the other side of a wall; the verb JUMP specifies the way in which
the cat moves; and the preposition over indicates the trajectory of the movement above the
wall. From this, I would argue that the senses of over are unlikely to lie restrictedly in the
preposition; rather, other attributes, verb and the combination of TR and LM noun, also play
an essential part in the interpretation of a configuration. In the following section, I will focus
on the extent to which the TR and LM combination could account for the senses of over.
Figure 5.19 Generation of the meaning of The cat jumped over the wall
5.4 TR and LM combination
5.4.1 Distribution of TR and LM combination
Given that the preposition is assigned a number of senses, they are likely to originate from the
central schema of the preposition. Cognitive linguists point out that the sense of the
preposition is based on a spatial configuration which is composed of two entities: trajector
(TR), which functions as the focus of attention, and landmark, which establishes a relation as
The cat jumped over the wall.
TR and LM combination
165
background to the trajector. Take Figure 5.19 for example again, the cat is the trajector and
the wall is the landmark. As has been discussed in the previous section, the nature of the noun
as TR and LM is likely to predict the diverse senses of over to a certain extent. Concrete
objects tend to be used in locative senses, such as the locating above (1) and
on-the-other-side-of senses (2A), whereas abstract concepts, such as time and thoughts, are
frequently found in the instances of temporal (2E) and focus-of-attention senses (4A).
Moreover, the combination of TR and LM seems to be associated with the interpretation of
the preposition. For instance, the combination of the bullets and our head occurring with over
indicates that they go beyond the person ((107)); the over between she and seventy can be
understood to referring to age ((114)). The co-occurring verb may function by adding
information to the spatial configuration of TR and LM combination: a straight trajectory of
the bullets over our head is represented by GO, while an arced trajectory composed of a ball
over head is described as loop ((38)). This function of the verb can be accounted for by the
integrative schema which is a conceptual synthesis of schemas between spatial configuration
and movement as illustrated earlier in Figure 5.5 (Kreitzer, 1997). To put it another way, the
meaning of the verb may help to specify a particular spatial configuration by incorporating
with the central schema of the preposition. The account of the co-occurring verb will be
provided while the TR and LM combination is analysed. In this section, the TR and LM
combination will be mainly analysed.
Not all the instances containing over establish a combination of TR and LM. Unlike
the preposition, adverbial over inclines to be isolated from the following TR noun. This is
partly because the foregrounding of the path schema makes the reference of the LM
unnecessary. As has been discussed earlier, the completion sense of over (2C) is independent
from the following LM –…the fighting is over…((41)), since the completion of the path from
start to end is the key of the sense, rather than its destination. Table 5.16 below indicates the
166
proportion of instances without the noun following over. Interestingly, a high proportion of
the absence of LM is in the sense based on path schema: repetition (6A) e.g., over and over;
completion (2C); reflexive (6) e.g., BEND over; on-the-other-side-of (2A); and transfer (2D)
e.g., HAND over to someone. As a result of this, over which is not followed by a noun phrase is
highly likely to be adverbial and denoting the sense based on the path schema. In this study,
78 instances of adverbial over are excluded for the purpose of the analysis; the TR and LM
combination of 402 instances will be investigated.
Table 5.16 The senses of over in the order of high proportion without LM
The TR and LM are classified into human beings (H), concrete objects (C) and
abstract objects (A). Drawing on Schönefeld’s criteria (1999), the classification of HCA is
adopted in this study for the following reasons. First, the five sub-categories seem too diverse
for the purpose of empirically describing the semantic association between TR and LM.
Secondly, an attempt of dichotomy classification, human being or non-human objects, only
achieved a statistically insignificant distribution result (χ2 = 0.35 d.f. =1 p = 0.852). Thirdly,
the earlier account of the derived senses of over has suggested that the TR and LM of abstract
without
LM instances
propotion of
without LM
6A 6 7 86%
2C 5 6 83%
6 8 18 44%
2A 31 110 28%
2D 5 19 26%
5B 11 50 22%
5A1 2 11 18%
3 5 43 12%
4 1 13 8%
2B 1 18 6%
4A 1 36 3%
1 1 40 3%
2E 1 90 1%
5A 0 18 0%
5C 0 1 0%
78 480
167
objects, such as time and thoughts, are likely associated with metaphoric expression of the
preposition. Note that a place and building which metonymically refer to the people inside fall
into the sub-category of human beings.
H C A
Count 17 96 119
Expected
Count
16.2 97.5 118.3
Std. Residual 0.333 -0.313 0.140
Count 3 60 22
Expected
Count
5.9 35.7 43.3
Std. Residual -1.401 6.005 -5.216
Count 8 13 64
Expected
Count
5.9 35.7 43.3
Std. Residual 0.998 -5.625 5.047
TR
H
C
A
LM
χ2 = 53.538 d.f. =4 p < 0.001
Table 5.17 HCA combination of TR and LM
Table 5.17 shows that the distribution of the overall distribution of the TR and LM
combination is statistically significant in terms of the HCA classification of the instances
containing over. The standard residual indicates over and under representation in comparison
to the expected frequency based on the distribution. According to the results, the CC
combination (p=6.005) – the TR and LM are both concrete objects – and the AA combination
(p=5.047) – the TR and LM are both abstract objects – are overused, whereas the CA
(p=-5.216) and AC (p=-5.625) combinations appear to be underused. The unbalanced
distribution may imply that over with the combination of concrete objects denotes a spatial
configuration of one entity locating above another, or in terms of path sense an object, such as
ball and bullet, fly over an object. Abstract objects are also frequently adopted to represent a
relationship of time, concepts and activity. In the following section we will examine detailed
accounts of overused and underused HCA combinations.
168
5.4.2 Overused and underused combinations of TR and LM
TRs and LMs used with over have been classified into human beings, concrete objects or
abstract objects. It has suggested that the combination of concrete object TR and concrete
object LM and that of abstract object TR and abstract LM over-represent in the corpus data.
Conventional accounts of the senses of prepositions have been provided on the ground that
the preposition conveys its diverse senses virtually independently (Lakoff, 1987). However,
the comprehensive account of the over senses provided by cognitive linguists suggests that
other sentential components may involve in interpreting the derived senses of the preposition:
for instance, some particular verbs were presented in relation to the over senses (Dewell, 1994,
2007; Kreitzer, 1997; Lakoff, 1987). In the same vein, section 5.3.2 has shown that the
co-occurring verb semantically corresponds to the sense of over to a large extent. Moreover, a
number of co-occurring nouns have also been specified in given senses. Based on the
assumption that the prototypical mental representation of the preposition is composed of
trajector (TR) and landmark (LM) (Tyler and Evans, 2003a), this section will investigate the
extent to which the combination of TR and LM can account for the derived senses of over. It
could then be argued that the sense of over is unlikely to be attributed to the preposition alone,
but that other sentence components, such as verb and nouns, help to specify a configuration
represented by the phrase containing the preposition.
The combination of concrete object TR and concrete object LM is overused as shown
in Table 5.17 above. Table 5.18 below indicates that the overused concrete object (TR) plus
concrete object (LM) combination frequently occurs exclusively in such senses as ‘proto
scene’ (1), ‘on-the-other-side-of’ (2A), ‘above-and-beyond’ (2B) and ‘covering’ (3). In the
light of the analysis of the central schema in 5.2.1, the schema of one entity locating above the
other and the path schema are prototypical, the overused combination indicates that a spatial
configuration where a concrete object locates above and on the other side of the other
169
concrete object tends to be represented along with over. Likewise, the abstract object (TR)
plus abstract object (LM) combination is over-represented so that the ‘temporal’ (2E) and
‘focus-of-attention’ sense (4A) appear to be associated with the combination. Now let us turn
to reading the concordance lines of the examples to see whether the HCA classification of the
TR and LM combination could account for the derived over senses.
sum
HH HC HA CH CC CA AH AC AA freq
3 15 1 1 13 0 3 2 1 39
2A 0 43 11 0 19 0 0 3 3 79
2B 0 2 2 1 10 1 0 1 0 17
2C 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
2D 6 4 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 14
2E 0 0 40 0 0 14 0 0 35 89
0 6 8 0 16 1 0 4 3 38
0 5 6 0 1 0 0 0 0 12
4A 2 4 16 0 0 1 1 1 10 35
5A 0 0 11 0 0 0 1 0 6 18
5A1 0 1 4 0 0 2 0 0 2 9
5B 5 7 15 1 0 3 3 1 4 39
5C 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
1 7 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 10
6A 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
17 96 119 3 60 22 8 13 64 402
semantic network
TR×LM combination
1
6
sum
2
3
4
5
Table 5.18 TR and LM combination with the distribution of the over senses
5.4.2.1 Overused CC combination
The CC combination (concrete object TR and concrete object LM) is frequently used to
represent a spatial configuration. The configuration between the paw and an object, generally
implying that the paw of an animal is placed above the object (116), can be reasonably
inferred from ‘encyclopaedic knowledge’(Taylor, 2003:85), or shared knowledge of
conventions and cultures by the language user. The co-occurring verb, to lift, helps us to
imagine the vertical configuration in space. In a similar manner, it is generally acknowledged
that clouds are above a region and over, in turn, can be interpreted as the locating above sense
(117). The airplane is assumed to be a typical object flying in the air as in (118); in relation to
the LM, your heads, the preposition conveys the locating above sense.
170
(116) Moreover, if a paw was tapped, just before it was due to be lifted, the paw
would then be reflexively lifted an increased amount, as if [the paw] being
lifted over an object. <W1A-016 #060>
(117) This material created an invisible radiation cloud which [=cloud] blew over
much of Western Europe within days,.. <W2A-030 #010>
(118) …, it was like being at the end of a runway as these great planes roared over
just above your head,… <S2A-019 #100>
When the TR concrete object is capable of concealing, the spatial configuration over
denotes a covering sense. In (119), thick smoke impedes the sight and can result in covering
the landmark, a very large part of the planet. To convey the covering sense, the nature of the
TR is important. As has been examined earlier, the covering sense falls into the other senses
of cover: that is, distributive location and multiplex path (Lakoff, 1987). The TR and LM
combination of (120), sanctuaries and the country, which represents places in a region, seems
to be associated with the sense of distributive location denoting scattered places in an area.
The TR of (121), the probe, seems unable to conceal the LM, the complete surface of interest;
however, the movement of probes on the surface reminds us of the sense of multiplex path,
which represents a path movement in all directions.
(119) …but the smoke caused by the filthiness and the concentration of the burning
could cause huge amounts of havoc over a very large part of the planet.
<W2C-029 #008>
(120) in Josiah's reign was uh concerned that the many sanctuaries that at that point
had existed all over the country and the free access,… <S1B-001 #004>
(121) Once the probe has moved over the complete surface of interest, all the three
dimensional data points may be combined to form a 3D. <W2A-036 #034>
The nature of the TR and LM and its combination are reflected in the over senses of
on-the-other-side (2A) and above-and-beyond (2B). These senses are likely to derive from the
171
path schema which represents an A-B-C trajectory. The TR of the over senses is supposed to
be an entity, a tank as in (122), which can move steering a path of A-B-C trajectory. In
relation to the TR, the LM should represent a path, a crossing. It seems theoretically possible
to interpret the configuration between a tank and a crossing as the TR locating above the LM
as in *A tank is over a crossing; however, the co-occurring verb, clattered, specifies the sense
of the configuration by prompting the movement of path. Similarly, the TR of (123), vehicles,
seems to be commonly associated with the image of a path made by driving. Therefore, the
sentence containing over represents a path of A-B-C trajectory.
(122) The first check to their headlong progress came when a tank clattered over a
crossing just ahead. <W2F-015 #026>
(123) However, some larger vehicles speed over them and I wonder what noise
empty skip lorries would make if they did likewise.
The above-and-beyond sense can be inferred from the features of the TR and LM of over. The
TR tends to be an entity which can fly away, such as ball and bullet, and the LM indicates a
boundary, such as baseline, which the TR is expected not to go beyond as in (124). Part of
human body, namely head, is also frequently employed as LM to imply an imaginary
boundary of excess indicating that the TR should reach the target LM, but in fact goes over
(125). Were it not for the verb, such as LOOP and END up, the combination of a flying TR and a
boundary LM could draw the inference of the above-and-beyond sense. In other words, the
combination of the TR and LM and the distinguishing features are obvious enough to convey
the above-and-beyond sense; the co-occurring verb seems to assist in specifying a path
trajectory.
(124) He ran back probably twenty or thirty yards and took the catch as the ball
looped over his head. <S2A-013 #099>
(125) The high volley may look easy to hit, but all too often a player swings at the
172
ball, with the result that the ball ends up over the baseline. <W2D-013 #130>
5.4.2.2 Overused AA combination
The other overused combination, abstract object TR and abstract object LM, also suggests that
the combination of TR and LM is highly relevant to the sense of over. The AA combination is
frequently found in the sense of temporal (2E) and focus-of-attention (4A). The temporal
sense seems to be conveyed mostly by a prepositional phrase containing over and a following
noun phrase of time, e.g., over the next year. However, in relation to the temporal LM noun
phrase, the preceding noun can be also specified: investment, regeneration, research and task.
These are the nouns referring to an activity over a period of time which is undertaken for a
specific purpose. In consequence, it could be implied that the temporal sense is interpreted in
a linguistic environment composed of activity TR and temporal LM. In other words, the
temporal sense is exclusively materialised in the environment of activity TR and temporal LM.
This follows that a meaning is not expressed by a word, but by phrases and a specific meaning
is conveyed by the combination of particular words and phrases (cf. Sinclair, 1991; Hunston
and Francis, 2000). The ‘units of meaning’(Sinclair, 1991), components to which a specific
meaning is attributed, are applicable to explaining the semantic association of the TR and LM
in the temporal sense. The units consist in ‘collocations’, ‘colligation’, ‘semantic preference’
and ‘semantic prosody’. Collocations are the words which frequently co-occur with a
particular word; colligation indicates a grammatical choice of the co-occurring words, while
semantic preference represents a semantic choice; and semantic prosody shows the attitude
and evaluation of the meaning of the phrase (Sinclair, 2004). The account of Table 5.19 below
illustrates the semantic association of the TR and LM in the temporal sense of over.
173
PROSODY
PREFERENCE activity
activity
activity
activity temporal
temporal
temporal
temporal
COLLIGATION noun preposition noun
activity undertaken for a specific purpose
activity undertaken for a specific purpose
activity undertaken for a specific purpose
activity undertaken for a specific purpose
COLLOCATION
investment,
regeneration,
research,
task
… over
months,
distance,
years,
period
Table 5.19 Units of meaning of the temporal sense over
(126) Uhm this just gives you some idea, uh a graph of some idea of how machine
translation res research has fluctuated over the years,.. <S2A-032 #007>
(127) Fidelity which manages ℒ1.6 billion for 200,000 unit holders, is offering a
Personal Equity Plan (Pep) phased investment programme allowing
investments to be spread over six or 12 months. <W2C-012 #084>
Some instances of the temporal sense convey nuances of change, in particular
deterioration and aggravation of phenomena. Again, the units of meaning are used to describe
the semantic environment. The collocations of LM, which follow over, are identical with the
temporal nouns of activity, but on the other hand the TR nouns preceding the preposition
denote phenomena changeable for the worse over a period of time, such as unemployment, hot
losses and spending. This indicates that the TR and LM combination of a phenomenon and
time retains the semantic prosody of a negative change. As a result, the account of TR and LM
combinations allows us to discover detailed semantic associations of the temporal sense.
174
PROSODY
PREFERENCE
changeable
changeable
changeable
changeable
phenomenon
phenomenon
phenomenon
phenomenon
temporal
temporal
temporal
temporal
COLLIGATION noun preposition noun
deterioration and aggravation over time
deterioration and aggravation over time
deterioration and aggravation over time
deterioration and aggravation over time
over
…
unemployment,
hot losses,
spending
year,
years,
seasons
COLLOCATION
Table 5.20 Units of meaning of deterioration and aggravation over
(128) Indeed local estimates suggest that Cambridge unemployment will double over
the next year. <S2B-002 #044>
(129) And our first uh uh view from a satellite of what's going on will be a summary
of the heat income and heat uh losses which have been measured by satellites
orbiting the earth and averaging over the seasons. <S2A-043 #051>
The focus-of-attention sense of over occurs with combination of abstract nouns too.
The sense of the semantic network suggested by Tyler and Evans (2003a) gives an equivalent
meaning to about; that is, in terms of the connotation the focus-of-attention over can be
substituted with about. As shown in Table 5.21 below, the TR nouns, such as disagreement,
controversy, conflict and other nouns, can be followed by ‘about’ and the LMs, such as
charges, interpretation, seizure and others, largely because the TR and LM combination
represents a reaction (TR) to a demand and action (LM). The LM can be interpreted as the
content of the TR reaction, hence the semantic equivalency of over to about may be accepted.
Furthermore, the account of the TR and LM combination sheds light on the semantic prosody
of the over phrase. The TR collocations clearly indicate that the reaction expressed by the
over phrase tends to be incompatible, except for an instance of agreement. This result seems
similar to the semantic prosody of the deterioration over; however, note that possibly the
source text of the corpus comprises of news, which inclines to broadcast incidents and
disturbance rather than peaceful scenes.
175
PROSODY
PREFERENCE reaction
reaction
reaction
reaction
demand and
demand and
demand and
demand and
action
action
action
action
COLLIGATION noun preposition noun
incompatibility
incompatibility
incompatibility
incompatibility
COLLOCATION
disagreement,
controversy,
conflict,
agreement,
confusion,
issue
… over
charges,
interpretation,
seizure,
methods,
question,
something
Table 5.21 Units of meaning of the focus-of-attention over
(130) These infrequent disagreements tended to arise over charges by me of
dishonesty or untruthfulness in a politician. <W2B-015 #052>
(131) The problem lies in the paucity and the confusing nature of the sources
currently available as well as controversy arising over their interpretation.
<W1A-001 #026>
The overused CC and AA combinations have helped us to predict the senses of over and cast
light on the specific semantic prosody of the senses. In the following section, we will see
whether the HCA classification is feasible for the underused combinations.
5.4.2.3 Underused CA and AC combination
Table 5.18 indicates that the underused combinations of the TR and LM, concrete object (TR)
and abstract object (LM); and abstract object (TR) and concrete object (LM), make a clear
contrast with the overused combinations in terms of the HCA classification. Both the
overused AA and the underused CA occur with the temporal sense of over (2E), and the
instances of the overused CC and the underused AC fall into the senses of proto scene (1),
on-the-other-side-of (2A) and covering (3). In other words, the temporal sense is
overwhelmingly expressed by the AA combination, while underused by the CA combination.
Likewise, the CC combination and the AC combination are contrastingly used in terms of the
176
three senses of over. In this section we will explore why the HCA combinations are due to the
contrast of the over- and under representations.
Examples (132) and (133) signify the temporal sense with the combination of
concrete objects (C) and temporal noun (A). The LMs, possessions and casters, are by no
means abstract objects which appear frequently in the overused AA combination. This implies
that, unlike abstract nouns, concrete objects rarely precede the temporal over. However, as in
(132) and (133), it is likely that the passive occasionally occurs with the temporal preposition.
This supposition can be supported by the instances in Table 5.22 which indicate that the CA
combination tends to be expressed in the passive – 6 out of 15 instances (40%).
(132) … it was in a car containing empty suitcases ready to be filled with some of
the many possessions gathered over the years. <S2B-003 #104>
(133) Some dealers may supply bait of mixed supplies which will mean casters
being produced over several days instead of within several hours. <W2E-017
#107>
TR verb LM HCA sense
S 2A 024 027 that [thing] 's been done over the last century CA 2E
S 1B 022 059 that [theaters] have been established over a few years CA 2E
S 2B 003 104 many possessions gathered over the years CA 2E
W 2E 017 107 casters being produced over several days CA 2E
W 2D 011 017 [mobile ions] to be stored over winter CA 2E
S 1B 051 123 the same site can be used over [time] CA 2E
ICE setence code
Table 5.22 Passives of the underused CA combination
The other contrast of the overuse and underuse is the CC and AC combination of the
‘proto scene’, ‘on-the-other-side-of’ and ‘covering’ senses. As in (134)-(136), the combination
of abstract object TR and concrete object LM seems to convey a figurative meaning; the
literal configuration of the TR and LM is unlikely to materialise. For instance, a curse never
physically hangs over a place; superstition is incapable of independently travelling over the
world; and chill by definition does not move like people, animals and vehicles. Hence, the AC
177
combination is interpreted as metaphor by mapping a physical configuration and path
movement onto abstract objects. The underuse of the AC combination may imply that the use
of metaphor is less common than the representation of spatial configurations and path
movements.
(134) Does some sort of curse hang over the place? <W2F-016 #069>
(135) Now uhm this [superstition] for some reason went all over the world.
<S2A-027 #016>
(136) So, it was getting dark and there was an eerie chill coming over the city.
<S2A-050 #070>
The underused combinations have also managed to suggest the linguistic behaviour of the
over phrases: the scarcity of the CA and AC combination in relation to passive and metaphor.
In the next section, we will see the extent to which the distribution of the HCA classification
implies statistically insignificant combinations.
5.4.3 Embodied and figurative senses with the TR of human being
Table 5.18 shows that the combination of the TR and LM with human beings, such as the HH,
HC and HA combinations, appears to be insignificant in terms of the HCA classification.
Despite the result of statistic insignificance, the distribution of the senses in the HC and HA
combination seems suggestive of human construal reflected in language on the basis of
kinaesthetic experiences and figurative thinking.
The HC combination, human being TR and concrete object LM, occurs relatively
frequently in the sense of proto scene (1) and on-the-other-side-of (2A). This suggests that the
relationship between human being and concrete object tends to be expressed in a physical
configuration of one locating above the other and path, rather than figuratively as conveyed in
other senses. As in (137) and (138), the relationship of the involved entities represents that the
178
TR physically locates above the LM. The association between the HC combination and the
spatial configuration sense might be due to our recurrent experiences of such configuration
and our conventions of expressing it. Our embodied experiences are highly likely to be
reflected in language. The supposition could be supported by the result of the smaller number
of above-and-beyond (two instances) and covering instances (six instances) in the HC
combination. That is to say, although it is possible to express, it is hardly likely that the
human being ‘loops’ over the crossbar of football like a ball and a human physically conceals
a concrete object as a sheet and a table cloth do.
(137) In an exclusive report after [ANDREW HOGG] flying over rebel-held
territory to Ganda, a town left without hope, ANDREW HOGG reveals hidden
tragedy. <W2C-002 #036>
(138) She leaned over the washbasin to rinse her face and hands. <W2F-008 #139>
The on-the-other-side-of sense of the HC combination represents a path movement of a
human crossing over a place as in (139), and a human seeing something on the other side of a
place as in (140). The most frequent sense of the HC combination suggests that the imaginary
line of path is portrayed by the embodied experiences in which the traveller and eyes move.
(139) So he came over here and he got the cheque off me. <S1A-008 #275>
(140) And uh,,you can see the Prime Minister over there on his stand between the
uh,,Foreign Secretary and the Defence Secretary... <S2A-011 #024>
The instances of the HA combination indicate that the activity of human beings is
engaged in abstract concepts in various manners. The central schema of over, locating above
and path, is applied to representing human’s activities for abstract objects. For instance, the
schema of path is metaphorically mapped onto overcoming the difficulty in which students
would face in a much longer course (141). Conceptual entities, time and age, are also
179
construed as an object which can be crossed over as in (142) and (144). The human being can
control such an abstract entity as business, as though they virtually located above the entity
and asserted authority (145). As a result, the metaphorical mapping allows us to describe the
relationship between human beings and abstract concepts in a number of ways. The
pervasiveness of the HA combination may imply that metaphor is ubiquitous in our construal
and language.
(141) It's also more than most medical students would get over a much longer course
too, I think, isn't it. <S1B-044 #110>
(142) We, we've had a problem over the summer with the Slade with losing yet
another person. <S2A-077 #072>
(143) It might help to clear my mind if I could talk it over with someone. <W2F-011
#030>
(144) If you are over age 60, or will be 60 in the current tax year, and you are
unemployed you may claim Unemployment Benefit as usual. <W2D-004
#089>
(145) You, in your evidence, you seem to talk of taking over one business and
perhaps only one. <S1B-065 #015>
5.5 Summary of the chapter
Cognitive linguists and scholars of semantics have attempted to provide a full account of
preposition senses by adopting the notion of semantic network. The semantic network enables
us to associate the prototypical sense with the derived senses. The schema of locating above
and path is likely to be the central schema of over. The configuration of the schema can be
represented by a spatial configuration between focus-centred trajector (TR) and backgrounded
landmark (LM). Empirical research into the derived senses has revealed the semantic
associations of the co-occurring nouns, verbs and the structure of sentence with each derived
sense.
180
My hypothesis is based on the configuration of the central schema of prepositions:
the combination of the TR and the LM can to a certain extent predict the derived senses, since
they are assumed to originate from the central schema composed of TR and LM. This
approach runs counter to that adopted by cognitive linguists. They claim that the senses of
preposition largely lie in the word itself and somewhat relate to the co-occurring verb and
world knowledge, while I would argue that the diverse senses of preposition are conveyed by
phrases containing over, namely the combination of the TR and LM nouns, verb, preposition
and other sentential components. In other words, the conventional cognitive approach starts
with the preposition, whereas this study attempts to account for the senses by the words and
their combination when surrounding prepositions.
The HCA classification of the TR and LM combination – human beings (H), concrete
objects (C) and abstract objects (A) – has achieved prediction of the derived senses of over
despite the fact that more detailed classification might be required in some cases. Furthermore,
it sheds light on a clear contrast in configuration of the ‘proto scene’, ‘on-the-side-of’,
‘covering’ and ‘temporal’ senses; and the embodiment and metaphor in language. The 3×3
classification of TR and LM is highly likely to be applicable to providing a comprehensive
account of other prepositions.
181
6. ANALYSIS OF INTO
As observed in previous chapters, the HCA classification of the nouns which specifies their
spatial and conceptual relationships – human (H), concrete object (C) and abstract object (A)
– is effective in interpreting the senses of over, which stretch radially from a physical
configuration of substantial entities to a figurative one onto which the primary sense can be
projected. More specifically, the central sense of over which closely relates to a physical
configuration of one thing ‘being located above’ another, and the senses which can be derived
from this, are likely to emerge from the central sense when this is mapped onto the scenes
which the language user considers analogous or applicable, even when the entities are not
concrete.
In the case of over, one central sense is exemplified by a scene in which there is a
combination of concrete object trajector (TR) and concrete object landmark (LM), as in, for
example, the picture is over the mantel1
. Or, in contrast with this static configuration, a
dynamic relation of animate and inanimate objects can be represented, as in the cat jumped
over the wall. To judge from the semantic network of the preposition (see Chapter 6, Figure
6.6), the primary senses are highly likely to have been projected onto the derived senses by
applying the physical configuration to an abstract relation. For instance, the ‘more’ sense was
frequently observed which combine human TR and abstract LM, number and unit, e.g. If you
are over age 60… Likewise, an analysis of the TR and LM combinations of other derived
senses can be found in earlier chapters. For this reason, it may be feasible to establish a
semantic network of prepositions based on the relationship of the TR and LM whose
properties are human or concrete objects and then the sense of a co-occurring preposition may
possibly be interpreted as central or near-central. Conversely, the figurative senses may be
1
In this instance, trajector and landmark are shaded.
182
linked to the co-occurrence of abstract TR and LM. This may be because, as discussed in 2.3
(Embodiment), our embodied experiences are closely associated with conceptualisations and
language (Evans, 2007a; Johnson, 1987; Lakoff and Johnson, 1980; Lee, 2001; Taylor, 2003).
More specifically, what one physically experiences in everyday life by seeing and touching in
a configuration of over is assumed to develop into a fundamental concept of the preposition.
Based on this hypothesis, a principal aim of this chapter is to establish the semantic network
of into by an HCA combination of the TR and LM; in the pilot study into was found to retain
a closer approximation to the pattern of HCA distribution for over than other prepositions,
except for on (cf. Chapter 4, Pilot study).
As well as the TR and LM, the analysis of over showed that the verb is involved to a
large extent in interpreting the configuration indicated by the preposition. A verb co-occurring
with the preposition is highly likely to help us interpret whether the TR’s action is static or
dynamic. For example, HANG and PLACE indicate that the TR remains static above the LM,
whereas CROSS and PASS convey path movement, where the TR travels from one side to the
other side of the LM. Furthermore, distinct covering senses correspond to the occurrence of
particular verbs (cf. 5.3.2 Covering (3)): namely, a distributive location is conveyed with the
co-occurrence of such verbs as DEPOSIT, DISPLAY and HAPPEN; a multiplex path is conveyed
with DRIFT, GO and MOVE; concealing covering with COVER, GLOSS and SHEET. Thus, a verb can
be a candidate for analysis in the interpretation of a preposition. In the light of the analysis of
over, this chapter aims to
• specify a central sense of into in conjunction with the HCA combination on the basis
of the embodied experiences which arise from the TR and LM of a human (H) and a
concrete object (C)
• establish a semantic network of into postulating that the HCA combination of
abstract object (A) may contribute to the extension of the central sense to the
183
peripheral senses.
6.1 Distribution of HCA
Before turning to the analysis of HCA classification in order to discover a distinctive HCA
distribution pattern of into, the distribution pattern of the ICE GB corpus data will be
investigated in order to compare it to the pattern of the pilot study and also to contrast it with
the distribution pattern of over, discussed above.
H C A
Frequency 28 111 179
Expected Freq 14.3 115.5 188.2
% 4.3% 17.2% 27.7%
Std. Residual 3.641 -0.419 -0.674
Frequency 0 117 29
Expected Freq 6.5 53.0 86.4
% 0.0% 18.1% 4.5%
Std. Residual -2.558 8.785 -6.177
Frequency 1 7 175
Expected Freq 8.2 66.5 108.3
% 0.2% 1.1% 27.0%
Std. Residual -2.515 -7.294 6.406
A
TR
LM
H
C
Table 6.1 HCA distribution of the TR and LM with into
Table 6.1 above illustrates the distribution of the HCA pattern of phrases containing
into. Each cell of the table shows the raw frequency, expected frequency, percentage and
standard residual. Of these, the figure of the standard residual indicates the degree of overuse
and underuse: a positive value of more than 1.96 (p < 0.05) signifies overuse and conversely a
negative value of less than -1.96 signifies underuse. The overuse combinations HH (human
TR and human LM), CC (concrete object TR and concrete object LM) and AA (abstract
χ2 = 236.32 d.f. = 4 p < 0.001
184
object TR and abstract object LM) exceed the value of 3.29 (p < 0.001) in terms of standard
residual. CC and AA in particular overwhelmingly exceed the value of HH. As for underuse,
the following combinations: CH (concrete object TR and human LM); CA (concrete object
TR and abstract object LM); AH (abstract object TR and human LM); and AA (abstract object
TR and abstract object LM) turn out to be statistically under-represented. As with overuse, a
difference exists in the degree of underuse of the four combinations. The negative value of the
CA (-6.177) and AC (-7.294) is much lower than that of the CH (-0.419) and AH (-0.674) and
the probability of HC and HA is less than one percent (p < 0.001 when the absolute value of
the residual is more than 2.58). In other words, CA and AC are more significantly
under-represented than HC and HA. This distribution pattern of the residual approximately
corresponds to the pattern of into observed in the pilot study (see Chapter 5). As shown in
Table 6.2 below, the distribution pattern of the HCA combination agrees in the overuse of HH,
CC and AA, and the underuse of CA and AC, with the exception of the relatively little
underused CH and CA. The likeness of the residual pattern is illustrated by the peaks and
troughs of the two lines identified in Figure 2 below, given that the gaps between the two lines
are maximised for the CC, CA and AC. The quasi-identical patterning implies that the
representativeness of into examples from the Bank of English, which was employed in the
pilot study, and that of the ICE GB is justified.
HH HC HA CH CC CA AH AC AA
Pilot Study 1.969 0.422 -1.441 -1.153 3.081 -2.517 -1.329 -3.314 4.032
ICE GB 3.641 -0.419 -0.674 -2.558 8.785 -6.177 -2.515 -7.294 6.406
Table 6.2 Standard residuals of HCA combinations containing into in the pilot study and ICE GB
185
-10.000
-8.000
-6.000
-4.000
-2.000
0.000
2.000
4.000
6.000
8.000
10.000
HH
HH
HH
HH HC
HC
HC
HC HA
HA
HA
HA CH
CH
CH
CH CC
CC
CC
CC CA
CA
CA
CA AH
AH
AH
AH AC
AC
AC
AC AA
AA
AA
AA
HCA combination
Standard
residuals
Pilot Study ICE GB
Figure 6.1 Distribution pattern of Table 6.2
Turning to the CH and AH, the underuse seems to occur as a result of the size of the
two corpora. Overuse and underuse are statistically estimated according to the distance of an
observed frequency from the expected frequency, which is subject to the total value of the row
and column cells. Take the HH of Table 6.1, for instance: the expected frequency (14.3) was
calculated by multiplying the total frequency of the H row (318) by the H column total (29)
and then dividing the product by the whole frequency: (318 x 29)÷647 = 14.3. Thus, as the
total frequency of row and column cells increases, the expected frequency of each cell also
increases. Although the CH and AH combination were scarcely ever found in the pilot study
(0 and 0 occurrences respectively) or in the present study (0 and 1), a clear difference of the
expected frequencies seems to result in the CH and AH of the ICE GB corpus being
underused, but not in the pilot study. Expected frequencies are 6.544 and 8.202 of the ICE GB,
whereas they are 1.153 and 1.329 in the pilot study. Consequently, it could be again concluded
that the distribution patterns of the HCA combination containing into are highly likely to
agree in the pilot study and the present study.
The pilot study has also suggested that the distribution pattern of into is similar to
186
that of over, but not on (see Chapter 5). Table 6.3 below shows the residuals of the HCA
distribution of the prepositions in the ICE GB corpus. As the table shows, the overused CC
and AA and the underused CA and AC are found in the residuals of over and into. In this
respect, the distribution patterns of the prepositions turn out to be similar. What differs in the
distribution patterns is the overused HH and the underused CH and AH of into. The above
discussion of expected frequency shows that CH and AH are underused. The significance of
the underuse merely accounts for p < 5% (p < 0.05 when the absolute value of residual starts
at 1.96 and rises only to 2.58). This implies that the CA and AC of into are more significantly
underused than the CH and AH of the preposition, in terms of residuals. The table below
seems to suggest that what accounts for the overuse of CC and AA, and the underuse of CA
and AC of over and into is similar.
HH HC HA CH CC CA AH AC AA
OVER 0.118 -0.072 0.020 -0.932 3.830 -3.116 -0.754 -3.779 3.137
INTO 3.641 -0.419 -0.674 -2.558 8.785 -6.177 -2.515 -7.294 6.406
*** p < 0.001, ** p < 0.01, * p < 0.05
Table 6.3 Residuals of over and into and the significance of overuse and underuse
-10.000
-8.000
-6.000
-4.000
-2.000
0.000
2.000
4.000
6.000
8.000
10.000
HH
HH
HH
HH HC
HC
HC
HC HA
HA
HA
HA CH
CH
CH
CH CC
CC
CC
CC CA
CA
CA
CA AH
AH
AH
AH AC
AC
AC
AC AA
AA
AA
AA
HCA combination
Standard
residuals
OVER INTO
Figure 6.2 Distribution pattern of Table 6.3
187
As for into, the homogeneous combinations of the TR and LM – HH, CC, and AA –
are distinctively overused. In the analysis of over, it has been claimed that such parallel
combinations of the TR and LM may occur more frequently than figurative combinations
which transcend the boundary of embodied experiences, such as concrete object TR and
abstract object LM, or abstract TR and concrete LM. Figure 6.2 indicates that such parallel
combinations as HH, CC and AA are overwhelmingly overused with into and the standard
residuals are far higher than those of over, e.g. into HH 3.641, CC 8.785 and AA 6.406; over
CC 3.830 and AA 3.137 (overuse of the HH combination was not observed in the distribution
of over). As a result, it can be hypothesised that the strong overuse of the parallel
combinations HH, CC and AA may represent typical TR and LM configurations of into.
Given the suggestion that embodied experiences structure conception (Lakoff, 1987; Lakoff
and Johnson, 1999), we see in the next section how the CC combination is associated as a
central sense of into.
6.2 Central and derived senses of into
6.2.1 Mental representation of the central sense of into
The central thesis of cognitive linguistics and cognitive semantics is that embodied interaction
with our surroundings constitutes our conception of language (Evans, 2007a). If this is so, I
would argue that the interaction with physical and concrete entities, rather than abstract ones,
necessarily involves our conceptualising the central sense of prepositions.
There are suggestions by linguists who worked before the advent of cognitive
linguistics and advocate human cognition in language, that simple mental representations of
the configuration of two entities form the model of the central sense of prepositions. For
instance, Quirk et al. (1985) present a diagram of the mental representation of the central
sense of into in comparison to that of in (Figure 6.3). This seems to indicate that the
188
difference between the two prepositions lies in the dynamic or static nature of the TR: the TR
of into penetrates from the outside to the inside of the LM, while the TR of in is located inside
the LM without any motion from the outside. In the same manner, Dirven (1989) provides a
graphic account of into which emphasises the LM’s capacity to hold volume whereby the TR
can penetrate into a counterpart physically and figuratively (Figure 6.4). As a consequence,
these accounts of the central sense of into are likely to agree in specifying the progression of
the TR into the LM.
By contrast, the proto scene of into suggested by Tyler and Evans (2003a) is unlikely
to encompass the movement of the TR into LM as a requisite attribute of the central sense of
into (Figure 6.5 below).
into in
Figure 6.3 Diagrams of prepositions (Quirk et al. 1985: 674)
Figure 6.4 Diagram of into (Dirven 1989: 537
189
On the one hand, the rationale behind the exclusion of movement is the claim that “a full
analysis of spatial particles involves distinguishing orientation and path and motion” (ibid.:
134). Hence, the proto scene represents a static configuration of preposition which, by
focusing on orientation, differs from the conventional representation of a configuration
illustrated by diagrams, such as Figures 6.3 and 6.4. On the other hand, the proto scene is
assumed to be a semantic framework which is endorsed by linguistic evidence from history,
semantics and morphology: namely, 1. earliest attested meaning, 2. predominance in the
semantic network, 3. use in composite form, 4. relation to other prepositions, and 5.
grammatical predictions (Tyler and Evans, 2001, 2003a, 2003b; cf. 6.2.1 The central schema
of over). Despite the plausible rationales, not all the criteria of the evidence are applicable to
the proto scene of into. As for the composite form, no composed verb of into is in fact found,
though some are found for over, e.g. overlook. Also, before the establishment of the semantic
network which may theoretically emerge from identifying a central sense, it may be difficult
to demonstrate predominance in the network and grammatical predictions. It may be the case
as a result that the language evidence of the proto scene of into was provided in its earliest
attested meaning and relation to other prepositions (Tyler and Evans, 2003b). After the in of
Old English was employed in both a locative sense indicating the inside of LM with the dative
case and an orientation sense with the accusative, by the era of Middle English the latter sense
Figure 6.5 Proto-scene for into (Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 199)
190
was separately encoded into the other preposition into (ibid.). By referring to (1) and (2), the
distinction of into from in indicates that the former preposition implies the indefinite starting
point of TR, on the outside of LM, and its orientation to the LM, whereas the latter designates
the field of the TR’s action inside the LM.
(1) He ran into the room.
(2) He ran in the room.
(Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 199, my underlining)
Even admitting that Tyler and Evan’s static proto scene is based on some linguistic
evidence, it seems so unlikely as to eliminate the possibility that the advancing movement of
the TR into LM is associated with a central sense of into. I would argue that the proto scene of
the preposition may represent part of the path of advancing movement (Figure 6.6 below). It
is ‘salience’ (Croft and Cruse, 2004: 47) and ‘perspectivization’ (Taylor, 2003: 93), whereby a
particular fragment is construed more prominently than any others, that could explain the
incorporation of the orientation sense into the path, as the TR’s orientation from the outside of
the LM seems to be foregrounded in the course of the advancing movement into the LM (1 in
Figure 6.6). There is a sense of penetration in into, when used figuratively: Three days later
he slipped into a coma and died (Francis et al., 1996: 206, my underlining), which can be
assumed to be a foregrounded scene at the final point of the path movement (3 in Figure 6.6),
while the collision sense, as in …until he stopped so abruptly [that] Bob bumped into him
(ibid.: 205), seems to originate from highlighting an occasion within the path when the TR
and LM come into contact (2 in Figure 6.6).
191
For this reason, I would argue that ‘path movement’ is one, but only one, of the central senses
of into. Given that the central sense of over remains under discussion (cf. 5.2.1 The central
schema of over), it remains possible that the static orientation sense and the dynamic path
movement sense both function as central points to which the derived senses refer.
6.2.2 Trajector and landmark of into
The accounts of prepositions based on the TR and LM seem most likely to be provided by
highlighting the TR, since the relationship between the TR and LM is established in the way
in which a primarily focused TR appears against the LM as background. However, in terms of
the prepositions into, in, out of and through2
, the enclosed and volume-holding nature of the
landmark is considered fundamental to the constituting of a TR and LM configuration of the
prepositions. As a result, in addition to the TR, the LM of the prepositions including into is
crucial to a comprehensive account of the preposition. For instance, Quirk et al. (1985)
suggest that the LM of prepositions is categorized according to the type of dimension: at is
associated with point LMs, on with line or surface LMs, and in with area or volume LMs. In
the same way, the LM of into falls into the type of area or volume dimension, as illustrated in
2
Out can appear in spatial particles which relate to bounded landmarks (Tyler and Evans, 2003b); however,
the present study focuses on prepositions and therefore excludes the adverbial out from the group of
prepositions with bounded landmarks.
1. orientation
2. collision
3. penetration
Figure 6.6 Foregrounding in path movement
192
Figure 6.3. Similarly, Dirven (1989) depicts the configuration of into in a diagram (Figure
6.4) without great emphasis on the nature of LMs in comparison to other prepositions, but
offers the idea that volume is a feature of the LM of into. The enclosure and volume-holding
nature of the LM is defined as a ‘bounded landmark’ composed of an interior, a boundary and
an exterior (Tyler and Evans, 2003b: 178); thus, the three phases of path movement illustrated
in Figure 6.6 are likely to constitute a configuration denoted by into.
Although the boundary of the LM is important to the configuration of into, whether
we construe an object as bounded is open to human interpretation. Dirven (1985) and
Vandeloise (1991, 1994) point out that the boundary of LM is not necessarily enclosed
although a configuration is referred to using the prepositions into or in. e.g., Miriam paused in
the act of pouring boiling water on the tea leaves spooned into the cups on the table
<W2F-007 #110>3
. Obviously, the LM, the cups, is not closely bounded, in the sense that the
TR, the tea leaves, moves into the LM. Figure 6.7 below illustrates that the LM is perceived
as having a boundary even if it does not rigidly delineate the interior from the exterior. It is
embodied experiences which validate the boundary of a physically partial LM to the extent
that we construe it as containing and supporting, functioning as destination, and TRs moving
from outside to inside (Tyler and Evans, 2003b). Again, it could be claimed that embodied
experiences and human construal closely relate to the configuration of a preposition.
3
The coded sentence is an extract from the ICE GB corpus.
Figure 6.7 Partially bounded LM of into (Dirven, 1985: 564)
193
As regards the TR, Figures 6.3, 6.4, 6.5 and 6.7 indicate that the TR is capable of
progressing from the outside of the LM into the inside. It could hence be concluded that the
nature of the TR fundamentally includes the mobility necessary to penetrate the LM. It may
follow that the TR of into is an object adapted for spatial migration, for example, a human
being, an animal or a concrete object which can be moved by the force of a third party,
namely, in the above case, Miriam is the third person who moves the TR, the tea leaves, into
the LM, the cups, <W2F-007 #110>. However, the mobility of the TR is not only applicable
to animate and inanimate objects, but also to abstract objects, in a figurative sense in
particular. As stated earlier, an incomplete boundary can be regarded as a bounded LM as long
as we perceive it as able to perform the functions of containment, target vis à vis the TR, and
penetration by the TR. As a result, an abstract object is allowed to serve as a TR due to the
relative functions of the LM, as in …because it does not yet seem to have the standard of
reproducibility and communicability of results that is built into other sciences <W2A-035
#007>. An abstract object, the standard, acts as the TR because of the LM functions of
containment and penetration.
In conclusion, the spatial configuration as the central sense of into seems likely to be
composed of a movable TR, exemplified by humans, animals and concrete objects, and a
bounded LM which is allowed to be incomplete as an enclosure to the extent that it is
construed as a container by fulfilling the functions of containment, target and penetration. The
primary configuration is highly likely to apply to that of the derived senses on the basis of the
extension of the LM functions. We will see in the next section how the central sense relates to
the peripheral senses.
6.2.3 Derived senses of into
Derived senses, as their name suggests, are assumed to originate from the central sense on the
194
grounds of cognitive linguistics, such that a lexical unit as word constitutes a radial ‘semantic
network’ composed of a central sense and peripheral senses (Evans, 2007a; Lakoff, 1987;
Ungerer and Schmid, 2006). The related senses share some particular features with each other
on the basis of ‘family resemblance’ (Lakoff, 1987; Wittgenstein 1958, see section 2.1). In
other words, a derived sense to a certain extent retains the attributes of the central sense and
the other senses; the derived sense may be extended from the central one in a figurative and
topological manner (cf. sections 2.4 Metonymy and metaphor and 5.3 Corpus research on the
guiding senses of over).
Long before computer-assisted research into language, Lindkvist (1976) adopted an
empirical approach to the analysis of the senses of prepositions by collecting occurrences
from literature. He concluded that the senses of into in terms of locative conceptions are
categorized as shown in Table 6.4.
1) Interiority: three-dimensional body, surface, or area
2) Motion or direction into analysing with special implications
• Contact with a surface
• Progression inside a penetrated space or area
• Extension into a space or area
• Implications of withdrawing, confirming, retaining by force, or depth of
penetration
• Motion without reaching or simple direction
• Perfective implication, etc.
Table 6.4 Senses of into by Lindkvist (1976)
The first sense, interiority, is accounted for as being analogous to in, which denotes a locative
sense in which the two- or three-dimensional LM is construed as bounded. However, the
senses of the second group are exemplified by the extension from locative sense to
figuratively derived senses. Take the direction sense, for example; a simple direction sense is
195
as in auricular canal – the hole leading into the ear. Flood 24., while the metaphorical sense
of direction is exemplified in Why not look into the history book and find out whether his
father’s secret was completely absurd…. Lewis 47. (ibid.: 45 and 47, my underlining).
Dirven (1985) provided an account of spatial and figurative senses of into:
‘penetration’ e.g. They put all the toys into a box, (ibid.: 538, my underlining), which is
represented as the primitive image of the central sense by Figure 6.4 and Figure 6.7 above,
‘change of state’, e.g. The water turned into ice (ibid.: 564, my underlining) and other senses.
Claiming that the spatial sense of the preposition is extended into the sense of transition,
Dirven (1985) seems to agree with Lindkvist (1976) in the extension of the central sense into
the figurative senses of preposition. Then, a question arises as to which domain the central
sense could extend into.
Using the concept of a radial network, Dirven (1993) examines the extension of
twelve principal prepositions, at, on, in, by, with, through, about, over, under, from, off and out
of, apart from into, and argues that the fundamental spatial conceptions of the prepositions are
projected onto metaphorically extended domains, such as time, state, area, manner or means,
circumstance, cause or reason. This shows whether or not the prepositions denote the
extended meanings (ibid.: 84).
196
time state area
means
manner
circum-
stance
cause
reason
at + + + + + +
on + + + + + +
in + + + + + +
by + - + + + +
with - - + + + +
through + - - + - +
about + - + - - +
over + - + - - +
under - + - - + +
from + - - - - +
off - - + - - +
out of - - - - - +
Table 6.5 The meaning extensions of prepositions (Dirven, 1993: 84)
While this seminal research is comprehensive, the hypothesis was supported by artificially
created example sentences. It might be thus reasonable to carry out the verification of the
hypothesis with empirical data. As a result of corpus research, Francis et al. (1996) classified
the senses of ‘verb into noun’ pattern, represented as ‘V into n’ in the original, into thirteen
groups, as follows4
:
Verb with prepositional Complement
1.1 TURN e.g., amalgamate, condense, evolve, mushroom
1.2 BREAK e.g., break, fragment, separate, splinter
Verb with prepositional Object
2.1 CRASH e.g., bang, cannon, run
2.2 BITE e.g., bite, dig, sink
2.3 INQUIRE e.g., delve, look, research
2.4 ENTER e.g., blunder, get, plunge, venture
2.5 LAPSE e.g., break, erupt, launch, sink
2.6 CHANGE e.g., change, slip
2.7 VERBS WITH OTHER MEANINGS e.g., dip, lash, tap
4
The pattern of V into n maps onto in the three different functional configurations, with the ‘into phrase’
realising one of prepositional complement, prepositional object, and adjunct. The present research analyses
the data without depending on existing grammar theory, but rather in conjunction with the surface structure
of language (cf. Huston and Francis, 2000). Therefore, the three types are dealt with as a pattern with a
consistent surface structure.
197
Verb with Adjunct
3.1 INFILTRATE e.g., ascend, crowd, hack, push
3.2 DIP e.g., dig, dip, dive
3.3 FADE e.g., blend, melt, recede
3.4 VERBS WITH OTHER MEANINGS e.g., spark, spring, stretch
Now, the senses of the pattern will be categorized into the meaning extensions of prepositions
– time, state, area, manner or means, circumstance, cause or reason – and the central locative
sense, place. The senses of verb into noun group are likely to provide an empirical insight into
the meaning extensions of into, since the listing of the senses is comprehensive on the basis of
corpus data. With 2.7 and 3.4 verbs with other meanings excluded from classification due to
their miscellaneous nature, some of the meaning extensions, such as time, manner and means,
and cause and reason, were not observed in the pattern (Table 6.6 below). Nevertheless, the
seven categories of meaning extension seem plausible for classifying the derived senses of
into.
place CRASH (2.1), BITE (2.2), INFILTRATE (3.1), DIP (3.2)
time
state TURN (1.1), BREAK (1.2), CHANGE (2.6)
area INQUIRE (2.3)
manner and means
circumstances ENTER (2.4), LAPSE (2.5), FADE (3.3)
cause and reasons
Table 6.6 Senses of V into n and meaning extensions of prepositions5
In conclusion, the derived senses of into are likely to emerge from the locative sense
with extension into the domains of figurative senses, such as time, state, area, manner or
means, circumstance, cause or reason. However, not all the domains necessarily appear in the
semantic network of preposition; rather, the pattern of meaning extensions may possibly
characterise the distinctive features of the preposition.
5
Numbers in brackets indicate the sense group of Grammar Patterns 1: Verbs in Francis et al. (1996).
198
6.3 HCA classification of into
6.3.1 CC combination and the central sense of into
The CC combination has been hypothesised to be the most central sense of preposition into,
since the configuration is likely to be often experienced in the course of the conceptualisation.
As seen in (3) and (4), the configuration of the TR and LM can be observed from the
viewpoint of the third party. The penetration of the TR, train and missiles, into the LM,
station and building, can be recognised as a movement of the simplified diagram shown in
Figure 6.4 above. The experience of such scenes along with the text containing into may
entrench the concept of into in the language6
. Human construal, which allows us to
topologically recognise the shape of the entities, is reflected as an incompletely bounded
cylinder serves as an LM in (5) below. Likewise, a two-dimensional field, their garden, is
construed as a bounded entity in (6) despite the fact that the LM may possibly not be bounded
by a physical fence. The penetration sense of into, a dynamic part of the central sense, was
found in 56 instances (48.3 %) in 117 instances of the CC combination.
(3) If you can, wait until the train pulls into a station before pulling the cord…
<W2D-009 #163>
(4) Last evening two Cruise missiles could easily be seen almost drifting across
the skyline to plummet into a large building on the outskirts of Baghdad.
<S2B-015 #048>
(5) When hot water is drawn from the taps, new cold water is fed into the cylinder
from the cold storage tank above. <W2D-012 #099>
(6) … it was an action for nuisance concerning the occupants fairly recent
occupants of a housing estate who complained about cricket balls coming into
their garden from the local cricket pitch. <S2A-044 #090>
The static variety of the central sense of into is direction and 18 cases of this
6
Of course, there might be a refutation that language comes first, as some claim (Teubert, 2010, see section
2.2.3 above). However, I would agree that environment interrelates with the conceptualisation of language.
199
(15.5 %) were found in the data. The TR of the static sense obviously differs in being
movable. The TRs of (3) to (6) are capable of moving from their places to where the LMs are
located, whilst the static TRs of (7), in which door is unlikely to move without inhibition, are
indicative of heading towards the direction of the LMs. However, a small number of instances
were found in which the TR remains static in relation to the LM. It could thus be implied that
the features of the TR may differentiate between the dynamic and static senses of into phrases
(7) The door opened directly into the living room. <W2F-006 #054>
As argued earlier, with reference to Figure 6.6 , the senses of orientation, collision
and penetration denoted by into phrases are hypothesised as a foregrounded phase of path
movement. More specifically, the collision sense seems to emerge from a scene where a TR
moves into an LM, but stops on the surface of the LM. To confirm this, (8) exemplifies that
the TR, Daimler, was stuck in the penetration into the LM, sports car, because of the nature
of the LM whose materials do not let the TR penetrate thoroughly. The function of the TR in
relation to the LM also seems relevant to the interpretation of penetration without reaching the
core of the LM. As in (9), characters, hieroglyphs, are inscribed on a board, limestone, in
order for others to read the message; so that the TR remains on the surface of the LM without
disappearing into the inside of it. Similarly, owl windows are supposed to be embedded in the
wall of the construction, barns; otherwise, birds cannot enter the barns (10). As a result, it
could be claimed that the function performed by the TR and LM may relate to the
interpretation of the collision sense of into phrases.
(8) Mr Les Crewes, whose daughter Joanne died when Lambert’s Daimler crashed
into a sports car last May, said he had no sympathy for the man behind the
wheel. <S2B-017 #055>
(9) And this as we have always said is the real measure of skill because the
200
hieroglyphs here are incised into the limestone. <S2A-052 #070>
(10) And as early as the seventeenth century special owl windows were built into
barns, to encourage them to nest there and so, of course, rid the farm of rats
and mice, … <S2B-031 #088>
I would argue that the static sense of the central sense of into, orientation, is
associated with the reflexive sense of ‘change of state’. Dirven (1985: 564) introduced a
figurative sense of into which conveys transition from one state to another, e.g., to turn water
into ice; to change coins into banknotes; to make a sheet of paper into an airplane (my
underlining). This sense seems to indicate the orientation of change from one state to another,
such as from water to ice, without the path movement to which the dynamic sense relates. The
corpus data suggest that there are two senses of reflexive: ‘change into parts or pieces’ and
‘metamorphosis’. The former denotes that a whole entity is separated into smaller parts, as in
(11), and, conversely that different elements are combined into one whole entity, as in (12).
The latter signifies that an entity changes its appearance into an entirely different form, as in
(13).
(11) Carefully divide the paper into quarters, horizontally and vertically, to create
16 squares. <W2D-019 #107>
(12) I suggested that in fact the five trees could be combined into a single one by
combining the root entries of each into a single higher-level selection
<W1A-005 #018>
(13) I’m thinking of turning my kitchen into the Eastenders’ laundrette. <W1B-002
#098>
The change into parts sense shows a distinctive feature of the LM denoting number,
e.g., thirds and quarters, and unit, e.g., chunks, sorts, regions, areas and groups, as seen in
Table 6.7 below. It should be also noted that the passive tends to be used in terms of sentence
201
structure. As a result, the clause pattern of the sense can be deduced, as shown in Figure 6.8
below.
TR verb LM
W 1A 005 018 five trees could be combined into a single one
W 2A 038 072 reusable modules to be combined into a variety of module
W 2D 020 047 the bread cut into 1 inch chunks
W 2B 038 060 a large circular wafer which is diced into individual chips
S 2A 051 038 them [organisms] you can divide into general sorts
W 2B 025 024 the oceans of the world divide into two main basins
W 2D 019 102 an edge to divide into accurate thirds
W 2D 019 107 the paper to divide into quarters
S 2A 047 040 Mali was divided into seven regions
S 2A 051 039 One of the sorts [cell] is divided into crawling
S 2A 052 088 It [wall] is divided into that grid
S 2B 044 033 the country is divided into small areas
S 2B 045 053 horizontal circle was divided into ten minutes of arc
W 1A 006 060 The map must be divided into specific areas
W 2A 024 059 The fibres within a nerve can be divided into three groups
W 2B 039 003 a membrane keyboard is divided into 128 keys
W 2B 039 008 keyboard might be divided into only two areas
W 2A 028 093 the first component split into groups
ICE sentence code
Table 6.7 TR and LM in change into parts sense
Figure 6.8 Clause pattern of the change into parts sense in CC combination
So far, the two central senses and five derived senses have been examined and the
occurrence of instances and their proportion are indicated as follows:
BE combined
cut
diced
divided
split
concrete object number or unit
into
(TR) (LM)
202
Freq. %
Penetration 56 48.3%
Orientation 7 6.0%
Collision
Affecting surface, embedded 18 15.5%
Reflexive
Change into parts or pieces 18 15.5%
Metamorphosis 17 14.7%
116 100.0%
sum
senses and clusters
Table 6.8 Distribution of the senses in CC combination
Of these, the collision sense and the reflexive sense are likely to function as a cluster of other
senses. The change into parts sense and the metamorphosis sense seem to share the original
meaning of reflexivity, while the affecting surface, embedded sense may be derived from
collision by the function of the TR and LM. Consequently, the semantic network of the CC
combination with into can be deduced as shown in Figure 6.9 below; the circle size of the
senses in the semantic network is reflected by the occurrence in the data. This illustrates that
the dynamic central sense, penetration, occupies nearly half of the occurrences (48.3%) and
‘the reflexive cluster’ which retains the subordinate senses, such as change into parts and
metamorphosis (15.5% and 14.7% respectively), accounts for more than 30 percent in total.
Although the most frequent is not necessarily prototypical (Shortall, 2007), it could be argued
that the two frequent senses are highly likely to be entrenched through their use in the CC
combination of into. In the same way, the semantic network of the other TR and LM
combinations are examined next in order to explore whether the HCA combination could
account for the senses of into phrases.
203
Figure 6.9 Semantic network of CC combinations
6.3.2 HC and CH combination
The HC combination, which is composed of human TR and concrete object LM, is likely to
relate closely to scenes where a person enters a construction, as in (14) below. No fewer than
80% (93 instances) out of 112 instances of HC combination fall into the penetration sense.
The configuration between TR and LM, which is apparently affected by the nature of the LM
in particular, gives rise to the co-occurrence of particular verbs. For instance, as in (15) a
cupboard is an unlikely LM for someone to enter without inconvenience; GET indicates the
difficulty of doing so. When the TR is human and the LM is a house, MOVE, unlike COME, GO
and GET, means the removal of accommodation. Furthermore, the configuration of example
(17) shows that the particular TR and LM, troops and Iraqi territory, although the meaning of
the co-occurring verb GO is relatively neutral, gives rise to an interpretation of progress with a
military purpose. This may arise partly from our world knowledge of a particular TR and LM
(Tyler and Evans, 2001, 2003a, 2003b; cf. 6.2.3. Sentential components of senses of over).
(14) It was when Charles came into the room. <S1A-018 #256>
(15) It’s a little fetish I’ve got, <laugh> getting into the cupboard, <S1A-040 #072>
Penetration
Orientation
Affecting surface,
embedded
Collision cluster
Change into parts
Metamorphosis
56 (48.3%)
18 (15.5%)
7 (6.0%)
18 (15.5%)
17 (14.7%)
Reflexive
(e.g. the train
pulls into the
station)
(e.g. The door
opened into the
living room)
(e.g. …Lambert’s
Daimler crashed into
a sports car…)
(e.g. Carefully
divide the paper
into quarters)
(e.g. …turning
my kitchen into
the Eastenders’
laundrette)
204
(16) The removal lorry has been booked to start moving the Thatchers out of
Downing Street and into their new house in Dulwich on Monday. <S2B-003
#094>
(17) Uh, the, the, the fact is that it must be right for our troops to go into Iraqi
territory. <S1B-027 #094>
The penetration sense develops into some derived senses in HC combination, as well.
When the human TR moves for the purpose of evacuation and the LM serves as shelter, the
path movement in the opposite direction to adversary can be considered a kind of
‘withdrawal’ as in (18). With the LM metonymically referring to the people, a phrase
containing into conveys the sense in which the TR ‘integrates’ into the LM as part of a social
group, as in (19).
(18) You have to, have to retreat into Stoney Abbey or the island in
Sardinia…<S1B-045 #109>
(19) In book II ch 21 Adomnan tells of ‘a niggardly rich man, Vigenus’ who didn’t
receive Columba into his house. <W1A-002 #060>
In contrast with the dynamic sense of penetration, the other central sense, orientation,
is likely to relate to the scene where the TR casts a glance at the LM without moving from the
standpoint, or the TR approaches the LM without penetration. The verbs of Table 6.9 below
indicate the act of seeing something, such as GAZE and SEE, and various approaches to LM,
such as HEAD, LEAN and STEP.
TR verb LM
W 2B 004 123 we still gazing into every shop window
S 2B 027 117 many thousands are heading into the town
W 2D 013 033 Connors is leaning into the shot
W 1B 011 018 artists who want to live some way into London
S 1A 089 006 you can see into the cavity
W 2D 009 087 [people] to see into [buses] from outside
W 2D 013 084 [you] try to step into the shot
ICE setence code
Table 6.9 TR, LM and verbs in the orientation sense of HC combination
205
When the casting of sight takes place under scrutiny, the TR shows an intention to
‘examine’ the LM. The LMs of (20) and (21) are examined by the human TR – the TR of (20)
is assumed to be an engineer – in the way in which the TR is carefully orientated to the LM.
The difference of the derived sense from the central sense is whether there is scrupulous
attention by the TR, which is drawn from the inference of such co-occurring verbs as CHECK,
LOOK and RESEARCH, towards the LM.
(20) The thickness of the pads can be checked by looking into the end of the brake
calliper. <W2D-018 #038>
(21) …and the particular enzyme that I’m researching into is phospholypase <sic.>
C. <S2A-034 #111>
In order to contrast the CC and HC combinations, the semantic networks illustrated
in Figures 6.9 and 6.10 are examined, and in doing so it seems feasible to discuss the
hypothesis that the CC combination closely relates to the central sense of into. First, it is
obvious that the penetration sense occurs more frequently in the HC combination than the CC
combination. In terms of not only the raw frequency but the proportion in the combination, it
is revealed that the scene where a person enters a construction occurs frequently in the
empirical language data. This seems to reject the hypothesis that the configuration of the
central sense of into is that one concrete object enters another; however, it is the case that the
CC combination occurs as frequently as the HC combination. This different view of either the
inside or outside of the TR is applicable to the central senses in the HC and CC combinations.
The difference between the combinations may arise from the configuration where the
language user sees the TR penetrating the LM from a particular viewpoint, in this case from
the broadcasting booth of a football match, as in (22), whereas the sense of the HC
combination in (23) denotes that the TR serves as the doer against the LM as well as the
206
viewer of the configuration. Most importantly, both combinations appear to occur frequently
in the data.
(22) If they succeed, the ball will get into the prime target area at the back of the
defence. <W2D-015 #042>
(23) What time would I get into New York, cos I want to be in for a
dinner.<S1A-074 #282>
Secondly, the semantic network of the CC combination distinctively features in terms
of the derivation of the sense: the change into parts sense and metamorphosis sense, which do
not appear in the semantic network of the HC combination. This may be largely because
humans are highly unlikely to separate into physical elements or metamorphose into a
concrete object. In terms of predominance in the semantic network (Tyler and Evans, 2001,
2003a, 2003b), the CC combination shows a wider predominance with such derived senses as
collision and reflexive, whereas the HC combination is unevenly distributed in the penetration
sense. If the attribute of the central sense is hypothesised as being capable of developing into
many derived senses, the CC combination seems more likely than the HC combination.
As a consequence of these findings, I would propose a revised hypothesis that both
the CC and HC combination possibly relate to the central sense of the into phrases. It should
be noted that the CH combination is not examined, due to the absence in the data of any
instances.
207
Figure 6.10 Semantic network of HC combination
6.3.3 HH combination
The semantic network of the HH combination retains a feature which distinguishes it from the
CC and HC combinations. As shown in Figure 6.11 below, the derived senses, such as
changing into parts, metamorphosis, integration and encounter, occupy most of the instances
(89.3 %, 25 out of 28 instances), while the central sense, penetration, is found to occur with a
low frequency (10.7 %, 3 instances). This may be due to the fact that people rarely speak of
penetration by a human of another human body – yet such language can be used on a few
occasions, for example, in the discussion of whether or not a rape has taken place (Richards,
2010, personal communication). Few instances of the other central sense, orientation, were
found in the data although it is possible for one person to face in the direction of another.
Instead of into, to is used in this sense as in She was thinking of leaving when he turned to her
and said, “Your eyes are beautiful” (McBee, 2009, my underlining). The derived senses of the
Penetration
Orientation
Concerning,
about
94 (83.2%)
7 (6.3%)
5 (4.5%) Withdrawal
2 (1.8%)
3 (2.7%)
Progression
cluster
Integration
1 (0.9%)
Collision
Affecting surface,
Embedded
1 (0.9%)
Retrogression
cluster
(e.g. It was when Charles came
into the room)
(e.g. hoping to make architecture
that you bump into)
(e.g. He's only doing his best to
please us, biting into a slice of toast
and honey)
(e.g. …you'll
have somebody
coming into a
college to do a
workshop…with
the disabled)
(e.g. You have to
retreat into Stoney
Abbey)
(e.g. We walked
back to the hotel
…gazing into
almost every shop
window.)
(e.g. the particular
enzyme that I'm
researching into is
phospholypase C)
208
HH combination mostly originate through such clusters as ‘reflexive’ and ‘collision’. This
implies that senses which are highly developed from the central ones frequently occur in the
combination. The semantic development of all the derived senses is examined below, in turn.
Figure 6.11 Semantic network of HH combination
Regarding the ‘change into parts’ sense, the TR and the LM metonymically refer to
the people who belong to a group or organisation, as in (24). Like the clause pattern in the CC
combination (Figure 6.8 above), the change into parts sense in the HH combination retains the
pattern of BE divided followed by a unit LM. The difference between the combinations is that
the LM of the HH combination is an ‘intentional object’ (Crane, 2001, Gorman, 2006) which
metonymically represents those who work in a group. Similarly, the metamorphosis sense
occurs with the LM referring to the people of a group, such as confederation and nation,
which follows such verbs as TURN as in (25) and (26). This implies as a result that the
metonymy of the LM may feature the reflexive sense of the HH combination.
Penetration
Orientation
Change into parts
Metamorphosis
3 (10.7%)
6 (21.4%)
5 (17.9%)
7 (25.0%)
Encounter
Collision cluster
7 (25.0%)
Integration
Progression
cluster
Reflexive
(e.g. Ireland was divided
into many small kingdoms)
(e.g. And there are many
people who are going
into private schools in
Labour areas)
(e.g. I hadn't heard of
him when I first sort of
bumped into him)
(e.g. For many, especially
those who paid so dearly
to get into the City near
Big Bang,)
(e.g. The legislation
of the Bible wasn't
God's law but
Moses' invention to
turn a group of
slaves into a nation)
209
TR verb LM
S 2A 022 003 Gual as a whole divided into three parts
W 1A 002 010 Ireland was divided into many small kingdoms
W 2A 017 072 the world is divided into competing warrior-states
W 2A 006 064 those varieties Protestant who had formed into pressure- groups
S 1B 075 155 computing centres were grouped into so-called coordinating centre
ICE sentence code
Table 6.10 TR, LM and verbs in the change into parts sense of HH combination
(24) Gaul as a whole divided into three parts, one of which is inhabited by the
Belgae, another by the Aquitani,… <S2A-022 #003>
(25) Yugoslavia, which had been set up again as a federation of nations, was turned
into a confederation of territories with the 1974 Constitution. <W2B-007
#095>
(26) The legislation of the Bible wasn’t God’s law but Moses’ invention to turn a
group of slaves into a nation. <S2B-029 #076>
Such metonymy of the LM is also found in a derived sense from the penetration
sense. The into phrase of the HH combination can denote the ‘integration’ sense, in which the
TR becomes a member of the LM. Take (27) for example: the TR, people, goes into the LM,
private schools, but this does not mean physical penetration of the TR into the building of the
LM. Rather, it means that the integration of the TR into the group referred to by the LM, in
this case becoming pupils of private schools. A negatively judged integration of the TR into
the LM is also expressed, as in (28), by the co-occurring verb, admitting, which is likely to
colour the evaluation.
(27) And there are many people who are going into private schools in Labour areas,
uh, because of the state of state schools,… <S1B-039 #108>
(28) There are charges that these culminated in the kidnapping and execution of
former Premier Aldo Moro, whose insistence on defying an American veto on
admitting Communists into the Cabinet infuriated Washington. <W2C-010
#026>
As well as metonymy, metaphor plays an essential role in a derived sense of the HH
210
combination. The ‘encounter’ sense is likely to emerge from the collision cluster. It is obvious
that, with this sense, the TR does not literally ‘bump’ into or collide with the LM. It does,
however, convey a scene where the TR unexpectedly encounters the LM as though they
collided physically. The metaphorical sense seems prone to occur with a personal pronoun, as
shown in Table 6.11. A result of corpus research, that the personal pronoun is frequent in
conversation (Biber et al., 2002), agrees with the finding that the sense is mostly found in the
spoken register, which is marked S in the table. This may imply that the encounter sense tends
to occur in spoken language.
TR verb LM
S 1A 036 068 after that time I bumped into her
S 1A 036 080 when I bumped into her
S 1A 058 167 I first sort of bumped into him
S 1A 100 124 I bumped into somebody else
S 2B 025 053 I now ran into long-lost friend
W 1B 016 063 if you should run into me
ICE sentence code
Table 6.11 TR, LM and verbs in the encounter sense of HH combination
6.3.4 HA combination
The HA combination (human TR and abstract object LM) is not significantly under- or
overused in terms of the chi-square test due to the expected frequency being affected by the
high total frequency of the H row and the A column7
. This means that the distribution pattern
of the HCA combination of the into phrases is significant, but it does not result from the HA
combination. However, HA occurs more often than any other combination in the data and it
demonstrates a variety of metaphor whereby the spatial configuration of into is mapped onto a
metaphorical configuration. Thus it may be worth examining the instances of the HA
combination in order to see how the derived senses metaphorically develop from the central
senses.
7
The expected frequency of the HA combination is 188.2, which is calculated by multiplying the total
frequency of the H row, 318, by that of A column, 383, and then dividing the product by the total frequency,
647.
211
Figure 6.12 Semantic network of HA combination
Figure 6.12 shows that no fewer than nine senses and four clusters appear in the
semantic network of the HA combination. In addition, such senses as ‘time’, ‘involvement’,
‘starting an action and a state’, and ‘concerning/about’, are distinctively used to show the
multiplicity of the combination by the projection of metaphor. For instance, the ‘integration’
sense occurs in the HH combination too, as when a person becomes a member of a group,
while the integration of the HA combination metaphorically denotes that a person launches
into another field, such as business and tradition, as in (29) and (30).
(29) Guy, how did you get into this business of theatre composing. <S1B-023
#008>
(30) The task of the deracinated western Jew was to participate in a kind of reverse
assimilation and to reintegrate himself into his vital tradition. <S2B-042 #069>
Penetration
Orientation
Concerning,
about
35 (19.7%)
1 (0.6%)
46 (25.8%) 17 (9.6%)
9 (5.1%)
Progression
cluster
Integration
5 (2.8%)
Time
Retrogression
cluster
Starting
cluster
5 (2.8%)
Change into parts
Metamorphosis
2 (1.1%)
Starting
a state
Starting
an action
29 (16.3%)
29 (16.3%)
Involvement
Reflexive
(e.g. Guy, how did
you get into this
business of theatre
composing?)
(e.g. …when his
government came
into office…)
(e.g. Uh, we may
conceivably run
into trouble here.)
(e.g. I don't propose
to go into any further
details on that aspect
of the matter)
(e.g. This is a bribe
to lure people into
paying the poll tax)
(e.g. do you want
to continue into the
performance?)
(e.g. …they have
to develop into a
certain height
because of their
genes..)
(e.g. The people have now
divided into three sections:
priests on the top…) (e.g. I mean, you're
escaping into the book in
everything around you)
212
The senses in the progression cluster are unlikely to represent movement from one place to
another. Rather, they metaphorically denote transition from one state to another. The ‘time’
sense of the cluster also denotes time transition, as though the human TR were advancing into
the LM of another time span. Not being a bounded container, the LM, such as age, century,
game nine and performance, serves the function in a metaphorical manner, as an entity which
lets the TR in. Of these, game nine and performance, despite being units of time,
metonymically refer to the time when they took place.
TR verb LM
S 1A 001 136 you want to continue into the performance
S 2A 038 066 [people] wishing to get into the second age
S 2A 060 092 we get into the mid seventh century
W 1A 001 047 Verulanium ,which appears to have survived well into the fifth century
W 2C 004 007 they team went into game nine
ICE setence code
Table 6.12 TR, LM and verbs in the time sense of HA combination
When the progression of a person is deemed to be negative, the incident where s/he
falls into unfavourable circumstances is categorized in the ‘involvement’ sense. The twenty
instances of the sense occur exclusively in the HA combination. This may imply that the
configuration between human and abstract object tends to be expressed in a metaphoric
manner, whereby a country goes into a slide and companies plunge into problems ((31) and
(32), Figure 6.13 below).
(31) For this is a country which is not only unaccustomed to the swings and
roundabouts of boom and recession, but it is also going into a catastrophic
slide from a starting point of empty shops, queues and reduced living
standards. <W2E-008 #016>
(32) In the deepening recession good companies as well as bad are being plunged
into liquidity problems. <W2E-002 #103>
213
Figure 6.13 Clause pattern of the involvement sense in HA combination
Although the senses in the starting cluster seem similar to the involvement sense,
they denote the starting of a neutral state and that of an action. The ‘starting of a state’ sense is
found in the idioms whose verb and following noun are distinctive, e.g., COME into existence
and COME into office. The LM is prone to be an abstract noun with no article, such as being,
care, coma, madness, possession, silence ((33) and (34)). Thus, such abstract nouns of LM
with no article are likely to occur in the sense of the starting of a state. At the same time, the
counterpart in the starting cluster, the ‘starting an action’ sense, displays a tendency to fit into
a particular pattern of ‘verb + TR + into …ing (LM)’. 41.4% of the senses occur with into
followed by a gerund, while some nouns denoting an action, such as action and investigation,
also follow the preposition. As a result, it can be concluded that the sense of starting an action
is highly likely to be conveyed in the pattern shown in Figure 6.14 below.
(33) And it was the security needs of the state, which brought the Ordnance Survey
into being, in seventeen ninety-one, …<S2B-045 #031>
(34) Two-year old Darren had to go into care when his mother Angela had a mental
breakdown. <S2B-038 #106>
DRIVE
GET
GO
LOCK
PLUNGE
RUN
SANK
THROW
human confusion
decline
difficulties
problem
slide
trouble
into
(TR)
(LM)
214
Figure 6.14 Clause pattern of the starting an action sense in HA combination
The ‘concerning or about’ sense, which denotes that the TR’s interest is orientated
towards the content of something, also appears to retain a distinctive pattern with particular
TRs, LMs and verbs co-occurring. The TR of the sense tends to be a pronoun, which accounts
for 78.2% of the occurrences of the sense (36 instances out of 46). Pronouns appear frequently
in the conversation register (Biber et al., 2002), as discussed in the account of the encounter
sense of the HH combination. It follows that the concerning or about sense may also occur
frequently in spoken language. This proposition is supported by the evidence provided by the
data that 91.3% of the senses (42 instances out of 46) occur in the spoken register. The
co-occurring verb shows a feature of spoken register: such one-syllable verbs as GET, GO,
LOOK and TALK, which are prone to appear in spoken language, co-occur frequently. The LM is
likely to be the noun referring to the content of the story and incident: area(s), aspect(s),
detail(s) and reason. Thus, the data reveal that the concerning or about sense is highly likely
to occur frequently in the HA combination (46 instances of 61, 75% of all the combinations)
with the pattern emerging as in Figure 6.15 below.
human …ing
into
(TR)
(LM)
BOUNCE, CAJOLE,
ENTICE, FORCE,
GALVANISE, LURE,
MOTIVATE, PROVOKE,
SEDUCE, SPUR, TRAP,
TRICK
action noun
e.g., action,
investigation
215
Figure 6.15 Clause pattern of the concerning/about sense in HA combination
6.3.5 AH, CA and AC combination
The AH, CA and AC combinations, occur less frequently than the other combinations (1, 29
and 6 instances respectively), and the distribution of the senses also shows a limited variety.
Nevertheless, the linguistic behaviour of the three combinations may imply how the
combinations including abstract object as either TR or LM differ from the AA combination
whose TR and LM are both abstract objects. Furthermore, the way in which abstract object
TR relates to human LM and concrete object LM, and concrete TR to abstract LM, could also
be examined.
The configuration based on the AH combination seems unlikely to occur often in the
world as we experience it. Supposing that an abstract entity went into a human being, the
configuration of the TR and the LM would rarely materialise. There exists only one instance
of this combination, as in (35); the configuration becomes effective with the LM considered
as a group of people, organisation, which functions as a metaphorical receiver of the TR,
issues.
(35) … as responses to changing disease patterns can be heavily shaped by the
values of health care decision makers which determine how new issues are
received into an organisation. <W2A-014 #057>
In this section, the CA combination is found more frequently than the other
GET
GO
LOOK
TALK
pronoun area(s), aspect(s),
detail(s),
detailed discussion,
evidence, future,
reasons
into
(TR)
(LM)
216
combinations in question. Based on the fact that the combination of human or concrete object
TR and abstract LM occurs more frequently than the reversed combination, such as abstract
object TR and human or concrete LM, it could be hypothesised that there is a course of
direction in terms of the combinations. In other words, human and concrete objects are prone
to be TRs, with the exception of a parallel combination AA, while abstract nouns tend to be
LMs. This hypothesis is supported by the result that the AH and AC combinations occur
infrequently. The CA combination is found in six derived senses: the senses of the starting
cluster, e.g. (36) and (37), those of reflexive, orientation and concerning/about. Compared to
the senses in the HA combination, the integration, time and involvement senses are absent in
the semantic network of the CA. This may be largely because the senses represent human
activity in which a person can be involved and integrated whilst a concrete object cannot.
(36) The old Irish black horses of the Household Cavalry know the sound of the
trumpet and they immediately break into a trot themselves. <S2A-011 #085>
(37) Fishing on running water,… and, more importantly here, baits come into
fashion from time to time. <W2D-017 #010>
Having established that the reversed combination is infrequent, there are six
instances of the AC combination found in the data. All of them are classified under the
penetration sense and they convey the metaphorical movement of an abstract object TR into a
concrete LM. As seen in (38) and (39), the abstract TRs, signal and power, are unlikely to
penetrate physically into the concrete LMs, cable and volley; however, the configurations are
expressed by mapping the movement of physical penetration onto the abstract TRs.
(38) The UHF signal that feeds into the co-axial 75 ohm cable in Europe should not
have too long a run. <W2D-014 #024>
(39) He has good weight transference to get power into the volley. <W2D-013
#113>
217
6.3.6 AA combination
In the account of the CC and HC, the AA combination is hypothesised to occur most in the
peripheral senses whose configuration is rarely experienced in an embodied manner. Given
that the peripheral senses develop from the central sense through the clusters, Figure 6.16
seems to represent the distribution of the AA combination in the periphery of the senses. More
technically, the peripheral senses derived from the ‘reflexive’ and ‘starting’ clusters – ‘change
into parts’, ‘metamorphosis’, ‘starting a state’ and ‘starting an action’ – occupy more than half
(58.9%) of the instances of the AA combination. However, two counterarguments arise.
Firstly, the central sense, ‘penetration’, also occurs equally frequently (30.1%) at the same
time. Admittedly, some senses which do not fit into a derived sense of the semantic network
have been classified under the penetration sense. As shown in (40) to (42), the phrases
containing into may fall into the sense of ‘classification’, ‘fitting’ and ‘injection’, since they
denote a broader sense than penetration. However, they were classified into penetration for
the following reasons: the occurrence is not so frequent as to establish an independent sense
and it is likely that the senses to a large extent overlap the penetration sense. Take ‘overlap’,
for example; the classification sense is considered to be a topological scene where something
goes into the box of a classification. The other refutation is that the HA combination appears
with as many peripheral senses in the semantic network as does the AA. As discussed in the
account of the HA cluster, the abundance of the peripheral senses may arise from
metaphorical mapping onto figurative expressions. Although the mapping seems to happen
similarly in the semantic network of the AA combination, the occurrence of the derived senses
tends to be isolated in the senses of change into parts, metamorphosis, starting a state and
starting an action. In consequence, the hypothesis should be revised to suggest that the
combination whose LM is abstract object relates to the peripheral senses of into phrases. In
order to examine the hypothesis, we explore the four senses of the AA combination.
218
Figure 6.16 Semantic network of AA combination
(40) Nerve injuries have been classified into various grades and these are discussed
below. <W2A-026 #067>
(41) … there are recurring features of the best or most-publicized work in Al that
are hard to fit into the conventional observation-hypothesis- deduction
observation pattern. <W2A-035 #004>
(42) And if I had a lot of money injected into my business I would expand my
business. <S1B-065 #005>
More than half the instances of the starting a state sense of the AA combination
co-occur with verb COME (51.4%, 18 instances out of 35). The clause pattern containing COME
into is illustrated in Figure 6.17 below. Some LMs which indicate a launching state, such as
being and existence, are identical with the LM of the sense of the HA combination, while
Penetration
Orientation
Concerning,
about
59 (33.5%)
4 (2.3%)
9 (5.1%)
Progression
cluster
3 (1.7%)
Time
Starting
cluster
25 (14.2%)
Change into parts
Metamorphosis
25 (14.2%)
Starting
a state
Starting
an action
16 (9.1%)
35 (16.3%)
Reflexive
(e.g. And if I had a lot
of money injected into
my business I would
expand my business)
(e.g. …a week
after the Act came
into force…)
(e.g. That was one of the factors
you took into consideration in
deciding)
(e.g. the dominance of
the roll was not
challenged until well
into the Roman period)
(e.g. …the data may be divided
into specific groups…)
(e.g. …casualness
was transformed into
irresponsibility)
(e.g. It seemed ridiculous
that anyone could read
something subversive into
the book.)
(e.g. of the orientation
sense: the information
gathered at investigations
may be directed into a
number of channels
feeding into policy…)
219
effect, force and play are solely found in the LM of the AA combination. In relation to such
LMs, the TR which is expected to be initiated is likely to maintain coherence with the LM. In
other words, a human TR, such as a group, can only ‘come into being’ or ‘existence’, while an
abstract object TR such as regulation, the Act and power, can also ‘come into effect, force and
play’ in addition to the sense of starting the state of being and existence. This finding seems to
suggest that the combination of TR and LM may to a certain extent predict what type of
words appears in a particular sense.
Figure 6.17 Clause pattern of the combination of starting a state containing COME into in AA
Particular LMs, account and consideration, overwhelmingly predominate the
instances of the starting an action sense of the AA combination (93.7%, 15 out of 16). The
LMs were classified into words indicating an action, on the ground that consideration seems
to represent the action of thinking. As regards the structure of the into phrase, the idioms
appear to form in both the active and passive voices, as in (43) and (44). The inversion of
direct object and into account/consideration phrase can occur as in (45).
(43) That was one of the factors you took into consideration in deciding he was the
owner of the vessel. <S1B-063 #201>
(44) Written guidelines for factory inspectors provide a basic list of the various
factors to be taken into account in making this selection. <W2A-018 #042>
COME
coherence
proposal,
principle,
power,
regulation,
the Act,
being,
existence,
effect,
force,
play
into
(TR)
(LM)
220
(45) Part of this legislation will apply in Scotland requiring councils to take into
account the race, culture and religion of the child, when choosing carers.
<W2C-015 #049>
The co-occurring verb of the change into parts sense of the AA combination is
identical with that of the CC which accounts for 33% (18 instances) of all instances of the
sense (AA: 46%, 25 instances). The CC and AA combinations occur frequently in this sense,
but the HH does so less often. This may imply that a human is not supposed to divide into
pieces, while concrete and abstract objects are apt to disintegrate. In addition, the sense was
observed infrequently in heterogeneous combinations such as HA and CA. It could be
concluded as a result that parallel combinations, such as CC and AA, except for HH, are likely
to be prevalent in the change into parts sense, as in (46) and (47).
(46) Therefore the data may be divided into specific groups which are allocated to a
particular colour or shading. <W1A-006 #061>
(47) One solution to this problem is to merge all available probe data into a single
image thereby combining the important features of each individual
image…<W2A-036 #046>
The metamorphosis sense of the AA combination shows a variety of TR and LM
combination in terms of transition. As in (48) an identical entity is used as the TR and the LM,
while the nature of the TR and the LM is totally changed through alternation, as in (49). The
co-occurring verb, such as CHANGE, CONVERT, DEVELOP, EVOLVE, GROW, MUTATE, TRANSFORM
and TURN, apparently represents alternation. A distinctive verb, TRANSLATE, was found in the
AA combination.
(48) He told his audience that a common currency could evolve into a single
currency but only as a result of the choice of governments and peoples and not
by imposition. <S2B-017 #043>
221
(49) … but there was a limit beyond which casualness was transformed into
irresponsibility. <W2B-015 #007>
(50) She has written several books, some of which have recently been translated
into English. <W2D-019 #068>
So far, an analysis of the HCA combination in into phrases has been carried out in
this section. The following section explores how the results can apply to the establishment of
the semantic network of into.
6.4 Implications of the HCA combination analysis
The different sections in 6.3 have revealed the distribution of the central and derived senses of
into phrases in conjunction with the HCA combination of the TR and LM. The analysis is
based on the hypothesis that the CC and HC combinations are most likely to be experienced
bodily in the conceptualisation of prepositions, while the AA is least likely since it might be
difficult to experience the configuration physically. This leads to the second hypothesis: that
the CC and HC combinations are found in the central sense, whilst the AA is found in the
peripheral senses. To round off the chapter, the following topics are discussed in the light of
the results yielded by the analysis of the data:
• Distribution of the HCA combinations and occurrence of the senses
• The central sense of into
• Overuse and underuse of the HCA combination
• Radial category and the distribution of the HCA combination
In order to confirm the hypotheses, the HCA combinations were allocated in
sequence from the most likely to be experienced bodily (the CC and the CH) to the least likely
(the AA)8
. At the same time, the senses of the into phrases were arranged in order from the
8
The AH, CA, AC were put into order according to the value of the standard residual (see Table 6.1).
222
central sense to the peripheral ones. The results are shown in Table 6.13. The figures in the
cells represent the frequency of the sense (e.g., 56 instances of the penetration sense in the CC
combination), while the figures in brackets show the percentage of combinations of the
instances of the sense (56 instances of the CC out of 262 instances of the penetration sense,
21%). The occurrences of the senses and the HCA combination turn out to be distributed
diagonally as shown in Table 6.13 below (r=0.273, p<0.01). This indicates that the CC and
HC combinations relate to the occurrence of the penetration sense, while the HA and AA
relate to the senses of the clusters of starting and changes of state. It could be concluded as a
result that the hypothesis of the relationship between the HCA combination and the central
and peripheral senses is to some extent likely to be supported.
F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F %
P Penetration 56 (21) 94 (36) 3 (1) 35 (13) 1 (0.4) 8 (3) 6 (2) 59 (23) 262 (40.4)
O Orientation 7 (32) 7 (32) 1 (5) 3 (14) 4 (18) 22 (3.4)
C 1 (100) 1 (0.2)
S
Affecting surface,
embedded
19 (95) 1 (5) 20 (3.1)
M Encounter 6 (100) 6 (0.9)
Progression cluster
IN Integration 3 (16) 7 (37) 9 (47) 19 (2.9)
TM Time 5 (63) 3 (38) 8 (1.2)
Retrogression cluster
W Withdrawal 2 (100) 2 (0.3)
IV Involvement 20 (100) 20 (3.1)
Starting cluster
AC Starting an action 29 (59) 4 (8) 16 (33) 49 (7.6)
ST Starting a state 26 (37) 10 (14) 35 (49) 71 (11.0)
CO Concerning, about 5 (8) 46 (75) 1 (2) 9 (15) 61 (9.4)
Change of state cluster
PR
Change into parts or
pieces
18 (33) 5 (9) 5 (9) 1 (2) 25 (46) 54 (8.3)
MP Metamorphosis 17 (32) 7 (13) 2 (4) 2 (4) 25 (47) 53 (8.2)
117 113 0 28 178 1 29 6 176 648 (100.0)
senses
AH CA
Collision cluster
CC sum
AC AA
HC CH HH HA
Table 6.13 Distribution of the HCA combinations and the senses of into
Nevertheless, one question still remains unanswered; namely, which sense, dynamic
223
penetration or static orientation, is more likely to be central? The figures in brackets in the
sum percentage column show how much the sense occupies the instances of the into phrases
(e.g. 262 instances of the penetration sense account for 40.4% out of 648 instances of the
phrases). In terms of frequency, the penetration sense (40.4%) occurs overwhelmingly more
frequently than the orientation sense (3.4%). It is argued that frequency does not necessarily
prove to be prototypical, given that the sense of a prototype is unlikely to occur frequently
(Sinclair, 1991a, Shortall, 2007). However, should it be the case that the prototype of the
sense which is highly relevant to the configuration of entities, in this case, preposition, is
bodily experienced in the conceptualisation, the CC and HC combinations seem highly likely
to be prototypical. Note, in addition, that the penetration sense of the combinations appears to
be frequent. Furthermore, the dynamic sense is also found frequently in the HA, CA and AA
(34%) in comparison to 57% in the CC and HC. Although the occurrence is not as frequent,
the orientation sense shows a similar distribution pattern at the CC, HC, HA, CA and AA.
Although the dynamic and static central senses are both evenly used and mapped onto the
combinations containing abstract LMs, the penetration sense appears in the HH, AH and AC
combinations as well. If it were the case that the central sense is predominant in the semantic
network (Tyler and Evans, 2003a), the penetration sense would be more likely to be central,
since it appears to be associated with more senses and clusters. As a consequence, I would
argue that the dynamic penetration sense is likely to be more central than the static orientation,
and the semantic network of into could be suggested as shown in Figure 6.18 below.
224
Figure 6.18 Semantic network of into
It could be argued that frequency in language represents the entrenchment of a
particular use. In this case, a frequent sense could be entrenched in experiences of language
and language users might associate it with the surface structure. If so, as illustrated in Figure
6.19 below, it becomes clear how often the senses are experienced in the language use of into.
This may suggest that the senses of penetration, starting cluster, concerning/about and
reflexive cluster are highly likely to be entrenched with into through being frequently
experienced in language. As a consequence of the distribution analysis, the senses of into are
likely to be characterised by the central penetration sense and the peripheral derived senses at
the same time.
Penetration
Orientation
Concerning,
about
Withdrawal
Progression
cluster
Encounter
Integration
Retrogression
cluster
Starting
cluster
Change into parts
Starting
a state
Starting
an action
Collision cluster
Affecting surface,
embedded
Time
Involvement
Metamorphosis
Reflexive
225
Figure 6.19 Frequency-based semantic network into
In terms of the distribution of the senses, the overuse and underuse are statistically
significant in accordance with the departure of the standard residuals from the expected
distribution. As shown in Table 6.1 above, residual analysis indicates that the HH, CC and AA
combinations are overused, while CH, CA, AH and AC are underused. These results suggest
that the overused combinations seem to have a parallel relation between the TR and the LM,
and the underused combinations might be prone to be heterogeneous, even though the HC and
the HA are insignificant. Figure 6.20 indicates the domains in the semantic network in which
the individual combinations with HH, CC, AA and HA are frequently found. There is one
common feature between the CC and AA: the senses of change into parts and metamorphosis.
Those in the reflexive cluster are frequent.
Penetration
Orientation
Concerning,
about
262 (40.4%)
22 (3.4%)
61 (9.4%)
Withdrawal
2 (0.3%)
19 (2.9%)
Progression
cluster
Encounter
8 (1.2%)
Integration
Retrogression
cluster
Starting
cluster
54 (8.3%)
Change into parts
53 (8.2%)
Starting
a state
Starting
an action
49 (7.6%)
74 (11.4%)
Collision cluster
Affecting surface,
embedded
6 (0.9%)
20 (3.1%)
Time
17 (2.6%)
Involvement
Metamorphosis
Reflexive cluster
226
Figure 6.20 Domains of the HCA combinations
A semantic network is assumed to be established in a radial manner in which the
subordinate members surround the principal one (cf. ‘radial category’, Lakoff, 1987). In doing
so, the members of the network share certain attributes whereby they are identified as
members. The distribution of the senses in the CC and HA combinations are overtly formed
into a radial category by centring on the penetration sense which is surrounded by the derived
senses (Figure 6.21 and Figure 6.22). In conclusion, the semantic network of into (Figure
6.18) is established on the basis that the notion of the radial category and the distribution of
the HCA combination are reflected.
Penetration
Orientation
Concerning,
about
Withdrawal
Progression
cluster
Encounter
Integration
Retrogression
cluster
Starting
cluster
Change into parts
Starting
a state
Starting
an action
Collision cluster
Affecting surface,
embedded
Time
Involvement
Metamorphosis
[CC]
[AA]
[HH]
[HA]
Reflexive
227
Figure 6.21 Radial category of the CC combination
Figure 6.22 Radial category of the HA combination
Penetration
Orientation
Concerning,
about
Withdrawal
Progression
cluster
Encounter
Integration
Retrogression
cluster
Starting
cluster
Change into parts
Starting
a state
Starting
an action
Collision cluster
Affecting surface,
embedded
Time
Involvement
Metamorphosis
Reflexive
Penetration
Orientation
Concerning,
about
Withdrawal
Progression
cluster
Encounter
Integration
Retrogression
cluster
Starting
cluster
Change into parts
Starting
a state
Starting
an action
Collision cluster
Affecting surface,
embedded
Time
Involvement
Metamorphosis
Reflexive
228
6.5 Summary of the chapter
This chapter has examined whether the combination of the TR and LM co-occurring with into
relates to a particular sense of the preposition and attempted to establish the semantic network
on the basis of empirical study of the corpus data. The distribution pattern of the HCA
combination has suggested that the senses of the preposition are likely to feature the parallel
HH, CC and AA combinations. It has also been implied that the distribution pattern of the
central and derived senses seem relevant to the HCA combination based on embodied
experiences. In the light of the analysis, the semantic network of into which is theoretically
supported by the evidence of embodiment, radial category and frequency has been established.
Most importantly, the result showing that a particular sense of into has been observed with a
particular HCA combination, verb and clause pattern is likely to lead to the hypothesis that
they are to a certain extent involved in the interpretation of into, and that the sense is
conveyed by their combination.
229
7. ANALYSIS OF THROUGH
The senses of over and into have been analysed in the previous chapters. The trajectors [TRs]
and landmarks [LMs] which co-occurred with these prepositions were classified into human
(H), concrete object (C) and abstract object (A). The empirical corpus data indicate that the
HCA combinations clearly tend to associate a particular combination of TR and LM with a
particular sense of over and into. Similarly, the aim of this chapter is to analyse through. The
reason for choosing this preposition is that the pilot study suggests that it shows a closer
distribution pattern of the HCA combination with over and into than do other prepositions,
such as against, at and in (see Chapter 4)1
. In addition, the senses and the mental
representation of over, into and through have already been examined comparatively
(Lindstromberg, 1998; Tyler and Evans, 2003b). Thus, it seems reasonable to follow the same
sequence here.
As has been seen, the hypothesis that a concrete object TR combined with a concrete
object LM calls for a spatial sense in prepositions is based on embodied experiences, a theory
from cognitive linguistics, which accounts for the close relationship between physical
experience and conceptualisation. On this I base my hypothesis that the combination of
physical TR and LM is likely to co-occur with a physical sense of the preposition, while the
combination of abstract TR and LM will co-occur with a metaphorical sense. I would also
argue that the concreteness and abstractness in terms of the nature of the TR and the LM can
explain and predict the polysemy of the preposition.
The aim in this chapter is the same as in the previous one: to specify a central sense
of a preposition (here, through) on the basis of the embodied experiences which emerge from
the TR and LM of a human (H) and a concrete object (C); and to establish a semantic network
1
The HCA pattern of on appeared in the pilot study to be closer to the patterns of over than into and
through. However, on is not analysed in this study, in order to be able to compare over, into and through.
230
of through which, extrapolated from the HCA combinations, including abstract object (A),
will show how the sense extends from the centre to the periphery.
7.1 Distribution of HCA
423 instances containing the phrase structure ‘verb + phrase with through’ and ‘verb + noun
phrase (direct object) + phrase with through’ were extracted from the ICE GB corpus (cf.
Chapter 3 Methodology)2
. In classifying the TRs and LMs into HCA combinations, it
surprised me that almost 25% of the instances with through were not followed by a noun
phrase, as we can see in (1). If through is acting as a preposition, it co-occurs with a following
noun phrase. But the throughs in the example of (1) does not. It can thus be assumed that they
represent adverbial through, not prepositional. Table 7.1 shows that the adverbial use of
through is twice as frequent as that of over (as in (2)), and no instance of the adverbial use of
into was found in the data, since both Collins Cobuild Advanced Learner’s English dictionary
and the Oxford Advanced Learner’s English dictionary indicate that into is categorized only in
the word class of prepositions.
instances
THROUGH 423 105 24.8%
OVER 481 58 12.1%
INTO 648 0 0.0%
adverbial use %
Table 7.1 Adverbial use of through and over in the ICE GB
(1) Schumacher and a redhead drove through less than a minute ago. <W2F-012
#009>
(2) Are you going to stay over? <W1B-009 #119>
2
This study analysed through according to the surface structure, rather than using existing grammatical
theories whereby some conflicting instances might have escaped as the instances containing through were
being extracted.
231
This suggests that over and through are often used as adverbs, partly because the
mental representations are associated with the TR passing through the LM. But this is not the
case with into, in that the TR penetrates the LM but does not pass through. There is one
plausible explanation for why through is infrequently followed by a noun phrase. It is likely
that the following noun phrase is covertly indicated in the context and the LM refers to the
preceding utterances in an anaphoric manner, as in (3). The TR is He, while the LM is absent
from the sentence. However the LM of [h]e could still go through is indicated in the six
sentences before, namely the second [round]. It can thus be argued that the distinction
between adverb and preposition is not clear-cut because the noun phrase following the
preposition can be elided.
(3) In order for him to proceed to the third round what will he have to achieve in
the second bearing in mind he’s obviously not going to win it. … He could
still go through to the third ballot. <S2B-008 #197>
As shown in (3), through without a following noun phrase can be followed by a prepositional
phrase. For instance, 18 instances out of 105 adverbial through instances (17.1%) occur with
to + noun phrase as in (4), while two instances are also found with an into phrase and one
instance with an at phrase, as in (5). GET (six instances, 33.3%) and GO (seven instances out
of 18 instances, 38.8%) are found to co-occur frequently with adverbial through followed by a
to phrase (Figure 7.1).
(4) …some Western relief workers have recently got through to this ravaged area,
but their supplies have not been enough. <W2C-002 #047>
(5) Kevin McKay comes through into second place and then James Starling was
third. <S2A-009 #119>
232
Figure 7.1 Phrase pattern of adverbial through
As discussed earlier with example (3), the LM of through to phrases can be identified by the
context. The TR, He and the destination indicated by the to phrase are salient in the sentence;
however, the covert LM in this sentence alone does not appear, but may already have been
mentioned, as in (3), or could be induced from the setting of the utterance. When the LM is
not necessarily mentioned and the destination of the TR is made salient, the phrase pattern of
through + prepositional phrase containing to/into/at may occur (Figure 7.2), as in (4), (5) and
(6). As a result, a claim could be made, although debatably, that the configuration of TR and
LM is established in the mental representation of adverbs as it is with prepositions. In other
words, the difference between adverbs and prepositions may lie in whether the LM is salient
or not, and the path movement of the TR may be highlighted in terms of adverbial through.
Nevertheless, we will leave this issue here, since gauging the difference between word classes
in grammar and mental representation as a cognitive schema is not the aim at present. This
study focuses only on the surface structure of through phrases co-occurring with TR and LM.
(6) Long-suffering holders in Ferranti International saw the shares sink to a new
low of 9 1/2p as a line of 3.5m went through at 8 1/2p in what seemed to be a
bed and breakfast deal - <W2C-012 #068>
GET
GO
noun phrase
through to
233
With 105 instances of the adverbial use excluded, the TR and LM of 316 instances
containing a through phrase were classified as HCA combinations. Table 7.2 illustrates the
distribution of the HCA combination of the TR and LM co-occurring with through; the
distribution pattern appears to be statistically significant (p<0.001). The cell is composed of
figures representing four phenomena: the ‘observed frequency’ of the combination in the
corpus data; the ‘expected frequency’, which is estimated by the total frequency of row and
column cells; the ‘percentage of observed frequency’; and the ‘standardised residual’, which
indicates the divergence of the observed frequency from the expected one. The standardised
residual is converted from the original residual to the value which is adapted to normal
distribution. In this conversion, the value of the standard residual indicates that the absolute
value of more than 1.96 and less than 2.58 (|residual| > 1.96), i.e. that it is less than five
percent probable (p < 0.05); in the same way, |residual| > 2.58 is p < 0.01; and |residual| >
3.29 is p < 0.001. The plus or minus preceding the standard residual signifies that the
combination is overused or underused. In the case of Table 7.2 below, the CC combination is
overwhelmingly overused (χ= 5.152, p < 0.001), while the CA and the AC are largely
underused (χ= -3.941, -3.676, p < 0.001). In comparison, the AH and AA are found to be
overused, but to a smaller extent (χ= 2.562, 2.112, p < 0.05). Table 7.3 and Figure 7.3
illustrate the distribution pattern of the HCA combinations of through in the data of the pilot
Figure 7.2 Mental representation of the phrase containing through to noun phrase
TR
(LM)
destination indicated
by to phrase
234
study, the extract from the Bank of English and the present data of the ICE GB corpus.
Although the over-/underuse of the HC and AH differ to some extent, the whole distribution
pattern of the HCA combination turns out to be rather similar, in terms of such peaks as the
HA, CC and AA and such troughs as the CH, CA and AC. This suggests that a similar
distribution pattern of the HCA combination of through can be seen in the two different
corpora. It should, however, be noted that the overused AH of the ICE GB, which differs
considerably from the pilot study, will be scrutinised when analysing the instances in the
following section.
H C A
Frequency 18 66 93
Expected Freq 21.3 72.8 82.9
% 5.7% 20.9% 29.4%
Std. Residual -0.712 -0.799 1.109
Frequency 3 54 9
Expected Freq 7.9 27.2 30.9
% .9% 17.1% 2.8%
Std. Residual -1.752 5.152 -3.941
Frequency 17 10 46
Expected Freq 8.8 30.0 34.2
% 5.4% 3.2% 14.6%
Std. Residual 2.562 -3.676 2.112
TR
H
C
A
LM
χ2 = 72.667 d.f. = 4 p < 0.001 Overused Underused
Table 7.2 HCA distribution of the TR and LM of through
HH HC HA CH CC CA AH AC AA
Pilot Study 1.498 -2.306 1.725 -1.147 4.215 -3.777 -0.718 -2.237 2.537
ICE GB -0.712 -0.799 1.109 -1.752 5.152 -3.941 2.562 -3.676 2.112
Table 7.3 Standard residuals of HCA combinations containing through in the pilot study and ICE GB
235
-6.000
-4.000
-2.000
0.000
2.000
4.000
6.000
HH
HH
HH
HH HC
HC
HC
HC HA
HA
HA
HA CH
CH
CH
CH CC
CC
CC
CC CA
CA
CA
CA AH
AH
AH
AH AC
AC
AC
AC AA
AA
AA
AA
HCA combination
Standard
residuals
Pilot Study ICE GB
Figure 7.3 Distribution pattern of Table 7.3
Table 7.4 and Figure 7.4 below show the residuals and the distribution pattern of the
HCA combinations with three different prepositions, over, into and through. On the whole, the
residuals indicate that the CC and AA are overused and the CA and AC underused, although it
is also true that the residuals of into are overused in the HH and underused in the CH and AH.
This general pattern suggests that, although the distribution patterns of the three prepositions
are similar, over and through in particular show approximately the same pattern. The lines of
over and through in Figure 7.4 illustrate the similarity of the distribution patterns. On the
basis of this finding, it could be hypothesised that the path movement of the TR may relate to
the distinct distribution patterns. In other words, the TR of over and through passes through
the top and the body of the LM, while that of into penetrates into the LM but does not follow
a path through it. In conclusion, the HCA combinations to a certain extent succeed in
identifying the differences between the three prepositions. Hence, the following sections
qualitatively examine the relation between the HCA combinations and the central and derived
senses of through.
236
HH HC HA CH CC CA AH AC AA
OVER 0.118 -0.072 0.020 -0.932 3.830 -3.116 -0.754 -3.779 3.137
INTO 3.641 -0.419 -0.674 -2.558 8.785 -6.177 -2.515 -7.294 6.406
THROUGH -0.712 -0.799 1.109 -1.752 5.152 -3.941 2.562 -3.676 2.112
Table 7.4 Residuals of over, into and through and the significance of overuse and underuse
-10.000
-8.000
-6.000
-4.000
-2.000
0.000
2.000
4.000
6.000
8.000
10.000
HH
HH
HH
HH HC
HC
HC
HC HA
HA
HA
HA CH
CH
CH
CH CC
CC
CC
CC CA
CA
CA
CA AH
AH
AH
AH AC
AC
AC
AC AA
AA
AA
AA
HCA combination
Standard
residuals
OVER INTO THROUGH
Figure 7.4 Distribution pattern of Table 7.4
7.2 Central and derived senses of through
7.2.1 Mental representation of the central sense of through
The central sense of through is examined in relation to previous work on the ‘prototype’
concerning the ‘proto scenes’ (Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 50), configurations closely related to
embodied experiences. As we saw in Chapter 2, these schemas highlight different aspects of
the spatial configuration of the two entities involved. A prototype is the best representative,
the most basic instance, of the members of a category. In terms of prepositions, the simplified
mental picture of the prototype has been represented by diagrams which linguists devise
intuitively (Dirven, 1989; Quirk et al., 1985). As illustrated in Figure 7.5, the prototype of
through (or what Dirven (1989) calls the ‘basic concept’) has also been used to exemplify a
wide variety of spatial concepts mediated by through, including the metaphorical senses. In
237
contrast, a proto-scene focuses on the relationship between the trajector (TR) and the
landmark (LM) (Langacker, 1987; Tyler and Evans, 2001, 2003a, 2003b). The spatial
configuration of TR and LM has also been defined as a type of ‘image schema’ which
emerges from embodied experiences (Evans, 2007a). Taking the premise of the proto-scene, I
would argue that the combination of the TR and the LM which is most often bodily
experienced tends to be perceived as the most central and the central configuration may relate
to the central sense of the prepositions. My findings in earlier chapters have raised the issue of
‘prototypicality’, because this has been found to operate along two distinct yet related
continua between the combination of TR and LM and the senses.
The spatial configuration of through has been compared to that of over (Dirven,
1989; Lindstromberg, 1997) since both prepositions are assumed to entail path movement
from one place to another. However, the movement of through and over follow two distinctive
courses: as shown in Figure 7.5 above, the path of the former which follows the trajectory of
the TR traverses the inside of the LM (‘path as tunnel’ in Dirven, 1989: 521), whereas the TR
of the latter traces a path above the LM without penetrating the LM (‘path as route’, ibid.:
521). The course of the path movement can be divided into three parts – starting point,
midpoint adjacent to the LM and end point. Regarding these referential points, the midpoint
of through on the inside of the LM is distinct from that of over which is on the outside of the
LM. In conclusion, as is often the case with the prepositions related to path movement, the TR
Figure 7.5 Mental representation of through
238
is assumed to be an entity which can travel to the LM, while the LM is an entity which allows
the TR to traverse the inside of an area and a volume (Dirven, 1989; Lindstromberg, 1998).
The difference between through and into seems to arise from whichever part in the
TR’s trajectory, its mid- or end-point, is ‘salient’. Example (7) illustrates a spatial relationship
of through between the TR, that jab, and the LM, his guard, where the LM represents the
mid-point of the TR’s movement, but not the destination. Technically speaking, the end-point
of the TR’s movement can be identified, since the end-point, the face, is covertly specified, in
that the TR, that jab, hits the face (Figure 7.7 below). By contrast, the TR’s end-point is
highlighted by into, such that that jab thuds into the face, as in (7). For the same reason, the
LM serves as the end-point of the TR in the configuration of into. Again, take example (8):
the TR remains on the inside of the LM, the tea leaves in the cups, but the TR is supposed not
to go outside of the LM to the table.
(7) “But Mason made no mistake,… but just a little bemused there as that jab,
came thudding through his guard again and into the face.” <S2A-009 #084>
(8) Miriam paused in the act of pouring boiling water on the tea leaves spooned
into the cups on the table. <W2F-007 #110>
through over
Figure 7.6 Referential points of through and over (adapted from Dirven, 1989: 521)
239
As noted in connection with over (Chapter 5), the proto-scene of over is a static
configuration in which the TR hovers above the LM in the sphere of the mutual effect (cf.
Chapter 5, Figure 5.3 above). This is because there is a suggestion that the proto-scene is
uncomplicated, having a single ‘functional element’, but this would not discount altogether
the possibility of having more than one element (Tyler and Evans, 2003a). Although the
proto-scene of over suggested by Tyler and Evans (ibid.: 66) is static, my findings in Chapter
6 show that the proto-scene of into is almost always dynamic. In the same way, the static TR
at a certain point in the course of the path would not represent the whole of the configuration
mediated by through. For example, in the phrase of halfway through the TR does not
complete the path represented by the LM (see page 250 and 251). Consequently, it can be
inferred that the path trajectory of the prepositions in question may derive from the dynamic,
not the static, movement of the TR.
7.2.2 Derived senses of through
The previous section concludes that the central sense of through is based on the configuration
of the path movement in which the TR traverses the inside of the LM, coming to rest at an
end-point on its outside. Lindkvist’s comprehensive work (1976) on the locative senses of
through shows that it is the dimensional features of the LM which give rise to the derived
senses. As shown in Table 7.5 below, sense 1 indicates an area or a volume as the LM, as in
Figure 7.7 Spatial configuration of Example (7)
TR: that jab
LM: his guard
end-point of the TR
the face
240
(9) and (10). Even a point which seems not to retain a space through which the TR goes, is
designated as the derived sense 3, as in (11). Furthermore, sense 5 suggests that a group of
people or things can be the LM of through, as in (12), despite the fact that the constituents,
such as persons, do exist independently and are not physically merged with each other. As
discussed in Chapter 5, such varieties in the dimension of the LMs are probably due to ‘image
schema transformations’ (Dewell, 1994; Kreitzer, 1997; Lakoff, 1987a), which allow us to
perceive different forms of a single entity so that the language construes the entity. The spatial
configurations of (9) to (12) and the traversal sense would be identical provided that the
transformations encouraged us to construe them as bounded LMs.
1. Passing through a channel, opening or medium
2. Piercing through a substance
3. Through a point
4. Distribution or activity carried through a whole extent or to the end
5. Through a collective and plurality
6. Perfective implication
Table 7.5 Senses of through by Lindkvist (1976)
(9) I think it [the route] actually goes through Brussels, doesn't it, the motorway.
<S1A-021 #197>
(10) But, doesn't it [the photon] have to go through all the other cells first because
of the arrangement. <S1B-015 #090>
(11) … to discover a US military vehicle racing through the checkpoint and away
from a group of US soldiers… <W2F-012 #138>
(12) “Well, if you look at my fingers when light is shone through them [the fingers],
they're predominantly red.” <S2A-053 #001>
As examined in section 2.4, the ‘conduit metaphor’, which is associated with the
241
transfer of ideas and feelings, underlies a number of expressions in English (Day, 2000; Grady,
1998; Reddy, 1979). Through, in particular, is reflected in metaphorical transfer by a
‘channelled’ means, which leads to the agent, instrument and reason (Dirven, 1989). As was
seen in section 6.2.3, a comparative study of twelve prepositions (Dirven, 1993, cf. Table 6.5,
p 196) illustrates that the semantic extensions of prepositions are (a) space, (b) time, (c) state,
(d) area, (e) manner, (f) circumstances and (g) cause. Of these, (c), (d) and (f) are not found in
the extensions of through. As a consequence, a plain network of through has been suggested,
as shown in Figure 7.8. This suggests the elements of through from the central sense to the
derived ones: namely, that ‘enclosure’ at the pivotal point of the extension indicates the
boundedness of the LM; the ‘channel’ of the derived senses is likely to refer to the movement
of conduit and path which is reflected in the metaphorical extension.
Tyler and Evans (2003a) provide an account of the senses of through by classifying
them into ‘metaphorical senses’ and others, which seems to advocate the mapping of the
spatial configuration onto abstract ones (Table 7.6 below). Despite the elaborate listing, the
dichotomous grouping of the senses of through can be amplified by adding other senses.
Corpus evidence from this study will be used later to provide a revised list of the senses. In
the list provided by Tyler and Evans (2003a), some of the senses correspond to those proposed
(a) movement in enclosure
(e) means as channel
(g) cause as channel
(b) movement in time-span
Figure 7.8 Radial network of extensions of through (Dirven, 1993: 82)
242
by Lindkvist (1976) and Dirven (1989, 1993), while the ‘on-the-other-side-of’ sense is
suggested in the account of Tyler and Evans (2003). The distinctive sense is examined in my
analysis of over (cf. section 5.3.1) and is found to derive from the ‘A-B-C trajectory’ which
crystallises the path movement of over. Likewise, the path movement of through can give rise
to the on-the-other-side-of sense, although the mid-point is located inside the LM, unlike the
mid-point of over, which is above the LM, as shown in Figure 7.6 above. For example, the
success sense of through metaphorically infers that the TR is at the end-point of the path
movement, as in but like I’m just going through the course. <S1A-034 #015>.
non-metaphorical senses the extended action sense
the temporal sense
the on-the-other-side-of sense
the completion sense
metaphorical senses the transmission sense
the means sense
the cause sense
Table 7.6 The senses of through suggested by Tyler and Evans (2003a)
It can thus be concluded that the spatial configuration of through can be established
with the LM, which is construed as bounded by the transformations of schemas. And the
spatial configuration related to path movement is highly likely to develop into metaphorical
senses. The next section explores the way in which the combination of TR and LM is
associated with the central and derived senses of the preposition.
7.3 HCA classification of through
The analysis in the previous chapter reveals a weak but statistically significant correlation
between the HCA combination and the senses of into. This section will adopt the same
243
methodology, taking the hypothesis that a combination which can be bodily experienced, such
as CC (concrete object TR and concrete object LM) and HC (human TR and concrete object
LM), is the central sense, while a combination composed of abstract entities, such as AA
(abstract object TR and abstract object LM), is often found in the peripheral, metaphorical
senses. The results are illustrated in Table 7.7. Note that the percentage column of the sum
shows the proportions of the senses of all the instances of through phrases, while the figures
in brackets indicate the percentage of the HCA combinations in a particular sense. For
example, the traversal sense in the CC combination accounts for 34 instances (41% in
brackets, out of all 82 instances of the sense), while the 82 instances of the traversal sense
take up 25.9% of all the 317 instances containing into. In the following section, we explore
the distribution of the senses in each HCA combination.
F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F %
T Traversal 34 (41) 35 (43) 2 (2) 1 (1) 1 (1) 1 (1) 4 (5) 4 (5) 82 25.9
PR Protrusion 3 (100) 3 0.9
OS On-the-other-side-of 6 (55) 4 (36) 1 (9) 11 3.5
TM Temporal 9 (47) 2 11 8 (42) 19 6.0
EXP Experience 21 (100) 21 6.6
CV Covering 7 (44) 1 (6) 1 (6) 1 6 2 (13) 4 (25) 16 5.1
EX Examining 15 (38) 1 (3) 24 (60) 40 12.7
Impediment cluster
OB Obstacle 3 (33) 1 (11) 2 (22) 3 (33) 9 2.8
SC Success 5 (83) 1 17 6 1.9
Effect cluster
BM By means of 7 (11) 9 (15) 1 (2) 20 (33) 4 (7) 2 3 18 (30) 61 19.3
MS Make someone do 1 (4) 14 (54) 11 (42) 26 8.2
BO Reason, because of 7 (32) 3 14 4 (18) 8 (36) 22 7.0
54 (17) 66 (21) 3 (1) 18 (6) 93 (29) 17 (5) 9 (3) 10 (3) 46 (15) 316 100.0
senses
AH CA
A-B-C trajectory cluster
CC sum
AC AA
HC CH HH HA
Table 7.7 Distribution of the HCA combination and the senses of through
7.3.1 CC and HC combinations and the central sense of through
As noted in Chapter 7, the central sense of into frequently occur with the CC and HC
combination, which represent the spatial configuration between the TR and the LM, since it
244
can often be bodily experienced. However, at the same time, the combinations also appear in
substantively metaphorical senses, such as the change of state senses in the case of into. Can
such a polarised distribution of the central and peripheral senses also be seen in the instances
of through? Table 7.8 below shows that the CC and HC combinations are seen in the central
sense, ‘traversal’, as in (14) and (20) below, and the peripheral ‘by means of’, as in (33)
below and (13), suggesting that the polarised distribution of the senses is identified in
conjunction with the combinations of into and through. More importantly, the distribution
pattern of the senses in these combinations appears to be similar, resulting in similar semantic
networks. As shown below in Figure 7.9 and Figure 7.10, both networks have a high
proportion of the ‘traversal’ sense, as well as the ‘covering’ and the peripheral ‘by means of’
sense. We next consider each sense and its instances in turn.
F % F %
T Traversal 34 63.0% 35 53.0%
PR Protrusion 3 5.6%
OS On-the-other-side-of 6 9.1%
CV Covering 7 13.0% 15 22.7%
Impediment cluster
OB Obstacle 3 5.6% 1 1.5%
Effect cluster
BM By means of 7 13.0% 9 13.6%
54 100.0% 66 100.0%
sum
senses
A-B-C trajectory cluster
CC HC
Table 7.8 Sense distribution of through in the CC and HC combinations3
(13) All the things which occur around you, and you sense through your eyes, your
ears, your feeling… <S1B-016 #121>
3
Unlike Table 7.7, the percentages in Table 7.8 indicate the proportion of the senses either in the CC or the
HC combination.
245
Figure 7.9 Semantic network of CC combination
Figure 7.10 Semantic network of HC combination
Traversal
Impediment
cluster
On-the-other-side-of
35 (53.0%)
1 (1.5%)
6 (9.1%)
A-B-C
trajectory
cluster
Examining
15 (22.7%)
Obstacle
Effect
cluster
9 (13.6%)
By means of
(e.g. He walked
through the town)
(e.g. We did see crew
through a window)
(e.g. you sense
through your eyes)
(e.g. He's back … just
about getting through the
mountains)
(e.g. you could look
through these two
postgraduate guides)
Traversal
Impediment
cluster
Protrusion
34 (61.8%)
3 (5.5%)
3 (5.5%)
A-B-C
trajectory
cluster
Covering
7 (12.7%)
Obstacle
Effect
cluster
7 (12.7%)
By means of
(e.g. It's the same way with
light through a pane of glass)
(e.g. we were starting to laugh at
opera singers popping their
heads through curtains)
(e.g. tumours spread through
the blood system)
(e.g. Dixon threads it [ball]
through two pairs of legs…)
(e.g. The engine drives
wheels through a gearbox)
246
Traversal
The ‘traversal’ sense is likely to be the central sense of through, since the spatial configuration
in which the TR passes from one end to the other of the inside of the TR and reaches the
outside can often be experienced bodily. Recurring experiences through our five senses are
considered to help the conceptualisation of spatial configurations: for example, in (14), as we
experience a ball passing along a channel, we formulate and associate the concept of through
with the spatial configuration. The sense occurs frequently with the CC and HC combinations;
as many as 84% of instances (34 instances of the CC and another 35 instances of the HC, 69
in total, out of 82 instances of traversal) were found in the data. This seems to suggest that the
central sense, which symbolically represents the path movement of through, occurs most
frequently in the CC and HC combinations. The trends correspond to those of into, as seen
earlier in Chapter 6. With over, which is also based on the concept of path movement, the HC
combination was found to occur frequently in its central sense.
(14) Ray Woods dinks it [the ball] through the inside right channel here towards
Stewart Robson. <S2A-017 #094>
Although the traversal sense occurs frequently with the CC and HC combinations,
the co-occurring TR and LM and verbs illustrate the different patterns. Regarding the CC, the
concrete object as TR represents something which steers a straight trajectory: ‘light’, ‘sun’
and ‘radiation’ as in (15) to (17), which were found in 12 instances (35%, out of 34 instances
of the traversal sense in the CC). However, in terms of the HC, it is unlikely that the human
and the animate as TR will necessarily follow a straight trajectory; rather, the TR moves
flexibly as monkeys do, as in (18).
(15) It's the same way with light coming through a pane of glass. <S1B-015 #097>
(16) It's a tall narrow building … and today filled with, all sorts of other brightness
247
of colour as well as the sun streams through its magnificent stained glass
windows. <S2A-020 #109>
(17) If it is damaged (by thinning or by puncture), more UV radiation would pass
straight through the atmosphere. <W2A-030 #030>
(18) One can accept that monkeys occur in the treetops – after all we are brought
up with the image of monkeys swinging through the branches… <W2B-021
#060>
The CC and the HC in the traversal sense appeared to a large extent to have verbs in
common. While COME, GO and PASS were found in both combinations, RUN and SEND occur
only in the CC, while WALK occurs only in the HC. These distinctive verbs are likely to
associate with the nature of the TR in the combinations. For instance, RUN is used to describe
the movement of the inanimate – that is, the concrete – object TR, but WALK is not and
therefore the verb was found only in the instances with human TRs.
(19) They go out into the moonlight on the Mount of Olives up the Kidron Valley
that still runs through Jerusalem… <S2B-028 #109>
(20) He walked through the town giving out blessings and absolution to all sinners.
<S2B-027 #067>
The LM with through has been concluded earlier as being subject to transformations
by human construal. As discussed by scholars (Dirven, 1989; Tyler and Evans, 2003a), it
should be a bounded entity, as in (21). Nevertheless, the transformations are likely to allow us
to construe a non-bounded entity as if it were bounded. The instances of the data illustrate that
an area, such as city, which is not physically enclosed, can in fact be considered as bounded,
as in (22). Likewise, a point which seems to have no volume can be also construed as the LM
of where the TR passes: door was found as the LM in a certain number of instances, as in (23).
Strictly speaking, the ‘door’, which metonymically refers to the doorway, is unlikely to retain
248
the sense of a space which someone gets into and then out of. Two reasons could be suggested.
It appears that the foregrounding of the path movement may give rise to the transformation. In
other words, the travelling of the TR from one side through the LM to the other is probably
more important than whether the LM retains a space or not. Otherwise, the image schema
transformation (Dewell, 1994; Kreitzer, 1997; Lakoff, 1987a, cf. 7.2.2 above) may contribute
to such a flexible construal.
(21) But doesn't it [the photon] have to go through all the other cells first because
of the arrangement. <S1B-015 #090>
(22) Those Iraqi supply lines pass through the city of Basra location of Saddam
Hussein's southern command headquarters… <S2B-001 #044>
(23) I mean Ken Russell was expected to walk through a door before you.
<S1B-045 #090>
Also, our perception can be transformed in the same way as, when independent
entities gather, the aggregate is seen as one volume (multiplex mass, cf. Chapter 6.2.2).
Examples (24) and (25) show that independent hands and trees are construed as bounded LMs
by the metonymic transformation that the space between hands and trees is seen as part of the
LMs. Tyler and Evans (2003a) argue that the LMs of both through and into are bounded.
However, my data indicate that such ‘mass to multiplex transformation’ was not found in the
LMs of into. This seems to mean that the boundedness of through is distinct from that of into.
To encapsulate the traversal sense, the phrase patterns of the CC and HC in the central sense
can be illustrated as shown in Figure 7.11 and 7.12 below.
(24) … and it [the ball] goes through the hands of Stevenson who ran off the
boundary. <S2A-013 #006>
(25) There is a whole range of monkey species in the jungles of the Celebes, …
where a real delight is to watch a troop of langurs swing through the trees.
249
<W2B-021 #021>
Figure 7.11 Clause pattern of the traversal sense in CC combination
Figure 7.12 Clause pattern of the traversal sense in HC combination
On-the-other-side-of
The sense of on-the-other-side-of was also seen in one of the senses of over (cf. Chapter 6)
and it is assumed to emerge as a result of path movement. As in [t]he cat jumped over the
wall (Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 9), the focus point is at the place, the cat, behind the LM, the
wall and therefore the result of the path movement is foregrounded in this use of over.
Likewise, as regards the on-the-other-side-of sense of through, the point on which the speaker
focuses is the end-point of the TR’s path movement, for example in (26), a couple of duty
crew, not the LM, a window. Collins Cobuild Advanced Learner’s Dictionary (2003: 1512)
introduces this as a sensory sense, mentioning that “if you see, hear, or feel through something
a particular thing”, the visual and auditory senses are involved, as in (27) and (28), and in fact
what they see and name is not the LM, but the things behind it. The difference in the
COME
GO
PASS
RUN
SEND
light : beam
sun
radiation
cells : volume
pane : planar
checkpoint : point
city : area
hands : mass
through
(TR)
(LM)
COME
GO
PASS
WALK
human
animal
door
trees : mass
branches
place
through
(TR)
(LM)
250
on-the-other-side-of sense between over and through lies in the route of the TR movement, in
other words, in whether the TR traverses the inside of the LM or not. Although the end-point
of the path results in the same place on the other side of the LM, through still represents the
traversal of the TR.
(26) We did see a couple of duty crew through a window. <S1A-021 #088>
(27) So this is the front and this is the back so it's kind of [you are] looking at a
section through the neck. <S2A-056 #034>
(28) ‘I called through the door last night, but you didn't say anything.’ <W2F-001
#163>
Through has another type of on-the-other-side-of sense. It denotes completion of an
activity when it co-occurs with ‘halfway’, as in (29) and (30)4
. As was the case in the
on-the-other-side-of sense, the completion sense was also found in the senses of over. It can
be again implied that the path movement based on through and over shares the same features
in its derived senses. But they are not exactly identical, since the phrase patterns appear
different. Section 5.3.2 has earlier shown that the completion sense of over is mostly used
adverbially, though this does not occur with the LM, as in [t]he political damage may be
limited if the fighting is over relatively quickly <W2E-006 #084>. In contrast, the LM of the
completion sense explicitly follows through with the verb BE co-occurring and it can therefore
be suggested that the clause pattern follows that shown in Figure 7.13 below. The completion
sense of through seems likely to derive from the on-the-other-side-of sense and was classified
thus in a few of the instances.
(29) “He's halfway through a bottle of the best cognac the villa has – courtesy of
Gina and Tomaso Lucca, who are being so kind to him.” <W2F-016 #094>
4
Strictly speaking, the HA combination example (30) should be introduced in a later section, not in the
present section, of the CC and HC combinations. However, it is mentioned here in order to examine the
instances of ‘halfway through’.
251
(30) Murray phoned when I was half way [sic.] through the quote. <W1B-006
#044>
Figure 7.13 Clause pattern of the on-the-other-side-of, completion sense of through
Spread covering
The covering sense has been discussed with regard to over in Chapter 5 and we have
identified that the covering falls into four types: distributive location, multiplex path, lacunal
covering and concealing covering (Dewell, 1994, 2007; Jackendoff, 1990; Lakoff, 1987). The
density of covering varies in geometric transition from points and linear to planar (see Figure
5.10, section 5.3.2, page 135). As for ‘distributive location’, scattered points can be construed
as covering, as in … many sanctuaries that at that point had existed all over the country ...
<S1B-001 #004>. ‘Multiplex path’ signifies that the TR’s pathway throughout the LM can be
perceived as a planar cover, as in [h]e’s going all round Italy Austria Switzerland all over the
place inter rail, so. <S1A-081 #274>. ‘Lacunal covering’ and ‘concealing covering’ differ in
density. The former represents multi-directional covering, as honey spreads over a pancake
(Dewell, 1994), but the TR does not conceal the LM, as in [m]ulching materials such as straw
or hay, or sheets of black polythene, can also be spread over the soil surface… <W2B-027
#117>. However, in the latter the TR hides the LM so that it cannot be seen, as in … it’s
impossible for the Tories to paper over the cracks… <S2B-006 #041>. So, turning to the
covering sense of through, is it similar to the senses of over?
BE
human concrete object
abstract object
through
(TR)
(LM)
halfway
252
they [tumours] either spread from the primary site to … through the blood system S 2A 035 057
sockets spread the pressure of the levelling bolts through the slate W 2A 040 088
sewers run through the streets S 2B 022 111
the root to wriggle through the soil W 2A 025 026
The sound of …many choirs echoes through arches S 2B 027 097
water to penetrate through the sediment W 2A 022 041
blood wouldn't seep through Lewis's trousers W 2F 015 081
Covering
senses
ICE sentence code
Trajector Landmark
through
verb
distributive
location
multiplex
path
lacunal
covering
concealing
covering
Table 7.9 Spread covering senses of through phrases in the CC combination
Table 7.9 shows that the concealing covering sense was not found in the instances of
through, although the other senses were observed. Similarly, the instances of the other HCA
combinations, one instance each in the HH, the AH and the CA, two in the AC and five in the
AA, were examined, revealing no instances of concealing covering either (Table 7.10 below).
This seems to suggest that the covering sense of through, unlike that of over, does not convey
concealing, since the path movement of over runs above the LM which can be concealed by
the TR, while that of through runs through the inside of the LM and the trajectory is unlikely
to conceal the LM.
distri butive location inst itutions ...widel y spread through society HH S 2A 038 071
it [wri ting] went through everything CA S 1A 094 318
surges of viol ence, which swept through 18 ja ils AC W 2C 007 070
thes e two lines of poetry going through my mind AA S 1A 032 169
that runs through all of the faiths AA S 1B 028 011
an old saying … that con tinuall y went through my mind AA W 2B 012 118
it [u nbelief] spread through society AH S 2B 029 002
poli cy is showing through certain clauses AA W 1B 029 064
concealing cover ing
verb through ICE sentence code
HCA
Land mark
multiple x path
la cu nal coverin g
Cove ring senses Trajector
Table 7.10 Spread covering senses of through in the combinations except for the CC
The analysis of over in Chapter 6 has shown that particular verbs tend to co-occur
with particular types of TR movement: for instance, those in a multiplex path, such as DRIFT,
represent the tight track of the TR’s movement within the LM; those in lacunal covering, such
as SPREAD, illustrate a sprawling movement of the TR. Do the verbs with through show a
253
similar tendency? Although only a few instances were found, SPREAD as in (31) occurred
frequently in the distributional location sense (three instances in Tables 7.9 and 7.10). This
contrasts with the finding in Chapter 5 that SPREAD over was found only in the lacunal
covering sense. It can consequently be inferred that ‘SPREAD over’ and ‘SPREAD through’ may
denote different covering senses, although the same verb occurs in both phrases. This raises
the question of the extent to which the verb, the preposition or the combination of TR and LM
determines the meaning of the phrase. As regards multiplex paths, similar verbs to those with
over, which represent movement in all directions, were found in the instances of through, such
as RUN and WRIGGLE, as in (32) and so were the verbs in the other combination, such as GO and
RUN, as shown in Table 7.10 above.
(31) They either spread locally from the primary site to within the lung or they
[tumours] spread, through the blood system … <S2A-035 #057>
(32) …such behaviour helps the root to wriggle through the soil while maintaining
nutritional contact with soil particles. <W2A-025 #026>
By means of
The ‘by means of’ sense occurs with through, but not with over. A comprehensive study of
prepositions by Dirven (1993) has shown that such prepositions as at, on, in, by, with and
through have the sense of means and manner, whereas over, whose mental representation of
the central sense is based on path movement, does not (see Table 6.5 in Chapter 6, page 196).
This may be because the conduit metaphor of through is associated with intermediation
between two entities, in that the TR is supposed by definition to go through the inside of the
LM in order to reach the end-point. The concept of contact between the TR and the LM
metaphorically gives rise to the involvement of the two entities in order to achieve something.
In contrast, the TR of over goes above the LM and does not necessarily make contact with the
254
LM, resulting in the absence of the ‘by means of’ sense in the derived senses. The difference
between the mental representations is likely to be reflected in the existence of the ‘by means
of’ sense of through.
The verbs and TRs in the CC and HC combinations clearly show the distinctive
features of this sense of through. As shown in Table 7.11 below, the verbs of the CC
combination convey the idea of ‘power which makes something move’, such as DRIVE,
OPERATE and POWER. In accordance with the verbs, the TRs and the LMs represent the
relationships between something supplying the power and the means of providing the power,
such as engine and gearbox; and winch and block, as in (33) and (34) respectively. In addition,
in the verbs of the HC combination BREATHE occurred frequently; however, all the instances
come from a single text in which the symptom of a blocked nose was repeatedly mentioned.
Even so, it is true that personal pronouns occur frequently in the HC combination. Pronouns
appear frequently in the conversational registers: 90 % of the HC combinations in the ‘by
means of’ sense were found in the spoken sub-corpora (the instances marked ‘S’ in Table
7.12). At the same time, a number of instances in the CC combination are found in the written
sub-corpora. This may imply that, according to the concordance lines, the instances are likely
to come from instructions for, or descriptions of, machinery. Hence, the classification of the
HCA combination may possibly shed light on differences between spoken and written
registers.
(33) It [the engine] drives the front wheels through an automatic gearbox.
<S2A-055 #031>
(34) The winch, which raised and lowered the drill bit with a single pull capacity of
36t, operated through a crown block… <W2A-031 #091>
255
Trajector verb through Landmark
S 2A 055 031 it [engine] drives the front wheels through an automatic gearbox
W 2A 033 012 the milk to extract through which [hose]
W 2A 031 091 The winch operated through a crown block
S 1A 088 051 it [film] post through developer fixer
W 2A 031 089 which [motors] powered through 3:1 reduction gears
W 2D 012 003 most water is provided through pipes
W 2B 027 070 All nutrients on the farm are recylcled through farmyard manure
ICE sentence code
Table 7.11 TR and LM of the ‘by means of’ sense in CC combination
TR verb through LM
S 1A 051 111 I can't breathe through my nose
S 1A 051 115-2 I couldn't breathe through my nose
S 1A 051 115-1 a lot to do with breathing through my nose
S 1A 051 116 I was breathing through my mouth
W 2A 026 150 the patient's ablity to interpret sensations through fewer innervated receptors
S 2B 050 050 us lead through the back door
S 1B 016 121 you sense through your eyes
S 1B 079 104 you smoke through the nose
S 1B 023 116 we went through the music cues
ICE sentence code
Table 7.12 TR and LM of the ‘by means of’ sense in HC combination
7.3.2 CH and HH combinations
As noted in the above analyses of over and into, few instances of the CH combination were
found – four of them with over, no instance with into and only three with through. This may
be partly because the configuration in which a concrete TR passes, penetrates and traverses a
human LM rarely occurs and therefore it is hardly ever a bodily experience. As regards
through, there were two instances of the traversal sense and one of the ‘make someone do’
sense, which will be examined in detail later in the account of the HH combination. It appears
that the configuration of these traversal instances is metaphorical, rather than physical. For
instance, example (35) illustrates that the TR, the pass, seems unlikely to traverse the body of
the LM, Jimmy; rather, the LM is construed because of its function as an entity which
obstructs the TR’s path movement and success is achieved only if the TR gets through the LM.
Furthermore, similar to the covering sense, a mass of members was construed as an LM, as in
(36): that is, the individual defenders were perceived as the components of his defences.
(35) Before the kick will be taken attention is going to be paid, to Kolianov… but
256
still managed to get the pass through Jimmy to Mostovoi… <S2A-014 #275>
(36) The ball went straight through his defences, uh… <S1A-095 #065>
Figure 7.14 Semantic network of the HH combination
The ‘make someone do’ sense overwhelmingly occupies the instances of the HH
combination (77.8%, 14 out of 18 in Figure 7.14). It seems to originate from the conduit
metaphor related to the central sense of through. In other words, a motive of the TR is carried
through the mediator LM in order to achieve an aim. Example (37) clearly indicates that the
TR, I, wants to obtain compensation by requesting an insurance company, Endsleigh, to
provide it. Hence, the verbs of the sense tend to be those which make someone do something,
such as CLAIM, NEGOTIATE, PURSUE and WORK, as shown in Table 7.13. In addition, the
distinctive LMs represent people, groups and organisations which function as mediators in
order to take up the offer from the TR, namely agency, GP, the NHS, the EC and the United
Nations. Finally, the clause pattern of the sense also seems to relate to the meaning. For
Traversal
1 (5.6%)
1 (5.6%)
Covering
1 (5.6%)
Examining
Effect
cluster
1 (5.6%)
By means of
Make
someone do
14 (77.8%)
(e.g. educational institutions
widely spread through society)
(e.g. what would make Guy de
Maupassant decide to write
through an English woman)
(e.g. I might be able to trace
you through Irena Tarasova)
(e.g. As MPs pushed through
crowds to get to the chamber…)
(e.g. I would claim
through Endsleigh)
257
instance, the frequent occurrences of personal pronoun and pro-verb are likely to imply that
this sense is often used in the spoken register, and this hypothesis is validated by the high
frequency of the spoken instances shown in Table 7.13 (92.9%, 13 out of 14 instances).
Furthermore, the patterns in the predicates seem to indicate that the sense tends to occur with
reference to a future action, as in (38), e.g., BE going to, progressive, try to and want to.
Consequently, the clause pattern of the ‘make someone do’ sense in the HH combination can
be illustrated as Figure 7.15.
(37) So I would actually claim through Endsleigh. <S1B-074 #030>
(38) Aren't you going to do it through an agency then? <S1A-021 #206>
TR verb through LM
S 1B 074 030 I would actually claim through Endsleigh
S 1B 026 236 Charles Dickens is communicating through you
W 1B 019 021 we communicating through who
S 1A 015 049 we 've been meaning to do it through this friend
S 1A 021 206 you going to do it through an agency
S 1A 062 117 you need to try to do that through your GP
S 1A 021 211 we 've always done it through [agency]
S 1B 039 093 your going through the NHS
S 2B 031 056 he maintains a common standard through the offices
S 1B 055 033 those who negotiating on behalf of… through the EC
S 2B 042 059 he pursue his literary career through the medium
S 1B 033 075 we have an ability to respond to the national… through the medium
S 2A 036 086 God spoke through his messenger
S 1B 035 100 he wants to work through the United Nations
ICE sentence code
Table 7.13 TR, LM and verbs of the ‘make someone do’ sense in HH combination
Figure 7.15 Clause pattern of the ‘make someone do’ sense in HH combination
BE going to
progressive
TRY to
WANT to
personal pronoun mediator
people
group
organization
through
(TR)
(LM)
CLAIM
DO
NEGOTIATE
PURSUE
WORK
258
7.3.3 HA combination
The HA combinations of through, as well as over and into, appeared to have the most varied
senses in their semantic networks: 10 senses of through (83.3%, out of 12 senses), 12 of over
(80.0%, out of 15 senses), and 11 of into (78.6%. out of 14 senses). A great many of the
derived senses contribute to the making of an elaborate semantic network, as shown in Figure
7.16. Such diverse senses in the HA combination imply that to a large extent the human TR
relates metaphorically to an abstract object LM and the spatial configuration of the
prepositions is mapped onto a metaphorical configuration through human activities. We
explore in this section the way in which the metaphorical extensions of through are used.
Temporal
The temporal sense was found in the HA (9), CA (2) and AA (8) combinations – the numbers
in parentheses indicate the number of instances of the temporal sense. As shown below in
Traversal
Impediment
cluster
On-the-other
-side-of 1 (1.2%)
1 (1.5%)
4 (4.7%)
A-B-C
trajectory
cluster
Examining
24 (27.9%)
Obstacle
Effect
cluster
20 (23.3%)
By means of
Reason,
because of
7 (8.1%)
Temporal
9 (10.5%)
Experience
21 (24.4%)
5 (5.8%)
Success
(e.g. I'll go
through life
not believing
in God)
(e.g. He’s just going
through a divorce)
(e.g. Let’s go through
those points…)
(e.g. And that's
something
we've got to
work through)
(e.g. You use
the buttons to
scroll through
the parameters)
(e.g. I’m just
going through the
course)
(e.g. I was half
way through the
quote)
(e.g. He lost his wife
through cancer)
(e.g. many people know the
study through its previous
publications)
Figure 7.16 Semantic network of the HA combination
259
Table 7.14, amongst the instances of the combinations, the LMs which are temporal words
seem similar, for example, day, time and period. However, the co-occurring verbs show some
distinctive features: while GO occurs both with through and into, GET distinctively conveys the
penetration of into, as in (39). Such verbs with over as DO, HAVE and TAKE imply that actions
during a certain period are highlighted, as in (40); this is unlike through, as in (41), where the
passing of time is focused on, rather than what the TR does.
verb LM
HA go, run months, year, life, morining, period, day
CA afternoon, journey
AA pass, run 1991, time, childhood, recession, December, Saturday
do, have, take decades, hours, period, day, time, Christmas, lunch
go, get age, century, the Roman period, time, war
through
over
into
preposition
Table 7.14 Verbs and LMs with through, over and into in the temporal sense
(39) I’ve talked of the tendency of some people, dissatisfied with retirement, and
they may have been unjustly treated in being put there, wishing to get back
into the second age. <S2A-038 #066>
(40) With all the bits of work you’ve done over the years, your CV must be pretty
full? <W1B-001 #180>
(41) … you know apart from jobs that anybody is going to manage to get through a
year in private accommodation… <S1A-078 #144>
Experience
The experience sense was found only in the instances of the HA combination. When the LM
was a particular event which did not refer specifically to time, with the TR experiencing it, the
instance was classified as an example of the experience sense. Take example (42) below, for
instance: the TR, he, experiences an event of the LM, divorce, which is probably experienced
more as a state than an event, and therefore the instance fell into the experience category, not
260
into the temporal.
(42) Uh, now he’s just going through a divorce again. <S1A-076 #042>
Table 7.15 below illustrates the TRs, LMs and clause pattern in the experience sense.
As discussed above, the LM is not so likely to refer to time as to experiences and events. Such
events as divorce and troubles were found in the instances, while terms of transition, such as
stage(s), phase and trials, also occurred as the LM, for instance in (43). Like the other TR
human combinations, the HC and HH, personal pronouns frequently occurred as the TR in the
instances from the spoken sub-corpora. Most importantly, the pattern of GO through was
overwhelmingly found to account for more than 90% of the instances (19 out of 21). It is
likely that physical path movement relating to ‘going through’ the LM is mapped onto the
metaphorical sense of experiencing it.
TR verb through LM
S 1A 060 005 you to go through it
S 1B 003 046 childrenseem to go through the same stage
S 1B 050 069 who [actors] would go through a number of productions
S 2A 033 083 I 'd go through the different stages
S 2A 053 018 we go through some very simple biochemistry
S 2A 054 002 we will now go through the basic controls
S 2A 056 098 you will go through a series of basic manoeuvres
W 1B 008 114 I have had to go through that [strain]
S 2A 038 042 everyone goes through that something
S 1A 072 111 I was going through adolescence
S 1A 076 042 he 's just going through a divorce
S 1A 076 050 he 's going through the divorce
S 2A 037 055 Texas is going through very serious troubles
S 1B 030 138 people …who have gone through investigation
S 1B 037 019 it [NL Fund] has gone through a phase
W 2A 012 004 people have gone through the movements
S 2A 029 002 I 'd run through one of the trials
W 2F 020 215 I want to thread through a half-hour programme
S 1A 052 215 you went through what
S 1B 065 032 you went through what
W 1A 001 007 Britain went through either cataclysm
ICE sentence code
Table 7.15 TR, LM and verbs of the experience sense in HA combination
261
(43) And I basically made a list of the different stages I’d go through if I was
examining the system … <S2A-033 #083>
Examining
The examining sense was also found in the derived senses of over and the central sense
closely related to path movement may be mapped onto the skimming eye movements of
examining, as in (44). The central sense of through is also based on path movement and one
of the derived senses appears to denote examining, whereby the TR thoroughly checks the
content of the LM, those points, as in (45). Despite being not coined to do so, the
concerning/about sense of into is likely to denote TR’s examining of the LM, as in (46).
(44) I’d already given some thought to my approach and went over it again in my
head now - although much would depend on circumstances. <W2F-004 #037>
(45) But basically let’s go through those points where the regularity can be
violated… <S2A-025 #012>
(46) Yeah, I was looking into genetic and environmental aspects and the major
arguments for the genetic… <S1B-003 #174>
All of the examining senses above were found in the HA combination. Thus, we next
look at which HCA combinations the examining senses were found in. Table 7.16 indicates
that the HC and HA combinations frequently occurred in the examining sense. This seems to
suggest that, as might be expected, the examining sense is mainly used in human activities
where the human TR investigates a concrete object or abstract object LM.
262
sum %
over examining 5 6 1 12 3.0
into concerning/about 5 46 1 9 61 9.4
through examining 1 15 24 40 13.6
HC
HH
sense CA
CC
CH
HA
total
AA
AC
AH
Table 7.16 Distribution of the HCA combinations in the examining sense5
With regard to the co-occurring verb, GO was overwhelmingly found in this sense, for
instance, in (45) above, accounting for more than half of the instances (51.3%, 20 out of 39,
Table 7.18). The table below shows how frequently the phrase pattern of GO +
over/into/through occurred in the examining sense. Out of the 39 instances of this sense with
through, GO through occurred in 5 instances in the HC and 15 instances in the HA. As well as
GO over, GO through appears to be used frequently in the examining sense. Table 7.18 also
indicates that quite a few instances of RUN through were found in this sense. Although GO is
employed with over and into to convey the sense, RUN over and RUN into do not mean
experiencing. Hence, it can be implied that verbs to a certain extent contribute to the
interpretation of what the phrases might mean.
sum %
over 2 4 6/6 100
into 0 17 17/46 37.0
through 5 15 20/39 51.3
go
total
HA
HC
Table 7.17 Go + over/into/through in the examining sense
5
The percentages were computed by dividing the instances of the examining sense by the number of
instances of each preposition. For instance, there were 40 instances of the examining sense of through; this
number was then divided by 295, the total number of instances of through.
263
TR verb through LM
W 1B 002 074 I was reduced to flicking through channels
S 1A 075 132 we to get through a lot [things]
S 1A 045 226 we 'll go through it [work]
S 1A 072 192 I won't go through the whole story
S 1A 082 151 I can't go through that sector
S 1A 090 050 he go through that [translation]
S 1B 004 281 we go through them [factors]
S 2A 025 012 we go through those points
W 2F 008 163 you go through my things
S 1B 063 081 you going through each and evry part of interview
S 1B 079 190 I 'm going through this [point]
S 1B 080 031 you going through it [number]
S 2B 010 067 they [Russians] to be going through the motions
S 2A 023 065 we have gone through a very detailed process
S 2A 028 134 you 've gone through an exhaustive search
S 2A 030 134 I 've gone through them [features]
S 2A 034 001 I 'll have through words
W 2D 018 048 engineer looking through an inspection opening
W 2F 018 083 Cosmo ran through a few historical dates
S 1B 072 229 she having run through the agreement
S 2A 021 096 I shall run through them [features]
S 2A 062 020 I shall run through a chronology
W 2F 009 136 she thinking through the book
S 1A 094 296 he went through his [words]
ICE sentence code
Table 7.18 TR, LM and verb of the examining sense in HA combination
Table 7.18 also indicates the distinctive features of the LM, namely, that pronouns,
such as it, that, them and this, as in (47), and plural nouns, such as channels, points, things,
motions, words and dates, as in (48), frequently occurred. The high frequency of pronouns
was also observed in the examining sense of over, as in (49).
(47) What are some of the factors which affect the blood pressure level in a
patient... Let’s go through them [factors] fairly systematically. <S1B-004
#281>
(48) And I know you go through my things. <W2F-008 #163>
(49) Now Tony we’ll just go over the basic procedures to start your bike before you
sit on it. <S2A-054 #053>
Obstacle and success
The obstacle sense and the success sense belong to the impediment cluster, since the LM
264
functions as a metaphorical barrier, such as a difficulty or problem, which the TR is intended
to overcome. If the attempt is successful, the sense is interpreted as the success sense as in
(50), while if it fails or seems difficult to achieve, it is the obstacle sense that is conveyed, as
in (51). This seems to suggest that the functions and nature of the LM relate to the
interpretation of the senses.
(50) but like I’m just going through the course. <S1A-034 #015>
(51) Pro-life groups have been angered this week by attempts to push through the
introduction of a new abortion pill. <S2B-023 #047>
Although the ‘by means of’ sense and the ‘reason/because of’ sense were found in
the HA combination, they will be examined in a later section in order to compare them with
those in the AA combination.
7.3.4 AH, CA and AC combinations
The AH (5.8%, 17 out of the 295 instances), CA (2.0%, 6 instances) and AC (2.0%, 6
instances) combinations of through appeared much less frequently than the ‘parallel’
combinations, such as the CC (18.6%) and AA (11.2%). The combinations containing an
abstract object TR are likely to occur less frequently, except for the AA combination. The AH
combinations of over and into examined in the previous chapters appeared rarely – one
instance of the former (0.2%) and eight of the latter (2.0%). But the combination of through
accounted for 17 instances (5.7%), which is likely to be a result of the frequent occurrences of
the ‘make someone do’ sense (11 instances), as shown in Figure 7.17 below.
265
TR verb through LM
W 2F 003 134 it [going on honeymoon] goes through me
S 1A 001 038 that [opportunity] has arisen through the group
S 1B 061 041 arrangement arranged through his solicitor
W 1B 027 116 which [deposit] has since been cleared through my bank
S 2B 021 113 his budget goes through the Bubdestag
W 2B 016 006 the Iron & Steel Nationalization Billwas being guided through parliament
W 2D 007 023 All applications for admission … shold be made through the Universities Central Council
S 1B 053 110 they [subjects] are all negotiated through the Community
S 2B 007 040 the new Broadcasting Act piloted through Parliament
W 2A 013 040 services whether provided through the NHS
S 2B 039 040 policy changes to seek through the members of parliament
S 1B 026 247 garbled stuff to send through mediums
ICE code
Table 7.19 TR, LM and verb of the make someone do sense in AH combination
Table 7.19 shows that the LMs are similar to the LMs with this sense in the HH
combination (see Table 7.13 in 7.3.2 above): mediators were frequently found, such as
solicitor, and so were groups, such as Council, the Community, Parliament and the NHS,
which help the TRs’ offers to take something up. Given that NEGOTIATE occurred in both the
HH and the AH, the co-occurring verbs in this sense were found to denote demands and
Traversal
1 (5.9%)
Covering
1 (5.9%)
Effect
cluster
4 (23.5%)
By means of
Make
someone do
11 (64.7%)
(e.g. it [unbelief] spread
through society)
(e.g. epidemics
go through the
population)
(e.g. it [going to
honeymoon] goes
through me like a
knife)
(e.g. applications for admission
should be made through the
Council…)
Figure 7.17 Semantic network of AH combination
266
requests, such as arrange, provide and seek, as in (52). Furthermore, the phrase pattern
containing the verbs illustrates a feature distinguishing the AH from the HH: it is the passive
voice that represents demands and requests which are responded to with the help of the LM,
as in (53). In conclusion, the instances of the AH differ from the HH in that in the former the
TR is the thing requested, while in the latter the TR is those who request.
(52) Services for these groups tended to be institution based, whether provided
through the National Health Service (NHS) or local government,…
<W2A-013 #040>
(53) All applications for admission to full-time courses … should be made through
the Universities Central Council on Admissions. <W2D-007 #023>
The other senses in the AH, and those of the CA and AC, which appeared in the
statistical test to be considerably underused (see Table 7.2), are not discussed, due to the low
number of instances.
7.3.5 AA combination
The AA combination turned out to be significantly overused, according to the statistical test of
residual analysis. The overuse is seemingly reflected in the variety of the derived senses in the
combination. Unlike the distribution of into examined in the previous chapter, that of the
central sense of through, traversal (10.5%), was relatively infrequent in the AA, while such
peripheral senses as temporal (21.1%), by means of (23.7%) and reason/because of (44.7%)
accounted for most of the instances of the combination. This finding may strengthen my
hypothesis, based on bodily experiences, that the abstract combination of the TR and LM
conveys the sense of metaphorical configurations.
267
Figure 7.18 Semantic network of AA combination
Reason/because of
The ‘reason/because of’ sense was found in the HA, CA, AC and AA combinations. Of these,
the HA (7 instances) and AA (9 instances) co-occurred somewhat frequently. The verbs with
the combinations seem to suggest that unfavourable incidents are often involved, such as
COLLAPSE, HAPPEN, LOSE and SUFFER, as shown in Table 7.20 below. In accordance with the
verbs, the LMs, such as agony, fatigue, inadvertence and boredom, represent the reason for
which the TR gets damaged or deteriorates, as in (54). The TR, irrespective of whether it is a
human or abstract object, functions as victim of the consequence caused by the LM, as in (55).
This can imply that the semantic prosody of the phrase tends to be negative, with indications
coming from both the LM and the verb (Table 7.21 below).
Traversal
Impediment
cluster
On-the-other
-side-of
4 (10.5%)
3 (7.9%)
1 (2.6%)
A-B-C
trajectory
cluster
Covering
5 (13.2%)
Obstacle
Effect
cluster
17 (44.7%)
By means of
Reason,
because of
9 (23.7%)
Temporal
8 (21.1%)
(e.g. the hideous things
happen through pure
inadvertence like the
bombing of a shelter)
(e.g. Decisions were
formed through
knowledge of local
matters)
(e.g. it [law] has gone
through all the
legislative processes
in this House)
(e.g. the fall in
inflation will
continue
through 1991)
(e.g. the painting
goes through stage
two)
(e.g. out parameters pass
through the optional channel)
(e.g. … emphasize the
role of inherited factors
through genetics)
268
TR verb through LM
insulation has been broken through the agony AA
a charge of Coleridge collapsing through a drug-induced fatigue AA
the hideous things happen through pure inadvertence AA
the memories are not lost through insufficient encoding AA
this [amnesia] occurs through cued recall AA
this [amnesia] occurs through slowly building AA
they [wars] sap morale through boredom AA
translation of Australian profits…
suffered through currency swings AA
I in order to carry through a deception programme HA
them [Cavel and Cornwall]dying through gallantry HA
Stelman explained the disruption of voice through an increase HA
Partridge is forced through Allworthy's misjudgement HA
wife lost through cancer HA
health authorities to raise a further 290 million through land sales HA
economists have even talked of the war paying through lower inflation HA
Table 7.20 TR, LM and verb of the reason/because of sense in the AA and HA combinations
(54) And it is sometimes coupled to a charge of Coleridge collapsing through a
drug-induced fatigue into a snug intellectual cocoon. <W2A-003 #013>
(55) He lost his wife through cancer and his daughter is also 4. <W1B-003 #188>
PROSODY
PREFERENCE victim
victim
victim
victim reason
reason
reason
reason
COLLIGATION noun verb preposition noun
negative consequence
negative consequence
negative consequence
negative consequence
COLLOCATION
charge
memories
translation
wife
COLLAPSE,
HAPPEN,
LOSE
SUFFER
through
agony
fatigue,
inadvertence
boredom
Table 7.21 Units of meaning of the ‘reason/because of’ sense of through
7.4 Implications of the HCA combination analysis
The previous section introduced the central and derived senses of through, taking the
hypothesis that the combinations containing humans (H) and concrete objects (C), in
particular the CC and the HC, closely relate to the central sense of prepositions, since the
configuration can be bodily experienced. Conversely, those containing abstract objects (A),
such as the HA and the AA, are associated with the peripheral senses, because they are highly
likely to derive from metaphorically extending the spatial configuration of prepositions into
269
abstract concepts. Again, Table 7.22 below illustrates in the rows and columns the distribution
of the senses of the HCA combinations, which extend from the central, physical ‘traversal’, to
such peripheral senses as ‘by means of’ and ‘reason/because of’. This results in a weakly
positive yet statistically significant correlation (r = 0.441, p< 0.001) between the distribution
of the HCA combinations and the central sense to the peripheral senses. As a result, the
semantic network of through can be established as shown in Figure 7.19 below. The relative
incidence of the senses is also indicated in Figure 7.20 below, namely that the central sense,
traversal, occurred most frequently, while at the same time the peripheral senses, such as
covering, examining, ‘by means of’, ‘make someone do’, ‘reason/because of’ and ‘temporal',
were found to occur relatively frequently. My hypothesis on the basis of entrenchment is that
the recurrent exposure of particular senses may encourage us to associate the word with the
experiences of such use. The correlation between the HCA combinations and the senses
implies that both the central and peripheral senses of through may possibly be entrenched by
their frequent usage. In other words, it is likely that a number of the senses, the central and
some of the peripheral at the same time, may possibly contribute to establishing the mental
representation and the concepts of the polysemous through.
270
F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F %
T Traversal 34 (41) 35 (43) 2 (2) 1 (1) 1 (1) 1 (1) 4 (5) 4 (5) 82 25.9
PR Protrusion 3 (100) 3 0.9
OS On-the-other-side-of 6 (55) 4 (36) 1 (9) 11 3.5
TM Temporal 9 (47) 2 11 8 (42) 19 6.0
EXP Experience 21 (100) 21 6.6
CV Covering 7 (44) 1 (6) 1 (6) 1 6 2 (13) 4 (25) 16 5.1
EX Examining 15 (38) 1 (3) 24 (60) 40 12.7
Impediment cluster
OB Obstacle 3 (33) 1 (11) 2 (22) 3 (33) 9 2.8
SC Success 5 (83) 1 17 6 1.9
Effect cluster
BM By means of 7 (11) 9 (15) 1 (2) 20 (33) 4 (7) 2 3 18 (30) 61 19.3
MS Make someone do 1 (4) 14 (54) 11 (42) 26 8.2
BO Reason, because of 7 (32) 3 14 4 (18) 8 (36) 22 7.0
54 (17) 66 (21) 3 (1) 18 (6) 93 (29) 17 (5) 9 (3) 10 (3) 46 (15) 316 100.0
sum
AC AA
HC CH HH HA
senses
AH CA
A-B-C trajectory cluster
CC
Table 7.22 Distribution of the HCA combinations and the senses of through
Traversal
Reason,
because of
Impediment
cluster
Examining
Obstacle
Protrusion
Make
someone do
Covering
Success
Temporal
A-B-C
trajectory
cluster
On-the-
other-side
-of
Experience
By means of
Effect
cluster
Figure 7.19 Semantic network of through
271
: cluster of frequent senses
The size of the circles varies according to the frequency of the senses
It appears that the HCA combinations can contribute to the establishment of a
semantic network, as they did in the account of into in the previous chapter. Figure 7.21
below illustrates the senses in which the CC, HC, HA and AA combinations occurred
frequently. Similar to the semantic network of into (Figure 6.20 in section 6.4, page 226), the
CC combination was frequently found in the central sense and the senses directly derived
from it, such as ‘protrusion’ and ‘covering’, while the AA combination occurred in the
‘temporal’ sense, and in the senses belonging to the effect and impediment clusters. The CC
combination, which can be bodily experienced, appears not to share the distribution of the
senses of the AA combination, which, in contrast, is unlikely to be bodily experienced.
Furthermore, the domains of the HC and the HA combinations illustrate that the different
nature of the LM gives rise to different senses. For instance, the HC was frequently seen in
Traversal
Reason,
because of
Impediment
cluster
Examining
Obstacle
Protrusion
Make
someone do
Covering
Success
Temporal
A-B-C
trajectory
cluster
On-the-
other-side
-of
Experience
By means of
Effect
cluster
83 (28.1%)
25 (8.5%)
32 (10.8%)
2 (0.7%)
11 (3.7%)
19 (6.4%)
21 (7.1%)
9 (3.1%)
6 (2.0%)
61 (20.7%)
26 (8.8%)
23 (7.8%)
Figure 7.20 Frequency-based semantic network of through
272
the ‘traversal and ’‘examining’ senses, while the HA occurred in the metaphorical senses,
such as ‘obstacle’, ‘success’, ‘by means of’ and ‘reason/because of’.
CC HC HA (including the AA area and some HC) AA
Figure 7.21 Domains of the HCA combinations
The distribution map of the combinations contributes to positioning the senses in the
semantic network, and at the same time it indicates the radial extension of the senses. The
semantic network is assumed to develop the extension of the senses from central to peripheral
and the categorization of the members is structured in a radial formation (Brugman and
Lakoff, 1988). Given the hypothesis of the network structure, Figures 7.22 and 7.23, shown
below, seem to agree with it, in that the physical senses directly relevant to a spatial
configuration extend towards the top left (Figure 7.22), while the figurative senses extend
towards the bottom right (Figure 7.23).
Traversal
Reason,
because of
Impediment
cluster
Examining
Obstacle
Protrusion
Make
someone do
Covering
Success
Temporal
A-B-C
trajectory
cluster
On-the-
other-side
-of
Experience
By means of
Effect
cluster
[CC]
[HC]
[HA]
[AA]
273
Figure 7.22 Radial category of the CC and HC combinations
Figure 7.23 Radial category of the HA and AA combinations
Traversal
Reason,
because of
Impediment
cluster
Examining
Obstacle
Protrusion
Make
someone do
Covering
Success
Temporal
A-B-C
trajectory
cluster
On-the-
other-side
-of
Experience
By means of
Effect
cluster
Traversal
Reason,
because of
Impediment
cluster
Examining
Obstacle
Protrusion
Make
someone do
Covering
Success
Temporal
A-B-C
trajectory
cluster
On-the-
other-side
-of
Experience
By means of
Effect
cluster
274
7.5 Summary of the chapter
This chapter has examined the instances of through from the corpus data in order to explore
the patterns of phrases containing the preposition. The results of the corpus analysis have
suggested that through tends to be followed by a prepositional phrase with to and into much
more frequently than over and into, e.g. get through to/into…. This may be partly because the
mental representation of through is unlikely to require the LM of a salient destination, as in
that jab thudding through his guard.
Perceptual transformations of the LM into a bounded LM have often been observed
in the data. In other words, the LM which does not retain space which the TR can traverse can
serve as a bounded entity as long as it functions in the circumstances of a particular sense. For
instance, as was seen in example (11), a point can serve as an LM with the TR passing beyond
it. Such transformations are likely to contribute substantially to the interpretation of spatial
and metaphorical configurations of prepositions.
The corpus data have also provided three statistical items of evidence in terms of the
distribution of the HCA combinations. Firstly, the combinations of the TR and LM appear to
be significantly polarised (χ2 = 75.558, d.f. = 4, p < 0.001) by dividing them into classes of
human/animate (H), concrete object (C) or abstract object (A). Secondly, as regards the
polarised distribution, the CC, HA and AA combinations were overused, while the CA and AA
were underused. Finally, a weak yet statistically significant correlation was observed between
the order of the combinations from concrete to abstract and between the central sense and the
peripheral ones. For instance, the distribution pattern of the combinations has suggested that
the CC and HC are associated with the central sense, ‘traversal’, while the HA and AA are
associated with the peripheral senses. This result of the correlation between the HCA
combinations and the senses appears to correspond to the findings on into in Chapter 6
(above).
275
8. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION
In this study, I have explored corpus data in order to describe the polysemous
prepositions over, into and through. Using the set of categories comprising HCA (human,
concrete object and abstract object) to classify the collocating nouns, I have empirically
specified the collocations and patterns of these prepositions.
As explained in Chapter 1, research question 1 asks whether there exists a
relationship between the sense of prepositions and their co-occurring nouns. The results
of Chapter 5 have indicated that particular patterns of the TR and the LM were found
with a particular sense of over and have demonstrated semantic association between the
senses of over and their collocation. Moreover, Chapters 6 and 7 have demonstrated a
statistical correlation between the senses of into and through and their TR and LM
combinations which were categorized into HCA (Tables 6.13 and 7.22). Consequently,
the relationship between preposition sense and its noun collocation has been observed.
Research question 2 asks to what extent the combination of the co-occurring
nouns before and after the preposition can predict the senses of prepositions. The results
found in Chapters 5 to 7 have demonstrated that certain types of TR and LM
combination frequently occur with a particular sense of the designated preposition. The
form, which is represented by the combination of the preceding noun and the following
noun, can allow us to identify one particular meaning of the polysemous preposition.
This finding leads to the hypothesis that we categorize the entities involved in the
configuration represented by a preposition on the basis of our bodily experiences. In
other words, a physical sense of a preposition is experienced in settings where concrete
entities, represented as the trajector and the landmark, are involved. In contrast, when a
relationship is posited between abstract entities, the preposition takes on a metaphorical
276
sense. I would argue that particular senses of the prepositions can be specified by
identifying the HCA combinations in use in each case.
In addition to confirming the theory of form and meaning, the HCA
combinations appear to be useful for establishing the semantic networks of into and
through (Chapters 6 and 7). This is because the HCA combinations of prepositions
(from the CC to the AA combination) form a continuum from the concrete sense to the
abstract sense, and similar senses, which share the same combination, can be allocated
to the same domain as one another. This network diagrammatically shows semantic
extensions from the central sense to the derived ones. The process of the semantic
extension seems to suggest a way in which the spatial sense is projected onto the
metaphorical senses.
As regards research question 3, as to whether corpus analysis provides a
different description from non-data based research, the analyses in Chapter 5 have
provided detailed accounts of the linguistic environment of different senses of over,
such as the co-occurring verb and the phrase pattern. Also, frequencies of different
senses of over, into and through have demonstrated which sense is more typical than the
others in everyday language use. HCA classifications have allowed me to provide
detailed descriptions of the senses of over, into and through, their semantic network and
metaphor, which I extensively discuss in the following sections.
8.1 HCA combinations and the senses of the preposition
Cognitive linguists, on the one hand, argue that we see the configuration of a
preposition by means of the two entities involved: the trajector and the landmark.
Corpus linguists, on the other hand, argue that a word has one or more collocations
277
which show distinctive patterns in different senses. I amalgamate the two propositions
of the different linguistic approaches in order to describe the senses and linguistic
environment of polysemous prepositions. Moreover, I adopt the classification of human
(H), concrete object (C), and abstract object (A) in order to provide a categorization of
the entities involved in the prepositions.
The HCA classification revealed a pattern in the nouns co-occurring with the
seven prepositions in my pilot study (see Chapter 4). The pilot study indicated that over,
into and through have the most similar distributions of HCA combinations out of the
full set of prepositions. As a result of the pilot study, the combinations of nouns
co-occurring with over, into and through were therefore investigated. Just as the
distribution pattern of the preposition senses is unequal, so the frequency of the HCA
combinations of the nouns turns out to be asymmetric. The uneven distribution of the
combinations shows some similarity across the three prepositions. High standard
residuals based on frequency were observed with the CC (concrete object trajector and
concrete object landmark) and the AA (abstract object trajector and abstract object
landmark) combinations. Statistical chi-square tests show that these noun combinations
with over, into and through were found much more frequently than the other
combinations. Conversely, the CA (concrete object trajector and abstract object
landmark) and the AC (abstract object trajector and concrete object landmark) were less
frequently seen with these prepositions, as illustrated in Figure 8.1Figure 8.1 below. The
distribution patterning of the HCA combinations turns out to be similar in terms of the
collocates associated with the prepositions.
278
-10.000
-8.000
-6.000
-4.000
-2.000
0.000
2.000
4.000
6.000
8.000
10.000
HH
HH
HH
HH HC
HC
HC
HC HA
HA
HA
HA CH
CH
CH
CH CC
CC
CC
CC CA
CA
CA
CA AH
AH
AH
AH AC
AC
AC
AC AA
AA
AA
AA
HCA combination
Standard
residuals
OVER INTO THROUGH
Figure 8.1 Standarised residuals of the HCA combinations of over, into and through
Figure 8.1 above shows the standarised residuals of the HCA combinations
with the three prepositions. A residual indicates a statistical difference from the
expected value induced from the observed frequency. In this case, the CC and the AA
combinations of the three prepositions are found highly frequently. However, the CA
and AC turn out to be statistically less frequent than the other combinations. This may
imply that prepositions are used to describe the situation where a ‘parallel’ transition in
movement from trajector to landmark, such as one concrete object to another concrete
object; or one abstract to another abstract, is made. In other words, it is typical for us to
see a transition between what applies to concrete objects and what applies to abstract
objects. Also, it is unusual to construe a configuration composed of different types of
entity, such as a configuration between a concrete object and an abstract object. It can
therefore be concluded that the HCA analysis is a useful way of highlighting the
linguistic behaviour of the nouns co-occurring with the prepositions. As the physical
279
movement sense is the most frequent of the prepositions’ senses, the CC combination is
more typical than any other combination of the co-occurring nouns. My corpus data
show that the pattern of ‘concrete object noun + verb + over, into and through denoting
movement + concrete object noun’ appears to be frequent (Table 5.18 in chapter 5, Table
6.18 in Chapter 6 and Table 7.22 in Chapter 7 respectively). This result suggests that the
‘moving’ senses of the prepositions correspond to the CC noun combinations. In other
words, the senses are indicated by the collocation of the CC combinations. In turn, it
can be argued that the sense of prepositions is likely to depend on the co-occurring
nouns. My hypothesis that the combination of the co-occurring nouns can predict the
sense of the preposition is supported in terms of the pattern of ‘C + verb +
over/into/through denoting movement + C’.
The high frequency of the prototypical sense of the prepositions can be
explained by bodily experience. Spatial configurations represented by prepositions are
often encountered from our earliest years when we play with toys and observe the way
in which things move. Such experiences help to establish our conceptual templates,
‘image schemas’ (see section 2.3 above), such as container, path, blockage, which may
closely relate to our conceptualisation of the prototype of prepositions. In this case of
the sense of the prepositions and the HCA combinations, the high frequency of the
prototypical sense of the prepositions and the CC combination is not a surprising result.
We can physically experience seeing a concrete object moving to another object, while a
metaphorical relationship cannot be physically experienced. The spatial configuration of
the CC combinations is often seen and experienced in the real world. The highly
frequent pattern of ‘C + verb + over/into/through denoting movement + C’ seems to
support the hypothesis of the link between frequency and prototypicality. Although
280
frequency is not the only deciding factor of prototype, as explained in Chapter 2, my
data show that the prototypical sense of the prepositions denoting movement, such as
the on-the-other-side-of sense of over, the penetration sense of into, and the traversal
sense of through, tends to be the most frequent of the polysemous senses. But one
question remains unanswered. Why is the AA combination, which is unlikely to be
prototypical in relation to embodiment, also frequent? As the temporal sense of over is
very frequent (18.8%), particular metaphorical senses of the prepositions are likely to be
frequent. Such metaphorical extensions of the senses are discussed later in Section 8.3.
Given that the movement sense of the prepositions corresponds to the
occurrence of the CC combination, I would like to develop the hypothesis that the
metaphorical senses also correspond to particular noun combinations. If an association
between the metaphorical senses of the prepositions and the combinations containing an
abstract object either as the trajector or as the landmark, or both them, is observed, it
may suggest that a form (the HCA combinations) and meaning (the sense of the
prepositions) relationship exists in metaphorical phrases. Firstly, I put the senses of the
prepositions in order from prototypical to non-prototypical. The prototypical sense is a
physical sense which can be experienced by the language user, whereas the
non-prototypical sense is always to a greater or lesser degree metaphorical. In order to
grade the degree of metaphor of the senses, I apply the ‘cluster’ of senses proposed by
Tyler and Evans (2003a: 80). The cluster groups similar senses together and makes
explicit a common concept of the senses in the same cluster. For example, the up cluster
of over epitomises the senses of more (e.g., If you are over age 60…<W2D-004 #089>),
control (e.g., But when George Bush took over America… <S2B-021 #019>) and
preference (e.g., …one might prefer the trilogy over earlier texts… <W2A-004 #016>). I
281
followed Tyler and Evans and clustered the senses of into and through into batches of a
common concept, and put them in the order of degree from the cluster of physical
senses to that of metaphorical ones. The movement senses are at the top of the column
of the senses of over, into and through. With regard to the clusters of into, the
prototypical sense of movement is followed by the clusters of ‘collision’, ‘progression’,
‘retrogression’, ‘starting’ and ‘change of state’ in order, going from physical to
metaphorical. Subsequently, the combinations of nouns occurring before and after the
preposition were also put in order from the combinations of physical entities to those of
metaphorical ones. As seen above, the CC combination is prototypical and the most
frequent, and therefore it comes at the top of the list. Conversely, the AA combination is
listed at the end because it is the least likely to be physically experienced. The senses of
the preposition are listed in the left column and so are the combinations of the
co-occurring nouns in the first row of the table. Then the occurrence of senses and
combinations in my corpus data was plotted in Table 6.13 in Chapter 6 and Table 7.22 in
Chapter 7.
282
F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F % F %
P Penetration 56 (21) 94 (36) 3 (1) 35 (13) 1 (0.4) 8 (3) 6 (2) 59 (23) 262 (40.4)
O Orientation 7 (32) 7 (32) 1 (5) 3 (14) 4 (18) 22 (3.4)
C 1 (100) 1 (0.2)
S
Affecting surface,
embedded
19 (95) 1 (5) 20 (3.1)
M Encounter 6 (100) 6 (0.9)
Progression cluster
IN Integration 3 (16) 7 (37) 9 (47) 19 (2.9)
TM Time 5 (63) 3 (38) 8 (1.2)
Retrogression cluster
W Withdrawal 2 (100) 2 (0.3)
IV Involvement 20 (100) 20 (3.1)
Starting cluster
AC Starting an action 29 (59) 4 (8) 16 (33) 49 (7.6)
ST Starting a state 26 (37) 10 (14) 35 (49) 71 (11.0)
CO Concerning, about 5 (8) 46 (75) 1 (2) 9 (15) 61 (9.4)
Change of state cluster
PR
Change into parts or
pieces
18 (33) 5 (9) 5 (9) 1 (2) 25 (46) 54 (8.3)
MP Metamorphosis 17 (32) 7 (13) 2 (4) 2 (4) 25 (47) 53 (8.2)
117 113 0 28 178 1 29 6 176 648 (100.0)
sum
AC AA
HC CH HH HA
senses
AH CA
Collision cluster
CC
Table 8.1 Distribution of the HCA combinations and the senses of into
As shown in Table 8.1Table 8.1 above (a re-presentation of Table 6.13 in
Chapter 6), the frequency of the senses and the combinations displays a general
tendency towards a correlation between the senses of the preposition and the
combinations. This co-occurrence is also observed between the senses of through and
the HCA combinations of the co-occurring nouns. These results again seem likely to
support my hypothesis that the collocations of a preposition can predict the sense of that
preposition (see Chapter 1). The theory of phraseology in corpus linguistics holds that
meaning does not emerge from a word but from the phrase composed of the word and
the collocations. If the theory is applied to the results of this study, it is likely that it is
not the preposition alone that denotes the sense which is considered to emerge from the
preposition, but the phrase containing the preposition and the co-occurring nouns, which
convey the physical and metaphorical senses of the preposition. To put it another way,
283
the senses of into, such as penetration, encountering, integration and the other senses,
may be dissolved into the phrase containing the preposition with the collocations
contributing to our determination of the sense.
As far as meaning is concerned, boundaries between words are unlikely to be
important (cf. Taylor, 2003). Rather, the phrase composed of a word and its collocations
determines the meaning (Huston and Francis, 2000). The senses which are considered to
emerge from the preposition may depend on collocations such as the co-occurring nouns,
verb and other elements of the phrase. As shown in Figure 8.2 below, I would argue that
each element of the clause, for example, the nouns the cat and the wall, the verb jumped
and the preposition over, functions to generate the meaning of the clause The cat
jumped over the wall. Here the relationship between the cat and the wall is assumed to
be close since they are named as the trajector (TR) and the landmark (LM). I apply the
relationship of the two entities in a physical configuration to the semantic association of
the nouns before and after the preposition. It appears that the TR and LM combinations,
which are categorized into human (H), concrete object (C), and abstract object (A), can
predict the sense of the preposition. Specifically, the combination of the cat and the wall
can predict the on-the-other-side-of sense of over. This is because, through our
experiences, we have knowledge that a cat is able to go to the other side of a wall.
Moreover, the verb jumped adds more information to the movement to the-other-side.
Articles and other grammatical markers, such as plural –s, can also contribute to the
generation of meaning. Eye co-occurs with article an in the sense of surveillance as in to
keep an eye on something (Danielsson, 2003), while visual organs tend to be expressed
in the plural as in dark brown eyes. Although every word in the phrase and the clause
can contribute to meaning, this study focuses on the combination of the preceding and
284
following nouns in order to discover the correlation with the sense of the preposition. In
conclusion, the co-occurring nouns to a certain extent predict the sense of the
preposition, although it may be the case that the sense is interpreted by the phrase.
Figure 8.2 Generation of the meaning of The cat jumped over the wall
If it is the case that the phrase gives rise to the senses of the preposition, does
the preposition alone, unlike the other words, not have an independent meaning? Is the
preposition a dependent element of meaning, while the verb and noun contribute to the
sense made of the phrase? While, in a dictionary of phrasal verbs, the verb is the entry
word of the phrasal verb and the preposition (or particle) is its dependant, the particle
index lists the senses of the phrasal verb as an indicator of the sense (Sinclair et al.,
2002). As discussed in the earlier chapter on over (see Chapter 5), the verb certainly
differentiates between the ‘covering’ senses of over, which vary in terms of the density
of covering from ‘distributive location’ (e.g., EXIST) through ‘multiplex path’ (e.g.,
DRIFT) and ‘lacunal covering’ (e.g., SPREAD) to ‘concealing covering’ (e.g., GLOSS). In
addition, the nouns before and after the preposition are involved in conveying the
meaning of the phrase. Although the verb is considered the core of the phrase, in some
cases the verb, in particular, such basic verbs as COME and GO, is unlikely to be a
The cat jumped over the wall
TR and LM combination
meaning
285
deciding factor of the meaning of the phrase. Rather, some types of noun contribute
decisively to the meaning. According to my corpus data, the HA combination is
frequently found with COME into followed by being and existence, whereas the AA
combination with COME into occurs with a wider variety of preceding nouns, such as
coherence, proposal and power, and following nouns, such as effect, force and play. The
combination of the preposition with nouns as well as with verbs makes it easier to
provide a comprehensive account of the sense of the preposition and its environment.
Admittedly, this study is unlikely to reveal whether prepositions have an independent
meaning; however, it reveals that co-occurring verbs and nouns are both involved in
specifying the sense of prepositions.
The sense of the preposition may be interpreted by means of such collocations
as the co-occurring nouns and verbs. Resolving the polysemy of prepositions is unlikely
to be based on the preposition alone, but the phrase containing the preposition and its
collocations allows the preposition to be interpreted in different senses. The sense of the
preposition is determined by a particular pattern. For example, the CC combination
tends to occur with the preposition denoting the locative sense, whereas the HA
combination is frequently found with the preposition conveying human relationships
and activities. The phrase helps us to identify one particular sense of the preposition,
although the preposition on its own looks polysemous. Moreover, a strong version of
my hypothesis could be made: the preposition intrinsically has only the sense of its
prototype, such as the penetration sense of into and the traversal sense of through. Noun
and verb collocations may trigger an interpretation of the prototypical sense where it is
extended into a metaphorical one. For example, the temporal sense, as in at seven, can
be interpreted as a place on a timeline as a result of the synthesis of the locative sense of
286
the preposition with the collocation of a noun indicating time. Such semantic extension
is conventionalised, and then we may consider prepositions as polysemous.
Collocations are likely to make us see the preposition as if it had polysemous senses,
although the polysemy may be due to the collocation, and not to the preposition.
8.2 The HCA combinations and semantic network
The semantic network of polysemy depicts the relationships between the senses of a
word. The diagram of the semantic network seems to illustrate two possible hypotheses
in cognitive linguistics (Figure 8.3 below). One hypothesis is that the semantic network
consists of the central sense and the peripheral senses. The central sense is the prototype
of the polysemous word, while the peripheral senses semantically derive from the
prototype. Take over, for example. The central sense of the semantic network is the
locative sense of location above1
, while the other senses are the peripheral senses
surrounding the central sense in the semantic network. The other hypothesis is that the
peripheral senses are derived from the central sense. The peripheral senses of over,
‘covering’ and ‘examining’ for example, are assumed to derive from the prototypical
sense of locating above. When something is covered, another thing is located on or
above it. When we examine a document, our eyes are located above it.
The HCA combinations are compatible with both hypotheses. Regarding the
first hypothesis of the central and peripheral senses, the combinations of the concrete
TR and the concrete LM, on the one hand, are likely to be the collocates of the central
sense of prepositions, which closely relate to the embodied experiences of the spatial
configuration in which concrete entities tend to be involved. In other words, the CC
1
The central sense is coined as ‘proto-scene’ in the semantic network of over by Tyler and Evans
(2003a: 80) on the basis of linguistic evidence (see section 5.1).
287
combination can predict the central sense of the preposition. On the other hand, the
combinations containing an abstract TR or LM, such as CA, HA, AC, AH, or AA, are
likely to co-occur with the peripheral senses of prepositions, which are not experienced
bodily, since the configuration is metaphorical. Likewise, the combinations containing
an abstract TR or LM can predict the peripheral senses of prepositions. As a result, the
HCA combinations can differentiate the central from the peripheral senses of
prepositions, not by a subjective interpretation of the preposition, but objectively by the
collocates of the preposition.
As for the second hypothesis, the derivation from the central sense and the
peripheral senses can also be explained by the HCA combinations. It may be supposed
that the derived senses are projected from the locative sense onto a metaphorical domain
in which the abstract TR and LM are involved. While the CC combination tends to
occur with the locative sense, the CA and HA are likely to be seen with the derived
sense in which the abstract LM is the target of a metaphorical projection from a
concrete entity. For example, the abstract LM, the future as in (1), is metaphorically
implied as the target of penetration by the TR, large brown eyes. In terms of the AA
combination, the relationship between the abstract TR and the abstract LM is interpreted
more metaphorically than the CC and CA combinations are. As in (2) below, the
preposition into indicates the direction of penetration from expectations to
disappointment, and at the same time the phrase is interpreted as a metamorphosis from
one abstract entity to the other. Hence, the continuum from the CC through the other
combinations to the AA is likely to show its derivation from the central, locative sense
to the metaphorical senses of prepositions.
(1) The second Alistair was a large, impressive man, with a square face, a
288
blunt nose and a slit of a mouth, contradicted by large brown eyes which
appeared to be good naturedly looking into the future. <W2F-017 #062>
(2) Thirteen days he calculated would allow as it were, just allow such
expectations like boredom with it [sic.] melt into a vague
disappointment,… <S1A-020 #111>
PROTO-SCENE
Covering
Examining
Focus-of-
attention
Reflexive
Repetition
A-B-C
Trajectory
Cluster
Up Cluster
On-the-
other-side-
of
Above-and-
beyond
(ExcessI)
Completion
Transfer
Temporal
Preference
Control
More
Over-and-
above
(ExcessII)
Figure 8.3 The semantic network for over (Tyler and Evans, 2003a: 80)
The appeal of the semantic network proposed by Tyler and Evans (2003a) lies
in the way that it makes explicit the semantic associations between the various senses
by means of semantic ‘clusters’ , which gather the senses sharing the same concept. The
A-B-C trajectory cluster groups the senses of ‘on-the-other-side’, ‘above-and-beyond’,
‘completion’, ‘transfer’ and ‘temporal’. The ‘up’ cluster includes the senses of
‘preference’, ‘control’ and ‘more’ with another subordinate derived sense,
‘over-and-above’. The clusters also suggest an extension from the prototypical sense to
289
the derived senses. In terms of the polysemy of the preposition, the locative sense is
considered the prototype. The senses of the preposition share a common feature of
having central and peripheral members in their network. The cluster associates them in
the category of over, into and through, for example. The senses belong to the
comprehensive category of the preposition.
The clusters in the semantic network can indicate the semantic elements of the
preposition. If language users are asked what their concept of the sense of over is, such
clusters as A-B-C trajectory and up are likely to be the archetypal concepts of the
preposition. As was introduced in section 2.3, Beital et al. (1997) point out that
language users perceive the locative sense of on, as in The vase is on the table, by
referring to the subdivided concepts of the sense, SUPPORT, PRESSURE, VISIBILITY,
COVERING and CONSTRAINT. Likewise, the A-B-C trajectory cluster can be the
underlying concept of the senses of ‘completion’, ‘transfer’ and ‘temporal’ of over, for
example. These senses seem to derive from the concept of movement from one to the
other, which is defined as the A-B-C trajectory. I find it intriguing that the clusters of
over are unlikely to be made randomly; rather, the concepts of the clusters appear to
agree with the image schemas2
(see the list of image schemas in Table 2.2 in section
2.3). The A-B-C trajectory corresponds to the path schema, as does the up to the scale
schema. The semantic network of into which I established from the corpus data has a
collision cluster which seems to be related to the blockage schema. The blockage
schema also seems relevant to the impediment schema of through. These relationships
between the clusters and the image schemas imply that the non-central senses of
prepositions are likely to develop through image schemas.
2
Image schemas are conceptual templates to help us to understand spatial and abstract
configurations (see section 2.3).
290
The peripheral senses of the semantic network differ considerably in meaning,
although they are expressed by the same orthographic form. The senses of the A-B-C
trajectory cluster, on the one hand ,denote physical and metaphorical movement from
one place through mid-point to another: the on-the-other-side sense, as in The cat
jumped over the wall, and the completion sense, as in …the fighting is over relatively
quickly <W2E-006 #084>. On the other hand, the senses of the ‘up’ cluster convey
abundance and superiority and movement is irrelevant to them. However, these different
senses are verbalised by over. Family resemblance is a theory which holds that a
category brings its members together by the different attributes which are shared by at
least some of the members (Rosch, 1975). Based on the theory of categorization, the
semantic network is likely to be composed of more than one attribute. I would argue, on
the basis of the analysis so far, that one feature of the prototypical sense may be
foregrounded, resulting in the derivation of the central sense, and the foregrounded
feature becomes the cluster of the semantic network. The different features of the
locative sense bring the polysemous senses together in the group of senses expressed by
the same orthographic form. The semantic network of the preposition is established by
the clusters which are associated with the senses, and we may understand the senses
through the clusters.
The semantic network of prepositions seems to suggest that polysemy develops
from a central sense, which tends to be locative or associated with movement, to the
derived senses, which are metaphorical. As shown above in the semantic network of
over in Figure 8.3, the proto-scene, indicating the locating above sense, is located at the
centre. The other senses are developed through the clusters to the metaphorical senses. I
apply the HCA combinations of the nouns co-occurring with the prepositions to
291
establish the semantic networks of through and into. This application is based on the
hypothesis that the polysemous senses of the prepositions correspond to their linguistic
environments, in particular the noun combinations before and after the preposition. As
the above suggests, a correlation between the senses of the prepositions and the
combinations of the preceding and following nouns can be observed. I hypothesise that
the frequency of the HCA combinations of the senses can give a rationale as to where
the derived senses are placed in the semantic network.
The semantic network of over by Tyler and Evans (2003a), shown above in
Figure 8.3, seems unlikely to have a specific rationale underlying the position of the
clusters and the peripheral senses. For example, the A-B-C cluster and the up cluster are
placed on the left of the network, while the senses of covering, examining and
focus-of-attention are at the top on the right. However, except for the extension from the
centre to the periphery, there appears to be no particular reason for where the senses
should lie. The HCA combination provides a possible rationale for the positioning of the
senses in the diagram. As shown below, the frequent combinations of the nouns assign
the senses to their place in the semantic network. The senses co-occurring with the CC
combination are located at the top on the left of the network, whereas those with the HA
combination are further down on the right. This positioning illustrates that these senses
are used in a different linguistic environment. In other words, different collocations are
seen in the senses of these combinations. Again, the combination of the co-occurring
nouns can predict the sense of the preposition. The linguistic environment, which
represents collocation and pattern, tells us which one of the polysemous senses to use in
our interpretation.
292
Figure 8.4 Domains of the HCA combinations of into
At the same time, the domains of the HCA combinations in the semantic
network demonstrate the way in which the central sense and the clusters at the
near-centre develop into the metaphorical senses. It is argued in cognitive linguistics
that the category expands radially from the centre to the periphery. My semantic
networks of into and through formulated from the corpus data have a tendency to form
radial categories (Figure 8.5 below). It is surprising that the extension from centre to
periphery of the HA combination goes further towards the metaphorical senses.
Prepositions are prone to be related to the locative sense; however, the radial extension
reveals that so many human activities in metaphorical settings, as well as physical ones,
are expressed by prepositions. In conclusion, the HCA combinations give rise to a
semantic network of the prepositions which brings into play the theories of prototype,
Penetration
Orientation
Concerning,
about
Withdrawal
Progression
cluster
Encounter
Integration
Retrogression
cluster
Starting
cluster
Change into parts
Starting
a state
Starting
an action
Collision cluster
Affecting surface,
embedded
Time
Involvement
Metamorphosis
[CC]
[AA]
[HH]
[HA]
Reflexive
293
trajector and landmark, family resemblance and radial category.
Figure 8.5 Radial category of the HA combination of into
To sum up, the HCA combinations have supplemented the conventional
semantic network by giving reasons for the particular allocation of the clusters and the
peripheral senses as well as showing a radial extension within the semantic network.
The HCA combinations demonstrate the correlation between the senses and the
co-occurring nouns, as the theory of phraseology in corpus linguistics postulates a
relationship between collocation and sense. As a result, I would like to propose that
HCA combinations constitute a robust indicator concerning the polysemous nature of
prepositions. In the following section, I discuss the way in which metaphor is related to
semantic extension and consider whether there is a tendency for this to be extended in
the different prepositions.
Penetration
Orientation
Concerning,
about
Withdrawal
Progression
cluster
Encounter
Integration
Retrogression
cluster
Starting
cluster
Change into parts
Starting
a state
Starting
an action
Collision cluster
Affecting surface,
embedded
Time
Involvement
Metamorphosis
Reflexive
294
8.3 Metaphor in the semantic network
Prepositions have not only physical senses in the semantic category but also
metaphorical ones. As we saw in the analyses of over, into and through in Chapters 5, 6
and 7 respectively, the senses of the prepositions illustrated in the semantic networks are
not only physical and locative but also to a large extent metaphorical. The metaphorical
senses are used in a number of settings in which human activities and feelings are
described. It is argued that the locative and movement sense of prepositions, which is
located at the centre of the semantic network, is developed into the metaphorical senses.
In other words, the metaphorical senses of prepositions can be derived from their
‘physical senses’. This is a unique feature of the semantic network of prepositions and
makes this semantic network of prepositions different from the category of artefacts and
animals. The senses of a preposition as a member of its category do share the
prototypical sense to varying degrees. For example, according to the semantic network
(Figure 8.3 above), the locative sense of over denoting locating, above, develops into
the sense of more, as in …twenty teaching jobs will be cut in order to save over four
hundred and fifty thousand pounds <S2B-015 #076>. The semantic attribute of ‘locating
over’ is partially possessed by this ‘more’ sense. The ‘more’ sense is also extended into
the ‘over-and-above’ sense, as in I’m just watching the potatoes boil over3
<S1A-016
#337>. The semantic attribute of the prototype is partly shared by the members of the
category, namely the derived senses.
The semantic network is established by metaphorical extension from the
prototype. The clusters within the semantic network are likely to be involved in the
extension to the peripheral senses. I would argue, from analyses of the semantic
3
Over here is not a preposition but an adverbial particle. The example of the reference of the
semantic extension is extracted from my corpus data.
295
network, that the clusters are likely to motivate the semantic extension. As the previous
section argues, the clusters are likely to constitute the key elements of the derived
senses. The metaphorical senses of the prepositions are developed from the prototypical
sense through the clusters. My argument is that the clusters of metaphorical senses may
emerge from image schemas, which are the conceptual templates of our cognition. The
semantic network of the prepositions encapsulates the way in which we relate the
locative sense to the metaphorical senses. In the semantic network of into, the collision
cluster derives from the prototypical penetration sense and extends into the affecting
surface/embedded sense and the encounter sense. As for through, the impediment
cluster derives from the prototypical traversal sense and extends into the metaphorical
senses of obstacle and success. Both clusters of the prepositions are likely to be based
on ‘the blockage schema’ (Johnson, 1987: 126, see Table 2.2 in section 2.3), indicating
that the trajector is stuck on the surface of the landmark. This image schema helps us to
project the semantic extension of blockage onto the prototypes, which results in the
derivation of the metaphorical senses. It can in turn be concluded that the semantic
network to which I apply the HCA combinations can demonstrate the metaphorical
extension from the prototype through the clusters to the derived senses.
A main argument in phraseology is that meaning is conveyed, not by individual
words, but by the phrase formulated by the collocations, which specifies a particular
meaning that tends not to be misinterpreted in communication. I agree with this
proposition and then apply the HCA combinations of the co-occurring words to
describing the senses of the prepositions. I can do so because the linguistic environment,
namely collocations, can be used to identify the polysemous senses. This hypothesis has
been revealed by the correlation between the noun combinations and the senses in
296
section 8.1 above. For the purpose of the analysis of metaphor into the senses of
prepositions, the HCA combinations shed light on not only the linguistic environment
but also the settings in which the senses are used. The HCA combinations are the
collocations of the nouns co-occurring with the preposition. In addition, the nouns
represent the agent and the target object, which are termed trajector and landmark, in
terms of the configuration of the preposition. In other words, the HCA combinations
indicate the setting of prepositions in which the trajector affects the landmark in the
configuration. For example, Figure 8.6 below shows that the obstacle sense is frequently
seen in a metaphorical configuration such as the HA and AA combinations; this sense is
not found in the CC combination, although the sense of ‘obstacle’ may imply a physical
impediment. The frequent combinations suggest that the obstacle sense is used in
settings where a human or abstract trajector is obstructed by an abstract landmark, as in
And that's something we've got to work through <S1B-044 #048>. The application of
the HCA combinations to the semantic network is likely to provide a further description
of the metaphor in the prepositional phrase, describing in particular the linguistic
environment and the setting.
297
CC HC HA (including the AA area and some HC) AA
Figure 8.6 Domains of the HCA combinations of through
The HCA combination provides a robust indicator of collocation which can be
used to describe the metaphorical senses of prepositions and their phrases. The
combinations suggest the motivation for extending the sense from the locative into the
metaphorical. First, the HCA combinations manage to display the mapping of a physical
sense of the preposition onto a metaphorical setting. As shown in example (3) below, the
‘locating above’ sense of over is used in the CC combination. The configuration of
‘locating above’ can be mapped onto the metaphorical trajectors, such as curse in (4)
and threat in (5). In these cases, while the configuration between the trajector and the
landmark is spatial and concrete, the trajectors are abstract. So the phrases containing
the locative sense over convey a metaphorical meaning. The spatial sense of the
preposition and the abstract landmark are also observed in examples of into, such as (6)
below.
Traversal
Reason,
because of
Impediment
cluster
Examining
Obstacle
Protrusion
Make
someone do
Covering
Success
Temporal
A-B-C
trajectory
cluster
On-the-
other-side
-of
Experience
By means of
Effect
cluster
[CC]
[HC]
[HA]
[AA]
298
(3) A mist hung over the river. <W2F-013 #071>
(4) Does some sort of curse hang over the place? <W2F-016 #069>
(5) But it’s a threat that still looms over him. <S2B-040 #064>
(6) …but as soon as I get into a conversation, the vocabulary that I know I
must know and do know is back there somewhere. <S1A-044 #048>
Note that, although the meaning of the phrase is metaphorical, the sense of the
preposition is not abstract, but rather spatial and prototypical. The metaphorical sense of
prepositions is the derivation of the locative and movement senses. The HCA
combinations of the nouns before and after the preposition help us to identify the
metaphorical mapping of the spatial sense onto a metaphorical configuration. I would
hypothesise that this kind of mapping occurs at the early stages of a semantic extension,
which gradually develops into an independent metaphorical sense. For example, the
temporal sense of prepositions may derive from the mapping of the locative sense onto
an abstract landmark of time. The temporal sense of prepositions may not be an
independent sense, but may be an interpretation of the locative sense with the abstract
landmark of time.
As discussed above, the demarcation of the senses between the locative and the
temporal is unlikely to be clear-cut and is probably fuzzy. My second hypothesis
concerning the semantic extension of polysemy is that an independent sense of
prepositions may be a metonymically highlighted part of the process of movement.
Metonymy is a concept in cognitive linguistics which represents the foregrounding of a
relationship. A well-known example of metonymy is given by Lakoff and Johnson
(1980: 35): The ham sandwich is waiting for his check. As the possessive determiner his
indicates, the ham sandwich refers to the customer who orders it and is foregrounded
299
from the relationship between the customer and the order. The prepositions over, into
and through are based on the path schema, which is divided into the starting point, the
mid-point and the end point. It seems to me that some of the derived senses refer to a
part of the path and that part of the path process is highlighted as if it denoted an
independent sense. For example, the affecting surface/embedded sense of into, which
emerges through the collision cluster, seems likely to foreground the mid-point of
penetration of the trajector into the landmark. As in (7) below, the hieroglyphs do not
reach the end point of the path, which is the inside of the limestone, but they remain on
the surface of the landmark. This is the mid-point of the path. This foregrounding of a
part of the path may give rise to the affecting surface/embedded sense of into. Similarly,
the protrusion sense of through is likely to be due to the foregrounding of the end-point.
Example (8) indicates that the trajector, cast-iron beam, in particular its end part, is
highlighted compared to the middle and the other end. Consequently, if these senses are
‘metonymical transformations’ of the penetration sense and the traversal sense
respectively, the derived senses are, as a result, not independent senses as such, but
rather subspecies of the prototypical senses.
(7) And this as we have always said is the real measure of skill because the
hieroglyphs here are incised into the limestone. <S2A-052 #070>
(8) A great cast-iron beam protruded through an opening high up in the
building. <W2F-007 #003>
The third hypothesis is that the metaphorical extension of prepositional senses
is unlikely to be random, but rather is prone to extend into particular senses, such as
those relating to time and human action. As shown in the semantic networks of into and
through (Figures 8.4 and 8.6 above), the HA combination was found frequently and
300
with a number of senses. The HA combination with into was seen in 10 senses out of 14
and was more frequent than any other combination. Likewise, the HA combination with
through was the most frequent of all of the combinations (9 senses out of 12). This
implies that human activity towards an abstract landmark is frequently spoken and
written about. It also implies that human activity is pervasive not only in a physical
setting but also in a metaphorical one. The temporal sense is a good example of the
metaphorical extension of the physical, locative sense. Although time is an abstract
concept, we perceive it as something physical or spatial. As discussed in section 2.4, we
see time either as moving (the moving time model) as in Christmas is getting closer
(Evans, 2007b: 753), or as ourselves moving towards it (the moving ego model) as in
We’re getting closer to Christmas. This perception is likely to derive from the
metaphorical mapping of a physical path onto an abstract timeline. Similarly, human
activity is extended into an abstract domain. For example in (9), illustrating the
experience sense of through, people cannot physically go though a divorce, but we
somehow perceive it as something which we might traverse. And in (10), showing the
start of an action sense of into, while people cannot physically go into paying the poll
tax, we still perceive it as something which we could enter.
(9) Uh, now he’s just going through a divorce again. <S1A-076 #042>
(10) But the chairman of Brent Against The Poll Tax, Theresa Dean, slated
the proposal, saying: ‘This is a bribe to lure people into paying the poll
tax’. <W2C-009 #050>
To sum up this section, the HCA combinations and the semantic networks
contribute to the discovery of the elements of semantic extension which closely relate to
metaphor. The cluster is likely to associate the spatial sense with the metaphorical
301
senses and gives rise to semantic extension into the metaphorical senses. The HCA
combinations in the semantic network suggest three hypotheses concerning the
metaphorical behaviour of prepositions: motivation, metonymy and a general tendency
towards extension. The spatial sense is metaphorically motivated by mapping onto an
abstract domain. Specifically, the locative sense is projected, maintaining a spatial
configuration onto a conceptual timeline which results in it being interpreted as the
temporal sense. Metonymy, whereby a part of the path scheme is foregrounded, is
ubiquitous in the derived senses. Human activities are expressed by many derived
senses of prepositions, as well as the temporal sense. This has been suggested by the
high frequency of the HA combination in the semantic networks of into and through.
8.4 Applications of the results and limitations
The results of this study suggest that the trajector and landmark collocations can predict
the sense of a co-occurring preposition to the extent that, although no one-to-one
relationship exists between one combination and the sense of the preposition, a certain
type of combination does tend to occur with particular senses. Three applications for
this finding can be cited: accounts in dictionaries, machine translations and the teaching
of English as a foreign language. Although collocation has been used in the description
of phrases in dictionaries and textbooks of languages, the relationship between the sense
of prepositions and their collocates, which has been explored in this study, is likely to
specifically point to one sense out of several possible senses by the linguistic behaviour.
Firstly, descriptions of collocations such as trajector and landmark can be used
to provide detailed accounts of the senses of prepositions and contrast the polysemous
senses more clearly. For example, Collins Cobuild Advanced Learner’s English
302
Dictionary shows the senses of over by an example sentence, as in a bridge over the
river Danube, giving an explanation of the sense which is paraphrased from the sense
into a detailed description, such as …the first thing is directly above the second, either
resting on it, or with a space between them, (Sinclair et al., 2003: 1022). This locative
sense is prototypical and most likely the basic sense of the preposition. However, some
instances in my corpus data were found to metaphorically use the ‘locating above’ sense,
which connotes domination by something negative, as in Does some sort of curse hang
over the place? <W2F-016 #069> and But it’s a threat that still looms over him
<S2B-040 #064>. The trajectors of abstract objects, such as curse and threat, in
combination with the landmarks, such as the place and him, indicate the semantic
extension of the locative sense into the metaphorical meaning of domination over place
and person. The difference in the trajector-landmark combinations between the CC,
such as a bridge and the river; the AC, such as the curse and the place; and the AH,
such as a threat and him, indicate the semantic variation of the locative sense. Such
differences in the senses could be described by classifying the collocations of the
trajector and the landmark into the HCA combinations, and added to the description in
the dictionary.
If information on the HCA combinations is provided, it becomes less difficult
to interpret the polysemous preposition correctly. In Japanese, for example, the
equivalent of all three prepositions at, on and in is only one particle, ni. It is thus
difficult for Japanese learners of English to choose which preposition to use. Also, when
reading and listening to English, learners find many ways to interpret prepositions, due
to the difficulty of specifying the sense of prepositions according to the context. The
context provided by the phrases and sentences tells us which sense of the polysemous
303
preposition is to be inferred. However, the HCA combinations, composed of the
trajector and the landmark, can specify one of the senses, whereas the context depends
more on many other components, such as the preceding and following sentence and
paragraph, than on the trajector and the landmark. The minimum number of components
of the context, trajector and landmark, can predict a particular sense of the polysemous
preposition.
Secondly, the HCA combinations may contribute to the development of
machine translation. If the HCA tags are annotated to the trajector word and the
landmark word, the interpretation of the preposition could be more accurate than it is
when one translates the preposition without referring to the combination of collocations.
A conventional machine translation tends to translate one word into its equivalent in
another language. One-to-one word translation of polysemous word poses problems for
machine translation as the computer does not know which sense to choose.
Interpretation with the help of collocations, namely the HCA combinations, can narrow
the choice of the sense of the preposition according to the context. As has been
discussed, the context containing the prepositional phrase is to a certain extent reflected
in the combination of the trajector and the landmark. The classification of the HCA
combinations is represented as a process of context interpretation. Every single word of
the sentence containing a preposition is involved in interpreting the preposition. As
shown in this study, not only the co-occurring nouns but also the verb, the article and
the clause structure as represented by the passive voice, for example, appear to be
related to the interpretation of a particular sense of the preposition. It may be difficult to
associate all the co-occurring words with a particular sense, because too many variables
are unlikely to help the algorithm of machine translation to work efficiently. The HCA
304
combinations are so simple that only two nouns co-occurring with a preposition give
any indication of context to determine the sense of the preposition.
“Tags are more than just keywords but symbols for personal concepts” (Adrian
et al., 2007: 298). A part-of-speech tag is a representation of the grammar concept of
language on the hypothesis that we categorize words on the basis of grammar. If HCA
combination tags were to be established, they would symbolise our conception of a
spatial configuration and a metaphorical one. In other words, our construal of the
relationship of two entities mediated by a preposition could be shown by the HCA
combinations. When we see a relationship of two concrete objects, it tends to be
interpreted as a spatial configuration. In contrast, the involvement of an abstract object
in a relationship indicated by a preposition is often interpreted as the metaphorical sense,
which is semantically extended from the locative sense. For example, in Uh, now he’s
just going through a divorce again <S1A-076 #042>, an imaginary path movement for
him to go through a divorce is interpreted as the experience sense of through as a
semantic extension from the physical path movement. The HCA combinations are not
only tags to facilitate a more accurate translation of prepositions; rather, they are the
representation of our concepts in terms of interpreting the configurations indicated by
the prepositions. However, is our construal of the relationships of prepositions so
straightforwardly classifiable into human (H), concrete objects (C) and abstract objects
(A)? The three categories of the HCA may not be precise enough to represent our
classification of the trajector and the landmark of prepositions. Such limitations are
discussed in detail later in this section.
Thirdly, the HCA combinations may be a powerful tool for enhancing the study
of English as a second language. As a learner of English, I struggle to master the use of
305
prepositions. The reason for the difficulty is that the use of prepositions is not clearly
explained in grammar books and the rules of their usage seem to reflect
conventionalities of the language. These conventionalities seem to largely depend on the
innate judgement of language users. Native speakers can confidently tell which sense is
being conveyed and which preposition is appropriate. Such judgements are unlikely to
be classifiable under the rules of ‘correct English’ and it is hard for language learners to
acquire the necessary sensibility. However, I believe that the HCA combinations make
the process of judgement explicit by focusing on the classification of the trajector and
the landmark co-occurring with a preposition. Similar to the application for dictionary
definitions, the classification of the trajector and the landmark, rather than interpreting
the preposition alone, may help learners identify which of the polysemous senses of the
preposition is relevant. The indication of the pattern containing the HCA combination
and the preposition may encourage learners not to puzzle over the various possible
choices among the several senses of the preposition. Moreover, the teaching of
prepositions in English language classrooms would change. Teachers could encourage
learners not to focus on the preposition alone when interpreting it, but to direct their
attention to the collocations, the HCA combinations in particular. Interpreting
prepositions with the help of the collocations can be beneficial for helping learners to
realise the semantic associations of the words in the phrase.
The semantic networks of into and through based on the distribution of the
HCA combinations have been presented in this study. These diagrams of the
polysemous senses may also help learners to learn the semantic extension from the
locative sense to the metaphorical one. Those semantic networks illustrate the semantic
development of the locative sense of the prepositions and similar senses are placed in
306
the same domain of the HCA combinations, according to their distribution. For example,
while the penetration sense and the senses of change of state and collision of into are
placed in the CC combination domain of the semantic network, the senses of encounter
and integration of into are in the HH combination domain (see section 6.4 Figure 6.20).
Therefore, the collocations represented by the HCA combinations may encourage
learners to systematically understand the polysemous senses of prepositions following
the way in which similar senses are found with the same HCA combination. Raising a
language learner’s awareness of metaphor in semantic extension is likely to enhance
their understanding of the use of prepositions (Littlemore, 2009).
The HCA combinations, which are the main contribution of this study to
linguistic applications, have some limitations. As mentioned above, the classification
into the HCA may not be finely enough grained to reflect our construal of the
relationship of prepositions. For the purpose of statistical tests, the categories of this
study were restricted to three, namely, human, concrete object and abstract object.
Schönefeld (2006: 307) applies five categories to classify the trajector in relation to
posture verbs: human beings, concrete objects, abstract objects, personified objects and
animals. In this study animals are regarded as animate and fall into the human category
which includes animate living things, but flowers and plants are excluded from this and
are instead categorized as concrete objects. In terms of categorization, scientific
taxonomies do not always agree with our subjective classification in language (cf.
linguistic and encyclopaedic knowledge, Taylor, 2003:85). In Japanese, living fish and
dead fish are spoken of different ways, whereas in English the contrast is between meat
in the cooking context and in the farming context: ‘beef’ and ‘pork’ as opposed to ‘cow’
and ‘pig’. In addition to the HCA and Schönefeld’s categories, these categories and any
307
others may be involved in classifying entities in language and determining the meaning
of words.
8.5 Conclusion and future work
This study has explored the collocations of the polysemous prepositions, namely over,
into and through, on the hypothesis that the collocations of the trajector (TR) and the
landmark (LM) relate to the senses of the prepositions. The trajector and landmark are
considered to compose a spatial configuration and represent our construal of the
relationships of prepositions. I have used this theory from cognitive linguistics to
discuss the relationships between preceding and following nouns as collocations with
the preposition. Statistical tests have shown a correlation between the sense of the
preposition and the distribution of the HCA combinations of the co-occurring nouns.
These results imply that it is to some degree possible to describe the different senses of
prepositions by referring to the collocations of the trajector and the landmark. Hence,
the hypothesis of cognitive linguistics that the TR and the LM are related in the
configuration of prepositions has been supported by the corpus evidence. Equally, it was
found that the association of the collocations of the TR and the LM was supported by
hypotheses from cognitive linguistics. As suggested in the introduction to this thesis, it
turns out that corpus linguistics and cognitive linguistics complement each other in
describing the polysemy of prepositions.
Some future research projects can be suggested in the light of this study. First,
the cognitive processes of metaphor and metonymy in the polysemy of prepositions
await further examination. As has been seen in the analyses in this study, metaphor is
ubiquitous in the semantic extensions of the derived senses of prepositions. The
308
extension is unlikely to be random and indeed seems to be logically structured
according to image schemas (see section 8.2). As regards metonymy, it appears that
highlighting a part of the path movement results in establishing a derived sense: for
example, the end-point of the path movement is highlighted when the affecting surface
sense of into is conveyed, as in …Lambert’s Daimler crashed into a sports
car…<S2B-017 #055>. Investigating the sense in which such metonymical highlighting
occurs will probably explain our construal when interpreting spatial configurations.
Second, we should examine how far idioms prevail over TR and LM
combinations. Prepositions tend to be treated as part of an idiom which is considered as
a fixed phrase. Unlike my hypothesis of the combination of TR and LM, the preposition
in the idiom seems to lessen a semantic association with the TR, since the association of
the words in the idiom phrase seems relatively stronger. For example, in …as heavy
investment and speedier servicing of customers in Europe came into play…<W2C-005
#079>, it seems that the LM, play, does not occur in relation to the TR, investment and
servicing; instead, play occurs as an idiom, COME into play (Hunston, personal
communication). Although this may be so, my corpus data suggest that only certain
types of word, such as abstract objects, co-occur with the idiom. Hence, the choice of
the TR (or the subject phrase) is to a certain extent restricted in relation to the idiom
containing the LM.
Third, establishing the semantic network of prepositions by non-native
speakers may differ from that by native speakers. Different mother languages are likely
to affect the interlanguage in the acquisition of a second language (Granger, 1998). This
study focuses on the semantic networks of native English speakers, whereas using HCA
combinations could uncover the semantic network of the interlanguage of learners of
309
English. Comparing these semantic networks would indicate which senses and
combinations are underused in the acquisition of English and what types of semantic
extension are difficult to develop in the interlanguage concerned.
My present journey of research ends with this comment. The classification of
the TR and the LM has the potential to describe the senses of words and suggests that
meaning is not conveyed by one word alone, but rather by phrases composed of
collocations. This finding helps me understand the polysemy of prepositions and a
possible way for native speakers of English to tell which sense is conveyed. However, it
is highly likely that more than the TR and LM combination is involved in establishing
the meaning of preposition-centred phrases. Some uses of the phrases can be explained
only as conventional uses. The use of language and the minds of language users seem to
be distant, but I hope that this study begins to bridge the gap between these two aspects
of linguistics.
310
Appendix 1: Enquiries and questionnaire concerning classification (Chapter 3)
311
Human (animate), concrete object and abstract object classification
Your first language is
Please write H (human), C (concrete object) or A (abstract object) under the shaded words.
(1) I suppose that statistic which you gave eighty per cent of, the population wanting to
go into the countryside there's a great change that has taken place since the
motorcar really because at the beginning of the century for instance people would
have gone.
(2) and in this case because everything was done in a bit of a rush uh then she just
appointed people she knew who were active in the union and who came into the
faculty of arts,
(3) The eight bands will now form into close columns and divisions for the march off.
(4) At present a company wanting to take over another has to show that it is not against
the public interest.
(5) … Third World countries and which have displayed rapid economic and industrial
growth over the past three to four decades.
(6) He said the United Nations had no control over the military action
(7) And they lead to forces acting on the structural elements which are usually then
distributed through the height of the building.
(8) The sound of one of Avignon's many choirs echoes through the stone arches of the
cathedral,
(9) As they come into the final bend now it's going to be Chris Louis who takes the
chequered flag.
(10) Nerve injuries have been classified into various grades and these are
discussed below.
(11) Propellant took up 75 per cent of the V-2's take-off weight, enabling it to achieve a
maximum speed of 3,500 miles per hour (5,600 kilometres per hour ), only
one-fifth of the velocity needed to go into orbit.
(12) Again, power is obtained by transferring the weight forwards, so try to step into
the shot.
(13) Uhm the voices are coming over quite loud over the cans.
(14) And,, I must have been looking through one of my old notebooks from Cambridge
or something before I was telling him about it.
(15) We'll run through the Arsenal line-up.
(16) Just to run through the batsmen who scored the runs Taylor four Benson
312
forty-three Hinkstwenty-five in only twenty one twenty-one balls Graham Cowdry
fifteen Nigel Long five Matthew Flemingthat delightful fifty-one Steve Marsh six.
(17) And so, on 28 May, having spent fourteen weeks in the Marshalsea, John Dickens
was released into the world.
(18) It's clear the coalition is not in a mood to negotiate over its demands with the main
issues expected to be resolved tomorrow.
Thank you very much for your help.
Yoshi
313
QUESTIONNAIRE OF SENSES OF PREPOSITION
I wonder if you would mind spending two minutes to help me with my PhD research? The
senses of prepositions seem to be on a continuum from literal to metaphorical. Would you put
the senses of into in the following nine sentences IN ORDER on this continuum? Please give
each sentence a number from 1 (the most literal, or the most concrete and material) to 9 (the
most metaphorical); would you write this number in the bracket before the sentence?
( ) It was when Charles came into the room.
( ) The door opened directly into the living room.
( ) Mr Les Crewes, whose daughter Joanne died when Lambert’s Daimler
crashed into a sports car last May, said he had no sympathy for the man behind
the wheel.
( ) Guy, how did you get into this business of theatre composing?
( ) In the deepening recession good companies as well as bad are being plunged
into liquidity problems.
( ) He told his audience that a common currency could evolve into a single
currency but only as a result of the choice of governments and peoples and not
by imposition.
( ) Panathinaikos to their credit have brought a positive approach into this game.
( ) The immense power of chemicals has seduced us into believing that we can lord it
over nature.
( ) A government inquiry was set up in 1934 to look into the future of television
broadcasting and decided that a service should be set up and run by the BBC.
Thank you very much for your help.
PhD student of English Department, Yoshi KAMAKURA
416
REFERENCES
Adrian, B., Sauermann, L., & Roth-Berghofer, T. (2007). ConTag: A semantic tag
recommendation system. Paper presented at the I-MEDIA 07 and I-SEMANTICS 07
Conference, Graz, Austria.
Allwood, J. (2003). Meaning potentials and context: Some consequences for the analysis of
variation in meaning. In H. Cuyckens, R. Dirven & J. Taylor (Eds.), Cognitive
approaches to lexical semantics (pp. 29-66). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Anscombe, G. M. E. (2002). The intentionality of sensation: a grammatical feature. In A. Noë &
E. Thompson (Eds.), Vision and mind: selected readings in the philosophy of perception
(pp. 55-75). Cambridge, Mass./London: MIT Press.
Barcelona, A. (2000). On the plausibility of claiming a metonmymic motivation for conceptual
metaphor. In A. Barcelona (Ed.), Metaphor and metonymy at the crossroads: A cognitive
perspective (pp. 31-57). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Beitel, D., Gibbs, R., & Sanders, P. (1997). The embodied approach to the polysemy of the
spatial preposition on. In H. Cuyckens & B. Zawada (Eds.), Polysemy in Cognitive
Linguistics: Selected Papers from the Fifth International Cognitive Linguistics
Conference (pp. 241-260). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Bennett, D. C. (1975). Spatial and Temporal Uses of English Prepositions: An Essay in
Stratificational Semantics. London: Longman Group Limited.
Berlin, B., & Kay, P. (1969). Basic Color Terms: Their universality and evolution. Berkeley
Los Angeles: University of California Press.
Biber, D., Conrad, S., & Leech, G. (2002). Longman Student Grammar of Spoken and Written
English. Harlow: Pearson Education Limited.
Biber, D., Conrad, S., & Roppen, R. (1998). Corpus Linguistics: Investingating Language
Structure and Use. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Boers, F. (1996). Spatial Prepositions and Metaphor: A cognitive semantic journey along the
UP-DOWN and the FRONT-BACK dimension. Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag.
Bowerman, M. (1996). Learning how to structure space for language: a crosslinguistic
perspective. In P. Bloom, M. Peterson, L. Nadel & M. Garrett (Eds.), Language and
space (pp. 385-436). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Brugman, C. (1981). Story of "over". Unpublished MA thesis, University of California, Berkley.
Brugman, C. (1988). The story of over: Polysemy, semantics and the structure of the lexicon.
New York: Garland Press.
Brugman, C., & Lakoff, G. (1988). Cognitive topology versus semantic features. In S. L. Small,
G. W. Cottrell & M. K. Tane (Eds.), Lexical Ambiguity Resolution: Perspectives from
Psycholinguistics, Neuropsychology and Artificial Intelligence (pp. 479-508). San Mateo:
CA: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers.
Bybee, J., & Hooper, P. (Eds.). (2001). Frequency and the emergence of linguistic structure.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Carroll, M. (1997). Changing place in English and German: language-specific preferences in the
conceptualization of spatial relations. In J. Nuyts & E. Pederson (Eds.), Language and
Conceptualization (pp. 137-161). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Casasanto, D., & Boroditsky, L. (2008). Time in the mind: Using space to think about time.
417
Cognition, 106, 579-593.
Choi, S., & Bowerman, M. (1991). Learning to express motion events in English and Korean:
The influence of language-specific lexicalization patterns. Cognition, 41, 83-121.
Chomsky, N. (1975). Reflections on language. New York: Pantheon.
Clark, E. (1973). Nonlinguistic strategies in the acquisition of word meanings. Cognition, 2,
161-182.
Cowie, A. P. (1988). Stable and creative aspects of vocabulary use. In R. Carter & M. McCathy
(Eds.), Vocabulary and Language Teaching (pp. 126-139). London: Longman.
Cowie, A. P. (1994). Phraseology. In R. E. Asher (Ed.), The Encyclopedia of Language and
Linguistics. Oxford: Pergamon.
Crane, T. (2001). Intentional objects. Ratio, 14, 336-349.
Croft, W., & Cruse, D. A. (2004). Cognitive Linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Cuyckens, H. (1993). The Dutch spatial preposition "in": A cognitive-semantic analysis. In C.
Zelinsky-Wibbeh (Ed.), The Semantics of Prepositions: from mental processing to natural
language (pp. 27-72). Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Cuyckens, H., Sandra, D., & Rice, S. (1997). Towards an empirical lexical semantics. In B.
Smieja & M. Tasch (Eds.), Human Contact Through Language and Linguistics (pp.
35-54). Berlin: Peter Lang.
Danielsson, P. (2003). Automatic extraction of meaningful units from corpora: A corpus-driven
approach using the word stroke. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics, 8(1),
109-127.
Day, R. (2000). The "Conduit Metaphor" and The Nature and Politics of Information Studies.
Journal of the American society for information science, 51(9), 805-811.
Descartes, R. (1984). The Philosophical writings of Descartes: vol. 2. New York: Cambridge
University Press.
Dewell, R. (1994). Over again: image-schema transformations in semantic analysis. Cognitive
Linguistics, 5(4), 351-380.
Dewell, R. (2007). Moving OVER: The role of systematic semantic processes in defining
individual lexemes. Annual Review of Cognitive Linguistics, 5, 271-288.
Dirven, R. (1985). Metaphor as a basic means for extending the lexicon. In W. Parotté & R.
Dirven (Eds.), The Ubiquity of Metaphor (pp. 85-119). Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Dirven, R. (1989). Space Prepositions. In R. Dirven, W. Zydatiss & W. J. Edmonson (Eds.), A
user's grammar of English (pp. 519-550). Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Dirven, R. (1993). Diving up physical and mental space into conceptual categories by means of
English prepositions. In C. Zelinski-Wibbelt (Ed.), The Semantics of Prepositions: From
Mental Processing to Natural Language Processing. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Dirven, R. (2003). Metonymy and metaphor: Different mental strategies of conceptualisation. In
R. Dirven & R. Pörings (Eds.), Metaphor and Metonymy in Comparison and Contrast (pp.
75-111). Berlin/NewYork: Mouton de Gruyter.
Dirven, R., Zydatiss, W., & Edmonson, W. J. (Eds.). (1989). A user's grammar of English: Word,
Sentence, Text, Interaction. Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Evans, V. (2007a). A Glossary of Cognitive Linguistics. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Evans, V. (2007b). How we conceptualise time: language, meaning and temporal cognition. In V.
Evans, B. Bergen & J. Zinken (Eds.), The Cognitive Linguistics Reader (pp. 733-766).
418
London/Oakville: Equinox Publishing Ltd.
Evans, V. (2009). How words mean: Lexsical concepts, cognitive models, and meaning
construction. Oxford: Oxfrod University Press.
Evans, V., & Green, M. (2006). Cognitive Linguistics An Introduction. Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press.
Fauconnier, G., & Turner, M. (1998). Conceptual integration networks. Cognitive Science, 22(2),
33-187.
Fillmore, C. J. (2008). A Valency Dictionary of English. International Journal of Lexicography,
22(1), 55-85.
Firth, J. R. (1957). A synopsis of linguistic theory, 1930-1955. In J. R. F. e. al. (Ed.), Studies in
Linguistic Analysis (Vol. Special Volume of the Philological Society, pp. 1-32). Oxford:
Blackwell.
Foster, P. (2001). Rule and routines: a consideration of their role in the task-based language
production of native and non-native speakers In M. Bygate, P. Skehan & M. Swain (Eds.),
Research pedagogic tasks: second language learning, teaching and testing. London/New
York: Longman.
Francis, G. (1993). A corpus-driven approach to grammar: principles, methods and examples. In
M. Baker, G. Francis & E. Tognini-Bonelli (Eds.), Text and technology: in honour of
John Sinclair. Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Francis, G., Hunston, S., & Manning, E. (Eds.). (1996). Collins Cobuild Grammar Patterns
1:Verbs. London: HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
Francis, G., Hunston, S., & Manning, E. (Eds.). (1998). Collins Cobuild Grammar Patterns
2:Nouns and Adjectives. London: HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
Freeman, N., Lloyd, S., & Sinha, C. (1980). Infant search tasks reveal early concepts of
containment and cannonical usage of objects. Cognition, 8, 243-262.
Gardner, D., & Davies, M. (2007). Pointing out Frequent Phrasal Verbs: A Corpus-Based
Analysis. TESOL quarterly, 41(2), 339-359.
Geeraerts, D. (2007). Where does prototypicality come from? In V. Evans, B. Bergen & J.
Zinken (Eds.), The Cognitive Linguistics Reader (pp. 168-185). London/Oakville:
Equinox Publishing Ltd.
Gibbs, R. W. (2006). Embodiment and Cognitive Science. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Gibbs, R. W., Beitel, D. A., Harrington, M., & Sanders, P. E. (1994). Taking a stand on the
meaning of stand: Bodily experience as motivation for polysemy. Journal of Semantics,
11, 231-251.
Givón, T. (1979). On Understanding Grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Goldberg, A. E. (1995). Constructions: A construction approach to argument structure. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Goldberg, A. E. (2006). Constructions at work: the nature of generalization in language. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Goossens, L. (2003). Metaphtonymy: The interaction of metaphor and metonymy in expressions
for linguistic action. In R. Dirven & R. Pörings (Eds.), Metaphor and Metonymy in
Comparison and Contrast (pp. 349-377). Berlin/NewYork: Mouton de Gruyter.
Gorman, M. (2006). Talking about intentional objects. dialectica, 60(2), 135-144.
Grady, J. (1998). The "Conduit Metaphor" Revisited: a Reassessment of Metaphors for
419
Communication. In J.-P. Koenig (Ed.), Discourse and cognition: Binding the gap.
Stanford: CSLI publications.
Grady, J. E. (1997). Theories are building revisited. Cognitive Linguistics, 8(4), 267-290.
Granger, S. (Ed.). (1998). Learner English on Computer. Harlow: Addison Wesley Longman
Limited.
Gucht, F. v. d., Willems, K., & Cuypere, L. D. (2007). The iconicity of embodied meaning:
polysemy of spatial prepositions in the cognitive framework. Language sciences, 29(6),
733-754.
Gumperz, J. J., & Levinson, S. C. (1996). Introduction: linguistic relativity re-examined. In J. J.
Gumperz & S. C. Levinson (Eds.), Rethinking Linguistic Relativity. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Halliday, M., & Hasan, R. (1967). Cohesion in English. London: Longman.
Hawkins, B. W. (1993). On universality and variability in the semantics of spatial adpositions. In
C. Zelinsky-Wibbelt (Ed.), The Semantics of Prepositions: from mental processing to
natural language processing (pp. 327-349). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Heine, B. (1997). Cognitive Foundations of Grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Herskovits, A. (1988). Spatial expressions and the plasticity of meaning. In B. Rudzka-Ostyn
(Ed.), Topics in cognitive linguistics (pp. 271-297). Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Hoey, M. (1991). Patterns of Lexis in Text. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hoey, M. (2005). Lexical Priming: A new theory of words and language. London/New York:
Routledge.
Hottenroth, P.-M. (1993). Prepositions and object concepts: A contribution to cognitive
semantics. In C. Zelinsky-Wibbelt (Ed.), The Semantics of Prepositions: from mental
processing to natural language processing (pp. 179-219). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hunston, S. (2002). Corpora in Applied Linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hunston, S., & Francis, G. (2000). Pattern Grammar: A corpus-driven approach to the lexical
grammar of English. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Jackendoff, R. (1983). Semantics and cognition Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jackendoff, R. (1990). Semantic Structures. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jackendoff, R. S. (1997). The Architecture of the Language Faculty. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jakobson, R. (2003). The metaphoric and metonymic poles. In R. Dirven & R. Pörings (Eds.),
Metaphor and Metonymy in Comparison and Contrast (pp. 41-47). Berlin/NewYork:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Johnson, M. (1987). The Body in the Mind: The Bodily Basis of Meaning, Imagination, and
Reason. Chicago/London: The University of Chicago Press.
Kay, P., & McDaniel, C. (1978). The linguistic Significance of the Meaning of Basic Color
Terms. Language, 54(3), 610-646.
Kennedy, G. (1991). Between and through: The company they keep and the functions they serve.
In English corpus linguistics : studies in honour of Jan Svartvik (pp. 95-110). London:
Longman.
Kita, S. (2006). A grammar of space in Japanese. In S. C. Levinson & D. P. Wilkins (Eds.),
Grammars of Space: Explorations in Cognitive Diversity (pp. 437-474). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Kleiner, F. (2005). Book review of Andrea Tyler and Vyvyan Evans, 2003. The Semantics of
English Prepositions Journal of Pragmatics, 37, 775-779.
420
Kolstad, V. T. (1991). Understanding of containment in 5.5-month-old infants.Unpublished
manuscript, Seattle, WA.
Kövecses, Z. (2000). The scope of metaphor. In A. Barcelona (Ed.), Metaphor and Metonymy at
the Crossroads: A Cognitive Perspective (pp. 79-92). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Kövecses, Z. (2002). Metaphor: A Practical Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Kövecses, Z., & Radden, G. (1998). Metonymy: Developing a cognitive linguistics view.
Cognitive Linguistics, 9(1), 37-77.
Krashen, S. D. (1981). Second Language Acquisition and Second Language Learning Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Kreitzer, A. (1997). Multiple levels of schematization: a study in the conceptualization of space.
Cognitive Linguistics, 8(4), 291-325.
Lakoff, G. (1987). Women, fire, and dangerous things: What categories reveal about the mind.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Lakoff, G. (2007). How language structures space. In V. Evans, B. Bergen & J. Zinken (Eds.),
The Cognitive Linguistics Reader (pp. 130-167). London/Oakville: Equinox Publishing
Ltd.
Lakoff, G., & Johnson, M. (1980). Metaphors We Live By. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Lakoff, G., & Johnson, M. (1999). Philosophy in the Flesh: the embodied mind and its challenge
to Western thought. New York: Basic Books.
Landau, B. (1996). Multiple geometric representations of objects in languages and language
learners. In P. Bloom, M. Peterson, L. Nadal & M. Garrett (Eds.), Language and Space
(pp. 317-363). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Langacker, R. W. (1987). Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, i, Theoretical Prerequisites.
Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Langacker, R. W. (1989). Absolute Construal. In F. J. Heyvaert, F. Steurs & F. G. Droste (Eds.),
Worlds behind words : essays in honour of Prof Dr F G Droste on the occasion of his
sixtieth birthday (pp. 65-75). Leuven: Leuven University Press.
Langacker, R. W. (1997). The contextual basis of cognitive semantics. In J. Nuyts & E. Pedersen
(Eds.), Language and Conceptualization (pp. 229-252). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Langacker, R. W. (2008). Cognitve Grammar: A basic introduction. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Lee, D. (2001). Cognitive Linguistics An Introduction. Oxford, New York: Oxford University
Press.
Leech, G. N. (1969). Towards a semantic description of English. Harlow: Longmans.
Leech, G. N. (1974). Semantics. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
Levinson, S. C., & Wilkins, D. P. (Eds.). (2006). Grammar of Space: explorations of cognitive
diversity. Cambridge, New York Cambridge University Press.
Levinson, S. C., & Willkins, D. P. (2006). The background to the study of the langauge of the
space. In S. C. Levinson & D. P. Wilkins (Eds.), Grammars of Space: Explorations in
Cognitive Diversity (pp. 1-23). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lindkvist, K. G. (1976). A comprehensive study of conceptions of locality in which English
prepositions occur. Stockholm: Almqvist & Wiskell International.
Lindner, S. (1983). A lexico-semantic Analysis of English Verb-Particle Constructions.
Bloomington: Indiana University Linguistic Club.
421
Lindstromberg, S. (1998). English Prepositions Explained. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Littlemore, J. (2009). Applying Cognitive Linguistics to Second Language Learning and
Teaching Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Littlemore, J., & Low, G. D. (2006). Figurative Thinking and Foreign Language Learning.
Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Mandler, J. (1992). How to build a baby: II. Conceptual primitives. Psychological Review, 99,
587-604.
Matsumoto, Y. (2003). Ninchi Imiron [Cognitive Semantics]. Tokyo: Taishukan Shoten.
McBee, M. (2009). Spilt Wine. Retrieved 17 January, 2010, from http://fiction.eserver.org/short
/spilt_wine.html
Melčuk, I. (1988). Semantic description of lexical item in an Explanatory Combinatorial
Dictionary: basic principles and heuristic criteria. International Journal of Lexicography,
1(3), 165-188.
Merleau-Ponty, M. (1962). Phenomenology of perception. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
Momiyama, Y., & Fukada, S. (2003). Imi no kakuchou [extension of meaning]. In Y. Ikegami, S.
Kawakami & M. Yamanashi (Eds.), Ninchi Imiron. Tokyo: Taishukan shoten.
Murphy, R. (2004). English Grammar in Use: A self-study reference and practice book for
intermediate students of English. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Nattinger, J. R., & DeCarrico, J. S. (1992). Lexical Phrases and Language Teaching. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Nesselhauf, N. (2005). Collocations in a Learner Corpus. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Partington, A. (1998). Patterns and Meanings. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Pawley, A., & Syder, F. H. (1983). Two puzzles for linguistic theory: nativelike selection and
nativelike fluency. In J. C. Richards & R. W. Schmidt (Eds.), Language and
Communication (pp. 191-227). London: Longman.
Peters, A. M. (1983). The Units of Language Acquisition. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Pound, E. (1931). How to read. London: Desmond Harmsworth.
Pulman, S. G. (1983). Word Meaning and Belief London: Croom Helm.
Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, S., & Savrtvik, J. (1985). A Comprehensive Grammar of the
English Language. New York: Longman.
Radden, D. (1985). Spatial metaphors underlying prepositions of causality. In W. Paprotte & R.
Dirven (Eds.), The Ubiquity of Metaphor (pp. 177-207). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Reddy, M. J. (1979). The conduit metaphor: A case of frame conflict in our language about
language. In A. Ortony (Ed.), Metaphor and Thought. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Rice, S. (1996). Prepositional prototype. In M. Putz & R. Dirven (Eds.), The construal of space in
language and thought (pp. 135-165). Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Rice, S., Sandra, D., & Vanrespaille, M. (1999). Prepositional Semantics and the Fragile Link
Between Space and Time. In M. Hiraga, C. Sinha & S. Wilcox (Eds.), Cultural,
Psychological & Typological Issues in Cognitive Linguistics. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Rohlfing, K. J. (2001). No preposition required. The role od prepositions for the understanding of
spatial relations in language acquisition. In M. Pütz, S. Niemeier & R. Dirven (Eds.),
422
Applied cognitive linguistics. 1, Theory and language acquisition (pp. 229-247). Berlin,
New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Rosch, E. (1973). On the internal structure of perceptual and semantic categories. In T. E. Moore
(Ed.), Cognitive Development and the Acquisition of Language (pp. 111-144). New York:
Academic Press.
Rosch, E. (1975). Cognitive representations of semantic categories. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: General, 104, 192-233.
Rosch, E. (1978). Principles of categorization. In E. Rosch & B. Lloyd (Eds.), Cognition and
categorization (pp. 27-48). New York: Hillsdale.
Rosch, E. (1999). Reclaiming concepts. Journal of Consciousness Studies, 6, 61-77.
Sandra, D., & Rice, S. (1995). Network analyses of prepositional meaning: mirroring whose mind
- the linguit's or the language user's? Cognitive Linguistics, 6(1), 89-130.
Schönefeld, D. (2006). From conceptualization to linguistic expression: Where languages
diversify. In S. T. Gries & A. Stefanowitsch (Eds.), Corpora in Cognitive Linguistics:
Corpus-based Approaches to Syntax and Lexis. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Shortall, T. (2007). Cognition, corpus, curriculum. Unpublished PhD thesis, University of
Birmingham.
Sinclair, J., & Clari, M. (Eds.). (2003). Collins COBULD Advanced Learner's English Dictionary.
Glasgow: HarperCollins Publishers.
Sinclair, J., & Moon, R. (2002). Collins COBUILD Dictionary of Phrasal Verbs. Glasgow:
HarperCollins.
Sinclair, J. M. (1991a). Corpus Concordance Collocation. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Sinclair, J. M. (2003). Reading Concordances. Harlow: Pearson Education Limited.
Sinclair, J. M. (1991b). Shared knowledge. In J. E. Alatis (Ed.), Linguistics and language
pedagogy : the state of the art (pp. 489-496). Washington D.C.: Georgetown University
Press.
Sinclair, J. M. (2004). Trust the Text: language, corpus and discourse. New York: Routledge.
Stubbs, M. (1993). British Tradition in Text Analysis: From Firth to Sinclair. In M. Baker, G.
Francis & E. Tognini-Bonelli (Eds.), Text and Technology in Honour of John Sinclair
Philadelphia/Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Stubbs, M. (1996). Text and Corpus Analysis: Computer-assisted Studies of Language and
Culture. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers.
Stubbs, M. (2002). Words and Phrases: Corpus Studies of Lexical Semantics.
Malden/Oxford/Victoria: Blackwell Publishing.
Takao, T. (2003). Metaphor hyogen no imi to gainenka. In Y. Ikegami, S. Kawakami & M.
Yamanashi (Eds.), Ninchi Imiron. Tokyo: Taishukan shoten.
Talmy, L. (1988). The relation of grammar to cognition. In B. Rudzka-Ostyn (Ed.), Topics in
Cognitive Linguistics (pp. 165-205). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Talmy, L. (2000). Toward a cognitive semantics. Vol. 2, Typology and process in concept
structuring Cambridge, Mass., London: MIT Press.
Talmy, L. (2007). How language structures space. In V. Evans, B. Bergen & J. Zinken (Eds.),
The Cognitive Linguistics Reader (pp. 766-830). London: Equinox Publishing Ltd.
Taylor, J. R. (1988). Contrasting Prepositional Categories: English and Italian. In B.
Rudzka-Ostyn (Ed.), Topics in Cognitive Linguistics (pp. 299-326). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
423
Taylor, J. R. (2002). Cognitive Grammar. Oxford, New York: Oxford University Press.
Taylor, J. R. (2003). Linguistic Categorization (3rd ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Taylor, J. R. (2008). Prototype in Cognitive Linguistics. In P. Robinson & N. C. Ellis (Eds.),
Handbook of Cognitive Linguistics and Second Language Acquisition (pp. 39-65). New
York/London: Routledge.
Teubert, W. (2010). Meaning, Discourse and Society. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Thomas, H., Heath, D., Roe, I. F., & Götz, D. (Eds.). (2004). A Valency Dictionary of English: A
Corpus-Based Analysis of the Complementation Patterns of English Verbs, Nouns and
Adjectives. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Traugott, E. (1985). 'Conventional' and 'dead' metaphors revisited. In W. Paprotte & R. Dirven
(Eds.), The Ubiquity of Metaphor (pp. 17-56). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Tsuji, Y. (Ed.). (2003). Ninchi Gengogaku eno Shotai [Introduction to Cognitive Linguistics].
Tokyo: Taishukan.
Tyler, A. (2006). Response to Filipovic Kleiners (2005) review of Tyler & Evans (2003) The
semantics of English Prepositions. Journal of Pragmatics, 38(6), 971-974.
Tyler, A., & Evans, V. (2003b). The case of over. In B. Nerlich, Z. Todd, V. Herman & D.
Clarke (Eds.), Polysemy: Flexible Patterns of Meaning in Mind and Language (pp.
99-159). Berlin, New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Tyler, A., & Evans, V. (2001). Reconsidering prepositional polysemy networks: the case of over.
Language, 77(4), 724-765.
Tyler, A., & Evans, V. (2003a). The semantics of English Prepositions: Spatial Scenes,
Embodied Meaning and Cognition. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ungerer, F., & Schmid, H.-J. (2006). An Introduction to Cognitive Linguistics (2nd ed.). Harlow:
Pearson Education Limited.
Vandeloise, C. (1991). Spatial prepositions: a case study from French. Chicago: The University
of Chicago Press
Vandeloise, C. (1994). Methodology and analyses of the preposition in. Cognitive Linguistics, 5,
157-184.
Vandeloise, C. (2003). Containment, support, and linguistic relativity. In H. Cuyckens, R. Dirven
& J. Taylor (Eds.), Cognitive Approaches to Lexical Semantics I (pp. 393-425). Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Verela, F. J., Thompson, E., & Rosch, E. (1993). The Embodied Mind. Cambridge, MA/London:
The MIT Press.
Wittgenstein, L. (1953). Philosophical Investigation (G. E. M. Anscombe, Trans. 2nd ed.).
Oxford: Blackwell.
Wray, A. (1999). Formulaic language in learners and native speakers. Language Teaching, 32,
213-231.
Wray, A. (2002). Formulaic Language and the Lexicon. Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.
Yu, N. (1999). Spatial Conceptualization of Time in Chinese. In M. K. Hiraga, C. Sinha & S.
Wilcox (Eds.), Cultural, psychological and typological issues in cognitive linguistics (pp.
69-84). Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Zadeh, L. (1965). Fuzzy Sets. Information and Control, 8(3), 338-353.
Zlatev, J. (2003). Situated embodiment: Studies in emergence of spatial meaning. In H. Cuyckens,
R. Dirven & J. Taylor (Eds.), Cognitive approaches to lexical semantics (pp. 447-494).
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
