29
the site
ture; the ideogram and texture.6
The medium of cinema for ex-
ample has changed the way we think and the patterns that we
recognize. The subject, when communicating with other sub-
jects, thinks in close-ups, pans, edits, soundtracks, genres, and
other conventions of entertainment. Entertainment has entered
collective and personal consciousness — it cannot be contained.
This “cinematic subject” is prone to indivisualization more than
individuation: the individual has become indivisual in the era of
entertainment media.
Cinematic technology, camera, audio, and special effects al-
low for an “active” subject who experiences an intensely tactile
world. Tracing the lineage of cuneiform to the sound byte would
demonstrate the influence of these “extensions of the human”
when they are given economic reign over the patterns that code
for the subject. This ontological development is very much about
situations: situations that situate the subject and align him or her
with a site while influencing that site with a para-site — a para-
site that confines the subject within an imaginary body. There is
no “self” in this model and no “I.” Instead, there are only a vari-
ety of sites that code a so-called “subject” as being of certain sites
and para-sites. This emphasized “of” that makes, in phoron-
tology, a subject into a “subject-of” emerges across a realm of
sites and para-sites through an imagined narrative coherency
that disguises an underlying transjection. The phorontological
transject is necessarily thrown into the world and operates on-
tologically and phenomenologically through a variety of ofs that
shift and morph that particular transject across time and space
(or place). As Heidegger points out for his theory of the being
6	 See: Arndt Niebisch, Media Parasites in the Early Avant-Garde: On the
Abuse of Technology and Communication (New York: Palgrave Macmillan,
2012). Niebisch proposes a parasitology of the avant-garde (13), particularly
of Futurism and Dadaism, and claims that these movements repeatedly re-
negotiate the relationship of parasite and host (15). He writes that “[t]he
parasite is nothing that invades language, but emerges in the process of
reading” (62), which is a claim that I partly agree with. The parasite as such
does not invade language because, in the context of Language Parasites, it is
already endemic to the very structure of language.
30
language parasites
of Being, the Dasein is thrown into the world (geworfen).7
De-
spite his preference for etymological analyses, Heidegger does
not locate his theory of Geworfenheit or thrownness in the ety-
mology of “subject” or “object.” However, when I use the term
“thrown” I want to explicitly link it to the etymology of “subject”
and “object.” The word “subject” derives from sub or “under”
and iacere, meaning “to cast, throw, or put.” A subject is, in its
very being, subservient — akin to a vassal for a feudal lord. The
word “object” derives from ob or “towards or against” and iacere
again. An object is a thing that is thrown before an observing
mind. The very concept of an object requires an observer or an
other that can legitimate its status as “object.” Perhaps this is the
reason why Heidegger will privilege the notion of a thing (or
das Ding) in his later work because a thing is more “in itself”
than an object. However, the concepts of the subject and the
object are, according to their etymologies, necessarily thrown
into being and language. Therefore, I privilege thrownness in
a non-Heideggerian or post-Heideggerian fashion: thrownness
is the essential state of an object or a subject and thrownness
designates the basic status of being an entity. A transject is, like
a subject and an object, thrown into being, but it is a being that
is thrown into a space that resides in between subject and ob-
ject — the transject resists and rejects the requirements of pow-
er that position and site the subject as disempowered and also
the observing mind that brings the object into existence. As a
combinant entity, the transject exists as that which transfers and
transitions between subjects and objects, abjects and projects,
dejects and rejects. The transject is the localized entity of a dras-
tically anterior 
— 
anterior to the “human” 
— 
notion of Being.
The transject is the local face of the xenoject. The emergence of
the transject will be explained in further detail throughout this
book, but currently, in this chapter, only the surface level of its
language will be considered.
7	 Martin Heidegger, Being and Time, trans. John Macquarrie and Edward
Robinson (New York: HarperPerennial, 2008), 223. I highlight one page
here, but Heidegger uses the concept throughout Being and Time.
31
the site
What Herder calls Homo loquens describes the human abil-
ity to interact with and produce a world of signs. Semiotics is
the study of signs and signs themselves are always written or
scored into media. Cuneiform, glyph, paper, or cyberspace are
each media-sites occupied by signs. A sign requires a site to be-
come situated. If there were no site that could situate a sign, then
that sign would cease to exist. The site in turn sites itself as the
site of a sign. A site is known if it can be sited by signs that live
parasitically inside it. A site is always, by definition, somewhat
parasitic. In this context, a site is only partly pre-linguistic and
also post-linguistic in that nothing can be “known” or commu-
nicated without a siting-language. The signs of language deposit
meaning in and onto a site, but this “depositing” does not occur
without an informational positing 
— 
a positing that results in
the positioning of language and then the siting of the sited in
the site.
Phorontology studies the sites and para-sites that are created
and produced by the complex interplay of transjects, subjects,
objects, worlds, and signs. These sites of complexity are built in
response to a variety of different collisions between levels and
disciplines: there are, for example, political sites, sacred sites,
cultural sites, social sites, or many others. Each site is onto-
logically “clarified” in relation to its grounding or foundational
para-site.
Where can the site or para-site be located in the parasitic dy-
namic produced in Raymond Queneau’s 1961 work Cent mille
milliards de poèmes? Queneau creates his poetry experiment out
oftenoriginalsonnetsinwhichallofthefourteenlinesfromeach
sonnet could be re-assembled to create 100,000,000,000,000
new sonnets (because 1014
= 100,000,000,000,000). This permu-
tational text is, in a sense, the longest book every written — even
if its length is primarily virtual. It would be impossible to read
every possible iteration of Queneau’s text in a human lifetime
because it would take some 200,000,000 years to read every
possible poem 
— 
even while reading for twenty-four hours a
day. Queneau’s project depicts a kind of virtual parasitism in
which the parasite of constraint creates a multiplicity of repeti-
32
language parasites
tion. The para-sites extend from the site and write themselves
into potential spaces and readers.
Space is not place. Geography writes a place onto a space.
When a space becomes a place it is written upon and signed
by a kind of “author”: a “place” is created through the complex
interplay of constraint and site. Why? Sites are generative locales
in that they generate other sites. A place exists, in phorontology,
in potentia because a site is required before a space can become a
spacing and before something — literally a some-thing — can be
placed inside a space. Without a site, or without the signs that
can sign, assign, or design a site, a place cannot emerge from a
space. In this context, a space is vacuous — a vacuum — an emp-
tiness.
Food
Eating food is the moment of a direct encounter with an Oth-
er 
— 
with a Lacanian real or with a violating abject. For this
reason, phorontology does not only study sites, but also the
consumption that occurs in sites. Of course commodities are
consumed and various other objects of exchange, but these ob-
jects or things — when consumed — produce both information
and energy: objects or things of consumption fill the body and
mind of the host-subject with forces that are simultaneously
symbiotic and parasitic. In the present day, food is a rem(a)inder
of an abject experience of bodily functions because food trig-
gers an overstimulated awareness of bodily organs and anato-
my — an anatomy of intensity.
There is no barrier or boundary, in phorontology, between
the subject, the object, the other, or the Body without Organs:
each of these concepts represent a fractal-continuum of em-
bodiment through which and upon which various discourses
are forcibly inscribed. Food is all that is left, not the consumer.
The term “sitos” does not necessarily signify “food,” but rather
the sign of the site. Sites are signs at the same time that they are
signed. Certain sites are signed as “subjects.” The so-called “sub-
ject” has progressed through a variety of historical and epis-
33
the site
temic formations: Cogito, transcendental, existential, phenom-
enological, psychoanalytic, semiotic, nihilist, and many others.
The totality of this continuum captures what I mean by “site.”
For this reason, we need a phorontology: an analytical approach
that is attuned to the parasitic and the non-human. Phorontol-
ogy emphasizes input or intake more than “output.”
Sex
Andrea Dworkin relates sex with violation in Intercourse (1987):
for Dworkin, every sex act is an act of violation or rape for the
woman. Human sexuality becomes, for Dworkin, the equivalent
of bed bug sex — a violent encounter where the penis is wielded
as a knife and stabbed into the womb. An alternative theory of
parasite-sex can be found in the writings of Shannon Bell. In
Bell’s Fast Feminism (2010), the sexual act becomes an experi-
ence of pure complementarity where both partners occupy the
position of what gets called the “phallus” in psychoanalysis. Bell
suggests that a vagina is an inverted phallus (usually much larg-
er than an actual penis), so that during intercourse the man’s
phallus fucks the woman’s inner phallus that is similarly fucking
the man’s, thereby creating a folded sexuality of situational com-
plementarity. No one is ever fully “on top” because both par-
ties engage in a spiraling parasite-discourse where passion and
pleasure fold in a fractal of unmitigated squirt and ejaculate. Sex
is liquid and cannot be sited. Parasites are folds.
“Madness”
Even a cursory glance through the DSM-IV and V demonstrates
that so-called “mental illnesses” are spectrum disorders that be-
come privy to positions or sitings upon a continuum of mental
states. The DSM-IV and V reinstate ontological thought within a
“zero degree” of consciousness that resides somewhere outside
of its pages, not within its bindings or on the street. The DSM-
IV and V present not only a continuum of “mental illness,” but
also a continuum of consciousness as site. The site of conscious-
34
language parasites
ness 
— 
which I call “the metafractal” 
— 
is inscribed with vari-
ous subject-ofs that momentarily “fix” or construct that site as
discursive. This discursivity is, through repetition, normalized
when it becomes a morphogenetic or logogenetic “building” or
“structure.” Both the body and mind become engaged in a type
of molecular and molar continuum where delineations between
micro and macro processes are rendered fractal.
Miscellany
Phorontology studies the language site(s) and the emergent
para-site(s) of language: it is a theory that we presume to “eat,”
but it simultaneously eats us. Phorontology is an attempt to be-
gin to analyze these intrusions or “sitings” that we call “subject”
and “object” 
— 
sitings that provide “grounds” for given struc-
tures, such as the psychic, the familial, the sexual, the textual,
the political, the cultural, the historical, etc. Every intrusion is a
sited and situated rem(a)inder of fragility amidst the visible and
paravisible structures that define our words and worlds.
35
The Para-site
P
horontology studies its own parasite: the Parasite
of Language. This parasite has gradually infected human
consciousness and evolved throughout human history.
What I call the “para-site” permits the potential of para-sight,
which denotes the virtual and yet visual regimes that reside be-
side traditional practices of seeing. The term “parasite of con-
straint” is exceptional and ex-centric in that any para-site is, by
definition, an exception to a given site.
Finding the Parasite
Writing is fundamentally parasitic. Jacques Derrida argues that
“the literally Saussurian formulas reappear within the question
of the relationships between speech and writing: the order of
writing is the order of exteriority, of the ‘occasional,’ of the ‘ac-
cessory,’ of the ‘auxiliary,’ of the ‘parasitic.’”1
Writing feeds on
previous writing(s) and consumes earlier writing through a
progressive literary history. The “parasite of language” is inside
language and feeds beside other writing within a symbiotic rela-
tionship. In this sense, every “new” text is new only in its prox-
imity to an earlier writing 
— 
in its essentially parasitic nature
or in the efficiency of its para-status. In other words, a writing
becomes “literary” by virtue of the effectiveness of its “living be-
side.”
1	 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology: Corrected Edition, trans. Gayatri
Chakravorty Spivak (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1997), 54.
36
language parasites
“Writing” and “subjectivity” are two concepts that are con-
stituted by self-reflexive or self-referential structures. The re-
flexivity that is necessary for the production of a “writing” or
“self” is either the result of an evolutionary accident, an un-
derlying glitch of “wiring,” or an undiagnosed parasitic illness.
Lacan likes insisting that “it speaks,”2
by which he means that
language speaks. The only way that the “unconscious could be
structured like a language”3
(in Lacan’s timeless refrain), is if lan-
guage is, at its basis, parasitic; put differently, somewhere inside
language (if language indeed has an “inside”), there resides a
folded parasite that frequently masquerades as the “Other.” This
“Other” no doubt provides a sense of coherency to subjectiv-
ity by virtue of its feeding schedule in which the “Other” — as a
symptom 
— 
consumes a little of the ontological nutrition that
has been ear-marked for the stability of the subject. The “Other”
does not only provide a sense of “completion” for the subject be-
cause the “Other” — which in Lacan is sometimes synonymous
with “language” or with the symbolic order 
— 
has essentially
re-wired the subject to require the Other-as-parasite. The Oth-
er lives beside the subject as a kind of language and this Other
functions parasitically at a location that is found at a para-site to
the human. This model describes a metaphysical instance of the
host-parasite (or host and guest) relationship.
Derrida already proposes a kind of linguistic parasite 
— 
a
particularly Derridean genus of the language parasite. The ge-
nus that I am proposing is different from Derrida’s (and also
Serres’s — but I will explore Serres more fully in the final chap-
ter). Derrida writes that “if one knew perfectly well what one
thought and stated while assuring that one learns to write af-
ter having learned to speak, would that suffice to conclude that
what thus comes ‘after’ is parasitic? And what is a parasite? And
2	 Jacques Lacan, Écrits: The First Complete Edition in English, trans. Bruce
Fink in collaboration with Héloïse Fink and Russell Grigg (New York: Nor-
ton, 2006), 578.
3	 Jacques Lacan, The Seminar of Jacques Lacan: On Feminine Sexuality, The
Limits of Love and Knowledge: Book xx: Encore 1972–1973, ed. Jacques-Alain
Miller, trans. Bruce Fink (New York: Norton, 1999), 48. Original emphasis.
37
the para-site
if writing were precisely that which makes us reconsider our
logic of the parasite?”4
If the parasite of language appears “after”
the subject has learned to speak, then that would suggest that
the parasite infects the subject after the subject’s emergence into
the symbolic order — into language. I do not see why Derrida
would privilege speech over writing in terms of his definition of
the parasitic (unless he is applying Saussure’s logic to a thinking
about the parasitic), but perhaps any engagement with language
qua language would render the subject as a host; in other words,
the subject would become a host once language has somehow
entered the body (or mind).
However, this model need not be teleological; there need not
be a definitive beginning 
— 
particularly, if human beings are
Homo loquens. Writing would then offer a variety of represen-
tations, simulations, or maskings for the parasite. Temporally
speaking, a language parasite would exist beyond time. As Lacan
and Freud suggest, there is no time in the unconscious and if
the unconscious is structured like a language (or, more precisely
like a language that is constructed on the basis of a parasitic
infection — a kind of metaphysical infection), then the parasite
itself would be, in a sense, infinite, immortal, or timeless. Be-
cause of the odd and surprising qualities of this metaphysical
parasite a variety of alternative therapies are required: a dash
of ’Pataphysics, a smattering of non-philosophy, and a sprinkle
of philosophical speculation. The infection exists in the words
that I use to describe myself. The infection lives inside the words
that I use on this page. The infection resides inside the stories
and linguistic memories that compose a “self.” We cannot escape
this parasite. The comedian Steven Wright once said: “I wish my
first word as a baby was ‘quote’ so that my last word could be
‘unquote.’” Everything in between the quote and the unquote is
partly permitted by the parasite that allows the host’s speech — a
parasite that permits a self that claims selfhood. This parasite
speaks through me, writes with my fingers that move on this let-
ter pad, and it partly claims my name. My name, for example, is
4	Derrida, Of Grammatology, 54.
38
language parasites
simply one textual iteration that “claims” authority over a text in
a long line of textual iterations — iterations that have been per-
mitted by the referentiality intrinsic to the linguistic parasites.
In Limited Inc from 1988, Derrida’s essay “Signature Event
Context” (originally from 1972) has a subsection entitled: “Para-
sites. Iter, of Writing: That It Perhaps Does Not Exist.” In this es-
say, Derrida is responding to J.L. Austin’s How to Do Things with
Words (1975) based on Austin’s lectures at Harvard University in
1955. Derrida points out that Austin situates some aspects of lan-
guage as being constituted by an exclusion — an exclusion that
remains “abnormal” and “parasitic” (original emphasis).5
Per-
haps this abnormal and parasitic exclusion is partly “performa-
tive.” According to Derrida, the performative utterance “does
not describe something that exists outside of language and prior
to it.”6
Indeed, this exterior and anticipatory language would
be closer to (but not the same as) what Derrida calls “arche-
writing.” From a phorontological approach, what Derrida calls
“arche-writing” describes a writing that simultaneously occu-
pies a site and also multiple other sites. What could be called the
“ontology” of this language parasite — the term “parasite” is be-
ing used here in its ontogenetic, singular usage — would occupy
a site that is para to another site.
The site itself (when it is not a para-site) can be considered
as being open to signification, but this claim is only true if the
signs that fill a site remain provisional so that a site can be
named repeatedly. Sites and para-sites emerge from spaces and
places and function according to a version of Freud’s theory of
Wiederholungzwang in which the site would occasionally return
as a place or a space (while not being confined to the ontological
descriptors or boundaries of either “place” or “space”). The site
can sometimes be language-based, but the language that fills a
site also allows for the emergence of a subject — a subject that
is embodied, affective, written, spoken, and lived. Language is
5	 Jacques Derrida, Limited Inc, trans. Jeffrey Mehlman (Evanston: Northwest-
ern University Press, 1988), 16.
6	 Ibid., 13.
39
the para-site
lived through as media and, as media, language acts as the in-
terface between a subject-as-host (a subject-of or a transject)
and the parasite (of constraint, of language, or of a para-site).
McLuhan famously argues that “the medium is the message,”
but now his claim can be parasitized as what it always was: the
HOST-medium is the PARASITE-message.
However, if the medium has become a host (or if it always
was a host) to a parasite-message (a message that may have al-
ways been parasitic), then what can be done to cure the sick
contemporary subject of her or his infection? Derrida cites a
moment from J.L. Austin where Austin suggests that language
consists of a flowering quality: language “is in special ways […],
parasitic upon its normal use — ways which fall under the doc-
trine of the etiolations of language.”7
A plant is said to be “etio-
lated” when it grows in a space that either has partial or no light.
The related meaning of “etiolate” as pallid or feeble builds on
this initial definition because etiolated plants grow in spindly
ways 
— 
in order to reach any available light 
— 
and result in a
pale color. Considering language as a flowering entity or words
as flowers has a long history that I will selectively para-cite here:
the tenth century poet Ki no Yoshimochi (who died c. 919) used
the character for flower (hana 華) to mean poetic words.8
Many
poets and thinkers consider a poetic word to be both a word
and a flower: for example, the German Romantic poet Friedrich
Hölderlin, like Ki no Yoshimochi, argues that language is “die
Blume des Mundes” (or “the flower of the mouth”) and he also
writes, “Worte, wie Blumen” (or “words, like flowers”).9
In this
sense, Austin is using the word “etiolation” to suggest an im-
7	 Quoted in ibid., 16. See J.L. Austin, How to Do Things with Words (Cam-
bridge: Harvard University Press, 1975), 21–22, for the original reference.
8	 See Michael F. Marra, “Things and Words,” in Japan’s Frames of Meaning: A
Hermeneutics Reader, ed. Michael F. Marra, 3–50 (Honolulu: University of
Hawai‘i Press, 2011), 36.
9	 Quoted in Paul Ricoeur, The Rule of Metaphor: The Creation of Meaning in
Language, trans. Robert Czerny with Kathleen McLaughlin and John Cos-
tello, SJ (London: Routledge, 2003), 335. Ricoeur is para-citing Hölderlin as
quoted in Martin Heidegger, Unterwegs zur Sprache (Frankfurt am Main:
Vittorio Klostermann, 1985), 194 and 195 resp. A chain of para-cites.
40
language parasites
proper growth in the flowering of language — a kind of illness
that he sees as being “parasitic.”
I would push this dynamic further and say that the etiolations
of language require an etiology. Does language flower? If it flow-
ers, then it flowers in a virtual space 
— 
as either a rhizome or
an arborescence. This virtual space functionally sites language
and it is from this other space that language enters the subject.
Phorontology offers a first attempt at a differential diagnosis on
the illness that lurks within language.
Part of the problem with properly locating and diagnosing
the language parasite (or the language parasites) is that language
is occasionally performative. Not only is the language that the
subject uses oftentimes performative, but the subject is herself
or himself performative in that both language and subjectivity
perform a model (or modality) of health. It is only at limit expe-
riences of both language and subjectivity that the symptomatol-
ogy of the parasitic illness begins to reveal itself. This parasite-
host model of language and the “self” transforms ontology into
a very strange discipline because the limitations or borders of
“Being” become fuzzy and indeterminate. Heidegger’s use of the
term Sein (as “being”) is materially rendered on the page as a
sign. Sein is a sign. Unfortunately, the writing of “Being” as a
sign devalues or discredits the possibility of an authentic rela-
tionship to Sein because the writing of Sein as a sign distances
the host from her or his “self” and resituates the host-parasite
relationship as one that privileges the parasite. The parasite that
lives inside language exists as a medium: it is a medium through
which subjects say or write “I.” The medium of the parasite is
cursory, elusive, and, like Being, (en)folded.
Derrida writes that Austin prefers to exclude “the general
theory of this structural parasitism”10
in favor of a meditation
on the anomalies, infelicities, and exceptions of writing. Regard-
less, a general theory of “structural parasitism” is very much at
issue in deconstruction and I would prefer not to reject or re-
press the potentialities offered by parasitic structure. However,
10	Derrida, Limited Inc, 16.
41
the para-site
what if the issue is not structural parasitism as such, but rather
what lives inside structure? Structure is not a parasite because
the parasite is what permits a thinking and a writing of struc-
ture. If this claim is correct, then structure contains the parasitic
within it — it already contains the poststructural, but a feedback
loop is present even here because the poststructural — when it
is parasitic, is, precisely speaking, proto-structural. The decon-
structive parasite is certainly poststructural, but this entity is
not the only philosophical parasite that lurks in the regimes of
human and posthuman thought: there is also a proto-structural
parasite — a parasite that permits the emergence of structure.
To that end, phorontology does not pursue a structural
parasitism because structure conceals its own lack of a para-
site. Instead, phorontology interrogates the existence of a
proto-structural parasite 
— 
a parasite that lays hidden inside
language, inside being, and inside thought. An etiology is cer-
tainly required to approach this proto-structural parasite. The
appropriate etiology is likely parallactic; an etiology that is able
to consider proto-structural parasitism from a perspective that
is “awry” to traditional modes of seeing and analysis. In other
words, a para-sight is required to diagnose a para-site. This he-
retical approach can partly be found in ’Pataphysics, but not
even in traditional ’Pataphysics.
Feeding the Parasite
Christopher Dewdney ends his poetry book, Alter Sublime
(1980), with a ’pataphysical study entitled “Parasite Mainte-
nance.” Dewdney offers a speculative writing of exceptions that
can better diagnose the genus of the language-parasite and the
parasite of constraint. ’Pataphysics is Alfred Jarry’s term for a
“science of imaginary solutions” — a science that exists beyond
physics and metaphysics as an absurdist science of the combi-
nant discourse that arises from the collision of the meta and the
42
language parasites
para.11
When meta and para combine, they produce the pata.
Jarry’s ’Pataphysics is a science of exceptions and a science of
epiphenomena — it approaches topics not through a considera-
tion of their phenomena (as in phenomenology for example),
but rather, through their unconsidered and mysterious entry-
ways and exits. ’Pataphysics is a discourse of exceptional epiphe-
nomenology and Dewdney concludes his poetry book with an
epiphenomenological engagement with the language parasite.
Dewdney does not offer a general theory of structural para-
sitism (which is what Derrida is against) because he prefers a
general theory of proto-structural parasitism: he begins to re-
veal the language parasite through its own available contours
and weaknesses:
[T]he evolution of language, inextricably bound with the
evolution of our consciousness as a species, has diverged
from its parallel & dependent status with the human species
and has become “animated,” i.e. has, much like a model of
artificial intelligence, or a robot, taken on a life of its own.
Furthermore, I propose that special linguistic qualities pecu-
liar to the English language, indicate the existence of a “Gov-
ernor” (in a mechanistic sense) with which the “animated”
language acts on the individual, restricting the limits of con-
ceptualization.12
Dewdney situates the language-parasite in historical terms in
much the same way as William Burroughs does in The Ticket
That Exploded (1962/1967). In Ticket, Burroughs asserts that ei-
ther “language is a virus” or “the word is now a virus,”13
a thought
that anticipates Dewdney’s conception of language as an exte-
rior parasitical force that effectively infects its host. Dewdney’s
11	 Alfred Jarry, Exploits & Opinions of Dr. Faustroll, Pataphysician, trans. Si-
mon Watson Taylor (Boston: Exact Change, 1996), 21–24.
12	 Christopher Dewdney, “Parasite Maintenance,” in Alter Sublime, 75–92 (To-
ronto: Coach House, 1980), 75.
13	 William S. Burroughs, The Ticket That Exploded (New York: Grove, 1992),
49.
43
the para-site
appraisal of “the Governor,”14
by which he means an operative,
controlling force — a notion comparable to Burroughs’s “opera-
tor” 
— 
is controlled by a Parasite. The structure of this model
is akin to Burroughs’s understanding of writing as a parasitic
procedure 
— 
a practice also found in the postmodern stylings
that exude from the posthumanistic stench that wafts around
after the death of the Lyotardian grand récits.
In the posthuman or the postmodern, there may be a “Gov-
ernor” who re-instates systems of legitimation 
— 
systems of
“normalcy.” The posthuman subject or historically determinate
transject perceives external phenomena as stimuli and filters
these stimuli into a simulacrum of appearances that is hegem-
onically coded as “reality.” I call this process of reality produc-
tion or reality normalization indivisualization. The transject
becomes normalized as a “subject-of” when indivisualization
takes hold; however, this indivisualizing process is not “indi-
vidual” per se, but prone to the whims and preferences of the
underlying language-parasite.
Minds are notoriously adaptive: patients who have lesions in
the Broca region of the brain experience neuroplastic re-wiring
as neurons determine new pathways around lesions. The brain
develops newer and different wrinkles. In the case of a reality
simulation, these neural delineations are necessarily ideologi-
cal and mythocryptic, effectively forging perception through the
codes and messages of the language-parasite. Such “ideological
delineations” are the result of the dictates of what Dewdney calls
the “Governor”:
Finally I also posit that the specialized use of linguistic in-
ventions by the poet enables him to transcend the domain
of the “Governor,” through the use of a special neural system
singular to the ontogeny of the writer. This structure or sys-
tem, a special condition of intelligence outside the realm of
14	 In an uncanny echo, Serres also says: “Let us return to the paralytic, that is
to say, to the governor.” See Michel Serres, The Parasite, trans. Lawrence R.
Schehr (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 2007), 36.
44
language parasites
both the “animated” language & the “Governor,” I refer to as
the Parasite.15
Dewdney’s formulation articulates in depth a ’pataphysical ap-
praisal of what the “subject” has become in the contemporary
era. The “subject” is never centralized or stabilized because it is
always “of” various forces — an exterior Governor or an anterior
Parasite.
When Marx famously describes ideology as functioning on
the basis of the aphorism: “Sie wissen das nicht, aber sie tun es,”
which is translated by Žižek as “they do not know it, but they
are doing it,”16
Dewdney will later ’pataphysically hone in on
the specific ways in which ideology is something that “they do
not know that they do.” For Dewdney, “language presupposes
a special barrier, generally beyond perception, which precludes
certain higher forms of conceptual reasoning from the age of
verbal consciousness forward. This barrier is the Governor, and
the success of the antenna to a large degree depends on the com-
plex battle between the Parasite and the Governor.”17
Dewdney’s
binaristic schema of “Parasite” and “Governor” mirrors a kind
of host and parasite or host and guest dynamic in which power
is shared between both parties like Hegel’s dialectical analysis of
the master and the slave. Like the master and the slave, the Gov-
ernor and the Parasite function in an undecidable power differ-
ential without terminus — there is no decision in the dynamic
of host and parasite. The host and the parasite share positions
in which both parasite each other 
— 
they parasite each other
through the multidirectional quality of power. However, the
dyad of Governor and Parasite also inaugurates another binary:
that of inside and outside. The Governor is the host of the inside
to the parasite’s exteriority. Even this moment denies closure or
a decision though because the parasite is complex and utterly
liminal — truly transject. The parasite enters the host from the
15	 Dewdney, “Parasite,” 75–76. Emphasis added.
16	 Slavoj Žižek, The Sublime Object of Ideology (London: Verso, 1989), 28.
17	 Dewdney, “Parasite,” 78.
45
the para-site
outside, but it then functions as an inside, or as an outside that
has become an inside. Therefore, the Governor or host is typi-
cally an inside while the Parasite is transjected — a folded entity
that is both outside and inside. It transitions and shifts and can-
not be located or sited at either an inside or an outside: it is,
for this reason, a Parasite that lives at a para-site. The outside
that becomes an inside only to transition again to another out-
side — that model is the parasite as proto-structure. The para-
site itself offers a proto-structure as a kind of morphogenetic
field from which hosts and Governors emerge. The Parasite, for
Dewdney, permits original and novel forms of autopoiesis (the
term for organic self-organization): “I will speak of the Parasite
as an internal structure generating novel configurations. It is the
origin of these signals that is outside.”18
The Parasite terminologically locates the origin of a fold or
the combination or ’pataphysical collision of exterior and inte-
rior. The Dewdneyan Parasite is an aporia par excellence. I re-
member reading that Burroughs once asked: “which came first
the tapeworm or the intestine?” A parasite body (such as a tape-
worm that lines the small intestine) enfolds itself so effectively
that the notion of an inside or an outside — an inside of the host
or parasite or the outside of the host or parasite — becomes un-
decidable. The Parasite negates the firmament of any decision.19
The Laruellean decision is resisted and the Parasite becomes a
Derridean undecidable. This process gives birth to a variety of
surprising and strange entities 
— 
a panoply of transjected be-
ings. The emergence of this bizarre army of beings that push
beyond formerly fixed definitions of Being require a careful
phorontological analysis.
18	 Dewdney, “Parasite,” 78.
19	 I mean “decision” in Laruellean terms. John Mullarkey and Anthony Paul
Smith point out that, for Laruelle, “[d]ecision, then, is the invariant struc-
ture of philosophy. To ‘decide’ is to cut oneself off from the Real, to repre-
sent it.” See John Mullarkey and Anthony Paul Smith, “Introduction: The
Non-Philosophical Inversion: Laruelle’s Knowledge Without Domination,”
in Laruelle and Non-Philosophy, eds. John Mullarkey and Anthony Paul
Smith, 1–18 (Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 2012), 7.
46
language parasites
Dewdney offers a provisional assessment of the anatomy of
the language parasite and he models it after geology. For Dewd-
ney, the language parasite has the soft body parts of a decaying
fish where “it is as if the fish’s flesh was continuously re-assem-
bled, fossilized particle by particle, morpheme-connotation by
morpheme-connotation, over centuries of change in the living
language; a living fossil whose flesh transubstantiates itself in
the wind of dialectic modification.”20
The parts of the language
parasite accumulate to compose the totality of the etiolated lan-
guage. This Dewdneyan geological consideration of language’s
etiolations activates related theories of sediment. The notion of a
fossilized history is very important for North American poetics:
Steve McCaffery’s Theory of Sediment (1992) and Dewdney’s own
The Natural History (2002) and A Palaeozoic Geology of London,
Ontario (1974) each deal with the fossilization of history.
The concept of “sediment” 
— 
of a properly linguistic sedi-
ment — registers, for Dewdney, language as a “House” of “living
language.” In this framework, language is conceived of as a con-
struction 
— 
a construction that is built upon a site. Language
is built upon a site, but it also accrues its own geological — or
’pataphysically geological 
— 
version of sediment. In her work
Meddle English (2011), the poet Caroline Bergvall, like Dewd-
ney, conceives of language in geological or sedimentary terms.
In Meddle English, Bergvall begins to excavate the various layers
of language-as-geology: “Principally, one discovers surprising
varietals of soil, ancient yet compilable language bones, pressed
word-fossils, collapsed layers, mineral toil, friable clays, dried
pigments, decomposed fabric stretches, discontinuous trac-
ings, and much unrecoverable matter.”21
Bergvall ’pataphysi-
cally specifies that, in this geological “house,” “[t]he top layers
reveal a far larger extent of familiar elements, traceable glossary,
well-defined graphemes, syllabic conduits, what looks like mud-
encased capitalizations, gold-dust, systems of numerical sticks,
20	 Dewdney, “Parasite,” 81.
21	 Caroline Bergvall, Meddle English: New and Selected Texts (Callicoon:
Nightboat Books, 2011), 6.
47
the para-site
animal feathers, and various types of tools. These trace up letter
elements historically, and through the altogether confusing and
inventive arche-logics of etymology. Language is its own mid-
den ground.”22
Both Dewdney’s “house” and Bergvall’s “midden
ground” deploy building and geological metaphors to describe
language 
— 
they describe language’s “body” with metaphors
that are composed of language. The parasite curls in on itself.
The noise of language — its feedback-like recursivity — trails the
tapeworm’s tail back into its scolex-mouth like an Ouroboros.
However, Dewdney is not only being metaphorical because
his notion of language’s “house” is partly material: “The modi-
fied interpretive cortex and speech centre together make up the
House of the living language.”23
I consider Dewdney’s phrase the
“House of the living language” an homage to Heidegger who,
in his “Letter on Humanism,” writes that “Being is the House of
language.”24
Both “houses” are “built” upon the site of a living
history — a history that is constructed and fossilized as language.
Fossils pile onto each other and eventually become sediment.
For Dewdney, the “House of the living language” is the site
that becomes the Parasite: “In a brain junta whose generals are
the neurotransmitters, the House of the living language takes
the final step and becomes the Parasite.”25
Dewdney’s ’pata-
physical speculations trace the ontological entifications of lan-
guage: he analyzes the variegations of language’s transitional
sites. In other words, language is sometimes a “House of liv-
ing language,” or sometimes a geological quarry; at other times,
language is a Governor, and at still other times, language is a
Parasite. What makes Dewdney’s speculation notable is that he
traces the evolution of language from the Governor to the Para-
site. This evolution is made possible by virtue of neuroplasticity:
“The manner in which the House of the living language evolves
22	 Ibid., 6.
23	 Dewdney, “Parasite,” 85.
24	 Martin Heidegger, “Letter on Humanism,” Basic Writings, trans. Frank A.
Capuzzi in collaboration with J. Glenn Gray, 213–66 (New York: HarperCol-
lins, 1993), 217.
25	 Dewdney, “Parasite,” 85.
48
language parasites
into the Parasite hinges on neurotransmitters & axonal / den-
dritic growth,”26
Dewdney writes.
The “House of the living language” is in some ways a refer-
ence to the neuroplastic structures of the brain and in other
ways the phrase is an abstraction, but it is an abstraction that
denotes a paradoxically present materiality — the materiality of
language itself. Language becomes “matter” when the Parasite is
unearthed from the fossilized depths of language. The Parasite
is partly a name for the repressed awareness of language’s inher-
ent materiality, while the Governor maintains a definition of the
sign as immaterial. Dewdney offers a ’pataphysical assessment
of the ways in which the Parasite emerges from neurochemistry:
[I]t seems reasonable to assume that the neurotransmitters
whose altered levels determine the boundary of the Parasite
would also be memory specific, ie; with axonal tracts & path-
ways connected to the hippocampus, a structure integral to
both the storing and retrieval of memory in the brain. […]
These neurotransmitters are Norepinephrine and Acety-
choline. I include Seratonin with these also, not because it
is memory specific, but because of its association with con-
sciousness and mind. The altered levels of norepinephrine,
acetycholine and seratonin in the formative Parasite, medi-
ated by elevated levels of camp, give rise to cascade reactions
which in turn re-figure the House of the living language.27
These “cascade reactions” in turn transform the “House of the
living language” into the Governor and then later into the Para-
site. However, even though these concepts transition into each
other, they each remain operative in each other at the same
time. In other words, each concept depicts a different modality
of the underlying parasite. The Governor is one “face” of the
parasite, the “House of the living language” is one “face” of the
parasite,” and the Parasite is also another “face.” In The Immacu-
26	 Ibid., 86.
27	 Ibid., 90.
49
the para-site
late Perception (1985), Dewdney explicitly asserts that language
is a self-replicating organism:
Once conceived, language became self-replicating, a lexical
organism imbedded in the species. The evolution of language,
inextricably bound with the evolution of our consciousness
as a species, has diverged from its parallel status and taken on
a life of its own. Language is virtually an independent intel-
ligence utilizing humans as neural components in a vast and
inconceivable sentience. The living language exists symbioti-
cally with the human “host.”28
The parasitic nature of language is concealed by its various
guises: the “House of the living language” contains a different
emphasis than the Parasite or the Governor. The “House of the
living language” houses both Being and beings and within this
linguistic spectrum various other entities begin to appear. The
Governor is the superegoic manifestation of the parasite 
— 
it
connotes the ideological and hegemonic qualities of sociocul-
tural dominance as solidified through language. The Parasite it-
self is the announced goal of this ’pataphysical speculation — of
this phorontology. Each concept is a different coloring of the
linguistically parasitic.
In Dewdney’s model, folding and folded tapeworms of langue
wrap around your cerebral cortex and they replicate themselves
through self-reflexive actions and reactions — they react to the
slightest hint that the subject may claim its own sovereignty. In
interview with Lola Lemire Tostevin, Dewdney clarifies what he
means by the terms “Governor” and “Parasite”:
What I mean by that is that anybody who uses words, and
words are perverse, anybody composing art using words
eventually begins to develop a perceptual appendix or ad-
dendum. Because language is so close to consciousness, this
28	 Christopher Dewdney, The Immaculate Perception (Toronto: Anansi, 1986),
57.
50
language parasites
eventually becomes a parasitic relationship where language
spills over the bounds of reference and takes on a quasi-mag-
ical existence in consciousness as if it had more capability
than it actually does. You sort of have a working neurosis at
that point and that’s what I mean by parasite. What the writer
does with that particular language parasite, and which we all
have to a certain extent, is that the dynamics of the relation-
ship keeps the writer occupied which is like wax in the ears
so that you can’t hear the sirens[.]29
Agency resides with the Parasite more than with the subject
that has become a subject-of. Language and subjectivity com-
bine and have become interlinked, thereby transferring agency
between each dyadic figure: agency transfers from the subject
to language and from language to the subject. When Tostevin
asks Dewdney how the Parasite is “the function of language?,”
Dewdney responds that “[i]t’s an affliction, a language affliction.
But of course in the essay I go on to say that language thinks us
too. Which is a pretty obvious, straight forward point to make I
suppose.”30
Language thinks. If a parasite “lives” inside the “living
language,” then language begins to think the subject, to dream
the subject. The subject becomes a host for language when the
subject becomes subject-of — subject-of language or subject-of a
word-parasite.
The mimetic qualities of language ontologically reinforce
specific communicational behavior patterns and these patterns
become normalized over time. Even though this claim may
more easily and obviously align with a Lacanian framework
in which agency resides with language because language is the
“house” of the unconscious, I would point to a more uncanny
and surprising association 
— 
that of Chomskyan linguistics.
Chomsky argues in Language and Mind (1968) that every human
being has a genetic, unconsciously hardwired ability to under-
29	 Christopher Dewdney, “Interview with Christopher Dewdney,” Open Letter,
7, no. 7 (1990): 84–95, at 86.
30	 Ibid., 86–87.
51
the para-site
stand language.31
If language is “universal,” then its universality
must rely on its capabilities to remain hidden beyond binaristic
thought. Language would then occupy a middle ground space
(or continuum of spaces, places, sites, and para-sites) that exists
in between subjects and objects or selves and others. Derrida
quite rightly focuses on the aporic in language and on the proto-
structural character of différance because these concepts each
point to the universality of the language-parasite — to the uni-
versality of its shielded or bizarre materiality. If I may heretically
collide Chomsky with Lacan for a moment, then I would argue
that Chomsky’s notion of “universal grammar” would require
a “section of the cortex” that functions in conjunction with the
accumulation of mimetic signals that could more effectively
construct the socially permissible (and hegemonic) codifica-
tions of the symbolic order, which would also manifest as the
exteriorized being of the parasite. In both Chomskyan and La-
canian models, language can be interpreted as the production of
an underlying, invasive “parasite.” Even though this claim may
seem utterly against Chomsky’s own theoretical allegiances, he
himself claims in a lecture at Google that
what you predict is that some other principle external to lan-
guage, maybe some principle of nature, principle of compu-
tational efficiency or something like that which is not specific
to language, interacted with a small mutation which just gave
rise to the universal grammar. […] Once the small mutation
took place given this operation, recursive enumeration oper-
ation, that allows you to create a discrete infinity, […] chang-
ing something in someone’s genome and spreading through
the small breeding group.32
31	 Noam Chomsky, Language and Mind (Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 2006), 77, 100, 106–13.
32	Noam Chomsky, “Authors@Google: Noam Chomsky,” April 25, 2008,
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rnLWSC5p1XE. The quotation begins at
12:40 in the timestamp of the video and continues to 15:44. Emphasis added.
52
language parasites
Therefore, even Chomsky, when provided with the speculative
venue of an improvised lecture, is willing to consider the pos-
sibility that language is the result of an intrinsic mutation. In
Dewdneyan terms, the mutation itself may be the result of the
language-parasite. If these speculations are correct, then lan-
guage is the result of a parasitic rewiring and, if the Governor
and the Parasite are as intertwined as Dewdney suggests, then it
is likely that sentience is also the result of this mutation (Chom-
sky), virus (Burroughs), or parasite (Dewdney).
The very idea of a parasite conveys an ontology and an em-
bodiment that is paradoxical, liminal, and aporic. The concept
of the parasite bridges the boundaries between self and other
because for the parasite there is no inside or outside: a parasite is
both in the host, in the self, and in the other; as well, the parasite
contains a kind of self that interlinks with the host’s self. The end
effect of binaristic thought processes is the concretization of the
Governor and not the diagnosis of the Parasite. What we need
now is a transjected re-theorization or “rewiring” of subjectiv-
ity that can begin to approach language as a parasite so that the
parasite that simultaneously lurks inside (and as) consciousness
will also be revealed.
Tempting the Parasite	
Christian Bök theorizes a different type of ’pataphysical parasit-
ism combined with poetics in his essay “The Xenotext Experi-
ment” (2008) and its related project.33
Bök intends to embed
a poem inside a bacterium 
— 
inside the bacterium’s genome
sequences 
— 
in such a way that the bacterium will “write” a
poem in response to the embedded poem that, when decoded
through the alphabetic-gene cipher, will also be sensible. Bök
has chosen to embed the poem in the hardy extremophile bac-
terium Deinococcus radiodurans so that the poem can live
33	 Bök intends to release the project in two volumes. The first volume — which
acts as a grimoire or trailer for the second volume — was released in 2015.
See Christian Bök, The Xenotext: Book 1 (Toronto: Coach House, 2015).
53
the para-site
forever — as an immortal poem — beyond the death of our solar
system’s sun or in the empty vacuum of space. Deinococcus ra-
diodurans does not die in these environments, but can survive
and even thrive in the harshest of living conditions: the stub-
bornness of this bacterium makes it the ideal vessel for what
could be, if successful, an eternal poem.
Bök claims that the poem he embeds will be the “mascu-
line” counterpart to the bacterium’s “feminine” response,34
but
I prefer to think of the differential of this relationship in dif-
ferent terms: the message passed between the poem and the
bacterium is less an anthropocentric dynamic of sociocultural
gendering and more akin to the muttering of host to parasite
and parasite to host. The gendering of each poetic sequence is
less fitting than a consideration of the dynamic as a parasitic
relationship. Even Bök initially configured the project in para-
sitic terms: “In this experiment, I propose to address some of the
sociological implications of biotechnology by manufacturing a
‘xenotext’ — a beautiful, anomalous poem, whose ‘alien words’
might subsist, like a harmless parasite, inside the cell of another
life-form.”35
Bök was (at least in 2008) engineering the poem
with the scientist Stuart Kauffman so that “books of the future
may no longer take on the form of codices, scrolls, or tablets, but
instead they may become integrated into the very life of their
readers.”36
In this way, “The Xenotext Experiment strives to ‘in-
fect’ the language of genetics with the ‘poetic vectors’ of its own
discourse, doing so in order to extend poetry itself beyond the
formal limits of the book.”37
The enciphered alphabet that Bök
develops makes use of the basic communicational elements of
34	 Bök used this gendered dynamic to describe his project in interview with
Jamie Condliffe in NewScientist from May of 2011: Jamie Condliffe, “Cryptic
poetry written in a microbe’s DNA,” NewScientist, May 4, 2011, https://www.
newscientist.com/blogs/culturelab/2011/05/christian-boks-dynamic-dna-
poetry.html.
35	 Christian Bök, “The Xenotext Experiment,” SCRIPTed 5 (2008): 228–31, at
229.
36	 Bök, “The Xenotext Experiment,” 230.
37	 Ibid., 230.
54
language parasites
DNA with its available vocabulary of A (Adenine), C (Cytosine),
G (Guanine), and T (Thymine), which are the nucleotides that
code for DNA, in order to create a constrained lexicon that can
provide the available words for the poem. Bök has already writ-
ten the poem that that he will embed and has reverse engineered
the poem that the bacterium will produce in response. He has
(as of 2017) successfully embedded the poem-parasite in E. coli,
but the project has yet to be successful in D. radiodurans. E.
coli lacks the resilience of D. radiodurans and Bök wants his
poetry to be everlasting.
What if the importance of Bök’s project is not to be found in
the authorial goal of an embedded parasite-poem into a host-
bacterium that results in the host’s stammering and pre-pro-
grammed response, but rather in the implications that his pro-
ject has for revealing our own language-parasite(s)? What if the
human species stand in for D. radiodurans and the poem that
the bacterium must utter is really what we call a “self?” Who
has embedded this “self-poem” and how can we begin to see the
parasite for what it really is? D. radiodurans does not know that
the poem that it will utter is anything except the natural code of
its own intrinsic functioning — its own organic autopoiesis and
not an embedded and preprogrammed Bökian poiesis. What
if our own “selves” are the results not of autopoiesis, but poie-
sis? If this is true, then our “selves” are not the results of a self-
organized Governor (an autopoietic code that masquerades as
hegemonic discourse), but a Parasite that has entered from the
outside (as poiesis).
Citing the Parasite’s “Nature”
Sometimes a para-cite lives at a para-site. The “para-cite” is my
term for the ways in which scholars use existing texts as hosts
and feed off them in order to produce their own scholarship.
The very notion of citation is intrinsically parasitical. In the best
conditions, citation is modeled after a symbiont more than a
parasite, but often citation connotes a parasitic relationship. The
forcible binarisms of the Governor negate or repress the aliena-
55
the para-site
tion that instates the internal order of the host-parasite dynam-
ic. Necessarily alienating, the experience of housing a parasite
for the host renders the host as an alien to her, his, or their own
body and selfhood. In this case, Marx’s philosophy will assist in
understanding the parasitic nature of capitalism and the ways
in which capitalism engenders a profound sense of alienation
and how — in traditional communist models — the bourgeoisie
parasites the proletariat-host.
Marx draws a dividing line between mind and nature and
suggests that there is something in “Man” that is intrinsically
“not-nature”: “alienated labour alienate[s] (1) nature from man,
and (2) man from himself, his own active function, his vital
activity.”38
This act of alienation produces a supplement to and in
the subject — an other space that the subject occupies, a para-site
to the other site — and this dual experience of the supplement
and its resultant alienation makes the subject into a subject-of.
The subject becomes a subject-of alienation, which is a cognitive
or phenomenal site that can begin to apprehend the contours
of the parasite. The transjected spaces that exist in between he-
gemonic concepts such as “mind” and “nature” fractally fold in
on each other and produce parasites, para-sites, and parasitic
relations. In Michel Serres’s The Parasite (1982), he understands
the “parasite” to be a kind of interruption or noise that operates
underneath reality (“parasite” means “noise” in French): “Theo-
rem: noise gives rise to a new system, an order that is more com-
plex than the simple chain.”39
The parasite-as-noise is productive
of meaning and order. Throughout The Parasite, Serres refers
to chaos theory and systems theory and the productive power
of the interruption.40
For Serres, the significance of the parasite
38	 Karl Marx, Selected Writings, ed. David McLellan (Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press), 90.
39	Serres, The Parasite, 14.
40	 See chaos theorist Ilya Prigogine and Isabelle Stengers’s afterword to Serres’s
Hermes from 1982: Ilya Prigogine and Isabelle Stengers, “Postface: Dynam-
ics from Leibniz to Lucretius,” in Michel Serres, Hermes: Literature, Science,
Philosophy, eds. Josué V. Harari and David F. Bell, 135–55 (Baltimore: Johns
Hopkins University Press, 1982).
56
language parasites
is directly related to the one that is parasited, which designates
meaning-systems as either coherent or diffracted.
What Serres means by his notion of the “interrupted meal”
features some similarities with Žižek’s interpretation of “the
voice” from Enjoy Your Symptom! (1992). Žižek discusses the
parasiting nature of the Voice in relation to Chaplin’s film City
Lights (1931): “the disruptive power of the voice, of the fact that
the voice functions as a foreign body, as a kind of parasite intro-
ducing a radical split: the advent of the Word throws the human
animal off balance and makes of him a ridiculous, impotent fig-
ure, gesticulating and striving desperately for a lost balance.”41
The parasite inside language produces, through its disruptions
and interruptions, the various irruptions or ruptures of mean-
ing or non-meaning. The noise in the communicational signal
assists in the creation of meaning: a little bit of noise is needed
for the emergence of meaning, while too much noise results in
the non-meaningful. Sense becomes non-sense depending on
the degree of noise in the signal.
The Voice, like the interrupted meal, is interruptive. Lacan
claims that “the real” is that which wakes us from sleep — a jar-
ring interruption that shakes us back into the world and leaves
us with the raw sting of the uncanny. For both Serres and Žižek,
the interruption has special significance: the sign of the inter-
ruption awakens the host to the deeper awareness of her, his,
or their status as an infected being — as the house of a parasite.
The interruptions that annoy us signify the world as a totality
that is prone to diffractions. Interruptions activate a sense of the
unreal or the surreal and give way to unheimlich experiences
like “déjà vu.”
Uncanny experiences take on the form of a parasite: the in-
terruption is similar to the tapeworm that crawls up the throat
to get at the salt that is placed on the tip of the tongue. In other
words, the interruption reveals the underlying constructions of
the Governor. The interruption reveals the concealed “ofs” that
41	 Slavoj Žižek, Enjoy Your Symptom!: Jacques Lacan in Hollywood and Out
(New York: Routledge, 2008), 3.
57
the para-site
designate the subject-of as being “subject-of” instead of as a fully
coherent subject. After the experience of the real passes — or af-
ter the parasite recedes after crawling to the tongue — the world
progresses just as it did before. For phorontology, interruptions
are notable events and should be harnessed because they point
to the deeper proto-structure of the sites and the para-sites: in-
terruptions point to the proto-structure of the language-parasite
as being composed of a metafractal.
What is a “metafractal?” Is the term not redundant? Is the
term “metafractal” somewhat akin to saying “fractalfractal?” In
a sense, all fractals are fractalfractals, but a metafractal is dif-
ferent and it is a useful term for conceptualizing phorontology.
Phorontology seeks to describe the structures and proto-struc-
tures that compose the parasite of language and the transjected
subject-ofs that constitute contemporary being: this goal can
only be achieved by understanding how the concept of the
metafractal points to the self-similar and self-organizing princi-
ples of transjects, xenojects, subjects, objects, subject-ofs, Gov-
ernors, Houses, sites, and para-sites.
The Parasite that Dewdney describes is both consciousness
and language and it features the normalizing processes of so-
ciocultural customs and rituals. The Governor becomes a Para-
site depending on how the overall organismic structure of the
House of the living language is configured at that point in time.
Subject-ofs multiply because there are more subject positions
available in hyperhistory than ever before; put differently, I
would say that the subject-of is the strange attractor of identity.
Subject-ofs are akin to the strange attractors of chaos theory in
that they are the seemingly coherent structures that stabilize
the chaotic and fractal patterns of social (macro) and psychic
(micro) systems. Subject-ofs should not be thought of as Lacan-
ian “quilting points”42
because consciousness is not linear; on
the contrary, consciousness is dynamic and metafractal. What
42	 Jacques Lacan, The Seminar of Jacques Lacan: Book iii: The Psychoses 1955–
1956, ed. Jacques-Alain Miller, trans. Russell Grigg (New York: Norton,
1997), 268–70.
58
language parasites
Lacan would call “quilting points,” I would call the “ofs” of the
metafractal: these “ofs” should not be thought of as “buttons,”
but rather as nonlinear and aperiodic variables that shift and
morph in relation to certain proto-structural conditions and
tendencies in the total system. The parasite is fractal.
Conceptually, the notion of the “subject-of” emerges from
Louis Althusser’s work in his essay “Reply to John Lewis.” What
Althusser calls “interpellation” is one possible term that desig-
nates the underlying parasite that hails you on the street cor-
ner, but of more interest for the purposes of phorontology is
Althusser’s assertion here: “there is no Subject (singular) of his-
tory,” Althusser writes, “[a]nd I will go further: ‘men’ are not
‘the subjects’ of history.”43
If there is no singular subject of his-
tory and if men are not the subjects of history, then what is?
Althusser argues that “history has ‘subjects’; these subjects are
obviously ‘men’; ‘men’ are therefore, if not the Subject of history,
at least the subjects of history.”44
Althusser sketches out how the
agency of the sentence resides not in the concept of the word
“subject” or the word “subjects,” and not even in the word “his-
tory,” but rather in the preposition “of.” Apart from emphasizing
the patriarchy, Althusser also emphasizes the “of”: “But the fact
that they are necessarily subjects does not make the agents of
social-historical practices into the subject or subjects of history
(in the philosophical sense of the term: subject of). The subject-
agents are only active in history through the determination of
the relations of production and reproduction.”45
This Marxist
analysis usurps agency or power from history and its subjects
and places agency in the hands of the “of,” which here connotes
the material means of production and reproduction. This “of”
is an “of” that designates recursivity and feedback: as a preposi-
tion the word links other parts of speech together, but it also
weaves the concepts of “subject” and “history” together as well.
43	 Louis Althusser, On Ideology, trans. Ben Brewster (London: Verso, 2008),
134.
44	 Ibid., 133.
45	 Ibid., 135.
59
the para-site
In an Althusserian context, the “subject” is “of” “history” and
this linkage can be expressed in numerous ways so that each
explication emphasizes the shifting power relations between
each concept in different ways. However, what I mean by the
term “subject-of” is different from what Althusser means by the
term: in a phorontological praxis, the word “of” is not neces-
sarily linked to the concept of “history,” but can be linked to
numerous, nonlinear concepts that permit the emergence of a
“subject.” Certainly, this “of” — or these “ofs” — would be partly
related to the ideological and the historical or to the Lacanian
notion of master signifiers,46
but there would be other influences
as well: social, cultural, familial, ancestral, mythological, per-
sonal, and unconscious. The importance of the seemingly sim-
ple preposition “of” in the concept “subject-of” is that the “of”
is constantly shifting in relation to the complex interplay of self
and environment or subject and object. However many linkages
exist at any given time between the self and the environment
would designate the totality of the “ofs” and these “ofs” would
shift and die off for the emergence of new “ofs” as the autopoi-
etic nature of the biological and linguistic organism degenerates
and regenerates. As these “ofs” grow, live, and die over time, the
overall proto-structure of the metafractal repeatedly transforms
into different sites and para-sites. The variety of these “ofs” can
be thought of as individual or particular parasites 
— 
parasites
that para-site the subjective site — or they can be thought of in
more banal terms; namely, these “ofs” can be thought of as cul-
tural memes.
Operating on the Parasite
Richard Dawkins theorizes the meme as an intrinsically para-
sitic model of cultural transmission, going so far as to link cul-
46	 Jacques Lacan, The Seminar of Jacques Lacan: Book xvii: The Other Side of
Psychoanalysis, ed. Jacques-Alain Miller, trans. Russell Grigg (New York:
Norton, 2007), 170.
60
language parasites
tural transmission with genetic transmission.47
Dawkins defines
“meme” in the following way:
“Mimeme” comes from a suitable Greek root, but I want a
monosyllable that sounds a bit like “gene.” I hope my clas-
sicist friends will forgive me if I abbreviate mimeme to meme
[…]. Examples of memes are tunes, ideas, catch-phrases,
clothes fashions, ways of making pots or of building arches.
[…] [S]o memes propagate themselves in the meme pool by
leaping from brain to brain via a process which, in the broad
sense, can be called imitation.48
By linking cultural transmission with genetic transmission,
Dawkins is unwittingly making an argument that is reliant on
fractal self-similarity: he is claiming that the systemic habits
of genes in some ways mirror the systemic habits of cultural
memes. Dawkins affords greater speed to the evolution of
memes than the evolution of genes and he links the speed of
meme evolution to that of linguistic evolution: “Language seems
to ‘evolve’ by non-genetic means, and at a rate which is orders
of magnitude faster than genetic evolution.”49
The high speed
of linguistic evolution is related to the speed of cultural evolu-
tion, thereby linking memes and language together in terms of
their shared parasitic qualities. Dawkins understands memes in
parasitic terms, such as when he claims that: “memes should be
regarded as living structures, not just metaphorically but tech-
nically. When you plant a fertile meme in my mind you liter-
ally parasitize my brain, turning it into a vehicle for the meme’s
propagation in just the way that a virus may parasitize the ge-
netic mechanism of a host cell.”50
Subjects sometimes parasitize
objects and objects sometimes parasitize subjects, but the on-
tological importance of the parasite is rarely considered in this
47	 Richard Dawkins, The Selfish Gene (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2006),
189.
48	 Ibid., 192.
49	 Ibid., 189.
50	 Ibid., 192. Emphasis added.
61
the para-site
dynamic. Ontology and phenomenology have historically ad-
dressed some of the questions and sites of Being — particularly,
the question or site of a human theory of being-human, but on-
tology and phenomenology falter in front of other, posthuman,
inhuman, or nonhuman forms of Being. A different theory of
Being is required to address what it means to be a nonhuman.
Phorontology preliminarily addresses this niche and begins to
theorize the nonhuman being of the parasite.
For this reason, the focus of contemporary philosophy should
no longer be on subjects or objects, but rather on transjects.
Philosophical and material parasites are all transjects — they are
transjected. The subject-of is a predominantly human instance
of a transject, but there are other nonhuman, posthuman, and
inhuman forms of transjects as well. The parasite is neither sub-
ject nor object, but a transject, which is a new ontological cat-
egory that exists in between humanist subjects and nonhuman
objects. The subject-of is the humanist face of the transject, but
it is only one entification of the transject among many others; in
other words, the subject-of is the parasitized instance of the sub-
ject in the same way that the subject-of parasitizes the transject.
Language and culture invade from an outside and infect the
subject and render that subject into a subject-of. From a phoron-
tological perspective, consciousness or sentience are likely the
results of an “accident” or “mutation” that randomly occurred
by virtue of an initial mutation — a mutation that manifests as
the signature of the meme-parasite as it fights for neurological
real estate. Dawkins situates the meme in aggressive terms: “If
a meme is to dominate the attention of a human brain, it must
do so at the expense of ‘rival’ memes. Other commodities for
which memes compete are radio and television time, billboard
space, newspaper column-inches, and library shelf-space.”51
If
the language-parasite and the resultant subject-of are the results
of an initial mutation that became passed on through natural se-
lection and evolution, then that mutation must have been ben-
eficial enough to outweigh the negative qualities of a mutation:
51	 Ibid., 197.
62
language parasites
“Almost all genetic side-effects are bad, and a new mutation
will normally spread only if its bad effects are outweighed by its
good effects. […] In spite of its deleterious side-effects, if a seg-
regation distorter arises by mutation it will surely tend to spread
through the population.”52
The subject-of experiences sentience
or self-awareness as the result of an invasive language-para-
site that enters the subject-of from the outside and constructs
that outside as an “outside.” The “outside” becomes differently
charged in the subject-of as the incursions of the symbolic or-
der as exteriority affect the overall functionality and stability of
the imaginarily coherent “subject.” The outside parasitizes the
subject and creates sentience out of the various “ofs” that virally
proliferate inside lived experience. The mutations that permit-
ted the dominance of the language-parasite have contributed to
historically determinant hegemonies and realities. These “he-
gemonies” and “realities” have become concretized in human
history by the replicative efficiency of memes; or, as Dawkins
writes:
When we die there are two things we can leave behind us:
genes and memes. We were built as gene machines, created
to pass on our genes. But that aspect of us will be forgotten
in three generations. Your child, even your grandchild, may
bear a resemblance to you, perhaps in facial features, in a tal-
ent for music, in the colour of her hair. But as each genera-
tion passes, the contribution of your genes is halved. […] But
if you contribute to the world’s culture, if you have a good
idea, compose a tune, invent a sparking plug, write a poem,
it may live on, intact, long after your genes have dissolved in
the common pool. Socrates may or may not have a gene or
two alive in the world today, as G.C. Williams has remarked,
but who cares? The meme-complexes of Socrates, Leonardo,
Copernicus and Marconi are still going strong.53
52	 Ibid., 237.
53	 Ibid., 199.
63
the para-site
When a meme is internalized 
— 
consciously or unconscious-
ly — it parasitizes a site of the subject-of; put differently, the in-
ternalized meme becomes another “of” in the overall sitings and
para-sitings of the metafractal.
If the sources discussed in this chapter point to a real pan-
demic — a normalized pandemic that describes the hegemonic
constitution of “normalcy” itself 
— 
then why should we care
about it? Why would we need a logic of operation or treatment
for a state of selfhood that is the standard ontological experience
of “being-human?” If we begin to consider the normal function-
ality of human sentience as being prone to parasitic infection, or
as being the direct result of a parasitic infection, then we begin
to theorize different avenues of subjective experience and more
capacious alternatives to ontology. The question of “what is be-
ing?” is a question (with already proposed and yet un-thought
answers) that can be broadened by considering a phorontology
instead of an ontology or a transject instead of a subject or an
object. An acknowledgement of this pandemic will open new
pathways for existence. However, whether or not the parasite
can be operated on is likely a question that is best left to ’pata-
physicians and the most daring philo-fiction detectives.
65
The Meta-site
S
ubject-ofs are structured by patterns of repetition
and replication because the future site motivates the pre-
sent and retroactively codes its existence as nonexistent
or as “presently nonexistent.” The future site is held away from
the subject-of because it is structured on the basis of a “prom-
ise.” The future site vacillates between being either a para or a
meta singularity that oscillates due to indefinite feedback. The
present site, on the other hand, is a site of constraint and the
only escape from this constraint is the future site. The specific
constraint — whatever that constraint may be — transforms the
site into a self and outlines the borders of subjectivity in order
to ensure that the self is always partial — never “full” or “total.”
The perceptual illusion of wholeness in the self is a simulation
created by the parasite of constraint where the self remains an
illusion or dream of atomism 
— 
a dream of a sovereign, no-
madic existence. The self is “atomic” only insofar as it creates
a perception of singularity; however, in the same way that the
electron acts as both a wave and a particle, the atomic self is
both particular and sited as a continuum. On the one hand, the
“self” becomes a singularity when focalized as the local site of
a subject-of, but, on the other hand, the subject-of becomes a
continuum when that subject-of is effaced and misrecognized
as a subject or self. These distinct states are complementary, but
not necessarily simultaneous.
The future site prospectively defines the “play” or fuzziness
of the present constraint. However, this “prospective definition”
is also a retroactive siting of the imagination because the future
site promises that the present site of constraint can be altered
by a supplement (such as a dream or a goal) that can accom-
66
language parasites
modate the overall structure of the intrinsic fractality of sites.
The subject-of is a concept that denotes the underlying fractal-
ity of the subjective site (which I call the metafractal). When
one is subject-of a specific site or a constraint, then the atomism
of the “self” becomes prone to a wide variety of exceptions or
declinations: the subject-of is designated as a simulated “whole”
in relation to the various supplements that are made possible by
the potential of the constraint.
The notion of a constraint is dictated by what Lucretius calls
the clinamen atomorum (or the “atomic swerve”).1
Democritus
argues that atoms fall downward in a never-ending waterfall,
but it is Lucretius — after Epicurus — who theorizes the swerve
that is produced by atomic collisions. According to Lucretius,
when atoms collide they produce a swerve and this swerve is
what permits the emergence of natural things. Sites function in
similar ways. The site, as every future site or every prefixed site,
is given form by the particular constraint — a constraint that is
itself dictated by the associations of the subject-of and the un-
expected declinations of the clinamen. The clinamen is, in this
sense, the “hope” that is offered by a future site. The present has
no intrinsic promise because the future site offers compensation
for the present site; in other words, the existential “promise” is
only provisionally existent in the present due to what the future
site provides. This model creates a structure that is predicated
on retroversion, feedback, and recursivity — this model presents
sites as locales that repeat, circulate, and navigate the “host”
through an environment. Sites are not chronologically specific,
but are dependent on the clinamen (or a type of clinamen) for
metamorphosis or fantasy.
Combining the notion of the subject with that of the atom
would allow us to ask about the quanta of the self: is this quanta
a Cartesian homunculus? If there is a subjective atom, then “it
1	 See Lucretius, On the Nature of Things: De rerum natura, ed. and trans. An-
thony M. Esolen (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995), II:
217–29 (or page 63).
67
the meta-site
has a real field elsewhere, another assignable site.”2
When every
site is destroyed by the repressive regimes and despotic powers
of a dystopic nightmare, then where can the subject flee? Is there
a site that remains for this potential subject without “country?”
We need a theory of the subject that is free from all ideological
attachments — from all of the “ofs.” Ideology functions as a cor-
rective salve for a damaged site: where the subject fails, ideolo-
gy-sites impose new systems of delimitation in which the “lost”
subject can be re-mythologized within a new operative regime.
A historical moment is an unfixed site, but the language used
to speak about that historical moment is unflinching and firm.
What is called “history” is merely one palimpsestic-site among
others in a total narrative-fractal. This narrative and histori-
cal situation leads me to call for a militant grammatology or a
guerrilla phorontology that can address the fallibility of these
damaged sites. The textual pathway of the Derridean trace is
non-agential3
because there is no militant impulse in Derridean
grammatology. What could be called the “intentional trace” can
be considered the clinamen that inaugurates order and structure
within the chaos of the material world. The clinamen concep-
tually traces the collisions that occur within any metastasizing
system: the atomic collisions that produce the Lucretian swerve
are the events that inaugurate the multiple from the singular.
The atom is never singular stricto sensu, but only one complex
assemblage among many others.
Thresholds of collapse temporarily structure shapes and
forms as “coherent” entities. What is needed to theorize this
dynamic is a new theory of Form combined with an under-
standing of complexity theory: this new theory would require
that every form and structure is dependent on the ontological
count of that structure. The level of magnification would then
dictate the manner in which that structure gets counted: if we
are Deleuzoguattarians and choose to count to the molecular
or the molar, then that decision (or de-scission) would deter-
2	Derrida, Of Grammatology, 60.
3	 Ibid., 61.
68
language parasites
mine the ontological result of that structure. For this reason, I
insist that ontology is threshold specific. If ontology is threshold
specific, then any “structure” is only “whole” in relation to its
own dimensions and intrinsic geometries: if that structure were
to be removed from its present state, then it would rapidly lose
its manifest concreteness and dissipate into pure nothingness.
Ontology is only “ontological” if entropy is also present in the
overall system because entropy dictates the temporality and di-
mensional coherence of a subjective-structure. Writing as the
representation of an ontology is also bound within laws of time
and energy. Writing requires the medium of a writer or robot
to function; otherwise that same writing would remain virtual.
This writing that would include the graphematic and the pho-
nematic is situated and sited in a space. Space partly becomes a
“place” when it is occupied by the positionality of a mark or sin-
gularity. It is here that Foucault ’pataphysically combines with
Derrida.
Foucault writes about the heterotopia, which is an “other
space,” as a specific site of liminal escape that is operative in mo-
dernity: “The great obsession of the nineteenth century was, as
we know, history […]. The present epoch will perhaps be above
all the epoch of space. We are in the epoch of simultaneity: we
are in the epoch of juxtaposition, the epoch of the near and far,
of the side-by-side, of the dispersed.”4
History occupies a virtual
space that is made actual in its tracings: “history” is actualized
in the carvings that decorate buttressed ceilings, in hieroglyphic
records, or in the fossilized sediment of species long extinct.
Foucault writes that heterotopias are spaces of fossilized his-
tory: “there are heterotopias of indefinitely accumulating time,
for example museums and libraries. Museums and libraries have
become heterotopias in which time never stops building up and
topping its own summit.”5
However, the library-heterotopia
does not accumulate towards any final phase because hetero-
4	 Michel Foucault, “Of Other Spaces,” trans. Jay Miskowiec, Diacritics 16, no.
1 (1986): 22–27, at 22.
5	 Ibid., 26.
69
the meta-site
topias are temporary sites of social alterity. Heterotopias do not
maintain cohesiveness indefinitely throughout history: no mat-
ter the mortar or cement used in their construction, they are
prone to the erasure of history and, furthermore, to the disper-
sive affects of entropy. Heterotopic spaces are anthills of Euclid-
ean architecture that rupture, deteriorate, decay, and are re-built
in order to house the future icons of an inward-looking civili-
zation. The importance of heterotopias can be found in their
impermanence: they are spaces that are subject to the dissolu-
tion of history while acting as the escape valves for a marginal-
ized social order. The pyramids will never be heterotopic, while
a rave venue may well be. However, a heterotopia is a space of
alterity only in relation to the normative codes of society so that
such a site is dependent on the potential populace that may one
day populate it.
The dream of the heterotopia is the dream of an outside of
the outside — the dream of a space that is exterior to all entropic
deterioration. The ravages of time do not affect the heterotopia
because it occupies an eternal present. Heterotopias dissipate
and shift in the forced metamorphosis of entropy while remain-
ing in potentia, but the postmortem emergence of hyperhistory
has changed the potentiality of the heterotopia. For example,
hyperhistory is de-sited where history is sited: history is sited in
churches and ruins, while hyperhistory is de-sited in the simul-
taneity of historical multiplicity and the negation of the possi-
bility of the archive. Hyperhistory consumes previous histories
and exhumes these histories as gifts of futurity. Consumption
should be understood here to mean both “theft” and “gift.” Any
form of consumption steals agency in that the consumed-ob-
ject’s totality is appropriated for the coherency of another ob-
ject, while still remaining a gift for that initial object’s claims of
community. The consumed object is networked during the act
of consumption. Consumption is therefore the consummation
of a theft and a gift and is, in hyperhistorical terms, epitomized
by the act of cannibalism.
Cannibalism can be considered one of the current phases of
conceptual writing and avant-garde literary experimentation:
70
language parasites
“cannibalism” denotes the appropriation or re-appropriation of
prior texts within a “new” mode or gift that steals the inexist-
ence of an “original.” Baudrillard’s theory of “simulation” can-
nibalizes the notion of the origin;6
in other words, the original
icon is eaten during the totemic meal. “Cannibalism” becomes
a rhetorical tool deployed by colonialism after Christopher Co-
lumbus coins the term “cannibal” from the Caribs who were the
cannibalistic tribe at war with the Arowaks.7
Cannibalism de-
picts a basic mode of modern consumption as the tapeworm
societies curl inside the hegemonic host.
In Homer’s The Odyssey (c. 8th century BCE), the Cyclops
Polyphemus and the Lestrygonians (a tribe of giant cannibals)
eat Odysseus’s men. A site is differently coded when feeding oc-
curs within it. The heterotopia is a site of escape from society
whereas the sites of the cycloptic and Lestrygonian meals are
“different spaces” that are different not because they are “exte-
rior” to society, but because they occur at an “interior” of an
entirely different society. Odysseus and his men leave the formal
sites of their homeland and enter into the other-sites of the Cy-
clops and Lestrygonians: these sites are then coded as inclusive
to cycloptic and Lestrygonian society. The nostos or homecom-
ing of Odysseus occurs by virtue of a recognition of the memory
of hunger: Odysseus recognizes the site of his home because of
his sexual hunger. Desire is not only predicated on a form of
lack, but also, on the presence of hunger and on the pleasure
that is derived from feeding.
6	Baudrillard, Simulacra and Simulation, 3–7.
7	 A good source for the history of cannibalism (that also addresses colonial-
ism and Columbus), see Bill Schutt’s Cannibalism: A Perfectly Natural His-
tory (Chapel Hill: Algonquin Books, 2017). Also of interest for this topic
is: Jeff Berglund’s Cannibal Fictions: American Explorations of Colonial-
ism, Race, Gender, and Sexuality (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press,
2006).
71
the meta-site
Parasite Semiotics
The agency of alterity locates the beginning of an undecidable
dialectic between author and other. Otherness invites authorship
because otherness para-sites the profound distance between the
body, its hungers, and the exterior world. The cannibal is like a
parasite who is an Other and also an Author. These terms com-
bine to become an auther, which I consider to be an agential
category of alterity in which forms of otherness are authorized
into a new para-site — a para-site that is reconfigured as a site.
The term “auther” names a specific strand of the subject-of that
designates the authority or the power of the other to inscribe
sites and para-sites.
Parasites are always in the process of homecoming. Odysseus
returns home to Penelope and sees that countless suitors have
attempted to “implant” themselves in his marriage bed. Penel-
ope is akin to the anglerfish of the Ceratiidae variety in which
the males of the species burrow within the body of the female
and parasitically live off her body. The homecoming is rendered
parasitic because Odysseus returns under the mistaken impres-
sion that he is singular in his status as “male” or “husband.” He
returns home to engage in a battle of masculinity, which can
be understood as a battle of parasites. Penelope is an anglerfish
who weaves a net that confines her parasite-suitors and it is only
through the act of angeln (or fishing) that allows Penelope to
weave a suitable burial shroud.
A parasite semiotics is required to understand the transition
of an author to an auther. The term “auther” denotes a para-
sitized subject position that weaves in relation to a once exter-
nalized, but now internalized influence 
— 
an influence that
arrives from before and beyond any subject. The parasite of con-
straint is responsible for the strict policing of the boundary be-
tween intimacy and extimacy. The parasite of constraint and its
related language parasites pre-date human beings and require
repetition and replication in order to survive.
The sign is originally a parasite in that it imbeds itself with-
in speaking subjects. If you communicate, then you are living
72
language parasites
with a parasite. For phorontology, the central term of a para-
site semiotics would be what Roman Jakobson calls “the phatic
function.”8
Jakobson develops the term from Bronislaw Ma-
linowski’s theory of the “phatic.”9
The phatic function designates
a social channel as being “active” — it forges the social bond be-
tween addressor and addressee. However, the phatic is not nec-
essarily related to the meaning of a signal, which would align it
more with noise.
Noise is, for Serres, one of the central organizing forces in
communication and it conceals (and is) a parasite. The message
or channel is prone to the overcoded qualities of noise. It does
not matter what the discourse is or the subtexts of the message
are because the signal and the message can never contain the
meaning in toto. The emergence of noise presents as the inter-
rupture of the parasite; put differently, the phatic function be-
comes emphatic because it contains a speaking that arrives from
elsewhere. In a parasite semiotics, the communicational rela-
tionship would always be triadic or multiple. There would never
only be one speaker and one addressee because the parasites are
already muttering within the signal itself.
A parasite semiotics that highlights the underlying noisi-
ness of the phatic also activates Thomas Sebeok’s biosemiotic
and zoosemiotic theories of communication.10
If the signal is
not dyadic, but triadic or multiple, then the signal becomes
fractal — a fractal-message that is transmitted through a fractal-
environment. By linking the phatic with Saussure’s concept of
the paragram11
 
— 
which is a coded message that lurks within
language itself — we can begin to situate the phatic and the para-
8	 See Roman Jakobson, “Closing Statement: Linguistics and Poetics,” Style in
Language, ed. Thomas Sebeok, 350–77 (Cambridge: MIT Press, 1960).
9	 Ibid., 355.
10	 See Thomas A. Sebeok, Perspectives in Zoosemiotics (The Hague: Mouton de
Gruyter, 1972).
11	 Jean Starobinski compiles some of Saussure’s work on the paragram in:
Words upon Words: The Anagrams of Ferdinand de Saussure, trans. Olivia
Emmet (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1979). Also, see my essay on
this topic: “Cage’s Mesostics and Saussure’s Paragrams as Love Letters,” Post-
modern Culture 22, no. 2 (2012), n.p.
73
the meta-site
gram as proto-structural or as presentational representatives of
language’s deep structure. In this approach, the signal becomes
a multiplicity that is spoken by the parasites of language and is
recorded through the graphematic or phonematic marks of the
paragram. The parasite’s message is coded and imbedded within
language itself, but its message can be read in paragrams.
Saussure hunted for names — 
often the names of gods 
— 
in
Vedic hymns and Saturnian verse, but he abandoned this re-
search when he realized that these names appeared to be the
random patterns of a living language. A parasite semiotics, on
the other hand, would reject Saussure’s wish to locate autho-
rial intention and would insist instead that these names, words,
and messages were knowingly encoded, but not by writers or
authors; on the contrary, the paragrams would be “knowingly”
encoded by language itself. If language is configured as an emer-
gent structure that contains certain features and properties that
self-organize in manners that are similar to the emergent prop-
erties found in nature, then the secret codes within language
would be similarly emergent. The paragram could be consid-
ered a chance-based signal that emanates from language; or,
even further, the paragram could be considered the voice of the
parasite. Saussure recognizes the paranoid implications of his
own paragrammic search, which suggests that language may be
working independently of us.
This phorontological approach does not afford vitality to
something nonexistent; on the contrary, a parasite semiotics
simply suggests that there are countless codes that are present
around and within the speaking subject at all times. These codes
function as our interface with exteriorities, but, all the while,
these codes also pre-date our own subjective emergence as self-
reflexive beings 
— 
as subjects-of. Steve McCaffery argues that
“paragrams are linguistically elusive forces because invisible
but at the same time intensely unavoidable. Prigogine would
note the paragram as introducing nonlinear complexities and
disequilibria into seemingly stable, linear structures, provoking
crisis within any closed semantic economy, simultaneously en-
gendering meaning eruptively and fortuitously but also turning
74
language parasites
unitary meaning against itself.”12
The paragram is an eruptive
and elusive force that operates within language: it structures
the nominational efficiency of language while also signaling
the various ruptures and interruptures of any semantic struc-
ture. As the voice of the parasite, the paragram organizes com-
municational strands while evidencing the loss and fracture of
information. The paragram is not the same as noise because it
permits the coherency of noise. The paragram is therefore the
coalescent message that can be created from the diffusion and
nonsense of noise. Perhaps surprisingly, the paragram is a mes-
sage that is hidden within the noise of the signal as the agential
function of language or as the voice of the parasite.
McCaffery insists that Saussure
detects in all these works a persistently recurring group of
phonemes that combined to form echoes of important words.
In the De rerum natura of Lucretius, Saussure found extend-
ed multiple anagrams of the name aphrodite. Implicit in
this research is the curious nonphenomenal status of the
paragram, that virtuality of any letter or phoneme to form se-
mantic aggregates inaccessible to normal habits of readings.
[…] [I]t’s the unavoidable presence of the paragram 
— 
as a
protosemantic force in all writing 
— 
that contaminates the
notion of an ideal, unitary meaning and thereby counters the
supposition that words can fix or stabilize in closure.13
Language is then not a system that stabilizes in closure; quite
the contrary, language is a nonlinear and chaotic system that be-
comes coherent in relation to the disequilibria of noise and the
loss of meaning. Nietzsche would likely respond to Saussure’s
paragram search in the following manner: “kleine vorlaute Bur-
schen sehen wir mit den Römern umgehen, als wären diese
ihresgleichen: und in den Überresten griechischer Dichter wüh-
12	 Steve McCaffery, Prior to Meaning: The Protosemantic and Poetics (Evan-
ston: Northwestern University Press, 2001), 13.
13	 Ibid., 196.
75
the meta-site
len und graben sie, als ob auch diese corpora für ihre Sektion be-
reitlägen und vilia wären, was ihre eignen literarischen corpora
sein mögen” (We see small pushy young men associating with
the Romans as if they were their equals. They rummage around
and dig away in the remnants of the Greek poets, as if even these
were corpora [bodies] ready for their post-mortem examination
and were as vilia [vile] as their own literary corpora might be).14
Saussure rummages through the body of Lucretius and searches
within his corpora for the paragrammic remnants of the word
and name “Aphrodite.” Saussure engages in a postmortem on
the Lucretian corpus: he digs through it for the parasite that au-
thored Lucretius’s insights in De rerum natura. The paragram
is like a parasitic clinamen that lurks within language’s status as
an emergent and aperiodic system. For this reason, I claim that
the next stage in the history of criticism — after postmodernism
and posthumanism — is postmortemism. The author has died
and is lying on the gurney, decomposing.
Contemporary writers, critics, and poets have cut up the au-
thor’s corpse and corpus and dig around her, his, or their in-
sides. Writing explodes in the evanescence of its temporality: in
the age of hyperhistory writing halts in favor of its excavations.
Why? Because writing is no longer about typing, but about re-
organizing older archives, corpuses, and oeuvres. This situation
is what we find in the strategies of “conceptual writing” 
— 
the
avant-garde movement spearheaded by Kenneth Goldsmith,
Christian Bök, Darren Wershler, and Vanessa Place. A body of
work is now a material body that is waiting to be parasited, har-
vested, and dissected.
Consider Wershler’s conceptual project the tapeworm found-
ry (2000): it is a poetry book that collects a variety of differ-
ent experimental book proposals into one long sentence. Every
book proposal is separated by the word “andor” so that the sur-
rounding text proliferates like a string of tapeworms that circle
14	 Friedrich Nietzsche, “Vom Nutzen und Nachteil der Historie Für das Le-
ben,” Werke in Drei Bänden: Erster Band, 209–85 (Munich: Carl Hanser
Verlag, 1954), 241. My translation.
76
language parasites
around the intestine of writing. Here are two examples of Wer-
shler’s “tapeworms”:
andor point out that super mario world is actually a com-
plex digital allegory for the writings of terence mckenna an-
dor pen a treatise for andre breton and philippe soupault in
which you discuss the magnetic fields emitted by each vowel
when it attracts the surrounding consonants like iron filings
and then note that sometimes the letter y emanates a magne-
tism of its own.15
As a movement, conceptual writing celebrates textual experi-
ments that emphasize a thinkership more than a readership so
that the decision to write becomes a de-scission that is made
upon a previous body. The postmortem age is writ large on the
surface of our new inscriptions.
The parasites rage inside the author. Postmortemism occurs
at the cataclysmic apotheosis of the spectacle — during the ide-
alized moment of an apocalyptic reverie or climax. Nietzsche
asks, regarding the end-of-the-world: “Steckt nicht vielmehr
in diesem lähmenden Glauben an eine bereits abwelkende
Menschheit das Mißverständnis einer, vom Mittelalter her ver-
erbten, christlich theologischen Vorstellung, der Gedanke an
das nahe Weltende, an das bänglich erwartete Gericht?” (Is it
not much more the case that in this paralyzing belief in an al-
ready faded humanity there sticks the misunderstanding of an
idea of Christian theology inherited from the Middle Ages, the
idea of the imminent end of the world, of the nervously awaited
judgment?).16
Various “ends of history” have lead to our post-
mortem era: Alexandre Koyré and Alexandre Kojève both read
Hegelian philosophy through the notion of an end of history
(Koyré through the “owl of Minerva” and Kojève through the
15	 Darren Wershler-Henry, the tapeworm foundry: andor the dangerous preva-
lence of imagination (Toronto: Anansi, 2000), n.p.
16	 Nietzsche, “Vom Nutzen und Nachteil der Historie Für das Leben,” 259. My
translation.
77
the meta-site
figure of Napolean)17
; much later, Francis Fukuyama locates the
end of history in the liberal state.18
Another figure of interest
here would be Georges Bataille who considered the early twen-
tieth century to be another “end of history” — a historical mo-
ment shockingly similar to Hegel’s own.
According to Kojève, Hegel thought that the end of his-
tory would arrive in 1806, but, at one point, Kojève felt that
Stalin 
— 
as opposed to Napolean 
— 
would trigger the end of
history;19
however, after World War II, Kojève once again agrees
with Hegel. Bataille begins the publication Acéphale (that ran
from 1936–1939) in order to propose his own posthuman so-
lution to the end of history:20
what Bataille calls acéphalité (or
“headlessness”) would function as an early postmortem for the
Enlightenment project. In the concept of “headlessness,” Bataille
situates a form of agency that could lead to new sexual pleni-
tudes and novel limit experiences.
The notion of the “end of the world” retroactively organizes
the temporality of the language parasites. Like the scene in Rid-
ley Scott’s Alien (1979) where the parasitic alien explodes from
Kane’s chest, the parasite will postdate us and retroactively code
us as already fallen. Why? We are fallen because Homo sapi-
ens are a kind of superorganism. A superorganism is a totality
composed of countless parts like an ant colony or a beehive.21
The ant colony can move as one body, but it is composed of
countless little bodies. The parasite exists as a pure multiplicity
because it is always living within or alongside: therefore it can-
not be counted as One. The One of any superorganism is only
ever an imaginary One because the superorganism is simultane-
17	 Elisabeth Roudinesco, Jacques Lacan: An Outline of a Life and a History of
a System of Thought, trans. Barbara Bray (Cambridge: Polity, 2005), 97 and
101.
18	 Francis Fukuyama, The End of History and the Last Man (New York: Free
Press, 2006), xi.
19	Roudinesco, Jacques Lacan, 102.
20	 Ibid., 131.
21	 See William Morton Wheeler, “The Ant-Colony as an Organism,” The Jour-
nal of Morphology 22, no. 2 (1911), 307–25, and his book The Social Insects,
Their Origin and Evolution (New York: Harcourt Brace, 1928).
78
language parasites
ously singular and multiple: a superorganism is an assemblage
or aggregate of smaller beings. The parasite exists within a site,
which is the site of the host and this site is signified by its being
a temporary space, but it is a site more than a territory because
it manifests inside another site. A site is, to that end, not strictly
geographical or geological, but embodied; for this reason, a site
can potentially be an abstract idea such as “love” or a material
entity like a friend.
Phorontology offers a modality of speaking about entities or
objects 
— 
entities or objects that are inside other entities and
objects — while simultaneously acknowledging the ontological
count of the beings in the noted relation. Not only is phoron-
tology concerned with the siting of objects, subjects, transjects,
properties, and qualities, but it is also concerned with the situ-
ations that result from these sites. On the one hand, a site is
similar to a mathematical set that incorporates items and ob-
jects such as numbers as members; however, on the other hand,
every site contains corresponding parasites 
— 
parasites that
para-site the earlier site and render it fractal. In this situation,
whole numbers fail and fractions emerge. A phorontological
understanding of set theory would consider the parasite to be a
para-site within a site, which could also be called a realist mani-
festation of the paradox of the set of all sets.
Phorontology is not only realist in its approach to groups,
communities, and boundaries, but it also presents a mode of
thought that is post-deconstructive: phorontology levels the
ground of the original construction and attempts to locate the
site that permitted the construction. This claim does not erase
cornerstones; instead, phorontology asserts that an originary
locale exists, but remains imaginary. This locale or site would
be causative because it remains non-coded: it pre-codes or post-
codes the construction. The site or locale would exist either
before the construction occurs or after the deconstruction has
leveled the text. A site is a word, place, or thing; therefore, a site
is usually, in a linguistic context, nounal. However, a site also
conveys a situation to a subject-of and this situation activates
various verb-forms. That being said, phorontology is not inter-
79
the meta-site
ested in the agency of the verb-form, but in the object-status
of the verb form. Every verb is potentially an object when it is
either stationary or imaginary. The site is therefore a space that
derecognizes formerly recognized and normalized codes. To that
end, phorontology proceeds by the strategy of derecognition. An
example of derecognition would be the ceaseless repetition of
a word: when a word is constantly repeated or read, then it be-
comes unfamiliar to the speaker or reader. While every site is
partly a space of derecognition, an experience of derecognition
can be simulated through practiced repetition. Phorontology
incorporates tactics of both postmortemism and spectaclysm
because the derecognition of a word leads to that word’s death:
when a word becomes devoid of meaning it dies in the dimen-
sion of the semiotic. The act of derecognition initially leads to
the demise of a word and then, inevitably, to the postmortem of
that word.
Two illustrative examples of a proto-phorontological ap-
proach can be found in the poetry of Gertrude Stein (for mod-
ernism) and Kenneth Goldsmith (for late postmodernism or
conceptualism). Both Stein and Goldsmith derecognize the
word in drastically different ways, but both accomplish this task
through the strategy of repetition. Derecognition is the end ef-
fect of repetition.
Stein’s The Making of Americans (1925) is a 925-page “nov-
el” in which Stein analyzes the genealogies and histories of the
Dehning and Hersland families. The work could be considered
Stein’s response to the genealogies of a writer like Tolstoy, but
the difference between Tolstoy’s genealogies and Stein’s can be
found in Stein’s use of repetition:
Any one has come to be a dead one. Any one has not come to
be such a one to be a dead one. Many who are living have not
come yet to be a dead one. Many who were living have come
to be a dead one. Any one has come not to be a dead one.
Any one has come to be a dead one. Any one has not come
to be a dead one. Very many who have been living have not
yet come to be dead ones. Very many are being living. Very
80
language parasites
many who were being living are not being living, have come
to be dead ones. Many who came to be old ones came then
to be dead ones. Many who came to be almost old ones came
then to be dead ones.22
In 2012, the poet Holly Melgard composed a text that was de-
rived from Stein’s The Making of Americans. In Melgard’s work
every repetition found in Stein’s original was excised so that
Stein’s primary mode of experiment becomes sieved through a
non-repetitive re-write. To illustrate the extent of Stein’s experi-
ment with repetition one has only to look at the length of Mel-
gard’s shortened version: the non-repetitive text of The Making
of Americans is 21 pages.
In The Making of Americans, Stein derecognizes not only cer-
tain words and phrases, but also entire swathes of the English
language:
He was interested in this thing something almost completely
interested in this thing, he was sometimes almost completely
interested in being certain that something would be happen-
ing, he was sometimes almost completely interested in being
certain that something was going to be happening and then
that thing was happening. He was almost completely clearly
feeling being one being living. He was almost completely
clearly feeling being one going on being living. He was not
completely needing this thing being one going on being liv-
ing. He was almost completely needing the thing being one
being living. Some are ones needing being one succeeded in
living. Some are ones not needing being one succeeded in
living.23
Stein interrogates the site of genealogy, which is the site of lan-
guage and she renders that site as strange and unfamiliar: she
22	 Gertrude Stein, The Making of Americans: Being a History of a Family’s Pro-
gress (London: Dalkey Archive, 2006).
23	 Ibid., 879.
81
the meta-site
de-sites language and reveals the sites that lurk underneath the
signs.
Kenneth Goldsmith, like Gertrude Stein, seeks to derecog-
nize language, but his approach is different because, unlike Stein,
he has no interest in the repetition of words and phrases that
are placed in close proximity to one another. Goldsmith’s use of
the site of language is quite different because where Stein is in-
terested in the derecognition of words and phrases, Goldsmith
is interested in the derecognition of entire archives. Goldsmith
is a conceptual poet who locates, within archives and previous
texts, a hotbed of uncreative writing: he often plagiarizes and
re-types another author’s text exactly as it has already appeared.
Goldsmith is essentially a robopoet or typist — a machine who
records previous texts and makes these texts unfamiliar by alter-
ing their sites. Goldsmith occasionally alters texts, but he is more
interested in directly re-writing previous texts, such as when he
types out radio reports in The Weather (2005), traffic reports in
Traffic (2007), or Benjamin’s The Arcades Project in his current
work-in-progress.24
By changing the material conditions of a
text — such as by re-typing the text in a different context, or by
publishing the text on different paper, or even by engaging in
the labor of re-typing a text — Goldsmith, after Borges’s Pierre
Menard, effectively engages in a realist and materialist writing
practice that de-sites or re-sites other textual-sites. Phorontol-
ogy approaches sites through the material and realist condi-
tions of their constructions so that each construction can be
considered as either sited or de-sited. Goldsmith’s (re)writings
are, in this context, de-scissional and de-sited writing practices.
By derecognizing an archive through its repetition, Goldsmith
effectively de-sites the text and makes it derecognizable. The
24	 Recently, Goldsmith’s appropriative practice has entered politically prob-
lematic waters when, on March 13, 2015, at the Interrupt 3 conference at
Brown University, he read the official autopsy report of Michael Brown, the
black youth killed by police officer Darren Wilson in Ferguson, Missouri in
August 2014. The outcry with which the piece was received emphasizes that
the failure or success of any conceptual piece is reliant on the context sur-
rounding that appropriative practice.
avant-garde experiments of writers like Goldsmith and Stein
seek to derecognize the word, phrase, or archive in order to find
a new non-meaningful meaning that is present within language:
a paradoxically non-meaningful meaning that is inherently
coded during the re-siting of a text within new material condi-
tions and novel textual iterations.
83
The ’Patasite
Laruelle’s Decisions: Non-Philosophy and Phorontology
I partly relate François Laruelle’s non-philosophy to phoron-
tology through his emphasis on the concept of “Decision.” A
Decision encapsulates an essential act of cutting 
— 
a de-scis-
sion — that necessarily eliminates the breadth of virtual possibil-
ities or the continua of thought and actualizes certain pathways
instead of others. Non-philosophy strives to be non-Decisional
in that it attempts to actualize all virtual possibilities of thought
in order not to delimit a thought’s breadth as either “good” or
“bad,” but rather to present philosophy qua philosophy or a spe-
cific philosophy as consisting of a real continuum.
What I call a “site” connotes a fuzzy and non-Decided space:
a space that has not yet progressed through the various de-scis-
sions that render a space into a place. A site is therefore not of
the world: it precedes the emergence of a “world” in a non-De-
cisional ecosystem that has denied any cut or strategies of cut-
ting. Phorontology is therefore a speculative practice that resists
certain Decisions in an effort to, like non-philosophy, maintain
a virtuality of philosophy (or a cloning of philosophy). However,
the virtuality of philosophy remains un-actualized only insofar
as certain thoughts are, from an institutional and discursive per-
spective, more “philosophical” than others. I prefer the specula-
tions of a philosophy that focuses on sites and para-sites that
exist outside of the human world. In a sense, speculative philos-
ophies, like non-philosophy and speculative realism, are philo-
sophical responses to movements such as quantum mechanics
and contemporary astronomy: quantum mechanics has dealt
with strange realities for over a hundred years while much of
84
language parasites
continental philosophy has (until the emergence of speculative
realism, object-oriented ontology, and the earlier Laruellean
movement), remained locked in a mire of subjectivity and a lin-
guistics of being (for much of the twentieth century). Phorontol-
ogy is speculative because it emphasizes both the causative and
the non-causative in that it points to a theoretically “pure” — i.e.,
non-Decided or non-desited — site; in other words, phorontol-
ogy focuses on a site that exists prior to any construction. The
space becomes a constructed-place when certain de-scissions
are made actual, thereby separating geographies into territories.
Phorontology is speculative because it remains prior to or
outside of certain Decisions. Phorontology is, to that end, both
a speculative philosophy and also a linguistic branch of ’Pata-
physics. ’Pataphysics mixes metaphysics and paraphysics, re-
maining interested in the beyond of metaphysics; i.e., ’Pataphys-
ics focuses on the dimensionally anterior sites and para-sites
of reality 
— 
or the ’patasites of reality, irreality, and surreality.
What ’pataphysicians would call “ethernity” can be interpreted
in similar terms as the virtual and non-Decisional continua of
non-philosophical thought.
Speculative Metasentience
Phorontology prefers the speculative potential offered by the
being of parasites because human consciousness is produced by
a parasite-relationship: one of the first parasites of self-reflexive
consciousness is language. Perhaps surprisingly, such specula-
tion shares similarities with some strains of speculative fiction
and hard science fiction: in July of 2004, the science fiction
writer Peter Watts became interested in a bizarre article that
was circulating through media outlets. The article reported that
spontaneous bipedalism had occurred in a monkey after that
monkey had survived a serious bout of the flu. Reporter Dan
Waldman writes that:
Natasha, a 5-year-old black macaque at the Safari Park near
Tel Aviv, began walking exclusively on her hind legs after a
85
the ’patasite
stomach ailment nearly killed her, zookeepers said […]. Two
weeks ago, Natasha and three other monkeys were diagnosed
with severe stomach flu. At the zoo clinic, she slipped into
critical condition […]. After intensive treatment, Natasha’s
condition stabilized. When she was released from the clinic,
Natasha began walking upright. “I’ve never seen or heard
of this before,” said Horowitz. “One possible explanation is
brain damage from the illness,” he said.1
On July 22, 2004, Peter Watts responded to this article in a blog
post entitled: “Brain Damage. The Very Essence of Humanity.”
Watts speculates, regarding such a parasite-induced evolution,
that
[b]ipedalism has been cited as the genesis of humanity. It
freed us to use our hands, leading to increased manual dex-
terity, bigger brains, tool use, and global domination. But of
all the theories I’ve ever seen put forth to explain why we
started walking erect in the first place — nursing, thermoreg-
ulation, the need to see where the hell you were when the tall
grass of the African savannah blocked your view 
— 
I don’t
recall anyone ever citing brain damage as the catalyst. Fellow
Mammals, it don’t get more ironic than that.2
What Watts calls “brain damage” could just as easily be called a
“mutation” or “parasite” that alters the normative functionality
of the overall machine, thereby reprogramming the machine so
that it behaves in a different manner. Like the mind-controlling
fungus Orphiocordyceps unilateralis — a parasite-fungus
that grows out of an ant’s head in order to use that ant’s body
like a remote-controlled robot — bipedalism can be considered
1	 See http://www.nbcnews.com/id/5479501#.UxehNXmN1G4. The Wiki-
pedia entry about the story can be found at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Natasha_(monkey).
2	 See http://www.rifters.com/real/newscrawl_2004.htm. Scroll down to the
date posted.
86
language parasites
a corollary of consciousness so that, speculatively speaking, self-
awareness may be the result of a mind-controlling parasite.3
The fish parasite, Cymothoa exigua, is an isopod that takes
up residence in fish gills. When it lives in fish gills it is male, but
Cymothoa exigua is a protandric hermaphrodite, which means
that it becomes a female later in its life cycle. At this point, the
marine louse travels from the gills and takes up residence in the
fish’s mouth, clamping down overtop of the tongue and draining
that organ’s blood until it atrophies and falls off. Cymothoa exi-
gua proceeds to function as the fish’s tongue. At various points
in the life cycle, other males from the gills travel to the mouth
and mate with the female/tongue parasite in order to create fu-
ture generations of Cymothoa. This isopod literally becomes
the tongue of the fish. The parasite speaks.
Consciousness or subjectivity (defined here as an intelligent
and sentient self-recursive system) may also be akin to Toxo-
plasma gondii infection, a parasite whose primary host is cats,
but can be transmitted to humans and other mammals. Toxo-
plasma gondii is one of the world’s most prevalent of parasites,
infecting up to one third of the world’s human population. In
humans, the parasite seems to increase certain risk-taking be-
haviors, including a higher incidence of not looking both ways
when crossing the street and sexual arousal when exposed to
the smell of cat urine. Toxoplasma gondii is one of the most
common chronic and unobstructive parasites — unless one suf-
fers from the immunodeficiency that may result in toxoplasmo-
sis — that many humans live with on a daily basis. Following Pe-
ter Watts’s speculations regarding consciousness, sentience may
well be one of the various benign parasites that we all live with
everyday.
I have considered a variety of potential speculative parasites
that may have contributed to consciousness and I have analyzed
3	 Gary Shipley links parasitosis to suicidal ideation in The Death of Conrad
Unger (2012). He focuses on the Orphiocordyceps unilateralis fungi and
the hairworm. Shipley considers the suicidal thoughts of his friend Conrad
Unger (and also Gérard de Nerval, Virginia Woolf, David Foster Wallace,
and Ann Quin) as a kind of parasitic infection.
87
the ’patasite
these “objects” as exterior influences (symbolic or real) that have
written consciousness après la lettre, thereby denying any agen-
cy to “subjectivity” or being. These objects have included the
fields of memetics, parasitology, Bök’s The Xenotext, Dewdney’s
’pataphysical poetics, the Gutenberg revolution, capitalism,
consumption, the Saussurean paragram, conceptual writing,
and the Lucretian clinamen, but each of these objects or fields
can be summarized as encompassing one basic trait — namely, a
certain degree of self-reflexivity.
Self-reflexivity is parasitic because it induces what I call
“metasentience,” which creates an other and makes that other
operative within a psychic system or worldview. Peter Watts
reads self-reflexivity as not only instating a self-other dyad or
as creating a sentient multiplicity that involves feedback from
an exterior world, but also as permitting such behaviors as
“mooching.” In an August 6, 2004 blog post entitled “The Secret
of Sentience,” Watts writes:
The secret of sentience, is … wait for it…  
Mooching. If you can mooch, you’re sentient. 
No, bear with me here. This is brilliant. I’m not talking about
an animal hanging out some place where he’s learned there’s
food to be had. I’m talking about the active, premeditated
mooch, the manipulation of moochee by moocher. I’m talk-
ing expectation and eye contact. When an organism simply
shows up and waits for food to drop out of the sky, that’s just
operant conditioning. But when a sparrow with a brain the
size of a lentil — basically, a hopping piece of feathered pop-
corn — actually looks you in the eye, and changes its behav-
iour based on what it sees there, we’re talking something else
again. When the expected food doesn’t materialise, and the
would-be moocher actually fixes you with a baleful bird stare
and scolds you, we’re talking something that has a Theory of
Mind.
88
language parasites
Such a creature is not treating you as an inanimate object,
he’s treating you as a fellow autonomous agent with your own
agenda.4
Phorontology does not only focus on the architectonics that
are built upon a site or on the various inanimate objects that
proliferate within a construction or place; instead, phorontol-
ogy analyzes agential transjects 
— 
transjects that have become
autonomous. If metasentience is partly the result of a parasite-
evolution 
— 
an underlying mutation that has become normal-
ized over time — then sentience is one instance of the parasite
and the mooch is another. Watts’s second example — in which
a pigeon becomes associated with a “theory of mind” — empha-
sizes the parasitic nature of social organization. The social order
is organized not only on the basis of hierarchies and deploy-
ments of power, but also on the mooching strategies that are
prevalent within any strata of social communication.
The levels of parasites multiply: language is parasitic because
itpre-datesusandoutlinesthelexicalconfinesofourownspeech
and thought; metasentience is parasitic because its function is
not predicated on the organism’s survival; and communication
contains not only noise in its messages, but also the social para-
sitism in which the addressor and addressee want something
from each other. These agendas are intrinsically parasitic. I call
this informatic dynamic the symbi-ontic, which is a concept that
combines the notions of the symbiont and the ontic. The ontic
is the philosophical category of what there is: it is a level-specific
category of the ontological that focuses on a subject or object’s
real-status. A symbiont is an organism that must live alongside
another in order to survive: examples include all organisms that
live mutually, commensally, and parasitically; i.e., the lactoba-
cilli that pervade human intestines, lichen, fleas, hermit crabs,
etc. The symbi-ontic then would define the real manifestation
of the ontic because nothing lives, exists, or is independently of
4	 See http://www.rifters.com/real/newscrawl_2004.htm. Scroll down to the
posting date.
89
the ’patasite
itself. There is always a site or a host that functions as a categori-
cal container for something else. The symbi-ontic can therefore
be considered the set-theoretical combination of complexity
theory and the ontic. The symbi-ontic conceptually approaches
complex social systems as assemblages that exist within and
alongside other groups. The symbi-ontic presents a fractal pic-
ture of social groups in which the possibility of a demarcation or
a dividing line — a border where one object begins and another
ends 
— 
is impossible, or at the very least, theoretically infinite
and iterative.
The Parasite in Being
Vladimir shCherbak and Maxim Makukov make the argument
that alien signals may be parasitically encoded within human
DNA. They argue that because
the actual scenario for the origin of terrestrial life is far from
being settled, the proposal that it might have been seeded
intentionally cannot be ruled out. A statistically strong intel-
ligent-like ‘signal’ in the genetic code is then a testable con-
sequence of such scenario. Here we show that the terrestrial
code displays a thorough precision-type orderliness match-
ing criteria to be considered an informational signal.5
The theory that terrestrial life is “seeded” by alien intelligences
re-sites human beings as the parasites of alien hosts, or, because
the symbi-ontic is multidirectional, the alien code would be the
parasite that infects our DNA.
shCherbak and Makukov insist that an alien signature — a
decidedly non-Derridean signature 
— 
remains hidden within
DNA: “It is possible, at least in principle, to arrange a mapping
that both conforms to functional requirements and harbors a
5	 Vladimir I. shCherbak and Maxim A. Makukov, “The ‘Wow! Signal’ of
the Terrestrial Genetic Code,” accepted for publication in Icarus, arXiv:
1303.6739v1 (Sub. March 27, 2013), 1.
90
language parasites
small message or a signature, allowed by 384-bits of informa-
tional capacity of the code.”6
Their argument relies on the struc-
ture of DNA and its resistance to change and mutation over large
periods of cosmic history. This resistance to change situates DNA
as a sort of cryptogram that requires an interpretive cipher: this
“cipher” would be, for shCherbak and Makukov, the signature of
an alien intelligence. The structure of DNA, they argue, suggests
in a “statistically strong” manner that an “intelligent-like ‘signal’”
resides within “terrestrial genetic code.”7
Sounding very much
like shCherbak and Makukov, extra-terrestrial paranoia also
surfaces in Bök’s Xenotext experiment: “aliens wishing to com-
municate with us might have already encoded messages in DNA,
sending out legions of small, cheap envoys — self-maintaining,
self-replicating machines that perpetuate their data over eons in
the face of unknown hazards.”8
shCherbak and Makukov do not
cite either Bök’s experiment to embed a poem in a bacterium
or Dewdney’s ’pataphysical poetics that locates a parasite inside
the Poet or Author. For Dewdney, the Author is not dead (as she
or he is for Barthes), but only infected and controlled by a para-
site intelligence. One reading would interpret Bök’s project as
situating human beings as the host or the alien to the parasited
bacterium, but another reading would consider the bacterium
itself as the host of the parasite-poem. In other words, the “host”
can never be definitively located and neither can the “parasite”:
Hegel’s master-slave dialectic transforms into the undecidable
relationship of the site and the parasite. The relationship is no
longer predicated on subjectivity or humanity: there is no lord
or bondsman, but only a variety of different strata 
— 
objects,
subjects, transjects, and anterior processes that are situated dif-
ferently in relation to centralized attractors. Dewdney uses the
following diagram to depict the parasite that lurks within the
brain of every subject or author.
6	Ibid.
7	Ibid.
8	 Bök, “The Xenotext Experiment,” 228.
91
the ’patasite
Unlike Dewdney, I do not claim that a “traditional” parasite
lurks within the brain; that being said, I do argue that a para-
site resides inside language and Being in order to organize sub-
jectivity. This “parasite” is the base structure of an unconscious
that is structured like a language. Giorgio Agamben also reads
language as being parasitic, especially when he adds language to
Foucault’s list of apparatuses: “language itself, which is perhaps
the most ancient of apparatuses — one in which thousands and
thousands of years ago a primate inadvertently let himself be
captured, probably without realizing the consequences that he
was about to face.”9
By reading language as an apparatus, Agam-
9	 Giorgio Agamben, What Is an Apparatus? And Other Essays (Stanford:
Stanford University Press, 2009), 14.
Fig. 1. Location of the Parasite (Dewdney, Alter Sublime, 89).
92
language parasites
ben situates language as a fundamental parasite that permits a
“primate’s” entry into the symbolic order.
The symbi-ontic is, properly speaking, a neologism that col-
lides the symbolic, the ontic, and the symbiont. The symbi-ontic
denotes the parasitic collapse of the symbolic associations of the
various symbiontic relationships that structure all transjected
creatures. The symbolic order preceded the first primate and
existed before that primate entered into the parasitic field of the
semiotic. First and foremost, sentience is a sentence. Sentience is
a sentence because every sentence must be spoken or written;
i.e., sentience is a concept that is transmitted into and through
language. Put differently, “sentience” becomes sited or situated
within a sentence. Language transmits sentience into a sentence,
but only by virtue of already present locales of feedback and re-
cursivity: when sentience is sited in a sentence, then metasen-
tience emerges. Metasentience denotes a “face” of the subject-of
that registers the symbi-ontic qualities of sentience.
As I mentioned earlier, Burroughs insists that “the word is
now a virus,”10
but this insight initially derives from his cut-
up experiments with Brion Gysin in the 1960s. The cut-up is a
formal and procedural textual experiment in which a text (or
a variety of texts) are cut-up and permuted together, thereby
producing a new text. Burroughs believed that cutting through
“word lines” allowed the future to leak into the present. In Bur-
roughs and Gysin’s collaborative work The Exterminator (1961),
the pair began to understand that language is a parasite-force
that enters into and controls the human subject. Consider the
following cut-up:
New York..Jan29 1960 Past Time — A German Virologist has
succeeded in modifying the basic hereditary material of a vi-
rus in such a way as to be able to identify its effects on future
generations..Perhaps the most significant step to date in de-
ciphering The Language of Life. “Sooner or later this will lead
to an understanding of the language of the virus which is the
10	Burroughs, The Ticket That Exploded, 49.
93
the ’patasite
language of life.” He said “The entire message of life is written
in four letter words with our genes.”11
Burroughs and Gysin discover messages in their experi-
ments 
— 
they cut-up newspapers alongside Shakespeare,
Rimbaud, and Burroughs’s own massive “word hoard” manu-
script 
— 
and discover, within the cut-ups, countless messages
that uncannily align with Watts, Agamben, Chomsky, Dewdney,
and Lacan’s paranoid observations regarding language’s parasit-
ic self-awareness. Another cut-up reads: “According to the im-
minent scientists ‘The message that is you’ was written in virus
left behind in shit and other junk abandoned by Space Tourists
who took a look around and pulled out or did They?”12
Despite
the scientological resonance of this claim (Burroughs was in-
terested in L. Ron Hubbard’s scientology), I think that what is
more important here is the structure and function of language.
At some point in the life cycle of the language-system, language
became aware of its own existence as a system. Another cut-up
that points to this insight can be found in The Exterminator: “We
can crack code write now. Doctor..It says: ‘I am the Virus. I oc-
cupy Thee Host..I control your ‘thoughts feelings and apparent
sensory impressions.’.Life can be written in Thee Sickness-Host..
What Virus Sends You MAN?..”13
Metasentient hosts contain an
interiorized self that may be the result of a misrecognition of an
exterior parasite that has reprogrammed the outside as a new
“inside.”
Recursivity is the basic structure of the Parasite. Subject-ofs
and posthuman transjects suffer as infected beings: the first con-
sideration of a posthuman phenomenology should state that to
be means, first and foremost, to be infected. This infection marks
the existence of our parasite guest. Being-in-time means be-
ing the host of an entity that is symbolic and exterior; in other
11	 William Burroughs and Brion Gysin, The Exterminator (San Francisco:
Dave Haselwood Books, 1967), 10.
12	 Ibid., 25.
13	 Ibid., 10.
94
language parasites
words, the subject-of is a transject-symbiont that houses anoth-
er transject-symbiont. Recurrence is essential to any considera-
tion of postmortemism because the riposte of postmortemism
can be found in the resurrection of the corpse lying on the gur-
ney. Every corpus is revivified in postmortemism as everyone’s
Warholian fifteen minutes recur again and again: Nietzsche’s
ewige Wiederkunft (eternal recurrence) cycles through Vico’s
storia ideale eterna (ideal eternal history) and brings us into the
twenty-first century.
Concepts of repetition are structured like a parasite: the
parasite repeats a certain behavior that maintains the heredity
and survival of the parasite. Language is, in this parasitic model,
what Jameson would call a “structural void,”14
which he relates
to Lacan’s sujet supposé savoir (the subject supposed to know) as
an epistemological blank slate that acts as a structuring beacon
within the chaotic semiotic field. The sujet supposé savoir is an
entirely fictional siting of an imaginary persona within a space
of epistemological plenitude: the phrase signifies the ground-
ing of someone 
— 
typically an analyst 
— 
within a place, build-
ing, or framework of knowledge. Such a structural void depicts
a site that can be cited as a place of knowledge that becomes
seemingly stable when historicized (Jameson), schizophrenized
(Deleuze and Guattari), deconstructed (Derrida), politicized
(Marx, Gramsci), dialecticized (Hegel, Adorno), or queered
(Butler, Wittig), (and there are many other thinkers and ex-
amples that could be added to this pitifully circumscribed list).
Jameson argues that such a void operates in “the name of dif-
ference, flux, dissemination, and heterogeneity; Deleuze’s con-
ception of the schizophrenic text and Derridean deconstruction
come to mind. If such perceptions are to be celebrated in their
intensity, they must be accompanied by some initial appearance
of continuity, some ideology of unification already in place,
14	 Fredric Jameson, Postmodernism: or, The Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism
(Durham: Duke University Press, 2005), 53.
95
the ’patasite
which it is their mission to rebuke and shatter.”15
Such a field of
knowledge becomes paradoxically stable when there is a nonex-
istent and yet stabilizing force. Following Lacan and Jameson,
knowledge must be sited somewhere. To that end, the parasite is
“real” because it situates the “host” as imaginary. The host does
not exist because the very notion of a “host” is predicated on
a concealed power differential. The parasite feeds on the host
while that host lives at home.
In phorontology, dyadic, dualistic, or hegemonic distinc-
tions are the unnecessary simplifications of complexity — com-
plexity that includes transjects, segments, segmentations, and
para-sites. To that end, phorontology disrupts the question of
both human and animal: Agamben’s historicization of the Greek
distinction between bios (life as according to an individual or a
group) and zoē (“bare life” that is common to men, animals, and
gods)16
is conceptually re-sited when viewed parasitically. Site/
parasite and host/guest may appear to be structurally dyadic,
but they do not function as dyads because, like Hegel’s classic
fable of the master and the slave, there is no stable site for power
in any constructed binary.
From the perspective of bios, the parasite may be seen as
something unpleasant, but from the perspective of zoē — a cat-
egory that would encompass both the site and the parasite — a
parasite is simply an entity that lives within or alongside an-
other entity. However, phorontology discards the terms bios and
zoē in favor of the symbi-ontic. The symbi-ontic is a term that
displaces older categories such as “man” and “animal.” A sub-
category of the symbi-ontic — as the category of the transjected
status of human and animal — could be called the ani-human.
The phorontological term “ani-human” emphasizes the etymo-
logical basis of “animal “that derives from the Latin word anima,
which means “breath” while neologistically maintaining both
15	 Fredric Jameson, The Political Unconscious: Narrative as a Socially Symbolic
Act (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1982), 53.
16	 Giorgio Agamben, Homo Sacer: Sovereign Power and Bare Life, trans. Dan-
iel Heller-Roazen (Palo Alto: Stanford University Press, 1998), 1.
96
language parasites
the “human” within a philosophical transject-body. The distinc-
tion between “human” and “animal” becomes transjected in fa-
vor of a shared physiological, physical, and biological site (and
situation). “Human beings” and so-called “animals” occupy the
same space(s) and can live in a type of equilibrium if the linguis-
tic and material conditions of existence are leveled in favor of a
shared terminology of transjection. To put this claim differently,
I would say that as we move into the twenty-first century we
are returning to a medieval period of thought — a period that is
necessarily critical of dyadic distinctions.
Serres writes that
history hides the fact that man is the universal parasite, that
everything and everyone around him is a hospitable space.
Plants and animals are always his hosts; man is always neces-
sarily their guest. Always taking, never giving. He bends the
logic of exchange and of giving in his favor when he is deal-
ing with nature as a whole. When he is dealing with his kind,
he continues to do so; he wants to be the parasite of man as
well. And his kind want to be so too. Hence rivalry. Hence
the sudden, explosive perception of animal humanity, hence
the world of animals of the fables.17
The “ani-human” exists in her, his, or their own Umwelt. The
“ani-human” is certainly a parasitical concept, but the concept
is also, paradoxically speaking, host-based. Serres insists that
“[t]here are some black spots in language,”18
and these black
spots exist because “[w]e are drowning in words and in lan-
guage. Host is subject, object, friend and enemy.”19
Language
presents the symbolic fabric of the ecosystem-site as a means
of translation, perception, and communication. Serres points to
the importance of conceiving of the parasite as a combinatory
and unifying term because the parasite is: “The same at the head,
17	Serres, The Parasite, 24.
18	 Ibid., 16.
19	 Ibid., 23.
97
the ’patasite
the other at the tail, or being at the head and nonbeing at the tail,
and this middle trunk that is both same and other, being and
nonbeing, and so forth.”20
The parasite-body is an Ouroboros
of transjection: it eats its tail in a never-ending cycle of eternal
recurrence, consumption, mastication, digestion, and rebirth.
In his essay “Vom Nutzen und Nachteil der Historie Für das
Leben,” Nietzsche situates the parasitic relationship in the fol-
lowing way: “Die Gäste, die zuletzt zur Tafel kommen, sollen
mit Recht die letzten Plätze erhalten: und ihr wollt die ersten
haben? Nun dann tut wenigstens das Höchste und Größte; viel-
leicht macht man euch dann wirklich Platz, auch wenn ihr zu-
letzt kommt.”21
(The guests who come last to the table should in
all fairness receive the last places. And you wish to have them
first? Then do something of the highest and best order. Perhaps
people will then really make a place for you, even if you come
at the end [my translation]). The subject who is “allowed” to ig-
nore her or his transjected status does so because of temporal
injunctions: those who arrive first conquer first and become su-
jets supposé savoir as “hosts” par excellence. This situation leads
Serres to insist that
[h]e [the king] pays for his meal in well turned, well written
phrases. And thus he is in the position of the parasite, a uni-
versal parasite. One day he will have to understand why the
strongest is the parasite — that is to say, the weakest — why
the one whose only function is to eat is the one who com-
mands. And speaks. We have just found the place of politics.22
Serres considers the undecidable logic of the host and the guest
as being mediated, liminal, and transjected as he traces the com-
plexity of power as it travels through the dyad.
20	 Ibid., 23.
21	 Nietzsche, “Vom Nutzen und Nachteil der Historie Für das Leben,” 250.
22	Serres, The Parasite, 26.
98
language parasites
Parasite Sex
Tapeworms are transsexual transjects in that fertilization may
occur between two proglottids or within the same proglottid (a
proglottid is the term for one of the segments of a tapeworm
that contains both male and female sexual organs). The posthu-
man model of sexuality no longer requires sexed organs of dif-
ferentiation or social genders of difference because sameness has
become the model of socio-ontological segmentation. Cloning
will be the primary mode of reproduction, Baudrillard argues,
as transsexualism becomes the best definition of sexuality.23
I do
not find transsexualism to be the dominant mode of contem-
porary sexuality, as Baudrillard does, but rather parasite sexual-
ity. Parasites contain a proliferation of reproductive organs so
that they can impregnate various sections and segments of their
own bodies 
— 
bodies that function in relation to the interior-
ity of a host. The question of linguistic difference becomes here
another unnecessary excess: “him” or “her” is unnecessary for
the parasite 
— 
a tapeworm, for example, cannot be defined by
virtue of sexual or gendered differences. It can also not be de-
fined by traditional ontological differences. A tapeworm is not
singular, but a process: it is a life form that lives within its own
lifecycle. Deleuze and Guattari are incorrect when they privilege
the organ: the segment should be the concept that best defines
the posthuman model of an assembled-count. Organs do not
add up to a totality anymore than segments do. A tapeworm
contains a kind of “origin point” in their scolex (or mouth), but
this “origin” is only triggered in relation to the host’s intestinal
wall. The scolex becomes functional only in relation to the code-
pendent love that is triggered between the host-wall and the
scolex-parasite. The question becomes then not about sexuality
or transsexuality; on the contrary, the question is about love,
and more specifically, codependent love.
23	 Jean Baudrillard, The Perfect Crime, trans. Chris Turner (London: Verso,
2008), 117.
99
the ’patasite
Parasite sexuality, the kind that occurs within and between
segments of the parasite-body, is predicated on the primary love
found between parasite and host. Once the love relation is made
functional between the host-wall and the scolex, then sex can
occur within the parasite. The parasite’s “home” is a home of
love and the parasite’s narcissism becomes paramount as the
proglottids reproduce within the host-body. The tapeworm’s
digestive tract is on its outside: it digests food through its own
skin while it touches the host’s intestinal wall. The tapeworm
is advantageous and opportunistic and models a form of tran-
sjected ontology because it exists in between as an un-countable
singularity and multiplicity. Even though language functions
as a virtual parasite, language remains incapable of adequately
describing the transjected phorontologies of actual parasites.
There are no longer any sex-organs, but only sex-proglottids.
The human body is a parasite-body embedded in the abdominal
wall of the Umwelt or larger ecosystem. The human body feeds
alongside the ecology of the world. Every proglottid contains
its own independent dispositifs or social institutions that act
structurally dissimilar from the cosmos of the tapeworm. Insti-
tutions are always embedded in a place and feed alongside that
place as they are sited within a larger system that parasites the
future moment to come. The parasite-body depicts a transject-
structure that unsettles binary sign-systems. For this reason,
Serres argues that mathematically, “[a] third exists before the
second.”24
Even though the structure of language is often bina-
ristic, noise is already operative in the informatic relation: the
parasite remains in the background, mumbling. The proglottids
of the conversation will continually reproduce themselves in an
inter(dis)course of echoes, murmurs, and mutters.
The parasite is a kind of avant-garde sound poet who adds or
multiplies noise in the normative social order. Serres attempts to
describe the overall complexity of the parasite when he appears
to “throw up his hands” during the following moment of written
defeat: “I no longer really know how to say it: the parasite para-
24	Serres, The Parasite, 63.
100
language parasites
sites the parasites. In other words, any given position in the ter-
nary model is, ad libitum, parasitic. Who is the third? Someone,
anyone. The noise stops; someone leaves. Someone, anyone:
both formal and random.”25
Discourse is never fixed when the
transjects speak because the transjects only communicate with-
in an inter(dis)course of structural noise. The parasite induces
a fractal geography that situates the world — the Umwelt — as a
system of complexity structured by the communicational non-
sense of noise and feedback.
Parasite Hermeneutics: Henry Miller and Conrad
Moricand
Henry Miller’s A Devil in Paradise (1956) features a character
notable in literature because this character is the literary em-
blem of the theoretical parasite. Henry Miller invites a parasitic
personality to live with him at his home in Big Sur. The per-
son he invites, Conrad Moricand, is an astrologer by trade who
gradually becomes a repugnant character. The “Devil” of Miller’s
title refers to Moricand, but I think the title is far more evoca-
tive (as I will consider momentarily). Serres asks: “The Devil
or the Good Lord? Exclusion, inclusion? Thesis or antithesis?
The answer is a spectrum, a band, a continuum.”26
A parasite
hermeneutics — that I suggest is required to approach a text like
A Devil in Paradise — would require a Serresian perspective that
endorses spectra and continua, sites and para-sites. The “Devil”
in Miller’s title should be parasited in order to make its oppo-
site simultaneously operative: “A Devil in Paradise” or “A Good
Lord in Paradise?” To whom should this transjected spectrum
be allocated? Which is Miller? Which is Moricand?
At first, the text is not concerned at all with the question of
either the “Devil” or the “Good Lord.” Gradually, Moricand is
situated and sited as the “Devil.” Miller introduces the reader
to Moricand by writing that“there was an odor about him,”
25	 Ibid., 55.
26	 Ibid., 57.
101
the ’patasite
which Miller calls, “the aroma of death.”27
When Miller meets
Moricand, Moricand has just “begun work on the great theme:
Apocatastasis.”28
Apocatastasis is the restitution of the cosmos
in which astrological patterns have returned to an earlier state.
For Moricand, apocatastasis is a form of recurrence, return, and
apology where the sins of the past can be erased to give way
to a new tomorrow. However, Moricand is a fatalist by nature,
trapped within the dismal conviction of his own inadequacy
and melancholy: Miller describes Moricand as “a Stoic dragging
his tomb about with him. […] [T]hough by nature I felt that he
was essentially treacherous.”29
Miller “contracts” Moricand from
Anaïs Nin who had been infected earlier. Moricand is like an
anisakis tapeworm that is passed from host to host. He had in-
fected Anaïs before Miller and who knows how many others be-
fore her: “What Moricand never suspected was that, in present-
ing him to me, Anaïs hoped to unload some of her burden.”30
Miller, at first, happily accepts the Moricand-infection.
Miller describes, after becoming “burdened” with Moricand,
the avidity and voraciousness of Moricand’s appetite. Moricand
is something that feeds, not only on his host, but also upon a
specific site. Moricand’s gustatory indulgences do not, however,
seem to supply him with any level of nutrition. Moricand does
not prosper, but only slowly deteriorates. A phorontological
analysis of A Devil in Paradise requires that we analyze Miller’s
parasites as we lay his corpus on the gurney of postmortemism.
As ’pataphysical analysts we should cut open Miller’s insides and
dig around until we can extract the Moricand-worm from Mill-
er’s hedonistic intestine. Miller writes that “[n]aturally, from my
standpoint, the first and most important thing was to see that
the poor devil ate more regularly, and more abundantly. I hadn’t
the means to guarantee him three meals a day, but I could and
did throw a meal into him now and then.”31
Miller’s first con-
27	 Henry Miller, A Devil in Paradise (New York: New Directions Bibelot, 1993), 1.
28	Ibid.
29	 Ibid., 2.
30	 Ibid., 5.
31	 Ibid., 5.
102
language parasites
cern is to feed his parasite and ensure that the parasite does not
starve.
Sometimes I invited him out to lunch or dinner; more often
I invited him to my quarters where I would cook as bounti-
ful and delicious a meal as possible. Half-starved as he was
most of the time, it was small wonder that by the end of the
meal he was usually drunk. Drunk not with wine, though he
drank copiously, but with food, food which his impoverished
organism was unable to assimilate in such quantities.32
Moricand reaches a jubilant state by consuming an excessive
amount of food while being situated as Miller’s opposite (or
oppo-site): where Miller becomes drunk on water,33
Moricand
becomes drunk on food. Miller and Moricand form the ideal
relationship of host and parasite. Food does not sustain or fill
Moricand; quite the opposite, the consumption of food seems
to require even greater quantities of food: “by the time he had
walked home he was hungry all over again.”34
Initially, Miller
remains sympathetic to Moricand, but the warning signs of the
parasite-infection are present in their preliminary meetings.
Their “friendship” begins when Moricand presents Miller
with a copy of Balzac’s Séraphita.35
Séraphita is a work that can
be considered a work of parasite-hermeneutics and transject-lit-
erature: Séraphitüs is a transject (an androgyne) who loves Min-
na (who believes Séraphitüs is a man) and is loved by Wilfrid
(who believes Séraphitüs is a woman, Séraphita). This theme of
transjection proceeds as Miller and Moricand become trapped
within the undecidable relationship of host and parasite.
Moricand is the picture of a parasitic personality who takes
advantage of his friends while situating his friends as the only
hope: “‘The only chance for me at this moment,’ he would say
32	 Ibid., 5–6.
33	 Henry Miller, Sexus: The Rosy Crucifixion: Book One (New York: Grove
Press, 1965), 460.
34	Miller, A Devil in Paradise, 6.
35	 Ibid., 14.
103
the ’patasite
most solemnly, ‘is you. There you are!’ And he would indicate
how and where I fitted into the picture.”36
What is the benefit
to the parasite? Why does Miller invest so much time and en-
ergy into Moricand’s survival? Serres argues that the parasite is
sometimes productive. Much like Deleuze and Guattari’s reter-
ritorialization of desire as productivity, Serres considers parasit-
ism and the infections produced by parasites as creative agents.
Against psychoanalytical depictions of desire as lack, Deleuze
and Guattari claim that desire is productive, and against medi-
cal descriptions of parasitism, Serres situates parasites as crea-
tive. According to Serres,
[t]he parasite invents something new. Since he does not eat
like everyone else, he builds a new logic. He crosses the ex-
change, makes it into a diagonal. He does not barter; he ex-
changes money. He wants to give his voice for matter, (hot)
air for solid, superstructure for infrastructure. People laugh,
the parasite is expelled, he is made fun of, he is beaten, he
cheats us; but he invents anew.”37
For Serres, the parasite is engaged in an entirely different gus-
tatory economy than “normal” subjects: the parasite functions
within a transject-economy, existing in between stratified lines,
eating food that was stolen, borrowed, or exchanged. The para-
site is simultaneously a master of rhetoric and also a rhetorical
strategy because the parasite is an emblem of rhetoric. Parasit-
ism itself is a rhetorical process because it is a structure that is
predicated on the notion of an agenda — an agenda that works
in the parasite’s best interest and not the host’s. This rhetorical
economy is situated by Serres within the paradigm of Shannon’s
information theory: “The parasite invents something new. He
obtains energy and pays for it in information. He obtains the
roast and pays for it with stories.”38
The parasite is an energetic
36	 Ibid., 12.
37	Serres, The Parasite, 35.
38	 Ibid., 36.
104
language parasites
catalyzer of systems of knowledge. The parasite joyfully feeds
within the hegemonic intestine — surviving and flourishing.
Miller eventually decides to invite Moricand into his home:
“Finally I conceived what I thought to be a brilliant idea. Genial,
nothing less. It was to invite him to come and live with us, share
what we had, regard our home as his own for the rest of his
days. It was such a simple solution I wondered why it had never
occurred to me before.”39
Moricand gleefully accepts Miller’s of-
fer, but before Moricand arrives in America, Miller decides that
“[h]e had to be fattened up or I would have an invalid on my
hands.”40
To that end, Miller sends Moricand money for food so
that when Moricand arrives in America — situating the country
as the intestine of plenty — he would already have expanded his
appetite on commensal excess.
When Moricand arrives in Big Sur and moves into Miller’s
home, Miller writes that Moricand “was ‘home’ at last. Safe,
sound, secure.”41
The tapeworm settles into the homey intestinal
wall: Moricand’s scolex hooks deeply into Miller’s psyche. Very
rapidly Miller senses “the leech that Anaïs had tried to get rid of.
I saw the spoiled child, the man who had never done an honest
stroke of work in his life, the destitute individual who was too
proud to beg openly but was not above milking a friend dry. I
knew it all, felt it all, and already foresaw the end.”42
The impor-
tance that Serres affords to the parasite is in its structural rela-
tionality: the very idea of relations “is the meaning of the prefix
para- in the word parasite: it is on the side, next to, shifted; it is
not on the thing, but on its relation. It has relations, as they say,
and makes a system of them.”43
Moricand offers Miller’s immune
system something to war against. Even though Moricand feeds
off of Miller’s digestion, Moricand is a mediating character that
lives within and alongside the other characters that fill Miller’s
ecosystem — as his home, peer group, or even America at large.
39	Miller, A Devil in Paradise, 21.
40	 Ibid., 23.
41	 Ibid., 25.
42	 Ibid., 27.
43	Serres, The Parasite, 38–39.
105
the ’patasite
Miller points out that “[i]n one respect he was an ideal house
guest 
— 
he kept to himself most of the day. Apart from meal
times.”44
Meal times lure Moricand from his intestinal cave and
to the dinner table. He sits alongside the others, a perfect imita-
tion of a human being, but hungrier than the others and more
ravenous because he is not quite “human.” Miller’s descriptions
of Moricand are instructive in this regard because the character
remains unfixed and polysemous: “Sometimes he [Moricand]
looked Egyptian, sometimes Mongolian, sometimes Iroquois or
Mohican, sometimes Chaldean, sometimes Etruscan.”45
Mori-
cand’s ethnicity or very physical description is transjected: he
is of all cultures and all physicalities. Moricand literally worms
himself out of any linear or clear description. Miller’s description
of Moricand renders him monstrous — as something akin to a
tapeworm that is the size of a man: “Without a stitch he looks
lamentable. Like a broken-down nag. It’s not merely that he’s
potbellied, full of sores and scabs, but that his skin has an un-
healthy look, is spotted like tobacco leaf, has no oil, no elasticity,
no glow […]. His flesh seems never to have been in contact with
air and sun; it looks half smoked.”46
Moricand’s skin is that of
a tapeworm because his stomach is on the outside: his skin is
not skin. Deleuze and Guattari have no purchase on a character
like Moricand because Moricand has no covering-organ of skin;
instead, he is covered with the coloring of a proglottid or tape.
His body is that of an anisakis.
The room that Moricand lives in is built like a “cell,” designed
in the same way that a tapeworm furnishes the living arrange-
ments of a colon:
It’s true that his cell was tiny, that water leaked through the
roof and the windows, that the sow bugs and other bugs took
over, that they often dropped on his bed when he was asleep,
that to keep warm he had to use an ill-smelling oil stove
44	Miller, A Devil in Paradise, 30.
45	 Ibid., 32–33.
46	 Ibid., 95.
106
language parasites
which consumed what little oxygen remained after he had
sealed up all the cracks and crevices, stuffed the space be-
neath the door with sacking, shut all the windows tight, and
so on […]. And he, poor devil, was cooped up all day, rest-
less, ill at ease, either too hot or too cold, scratching, scratch-
ing, and utterly incapable of warding off the hundred and one
abominations which materialized out of the ether, for how
else explain the presence of all these creeping, crawling, ugly
things when all had been shut tight, sealed and fumigated?47
Moricand lives alongside other parasites and is similarly paras-
ited. Bed bugs, scabies, lice, and sow bugs have all come to live
with the life-size tapeworm. When Moricand goes to see the
doctor, the doctor warns Miller about Moricand, saying:
“Do you want my honest advice?”
“I certainly do,” said I.
“Then get him off your hands!”
“What do you mean?”
“Just that. You might as well have a leper living with you.”
[…]
“It’s simple,” he said. “He doesn’t want to get well. What he
wants is sympathy, attention. He’s not a man, he’s a child. A
spoiled child.”48
Miller takes the doctor’s advice to heart and begins to hint to
Moricand that he should vacate Miller’s home. Moricand tries to
weasel out of any commitment to leave in order to maintain his
scolex-hold on “paradise”: “Once again he agreed, grumblingly,
to be sure. Like a rat that had been cornered. But when the time
came to depart he was not on hand. He had changed his mind
again. What excuse he gave I no longer remember.”49
Eventually,
Miller manages to dispose of Moricand, but not before Mori-
47	 Ibid., 52.
48	 Ibid., 54.
49	 Ibid., 101.
107
the ’patasite
cand accomplishes one last parasitic act: “Yes, he would con-
sent to accept the passage which had been proffered him, but
on one condition, that I first put to his account in a Paris bank
the equivalent of a thousand dollars.”50
After Miller’s housing
of Moricand, this demand is yet another parasitic strategy: the
accomplishment of a con artist and narcissist who does not see
Miller as a friend who has opened up his home, but as a host
who has made his body vulnerable to another organism. Mill-
er calls Moricand “a worm, a leech, a dirty blackmailer,”51
and
seems to be finally free of him.
However, the parasite in paradise is not only Moricand.
Serres claims that the parasite speaks in parables: “Parabola,
parable, parasite. The parasite pays in parables.”52
Moricand
comes to Miller not only as a parasite, but also as a parable.
The parable in this instance is contained in the paragram of the
text and the paragram spells out a name. Serres argues that “the
parable of the parasite and the paralysis of the guest are quite
precisely parallel. […] [I]t appears in language, in words and
in poems, in parables and paraphrase.”53
The paragram speaks
in the parables of the parasite: language returns to the host as a
para-site. The name of the parasite — the paragram contained in
the parable — is not only “Moricand,” but also “Miller.” Paradise
is itself the mask of a parasite because Big Sur is the site of a re-
currence. Moricand reflects Miller’s own history back to Miller
and A Devil in Paradise contains the story of Miller’s own apoca-
tastasis. For Miller, apocatastasis is, in this instance, a form of
metastasis that proliferates within the environmental body and
also the physical body. In Tropic of Cancer (1934), Miller writes,
regarding his experience of living in France:
I was not only fed… I was feasted. Every night I went
home drunk. […] I had found a better host; I could afford
50	 Ibid., 104.
51	Ibid.
52	Serres, The Parasite, 31.
53	 Ibid., 32.
108
language parasites
to scratch off the ones who were a pain in the ass. But that
thought never occurred to them. Finally I had a steady, solid
program 
— 
a fixed schedule. On Tuesdays I knew it would
be this kind of a meal and on Fridays that kind. Cronstadt, I
knew, would have champagne for me and homemade apple
pie. And Carl would take me out, take me to a different res-
taurant each time, order rare wines, invite me to the theater
afterward or take me to the Cirque Médrano. They were curi-
ous about one another, my hosts. Would ask me which place
I liked best, who was the best cook, etc.54
A Devil in Paradise could easily be re-framed as Cronstadt or
Carl’s story about feeding Miller during his time in Paris. A
Devil in Paradise is, from this perspective, the story of a great
anxiety: the only difference between Moricand and Miller is that
Miller’s “charm” has not worn off while Moricand’s has. The bet-
ter parasite between the two is Miller: Miller understands that
parasitism is intrinsically related to rhetoric. Serres’s description
of the parasite is akin to a description of Miller’s Paris years:
“The parasite is invited to the table d’hôte; in return, he must
regale the other diners with his stories and his mirth. To be ex-
act, he exchanges good talk for good food; he buys his dinner,
paying for it in words. It is the oldest profession in the world.”55
Serres’s dinner guest/parasite works at Miller and Moricand’s
true “profession”: Miller is arguably more successful than Mori-
cand, but no less parasitic.
Modernism itself, and onwards into the contemporary, is an
aesthetic movement that partly celebrates parasitism: from the
various fascist-parasites of Eliot, Pound, and Lewis to the emer-
gence of the parasitic antihero, the idea of the modernist pa-
tron is structured around the notion that a host-patron pays for
the words of a parasite-writer. Both Miller and Joyce famously
fed off friends, peers, fellow writers, and patrons. Serres writes
that “[h]e [the parasite] is there, well entrenched. Ruins the fa-
54	 Henry Miller, Tropic of Cancer (New York: Grove, 1961), 55.
55	Serres, The Parasite, 34.
109
the ’patasite
ther, screws the mother, leads the children, runs the household.
We can no longer do without him; he is our system itself: he
commands, he has the power, his voice has become that of the
master.”56
Serres’s description of the parasite here matches the
description of a modernist-parasite.
In Eliot’s “The Wasteland,” for example, the parasite can be
found in the repressed rem(a)inder of insurmountable trau-
ma: the parasite is the repression of the memory of the corpse
that was planted “last year in your garden”57
 — the soldier’s
corpse 
— 
that acts as the corpse-assemblage of all those killed
in the Great War. Modernism is obsessed with figures that feed
and exist alongside: the modernist “hero” is an everyman and
sometimes a parasite. If Adorno is right when he asserts that to
“write poetry after Auschwitz is barbaric,”58
then there will also
be no more aesthetic movements. Poetry and art have become
disfigured by a parasite-aesthetics that has taken firm hold with
its scolex-grip. There is, in postmortemism, no original, but
only the simulated iterations of a form that is fed upon. Towards
the end of Joyce’s Ulysses (1922), Stephen Dedalus and Leopold
Bloom encounter Lord John Corley, a character who may well
be Conrad Moricand:
The pair parted company and Stephen rejoined Mr Bloom,
who, with his practised eye, was not without perceiving that
he had succumbed to the blandiloquence of the other para-
site. Alluding to the encounter he said, laughingly, Stephen,
that is:
— 
He’s down on his luck. He asked me to ask you to ask
somebody named Boylan, a billsticker, to give him a job as
a sandwichman.59
56	 Ibid., 38.
57	 T.S. Eliot, Collected Poems: 1909–1962 (London: Faber and Faber, 2002), 55.
58	 Theodor W. Adorno, Prisms, trans. Samuel and Shierry Weber (Cambridge:
MIT Press, 1983), 34.
59	 James Joyce, Ulysses (London: Penguin, 2000), 712.
110
language parasites
Corley manages to get half-a-crown out of Stephen and con-
vinces Stephen to ask Bloom if Bloom could ask Blazes Boylan
(the man who is sleeping with Bloom’s wife, Molly), for a job.
Ulysses is a text that is predicated on the function of the parasite:
if parasites become registered as third parties, as the rupture
of noise that disrupts any communicational assemblage, then
Joyce’s masterpiece proliferates with them. Ulysses is an intestine
filled to the brim with nematodes and flukes, each of which are
replicating. On the one hand, Boylan is a parasite within Bloom’s
marriage — although Bloom tolerates him because Boylan can
function where Bloom cannot. Paradoxically, the affair between
Molly and Boylan strengthens the marriage between Leopold
and Molly because Molly realizes, at the terminus of her solilo-
quy, that she truly loves Bloom. Boylan is nothing more than a
functional vibrator or dildo: a sort of life-size erection.60
Corley,
on the other hand, is a parasite who exchanges half-a-crown for
a story and parasitizes Stephen in the process. There are other
parasites as well: Stephen is a parasite in the eyes of his dead
mother and disappointed father because, instead of writing the
“uncreated conscience of [his] race,”61
Stephen teaches history at
a boys’ school; and, throughout Ulysses, Bloom is racially con-
figured as a parasite living in Ireland — he is seen by other char-
acters as a “Jew” who parasitizes the Irish economy.
Every character in Joyce’s Dublin is a third of some other
previously “functional” dyad: “The third appears; the third is
included. Maybe he is each and every one of us.”62
Other texts in
modernism are similarly worried about the parasite or the third:
Dorian Gray or Lord Henry in Wilde; Colonel Kurtz in Conrad;
Pound’s notion of usura; or Woolf’s Septimus Smith who is con-
sidered a psychic and economic drain on society. The parasite
60	 I wish this were my claim, but it comes from Garry Leonard’s appraisal of
Boylan as an “erection with an attitude.” See Garry Leonard, Advertising and
Commodity Culture in Joyce (Gainesville: University Press of Florida, 1998),
8.
61	 James Joyce, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (New York: Signet Clas-
sic, 1991), 253.
62	Serres, The Parasite, 47.
111
the ’patasite
is a common protagonist or antagonist of modernism and the
parasite is now embodied in the conceptual forms of the post-
human and the postmortem. The parasite is also the primary
figure of a postmortem on the postmodern: the parasite is the
entity, homunculus, or author that looks up at us when we cut
open the intestinal walls of the postmodern and look backward
through time, all the way to the modern and even the Victorian.
The parasite-signal is never single, because “[t]he parasite
always plugs into the system; the parasite is always there; it is
inevitable.”63
Where meaning may have emerged, the parasite
proliferates: grinning, twining, and intertwining around sign
systems 
— 
constrictive and productive. Burroughs reputedly
claimed that “[e]very man has inside himself a parasitic being
who is acting not at all to his advantage.” This “parasitic being”
is that part of the self that is metasentient — the component of
consciousness that is recursive and self-reflexive. The parasitic
being is an imposter that is momentarily embodied: the Soul of
theology names an entity that is housed inside a body. The soul
registers the sins of the body and then must atone for these sins
in the afterlife. The soul is akin to a metasentient parasite that
has momentarily used the body as a container: if we speculate
that the ancient Greek doctrine of metempsychosis is true, then
the soul will transmigrate after the death of the body and be-
come a tree, a rock, a wave, an ant, or a bird, etc. However, what
if metempsychosis functions in a manner that is more closely
related to what Harold Bloom calls the “anxiety of influence?”64
What if the soul remains a monad that moves across sites and
para-sites and parasitizes another body? What if we are floating
intelligences that have temporarily infected our hosts and have
forgotten about the transition? Metasentience would then be,
in this speculative leap, a realist code that was transmitted from
outer space: it would then be the monolithic residue of a fright-
ening anteriority that does not fit into the earthly realm except
63	 Ibid., 63.
64	 See Harold Bloom, The Anxiety of Influence: A Theory of Poetry (Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1997).
112
language parasites
as infection or mutation. In this model, metasentience would be
the chance-based fluke that has taken up residence in the corpus
callosum.
Serres argues that noise functions on the basis of interrup-
tion and rupture: “At the first noise, the system is cancelled: if
the noise stops, everything comes back to where it was. That
shows at least that the parasites are always there, even in the
absence of a signal. […] Parasitism is only a linear noise.”65
The
Parasite is, for Serres, an interruption or rupture that signals the
breakdown of any signal. In phorontological terms, the Parasite
is the necessary clinamen or swerve that is produced by seman-
tic collisions and that permits the emergence of a communica-
tional system. The noise of the Parasite is what allows the system
to instate certain patterns or equilibria. The parasite is therefore
truly transjected because it is simultaneously destructive and
productive: it manifests as a rupture, but this rupture induces
stability. Perhaps the Parasite is the name of that undecidable
space that exists between the coastline of Britain and the water-
line; in other words, the Parasite is one name of the transject,
which is, in this case, a nominative paradox that is existent with-
in the very structure of language. The Parasite is the gauge that
engages language as a productive system.
Parasites live everywhere in the world: on the surfaces of
kitchen counters, in the soil, within dead bodies, rotten meat,
a freshly-sliced piece of sashimi, a pig’s eye, or underneath chil-
dren’s fingernails. Pinworm outbreaks occur among children
because their immune systems have not yet learned to defend
against the limitless array of threats and dangers that fill the Um-
welt. The Parasite is a structure — as both an actual transject such
as a nematode or as a virtual transject such as language — that
permits the calibration of meaning within the ecosystem. Der-
rida argues that “‘[d]econstruction’ is always attentive to this
indestructible logic of parasitism. As a discourse, deconstruc-
tion is always a discourse about the parasite, itself a device para-
sitic on the subject of the parasite, a discourse ‘on parasite’ and
65	Serres, The Parasite, 52.
113
the ’patasite
in the logic of the ‘superparasite.’”66
While deconstruction is a
discourse that seeks to expose the parasite, it is itself a parasite
that provides the parasite the means to remain hidden. Why?
Deconstruction is not surgery. Deconstruction does not operate
on the levels and architextures that conceal the site. The para-
site lives, first and foremost, within the site. First, we can decon-
struct, but any deconstruction is already the construction of a
new site and para-site. However, this problem goes deeper still:
the parasite of language is akin to a self-replicating meme that
rebuilds itself as quickly as any discourse can deconstruct it. The
primary problem of the parasite is that there is no way to kill
it off. This problem arises because any speculative definition of
ontology — in postmortemism — can no longer be about Being
qua Being; on the contrary, any definition of ontology should
be phorontological: ontology today should not deconstruct, but
operate on the postmortem. Such a postmortem practice would
focus on Being quartered beings instead of Being qua Being. The
first question asked by phorontology is: what counting system is
being privileged? The second question is then: how can we locate
the 0 and the 1? From within the zero and the One, the parasite
emerges as the third that was waiting within the binary prior to
the birth of any supposed anthropocentric subject.
Language Parasites does not express a metaphysical infection
akin to Morgellons Disease. Morgellons is, according to allo-
pathic medicine, an instance of delusional parasitosis in which a
patient believes that she or he is infected with a variety of para-
sites. There are similarities between my project and Morgellons
though because I am describing a linguistic parasitosis. Jean-
Louis Gault writes that
[t]he only illness we suffer from as speaking beings is the one
introduced into the living by the parasitism of the signifier.
Lacan spoke of language as a cancer and evoked the viru-
66	Jacques Derrida, “The Rhetoric of Drugs,” trans. Michael Israel, in High
Culture: Reflections on Addiction and Modernity, eds. Anna Alexander and
Mark S. Roberts, 19–43 (Albany: SUNY Press, 2003), 24.
114
language parasites
lence of logos. He defined the unconscious as the effects of
speech on the subject, and he showed that the Freudian clinic
developed the incidences of the illness of the signifier.67
The signifier produces illness and infection within the subject
and, for this reason, the signifier is one of the names of the Para-
site. If phorontology is a method of operation on the ill sub-
ject — an approach that begins surgery with a de-scission — then
the Parasite becomes an entity that is operated upon; an entity
that, when removed, can locate the site. This so-called “site” is
not originary though because it is only ever a ’patasite, which is
a site that is beyond metaphysics — an absurd space of infinite
de-scissions where the cutting never terminates in a final cut.
The ’patasite is a place of exhaustion where the surgeon momen-
tarily rests, dripping sweat into the corpus of the patient who
waits with the ennui of a dead reader. The Decision reached by
a de-scission is only ever a desiting because any desiting imme-
diately inscribes — materially and semiotically — a new site and
this “new site” should be termed a ’patasite due to the manner in
which a ’patasite remains absurd until its contingencies and exi-
gencies have been located. Any teleology of this newly discov-
ered ’patasite would progress through four ontological stages: 1)
the materiality of the site, 2) the potentiality of the implied para-
site, 3) the virtuality of the metasite that remains beyond the
triadic relation of site-parasite-site, and 4) the resultant ’patasite
that registers a true form of far-from-equilibrium complexity.
The ’patasite is placed at a place that is beyond any beyond: it is
a theoretically capacious realm that is occupied by heretofore-
unknown subjective entities that I call xenojects. Such alien
identities are so inconceivably other from anthropocentric epis-
temologies or philosophies that they must be considered apart
from and alongside already sited notions of exteriority.
67	 Jean-Louis Gault, “Two Statuses of the Symptom: ‘Let Us Turn to Finn
Again,’” in The Later Lacan: An Introduction, eds. Véronique Voruz and
Bogdan Wolf (Albany: SUNY Press, 2007), 73–82, 79.
115
the ’patasite
Phorontology would be the best analytic approach for con-
sidering the xenoject. Assuming that the human species escapes
Earth when our sun becomes a red giant and engulfs the first
two or three planets of our solar system, then various other lives
and subjects will become actualized as water thaws on Jupi-
ter’s moons. The xenoject is an alien subjectivity that requires
theorization in order to understand Being in all of its permuta-
tions — every possible human, posthuman, inhuman, and non-
human manifestation or variety. An appropriate contemporary
theory of Being should encompass not only every marginalized
being or identity held at the limits of phenomenology, but also
every other possible configuration of Being that may exist or
potentially exist within our solar system, galaxy, and universe:
the general name of this “being” is “xenoject.”
Returning to the earthly realm, the parasite is psychically
a parapsyche that has been transjected, thereby unsettling the
possibility of anything ever being indivisible. The very term in-
dividual was originally meant to describe the same state as the
atomic: a state of indivisibility. The atom and the individual are
epistemological constructs that were originally defined as being
unsplittable; hence, these concepts are countable, singular, and
seemingly agential. The problem here is raised by the parasite:
both the atom and the individual are constructs of a language
that is structured as a parasite-system and yet both are, in realist
terms, splittable entities. The atom can be split into countless
particularities and the individual can be dismembered like a
carceral body strung up on Foucault’s scaffold. The individual is,
I claim, in the contemporary transjected era, the dividual. The
individual is a concept that functions against division whereas
what I call the “dividual” pertains to particulate social orders
and the dismembered corpus of the individual. The individual
is, quite literally, dual or multiple. The duality present within the
individual is localized in the figure of the parasite or the third
party that permits the imaginary coherence of the dyadic struc-
ture (site–site) to remain “whole.” The parasite is therefore the
hyphen (or noise) that exists between any two sites, be they self–
other, good–evil, or individual–institution. A dividual is then
116
language parasites
the proper, realist name of the subject within the contemporary
social realm. The individual is a member of the social and, as
a member, lives with the possibility of being dismembered (as
a dividual) or remembered at a future site-to-come. Where the
individual forgets, the dividual remembers.
The parasite is a res-of-chaos — a chaotic thing — that struc-
tures ontology as a phorontology and renders the world as an
imaginary unity that features indiscernible patterns amidst uni-
versal entropy and undeniable chaos. The parasite names the
fractal shape of the dividual, the de-scission, and the sites that
structure the inhabited world.
117
Exergum: Transject Manifesto
We are the new workers of phenomenology.
Our being is our labor.
We no longer be in any manner that delimits the self to a binary,
boundary, dyad, or decision.
We work in the tradition of Husserl, Heidegger, and Merleau-
Ponty, but do not remain contained in a hegemonic paradigm
of masculine, heteronormative, white, or able-bodied perspec-
tives. This older subject is the dead corpse of the author on the
gurney of textuality.
Grounds:
A ject is thrown: the thrownness of jection appears as either an
interjection or an introjection 
— 
this process situates projects,
dejects, and rejects within various cages, jail cells, government
buildings, and draconian facades of Kantian schemata.
Every schemata is a building and every building is built upon a
site that requires excavation.
The age-old subject and object binary is unnecessary, duplici-
tous, discursive 
— 
a delimiting jail cell of constraint. We must
break the Lacanian barres of our schematized prison(s).
118
language parasites
Transjection:
The transject (like the subject, the object, the deject, and the pro-
ject) is a field-specific and local name of an ontological entity.
The “subject” has been the appropriate name for the ontologi-
cal entity also known as a “human being” because of specific
historical and ideological dictates. We are, traditionally speak-
ing, subjects: subjects of a king, subjects of a state, subjects of an
institutionalized power structure. We have been subjected. End-
lessly. The revolution must, at its core, resist any ontologization
of the self as “subject.”
We are now subject-ofs, which are the small micro identities
that inhabit a transject.
Every “of” is a parasite that feeds upon your identity and, con-
versely, renders that identity as only ever imaginarily coherent.
The transject has become a terminological necessity in our con-
temporary era. The transject describes what is really happening
on the street, outside of the ivory tower.
However, even inside the ivory tower contemporary philoso-
phy has reflected the emergence of this new category in its con-
cern with liminal categories: philosophers now ask (and have
been asking for several decades), “how can we think the in be-
tween?”
The transject is the name of an ontological category that is rep-
resented by realist instances of parasites and expands to include
many other liminal states of being.
Is the liminal doubly parasitic then? Parasitic to both sides? Does
one side 
— 
and what are these sides or borders? 
— 
get jealous
of the other? A bifurcated, disloyal, and polygamous parasite is
worse than one who steals the entire life force of the border enti-
ties. To share one’s parasite is the great melancholic crisis of the
119
exergum
border state: it is the true reason why liminality is disparaged,
feared, policed, sought out, and, fundamentally, destroyed.
The Xenoject:
The secret ontological name of all that exists is “xenoject.” The
xenoject is the generic category of every possible ontological
state that may exist in our own solar system, galaxy, universe,
and every other possible dimensional variant.
If your self exists as another self in another universe or another
poly-dimensional brane, then that self is xenojected as a compo-
nent of your self that exists elsewhere.
Every “subject” is only a small, localized category of an overall
unthinkable xenoject.
The human sciences and humanities have developed to the
point where we can finally begin to consider the xenoject.
The xenoject encompasses imagined selves, various identities,
and even dream states of self.
The xenoject even encompasses a vitalist understanding of on-
tology where every rock, or twig, or branch, or creature, or tem-
porarily unified entity contains an energetic piece of self.
The xenoject encompasses any of the “souls” you may have had
or may have, including every metempsychotic iteration of your
own self and every other alien self. (Perhaps part of your xeno-
ject lives in another brane, in another galaxy, as an amoeba in
an alien ocean).
Outsides of the Outside:
We can now begin to think about the phenomenologically an-
terior.
120
language parasites
The “xenoject” and the “transject” are expressions of a postmor-
tem era in which textuality has become something much weird-
er, nonlinear, and aperiodic than ever before. Now texts are as
material as the bodies they inscribe and the bodies they inscribe
are as incorporeal as Communion wafers.
We have entered the postmortem of the postmodern.
All our corpses wait on the gurney of our transjections.
121
Bibliography
Adorno, Theodor W. Prisms. Translated by Samuel and Shierry
Weber. Cambridge: MIT Press, 1983.
Agamben, Giorgio. Homo Sacer: Sovereign Power and Bare Life.
Translated by Daniel Heller-Roazen. Palo Alto: Stanford
University Press, 1998.
———. What is an Apparatus? And Other Essays. Stanford:
Stanford University Press, 2009.
Althusser, Louis. On Ideology. Translated by Ben Brewster. Lon-
don: Verso, 2008.
Austin, J.L., How to Do Things with Words. Cambridge: Harvard
University Press, 1962.
Baudrillard, Jean. The Perfect Crime. Translated by Chris Turner.
London: Verso, 2008.
———. Simulacra and Simulation. Translated by Sheila Faria
Glaser. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 1994.
Bell, Shannon. Fast Feminism. New York: Autonomedia, 2010.
Berglund, Jeff. Cannibal Fictions: American Explorations of Co-
lonialism, Race, Gender, and Sexuality. Madison: the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin Press, 2006.
Bergvall, Caroline. Meddle English: New and Selected Texts. Cal-
licoon: Nightboat Books, 2011.
Birkerts, Sven. The Gutenberg Elegies: The Fate of Reading in an
Electronic Age. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2006.
Bloom, Harold. The Anxiety of Influence: A Theory of Poetry. Ox-
ford: Oxford University Press, 1997.
Bök, Christian. The Xenotext: Book 1. Toronto: Coach House,
2015.
———. “The Xenotext Experiment,” SCRIPTed 5 (2008): 228–
31.
122
language parasites
Brassier, Ray. Nihil Unbound: Enlightenment and Extinction
(London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2007)
Braune, Sean. “Cage’s Mesostics and Saussure’s Paragrams as
Love Letters,” Postmodern Culture 22, no. 2 (2012): n.p.
Burroughs, William S. The Ticket That Exploded. New York:
Grove, 1992.
——— and Brion Gysin. The Exterminator. San Francisco:
Dave Haselwood Books, 1967.
Chomsky, Noam. “Authors@Google: Noam Chomsky,” April 25,
2008, http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rnLWSC5p1XE.
———. Language and Mind. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press, 2006.
Condliffe, Jamie. “Cryptic Poetry Written in a Microbe’s DNA,”
NewScientist, May 4, 2011, https://www.newscientist.com/
blogs/culturelab/2011/05/christian-boks-dynamic-dna-poet-
ry.html.
Dawkins, Richard. The Selfish Gene. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2006.
Derrida, Jacques. Limited Inc. Translated by Jeffrey Mehlman.
Evanston: Northwestern University Press, 1988.
———. Of Grammatology: Corrected Edition. Translated by
Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity Press, 1997.
———. “The Rhetoric of Drugs,” trans. Michael Israel. In High
Culture: Reflections on Addiction and Modernity, eds. Anna
Alexander and Mark S. Roberts. Albany: SUNY Press, 2003),
19–43.
Dewdney, Christopher. The Immaculate Perception. Toronto:
Anansi, 1986.
———. “Parasite Maintenance.” In Alter Sublime, 75–92. To-
ronto: Coach House, 1980.
Dworkin, Andrea. Intercourse. New York: Basic Books, 2007.
Eliot, T.S. Collected Poems: 1909–1962. London: Faber and Faber,
2002.
Foucault, Michel. “Of Other Spaces,” trans. Jay Miskowiec. Dia-
critics 16, no. 1 (1986): 22–27.
123
bibliography
Fukuyama, Francis. The End of History and the Last Man. New
York: Free Press, 2006.
Gault, Jean-Louis. “Two Statuses of the Symptom: ‘Let Us Turn
to Finn Again.’” In The Later Lacan: An Introduction, eds. Vé-
ronique Voruz and Bogdan Wolf, 73–82 Albany: SUNY Press,
2007.
Goldsmith, Kenneth. Traffic. Los Angeles: Make Now Press,
2007.
———. The Weather. Los Angeles: Make Now Press, 2005.
Heidegger, Martin. Being and Time. Translated by John Mac-
quarrie and Edward Robinson. New York: HarperPerennial,
2008.
———. “Letter on Humanism.” In Basic Writings, trans. Frank
A. Capuzzi in collaboration with J. Glenn Gray, 213–66. New
York: HarperCollins, 1993).
———. Unterwegs zur Sprache. Frankfurt am Main: Vittorio
Klostermann, 1985.
Innis, Harold A. Empire and Communications. Toronto: Dun-
durn, 2007.
Jakobson, Roman. “Closing Statement: Linguistics and Poetics.”
In Style in Language, ed. Thomas Sebeok, 350–77. Cambridge:
MIT Press, 1960.
Jameson, Fredric. Postmodernism: or, The Cultural Logic of Late
Capitalism. Durham: Duke University Press, 2005.
———. The Political Unconscious: Narrative as a Socially Sym-
bolic Act. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1982.
Jarry, Alfred. Exploits & Opinions of Dr. Faustroll, Pataphysician.
Translated by Simon Watson Taylor. Boston: Exact Change,
1996.
Joyce, James. A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. New York:
Signet Classic, 1991.
———. Ulysses. London: Penguin, 2000.
Lacan, Jacques. Écrits: The First Complete Edition in English.
Translated by Bruce Fink, with Héloïse Fink and Russell
Grigg. New York: Norton, 2006.
124
language parasites
———. The Seminar of Jacques Lacan: Book III: The Psychoses
1955–1956. Edited by Jacques-Alain Miller and translated by
Russell Grigg. New York: Norton, 1997.
———. The Seminar of Jacques Lacan: Book xvii: The Other Side
of Psychoanalysis. Edited by Jacques-Alain Miller and trans-
lated by Russell Grigg. New York: Norton, 2007.
———. The Seminar of Jacques Lacan: On Feminine Sexuality,
The Limits of Love and Knowledge: Book xx: Encore 1972–1973.
Edited by Jacques-Alain Miller and translated by Bruce Fink.
New York: Norton, 1999.
Leonard, Garry. Advertising and Commodity Culture in Joyce.
Gainesville: University Press of Florida, 1998.
Lucretius. On the Nature of Things: De rerum natura. Edited and
translated by Anthony M. Esolen. Baltimore: The Johns Hop-
kins University Press, 1995.
Mandelbrot, Benoit B. The Fractal Geometry of Nature. New
York: W.H. Freeman and Company, 2000.
Mullarkey, John, and Anthony Paul Smith. “Introduction: The
Non-Philosophical Inversion: Laruelle’s Knowledge With-
out Domination.” In Laruelle and Non-Philosophy, eds. John
Mullarkey and Anthony Paul Smith, 1–18. Edinburgh: Edin-
burgh University Press, 2012.
Marra, Michael F. “Things and Words.” In Japan’s Frames of
Meaning: A Hermeneutics Reader, ed. Michael F. Marra, 3–50.
Honolulu: University of Hawai‘i Press, 2011.
Margulis, Lynn, and Dorion Sagan. Microcosmos: Four Billion
Years of Evolution from Our Microbial Ancestors. Berkeley:
University of California Press, 1997.
Marx, Karl. Selected Writings. Edited by David McLellan. Ox-
ford: Oxford University Press, 2007. 	
McCaffery, Steve. Prior to Meaning: The Protosemantic and Poet-
ics. Evanston: Northwestern University Press, 2001.
McLuhan, Marshall. The Gutenberg Galaxy: The Making of Ty-
pographic Man. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 2002.
Melgard, Holly. The Making of Americans. Troll Thread Press,
2012.
125
bibliography
Miller, Henry. A Devil in Paradise. New York: New Directions
Bibelot, 1993.
———. Sexus: The Rosy Crucifixion: Book One. New York:
Grove Press, 1965.
———. Tropic of Cancer. New York: Grove, 1961.
Niebisch, Arndt. Media Parasites in the Early Avant-Garde: On
the Abuse of Technology and Communication. New York: Pal-
grave Macmillan, 2012.
Nietzsche, Friedrich. “On Truth and Lies in a Nonmoral Sense,”
In Philosophy and Truth: Selections from Nietzsche’s Note-
Books of the Early 1870s, ed. and trans. Daniel Breazeale. New
Jersey: Humanities Press, 1979.
———. “Vom Nutzen und Nachteil der Historie Für das Le-
ben.” In Werke in Drei Bänden: Erster Band, 209–85. Munich:
Carl Hanser Verlag, 1954.
Ong, Walter J. Orality and Literacy: The Technologizing of the
Word. London: Routledge, 2002.
Parikka, Jussi. Insect Media: An Archaeology of Animals and
Technology. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press,
2010.
Prigogine, Ilya, and Isabelle Stengers. “Postface: Dynamics from
Leibniz to Lucretius.” In Michel Serres, Hermes: Literature,
Science, Philosophy, eds. Josué V. Harari and David F. Bell,
135–55. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1982.
Ricoeur, Paul. The Rule of Metaphor: The Creation of Meaning
in Language. Translated by Robert Czerny with Kathleen
McLaughlin and John Costello, SJ. London: Routledge, 2003.
Roudinesco, Elisabeth. Jacques Lacan: An Outline of a Life and
a History of a System of Thought. Translated by Barbara Bray.
Cambridge: Polity, 2005.
Schutt, Bill. Cannibalism: A Perfectly Natural History. Chapel
Hill: Algonquin Books, 2017.
Sebeok, Thomas A. Perspectives in Zoosemiotics. The Hague:
Mouton de Gruyter, 1972.
Serres, Michel. The Parasite. Translated by Lawrence R. Schehr.
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 2007.
126
language parasites
shCherbak, Vladimir I., and Maxim A. Makukov. “The ‘Wow!
signal’ of the terrestrial genetic code,” accepted for publica-
tion in Icarus, arXiv: 1303.6739v1 (Sub. 2013, March 27).
Shillingsburg, Peter L. From Gutenberg to Google: Electronic
Representations of Literary Texts. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 2006.
Shipley, Gary J. The Death of Conrad Unger: Some Conjectures
Regarding Parasitosis and Associated Suicide Behavior. Brook-
lyn: Punctum Books, 2012.
Starobinski, Jean. Words upon Words: The Anagrams of Ferdi-
nand de Saussure. Translated by Olivia Emmet. New Haven:
Yale University Press, 1979.
Stein, Gertrude. The Making of Americans: Being a History of a
Family’s Progress. London: Dalkey Archive, 2006.
Waldman, Dan. “Monkey Apes Humans by Walking on Two
Legs,” NBCnews.com, July 21, 2004, http://www.nbcnews.
com/id/5479501#.UxehNXmN1G4.
Watts, Peter. “Brain Damage. The Very Essence of Human-
ity,” Rifters, July 22, 2004, http://www.rifters.com/real/news-
crawl_2004.htm.
———. “The Secret of Sentience,” Rifters, August 6, 2004,
http://www.rifters.com/real/newscrawl_2004.htm.
Wershler-Henry, Darren. the tapeworm foundry: andor the dan-
gerous prevalence of imagination. Toronto: Anansi, 2000.
Wheeler, William Morton. “The Ant-Colony as an Organism,”
The Journal of Morphology 22, no. 2 (1911): 307–25.
———. The Social Insects, Their Origin and Evolution. New
York: Harcourt Brace, 1928.
Williams, Alex, and Nick Srnicek. “#Accelerate: Manifesto for
an Accelerationist Politics,” #ACCELERATE: The Acceleration-
ist Reader, 347–62. Falmouth: Urbanomic, 2014.
Žižek, Slavoj. Enjoy Your Symptom!: Jacques Lacan in Hollywood
and Out. New York: Routledge, 2008.
———. The Sublime Object of Ideology. London: Verso, 1989.
127
Index of Names and Concepts
abject  13–14, 25, 30, 32
absolute 22
accelerationism 20–22
actual  27, 68, 83–84, 112
Adorno, Theodor  94, 109
Agamben, Giorgio  91–93, 95
Althusser, Louis  58–59
ani-human 95–96
anthropology 23
architextual  13, 113
Aristotle 11
Austin, J.L.  38–39, 40
auther 71
Barthes, Roland  90
Bataille, Georges  77
Baudrillard, Jean  21, 70, 98
Beauvoir, Simone de  19
being  20, 29–30, 40–41, 45, 49,
61; and count  77–78, 115;
and non-being  97; as house,
47; as labor  117; contempo-
rary  11, 15, 57; infected  51,
56, 63, 93; linguistic  84; lo-
cality  18; parasitic  111; self-
reflexive 73; sentience 87
being quartered beings  113
Bell, Shannon  33
Benjamin, Walter  81
Berglund, Jeff  70n7
Bergvall, Caroline  46–47
Birkerts, Sven  26n3
Bloom, Harold  111
body without organs  27, 32
Bök, Christian  52–54, 75, 87, 90
Bonaparte, Napoleon  76–77
Borges, Jorge Luis  81
Brassier, Ray  22n6
Braune, Sean  72n11
Burroughs, William S.  42–43,
45, 52, 92–93, 111
Butler, Judith  94
chaos  20, 28, 55, 57, 67, 94, 116;
and systems  74
Chaplin, Charlie  56
Chomsky, Noam  50–52, 93
Cixous, Hélène  19
cogito 33
commensality  16, 88, 104
Conrad, Joseph  110
constructivism 23
Copernicus, Nicolaus  14, 25
Copernican Revolution  14, 18
cornerstone  12–13, 78
correlationism 11
dadaism  23, 29n6
Dasein 30
Dawkins, Richard  59–62
deconstruction  12, 20, 23, 40,
78, 94, 113
deject  13–14, 25, 30, 117–118
128
language parasites
Deleuze, Gilles  11, 67, 94, 98,
103, 105
DeLillo, Don  22
Democritus 66
derecognition 79–81
Derrida, Jacques  16, 19, 35,
37, 39, 51; and deconstruc-
tion  94, 113; and theory of
the signature  89; and un-
decidability  45; combining
with Foucault  68; linguistic
parasite  36, 40, 42; perform-
ative utterance  38; theory of
the trace  67
Descartes, René  66
de-scission  22, 28, 67, 76, 81,
83–84, 114; and the para-
site 116
Dewdney, Christopher  41,
43, 50, 57, 87, 90, 93; and
anatomy  46, 48; and apo-
ria  45; and liminality  52;
binaries  44; brain  47, 91;
epiphenomenology 42;
folds 49
différance  22, 51
dividual 115–116
Dworkin, Andrea  33
ego 22
Eliot, T.S.  108–109
Epicurus 66
epistemology  11, 15–16, 18, 22,
94, 115
existentialism  23, 33, 66
fascism 23
fractal  15, 20–21, 32, 33, 58, 60;
and the dividual  116; as nar-
rative  27, 67; as signal  72;
as site  66, 78; geography  100;
in nature  55; social
groups 89
fractal geometry  14
Freud, Sigmund  11, 37–38, 114
feedback  19–20, 41, 47, 58, 66,
87; and sentience  92; as
structure 100; indefinite 65
Foucault, Michel  68, 91, 115
Fukuyama, Francis  76, 77n18
Gault, Jean-Louis  113–114
Goldsmith, Kenneth  75, 79, 81
Gramsci, Antonio  94
Guattari, Félix  21, 67, 94, 98,
103, 105
Gutenberg, Johannes  25, 26n3,
87
gutenberg revolution. See
Johannes Gutenberg
Gysin, Brion  92–93
Harman, Graham  19
Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Frie-
drich  19, 44, 76–77, 90,
94–95
hegemony  23, 49, 51, 62–63,
70, 95, 117; intestine  104;
masquerade 54
Heidegger, Martin  22n6, 29–30,
39n9, 40, 47, 117
Heraclitus 12
Herder, Johann Gottfried  31
hermeneutics 14
heteroglossia 22
Hölderlin, Friedrich  39
Homer 70
Hubbard, L. Ron  93
humanism  22, 30, 47, 61, 105
Husserl, Edmund  117
129
index of names and concepts
hyperhistory  20–23, 26–27, 57,
69, 75
hyperreal 21
id 22
ideology  16, 18–19, 23, 43–44,
49, 59, 67; and history  118;
unified 94
impressionism 23
indivisualization  29, 43
Innis, Harold  28
inter(dis)course 99–100
interrupture 73
i-pinion 14
Jakobson, Roman  72
Jameson, Fredric  94–95
Jarry, Alfred  41–42
Joyce, James  108–110
Kafka, Franz  16
Kant, Immanuel  14, 117
Ki no Yoshimochi  39
Kojève, Alexandre  76–77
Koyré, Alexandre  76
Kristeva, Julia  19
Lacan, Jacques  32, 35–37, 50–51,
56, 93, 114, 117; and Freud  11;
and the sujet supposé
savoir  94, 95; subject-ofs re-
lated to quilting points  57–
58; subject-ofs related to
master signifiers  59
language parasite. See parasite
of language
language qua language  37
Laruelle, François  19, 45, 83–84
Leonard, Garry  110n60
Lewis, Wyndham  108
Lucretius  66–67, 74–75, 87
Lyotard, Jean-François  43
Makukov, Maxim A.  89, 90
Malinowski, Bronislaw  72
Mandelbrot, Benoit B.  15n3
Margulis, Lynn  14
Marra, Michael F.  39n8
Marx, Karl  44, 55, 94
marxism  23, 58
McCaffery, Steve  46, 73–74
McLuhan, Marshall  25, 27, 39
media  18, 28–29, 31, 39, 84
Melgard, Holly  80
Merleau-Ponty, Maurice  117
metafractal  21, 34, 57–59, 63, 66
metaphysics  14, 23, 36–37, 41,
84, 113–114
metasentience  19, 84, 87–88,
92–93, 111–112
metempsychosis  111, 119
militant grammatology  67
Miller, Henry  100–109
modernism  108–109, 111
Moricand, Conrad  100–109
Mullarkey, John  45n19
Nerval, Gérard de  86n3
network  17, 69
Niebisch, Arndt  29n6
Nietzsche, Friedrich  12, 27,
74–76, 94, 97
nihilism  23, 33
Nin, Anaïs  101, 104
non-philosophy  37, 83–84
noumena 22
object  25, 31–32, 34, 51, 57, 59,
63; and agency  88; and bi-
nary  117; and coherency  13,
89; and host  96; and inter-
pretation  14; and sites  28;
130
language parasites
and transject  11, 90, 118; as a
speculative parasite  61, 87;
as entity  78; as technologi-
cal  27; of consumption  69;
word 30
objet petit a  22
Ong, Walter J.  26n2
ontology  31, 33, 36, 52, 88; and
chaos  116; and infection  63;
and language  22, 38, 47,
119; and mimesis  50; and
postmortemism  18, 113; and
situations  29; and the hu-
man  61; and the social  98;
and transjection  99, 118; as
self-similar  21; as threshold
specific  68; in relation to
counting  67; into phorontol-
ogy  11, 13–14, 40, 78, 116; real
bodies 15
other  32, 35–36, 52, 71, 87
para-cite  25, 39, 54
paragram  72–74, 87, 107
parapsyche 115
para-sight  35, 41
parasite  19, 31, 33, 40, 45, 47, 50;
against atom and indi-
vidual  115; and aliens  89;
and communication  26;
and consciousness  25, 52,
84, 86; and correspond-
ence  78; and fractals  20;
and media  29n6; and
memes  61; and ontology  38,
60; and repetition  94; and
structure  46, 77, 113; and
the individual  116; and
unconscious  91; as biologi-
cal  85; as creative  27, 103;
as noise  72; as signal  111;
as subject-of  59, 90, 118;
as the Parasite  44–45,
47–49, 50, 57, 93, 112, 114;
body 28; corpus 101;
energy 104; infection 37,
51; in James Joyce  110; in
Michel Serres  15, 55, 96–97,
107; inside the author  76;
levels  88; logic  16; mas-
querade 36; operation 63;
origin  13, 58; realism  17,
95; relationship  14, 23, 53;
repression 109; sexuality 33,
98, 99; voice  74
parasite of constraint  18–19,
25–26, 35, 39, 41, 65, 71; and
the virtual  31
parasite hermeneutics  100,
102, 108
parasite of language  35, 37,
41–43, 46, 51–52, 57, 77;
and infection  18, 35; and
message  39, 73; and per-
formance  40; and replica-
tion 113; force 92; inside 56;
poem 54; reality 62
parasite semiotics  71–73
para-site  15, 32, 36, 51, 55, 83;
and agency  115; and dis-
course  16–17, 23; and dyads,
100; and fractality  41, 78;
and Parasite  45; and seg-
mentation 95; location 14,
27–28, 31, 54, 57, 68, 71; of
language  38–39, 107; of real-
ity  84; to site  29, 35, 71, 78,
90, 111–113
Parikka, Jussi  27n4
’pataphysics  11, 23, 37, 44–45,
52, 68, 87; and interpreta-
tion  68, 90, 101; defini-
131
index of names and concepts
tion  41–42, 84; geologi-
cal 46; speculation 48–49
phenomena  22, 42–43
phenomenology  23, 29, 33,
42, 61, 93, 115; and anterior-
ity  119; and work  117
phoresis 11
phoront 11–12
phorontology  23, 34–35, 40–41,
49, 57–59, 61, 72; against
dyads  95; and Althusser  58;
and derecognition  79;
and interruptions  112; and
non-human  31–33; and
reading  101; and semiot-
ics  73; and sites  81; and
transjection  29, 88, 99; and
the xenoject  115; approach
of  73, 78; as chaos  116; as
operative  114; as specula-
tive  83, 84; definition
of  11–17, 20–21, 31, 34;
guerilla variant  67; speech
and writing  38, 78; versus
ontology  13, 45, 63, 113	
phronesis 11
place  32, 38, 51, 68, 83–84, 88,
114–115; against site  78; and
institutions  13, 99; and para-
sitism  20; and transject  29;
of knowledge  94
Place, Vanessa  75
Pound, Ezra  108, 111
positivism 23
posthuman  22, 43, 61, 77, 93;
and postmortemism  75; and
structure  41; as era  18–19,
27; conceptual  111; sexual-
ity 98; xenojects 115
postmodern  18–19, 27, 43, 75,
79, 111, 120
postmortemism  19, 26–27,
75–77, 79, 94, 111; and
emergence  69; and ontol-
ogy  113; and reading  101;
and simulation  109; and
transjection 120
poststructuralism 41
Prigogine, Ilya  55n40, 73
printing press  25–26, 28
project  13–14, 25, 30, 117–118
psychoanalysis  23, 33, 103
psychology 23
Queneau, Raymond  31
Quin, Ann  86n3
reject  13–14, 25, 30, 117
res-in-situ  13–14, 19
res-of-chaos  28, 116
rhizome  21–22, 27, 40
Ricoeur, Paul  39n9
Rimbaud, Arthur  93
Roudinesco, Elisabeth  76n17,
77n19
Sagan, Dorion  14
Saussure, Ferdinand de  35, 37,
72–75, 87
Schutt, Bill  70n7
scientism 23
Scott, Ridley  77
Sebeok, Thomas A.  72
segmentation  15, 95, 98–99
semiotics  31, 33, 79, 92, 94, 114
	 as parasite. See parasite
semiotics
Serres, Michel  15, 17, 19, 36,
43n14, 111n62, 111n63; and
dyads  100; and interrup-
tion, 55–56; and noise  72,
112; and parasitic produc-
132
language parasites
tion  103; and thirds  99;
logic of host and guest  97,
108, 109; on language  96; on
parables 107
Shakespeare, William  27, 93
Shannon, Claude E.  103
ShCherbak, Vladimir I.  89, 90
Shillingsburg, Peter  26n3
Shipley, Gary  86n3
sign  31–32, 38, 40, 48, 56, 80,
111; as parasitic  71; bina-
ry 99; material 28
simulation  15, 21, 37, 43, 65, 70,
79; and postmortemism  109;
continuum  27; of the self, 66
sinthome 22
site  11, 15–16, 21, 40, 51, 57, 59;
and derecognition  79; and
dyads  100, 115–116; and
feeding  70, 101; and knowl-
edge  31–32, 94; as fractal  13,
66, 78; as heterotopia  69;
as non-Decided  83–84; as
a parasite’s home  113; as
sentient  20, 27, 92, 96; as
society  19; as subjective  17,
19, 30; as subject-of  63; as
space  12–14, 45–46, 67–69,
88–89, 114, 117; exception  35;
multiple  38; of geneal-
ogy  80; of language  33–34,
80–81; phenomenal  55;
present and future site  22,
65–66; that situates be-
ing  20, 25, 116; to para-
site  77, 95; to para-site  18,
23, 29, 90, 112
sitos  15–17, 32
situationism 23	
situation  13–14, 23, 26, 29, 33,
78, 96
Smith, Anthony Paul  45n19
sociology  23, 53
space  12, 32, 38, 51, 68–69,
83–84; and de-scissions  114;
and object  28; and situ-
ations,  14; and time  20,
78; as fractal  13, 112; as
plenitude  94; other  55, 70;
thrown 30
speculative realism  83–84
spectaclysm  22, 79
Srnicek, Nick  21
Stalin, Joseph  77
Starobinski, Jean  72n11
Stein, Gertrude  79–81
Stengers, Isabelle  55n40
structuralism  23, 41
subjectivity  25, 27, 36, 52,
90–91, 115; and being  86–87;
and language  50, 84; model
of  40; the borders of  65
subject-of  19, 34, 39, 43, 62,
73, 92–94; and metasen-
tience  92; and situations  78;
as auther  71; as opposed
to the subject  57, 118; as
strange attractor  58–59,
66; as site  29, 63, 78; as
transject  61, 90, 94; defini-
tion  59; subject-of aliena-
tion  55; structured through
repetition 65; words 50
surrealism 23
symbiont  11, 54, 88, 92, 94
symbi-ontic  88–89, 92, 95
tapeworm  18, 45, 47, 56–57; and
home  104; anisakis  101, 105;
language 49; life-size 106;
sexuality  98–99; socie-
ties  70; string of  76
133
index of names and concepts
thing  12, 14, 25, 28, 30, 32
thrownness, Geworfenheit 11–
12, 14, 25, 29–30, 117
Tolstoy, Leo  79
Tostevin, Lola Lemire  49–50
transcendent  22, 33
transject  25, 31, 39, 52, 55,
63; and agency  88; and
dyads  97; and the posthu-
man  93; and object  90; and
phoresis  11–12; and post-
mortemism  120; and sex  98;
and segmentation  95; and
situations  78; and thrown-
ness 30; contemporary 57;
economy 103; literature 102;
ontology  99, 118; para-
site  44–45, 112–113; phenom-
ena  43; philosophical and
material 61; speaking 100;
underlying  29; versus the
symbi-ontic  92, 94
transjection  29, 96–97, 100, 105,
115, 120
unconscious  22, 36–37, 50, 59,
63, 91, 114
Unger, Conrad  86n3
Vico, Giambattista  20, 94
virtual  35, 40, 68, 74, 83, 99, 113;
and metasite  114; complex-
ity  22; fractal  27; lan-
guage 112; writing 31
Wallace, David Foster  86n3
Warhol, Andy  94
Watts, Peter  84–88, 93
Wershler, Darren  75–76
Wheeler, William Mor-
ton 77n21
Wilde, Oscar  110
Williams, Alex  21
Wittig, Monique  94
Woolf, Virginia  86n3, 110
Wright, Stephen  37
xenoject  11–12, 30, 57, 114–115,
119; and postmortemism  120
Žižek, Slavoj  44, 56
