Language
Its Structure and Use
00419_00_fm_pi-xxviii.indd xxvii
00419_00_fm_pi-xxviii.indd xxvii 6/1/11 19:54:38
6/1/11 19:54:38
1
Languages and Linguistics
1
What Do You Think?
Two college roommates who’ll argue over anything are debating the number
•
of languages in the world. One says thousands. The other says there’s no
way to count ’em. What do you say?
A friend in Los Angeles opens her utility bill and, glancing at an insert, says
•
with alarm, “Look at this—five different languages—Spanish and Chinese
and who knows what! Isn’t English supposed to be the official language of
the USA?” Is it?
Reading a magazine, sixth-grade Suze looks up and asks what
• note means.
Figuring she knows its meaning in expressions like thank-you note and
musical note, you ask her to read the sentence aloud. She reads it, and you
say note means ‘bill,’ as in “$20 bill.” She asks how hearing the whole
sentence helped you. Your explanation?
Grumpy Gretchen grouches that her history instructor corrected the word
•
snuck to sneaked on her term paper. “Everyone I know says snuck,” she says,
and she wonders what planet the prof lives on! What sources can students
(and profs) rely on for authoritative information in deciding what’s right
and wrong in English usage, and where can Gretchen find reliable guidance
about using sneaked and snuck?
At a family picnic, fifteen-year-old Felix is teasing seven-year-old Seth
•
and asks, “Do you know when your birthday is?” When Seth says, “May
ninth,” Felix retorts, “I didn’t ask when your birthday is, dude! I asked if you
knew when it is!” What does Seth understand about the question that Felix
pretends not to?
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 1
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 1 12/29/10 10:55:43 PM
12/29/10 10:55:43 PM
2 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
Some dictionaries include language names among their entries, and you’ve prob-
ably seen lists that provide information about the number of speakers of vari-
ous languages. When the U.S. Census Bureau compiles its data each decade, it
records which languages residents speak and publishes that information. At the
United Nations, most countries are represented, and their ambassadors would
know which languages are spoken in their home countries. With all that infor-
mation, it should be easy to answer this question: How many languages are there
in the world?
Actually, enumerating the languages of the world is not a straightforward
task. First, it’s not always clear whether to call two language varieties dialects
of the same language or different languages altogether. Then, too, languages
previously unknown to outsiders are sometimes discovered in the Amazon,
Papua New Guinea, and other remote parts of the world. Some compilations
of languages may be limited to spoken tongues, while others include signed
languages. Finally, languages die when their last speaker dies, and that happens
more often than you’d think.
Even when criteria are established for inclusion on a language list, compiling
the information may be tough. For one thing, a given language may have dif-
ferent names, as with Hebrew and Ivrit or Irish, Erse, Gaeilge, and Irish Gaelic. For
another, a name may be spelled in different ways. One language spoken mainly
in China (but not related to Chinese) can be spelled Uyghur, Uighur, Uighar,
Uygur, Uigur, Uighuir, Uiguir, Weiwuer, and Wiga. By its speakers, Uyghur isn’t
spelled with the Roman alphabet but with Arabic script, and it is also repre-
sented sometimes in Cyrillic and in Chinese characters.
In the course of a century, many languages die and a few may be born.
Occasionally, a dead language may be revived, as Hebrew has been. Similarly,
the last speaker of Cornish, a Celtic language, died in 1777, but in the southwest
of England it is being revived and is in use now among 500 speakers, including
some native speakers under 20 years of age. Manx, also Celtic and formerly
spoken on the Isle of Man, is now extinct as a first language, but some second-
language speakers are endeavoring to revive it. In Worcester, Massachusetts, Red
Thunder Cloud died in 1996—and with him died Catawba, a Siouan language.
In 2010, Boa Sr., the last native speaker of Bo, died in the Andaman Islands in
the Bay of Bengal, and with her died her language. Estimates are that a natural
language dies every couple of weeks.
New languages can also be born. Pidgins are spoken in some places as a
second language, usually for limited functions such as bartering or commerce
between speakers of different languages, but when circumstances in those places
allow children to acquire a pidgin as their first language it will undergo a pro-
cess called creolization, through which it develops into a full-blown language.
Creoles such as Nigerian Pidgin and Saramaccan must be counted among the
world’s languages (even when their speakers call them pidgins).
One useful source of information, The Ethnologue, lists 6,909 languages. But
don’t take that to be an exact number. Consider that in this book we sometimes
refer to “Chinese” and that the U.S. Census Bureau allows residents to identify
themselves as speaking “Chinese,” whereas The Ethnologue cites Chinese only as
How Many Languages Are There in the World?
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 2
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 2 12/29/10 10:55:44 PM
12/29/10 10:55:44 PM
Does the United States Have an Official Language? 3
a “macrolanguage,” with thirteen distinct language members carrying names
such as Hakka Chinese, Mandarin Chinese, Wu Chinese, Xiang Chinese, and Yue
Chinese, each of which may have dialects of its own. In the English-speaking
world, Mandarin Chinese is known simply as Mandarin and Yue Chinese as
Cantonese. Included among the 6,909 languages are sign languages. Except
for their channel of expression, sign languages are like spoken languages and
share with them the challenges of being identified and counted. In the city of
Chiangmai in Thailand, Chiangmai Sign Language is known only among older
signers in the deaf community, while younger signers use a distinct language
called Thai Sign Language.
It seems safe to stick with the conventional wisdom that there are close to
7,000 languages in use in the world. Of those, only Arabic, Chinese, English,
French, Russian, and Spanish have official status at the United Nations, and
French does not rank among the top ten languages in number of speakers, while
Hindi, Bengali, Portuguese, German, and Indonesian-Malay have greater num-
bers of speakers than some official U.N. languages. For the year 2000 the U.S.
Census Bureau named 30 individual languages in use in the United States—but
many more unnamed languages are included under broad labels like “African
languages,” “other Indic languages,” “other Native North American languages,”
and “other Asian languages.” Given the 30 named languages (with all varieties
of Chinese counted as a single language and with no sign languages included)
and given those other broad categories, how could you be confident estimating
the number of languages spoken even in the United States? The New York Times
reported in 2010 that New York City’s public schools were home to speakers
of 176 languages and that residents of Queens, one of the city’s five boroughs,
spoke 138 languages. In all, it estimated that the Big Apple was home to some
800 languages! Consider, too, that The Ethnologue lists 41,186 primary names,
alternate names, and dialect names for language varieties. The challenge of de-
termining an exact number of languages in the entire world is not insignificant!
Many Americans think English is the official language of the United States. It
is not. In fact, the United States does not have an official language—and has
never had one. Some states have official languages: Spanish in New Mexico and
English and Hawaiian in Hawaii, but not the nation as a whole.
Some Americans also tend to think of the United States as essentially a
monolingual nation, albeit with large numbers of Spanish speakers in the
Southwest, Southeast, and Northeast. Actually, nearly 47 million U.S. residents over
the age of 5 speak a home language other than English (that’s almost 18 percent).
Twenty-eight million of those speak Spanish, and more than half of these Spanish
speakers report that they also speak English very well. Youngsters between the
ages of 5 and 17 who speak a home language other than English number close to
10 million, and the vast majority are reported to speak English very well. In seven
heavily populated states, at least one of every four residents over the age of 5
speaks a home language other than English. All 50 states have speakers of Arabic,
Hindi, Hungarian, Korean, Tagalog, Thai, Urdu, and Vietnamese. All 50 states also
Does the United States Have an Official Language?
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 3
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 3 12/29/10 10:55:44 PM
12/29/10 10:55:44 PM
4 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
have Native American speakers of indigenous North American languages. Navajo,
with about 150,000 speakers, is used in homes in half a dozen states. According
to figures in The Ethnologue, 176 living languages are used in the United States
today. They range from Achumawi, Alabama, and Louisiana Creole French to
Hawaiian, Lakota, Maricopa, Uyghur, Vietnamese, and Yatzachi Zapoteco. The
California Department of Motor Vehicles administers its written driver’s license
exam in no fewer than 31 languages, including Amharic, Armenian, Cambodian,
Hindi, Hmong, Hungarian, Indonesian, Laotian, Punjabi, Samoan, Tongan, and
Turkish. At the 2010 U.S. Census website, instructions for filling out the census
form were available in 59 languages, including Cebuano, Chamorro, Chuukese,
Dinka, Haitian Creole, Marshallese, Navajo, Nepali, Swahili, Tamil, and Telugu.
Wherever useful, even election ballots may be printed in multiple languages.
Los Angeles, California. Voter
information pamphlets are
available in English, Spanish,
Tagalog, Korean, Vietnamese,
Chinese, and Japanese.
Still, the linguistic richness of the United States is not stable. The survival of most
Native American languages is threatened, both because speakers tend to be older
and because insufficient resources support these heritage languages, which yield
to English among younger Native Americans. After English, no language spoken
in the United States comes close to Spanish in number of speakers. Its 28 million
U.S. speakers far exceed the 2 million who speak Chinese and the 1.6 million
who speak French. With few excep-
tions, the children or grandchildren of
immigrants cannot comfortably speak
or readily understand the language
of their grandparents, and this is true
even of Spanish. Moreover, for all
the richness of languages other than
English throughout the United States,
215 million U.S. residents above the
age of 5 speak English at home—
a whopping 80 percent.
Try It Yourself Using your knowledge
about current and past immigration
patterns, identify the eight most popular non-English
languages spoken among U.S. residents aged 5 and
older. Spanish, Chinese, and French ﬁll the ﬁrst three
slots, and Polish and Arabic are ranked ninth and
tenth. Which languages are in between?
Federal
Election
Commission
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 4
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 4 12/29/10 10:55:44 PM
12/29/10 10:55:44 PM
What Is Human Language? 5
The modern study of language is rooted in questions first asked millennia ago.
As old as speculation on any subject, inquiry into the nature of language oc-
cupied Plato and Aristotle, as well as other Greek and Indian philosophers.
In some areas of grammatical analysis, the ancients made contributions that
have remained useful for 2,000 years and established some of the categories
still used today. In the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, the field of linguis-
tics emerged to address certain age-old questions, including these:
What is the nature of the relationship between signs and what they
◆
signify?
What are the elements of a language, and how are they organized within
◆
words, sentences, and discourse?
What enables us to produce and understand countless sentences we have
◆
never heard before?
How do languages achieve their communicative goals?
◆
What is the origin of language?
◆
In what ways do languages change and develop?
◆
What does it mean to say two languages are related?
◆
What is the relationship between a language and a dialect?
◆
What enables a young child to learn a language so efficiently?
◆
What makes it so challenging for an adult to learn a language?
◆
Are there right and wrong ways to express things, and—if so—who
◆
decides?
This book provides a modern context for asking and addressing those
questions.
Three Faces of a Language System
The fundamental function of every language system is to link meaning and
expression—to provide verbal expression for thought and feeling and for that
expression to be comprehensible to others. A grammar can be viewed as a
coin whose two sides are expression and meaning and whose function is to
systematically link the two. But language is not simply a two-sided coin; it
has a third face, so important in producing and interpreting utterances that it
can override almost all else. That face is context, and only in context can an
expression convey a speaker’s intended meaning and be correctly interpreted
by a hearer.
Imagine a New England dinner-table conversation about, say, the cost of liv-
ing. In the course of the conversation, a guest asks the host, “Is there a state
income tax in Connecticut?” This question could elicit replies of “Yes,” “No,”
and “I don’t know,” because in this context the question is likely to be taken
as a request for information. But consider an equally straightforward inquiry
made of the host on the same occasion: “Is there any salt on the table?” In this
What Is Human Language?
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 5
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 5 12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
6 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
instance, an earnest reply of “Yes,” “No,” or “I don’t
know” would mark the host as inconsiderate.
Is there a state income tax in Connecticut?
Is there any salt on the table?
The form of the salt question resembles the form of
the income tax question, but the point of the questions—
their intended meaning—and the expected responses could
scarcely be more different. At a dinner table, a guest in-
quiring about salt expects a host to recognize that it’s salt
that’s wanted, not information! By contrast, in a related
context—with the host in the kitchen, pepper mill in hand,
and facing a guest who’s just come from the dining room—
the question, “Is there any salt on the table?” is likely to be
understood as seeking information even though the form of
the question is exactly the same as the one asked by the guest at the table. In answer
to the question asked in the dining room, a reply of “Yes” or “No” or “I don’t know”
would seem bizarre. In the kitchen, it would be altogether appropriate.
You can see, then, that conversationalists can’t interpret the point of an utter-
ance from expression alone. To grasp the intended meaning of an expression, hear-
ers must consider it in its context. And speakers routinely rely on a hearer’s ability
to recognize their intentions in uttering an expression in a specific context.
Besides meaning and expression, then, at the base of language use is context,
and language can be best viewed as a three-sided triangle of expression, mean-
ing, and context, as shown in Figure 1.1.
Expression encompasses words, phrases, and sentences, including intona-
tion and stress. Meaning refers to the senses and referents of these elements of
expression. Context refers to the social situation in which expression is uttered
and includes whatever has been expressed earlier in that situation and on shared
knowledge between speaker and hearer. What links expression and meaning is
grammar. What links grammar and interpretation is context. Without attention
to both grammar and context, language utterances cannot be understood.
Language: Mental and Social
Language is often viewed as a vehicle of thought, a system of expression that
mediates the transfer of thought from one person to another. In everyday life,
language also serves equally important social and emotional functions.
Linguists are interested in models of how language is organized in the mind
and how it is shaped by the social structures of human communities, reflecting
those structures in expression and interpretation.
In everyday conversation, we talk about signs of trouble with the economy, no
sign of a train arriving at a railway station, a person’s vital signs, and so forth.
Signs are indicators of something else. In the examples mentioned, the indicator
Signs: Arbitrary and Nonarbitrary
Figure 1.1 Three Faces of Language
CONTEXT
E
X
P
R
E
S
S
I
O
N
M
E
A
N
I
N
G
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 6
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 6 12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
Signs: Arbitrary and Nonarbitrary 7
is inherently related to the thing indicated. Nonarbitrary signs have a direct,
usually causal relationship to the things they indicate. Smoke is a nonarbitrary
sign of fire, clouds a nonarbitrary sign of impending rain.
Arbitrary Signs
Nonarbitrary signs such as clouds and smoke differ from partly or wholly arbi-
trary signs. With arbitrary signs like traffic lights, railroad crossing indicators,
wedding rings, and national flags, there is no causal or inherent connection
between the sign and what it signifies or indicates. Arbitrary indicators can be
present even when the thing indicated is absent (as with a bachelor wearing a
wedding ring). Because they are conventional representations, arbitrary signs
can be changed. If a national transportation department decided to use the color
blue as the signal to stop traffic, it could do so. The relationship between words
and what they represent is generally arbitrary, and we say that language is a
system of arbitrary signs.
Representational Signs
Some essentially arbitrary signs are not entirely arbitrary and may suggest their
meaning. Poison may be suggested by a skull and crossbones , while an icon
such as may suggest the sun, and the roman numerals II and III, with two and
three strokes respectively, represent the numbers two and three. Because these
signs suggest what they indicate, they are partly iconic. Signs that are basically
arbitrary but partly iconic are called representational. Linguistic examples in-
clude the English meow and boom, insofar as those words suggest what they sig-
nify, but even words that mimic natural noises are cross-linguistically distinct.
Iconic expression can also appear
spontaneously in ordinary speech. I
once telephoned the home of a friend,
and her four-year-old son answered. He
reported that his mother was showering,
and when I said I’d call back in a few
minutes he indicated that calling back
soon would do no good. His explana-
tion was this: My mother is taking a long,
loong, looong shower. By stretching out
his pronunciation of the vowel sound in
long, the boy demonstrated the poten-
tial for iconicity in human language. By
making his vowels longer, he directly signaled length of time and thus iconically
emphasized the salient part of his meaning. Representational (or iconic) language
is expression that in any fashion mimics or directly suggests its content.
Iconicity can also be expressed in grammar. Consider that English has two
ways of organizing conditional sentences. The condition (the “if” part) can
precede the consequence or follow it.
If you behave, I’ll give you some M&Ms. (condition precedes consequence)
I’ll give you some M&Ms if you behave. (condition follows consequence)
Try It Yourself Besides the boy’s
stretching out the vowel in long to represent
length of time, can you identify a second way in which
his utterance was iconic? Now, identify another very,
very common example in English in which this second
way conveys a meaning diﬀerent from extended length.
(Hint: Examine the preceding sentence attentively.)
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 7
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 7 12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
8 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
English permits placing the condition (if you behave) before or after the con-
sequence (I’ll give you some M&Ms). While contextual factors can influence the
choice, speakers and writers show a strong preference for the condition to pre-
cede the consequence, a preference found in many languages. The reason has to
do with the order of occurrence of real-world events described by conditional
sentences. In our example, the addressee must first behave, and after that the
speaker will provide some M&Ms. These real-world events are ordered in time,
and the real-world order is reflected in the preferred linguistic order of con-
dition preceding consequence. With condition preceding consequence, the ex-
pression iconically mimics the sequencing of real-world events. Some languages
allow only the condition-preceding-consequence pattern; others permit both.
But no language appears to limit conditional sentences to the noniconic order,
consequence before condition.
Language—A System of Arbitrary Signs
Despite occasional iconic characteristics, human language is essentially arbi-
trary. The form of an expression is generally independent of its meaning except
for the associations established by convention. Imagine a parent trying to catch
a few minutes of the televised evening news while preparing dinner. Suddenly a
strong aroma of burning rice wafts into the TV room. This nonarbitrary sign will
send the parent scurrying to salvage dinner. The aroma is caused by the burning
rice and will convey its message to speakers of any language. There is nothing
conventionalized about the message. Now consider the words of a youngster
who sees the smoke in the kitchen and shouts, “The rice is burning!” That ut-
terance is just as likely to send the parent hurtling to the kitchen, but the words
are arbitrary. It is a set of facts about English (not about burning rice) that en-
ables the utterance to alert the parent. The utterance is thus an arbitrary sign.
Other languages express the same meaning differently: Korean by pap thanda,
Swahili by wali inaunguwu, Arabic by yaḥtariqu alruzzu. The forms of these ut-
terances have nothing to do with rice or the manner in which it is cooking;
they are not iconic. Instead, they reflect only the language systems of Korean,
Swahili, or Arabic. As you see, a central characteristic of human language is
that the connection between words and what they mean—between signifier and
signified—is largely arbitrary.
Given the arbitrary relationship between linguistic signs and what they repre-
sent, languages must be highly organized systems in order to function as reli-
able vehicles of communication.
What underlies the observable patterns that languages follow are called
“rules.” Not rules imposed from the outside like traffic regulations, they do not
specify how something should be done. Instead, the rules described in this book
are based on the observed regularities of language behavior and the underlying
Languages as Patterned Structures:
Grammatical Competence
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 8
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 8 12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
Languages as Patterned Structures: Grammatical Competence 9
linguistic systems that can be inferred from that behavior and certain kinds of
intuitions. They are the rules that even children acquire unconsciously and put
to use when they display mastery of their native tongue.
A language is a set of elements and a system of rules for combining those
elements into patterned expressions that serve to accomplish specific tasks in
specific contexts. Utterances report news, greet relatives, invite friends to lunch,
request the time of day from strangers. With language, we make wisecracks,
poke fun, argue for a course of action, express admiration, propose marriage,
create fictional worlds, and so on. And a language accomplishes its work with
a finite system that a child masters in a few years. The mental capacity that en-
ables speakers to form grammatical sentences such as My mother is taking a long
shower rather than “A taking long my shower is mother” (or thousands of other
possible ill-formed strings of exactly those seven words) is grammatical com-
petence. It enables speakers to produce and understand an infinite number of
sentences they haven’t heard before. Besides arbitrariness, then, four other hall-
marks of human language systems deserve highlighting.
Discreteness
Speakers can identify the sound segments in the words of their language. English
speakers recognize the sounds in cat as the three represented by the letters c, a,
and t. Likewise for the sounds in though, which are recognized as only two: the
initial consonant sound represented by th and the following vowel sound repre-
sented by ough. It is a structural feature of language that words are made up of
discrete (separate) elemental sounds.
Duality
Human languages can be analyzed on two levels, and this fact leads us to say
it has the hallmark called duality. At one level, a language can be viewed as
having meaningful parts. For example, tabletop has two meaningful parts—
table and top. At a lower level the elements that make up the meaningful parts
do not themselves carry meaning. The three sounds of top don’t individually
have meaning; they form a meaningful unit only when combined. And it’s pre-
cisely because the individual sounds in top don’t carry meaning that they can be
formed into other combinations with different meanings, as in pot, opt, topped,
and popped.
Displacement
Human languages are capable of representing things and events that are not
present but are spatially or temporally distant, and we call this feature dis-
placement. Speakers aren’t confined to discussing events of the here and now
but can talk of faraway places and events of yesterday or yesteryear and even of
events yet—or never—to occur. When asked whether tool use or language had
contributed most to human development, primatologist Jane Goodall identified
our development of sophisticated spoken language as “the biggest difference
between us and the chimpanzees and the other apes. . . . We can teach our
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 9
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 9 12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
10 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
children about things that aren’t present, events in the distant past, [and] we
can plan for the distant future!”
Recursion and Productivity
From relatively few elements and rules in a language system, humans can
produce and understand a limitless number of sentences by combining and
recombining the same relatively few elements in relatively few patterns.
Even a single week’s issues of, say, Time, Newsweek, and The Economist are
unlikely to repeat any sentences (other than quoted utterances), and the same
is true over years and years of publication. The human capacity for linguistic
inventiveness makes repeated sentences unlikely, and an ordinary speaker of
English is capable of understanding the countless English sentences in a lifetime
of reading. Consider that to any sentence, no matter how long, one can add
“I said” at the beginning. That property of incorporating existing sentences
and parts of sentences within similar linguistic frames (e.g., other sentences) is
known as recursion and underlies the phenomenon of productivity. For many
observers this productivity—this ability to generate and understand an infinite
number of sentences by combining and recombining the same few elements and
structures—is the singular hallmark of human language, the characteristic that
linguistic theory centrally addresses.
Knowing the elements of a language and the rules for putting them together
into well-formed sentences still falls short of knowing how to accomplish the
work that speakers can accomplish with language. That requires mastery of
grammatical rules, and it also requires competence in the appropriate use of the
sentences produced by the rules. Among other things, accomplishing the work
of language in use requires knowing how to link sentences appropriately in con-
versations and rely appropriately on context to shape and interpret utterances.
The capacity to use language appropriately is called communicative com-
petence. It enables us to weave utterances together into narratives, apologies,
requests, directions, recipes, sermons, scoldings, jokes, prayers, and all the other
things we do with language. Being a fluent speaker presumes both communica-
tive competence and grammatical competence.
Grammatical competence is the language user’s unconscious, or implicit,
knowledge of vocabulary, pronunciation, sentence structure, and meaning.
Communicative competence is the implicit knowledge that underlies the
appropriate use of grammatical competence in communicative situations.
Because the patterns that govern the appropriate use of language differ from
one speech community to the next, even a shared grammatical competence in
a language such as English may not be adequate to make you a fluent speaker
across other English-speaking communities. For example, members of one culture
may find jokes about other people’s misadventures funny, whereas members of
Speech as Patterned Language Use:
Communicative Competence
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 10
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 10 12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
Languages and Dialects 11
another culture may find them offensive. In fact, the very concept of telling
jokes (Did you hear the one about . . . ?) as distinct from telling “funny stories”
seems not to exist in certain societies. Likewise, what is considered impolite in
one place might be routine interaction elsewhere. Differences in interactional
customs explain why even some American visitors to the Big Apple judge New
Yorkers brusque or impolite when giving directions, though the same directions
may be interpreted by a fellow New Yorker as routine or routinely polite.
Along with physical appearance and cultural characteristics, language
contributes to defining nationality. But even within a nation’s borders,
people may speak different languages. In Quebec, ethnic French-Canadians
maintain allegiance to the French language, while ethnic Anglos maintain
loyalty to English. Citizens of Switzerland may speak French, German, Italian,
or Romansch. Across India, scores and scores of languages are spoken, some
confined to villages, others used regionally or nationally. In Papua New Guinea
one may hear hundreds of languages, and an English-based language called
Tok Pisin is used for communication across groups.
Wherever speakers of a language
become separated by geographical or
social distance, linguistic variation is
likely to arise. Striking differences can
be noted between the French varieties
of Quebec and Paris, between the Span-
ish varieties of Madrid and Mexico City,
and between the English varieties in
Sydney, London, Dublin, and Chicago.
Every language variety reflects the so-
cial identity of those who speak it.
Some people seem to believe that
only other people speak a dialect
but that they themselves don’t. Instead, they think of themselves as speaking
a language or even the language. The truth is, everyone speaks a dialect and
speaking a dialect means speaking a language. American English, Australian
English, and British English are national dialects, and speakers of those national
dialects also speak a regional dialect. Anyone who speaks a dialect of English
speaks the English language, and anyone who speaks the English language does
so only by using one of its dialects. When we speak of a “language”—Chinese,
Spanish, Arabic, Navajo, or any other—we are speaking simply of a set of
dialects. Languages do not exist independently of their dialects.
What Are Social Dialects?
Besides differing from nation to nation and region to region within a nation,
languages may differ across gender, age, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status. In
the United States, communities of white Americans and communities of black
Languages and Dialects
Try It Yourself Identify a characteris-
tic of your pronunciation that others have
commented about when you’ve traveled outside your
region. What about a vocabulary item that others have
found unusual? Do the same for a roommate or class-
mate whose speech diﬀers from yours in pronuncia-
tion or vocabulary.
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 11
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 11 12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
12 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
Americans may speak differently even when they live in the same city. Simi-
larly, middle-class and working-class speakers may be distinguished from one
another by their characteristic speech.
The characteristic linguistic practices of ethnic groups, socioeconomic
groups, and gender and age groups also constitute dialects. You speak a dialect
characteristic of your nationality, region, gender, and socioeconomic status. The
classic film My Fair Lady, based on George Bernard Shaw’s play Pygmalion, tells
the story of phonetics professor Henry Higgins (played by Rex Harrison) making
good on a bet to teach London street vendor Eliza Doolittle (Audrey Hepburn)
to speak “correctly.” Eliza says, “I want to be a lady in a flower shop ’stead of
sellin’ at the corner o’ Tottenham Court Road. But they won’t take me unless I
can talk more genteel.” Determined to win his wager, the professor threatens,
“You’ll say your vowels correctly before this day is out or there’ll be no lunch,
no dinner, and no chocolates.” One’s dialect is an important part of one’s per-
sona, and changing it, as some people want to do for themselves (and many
want to do for someone else), is by no means as inconsequential as changing
a sweater or hairstyle. “I’ll make a duchess of this draggle-tailed guttersnipe,”
Professor Higgins predicts of Eliza. In real life, things are more complicated.
UCLA Professor Peter Ladefoged,
second from right, coaches Rex
Harrison, left, on the set of My
Fair Lady. Ladefoged later became
president of the International Phonetic
Association and the Linguistic Society
of America.
Diﬀerent Dialects or Diﬀerent Languages?
The Romance languages developed from the regional dialects of Latin spoken
in different parts of the Roman empire. Those dialects eventually gave rise to
Italian, French, Spanish, Portuguese, and Romanian, now the distinct languages
of independent nations. While these tongues share certain inherited features
of grammar, pronunciation, and vocabulary, the nationalistic pride taken by
the Italians, French, Spaniards, Portuguese, and Romanians supports the view
that they speak distinct languages rather than dialects of a single language.
©
Courtesy
of
CBS
Broadcasting
Inc.
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 12
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 12 12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
12/29/10 10:55:45 PM
Languages and Dialects 13
The opposite situation characterizes Chinese. Not all Chinese dialects are mutu-
ally intelligible (for example, speakers of Cantonese and Mandarin can’t under-
stand one another), but speakers regard themselves as sharing a single language
and highlight that unity with a shared writing system.
Whether two varieties are called dialects of one language or distinct languages
is a social matter as much as a linguistic one, and the call may be influenced
by nationalistic and religious attitudes. Hindus in northern India speak Hindi,
while Muslims there and in neighboring Pakistan speak Urdu. Opinions differ
as to how well the groups understand one another. Until a few decades ago,
Hindi and Urdu constituted a single language called Hindustani, and the fact that
professional linguists wrote grammars of “Hindi-Urdu” reflects a judgment that
the two varieties required only a single grammatical description. Naturally, with
the passage of time, Hindi and Urdu—whose different names proclaim that their
speakers choose to belong to different social, political, and religious groups—
will become increasingly differentiated, as did the Romance languages.
What Is a Standard Variety?
No single variety of English can be called the standard. After all, different na-
tional standards exist for British, American, Australian, and Canadian English,
among others. Furthermore, at least with respect to pronunciation there may be
several standard varieties of a national variety. The simple fact is that what is
called “standard English” comes in many varieties.
What then is meant by a standard variety? We could identify as standard
the variety used by a group of people in their public discourse—newspapers,
radio broadcasts, political speeches, college and university lectures, and so
on. In other words, we could identify as standard the variety used for certain
activities or in certain situations. Alternatively, we could identify as standard
the variety that has undergone a process of standardization, by which it is
organized for description in grammars and dictionaries and encoded in such
reference works.
An important point about any standard or standardized variety is that it does
not differ in linguistic character from nonstandard varieties. It isn’t more logical
or more grammatical or better (or worse). On the other hand, for some purposes
a standardized variety may be more useful than another variety. For example,
this book is written in a variety of English that has been standardized, and that
makes it possible to be read in many parts of the world. Instead of using spell-
ings that would reflect my own pronunciation, I use standardized American
spellings, which differ from British spellings in familiar ways.
Typically, varieties that become standardized are the local dialects spoken
in centers of commerce and government. In those centers a need arises for a
variety that will serve more than local needs, such as in distributing techni-
cal and medical information, propagating laws, and producing newspapers
and books. The centers are also where dictionary makers and publishers—
those engaged in the process of standardization—are likely to be located.
Samuel Johnson (1709–1784) published his great dictionary in London in
1755. Noah Webster (1758–1843) lived in Connecticut and in 1828 published
his two-volume American Dictionary of the English Language in New York.
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 13
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 13 12/29/10 10:55:46 PM
12/29/10 10:55:46 PM
14 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
Had circumstances been different,
the varieties of English represented in
their dictionaries might well represent
the dialects of other groups. Diction-
aries serve first to describe and then
to enshrine a variety of the language
that can be used for public discourse
across social groups, regions, even
countries. You can’t discern it fully in
the accompanying photograph, but the
subtitle to Webster’s dictionary high-
lights that it is “Intended to Exhibit,
I. The origin, affinities and primary
signification of English words . . . .
II. The genuine orthography and pro-
nunciation of words, according to
general usage, or to just principles of
analogy. III. Accurate and discriminating definitions, with numerous authori-
ties and illustrations.”
Noah Webster, a patriot and the
best-known American lexicographer,
spent decades preparing An American
Dictionary of the English Language.
That two-volume work helped make
his name synonymous with dictionary
in the United States.
Try It Yourself In II—the second of
the points his dictionary was intended to
exhibit—Webster speaks of “the genuine orthography
and pronunciation of words” and in III of “accurate
. . . deﬁnitions, with numerous authorities . . . .” If
you used the words genuine, accurate, and authorities
in connection with writing a dictionary, what would
you mean by them? If you had to guess, what would
you think Webster meant by them? If you set out to
uncover what Webster actually meant by them, how
would you go about the endeavor?
Bettmann/Corbis
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 14
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 14 12/29/10 10:55:46 PM
12/29/10 10:55:46 PM
Languages and Dialects 15
Not all standardizing situations follow a single pattern. With Basque (spoken
chiefly in the Basque Country of Spain), the regulatory authorities in the Royal
Academy of the Basque Language during the 1960s combined forms from dif-
ferent regions into a single standardized variety, aiming for manifest social and
regional inclusiveness. Likewise with the process of standardizing Somali in the
1970s, where social and regional variants were incorporated in the standard
language variety as represented in dictionaries and grammars in an effort to
make standard Somali more inclusive of a range of Somali speakers.
Is There Right and Wrong in English Usage?
All the variation we’ve been speaking of raises the question of whether there are
right and wrong ways of saying things and writing them? In particular, are only
standard varieties correct and all others incorrect?
Let’s begin by considering the spellings honor and honour—which is correct?
In pronouncing schedule, which is right—the Canadian “shedule” or the American
“skedule”? Is the break between theater acts rightly called an intermission (as on
Broadway) or an interval (as in London’s West End)? Americans, Canadians, and
Britons may prefer their own expressions and pronunciations, but depending
on who and where you are and what you want to accomplish, any of these
alternatives may be appropriate and correct. If you say “shedule” in Detroit,
you’ll likely identify yourself as Canadian. If you say “skedule” in Toronto, you
may be judged a Yankee. Similar differences exist within a country.
What about matters of vocabulary and grammar? Are sneaked and snuck both
okay? Aren’t some language forms (like those on posted signs that say Drive
Slow instead of Drive Slowly) just wrong? Does beg the question mean ‘raise the
question’ or ‘take the answer for granted’? To answer those questions, it helps to
think of grammar as a description of how language is organized and behaves. In
that case, ungrammatical sentences of English would include these:
Experience different something allergy season this.
Season experience something different allergy this.
Both are ungrammatical arrangements of the words in the grammatical sentence
Experience something different this allergy season (taken from a print ad for an al-
lergy medicine). No one who speaks English would normally say or write either
of them, and in that sense they are ungrammatical.
Try It Yourself If, as a student assistant for a project to produce
a handbook of modern legal language usage, you searched a database
of written legal opinions and discovered that judges and justices had
written sneaked as the past tense of sneak about two-thirds of the time and snuck
the other one-third, what would you expect the project director to report in the
handbook about the past tense of sneak? What if your ﬁndings were 60/40 or
50/50 instead of 66/33?
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 15
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 15 12/29/10 10:55:50 PM
12/29/10 10:55:50 PM
16 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
Another view would count as ungrammatical any violation of a relatively
small set of prescriptive “rules” such as these:
Don’t end a sentence with a preposition (e.g.,
◆ Which one did you work at?).
Don’t split an infinitive (e.g.,
◆ to boldly go).
Don’t use double negatives (e.g.,
◆ I don’t want none).
It’s me
◆ is ungrammatical; it is I is correct.
Such prescriptions arose in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, and of course
they would not have arisen had the condemned language features not been widely
used. Commentators in the prescriptive tradition formulated rules for what they
regarded as the “proper” use of shall and will and condemned phrases like between
you and I; they tried as well to ban the use of ain’t and other negative contractions
(don’t, didn’t, wouldn’t, etc.) More recently, they’ve poked fun at like when it marks
quoted speech or thought (And I’m like, “Do I really wanna do this?”).
Partly from this prescriptive tradition, judgments became widespread that
some common expressions are ungrammatical, as with Me and him would sit
and talk all day and He don’t like to cook or It don’t matter. These sentences
are not standard English, but they are used ordinarily by millions of English
speakers—and in that sense they’re perfectly grammatical in some varieties
of English. It isn’t reasonable to judge the sentences permitted by the rules of
one variety as ungrammatical simply because they don’t follow the rules of
another variety. By that logic, any expression permitted in British English but
not in American English would be ungrammatical—and vice versa. In Ameri-
can English, “England hold the advantage in the World Cup final” would be
ungrammatical, even though it is a perfectly acceptable sentence in British
English. In American English, a team name like “England” would require the
singular verb form holds.
Because languages rely essentially
on arbitrary signs to accomplish their
work, no linguistic justification exists
for claiming there is only one right way
of saying something or that the struc-
ture of one language variety is better
than that of another. Judgments of
“illogical” and “impure” are imported
from outside the realm of language and
represent attitudes to particular variet-
ies or forms of expression within partic-
ular varieties. Sometimes, rather than
representing judgments about speech itself, they represent judgments about the
speakers of those varieties.
In this book we describe an utterance as “ungrammatical” only if the utterance
cannot be said by native speakers of that variety. We limit the term to an utter-
ance like Book that reading am I right now (compare I am reading that book right
now) because it does not occur in the speech of those who know English (except
as an example of an ill-formed sentence for use in textbooks like this). We do not
regard an expression such as Him and me are friends as “ungrammatical,” although
we acknowledge it is not standard.
Try It Yourself Given the premise that,
say, Japanese and Italian are grammatical,
Parisian French and Montreal French are grammatical,
and American English and British English are
grammatical, make an argument that it is equally
logical to regard Brooklynese, Bostonese, and African-
American English as grammatical.
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 16
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 16 12/29/10 10:55:50 PM
12/29/10 10:55:50 PM
Modes of Linguistic Communication 17
There are three basic modes of linguistic communication, corresponding to dif-
ferent modes of perception: oral communication, relying on the use of speech
and hearing organs; writing, a visual representation; and signing, a visual or
tactile representation.
Speaking
The most common vehicle of linguistic communication is the voice, and speech
is thus a primary mode of human language, with some advantages over other
modes. Because it does not need to be viewed, speech can accomplish its work
effectively in darkness and in light, straight ahead and around corners. During
the development of the human species, with hands and eyes occupied in hunt-
ing, fishing, and food gathering, speakers remained free to report, ask for and
give directions, explain, promise, apologize, bargain, warn, and flirt.
Speaking has other advantages. For one thing, the human voice is complex and
has many channels. It has variable volume, pitch, rhythm, and speed; it’s capa-
ble of wide-ranging modulation. Besides a set of sounds, speech takes advantage
of the organization of those sounds, their sequencing into words and sentences.
Like writing and signing, speech can take advantage of word choice and word
order. In its natural state, of course, speech evaporates and cannot span time, but
modern technologies are making it possible to preserve speech indefinitely.
Writing
Long before the invention of writing, people painted stories on cave walls and
exploited other visual signs to record events. Such pictograms were independent
of language—a kind of cartoon world in which anyone with knowledge of the
lives of people but without specific linguistic knowledge could reconstruct the
depicted story. When shown to adult speakers, depicted stories can be told in
any language. Pictograms ( ) can be understood by speakers of any lan-
guage because they are a direct, nonlinguistic symbolization, like a silent film
or road signs used internationally to indicate a curved roadway or the availabil-
ity of food and lodging. Of course, some things are more difficult than others to
convey using pictograms, as the photograph below indicates. Among icons com-
mon in email correspondence and able to be made with a standard keyboard are
the emoticons :) and :( . But, increasingly, they are replaced by and , which
can’t be made with a standard keyboard.
Signs on a wall at the sea,
outside Dublin, Ireland, where
fishing and nude bathing are
forbidden. The fishing prohibition
is communicated iconically; for
obvious reasons, the prohibition
of nude swimming relies on
arbitrary linguistic signs.
Modes of Linguistic Communication
©
Edward
Finegan
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 17
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 17 12/29/10 10:55:50 PM
12/29/10 10:55:50 PM
18 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
If icons come to be associated not with the entities they represent but with the
words that refer to the entities, we have a more sophisticated system. Written
representation becomes linguistic when it relies on language for its organization
and communicative success. For example, while it is difficult to use pictograms
to express a message about abstractions (such as hunger or fairness), the task
becomes manageable if the graphic signs represent existing words. The moment
some imaginative person first recognized that the written sign could repre-
sent not only the sun itself but also the word for ‘sun’ in his or her spoken lan-
guage, the initial step was taken toward the development of writing. Writing was
invented about 5,000 years ago by ingenious people who chanced upon an occa-
sion to use pictograms to represent spoken words instead of the objects they usu-
ally represented. Recent scholarship suggests that writing may have had multiple
origins, and the social, economic, cultural, and historical circumstances of the
invention in each case are important to an overall understanding of its origins.
Speech and writing are not related to the world they symbolize in the same
way. Speech directly represents entities in the world—things such as the sun,
the moon, my car, that book, fresh fish, and today’s weather. Writing represents
the physical world only indirectly. A written sentence such as Meg hates rainy
weather is a secondary symbolization: the written words represent the spoken
words, not the entities and activities themselves.
Writing has certain advantages over speech. Although it generally takes lon-
ger to produce than speech, it can be read and understood much more quickly
than speech. Writing (in correspondence or books or on cave walls) endures
longer than nonrecorded speech, and publications have a greater reach. A mes-
sage on a blackboard can be read after its author has left the room; not so for an
unrecorded spoken utterance.
Signing
The third mode of linguistic communication is signing, the use of visible ges-
tures to communicate. To accompany their talk, speakers often use gestures
and facial expressions to convey meaning in support of oral communication,
but signing can be used as the sole means of accomplishing the work of lan-
guage. American Sign Language, the principal sign language of North America,
is used by somewhere between half a million and 2 million signers, not all of
them deaf.
ASL, as it’s called, and similar sign languages use manual signs and facial and
bodily gestures, combining them under a system of grammatical rules to create
an infinite number of sentences. The linguistic character of sign languages and
the linguistic character of spoken languages such as Japanese and English are
alike, except for the channel of expression, but such sign languages are funda-
mentally independent of any spoken language.
Manual signs in a language like ASL have three main components:
hand shape
◆ and orientation (which fingers are open or closed and how the
palm is facing)
hand location
◆ with respect to the signer’s body
hand movement
◆
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 18
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 18 12/29/10 10:55:50 PM
12/29/10 10:55:50 PM
Modes of Linguistic Communication 19
Signs differ from one another in one or more of those components. As shown
in Figure 1.2, the manual ASL signs SUMMER, UGLY, and DRY are identical
in hand movement and in hand shape and orientation. For all three, the right
hand, with index finger extended but the others closed, is drawn across and in
front of the signer, the index finger closing in the process. The three signs are
identical except in hand location. For SUMMER, the sign is drawn across the
front of the signer’s forehead; for UGLY, across the nose; and for DRY, across
the chin. Note that you cannot guess the meanings of these signs, and that
would be the case for most signs. But some other signs do show a resemblance
to what they represent. For example, in ASL the sign TREE can be viewed as
resembling a tree, and the sign CAT suggests a cat’s whiskers, as you can see
in Figure 1.3. As with spoken languages, then, sign languages like ASL are
basically arbitrary, although some signs are representational, with meanings
that can be guessed.
We’ve focused our discussion of sign language on vocabulary, but sign lan-
guages also have grammars for combining vocabulary into phrases and sen-
tences. Spoken languages don’t construct sentences by stringing words together
like beads on a string, and neither do sign languages. Both signed and spo-
ken languages observe complex systems of grammatical rules, and the rules
for ASL differ from the rules for American English in ways akin to those that
Figure 1.2 ASL signs for SUMMER, UGLY, and DRY
Source: Lucas and Valli 2004
Figure 1.3 ASL signs for TREE and CAT
Source: Lucas and Valli 2004
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 19
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 19 12/29/10 10:55:51 PM
12/29/10 10:55:51 PM
20 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
differentiate the rules for German, say, from those for Spanish. Knowing even
a long list of ASL signs and knowing English or French grammar, but not ASL
grammar, would not allow a person to communicate effectively in ASL or un-
derstand a conversation between signers using ASL.
Given the way languages and dialects develop historically, it shouldn’t sur-
prise us that ASL has regional and ethnic varieties, but it’s not so obvious that
sign language dialects need not parallel spoken language dialects in the same
locations. Spoken American English, for example, derives chiefly from spoken
British English, but ASL does not derive from British Sign Language, and ASL
and BSL aren’t mutually intelligible. Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet, the founder
of the first American school for the deaf, had studied French Sign Language
in Paris and returned to Connecticut with a teacher of French Sign Language,
so ASL developed from a combination particularly of FSL and a sign language
used on Martha’s Vineyard, in Massachusetts, at the time Gallaudet started
his school.
Another kind of signing, the one used by Helen Keller, differs fundamentally
from ASL because Keller was blind as well as deaf. Her signing was a kind of
manual spelling system and, unlike ASL, relied on an existing spoken language.
Her signing consisted of spelling out words by “drawing” with the hands and in
the hands the shape of written signs that are used to represent sounds (as with
letters of the alphabet). Helen Keller’s sign language depended on the prior ex-
istence of a spoken language and on a written form of that language. Signing
systems that rely on the modeling of letters are two steps removed from the lin-
guistic system acquired by hearing and seeing children. In a minor way ASL also
relies on finger spelling—for example, to represent people’s names and other
words that lack signs of their own. Unlike Helen Keller’s manual system, the
finger spelling of names and some other words in ASL is carried out to be seen
rather than by drawing in the hand, which is designed to be felt.
In this book, we focus on language as represented in spoken and written com-
munication. Keep in mind that, both historically and developmentally, writing is
a secondary mode of linguistic communication. Speaking is the primary mode.
This priority can be a challenge to students, whose principal focus and context
for discussing language in academic settings has been reading and writing.
When you observe animals in groups, it’s obvious that they interact—that they
communicate with one another. Dogs display fangs to communicate displeasure
or aggression; male frogs attract female frogs by croaking. It’s only natural to
wonder how the forms of communication used by animals differ from human
language.
We sometimes speak of porpoises, chimpanzees, gorillas, dolphins, whales,
bees, and other animals as though they had language systems similar to those
of humans. Doubtless, all species of animals have developed systems of com-
munication with which they can signal such things as danger and fear, and we
know a good deal about how and what bees communicate. In recent decades,
chimpanzees have been taught to use signs.
Do Humans Alone Have Language?
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 20
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 20 12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
Can Chimpanzees Learn a Human Language? 21
How Animals Communicate in Their
Natural Environment
For a long time people wondered how bees were able to tell one another the
exact location of a nectar source and speculated about a “language” of bees.
After years of observation and hypothesizing, Karl von Frisch claimed that hon-
eybees have an elaborate system of dancing by which they communicate the
whereabouts of a honey supply. Various aspects of the dance of a bee returning
to a hive indicate the distance and direction of a nectar source. The quality of
the source can be gauged by sniffing the discoverer bee. Although some of von
Frisch’s interpretations have been questioned, his careful analysis demonstrated
that the kind of creativity characteristic of a child’s speech is lacking in the bee’s
dance. Bees do not use their communicative system to convey anything beyond
a limited range of meanings (such as ‘There’s a pretty good source of nectar in
this direction’), so analogies between bee dancing and a child’s language are
fundamentally misleading.
The same lack of creativity characterizes communication between other
animals. Beyond a highly limited repertoire of meanings, even intelligent
mammals such as dogs lack the mental capacity to be communicatively
creative. For one thing, much of the communication between animals relies on
nonarbitrary signs. When gazelles sense potential danger, their fleeing sends a
signal to nearby gazelles that danger is lurking, and the communicative function
of the act is incidental to its survival function. Similarly, a dog signals the
possibility that it might bite by displaying its fangs. These acts are nonarbitrary
signs that accompany desires and possibilities.
Whatever animals express through sounds seems to reflect not a logical se-
quence of thoughts but a sequence accompanying a series of emotional states.
The communicative activities of most animals thus differ from human language
in that they do not consist essentially of arbitrary signs.
But what about chimpanzees? In the wild, they use a limited nonlinguistic com-
municative system similar to that of other mammals, though it is generally
more sophisticated. Relying on the fact that the intelligence of chimps comes
closest among other mammals to the intelligence of humans, researchers have
attempted to teach them human language in ways that do not depend on vocal
articulation.
The earliest chimp to gain notoriety for her communicative prowess was
Vicki. After being raised for about seven years by psychologists Keith and Cath-
erine Hayes, she could utter only four words—mama, papa, up, and cup—and
she managed them only with considerable physical strain. Chimps are simply
not equipped with suitable mouth and throat organs to speak.
Granted, then, that chimps lacked the physiological capacity to speak, the ques-
tion remained whether they had the mental capacity to learn language. After view-
ing a film of Vicki trying to vocalize human language, psychologists Allen and
Can Chimpanzees Learn a Human Language?
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 21
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 21 12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
22 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
Beatrix Gardner gave a home to a ten-month-old chimp named Washoe, whom they
raised as a human child in as many ways as possible. Eventually, Washoe ate with
a fork and spoon, sat at a table and drank from a cup, and even washed dishes after
a fashion. She wore diapers and became toilet trained; she played with dolls and
showed them affection. Like human children her age, she was fond of picture books
and enjoyed having her human friends tell her stories about the pictures in them.
Ingeniously, the Gardners arranged to conduct all communication with Washoe
in American Sign Language (ASL), which they also used to communicate between
themselves and with members of their research team whenever Washoe was pres-
ent. Noting the kinds of simplified communication that human parents provide for
children in some societies, the Gardners used repetition and simplified signing with
Washoe, who in her first seven months in this very human environment learned
four signs and in the next 14 months an additional 30 signs. After 51 months, she
had acquired 132 signs describing objects and notions, and she understood three
times that many. She used the signs to designate particular objects and classes of
objects. She used the sign for ‘shoe’ to mean shoes in general; she used the ‘flower’
sign for flowers in general, and even for aromas like the smell of tobacco. She
signed even to dogs and trees. She asked questions about the world of objects and
events around her. After mastering only eight signs, she started combining them
to make complex utterances: you me hide; you me go out hurry listen dog
(when a dog barked); baby mine (referring to her doll); and so on. After just 10
months in her foster home, she made scores of combinations of three or more
signs, such as roger washoe tickle and you tickle me washoe.
In subsequent work with four other chimps (Moja, Pili, Tatu, and Dar) who
arrived at their laboratory within days of birth, the Gardners demonstrated
that chimps who are cross-fostered by human adults replicate some of the basic
aspects of language acquisition characteristic of human children, including
the use of signs to refer to natural language categories such as dog, flower,
and shoe. Remarkably, when these chimps subsequently took up residence in
another laboratory, an infant chimp named Loulis acquired at least 47 signs that
had no source other than the signing of his fellow chimps.
In cross-fostering Washoe and her chimpanzee playmates, the Gardners made
the pivotal assumptions that human language is acquired by children in a rich
social and intellectual environment and that such richness contributes to the
child’s cognitive and linguistic life. In other laboratories, the language activities
of other celebrity chimps were not vocal like Vicki’s nor gestural like Washoe’s
but visual. Sarah used plastic chips as symbols for words and showed consid-
erable ability putting them in sequence. Lana used an appropriately marked
computer terminal to create series of symbols similar to the plastic ones used
by Sarah. As a result of the kinds of success enjoyed by the Gardners and other
researchers working with chimps, some observers, especially among psycholo-
gists, came to believe there might be a continuum between human and non-
human communication. But by no means was everyone persuaded.
Project Nim
Indeed, some psychologists have voiced skepticism about the various projects
to teach chimps human-style language. They believe the individual words se-
lected by the chimps in the various modes could have been triggered in some
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 22
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 22 12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
The Origin of Human Languages: Babel to Babble  23
instances by inadvertent clues from the researchers. As a result, they claim, the
sequences of strings produced by chimps are not productive sentences that par-
allel those created by human children. Other critics doubt that chimps have the
ability to use language to make comments, ask questions, and express feelings
as humans do.
In an attempt to provide more control on the effort to teach language to a
chimp, a rigorous experiment sought to avoid many of the objections to previ-
ous research (though, inevitably, it introduced problems of its own). This chimp
was named Nim Chimpsky, and in the course of his education Nim had several
linguistic accomplishments, in part repeating the achievements of his prede-
cessors. But after five years of work with Nim, psychologist Herbert Terrace
concluded that chimps are incapable of learning language as children do. Even
with elaborate training, Nim produced very few longer utterances and displayed
little creativity and spontaneity in his use of signs. Unlike Washoe, Nim signed
only when researchers prompted him, and he never initiated interactions. These
characteristics, Terrace contends, clearly distinguish what Nim could learn from
what children can do with language.
Critics of Project Nim note that Terrace employed more than 60 research as-
sistants over five years and suspect that fact may have contributed significantly
to the limitations in Nim’s linguistic achievements. Moreover, the assistants
were instructed to treat Nim in a detached fashion and were forbidden to com-
fort him even if he cried during the night. Critics questioned how similar Nim’s
learning environment was to the environment in which a normal human child
acquires language and maintained that the research conditions of Project Nim
had a crippling impact on the chimp’s emotional and linguistic education.
We see, then, that some researchers claim that human and animal language
fall along a continuum, while others conclude that chimps cannot learn lan-
guage as children do. To help reconcile these views, it is useful to consider
the assessment of the distinguished primatologist Jane Goodall, who identified
“talking” as the biggest difference between humans and chimps, “because we
can discuss ideas, we can teach about things that aren’t present. We can draw
from the distant past and teach each other from it and we can plan the dis-
tant future. Mostly it is this discussion of ideas” that distinguishes humans from
chimps. The consensus among psychologists and linguists seems to be that ani-
mal language, including that of chimpanzees, does not exhibit all the hallmark
features of human language we laid out above. While there are some similarities
between human language and the sign and other visual languages taught to
chimps, several criterial features of human language appear to be lacking, nota-
bly displacement and recursion and productivity.
Many people are persuaded that language originated in a paradise where its
form was logical and perfectly grammatical. Even beyond that, the belief is
widespread that, with the passage of time, pristine languages have become con-
taminated with impurities, illogicalities, and ungrammaticalities.
The Origin of Human Languages:
Babel to Babble
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 23
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 23 12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
24 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
As examples of impurities, subscribers to this worried view cite borrowed
words such as the American OK and the French disco, which have spread into
many other languages and made them less “pure.” Among alleged illogicalities,
double negatives are a commonly cited English example. The claim is that, just
as two negatives yield a positive in algebra or logic (It is not untrue means ‘It is
true’), the double negative in a sentence like I don’t want none should logically
mean ‘I do want some,’ and the double negative in He didn’t do nothing wrong
should mean ‘He did something wrong.’ Of course, they don’t. Putative ungram-
maticalities include the personal pronoun I in just between you and I and the
pronouns him and me as subject in the sentence Him and me were friends in the
Army. The argument offered is that objects of a preposition should be in the ob-
jective case (just between you and me) and subjects of a sentence should be in the
common (or subject) case (He and I were friends in the Army). Another alleged
ungrammaticality is the word snuck, which many regard as an illegitimate form
of sneaked. Of course, millions of speakers around the globe use these and other
allegedly impure, illogical, and ungrammatical expressions—and the sun rises
over them each morning and sets each evening, just as it does over those whose
language is regarded as more pure, logical, and grammatical.
As well as having different views on the origins of languages, people have dif-
ferent ways of explaining why languages differ from one another and why they
change. The Old Testament relates that before the Tower of Babel all men and
women spoke the same language and could understand one another. Eventually
human pride provoked God into confounding their communication with mutually
unintelligible tongues. In this view, language differences among people can be seen
as a penalty for pride or misbehavior. Similarly, Muslims believe that Allah spoke
to Mohammed in pure and perfect Arabic, as represented in the Koran. By con-
trast, the varieties of present-day Arabic spoken in the Persian Gulf, North Africa,
and elsewhere are seen as deriving later from human weakness and culpability.
Professional linguists take a different approach. They see the multiplicity of
languages as resulting from natural change over time, the inevitable product of
reshaping speech to meet changing social and intellectual needs and reflecting
contact with people speaking other languages. When people move to new places
and mix with speakers of different tongues or settle areas with unfamiliar plants
and animals, their language must adapt to new circumstances. Encountering un-
familiar aspects of nature and meeting others who engage in different cultural
practices and hold different views prompts accommodation in one’s language.
As a result, languages evolve differently around the globe.
Still, compared to linguistic differences, what is equally striking is the ex-
tent of similarity across languages around the globe. The differences are all too
apparent, the similarities sometimes too subtle to recognize. But similarities
should not be surprising because, after all, every language must conform to the
character and abilities of the human vocal apparatus, which must produce all
spoken language, and to the character and abilities of the human brain, where
everyone’s language system resides. As it happens, of many conceivable lan-
guage structures, only a relatively narrow band exists across the languages of
the world. (Chapter 7 examines universals of language structure.)
Still, the question persists: When and how did human language arise?
The question has been of interest for millennia. You may know the story of the
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 24
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 24 12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
What Is Linguistics? 25
Egyptian king Psammetichus, who entrusted two children to mute shepherds
so the children would hear no language and whose first words, it was thought,
would therefore indicate the original language. When the first spoken word,
recorded as bekos, was judged to be Phrygian for ‘bread,’ Psammetichus decided
Phrygian must be the original language. Experimentation and wild speculation
took a particularly vigorous turn in the mid-nineteenth century around the time
Darwin published his Origin of Species (1859). Speculation grew so fantasti-
cal that in 1866 the Linguistic Society of Paris banned the offering of papers
on the origins of language, and the spirit of that prohibition—coupled with a
lack of sufficient knowledge in the necessary fields—kept the question on the
back burner until very late in the twentieth century. In the past 20 or 25 years,
though, language origin has become a hot topic and has engaged researchers
from several disciplines, including biology, neuroscience, anthropology, and
computer science, as well as linguistics. Unfortunately, while some of the issues
have been clarified, answers have remained elusive.
Suffice it to say that one of the principal challenges in determining the origin
of language is the fact that three vastly different timelines are involved, and the
computer modeling needed to help determine when and how language evolved
is hampered by the greatly different scope of these timelines and our incomplete
knowledge about them. For example, while a human being develops a language
over a period of a decade or so, languages themselves develop over centuries
or millennia, and the human brain and vocal apparatus developed over hun-
dreds of thousands of years. Thus, anything we know about language evolution
along each of these dimensions is very difficult to combine in a single model.
But there are still more fundamental questions—for example, about the degree
to which and manner in which human language differs from animal communi-
cation, as we have just seen; even about precisely what human language is—
which aspects of what we regard broadly as human language are characteristic
of language per se and which belong to more general cognitive, sensory-motor,
or cultural functions. Fascinating as they are, even detailing these questions
would take us well beyond our scope. To learn more about language origins,
check the references at the end of the chapter.
Linguistics can be defined as the systematic inquiry into human language—into
its structures and uses and the relationship between them, as well as into its de-
velopment through history and its acquisition by children and adults. The scope
of linguistics includes both language structure (and its underlying grammatical
competence) and language use (and its underlying communicative competence).
Language is often defined as an arbitrary vocal system used by human beings
to communicate with one another. This definition is useful as far as it goes al-
though it downplays writing and signing. It also downplays an important fact that
philosophers have emphasized about language, namely, that it is more than com-
munication. It is social action, with work to perform. Language is a system that
speakers, writers, and signers exploit purposefully. It is used to do things, not just
report them or describe them or discuss them. “That shirt looks terrific on you!” is
What Is Linguistics?
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 25
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 25 12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
26 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
not a mere report (whereas “Halloween falls on a Tuesday this year” might well
be). More likely, it is a compliment. “Out!” is a mere opinion or conjecture when
a fan behind home plate shouts it during a baseball game, but when it is said by
the umpire, “Out!” is a call and as such can end an inning or a game.
As we said earlier, people have been interested in analyzing language
for millennia. Plato and Aristotle discussed language in the fourth and third
centuries b.c., and we have inherited several categories of grammatical analysis
from them. More than a century earlier, Pāṇini wrote a description of Sanskrit
that is one of the finest grammars ever produced for any language. Today, the
empirical study of language has taken on additional importance in an age in
which communication is critical to social, intellectual, political, economic,
and ethical concerns. Now augmented by insights from cognitive science and
neuroscience, from computer science, psychology, sociology, anthropology,
philosophy, and rhetoric, as well as from communications engineering and other
sciences, linguistics has become a prominent academic discipline in universities
and research centers throughout the world.
What Are the Branches of Linguistics?
Historically, the central focus of language study has been grammar—patterns
of speech sounds, word structure, sentence formation, and meaning. More re-
cently, attention has also focused on the relationship between expression and
meaning, on the one hand, and context and interpretation, on the other. This
field is called pragmatics. Some linguists describe particular languages; others
examine universal patterns across languages and aim to explain them in cogni-
tive or social terms.
Some linguists focus on language variation across speech communities or
within a single community, across time, or across situations of use, such as con-
versation and sports announcer talk. Linguists studying variation seek two kinds
of explanation—cognitive ones having to do with constraints on the human lan-
guage-processing capacities and social ones having to do with human interac-
tion and the organization of societies.
A third group of linguists applies the findings of the discipline to real-world
problems in educational matters, to the acquisition of literacy (reading and writ-
ing) and of second languages and foreign languages; in clinical matters, to under-
standing aspects of Alzheimer’s disease and aphasia; in forensic settings, to analysis
of conversation for evidence of conspiracy, threats, defamation, and other matters
of legal concern, to interpretation of contracts (from rental agreements and in-
surance policies to agreements for manufacturing airplanes), to clarification of
public safety instructions (such as medical labels and dosage directions), and to
identification of voices and the authorship of documents. Some applied linguists
address problems in language policy at national and local levels: what languages to
designate for use in schools, courts, voting booths, and so on; what kind of writing
system to employ in a culturally diverse modern nation; what regulation of exist-
ing language is needed, as in the Plain English movement in the United States or
in the development and production of the tools of standardization, such as dic-
tionaries and grammars. As the world shrinks and cultures mix together, linguists
are also applying their skills to the challenges of cross-cultural communication.
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 26
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 26 12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
Summary 27
At the end of each chapter in this book, you’ll ﬁnd
a section that discusses some aspects of computers
and language related to the topics in the chapter.
You don’t have to be a sophisticated computer user
to understand these sections and beneﬁt from them.
Seeing the substance of a chapter from a different
perspective will help you grasp it. The section below
serves as an introduction to the parallel sections in
later chapters.
Computers and Machine-Readable Texts
In the eighteenth century, Samuel Johnson’s diction-
ary provided illustrative citations taken from books to
exemplify how words were used. During his own read-
ing, Dr. Johnson marked sentences whose context
made a word’s meaning or use especially clear. His
assistants then transcribed the passages onto sheets
of paper, and he organized them in the entries of the
dictionary. In the nineteenth century, essentially the
same process was used by Noah Webster in prepar-
ing his two-volume American Dictionary of the English
Language. Later again the same practice was followed
when others compiled the multi-volume Oxford Eng-
lish Dictionary, which was so large that the project
required thousands of readers and consumed half a
century to complete. In the twentieth century, the
makers of Webster’s Third New International Diction-
ary also mined a collection of several million citations
to uncover diﬀerent word senses. Dictionary making
today is undergoing dramatic
change, owing to advances in com-
puters and the availability of ma-
chine-readable collections of texts known as corpora.
Corpus linguistics is the term used for compiling
collections of texts and using them to probe language
use. In this context a corpus is a representative body
of texts (corpus is the Latin word for ‘body’). You’re
familiar with the kinds of machine-readable texts cre-
ated by word processors, and it is the fact that they
are machine-readable that enables you to search for
a particular word or phrase. The first computerized
corpus—the Brown University Corpus—included 500
texts from U.S. books, newspapers, and magazines.
The texts were selected to represent 15 genres, includ-
ing science ﬁction, romance ﬁction, press reportage,
and scholarly and scientific writing. Each text con-
tains 2,000 words, and the total collection contains
a million words. Researchers later compiled a paral-
lel corpus of British English called the London–Oslo/
Bergen Corpus, or LOB for short. These two corpora
are parallel collections of American and British writ-
ing that appeared in print in 1961.
More recent corpora contain over 100 million
words, and corpora of texts in many languages are
being compiled. Corpora are proving essential for
twenty-ﬁrst-century dictionary making and in many
other ways, including speech recognition and artiﬁ-
cial intelligence. ■
Computers and Linguistics
Summary
The total number of spoken and signed languages in the world is almost 7,000.
•
In the year 2000, according to U.S. Census data, 47 million United States
•
residents over the age of 5 spoke a home language other than English.
The United States does
• not have an official language and has never had one.
Human language is an enormously complex system that is easily mastered by
•
children in a remarkably short time.
Natural processes of linguistic change affect all languages over time, and
•
linguistic change is not linguistic decay.
All languages are equally logical (or equally illogical).
•
A human language is primarily a system of arbitrary signs, but some linguistic
•
signs are representational.
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 27
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 27 12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
28 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
Grammar is a system of elements and patterns that organizes linguistic
•
expression.
Five hallmarks of human language systems are arbitrariness, discreteness,
•
duality, displacement, and recursion/productivity.
Rather than being a two-sided coin, a language system is better viewed as a
•
triangle whose faces are meaning and expression and whose base is context.
Linguistic communication can operate in three modes: speaking, writing, and
•
signing.
Everyone speaks a dialect, and languages do not exist independently of their
•
dialects.
Chimpanzees do not have a suitable vocal apparatus for speaking, but in limited
•
ways they are capable of putting together several signs to form meaningful
strings.
The degree to which the language of chimps and that of very young children are
•
alike remains under investigation, but they appear fundamentally different at
least in displacement and recursion and productivity.
In the field of corpus linguistics, large bodies of computerized texts called
•
corpora are used to explore natural language use in all its contexts.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
How many languages?
• The question can’t be answered exactly, but there are in
the world about 7,000 languages, including sign languages.
Multilingual utility bill
• . The United States has never had an official language.
Utility bills need to be understood by customers, and one can successfully
communicate with people only in a language they understand. We all feel
relieved when confronted with an important piece of text in a language we
don’t understand and then find a translation in a familiar language. The United
States accepts large numbers of immigrants, and when they cluster in urban or
suburban areas it makes sense for commercial and government establishments to
communicate with them in a familiar language.
Sixth-grade Suze
• . Note carries different senses in musical note, bank note, and
the metaphorical discordant note. And besides its senses as a noun, note may
be a verb. So knowing the context of use may be essential in recognizing the
appropriate sense of a word in an utterance, and a sentence such as, “The U.S.
Treasury issued new $20 notes in 2003 to help stem the tide of counterfeiting,”
makes clear that “notes” is a synonym for “bills.”
Snuck or sneaked?
• Traditionally, sneaked has been the past-tense form of sneak.
But English speakers increasingly say and write snuck. Languages change and
what’s “right” for one generation may not be right for the next generation. When
usage changes, judgments about right and wrong also change. People often cite
“the dictionary” as authority for one usage or another, and some dictionaries
tout themselves as “authoritative.” But even dictionaries differ in their views
of right and wrong usage. Lexicographers understand that any authoritative
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 28
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 28 12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
12/29/10 10:55:52 PM
Exercises 29
position they hold rests on their ability to track actual usage—what is being said
and written at a particular time.
Seth’s birthday
• . Seth understands that utterances must be interpreted in context.
Felix pretends that utterances have only a literal meaning, irrespective of
context. Because everyone knows his or her own birthday, Felix’s question
(“Do you know when your birthday is?”) would appear silly if taken at face
value, so Seth figures out an interpretation that makes sense of it. “May ninth”
is information Seth presumes Felix doesn’t have: Why else would Felix ask the
question?
Exercises
 1-1. Here’s a set of questions that could constitute a basis for your linguistic au-
tobiography. Jot down your answers in bulleted form. (1) When did you first
become aware that people judge certain linguistic expressions to be naughty
or nice, and what do you think the basis for those judgments must have been?
(2) When did you first become aware that some people judge certain linguistic
expressions to be grammatically correct or incorrect, and what do you think the
basis for their judgments would have been? (3) Do you think of speech as more
fundamental than writing—and, if so, for how long have you thought that?
(4) Was there ever a time when you judged writing to be the basis for speech,
and, if so, what gave you that impression? For example, have you ever thought
that palm or salmon are best pronounced with an l because they’re spelled with
an l? What about herb: would it be more correct to pronounce it with an h?
(5) Can you identify two aspects of your current views about language that
place writing in a superior position to speaking?
 1-2. Over the course of a single day, write down every instance you hear (on radio
or television programs, in class lectures, or in talk among your acquaintances)
of representational expressions (representing length, loudness, speed, repeti-
tion, emphasis, ordering, etc.). (You may find it easier to gather examples
from sitcoms or programs for children.) Compare your examples with those
collected by your classmates to see how many kinds you have uncovered.
 1-3. Below is a list of characteristics that describe linguistic communication
through speaking, writing, and signing. Decide which modes of linguistic
communication the characteristic applies to, and provide an example to il-
lustrate your claim. Pay particular attention to the different types of spoken,
written, and signed communication because certain of these characteristics
might apply to some but not other types of communication. Also note the
impact of modern communication technology on these characteristics.
a. A linguistic message is ephemeral—that is, it cannot be made to endure.
b. A linguistic message can be revised once it has been produced.
c. A linguistic message has the potential of reaching large audiences.
d. A linguistic message can be transmitted over great distances.
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 29
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 29 12/29/10 10:55:53 PM
12/29/10 10:55:53 PM
30 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
e. A linguistic message can rely on the context in which it is produced; the
producer can refer to the time and place in which the message is produced
without fearing misunderstanding.
f. A linguistic message relies on the senses of hearing, touching, and seeing.
g. The ability to produce linguistic messages is innate; it does not have to be
learned consciously.
h. A linguistic message must be planned carefully before it is produced.
i. The production of a linguistic message can be accomplished simultane-
ously with another activity.
 1-4. Consider the following quotation from a mid-twentieth-century dictionary
(A Pronouncing Dictionary of American English by John S. Kenyon and Thomas
A. Knott, Springfield, MA: Merriam, 1953, p. vi).
As in all trustworthy dictionaries, the editors have endeavored to
base the pronunciations on actual cultivated usage. No other stan-
dard has, in point of fact, ever finally settled pronunciation. This
book can be taken as a safe guide to pronunciation only insofar as
we have succeeded in doing this. According to this standard, no
words are, as is often said, “almost universally mispronounced,”
for that is self-contradictory. For an editor the temptation is often
strong to prefer what he thinks “ought to be” the right pronuncia-
tion; but it has to be resisted.
a. Make an argument supporting the view that editors should resist the temp-
tation to record their own personal pronunciation preferences in a diction-
ary. Explain whether your argument also applies to an editor’s expressing
personal preferences for other aspects of language, such as spelling or
usage.
b. Make an argument supporting the view that the phrase “almost univer-
sally mispronounced” is self-contradictory.
c. What do you understand by the phrase “cultivated usage”? How would
you determine whose usage is “cultivated”? How do you imagine a dic-
tionary editor would determine whose usage is “cultivated”? Given that
different social groups pronounce some words differently from one an-
other, whose pronunciations do you think a dictionary should describe?
Explain and justify your view.
 1-5. In papers and exams comparing natural conversation with written varieties of
English, students sometimes claim that conversation is filled with errors such
as those given below. Offer an alternative explanation to the claim that they
are errors.
I was, like, “Hi,” and she goes, “Hi.”
I said, “Hi Pat,” I went, she goes, “Hi Chris.”
 1-6. Consider the following, said by John Simon (Paradigms Lost, New York: Penguin,
1980, pp. 58–59) concerning Edwin Newman’s book, A Civil Tongue:
With demonic acumen, Newman adduces 196 pages’ worth of gram-
matical errors. Clichés, jargon, malapropisms, mixed metaphors,
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 30
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 30 12/29/10 10:55:53 PM
12/29/10 10:55:53 PM
Exercises 31
monstrous neologisms, unholy ambiguities, and parasitic redundan-
cies, interspersed with his own mocking comments . . . and exhorta-
tions to do better. . . .Worse than a nation of shop-keepers, we have
become a nation of wordmongers or word-butchers, and abuse of
language, whether from ignorance or obfuscation, leads, as Newman
persuasively argues, to a deterioration of moral values and standards
of living.
a. Simon seems to equate “grammatical errors” with clichés, jargon, mala-
propisms, and so on. Which of these can legitimately be called errors of
grammar in the linguistic sense? What would be a more appropriate way
to characterize the others?
b. Cite two ungrammatical structures that you have heard from nonnative
speakers of English. Have you heard similar errors of grammar from na-
tive speakers? What reason underlies your findings about native-speaker
errors and nonnative-speaker errors?
c. The point that Newman and Simon make about “abuse of language” lead-
ing to a deterioration of moral values and standards of living is a common
claim of language guardians. What kinds of abuse does Simon seem to
have in mind when he makes that claim? Are he and Newman correct in
claiming that such abuses lead to a deterioration of moral values? Could
it be the other way around? Could they be entirely independent of one
another? What stake could anyone have in advancing the Newman/Simon
claim? To put it differently, who are the winners and losers if that view
prevails?
d. Do you think that genuine grammatical errors (such as those made by
nonnative speakers) could lead to a deterioration of moral values? Explain
your position.
 1-7. Writing and gesture are visual modes of linguistic communication. What is
the relationship between writing and Braille (the writing system used for
blind readers)? Is Braille a mode of linguistic communication? How many
modes of linguistic communication are there?
 1-8. When there is a choice between linguistic modes, as in telephoning a distant
friend or sending a letter or email note, what are the advantages and disad-
vantages of each mode? What about instant messaging and texting? List some
of the circumstances in which each mode of linguistic communication would
be preferred over the others.
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
 1-9. For students whose home language matches the language of instruction in
school, do you regard the primary focus of teaching language arts to be
reading and writing or speaking and listening? Explain your position.
1-10. For the same group of students, do you think the emphasis of the curriculum
is actually on reading and writing, or is it on speaking and listening? Explain
the basis for your view.
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 31
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 31 12/29/10 10:55:53 PM
12/29/10 10:55:53 PM
32 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
1-11. For students whose home language differs from that of school instruction
(for example, for students who speak Spanish at home but attend an English-
language school), would your answers to the previous two questions be
different? If so, how?
1-12. For students whose home language is a different dialect from that of school
instruction, would your answers to questions 1-9 and 1-10 be different (focus
on your local situation or the situation in a district you are likely to work in).
If so, how?
1-13. In your early years in school, did your teachers speak the same language you
spoke? The same dialect? If they didn’t, did they convey different attitudes
toward their speech and yours? Was there any discussion of other language
varieties, and can you reconstruct what attitudes your teachers fostered to-
ward the language varieties of other students? Can you remember anything a
teacher might have said about another language or dialect? Did you feel com-
fortable speaking up in class? Did other students? Did any teacher discuss the
importance of language in a child’s life and how central an aspect of a child’s
personal identity his or her speech is?
1-14. During your school and college years, did anyone convey an impression of
what they thought of your speech? Of your writing? If so, what were their at-
titudes, and do you think teachers are wise to correct your writing and your
speech?
Other Resources
Internet
Information and the results of considerable laboratory research are available on
the Internet. In this section of each chapter you will find Internet addresses that
will help you understand the contents of the chapter and provide a laboratory un-
like any previously available to students of linguistics at even the best-equipped
universities. Because Internet addresses can change unexpectedly, the ones given
below may no longer be accurate by the time you try them. If an address has
changed, you may find yourself automatically linked to a new address. Updated
addresses can also be found at the first website given below. There, too, you may
find links to new sites that may interest you.
LISU Website: http://www.CengageBrain.com For users of this textbook.
Provides updated Internet links as well as supplemental material for students
and instructors. Here you will find chapter-specific interactive learning tools
in your English CourseMate, accessed through the URL above.
The Domain of Linguistics: http://www.lsadc.org/info/ling-fields.cfm 
For general information, the website of the Linguistic Society of America.
Here you will find brief treatments on a wide variety of topics, including lan-
guage and brain, language and thought, computers and language, endangered
languages, prescriptivism, writing, slips of the tongue, linguistics and litera-
ture, and a dozen other topics.
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 32
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 32 12/29/10 10:55:53 PM
12/29/10 10:55:53 PM
Other Resources 33
An Animated ASL Dictionary: http://commtechlab.msu.edu/sites/
aslweb/browser.htm You can see animated representations of ASL signs.
James Crawford’s Language Policy Website & Emporium:
http://www.languagepolicy.net/ Bilingual education and bilingual policy
are important matters in the United States, as they are around the world. In
the United States, the subject of bilingual education is a tender one. This
website is a rich source of information and interpretation of language policy
in the United States. Much of what is of value at the site can be reached
through the “Archives” tab or at http://www.languagepolicy.net/archives/
home.htm directly.
The Ethnologue: http://www.ethnologue.com/ This reference database
offers a wealth of information about the distribution of languages, numbers
of speakers, dialects, and so on. Organized by country and by language
name.
Census 2000 Gateway: http://www.census.gov/main/www/cen2000.
html At the official site of the U.S. Census Bureau, you can see which lan-
guages are spoken by how many people in every state and the entire United
States, with easy-to-read tables. At http://www.census.gov/2010census
you will find information gathered in the 2010 U.S. Census.
Endangered Language Alliance: http://endangeredlanguagealliance.
org/main/ Established by Daniel Kaufman, who calls New York City “an
endangered language hot spot,” this alliance fosters recording of endangered
languages that, in some cases, have more speakers in NYC than in their origi-
nal homelands.
Films and Videos
UNESCO Endangered Languages: http://www.unesco.org/culture/en/
•
endangeredlanguages A rich site, with maps documenting the state of endangered
languages around the globe.
The Linguists: http://thelinguists.com/ 
• The Linguists is a riveting story of two linguists’
efforts to record endangered languages around the globe. Supported by the National Science
Foundation, the film had its world premier at the Sundance Film Festival in 2008. At the
website you can see a trailer and find ordering information.
Student Productions 
• Inspired in part by The Linguists (see preceding bullet), two under-
graduate students at the University of Southern California produced videos about remote
and endangered languages. Focusing on the language Central Alaskan Yup’ik, Lydia Green’s
project at http://www.lydiajewlgreen/yupik.com/ shows how involved a college junior
can become and how much firsthand information and insight she can gain. At http://www.
archive.org/details/SouthernCaliforniaIndigenousLanguagesPilotFilm you can also “hit
the road” with college senior Joseph Henderer on his journey to find the last fluent speakers
of Southern California’s indigenous languages.
The Human Languages Project 
• An award-winning set of informative and entertaining vid-
eos, originally broadcast on PBS in 1995: Discovering the Human Language: “Colorless Green
Ideas”; Acquiring the Human Language: “Playing the Language Game”; and The Human Language
Evolves: “With and without Words.” 55-minutes each. Produced by Equinox Films, Inc.
Sound and Fury 
• Nominated in 2001 for an Academy Award as a documentary fea-
ture, Sound and Fury tells the story of two families grappling with the complicated and
controversial decision about whether to have a deaf child receive a cochlear implant. You
can see a trailer at http://www.pbs.org/wnet/soundandfury/. There you’ll also find links
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 33
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 33 12/29/10 10:55:54 PM
12/29/10 10:55:54 PM
34 Chapter 1 Languages and Linguistics
to information about Deaf culture, cochlear implants, American Sign Language, and related
topics. The documentary’s director, Josh Aronson, has made two follow-up films, Sound and
Fury: Six Years Later and Twins; they can be ordered by writing to aronsonfilms@aol.com.
Suggestions for Further Reading
Jean Aitchison. 2000.
• The Seeds of Speech: Language Origin and Evolution (Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press). A basic treatment of language beginnings.
Douglas Biber, Susan Conrad & Randi Reppen. 1998.
• Corpus Linguistics: Investigating
Language Structure and Use (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press). An accessible
introduction to corpus linguistics.
David Crystal. 2010.
• Cambridge Encyclopedia of Language, 3rd ed. (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press). Treats topics in a few pages each, with illustrations.
Edward Finegan & John R. Rickford, eds. 2004.
• Language in the USA: Themes for the
Twenty-first Century (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press). Twenty-six essays
treat such topics as multilingualism, Spanish in the Southwest and the Northeast, African-
American English, Asian-American voices, Ebonics controversy, language and education,
language of cyberspace, rap and hip-hop, and slang.
Ray Jackendoff. 1994.
• Patterns in the Mind: Language and Human Nature (New York:
Basic Books). Accessible, fascinating discussion of the cognitive aspects of language structure
and language acquisition.
Donna Jo Napoli. 2003.
• Language Matters: A Guide to Everyday Thinking about Language
(New York: Oxford University Press). An enjoyable introduction to most topics treated in
this chapter.
Edward Sapir. 1921.
• Language: An Introduction to the Study of Speech (New York:
Harvest). This accessible classic continues to yield insight, and that’s why it’s still in print.
Simon Winchester. 2003.
• The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English
Dictionary (Oxford: Oxford University Press). An engaging introduction to the making of the
OED and to lexicography more generally.
Advanced Reading
Crystal’s (2008) Dictionary of Linguistics and Phonetics is a useful reference work for a wide set
of terms and concepts. For discussion of the relationship between arbitrary and nonarbitrary
signs, consult de Saussure (1959). The papers in Haiman (1985) touch on iconic elements
in syntax and intonation. For speaking and writing, see “Suggestions for Further Reading” in
Chapter 15 (available at the LISU website). On standard varieties and attitudes to correctness
in English usage, see Finegan (1998) with an emphasis on British and Finegan (2001) with an
emphasis on American, as well as Milroy and Milroy (1999) and Wardhaugh (1999). For infor-
mation on American Sign Language, see Lucas and Valli (2004) upon which we have relied in
our exposition here, and for a survey of sign languages among Native Americans and Austra-
lian Aborigines, see Umiker-Sebeok and Sebeok (1978). On the origins of language, see Lieber-
man (2006). For corpus linguistics, see McEnery et al. (2006) or Meyer (2002); for computers
and language, see Lawler and Dry (1998). Articles reviewing the state of knowledge about
language evolution include the excellent and accessible Christiansen and Kirby (2003) and the
even more accessible Croom (2003).
References
Christiansen, Morten H. & Simon Kirby. 2003. “Language Evolution: Consensus and Controver-
sies.” Trends in Cognitive Sciences 7 (7): 300–307.
Croom, Christopher. 2003. “Language Origins: Did Language Evolve Like the Vertebrate Eye,
or Was It More Like Bird Feathers?” Available at http://www.csa.com/discoveryguides/
lang/overview.php.
Crystal, David. 2008. A Dictionary of Linguistics and Phonetics, 6th ed. (Oxford: Wiley-
Blackwell).
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 34
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 34 12/29/10 10:55:55 PM
12/29/10 10:55:55 PM
Other Resources 35
de Saussure, Ferdinand. 1959. Course in General Linguistics, trans. from French by Wade Baskin
(New York: Philosophic Library).
Finegan, Edward. 1998. “English Grammar and Usage.” In S. Romaine, ed. Cambridge History of
the English Language, Vol. 4 (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press), pp. 536–88.
Finegan, Edward. 2001. “Usage.” In J. Algeo, ed. Cambridge History of the English Language,
Vol. 6 (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press), pp. 358–421.
Haiman, John, ed. 1985. Iconicity in Syntax (Amsterdam: Benjamins).
Lawler, John M. & Helen Aristar Dry, eds. 1998. Using Computers in Linguistics: A Practical Guide
(London: Routledge).
Lieberman, Philip. 2006. Toward an Evolutionary Biology of Language (Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press).
Lucas, Ceil & Clayton Valli. 2004. “American Sign Language.” In Edward Finegan & John
R. Rickford, eds. Language in the USA (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press),
pp. 230–44.
McEnery, Tony, Richard Xiao & Yukio Tono. 2006. Corpus-Based Language Studies: An Advanced
Resource Book (London: Routledge).
Meyer, Charles F. 2002. English Corpus Linguistics: An Introduction (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press).
Milroy, James & Lesley Milroy. 1999. Authority in Language: Investigating Language Prescription
and Standardization, 3rd ed. (London: Routledge).
Umiker-Sebeok, Jean D. & Thomas A. Sebeok, eds. 1978. Aboriginal Sign Languages of the
Americas and Australia, 2 vols. (New York: Plenum).
Wardhaugh, Ronald. 1999. Proper English: Myths and Misunderstandings about Language
(Malden, MA: Blackwell).
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 35
00419_01_ch01_p001-036.indd 35 12/29/10 10:55:55 PM
12/29/10 10:55:55 PM
This page intentionally left blank
37
Part One
When you think about languages at all you are likely to think about words.
In this book, we begin our investigation of language structure by looking
at words, and we look at them from several perspectives:
their meaningful parts
•
the sounds and syllables that make them up
•
the principles that organize them into phrases and sentences
•
the semantic relationships that link them in sets.
•
In the first part of this book, you’ll see how just a few elements combine into
speech sounds, how just a few speech sounds combine to form a larger number
of syllables, how syllables combine to produce word parts that carry meaning,
and how languages package these word parts into a finite vocabulary and an in-
finite number of phrases and sentences. You’ll also see how the systematic prin-
ciples underlying language structure help you understand countless utterances
that you’ve never heard or read before. Finally, you’ll examine the semantic
relationships among sets of words.
Language Structures
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 37
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 37 4/1/11 14:23:31
4/1/11 14:23:31
38
What Do You Think?
If you were the parent of a 3-year-old daughter who asked if you “maked” a
•
cake and “telled” your friends about it, how would you describe the pattern
your daughter uses to mark past time on these verbs?
You’ve agreed to make a list of foods and drinks that volunteers can
•
contribute to a fundraiser for a college choir undertaking an international
tour. All the items must bear a name that English borrowed from another
language. You think of sushi from Japanese, chop suey from Chinese, tortilla
from Spanish, pâté and champagne from French, and curry from a language
of India (Tamil). Can you identify several other food names from these
languages? From any other languages?
If you were to speculate about the top ten most frequently used words in
•
printed English, what would they be? Why did you choose those particular
ones?
Spouting the obvious, Nerdy Ned mentions that the state of Washington is
•
named after a famous person and that he knows at least three other states
named after famous people. He challenges you to identify them. Can you?
Words and Their Parts:
Lexicon and Morphology
2
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 38
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 38 4/1/11 14:23:32
4/1/11 14:23:32
What Does It Mean to Know a Word? 39
The most tangible elements of a language are its words. You’ve heard people
say “There’s no such word!” or ask “What does the word lollapalooza mean?”
Someone doing a crossword puzzle may ask you, “What’s a three-letter word for
excessively?” We say one person likes to use “two-bit” words and another has a
preference for “four-letter” words. In these instances people have clear notions
of what a word is. When it comes to meaningful parts smaller than a word,
we readily understand that bookstore, laptop, and headset have two each, but
our intuitions may be less confident about bookkeeper, sneakers, women’s, sang,
and impracticality. This chapter examines words and their meaningful parts, as
well as the principles that govern the composition of words and their functions
in sentences. You’ll learn what it means to know a word and how languages
increase their store of words.
Consider what a child must know in order to use a word. The child who asks
“Can you take off my shoes?” knows a good deal more about the word shoes
than what it refers to. She knows the sounds in shoes and the sequence in which
they occur. She knows that the word can be used in the plural (unlike, say, milk
or sugar) and that the plural is formed regularly (it isn’t irregular like teeth or
children). She also knows how to use the word in a sentence.
Using a word requires four kinds of information:
its sounds and their sequencing (this is called
◆ phonological information,
the topic of Chapters 3 and 4)
its meanings (
◆ semantic information, discussed in Chapter 6)
its category (e.g., noun or verb) and how to use it in a sentence (
◆ syntactic
information, discussed here and in Chapter 5)
how related words such as the plural (for nouns) and past tense (for
◆
verbs) are formed (morphological information, treated in this chapter)
For children and adults, using any word requires information about sounds,
meanings, related words, and use in sentences, and that information is
stored in the brain’s dictionary, which is called the mental lexicon, or simply
lexicon.
There are some parallels between the kinds of information stored in the
metal lexicon and those found in a desk dictionary. Both contain information
about pronunciation, meaning, related words, and sentence use. But a desk dic-
tionary also contains information that is not needed for speaking—for example,
a word’s spelling and historical development (its etymology). Dictionary entries
also provide illustrative phrases or sentences, showing how a word has been
used by writers or speakers. A mental lexicon does not normally contain etymo-
logical, illustrative, or spelling information.
Introduction: Words Are Tangible
What Does It Mean to Know a Word?
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 39
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 39 4/1/11 14:23:33
4/1/11 14:23:33
40 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
The ability to use any word in a sentence requires knowledge of its lexical cat-
egory. Even young children must know the category of every word they use—
whether it is a verb, noun, or adjective. To be able to say, “I need some help”
and “Can you help me?” requires knowing that help can be a noun (the first
sentence) or a verb. Of course, a child’s knowledge is unconscious, and even a
grammarian’s child wouldn’t ordinarily know the names of the categories.
How to Identify Lexical Categories
There are several ways to help identify the lexical category of a word, and to
some extent they rely on principles similar to those children must use in figur-
ing out that same information. One way focuses on closely related forms of a
word. Spoon and spoons, book and books, frog and frogs show parallel patterns of
related forms, and words with parallel forms belong to the same category—in
this case, noun. The words old, tall, and bright have a different pattern. Their
related forms have -er and -est endings: older/oldest, taller/tallest, brighter/bright-
est. Old, tall, and bright are members of a category called adjective. Words such
as jump, kick, and laugh appear with a different set of parallel endings, includ-
ing -ed (jumped, kicked, laughed), -ing (jumping, kicking, laughing), and -s (jumps,
kicks, laughs); they belong to the verb category.
Another way to identify categories focuses on which words and categories
can occur together in phrases. For example, the nouns above can be preceded
by the and a (or an): a spoon/the book, and the plural forms ending in -s can
be preceded by the. Basic adjectives can be preceded by very or too, as in very
old and too bright. Basic verbs can be preceded by can, must, or will: will laugh.
Below are examples of these patterns for the three lexical categories we’ve
mentioned.
Nouns
bike bikes a bike the bike(s)
aunt aunts an aunt the aunt(s)
camp camps a camp the camp(s)
Adjectives
old older oldest very old too old
new newer newest very new too new
red redder reddest very red too red
Verbs
look looks looked looking can look will look
play plays played playing can play will play
camp camps camped camping can camp will camp
Knowing the typical related forms in each category enables you to gauge
that a word like sharper is related to the adjective sharp (note too sharp and very
sharp), whereas a word like shaver is related to the noun shavers (“shavest” isn’t
Lexical Categories (Parts of Speech)
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 40
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 40 4/1/11 14:23:34
4/1/11 14:23:34
Lexical Categories (Parts of Speech) 41
a word, and you can’t say too or very shave or shaver). A word like missed can be
related to the verb miss, with its related forms missing/misses, can miss, and will
miss. From an early age, children recognize that words belonging to different
categories have characteristic endings or forms and characteristic distributions
in phrases.
Relying on meaning is a third way to identify a word’s lexical category. While
it is a less reliable method than those we’ve just examined, it is useful at least
in forming an initial hypothesis about a word’s category. From the perspective
of meaning, nouns refer to (or name) entities: persons, places, or things. Thus,
swimmer, sugar, city, and trees are nouns, as in the phrases that swimmer, some
sugar, the city, and these trees. Adjectives identify, refer to, or name qualities
or properties of nouns, as with tall and impressive in the phrases tall trees or an
impressive swimmer. Verbs identify or name actions, as with jump and sings, or
states of being, as with remain or seem.
Verbs
English-speaking children know that verbs have a set of related forms (talk,
talks, talked, talking) and that the base form—without one of the endings –s, -ed,
-ing—can be preceded by can or will. Such knowledge is implicit: children know
it but are not consciously aware of that knowledge.
Subcategories of Verbs A child knows more about a word than its category.
To use a particular verb a child must implicitly know the kinds of sentence
structures it allows, and such knowledge is stored in the child’s mental lexicon.
Consider items 1 through 6, where the asterisks preceding 2, 3, and 5 mark
those sentences as ill-formed.
1. Sarah told a joke.
2. *Sarah laughed a joke.
3. *Sarah told at a joke.
4. Sarah laughed at a joke.
5. *Sarah told.
6. Sarah laughed.
You can see that the verbs told and laughed don’t permit the same structures
after them. Sentences with tell/told require a noun after the verb, as the ill-
formed 5 demonstrates; if they didn’t require a noun, 5 would not be marked
with an asterisk. But 6 demonstrates that not all verbs require a noun after them.
In fact, laugh/laughed does not permit a noun to follow directly, as 2 shows, but
laugh permits the phrase at a joke to follow. Still other verbs permit—but don’t
require—a following noun, as shown in 7 and 8:
7. The diva played.
8. The diva played the piano.
Sentences 1 through 8 illustrate that words such as tell, laugh, and play be-
long to the category verb but do not permit the same sentence structures. They
are said to belong to the same category but different subcategories, and even
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 41
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 41 4/1/11 14:23:34
4/1/11 14:23:34
42 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
children possess implicit information about verb subcategorization; if they
didn’t, they couldn’t avoid uttering sentences like 2, 3, and 5.
To introduce a bit of terminology, verbs that take a noun after them (told a
joke, caught the train) are called transitive verbs. Those that do not require a
noun are called intransitive (lie, pray, shower). In a child’s mental lexicon, each
verb is categorized as a verb and subcategorized as transitive or intransitive.
Nouns
Nouns constitute another lexical category. You have already seen that English
nouns share a set of endings, technically called inflections. The inflection at
the end of spoons represents information about number. Number is the term
used to cover singular and plural. Nearly all English nouns have distinct singular
and plural forms, as with the “regular” cat/cats and dish/dishes or the “irregu-
lar” tooth/teeth and child/children. A few exceptions like deer and sheep have the
same form for singular and plural. Not all languages mark number on nouns.
Chinese is one that does not.
Adjectives
Many adjectives can be recognized by the pattern of their related forms,
namely, the endings -er and -est, as in larger and largest. But others, especially
those whose basic form contains more than two syllables, do not permit these
endings; *beautifuller and *beautifullest are not well-formed English words
(hence the asterisks). But beautiful does share what are called co-occurrence
patterns with other adjectives. In particular, it can be preceded by very or
too (very beautiful) and can precede nouns (beautiful flowers). (Not all words
preceding nouns and seeming to modify them are adjectives. In particular,
nouns often precede other nouns, as with summer fun, graduation party, egg
industry, and California governor. The pre-nominal position of such nouns
does not make them adjectives.) As a third frame, the only single words that
fit into “it seems ___” or “he/she seems ___” would be adjectives: odd, able,
sure, funny, sweet, beautiful. Later in this chapter we’ll discuss suffixes that
transform words of one lexical class into words of another lexical class. As
a consequence of their ability to form adjectives from certain other lexical
classes, some suffixes may also be helpful in identifying adjectives, as with
-able (breakable, changeable, debatable), -ful (peaceful, wishful, thoughtful), -ish
(Spanish, childish, thirtyish), -ous (dangerous, joyous, odorous), -al (fictional,
parental, global), -ic (allergic, scientific, academic), -less (harmless, priceless,
odorless), and -y (slimey, creepy, bloody).
Pronouns
Pronouns constitute a category of relatively few words, and they fall into sev-
eral subcategories. Generally speaking, we can say that pronouns substitute for
noun phrases in specific kinds of contexts. They function independently, taking
the place of noun phrases and not as modifiers of other words. Below are listed
some of the subcategories of pronouns.
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 42
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 42 4/1/11 14:23:35
4/1/11 14:23:35
Lexical Categories (Parts of Speech) 43
Personal Pronouns The most familiar pronouns are personal pronouns,
such as I, me, she, him, they, and theirs. Primarily, personal pronouns are distin-
guished from one another by representing different parties to a conversation or
other social interaction. This aspect of pronouns is called person, and the first
person is the speaker or speakers; the second person is the person or persons
spoken to (the addressee); and any persons or things spoken about are called
third persons.
First person—speaker: I, me, mine, we, us, ours
Second person—addressee: you, yours
Third person—spoken about: she, her, hers, he, him, his, it, its, they, them, theirs
Interrogative Pronouns Who in Who
played the role of Neytiri? and what in
You told Rosie what? and What did you
tell Rosie? are interrogative pronouns.
Interrogative pronouns are used to
ask questions.
Relative Pronouns In form, relative
pronouns resemble other kinds of pro-
nouns, but they’re used differently. In sentences 1, 2, and 3 below, examples
include who (in 1), that (in 2), and which (in 3). Other relative pronouns include
whose and whom. Notice that relative pronouns are related to some preceding
noun phrase. In the examples, the relative pronoun and the related noun phrase
are italicized, with the relative pronoun underlined.
1. Ellen’s a doctor who specializes in gerontology.
2. The show that won the most awards is 60 Minutes.
3. She’s a licensed masseur, which I am not.
Indeﬁnite Pronouns Pronouns whose referents can’t be specifically identified
are called indefinite, as in Somebody ate my pizza! Other indefinite pronouns
are: some, someone, anyone, everyone, one, no one, somebody, anybody, everybody,
nobody, something, anything, everything, nothing.
Demonstrative Pronouns To refer to things relatively near (this, these) or, by
contrast, relatively far away (that, those) when the referent can be identified by
pointing or from the context of a discussion, we use a subcategory of pronouns
called demonstrative pronouns. Examples include that in That really both-
ers Dana and those in Those are Dana’s. The forms this and that and these and
those are pronouns when they are used independently of a noun, but they aren’t
always pronouns, as we’ll discuss below in the section on determiners.
Determiners
Determiners precede nouns (a book, an orchestra, the players, this problem, those
guys, which film, whose iPad), although words in some other categories can inter-
vene (a great book, an acclaimed orchestra, the very best players). Unlike adjectives
Try It Yourself The sentence Whose
are those? contains two pronouns. Which
words are pronouns and what kind of pronoun
is each?
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 43
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 43 4/1/11 14:23:35
4/1/11 14:23:35
44 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
and verbs, determiners do not have endings. Despite its being a small category,
with few members, determiners fall into several subcategories:
definite and indefinite articles as in the underscored parts of these
◆
phrases: the book, a film, an iPad
demonstratives:
◆ this, that, these, those
possessives:
◆ my, our, your, her, his, its, their
interrogatives:
◆ which, what, whose
Unlike nouns, adjectives, and verbs, categories whose members cannot be fully
enumerated, determiners can be enumerated, as in the subcategories just listed.
Categories whose members can be fully enumerated are called “closed” classes.
Note that some determiners are identical in form to pronouns, but determin-
ers introduce nouns or noun phrases, whereas pronouns substitute for nouns or
noun phrases. In Whose is this? whose and this are pronouns. In Whose book is
this red one? whose and this are determiners.
Prepositions and Postpositions
Prepositions constitute a class with few enough members that they can be
enumerated. They are invariant in form—no endings. They typically precede
a noun phrase, as in at a concert, on Tuesday, or under the table. Prepositions
indicate a semantic relationship between other entities. The preposition in
The book is on (or under or near) the table indicates the location of the book
with respect to the table. Notice the underlined prepositions in Tina rode to
(or from) Athens (indicating direction with respect to Athens) with (or without)
Daniel (indicating accompaniment) at (or near or by) her side (indicating location
of Daniel with respect to Tina).
Instead of prepositions, Japanese and some other languages have
postpositions, which function like prepositions in that they indicate a
semantic relationship between other entities but follow the noun phrase instead
of preceding it. Compare the Japanese-English pairs below:
Japanese Postpositions English Prepositions
Taroo no of Taro
hasi de with chopsticks
Tookyoo e to Tokyo
The placement of prepositions before a noun, which seems natural to speak-
ers of English (and French, Spanish, Russian, and many other languages),
would seem unnatural to speakers of Japanese, Turkish, Hindi, and many other
languages that postpose rather than prepose this category.
Adverbs
Adverbs have been called “the most nebulous and puzzling of the traditional
word classes,” and indeed the category doesn’t suit English very well. For one
thing, adverbs can’t be identified solely by their form and don’t generally have
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 44
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 44 4/1/11 14:23:36
4/1/11 14:23:36
Lexical Categories (Parts of Speech) 45
related forms. Many adverbs are derived from adjectives by adding -ly, as with
swiftly, oddly, brightly, and possibly (from swift, odd, bright, possible). But other ad-
verbs, including the most common ones, carry no distinctive marker, as with then,
now, here, soon, and away. Besides that, not all words ending in -ly are adverbs
(manly and lonely are adjectives). The most reliable way of identifying adverbs is
by their patterns of distribution in sentences—where they occur and with which
other categories. The meaning of a word can also hint at its being an adverb
insofar as adverbs often indicate something about the action of the verb—for ex-
ample, when (now, then, often, soon), where (here, there), how (quickly, suddenly,
fiercely), or to what degree (very, too). Some grammarians include the word not
as an adverb. Grammatically, adverbs display a wide range of functions: they can
modify verbs, adjectives, other adverbs, and even whole sentences.
Adverbs Modifying Verbs (Sentences with related adjectives
in parentheses)
He talked loudly. (He was a loud talker.)
She slept soundly. (She was a sound sleeper.)
She thought quickly. (She was a quick thinker.)
They studied diligently. (They were diligent students.)
Adverbs Modifying Verbs
She spoke often.
She studied here.
It suddenly stopped.
She fiercely believes it.
Below, the modifying adverbs are italicized, and the modified adjectives or
adverbs are underlined.
Adverbs Modifying Adjectives Adverbs Modifying Adverbs
a very tall tree very soon
a bitterly cold winter unbelievably quickly
a truly splendid evening truly unbelievably fast
Adverbs Modifying Sentences
Actually, it was Danielle who said it.
I don’t know why I’m here, frankly.
Unfortunately, the remark wasn’t funny.
Conjunctions
There are two principal kinds of conjunctions. Coordinating conjunctions
such as and, but, and or serve to conjoin expressions of the same category or
status—for example, noun phrases (fish and wildlife, tea or coffee), verbs (sing
and dance, trip and fall), adjectives (slow and painful, hot and cold), and clauses
(she sang and he danced).
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 45
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 45 4/1/11 14:23:36
4/1/11 14:23:36
46 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
Subordinating conjunctions serve to link one clause to one another in
a noncoordinate role, as in She visited Montreal twice while she attended Bates
College or He said that she was tired or They spoke quietly because he was sleeping.
(Clauses and some kinds of subordinate clauses are discussed in Chapter 5.)
Subordinating conjunctions may be referred to simply as subordinators and
coordinating conjunctions as conjunctions or coordinators.
You know that words such as girl, ask, tall, uncle, and orange cannot be divided into
smaller meaningful units. Orange is not made up of o + range or or + ange. Neither
is uncle composed of un and cle. But most words do have more than one meaningful
part. You can find two elements each in grandmother, bookshelf, homemade, asked,
taller, oranges, and uncles. Beautiful, supermarkets, and decomposing also have more
than one meaningful element. A set of words can be built up by adding elements to
a core element. All the following have true as their core, or root, element:
truer untrue truthfully
truest truth untruthfully
truly truthful untruthfulness
These words share a root whose meaning or lexical category has been modi-
fied by the addition of elements. The meaningful elements in a word are called
morphemes. Thus, true is a word with a single morpheme, while untrue and truly
contain two morphemes each, and untruthfulness contains five (un- + true + -th +
-ful+-ness).Truerhastheelementstrueand-er(meaning‘more’).Themorphemes
in truly are true and -ly; in untrue, true and un-; in truthful, true + -th + -ful.
Most morphemes have what linguists call lexical meaning, as with look, kite, and
tall. Other morphemes represent a grammatical category or semantic notion such as
past tense (-ed in looked) or plural (-s in kites) or comparative degree (-er in taller).
Don’t be tempted to equate morphemes with syllables. Consider that har-
vest, grammar, and river contain two syllables but only one morpheme each.
Gorilla contains three syllables, Connecticut four, and hippopotamus five, but
each of those words comprises only a single morpheme: they are monomor-
phemic. The other way around, a single syllable can represent more than one
morpheme: kissed is a monosyllabic word that contains two morphemes (kiss +
‘past tense’); dogs (dog + ‘plural’) and feet (foot + ‘plural’), also mono-
syllabic, contain two morphemes each. In a single syllable, men’s contains three
morphemes (man + ‘plural’ + ‘possessive’).
Morphemes Can Be Free
or Bound
Some morphemes can stand alone as
words: true, mother, orange. Oth-
ers function only as part of a word: un-,
Morphemes Are Word Parts That Carry Meaning
Try It Yourself Identify all the
morphemes in these words and whether
they’re free or bound: bakery, baseball, borderlands,
cider, dusty, fried, outlaw, prayer, prefabs, these.
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 46
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 46 4/1/11 14:23:36
4/1/11 14:23:36
Morphemes Are Word Parts That Carry Meaning 47
tele-, -ness, and -er. Morphemes that can stand alone as words are known as
free morphemes. Those that cannot are bound morphemes.
Morphemes That Derive Other Words
Certain bound morphemes change the category of the word to which they are
attached, as with the underlined parts of doubtful, sweetly, establishment, teacher,
darken, and frighten. When added to the noun doubt, -ful derives the adjective
doubtful, as in Figure 2.1. When added to the adjective sweet, -ly derives the
adverb sweetly; when added to the verb establish, -ment derives the noun estab-
lishment. Dark is an adjective, darken a verb; teach is a verb, teacher a noun; sane
is an adjective, sanity a noun; fright is a noun, frighten a verb. English has many
more derivational affixes, and derivational morphemes in English (but not all
languages) tend to be added to the ends of words (as suffixes). We can represent
these relationships in the following rules of derivation:
Noun + -ful → Adjective (doubtful, beautiful, bountiful, careful)
Adjective + -ly → Adverb (sweetly, really, slowly, responsibly)
Verb + -ment → Noun (establishment, advancement, amazement)
Verb + -er → Noun (teacher, rider, banker, glider)
Adjective + -ity → Noun (sanity, abnormality, reality, frugality)
Adjective + -en → Verb (darken, sweeten, brighten, harden)
Noun + - en → Verb (frighten, lengthen, hasten, christen)
A similar process adds a morpheme at the beginning of a word—as a pre-
fix. English prefixes typically change the meaning of a word but not its lexical
category. Thus, align and realign are both verbs; kind and unkind are both adjec-
tives; spell and misspell are both verbs. The derivation of realign is illustrated
graphically in Figure 2.2.
re- + Verb → Verb (realign, repaint, rephrase, rewrite, reassess, retake)
mis- + Verb → Verb (misspell, misstep, miscalculate, misfire, misclassify)
un - + Adjective → Adjective (unkind, uncool, unfair, unreal, untrue)
un- + Verb → Verb (undo, uncover, undress, uninstall, untag)
under- + Verb → Verb (underbid, undercount, undercut, underrate, underscore)
ex- + Noun → Noun (ex-cop, ex-nun, ex-husband, ex-convict)
Figure 2.1 Figure 2.2
Adjective
Noun Af
doubt ful
Verb
Af Verb
re align
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 47
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 47 4/1/11 14:23:36
4/1/11 14:23:36
48 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
Processes of derivation that transform a word into another word with a re-
lated meaning but belonging to a different lexical category are common in the
languages of the world. Here’s an example from Persian. (Note: æ is pronounced
like the a in English hat, x like the ch in German Bach.)
dærd ‘pain’ dærdnak ‘painful’
næm ‘dampness’ næmnak ‘damp’
xætær ‘danger’ xætærnak ‘dangerous’
The suffix -nak can be added to certain nouns to derive adjectives. Thus Per-
sian has the following derivational rule:
Noun X + -nak → Adjective ‘the quality of being or having X’
Another derivational suffix of Persian creates abstract nouns from adjectives,
as illustrated in these word pairs:
gærm ‘warm’ gærma ‘heat’
pæhn ‘wide’ pæhna ‘width’
This process of derivational morphology can be expressed by this rule:
Adjective + -a → Noun
Not every word belonging to the
lexical category specified in a rule can
undergo a given derivational process.
In English, the nouns doubt and beauty
become adjectives by addition of the
suffix -ful, but the adjective related
to rust is formed by addition of the
suffix -y, and to make book an adjective
requires the suffix -ish. Thus, words
are marked in the mental lexicon
for particular derivational processes,
yielding the grammatical rusty and bookish rather than the ungrammatical forms
*rustful and *bookful.
In Fijian, vaka-, meaning ‘in the manner of,’ is a derivational morpheme that
can be prefixed to adjectives and nouns to derive adverbs according to these
two rules:
vaka- + Adjective → Adverb
vaka- + Noun → Adverb
The following adverbs exhibit the morpheme vaka-: vaka-Viti ‘in the Fijian
fashion’ (from Viti ‘Fijian’), vakatotolo ‘in a rapid manner, rapidly’ (from totolo
‘fast, rapid’); to illustrate the derivation from a noun, consider vakamaarama
‘ladylike’ (formed by prefixing vaka- to maarama ‘lady’).
Try It Yourself Using as models the
derivational rules given above, write the
rule by which rusty is derived from rust, and cite two
examples of words formed by that rule. Write the rule
by which bookish is derived from book, and cite two
examples of words formed by that rule.
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 48
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 48 4/1/11 14:23:37
4/1/11 14:23:37
How Are Morphemes Organized Within Words? 49
Not all bound morphemes change the lexical category of words. Adding the
bound morphemes dis-, re-, and un- (disappear, repaint, unfavorable) to a verb
changes its meaning but not its lexical category. For example, appear and disap-
pear are both verbs, as are paint and repaint; favorable and unfavorable are both
adjectives. There is a notable tendency in English for morphemes that change
meaning without altering the lexical category to be added to the front of words
as prefixes, but this is not true of all languages (and some languages lack pre-
fixes altogether, as Turkish does).
The two types of morpheme we have just examined are derivational
morphemes. That is, they produce new words from existing words. They can
do that by changing the meaning of a word (true versus untrue; align versus
realign) or by changing a word’s lexical category (doubt is a noun, doubtful an
adjective).
Inﬂectional Morphemes
Another type of bound morpheme is represented in the underlined parts of the
words cats, collected, sleeps, and louder. These inflectional morphemes change
the form of a word but not its lexical category or its central meaning. Inflectional
morphemes create variant forms of a word to conform to different roles in a
sentence or in discourse. On nouns and pronouns, inflectional morphemes serve
to mark semantic notions such as number or grammatical categories such as
case. On verbs, they can mark categories such as tense or number. On adjectives
they can indicate degree. They shape the “related forms” we used earlier in the
chapter to help identify lexical categories. We return to inflectional morphology
later in the chapter.
Morphemes Are Ordered in Sequence
Within a word, morphemes aren’t randomly arranged, but instead they have a
strict and systematic linear sequence.
Aﬃxes Some morphemes, called suffixes, always follow the stems they attach
to, such as ‘plural’ in girls and -ment in commitment: both *sgirl and *mentcommit
would be ill-formed. Prefixes attach to the front of a stem, as in untrue, disappear,
and repaint. (Compare the ill-formed *trueun, *appeardis, and *paintre.)
Derivational morphemes can be prefixes (unhappy, disappear) or suffixes
(happiness, appearance), and some words have both: unhappiness and
disappearance. Generally, inflectional morphemes are added to the outermost
parts of words. Taken together, prefixes and suffixes are called affixes.
Inﬁxes Besides affixes, some languages have infixes. An infix is a morpheme
inserted within another morpheme. In Tagalog (a language of the Philippines),
you can see infixing, for example, by comparing the word gulay meaning ‘green-
ish vegetables’ with the word ginulay, meaning ‘greenish blue,’ which contains
the infix -in-.
How Are Morphemes Organized Within Words?
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 49
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 49 4/1/11 14:23:38
4/1/11 14:23:38
50 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
Morphemes Can Be Discontinuous
Not all morphological processes can be viewed as joining or concatenating mor-
phemes to one another by adding a continuous sequence of sounds (or letters) to
a stem. In other words, not all morphological processes involve prefixes, suffixes,
or infixes. The technical term for discontinuous morphology is nonconcatenative.
Circumﬁxes Some languages combine a prefix and a suffix into a circumfix—a
morpheme that occurs in two parts, one on each side of a stem. Samoan has
a morpheme fe-/-aʔi, meaning ‘reciprocal’: the verb ‘to quarrel’ is finau, and
the verb ‘to quarrel with each other’ is fefinauaʔi—fe + finau + aʔi. Malay-
Indonesian has a circumfix ke-/-an that derives an abstract noun from a concrete
one; thus, baik ‘good, kind’ yields kebaikan—ke-baik-an—‘kindness.’ As another
example, the circumfix se-/-nya derives an adverb from an adjective, as in benar
‘true’ and sebenarnya—se-benar-nya—‘actually.’
Interweaving Morphemes Semitic languages, such as Arabic and Hebrew, can
have interweaving morphemes. Arabic nouns and verbs generally have a root
consisting of three consonants, such as ktb. The Arabic word for ‘book’ is kitaab.
By interweaving k-t-b and various other morphemes, Arabic creates a great
many nouns, verbs, and adjectives from this single root. All the nouns and verbs
in Table 2.1 contain the same ktb root, with other morphemes interwoven.
Incidentally, the English words Muslim, Islam, and salaam all contain the
Arabic root slm, with its core meaning of ‘peace, submission.’
Portmanteau Words Contain Merged Morphemes
Another phenomenon joins several morphemes in such a way that the sounds in
the word cannot be assigned tidily to each of its morphemes. A classic example is
the French word du, which combines the two morphemes de ‘of’ and le ‘the.’ You
can see the difficulty of assigning the sounds to one morpheme or the other. Some
analysts call blends like smog (from smoke and fog) portmanteau words.
Morphemes Are Layered Within Words
Morphemes are organized in highly patterned ways. Typically they display an
obvious linear order, but they also have a not so obvious hierarchical or layered
structure. Take the word untrue: it has the obvious linear order un- followed
Table 2.1 Derivational Morphology in Arabic
kitaaba ‘writing’ kataba ‘he wrote’
kaatib ‘writer’ kaataba ‘he corresponded with’
maktab ‘office’ ʔaktaba ‘he dictated’
maktaba ‘library’ ʔiktataba ‘he was registered’
maktuub ‘letter’ takaataba ‘he exchanged letters with’
miktaab ‘typewriter’ inkataba ‘he subscribed’
kutubii ‘bookseller’ iktataba ‘he had a copy made’
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 50
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 50 4/1/11 14:23:38
4/1/11 14:23:38
How Are Morphemes Organized Within Words? 51
by true. But in terms of layers true is the root, to which un- is prefixed; untrue
isn’t un- with true suffixed but true with un- prefixed. Truthful comprises a stem
truth with -ful suffixed to it (truth itself is true with -th suffixed). The morphemes
in untruthful have the obvious linear order un- + true + -th + -ful. But in terms
of layers, true is the root to which -th is added, creating the stem truth to which
-ful is added, creating the stem truthful to which un- is added. In other words, the
layering for untruthful proceeds this way: true > truth > truthful > untruthful.
Now consider uncontrollably. It’s helpful to picture the sequence of layering
from the root morpheme control, built up by a set of derivational rules that
also apply widely to other words:
control (Verb)
Verb + -able → Adjective (Fig. 2.3)
controllable (Adjective)
un- + Adjective → Adjective (Fig. 2.4)
uncontrollable (Adjective)
Adjective + -ly → Adverb (Fig. 2.5)
uncontrollably (Adverb)
The root of uncontrollably is control, which functions as the stem for -able; in
turn, controllable functions as the stem for uncontrollable; finally, uncontrollable
functions as the stem to which is added the derivational suffix -ly to derive the
adverb uncontrollably.
Its structure can be graphically represented in two ways. One
uses labeled brackets as in [[un[[controlVerb]ableAdj]Adj]lyAdv].
The other is a tree diagram, as in Figure 2.5. In that figure, begin
with the lowest category node, which is labeled Verb. Because
the lowest category node identifies the root morpheme, the verb
control is the root of the entire word, which is built up layer by
layer as follows. To the root verb is added the affix -able, yield-
ing the adjective controllable (as in Figure 2.3). Note that if you
added un- prior to adding -able, you’d produce “uncontrol,”
which is not an English word. The adjective controllable then
serves as a stem to which can be added the affix un-, producing
uncontrollable, also an adjective but with the opposite meaning
(see Figure 2.4). The final step in the derivation adds the affix
-ly to the adjective uncontrollable, yielding the adverb uncon-
trollably. Looking at Figure 2.5 from the top down, you can see
that the Adverb node encompasses the entire word uncontrolla-
bly and has two branches, one labeled Adjective (encompassing
un-control-able) and one labeled Af (for Affix) and leading to the
suffix -ly; in turn, the label Adjective has two branches—one
leading to the affix un- and the other to the Adjective node con-
trollable; finally, the Adjective node that encompasses control-
lable has two branches—one labeled Verb and leading to control
and the other leading to the affix –able. The lowermost node
for a lexical category (Verb) leads to the base form control, so
control is the root of the word uncontrollably.
Adjective
Verb Af
control able
Figure 2.3
Adjective
Af Adjective
un
Verb Af
control able
Figure 2.4
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 51
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 51 4/1/11 14:23:38
4/1/11 14:23:38
52 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
Languages have three principal ways of extending their vocabulary:
New words can be formed from existing words and word parts.
◆
Words can be “borrowed” from another language.
◆
New words can be made up, created from scratch.
◆
Some Word Classes Are Open, Some Closed
In some societies, the need for new nouns, adjectives, and verbs may arise
frequently, and additions to these lexical categories occur freely. It is for this
reason that nouns, adjectives, and verbs are called open classes. By contrast,
prepositions, pronouns, and determiners are closed classes, and new words in
these lexical categories are seldom added. Century after century, English speak-
ers have added thousands of new words, borrowing many from other languages
and constructing others from elements already available.
How to Derive New Words
Aﬃxes Adding morphemes to a word is a common way of creating new words.
English has added the agentive suffix -er to the prepositions up and down to
create the nouns upper and downer to refer to phenomena that lift or dampen
your spirits. More commonly, -er is added to a verb (V) to create a word with
the sense ‘one who Vs’: singer ‘one who sings’; campaigner ‘one who campaigns’;
designer ‘one who designs’; blogger ‘one who blogs’; twitterer ‘one who twitters or
tweets (on Twitter.com).’
English adds new words principally by prefixing or suffixing. Prefixes like un-,
pre-, and dis- alter the meaning of words but not usually their lexical category, as
we saw earlier. Added to the adjectives true, popular, successful, and favorable, the
How Does a Language Increase Its Vocabulary?
Adverb
Adjective Af
Af Adjective
ly
un
Verb Af
control able
Figure 2.5
Try It Yourself Thoughtfully
consider the word misﬁred and answer
these questions: What is the linear order of its
morphemes? What is its root morpheme and how
many aﬃxes does it have? Which aﬃx is ﬁrst added
to the root, thus creating the stem for the next
aﬃxation? Is the ﬁnal morpheme added derivational
or inﬂectional? Now answer the same questions for
ex-teachers.
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 52
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 52 4/1/11 14:23:39
4/1/11 14:23:39
How Does a Language Increase Its Vocabulary? 53
McSleep Inn or Out?
In the late 1980s Quality Inns wanted to launch a chain of inexpensive,
standardized inns under the name McSleep Inn. When McDonald’s Corporation
objected, the case went to court (Quality Inns Int’l. v. McDonald’s Corp.).
Linguist Roger W. Shuy helped Quality Inns determine whether the Mc
prefix had become part of everyday English, with a meaning independent of
its association with McDonald’s. He cited journalistic sources that, without
making any reference to McDonald’s, appeared to use Mc in a general way
to mean ‘basic, convenient, inexpensive, and standardized.’ Among his
examples were McFood, McFashion, McFuneral, McLaw, McMedicine, McMovies,
McLube, McMail, McArt, and even McPaper (referring to USA Today, “Fast
News for the Fast Food Generation”). The judge in the case quipped that
“A news report . . . referred to the trial . . . as taking place in the McCourt,
which . . . would make [him] the McJudge,” and in his “McPinion” he quoted
an article that captured the situation: “This is the era of instant gratification,
of poptops, quick wash, fast fix, frozen foods, McEverything.” Linguist David
W. Lightfoot was retained by McDonald’s, and he disputed any claim that
Mc had become a generic prefix, used without reference to McDonald’s and
therefore available for anyone to use. He testified that the meanings Dr. Shuy
uncovered were characteristics of McDonald’s and its reputation, and he
concluded, according to the judge, that “in every case the allusion [in Shuy’s
examples] was to McDonald’s and its family of marks [and] intended to
be cute and playful.” In the end, the McJudge decided that McSleep would
infringe on McDonald’s legitimate family of trademarks, and he ruled out
naming the new chain McSleep Inn.
prefix un- creates new adjectives with the opposite meanings: untrue, unpopular,
unsuccessful, unfavorable. Prefixed to verbs, un- creates new verbs with the oppo-
site meaning: undo, untie, unplug, unbutton, uninstall. dis- prefixed to a verb creates
a verb with an opposite meaning: disobey, disapprove, disappear, displease, dishonor.
pre- serves as a prefix to several categories: verbs (preplan, preregister, premix, pre-
allot, preconceive, predecease), adjectives (pre-Copernican, precollegiate, preconscious,
prenatal, prenuptial, presurgical), and nouns (precaution, precalculus, preadult, pre-
cancer). pre- has roughly the same sense in each case, and from an existing word
it creates a new word of the same lexical category. Recently productive prefixes
include cyber- (cyberspace, cyberpal, cybercafé, cybersex), bio- (biochip, bioethics,
bioterrorism, biotechnology, bioweapons), nano- (nanotube, nanosecond, nanotech-
nology, nanoworld, nanogram), and e- (email, ebook, ecard, ebuddy, eshop), none of
which changes the lexical category of the stem it attaches to.
English derivational suffixes are added to the tail end of a stem. Unlike
prefixes, derivational suffixes usually change the lexical category of the stem—
from, say, a verb to a noun. For example, adding -ment to a verb makes it a noun:
agreement, assignment, establishment. Likewise, the suffix -ation derives a noun
from a verb: resignation, organization, implementation, observation, reformation.
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 53
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 53 4/1/11 14:23:39
4/1/11 14:23:39
54 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
Suffixes are widely exploited in the languages of the world. The Indonesian
suffix -kan changes a noun to a verb, and among the various meanings it can
produce are: ‘to cause to become X’ (rajakan ‘to crown’ from raja ‘king’) and ‘to
put in X’ (as in penjarakan ‘imprison’ from penjara ‘prison’ + -kan).
Reduplication The process by which a morpheme or part of a morpheme is re-
peated to create a new word with a different meaning or different category is
called reduplication. The Mandarin Chinese word sànsànbu ‘to take a leisurely
walk’ is formed by reduplicating the first syllable of sànbu ‘to walk’; hónghóng
‘bright red’ is formed by reduplicating hóng ‘red.’ Partial reduplication repeats
only part of the morpheme, while full reduplication reduplicates the entire mor-
pheme. In the Papua New Guinea language Motu, the verb mahuta ‘to sleep’ redu-
plicates fully as mahutamahuta ‘to sleep constantly’ and reduplicates partially as
mamahuta ‘to sleep’ (when agreeing with a plural subject). In Turkish, adjectives
like açik ‘open,’ ayrɨ ‘separate,’ and uzun ‘long’ are reduplicated (by prefixing
the initial vowel followed by a consonant) as apaçik ‘wide open,’ apayrɨ ‘entirely
separate,’ and upuzun ‘very long.’ Reduplication is not repetition: repetition does
not create a new word but simply reiterates the same word, as in English very,
very (tired), night-night, and long, long, long (shower). English does not have a pro-
ductive process like the reduplication of Chinese, Motu, or Turkish.
Reduplication can have various functions. It can moderate or intensify the
meaning of a word, as illustrated by the Chinese, Motu, and Turkish examples
just given. Alternatively, it can mark grammatical categories, as in Indonesian,
where certain kinds of noun plurals are formed by reduplication: babibabi ‘an
assortment of pigs’ is a reduplicated form of babi ‘pig.’
Compounds
English speakers show a disposition for putting words together to create new words
in a process called compounding. Relatively recent compounds include air kiss,
moon shot, waterbed, upfront, color code, computerlike, dust bunny, gut-buster, plas-
tic wrap, speed dating, strip mall, and radiopharmaceutical, as well as V-chip, email,
online, web page, website, download, Facebook, and ringtone. (Notice that these com-
pounds have heavier stress or emphasis on the first element than on the second
element.) To gauge the popularity of compounding, consider that one relatively
short piece in an issue of the Los Angeles Times contained the following examples.
Nouns Nouns Nouns Adjectives
petroleum engineer whistle-blower pay phone whistle-blowing
government documents troublemaker phone call baby-faced
government witness debt ceiling storerooms high-ranking
subcommittee hearing brain cancer cover-up overzealous
aircraft carrier reserve account kickbacks born-again
training course sea power breakup middle-aged
Compounding is widespread in the languages of the world. Mandarin, for
example, has numerous compounds, such as fàn-wǎn ‘rice bowl,’ diàn-nǎo (‘electric’
+ ‘brain’) ‘computer,’ tái-bù ‘tablecloth,’ fēi -jī (‘fly’ + ‘machine’) ‘airplane,’ and
hēi-bǎn (‘black’ + ‘board’) ‘blackboard.’ German is famous for its compounding.
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 54
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 54 4/1/11 14:23:39
4/1/11 14:23:39
How Does a Language Increase Its Vocabulary? 55
The word Fernsprecher (literally ‘far speaker’) was for a long time the preferred word
for what is now usually called Telefon. A ballpoint pen is called Kugelschreiber (‘ball’
+ ‘writer’); a glove Handschuh (‘hand’ + ‘shoe’); mayor is Bürgermeister (‘citizen’ +
‘master’). Indonesian has exploited compounding in a word made familiar to West-
erners from its use as the assumed name of a well-known World War I socialite and
spy: matahari, meaning ‘sun,’ comes from mata ‘eye’ and hari ‘day.’ The word for
‘eyeglasses’ is kacamata, a compound of kaca ‘glass’ and mata ‘eye’ (similar to the
English compound eyeglasses but with a different order of elements).
Bear Encounters at Yosemite National
Park. A warning in four languages,
including German. Can you spot any
likely compounds in the German
version? Lebensmittel machen Bären
angriffslustig. Schützen Sie Lebensmittel
vor allen Tieren im Park.
Shortening
Shortenings of various kinds are a popular means of multiplying the words of
a language. Besides ordinary shortenings, we’ll examine acronyms, initialisms,
and blends.
Ordinary shortenings are common. In shortenings like radials for radial tires,
feds for federal agents, jet for jet airplane, indie for independent film, and narc
for narcotics agent, the first element of a compound or a shortened version of
it remains and the second element is omitted altogether. We can see a vari-
ant on that in app for computer application program, where one of the words
is shortened, the others omitted. In shortenings like info for information, obits
for obituaries, dorm for dormitory, and poli-sci for political science, a word or
parts of words in a compound are shortened. In shortenings like rec room ‘rec-
reation room’ and comp time ‘compensatory time,’ the first (and multisyllabic)
word is shortened and the second (often monosyllabic) word retained. Note
that the shortened forms need not be morphemes in the full expression: jet is
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 55
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 55 4/1/11 14:23:40
4/1/11 14:23:40
56 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
a morpheme, but narc, fed, indie, obit, rec, and comp are not morphemes in the
words from which they have been formed.
Acronyms Shortenings in which the initial letters of the words in an expression
are joined and pronounced as a word are acronyms:
UNESCO NATO radar (radio detecting and ranging)
WASP NASA yuppy (young urban professional + -y)
WI-FI nimby (not in my backyard)
ASCII (American standard code for information interchange, pronounced “as-kee”)
Initialisms Some shortenings resemble acronyms but are pronounced as a
sequence of letters. At U-S-C (University of Southern California) and N-Y-U
(New York University), a student’s grade point average may be called a G-P-A.
PC carries two meanings— ‘politically correct’ and ‘personal computer.’ Given
their pronunciation as a series of letters, these are called initialisms. Many
initialisms (AI, CD, DNA, DVD, fMRI, FTC, MTV, NHL, PDA, IED, GPS, LCD)
could not easily be pronounced as
ordinary words, while others could but
aren’t: COO for chief operating officer,
ADD for attention deficit disorder,
SUV for sport utility vehicle, and m.o.
for modus operandi. Perhaps the most
popular initialism in the world is OK,
often spelled okay.
Blends Blends are words created by combining usually the first sounds of one
word with the final sounds of another. Smog (from smoke and fog), glob (gob
and blob), and motel (motor and hotel) are well-established examples. Newer
ones include fanzine (fan and magazine), punkumentary (punk and documentary),
infomercial (information and commercial), agribot (agriculture and robot), glitterati
(glitter and literati), and celanthropist (celebrity and philanthropist). Netizens and
netiquette blend net (a shortened form of Internet) with citizens and etiquette.
Combining the existing blend smog with the tail end of metropolis forms
smogopolis. Blends like Spanglish, Franglais, Chinglish, and Yinglish suggest how
heavily some varieties of English have borrowed words and other elements
from other languages. Some blends combine the beginning sounds or syllables
of two words, as with modem, which
is well known although its elements
are not (modulator and demodulator)
and biotech (biology and technology).
Blends frequently serve as trade
names and names of related products:
Amtrak, Eurailpass, Eurorail, Eurotrip,
and Flexipass. Blends often combine
two nouns, but Flexipass combines
the adjective flexible with the noun
pass, and other blends combine other
categories, as in whatchamacallit.
Try It Yourself Among these, which
are acronyms? EU, USA, FBI, CIA, WMD, GI,
SARS, NYPD, ER, DARPA, FWB, MBA, VIP, DJ, ATM, IT,
IM, iPod, SNAFU, TGIF, TMI.
Try It Yourself Identify the words
whose parts have been combined into
these blends: aﬄuential, andropause, automagically,
beefalo, Bollywood, botel, brainiac, Chunnel,
cremains, cybrarian, digicam, emoticon, gasohol,
gaydar, gimmes, guesstimate, himbo, murderabilia,
prebuttal, sexpert, wannabes.
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 56
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 56 4/1/11 14:23:43
4/1/11 14:23:43
How Does a Language Increase Its Vocabulary? 57
Back Formation
Another type of word formation is exemplified by “pronunciate,” which an
occasional college student can be heard to say when searching for the verb cor-
responding to the noun pronunciation. The new verb they have “back formed”
from the noun may not be sufficiently established to be entered in dictionar-
ies, but some other back formations are well established, including the verbs
typewrite, baby-sit, spectate, and edit, back formed from the nouns typewriter,
baby-sitter, spectator, and editor.
Conversion or Functional Shift
In some languages, a word belonging to one category can be converted to
another category without any changes to the form of the word. This is called
conversion or functional shift. We request someone to update (verb) a report
and then call the revised report an update (noun). We ask a fellow worker to
email or fax the report, both of which are verbs converted from shortened forms
of nouns (electronic mail, facsimile). Companies hire (verb) a group of employees
and call them new hires (a noun). To promote a product in the market we market
it. Conversion of this type commonly leads to noun/verb and noun/adjective
pairs, as in Table 2.2, which also illustrates that in some instances the same
form can serve as noun, verb, and adjective. Once a form has been shifted to
a new lexical category, it conforms to the
inflectional morphology of that category:
an update, several updates, she’s updating
the report now, he updated it last month.
Semantic Shift
Words can take on new meanings by
extending or shrinking the scope of their
reference. Two well-known examples of
semantic shift have remained popular since
the Vietnam War, when hawk came to be used
frequently for supporters of the war and dove
for its opponents, extending the meaning of
these words from the combative nature of
hawks and the symbolically peaceful role
of doves. Today, computer users utilize a
mouse and bookmark Internet addresses.
These new meanings did not replace earlier
ones but extended the range of application
for the words mouse and bookmark. Called
semantic shift or metaphorical extension,
this phenomenon creates metaphors. Over
time the metaphorical origins of words can
fade, as in the meanings of the underlined
parts of these phrases: to derail congressional
Table 2.2 Some English Forms Belonging to
More Than One Lexical Category
Noun Verb Adjective
email email
bookmark bookmark
bust bust
outrage outrage
market market
delay delay
plot plot
blog blog
text text
tweet tweet
local local
inaugural inaugural
illegal illegal
average average average
model model model
blanket blanket blanket
brick brick brick
prime prime prime
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 57
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 57 4/1/11 14:23:43
4/1/11 14:23:43
58 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
legislation, a buoyant spokesman, an
abrasive chief of staff, to sweeten the farm
bill with several billion dollars to skirt a
veto fight.
Borrowed Words
“Neither a borrower nor a lender be,”
Shakespeare advised, but speakers pay
little heed when it comes to language.
English has been extraordinarily recep-
tive to borrowed words, accepting words
from about a hundred languages in the last hundred years. As in most of its
history, English borrowed more from French during the twentieth century than
from any other language. Following French at some distance were Japanese and
Spanish, Italian and Latin and Greek, German, and Yiddish. In smaller num-
bers, English is now host to words borrowed from Russian, Chinese, Arabic,
Portuguese, and Hindi, as well as from numerous languages of Africa and some
Native American languages.
In turn, many languages have welcomed English words into their stock, al-
though some cultures resist borrowings. The Japanese have drafted the words
beesubooru ‘baseball,’ futtobooru ‘football’ and booringu ‘bowling’ along with the
sports they name, trading them for judo, jujitsu, and karate, which have joined
the English-language team. Officially at least, the French are not open to borrow-
ings, especially from English, and have banned the use of words like weekend,
drugstore, brainstorming, and countdown. For using the borrowed term jumbo jet,
Air France was given a stiff fine by the French government, which had insisted
that gros porteur was the proper French name for, well, for the jumbo jet. The
Americanism OK is now in use virtually everywhere, as are terms such as jeans
and discos, which accompanied the named items as they spread around the globe.
More recently, the terms Internet, web, and tweet have likewise circled the globe.
You can readily recognize as borrowings such popular words as paparazzi,
karaoke, and résumé. Among borrowed nouns having to do with food and drink
are hummus (from Arabic), aioli (from Provençal), mai tai (from Tahitian), cal-
zone, focaccia, and pizzetta (from Italian), and burrito, enchilada, fajita, and taco
(from Spanish). Yiddish has given us the more general term nosh. Other popu-
lar borrowings include the Cantonese wok, German glitch, Italian ciao, Span-
ish macho, pronto, and mañana, and Yiddish chutzpah, klutz, nebbish, schlep, and
schlepper. As is true of other languages, most borrowings into English have been
nouns, but some adjectives and a few verbs, adverbs, and interjections have
been borrowed.
Borrowed words sooner or later conform to the pronunciation patterns
and grammatical rules of the borrowing language. They undergo the same
processes that affect native words. Nosh was borrowed as a verb that could
not take an object (I feel like noshing) but has since taken on new use as a
transitive verb—one that can take an object (Let’s nosh some hot dogs). The
verb nosh with the suffix -er produces the noun nosher ‘one who noshes,’
and nosh itself can be used as a noun meaning ‘a snack.’ In Britain, nosh has
Try It Yourself The Oxford English
Dictionary recently added extended
meanings for the nouns coyote, crack, and thumb-
nail and for the verb zone (out). Can you identify the
recent meanings of these terms as compared to such
traditional meanings as ‘wolﬂike animal,’ ‘ﬁssure or
break,’ ‘nail of the thumb,’ and ‘divide into zones’?
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 58
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 58 4/1/11 14:23:43
4/1/11 14:23:43
How Does a Language Increase Its Vocabulary? 59
been compounded into the noun nosh-up, meaning ‘a large or elaborate meal.’
In Los Angeles, a sign draped across a restaurant undergoing a change of
cuisine announced “Burritofication in Progress,” signaling the opening
of a Mexican restaurant by punning on beautification and mimicking the
morphological processes that created it.
Inventing Words
The advantages of using familiar elements in forming new words and the ease
of borrowing from other languages are obvious. As a result, inventing words
from scratch is not common. Invention has contributed such words as granola,
zap, and quark to the English word stock. Nerd appears to have been invented
by Dr. Seuss and bandersnatch, galumph, and snark by Lewis Carroll. Gizmo,
pizzazz, and lollapalooza, whose origins are unknown, may also be invented
words. Some names like Pyrex, Kodak, and Xerox are invented precisely to serve
as trademarks for particular products or companies. But speakers and writers
feel free to extend the use of brand names beyond reference to the brands
themselves. As a result, xerox is sometimes used to mean ‘photocopy,’ not
necessarily using a machine made by
Xerox. Likewise, when students google
something on the Internet, they are
not necessarily using Google’s search
engine to do it. By 2010 the verb google,
meaning ‘to search the Internet,’ had
become so popular that members of
the American Dialect Society voted it
the word of the decade. As their word
of the year, they chose tweet (noun ‘a
short message sent via the Twitter.com
service’ and verb ‘the act of sending
such a message’).
Jeans and Discos
The jean in your favorite blue jeans is a form of the word Genoa borrowed
into Middle English (around the time of Chaucer). Jeans is a shortening of jean
fustian ‘Genoa fustian,’ referring to a coarse cloth once produced in Genoa,
Italy. The word denim, for the cloth from which jeans are made, evolved from
serge de Nîmes, a cloth product from the French city of Nîmes. You might wear
your favorite jeans to a disco. The French word discothèque ‘record library’ is
a compound of two French morphemes, disque meaning ‘disk’ or ‘record’ and
the suffix -thèque, as in bibliothèque ‘library.’ Discothèque appears to have been
first used in English in 1954, and as an abbreviation, disco, ten years later. The
noun disco underwent a functional shift to a verb, meaning ‘dance to disco
music,’ a use first noted in 1979. Both noun and verb can be heard around the
world in cities whose inhabitants speak neither English nor French.
Try It Yourself In 1995, Britain’s Prince
Charles fretted about a threat to “proper
English” (by which he meant English English) from the
spread of American English around the globe. Referring
to American English, he said, “People tend to invent
all sorts of nouns and verbs, and make words that
shouldn’t be.” What’s your assessment of the claim that
some invented nouns and verbs “shouldn’t be”?
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 59
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 59 4/1/11 14:23:44
4/1/11 14:23:44
60 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
You have now seen examples of derivational morphology and inflectional
morphology in several languages. But not all languages have inflectional
morphology, and some have little or no morphology at all. Still others have
complex words with distinct parts, each part representing a morpheme. These
three types of morphological systems have been called isolating, agglutinat-
ing, and inflectional. Some languages are mixed in the kinds of morphology
they use.
Isolating Morphology
Chinese is a language with isolating morphology—in which each word tends
to be a single isolated morpheme. An isolating language lacks both deriva-
tional and inflectional morphology. Using separate words, Chinese expresses
certain content that an inflecting language might express with inflectional af-
fixes. For example, whereas English has an inflectional possessive (the boy’s hat)
and what’s called an analytical possessive (hat of the boy), Chinese permits only
hat of the boy possessives. Chinese also does not have tense markers, and on
pronouns it does not mark distinctions of gender (he/she), number (she/they),
or case (they/them). Where English has six words—he, she, him, her, they, and
them—Chinese uses only a single word, though it can indicate plurality with a
separate word. The sentence below illustrates the one-morpheme-per-word pat-
tern typical of Chinese:
wǒ gāng yào gěi nǐ nà yì bēi chá
I just will give you that one cup tea
‘I am about to bring you a cup of tea.’
Even more than Chinese, Vietnamese approximates the one-morpheme-per-
word model that characterizes isolating languages. Each word in the sentence
below has only one form. You can see that the word tôi is translated as I, my,
and we. Note that to say ‘we,’ Vietnamese pairs chúng and tôi (the words for
‘plural’ and ‘I’). Like Chinese, Vietnamese lacks tense markers on verbs and
case markers on nouns and pronouns, as well as number distinctions (though it
can indicate plurality with a separate word).
khi tôi đến nhà bạn tôi, chúng tôi bắt đấu làm bài
when I come house friend I plural I begin do lesson
‘When I came to my friend’s house, we began to do lessons.’
Some languages that tend to minimize inflectional morphology neverthe-
less exploit derivational morphology to extend their word stocks in economi-
cal ways. Indonesian, for example, has only two inflectional affixes, but it
utilizes about two dozen derivational morphemes, some of which we’ve seen
in this chapter.
What Types of Morphological Systems
Do Languages Have?
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 60
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 60 4/1/11 14:23:44
4/1/11 14:23:44
What Types of Morphological Systems Do Languages Have? 61
Agglutinating Morphology
Another type of morphology is called agglutinating. In agglutinating languages,
words can have several prefixes and suffixes, but they are characteristically dis-
tinct and readily segmented into their parts—like English announce-ment-s or
pre-affirm-ed but unlike sang (sing + ‘past’) or men (man + ‘plural’). Among
other languages, Turkish (an Altaic language) and Swahili and Gikuyu (both
Bantu languages) have agglutinating morphology, as shown in these examples.
(Hyphens represent morpheme boundaries within a word.)
Turkish:
herkes ben üniversite-ye bašla-yacaǧ-ɨm san-ɨyor
everyone I  university-to start-future-I believe-present
‘Everyone believes that I will start university.’
Swahili (a Bantu language of eastern Africa):
h-a-fany-i
neg-he-do-pres
‘s/he isn’t doing (it)’
a-me-fanya
he-perf-do
‘s/he has done (it)’
a-fany-e
he-do-subjunc
‘s/he should do (it)’
a-si-fany-e
he-neg-do-subjunc
‘s/he shouldn’t do (it)’
a-ta-fanya
he-fut-do
‘s/he will do (it)’
h-a-ta-fanya
neg-he-fut-do
‘s/he won’t do (it)’
Gikuyu (a Bantu language of Kenya):
ĩ-ngĩ-ka-na-endia
i-hypothetical-future-indefinite time-sell
‘if I should ever sell (it)’
Inﬂectional Morphology
Many languages have large inventories of inflectional morphemes. Finnish, Russian,
and German maintain elaborate inflectional systems. By contrast, over the centu-
ries English has shed most of its inflections, until today it has only eight remaining
ones—two on nouns, four on verbs, and two on adjectives, as shown in Table 2.3.
When new nouns, verbs, and adjectives are added to English or when a child learns
new words, the words are extremely likely to be inflected like the examples listed,
and the eight inflectional morphemes of English are thus said to be productive.
Compare this inflectional system of English with the examples from the
Russian noun žena ‘wife’ and verb pisat’ ‘to write’ in Tables 2.4 and 2.5.
Grammatical Functions of Inﬂections Consider the sentences below. They con-
tain exactly the same words, but they express different meanings.
1. The farmer saw the wolf.
2. The wolf saw the farmer.
These sentences illustrate how English exploits word order to express mean-
ing: different orders communicate different scenarios about who did what to
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 61
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 61 4/1/11 14:23:44
4/1/11 14:23:44
62 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
whom. When semantic facts such as who did what to whom are expressed by
word order rather than by inflection, it is not a morphological matter but a syn-
tactic one, and syntax is the subject of Chapter 5.
A comparison with Latin is enlightening because Latin has relatively free
word order. Given that agricola means ‘farmer’ and lupum ‘wolf,’ a Latin
speaker could arrange sentence 1 (‘The farmer saw the wolf’) in these two
ways (among others):
Agricola vīdit lupum.
Lupum vīdit agricola.
Latin does not rely on word order to signal who is seeing whom. Instead,
inflections on the nouns signal such information. The following three sentences
all mean ‘The farmer saw the wolf’; the different word orders do not alter that
meaning.
Agricola vīdit lupum.
farmer saw wolf
Lupum vīdit agricola.
wolf saw farmer
Agricola lupum vīdit.
farmer wolf saw
‘The farmer saw the wolf.’
Table 2.3 Inflectional Morphemes of English
Lexical Category Grammatical Category Examples
Noun Plural cars, churches
Noun Possessive car’s, children’s
Verb Third person (she) swims, (it) seems
Verb Past tense wanted, showed
Verb Past participle wanted, shown (or showed)
Verb Present participle wanting, showing
Adjective Comparative taller, sweeter
Adjective Superlative tallest, sweetest
Table 2.4 Russian Noun Inflections: žena ‘wife’
Case Singular Plural
Nominative žena žëny
Accusative ženu žën
Genitive ženy žën
Dative žene žënam
Instrumental ženoy žënami
After some prepositions žene žënax
Table 2.5 Russian Present-Tense
Verb Inflections: pisat’ ‘write’
Person Singular Plural
First person pišu pišem
Second person pišeš pišete
Third person pišet pišut
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 62
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 62 4/1/11 14:23:44
4/1/11 14:23:44
What Types of Morphological Systems Do Languages Have? 63
To say, instead, ‘The wolf saw the farmer’ required different inflections:
Agricolam vīdit lupus.
farmer saw wolf
Lupus vīdit agricolam.
wolf saw farmer
Agricolam lupus vīdit.
farmer wolf saw
‘The wolf saw the farmer.’
The inflectional suffixes -a on agricola and -us on lupus identify them as subjects.
The inflections -am and -um on agricolam and lupum make them direct objects.
A loose English parallel to Latin noun inflections can be seen in certain pro-
noun uses, where the form of the pronouns and the order of the words reinforce
one another:
She praised him. (She is the subject, him the object.)
He praised her. (He is the subject, her the object.)
English and Latin nouns have inflections for number and case. English nouns
exhibit only two cases, called possessive and common. The possessive case
(sometimes called genitive) is marked by a suffix (cat’s, robot’s). The common
case is unmarked (cat, robot) and is used for all grammatical functions except
possession: subject, direct object, indirect object, and object of a preposition.
Latin, too, had a genitive case, and inflections for several other cases, notably
nominative (principally for subjects), dative (indirect objects), accusative
(direct objects and objects of some prepositions), and ablative (objects of some
prepositions). Latin generally had five or six case inflections in the singular and
in the plural, although some inflectional forms were pronounced alike, as can
be seen in Table 2.6.
The set of forms constituting the inflectional variants of a word is known as a
paradigm, and paradigms for nouns are called declensions. Latin had several
declensions, such as the two given for agri-
cola and hortus in Table 2.6. The paradigms
for the equivalent English words farmer and
garden appear in Table 2.7.
You’ll notice that the four written forms in
the English paradigms represent only two dis-
tinct pronunciations because farmers, farmer’s,
and farmers’ are pronounced alike, and so are
gardens, garden’s, and gardens’. Spoken English
usually has only two forms of a regular noun,
but irregularly formed plurals may have four
spoken and four written forms: man, man’s,
men, men’s; child, child’s, children, children’s.
Some English pronouns have a third form
for the objective case. In Table 2.8, you can
compare the paradigms for first-person and
third-person pronouns. First-person pronouns
Table 2.6 Paradigms for Two Latin Nouns
Singular ‘Farmer’ ‘Garden’
Nominative agricola hortus
Accusative agricolam hortum
Genitive agricolae hortī
Dative agricolae hortō
Ablative/instrumental agricolā hortō
Plural ‘Farmer’ ‘Garden’
Nominative agricolae hortī
Accusative agricolās hortōs
Genitive agricolārum hortōrum
Dative agricolīs hortīs
Ablative/instrumental agricolīs hortīs
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 63
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 63 4/1/11 14:23:44
4/1/11 14:23:44
64 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
show three distinct case forms in the singular
and three in the plural. Third-person pronouns
have distinct masculine, feminine, and neuter
forms in the singular but make no distinction
for gender in the plural.
The second-person pronoun (you) and
third-person singular neuter pronoun (it) do
not have distinct objective forms, as can be
seen in Table 2.9. Instead, they have only two
forms, just like regular nouns.
Gender and Agreement In English, gender distinctions in pronouns are based on
biological sex: reference to males requires the masculine pronouns he, his, or him,
while reference to females requires the feminine pronouns she, hers, or her. To
refer to something neither male nor female, English speakers use it. In German,
French, Spanish, Russian, Old English, and many other languages, nouns do not
have biological gender but grammatical gender. In these languages, certain other
word categories such as determiners and adjectives that occur within a noun
phrase carry inflections that agree with the noun in gender, number, and case.
In contrast to the English definite article the (with a single written form
representing the two pronunciations “thuh” and “thee”), the German definite
Table 2.7 Paradigms for Two English Nouns
Singular
Common farmer garden
Possessive farmer’s garden’s
Plural
Common farmers gardens
Possessive farmers’ gardens’
Table 2.8 Paradigms for First- and Third-Person Pronouns in English
FIRST PERSON THIRD PERSON
Masculine Feminine Neuter
Singular
Common I he she it
Possessive mine his hers its
Objective me him her it
Plural
Common we they
Possessive ours theirs
Objective us them
Table 2.9 Second-Person and Third-Person
Pronouns Compared to Nouns in English
Singular
PRONOUNS NOUNS
Second Third
Common you it farmer
Possessive yours its farmer’s
Plural
Common you farmers
Possessive yours farmers’
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 64
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 64 4/1/11 14:23:45
4/1/11 14:23:45
Variant Pronunciations of a Morpheme: Allomorphy  65
article has forms for three genders and four cases in the singular, though there
are no distinct gender markers in the plural, as Table 2.10 illustrates.
French and Spanish also exhibit variant forms of the definite article, though
neither is as varied as German. French distinguishes only two noun genders;
it marks masculine nouns with the definite article le or the indefinite un and
feminine nouns with the definite article la or indefinite une; the plural form of
the definite article for both genders is les. Gender in Spanish is marked in both
the singular and the plural. Table 2.11 gives examples in French and Spanish.
There is not always a strict demarcation between agglutinating and
inflectional languages, and some languages are difficult to classify. Still,
the distinction among inflectional, isolating, and agglutinating is useful in
characterizing languages with respect to their morphological systems.
A given morpheme may not be pronounced the same in all its occurrences. For
example, the morpheme metal is pronounced one way in “a dark metallic silver”
and another way in “the clang of metal.” The pronunciation of the vowel represented
by <a> differs in metallic and metal, and in American English so does the sound
represented by <t>. Consider that the final sound in house is [s] and in wife is [f],
but in houses the house morpheme ends in [z], and in wives the wife morpheme
ends in [v]. Alternate pronunciations of a morpheme are called allomorphs, and
allomorphic variation is widespread in English and some other languages. (English
spelling seldom represents allomorphic variation; although it captures the alternate
pronunciations in wife/wives, it doesn’t in metal/metallic or house/houses.)
Variation in the pronunciation of morphemes isn’t limited to free morphemes
like metal, wife, and house. It can affect any morpheme, including affixes.
Variant Pronunciations of a Morpheme:
Allomorphy
Table 2.10 Paradigm for German Definite Article
SINGULAR PLURAL
Masculine Feminine Neuter All Genders
Nominative der die das die
Accusative den die das die
Genitive des der des der
Dative dem der dem den
Table 2.11 French and Spanish Definite Articles with Nouns
French Spanish
Masculine le chat el gato ‘the cat’
les chats los gatos ‘the cats’
Feminine la maison la casa ‘the house’
les maisons las casas ‘the houses’
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 65
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 65 4/1/11 14:23:45
4/1/11 14:23:45
66 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
The English past-tense morpheme is pronounced [t] in pick-ed, [d] in play-ed, and a
third way in twist-ed. Which pronunciation goes with which verb is rule governed,
depending on the final sound of the verb stem (a matter we explore in Chapter 4).
Children unconsciously learn the rules of allomorphic variation at an early age. If
you taught English-speaking children a set of fictitious verbs they’d never heard
before such as “plick” and “tevin,” they’d pronounce the past-tense forms by add-
ing [t] to “plick” and [d] to “tevin” in compliance with those unconscious rules.
The English plural morpheme on nouns also varies. In cups and cats, the plu-
ral morpheme is pronounced [s], but in pads and rags it’s [z], and in churches
and dishes and bridges still another way. These rule-governed pronunciations
of the plural morpheme depend systematically on the final sound of the noun
stem, and children who were taught imaginary nouns (like “wuck,” “lutt,”
“mub,” and “wug”) would all add the correct plural allomorph to the invented
words; they’d add [s] to “wuck” and “lutt” and [z] to “mub” and “wug.” Of
course, not all English nouns form their plural in these “regular” ways. Besides
the rule-governed allomorphs, some nouns form their plurals irregularly. The
plural allomorphs of deer and fish and of man, ox, and tooth are irregular and
must be learned specifically. (Such irregular forms typically have an explana-
tion in a word’s history, as discussed in Chapter 13.)
Most English verbs form their past tense by rule, and new verbs tend to be “reg-
ular” in forming past-tense forms as well. But many common verbs don’t follow
regular patterns and must be learned, as with teach and taught, make and made,
speak and spoke, sleep and slept, tell and told, and go and went. Children too young
to have mastered the irregular past-tense forms are likely to produce “teached,”
“maked,” “speaked,” “sleeped,” “telled,” and “goed,” treating them as though they
were rule governed.
Try It Yourself Identify which verbs have an irregular past-tense
allomorph: swim, head up, read, reach, break, bake, melt, say, see, meet,
repeat, lead, eat, try, shave, bleed. Identify which nouns have an irregular
plural allomorph: mouse, house, hen, egg, boy, girl, woman. Identify which nouns have
more than one allomorph: moth, calf, child, woman, music.
Table 2.12 Frequency of Four Widely
Distributed Words in the Brown Corpus
Word Occurrences Genres Texts
establishment 52 12 43
careful 62 14 56
powerful 63 14 54
unusual 63 15 52
Table 2.13 Frequency of Five Narrowly
Distributed Words in the Brown Corpus
Word Occurrences Genres Texts
artery 51 3 5
budget 53 7 23
dictionary 55 3 5
anode 75 1 2
fiscal 115 5 26
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 66
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 66 4/1/11 14:23:45
4/1/11 14:23:45
Variant Pronunciations of a Morpheme: Allomorphy  67
In a corpus like the Brown Corpus (described in the
“Computers and Linguistics” feature in Chapter 1),
the most frequent and least frequent word forms can
be identiﬁed in the whole corpus or any genre, such
as science ﬁction or press editorials. Not surprisingly,
three of the four most frequent words are the, of, and
and. By contrast, words such as oblong, obstinate, nar-
cosis, and mystiﬁcation occur only once.
As you would guess, the, and, and of occur in
all 500 texts of the Brown Corpus. By contrast, a
proper name might occur multiple times but all in
a single text. For example, the name Mussorgsky
occurs seven times, all in the same 2,000-word
text. Likewise for specialized words: dialysis occurs
12 times, all in one text; radiosterilization six times,
all in one text. Contrast such specialized ranges
of use with a word like moreover, whose 88 occur-
rences in the corpus are spread across 63 texts in 13
of the 15 genres. The frequency is not exceptionally
high but the distribution is wide.
Table 2.12 provides examples of information you
can derive from the Brown Corpus. Next to each listed
word is given the total number of times it occurs and
the number of genres (out of 15) and texts (out of 500)
in which it occurs. These four words occur fewer than
65 times each in this million-word corpus, and those
occurrences are spread across at least 12 genres, indi-
cating that they are not specialized vocabulary items.
By contrast, the words in Table 2.13 occur in fewer
than half the genres. That narrower distribution iden-
tiﬁes more specialized words that appear in few con-
texts despite their overall frequency. Anode appears
75 times but in only two texts, both in the same genre.
Anode illustrates that specialized words may occur in
only a few genres but may be used frequently when
they are on topic. This is particularly true of technical
and scientiﬁc writing. You may have noticed that the
word corpus appears only in this section (15 times) but
nowhere else in the chapter.
The words in a corpus are often “tagged” with in-
formation such as their lexical category: noun, verb,
adjective, and so on. Tagging makes it possible to study
shared characteristics of words carrying a particu-
lar tag. Because tagging a corpus
manually (inspecting each word and
keyboarding the tag into the cor-
pus) can be costly, researchers have devised ways to
automate the process. The most direct way is to have a
computerized reference dictionary that lists the lexical
category of as many words as possible. Words in a cor-
pus can be automatically assigned the tag of the cor-
responding word in the dictionary. In that way, if the
forms information and distribution appeared in both
the corpus and the dictionary, the noun tag assigned
to them in the dictionary would be transferred to them
in the corpus. Likewise, the forms lexical and frequent
would be tagged “adjective,” the and a “determiner” or
“article,” identify and weigh “verb,” and so on.
This process of matching word forms in a corpus
to those in a dictionary won’t succeed completely
because some forms may belong to more than one
category (as illustrated in Table 2.2). In the paragraph
you’re reading now, you can ﬁnd several words whose
form does not uniquely identify them with a par-
ticular lexical category. For example, forms, can, use,
present, and process could be nouns or verbs. But, in a
particular context of use, word forms belong to only
one category, so accurate tagging can be helped by
identifying the category of words immediately sur-
rounding ambiguous ones.
Suppose the corpus contained the expression a big
deal; the automatic matching to the tagged dictionary
would assign the tag “adjective” to big, but the diction-
ary would indicate that deal could be noun or verb. If big
is tagged “adjective,” however, any word following it is
much more likely to be a noun than a verb because Eng-
lish adjectives precede nouns far more often than they
precede verbs. After unambiguous tags are assigned,
those tags can help determine the best tag for word
forms that could belong to more than one category.
Information about which genres (press reportage
or scientific writing or financial news, for example)
have frequent adjectives or nouns or any other lexical
category as compared with other genres can be help-
ful in designing language-teaching materials and cre-
ating automatic speech recognition systems. ■
Using Computers to Study Words
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 67
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 67 4/1/11 14:23:45
4/1/11 14:23:45
68 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
Summary
A morpheme is a minimal linguistic unit that has a meaning or grammatical
•
function associated with it.
Words can contain a single morpheme (
• camel, swim) or several (bookshops,
premeditation).
In the mental lexicon, each morpheme contains information about sounds,
•
related words, phrasal co-occurrence patterns, and meaning.
Free morphemes are those that can occur as independent words:
• car, house,
for.
Bound morphemes cannot occur as independent words but must be attached to
•
another morpheme: car + -s, look + -ed, establish + -ment.
Bound morphemes can mark nouns for number (e.g., ‘
• plural’) and case
(e.g., ‘possessive’) and verbs for tense (e.g., ‘past’) or person (e.g., ‘third
person’).
Bound morphemes can derive different words from existing morphemes; for
•
example, un- (untrue), dis- (displease), and -ment (commitment).
Bound morphemes can be affixes (prefixes or suffixes), infixes, or circumfixes.
•
In words, morphemes have significant linear and hierarchical structures.
•
The array of morphological processes for increasing a language’s word stock may
•
include compounding, reduplication, affixation, and shortening.
Languages borrow words from other languages and sooner or later submit
•
the borrowed words to their own pronunciation patterns and morphological
processes.
Among the types of morphological systems are inflectional, isolating, and
•
agglutinating systems.
Isolating systems (e.g., Vietnamese) tend to have one morpheme per word.
•
Agglutinating systems (e.g., Turkish) tend to have distinct affixes.
•
Corpus study is useful in showing the distribution of categories of words and
•
morphemes as well as particular words and morphemes in different genres of
text, information that can be helpful in designing automatic speech recognition
systems.
Collocation
• is the term used to refer to co-occurrences of a word with other
words.
Words in a corpus can be automatically tagged for lexical category, although
•
several rounds of tagging that rely successively on unambiguous tags may be
needed to tag all words.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
Maked a cake.
• Most English verbs form the past tense by rule, but some of the
most common ones have irregular past-tense forms. Relatively early, children
learn the rule for forming past tenses of regular verbs (see Chapter 14) and
tend to form all verbs the same way. Instead of using the irregular past-tense
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 68
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 68 4/1/11 14:23:46
4/1/11 14:23:46
Exercises 69
forms made and told, the three-year-old forms past tenses by the general rule, as
though make and tell formed past tenses like baked and spelled.
Food terms.
• From Japanese come sashimi, wasabi, miso, sake, sukiyaki, teriyaki,
ramen, and tofu; from Chinese, dim sum, bok choy, and wonton; from Spanish,
alfalfa, salsa, guacamole, tostada, and anchovy; from the languages of India,
mulligatawny, chutney, and samosa; from French, beef, bouillon, chowder, cutlet,
mackerel, mutton, mustard, quiche, and the more obvious crepe and croque
monsieur (as well as du jour, au jus, and a la mode). English has borrowed food
names from many other languages, among them Arabic (falafel, hummus), Greek
(gyro, pita), Turkish (dolma, yogurt), German (bratwurst, pretzel).
Top ten words.
• According to the Brown Corpus, the top ten words in printed
American English are the, be, of, and, a, in, he, to (the infinitive marker),
have, and to (the preposition) and the next three are it, for, and I. There
are no nouns, adjectives, or adverbs on the list and the only verbs are be
and have.
Nerdy Ned’s state names.
• Carolina is named after King Charles II; Virginia after
Queen Elizabeth I, who was known as the Virgin Queen; Louisiana after Louis XIV;
Georgia after King George II of England; Maryland in honor of Henrietta Maria,
wife of England’s King Charles I. In addition, New York is named after the Duke
of York, later King Charles II, and Pennsylvania is named after the English Quaker
William Penn or his father, Admiral Sir William Penn. ■
Exercises
Practice Exercise
A. For the words with more than one morpheme, identify (sometimes approxi-
mately) where the morpheme boundaries exist.
Example: governments: govern - ment - s
 1. human 11. token 21. remodeling
 2. tasteless 12. breadwinners 22. inexpensive
 3. watching 13. turmoil 23. child’s
 4. undisclosed 14. heartstrings 24. illegality
 5. impolitely 15. underdog 25. supermarkets
 6. troublesome 16. biggest 26. globalization
 7. dispassionate 17. automakers 27. antiterrorism
 8. respectfully 18. indirectly 28. interdependence
 9. mudslinging 19. higher 29. antiunemployment
10. indelicate 20. outpaces 30. bouncebackability
B. In the numbered list above, identify by number three words that contain a
prefix.
C. By number, identify three that contain a suffix (each suffix should differ from
the others).
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 69
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 69 4/1/11 14:23:46
4/1/11 14:23:46
70 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
D. By number, identify three that contain both a prefix and a suffix.
E. By number, identify three compound words.
F. By number, identify three words containing an inflectional suffix.
G. By number, identify three words containing a derivational suffix.
Based on English
2-1. Identify the category of the underscored words in the following sentences. Use
the abbreviations N for noun, V for verb, Adj for adjective, Adv for adverb,
Prep for preposition, Pro for pronoun.
a. People who rarely read in bedrooms can feel abnormal.
b. Nobody really knows what normal reading is.
c. The market for audiobooks is very large.
2-2. For three of the five words that belong to three lexical categories in Table 2.2
provide a sentence illustrating their use in each category. Examples for aver-
age might be: Is there a difference between an average and a median? (noun);
A guide can average $75 a day in tips. (verb); He earned only average grades.
(adjective)
2-3. a. Identify the lexical category of each word in the following list.
b. List all the morphemes (each word contains more than one) and indicate
whether they are free or bound.
c. Indicate for each affix whether it is derivational or inflectional.
heard tinier unproductive
toys saw bookshops
listened reassessment children’s
fixer-upper fatherly improbable
improbability repayment unamusing
tidiest realignments calculating
disarms unremarkable forewarned
untidiness realigned unpretentiousness
2-4. a. The three sentences below contain capitalized DEMONSTRATIVE
PRONOUNS and italicized demonstrative determiners. Characterize the
difference in how they are used. (Hint: Consider the lexical categories of
any words they precede.)
1) THIS is the last time I’m doing THAT.
2) This time I’m not going to make one of those fancy pizzas.
3) I’ve had enough of THESE; give me one of those red ones.
b. List each pronoun in the passage below and identify its kind (personal,
demonstrative, interrogative, relative). For personal pronouns, also
indicate the person (first, second, third).
What about those books? Whose are they? They look like they come from
the library, so they should be returned. If you want, you can put them into a
shopping bag and I’ll return them for you if I can get Ashley to take me in her
car. It’s been in the shop for a few days. I hope it’s ready now.
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 70
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 70 4/1/11 14:23:47
4/1/11 14:23:47
Exercises 71
 2-5. Consider two popular compounds. Convenience food ‘food that is convenient to
buy, cook, or eat’ comprises a noun and a noun. Natural food ‘food made with
natural ingredients, free of chemical preservatives and pesticides’ is an adjec-
tive + noun compound. As a whole, each compound functions as a noun. List
six compound nouns that combine two nouns and six that are unmistakably a
combination of adjective + noun. (Note that not all adjectives preceding nouns
are compounds, so it is helpful to pay attention to the stress pattern. In the
following sentences, the compounds are italicized; say them aloud to see the
pattern. Not every white house is the White House! Not every black bird is a
blackbird.)
 2-6. From a passage of about 500 words in a weekly newsmagazine like Time,
Newsweek, or The Economist make a list of 20 compounds, marking the lexical
category of each constituent word of the compound and of the compound as a
whole. Thus, given telephone tag you would identify telephone as noun (or N),
tag as noun, and the compound telephone tag as noun.
Category Of: 1st Element 2nd Element Compound
telephone tag N N N
software Adj N N
bozo filter N N N
 2-7. Cyber- became a popular prefix in the 1990s. It was attached principally to
nouns to form new nouns, as in cyberlove, cyberland, cyberspace, and cybercowboy.
List eight words that use the prefix cyber-, identifying any examples of cyber-
prefixed to a lexical category other than noun. What about the increasingly
popular eco-? List eight words that use the prefix eco-, identifying any examples
of eco- prefixed to a lexical category other than noun.
 2-8. a. Write rules like those given in the section on “Morphemes That Derive
Other Words” for the underscored affixes in the words below. Example:
disqualify: dis- + Verb → Verb
b. Draw trees similar to the one in Figure 2.3 for these words:
appearance uproot unworthy preheat
redoable brightness disappearance recapitalize
 2-9. Consider the two analyses of untruthful given below. Give arguments for pre-
ferring one analysis over the other.
a. [[[un[trueAdj]Adj]thN]fulAdj]
b. [un[[[trueAdj]thN]fulAdj]Adj]
2-10. The following terms are associated with computer or Internet use. For each
one, identify the kind of formation (compound, shortening, acronym, conver-
sion, and so on) and its lexical category.
Example: chatgroup—compound, noun
client-server YouTube FAQ source code
mouse cyberspace PC news feed
a flame to flame out IMHO to download
info pike to surf to email code writer
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 71
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 71 4/1/11 14:23:47
4/1/11 14:23:47
72 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
Internetter I-way to lurk newbee or newbie
info superpike netiquette netter dotcom
webcam a remailer smileys browser
spamming a sysop a thread cyberenthusiast
a twit filter WYSIWYG software PayPal
2-11. a. From the list that follows, identify four acronyms and four initialisms:
DNA, STD, AIDS, SIDS, NBA, HIV, HDTV, NHL, UNESCO, UN, UK, BBC,
NATO.
b. What’s interesting about the words CD-ROM and JPEG?
2-12. a. As determined by their frequency in a million-word corpus of texts
(the Brown Corpus), the 26 most common words in printed American
English are listed below. The category of a few of these words is already
specified. For each of the others, specify its category and then answer the
questions that follow. Choose your categories from this list: N (noun),
V (verb), Adj (adjective), Prep (preposition), Det (determiners, including
articles), Pro (pronoun).
the they
be with
of not adverb
and that conjunction
a on
in she
he as conjunction
to infinitive marker at
have by
to this
it we
for you
I from
1) List the pronouns that fall among the 26 most frequent words of written
English:
2) List the prepositions:
3) List the determiners:
4) List the verbs:
5) List the adjectives:
6) List the nouns:
b. The words listed in the two columns are found so frequently in print
that one of every four words in the Brown Corpus ranks among the first
eight words on the list (the through the infinitive marker to). To put it
another way, over 250,000 of the million words in the Brown Corpus
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 72
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 72 4/1/11 14:23:47
4/1/11 14:23:47
Exercises 73
are the same eight words used repeatedly. With that in mind, answer
the following questions.
1) Which two lexical categories are strikingly absent from the list? What
explanation can you offer for their infrequency?
2) What explanation can you offer for the frequency of prepositions in
the Brown Corpus? (Hint: It may help to think about what preposi-
tions do.)
3) What explanation can you offer for the frequency of pronouns as com-
pared to nouns?
4) The verbs be and have appear on the list. If you knew that the 27th
word on the list was a verb, which verb would you guess it to be?
Why?
5) Of the 21 words whose lexical category you were asked to identify in
part a, how many belong to closed classes of words and how many to
open classes?
2-13. The expressions below come from an article discussing new telecommuting
policies for county employees in San Luis Obispo, California (New Times, April
22–29, 2010, p. 7). Next to each expression write the name of the process by
which the italicized word has come to have its use in this discussion, drawing
the terms from this list: compounding, affixation, invention, shortening, con-
version, derivation, semantic shift, borrowing, blend.
a. SLO County ‘San Luis Obispo’
b. won’t
c. a telecommuting policy
d. the groundwork
e. infrastructure
f. greenhouse gas emissions
g. to curb the main source of pollution
h. staffers crafted the schedule
i. municipalities
j. pollution
k. allow employees to patch into the network
l. PJs ‘pajamas’
Based on Languages Other Than English
2-14. Consider the following pairs of singular and plural nouns for human beings
in Persian. How does Persian form these noun plurals? (Note: æ represents
a vowel sound like the one in English hat, and x represents a sound like the
final consonant of the German Bach.)
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 73
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 73 4/1/11 14:23:48
4/1/11 14:23:48
74 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
zæn ‘woman’ zænan ‘women’
mærd ‘man’ mærdan ‘men’
bæradær ‘brother’ bæradæran ‘brothers’
pesær ‘boy’ pesæran ‘boys’
xahær ‘sister’ xahæran ‘sisters’
doxtær ‘daughter’ doxtæran ‘daughters’
2-15. Spanish nouns have grammatical gender; for example, coche ‘car’ and viento
‘wind’ are masculine; manzana ‘apple’ and sopa ‘soup’ are feminine. Examine
the expressions below to uncover patterns of agreement among noun, article,
and adjective.
a. el coche rojo ‘the red car’
b. el viento frio ‘the cold wind’
c. el camino corto ‘the short road’
d. la manzana roja ‘the red apple’
e. la sopa fria ‘the cold soup’
f. la falda corta ‘the short skirt’
In those expressions, what is the masculine form of the Spanish definite article
‘the’ and what is the feminine form? Given the masculine form of an adjective,
state the rule for forming the feminine singular for these adjectives and then
provide the missing adjective in items i and j.
g. el libro amarillo ‘the yellow book’
h. el hombre alto ‘the tall man’
i. la flor ‘the yellow flower’
j. la mujer ‘the tall woman’
Identify how the adjectives in the following examples differ from the preceding
ones. Given the masculine form of the adjectives below, state the rule for
forming the feminine singular forms, and apply the rule to provide the missing
adjectives in items s and t.
k. el niño feliz ‘the happy boy’
l. el gato grande ‘the big cat’
m. el pan caliente ‘the hot bread’
n. el caballo fuerte ‘the strong horse’
o. el examen fácil ‘the easy exam’
p. la niña feliz ‘the happy girl’
q. la casa grande ‘the big house’
r. la estufa caliente ‘the hot stove’
s. la persona ‘the strong person’
t. la tarea ‘the easy homework’
2-16. Consider the following Persian word pairs with their English glosses. Note
the lexical category of the words in column A, and give the complete rule for
forming the words of column B from those in column A. (Note: x represents a
sound like the final consonant of the German Bach.)
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 74
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 74 4/1/11 14:23:48
4/1/11 14:23:48
Exercises 75
A B
dana ‘wise’ danai ‘wisdom’
xub ‘good’ xubi ‘goodness’
darosht ‘thick’ daroshti ‘thickness’
bozorg ‘big’ bozorgi ‘size’
shirin ‘sweet’ shirini ‘sweetness’
2-17. a. Analyze the Turkish nouns below and provide a list of their constituent
morphemes, along with a gloss for each. (Note: ɨ represents a vowel similar
to u.)
kitap ‘book’ elmalar ‘apples’ saplar ‘stalks’
at ‘horse’ masa ‘table’ adamlar ‘men’
oda ‘room’ odalar ‘rooms’ masalar ‘tables’
sap ‘stalk’ atlar ‘horses’ sonlar ‘ends’
elma ‘apple’ kɨz ‘girl’ meyvar ‘fruit’ (singular)
b. On the basis of your analysis, provide the Turkish words for the following
English ones: books, man, girls, end, fruit (plural).
c. Given Turkish odalarda ‘in the rooms’ and masalarda ‘on the tables,’ provide
the Turkish words that mean ‘in the books’ and ‘on the horse.’
2-18. In the Niutao dialect of the Polynesian language Tuvaluan, some verbs and
adjectives have different forms with singular and plural subjects, as in these
examples:
Singular Plural
mafuli mafufuli ‘turned around’
fepaki fepapaki ‘collide’
apulu apupulu ‘capsize’
nofo nonofo ‘stay’
maasei maasesei ‘bad’
takato takakato ‘lie down’
valea valelea ‘stupid’
kai kakai ‘eat’
a. Describe the rule of morphology that derives the plural forms of these
verbs and adjectives from the singular forms.
b. In the Funaafuti dialect of the same language the process is slightly
different, as the following plural forms of the same verbs and adjectives
show. (Double consonants indicate that the sound is held for a longer period
of time.) How are plurals formed from singular forms in this dialect? How
does that process differ from the process of plural formation in the Niutao
dialect described in the first part of this exercise?
vallea nnofo
maffuli maassei
feppaki takkato
appulu kkai
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 75
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 75 4/1/11 14:23:48
4/1/11 14:23:48
76 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
2-19. On the basis of the examples given below, determine whether the following
languages have an isolating, inflectional, or agglutinating morphology, and
justify your answer.
SAMOAN
Ɂua maalamalama aʔu i le mataaɁupu
present understand I object the topic
‘I understand the topic.’
FINNISH
tyttö silitti paidat
girl-subject-sing. iron-past-sing. shirt-object-plural
‘The girl ironed the shirts.’
JAPANESE
akiko-ga haruko-ni mainiti tegamio kaku
Akiko subject Haruko to everyday letter object write
‘Akiko writes a letter to Haruko every day.’
MOHAWK
t-en-s-hon-te-rist-a-wenrat-eɁ
dual-future-repetitive-plural-reflexive-metal-cross-punctual
‘They will cross over the railroad track.’
THAI
khruu hây sàmùt nákrian sǎam lêm
teacher give notebook student three article
‘The teacher gave the students three notebooks.’
2-20. Examine the following sentences of Tok Pisin (New Guinea Pidgin English) to
identify the morphemes needed to translate the seven English sentences given
at the end of this exercise.
a. manmeri ol wokabaut long rot
people they stroll on road
‘People are strolling on the road.’
b. mi harim toktok bilong yupela
I listen speech of you-plural
‘I listen to your (plural) speech.’
c. mi harim toktok bilong yu
I listen speech of you-sing.
‘I listen to your (sing.) speech.’
d. em no brata bilong em ol harim toktok bilong mi
he and brother of he they listen speech of me
‘He and his brother listen to my speech.’
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 76
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 76 4/1/11 14:23:49
4/1/11 14:23:49
Exercises 77
e. mi laikim dispela manmeri long rot
I like these people on road
‘I like these people (who are) on the road.’
f. dispela man no prend bilong mi ol laikim dispela toktok
this man and friend of me they like this speech
‘This man and my friend like this speech.’
Now, relying on the meaning of the morphemes you can identify in the Tok
Pisin sentences above, translate the following sentences into Tok Pisin:
1) These people like my speech.
2) I am strolling on the road.
3) I like my friend’s speech.
4) I like my brother and these people.
5) These people on the road and my friend like his speech.
6) You (sing.) and my brother like the speech of these people.
7) These people listen to my friend’s and my brother’s speech.
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
2-21. Assume you are teaching young ESL students to change verbs into their
“opposites”—for example, appear into disappear. How would you get them to
provide as many different English-language prefixes to turn verbs into other
verbs with an opposite meaning?
2-22. a. Suppose you are teaching a middle school English class how to figure out
the lexical category (part of speech) of the words newer, books, played,
and surprise? Would it be better to present them in isolation or in sen-
tences? Why?
b. Now reconsider books and surprise, and try putting them into two sen-
tences each, used as a verb in one and as a noun in the other. Any further
observations about which way of presenting them is better? What else
could you do to provide your students useful tools for deciding the part
of speech of these words? How did you determine their part of speech
for yourself?
2-23. Imagine you and your students are looking at a map of the United States, ex-
amining place names and river names. Concentrating on one side or the other
of the Mississippi River, can you anticipate six names your students would
rightly guess are borrowed from Native American languages? Examining the
whole map, which states or state capitals could they identify as being named
after some person? After another country? As using words borrowed from
Spanish? French? Dutch?
2-24. How could you encourage your students to identify the names of food items
that English has borrowed from the languages of the students’ respective eth-
nic heritages?
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 77
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 77 4/1/11 14:23:49
4/1/11 14:23:49
78 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
2-25. How would you determine which words to include in the vocabulary of a
textbook for international students learning basic English?
2-26. What would you tell students who thought English had infixes because
in the film My Fair Lady they heard Eliza Doolittle use the word “abso-
bloomin’-lutely” in these lyrics: “Oh wouldn’t it be loverly? Oh, so loverly
sittin’ abso-bloomin’-lutely still! I would never budge ’til spring crept over
my window sill”? Does English have other examples similar to this one?
Other Resources
Internet
The Internet addresses listed in this section will be helpful in understanding this
chapter and exploring related aspects of language. Because Internet addresses of-
ten change, the ones given here may go out of date; using your detective skills
will lead you to others.
LISU Website: http://www.CengageBrain.com For users of this
textbook. Provides updated Internet links as well as supplemental material
for students and instructors. Here you will find chapter-specific interactive
learning tools in your English CourseMate, accessed through the URL
above.
UCREL Links: http://ucrel.lancs.ac.uk/links.html The University Centre
for Computer Corpus Research on Language at Lancaster University in Eng-
land supports a website that provides links to a wide range of other
resources.
Merriam-Webster OnLine: http://www.m-w.com Entry to the world of
dictionaries produced by the Merriam-Webster Company. Well worth book-
marking for its online definitions.
American Dialect Society: http://www.americandialect.org/ Interesting
especially for its lists of nominated and winning words of the year over the
past and for its links to other fascinating websites.
Corpus Linguistics: http://www.athel.com/corpus_introduction.
html Maintained by Michael Barlow, this website is a goldmine of informa-
tion and guidance about corpora and corpus linguistics.
Bookmarks for Corpus-Based Linguistics: http://tiny.cc/corpora This
excellent source for beginners and others is maintained by David Lee and
provides a wealth of information about corpora and corpus-based linguistics,
chiefly for English but including other languages.
Corpus of Contemporary American English: http://www.
americancorpus.org/ A 400-million-word corpus of American English,
comprising five genres in equal measure (spoken, fiction, popular magazines,
newspapers, and academic texts) and representing several subgenres (movie
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 78
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 78 4/1/11 14:23:49
4/1/11 14:23:49
Other Resources 79
scripts, sports magazines, scientific journals, and more). COCA contains 20
million words from each year since 1990. At the website, a five-minute
hands-on introduction to using COCA will greatly repay your effort. You’ll
learn to search for individual words and other expressions and to exploit
wildcards and other tools in exploring authentic spoken and written texts
lexically, semantically, and grammatically.
phpSyntaxTree: http://code.google.com/p/phpsyntaxtree/ At this site, a
bracketed representation of a word will produce a labeled tree diagram. Some
experimenting and practice should enable you to produce trees akin to those
in this chapter. Take care to ensure that you have the same number of open
and closed brackets.
Suggestions for Further Reading
Jean Aitchison. 2003.
• Words in the Mind: An Introduction to the Mental Lexicon, 3rd ed.
(Malden, MA: Blackwell). An entertaining and accessible treatment.
Andrew Carstairs-McCarthy. 2002.
• An Introduction to English Morphology (Edinburgh:
Edinburgh University Press). A brief, accessible treatment of English words and their
structure, including a chapter on the historical sources of English word formation.
Rochelle Lieber. 2010.
• Introducing Morphology (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press). Appearing in the new Cambridge Introductions to Language and Linguistics series,
this hands-on approach will appeal to students.
Ronald W. Langacker. 1972.
• Fundamentals of Linguistic Analysis (New York: Harcourt).
An excellent introduction to linguistic analysis and problem solving. Chapter 2 discusses
morphological analysis, with illustrations from many languages, including Native American
languages. Model solutions are provided for some problems.
Donka Minkova & Robert Stockwell. 2009.
• English Words: Structure and History, 2nd
ed. (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press). Easy to use and rich in examples.
“Among the New Words.”
• A regular column in American Speech (the journal of the
American Dialect Society) that defines the most recent additions to the English word stock.
You’ll be surprised at how many words in your everyday life are brand-new to English. Look
up the most recent “Among the New Words” next time you’re in the periodicals room of
your library or have online access to American Speech.
The Merriam-Webster New Book of Word Histories
• . 1991. (Springfield, MA: Merriam). This
exciting book provides word histories for thousands of English words from assassin to zombie
and all sorts of words in between, such as jeep and OK.
Advanced Reading
A good general treatment of morphological processes can be found in Katamba and Stonham
(2006). Bauer (2003) is more advanced and contains a brief chapter on morphology in
the mind and another on the historical development and disappearance of morphology in
languages. Our examples of reduplication in Turkish come from Underhill (1976). Good
treatments of morphology can be found in Shopen (1985), especially the chapters by Stephen
R. Anderson on “Typological Distinctions in Word Formation” and “Inflectional Morphology,”
by Bernard Comrie on “Causative Verb Formation and Other Verb-Deriving Morphology,”
and by Comrie and Sandra A. Thompson on “Lexical Nominalization.” Comrie (2009), from
which several examples in this chapter are taken, provides valuable descriptions of more
than 40 major languages, including treatment of morphology. The Vietnamese example
comes from Comrie (1989).
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 79
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 79 4/1/11 14:23:53
4/1/11 14:23:53
80 Chapter 2 Words and Their Parts: Lexicon and Morphology
References
Bauer, Laurie. 2003. Introducing Linguistic Morphology, 2nd ed. (Washington, D.C.: Georgetown
University Press).
Comrie, Bernard. 1989. Language Universals and Linguistic Typology, 2nd ed. (Chicago: University
of Chicago Press).
Comrie, Bernard, ed. 2009. The World’s Major Languages, 2nd ed. (London: Routledge).
Katamba, Francis & John Stonham. 2006. Morphology, 2nd ed. (Basingstoke: Palgrave
Macmillan).
Shopen, Timothy, ed. 1985. Grammatical Categories and the Lexicon, vol. 3 of Language Typology
and Syntactic Description. (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Underhill, Robert. 1976. Turkish Grammar. (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press).
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 80
00419_02_ch02_p037-080.indd 80 4/1/11 14:23:54
4/1/11 14:23:54
81
The Sounds of Languages:
Phonetics
3
What Do You Think?
A whiz at reading, your third-grade niece Nina reports one day that English
•
has five vowels—a, e, i, o, and u. You think English must have more than
five different vowel sounds. How would you figure out just how many vowel
sounds English actually has?
Your pal Penny says George Bernard Shaw claimed English spelling is so
•
chaotic that ghoti could be pronounced fish, and she challenges you to
identify words whose pronunciation and spelling could have led Shaw to
his seemingly preposterous conclusion. What words can you cite in which
<gh> is pronounced “f”? Can you cite any in which <gh> appears at the
beginning, as in Shaw’s ghoti?
Roommate Ron wants to know whether English has 26 sounds to match the
•
26 letters of the alphabet. You know English has more than 26 sounds and
point out there’s no single letter to represent the initial sound in thus so
English uses two letters. Ron then asks for other examples where two letters
represent a single sound. What examples can you provide?
Citing
• put and putt as a pair of English words that are pronounced and
spelled differently but whose spelling difference doesn’t correspond to the
pronunciation difference, friend Fred claims English has many similar pairs
and challenges you to name just one. Can you do it?
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 81
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 81 12/29/10 7:54:39 PM
12/29/10 7:54:39 PM
82 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
As a reader of English, you are accustomed to seeing language written down
as a series of words set off by spaces, with each word consisting of a sequence
of separate letters that are also separated by spaces. You readily recognize that
words exist as separate entities made up of a relatively small number of dis-
crete sounds. The words spat and post, for example, are readily judged by Eng-
lish speakers to have four sounds each, while upset has five and sat has three.
Somewhat less obvious is the number of sounds in speakers, series, letters, and
sequence, which do not have the same number of letters and sounds. This lack
of correspondence is common in English. Cough has three sounds but is spelled
with five letters; freight uses seven letters to represent only four sounds.
Through with seven letters and thru with four are alternative spellings for a
word with three sounds. Phone and laugh have three sounds each, represented
by five letters. Delicacy, with an equal number of sounds and letters, uses the
letter <c> to represent two sounds—one a k-like sound, the other an s-like
sound.
Because of the close association between writing and speaking in the minds
of literate people, it is important to stress that in this chapter we are interested
in the sounds of spoken language, not in the letters of the alphabet that repre-
sent those sounds in writing.
Same Spelling, Diﬀerent Pronunciations
Observe the variety of pronunciations represented by the same letter or series of
letters in different words. Consider the pronunciations of the following words,
all of which are represented in part by the letters <ough>:
cough “koff”
tough “tuff”
bough “bow”
through “thru”
though “tho”
thoroughfare “thurrafare”
Though the precise sounds in these words may vary among English speakers,
still the lesson of the distant relationship between sounds and letters is clear.
The <ough> spelling represents at least six pronunciations in English, as indi-
cated in Figure 3.1.
Same Pronunciation,
Diﬀerent Spellings
Other sets of English words are pronounced
alike but spelled differently, as schoolchildren
learn when they are taught sets of homophones
(or homonyms) like there/their, bear/bare, led/
lead, and to/two/too.
Sounds and Spellings: Not the Same Thing
ough
“ow” “u” “o” “a”
“uff”
“off”
Figure 3.1 Same Spelling, Different Sounds
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 82
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 82 12/29/10 7:54:40 PM
12/29/10 7:54:40 PM
Sounds and Spellings: Not the Same Thing 83
Consider the words in Figure 3.2, where nine different spellings represent the
sounds of the word see, and situ and cee (the name of the letter) could be added
to the list. Notice that the letter <x>, as in sexy and foxy, stands for the two
sounds [k] and [s] as represented in folksy.
Compare the sound and spelling of woman and women and you’ll note that
the difference in the letters <a> and <e> does not represent a difference
in pronunciation because the second syllables of these words are pronounced
alike. On the other hand, <o>—the letter that does not change—represents
two sounds (in woman like the <oo> of wood and in women like the <i> of
win). The pair Satan (the devil) and satin (the cloth) illustrates the same point:
the <a> of the first syllable represents two sounds, but the <a> and <i>
spellings of the second syllable represent the same sound. The same point can
be made with loose and lose, where the only pronunciation difference is in the
final sound ([s] vs. [z]), while the only spelling difference is in the identically
pronounced vowels.
The playwright George Bernard Shaw was a keen advocate of spelling reform
and highlighted the problems in establishing correspondences between English
sounds and spelling when he provocatively alleged that fish could be spelled
<ghoti>: the <gh> as in cough, the <o> as in women, and the <ti> as in
nation. Despite the efforts of Shaw and other reformers, English spelling has
remained basically unchanged. You can see very modest success at simplification
in such isolated spellings as thru, nite, and foto, though not even these examples
have been widely adopted for the more traditional through, night, and photo.
Whys and Wherefores of Sound/Spelling Discrepancies
Here are five reasons for the discrepancy between pronunciations and written
representations for many English words.
1. Written English has diverse origins with different spelling conventions:
Anglo-Saxon
◆ The system that evolved in Anglo-Saxon England before the
Norman Invasion of 1066 gave us such spellings as ee for the sound in
words like deed and seen.
Norman French
◆ The system that was overlaid on the Old English system by
the Normans, with their French writing customs, gave us such spellings as
queen (for the earlier cwene) and thief (for the earlier theef).
see/senile/sea/seize/scenic/siege/ceiling/cedar/cease/juicy/glossy/sexy
sei sce xy
sy
cy
cea
ce
cei
sie
“see”
see se sea
Figure 3.2 Different Spelling, Same Sounds
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 83
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 83 12/29/10 7:54:40 PM
12/29/10 7:54:40 PM
84 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
Dutch
◆ Caxton, the first English printer, who was born in England but lived
in Holland for 30 years, gave us such spellings as ghost (which replaced
gost) and ghastly (which replaced gastlic).
Spelling reform
◆ During the Renaissance, attempts to reform spelling along
etymological (that is, historically earlier) lines gave us debt for the earlier
det or dette and salmon for the earlier samon.
2. A spelling system established several hundred years ago is still being used
to represent a language that continued—and continues—to change its spoken
form. For example, the initial <k> in words like knock, knot, know, and knee
was once pronounced, and so was the <gh> in night and thought. As to vow-
els, pronunciation changes in progress when the writing system was develop-
ing, along with later ones, have led to such discrepancies as those represented
in beat vs. great and food vs. foot, where different vowel sounds are represented
by the same spellings.
3. English is spoken differently around the world (and in different regions of a
nation), despite relatively uniform standards for spellings. Such spelling uni-
formity facilitates international communication but also increases the dispar-
ity between the way English is written and spoken.
4. A given word part may be pronounced differently depending on its adjacent
sounds and stress patterns. In electric, the final <c> represents the sound [k]
as in kiss, but in electricity it represents [s] as in sit. In senile, <i> represents the
sound of <i> in island, but in senility the sound of <i> in ill.
5. Spoken forms may differ across social situations. The writing system incorpo-
rates some degree of variation (do not vs. don’t and it was vs. ’twas), but there
is less tolerance for spellings like gonna (‘going to’), wanna (‘want to’), and got-
cha (‘got you’) and still less or none at all for j’eat (‘did you eat?’) and woncha
(‘won’t you?’). Variable spellings for the same expression would force readers
to determine the idiosyncratic key of the represented speech before arriving
at meaning instead of relying directly on a familiar spelling, as adult readers
normally do.
Advantages of Fixed Spellings Some disadvantages of an inconsistent set of
sound-spelling correspondences are obvious, but the advantages are also sub-
stantial. Consider Chinese, in which many written characters make little or no
reference to sounds but directly symbolize meanings—much as numerals like
3 and 7 and symbols like + and % do for European languages. Using such char-
acters, groups of people whose spoken languages are mutually unintelligible can
nevertheless communicate well in writing, as is the case between speakers of
Cantonese and Mandarin Chinese. As a parallel, consider that the symbol 7 has a
uniform meaning across European languages, even though the word for the con-
cept is pronounced and spelled differently: seven in English, sept in French, sette
in Italian, sieben in German, and so on. Similarly, the fact that English spelling
is somewhat independent of pronunciation is not altogether a bad thing when
you consider that English has exceptionally varied dialects from New Zealand
to Jamaica to India, as well as in places where English is used in official capaci-
ties alongside indigenous native tongues or as a second language for scientific
and other international enterprises. Despite diverse pronunciations around the
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 84
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 84 12/29/10 7:54:40 PM
12/29/10 7:54:40 PM
Sounds and Spellings: Not the Same Thing 85
globe, a uniform written word is associated with a single set of meanings. More-
over, in a language with different pronunciations for the same element of mean-
ing, stable spellings can contribute to reading comprehensibility—as in musical/
musician, electrical/electricity, and even the <s> of cats and dogs (pronounced [s]
and [z], respectively).
Independence of Script and Speech It’s important to distinguish between the
sounds of a language and the way they are represented in writing. To empha-
size the independence of sounds and spellings, remember that a given language
may be represented by more than one writing system. For instance, the language
widely known as Hindi-Urdu is written by Hindus living in India in Devanāgarī,
an Indic script that derives from Sanskrit, but it is written in Arabic script by
Muslims living in Pakistan and parts of India. Sometimes, too, people adopt a new
writing system for their language. Early in the twentieth century, the government
of Turkey changed the orthography (the technical name for a writing system) for
representing Turkish from an Arabic script to one based on the Roman alphabet.
Sometimes languages use different scripts for different purposes. Imagine
sending an international telegram in a language that uses a script other than the
Roman alphabet—Japanese, Korean, Greek, Russian, Persian, Thai, or Arabic,
for example. Rather than using their customary orthographies, speakers of these
languages use the Roman alphabet to send telegrams internationally. Even
within a country, an alternative writing system may be needed: In China, each
character has a four-digit numeral assigned to it and these numerals are sent
telegraphically and then “translated” back into Chinese characters. Sometimes
a language uses more than one writing system for different aspects of writing.
Japanese draws upon three kinds of writing: kanji, based on the Chinese charac-
ter system, in which a symbol represents a word independent of its pronuncia-
tion, and two syllabaries. A syllabary is a writing system in which each symbol
represents a spoken syllable. Throughout the world there are discrepancies
between sounds as spoken and as represented in writing.
Bilingual Sign, Xinjiang
Autonomous Region, China.
Written alternately in
Arabic script (for Uyghur)
and Chinese characters
(for Chinese), with Arabic
numerals in both. Neither
language is related to Arabic.
Supplied by the author.
©
Edward
Finegan
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 85
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 85 12/29/10 7:54:40 PM
12/29/10 7:54:40 PM
86 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
In this chapter, we focus on the human vocal apparatus and the sounds it
produces; Chapter 4 examines the nature of sound systems in human language.
Phonetics is the study of the sounds made in the production of human lan-
guages. It has two principal branches.
Articulatory phonetics
◆ focuses on the human vocal apparatus and describes
sounds in terms of their articulation in the vocal tract; it has been central
to the discipline of linguistics.
Acoustic phonetics
◆ uses the tools of physics to study the nature of sound
waves produced in human language; it is increasingly important in lin-
guistics with attempts to use machines for interpreting speech patterns in
voice identification and voice-initiated mechanical operations.
Our discussion will be limited almost exclusively to articulatory phonetics—the
nature of human sounds as they are produced by the vocal apparatus.
Phonetic Alphabets
To refer to the sounds of human language in terms of their articulation, phoneti-
cians have evolved descriptive techniques that avoid the difficulties of describing
sounds in terms of customary writing systems. You already know it is impossible
to use customary written representations to analyze sound structure because,
even within a single language, some sounds correspond to more than one letter,
and some letters to more than one sound. Besides that, a single letter can be used
to represent different sounds in different languages. So we need an independent
system to represent the actual sounds of human languages.
In scientific discussion, the requisite characteristics of symbols for represent-
ing sounds are clarity and consistency. The best tool is a phonetic alphabet, and
the most widely used one is the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA). The IPA
provides a unique written representation of every sound in every language.
A list of symbols used to represent the consonant sounds of English is given
in Table 3.1. It provides the phonetic symbol for each sound and emphases for
the relevant parts of the words included. Taking advantage of an option allowed
by the International Phonetic Association, we use an ordinary printed <r> to
represent the initial sound of ride, but you should know that the association
assigns the symbol [r] to a different sound. (We’ve indicated the standard IPA
symbol for the initial sound of ride in parentheses.) The words illustrate word-
initial, word-medial, and word-final occurrences of the sounds.
The Vocal Tract
The processes the vocal tract uses in creating a multitude of sounds are similar
to those of wind instruments and organ pipes, which produce different musical
sounds by varying the shape, size, and acoustic character of the cavities through
Phonetics: The Study of Sounds
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 86
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 86 12/29/10 7:54:41 PM
12/29/10 7:54:41 PM
Phonetics: The Study of Sounds 87
which air passes once it leaves its source. Every speech sound you make sounds
different from every other speech sound because of a unique combination of
features in the way you shape your mouth and tongue and move parts of the vo-
cal apparatus while making it. Examine the simplified drawing of the vocal tract
in Figure 3.3. Here we will look at the parts of the vocal tract and show how
they work together to produce sounds.
How are speech sounds made? First, air coming from the lungs passes through
the vocal tract, which shapes it into different speech sounds. The air then exits
the vocal tract through the mouth or nose or both.
Despite the fact that speakers of all languages have the same vocal appara-
tus, no language takes advantage of all the possibilities for forming different
sounds, and there are striking differences in the sounds that occur in differ-
ent languages. For example, Japanese and Thai lack the [v] sound of English
van, and Japanese lacks the [f] sound of fan. Thai lacks the sounds represented
Table 3.1 English Consonants Arranged by Position in Word
Phonetic Symbol Initial Medial Final
p pick caper tap
b bit labor tab
t tick meter bat
d dish medal pad
k kiss sicker lick
g geek dagger bag
f fit beefy chief
v vim saving grave
θ thin author breath
ð then leather breathe
s sit mason kiss
z zest posit shoes
∫ shed rashes rush
ӡ measure rouge
ʧ chip kitchen pitch
ʤ jet bludgeon fudge
m mitt dummy broom
n nip sunny spoon
ŋ singer sing
h hit ahoy
j yes beyond toy
r (ɹ) rest berry deer
l last silly mill
w wish away
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 87
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 87 12/29/10 7:54:41 PM
12/29/10 7:54:41 PM
88 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
by <g> in gill, <z> in zebra, <sh> in shell, <s> in measure, and <j>
and <dg> in judge. French, Japanese, and Thai lack the quite different <th>
sounds in ether and either.
Just as some languages lack sounds that English has, other languages have
sounds that English does not have, and some languages that may share a sound
may not share its distribution in words. You probably know that English lacks
the trilled r of Spanish and Italian and that German has a sound at the end of
words like Bach ‘stream’ and hoch ‘high’ that does not occur in the inventory of
English sounds. Arabic has a sound similar to the German <ch> of Bach, but
in Arabic it can occur word initially. A similar (but not identical) sound occur-
ring word finally in the German word ich occurs in English (for those dialects
that pronounce the <h>) in the initial sound of human and huge. Still, it can be
Figure 3.3 The Vocal Tract
Adapted from Ladefoged 2006.
The Vocal Cords and Voicing
Human beings have no organs that are used only for speech. The organs that
produce speech sounds have evolved principally to serve the life-sustaining
processes of breathing and eating. Speech is a secondary function of the
human “vocal apparatus” and is sometimes said to be parasitic on these
organs. The vocal cords offer an illustration of the “parasitic” nature of
speech: the primary function of these two folds is to keep food from going
down the wrong tube and entering the lungs.
With respect to speech, vibration of the vocal cords is what distinguishes
voiced and voiceless sounds. You can perceive the difference between voiced
and voiceless consonants by alternating between the pronunciations of [s]
and [z] or [f] and [v] while holding your hands clapped over your ears. You
should be able to tell from pronouncing the words thin and thirty (which
begin with [θ]) and then and those (which begin with [ð]) which of the two
sounds—[θ] or [ð]—is voiced. Check your conclusions against Table 3.7.
nasal cavity
hard palate
teeth
soft palate
(velum)
larynx
pharnyx wall
uvula
alveolar
ridge
lip
epiglottis
TONGUE
tip
front back
root
blade
center
lip
nasal cavity
larynx
Lower surface of vocal tract
Upper surface of vocal tract
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 88
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 88 12/29/10 7:54:41 PM
12/29/10 7:54:41 PM
Describing Consonant Sounds 89
tough for English speakers learning German to pronounce the sound in a word
like ich because English doesn’t permit that sound at the end of a word.
As you explore the inventory of sounds in the sections below, use your vocal
tract to produce the sounds that are described. It’s important to pronounce them
aloud, noting the shape of your mouth and the position of your tongue for each
sound. That experience will familiarize you with the reference points of phonet-
ics, make the discussion easier to follow, and give you confidence as you master
articulatory phonetics.
We will continue to use square brackets to enclose the symbols representing
sounds. Thus [t] will symbolize the initial and final sounds in tot, [d] the initial
and final sounds in did, and [z] the initial sound in zebra, the medial consonant
in busy, and the final sound of buzz and dogs.
A consonant is a speech sound produced by a partial or complete closure of
part of the vocal tract, thus obstructing the airflow and creating audible friction.
Speech sounds can be characterized in terms of their articulatory properties—by
where in the mouth and how they are produced, and consonants can be described
in terms of three properties:
Voicing
◆ (whether the vocal cords are vibrating or not)
Place of articulation
◆ (where the airstream is most obstructed)
Manner of articulation
◆ (the particular way the airstream is obstructed)
Voicing
Begin by pronouncing a long, continuous [zzzzz] sound and alternating it with
a long, continuous [sssss] sound. You’ll notice that the position of your tongue
within your mouth remains exactly the same, even though the sounds are notice-
ably different. You can feel the difference by touching your throat at the larynx
(voice box) while saying [zzzzz sssss zzzzz sssss]. The vibration you feel from
your larynx when you utter [zzzzz] but not [sssss] is called voicing; it is the
result of air being forced through a narrow aperture (called the glottis) between
two mucosal folds (the vocal cords) in the larynx. When the vocal cords are held
together, the air forced through them from the lungs causes them to vibrate. It
is this vibration, or “voicing,” that distinguishes [z] from [s] and enables speak-
ers to differentiate between these two otherwise identical sounds. Using these
highly similar but distinct sounds enables us to create words that differ by only a
single feature of voicing on a single sound but carry quite different meanings, as
in bus and buzz, peace and peas, sip and zip, and sane and Zane.
Other pairs of sounds are likewise characterized by a voiced versus voiceless
contrast. Consider [f] and [v], as in fine and vine or proof and prove: both sounds
are produced by forcing air through a narrow aperture between the upper teeth
and the lower lip. The difference is that [f] is voiceless and [v] is voiced. Other
voiceless/voiced pairs include [p] and [b] as in pet and bet or rope and robe and
[t] and [d] as in ten and den or net and Ned.
Describing Consonant Sounds
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 89
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 89 12/29/10 7:54:41 PM
12/29/10 7:54:41 PM
90 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
Manner of Articulation
Besides having a voicing feature, [s] and [z] (and all other consonants) can be
characterized as to their manner of articulation. In pronouncing [s] and [z],
air is continuously forced through a narrow opening at a place behind the upper
teeth. Compare the pronunciation of [s] and [z] with the sounds [t] and [d]. Un-
like [s] and [z], [t] and [d] are not pronounced by a continuous stream of air
passing through the mouth. Instead, the air stream is completely stopped behind
and above the upper teeth and then released in a small burst of air. For this
reason, [t] and [d] are called stops, and
because the air is released through the
mouth (and not the nose), they may be
called oral stops. Sounds like [s] and [z]
that are made by a continuous stream of
air passing through a narrowed passage
in the vocal tract are called fricatives.
Place of Articulation
Of the sounds analyzed so far, [s] and [t] are voiceless, [z] and [d] voiced. All
four are pronounced with the point of greatest closure immediately behind and
just above the upper teeth. Pronounce ten and den aloud, feeling where the tip
of your tongue touches the top of your mouth for the initial and final conso-
nants. Both words start and finish at the alveolar ridge. Because [t], [d], and
[n] are articulated at the alveolar ridge, they are called alveolars. Also articu-
lated at the alveolar ridge are [s] and [z], as you can notice by pronouncing the
words bus and buzz. ([s] and [z] are fricatives, as you should be able readily to
tell, whereas [t] and [d] are stops.)
There are three major places of
articulation for English stops: the lips,
the alveolar ridge, and the soft palate
(or velum). If you say pin and bin, you’ll
notice that for the initial sound in each
word air is built up behind the lips and
then released. Thus the point of great-
est closure is at the lips, and for that
reason [p] and [b] are called bilabial
stops (bilabial means ‘two lips’).
Attend to the pronunciation of the first sound of kin, and you’ll notice that
[k], like [p] in pill and [t] in till, is a voiceless stop, but it differs from [p] and [t]
in its place of articulation: [k] is a velar because it is pronounced with the back
of the tongue touching the roof of the
mouth at the velum (the soft palate);
[k] is a voiceless velar stop.
Corresponding to the voiceless stops
[p], [t], and [k] are three voiced
stops: [b] as in blab is a voiced bilabial
stop; [d] as in dude is a voiced alveolar
Try It Yourself Pronounce the sounds
[p], [b], [f], [v], [θ], and [ð] to determine
which are stops and which are fricatives.
Try It Yourself Compare your pronun-
ciation of [p] and [t]. Both are voiceless,
so what is the diﬀerence between them? Pronounce
word pairs like pin and tin or tripe and trite as other
examples.
Try It Yourself Identify the pairs of
stops pronounced at the lips, the alveolar
ridge, and the velum.
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 90
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 90 12/29/10 7:54:41 PM
12/29/10 7:54:41 PM
Kinds of Consonant Sounds  91
stop; and [g] as in gig is a voiced velar stop. English has three pairs of stops,
with each pair pronounced at a given place of articulation, one member of the
pair voiced and the other voiceless.
Besides lips, alveolar ridge, and velum, English takes advantage of other
articulators to produce consonant sounds. The <th> of thin is a fricative
pronounced with the tongue between the teeth. It is a voiceless interdental
fricative, represented by the Greek letter theta [θ]. [ʃ] (the sound represented
by <sh> in shoot and wish) and [ӡ] (the final sound in beige and the middle
consonant in measure) are pronounced between the alveolar ridge and the ve-
lum (or palate) and are called alveo-palatals. [ʃ] is a voiceless alveo-palatal
fricative, [ӡ] a voiced alveo-palatal fricative.
To repeat what was said above, consonants are produced by partially or com-
pletely blocking air in its passage from the lungs through the vocal tract. If you
review the inventory of English consonants given in Table 3.1 and pronounce
the sounds aloud while concentrating on the place and manner of articulation,
you’ll perceive how the tables represent the distribution of English consonants
according to their voicing, place of articulation, and manner of articulation.
Below we describe these consonants, grouped according to their manner of
articulation and characterized in terms of voicing and place of articulation. We
concentrate on the consonant sounds of English and mention selected conso-
nants in other languages.
Stops
Stops are formed when air is built up at a point in the vocal tract and released
suddenly through the mouth. The principal stops of English are [p] and [b], [t]
and [d], and [k] and [g]. By pronouncing words with these sounds in them (see
Table 3.1), you can recognize that [p] and [b] are bilabial stops, [t] and [d]
alveolar stops, and [k] and [g] velar stops.
English Stops
PLACE OF ARTICULATION
Bilabial Alveolar Velar Glottal
Voiceless p t k ʔ
Voiced b d g
In addition, many languages have a glottal stop, represented by [ʔ]. It is pro-
nounced by using the glottis to completely but briefly block the air from passing
in the throat. In English, the glottal stop occurs only as a marginal sound—for
example, in American English between the two parts of the exclamation Uh-oh!
and in Cockney English as the medial consonant of words like butter and bottle,
Kinds of Consonant Sounds
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 91
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 91 12/29/10 7:54:42 PM
12/29/10 7:54:42 PM
92 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
for example. In Hawaiian and some other languages, the glottal stop is not a mar-
ginal sound but an ordinary consonant that can distinguish between words: paʔu
‘smudge’ and pau ‘finished.’ (Represented by an apostrophe in its spelled name, the
constructed language Na’vi, spoken in the film Avatar, is pronounced [nɑʔvi].)
Fricatives
Fricatives are characterized by forcing air in a continuous stream through a
narrow opening at some point in the vocal tract. To pronounce the alveolar
fricatives [s] and [z], air is forced through a narrow opening between the tip of
the tongue and the alveolar ridge. In pronouncing the first sound in the words
thin, three, and theta and the final sound in teeth and bath, the tongue tip is placed
between the upper and lower teeth, where the airstream is most constricted
and makes its articulation. Represented by [θ], the sound in these words is a
voiceless interdental fricative. The voiced counterpart is the initial sound in the
words there and then and the middle consonant sound in either. In English the
spelling <th> is used for two distinct sounds: [θ] as in thin and ether and [ð] as
in then and either or leather.
Try It Yourself Pronounce the following words to discover other
fricatives and become aware of their common properties and their
diﬀerent places of articulation:
ﬁne/vine; beeﬁsh/peevish [f] [v] labio-dental fricatives
thigh/thy; ether/either [θ] [ð] interdental fricatives
sink/zinc; bus/buzz [s] [z] alveolar fricatives
rush/rouge; ﬁshin’/vision [ʃ] [ӡ] alveo-palatal fricatives
here; ahoy [h] glottal fricative
English Fricatives
PLACE OF ARTICULATION
Labio-Dental Interdental Alveolar Alveo-Palatal Glottal
Voiceless f θ s ʃ h
Voiced v ð z ӡ
Some languages have other fricatives. Spanish has a voiced bilabial frica-
tive (represented by [β]), as in the <b> of cabo ‘end.’ Japanese has a voice-
less bilabial fricative, represented by [ɸ] and pronounced somewhat like [f]
but by bringing together both lips instead of the lower lip and the upper front
teeth. The West African language Ewe has voiced [β] and voiceless [ɸ] bilabial
fricatives. Spanish and many other languages have a voiceless velar fricative [x]
and a voiced velar fricative [ɣ]. Pronounce [x] as if you were gently clearing
your throat. The sound occurs initially in the Spanish word joya ‘jewel’ and the
personal name José (when borrowed into English, José is pronounced with [h],
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 92
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 92 12/29/10 7:54:42 PM
12/29/10 7:54:42 PM
Kinds of Consonant Sounds  93
the closest sound to [x] in English). [ɣ] is represented by <g> in Spanish lago
‘lake.’ German, Irish, and Mandarin Chinese have a voiceless palatal fricative
[ç], as in the German word Reich ‘empire.’
You may have noticed that the physical distance in the mouth between the
places of articulation for the English fricatives is not as great as for the stops.
The bilabial, alveolar, and velar places of articulation for stop consonants are
spaced farther apart than are the labio-dental, interdental, alveolar, and alveo-
palatal fricatives. This closer spacing of the fricatives can cause difficulty in
perceiving them as distinct, especially for speakers of languages with fewer
fricatives than English or with fricatives spaced at greater distance from one an-
other. For example, French does not have the interdental fricatives [θ] and [ð],
so French speakers tend to perceive (and pronounce) English words like thin and
this as though they were “sin” and “zis.” One French fricative familiar to English
speakers, even though English doesn’t have it, is the voiced uvular r-sound (as
in Paris or rue ‘street’), which is represented by [ʁ].
Aﬀricates
Two consonant sounds of English are more complex than its stops and fricatives.
These more complex sounds combine a stop consonant and a fricative to produce
an affricate. In the pronunciation of an affricate, air is built up by a complete
closure of the oral tract at some place of articulation and then released (like a stop)
and continued (like a fricative). The consonant sound at the beginning and end of
church is a combination of the stop [t] and the fricative [ʃ] and is represented as
[ʧ] or [tʃ]. The consonant sound at the beginning and end of judge is a combination
of the stop [d] and the fricative [ӡ] and is represented as [ʤ]. English has only
one pair of affricates, and to identify
their place of articulation they are called
alveo-palatal affricates (alveo for [t] and
[d] and palatal for [ʃ] and [ӡ]).
Some languages have other affri-
cates. The most common are the al-
veolar affricates [ʦ] and [ʣ], which
occur at the beginning of the Italian
words zucchero ‘sugar’ and zona ‘zone,’
respectively.
English Affricates
PLACE OF ARTICULATION
Alveo-Palatal
Voiceless ʧ
Voiced ʤ
Obstruents
Fricatives, stops, and affricates are called obstruents because they share the pho-
netic property of constricting or obstructing the airflow through the vocal tract.
Try It Yourself Focusing on the initial
consonant sounds in chin and gin and the
ﬁnal consonant sounds in batch and badge, pronounce
these words slowly until you recognize that they begin
or end with stop-fricatives (that is, aﬀricates).
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 93
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 93 12/29/10 7:54:42 PM
12/29/10 7:54:42 PM
94 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
Approximants
Approximants are produced by two articulators approaching one another al-
most like fricatives but not coming close enough to produce friction. English
has four approximants: [j], [r] (IPA [ɹ]), [l], and [w]. The sound that begins the
word you is the palatal approximant [j], while cute begins with the consonant
cluster [kj]. Because [r] is pronounced by channeling air through the central
part of the mouth, it is called a central approximant. To pronounce [l], air is
channeled on one or both sides of the tongue to make a lateral approximant. To
distinguish them from the other approximants, [r] and [l] are sometimes called
liquids. (In some Asian languages, [r] and [l] are not contrastive sounds, so
native speakers of those languages may find it challenging to distinguish them
in speaking or perceiving them in English speech. This is a matter to which we
return in the following chapter.)
In pronouncing the approximant [w], the lips are rounded, as in wild. In cer-
tain dialects, [h] precedes [w] in words such as which, whether, or when. When
[w] is the second element of a consonant cluster (as in twine or quick), the initial
sound (in these cases, [t] or [k]) is rounded in anticipation of the [w], as you
can appreciate by pronouncing twine and time and quick and kick, while focusing
on the shape of your lips.
English Approximants
PLACE OF ARTICULATION
Bilabial Alveolar Palatal
Voiced (Central) w r (ɹ) j
Voiced (Lateral) l
Nasals
Nasal consonants are pronounced by lowering the velum, thus allowing the
stream of air to pass out through the nasal cavity instead of through the oral
cavity. English has three nasal stops: [m] as in mad, drummer, cram; [n] as in
new, sinner, ten; and a third, symbolized by [ŋ] and pronounced as in the words
sing and singer.
English Nasals
PLACE OF ARTICULATION
Bilabial Alveolar Velar
m n ŋ
Because of the way it is usually spelled in English, English speakers may think
of [ŋ] as a combination of [n] and [g], but it is actually a single sound. Test
this for yourself by comparing your pronunciation of singer and finger. Ignoring
the initial sounds [s] and [f], if your pronunciation of singer and finger differs
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 94
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 94 12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
Kinds of Consonant Sounds  95
(for some speakers of English it does
not), then you have [ŋ] in singer and
[ŋg] in finger (notice that if you had [ng]
in finger, you’d pronounce it like “finn-
ger”). Most American English speakers
have a three-way contrast among sim-
mer, sinner, and singer, depending on
whether the middle consonant is [m],
[n], or [ŋ]. By noticing whether and
where your tongue touches the upper
part of your mouth in articulating these
nasal consonants (and by comparing
their place of articulation with other
sounds), you can determine that [m] is
a bilabial nasal, [n] an alveolar nasal,
and [ŋ] a velar nasal.
If you have successfully identified
the places of articulation for nasals
and understood why they fit in their
slots in the consonant table, you may
have noticed that English has three
sets of consonants articulated in the same places and differing only in their
manner of articulation: the oral stops [p] and [b] and the nasal stop [m] are
bilabials; the oral stops [t] and [d] and the nasal stop [n] are articulated at
the alveolar ridge and called alveolars; [k], [g], and [ŋ] are articulated at the
velum and called velars.
English, as we’ve seen, has three nasal consonants: [m], [n], and [ŋ]. The
sound inventory of other languages may contain other nasals. French, Spanish,
and Italian have a palatal nasal [ɲ]. You can recognize it in the French word
mignon ‘cute’ (which English has borrowed in the phrase filet mignon), in the
Spanish words mañana, señor, and cañón (borrowed into English as canyon), and
the Italian bagno ‘bath’ and lasagna (also borrowed into English).
Clicks, Flaps, Trills
Some languages of southern Africa have among their stop consonants certain
click sounds that function as an integral part of their sound system. One ex-
ample is the lateral click, made on the side of the tongue. Although the lateral
click is not part of the inventory of English speech sounds, it does occur when
English speakers urge a horse to move on. As a speech sound, its IPA symbol is
[||]. Another click sound that occurs in some languages can be represented in
English writing by the reproach tsk-tsk. This click is made with the tip of the
tongue at the teeth or the alveolar ridge and is described as a dental click [|] or
(post)alveolar click [!].
A few consonant sounds are not stops, fricatives, affricates, approximants,
or nasals. The middle consonant sound in the words butter and metal is
commonly pronounced in American English as an alveolar flap, which is a high-
velocity short stop produced by tapping the tongue against the alveolar ridge.
Try It Yourself While you are saying
[mmmm] or [nnnn], cut oﬀ the airstream
passing through your nose by pinching it closed. You’ll
notice that the sound stops abruptly, thus demon-
strating that air passes through the nose when you
produce a nasal stop. Compare what happens when
you cut oﬀ the air passing through your nose while
saying [nnnnn] and [sssss]. You’ll quickly understand
one way in which the nasal and oral cavities function
in producing sounds. When you cut oﬀ air passing
through the nose, there is virtually no diﬀerence in
the sound quality for oral consonants like [s], but for
a nasal consonant like [n] or [m] the eﬀect couldn’t be
more noticeable!
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 95
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 95 12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
96 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
We represent this flap, or tap, by [ɾ] (a sound discussed further in Chapter 4).
Spanish, Italian, and Fijian have an alveolar trill r, as in Spanish correr ‘to run.’
In order to reserve the familiar symbol [r] to represent the “r” of English, North
American books represent the alveolar trill by [r̃] (instead of the IPA symbol [r]).
Vowel sounds are articulated with-
out complete closure in the oral cav-
ity and without sufficient narrowing
to create the friction characteristic
of consonants. They are produced by
passing air through different shapes of
the mouth, with different positions of
the tongue and of the lips, and—unlike
consonants—with the air stream rela-
tively unobstructed by narrow passages
except at the glottis. Some languages
have as few as three distinct vowels;
others have more than a dozen.
Vowel Height and Frontness
Vowels are characterized by the po-
sition of the tongue and the relative
rounding of the lips. Partly on the ba-
sis of auditory perception, we refer to
vowels as high or low and front or back.
We also consider whether the lips are
rounded (as for boot) or nonrounded (as
for bit).
Figure 3.4 indicates the relationship
of the English vowels to one another
and the approximate positions of the
tongue during their articulation.
Here are English words for each of the vowel symbols shown in the figure.
Note that these words are chosen on the basis of North American English; British
English pronunciations may differ for some:
i Pete, beat u stoop, boot
ɪ pit, bit ʊ put, foot
e late, bait ə about, sofa o poke, boat
ɛ pet, bet ʌ putt, but ɔ port, bought
æ pat, bat a park (in Boston) ɑ pot, father
The symbols [ə] (called schwa) and [ʌ] (called caret or wedge) represent
similar sounds. Both occur in the word above [əbʌv]. We use [ə] to represent a
Vowel Sounds
Try It Yourself You’ve heard people say
that English has ﬁve vowels—a, e, i, o, and u.
But that number better reﬂects written English than
spoken English. By way of determining a more accurate
count, pronounce the following words aloud, noting how
many distinct vowels of spoken English they represent:
peat, pit, pate, pet, pat, put, putt, pot, port, poke, and pool.
Try It Yourself You can get a feel for
these descriptors by alternately saying feed
and food—the ﬁrst contains a front vowel, the second
a back vowel. For tongue height, alternate saying feet
and fat. If you don’t feel the diﬀerence between high
and low vowels with this pair of sounds, look at your-
self in the mirror (or at a classmate saying them); the
mouth is open wider for the vowel of fat than for the
vowel of feet. The reason? The tongue is lower for fat.
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 96
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 96 12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
Vowel Sounds 97
low
front
high
central back
mid
Figure 3.4 The Vowels of English
mid central vowel in unstressed syllables, such as the second syllable of buses
[bʌsəz] and the second and third syllables of capable [kepəbəl]. We also use
it before [r] in the same syllable, whether stressed as in person [pərsən] and
sir [sər] or unstressed as in pertain [pərten] and tender [tɛndər]. We use [ʌ] to
represent mid central vowels in other stressed syllables, such as suds [sʌdz] and
the first syllable of flooded [flʌɾəd]. (Some books use [ɚ] to represent a mid
central vowel with r coloring. In systems using the [ɚ] notation, person would
be transcribed [pɚsən], sir [sɚ], and pertain [pɚten].)
Diphthongs
English also has diphthongs, represented by pairs of symbols to capture the
fact that a diphthong is a vowel sound for which the tongue starts in one place
and glides to another. Say these slowly to get a sense of what a diphthong is:
[aj] (as in ride); [aw] (as in loud); [ɔj] (as in boy, toy). (Some books transcribe
these diphthongs as [ay] or [aɪ], [au] or [aʊ], and [ɔy] or [ɔɪ], respectively.)
Diphthongs change in quality while being pronounced, as you can notice by
slowly pronouncing the words buy, boy, bough. Thus American English dialects
have up to thirteen distinctive vowel sounds (plus three diphthongs). In England
and certain parts of the United States, including metropolitan New York City,
sixteen distinct vowels and diphthongs exist. In other parts of the United States,
fewer distinct vowel sounds exist because no distinction is made between the
vowels of hawk and hock.
Other Articulatory Features of Vowels
To create differences among vowels, languages can exploit other possibilities
besides tongue height and frontness or backness. Vowels can have tenseness,
rounding, lengthening, nasalization, and tone.
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 97
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 97 12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
98 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
Tenseness Languages can make a distinction between tense and lax vowels.
These labels represent a set of characteristics that distinguish one set of vow-
els from another. For example, lax vowels do not occur at the end of a stressed
syllable, and they tend to be shorter; they also tend to be more centralized
than the nearest tense vowel. The contrast between [i] of peat and [ɪ] of pit
is in part a tense/lax contrast; likewise for the vowels in bait/bet and cooed/
could. The lax vowels don’t end a syllable (we have [pi] ‘pea’ but not [pɪ] ex-
cept preceding a consonant, as in [pɪk] or [pɪt]); they are shorter than their
corresponding tense vowels and more centralized in the mouth. Thus, English
has the lax vowels [ɪ ɛ ʊ] as in pit, pet, put. The corresponding tense vowels are
[i e u] as in beat, bait, boot. The lax vowels [æ ʌ] do not have corresponding
tense vowels.
Rounding Whereas in English high front vowels tend automatically to be un-
rounded (and high back vowels to be rounded), some languages have rounded
and unrounded front vowels. French and German have high front and mid front
rounded vowels as well as unrounded ones. French has a high front unrounded
[i] in words such as dire ‘to say’ and dix ‘ten’ and a high front rounded vowel
[ü], as in rue ‘street’; it also has a contrast between upper mid front unrounded
[e] (as in fée ‘fairy’) and upper mid front rounded [ø] (feu ‘fire’); and between
lower mid front unrounded [ɛ] (serre ‘hothouse’) and lower mid front rounded
[œ] (soeur ‘sister’). German has similar contrasts.
Length Vowels can be of varying lengths. For each of its vowels, German has
one long and one short. Long vowels are held longer when pronounced than
short vowels. In phonetic transcriptions a special colon or doubled vowel
symbol are commonly used to indicate a long vowel. (In dictionaries and some
writing systems, a macron (¯) may be used above the vowel symbol.) Thus, in
addition to the short vowels [i] and [ü], as in bitten ‘to request’ and müssen
‘must,’ German has words with high front long vowels: unrounded [iː] in
bieten ‘to wish’ and rounded [üː] in Mühle ‘mill.’ These examples illustrate how
languages can multiply vowel differences by exploiting long and short varieties.
English vowels may also vary in length but, unlike German, English has no two
words that differ only in vowel length (see Chapter 4). To sense differences
in the duration of vowels, pronounce the English words bit, beat, and bead.
You should be able to hear that the vowel of bead is longer than the vowel of
beat, and that both are longer than the vowel of bit.
Nasalization All vowel types can be nasalized by pronouncing the vowel while
passing air through the nose (as for nasal stops) and through the mouth. Nasal
vowels are indicated by a tilde (~) placed above the vowel symbol. French has
several nasal vowels paralleling its oral vowels:
lin [lɛ̃] ‘flax’ lait [lɛ] ‘milk’
ment [mã] ‘(he) is lying’ ma [mɑ] ‘my’ (feminine)
honte [ɔ̃t] ‘shame’ hotte [ɔt] ‘hutch’
Other languages with nasal vowels include Irish, Hindi, and the Native
American languages Delaware, Navaho, and Seneca.
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 98
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 98 12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
Vowel Sounds 99
Tone In many languages of Asia, Africa, and North America, a vowel may be
pronounced on several pitches and be perceived by native speakers of these
languages as different sounds. Typically, a vowel pronounced on a low pitch
contrasts with the same vowel pronounced on a higher pitch. In Hausa, spoken
in West Africa, the word for ‘bamboo’ is górà, with high tone (´ ) on the first
syllable and low tone ( `) on the second syllable. The word gòrá, in which
the sequence of tones is reversed, has the meaning ‘large gourd.’ Some tone
languages have more complex systems. The Beijing dialect of Chinese has a high
level tone (symbolized with ¯ ); a rising tone (´ ); a falling-rising tone (ˇ), in
which the pitch begins to fall and then rises sharply; and a falling tone ( `),
in which the pitch falls sharply. There is a four-way tone contrast among the
following vowels, which happen to be distinct words.
ī (high level) ‘one’
í (rising) ‘proper’
ǐ (falling-rising) ‘already’
ì (falling) ‘thought’
A given diacritic, or accent mark, can be used to represent different tones in
different languages. Thus, ´ represents a high tone in Hausa but a rising tone in
Chinese, while ` represents a low tone in Hausa but a falling tone in Chinese.
Thai has five tones; the standard dialect of Vietnamese has six tones; and the
Guangzhou (Canton) dialect of Chinese has nine different tones. Tone is a wide-
spread and diverse phenomenon.
Tables 3.2 through 3.5 are vowel charts illustrating the sound patterns of
four languages—French, Spanish, German, and Japanese.
Table 3.2 French Vowels with Illustrative Words
Front
Unrounded Front Rounded
Central
Unrounded Back Rounded
Oral
high i ü u
upper mid e ø o
mid ә
lower mid ɛ œ ɔ
low a
Nasal
lower mid ɛ̃ œ̃ ɔ̃
low ã
i gris ‘gray’ ü mûr ‘ripe’ ә chemin ‘path’ u fou ‘crazy’
e fermé ‘shut’ ø jeûne ‘fasts’ a par ‘by’ o mot ‘word’
ɛ frais ‘fresh’ œ jeune ‘young’ ɔ fort ‘strong’
ɛ̃ brin ‘sprig’ œ̃brun ‘brown’ ɔ̃ fond ‘bottom’
ã faon ‘fawn’
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 99
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 99 12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
12/29/10 7:54:43 PM
100 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
Table 3.3 Spanish Vowels with Illustrative Words
Front Unrounded Central Unrounded Back Rounded
High i u
Mid e o
Low a
i chiste ‘joke’ a mar ‘sea’ u sur ‘south’
e fe ‘faith’ o boca ‘mouth’
Table 3.4 German Vowels with Illustrative Words
Front
Unrounded
Front
Rounded
Central
Unrounded
Back
Rounded
High
long iː üː uː
short i ü u
Upper Mid
long eː øː oː
short e o
Mid
short ә
Lower Mid
long ɛː
short œ
Low
long aː
short a
iː bieten ‘to wish’ üː Mühle ‘mill’ ә liebe ‘dear’ uː Huhn ‘hen’
i bitten ‘to request’ üː müssen ‘must’ aː Rabe ‘raven’ u Mutter ‘mother’
eː wen ‘whom’ øː ölig ‘oily’ a Ratte ‘rat’ oː Ofen ‘oven’
e wenn ‘when’ œ Röntgen ‘X-ray’ oː Ochs ‘ox’
ɛː Käse ‘cheese’
Table 3.5 Japanese Vowels with Illustrative Words
Front Unrounded Central Unrounded Back Unrounded Back Rounded
High i ɯ
Mid ɛ ɔ
Low a
i ima ‘now’ a aki ‘autumn’ ɯ buji ‘safe’ ɔ yoru ‘to approach’
ɛ sensei ‘teacher’
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 100
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 100 12/29/10 7:54:44 PM
12/29/10 7:54:44 PM
Vowel Sounds 101
Tables 3.6 and 3.7 summarize all the vowels and consonants introduced in
this chapter.
Table 3.6 Vowels Discussed in Chapter 3
(All vowels can be nasalized and either short or long.)
Front
Unrounded
Front
Rounded
Central
Unrounded
Back
Unrounded
Back
Rounded
high
 tense i ü ɯ u
 lax ɪ ʊ
upper mid e ø o
mid ә
lower mid ɛ œ ʌ ɔ
low æ a ɑ
Table 3.7 Consonants Discussed in Chapter 3
PLACE OF ARTICULATION
Manner of
Articulation
and Voicing
Bila-
bial
Labio-
Dental
Inter-
Dental
Alve-
Olar
Alveo-
Palatal
Pala-
tal Velar
Uvu-
Lar
Glot-
Tal
Stops
voiceless p t k ʔ
voiced b d g
Nasals
m n ɲ ŋ
Fricatives
voiceless ɸ f θ s ʃ ç x h
voiced ß v ð z ӡ ɣ ʁ
Affricates
voiceless ʦ ʧ
voiced ʣ ʤ
Approximants
voiced central w r (ɹ) j
voiced lateral l
Others
voiced trill r̃ (r)
voiced flap/tap ɾ
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 101
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 101 12/29/10 7:54:44 PM
12/29/10 7:54:44 PM
102 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
Summary
Sounds must be distinguished from letters and other visual representations of
•
language.
Phonetic alphabets represent sounds in a way that is consistent and comparable
•
across different languages; each sound is assigned a distinct representation,
independently of the customary writing system used to represent a particular
language.
This chapter uses the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA).
•
All languages contain consonants and vowels.
•
Consonants are produced by obstructing the flow of air as it passes from the
•
lungs through the vocal tract and out through the mouth or nose.
For fricative consonants, air forced through a narrow opening forms a
•
continuous noise, as in the initial and final sounds of says [sɛz] and fish [fɪʃ].
For stop consonants, the air passage is completely blocked and then released, as
•
in the initial and final sounds of the words tap and cat.
Affricates are produced by combining a stop and a fricative, as in the final sound
•
of the word peach or the initial and final sounds of judge.
As a group, fricatives, stops, and affricates are called obstruents.
•
An approximant is produced when one articulator approaches another but
•
the vocal tract is not sufficiently narrowed to create the audible friction of
a consonant. Examples are the initial sounds of west [wɛst], yes [ jɛs], rest
[rɛst], lest [lɛst].
Alphabetic writing systems rely on the notion of
discrete sounds, and it has proved useful to think
of speech sounds as discrete. But in natural speech,
sounds are not discrete and don’t occur separately.
Instead each sound touches the next sound in a word
(and in an utterance), and sounds and words merge
into one another.
Imagine a computer that could create discrete
sounds that seem natural when spoken in isolation —
it could produce the sounds [ɪ], [n], [k], [l], [u],
[d], [ә], and [d]. If it put these sounds together in
the sequence [ɪnkludәd], you might expect a pronun-
ciation that resembled the word included. But as it is
usually pronounced, included does not have the same
[ɪ] sound that occurs in sit, and the [n] of included
is often pronounced more like the [ŋ] of sing. So if
natural-sounding words are the goal, their produc-
tion cannot rely on a simple sequence of discrete in-
dividual sounds.
Suppose instead that the com-
puter put together the sounds [ĩ],
[ŋ], [k], [l], [u], [d], [ә], and [d].
That sequence would sound more natural but still be
stiﬀ. For one thing, the ﬁrst and second [d] sounds of
included diﬀer from one another, and both of them dif-
fer from the [d] sound of dig. Even further reﬁnement
wouldn’t go far enough, for the individual sounds would
have to run into one another as in natural speech. They
couldn’t be separated as in print or a phonetic tran-
scription. As a further complication, consider that a
word like photo could be represented phonetically as
[foɾo], but the same morpheme in photograph would
be pronounced [foɾə] and in photographer [fәtʰɑ]. In
other words, without some general principles of pro-
nunciation, a computer could not simply combine the
sounds represented in spelling and produce synthe-
sizedspeechthatsoundedremotelylikenaturalspeech.
We return to this matter in the following chapter. ■
Computers and Phonetics
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 102
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 102 12/29/10 7:54:44 PM
12/29/10 7:54:44 PM
Summary 103
“Liquid” is a cover term for [r] and [l] sounds.
•
Consonant sounds can be described as a combination of articulatory features:
•
voicing, place of articulation, and manner of articulation. For example: [t] is a
voiceless alveolar stop; [v] is a voiced labio-dental fricative.
Vowels are produced by positioning the tongue and mouth to form differently
•
shaped passages.
The airstream for oral vowels passes through the mouth; for nasal vowels, the
•
airstream passes through the nose and mouth.
Vowels are described by relative height and frontness. For example: [æ] is a low
•
front vowel; [u] is a high back vowel.
Secondary features of vowel production—such as tenseness, nasality,
•
lengthening, or rounding—are sometimes specified, as in “long vowel” or “nasal
vowel.”
In many languages vowels (and nasals) can be pronounced on different pitches,
•
or tones.
Languages differ from one another in the number of speech sounds they
•
have.
Although linguists find it useful to conceptualize the sounds of speech as
•
separate and discrete from one another, the sounds of natural speech are
connected and overlapping.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
How many vowels
• ? An easy way to figure out which vowels exist in English is to
take a simple word frame like b_t and see how many different vowels you can set
inside to produce a different word: bit, beet, bet, bait, bat, but, boot, boat, bought,
bot, bite, bout. One vowel that doesn’t occur in that frame but does occur in the
p_t frame is put. That’s already thirteen vowels, far more than the five suggested
by those in the alphabet.
Shaw
• ’s “ghoti.” Words in which <gh> is pronounced as [f] include cough, tough,
and rough. A word in which <gh> appears at the beginning is ghost, but the
pronunciation is not as [f]. No English word beginning with <gh> (there are
only a few such as ghetto, Ghana, gherkin, and ghee) is pronounced like [f]. Shaw
was exaggerating.
Sounds and letters
• . <gh> for the initial sound in ghost; <th> initial sound
in thin and final sound in path; <th> initial sound in then and final sound in
smooth; <ph> initial sound in physics or philosophy; <sh> initial sound in shoot
and final sound in wish; <pn> initial sound in pneumonia; <ps> initial sound
in psalm; <ch> initial sound in cheese and choir; some of these sounds can be
spelled with one letter.
Put and putt
• . English words that are pronounced and spelled differently but
whose spelling difference doesn’t correspond to the pronunciation difference
include satin/Satan; bit/bite; lit/light; woman/women. ■
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 103
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 103 12/29/10 7:54:44 PM
12/29/10 7:54:44 PM
104 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
Exercises
Practice Exercise
The words in each pair below differ from one another in only a single consonant,
and within each pair the different consonant sounds differ in only one or two prop-
erties (voicing, manner of articulation, or place of articulation). For each pair, give
the IPA symbols for the contrasting consonant sounds and then identify the proper-
ties that differentiate the consonants.
Examples: i) fat/vat: f/v (voicing); ii) vat/that: v/ð (place of articulation) iii) wren/
red: n/d (manner of articulation)
sin/sing either/ether
pit/bit arrive/arise
pit/pick thief/fief
dig/gig chief/sheaf
ten/den rung/young
Dan/Nan rung/rum
shirk/jerk climb/crime
many/penny Sadie/shady
Based on English
3-1. Refer to Tables 3.6 and 3.7 or the inside back cover, and give a phonetic
description of the following sounds. For consonants, include voicing and
place and manner of articulation. For vowels, include height, a frontness/
backness dimension, and (where needed) a tense/lax distinction. Examples:
[s]—voiceless alveolar fricative; [i]—high front tense vowel
Consonants: [z] [t] [b] [n] [ŋ] [r] [j] [ʃ] [θ] [ð]
Vowels: [ɛ] [æ] [ɔ] [ɪ] [ʊ] [o] [ə] [ɑ] [e] [aj]
3-2. A minimal pair is a set of two words that have the same sounds in the same
order, except that one sound differs: pit [pɪt] / bit [bɪt]; bell [bɛl] / bill [bɪl];
and either [iðər] / ether [iθər].
a. For each of the following pairs of English consonants, provide minimal
pairs that illustrate their occurrence in initial, medial, and final position.
(Examples are given for the first pair.)
Initial Medial Final
[s] [z] sue/zoo buses/buzzes peace/peas
[k] [b]
[t] [b]
[s] [t]
[r] [l]
[m] [n]
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 104
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 104 12/29/10 7:54:44 PM
12/29/10 7:54:44 PM
Exercises 105
b. For each of these pairs of vowels, cite a minimal pair of words illustrating
the contrast.
Example: [u] [æ] boot/bat.
[i] [ɪ]; [ɔj] [aj]; [u] [ʊ]; [æ] [e]
3-3. Write out in ordinary spelling the words represented by the following tran-
scriptions. Examples: [pɛn] pen; [smok] smoke; [bənænə] banana
[ton] [plæɾər] [læŋgwəʤ] [træpt] [spawts]
[ʧip] [prɛpəreʃən] [θwɔrt] [ðiz] [ðɪs]
[ʤeɾəd] [ʌðərwajz] [lʌvd] [plɛӡər] [kwɪkli]
[ɑnər] [feɾəlɪstək] [mənɑɾənəs] [frənɛɾək] [ɛntərprajzɪŋ]
3-4. Below are phonetic transcriptions of the names of popular movies. Write the
names using ordinary English spellings. Example: for bʌɾi you would write
Buddy; for əvitə, Evita; for et majəl, 8 Mile.
ævətɑr
kəpoɾi
kɪŋ kɑŋ
nɔrθ kʌntri
bætmæn bigɪnz
prajd ən prɛʤədəs
brokbæk mawntən
gʊd najt ən gʊd lʌk
ɪnglɔriəs bæstərds
slʌmdɔg mɪljənɛr
spajɾər mæn
hæri pɑɾər ən ðə hæf blʌd prɪns
ɛnrɑn ðə smɑrtəst gajz ɪn ðə rum
ʧɑrli ən ðə ʧɑklət fæktri / ʧɔklət
ðə kjuriəs kes əv bɛnʤəmən bʌʔən
prɛʃəs best ɑn ðə nɑvəl pʊʃ baj sæfajr
ðə krɑnəkəlz əv nɑrniə ðə lajən ðə wɪʧ ən ðə wɑrdrob
3-5. For each word below a broad phonetic transcription is provided, each tran-
scription containing at least one clear error. Identify the mistakes and correct
them.
spitting [spɪtiŋ]
trees [tris]
Spain [spajn]
scientific [sajəntifək]
cutting [kʊɾɪng]
sketchy [skeʧi]
women [wɪmɛn]
psychological [psajkəlɑʤəkəl]
cuddle [kudəl]
television [teləvɪʒən]
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 105
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 105 12/29/10 7:54:45 PM
12/29/10 7:54:45 PM
106 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
3-6. The transcription below represents one person’s reading of a passage about
the actor Will Smith (adapted from Newsweek, July 7, 1997). The transcrip-
tion does not represent secondary features such as vowel length or consonant
aspiration, and capitalization and punctuation are not represented. Write out
the passage using ordinary English spellings, as indicated in the first few lines
and the last line.
wɪl smɪθ hæz ə dɑrk feɾəl flɔ Will Smith has a dark, fatal flaw.
ɪts ən əbsɛʃən əv sɔrts It’s an obsession of sorts,
ðə kajnd əv θɪŋ ðæt kən drajv lʌvd the kind of thing that can drive loved
wʊnz krezi ones crazy.
ən majt ivən ɪf əlawd tə rʌn əmʌk
direl ən dəbɪlətet ən ʌðərwajz prɑməsɪŋ kərir
hi hets bæd græmər
prənʌnsieʃən ɛrərz mɪsteks əv ɛni lɪŋgwɪstək sɔrt
ðe mek hɪm nʌts
hɪz gərlfrɛnd ði æktrəs ʤedə pɪŋkət noz ət
əkeӡənəli ɪn ðɛr ʤɛntləst most kærɪŋ we
ðe traj tə kɔʃən hɪm əbawt ðə sɪriəsnəs əv hɪz əflɪkʃən
sɪɾɪŋ dawn ovər brɛkfəst wʊn mɔrnɪŋ
ɪn ðɛr spænɪʃ stajəl vɪlə awtsajd ɛle
pɪŋkət kæsts ə tɛnəɾəv glæns ɪn hɪz dərɛkʃən
wɑt wər jə tɛlɪŋ mi ði ʌðər de ʃi sɛz
ðæt pipəl se ðə wərd ɔfən lajk ɔf fən wɛn ɪts rili prənawnst ɔf tən
smɪθ lʊkɪŋ spɔrɾi ən prɑpər in ə wajt rælf lɔrɛn polo ʃərt
wajt swɛtpænts ən najki ɛr ʌp tɛmpoz
sɛts dawn ə plæɾər əv bənænə pænkeks wɪθ ə dɪsəpruvɪŋ θʌd
no no hi sɛz
ðə rajt we ɪz ɔfən
pipəl hu prənawns ðə ti ɑr trajɪŋ tə sawn səfɪstəkeɾəd
bət ðe ʤʌst sawn rɔŋ
pɪŋkət gɪgəlz ðɛn əfɛks ə supərmæn ton əv vɔjs
ɪts ə nawn ɪts ə vərb
no ɪts kæptən kərɛkʃən No, it’s Captain Correction.
3-7. The following transcription represents one person’s reading of a passage
about love potions (adapted from The Encyclopedia of Things That Never Were,
p. 159). Write out the passage using ordinary English spellings.
æz ðə nem ɪndəkets As the name indicates,
ðiz poʃənz ɑr kɑmpawndəd these potions are compounded
spəsɪfəkli  specifically
tu ətrækt ə sʌbʤɛkt to attract a subject
hu ɪz rilʌktənt tə sərɛndər who is reluctant...
tə wʊnz kɑrnəl dəzajərz
ðə poʃən me bi hæd æɾə prajs frəm ɛni ælkəmɪst
ɔr ʌðər pərsən skɪld ɪn ðə prɛpəreʃən əv majn ʧenʤɪŋ kɑmpawnz
wɪʧəz wɪzərdz ən sɔrsərərz
hu ɑr ʤɛnrəli nɑt ɪntrəstəd ɪn lʌv
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 106
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 106 12/29/10 7:54:45 PM
12/29/10 7:54:45 PM
Exercises 107
ɑr sʌmtajmz ənwɪlɪŋ tə mænjəfækʧər ðə poʃənz
ðə pərʧəsərz onli prɑbləm me bi ðæt əv pərsweɾɪŋ
ði ɑbʤɛkt əv hɪz ɔr hər dəzajər
tə swɑlo ɛni əv ðə poʃən
ə risənt rɛsəpi fɔr ə lʌv poʃən ɪŋkluɾəd
ʤɪnʤər sɪnəmən drajd ən grawnd grep sidz
ɔjstər ɛlk æntlər ən tel her frəm ə mel ænəməl
ænd ɛni suɾəbəl ɑbʤɛkt frəm ðə pərsən
sʌʧ æz hɪz ɔr hər nel klɪpɪŋz
3-8. Transcribe each of the following words as you say them in casual speech.
(Don’t be misled by the spelling; it could be helpful to have someone else
pronounce them for you.) Examples: bed [bɛd]; rancid [rænsəd]; shnook
[ʃnʊk]
changes mostly very friend teacher
semantics system ready more musician
crackers peanuts palm music photographer
pneumonia attitude psalm fuel photograph
3-9. Examine the following list of consonants as they are represented in four popu-
lar dictionaries (the first three are American, the COD British), and compare
the dictionary symbols with the IPA symbols. The abbreviation MWCD stands
for Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary, eleventh edition; WNWCD for
Webster’s New World College Dictionary, fourth edition; AHD for The American
Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, third edition; COD for The Concise
Oxford Dictionary of Current English, tenth edition.
IPA Symbol MWCD WNWCD AHD COD
p p p p p
k k k k k
θ th th th θ
ð th th th ð
s s s s s
ʃ sh sh sh ʃ
ӡ zh zh zh ʒ
ʧ ch ch ch ʧ
ʤ j j j ʤ
ŋ ŋ ŋ ng ŋ
h h h h h
j y y y j
Some symbols used by dictionaries are the IPA symbols, but not all. North
American dictionaries tend to prefer their own symbols, while the British dic-
tionary leans strongly toward the IPA. Choose three sounds for which at least
one dictionary uses a different symbol from the IPA symbol, and discuss why
it might have been chosen.
3-10. Examine the following list of vowels as they are represented in three
dictionaries; compare the dictionary symbols with the IPA symbols. (See
Exercise 3-9 for identification of the dictionaries.)
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 107
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 107 12/29/10 7:54:45 PM
12/29/10 7:54:45 PM
108 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
IPA Symbol Words MWCD WNWCD AHD COD
i peat, feet ē ē ē iː
ɪ pit, bit i i ĭ ɪ
ɛ pet, bet e e ě ɛ
e wait, late ā ā ā eɪ
æ pat, bat a a ă a
ə soda, item ə ə ə ə
ʌ putt, love ə u ŭ ʌ
u pool, boot ü o͞o o͞o uː
ʊ push, put ů oo o͝o ʊ
o boat, sold ō o ō əʊ
ɔ port, or ȯ ô ô ɔː
ɑ pot, bottle ä ä ŏ ɒ
aw cow, pout aů ou ou aʊ
aj buy, tight ī ī ī ʌɪ
ɔj boy, toil ȯi oi oi ɔɪ
In contrast to their practice with consonants, desk dictionaries differ from
one another and from the IPA in transcribing vowels. Cite three instances of a
difference from the transcription in this book, and discuss the advantages and
disadvantages of the dictionary’s representation as compared to ours.
3-11. George Bernard Shaw’s tongue-in-cheek claim that English spelling is so cha-
otic that ghoti could be pronounced [fɪʃ] ‘fish’ has been called misleading.
That judgment is based on observations like these: <gh> can occur word
initially in only a few words (for example, ghost and ghastly), and then it is
always pronounced [g]; only following a vowel in the same syllable (as in
cough and tough) can <gh> be pronounced as [f]; thus, ghoti could not be
pronounced with an initial [f]. What other generalizations about the Eng-
lish spelling patterns of <gh>, <o>, and <ti> can be used to argue that
Shaw’s claim is exaggerated?
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
3-12. Your ESL class complains that English spelling is chaotic. Reading would be
easier, they say, if spelling reflected pronunciation. As examples, they claim
that electricity should be spelled <elektrisity> or <alektrisatee> and electri-
cal <elektrikal> or <alektrakal>; likewise, they say, cats should be spelled
<kats> and dogs <dogz>. In what sense could your students’ claim be
right? On the other hand, what arguments could you offer in support of the
view that reading is easier with little or no variation in the spelling of the
electric morpheme and the ‘plural’ morpheme even when the pronuncia-
tion differs? In other words, what good arguments can you offer for keeping
traditional spellings in such cases?
3-13. As a follow-up to the discussion about consistent spelling of the same
morpheme in different words even when the pronunciation of that
morpheme differs in the words, you realize that native speakers from
different regions have different vowel pronunciations. Some have the
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 108
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 108 12/29/10 7:54:46 PM
12/29/10 7:54:46 PM
Other Resources 109
same pronunciation for talk and tock (and walk and wok), while others
do not pronounce these pairs alike. What would your student spelling
reformers propose to accommodate these pronunciation differences across
different groups of speakers?
3-14. Your ESL class notices that you pronounce words like later, fatter, and metal as
though they were spelled with <d> instead of <t>—you pronounce them
as in lady, ladder, and medal. They ask why you don’t pronounce them with
the [t] sound of the spelling. What’s your explanation?
Other Resources
Internet
LISU Website: http://www.CengageBrain.com For users of this textbook.
Provides updated Internet links as well as supplemental material for students
and instructors. Here you will find interactive learning tools.
International Phonetic Association: http://www.langsci.ucl.ac.uk/
ipa/ Here you’ll find the most up-to-date version of the IPA, including
vowels, consonants, diacritics, suprasegmentals, tones and word accents.
You’ll also find links to sites where you can download IPA fonts for your
word processing programs, as well as information about recordings of the
sounds of the IPA.
UCLA Phonetics Lab Data: http://www.phonetics.ucla.edu/course/
chapter1/chapter1.html Here you’ll be able to hear all the speech sounds
represented in the IPA charts.
The Sounds of the IPA: http://www.phon.ucl.ac.uk/home/wells/
cassette.htm A cassette and CD of the sounds of the International
Phonetic Alphabet are available. For ordering information, use the link
at the IPA home page or go directly to this website.
Signal Analysis and Interpretation Laboratory: http://sail.usc.edu/index.
php At this site, click on SPAN (Speech Production and Articulation
kNowledge Group) for fascinating clips of people pronouncing many sounds
of English in American and Indian English. Be sure to click on “Videos” or
http://sail.usc.edu/span/video.php for images of the tongue and its
movement, as well as other features of the vocal tract pronouncing various
sounds.
Suggestions for Further Reading
Michael Ashby & John Maidment
• . 2005. Introducing Phonetic Science (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press). A basic treatment with separate chapters on voice, place of
articulation, manner of articulation, suprasegmentals, and speaker and hearer, as well as
good introductory treatment of instrumental phonetics.
Dani Byrd & Toben H
• . Mintz. 2010. Discovering Speech, Words, and Mind (Chichester:
Wiley-Blackwell). An accessible, richly illustrated, and accessible book exploring the speech
production and perception and the relationship of speech to language and mind.
David Crystal
• . 2008. A Dictionary of Linguistics and Phonetics, 6th ed. (Oxford: Wiley-
Blackwell). A rich source of information about the meanings of terms.
Peter B
• . Denes & Elliot N. Pinson. 1993. The Speech Chain, 2nd ed. (New York: Freeman).
An accessible account of the physics and biology of spoken language; includes chapters on
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 109
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 109 12/29/10 7:54:46 PM
12/29/10 7:54:46 PM
110 Chapter 3 The Sounds of Languages: Phonetics
acoustic phonetics, digital processing of speech sounds, speech synthesis, and automatic
speech recognition.
Peter Ladefoged & Keith Johnson
• . 2010. A Course in Phonetics, 6th ed. (Boston:
Wadsworth). An excellent introduction to the production mechanisms of speech and the
variety of sounds in languages.
Peter Ladefoged & Ian Maddieson
• . 1996. The Sounds of the World’s Languages (Malden,
MA: Blackwell). An advanced treatment of the articulatory and acoustic phonetics of the
various sounds in the languages of the world.
Ian R
• . A. MacKay. 1991. Phonetics: The Science of Speech Production, 2nd ed. (Boston:
Allyn and Bacon). The most complete elementary treatment of all aspects of phonetics;
accessible and with excellent illustrations.
Ian Maddieson
• . 1984. Patterns of Sound (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press). An
inventory of the sounds in a representative sample of the world’s languages; the inventories
vary from a low of 11 to a high of 141 sounds.
Geoffrey K
• . Pullum & William A. Ladusaw. 1996. Phonetic Symbol Guide, 2nd
ed. (Chicago: University of Chicago Press). Discusses the various symbols used in the
International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) and by other writers in their treatments of phonetics
and phonology; arranged like a dictionary, with each symbol clearly illustrated.
Michael Stubbs
• . 1980. Language and Literacy: The Sociolinguistics of Reading and
Writing (London: Routledge). Contains an excellent discussion of the relationship between
sounds and spelling in English and other languages; offers insights into the problems facing
spelling reform.
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 110
00419_03_ch03_p081-110.indd 110 12/29/10 7:54:47 PM
12/29/10 7:54:47 PM
111
Sound Systems of Language:
Phonology
4
What Do You Think?
You’re visiting Paris with your cousin Karen, who takes pride in her mastery
•
of the French language. She’s fluent enough to carry on an energetic
conversation with a taxi driver taking you to your hotel one evening. You’re
impressed, and Karen seems delighted. Then, as you arrive at your hotel, the
cabbie inquires of Karen whether she’s Canadian or American. Crestfallen,
she later asks you which characteristics of her pronunciation identified her
as an English speaker and why she hasn’t been able to eliminate them. What
do you say?
At work you get a message that reads “Call Jules Biker,” but you don’t
•
know anyone by that name. Trying to remember, you say it aloud and then
recognize that it must refer to your friend Jewel Spiker. When you tell Jewel
about the misspelling, she can’t imagine what accounts for the secretary’s
perceiving p as b. Can you explain it?
Your techie friend Ted claims machines can synthesize speech so well that
•
you can’t tell whether you’re listening to a real person or not. But you’re
skeptical and determine to explore the subject. After 15 minutes on the
Internet, what can you report to Ted about the quality of speech synthesis?
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 111
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 111 12/29/10 8:02:11 PM
12/29/10 8:02:11 PM
112 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
This chapter focuses on the systematic structuring of speech sounds in a language.
It examines which phonetic distinctions are significant enough to signal differences
in meaning, the relationship between how sounds are stored in the brain and how
they are pronounced, and the ways in which sounds are organized within words.
Throughout the chapter, you will find it useful to bear in mind two seemingly
obvious points that may help you appreciate the phenomena analyzed here. The
first is that, given the human vocal apparatus, words need to be readily pronounce-
able. The second is that listeners need to perceive different words as different.
Unless words and utterances are heard as distinct from one another, understanding
another speaker would require mental telepathy. As we’ll see, much of what hap-
pens in a language’s sound patterns seems to be influenced by those simple facts.
It’s useful to approach sound systems from the point of view of children acquir-
ing a native language. Imagine the task of an infant listening to utterances made
by parents, siblings, and others. From the barrage of utterances encountered in
early life, a child must decipher a code of language and learn to speak his or her
mother tongue. In addressing children, caregivers in some cultures use slow and
careful speech, sometimes called “baby talk,” but they don’t do it consistently,
and not all cultures follow that practice. To make matters more difficult, the utter-
ances children hear are often incomplete, interrupted, or flawed in other ways.
In Chapter 3 we distinguished between the number of letters in a written
word and the number of sound segments in its pronunciation. We have taken it
for granted that words have a specific number of sound segments. But in their
early months children would seem to have no ready access to that information.
Attempting to count the number of words in even a few seconds of a conversa-
tion or radio broadcast in an unfamiliar language will quickly demonstrate how
difficult that task is because words run together in an utterance of any language.
Ifwordswereprintedwithoutspacesbetweenthemtheywouldbeprettytoughtoread.
As you recognize, sorting out the individual words would not be easy. Actually,
the task is even more difficult than the run-together words in the printed sentence
might suggest because the letters in the sentence above are discrete and separated
from one another, but the individual sound segments in spoken words blend to-
gether into a continuous stream. To take our writing analogy a step further, imag-
ine attempting to spot the beginning and end points of each letter in a handwritten
sample: this challenge would more closely capture the one that infants face in de-
ciphering the code of distinctive sounds in their language. Consider the following:
In cursive writing, the letters of each word are joined.
Although anyone who knows English and can decipher this handwriting
could count the letters in each word, there is no clear separation in their visual
representation. The letters within a word blend into one another. The same is
true of speech; there is no separation between the individual sounds of a word,
no beginning or end for most of the individual sounds in the speech stream.
Children nevertheless learn the words and sounds of their language quickly and
efficiently, a remarkable feat.
Introduction: Sounds in the Mind
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 112
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 112 12/29/10 8:02:12 PM
12/29/10 8:02:12 PM
Introduction: Sounds in the Mind 113
If you examine a physical “picture” of a word as made by a sound spectro-
gram, you can see that there is no separation between the sounds. One rea-
son for the continuity between sound segments is that a segment’s phonetic
features—for example, voicing and nasalization—do not all begin or end simul-
taneously. To say the word twin, you don’t say [t]; then [w]; then [ɪ]; then [n].
Instead, individual phonetic features of one segment may continue into the next
segment, and features of an upcoming segment may be anticipated in pronounc-
ing a preceding segment. For example, the rounded lips that characterize the
pronunciation of [w] affect the character of the preceding [t] in twin (you need
only say the words tin and twin to see that twin shows lip rounding for [t],
but tin doesn’t). Note, too, that the nasal character of [n] is anticipated in the
vowel [ɪ]. Similarly, the voicing of a voiced sound may be discontinued in antic-
ipation of a following voiceless sound—in saying lint, for example, the tail end
of [n] will be devoiced in anticipation of the following voiceless [t]. Figure 4.1
presents a spectrogram that illustrates how the utterance Weren’t you here yes-
terday? appears acoustically. There isn’t any separation between sounds within
a word or between one word and the next. In the same way, the acoustic signal
picked up by an infant’s ears is continuous, and part of a child’s task is to sort
out words within sentences and sound segments within a word.
Children pass through stages in learning words. Some children appear to take
up phrases and clauses in utterances as whole units and later to dissect them into
parts (a gestalt approach). Others manage a more analytic approach from the
start, taking up words directly and constructing phrases and clauses from them as
necessary. All children eventually sort utterances into distinct units of meaning.
We can ask what kind of information a child must learn about the sounds of
a word. What is needed just to recognize a word? For one thing, a child must
recognize pronunciations of a given word by different people as the same word.
To understand speech it is essential to disregard certain voice characteristics and
personal particularities of volume, speed, and pitch. For another, a child must
observe a word’s sound segments and the order in which they occur—for ex-
ample, that cat contains the three sound segments [k, æ, t] in that order. And, of
course, in some fashion a child must know the phonological features that charac-
terize each segment—for example, that [k] is a stop and voiceless and velar.
Figure 4.1 Sound Spectrogram of Utterance: Weren’t you here yesterday?
©
Edward
Finegan
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 113
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 113 12/29/10 8:02:12 PM
12/29/10 8:02:12 PM
114 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
Phonemes and Allophones
Eventually every child also learns that sounds are pronounced differently in dif-
ferent contexts—in other words, that the “same sound” can have more than one
pronunciation, or realization. Without
being aware of it, English speakers pro-
nounce the words cop [kɑp] and keep
[kip] with different [k] sounds. If you
alternately pronounce the two words,
focusing on where your tongue touches
the roof of your mouth at the very be-
ginning, you’ll feel that it touches the
velum farther back for cop than for keep.
The reason is simple: [ɑ] in cop is a back
vowel and [i] in keep is a front vowel;
in anticipation of the back vowel, [k] is
pronounced farther back than when it
precedes the front vowel in keep.
As a second example of a sound being
pronounced differently in different envi-
ronments, note the sounds represented by
<p> in pot and spot or poke and spoke.
Hold the back of your hand up to your
mouth when saying these word pairs and
you’ll feel a difference in the puff of air
that accompanies the sounds represented
by <p>. In pot and poke it’s aspirated,
and we represent it as [ph]. But after [s],
the sound represented by the <p> of
spot and spoke is not aspirated, and we
represent it as [p].
In discussing [ph] and [p], we’ve noted that they occur in different positions
within a word. The list of words below highlights the positions in which aspi-
rated [ph] and unaspirated [p] occur.
pot [phɑt]
poker [phokər]
plate [phlet]
spot [spɑt]
spine [spajn]
split [splɪt]
Aspirated [ph] occurs at the beginning of words (pot, poker, plate) and unaspirated
[p] only after [s] (spot, spine, split). When you have two sounds and neither can
occur where the other one occurs in a word, we say they are in complementary
distribution.
Try It Yourself Prepare to say keep. Then,
once your tongue is in position for the initial
sound of keep, say cop instead. You’ll ﬁnd that you must
reposition your tongue to do it. If you say cop from the
initial position for keep, it will sound peculiar or foreign.
The need to reposition the back of your tongue to
achieve a natural pronunciation demonstrates that the
initial sounds of keep and cop are not identical.
Try It Yourself The aspiration accompa-
nying the [ph] sound in pot and poke is strong
enough to blow out a lighted match held in front of the
mouth. Be careful! The [p] sound following [s] in spot
and spoke is not aspirated and will not blow out a match.
Try saying spot, spot, spot, followed by a single pot. If
everything is positioned correctly, saying spot will leave
the match burning, but saying pot will blow it out.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 114
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 114 12/29/10 8:02:15 PM
12/29/10 8:02:15 PM
Introduction: Sounds in the Mind 115
Inthewordslistedabove,aspirated[ph]occursonlywordinitially,unaspirated
[p] only after [s]. In all of English, there is no word with an initial unaspi-
rated [p] and no word with [pʰ] after [s] in the same syllable. By definition,
then, [ph] and [p] are in complementary distribution. And because [ph] and [p]
do not occur in the same position in a word, they cannot contrast: they cannot be
the basis for distinguishing one word from another. In order for [ph] and [p] to
contrast, there would have to be a pair of words like [phɑt] and [pɑt] or [sphɑt]
and [spɑt] with different meanings, but there isn’t. English has only [phɑt]
‘pot’ and [spɑt] ‘spot.’ We conclude that [ph] and [p] cannot signal a contrast
between English words. Instead, they constitute different realizations of a sin-
gle unit of the sound system: they are allophones of that single unit—the pho-
neme /p/.
Note: To enclose phonemes we have started using slanted lines / / and
to enclose allophones we use square brackets [ ]. We will continue this
practice, but sometimes we will need to choose one representation or the
other when either one would serve. Angled brackets < > enclose letters,
not sounds.
A phoneme is a structural unit in the sound system of a language, and the
set of phonemes in a language is the set of distinctive, or contrastive, sounds it
exploits. Allophones of a phoneme are realizations of a single structural unit.
They cannot create different words, so they are noncontrastive. Native speakers
perceive allophones of a phoneme as the same sound despite physical differences
in pronunciation. Thus, English speakers regard [ph] and [p] as the same sound
segment, namely /p/. Likewise for the two [k] sounds of cop and keep—they
appear in complementary distribution (the first before back vowels and the
second before front vowels) and could not make contrasting words: they are
therefore allophones of the phoneme /k/.
Besides the aspirated and unaspirated allophones of /p/, there is a third
voiceless bilabial stop in English, which can occur in words like mop and stop.
This allophone can occur at the end of a word at the end of an utterance, as in
Don’t stop! or Where’s the map? In this position, the lips may remain closed, re-
sulting in a sound with no audible release; we represent this allophone of /p/
as [p˺]. You may have noted that this fact slightly complicates what we have
said because both unaspirated [p] and unreleased [p˺] can occur word finally.
They are not in complementary distribution. When two phonetically similar
sounds such as [p] and [p˺] can occur in the same position in a word but can-
not form contrasting words, they are said to occur in free variation. At the
end of an utterance, English speakers can pronounce map as [mæp] or [mæp˺]
and stop as [stɑp] or [stɑp˺]. Both unaspirated [p] and unreleased [p˺] are al-
lophones of /p/, and /p/ therefore has three allophones, all of them voiceless
bilabial stops: aspirated [ph], as in pot; unaspirated [p], as in map or spot; and
unreleased [p˺], as in Don’t stop! Ditto for aspirated, unaspirated, and unre-
leased voiceless alveolar stops: they are allophones of /t/. Likewise, aspirated,
unaspirated, and unreleased velar stops are allophones of /k/. To recapitulate,
the allophones of a phoneme occur in complementary distribution or free vari-
ation; in no case can a change of meaning be signaled by different allophones
of the same phoneme.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 115
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 115 12/29/10 8:02:15 PM
12/29/10 8:02:15 PM
116 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
Distribution of Allophones
It is helpful to view a phoneme as an abstract element in the sound system of a
language—a skeletal unit with bones but not a fleshed out pronunciation. How
a phoneme will be fleshed out, or realized, depends on its environment. For ex-
ample, the phoneme /p/ would have the skeletal features voiceless bilabial stop,
but it would be aspirated in some environments (pot, pill), unaspirated in others
(sport, spell), and sometimes unreleased (flop, blip). Its realization can be fully
specified only when its position in a word or utterance is known.
We have just seen that particular allophones are determined by where they
occur in a word. If you examine the sets of words in Table 4.1, you’ll see that
the picture is even more interesting. In these words the accent mark (´) indi-
cates the syllable that bears the primary stress (as in rídicule versus ridículous).
All the words in Table 4.1 have a syllable-initial /p/. In column A primary
stress falls on the first syllable, and /p/ is aspirated. In column B, although
primary stress does not fall on the first syllable, word-initial /p/ is also
aspirated. Columns A and B thus demonstrate that /p/ is aspirated word initially
and elsewhere in a word. In the words of column C, /p/ initiates a stressed
non-initial syllable and is aspirated. Thus, /p/ is aspirated [ph] when it is word
initial or initiates a stressed syllable. The words in column D demonstrate that
/p/ is not aspirated when it initiates an unstressed syllable word internally.
In sum, the English phoneme /p/ is always aspirated word initially (that is,
in both stressed and unstressed syllables—pérfect and perféction) and within
a word when it initiates a stressed syllable (compúter and topógrapher but not
táper or cópious).
Given these observations, we can be more precise in describing the
distribution of the allophones of /p/, taking account of stress patterns. This we
do in Table 4.2.
Table 4.1 Allophones of /p/ in English Words
A B C D
[ph] [ph] [ph] [p]
pédigree petúnia empórium rápid
pérsonal patérnal compúter émpathy
pérsecute península rapídity competítion
pílgrimage pecúliar compétitive computátional
Table 4.2 Two Allophones of English /p/
Phoneme Allophones Distribution
/p/
[ph]
In syllable-initial position in a stressed
syllable and in word-initial position
[p] Elsewhere
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 116
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 116 12/29/10 8:02:15 PM
12/29/10 8:02:15 PM
Introduction: Sounds in the Mind 117
Contrast the facts about aspirated
[ph] and unaspirated [p] with the
facts about /p/ and /s/. A child aim-
ing to say the word sat but saying pat
instead would fail to observe one of
the significant differences in English
pronunciation. That’s because /p/
and /s/ are distinct phonemes and,
as such, can distinguish words, as in
these pairs:
A B C D
/pɪt/ pit /pʌn/ pun /læpt/ lapped /sip/ seep
/sɪt/ sit /sʌn/ sun /læst/ last /sis/ cease
The words in each pair have different meanings but differ by only a single
sound. Two words that differ by only a single sound constitute a minimal
pair. (Note that the distinction depends on sounds, not spelling.) Minimal
pairs are valuable in identifying the contrastive sounds of a language—its
phonemes. Each minimal pair above demonstrates that /s/ and /p/ are dis-
tinct phonemes of English and not variants of a single phoneme. The articu-
latory descriptions of /s/ and /p/ show that they differ in both place and
manner of articulation.
/s/ /p/
Voicing -voice -voice
Place of Articulation alveolar bilabial
Manner of Articulation fricative stop
To take another example, /s/ and /b/ differ from one another in place and
manner of articulation and also in voicing.
/s/ /b/
Voicing -voice +voice
Place of Articulation alveolar bilabial
Manner of Articulation fricative stop
The fact that /s/ (a voiceless alveolar fricative) and /b/ (a voiced bilabial stop)
contrast in English (as in the minimal pairs sat/bat and lass/lab) proves they are
distinct phonemes.
Realizations (that is, allophones) of a single phoneme share some phonetic
features but differ in at least one feature—for example, voicing (voiced vs.
voiceless), aspiration (aspirated vs. unaspirated), manner of articulation (e.g.,
stop vs. fricative), or place of articulation (e.g., dental vs. alveolar). Consider the
words tap [thæp] and tab [thæb]. They mean different things, and the difference
must be signaled by the only difference in sound, namely, the voicing that
differentiates [p] and [b]. In fact, the [p]/[b] distinction serves to differentiate
hundreds of English word pairs, including pat/bat; lap/lab; cap/cab; pit/bit; and
Try It Yourself Pronounce the words
papaya and purpose aloud to determine
which of the four occurrences of /p/ are aspirated
and which are not. Using the information about the
distribution of /p/ allophones as described in Table 4.2,
explain their distribution in these two words.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 117
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 117 12/29/10 8:02:15 PM
12/29/10 8:02:15 PM
118 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
rope/robe. And in other sounds of English the voicing feature serves to differen-
tiate thousands more.
The English phonemes /p/ and /b/ contrast in word-initial (pit/bit) and
word-final (tap/tab) position, as we’ve seen. But sometimes two sounds con-
trast in some positions but not all. Two sounds are distinctive if they contrast
in any position. The minimal pair pit/bit demonstrates that /p/ and /b/ are
distinct English phonemes. The fact that English does not have a /p, b/ con-
trast in the position following /s/ as in s__at or s__ill does not undercut the dis-
tinctiveness of /p/ and /b/ as separate phonemes. The contrast between them
happens not to be exploited in the position following /s/. In other words,
there is no pair of words in English like spat/sbat or spill/sbill. (We return to
this point later.)
Now consider the situation of bilabial stops in another language. Korean, like
English, has three bilabial stops [ph], [p], and [b], as in these words:
[phul] ‘grass’
[pul] ‘fire’
[pəp] ‘law’
[mubəp] ‘lawlessness’
The minimal pair [phul] ‘grass’ and [pul] ‘fire’ demonstrates that [ph] and [p]
contrast in Korean and therefore belong to different phonemes. (In English,
as we’ve seen, they are allophones of a single phoneme.) On the other hand,
Korean does not have a minimal pair in which [p] contrasts with [b]. In fact,
[p] and [b] are in complementary distribution: [b] occurs only between vow-
els and other voiced segments, as in [mubəp], and [p] never occurs in that
environment. This demonstrates that [p] and [b] are allophones of a single
phoneme. (Note that the same morpheme meaning ‘law’ occurs in both [pəp]
and [mubəp].)
The diagram in Table 4.3 captures the difference in the phonological systems
of English and Korean with respect to these sounds. The same three sounds oc-
cur in both languages, but the systematic relationships among them in those lan-
guages are different. In English, [ph] and [p] are noncontrastive allophones of a
single phoneme and therefore cannot signal a meaning difference, but in Korean
[ph] and [p] are contrastively different sounds—distinct phonemes—and can
distinguish one word from another (as in [phul] ‘grass’ and [pul] ‘fire’). We say
Table 4.3 Three Sounds of English and Korean Compared
English
Phonemes
Sounds: English
and Korean
Korean
Phonemes
[ph] /ph/
/p/
[p]
/p/
/b/ [b]
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 118
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 118 12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
Phonological Rules and Their Structure 119
that voicing is phonemic in English (the voiced bilabial stop [b] contrasts with
the voiceless bilabial stop [p]). Aspiration, however, is not phonemic in English
(no two English words—and therefore no two English phonemes—differ solely
in aspiration). In Korean, on the other hand, the voiced bilabial stop [b] is an al-
lophone of /p/ and occurs regularly and predictably between voiced sounds (as
in [mubəp]); hence [b] and [p] cannot distinguish Korean words.
To summarize: in Korean, voicing is not contrastive but aspiration is; in
English, voicing is contrastive but aspiration is not.
You may be aware that French has
nasal vowels, and you may think Eng-
lish lacks them. In fact, English does
have nasal vowels, as in the words of
column B in Table 4.4. The vowels in
those words are pronounced with air
passing through the nose, as well as
through the mouth, whereas the words
in column A have oral vowels (pro-
nounced through the mouth). When you
pronounce the words of column B, air from the lungs exits through the nasal pas-
sage; when that passage is blocked, the sound of the vowel changes perceptibly.
If you search out nasal vowels in English words, you’ll discover that all of
them precede a nasal consonant, /m, n, ŋ/. That’s another way of saying that the
distribution of nasal vowels in English is rule-governed and predictable: English
vowels are nasalized before a nasal consonant. Since the distribution is rule-
governed, the occurrence of nasal vowels cannot signal a meaning distinction.
There is no pair of English words distinguished solely by virtue of one having
a nasalized vowel and the other having the same vowel not nasalized. (By con-
trast, in French and some other languages, nasalization can signal a difference
in meaning because its distribution is not predictable by rule.) Two phonetically
similar sounds whose distribution with respect to one another is predictable by
rule constitute allophones of a single phoneme.
Phonological rules have this general form:
A → B / C    D
You can read a rule like this as “A becomes
B in the environment following C and pre-
ceding D” or, more simply, “A becomes B
following C and preceding D.” The dash on
the right side of the arrow indicates where
what is on the left side of the arrow would
occur. A, B, C, and D can be specified infor-
mally or in terms of phonological features. In
cases where it is unnecessary to specify both
Phonological Rules and Their Structure
Try It Yourself Pinch your nose closed
while saying the words in Table 4.4. You’ll
discover that for the words in column A it will make
no perceptible diﬀerence; for those in column B it will
make a striking diﬀerence.
Table 4.4 Oral and Nasal Vowels in English
A B
sit sin
pet pen
light lime
brute broom
sitter singer
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 119
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 119 12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
120 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
C and D, one of them will be missing. For example, the phonological process of
nasalization in English can be represented as follows:
Nasalization Rule
vowel → nasal /    nasal
(Vowels are nasalized when they precede nasals.)
As we said earlier, in acquiring a word a child must learn the number of
phonemes it contains, what those phonemes are, and the order in which they
occur. As the English cop/keep alternation shows for the allophones of /k/,
and as the poke/spoke alternation shows for the allophones of /p/, a child must
also learn the rules that determine the particular allophones of a phoneme
depending on its position in a word and the character of nearby phonologi-
cal features such as nasal or voicing or position in a word or syllable. For
example, for each word in Table 4.4, a child doesn’t have to learn whether its
vowel is nasalized or not: the nasalization rule will apply only to the words in
Column B because only those words meet the structural conditions specified
by the nasalization rule.
The situation for a child acquiring Korean [p] and [b] is parallel to that of
an English-speaking child acquiring nasal vowels. Since [p] and [b] never con-
trast in Korean, they are allophones of a single phoneme and have only a single
representation in the lexicon. Of course, speakers must also know the phono-
logical rule that specifies the distribution of the allophones: [b] between vowels
(and other voiced sounds) and [p] elsewhere. The alternative to having a single
representation in the lexicon for [p] and [b] would require a specific differen-
tiation between these sounds in every word that contains either of them. For
example, pəp ‘law’ and mubəp ‘lawlessness’ would have different specifications
for [p] and [b]. But to have different specifications for [p] and [b] in the lexicon
of a Korean speaker would be equivalent to an English speaker’s having differ-
ent specifications for the different /k/ sounds of cop and keep, the different /p/
sounds of poke and spoke, and the different /i/ sounds of seat and seen. Instead,
each phoneme in a language is represented in the lexicon by a single form
(called an underlying form, to be discussed shortly). Native speakers internalize
the phonological rules specifying the distribution of allophones and automati-
cally apply them wherever the conditions for rule application are satisfied.
Generalizing Phonological Rules
Until now we have considered phonological rules as though they were formu-
lated to apply to particular sound segments. But they are much more general
than that. Let’s revisit aspiration as it accompanies the realization of /p/ in Eng-
lish words like poke and oppose:
1. Aspiration Rule for /p/:
-voice
bilabial → aspirated / word initially and initially in stressed syllables
stop
This rule says that a voiceless bilabial stop is aspirated in specific environments.
In poke it would prompt aspiration because /p/ occurs word initially, and in
oppose it would prompt aspiration because /p/ initiates a stressed syllable.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 120
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 120 12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
Phonological Rules and Their Structure 121
If, besides words like poke and oppose, you examine English words with other
stop consonants, you’ll discover that /t/ and /k/ are aspirated in precisely the
same environments in which /p/ is aspirated. Since /p, t, k/ have parallel dis-
tributions of aspirated allophones, English would appear to need two additional
rules as parallels to the Aspiration Rule for /p/: one for /t/ and another for /k/.
2. Aspiration Rule for /t/:
-voice
alveolar → aspirated / word initially and initially in stressed syllables
stop
3. Aspiration Rule for /k/:
-voice
velar → aspirated / word initially and initially in stressed syllables
stop
But in fact English doesn’t need these three parallel rules because the application
of these rules exhausts the list of voiceless stops in English. That allows the three
processes of aspiration to be captured in a single, more general rule covering
/p, t, k/:
English Aspiration Rule
-voice
→ aspirated / word initially and initially in stressed syllables
stop
(Voiceless stops are aspirated in word-initial position and initially in a stressed
syllable.)
Why a Foreign Accent? Part I
Consider a native speaker of English who knows no French and has been
introduced by a French speaker to a neighbor named Pierre. Unlike English
speakers, French speakers do not aspirate initial voiceless stops like /p/. So
the French speaker introducing Pierre will pronounce his name without as-
piration. Despite the fact that the English speaker has not heard aspiration in
the pronunciation of Pierre, he or she will tend to pronounce the name with
an aspirated [ph] in conformity with the phonological rules of English (but in
violation of the French rules). The subconscious application of one’s native
phonological rules to words in a foreign language contributes significantly to
creating a foreign accent and marking someone as a nonnative speaker.
On the flip side, when speaking a foreign language you may fail to make a
necessary distinction. English speakers don’t have to learn separately for cop and
keep which k sound to use because English distinguishes these sounds by rule.
But in other languages these two sounds may be distinct phonemes; they may
contrast. The IPA represents the initial sound of cop by [k] and of keep by [c]. In
languages like Basque, Malay, and Vietnamese, it is critical to know which velar
stop occurs in a word, just as English speakers must know whether /p/ or /t/
occurs: in those languages, [k] and [c] are not distributed by rule and are not
predictable. They must be learned for every word that has either one of them.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 121
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 121 12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
122 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
The English aspiration rule omits place of articulation (bilabial, alveolar, and ve-
lar) but maintains the voiceless and stop features. Because the English aspiration
rule specifies voiceless stop but not place of articulation, it will apply to all voice-
less stops irrespective of their place of articulation. It is thus a more general rule.
The more general a rule, the simpler it is to state using feature notation. Using
the features voiceless bilabial stop (instead of /p/) seemed initially to complicate
the statement of the Aspiration Rule for /p/. But using features also allowed us
eventually to recognize that the Aspiration Rule for /t/ and the Aspiration Rule for
/k/ were essentially the same rule as the Aspiration Rule for /p/ and to collapse
the three of them into a single—and simpler—rule that any of the individual rules
for /p, t, k/. For this reason and others, linguists regard internalized phonological
rules as being specified not in terms of phonemes like /p/ and /k/ or allophones
such as [p] and [ph] but in terms of feature sets such as [-voice] and [stop].
Natural Classes of Sounds
A set of phonemes such as /p, t, k/ (voiceless stops) that can be described using
fewer features than would be needed to describe any single member individually is
called a natural class of sounds. A natural class contains all (and only) the sounds
that share a particular set of features. For example, /p, t, k/ constitutes the natural
class of voiceless stops in English. These three sounds share the features [-voice] and
[stop], and no other sounds in English have only those features. The importance of
natural classes is that phonological processes in the world’s languages do not oper-
ate on individual sounds but on natural classes. As we have just seen, there are not
three aspiration rules in English, one each for /p/, /t/, and /k/. Instead, there is an
English aspiration rule that applies to the natural class of voiceless stops.
Now consider the set /p, t, k, b, d, g/. This is the natural class of stops. There
are no other stops in English, and all the sounds in the set share the feature [stop].
By contrast, the sounds /p, t, k, b, d/ do not constitute a natural class because
they share the feature stop, but so does /g/, which is not included. Likewise,
/p, t, k, m/ does not constitute a natural class because any feature introduced
to specify /m/ would also characterize sounds other than /p, t, k, m/. Adding
“nasal” to the description would entail the nasals /n/ and /ŋ/. Adding “bilabial”
would entail /b/. Notice, too, that in order to characterize the set /p, t, k, m, n, ŋ/,
which includes the voiceless stops and the nasals, we would need an either/or
description: either “voiceless stop” or “nasal.” Because no combination of features
uniquely specifies just those six sounds, /p, t, k, m, n, ŋ/ is not a natural class.
Thinking about phonological processes, then, we would not expect to find a rule
in any language that applies to /p, t, k, b, d/ (which is not a natural class) or
/p, t, k, m, n, ŋ/ (which is not a natural class) or any other set of sounds that
do not constitute a natural class. Phonological rules operate on natural classes
of sounds.
Underlying Forms
Thanks to internalized rules that yield the correct realizations for the phonemes
in a given word, children eventually produce entries in their lexicons like those
in Table 4.5. Such representations are called underlying forms, and we write
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 122
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 122 12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
Phonological Rules and Their Structure 123
them between slanted lines, using the notation for phonemes. A surface form
results from the application of phonological rules to the underlying form and
underlies a word’s pronunciation. In some examples in Table 4.5, the surface
form is the same as the underlying form because no phonological rule (of those
discussed in this chapter) is applicable, and we have indicated “none” in the
Rule column.
Rule Ordering
One additional rule will illustrate a point about the organization of phonological
rules in the internal grammar. Consider the following words:
A B A B
glop glob mop mob
write ride treat treed
rope robe clout cloud
tap tab root rude
lock log sack sag
flack flag clock clog
If you listen attentively while pronouncing these words aloud, you’ll notice that
the vowels in column B are longer in duration than those in the corresponding
words of column A. We represent long vowels with a colon after them, as in [uː].
Since English has no minimal pair such as [piːt]/[pit] or [bæt]/[bæːt], vowel
length cannot be contrastive in English. Instead, it is predictable, specified by
rule. If you look past the spelling, you’ll notice that all the words of column A end
with a voiceless consonant /p, t, k/, and all the words of column B end in a voiced
consonant /b, d, g/. English vowels are lengthened when they precede voiced
consonants. Using V to represent vowel, we can state the rule as follows:
Vowel Lengthening Rule (first approximation)
V → Vː /    stop
+voice
(Vowels are lengthened preceding voiced stops.)
Table 4.5 Underlying and Surface Forms for Six English Words
Underlying
Form Rule
Surface
Form
Written
Form
/kʌlər/ aspiration [khʌlər] color
/bʊk/ none [bʊk] book
/bit/ none [bit] beet
/ʌp/ none [ʌp] up
/spɪn/ nasalization [spĩn] spin
/pɪn/ aspiration, nasalization [phĩn] pin
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 123
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 123 12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
124 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
As a result of this rule, the following processes take place in English:
æ → æː /    /b/ (as in tab versus tap)
ɛ → ɛː /    /d/ (as in bed versus bet)
o → oː /    /g/ (as in brogue versus broke)
aj → aːj /    /d/ (as in slide versus slight)
(Note that this rule applies to diphthongs like /aj/; in fact, it applies to all
English vowels.)
Try It Yourself You may suspect that if a following voiced stop
lengthens a vowel in English, a following voiced fricative or aﬀricate
might have the same eﬀect. Find out by saying these word pairs aloud:
proof/prove; ether/either; Bruce/bruise; ﬁshin’/ﬁssion; batch/badge. Does that list
illustrate all voiced/voiceless pairs of fricatives and aﬀricates in English? What
did you discover about whether vowels are lengthened before voiced fricatives
and aﬀricates?
If, besides stops, you examined fricatives and affricates in word pairs such as
those given immediately above in Try It Yourself, you’d discover that English
vowels are lengthened preceding stops and fricatives and affricates. In fact, Eng-
lish vowels are lengthened before all voiced consonants. That means that the
vowel lengthening rule can be generalized as follows, where V represents vowel
and C represents consonant:
English Vowel Lengthening Rule
V → Vː /    C
+voice
(Vowels are lengthened preceding voiced consonants.)
Because English vowel length can be specified by rule, it is predictable and need
not be learned individually for each word.
In some languages, vowel length is not predictable. It must be learned word
by word. For example, Fijian has minimal pairs distinguished only by vowel
length. Compare the members of these pairs (in which long vowels are repre-
sented by doubling): oya meaning ‘he, she,’ oyaa meaning ‘that (thing)’; dredre
‘to laugh,’ dreedree ‘difficult’; vakariri ‘to boil,’ vakaririi ‘speedily.’ Because vowel
length in Fijian words cannot be assigned by a phonological rule, it is contras-
tive, distinctive, phonemic in that language.
Now consider the following pairs of words, paying attention to how the col-
umn A pronunciations differ from the corresponding ones in column B. You’ll
note that the difference is not the one suggested by the spellings <t> and
<d>; rather, the difference between the corresponding words is in the length
of their vowels. In some varieties of American English, the first vowel in each
word of column B is longer than the corresponding vowel of column A.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 124
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 124 12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
Phonological Rules and Their Structure 125
A B
writer rider
bleater bleeder
rooter ruder
The medial consonants <t> and <d> in the words above do not represent
different pronunciations, and the reason is that in words like those with /t/
and /d/ between vowels, Americans tend to use a tap (or flap) allophone (see
Chapter 3). In the pronunciation of medial /t/ and /d/, the tip of the tongue
rapidly taps the alveolar ridge. (Go on. Try it!) Because the tap realizations
of /t/ and /d/ are identical to one another (and are represented by IPA [ɾ]),
the difference of pronunciation that might have resulted from the distinction
between /t/ and /d/ is lost, or neutralized. The distinction is maintained in write
[rajt] and ride [raːjd], bleat [blit] and bleed [bliːd], and root [rut] and rude [ruːd]
but lost when underlying /t/ and /d/ meet the conditions of the tapping rule
(as in the examples above). Using V to represent any vowel, the tapping rule for
American English can be represented as here:
Tapping Rule
alveolar
→ tap
V    V
stop unstressed
(/t/, /d/ are realized as [ɾ] between two vowels, the second of which is unstressed.)
An interesting observation to be made here is that, despite the fact that the
tapping rule neutralizes the distinction between /t/ and /d/ in this environ-
ment, some Americans nevertheless pronounce the column B words differently
from those in column A. By applying the tapping rule and the lengthening rule,
speakers of American English pronounce the words in column B with a vowel of
longer duration even though there is no difference in the pronunciation of the
medial consonant, the tap. Here’s an explanation for how it may work.
We’ve described tapping and lengthening rules that may operate on the same
words. Let’s examine how the rules interact to produce a surface form. Assume
that the underlying forms in the lexicon are /rajtər/ for writer and /rajdər/
for rider. We can represent the derivation of the surface forms as in Table 4.6.
(When the form of a word does not meet the requirements of a rule, the rule is
not applicable, so we write NA.) From the underlying forms and the application
of the two rules in the order shown (first lengthening, then tapping), the surface
forms [rajɾər] and [raːjɾər] are produced. These are the correct realizations of
these words for some speakers. Let’s call them speakers of dialect A.
If we apply the same rules in the reverse order (first tapping, then length-
ening), the realizations will be different. Here’s how it works: because the
tap sound is voiced, the vowel preceding it is lengthened in both words. As
Table 4.7 shows, this is precisely what happens for speakers of another variety
of English. Call it dialect B.
The identical surface forms [raːjɾər] ‘writer’ and [raːjɾər] ‘rider’ that are derived
by applying the tapping rule prior to the lengthening rule would not be correct
for dialect A. In dialect A, writer and rider are not pronounced alike. Instead, rider
has a longer vowel than writer. Beginning with the same underlying forms and the
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 125
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 125 12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
12/29/10 8:02:16 PM
126 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
same two phonological rules, applying them in one order produces correct surface
realizations for a specific dialect, and applying them in the other order produces
correct surface realizations for a different dialect. Evidence such as this has led
some researchers to hypothesize that rule ordering (or an equivalent process) is
part of the organization of phonological rules.
Note that the forms resulting from the derivation in Table 4.7, though incorrect
in dialect A, are correct in dialect B. This illustrates how speakers of different dia-
lects can share underlying forms and rules but produce different surface forms as
a result of applying the rules in different orders. Dialects with lengthening before
tapping exhibit different forms of writer and rider (Table 4.6). Dialects with tapping
before lengthening exhibit identical forms with a long vowel (Table 4.7).
So far we’ve said little about how sounds are organized within words (although
our analyses have presumed a certain organization, as you’ll see). We’ve relied
on the obvious fact that segments in a word occur as a sequence abcdef, but by
no means is that the whole story. When we discussed aspiration, we also relied
on the fact that words consist of one or more syllables. We now analyze the
structure of syllables, and we’ll see that the sounds within a syllable are orga-
nized not merely sequentially but also hierarchically.
Syllables and Syllable Structure
Table 4.7 Derivation of Writer and Rider in Dialect B
Writer Rider
Underlying form /rajtər/ /rajdər/ (input)
Tapping rule applies applies
↓ ↓
Derived form [rajɾər] [rajɾər] (output/input)
Lengthening rule applies applies
↓ ↓
Surface form [raːjɾər] [raːjɾər] (output)
Table 4.6 Derivation of Writer and Rider in Dialect A
Writer Rider
Underlying form /rajtər/ /rajdər/ (input)
Lengthening rule NA applies
↓
Derived form [rajtər] [raːjdər] (output/input)
Tapping rule applies applies
↓ ↓
Surface form [rajɾər] [raːjɾər] (output)
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 126
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 126 12/29/10 8:02:17 PM
12/29/10 8:02:17 PM
Syllables and Syllable Structure 127
Syllable isn’t a tough notion to grasp intuitively, and there is considerable agree-
ment in counting syllables within words. Probably most readers of this book would
agree that cod has one syllable, ahi two, and halibut three. But technical definitions
are challenging. Still, there is agreement that a syllable is a phonological unit
consisting of one or more sounds and that syllables are divided into two parts— an
onset and a rhyme. The rhyme consists of a peak, or nucleus, and any consonants
following it. The nucleus is typically a vowel, although certain consonants called
sonorants may function as a nucleus. Sonorants include nasals ([m, n, ŋ]) and liq-
uids ([r, l]). Consonants that precede the rhyme in a syllable constitute the onset.
Any consonants following the nucleus as part of the rhyme are the coda.
The tree below represents the structure of a syllable as just described.
syllable
rhyme
onset
coda
nucleus
Not every syllable has an onset, and not every rhyme has a coda. That means the
only essential element of a syllable is a nucleus. Because a single sound can con-
stitute a syllable and a single syllable can constitute a word, a word can consist
of a single vowel—but you already knew that from knowing the words a and I.
Try It Yourself First, in the lines below from a Shakespearean
sonnet, determine whether the rhymed parts of the rhymed words meet
the deﬁnition of rhyme formulated above. In other words, do these
Shakespearean rhymes consist solely of the nucleus and coda of a syllable? Sometime
too hot the eye of heaven shines, / And often is his gold complexion dimm’d; / And every
fair from fair sometime declines, / By chance or nature’s changing course untrimm’d.
Table 4.8 gives some English words with one, two, three, and four syllables.
Table 4.8 English Words Divided into Syllables
1 Syllable 2 Syllables 3 Syllables 4 Syllables
fat even loveliest respectively
[fæt] [i-vən] [lʌv-li-əst] [ri-spɛk-təv-li]
spin although potato accumulate
[spɪn] [ɔl-ðo] [pʰə-tʰe-ɾo] [ə-kʰjum-jə-let]
through consists computer algebraic
[θru] [kʰən-sɪsts] [kʰəm-phju-ɾər] [æl-ʤə-bre-ək]
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 127
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 127 12/29/10 8:02:17 PM
12/29/10 8:02:17 PM
128 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
The trees in the table illustrate the linear and hierarchical syllable structure of
the words fat, even, and loveliest. As an exercise, you are invited to formulate the
tree representing the word respectively.
syllable
onset rhyme
f
nucleus coda
a t
word
syllable syllable
rhyme onset rhyme
nucleus
v
nucleus coda
e e n
word
syllable syllable syllable
onset onset rhyme rhyme
l l
nucleus nucleus coda
i e st
rhyme
nucleus coda
o ve
Sequence Constraints
The sequences of sounds permitted in a syllable differ from language to
language. Notice in the phrase below that English allows several patterns of
consonants (C) and vowels (V) in its syllables. (We use dashes to separate
syllables within a word.)
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 128
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 128 12/29/10 8:02:17 PM
12/29/10 8:02:17 PM
Syllables and Syllable Structure 129
in a pre-vi-ous cap-tion
ɪn ə pri vi əs kæp ʃən
VC V CCV-CV-VC CVC-CVC
In that expression, you can see that English permits VC, V, CCV, CV, and CVC
syllable types, and other permissible types occur in monosyllabic words like
these:
past /pæst/ CVCC queen /kwin/ CCVC
turned /tərnd/ CVCCC squirts /skwərts/ CCCVCCC
Within a multisyllabic word (e.g., at the end of a syllable that is not word final),
fewer coda types are permitted.
Not every language allows so wide a variety of syllable types as English does.
The preferred syllable type among the world’s languages is a single consonant
followed by a single vowel: CV. Other common types are CVC and V. (All three
types occur in the illustrative phrase above.) Polynesian languages like Samoan,
Tahitian, and Hawaiian have only CV and V syllables. Japanese also allows
CV and V syllable types, but it also permits CVC if the second C, the coda, is a
nasal. Korean permits V, CV, and CVC syllables. Mandarin permits syllables of
the forms V, CV, and (if the coda is [n] or [ŋ]) CVC.
It is not common in the languages of the world to have onset consonant
clusters—CC—as in English try, twin, and stop, and it is very uncommon to have
onset consonant clusters of more than two consonants—CCC—as in scream, splint,
and stress. English itself has a limited range of consonants that can occur as C1
and C2 in a two-consonant onset cluster (C1C2) and a narrower range in each
position of a three-consonant onset cluster. It is no coincidence that all three
illustrations (scream, splint, stress) of onset CCC begin with /s/. Furthermore,
English three-consonant onset clusters
have different constraints from clusters
that constitute a coda. Notice, for ex-
ample, that the word squirts /skwərts/
has a three-consonant cluster as the
onset and another as the coda. But the
onset cluster /skw/ could not occur as a
coda, and the coda /rts/ could not oc-
cur as an onset; in those syllable roles,
they would be impermissible clusters.
The rules that characterize permis-
sible syllable structures in a language
are called sequence constraints (or
phonotactic constraints), and they
determine what constitutes a possi-
ble syllable. As a result of such con-
straints, there are—besides the words
that do exist in a language—thousands
more that do not exist but could, and
thousands upon thousands that could
Try It Yourself Cite three English words
that have onset clusters of three conso-
nants. What consonant sound do they all begin with?
Which sounds occur as C2? What about C3? Can you
think of any onset clusters that have a diﬀerent C2 or
C3? What are they?
Try It Yourself The following forms
violate the sequence constraints of English
and could not serve as English words: ptlin, brkop,
tsmot, ngam. Add three more impossible words to
the list.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 129
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 129 12/29/10 8:02:17 PM
12/29/10 8:02:17 PM
130 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
not exist because their syllable structures are not permissible sequences of
consonants and vowels in that language. The following would be impossi-
ble words in Hawaiian and Japanese because they violate the sequence con-
straints of those languages: pat (CVC), pleat (CCVC), and spa (CCV).
An aphorism among American linguists points out that “Not every white house
is the White House, and not every black bird is a blackbird.” The point is that
stress patterns can be significant. In pronouncing the phrase every white house,
relatively strong stress is given to both white and house: whíte hóuse. In referring
to the official residence of the U.S. president, relatively strong stress is assigned
to White but only secondary stress to House: Whíte Hòuse. The stress pattern
assigned to the name of the president’s residence matches that in the word
téachèr: Whíte Hòuse. The stress pattern of the same words in the phrase (every)
whíte hóuse does not. From the fact that stress can vary and that the meanings
of the two expressions differ, it follows that stress can be contrastive in English.
Below is a list of several other word pairs. The pairs in column A are distinct
words—they constitute noun phrases, comprising an adjective and a noun (as
well as an article); the stress patterns of the pairs in column B match the pattern
of téachèr—they constitute compound nouns.
A B
a bláck bóard a bláckbòard
a blúe bírd a blúebìrd
a hígh cháir a híghchàir
a réd néck a rédnèck
a jét pláne a jétstrèam
an íced téa an íce crèam
a yéllow jácket (clothing) a yéllow jàcket (a kind of wasp)
Stress
Why a Foreign Accent? Part II
When learning a foreign language whose syllable structure differs from our
native tongue, we tend to impose the sequence constraints of our native
syllables onto the foreign words. For example, neither Spanish nor Persian
permits onset clusters such as /st/ and /sp/, and that makes it a serious chal-
lenge for native speakers of Spanish and Persian to say English words like
study and speech as an English speaker would say them. Instead of /stʌdi/ and
/spiʧ/, speakers of Spanish and Persian are often heard to say /ɛs-tʌdi/ and
/ɛs-piʧ/, pronunciations that conform to the sequence constraints of their na-
tive languages. Similarly, as noted in Chapter 2, the words baseball and strike
have been borrowed into Japanese, and here we note that Japanese speakers
pronounce them beesubooru and sutoraiku in conformity with the CV sequence
constraint of their language.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 130
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 130 12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
Syllables and Stress in Phonological Processes  131
English has variable stress, not fixed stress, and so do some other lan-
guages, including German. Many other languages have fixed stress, with stress
assigned regularly to a particular loca-
tion in words. In Polish and Swahili,
stress typically falls on a word’s next-
to-last syllable (called the penultimate
syllable). Czech words carry stress on
the first syllable. French words usually
carry stress on the last syllable.
We saw above that certain phonological rules depend for their formulation on
the syllable (aspiration), on stress (tapping), or on both. English aspiration of the
voiceless stops /p, t, k/ occurs “word initially and initially in stressed syllables.”
Such a formulation assumes that in the brain words are organized by syllable.
In turn, that means children must have some grasp of how words are organized
into syllables. The tapping rule that produces [rajɾər] for writer and [mɛɾəl] for
metal also relies on stress, and by now you can probably imagine that the tap-
ping rule could be formulated in terms of syllables instead of vowel segments,
which is how we formulated it in the section on “Rule Ordering” above. Cur-
rent models of word structure use multiple tiers to accommodate phonologically
significant levels, including segments, syllables, and stress, but analyses of that
kind lie beyond the scope of this book.
Syllables and Stress in Phonological
Processes
Sniglets
Comedian Rich Hall has compiled lists of “sniglets” for English—words that
do not appear in the dictionary but should. Here are a few sniglets and Hall’s
proposed definitions. Note that sniglets conform to the sequence constraints
of English.
charp ‘the green mutant potato chip found in every bag’
elbonics ‘the actions of two people maneuvering for one armrest in a movie
theater’
glarpo ‘the juncture of the ear and skull where pencils are stored’
hozone ‘the place where one sock in every laundry disappears to’
spibble ‘the metal barrier on a rotary telephone that prevents you from
dialing past O’
Try It Yourself Identify three additional
examples of phrase and compound noun pairs
like blúe bírd and blúebìrd in the preceding columns.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 131
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 131 12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
132 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
Before leaving the subject of phonology, let’s return to the pronunciation of the
most productive inflectional suffixes of English, which we briefly introduced at
the end of Chapter 2. Some striking regularities in the patterns are worthy of
further exploration.
English Plural, Possessive, and Third-Person
Singular Morphemes
Regular nouns exhibit several realizations of the plural morpheme, as in lips
[lɪps], seeds [sidz], and fuses [fjuzəz]. The surface forms for these realizations
of the plural morpheme are called its allomorphs. As the following three
lists demonstrate, the allomorphs of the plural morpheme are determined by
the character of the final sound of the singular stem to which it is attached.
Allomorphs of the English ‘Plural’ Morpheme
[əz] [s] [z]
bus-es tip-s tab-s
fus-es cat-s seed-s
bush-es book-s fig-s
peach-es whiff-s car-s
judg-es birth-s ray-s
These lists indicate the distributional pattern of the plural realizations in
English:
1. [əz] after nouns ending in /s, z, ʃ, ӡ, ʧ, ʤ/ (a natural class called sibilants)
2. [s] following all other voiceless segments
3. [z] following all other voiced segments
We will assume that the underlying form of the plural morpheme is /z/. From
this underlying form, all three allomorphs must be derivable by general rules
that apply to all regular nouns. From an underlying /z/, a rule such as the fol-
lowing would derive the [əz] allomorph that follows sibilants. (Note: + marks a
morpheme boundary and # marks a word boundary.)
Schwa Insertion Rule A
/z/ → [əz] / sibilant + ___#
(Schwa is inserted before a word-final /z/ that follows a morpheme ending in a
sibilant.)
In order to derive the allomorph [s] from the underlying /z/ after voiceless
sounds, a rule would be needed that changes the voiced /z/ to [s], reflecting the
voiceless final consonant sound of the stem. The process of a sound becoming
more like an adjacent sound is called assimilation.
Morphology and Phonology Interaction: Allomorphy
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 132
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 132 12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
Morphology and Phonology Interaction: Allomorphy 133
Assimilation Rule A
/z/ → -voice / -voice + ___#
(Word-final /z/ is devoiced following a morpheme that ends in a voiceless
sound.)
In order to derive the correct forms of all regular plural nouns, the schwa
insertion and assimilation rules must have considerable generality, and
Table 4.9 illustrates the application of these rules in the nouns coops, pieces, and
weeds. (NA means a rule is not applicable because a condition necessary for it to
apply is missing; slanted lines / / represent underlying forms; square brackets
[ ] represent forms derived by application of one or more phonological rules.)
These rules for deriving the plural forms of regular nouns have even
wider applicability. It turns out that for two other extremely common in-
flectional morphemes of English—the possessive marker on nouns (church’s,
cat’s, dog’s) and the third-person singular marker on verbs (teaches, laughs,
swims)—the distribution of allomorphs parallels the distribution of plural
allomorphs.
Possessive Morpheme on Nouns
[s] for ship, cat, Jack, puff . . .
[z] for bag, pad, dog, John, arm . . .
[əz] for church, judge, fish . . .
Third-Person Singular Morpheme on Verbs
[s] for laugh, leap, eat, kick . . .
[z] for swim, hurry, lean, crave, see . . .
[əz] for teach, tease, judge, buzz, rush . . .
We posited /z/ as the underlying form of the plural morpheme, and if we
posit /z/ as the underlying phonological form of the possessive morpheme and
the third-person singular morpheme, the very same rules that derive the cor-
rect allomorphic realizations of the plural morpheme will derive the correct
Table 4.9 Derivation of English Plural Nouns
Coops Pieces Weeds
Underlying forms /kup+z/ /pis+z/ /wid+z/
Schwa insertion NA applies NA
↓
Derived form [kup+z] [pis+əz] [wid+z]
Assimilation applies NA NA
↓
Surface form [kups] [pisəz] [widz]
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 133
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 133 12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
134 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
realizations of the possessive morpheme on nouns and of the third-person sin-
gular morpheme on verbs. (Unlike plurals, some of which are irregular, all
nouns have regular possessive morpheme realizations, and all verbs—except
is, has, says, and does—are regular with respect to the third-person singular
morpheme.)
English Past-Tense Morpheme
Going beyond the plural, possessive, and third-person singular morphemes just
examined, we see a further parallel for another extremely common English mor-
pheme. As you can readily determine, the inflectional morpheme that marks the
past tense of regular verbs in English has three realizations:
[t] for wish, kiss, talk, strip, preach . . .
[d] for wave, bathe, play, lie, stir, tease, roam, ruin . . .
[əd] for want, wade, wait, hoot, plant, need . . .
If we posit /d/ as the underlying phonological form of the past-tense mor-
pheme, only two rules are needed to derive the past-tense realizations of all
regular verbs.
Schwa Insertion Rule B
/d/ → [əd] / alveolar stop + ___#
(Schwa is inserted preceding a word-final /d/ that follows a morpheme ending
in an alveolar stop.)
Assimilation Rule B
/d/ → -voice / -voice + ___#
(Word-final /d/ is devoiced following a morpheme that ends in a voiceless
segment.)
Notice that, just like the rules for deriving plurals, possessives, and third-
person singular allomorphs, the rules for deriving past-tense allomorphs involve
schwa insertion and assimilation. Table 4.10 provides derivations of the past-
tense forms of the verbs wave, wish, and want as examples.
Table 4.10 Derivation of English Past-Tense Verbs
Waved Wished Wanted
Underlying form /wev+d/ /wɪʃ+d/ /wɑnt+d/
Schwa insertion NA NA applies
↓
Derived form [wev+d] [wɪʃ+d] [wɑnt+əd]
Assimilation NA applies NA
 ↓
Surface form [wevd] [wɪʃt] [wɑntəd]
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 134
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 134 12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
Morphology and Phonology Interaction: Allomorphy 135
Underlying Phonological Form of Morphemes
in the Lexicon
A word’s phonological shape in the lexicon is called its underlying form, and
generally speaking it is not the same as the surface or realized form, as we’ve
seen. This section explores the phonological form of words as they are thought
to exist in a speaker’s mental lexicon.
Consonants The same kinds of phonological processes that operate between a
stem and an inflectional suffix (for example, between /trɪp/ and /d/ to produce
[tʰrɪpt] ‘tripped’) also operate between a stem and a derivational morpheme.
Think about a child who knows the words metal and medal. In North American
English, the sound that occurs in the middle of both words is not [t] or [d] but
[ɾ] (an alveolar tap, created when the tip of the tongue taps quickly against the
alveolar ridge as in pity, later, bladder).
A child hearing metal and medal would have entered exactly what he or she
heard into the lexicon—for a speaker of American English that would be /mɛɾəl/
(with a tap) in both cases. But after the child had heard someone say a new car
was painted metallic [məthælək] red and recognized that metallic contains the
morpheme metal and the derivational suffix -ic (as in atomic and sulfuric), then
the alternate pronunciations of the metal morpheme ([mɛɾəl] and [məthæl])
would have to be reconciled. One task of a language learner is to posit an un-
derlying form that will efficiently yield the right surface forms as output from
general phonological rules.
Next consider what happens when the child subsequently hears someone report
that the metallic red car’s medallion is missing from the hood. For medal, [mɛɾəl]
is heard and for medallion, [mədæljən]. What underlying form must be posited
once the child recognizes that the morpheme medal occurs in both words?
Assuming the child has recognized metal as a common element in metal and
metallic and medal as a common element in medal and medallion, here are the
pronunciations that have been observed:
Metal Medal
[mɛɾəl] [məthælək] [mɛɾəl] [mədæljən]
metal metallic medal medallion
The child could account for the different pronunciations of the morpheme metal
by positing /mɛtæl/ in the lexicon and applying rules that change this underly-
ing form into the realized surface forms. Focusing first on the consonants, an
underlying form /mɛtæl/ would require a phonological process that changed /t/
into [ɾ] to yield [mɛɾəl]. (Below you’ll see why we’ve used underlying /æ/.)
For the word medal /mɛdæl/, this same rule will be needed to change /d/
into [ɾ] in [mɛɾəl]. The tapping rule formulated earlier would change under-
lying /t/ and /d/ into [ɾ] between a stressed vowel and an unstressed vowel.
Using a somewhat more formal notation, the rule would be:
Tapping Rule
alveolar
→ tap
V
——
V
stop +stress -stress
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 135
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 135 12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
136 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
Slips of the Tongue
In a tribute to England’s Queen Victoria, the warden of one of Oxford’s col-
leges aimed to toast “our dear old queen” but is reputed instead to have
offered “Three cheers for our queer old dean!” That and many another slip
of the tongue ascribed to the Reverend William Archibald Spooner falls
into a kettle of speech errors, or slips of the tongue, that have amused and
fascinated professional and lay observers for centuries. Accidentally call-
ing the “dear old queen” a “queer old dean” makes clear that the brain/
tongue combination has access not just to whole words but separate sound
segments—and that’s not surprising. In “queer old dean,” [kw] and [d]
have been interchanged. The onset of the syllable [diːr] ‘dear’ has been
exchanged with the onset of the syllable [kwiːr]. You won’t have failed to
note that both syllables have the same rhyme, probably helping to prompt
the confusion and suggesting that syllable rhymes are also be available to
the brain. Other speech errors offer insight into which parts of words be-
sides segments and onsets are accessible to the brain/tongue and therefore
susceptible to slips.
In the 1970s, linguist Victoria A. Fromkin analyzed a sizeable collection of
speech errors she’d gathered. It is interesting to consider her examples to see
what they suggest about which word elements the brain can access in produc-
ing speech. Fromkin’s examples point definitively to anticipated sound seg-
ments, as you can see in an example like “alsho share” [ɔlʃo ʃɛr] for also share
and “reek-long race” for week-long race, where an anticipated segment is sub-
stituted for a preceding one. Other examples also point to the psychological
reality of whole segments, as in “teep a cape” for keep a tape and “the nipper
is zarrow” for the zipper is narrow. Whole segments need not be consonants;
they may be vowels, as in Wang’s bibliography mistakenly called “Wing’s
babliography” and dissertation topic mistakenly pronounced [dɪsərtɑʃən
tepək]. Strong evidence pointing to the availability of segments comes from
examples like “frish gotto” for fish grotto and “blake fruid” for brake fluid. In
“frish gotto,” [r] has been extracted from the [gr] cluster and inserted after
[f] to create a cluster, while in “blake fruid” the second segment in each clus-
ter has been exchanged for the other.
Beyond individual segments, evidence for access to onsets can be sur-
mised from “brittle island in litany” for little island in Brittany and “coat
thrutting” for throat cutting. The onset of the first syllable in Brittany has
been interchanged with the onset of the first syllable in little ([br] and
[l]), and the onset of throat has been exchanged with the onset of cutting
([θr] and [k]). Evidence for the reality of elements smaller than a segment
comes from examples like “glear plue sky” for clear blue sky, where only a
single feature of the segments is interchanged, while other features remain
unchanged. In particular, voicing is interchanged, while place of articula-
tion and manner of articulation remain unaffected. Thus, [p] in “plue” (like
[b] in blue) remains a bilabial stop but assumes the voicelessness of [k] in
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 136
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 136 12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
Morphology and Phonology Interaction: Allomorphy 137
It’s not surprising that phonological rules that account for one set of facts
may also account for other facts. After all, phonological rules apply to all mor-
phemes and words that meet the structural description unless they have been
specifically blocked from applying. For instance, nouns like tooth and foot that
have irregular plural forms are specifically blocked from taking the regular plu-
ral morpheme. If tooth and foot weren’t marked as irregular, adults would say
tooths and foots just as children do before they learn to exempt these morphemes
from the regular processes.
Thus, the relationship between the phonological representation of mor-
phemes in the lexicon and their actual realization in speech is mediated by a set
of processes that can be represented in phonological rules of significant general-
ity. Not only will metal and medal be affected by the tapping rule, but so will
every word that meets the conditions specified in the rule, including single-
morpheme words like butter, city, meter, and lady; two-morpheme words like
writer, rider, raider, rooter; and so on.
Vowels Consider a youngster who knows the words photograph and photog-
rapher ([foɾəgræf] and [fəthɑgrəfər]). At some point the youngster posits the
entry photograph in the lexicon to represent the core of these two words.
A moment’s thought will suggest that an underlying form /fotɑgræf/ would
represent the baseline knowledge needed for the pair of alternate realiza-
tions. Given the underlying representation /fotɑgræf/ and the surface forms
[foɾəgræf] and [fəthɑgrəfər] and the recognition that [ə] occurs only in un-
stressed syllables, a rule that changes unstressed vowels into [ə] would pro-
duce the correct vowels.
On the other hand, if /ə/ appeared in the underlying form, no rule could
produce the correct surface forms, and here’s why. In order to produce the [ɑ]
in [fəthɑgrəfər] from an underlying form /fətəgrəfər/, a rule would need to
produce [ɑ] from underlying /ə/. But for the word photograph, different rules
would be needed to produce [o] from underlying /ə/ in the first syllable and
[æ] from underlying /ə/ in the third syllable. This amounts to knowing which
vowels exist in the surface realizations and encoding that knowledge in the un-
derlying form along with /ə/, but that is exactly what we assume does not hap-
pen. Instead, if we postulate different vowels in the underlying forms, a single
rule can derive [ə] from any underlying vowel when it occurs in an unstressed
clear, while [k] in clear assumes the voiced feature of [b] in blue. In another
example, “pig and vat” instead of big and fat, only the voicing values of the
segments [b] and [f] are interchanged, while their respective places and
manners of articulation remain unaltered; thus big becomes “pig” and fat
becomes “vat.” Note that in all the speech errors cited here from Professor
Fromkin’s collection—and this is true more generally—the sequence con-
straints of the language are honored and segments that don’t exist in the
language are not produced in error. Speech errors don’t create nonpermis-
sible sounds or sound sequences.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 137
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 137 12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
138 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
syllable. We can now derive the pronunciations for these words by formulating
the rule as follows:
V
→ [ə]
-stress
(An unstressed vowel is realized as schwa.)
Of course, a rule that relies on information about stress would require prior as-
signment of stress, a matter that lies beyond the scope of this chapter.
Until now, we’ve represented underlying forms essentially as a sequence of
phonological segments—for example, /kæt/ for cat and /kæt+z/ for cats. As
some of our rules have suggested, though, representations in terms of segments
like /k/ and /t/ are shorthand for a set of phonological features, akin to the
sequence of bracketed columns below, whose columns represent the segments
/k, æ, t/. Entries in the mental lexicon embody information equivalent to that
in a feature matrix. (Many treatments of phonology employ a partly different
and more abstract set of features from those we use here.) In addition, as we
saw earlier, they include information about syllable structure, in this case that
/æt/ (shorthand for the features) constitutes the rhyme, /t/ the coda, and /k/
the syllable onset. In producing and comprehending speech, the brain is able to
access several levels of phonological representation—not only segments and the
features they comprise but syllable structure and more.
-voice low -voice
velar front alveolar
stop vowel stop
What the Brain Knows in Going from Lexical
Entries to Surface Realizations
Let’s reexamine the phonological processes from this and an earlier chapter in
order to determine which phonological units the brain must access for those pro-
cesses to operate. For assimilation (e.g., of the plural morpheme /z/ to a stem
ending in a voiceless consonant as in cats [kæts] or peaks [piks]), the relevant
phonological unit is the feature voice. Likewise for nasalization, aspiration, and
lengthening, where the relevant unit again is the phonological feature—in these
cases, the set of features that constitute a natural class (nasals, voiceless stops,
voiced consonants). For reduplication (discussed in Chapter 2), the relevant unit
is the syllable. For rhyming, as in poems, the relevant phonological unit is the
rhyme, a structural part of the syllable. (For alliteration, as mentioned earlier in
the chapter in the section “Syllables and Syllable Structure,” the relevant unit is
the onset, another structural part of the syllable.) In sum, ordinary phonological
processes indicate that the brain can access segments, features, syllables, and
structural parts of syllables. And there are still other phonological units that the
brain can access.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 138
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 138 12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
Summary 139
Several decades ago researchers thought it would be
a matter of only a few years until computers would
be able to recognize speech and synthesize it. (Think
of speech recognition as turning speech into print and
of speech synthesis as turning print into speech.) The
process is taking longer than anticipated, and the
reasons don’t lie in limitations of computing power
or technology. Despite the fact that children master
the phonology of their language at a very young age,
researchers have not yet nailed down the extraordi-
nary complexity of the phonological processes that
characterize human languages. Phoneticians, phonol-
ogists, psycholinguists, and others have not yet suf-
ﬁciently modeled what humans do when we produce
and understand utterances. Natural speech occurs in
a continuous stream and cannot be segmented with-
out knowledge of the particular language involved.
Just how human beings segment a stream of spoken
language into distinct words and recognize the sound
segments in those words is not fully understood.
The synthesis of speech by machine has also
proved challenging. To understand why, consider the
string of sounds that occur in a simple word like sand.
It might appear straightforward to put together a ma-
chine-generated form of /sænd/: produce a voiceless
alveolar fricative /s/, then the vowel /æ/, then an al-
veolar nasal /n/, and ﬁnally an alveolar stop /d/. That’s
overly simple. Notice, to begin with, that the vowel of
sand diﬀers markedly from the “same” vowel in hat:
the ﬁrst is nasalized, the second isn’t. If a synthesizer
produced the vowel of hat in the word sand, it would
sound artificial. Therein lies one
challenge for speech synthesis: how
to blend sounds into one another
as people do. In ordinary human speech, there is no
separation between the sound segments of a word.
But the situation is more complicated. A sound is
a bundle of features. The phonological form of sand
isn’t just the segments /s, æ, n, d/ but also the fea-
tures characterizing each segment:
/s/ /æ/ /n/ /d/
-voice +voice +voice +voice
alveolar low front alveolar alveolar
fricative vowel nasal stop
It’s important to recall that the articulation of each
feature in a segment does not start and end at the
same time as all the other features in that segment.
The voicelessness of /s/ doesn’t abruptly end and the
voicing of /æ/ start at exactly the same split second
as the fricative character of /s/ stops and the vowel
character of /æ/ begins. The systems of the vocal tract
move continuously in the production of even the sim-
plest words, and it is useful to conceptualize a word
as a series of vocal gestures in continuous movement
from one to the next.
To make artificial speech sound natural, a good
deal more about the nature of underlying phonologi-
cal forms, their surface realizations, and their pronun-
ciations, as well as about how to get from the brain to
vocal articulation (and from perceived speech to the
brain), must be understood. ■
Computers and Phonology
Summary
Phonology is the study of the sound systems of languages.
•
A phoneme is a unit in the sound system of a language. It is an abstract element,
•
a set of phonological features (e.g., bilabial, stop) having several language-
specific predictable realizations (called allophones).
Two words can differ minimally by virtue of having a single pair of different
•
phonemes (as in pin/bin or tap/tab).
Each phoneme comprises a set of allophones. Each allophone is the specific rule-
•
governed and therefore predictable realization of the phoneme in a particular
linguistic environment.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 139
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 139 12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
12/29/10 8:02:18 PM
140 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
The allophones of a phoneme never contrast but occur in complementary
•
distribution or free variation. Allophones of the same phoneme cannot signal the
sole difference in a minimal pair of words with different meanings.
Two languages can have the same sounds but structure them differently within
•
their systems. Both Korean and English have the sounds [p, ph, b]. In English,
unaspirated [p] and aspirated [ph] are allophones of a single phoneme, while [b]
belongs to a different phoneme. In Korean, [ph] and [p] are separate phonemes
(they contrast), while [b] is the allophone of the phoneme /p/ that occurs
between voiced sounds.
Each simple word in a speaker’s lexicon consists of a sequence of phonemes that
•
constitutes the underlying phonological representation of the word. Underlying
forms differ from pronunciations and cannot generally be observed in speech
directly.
From the underlying form of a word, the phonological rules of a language
•
specify the allophonic realizations of an underlying segment in accordance with
its linguistic environment.
In acquiring a language, children must uncover the phonological rules of their
•
language and infer efficient, economical underlying forms for lexical entries.
Given these underlying forms, the phonological rules of a language will specify
the rule-governed features of the surface form.
Phonological rules may be ordered with respect to one another, with the first
•
applicable rule applying to the underlying form to produce a derived form and
the subsequent rules applying in turn to successive derived forms, until the last
applicable rule produces a surface form. Two dialects of a language may contain
some of the same rules but apply them in a different order, thereby producing
different surface forms and different pronunciations.
The sounds within a word are organized in syllables, and syllables have
•
constituent parts, including a rhyme and an onset. Every syllable must have at
least a rhyme, and the rhyme must have at least a nucleus.
Languages have sequence constraints on the structure of permissible syllable
•
types and the occurrence of particular consonants and vowels within syllable
types.
CV is the most common syllable type in the world’s languages. English has
•
an unusually large range of syllable types, including clusters of two and three
consonants. The particular consonants that can appear in each position of a
cluster are limited or constrained.
Stress is contrastive in English: “Not every white house is the White House.”
•
Phonological processes (for example, aspiration and tapping in English) can
•
depend on syllable structure and stress, as well as on a sequence of sound
segments.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
French cabbie
• . Part of the answer to why the cabbie knows Karen is an English
speaker probably lies in her use of English allophones instead of French ones.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 140
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 140 12/29/10 8:02:19 PM
12/29/10 8:02:19 PM
Exercises 141
By general rules, English aspirates initial /p/ sounds, but French doesn’t. Ditto
for other voiceless stops. Given how many common French words begin with a
voiceless stop (par, pas, pour, tout, très, tu, comme, croire, que), there’s plenty of
opportunity for Karen to cue her nonnative status by aspiration. Other rules that
are even more subtle and often operate below the level of conscious awareness
include those for the length of vowels and consonants, stress patterns, and
intonation patterns.
Jules Biker
• . One explanation is that the /p/ in Jewel Spiker’s family name is
neutralized in the environment following /s/. In other words, because English
does not exploit the /p/-/b/ contrast in that environment, the sounds are
pronounced more alike there than elsewhere. While initial /p/ in English is
aspirated, initial /b/ is not. In the environment following /s/, as in Spiker, /p/ is
not aspirated, and the absence of aspiration contributes to easy confusion of /p/
and /b/ in that environment.
Techie Ted
• . On the Internet, you can quickly discover that speech can be readily
synthesized sound for sound, but it is not nearly so easy to achieve a natural
connection between sounds within a word or across words, or to create natural-
sounding intonation patterns. ■
Exercises
Practice Exercise
A. The words below are given in standard spelling and a broad phonetic tran-
scription. Examine the allomorphic variation in the pronunciation of the
underlined morpheme, and provide an underlying form from which the
allomorphic variants could be derived by rule. Attend only to the pronun-
ciation represented in the transcription, and ignore the spelling. (For this
exercise, nasalization has been ignored.)
Example: metal [mɛɾəl] metallic [mətʰælək] Underlying form: /mɛtæl/
human [hjumən] humanity [hjumænəɾi]
courage [kʰʌrəʤ] courageous [kʰəreʤəs]
industry [ɪndəstri] industrial [ɪndʌstriəl]
medicine [mɛɾəsən] medicinal [mədɪsənəl]
B. Transcribe these monosyllabic words and underscore the rhyme in your
transcription; then, in order, identify the nucleus, and (if they are present)
the onset and coda; if any element is absent, write ∅.
Examples: rest: [rɛst] ɛ, r, st  clinched [klɪnʧt] ɪ, kl, nʧt
sit spent squirts
sin squash scrunched
scent sprint scratched
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 141
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 141 12/29/10 8:02:19 PM
12/29/10 8:02:19 PM
142 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
Based on English
4-1. Consider the following words of English with respect to how the sound rep-
resented by <t> is pronounced. For each column, specify the phonetic char-
acter of the allophone (how it is pronounced). Is it aspirated? Tapped? Then,
as was done in this chapter for the allophones of English /p/, describe the
allophones of /t/ and specify their distribution.
A B C D
tougher standing later petunia
talker still data potato
teller story petal return
4-2. Using the monosyllabic English words below, provide a list of ten ordered
pairs whose stress pattern indicates they are compounds—that is, with stress
as in the examples. It will be helpful to mark the stress pattern on the vowel
of each element, using ´ for primary and ` for secondary stress.
Examples: tímezòne, shówhòrse
ball beam court face fall free gear hand hat
heart hold horse house kick lance land lap life
light paint port rein ride road show style table
throw tide time top way weight year zone
4-3. Apparently, the following words do not exist in English. Some are “sniglet”
candidates (they could exist), but others violate the sequence constraints of
English. Identify the potential sniglets, and explain why the others are not
permitted. For the potential sniglets, provide an appropriate spelling in the
standard orthography.
pɛtribɑr twɪnʧ rizənənt
pʌpkəss blɪbjulə læktomæŋgjuleʃən
pæŋgəkt spret spwənt
4-4. a. Make a list of as many monosyllabic words as you can, each of which
represents a different onset of three consonants. Example: spr in spread
b. Examine the initial clusters you listed in (a) and answer these questions
about English:
Which consonants can occur first in a three-consonant cluster onset?
Which consonants can occur second in a three-consonant cluster onset?
Which consonants can occur third in a three-consonant cluster onset?
Examine your three lists to decide whether or not they constitute natural
classes, and provide the name for any that do constitute a natural class.
4-5. Although English makes a contrast between /p/ and /b/ (pill versus bill),
it doesn’t exploit the contrast in the environment following /s/ (as in spell
and spin). Hence, there is no pair of words such as /sbɪn/ and /spɪn/.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 142
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 142 12/29/10 8:02:20 PM
12/29/10 8:02:20 PM
Exercises 143
When a language exploits a distinction in some environments but not all,
the potential contrast tends to be neutralized where it isn’t exploited. As
a consequence, the /p/ of pill differs more from the /b/ of bill than does
the /p/ of spin (try distinguishing “spin” from “sbin”). For one thing, the
/p/ of spin (but not the /p/ of pill) lacks aspiration, like the /b/ of bill.
Thus, a feature that distinguishes /p/ and /b/ elsewhere is not exploited
following /s/.
Below are two sets of words. Those in column I contain a contrast that
English exploits in that environment but not in the environment of column II.
In other words, for the words in column II there cannot be a contrast based
on the sound difference represented in the pair of words in the same line in
column I.
I II
i. sit seat sing ring king
ii. bit beat here beer peer
iii. hat hate hang sang rang
 iv. tad dad sting star study
 v. cad gad skill score scam
a. Identify the segment that is likely to prompt different phonetic transcrip-
tions and specify what those transcriptions would be.
b. Characterize the environment (in column II) that supports the
neutralization.
c. Based on your knowledge of English phonology (such as its sequence con-
straints), provide reasons for preferring one of the transcriptions over the
other.
4-6. We noted earlier that the English tapping rule could be reformulated in terms
of syllables instead of vowel segments. Formulate the tapping rule in terms of
syllables and their parts.
4-7. For the words below, identify each syllable’s rhyme and nucleus and (where
appropriate) onset and coda. Example: for past, rhyme: ast; nucleus: a; onset:
p; coda: st
twin turned e-vil love-lorn a-tro-cious re-spec-tive na-sa-lize
4-8. a. The nasalization rule (in the section on “Phonological Rules and Their
Structure”) and the assimilation rules A and B (in the “Morphology
and Phonology Interaction” section) have the effect of making nearby
sounds more alike. In the nasalization rule, which feature spreads from
one sound to another sound? Which feature spreads in the assimilation
rules?
b. One way to characterize schwa insertion rules A and B (in the
“Morphology and Phonology Interaction” section) is to say they make
neighboring sounds dissimilar. Another way to characterize schwa in-
sertion is to say it separates sounds that are very similar. What features
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 143
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 143 12/29/10 8:02:20 PM
12/29/10 8:02:20 PM
144 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
do the neighboring sounds share before schwa insertion A? What about
schwa insertion B?
c. In light of the rules mentioned in (a) and (b), we can see that some English
rules make neighboring sounds more alike, while others make them more
dissimilar. Examine these rules carefully and propose an explanation of
these competing tendencies. Hint: Think about how hard or easy it might
be to pronounce these sequences without the rules; think about how hard
or easy it might be to perceive these sequences without the rules.
Based on Languages Other Than English
4-9. Fijian has prenasalized stops among its inventory of phonemes. The prenasal-
ized stop [nd] consists of a nasal pronounced immediately before the stop,
with which it forms a single sound unit. Consider the following Fijian words
as pronounced in fast speech:
vindi ‘to spring up’ dina ‘true’
kenda ‘we’ dalo ‘taro plant’
tiko ‘to stay’ vundi ‘plantain banana’
tutu ‘grandfather’ manda ‘first’
viti ‘Fiji’ tina ‘mother’
dovu ‘sugarcane’ mata ‘eye’
dondo ‘to stretch out one’s hand’ mokiti ‘round’
vevendu (a type of plant)
On the basis of these data, determine whether [d], [nd], and [t] are
allophones of a single phoneme or constitute two or three separate phonemes.
If you find that two of them (or all of them) are allophones of a single
phoneme, give the rule that describes the distribution of each allophone. If
you analyze all three as separate phonemes, justify your answer. (Note: In
Fijian all syllables end in a vowel.)
4-10. Examine the following words of Tongan, a Polynesian language. (Note: In
Tongan all syllables end in a vowel.)
tauhi ‘to take care’ sino ‘body’
sisi ‘garland’ totonu ‘correct’
motu ‘island’ pasi ‘to clap’
mosimosi ‘to drizzle’ fata ‘shelf’
motomoto ‘unripe’ movete ‘to come apart’
fesi ‘to break’ misi ‘to dream’
a. On the basis of these data, determine whether [s] and [t] are allophones
of a single phoneme in Tongan or are separate phonemes. If you find that
they are allophones of the same phoneme, state the rule that describes
where each allophone occurs. If you conclude that they are different pho-
nemes, justify your answer.
b. In each of the following Tongan words, one sound has been replaced by a
blank. This sound is either [s] or [t]. Without more knowledge of Tongan
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 144
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 144 12/29/10 8:02:20 PM
12/29/10 8:02:20 PM
Exercises 145
than you could figure out from the preceding question, is it possible to
make an educated guess as to which of these two sounds fits in the blank?
If so, provide the sound; if not, explain why.
—— ili ‘fishing net’ fe —— e ‘lump’
—— uku ‘to place’ lama —— i ‘to ambush’
c. In the course of the last century, Tongan borrowed many words from Eng-
lish and adapted them to fit the phonological structure of its words.
kaasete ‘gazette’ suu ‘shoe’
tisi ‘dish’ koniseti ‘concert’
sosaieti ‘society’ pata ‘butter’
salati ‘salad’ suka ‘sugar’
maasolo ‘marshall’ sikaa ‘cigar’
sekoni ‘second’ taimani ‘diamond’
How does the phonemic status of [s] and [t] differ in borrowed words and in
native Tongan words? In other words, is the situation the same in these bor-
rowed words? Write an integrated statement about the status of [s] and [t] in
Tongan. (Hint: Your statement will have to include information about which
area of the Tongan vocabulary each part of the rule applies to.)
4-11. The distribution of the sounds [s] and [z] in colloquial Spanish is represented
by the following examples in phonetic transcription:
izla ‘island’ ʧiste ‘joke’
fuersa ‘force’ eski ‘ski’
peskado ‘fish’ riezgo ‘risk’
muskulo ‘muscle’ fiskal ‘fiscal’
sin ‘without’ rezvalar ‘to slip’
rasko ‘I scratch’ dezde ‘since’
resto ‘remainder’ razgo ‘feature’
mizmo ‘same’ beizbɔl ‘baseball’
espalda ‘back’ mas ‘more’
Are [s] and [z] distinct phonemes of Spanish or allophones of a single
phoneme? If they are distinct phonemes, support your answer. If they are al-
lophones of the same phoneme, specify their distribution.
4-12. Consider the following Russian words. On the basis of this limited list, where
does Russian appear to have a contrast between [t] and [d] and where
does it appear not to have one? (Note: An apostrophe marks a palatalized
consonant.)
pərʌxot ‘steamboat’ t’ɛlə ‘body’
gʌz’ɛtə ‘newspaper’ pot ‘perspiration’
zapət ‘west’ dərʌgoj ‘dear’
rat ‘glad’ d’ɛlə ‘business’
zdan’ijə ‘building’ ∫tat ‘state’
most ‘bridge’ pot ‘under’
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 145
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 145 12/29/10 8:02:21 PM
12/29/10 8:02:21 PM
146 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
4-13. In Samoan, words may have two forms, one called “bad speech” (used in
informal oratory when addressing peers or kin) and another called “good
speech” (used in literary and religious situations and with foreigners). The
difference between the two forms can be described by phonological rules.
(Note: The Samoan words for “good” and “bad” do not carry the same con-
notations in this case as the English words.)
“bad” “good”
taatou kaakou ‘us all’
teine keiŋe ‘girl’
taŋata kaŋaka ‘man’
ŋaŋana ŋaŋaŋa ‘language’
totoŋi kokoŋi ‘price’
nofo ŋofo ‘to stay’
ŋaalue ŋaalue ‘to work’
fono foŋo ‘meeting’
a. Describe the phonological difference between the “bad” and “good” forms.
Which is more basic—the “good” form or the “bad” form? (In other words,
which one can serve as the underlying form for both forms?)
b. Wherever possible, fill in the blanks in the following table. If it is impos-
sible to know the form of a missing word, explain why.
“bad” “good”
manu ———— ‘bird’
mate ———— ‘dead’
———— maŋoo ‘shark’
———— kili ‘fishing net’
tonu ———— ‘correct’
———— kaŋi ‘to cry’
4-14. In German, the sequence of letters <ch> can represent (among other things)
either of two sounds: [ç] (a voiceless palatal fricative) or [x] (a voiceless ve-
lar fricative). On the basis of the following data, determine whether these two
sounds are distinct phonemes or allophones of a single phoneme.
kɛlç Kelch ‘cup’
fɪçtə Fichte ‘fir tree’
knœçl Knöchel ‘knuckle’
kɔx Koch ‘cook’
tsurɛçt zurecht ‘in good order’
vʊxt Wucht ‘weight’
çɪrʊrk Chirurg ‘surgeon’
nüçtʊrn nüchtern ‘sober’
bux Buch ‘book’
bərajç Bereich ‘scope’
hɛkçən Häkchen ‘apostrophe’
bax Bach ‘brook’
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 146
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 146 12/29/10 8:02:22 PM
12/29/10 8:02:22 PM
Exercises 147
If [ç] and [x] are distinct phonemes, justify your answer. If they are allo-
phones of the same phoneme, specify their distribution.
4-15. In this chapter you learned that Japanese sequence constraints allow syllables
of the forms CV, V, and (when the second C is a nasal) CVC. Using that in-
formation, divide the words given in the Japanese vowel chart (Table 3–5)
into syllables: ima ‘now’; aki ‘autumn’; buji ‘safe’; yoru ‘to approach’; sensei
‘teacher.’ Now do the same for the borrowed words beesubooru ‘baseball’ and
sutoraiku ‘strike,’ where <ee> and <oo> represent long vowels, not dou-
bled vowels.
4-16. In light of our discussions in this chapter and your experience with some of
the preceding exercises, discuss the following quote from Halle and Clements
(1983).
The perception of intelligible speech is . . . determined only in
part by the physical signal that strikes our ears. Of equal signifi-
cance . . . is the contribution made by the perceiver’s knowledge of
the language in which the utterance is framed. Acts of perception
that heavily depend on active contributions from the perceiver’s
mind are often described as illusions, and the perception of intel-
ligible speech seems . . . to qualify for this description. A central
problem of phonetics and phonology is . . . to provide a scientific
characterization of this illusion which is at the heart of all human
existence.
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
4-17. As an exercise for a class of middle-school international students studying
English, you’ve asked them to draw up a list of English names for games,
and they offer these: skokey, skwinty, twint, stwink, plopo, splopt, sprats, skret-
sht, spretched, skwickt, spwint, stwirl, tprash, stpop, frash, quirt, splast, plsats.
You recognize that a few names are not legitimate because they have se-
quences of sounds (not letters) that English doesn’t permit. Which are im-
possible, and what explanation can you give the students about why they
are impossible?
4-18. Using phonological terms from this and the previous chapter, identify two
characteristic features of “foreign accent” for students represented in the
schools of your community. Aim to account for the differences between
the way native and nonnative speakers of English pronounce certain ac-
cented words. It may help to reflect on (a) inventory of sounds, (b) phono-
logical rules for the distribution of allophones, (c) sequence constraints for
sounds.
4-19. Recall from Chapter 3—and perhaps your own experience—that French
speakers tend to pronounce the English word thin as “sin” and this as “zis.”
From this observation, what can you say about (a) the inventory of French
consonants as compared to English ones; and (b) whether or not French
uses voicing as a contrastive feature? Finally, what would you predict about
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 147
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 147 12/29/10 8:02:22 PM
12/29/10 8:02:22 PM
148 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
how a French student might tend to pronounce the English words then and
thick?
4-20. Focusing on high front vowels, carefully compare the Spanish vowel chart in
Table 3.3 with the English vowel chart (inside front cover or Figure 3.4). Re-
lying on those charts and any relevant experience of yours, identify with IPA
symbols which pair of distinctive vowels in English you would predict to be
challenging for Spanish-speaking students learning English, and explain why.
Then cite two minimal pairs of English words (words that are identical except
for those vowels) that could prove challenging for those students to perceive
and produce.
4-21. In listening to your Spanish-speaking students talking among themselves,
you notice among the words borrowed from English that their pronuncia-
tion in Spanish differs systematically from their pronunciation in English.
For example, the word scanner has been borrowed as escaner and slogans
as eslóganes. What do these pronunciations suggest about phonotactic con-
straints on some word-initial consonant clusters in Spanish?
4-22. One of your students returns from a summer visit to Berlin, Paris, and Madrid
and tells you that when she listened to the local radio in those cities she could
not separate the stream of speech into separate words: it all seemed a blur.
She thinks English is different because English words are separate from one
another and easy to identify. What would you tell her about the difference
she experienced between her ability to hear English words and her inability
to sort out those of German, French, and Spanish?
Other Resources
Internet
LISU Website: http://www.CengageBrain.com For users of this text-
book. Provides updated Internet links as well as supplemental material for
students and instructors. Here you will find interactive learning tools.
Speech on the Web: http://www.acoustics.hut.fi/~slemmett/speech.
html If you’re interested in hearing synthesized speech, several websites pro-
vide examples. The site above is a “jump station,” providing links to speech
synthesizers and other valuable information. For some of them, you can type
in something you wish to hear synthesized. Then, assuming your computer
has multimedia capabilities, you can experience state-of-the-art text-to-speech
synthesis. Other useful links worth exploring are given below:
http://www.haskins.yale.edu/featured/heads/syntheis.html
•
http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/~moehler/synthspeech/
•
http://www.research.ibm.com/tts/
•
AT&T Labs Text-to-Speech Page: http://www.research.att.com/
~ttsweb/tts/demo.php This demo illustrates the capabilities of the AT&T
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 148
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 148 12/29/10 8:02:22 PM
12/29/10 8:02:22 PM
Other Resources 149
Natural Voices™ speech synthesizer. Type in up to 300 characters and receive
an audio file of what you’ve typed that is compatible with your computer and
can be played using your multimedia capabilities. You can choose from
among several voices.
Acapela Text to Speech Demo: http://www.acapela-group.com/text-to-
speech-interactive-demo.html Another site that allows you to type in what
you want and hear it synthesized in several different male and female voices
in Arabic, Danish, Dutch, English, and many other languages.
SpeechLinks: http://www.speech.cs.cmu.edu/comp.speech/
SpeechLinks.html This speech technology hyperlinks page contains hun-
dreds of links to projects around the world. Besides links to technical papers
(most beyond the reach of beginning students), you’ll find links to sites ex-
ploring speech recognition and speech synthesis.
Ladefoged’s Concatenative Speech Synthesis: http://www.phonetics.
ucla.edu/vowels/chapter8/chapter8.html This site provides American,
English, and Scottish synthesized text-to-speech renditions of “The North
Wind and the Sun were disputing which was the stronger, when a traveler
came along wrapped in a warm cloak. They agreed that the one who first suc-
ceeded in making the traveler take off his cloak should be considered stronger
than the other.”
Suggestions for Further Reading
Carlos Gussenhoven & Haike Jacobs
• . 2005. Understanding Phonology, 2nd ed. (London:
Hodder Arnold). An excellent follow-up to this chapter; rich and largely accessible.
Bruce Hayes
• . 2008. An Introduction to Phonology (Malden, MA: Blackwell). An excellent
and richly illustrated follow-up to this chapter, relying more heavily on abstract features
than we have used here.
April McMahon
• . 2002. An Introduction to English Phonology (Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press). A very basic, accessible treatment, including the phonology of words and
phrases.
David Odden
• . 2005. Introducing Phonology (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
A basic treatment, with separate chapters on phonetic transcription, allophonic relations,
underlying representations, abstractness and psychological reality, and one devoted solely
to analyses.
Advanced Reading
Clark et al. (2007) and Carr (1993) are basic textbooks that will be largely accessible to
readers who have mastered some phonetics and the phonology of this chapter. The “problem
book” by Halle and Clements (1983) covers a broad range of languages and has an excellent
introductory chapter going beyond what we have covered; it has chapters on complemen-
tary distribution, natural classes, phonological rules, and systems of rules. Roca and Johnson
(1999) is an excellent workbook, with scores of problems in a range of languages; it can be
used independently or as an accompaniment to A Course in Phonology by the same authors.
Kaye (1989) is a lively, provocative, and mostly accessible follow-up to this chapter. More
specialized treatments are available in Bybee (2002) and Goldsmith (1996). The speech error
data are taken from Fromkin (1971), which has a good many more examples and is accessible,
at least to eager students.
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 149
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 149 12/29/10 8:02:23 PM
12/29/10 8:02:23 PM
150 Chapter 4 Sound Systems of Language: Phonology
References
Bybee, Joan. 2002. Phonology and Language Use (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Carr, Philip. 1993. Phonology (New York: St. Martin’s).
Clark, John, Colin Yallop & Janet Fletcher. 2007. An Introduction to Phonetics and Phonology,
3rd ed. (Malden, MA: Blackwell).
Fromkin, Victoria A. 1971. “The Non-Anomalous Nature of Anomalous Utterances.” Language
47, 1: 27-52.
Goldsmith, John A., ed. 1996. The Handbook of Phonological Theory (Malden, MA: Blackwell).
Hall, Rich. 1984. Sniglets (New York: Collier).
Halle, Morris & G. N. Clements. 1983. Problem Book in Phonology (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press).
Kaye, Jonathan. 1989. Phonology: A Cognitive View (Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum).
Roca, Iggy & Wyn Johnson. 1999. A Course in Phonology (Malden, MA: Blackwell).
———. 1999. A Workbook in Phonology (Oxford: Blackwell).
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 150
00419_04_ch04_p111-150.indd 150 12/29/10 8:02:24 PM
12/29/10 8:02:24 PM
151
The Structure and Function
of Phrases and Sentences:
Syntax
5
What Do You Think?
Your classmate Clarence says we readily produce routine expressions like
•
“What time is it?” and “Fine, thanks” because we hear them so frequently.
But he wonders how we produce and understand sentences we’ve never
heard before. What do you think?
Your sidekick Amber reports that reading Steven Pinker’s
• The Language
Instinct made her think about ambiguous language. She understands how
a word like bank can mean ‘savings bank’ or ‘bank of a river’ but not how
a string of unambiguous words like new drug combinations can mean both
‘combinations of new drugs’ and ‘new combinations of (old) drugs.’ What’s
your explanation?
With the
• Los Angeles Times in hand, reader Ron asks whether it’s legitimately
grammatical to write, “Not a drop of rain had fallen on Roanoke Island, said
John Wilson.” He thinks the correct grammatical form is, “John Wilson said
not a drop of rain had fallen on Roanoke Island.” He wants to know about
the correct order of subjects, verbs, and objects. What can you tell him?
Nerdy Ned expresses annoyance that the grammar checker in his word
•
processor objects to nearly every passive sentence he writes. Instead of The
winning team was hobbled together by a hodgepodge of friends, the checker
recommended A hodgepodge of friends hobbled together the winning team.
Ned claims the checker assumes all passives are bad, and he disagrees. Is
Ned right?
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 151
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 151 1/3/11 6:34:14 PM
1/3/11 6:34:14 PM
152 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
In this chapter we explore how words are organized in phrases and sentences.
We also explore the relationships between certain kinds of sentence pairs such
as actives and passives and declaratives and interrogatives. We investigate how
a finite grammar can generate an infinite number of sentences and how the
“creative” aspects of producing and understanding novel sentences are normal
parts of everyone’s competence.
All languages have ways of referring to entities—people, places, things, ideas,
events, and so on. The expressions used to refer to entities are noun phrases.
The proper nouns Pam and Pennsylvania, the common nouns cows and calories,
and the personal pronouns he, she, and them are noun phrases. So are more
complex expressions such as Pam’s mother, that bag of tricks, the star of the show,
a jaunty juggler from Jersey, and that feisty federal judge in Massachusetts who was
nominated by Nixon in 1972. All are referring expressions; all are noun phrases.
Languages also have ways of saying something about entities. They have
ways of making affirmative and negative statements about entities. They enable
speakers to ask questions, issue directives, and so on. Let’s illustrate with af-
firmative statements. In the following sentences, reference is made to an entity
and then a predication is made about it.
Referring Expression Predication
Judge Jensen married a butcher.
A poltergeist appeared last night.
Julian bought an iPad.
In the first example, reference is made to “Judge Jensen,” and then something is
predicated of her: she “married a butcher.”
Syntax is the part of grammar that governs the
organization of words in phrases and sentences—
the sentences speakers utter to make statements,
ask questions, give directives, and so on. The study
of syntax addresses the structure of sentences and
their structural and functional relationships to
one another. What are called referring expres-
sions in functional terms are called noun phrases
in syntactic terms. From a functional perspective,
expressions such as married a butcher and bought
an iPad are predicates or predications; from a
syntactic point of view, they’re verb phrases. Lan-
guages may differ from one another in many ways, but every language has
noun phrases that act as referring expressions and verb phrases that act as
predicates.
A simple sentence—often called a clause—contains a verb and, at a mini-
mum, any other expressions required by the verb as part of its structural char-
acteristics. In Chapter 2 we discussed subcategories of verbs and the fact that
speakers understand the kinds of clause structure a verb permits. We noted that
Introduction
Try It Yourself In the sec-
ond example above, reference is
made to “a poltergeist” and then a predica-
tion is made of it. What’s the predication?
In “Nerdy Ned disagrees”, identify the ref-
erent and the predication made of him.
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 152
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 152 1/3/11 6:34:15 PM
1/3/11 6:34:15 PM
Constituency 153
some verbs require a noun phrase complement, as in Britney bought a new rain-
coat. Others do not allow a noun phrase complement, as in Danny tripped or He
fell into the pool. From a syntactic point of view, the verb is the pivotal element
in a clause, and the verb’s subcategorization determines the kinds of comple-
ments it may have. Verbs may consist of a single word, as with bought, tripped,
and fell, or of several words such as those underlined in She had hidden the gifts
under a tree and The physician should have alerted the authorities.
It’s essential in analyzing sentences to recognize that they consist not simply of
words strung together like beads on a string, one after another, but of organized
groups of words called constituents. We saw in earlier chapters that words
and even syllables have linear and hierarchical organizations, so it shouldn’t be
surprising to learn that words in a sentence are organized not just in an obvious
linear order but also hierarchically.
Consider the sentence The elusive poltergeist frightened Alison’s boyfriend dur-
ing the night. Plainly, it’s made up of words in a particular order, and each word
has sounds associated with it, so we could say that the sentence is made up of
sounds (such as /d, u, r, ɪ, ŋ/) or of words (poltergeist and night). Though accu-
rate to some degree, those analyses would miss a crucial point. Describing that
sentence in terms of sounds or words would be akin to describing a shopping
mall in terms of steel girders and copper wires—not wrong but beside the point.
In any analysis the aim is to identify the structural units that are relevant to some
purpose or level of organization. To characterize a shopping mall, we’d want
to say that it comprises retail shops, restaurants, parking areas, movie theaters,
and so on. We could go further and describe the composition of these units and
their relationship to one another. In analyzing a sentence, the relevant struc-
tural units are its constituents. Thus, in our sentence, we’d want to say that the
elusive poltergeist and Alison’s boyfriend are unified in ways that boyfriend during
and during the are not unified; boyfriend during and during the are not constituents
of the sentence. For the moment we rely on native speaker intuitions in mak-
ing those judgments. In the course of this chapter, we’ll be more explicit about
identifying constituents.
Tree Diagrams
A useful way to represent constituents and their relationships to one another is
in a tree diagram. Figure 5.1 represents the fact that the sentence Harry liked
Peeves consists of two parts: the referring expression Harry and the predicate
liked Peeves. In the tree diagram, S stands for sentence, N for noun or pronoun,
and V for verb. Notice that there are two branching nodes in the tree. The
topmost branching node is labeled S, and the lower node to the right (not la-
beled for the moment) has two branches, one leading to V and the other to N.
This same tree diagram could represent other sentences, such as Harry saw it in
Constituency
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 153
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 153 1/3/11 6:34:15 PM
1/3/11 6:34:15 PM
154 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
Figure 5.2. (As we’ll see later, the trees in Figures 5.1 and 5.2 are simplified for
ease of initial presentation.)
Linear Ordering of Constituents The words of every sentence occur in a
particular—and obvious—order. To put it simply, sentences are expressed as an
ordered sequence of words: Harry liked Peeves; Hillary hated the harp; Xavier comes
from Xanadu; and A plump plumber from Portland poked a poltergeist in the park.
Hierarchical Ordering of Constituents As is apparent in the tree diagrams of
Figures 5.1 and 5.2, there is more to the organization of a sentence than the lin-
ear order of its words. Figure 5.1 illustrates that Harry liked Peeves contains two
constituents—one is Harry and the other is liked Peeves.
To explore the notion of internal structure a bit further, consider the ex-
pression gullible boys and girls. It has two possible readings: ‘gullible boys and
gullible girls’ and ‘girls and gullible boys.’ This ambiguity reflects the fact that
gullible boys and girls has two possible constituent structures, depending on
whether gullible modifies boys and girls or only boys. Notice in the tree diagram
of Figure 5.3 that from the highest node there are two branches, represent-
ing two constituents. By contrast, Figure 5.4 shows three branches—and thus
three constituents—stemming from
the highest node. Two observations
are worth making. In Figure 5.3 the
string boys and girls branches from a
single node and thus forms a constit-
uent, but the words gullible and boys
do not branch from a single node
and thus do not form a constituent.
In Figure 5.4, however, the words
gullible and boys do branch from a single node and thus form a constituent,
whereas the string boys and girls does not branch from a single node and does
not form a constituent. Figures 5.3 and 5.4 represent the two possible con-
stituent structures for gullible boys and girls and capture the fact that the linear
S
N V N
Harry liked Peeves
S
N V N
Harry saw it
Figure 5.1 Figure 5.2
Try It Yourself Draw tree diagrams that
capture the diﬀerent constituent structures
of these ambiguous expressions: 1) excessive light and
heat; 2) current information technology.
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 154
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 154 1/3/11 6:34:15 PM
1/3/11 6:34:15 PM
Major Constituents of Sentences: Noun Phrases and Verb Phrases 155
string has two possible internal organizations—and therefore two readings or
interpretations.
Structural Ambiguity Just as structural ambiguity can occur in phrases like gull-
ible boys and girls, it can occur in sentences. Examine sentence 1 below.
1. He sold the car to a cousin in Boston.
Although the individual words are not ambiguous, the sentence has more than
one possible interpretation, and its ambiguity arises because the linear string of
words has two possible constituent structures. We can use brackets to represent
the possible constituent structures of sentence 1, as in 2 and 3 below.
2. He sold the car [to [a cousin in Boston] ].
3. He sold the car [to a cousin] [in Boston].
Sentence 2 can be paraphrased as in 4 below, but not as in 5 or 6. By con-
trast, sentence 3 can be paraphrased as in 5 or 6, but not as in 4:
4. It was to a cousin in Boston that he sold the car.
5. It was in Boston that he sold the car to a cousin.
6. In Boston he sold the car to a cousin.
These examples illustrate that the words in a sentence have an internal orga-
nization that is not apparent from direct inspection. The linear order—which
word is first, second, and so on—is obvious from inspection. But only a speaker
of English can recognize constituent structure in an English sentence and the
fact that a given string of English words may have more than one possible inter-
nal organization.
Besides their obvious linear order, then, the words in a sentence are organized
into constituents that, while not apparent, are nevertheless understood by
speakers. Consider the sentence in Figure 5.5, with its two constituents, and
more elaborate sentences such as those in Figure 5.6.
Major Constituents of Sentences: Noun
Phrases and Verb Phrases
gullible
‘gullible boys and gullible girls’
boys and girls gullible
‘gullible boys and (all) girls’
boys and girls
Figure 5.3 Figure 5.4
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 155
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 155 1/3/11 6:34:16 PM
1/3/11 6:34:16 PM
156 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
Noun Phrase and Verb Phrase
Sentences like those we’ve examined consist of two principal constituents:
a noun phrase and a verb phrase, or NP and VP. (These structures correspond
roughly to the functional features of referring expression and predicate discussed
earlier.) In turn, each noun phrase contains a noun (Alex, uncle, nerd) and each
verb phrase contains a verb (disappeared, won, spilled). As a matter of definition
a noun phrase crucially contains a noun as its head, and a verb phrase crucially
contains a verb as its head. The head of a phrase is its pivotal, central element.
Noun phrases and verb phrases can be identified by the slots they fill in the
architecture of a sentence and often by their functions. Thus in Figure 5.6, Alex
in 1, My uncle in 2, and The nerd with the stud earring in 3 function as referring
expressions about which a predication is made. Similarly, disappeared, won a
bicycle, and spilled the potion make predications about a noun phrase.
Noun phrases can also be identified by substitution procedures such as those
implied in the list of alternatives to the two-part structure shown in Figure 5.6.
For Alex we could substitute My uncle or The nerd with the stud earring. All three
are NPs and can occur in these slots: won a bicycle; spilled the potion;
disappeared.
In sentence 2 below, the verb phrase is liked the song. Unlike the VP of 1,
which consists of the single word vanished, the VP of 2 contains the verb liked
and the NP the song. Thus a VP may contain a noun phrase. Further, as 3 shows,
a verb phrase may also contain a prepositional phrase (on a bet).
Noun Phrase Verb Phrase
1. [Tina] [vanished]
2. [Genaro] [liked the song]
3. [The neighbor with the iPad] [won a bike on a bet]
The noun phrases in the sentences above include Tina, Genaro, the neighbor, the
iPad, the song, a bike, and a bet. A word string you can insert in the slots below
would be an NP:
She enjoyed talking about .
Invariably, upset her.
S
Michael cried
S
1. Alex
2. My uncle
3. The nerd with the stud earring
disappeared
won a bicycle
spilled the potion
Figure 5.5
Figure 5.6
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 156
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 156 1/3/11 6:34:16 PM
1/3/11 6:34:16 PM
Major Constituents of Sentences: Noun Phrases and Verb Phrases 157
Inserted into either slot, the following expressions would produce well-
formed English sentences and are therefore NPs; in each case, the head noun is
italicized.
wild wolverines that loyalty to his latest love
the weather his resolve to reside in Riverdale
her yellow yarn Wally’s foolish wager
the nitwit who nicked her necklace a cynical cyclist from Cincinnati
Notice, too, that a noun phrase can be a pronoun:
She enjoyed talking about it/him/them/us.
Invariably, it/they/we upset her.
Noun phrases and pronouns have the same distribution in sentences; where a
noun phrase can occur, a pronoun can occur instead. Thus, pronouns are a kind
of noun phrase (and a pronoun may be the head of a noun phrase). Later, we’ll
see how to exploit this fact in determining noun-phrase constituency.
Verb phrases can be identified using similar substitution procedures. Con-
sider the sentence Lou cried, in which cried constitutes the verb phrase. Among
many others, the following strings can substitute for cried in that sentence.
They thus fit the frame and are verb phrases (the head in each verb phrase is
italicized):
fell.
Lou lost the race.
won a prize for her success in the tournament.
To this point, we have seen two major constituents of a sentence: noun phrase
and verb phrase.
Active and Passive Sentences
Regardless of how many words an NP contains, it may operate as a constituent
in a sentence. Even elaborate NPs such as the neighbor with the iPad or what she
hoped to receive for her twenty-first birthday are syntactic units, just like simple
NPs such as she, Genaro, and wolverines. To see more clearly what is meant by
a syntactic unit—a constituent—consider the sentences below. In each pair, the
first sentence is characterized as “active,” the second as “passive” (about which
we’ll explain more later):
1a. The coach blamed the referee. (Active)
b. The referee was blamed by the coach. (Passive)
2a. Zimmershied discovered that dinosaur skeleton. (Active)
b. That dinosaur skeleton was discovered by Zimmershied. (Passive)
3a. A jaunty judge from Jersey fined a plump plumber from Portland. (Active)
b. A plump plumber from Portland was fined by a jaunty judge from Jersey.
(Passive)
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 157
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 157 1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
158 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
As speakers of English, we implicitly
know how passive and active sentences
are related to one another (even if we
don’t know the terms “active” and
“passive”), but it is not possible to
make that knowledge explicit without
relying on the notion of constituency.
For example, without knowledge of
constituents, we might characterize
the operation that relates sentences 1a
and 1b above as follows: “To transform
an active sentence to its passive
counterpart, interchange the first two
words (the coach) with the last two
(the referee).” For present purposes, we
ignore the additional steps needed, including introducing the verb was and the
preposition by, but in a complete statement of the operation those steps would
have to be specified as well. The operation of exchanging the first two and last
two words produces the well-formed string 1b when applied to 1a. But if the
same operation were applied to 2a, it would produce not 2b but the ill-formed
string, “Dinosaur skeleton was that by Zimmershied discovered,” and if applied to
3a would likewise produce an ill-formed string. Clearly, what speakers know
about the relationship between active and passive counterparts involves
something other than counting words. Implicitly, speakers know that active
and passive sentences are related by a structure-dependent operation that
interchanges noun phrase constituents, irrespective of the number of words
contained in them.
Refer again to the constituents that get interchanged in the active/passive
sentence pairs of 1, 2, and 3 above, and note that the word strings in each set
below in 4 and 5 must share a structural property because the strings function
similarly in those sentence pairs:
4. the coach; Zimmershied; a jaunty judge from Jersey
5. the referee; that dinosaur skeleton; a plump plumber from Portland
The NPs in 4 and 5 move as units in the operation that relates active and passive
sentences: they are constituents.
Testing Constituency
For emphasis, we say it again: a sentence is not merely an ordered string of
individual words but a structured string of words grouped into constituents that
function as syntactic units. The tree diagrams earlier in this chapter relied on
informal notions in determining constituency. Now we describe three kinds of
tests that can be used for that purpose.
Movement In examining active and passive sentences, we relied on movement
to identify noun phrase constituents. Any group of words that could be moved
Try It Yourself Mimicking the pattern
displayed in the sentence pairs above,
provide the passive counterpart to Dean Kamen
invented the heart stent and the Segway and the active
counterpart to The pantry must be stocked by husbands
who stay at home and mind the kids. Now try to specify
as explicitly as you can the implicit knowledge of
sentence constituents you relied on in order to form
those counterpart sentences.
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 158
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 158 1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
Major Constituents of Sentences: Noun Phrases and Verb Phrases 159
in transforming a sentence between active and passive we regarded as a
constituent. We also relied on movement in paraphrasing the earlier sentences
that presented structural ambiguity. In exploring the ambiguity of He sold the
car to a cousin in Boston, we noted that one reading could be paraphrased as In
Boston he sold the car to a cousin. Moving in Boston to the front of its sentence
demonstrated that it functions as a syntactic unit—a constituent. Generally
speaking, then, we say that a string of words that can be moved in a syntactic
operation functions as a unit and is a constituent.
Substitution Substitution of pro-forms offers another method of identifying
constituents. When a pro-form (for example, a pronoun or a “pro-verb”) can
substitute for a string of words in a sentence, that string is a constituent. In the
sentences below, the substitution of a pro-form (underlined and boldfaced) for
a preceding underlined string provides evidence that the preceding string is a
constituent.
a. Josh gained a lead, and Beth gained one, too. (Thus, a lead is a constituent.)
b. Josh gained a huge lead, and Beth gained one, too. (Thus, a huge lead is a
constituent.)
c. Josh gained a huge lead, and Beth did, too. (Thus, gained a huge lead is a
constituent.)
Coordination In identifying constituents a third test involves coordination. Be-
cause, generally, only constituents of the same kind can be conjoined by a co-
ordinator such as and and or, coordination can offer evidence of constituency.
Thus, in sentences like those below, the underlined conjoined strings are con-
stituents (of the same kind).
a. For her birthday, Vanessa was given a fancy new car and a thirty-foot sailboat.
(NPs)
b. Smokey ran into the house and ate her dinner. (VPs)
If you apply the tests described above, you’ll uncover more constituents in a
sentence than you might expect. Exploring levels of constituency has proven to
be a productive enterprise for theories of syntax, as has comparing constituent
structures across languages. Further exploration of levels of constituency lies
beyond our scope, but we will occasionally introduce additional constituents,
usually without explicitly justifying them.
Try It Yourself Because not every string of words in a sentence
is a constituent, you’ll discover strings for which pro-forms cannot be
substituted. In sentence b above, attempt to identify a pro-form for these strings:
a huge; Josh gained; and gained a. What do your results indicate about the status of
those strings as constituents?
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 159
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 159 1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
160 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
Expanding Noun Phrase
Relying on the analysis of categories (parts of speech) in Chapter 2, we can now
characterize and exemplify certain NP types:
Noun (N): Karen, oracles, justice, swimming
Determiner (Det) + Noun: that amulet, a potion, some gnomes, her coach
Determiner + Noun + Prepositional Phrase (PP): the book on the table, that rise
in prices, the marketplace of ideas, her plumber in Portland
Determiner + Adjective (A) + Noun: an ancient oracle, these hellish precincts, my
first Harley, a jaunty judge
These various NP patterns can be represented by phrase-structure expansion
rules such as the following:
1. NP → N (NP consists of N)
2. NP → Det N (NP consists of Det + N)
3. NP → Det N PP (NP consists of Det + N + PP)
4. NP → Det A N (NP consists of Det + A + N)
These four expansions can be merged into a single rule. N is the only constituent
required in every NP expansion because every NP must contain a noun as its
head. Other elements are placed in parentheses to represent their optionality.
The merged rule looks like this:
5. NP → (Det) (A) N (PP)
Besides the four expansions (1–4) that we aimed to capture, rule 5 represents
other expansions. Because Det, A, and PP are optional, we can expand NP not
only as in 1, 2, 3, and 4 above, but also as in 6 and 7:
6. NP → A    N
7. NP → Det A N PP
Rule 5 thus represents expansions we did not set out to capture. If English has
well-formed NP structures consisting of A N (as in 6) and of Det A N PP (as in 7)
and of any other expansions 5 would represent, then 5 is valid. Otherwise, it
would need to be revised to exclude any impermissible structures.
As a matter of fact, some English NPs comprise an adjective and a noun—
A N (tall trees, ordinary superheroes, natural grace, youthful instructors)—while
others consist of Det A N PP (his sorry life on the sidelines, the huge whale on the
beach, those whimsical clouds in the sky). An advantage of formalisms like rule 5
is that they often entail unanticipated claims that can be checked against other
data and thus provide a test of their own validity.
Expanding Prepositional Phrase
PP stands for prepositional phrase, such as in the car, from Xanadu, to a
cousin, with the iPad, and by a jaunty judge. PPs consist of a P (preposition) as
Phrase-Structure Expansions
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 160
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 160 1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
Phrase-Structure Expansions 161
head and typically an NP (noun phrase), so the phrase-structure expansion
for PP is:
PP → P NP
If NP is treated as optional, as in It fell off (the table), it would appear in paren-
thesis: PP → P (NP)
Expanding Sentence and Verb Phrase
That sentences and clauses have two basic constituents can be captured in this
phrase-structure expansion:
S → NP VP
Every expansion rule can generate a tree diagram, and S → NP VP would gener-
ate this tree:
S
NP VP
Having already explored expansions of NP, we turn now to the internal struc-
ture of VP. The following expansions of our frame for identifying VPs reveal
that the structures on the right (those following Lou) are VPs, and constituents
of the VP are labeled beneath them.
_VP_
1. Lou won
V
_______VP_______
2. Lou won a bicycle
V NP
____________VP____________
3. Lou won the bike in May
V NP PP
Sentences 1, 2, and 3 above indicate three VP expansions:
VP → V
VP → V NP
VP → V NP PP
V is the only constituent that occurs in all of these rules. It is the essential cat-
egory in the VP constituent—its head. As is clear from sentence 1 above, NP and
PP are optional constituents of VP. Using parentheses for optional elements, the
three expansions above can be combined into a single phrase-structure rule:
VP → V (NP) (PP)
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 161
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 161 1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
162 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
Just as we discovered unanticipated structural patterns when we merged four
expansions of NP into a single rule, so the combined rule for VP generates an
unanticipated V PP structure, which is not represented among sentences 1, 2,
and 3, the basis for our VP expansion rule. We can check the validity of V PP
as an expansion and see that it represents the internal structure of sentences
like (Finian) played in the yard, (Dana) raced through the exam, and (Pat) flew to
Ballina, the last of which is illustrated below.
________VP________
Pat flew to Ballina
V PP
Phrase-Structure Expansions and Tree Diagrams
We have formulated four phrase-structure expansion rules:
S  → NP VP
NP → (Det) (A) N (PP)
VP → V (NP) (PP)
PP  → P (NP)
These represent the fact that S comprises NP and VP; NP contains N; VP con-
tains V; and PP contains P. According to these phrase-structure expansion rules,
all other possible constituents are optional.
The following tree diagram is one representation of our expansion rules:
S
NP VP
N V
It is the simplest structure generated by our rules and would represent sentences
like Lou disappeared and That stinks. Now consider the more complex structure
given in Figure 5.7, where The runner from Butte won a prize at the fair is an il-
lustrative sentence for the structure. It is clear that our four expansion rules can
represent structurally simple or structurally elaborate sentences.
TryItYourself Limiting yourself to the four expansion rules used
to produce the tree in Figure 5.7, draw a tree that would represent this
sentence: The runner from Butte won a car with a siren. Before starting, ask yourself
whether a prize at the fair is a constituent of the sentence in Figure 5.7, and take care to
note the structural similarity of the runner from Butte and a car with a siren.
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 162
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 162 1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
Grammatical Relations: Subject, Direct Object, and Others  163
Some traditional English grammar
treatments offer notional definitions
of subject (as doer of the action, for
example) and object (receiver of the
action). Others rely on structure and
define a subject as the sentence con-
stituent that a present-tense verb
agrees with (for example, in she sings
versus they sing). For various reasons,
these and similar definitions leave a
lot to be desired.
Using constituent structure, how-
ever, does enable analysts to define sub-
ject and direct object more precisely.
Immediate Dominance
In Figure 5.8, the circled NP is di-
rectly under the S node, the boxed NP
directly under the VP node, and the VP node directly under the S node. When
a node is directly under another node—that is, when there are no interven-
ing nodes—we say it is immediately dominated by that other node. Thus in
Figure 5.8, V is immediately dominated by VP; the circled NP immediately
dominated by S; the boxed NP immediately dominated by VP; and both VP
and the circled NP immediately dominated by S.
Grammatical Relations: Subject, Direct
Object, and Others
S
NP
Det N
Det N
Det N
PP
PREP NP PREP NP
V
The runner a prize the fair
from Butte at
won
NP PP
VP
Figure 5.7
Try It Yourself Try identifying the
doer and receiver of the action in these
sentences. Then, relying on the agreement criterion
mentioned here, identify the subject in each. 1) New
businesses and family-run businesses are often tiny.
2) It isn’t known how many members the group has.
3) Landlords of buildings aim to burn fuel sparingly.
4) One consequence of the recession among 18- to
30-year olds living in New York is the availability of
cheaper small apartments. 5) A sensitive camper taking
this medicine may experience allergic reactions. Do you
regard these criteria as reliable?
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 163
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 163 1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
1/3/11 6:34:18 PM
164 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
Subject and Direct Object
In English, subject is defined as the NP that is immediately dominated by S.
In our diagram, the circled NP is immediately dominated by S and is thus the
subject. Direct object is defined as an NP that is immediately dominated by VP.
In Figure 5.8 it is the boxed NP. Because NP is an optional element in the expan-
sion of VP, not every sentence will have a direct object.
Transitive and Intransitive Recall from Chapter 2 that a sentence lacking a direct
object contains what is called an intransitive verb. Examples are cry, laugh, and
disappear, all of which may occur without a direct object, as in Hillary cried,
Geoff laughed, and The jewels disappeared. By contrast, verbs like make, buy, and
find take a direct object and are called
transitive verbs, as in made a potion,
buy a Harley, and found a penny. While
some verbs may be either transitive
or intransitive, as exemplified in
the first three sentence pairs below,
others are only transitive (as in 4) or
only intransitive (as in 5). (We use an
asterisk to mark an ungrammatical
structure, one that doesn’t occur in the
language.)
Intransitive Transitive
1. Josh won. Josh won a prize.
2. Taylor sings. Taylor sings lullabies.
3. Suze studied at Oxford. Suze studied economics at Oxford.
4. *Nicole frightened. Nicole frightened the kittens.
5. Miguel reappeared. *Miguel reappeared the dishes.
Given the pivotal role of the verb in determining the structure of a clause, a
verb’s subcategorization as transitive or intransitive determines whether its
clause may contain an object or not.
S
V
NP
NP
VP
Subject
Direct object
Figure 5.8
TryItYourself Provide a sentence
with a verb that can only be transitive and
another with a verb that can only be intransitive.
Then provide a pair of sentences in which the same
verb is used once in a transitive and once in an
intransitive structure.
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 164
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 164 1/3/11 6:34:19 PM
1/3/11 6:34:19 PM
Surface Structures and Underlying Structures 165
Grammatical Relations
Grammatical relation is the term used to capture the syntactic, or
structural, relationship in a clause between an NP and the verb. In other
words, grammatical relations indicate the syntactic role that an NP plays
in its clause, and that role cannot be equated with anything else, including
meaning. Besides the grammatical relations of subject and direct object, an NP
in a clause can be an indirect object, an oblique, or a possessor. Oblique
is the term for NPs that are not subject, object, or indirect object; in English
an oblique is realized as the object of a preposition (The vampire pointed to his
teeth). Possessor is the term for entities showing possession (Josh’s new Mini).
(Indirect objects are analyzed in exercises 5-5 and 5-6.)
Passive Sentences and Structure Dependence
Having defined subject and direct object in structural terms, we now return to a
syntactic relationship examined earlier. Relying on the grammatical relations of
subject and direct object, we can reformulate our description of the relationship
between active and passive sentences as follows:
To form a passive sentence from an active one, interchange the subject NP
with the direct object NP. (As before, provision must be made for the preposi-
tion by and a form of the verb be.)
Figure 5.9 provides an example:
Figure 5.9
You can see that the direct object of the active sentence appears as the sub-
ject of the passive sentence, and the subject of the active sentence appears as an
oblique (in a prepositional by-phrase) in the passive sentence.
As we have seen in several ways, we understand considerably more about the
architecture of sentences than is apparent in the linear order of their words. In
fact, not only do we have implicit knowledge of constituent structure within the
linear string of words in a sentence—what we call its surface structure—but
we often perceive or understand constituents that are unexpressed in the linear
string. For example, we readily understand the meaning of didn’t in Lisa won a
Surface Structures and Underlying Structures
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 165
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 165 1/3/11 6:34:20 PM
1/3/11 6:34:20 PM
166 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
prize, but Larry didn’t, as in option 5 below. But to understand that sentence re-
quires implicit knowledge of syntactic operations:
1. didn’t.
2. didn’t care.
Lisa won a prize, but Larry 3. didn’t tell Sarah.
4. didn’t congratulate her.
5. didn’t win a prize.
While the list of possible sentences following this pattern is endless, English
speakers know that the only legitimate interpretation of 1 is 5 and that sen-
tences 2 through 4 are not possible interpretations of 1.
To help explain this, recall that in Chapter 4 we postulated underlying forms of
sounds and morphemes. Well, one way to account for implicit knowledge about
sentence structure is to posit underlying structures for syntax. For instance, we
could represent the meaning of sentence 1 by positing an underlying structure
something like Lisa won a prize, but Larry didn’t win a prize. If we assumed such
an underlying structure and certain syntactic operations that deleted the repeated
occurrence of the constituent win a prize, we would have a mechanism for under-
standing how English speakers know that only 5 above satisfies the meaning of 1.
Syntactic Operations: Question Formation
and the Auxiliary
Among examples of syntactic operations in English, we have examined move-
ment (as in passivization) and deletion (as in Lisa won a prize, but Larry didn’t).
Now we analyze other examples.
English has two principal kinds of questions. Yes/no questions are those that
can be answered with a reply of yes or no, as in Was it a candid discussion? Infor-
mation questions, on the other hand, include a wh-word like who, what, or when
and require more than a simple yes or no reply.
Yes/No Questions Examine the statements below and their corresponding yes/
no questions.
1. Suze will earn a fair wage.
Will Suze earn a fair wage?
2. Last year’s winner of the Tour de France was leading the pack on Tuesday.
Was last year’s winner of the Tour de France leading the pack on Tuesday?
If you compare the matched declarative and interrogative sentences, you’ll see
that the question requires moving the auxiliary verb of the statement to a posi-
tion before the subject NP. Verbs such as will in 1 and was in 2 are called aux-
iliary verbs, or auxiliaries, and can be moved in front of a subject NP to form
a question; auxiliary verbs are distinguished from main verbs such as earn in 1
and lead in 2 above and study in 3 and hurt in 4 below.
Notice that yes/no questions contain an auxiliary even when the correspond-
ing declarative sentence does not, as 3 and 4 show:
3. Alvin studied journalism in college.
Did Alvin study journalism in college?
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 166
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 166 1/3/11 6:34:20 PM
1/3/11 6:34:20 PM
Surface Structures and Underlying Structures 167
4. Inflation always hurts the poor.
Does inflation always hurt the poor?
In addition, an auxiliary usually must appear in the surface structure of nega-
tive sentences, as in the examples below.
5. Alvin studied journalism in college.
Alvin didn’t study journalism in college.
Auxiliaries can also be used to express contrast or emphasis (She certainly does
exercise every day!) and other information such as future time (She will win) and
aspect (They were traveling then). (Aspect and time reference are discussed in
Chapter 6.)
Because an auxiliary often must appear in the surface structure of sentences
(and also for other reasons not discussed here), a constituent representing the
auxiliary is postulated in the underlying structure of every sentence. That means
that, instead of the earlier expansion of S simply as NP VP, it must include AUX,
as below:
S → NP AUX VP
The operation that changes the constituent structure of the declarative sen-
tences in 1, 2, 3, and 4 above to the constituent structure of their respective
yes/no questions moves AUX to a site preceding the subject NP, as represented
in Figure 5.10 below:
We thus represent the underlying structure of both Suze will earn a fair wage
and Will Suze earn a fair wage as in the tree on the left in Figure 5.11. The tree
on the right represents the constituent structure that results from application of
the subject-auxiliary inversion operation.
NP AUX
S
VP AUX NP
S
VP
Figure 5.10
AUX
NP
NP
S S
VP
V
A
Det
N
Suze will earn a fair
subject-auxiliary inversion
wage
Suze
Will earn a fair wage
N
AUX NP
NP
VP
V
A
Det
N
N
Figure 5.11
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 167
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 167 1/3/11 6:34:20 PM
1/3/11 6:34:20 PM
168 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
Information Questions In an information question, the information that is
sought—the questioned constituent—is represented by a wh-word (who or
whom, why, when, where, which, what, how), and such wh-questions occur in two
forms. One echoes the form of the statement, as in these examples:
(He’s boiling horsefeathers.) He’s boiling what?
(She was looking for Sigmund Freud.) She was looking for who?
Intonation aside, the linear order of words in an echo question is identical to the
linear order of words in the statement, except that a wh-word occurs in place of
the questioned constituent—what for horsefeathers, who for Sigmund Freud. (For
analysis of who and whom, see exercises 5-12 and 5-13.)
Much more common than echo questions are ordinary information questions.
They take the form illustrated below, in which a syntactic operation called
wh-movement fronts the wh-word to a position before the subject:
1. What is he boiling—? (He is boiling what?)
2. Who was she looking for—today? (She was looking for who today?)
If you compare these ordinary information questions with the parenthesized
echo questions following them, you’ll see that two movements have occurred:
The
◆ wh-word (the questioned constituent what or who) appears at the
front of its clause.
The auxiliary (
◆ is or was) precedes the subject NP (which is italicized in the
examples).
Notice, too, that ordinary information questions leave an understood “gap” in
the structure at the site vacated by the fronted wh-word (indicated here by a
dash—). By contrast, an echo question has no gap because the wh-word re-
mains in its underlying site.
Embedded Clauses
We’ve been examining sentences consisting of a single clause, as in Judge Jensen
married a butcher or Lou cried. Now we analyze sentences containing more than
one clause—those consisting of a clause that is embedded as a constituent of
another clause. In sentences 1 and 2 below, the italicized clause is embedded
within another clause.
1. Suze said Lou cried.
2. That Jen won the marathon surprised Sheila.
In sentence 1, the clause Lou cried is embedded within the clausal structure
Suze said ____. In 2, (That) Jen won the marathon is a clause embedded within
the clausal structure ____ surprised Sheila and corresponds structurally to the
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 168
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 168 1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
Surface Structures and Underlying Structures 169
underlined NP in It surprised Sheila. These embedded clauses thus function like
noun phrases within the embedding clause.
In sentences 1 and 2 above, an embedded clause functions as a constituent of
an embedding clause, or what is often called a matrix clause. For example, in
3 below, the italicized embedded clause functions as a constituent of the matrix
clause and has the same grammatical relation in the matrix clause as the under-
lined word in sentence 4 has within its clause:
3. That Josh feared vampires upset his wife.
4. It upset his wife.
In other words, That Josh feared vampires in 3 and It in 4 are both NPs with the
grammatical relation of subject. Embedded clauses may have other functions
within a matrix clause, including adverbial functions, as in She failed most when
she tried least, but adverbial clauses lie beyond our scope.
Tree diagrams can be useful in illustrating the relationships among clauses in a
sentence. In representing a sentence such as Harry said he saw a ghost, the embedded
clause he saw a ghost fills the same sentence slot as the NP it in Harry said it, as
shown in Figures 5.12 and 5.13. Figure 5.13 captures the fact that the embedded
clause S2 (he saw a ghost) functions structurally as part of the matrix clause S1
(Harry said ____). In the case of Harry said it, the NP immediately dominated by VP
is it, which is an N. In the case of Harry said he saw a ghost, the NP immediately
dominated by VP is he saw a ghost, which is an S. Figure 5.14 is a more detailed
tree structure for the abbreviated one of Figure 5.13. Note that the phrase-structure
rules given earlier would need to be refined in order to accommodate expansion of
NP as S (as in Figures 5.13 and 5.14). As implied by these and other tree structures,
we have begun to rely implicitly on certain elaborations of those expansion rules,
and our expansions can be inferred from the tree diagrams.
Subordinators An embedded clause may be introduced by a word that would
not occur if the clause stood as an independent sentence. Called a subordinator
(or subordinating conjunction), such an introductory word serves to mark the
S
NP VP
N V NP
Harry said N
it
Figure 5.12
NP VP
N V NP
Harry said S2
S1
he saw a ghost
Figure 5.13
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 169
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 169 1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
170 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
S
NP VP
N V NP
Harry said S
NP VP
N V NP
he saw Det N
a ghost
Figure 5.14
beginning of an embedded clause and helps identify its function in the sentence.
Not all embedded clauses are introduced by a subordinator. Sentence 1 above
may have a subordinator (Suze said that Lou cried), but it does not require one
(Suze said Lou cried), whereas sentence 2 (That Jen won the marathon surprised
Sheila) requires a subordinator.
Relative Clauses
Relative clause is the term used for a clause embedded within an NP to form
structures such as those below (the relative clauses are italicized):
1. The dean criticized [the prof who flunked me].
2. [The jewels that he stole] were fakes.
3. Sarah saw a new film by [the French director that Kim raves about].
4. Sarah saw a new film by [the French director Kim raves about].
When NPs with the same referent occur in two clauses, a relative clause can
be formed by embedding one clause into the other, as in the following ex-
ample, where the identical indexes (subscript j) on cousin indicate identical
referents:
I gave your address to my cousinj  my cousinj lives in Dublin
I gave your address to my cousinj whoj lives in Dublin
English relative clauses are typically introduced by a relative pronoun such
as who (or whom or whose), which, or that. As a comparison of 3 and 4 above
illustrates, the relative pronoun may be omitted in specific circumstances.
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 170
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 170 1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
Surface Structures and Underlying Structures 171
(Exercise 5-8 addresses these circumstances.) Relative clauses modify nouns,
and the modified noun serves as the head of the entire noun phrase containng
the relative clause. The head noun is repeated in the embedded clause, where it
is relativized (taking the form of a relative pronoun). The structure of the result-
ing noun phrase can be represented as in Figure 5.15, in which the head noun
cousin is labeled N. Notice in this instance that the relativized NP who functions
as the subject of its clause (the NP immediately dominated by S).
In other clauses, the relativized NP may be the direct object, as here:
The jewels that he stole were fakes.
The relative clause that he stole derives from the underlying clause he stole the
jewels, where the jewels is the direct object of the verb stole and has been relativ-
ized and moved to the front of its clause.
A relativized NP can also be an oblique as in 1 or a possessor as in 2:
1. This is the officer whom I told you about. (cf. I told you about the officer)
2. This is the officer whose car was vandalized. (cf. the officer’s car was
vandalized)
In English, then, a relativized NP can have any of these grammatical relations
within its clause: subject, direct object, oblique, or possessor.
COMP Node
Now let’s analyze the syntactic operations associated with relative clause forma-
tion in English. Examine the following sentences, noting the understood “gap”
in the structure (indicated by a dash—):
1. There’s the pothole that I warned you about —.
NP
Det N S
my cousin NP VP
who
V
N PP
lives P NP
in N
Dublin
Figure 5.15
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 171
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 171 1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
172 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
2. J. K. Rowling wrote the novel that I bought —.
3. The fans who — braved the weather paid a price.
We can represent the underlying constituent structure of these sentences in a
tree diagram, as Figure 5.16 illustrates for sentence 2.
In order to form the relative clause structure of 2, the NP the novel (inside
the lower clause I bought the novel) is relativized and moved to the front of its
clause by the wh-movement operation we earlier introduced for information
questions. Figure 5.16 shows a node labeled COMP (complementizer), which
we have not previously identified. There is good reason to posit a COMP node
in the underlying structure. Among other functions, COMP serves as a kind of
placeholder and magnet for relative pronouns such as that, which, and who, as
well as for the wh-constituents in information questions.
Since syntactic operations transform one constituent structure into another,
we can represent the output of wh-movement as applied to Figure 5.16 by the
tree given in Figure 5.17. Thus, wh-movement extracts a wh-constituent (that)
from S and attaches it to the COMP node. The same syntactic operation could
move any wh-constituent to COMP, including question words in the formation
of information questions.
S
NP VP
N V NP
J.K.Rowling wrote NP S
Det N COMP S
the novel NP VP
N V NP
I bought Det N
the novel
Figure 5.16
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 172
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 172 1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
Functions of Syntactic Operations 173
While it is not known how many types of syntactic operations exist in human
languages, recent theories of syntax reflect evidence that syntactic operations
are considerably more general than our relatively detailed specifications of ex-
amples from English or other languages might suggest. Movement operations are
extremely common in the languages of the world, and some theoretical models
of syntax limit all syntactic operations essentially to movement operations.
We have examined several syntactic operations and stressed the point that all
syntactic operations are structure dependent. We saw, for example, that irre-
spective of NP length or complexity, active and passive sentences are related
in that the object NP of the active sentence (A jaunty old judge fined Jody) is the
subject NP of the passive counterpart (Jody was fined by a jaunty old judge), and
the subject of the active sentence (a jaunty old judge) is an oblique in the passive
sentence (by a jaunty old judge).
You might wonder why languages have different ways of saying the same thing:
what’s the purpose of a syntactic operation like English passivization that essen-
tially interchanges a subject and object but leaves the meaning of the sentence
unchanged? To answer that question we exemplify with English examples, but
comparable analyses in other languages could be used to illustrate the same point.
Types of Syntactic Operations
Functions of Syntactic Operations
S
NP VP
N V NP
J.K.Rowling wrote Det N S
the novel COMP S
that NP VP
N V
I bought
Figure 5.17
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 173
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 173 1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
174 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
Yes/No Questions and Echo Questions
Yes/No Questions First, we analyze an example in which a syntactic opera-
tion does have a manifest effect on meaning. As we saw, yes/no questions are
formed by moving the auxiliary in accordance with certain structural patterns.
Thus, from the structure underlying She will swear to it, a syntactic operation
produces the structure Will she swear to it? From a functional perspective the
declarative structure makes a statement, the interrogative structure asks a ques-
tion, and languages must provide speakers ways to make statements and ask
questions. The point is that the form of the question is related to the form of
the statement and is achieved by the syntactic operation called subject-auxiliary
inversion. The meaning of the declarative and the meaning of the interrogative
are not the same, of course.
Information Questions We saw that information questions have alternative
forms—those in which the questioned constituent is fronted (What did they find?
Who did she meet?) and those in which it isn’t (They found what? She met who?).
Both forms serve to ask questions and, broadly speaking, mean the same thing.
But speakers use these forms for different purposes: they choose echo questions
when they have failed to hear something completely or want to express surprise
or incredulity at what they’ve heard. Thus, the alternative ways of asking ques-
tions serve different functions in a discourse.
Active and Passive Structures
Like the two forms of information questions, which have the same meaning but
serve different discourse functions, active and passive pairs generally have the
same meaning. After all, if Jody was fined by a jaunty old judge, it must also be
the case that a jaunty old judge fined Jody. Why, then, should English have two
ways of saying the same thing? To help
answer that question, consider this pas-
sage about the baseball player Odalis
Perez, taken from the Sports section of
the Los Angeles Times:
Perez gave up an infield single to Barry
Bonds before getting Andres Galarraga
on another infield popup for the final out.
Perez re-engaged Hernandez as he was
walking off the field, triggering the ejec-
tion. He was also ejected June 13 against
the Cleveland Indians at Jacobs Field.
Perez is the grammatical subject of the
first two sentences, and He (also refer-
ring to Perez) is the subject of the third
sentence. Of the three italicized verbs
in the passage, the first two are active
and both of them have Odalis Perez as
Try It Yourself Explain why the writer
of the passage below might have used the
underlined passive structure in sentence 3 and why
that sentence combines an active verb (overran) and a
passive verb (was thrown out).
(1) The Dodgers scored only one run despite twice
loading the bases in the sixth inning, and Ward’s
base-running blunder in the ninth stirred more
frustration for the team. (2) With one out and
Cabrera on ﬁrst base, Ward singled through the hole
on the right side, sending Cabrera to third. (3) But
Ward overran the bag and was thrown out, quickly
dampening the Dodgers’ mood.
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 174
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 174 1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
Recursion and Novel Sentences 175
the referent of their subject: Perez gave up; Perez re-engaged. The writer’s focus
was on Perez—and in order to keep the focus on Perez in the third sentence,
he chose a passive structure, which allowed him to keep Perez in the spot-
light: He was also ejected June 13 against the Cleveland Indians at Jacobs Field.
Perez is the referent of the subject in all three sentences. An active structure
(An umpire ejected him June 13 against the Cleveland Indians at Jacobs Field)
would have introduced an extraneous person into the discourse and removed
the focus from Perez.
As a further point, note that in a passive structure the subject of the corre-
sponding active sentence may be omitted altogether. Instead of He was ejected
by an umpire June 13 against the Cleveland Indians at Jacobs Field, the writer
simply said He was ejected June 13 against the Cleveland Indians at Jacobs Field—
without mentioning an umpire at all. By altogether omitting the subject of the
active sentence, the focus remains on Perez.
We have now seen that NPs and VPs can be expanded in various ways. We’ve
also seen that VPs and PPs may contain NPs and that NPs may contain embed-
ded sentences. That means we have seen the possibility of recursion—the abil-
ity of a sentence to incorporate another sentence that in turn could incorporate
still another one, and so on. We’ve seen, in effect, that relying on a few expan-
sion rules, English—or any other language—can be endlessly creative in form-
ing novel sentences. Using those same few rules, speakers can also interpret
novel sentences produced by others. Allowing for recursion, mastery of just a
few rules enables speakers to produce and interpret sentences they haven’t ever
heard or read before. Thus is language endlessly novel, endlessly creative.
Recursion and Novel Sentences
We saw in Chapter 2 that computer programs can do
a good job of tagging words in a sentence with their
correct part of speech, identifying lexical categories
for nearly all the words. Beyond that, computer pro-
grams that can analyze a string of lexical categories for
constituent structure are known as parsers, and some
parsers achieve impressive success in assigning correct
constituent structure to a string of lexical categories.
Tagging the words of a sentence for their lexical
category is not the same thing as identifying constitu-
ent structure. Just as a string of words may have more
than one constituent structure, so a string of lexical
categories may represent more than one constituent
structure. Just as the noun phrase gullible boys and girls
has two possible constituent structures, so the string of
categories for that phrase may have two bracketings:
[A [N Conj N]] or [A N] [Conj] [N]
Some computer programs can
analyze tagged sentences and pro-
duce a labeled constituent structure or tree diagram.
In the case of gullible boys and girls, a parser would
produce two candidate constituent structures. Let’s
see how a parser would operate.
Given a sentence such as That rancher saw the
wolves, a tagger would ﬁrst assign parts of speech to
the words as follows:
ThatDet rancherN sawV theDet wolvesN
In principle, saw could be a noun or a verb and that
could have several possible tags, but even moderately
sophisticated taggers would not have difficulty de-
termining the correct tags here. Once part-of-speech
Computers and the Study of Syntax
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 175
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 175 1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
176 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
tags have been assigned, a parser uses only a few
phrase-structure expansion rules to produce a tree
diagram or constituent-structure bracketing for the
string. You can envision the process as something
like working from the bottom of a tree structure to
the top. For example, the phrase-structure expan-
sion NP → Det N would bracket that rancher and
the wolves as NPs, which yields the bracketing NP V
NP. The expansion VP → V NP allows saw the wolves
to be bracketed as VP, giving NP VP. That in turn is
recognized as a representation of S. Taken together
then, the tagged string can be parsed as in the ﬁgure
at the bottom of this section. With more complicated
strings, assigning correct constituent structure may
be less straightforward.
Relying on their relatively simple parsers, gram-
mar checkers in word processors sometimes suggest
changes to your syntax in the interest of grammatical
correctness or stylistic refinement. They often sug-
gest revisions that indicate they have wrongly parsed
a sentence. Often, too, they find natural sentences
too long to parse, and the best they can do is suggest
shortening the sentence.
[S [NP [That Det] [rancher N] NP] [VP [saw V [NP [the
Det] [wolves N] NP] VP] S]
This labeled bracketing is entirely equivalent to
the tree diagram below:
Summary
The operations governing the formation of sentences constitute the syntax of a
•
language. The study of sentence structure is also called syntax.
All languages have referring expressions and predication expressions.
•
In syntactic terms, a referring expression is an NP (noun phrase) and a
•
predication expression a VP (verb phrase).
A sentence (and a clause) consists of a verb with the appropriate set of NPs.
•
Speakers of every language can generate an unlimited number of sentences from
•
a finite number of operations for combining phrases.
Phrase-structure expansion rules generate underlying constituent structures.
•
Syntactic operations change one constituent structure into another one.
•
S
NP
Det N
VP
V
NP
saw the wolves
Det N
That rancher
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 176
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 176 1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
1/3/11 6:34:21 PM
Summary 177
Positing underlying constituent structures captures the striking regularity of
•
certain relationships between sentences that are otherwise not apparent on the
surface.
Positing underlying structures helps explain some elements of meaning and
•
certain syntactic and semantic relationships between sentences.
In order to explain how speakers relate two structures to one another (such as
•
She doesn’t believe in poltergeists and Doesn’t she believe in poltergeists?), linguists
posit an operation that transforms the structure underlying the basic declarative
sentence into the structure underlying the derived interrogative one.
It appears that the most important and most general syntactic operations involve
•
movement such as wh-movement.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
Clarence and productivity
• . We hear some expressions so frequently that it’s easy
to imagine how we know them. Most of the things we say and read, though, we
haven’t said or heard or read before. But the structures that underlie what we
say and hear are relatively few, and we have experience with them in everything
we say and hear and read. By combining these few structures in different
ways, we can generate and understand completely new sentences easily and
accurately.
Amber and ambiguity
• . Ambiguous words often don’t call attention to themselves
because context promotes a particular reading and efficiently eliminates
alternatives. The utterance I’m going to the bank to deposit a check excludes the
likelihood of a riverbank. Another kind of ambiguity arises when a string of
words has more than one possible internal organization. Gullible boys and girls
can mean ‘girls and gullible boys’ or ‘gullible boys and gullible girls.’ Likewise
with new drug combinations, which may be organized as [new drug] combinations
or new [drug combinations].
Reader Ron
• . The usual word order in an English sentence is subject-verb-object
(“I hate turnips”), but there are grammatical alternatives (“Turnips I hate!”—
which has an object-subject-verb order). Similarly, in “Not a drop of rain had
fallen on Roanoke Island, said John Wilson,” the main clause subject “John
Wilson” appears after the main verb “said,” which appears after the object
clause “not a drop of rain had fallen on Roanoke Island.” The ordinary subject-
verb-object order (John Wilson—said—not a drop of rain had fallen on Roanoke
Island) focuses a reader’s attention on John Wilson. To focus it on the fact that
not a drop of rain had fallen on Roanoke Island, the writer exploited the object-
verb-subject order: Not a drop of rain had fallen on Roanoke Island—said—
John Wilson.
Nerdy Ned
• . Ned should consider offing a grammar checker that’s so
unsophisticated it recommends changing every passive sentence he writes. After
all, sometimes a passive sentence is precisely what’s needed to keep the focus
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 177
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 177 1/3/11 6:34:22 PM
1/3/11 6:34:22 PM
178 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
where a writer intends it to be. If Ned were writing about a winning team,
he might choose to keep the focus there, and one way to do that would be by
making the winning team the subject of the sentence, as in the one his checker
balked at. ■
Exercises
Practice Exercises
A. In each sentence, identify the subject constituent and any direct object
constituent.
a. A political compromise will achieve that.
b. That doesn’t mean everybody will have a win-win situation.
c. I would’ve noticed a progressive teacher’s ideal pupil.
d. What does the alternator do?
e. A more radical position was held by the most prominent figure of the
mission.
f. Now the man who yearned for ten years to be a woman wants to remain a
man.
B. Each sentence below has undergone one or more syntactic operations.
Provide an appropriate underlying form for each, except those in
parentheses, which are given simply for context.
a. The scheme was initiated by displeased sophomores.
b. The other girls were frustrated by our tactics.
c. Erin could eat squid, but I couldn’t.
d. (I didn’t expect that to happen.) Did you?
e. (How are you?) Not bad.
f. Do you know he failed his chemistry exam?
g. Apples I love. Pears I hate.
Based on English
5-1. a. List as many examples of these constituents as you can identify in sen-
tences 1 and 2 below: NP, PP, VP.
b. List as many examples of these lexical categories as you can identify in
sentences 1 and 2 below: N, PREP, V.
1) A concert at an arena near St. Louis ended in disaster after fans staged
a full-fledged riot.
2) The trouble started when Axl Rose asked venue security to confiscate a
camera he saw near the front of the stage.
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 178
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 178 1/3/11 6:34:22 PM
1/3/11 6:34:22 PM
Exercises 179
c. For each of the expansions of VP given on page 161, provide an illustra-
tion. Example: V NP—ate an apple.
5-2. Match the following tree diagrams to one of these bracketed constituent
structures: i) He sold the car [to a cousin] [in Boston]; or ii) He sold the car
[to [a cousin in Boston]].
S
NP VP
He V NP PP
sold Det N P NP
the car to Det N PP
a cousin P NP
in N
Boston
S
NP VP
He V NP PP PP
sold Det N P NP P NP
the car to Det N in N
a cousin Boston
5-3. a. Draw a labeled tree diagram for each phrase below.
1) ancient inscriptions
2) in the dark night
3) concocted a potion
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 179
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 179 1/3/11 6:34:23 PM
1/3/11 6:34:23 PM
180 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
4) borrowed the book that the teacher recommended
5) the monstrous members of a terrible kingdom
b. Provide a tree diagram for each sentence (for the moment, ignore the
italics).
1) Vampires frighten him.
2) The skies deluged the earth with water.
3) A ghost has the spirit of a dead person.
4) Do ghosts exist in the physical world?
5) Does she believe that ghosts exist?
6) The teacher that I described to you won the race.
c. For each italicized group of words in the sentences above, determine
whether or not it is a constituent, and, if it is, provide its name.
5-4. What is the difference in the relationship between Harry and the verb see in
1 and 2 below? Draw tree diagrams of the underlying structure of the two
sentences that reveal the difference in the structures.
1) Josh advised Harry to see the doctor.
2) Josh promised Harry to see the doctor.
5-5. English has a syntactic operation called dative movement that derives sen-
tence 2 from the structure underlying sentence 1:
1) I sent a letter to Hillary.
2) I sent Hillary a letter.
The following also exemplify sentences with dative movement:
He sold his brother a sailboat.
Hal won’t tell me Daniel’s new phone number.
I’m giving my cousin a new pair of pajamas.
a. Give the three underlying sentences corresponding to the three derived
sentences.
b. Dative movement applies to prepositional phrases that begin with the
preposition to but cannot apply to prepositional phrases that begin with
most other prepositions:
*I will finish you the homework. (from I will finish the homework with
you.)
*My neighbor heard the radio the news. (from My neighbor heard the news
on the radio.)
But dative movement does not apply to all phrases that begin with the preposi-
tion to. The sentences in 3 below cannot undergo dative movement, as shown
by the ungrammaticality of the corresponding sentences in 4.
3) He’s driving a truck to New Orleans.
She’s speaking nonsense to her boss.
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 180
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 180 1/3/11 6:34:23 PM
1/3/11 6:34:23 PM
Exercises 181
4) *He’s driving New Orleans a truck.
*She’s speaking her boss nonsense.
Describe dative movement in detail.
c. Observe the ungrammatical sentences in 5 below, which are derived
through dative movement from the sentences underlying the corre-
sponding basic sentences in 6. How must you modify your description
of dative movement so that it does not generate the ungrammatical sen-
tences of 5?
5) *I gave my new neighbor it.
*I’m taking my little sister them.
*They will probably send him me.
6) I gave it to my new neighbor.
I’m taking them to my little sister.
They will probably send me to him.
5-6. English has the grammatical relations of subject, direct object, oblique, and
possessor. But it is debatable whether indirect object is a distinct grammati-
cal relation and, if so, whether it occurs in sentences such as The witch of-
fered the child a potion or The witch offered a potion to the child. The syntactic
properties of the child differ in the two sentences. What syntactic evidence
can you offer for arguing that the child does not have the same grammatical
relation in each of these sentences? (Hint: At least one syntactic operation
examined in this chapter does not produce grammatical strings for both the
sentences.)
5-7. English has two forms of relative clauses. Form 1 fronts the relativized
noun phrase but leaves any preposition where it stood in the original
clause.
This is the man [whom I talked to — last night]. (original clause: I talked to
the man last night)
In Form 2, the preposition moves with the wh-word to the beginning of the
clause.
This is the man [to whom I talked last night].
Describe the relative-clause operation for Form 2 relative clauses, focusing
on how it differs from the operation for Form 1 relative clauses. Identify
which relative pronouns can occur in which form of relative clause, and
in which cases the two forms differ. Base your discussion on the following
data:
This is the man [that left]. (Forms 1 and 2)
*This is the man [left]. (Forms 1 and 2)
This is the man [that I saw]. (Forms 1 and 2)
This is the man [who I saw]. (Forms 1 and 2)
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 181
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 181 1/3/11 6:34:23 PM
1/3/11 6:34:23 PM
182 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
This is the man [whom I saw]. (Forms 1 and 2)
This is the man [I saw]. (Forms 1 and 2)
This is the man [who I gave the book to]. (Form 1)
This is the man [whom I gave the book to]. (Form 1)
This is the man [that I gave the book to]. (Form 1)
This is the man [I gave the book to]. (Form 1)
*This is the man [to who I gave the book]. (Form 2)
This is the man [to whom I gave the book]. (Form 2)
*This is the man [to that I gave the book]. (Form 2)
*This is the man [to I gave the book]. (Form 2)
5-8. In the earlier section on relative clauses, we noted that the relative pronoun
may be omitted from certain structures. Thus, in the following sentence, Ø
represents an omitted relative pronoun:
Sally saw a new film by the French director Ø Kim raved about.
a. For each of the following sentences, identify the grammatical relation of
the relativized NP within its clause, using S for subject, DO for direct ob-
ject, and Obl for oblique.
1) I lost the book [that you gave me].
2) He rented the video [that frightened you].
3) I bumped into the teacher [who taught me solid geometry].
4) I met the poet [who(m) we read about last week].
5) I found the video [that you lost].
6) I saw the oak tree [that you slept under].
7) The new teacher [that Lou liked] just quit.
8) The new teacher [who liked jazz] just quit.
9) I picked an apple from the tree [that you planted].
  10) I like the new lyrics [that you complained about].
b. Which sentences would permit the relative pronoun to be omitted?
c. Which would not permit the relative pronoun to be omitted?
d. Which grammatical relations permit the relative pronoun to be
omitted?
e. Which grammatical relations do not permit the relative pronoun to be
omitted?
f. Rewrite sentences 4, 6, and 10, fronting the preposition with the relative
pronoun.
g. Can the relative pronoun be omitted from the rewritten versions of
4, 6, and 10?
h. What generalization can you make about when a relative pronoun can be
omitted from its clause?
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 182
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 182 1/3/11 6:34:24 PM
1/3/11 6:34:24 PM
Exercises 183
 5-9. Keeping in mind the movement operations for forming questions, analyze
what has happened in the derivation of the sentences below to produce the
ill-formed sentence. How would you formulate the auxiliary movement op-
eration to avoid the ungrammatical example?
The teacher who will give that lecture is Lily’s aunt.
*Will the teacher who give that lecture is Lily’s aunt?
Is the teacher who will give that lecture Lily’s aunt?
5-10. Below are five examples of sentences that a word processor’s grammar checker
found objectionable, along with the comment that suggests a particular cor-
rection. In each case, the grammar checker has made an incorrect analysis,
and the suggested correction would yield an ill-formed sentence. For each
example, identify the word or constituent structure that the grammar checker
has wrongly analyzed and explain the basis for its suggested correction.
Example: “In this sentence, each embedded clause functions as a grammatical
unit in its matrix clause.”
Comment: The word each does not agree with functions. Consider function in-
stead of functions. Explanation: Likely that grammar checker incorrectly ana-
lyzed functions as a plural noun (rather than a third-person-singular verb) and
took embedded clause functions to be a noun phrase. If the analysis were cor-
rect, “each embedded clause function” would be well formed.
1) “It is the word order in the sentence that signals who is doing what to
whom.”
Comment: Consider are instead of is.
2) “Do ‘George Washington’ and ‘the first president of the United States’
mean the same thing?”
Comment: Consider presidents instead of president or consider means in-
stead of mean.
3) “When a student volunteers, ‘Disneyland is fun,’ . . .”
Comment: The word a does not agree with volunteers.
4) “Linguistic semantics is the study of the systematic ways in which lan-
guages structure meaning.”
Comment: Consider language’s or languages’ instead of languages.
5) “Sentence 2 is true because we know the word dogs describes entities
that are also described by the word animals.”
Comment: Consider describe instead of describes.
Based on Languages Other Than English
5-11. Examine the tree diagram for this Fijian sentence:
ea-biuta na ŋone vakaloloma na tamata ðaa e na basi
Past-abandon the child poor the man bad on the bus
‘The bad man abandoned the poor child on the bus.’
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 183
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 183 1/3/11 6:34:24 PM
1/3/11 6:34:24 PM
184 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
S
A
NP
Det N
VP
na
NP
PP
PREP
e
V NP
ea-biuta tamata
Det N A
na vakaloloma basi
Det N
na
a. Provide the phrase-structure rules that will generate this constituent-struc-
ture tree.
b. Notice that the order of certain constituents in the Fijian sentence differs
from that of English. With respect to constituent order, what are the major
differences between Fijian and English?
c. On the basis of the tree structure, determine which of the follow-
ing sequences of words are constituents and give the name of each
constituent.
na basi ea-biuta na ŋone vakaloloma
vakaloloma na tamata e na
e na basi na ŋone
na tamata ðaa na ŋone vakaloloma na tamata ðaa
ðaa e na basi ŋone vakaloloma
ea-biuta e-biuta na ŋone
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
5-12. Although we have downplayed the difference between who and whom in the
examples in this chapter, writers and speakers who regularly make a distinc-
tion between them in relative clauses do so as follows:
1) It was Lynne who answered.
2) She’s a keen golfer, who plays mostly in Morro Bay.
3) A nurse who walked his dog without a leash was fined $600.
4) Then came the meeting with the woman whom he intended to
marry.
5) Her grandmother, whom she adored, was dangerously ill.
6) He married a woman from Devon, whom he’d met in Australia.
7) Ricardo, with whom we spent a week in Sitges, had learned to sail in
Baja.
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 184
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 184 1/3/11 6:34:24 PM
1/3/11 6:34:24 PM
Other Resources 185
8) He said this to Eddie, who doesn’t deny the lawyer’s gut feeling.
9) This isn’t solely for those who have decided to turn their lives around.
   10) He was a friend of Truman, with whom he had an affair and who en-
couraged him to write.
After examining these sentences, formulate a statement that will capture the
facts about when such writers and speakers use who and whom in relative
clauses. (Hint: Bracket the relative clause and examine the grammatical rela-
tion of the relative pronoun within its clause.)
5-13. In this chapter, we discussed who and whom in different ways. On page 168,
we took a descriptive approach, using the forms that speakers commonly use.
But in Exercise 5.12, we considered a more traditional analysis associated
with some teachers, editors, and parents, and sometimes referred to as pre-
scriptive grammar, an approach that prescribes particular language forms
as some people think they should be. What position do you think a teacher
should take with respect to common usages that are criticized by prescriptive
grammarians? What do you think students should understand about the role
of language prescription in their lives? Do you think that role should be the
same for them as writers and as conversationalists? Should teachers at differ-
ent levels of education take different approaches to description and prescrip-
tion? Explain your position and justify it.
Other Resources
Suggestions for Further Reading
Andrew Carnie. 2007.
• Syntax: A Generative Introduction, 2nd ed. (Malden, MA: Wiley-
Blackwell). A challenging introduction to generative syntax, with additional chapters on
lexical-functional grammar and head-driven phrase-structure grammar.
Bernard Comrie. 1989.
• Language Universals and Linguistic Typology: Syntax and
Morphology, 2nd ed. (Chicago: University of Chicago Press). A clear discussion of syntactic
universals across a wide range of languages; the chapters on Word Order, Subject, Case
Marking, and Relative Clauses are particularly recommended.
Vivian J. Cook & Mark Newson. 2007.
• Chomsky’s Universal Grammar: An Introduction,
3rd ed. (Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell). A more advanced introduction to formal grammar,
with chapters on principles and parameters, X-bar theory, and the minimalist program,
going beyond the present chapter in accessible steps.
Jim Miller. 2009.
• An Introduction to English Syntax, 2nd ed. (Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press). A basic introduction to the syntax of English, combining structural and
functional considerations; thorough and advanced.
Max Morenberg. 2009.
• Doing Grammar, 4th ed. (New York: Oxford University Press).
Focused on practical understanding of English grammar in traditional terms.
Maggie Tallerman. 2005.
• Understanding Syntax, 2nd ed. (New York: Oxford University
Press; London: Hodding-Arnold). A clear introduction to syntax as structure.
Advanced Reading
Comprehensive, if somewhat advanced, treatments of syntax, especially English syntax, can
be found in Aarts (1997) and Radford (2009). The volumes edited by Shopen (2007) contain
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 185
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 185 1/3/11 6:34:24 PM
1/3/11 6:34:24 PM
186 Chapter 5 The Structure and Function of Phrases and Sentences: Syntax
a wealth of useful material; probably accessible to interested readers who have mastered the
present chapter are two excellent chapters of volume I: “Parts-of-Speech Systems” and “Passive in
the World’s Languages”; volume II contains valuable chapters discussing “Complementation,” and
“Relative Clauses.” Thompson (2004) is a somewhat advanced treatment of functional grammar.
Haegeman (2006) shows how to analyze sentence structure. Huddleston and Pullum (2002) is a
rich grammar of English, with valuable theoretical discussion; at pages 1018–1022, interested
readers will find arguments against treating clauses like he saw a ghost as an object noun phrase in
sentences like Harry said he saw a ghost, but such arguments are beyond the scope of this chapter.
References
Aarts, Bas. 1997. English Syntax and Argumentation (New York: St. Martin’s).
Haegeman, Liliane. 2006. Thinking Syntactically: A Guide to Argumentation and Analysis (Malden,
MA: Blackwell).
Huddleston, Rodney & Geoffrey K. Pullum. 2002. The Cambridge Grammar of the English
Language (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Radford, Andrew. 2009. Analysing English Sentences: A Minimalist Introduction (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press).
Shopen, Timothy, ed. 2007. Language Typology and Syntactic Description, 2nd ed., 3 vols.
(Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Thompson, Geoff. 2004. Introducing Functional Grammar, 2nd ed. (London: Arnold; New York:
St. Martin’s).
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 186
00419_05_ch05_p151-186.indd 186 1/3/11 6:34:25 PM
1/3/11 6:34:25 PM
187
The Study of Meaning:
Semantics
6
What Do You Think?
Phyllis, a philosophy major, frequently poses language questions to her
•
classmates. Recently she asked, “Do you think George Washington and the first
president of the United States mean the same thing?” What do you tell her?
Your friend Doug doubts that there are any true synonyms. You counter
•
with fast and quick as synonyms that both mean ‘speedy.’ Doug one-ups
you by pointing out that a quick talker isn’t necessarily a fast talker, and
he claims that since you can’t always exchange fast and quick, they’re not
synonyms. Now what do you say?
Your uncle Earnest knows you’re studying linguistics and asks whether
•
there’s a term to capture the relationship between word pairs like uncle and
nephew, student and teacher, doctor and patient. “They’re not opposites like
hot and cold,” he says. “But what are they?” What do you tell him?
At a family picnic you listen to your cousin Kevin tease his four-year-old
•
daughter about a coloring book he’s taken from her. The girl says, “That’s
mine.” Kevin says, “That’s right, it is mine.” The girl repeats, “No, it’s mine.”
Kevin says, “That’s what I said: it’s mine.” “No, it’s not,” she insists. Then she
grabs the book and walks away. What is it about the meaning of yours and
mine that makes it possible to tease a four-year-old this way?
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 187
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 187 1/4/11 9:53:33 PM
1/4/11 9:53:33 PM
188 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Semantics has to do with meaning, and linguistic semantics is the study of the
systematic ways in which languages structure meaning, especially in words and
sentences. That will be the focus of this chapter. In Chapter 8 we’ll discuss in-
formation structure, another aspect of meaning, and examine how it is encoded
in language. In Chapter 9, we’ll discuss still other aspects of meaning, especially
certain kinds of inferential meaning.
In defining linguistic semantics (which we’ll simply call “semantics”), we
must invoke the word meaning. In everyday interaction, we use the words mean-
ing and to mean in different contexts and for different purposes. For example:
The word perplexity means ‘the state of being puzzled.’
Rash has two meanings: ‘impetuous’ and ‘skin irritation.’
In Spanish, espejo means ‘mirror.’
I did not mean that he is incompetent, just inefficient.
The meaning of the cross as a symbol is complex.
I meant to bring you my paper but left it at home.
What Is Meaning?
Linguists also attach different interpretations to the word meaning. Because the
goal of linguistics is to explain precisely how languages are structured and used
to represent situations in the world (among other things), it is helpful to distin-
guish among the different ways of interpreting the word meaning.
A few examples will illustrate why we need to develop a precise way of talk-
ing about meaning. Consider these sentences:
1. I went to the store this morning.
2. All dogs are animals.
The truth of sentence 1 depends on whether or not the speaker is in fact tell-
ing the truth about going to the store; nothing about the words of the sentence
makes it inherently true. By contrast, sentence 2 is true because the word dogs
describes entities that are also described by the word animals. The truth of 2
does not depend on whether or not the speaker is telling the truth; it depends
solely on the meaning of the words dogs and animals.
Now compare the following pairs of sentences:
3. You are too young to drink.
You are not old enough to drink.
4. Matthew spent several years in northern Tibet.
Matthew was once in northern Tibet.
The sentences of 3 basically “say the same thing” in that the first describes ex-
actly what the second describes and if the first is true, the second must also be
true. We say they are synonymous sentences, or that they paraphrase each other.
Introduction
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 188
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 188 1/4/11 9:53:35 PM
1/4/11 9:53:35 PM
Linguistic, Social, and Affective Meaning 189
In 4, the first sentence implies the second, but not vice versa. If Matthew spent
several years in northern Tibet, he must have set foot there at some point in his
life. On the other hand, if Matthew was once in northern Tibet, it is not neces-
sarily the case that he spent several years there.
Next, consider the following sentences:
5. The unmarried woman is married to a bachelor.
6. My toothbrush is pregnant.
Sentences 5 and 6 are well formed syntactically, but there is something amiss
with their semantics. The meanings of the words in 5 contradict each other: an
unmarried woman cannot be married, and certainly not to a bachelor. Sentence
5 thus presents a contradiction. Sentence 6 is not contradictory but semantically
anomalous: toothbrushes are not capable of being pregnant. To diagnose pre-
cisely what is wrong with these sentences, we need to distinguish between con-
tradictory and anomalous sentences.
Finally, examine sentences 7 and 8:
7. I saw her duck.
8. She ate the pie.
Sentence 7 may be interpreted in two ways: duck may be a verb referring to the
act of bending over quickly (while walking through a low doorway, for exam-
ple), or it may be a noun referring to a type of waterfowl. These word meanings
give the sentence two distinct meanings. Because there are two possible read-
ings of 7, it is said to be ambiguous. On the other hand, 8 is not ambiguous
but has an imprecise quality at least when considered out of context. While we
know that the subject of 8 is female, we cannot know who it is that she refers to
or which pie was eaten, although the phrase the pie indicates that the speaker
has a particular one in mind. Taken out of context, 8 is thus vague in that certain
details are left unspecified; but it is not ambiguous.
These observations illustrate that meaning is a multifaceted notion. A sen-
tence may be meaningful and true because it states a fact about the world or
because the speaker is telling the truth. Two sentences may be related to each
other because they mean exactly the same thing or because one implies the
other. Finally, when we feel that there is something wrong with the meaning of
a sentence, it may be because the sentence is contradictory, anomalous, ambig-
uous, or merely vague. One purpose of semantics is to distinguish among these
different ways in which language “means.”
For our purposes we can initially distinguish three types of meaning. Linguistic
meaning encompasses both sense and reference. Social meaning is what we
rely on when we identify certain social characteristics of speakers and situations
from the character of the language used. Affective meaning is the emotional
connotation that is attached to words and utterances.
Linguistic, Social, and Affective Meaning
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 189
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 189 1/4/11 9:53:35 PM
1/4/11 9:53:35 PM
190 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Linguistic Meaning
Meaning is a complicated matter and there is no single agreed-upon theory
about how languages mean. Although analysis of meaning goes back at least to
Plato and Aristotle, we remain quite far from a complete understanding of how
languages encode meaning and how speakers interpret language.
Referential Meaning One way of defining meaning is to say that the meaning of
a word or sentence is the actual person, object, abstract notion, event, or state
to which the word or sentence makes reference, the entity the term picks out
or identifies. (Some treatments refer to referential meaning as extensional mean-
ing.) The referential meaning of Alexis Rathburton, for example, would be the
person who goes by that name. The phrase Scott’s dog refers to the particular
domesticated canine belonging to Scott. That animal can be said to be the refer-
ential meaning of the linguistic expression Scott’s dog, and the canine picked out
or identified by the expression is its referent.
Words are not the only linguistic units to carry referential meaning. Sen-
tences too refer to actions, states, and events in the world. Rahul is sleeping on
the sofa refers to the fact that a person named Rahul is at the time of the utter-
ance asleep on an elongated piece of furniture generally meant to be sat upon.
The referent of the sentence is thus Rahul’s state of being on the piece of furni-
ture in question.
Sense Meaning Referential meaning is not sufficient to explain how some ex-
pressions mean what they mean. For one thing, not all expressions have refer-
ents. Neither a unicorn nor the present king of France has an actual referent in the
real world, but both expressions have meaning. Even leaving social and affective
meaning aside, if expressions had only referential meaning, then the sentences
in 9 would mean exactly the same thing, as would those in 10, but they don’t.
9. George Washington was the first president of the United States.
George Washington was George Washington.
10. Michelle Robinson married Barack Obama in 1992.
Michelle Robinson married the forty-fourth president of the United States in
1992.
Not only do the sentences of 10 mean different things, but the second one seems
odd: after all, the United States did not have its forty-fourth president until
2009. If, the forty-fourth president of the United States had only a referential mean-
ing, then the second sentence in 10 would seem perfectly ordinary.
Proper nouns such as George Washington, Michelle Robinson, and Barack
Obama constitute a special category, and we might say that the meaning of
proper nouns like those is the person named, the person to whom the proper
noun refers. By contrast, the meaning of expressions such as the president of the
United States and the forty-fourth president of the United States cannot be reduced
to their referents. Consider the sentences of 11:
11. Al Gore nearly became the forty-third president of the United States.
Al Gore nearly became George W. Bush.
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 190
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 190 1/4/11 9:53:35 PM
1/4/11 9:53:35 PM
Linguistic, Social, and Affective Meaning 191
Obviously, these sentences do not
mean the same thing, despite the fact that
George W. Bush and the forty-third presi-
dent of the United States have the same
referent. In general, we cannot equate
the meaning of an expression with the
referent of the expression. We say that
expressions have “senses,” as well as
referents, and any theory of semantics
must take sense meaning into account.
In the first sentence in 11, the focus is
on the sense of the forty-third president of
the United States. (Just as extensional meaning is a term sometimes used for referen-
tial meaning, so intensional meaning is sometimes used for sense meaning.)
Social Meaning
Linguistic meaning is not the only type of meaning that speakers communicate
to each other. Consider the following sentences:
1. So I says to him, “You can’t do nothin’ right.”
2. Is it a doctor in here?
3. Y’all gonna visit over the holiday?
4. Great chow!
In addition to representing actions, states, and mental processes, these sen-
tences convey information about the identity of the person who has uttered
them or about the situation in which they’ve been uttered. In 1, use of the
verb says with the first-person singular pronoun I indicates something about
the speaker’s social status. In 2, the form it where some other varieties use
there indicates a speaker of an ethnically marked variety of English (African
American English). In 3, the pronoun y’all identifies a particular regional dia-
lect of American English (Southern). Finally, the choice of words in 4 indicates
that the comment was made in an informal context. Social status, ethnicity,
regional origin, and context are all social factors. In addition to linguistic
meaning, therefore, every utterance also conveys social meaning, not only in
the sentence as a whole but in word choice (y’all and chow) and pronunciation
(gonna and nothin’).
Aﬀective Meaning
There is a third kind of meaning besides linguistic and social meaning. Compare
the following examples:
1. Tina, who always boasts about her two doctorates, lectured me all night on
Warhol’s art.
2. Tina, who’s got two doctorates, gave me a fascinating overview of Warhol’s
art last night.
Try It Yourself One of the sentences
below focuses on the referential meaning of
the president of the United States and the other focuses
on its sense. Which is which?
The president of the United States was born in Hawaii.
By law, the president of the United States must be at
least thirty-ﬁve years of age.
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 191
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 191 1/4/11 9:53:36 PM
1/4/11 9:53:36 PM
192 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Because these two sentences can be used to represent exactly the same event,
we say they have similar referential meaning. At another level, though, the in-
formation they convey is different. Sentence 1 gives the impression that the
speaker considers Tina a pretentious bore. Sentence 2, in contrast, indicates that
the speaker finds her interesting. The “stance” of the speaker in these utterances
thus differs.
Word choice is not the only way to communicate feelings and attitudes to-
ward utterances and contexts. A striking contrast is provided by sentences that
differ only in terms of stress or intonation. This string of words can be inter-
preted in several ways depending on the intonation:
Erin is really smart.
The sentence can be uttered in a matter-of-fact way, without emphasizing any
word in particular, in which case it will be interpreted literally as a remark ac-
knowledging Erin’s intelligence. But if the words really and smart are stressed
in an exaggerated manner, the sentence may be interpreted as sarcastic and in-
tended to convey exactly the opposite meaning. Intonation (often accompanied
by appropriate facial expressions) can be used as a device to communicate at-
titudes and feelings, and it can override the literal meaning of a sentence.
Consider a final example. Suppose that Andy Grump, father of Sarah, ad-
dresses her as follows:
Sarah Grump, how many times have I asked you not to channel surf?
There would be reason to look beyond the words for the “meaning” of this un-
usual form of address. Mr. Grump may address his daughter as Sarah Grump to
show his exasperation, as in this example. By addressing her as Sarah Grump
instead of the usual Sarah, he conveys frustration and annoyance. His choice
of name thus signals his exasperation. Contrast the tone of that sentence with a
similar one in which he addresses her as dear.
The level of meaning that conveys a speaker’s feelings, attitudes, and opinions
about a particular piece of information or about the ongoing context is called af-
fective meaning, and it is not an exclusive property of sentences. Words such as
Alas! and Hooray! obviously have affective meaning, and so can words such as
funny, sweet, and obnoxious. Even common words—such as father, democracy, and
old—can evoke particular emotions and feelings in us. The difference between
synonymous or near-synonymous pairs of words such as vagrant and homeless is
essentially a difference at the affective level. In this particular pair, vagrant car-
ries a negative affect, while homeless is neutral. Little is known yet about how
affective meaning works, but it is of great importance in all verbal communica-
tion. From our discussion so far, you can see that meaning is not a simple notion
but a complex combination of three aspects:
Linguistic meaning
◆ : referential meaning (the real-world object or con-
cept picked out or described by an expression) and sense meaning
Social meaning
◆ : the information about the social nature of the speaker
or of the context of utterance
Affective meaning
◆ : what the speaker feels about the content or the
ongoing context
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 192
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 192 1/4/11 9:53:36 PM
1/4/11 9:53:36 PM
Word, Sentence, and Utterance Meaning 193
The linguistic meaning of an expression is frequently called its denotation, in
contrast to connotation, which includes both social and affective meaning.
This chapter focuses primarily on linguistic meaning, the traditional domain
of semantics, but we occasionally refer to the three-way distinction. Social
meaning is further explored in Chapters 10 and 11.
Meaning of Words and Sentences
We have talked about words and sentences as the two units of language that
carry meaning. Content words—principally nouns, verbs, prepositions, adjec-
tives, and adverbs—have meaning in that they refer to concrete objects and
abstract concepts; are marked as characteristic of particular social, ethnic, and
regional dialects and of particular contexts; and convey information about the
feelings and attitudes of speakers. Function words such as conjunctions and
determiners also carry meaning, though in somewhat different ways from con-
tent words, as you’ll see later in this chapter. Like individual words, sentences
also have social and affective connotations. The study of word meaning, how-
ever, differs from the study of sentence meaning because the units are different
in kind.
In order for a sentence to convey meaning, we must rely on the meaning
of the individual words it contains. How we accomplish the task of retrieving
sentence meaning from word meaning is a complex question. One obvious
hypothesis is that the meaning of a sentence is simply the sum of the mean-
ings of its words. To see that this is not the case, consider the following sen-
tences, in which the individual words (and therefore their sum meanings) are
the same:
The lion licked the trainer.
The trainer licked the lion.
Obviously, the sentences refer to different events and hence have distinct lin-
guistic meanings. This is conveyed by the fact that the words of the sentences
are ordered differently. We cannot say that all we need to do to retrieve the
meaning of a sentence is add up the meanings of its parts. We must also con-
sider the semantic role assigned to each word. By semantic role we mean such
things as who did what to whom, with whom, and for whom. In other words, the
semantic role of a word is the role that its referent plays in the action or state
of being described by the sentence. Sentence semantics is concerned with se-
mantic roles and with the relationship between words and constituents within
a sentence.
Scope of Word Meaning
While it is important to distinguish between word meaning, on the one hand,
and phrase and sentence meaning, on the other, the two interact on many
levels. In Chapter 5 we examined the phrase gullible boys and girls and noted
Word, Sentence, and Utterance Meaning
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 193
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 193 1/4/11 9:53:36 PM
1/4/11 9:53:36 PM
194 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
that it had two possible constituent structures and thus two possible meanings.
Another way to think about the ambiguity of that phrase is to consider whether
the adjective gullible has boys and girls within its scope (as in Figure 5.3) or only
boys (as in Figure 5.4). In other words, does gullible modify boys alone or does it
modify boys and girls? Scope is thus an important matter in determining mean-
ing, and because the scope of modifiers has proven important in interpreting
legal matters, including contracts and laws themselves, many a case has come
before the courts—including the United States Supreme Court—contesting the
scope of an adjective or adverb modifier.
In a sentence, the scope of individual words is also important in determining
meaning. Consider this sentence:
He may leave tomorrow if he finishes his term paper.
The individual words may, tomorrow, and if have meanings: may denotes permis-
sion or possibility; tomorrow indicates a future time unit that begins at midnight
on the day the sentence is spoken; and if indicates a condition. But the impact
of these words reaches beyond the phrases in which they occur and affects the
meaning of the entire sentence. In-
deed, if we replace may with will, the
sentence takes on an altogether differ-
ent meaning:
He will leave tomorrow if he finishes
his term paper.
With may the sentence denotes per-
mission or possibility, but with will it
simply describes a future event. Thus
may affects the meaning of the entire
sentence, and the scope of the mean-
ing of the word may is the entire sen-
tence. This is true also of tomorrow
and if. Such examples illustrate that
word meaning and sentence meaning
are intimately related.
Meaning of Utterances
In addition to words and sentences, there is a third factor that carries meaning,
but we may not notice it as clearly because we take it for granted in day-to-day
interactions. Consider this utterance:
I now pronounce you husband and wife.
This sentence may be uttered in very different sets of circumstances: (1) by an
officiant at a ceremony, speaking to a couple getting married in the presence of
their families and friends or (2) by an actor dressed as an officiant, speaking to
two actors before a congregation of Hollywood extras assembled by a director
filming a soap opera. In the first instance, I now pronounce you husband and wife
Try It Yourself Determine the scope
of only in the sentences below. Using 1 as a
model, provide a sentence that illustrates the scope
of only for 2 and 3. Where the scope of only is ambigu-
ous, give alternative “cf.” sentences, each of which is
unambiguous.
1. He wants only you to be happy. (cf.: He wants only
you to be happy; he doesn’t care about anyone
else.)
2. Only she wants you to win.
3. She only wants to talk to her daughter.
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 194
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 194 1/4/11 9:53:36 PM
1/4/11 9:53:36 PM
Lexical Semantics 195
creates a marriage for the couple intending to get married. But that same ut-
terance has no effect on the marital status of any actor on the filming location.
Thus the circumstances of utterance create different meanings even when the
linguistic meaning of the sentence remains unchanged. It is therefore necessary
to know the circumstances of an utterance in order to understand its effect or
force. We say that the sentence uttered in the wedding context and the sentence
uttered in the film context have the same linguistic meaning but are different
utterances, each with its own utterance meaning.
The difference between sentence meaning and utterance meaning can be
further illustrated by the question Can you shut the window? There are at least
two ways in which an addressee might react to this question. One way would
be to say Yes (meaning ‘Yes, I am able to shut the window’) and then do
nothing about it. This is the “smart-aleck” interpretation, and it isn’t the way
such a question is usually intended. Alternatively, the addressee could simply
shut the window. Obviously, these interpretations of the same question are
different: the smart-aleck interpretation treats the question as a request for
information; the alternative interpretation treats it as a request for action. To
describe the difference between these interpretations, we say that they are
distinct utterances.
Sentence semantics is not concerned with utterance meaning. (Utterances are
the subject of investigation of another branch of linguistics called pragmatics,
which we treat further in Chapters 8 and 9.) A premise of sentence semantics is
that sentences must be divorced from the context in which they are uttered—in
other words, that sentences and utterances must be distinguished. This premise
may appear counterintuitive because meaning depends so heavily on context.
The point is not to discard context as unimportant but to recognize that sentences
may carry meaning independently of context, while utterance meaning depends
crucially on the circumstances of the utterance. Semantics is the branch of
linguistics that examines word and sentence meaning while generally ignoring
context. By contrast, pragmatics pays less attention to the relationship of word
meaning to sentence meaning and more attention to the relationship of an utter-
ance to its context.
The lexicon of a language can be viewed as a compendium of all its words.
Words are sometimes called lexical items, or lexemes (the -eme ending as in
phoneme and morpheme). The branch of semantics that deals with word meaning
is called lexical semantics.
Lexical semantics examines relationships among word meanings. For exam-
ple, it asks what the relationship is between the words man and woman on the
one hand and human being on the other hand. How are the adjectives large and
small in the same relationship to each other as the pair dark and light? What is
the difference between the meaning of words such as always and never and the
meaning of words such as often and seldom? What do speakers actually mean
when they say that a dog is “a type of” mammal? Lexical semantics investigates
Lexical Semantics
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 195
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 195 1/4/11 9:53:37 PM
1/4/11 9:53:37 PM
196 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
such questions. It is the study of how the lexicon is organized and how the
meanings of lexical items are interrelated, and its principal goal is to build a
model for the structure of the lexicon by categorizing the types of relationships
between words. Lexical semantics focuses on linguistic meaning.
Semantic Fields
Consider the following sets of words:
1. cup, mug, wineglass, tumbler, chalice, goblet
2. hammer, cloud, tractor, eyeglasses, leaf, justice
The words of set 1 all denote concepts that can be described as ‘vessels from
which one drinks,’ while the words of set 2 denote concepts that have nothing
in common. The words of set 1 constitute a semantic field—a set of words
with an identifiable semantic affinity. The following set is also a semantic field,
all of whose words refer to emotional states:
angry, sad, happy, exuberant, depressed, afraid
We see, then, that words can be classified into sets according to their meaning.
In a semantic field, not all lexical items necessarily have the same status.
Consider the following sets, which together form the semantic field of color
terms (of course, there are other terms in the same field):
1. blue, red, yellow, green, black, purple
2. indigo, saffron, royal blue, aquamarine, bisque
The colors referred to by the words of set 1 are more “usual” than those described
in set 2. They are said to be less marked members of the semantic field than
those of set 2. The less marked members of a semantic field are usually easier to
learn and remember than more marked members. Children learn the term blue
before they learn the terms indigo, royal blue, or aquamarine. Often, a less marked
word consists of only one morpheme, in contrast to more marked words (contrast
blue with royal blue or aquamarine). The less marked member of a semantic field
cannot be described by using the name of another member of the same field,
whereas more marked members can be
thus described (indigo is a kind of blue,
but blue is not a kind of indigo). Less
marked terms also tend to be used more
frequently than more marked terms; for
example, blue occurs considerably more
frequently in conversation and writ-
ing than indigo or aquamarine. (In the
million-word Brown Corpus of written
American English, there are 126 exam-
ples of blue but only one of indigo and
none at all of aquamarine.) Less marked
terms are also often broader in meaning
Try It Yourself Rust, silver, orchid, and
champagne are members of the semantic
ﬁeld of colors, and you can readily identify the sources
that gave rise to these color terms. Fruits, ﬂowers,
gems, and other natural objects are notable sources of
terms in this semantic ﬁeld. Can you identify ﬁve ad-
ditional color terms directly borrowed from the name
of a real-world object of that color?
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 196
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 196 1/4/11 9:53:37 PM
1/4/11 9:53:37 PM
Lexical Semantics 197
than more marked terms; blue describes a broader range of colors than indigo or
aquamarine. Finally, less marked words are not the result of the metaphorical us-
age of the name of another object or concept, whereas more marked words often
are; for example, saffron is the color of a spice that lent its name to the color.
Using our understanding of semantic field and markedness, we now turn to
identifying types of relationships between words. We’ll see how the words of a
semantic field can have different types of relationships to one another and to
other words in the lexicon, and we’ll classify these relationships.
Hyponymy
Consider again this set of unmarked color terms: blue, red, yellow, green, black,
purple. What they have in common is that they refer to colors. We say that the
terms blue, red, yellow, green, black, and purple are hyponyms of the term color. A
hyponym is a subordinate, specific term whose referent is included in the ref-
erent of a superordinate term. Blue is a kind of color; red is a kind of color, and
so on. They are specific colors, and color is the general term for them. We can
illustrate the relationship by the following diagram, in which the lower terms
are the hyponyms (hypo- means ‘below’). The higher term—in this case, color—
is called the superordinate term (technically, the hypernym).
blue red yellow green
color
(hyponyms)
(superordinate)
black purple
Another example is the term mammal, whose referent includes the referents of
many other terms.
cow dog cat ape
mammal
(hyponyms)
(superordinate)
human whale
The relationship between each of the lower terms and the higher term is called
hyponymy.
Hyponymy is not restricted to objects such as mammal or abstract concepts
such as color—or even to nouns, for that matter. Hyponymy can be identified
in many other areas of the lexicon. The verb to cook, for example, has many
hyponyms.
toast boil fry grill
cook
(hyponyms)
(superordinate)
bake microwave
roast
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 197
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 197 1/4/11 9:53:37 PM
1/4/11 9:53:37 PM
198 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Not every set of hyponyms has a superordinate term. For example, uncle
and aunt form a lexical field because we can identify a shared property in their
meanings. Yet English does not have a term that refers specifically to both un-
cles and aunts (that is, to siblings of parents and their spouses).
? (superordinate)
uncle aunt (hyponyms)
By contrast, some other languages have a superordinate term for the equivalent
field. In Spanish, the plural term tíos can include both aunts and uncles, and
the Spanish equivalents of the terms uncle and aunt are therefore hyponyms
of tíos.
While hyponymy is found in all languages, the concepts that have words
in hyponymic relationships vary from one language to the next. In Tuvaluan
(a Polynesian language), the higher term ika (roughly, ‘fish’) has as hyponyms
not only all terms that refer to the animals that English speakers would recog-
nize as fish but also terms for whales and dolphins (which speakers of English
recognize as mammals) and for sea turtles (which are reptiles). Of course, we
are dealing with folk classifications here, not scientific classifications.
magoo
‘shark’
aaseu
‘trevally’
nofu
‘stonefish’
fonu
‘turtle’
ika
tafolaa
‘dolphin/whale’
Thus there is variability across languages as to the exact nature of particular
hyponymic relationships.
In a semantic field, hyponymy may exist at more than one level. A word
may have both a hyponym and a superordinate term, as blue has in Figure 6.1.
Because they refer to different “types” or “shades” of blue, the terms turquoise,
aquamarine, and royal blue are hyponyms of blue. Blue in turn is a hyponym of
color. We thus have a hierarchy of terms related through hyponymic relation-
ships. Similar hierarchies can be established for many semantic fields, almost
without limit. In the “cooking” field, fry has hyponyms in the terms stir-fry,
sauté, and deep-fry and is itself a hyponym of cook. The lower we get in a hier-
Figure 6.1
red green black purple
color
blue yellow
turquoise aquamarine royal blue
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 198
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 198 1/4/11 9:53:38 PM
1/4/11 9:53:38 PM
Lexical Semantics 199
archy of hyponyms, the more marked the terms: cook is relatively unmarked;
stir-fry is considerably more marked. The intermediate term fry is less marked
than stir-fry but more marked than cook.
Examples of multiple layers of hyponymic relationships abound in the area of
folk biological classification, as illustrated in Figure 6.2. Note that the term ani-
mal appears on two levels. English speakers use animal for at least two different
referents: (1) animals as distinct from plants and rocks, and (2) animals (gener-
ally mammals other than humans) as distinct from humans, birds, and bugs.
Cases in which a word has different senses at different levels of a hyponymic
hierarchy are not uncommon.
Hyponymy is one of several relationship types with which speakers organize
the lexicon. It is based on the notion of inclusion: if the referent of term A (for
example, color) includes the referent of term B (for example, red), then term
B (red) is a hyponym of term A (color). Hyponymy is important in everyday
conversation—we use it whenever we say “B is a kind of A” (red is a kind of
color)—and for such tasks as using a thesaurus, which is organized according to
hyponymic relationships.
Meronymy: Part/Whole Relationships
A second important hierarchical relationship between words is the one found
in pairs such as hand and arm or room and house. In each pair, the referent of
the first term is part of the referent of the second term. A hand, however, is
not “a kind of” arm, and thus the relationship between hand and arm is not
hyponymic. Instead, we call it a part/whole relationship or a meronymic rela-
tionship. Part/whole relationships are not a property of pairs of words only:
hand, elbow, forearm, wrist, and several other words are in a part/whole rela-
tionship with arm. Other examples of meronymy include words such as second
and minute, minute and hour, hour and day, day and week, none of which could
be described without reference to the fact that one is a subdivision of the other.
Figure 6.3 illustrates the difference between a meronymic, or part/whole, rela-
tionship and a hyponymic relationship for the word eye.
Figure 6.2
bird bug human
animal
animal
cat
dog cow snake
turkey
quail chicken
hawk
sparrow crow fowl
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 199
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 199 1/4/11 9:53:39 PM
1/4/11 9:53:39 PM
200 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Synonymy
Two words are said to be synonymous if they mean the same thing. The
terms movie, film, flick, and motion picture all have the same set of referents in
the real world and are usually taken to be synonymous terms. To address the
notion of synonymy more formally, we can say that term A is synonymous with
term B if every referent of A is a referent of B and vice versa. For example, if
every movie is a film and every film is a movie, the terms movie and film are
synonymous. The “vice versa” is important: without it, we would be defining
hyponymy.
You may wonder why speakers of a language bother to keep synonyms, given
that they only add redundancy to the lexicon. English has many synonymous
pairs such as cloudy and nebulous, help and assist, skewed and oblique (the result
of English having borrowed the second term of each pair from French or Latin).
When we assert that two terms are synonymous, we usually base that judg-
ment on linguistic meaning only. Thus, even though movie, film, flick, and mo-
tion picture have the same linguistic meaning, they differ in social and affective
meaning. Film may strike you as appropriate for movie classics or art movies;
it is a more highbrow term. You recognize that flick is used chiefly in informal
contexts, while motion picture is more traditional or industry related. Thus we
can consider the terms to be synonymous if we specify that we are taking only
linguistic meaning into account. At the social and affective levels, however, they
are not synonymous.
In fact, there are very few true syn-
onyms in the lexicon. More often than
not, terms that appear to be synony-
mous have different social and affec-
tive connotations. Even if we restrict
meaning to linguistic meaning, words
that appear synonymous at first glance
often refer to slightly different sets of
concepts or are used in different situ-
ations. The adjectives fast, quick, and
rapid may be used interchangeably
in reference to someone’s running
speed, but a fast talker (a ‘slippery or
deceptive person’) is different from a
“quick talker”; some people live lives
Try It Yourself For each of these, provide
a synonym or near synonym in the same word
class. (An example is given for the ﬁrst word in each
set.)
Adjective: keen (sharp), former, juvenile, speedy, speech-
less, strong, fertile, bare
Noun: bard (poet), juvenile, appointment, tool, agony,
matrimony, rubbish, chief
Verb: enclose (fence), kidnap, stammer, seek, praise, clothe,
agitate, pester, commit
Figure 6.3
face
Part/Whole Relationship
(eye ‘part of the face’)
cheek
mouth nose eye
organ
Hyponymic Relationship
(eye ‘a kind of organ’)
heart
kidney lung eye
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 200
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 200 1/4/11 9:53:39 PM
1/4/11 9:53:39 PM
Lexical Semantics 201
in the fast lane, not the “rapid lane”; and quick is the most appropriate term to
describe a mind or a glance, while rapid is the usual term when reference is
made to a person’s stride, especially metaphorical strides, as in learning to type
or do mathematics. Under the circumstances, is it accurate to say that these ad-
jectives are synonymous?
The fact that there are few true synonyms in the lexicon of a language re-
flects the general tendency of speakers to make the most of what’s available
to them. If two terms have the same referent, the meaning of one is usually
modified to express differences in linguistic, social, or affective meaning. Al-
though true synonymy is rare, the notion is useful because it helps describe
similarities between the meanings of different terms in the lexicon.
Antonymy
The word antonymy derives from the Greek root anti- (‘opposite’) and denotes
opposition in meaning. In contrast to synonymy and hyponymy, antonymy is a
binary relationship that can characterize a relationship between only two words
at a time. Terms A and B are antonyms if when A describes a referent, B cannot
describe the same referent, and vice versa.
The prototypical antonyms are pairs of adjectives that describe opposite
notions: large and small, wide and narrow, hot and cold, married and single, alive
and dead. Antonymy is not restricted to adjectives, however. The nouns man
and woman are also antonyms because an individual cannot be described by
both terms at once. Always and never form an antonymous pair of adverbs:
they have mutually exclusive referents. The verbs love and hate can also be
viewed as antonyms because they refer to mutually exclusive emotions. An-
tonymy is thus a binary relationship between terms with complementary
meanings.
Intuitively, you can see a difference between the antonymous pair large/
small and single/married. The first pair denotes notions that are relatively sub-
jective. You would agree that blue whales are large mammals and mice are
small mammals, but whether German shepherds are large or small dogs de-
pends on your perspective. The owner of a Chihuahua will say German shep-
herds are large, but the owner of a Great Dane may judge them to be on the
small side. Furthermore, adjectives such as large and small have superlative and
comparative forms: blue whales are the largest of all mammals; German shep-
herds are larger than Chihuahuas but smaller than Great Danes. Antonymous
pairs that have these characteristics are called gradable pairs.
In contrast to large and small, single and married are mutually exclusive and
complementary. A person cannot be single and married at the same time. With
respect to marital status, a person cannot be described with a term that does not
have either single or married as a hyponym; thus single and married are comple-
mentary. Furthermore, single and married generally cannot be used in a compar-
ative or superlative sense (someone’s being legally “more single” than another
single person is impossible). The pair constitutes an example of nongradable ant-
onymy (also sometimes called complementarity).
There are thus two types of antonymy: gradable and nongradable. If terms
A and B are gradable antonyms and if A can be used to describe a particular
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 201
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 201 1/4/11 9:53:39 PM
1/4/11 9:53:39 PM
202 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
referent, then B cannot be used to describe the same referent, and vice versa. If
A and B are nongradable antonyms, the same condition applies along with an ad-
ditional condition: if A cannot describe a referent, then that referent must be de-
scribable by B, and vice versa. So male and female, married and single, alive and
dead can be viewed as nongrad-
able antonyms, while hot and
cold, love and hate, always and
never are gradable. Typically, for
gradable antonyms, there will be
words to describe intermediate
stages: sometimes, seldom, occa-
sionally, often are gradations be-
tween always and never.
As you recognize, the distinc-
tion between gradable and non-
gradable antonymy is sometimes
blurred by speakers. In English,
for example, it is reasonable to
assume that whatever is alive is not dead and that whatever is dead is not alive,
and thus that the adjectives dead and alive form a nongradable pair. However,
we do have expressions such as half dead, barely alive, and more dead than alive.
Such expressions suggest that, in some contexts, we see alive and dead as grad-
able antonyms.
Finally, antonymous words often do not have equal status with respect to
markedness. For example, when you inquire about the weight of an object, you
ask How heavy is it? and not How light is it?—unless you already know that the
object is light. Notice also that the noun weight, which describes both relative
heaviness and relative lightness, is associated with heavy rather than with light
(as in the expressions carry a lot of weight and throw one’s weight around). Of the
antonymous pair heavy and light, heavy is more neutral than light and is thus less
marked. In the same fashion, tall is less marked than short, hot less marked than
cold, and married less marked than single (we say marital status, not “singleness
status”). Although there is some variation across languages as to which word of
a pair is considered less marked, there is a surprising agreement from language
to language.
Converseness
Another important relationship invokes the notion of oppositeness, although it
does so in a way that differs from antonymy. Consider the relationship between
wife and husband. If A is the husband of B, then B is the wife of A. Thus wife is
the converse of husband, and vice versa. Converseness characterizes a recipro-
cal semantic relationship between pairs of words. Other examples of converse
pairs include terms denoting many other kinship relations, such as grandchild
and grandparent or child and parent; terms describing professional relationships,
such as employer and employee or doctor and patient; and terms denoting rela-
tive positions in space or time, such as above and below, north of and south of, or
before and after.
Try It Yourself For each of these, provide an
antonym in the same word class:
Adjective: palatable (distasteful), open, haughty, shallow,
chilly, entire, rare
Noun: hindsight (foresight), insider, failure, benefit, chaos,
certitude, fecundity
Verb: ignite (extinguish), reveal, remember, appear, expand,
cleanse, bend
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 202
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 202 1/4/11 9:53:40 PM
1/4/11 9:53:40 PM
Lexical Semantics 203
Converse pairs can combine with other types of opposition to form complex
relationships. The antonymous pair father: mother is in a converse relationship
with the antonymous pair son: daughter. Generally, converse pairs denote rela-
tionships between objects or between people. Some converse relationships are
a little more complex. The verb give, for example, requires a subject and two
objects (She gave him the book). The converse of give is receive, except that the re-
lationship is neither a “reversal” of the subject and the direct object as it would
be with kiss and be kissed (Smith kissed Jones versus Jones was kissed by Smith)
nor a mutual subject/possessor relation such as husband and wife; rather, the
relationship is between the subject and the indirect object.
Siddharta gave Jessie a present.
Jessie received a present from Siddharta.
Other pairs of words with a similar relationship include lend and borrow and
buy and sell. Note that rent is its own converse in American English.
Eve rents an apartment to Adam.
Adam rents an apartment from Eve.
When there is a possibility of confusion, the preposition out can be attached to
rent in the meaning of ‘lending out for money.’ In British English, this sense of
rent is described by the verb let (flat to let). In some languages, a single word
is used for ‘buy’ and ‘sell.’ In Samoan, for example, the word faʔatau carries
both meanings, while the Mandarin Chinese words mǎi ‘buy’ and mài ‘sell’ are
etymologically related. These facts suggest that converseness is an intuitively
recognizable relationship.
Polysemy and Homonymy
Two other notions that are closely related to the basic relationship types are
polysemy and homonymy. In contrast to the notions discussed above, pol-
ysemy and homonymy refer to similarities rather than differences between
meanings. A word is polysemous (or polysemic) when it has two or more re-
lated meanings. The word plain, for example, can have several related mean-
ings, including:
1. ‘easy, clear’ (plain English)
2. ‘undecorated’ (plain white shirt)
3. ‘not good-looking’ (plain Jane)
Homographs have the same spelling but different meanings (and pronuncia-
tions), such as dove ‘a kind of bird’ and dove ‘past tense of dive’ or conduct as a
verb and conduct as a noun, where the verb has primary stress on the second
syllable and the noun has it on the first syllable. Homophones have the same pro-
nunciation but different senses: sea and see, so and sew, two and too, plain and
plane, flower and flour, boar and bore, bear and bare, or eye, I, and aye. Words
are homonymic when they have the same written or spoken form but different
senses. A narrower definition of homonym limits the term to word sets that are
both homographic and homophonous, as with bank of a river and savings bank
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 203
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 203 1/4/11 9:53:40 PM
1/4/11 9:53:40 PM
204 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
or the adjective still ‘quiet’ (still waters) and the adverb still ‘yet’ (still sick). Lan-
guages exhibit polysemy and homonymy in their lexicons to varying degrees. A
language such as Hawaiian, which has a restricted set of possible words because
of its phonological structure, has a good deal more homonymy than English has
(see “Sequence Constraints” in Chapter 4 and Figure 7.3).
A difficulty arises in distinguishing between homonymy and polysemy: How
do we know if we have separate lexical items rather than a single word with
different senses? Consider plain. How would we know whether or not the three
adjectival senses (‘easy,’ ‘undecorated,’ ‘not good-looking’) constitute different
words that happen to sound the same? Using spelling as a criterion is mislead-
ing: many sets of words are distinct but have the same spelling—as, for ex-
ample, the noun sound ‘noise’ and the noun sound ‘channel of water,’ or bank
‘financial institution’ and bank ‘shore of a river.’ Yet the problem is important
for anyone who wants to arrange or use the entries of a dictionary (in which
different senses of the same word are grouped under a single entry but each
homonymous form has its own distinct entry).
There is no simple solution. If there is a clear distinction between polysemy
and homonymy, it must involve several criteria, no one of which would be suf-
ficient by itself and some of which may yield different results. We have already
excluded spelling as an unreliable criterion. One modestly reliable criterion is a
word’s historical origin, or etymology. We can consider that there are two words
of the form sound corresponding to the two meanings given above because they
derive from different historical roots. Likewise, the word bank meaning ‘finan-
cial institution’ is a borrowing from French, whereas bank meaning ‘shore of a
river’ has a Scandinavian origin. The various antonyms and synonyms of a word
provide a different kind of criterion for distinguishing between polysemy and
homonymy. Plain in the sense of ‘easy, clear’ and plain in the sense of ‘undeco-
rated’ share a synonym in simple and an antonym in complex. This fact suggests
that they are indeed two meanings of the same polysemic word. No shared syn-
onym or antonym can be identified for the two meanings of sound, as shown in
Figure 6.4.
Finally, we can ask whether there is any commonality between different
senses of what appears to be the same word. The two meanings of plain indi-
cated above can be characterized as ‘devoid of complexity,’ which suggests that
they are related, but no such superordinate description exists for sound ‘stretch
of water’ and sound ‘noise.’ Thus plain in these two senses is polysemic, while
the two senses of sound reflect homonymous lexical items. (Of course, other
senses of plain may or may not belong to separate words.)
Word
plain
sound
Sense
‘easy, clear’
‘undecorated’
‘stretch of water’
‘noise’
Synonym
simple
??
Antonym
complex
??
Figure 6.4
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 204
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 204 1/4/11 9:53:40 PM
1/4/11 9:53:40 PM
Lexical Semantics 205
While these criteria help distinguish between polysemy and homonymy,
they are not foolproof. It is often difficult to decide whether a particular pair of
lookalike and sound-alike word forms are separate homonymous words or sim-
ply the same polysemic word with different senses. Although homonymy and
polysemy can be distinguished as different notions, the boundary between them
may not be clear-cut in particular cases.
Metaphors
Difficulties in drawing a distinction between polysemy and homonymy arise partly
from the fact that speakers often use words metaphorically. A traditional notion of
metaphor sees it as an extension in the use of a word beyond its primary sense to
describe referents that bear similarities to the word’s primary referent. The word
eye, for example, can be used to describe the hole at the dull end of a needle, the
bud on a potato, or the center of a storm. The similarities between these referents
and the primary referent of the word eye are their roundish shape and their more
or less central role or position in a larger form. People frequently create new
metaphors, and once a metaphor becomes accepted speakers tend to view the
metaphorical meaning as separate from its primary sense, as in booking a flight,
tabling a motion, seeing the point, stealing the headlines, buying time, studying a
foreign tongue. It’s thus tough to determine whether one word with two meanings
exists or two words with different but metaphorically related meanings.
Metaphors occur constantly in day-to-day speaking and writing because they
are a fundamental part of our thinking. The following examples were gleaned
from newspaper headlines:
Tennis star Serena Williams breezed through the early matches
The dollar is falling sharply
His speech was the catalyst for a new popular upheaval
Oakland officials praise police for curbing protest violence
Oil spill’s economic impact muted, so far
In the first example, the verb breeze is of course not meant literally; it is used to
give the impression that Williams won the matches effortlessly, as a breeze might
blow easily across a tennis court. Similarly, the underlined words in the other four
sentences are meant to be interpreted as metaphors, whose effectiveness relies on
our ability to see that in some contexts words are not to be interpreted literally.
Besides the underlined words, other metaphors can be identified in the italicized
words sharply, upheaval, and spill. (The mechanisms that we use in figuring out
when a word must be interpreted metaphorically are discussed in Chapter 9.)
Metaphors aren’t formed haphazardly. Observe, for example, the following
metaphors that refer to the notion of time:
I look forward to seeing you again this weekend.
Experts do not foresee an increase in inflation in the near future.
He drags up old grudges from the past.
Once in a while, we need to look back over our shoulders at the lessons that his-
tory has taught us.
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 205
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 205 1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
206 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
A pattern is apparent in these examples: In English, we construct time meta-
phors as if we physically move through time in the direction of the future. Thus
the future is forward in the first two examples. Metaphors that refer to the past
use words that refer to what is left behind, as in the latter two examples. Meta-
phors that violate this pattern would sound strange:
*I look back to seeing you again this weekend.
*He drags down old grudges from the past.
Another principle that governs the creation of metaphors is this: “Ideas are
objects that can be sensed.” Thus they can be smelled, felt, and heard.
Your proposal smells fishy.
I failed to grasp what they were trying to prove.
I’d like your opinion as to whether my plan sounds reasonable.
Writers and critics often talk about the writing process as “cooking.”
I let my manuscript simmer for six months.
Who knows what kind of a story he is brewing up!
Their last book was little more than a half-baked concoction of earlier work.
“The heart is where emotions are experienced” is a common principle on which
our metaphors for emotions are based.
It is with a heavy heart that I tell you of her death.
You shouldn’t speak lightheartedly about this tragedy.
The rescuers received the survivors’ heartfelt thanks.
The construction of metaphors thus follows preset patterns.
Most of the metaphors discussed so far are relatively conventionalized—that
is, they are common in speech and writing because they are preset. But lan-
guage lends itself to creative activities, and speakers do not hesitate to create
new metaphors. Even when we create our own metaphors, however, we must
follow the principles that regulate conventionalized metaphors. In English, met-
aphors that refer to time obey the convention of “moving through time in the
direction of the future.”
Some metaphorical patterns are frequent across the world’s languages, as
with the word for ‘eye’ used metaphorically for roundish objects, as discussed
above. But other principles of metaphor vary from language to language. For
example, in many languages it is not the heart that is the seat of emotions.
Polynesian languages such as Samoan and Tahitian treat the stomach as the
metaphorical seat of emotions. It is likely that some of these principles reflect
different cultures’ views of the world. The exact workings of the link between
culture and language are still not fully understood.
Metaphors play a significant role in the development of cognitive linguistics,
which has demonstrated how big a role metaphorical thinking plays in our lan-
guage, our thinking, and our lives more generally. Rather than as principally a
poetic device, some researchers view our cognitive system as “fundamentally
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 206
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 206 1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
Function Words and Categories of Meaning 207
metaphorical in nature” and as having profound daily effects. Lakoff and John-
son have written:
How we think metaphorically matters. It can determine questions of war and peace,
economic policy, and legal decisions, as well as the mundane choices of everyday
life. Is a military attack a “rape,” “a threat to our security,” or “the defense of a
population against terrorism”? The same attack can be conceptualized in any of
these ways with very different military consequences.
Lexical Semantics: Discovering Relationships
in the Lexicon
Hyponymy, part/whole relationships, synonymy, gradable and nongradable
antonymy, converseness, polysemy, homonymy, and metaphor—lexical se-
mantics is primarily concerned with discovering relationships in the lexicon
of languages. The semantic relationships of a word are, in a sense, part of its
meaning: the word cold can be defined as a gradable antonym of hot, as hav-
ing the expression sensation of heat as a superordinate term, and as being more
marked than hot but less marked than chilly and freezing. By knowing how the
meaning of a word interacts with the meaning of other words, we can begin to
understand its meaning.
Lexical semantics, of course, does not explain the difference in meaning be-
tween words that are as unlike as gorilla and doubtful. For lexical semantics to
be useful, it must be applied to particular areas of the lexicon in which word
senses have shared characteristics. Thus the notion of semantic field becomes
useful. If the word gorilla is placed in its appropriate semantic field, its relation-
ship to chimpanzee and great ape can be investigated. Similarly, the word doubt-
ful can be contrasted with certain, probable, likely, and other words that express
likelihood or certainty.
The different types of relationships described above are the most basic tools
of lexical semantics. They are basic because one type cannot be characterized in
terms of another type. For example, an antonymous relationship between two
words cannot be explained in terms of hyponymy, part/whole relationships,
synonymy, converseness, or metaphor.
The lexicon is not made up exclusively of content words such as father, pigeon,
stir-fry, and democracy, which refer to objects, actions, or abstract concepts. It
also contains function words such as the conjunctions if, however, and or; the
determiners a, the, and these; and the auxiliaries may, should, and will. The role
of these categories is to signal grammatical relationships.
Tense and Modality
Many categories of meaning are associated with function words and function
morphemes. Bound morphemes can denote several categories of meaning in
Function Words and Categories of Meaning
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 207
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 207 1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
208 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
English, including number (toys v. toy) and tense (walked v. walk). In other lan-
guages, the same categories are expressed not by means of bound morphemes
but by separate words. In Tongan, the function word ʔoku denotes present tense,
while naʔe denotes past tense.
ʔoku ʔalu e fineʔeiki ki kolo
Present go the woman to town
‘The woman is going to town.’
naʔe ʔalu e fineʔeiki ki kolo
Past go the woman to town
‘The woman was going to town.’
Whether tense is expressed through bound morphemes or separate lexical items
is not important for semantics. What is important is that there is the semantic
category tense that affects the meaning of sentences in both Tongan and English.
Semantic categories such as tense are conveyed by function words and func-
tion morphemes, but their scope extends beyond the constituent in which they
occur. The meaning of a tense morpheme affects the whole sentence because
the tense of the verb determines the time reference of the entire clause. The
category tense (and other semantic categories like it) thus refers to both word
meaning and clause meaning.
Modality, or mood, is a category through which speakers can convey their
attitude towards the truth or reliability of their assertions (called epistemic mo-
dality) or express obligation, permission, or suggestion (called deontic modality).
The sentences in the following pairs differ as to their epistemic modality:
1. She has probably left town by now. (probability)
She has left town by now. (assertion)
2. Harry must’ve been very tall when he was young. (conjecture)
Harry was very tall when he was young. (assertion)
3. They may come to the party. (possibility)
They are coming to the party. (assertion)
And those in the following pairs differ as to their deontic modality:
4. He must come tomorrow. (command)
He is coming tomorrow. (statement)
5. They may take the dishes away. (permission)
They are taking the dishes away. (statement)
The two types of modality are interrelated, as witnessed by the fact that the
same words (must and may, for example) can denote either type, depending on
the context. Modality can be expressed through auxiliary verbs such as may,
should, or must (which are called modal auxiliaries); through modal verbs such
as order, assume, and allow; through modal adverbs such as possibly or certainly;
and in some languages through affixes attached to verbs or nouns. Such affixes
are common in Native American languages, some of which can have extremely
complex systems of modal affixes and particles.
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 208
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 208 1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
Function Words and Categories of Meaning 209
Reference
A noun phrase in an utterance may or may not have a corresponding entity in
the real world. Reference concerns the ability of linguistic expressions to refer
to real-world entities. If someone says I read a new biography of James Joyce last
weekend, the expressions I and a new biography of James Joyce refer to real-world
entities. By contrast, if someone says I’d like to find a short biography of James
Joyce, there is in the speaker’s mind a real-world entity corresponding to I but
not to a short biography of James Joyce. (A short biography of James Joyce may
exist, but in this sentence the speaker does not have in mind a real-world entity
to which the expression refers.)
In the examples below, note the difference in reference for different uses of
a given phrase. In examples 1, 3, and 5, the underscored phrases do not have a
referent; we say they are not referential or that they are nonreferential. In 2, 4,
and 6, the very same expressions do have referents in the real world; they are
referential.
1. Can you recommend a good western for kids? (nonreferential)
2. Last night I saw a good western on HBO. (referential)
3. She’d buy a new Ford Explorer if she found one on sale. (nonreferential)
4. She test-drove a new Ford Explorer that she liked. (referential)
5. I’m searching for the best Chinese restaurant in the city. (nonreferential)
6. On Tuesday I ate at the best Chinese restaurant in the city. (referential)
As these examples show, reference is a property, not of words or phrases as
such, but of linguistic expressions as they occur in actual discourse. The same
phrase can be referential in one utterance and nonreferential in another. Note,
too, that reference cannot be equated with definiteness, a subject to which we
return below. (Reference is investigated further in Chapter 8.)
Deixis
The word deixis is related to the Greek adjective deiktikos, meaning ‘pointing, in-
dicative.’ Deixis is the marking of the orientation or position of entities and events
with respect to certain points of reference. Consider the following sentence ad-
dressed to a waiter by a restaurant customer while pointing to items on a menu:
I want this dish, this dish, and this dish.
To interpret this utterance, the waiter must have information about who I refers
to, about the time at which the utterance is produced, and about what the three
noun phrases this dish refer to. We say that I is a deictic expression, and so are the
present-tense form of the verb and the three noun phrases this dish. Our ability
to interpret them enables us to interpret the sentence, and we can’t interpret
them out of context. The context is critical.
Deixis consists of three semantic notions, all related to the orientation or
position of events or entities in the real world. Personal deixis is commonly con-
veyed through personal pronouns: I versus you versus he or she. Spatial deixis re-
fers to orientation in space: here versus there and this versus that. Temporal deixis
refers to orientation in time, as in present versus past, for example.
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 209
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 209 1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
210 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Personal Deixis Many of the utterances that we produce daily are comments or
questions about ourselves or our interlocutors.
I really should be going now.
Did you return the video I asked you to?
In this family, we never smoke and seldom drink.
The pronouns I, you, and we—along with she, he, it, and they (and alternative
forms)—are markers of personal deixis. When we use these pronouns, we orient
our utterances with respect to ourselves, our interlocutors, and third parties.
Personal pronouns are, of course, not the only tool used to mark personal
deixis. The phrase this person in the sentence You may enjoy scary roller-coaster
rides, but this person doesn’t care for them at all may be used to refer to the speaker
if the speaker wishes to express, say, annoyance or disdain. Likewise, in court,
etiquette may require you to use the noun phrase Your Honor in addressing a
judge: Would Your Honor permit a brief recess? Personal deixis is thus not associ-
ated exclusively with pronouns, although pronouns are the most common way
to express personal deixis. In this discussion, we concentrate primarily on pro-
nouns as markers of personal deixis.
The most basic opposition in personal-deixis systems is that between speaker
(English I; German ich; Persian man; Thai chǎn) and addressee (English you;
German du; Persian to; Thai thəə). This opposition in person is so basic that it is
reflected in the pronominal systems of all languages. Pronouns that refer to the
speaker (or to a group including the speaker) are called first-person pronouns,
and pronouns that refer to the addressee (or to a group including the addressee)
are called second-person pronouns.
Besides the contrast between first person and second person, pronoun systems
often have separate forms for the third person—that is, any entity other than the
speaker and the person spoken to. In English, he, she, it, and they denote third-
person entities. But third-person pronouns are not found in all languages. Some
languages simply do not have special forms to refer to third-person entities.
In these languages, third-person entities are referred to with a demonstrative
such as this or that, or they remain unexpressed. In Tongan, a verb without an
expressed subject is understood as having a third-person subject.
naʔe aʔu
Past arrive
‘(He/She/It) arrived.’
Tongan does have a third-person pronoun form but uses it only for emphasis.
naʔe aʔu ia
Past arrive he/she
‘He/She is the one who arrived.’
That some languages lack separate third-person pronouns reflects the fact
that the third person is less important than the first and second persons in
personal deixis. In fact, the third person can be defined as an entity other
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 210
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 210 1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
1/4/11 9:53:41 PM
Function Words and Categories of Meaning 211
than the first person and other than the second person. Because it can be
described in terms of the other two persons, it is a less basic distinction in
language in general. The singular pronoun system of English can thus be
described as follows:
speaker only I
hearer only you
neither speaker nor hearer he/she/it
Some languages make finer distinctions in their pronominal systems, while
others make fewer distinctions (see the section on “Semantic Universals” in
Chapter 7). In all languages, though, there are separate first-person and second-
person pronouns.
Besides person, personal-deixis systems may mark distinctions in gender and
number. In English, a gender distinction is made only in the third-person singu-
lar: he for masculine, she for feminine, and it for referents that are neither mascu-
line nor feminine. In other languages, gender may be marked in other persons as
well. In Hebrew, the second-person singular pronoun is ata for masculine refer-
ents but at for feminine referents. In some circumstances, Japanese distinguishes
between masculine and feminine first-person singular pronouns. Number is
marked on English pronouns in the first person (I versus we) and the third person
(he/she/it versus they); the second-person pronoun you is used for reference to
both singular and plural entities. In many languages, there are separate second-
person singular and plural pronouns (French tu and vous; German du and ihr;
Persian to and shoma). Singular and plural are not the only number categories
that can be distinguished: some languages have distinct dual forms to refer to ex-
actly two people, and a few languages even mark a distinction between “a few”
and “many” referents (see the chart of Fijian pronouns in Chapter 7).
Finally, personal deixis frequently reflects the social status of referents. In
French the choice of a pronoun in the second person depends on the nature
of the speaker’s relationship to the addressee. If speaker and addressee are of
roughly equal social status, the pronoun tu is used; to mark or create social
distance or social inequality, a speaker uses the plural pronoun vous instead of
tu, even when addressing one person. Considerably more complex systems are
found in languages such as Japanese, Thai, and Korean. Strictly speaking, the
use of deictic devices to reflect facts about the social relationship of the partici-
pants is a distinct type of deixis, commonly referred to as social deixis.
Thus personal deixis can mark a number of overlapping distinctions: per-
son, gender, number, and social relations. Languages express these distinc-
tions in different combinations, marking some and not others. As noted,
however, the basic distinction between first person and second person is
found in all languages and appears to be a basic semantic category in all
deictic systems.
Spatial Deixis Spatial deixis is the marking of the orientation or position in
space of the referent of a linguistic expression. The categories of words most
commonly used to express spatial deixis are demonstratives (this, that) and ad-
verbs (here, there). Demonstratives and adverbs of place are by no means the
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 211
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 211 1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
212 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
only categories that have spatial deictic meaning; the directional verbs go and
come also carry deictic information, as do bring and take.
Languages differ in terms of the number and meaning of demonstratives and
adverbs of place. The demonstrative system of English distinguishes only be-
tween this (proximate—close to the speaker) and that (remote—relatively dis-
tant from the speaker). It is one of the simplest systems found. At the other
extreme are languages such as Eskimo, which has 30 demonstrative forms. In all
languages, however, the demonstrative system treats the speaker as a point of
reference. Thus the speaker is a basic point of reference for spatial deixis.
Many spatial-deixis systems have three terms. Three-term systems fall into
two categories. In one category, the meanings of the terms are ‘near the speaker,’
‘a little distant from the speaker,’ and ‘far from the speaker.’ The Spanish de-
monstratives este, ese, aquel have these three respective meanings. In another
type of three-term demonstrative system, the terms have the meanings ‘near
the speaker,’ ‘near the hearer,’ and ‘away from both speaker and hearer.’ Fijian
exemplifies such a system.
na ŋone oᵑgo
the child this (near me)
‘this child (near me)’
na ŋone oᵑgori
the child this (near you)
‘that child (near you)’
na ŋone oya
the child that (away from you and me)
‘that child (away from you and me)’
In both systems, however, the speaker is taken as either the sole point of refer-
ence or as one of two points of reference.
Spatial deixis thus represents the orientation of actions and states in space,
and it is most commonly conveyed by demonstratives and by adverbs of place.
Languages may have anywhere from 2 to 30 distinct demonstrative forms, but
all demonstrative systems take the speaker as a basic point of reference.
Temporal Deixis A third type of deixis is temporal deixis—the orientation or
position of the referent of actions and events in time. All languages have words
and phrases that are inherently marked for temporal deixis, such as the English
terms before, last year, tomorrow, now, and this evening. In many languages tem-
poral deixis can be marked through tense, encoded on the verb with affixes, or
expressed in an independent morpheme. In English, you must make an obliga-
tory choice between the past-tense and the nonpast-tense form of verbs.
I walk to school every day. (nonpast tense)
I walked to school every day. (past tense)
To express a future time, English has no distinct verbal inflection (it lacks a fu-
ture tense) but uses a multiword verb in the nonpast tense.
I will walk to school next week. (nonpast tense for future time)
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 212
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 212 1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
Function Words and Categories of Meaning 213
Tuvaluan is like English: e denotes nonpast, while ne is a past-tense marker.
au e fano ki te fakaala
I Nonpast go to the feast
‘I am going/will go to the feast.’
au ne fano ki te fakaala
I Past go to the feast
‘I went to the feast.’
In some languages, the choice is between future and nonfuture (with undiffer-
entiated present and past).
In a number of languages, temporal deixis can be marked only with optional
adverbs. This Chinese sentence can be interpreted as past, present, or future,
depending on the context:
xià yǚ
down rain
‘It was/is/will be raining.’
When there is the possibility of ambiguity, an adverb of time (‘last night,’
‘right now,’ ‘next week’) is added to the sentence.
In languages that do not mark tense on verbs, another semantic category called
aspect is frequently obligatory. Aspect is not directly related to temporal deixis
but refers to the ways in which actions and states are viewed: as continuous (I was
talking), repetitive (I talked [every day]), instantaneous (I talked), and so on.
Tense is thus not the only marker of temporal deixis, although it is frequently
exploited by languages as the primary means of marking temporal deixis.
The most basic point of reference for tense is the moment at which the sen-
tence is uttered. Any event that occurs before that moment may be marked as
past, and any event that occurs after that moment may be marked as future.
The train arrived. (any time before the utterance moment)
The train is arriving. (at the moment of utterance)
The train will arrive. (any time after the utterance moment)
When the point of reference is some point in time other than the moment of
utterance, we say that tense is relative. Relative tense is used in many languages
when speakers compare the time of occurrence of two events.
The dean finally invited me in after I had waited more than forty-five minutes.
Before I saw you yesterday, I had been sick for a week.
Some languages have complex rules of tense concord that dictate the form of
verbs in relative contexts.
Deixis as a Semantic Notion The three types of deixis illustrate how semantic
categories permeate language beyond the simple meaning of words. The deictic
orientation of a sentence or part of a sentence can be conveyed through bound
morphemes such as tense endings, through free morphemes and function words
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 213
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 213 1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
214 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
such as pronouns and demonstratives, or through content words such as here
and bring. Deictic meaning is independent of the means used to convey it.
One purpose of semantics is to describe the important or essential parameters
for characterizing deixis in language in general. We noted, for example, that dis-
tinguishing between speaker and addressee is an essential function of the per-
sonal deixis system of all languages. Similarly, every spatial deixis system has at
least one point of reference, a location near the speaker. A spatial deixis system
may also have a secondary point of reference near the hearer or addressee.
There is considerable overlap among the types of deixis. For example, personal,
spatial, and temporal deixis share a basic point of reference: the speaker’s identity
and location in space and time. Some linguistic devices can be used to mark more
than one kind of deixis. The English demonstrative this can be used for personal
deixis (this teacher), spatial deixis (this book), and temporal deixis (this morning).
Clearly, personal, spatial, and temporal deixis are closely related notions.
Textual Deixis Another important type of deixis is textual deixis, which is the
orientation of an utterance with respect to other utterances in a string of utter-
ances. Consider, for example, the following pair of sentences:
He started to swear at me and curse. That made me even more angry.
The demonstrative that at the beginning of the second sentence refers not to a
direction in space or time but rather to something previously mentioned. Often
in this book, we use terms such as above or below, which refer to parts of the
text with respect to other parts of the text. Such textual deixis enables speak-
ers to package utterances together and indicate relationships across utterances.
Because textual deixis is primarily concerned with utterances and their context,
it goes beyond the scope of semantics as traditionally defined, although its im-
portance is not to be underestimated.
Although sentences, like words, must carry meaning in order for language
speakers to understand each other at all, the meaning of sentences cannot be
determined merely by adding up the meaning of each content word of the sen-
tence. This fact was illustrated in the previous section, where we saw that bound
morphemes and function words may carry meaning with semantic implications
for the entire sentence. We also noted that sentences such as The trainer licked
the lion and The lion licked the trainer convey different meanings despite the fact
that they contain exactly the same words. Clearly, adding together the meaning
of each word does not produce the full meaning of a sentence. More than the
meaning of its individual content words must be taken into consideration when
defining what contributes to the meaning of a sentence.
Consider the following active/passive counterparts, which, at the level of ref-
erential meaning, describe the same situation:
1. The lion licked the trainer.
2. The trainer was licked by the lion.
Semantic Roles and Sentence Meaning
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 214
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 214 1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
Semantic Roles and Sentence Meaning 215
These sentences differ in that 1 is an active structure, 2 a passive structure.
Since our concern here is with meaning, we ask how to account for the syn-
onymy between 1 and 2.
Further, consider the following sentences:
3. David sliced the salami with a knife.
4. David used a knife to slice the salami.
Here is a situation not unlike the active/passive counterparts of 1 and 2, in that
the sentences have the same referential meaning. Nevertheless, we need to char-
acterize how sentences 3 and 4 mean “the same thing.”
The situations just presented suggest that the crucial factor in the way sen-
tence meaning is constructed is the role played by each noun phrase in relation
to the verb, and to help with that we introduce the notion of semantic role of
a noun phrase. (Some treatments of semantics use the term thematic role instead
of semantic role.) Semantic role refers to the way in which the referent of a noun
phrase contributes to the state, action, or situation described by the sentence. The
semantic role of a noun phrase differs from its syntactic role (as subject, object,
and so on), as illustrated by the contrast between sentences 1 and 2 above. In
both sentences, the way in which the trainer is involved in the action is the
same (and the way in which the lion is involved is the same). In other words, the
trainer has the same semantic role in both sentences (and the lion has the same
semantic role in both sentences). But despite its having the same semantic role
in both 1 and 2, the trainer has different syntactic roles (direct object in 1 and
subject in 2).
Semantic role is not an inherent property of a noun phrase: a given noun phrase
can have different semantic roles in different sentences, as in the following:
5. Michael was injured by a friend.
6. Michael was injured with a friend.
Semantic role is a way of characterizing the meaning relationship between a
noun phrase and the verb of a sentence, and above a friend is an agent in 5 but
not in 6 (in 6, a friend could be characterized as having the semantic role of
accompaniment).
Agents and Patients The agent is the responsible initiator of an action; the
patient is the entity that is affected by the verb and undergoes something of
a change of state. In sentences 1 and 2 above, the agent is the lion and the pa-
tient is the trainer. That both sentences describe the same situation (and hence
have the same referential meaning) can be explained by the fact that each noun
phrase has the same semantic role in both sentences: the lion is the agent in
both; the trainer is the patient in both.
Experiencers In the following sentences the semantic role of the subject noun
phrases is not agent: Courtney is not the responsible initiator of the actions de-
noted by the verbs but instead experiences a physical or mental sensation:
Courtney likes blueberry pancakes.
Courtney felt threatened by the lion.
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 215
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 215 1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
216 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
In both sentences, the semantic role of Courtney is experiencer, which is defined
as that which receives a sensory input. In English, experiencers can be either
subjects or direct objects, depending on the verb. Compare the sentences about
Courtney, in which the experiencer is the subject, with the following sentence,
in which the experiencer is the direct object:
Dwayne sometimes astounds me with his wit.
Instruments and Causes Now consider the semantic roles of the underscored
noun phrases in the following sentences:
7. Michael was injured by a stone.
8. Michael was injured with a stone.
The difference between these sentences is that 8 implies that someone used a
stone to attack Michael, while 7 does not require that implication. In 8, we say
a stone is the instrument, or the intermediary, through which an unnamed agent
performs the action; note that the definition of instrument requires that there be
an agent, which is consistent with our interpretation of 8. In 7, a stone could be
assigned the role of instrument only if an agent were doing the injuring. If the
stone that injured Michael were part of a rockfall, a stone would be assigned the
semantic role of cause, which is defined as any natural force that brings about
a change of state. Instruments and causes can be expressed as prepositional
phrases (as in examples 7 and 8) or as subjects, as in 9 and 10 below.
 9. The silver key opened the door to the wine cellar. (INSTRUMENT)
10. The heavy snow caved in the roof. (CAUSE)
That the noun phrase the silver key is an instrument and not an agent is sup-
ported by the fact that it cannot be conjoined (linked by and) with an agent, as
the following anomalous example shows:
*The silver key and John opened the door to the cellar.
However, an instrument can be conjoined with another instrument, and an
agent can be conjoined with another agent.
A push and a shove opened the door to the cellar.
John and Chelsey opened the door to the cellar.
Recipients, Benefactives, Locatives, Temporals A noun phrase can be a recipient
(that which receives a physical object), a benefactive (that for which an action is
performed), a locative (the location of an action or state), or a temporal (the time
at which an action or state occurs).
I gave Yolanda a puppy. (RECIPIENT)
Stefan passed me a message for Yolanda. (BENEFACTIVE)
The Midwest is cold in winter. (LOCATIVE)
She left home the day before yesterday. (TEMPORAL)
The point of this enterprise is to characterize the possible semantic roles that
noun phrases can fill in a sentence. Every noun phrase in a clause is assigned
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 216
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 216 1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
Semantic Roles and Grammatical Relations 217
a semantic role, and, aside from coordinate noun phrases, the same semantic
role cannot be assigned to two noun phrases in a single clause. Consequently,
a sentence such as the following is semantically odd or anomalous because it
contains two instrumental noun phrases, which are underlined:
*This ball broke the window with a hammer.
In addition, in most cases a noun phrase can be assigned only one semantic
role. In rare instances, though, a noun phrase may be assigned two roles.
For example, in the sentence Geoff rolled down the hill, if Geoff rolled down
the hill deliberately, he is both agent and patient because he is at once the
responsible initiator of the action and the entity that undergoes the change
of state.
Semantic roles and grammatical relations are not the same thing, as we have
noted, and it is important to understand the relationship between them.
For example, in English, the subject of a sentence can be an agent (as in the
underlined noun phrase in sentence 1), a patient (as in 2), an instrument (3), a
cause (4), an experiencer (5), a benefactive (or recipient) (6), a locative (7), or a
temporal (8), depending on the verb.
1. The janitor opened the door. (AGENT)
2. The door opened easily. (PATIENT)
3. His first record greatly expanded his audience. (INSTRUMENT)
4. Bad weather ruined the grape harvest. (CAUSE)
5. Serge heard his father whispering. (EXPERIENCER)
6. The young artist won the prize. (BENEFACTIVE OR RECIPIENT)
7. Arizona attracts asthmatics. (LOCATIVE)
8. The next day found us on the road to Alice Springs. (TEMPORAL)
In certain English constructions, the subject may not have any semantic role,
as with the “dummy it” construction, in which it fills the subject slot but is
semantically empty.
It became clear that the government had jailed him.
So the notion of subject is independent of the notion of semantic role, and we
could show the same thing of direct objects and other grammatical relations.
Conversely, semantic roles do not appear to be constrained by grammatical
relations. A locative, for example, may be expressed as a subject (as in 1 below),
a direct object (2), an indirect object (3), or an oblique (4).
1. The garden will look great in the spring. (subject)
2. William planted the garden with cucumbers and tomatoes. (direct object)
3. The begonias give the garden a cheerful look. (indirect object)
4. The gate opens on the garden. (oblique)
Semantic Roles and Grammatical Relations
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 217
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 217 1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
1/4/11 9:53:42 PM
218 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Nevertheless, there is a relationship between grammatical relations and se-
mantic roles. Consider the following sentences, all of which have open as a verb:
Michele opened the door with this key. (AGENT)
The door opened easily. (PATIENT)
This key will open the door. (INSTRUMENT)
The wind opened the door. (CAUSE)
The grammatical subjects of the sentences above are an agent (Michele), a pa-
tient (the door), an instrument (this key), and a cause (the wind). Such variety is
not found with all verbs. The verb soothe, for example, can have an instrument
or a cause as subject.
This ointment will soothe your sunburn. (INSTRUMENT)
The cold stream soothed my sore feet. (CAUSE)
To have an experiencer as the grammatical subject of the verb soothe, we use a
passive construction.
I was soothed by the herbal tea. (EXPERIENCER)
Clearly, the verb controls the range of variation allowed in each case. Speakers
know the semantic roles that each verb allows as subject, direct object, and so
on. In the mental lexicon, there is what we might call a “tag” attached to the
verb soothe indicating that only instruments and causes are allowed in subject
position, whereas the tag attached to the verb open permits the subject to be
agent, patient, instrument, or cause.
Semantic roles are universal features of the semantic structure of all lan-
guages, but how they interact with grammatical relations such as subject and
direct object differs from language to language. Equivalent verbs in different
languages do not carry similar tags. The tag attached to the English verb like,
for example, permits only experiencers as subjects.
I like French fries. (EXPERIENCER)
But only patients can be the subjects of the equivalent Spanish verb gustar.
Las papas fritas me gustan. (PATIENT)
the French-fries to-me like
‘I like French fries.’ (Literally, ‘French fries to me are pleasing.’)
A similar situation is found for verbs of liking and pleasing in many other lan-
guages, including Russian. In some languages, the verb meaning to understand
allows its subjects to be experiencers or patients, as in Samoan. The choice de-
pends on emphasis and focus.
ʔua maalamalama aʔu i le mataaʔupu.
Present-tense understand I Object-marker the lesson
‘I understand the lesson.’
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 218
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 218 1/4/11 9:53:43 PM
1/4/11 9:53:43 PM
Semantic Roles and Grammatical Relations 219
ʔua maalamalama le mataaʔupu iate aʔu.
Present-tense understand the lesson to me
‘I understand the lesson.’ (Literally: ‘The lesson understands to me.’)
Some languages distinguish between agent and experiencer more carefully
than English does. For example, the verb might take a subject when the action is
intentional but a direct object when it is unintentional.
In addition to cross-linguistic variation with respect to specific verbs, lan-
guages vary in the degree to which different semantic roles fit into different
grammatical slots in a sentence. In English, as we saw, the subject slot can be
occupied by noun phrases of any semantic role—depending on the verb. Many
English verbs allow different semantic roles for subject, direct object, and so
on. But the situation is different in many other languages. Russian and German
verbs do not allow nearly so much variation in semantic roles as English verbs
do, and in those languages there is a much tighter bond between semantic roles
and grammatical relations.
Computerized corpora are useful to dictionary mak-
ers and others in establishing patterns of language
that are not apparent from mere introspection. For
example, patterns of collocation—which words go
together—are much more readily understood with the
help of a computerized corpus of natural-language
texts. Such patterns can be helpful in highlighting
meanings, parts of speech, and words that co-occur
with frequency.
Further, while it may appear that synonymous words
can be used in place of one another, corpora can show
that it is not common for words to be readily substitut-
able for one another. For example, little and small, big
and large, and fast and quick are generally considered
synonyms. But a cursory examination of key word in
context (KWIC) concordances for these pairs shows
that they are not straightforwardly substitutable. Ta-
ble 6.1 shows a selection of KWIC entries for the word
little, and Table 6.2 shows a selection of KWIC entries
for small. (The samples come from the British National
Corpus and have been concordanced using WordSmith.
Either end of a KWIC line may show incomplete words.)
Note that quite a few sentences in Table 6.1
would not tolerate the substitution of small for
little—including 2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11,
15, 16, 17, and 21. Taking 3 as an ex-
ample, English does not permit “not
a small irritated.” Of those instances where substitu-
tion is possible, several would sound odd or convey a
diﬀerent connotation, such as 1, 4, and 8. In 1, “poor
little rich boy” and “poor small rich boy” carry diﬀer-
ent senses. As the examples in Table 6.2 show, little is
more readily substitutable for small; part of the rea-
son is that in its use as an adjective little does in fact
carry denotations and connotations much like those
of most uses of small. But, looking again at Table 6.1,
we see that the opposite is not true. This is because
little is not only an adjective meaning ‘small’ but also
part of an adverb, in the expressions a little ruﬄed, a
little dispirited, and a little open (13, 20, 24) where it
modifies an adjective, and a little longer (12) where
it modiﬁes an adverb. Yet dictionaries cite little and
small as synonyms. In the “Other Resources” section
at the end of this chapter, you’ll ﬁnd the link to a site
that provides sample sentences containing any word
or expression that you are interested in examining.
From such a list you can learn a great deal about the
semantics of any word or phrase. ■
Computers, Corpora, and Semantics
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 219
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 219 1/4/11 9:53:43 PM
1/4/11 9:53:43 PM
220 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Table 6.1 Concordance for little
1 ke council activities and so on. The poor little rich boy was looked after by a second
2 a few hours of stall avoidance training and little, if any, spinning. Vienna Dear Fräu
3 andt, I am deeply distressed, and also not a little irritated, by the direction events hav
4 Even without the threat to his job, he had little choice. There may be little or no
5 job, he had little choice. There may be little or no hope of finding those particular
6 cted, some as yet unrecorded. But he had little reason yet to ask for a search warrant
7 him if he so much as tried. But there is little point, for instance, in turning on an
8 and those of his friends. You noticed my little ploy. Current findings suggest a c
9 of success between classes have changed very little. Objectively, he was little more a
10 changed very little. Objectively, he was little more attractive to the Conservatives w
11 nd that it was necessary for him to retire a little from the active life in which he had p
12 d energy upon his real work. We talked a little longer, and then I bought some chocola
13 ess was still there, but the fur was maybe a little ruffled. I wish all men enjoyed th
14 joyed their whole bodies, rather than just a little, wobbly bit of it.’ There is a nee
15 it.’ There is a need, however, to look a little more at the role of Parliament. ON
16 role of Parliament. ON A SLOW pitch with little bounce, South Africa once again were u
17 and seven overs to spare. Addition of a little silicone lubricant (vacuum grease, DOW
18 f air and quite softly-spoken and actually a little shy-looking, and he’d made a point of
19 is ugly body quiet and still above them as a little gravestone. Once the carriage was
20 motion, she closed her eyes, tired now and a little dispirited. Then the front zip of
21 to his importuning hands and he eased away a little so that his fingers could slide inside
22 original access to land, an issue upon which little progress had been made—with the pos
23 survey, the privatization programme involved little change in management or improvement in
24 rovement in efficiency. Might leave us a little open sometimes, but with the pace we s
25 core a few goals!! we reckoned we knew a little bit more about what makes children tic
26 unge and the dining room area was probably a little bit smaller If you want to be happ
27 be happy and have a happy face and spread a little joy around then there is just one way.
Table 6.2 Concordance for small
1 ad of papers with individual readerships too small for us to analyse (the Scotsman, the G
2 into tears at the sight of the house and the small familiar crowd waiting for her outside
3 McCloy, who lives here in town, runs a very small unsuccessful sort of decorating busines
4 the Führer down to spring 1941 rested in no small measure on the lack of serious interfer
5 ws volatile session His clothes were too small now, pinching him at the neck, the wais
6 (although of course the numbers are far too small for any quantitative analysis) can be s
7 illery and mortars, and themselves down to a small amount of ammunition, the remnants of t
8 The Captain’s white face had greyed, his small mouth tightening into a cruel line.
9 esult, the individual may retain only a very small percentage of the extra income earned a
10 unications products are helping both big and small businesses in more than one hundred co
11 ex longed for a pond in the garden, but with small children around the idea was shelved—
12 subsequent continuation of a large number of small unions and, as a secondary consequence,
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 220
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 220 1/4/11 9:53:43 PM
1/4/11 9:53:43 PM
Summary 221
13 le, often near remote skerries, headlands or small uninhabited islands, and this necessita
14 ime of the Russian conquest, although only a small remnant of this nationality survives to
15 d bought their house and provided her with a small income. perfect like a small velvet
16 ences for arbitrage risk were also generally small, and 88% of the cases fell within the r
17 ntract). In doing so, she knocked down a small boy and immediately went down again to
18 essible to teachers, along with a monitor (a small black and white one would do), then it
19 In the end they hauled the Gnomes into a small ante-room across the galleried landing
20 e famous Shaker pegged wall-rail for hanging small cupboards, shelves, mirrors and even ch
21 ne.’ The most marked contrast between the small towns and their larger counterparts is
22 ment. Thirty years later what had been a small village was a big town and would have b
23 ves that churchyards provide a focus and are small enough for a group of local enthusiasts
24 s pursuing a policy of devaluing the yuan in small, frequent steps, in an effort to boost
25 any factors specific for countries, even for small regions within a country and for groups
26 5°F/Gas Mark 3), allowing 40 minutes for the small basins and 50 minutes for the large bow
27 and the back of the Admiralty proper runs a small unnamed side-street which I must have p
28 might reply ‘Yes, but these cost savings are small compared to the fuel savings you get wi
Table 6.2 Concordance for small (continued)
Summary
Semantics is the study of meaning in language.
•
Semantics traditionally focuses on linguistic meaning, but languages also convey
•
social meaning and affective meaning.
Words, sentences, and utterances can all carry meaning, and sentence meaning
•
and utterance meaning must be distinguished.
The study of sentence meaning falls primarily within the domain of
•
semantics.
Within a sentence, words may have
• scope over other constituents, as only has
scope over the bracketed constituent in He only knew [what he had read in the
letter].
Pragmatics is the branch of linguistics that concerns itself with utterance
•
meaning.
Lexical semantics is the study of meaning relationships in vocabulary.
•
The types of relationships that hold among sets of words are universal,
though the particular word sets to which they apply vary from language
to language.
Semantic fields are sets of words whose referents belong together on the basis of
•
fundamental semantic characteristics.
The words in a semantic field can be arranged in terms of these relationships:
•
hyponymy (a kind of), meronymy or part/whole (subdivision), synonymy
(similar meaning), gradable and nongradable antonymy (opposite meaning),
converseness (reciprocal meaning), polysemy (multiple meanings), homonymy
(same written or spoken form), and metaphor (derived meaning).
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 221
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 221 1/4/11 9:53:43 PM
1/4/11 9:53:43 PM
222 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Semantic notions such as deixis can be expressed by bound morphemes (-
• ed
in walked) and function words (that in that one) as well as by content words
(tomorrow).
There are several types of deixis: personal (
• you, me), spatial (here, there), and
temporal (now, then). All require that a point of reference be identified.
In relation to the speaker and the moment of utterance, the here and now is
•
highly privileged as a point of reference in all three types of deixis.
The meaning of a sentence is not simply the sum meaning of its words.
•
Sentence semantics aims to uncover the basic relationships between the noun
•
phrases and the verb of a sentence.
Semantic roles (e.g., agent or instrument) are not inherent properties
•
of noun phrases but are relational notions. They are independent of the
grammatical relations (e.g., subject or object) of the noun phrase. The verb
determines which semantic role may be used in particular grammatical
slots of a sentence.
This chapter has described nine semantic roles:
•
agent: the responsible initiator of an action
patient: the entity that undergoes a certain change of state
experiencer: the entity that receives a sensory input
instrument: the intermediary through which an agent performs an
action
cause: the natural cause that brings about a change of state
benefactive: the entity for which an action is performed
recipient: the entity that receives a physical object
locative: the location of an action or state
temporal: the time at which the action or state occurs
Semantic roles are universal, but languages differ as to how particular roles are
•
encoded in syntax.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
Phyllis
• ’s questions. George Washington and the first president of the United States
usually refer to the same person, namely that man who lived from 1732 to
1799 and became president of the United States in 1789. George Washington
is his name, but George Washington does not mean ‘the first president of the
United States.’ The two expressions have the same referent but different senses.
The fact that two expressions refer to the same entity does not necessarily
entail that they mean the same thing. Consider this example: “Some Maryland
residents like to claim that John Hanson was the first president of the United
States.” Even though that statement is true, it would not be true to say, “Some
Maryland residents like to claim that John Hanson was George Washington.”
The fact that one is true but not the other demonstrates that they do not mean
the same thing.
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 222
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 222 1/4/11 9:53:44 PM
1/4/11 9:53:44 PM
Exercises 223
Doug
• ’s doubt. Although synonyms might not have the same co-occurrence patterns
with other words, they may still mean the same thing in some contexts. Doug has
identified a frame into which you could slot fast or quick but not with the same
meaning, and that fact seems to be an argument that the two words are not used
exactly the same way, but they are synonymous. And of course “fast talker” is an
idiom that may have its origin in someone’s talking quickly, but the idiom identifies
someone who persuades by smooth or deceptive talk.
Uncle Earnest
• . The term that characterizes the semantic relationship between
uncle and nephew is “converse,” by no means the same as opposite. Among other
meanings, hot means ‘not cold,’ but nephew is not the same as ‘not uncle.’ In
addition, opposites usually represent the extremes of words that can be arrayed
along a continuum, for example from hot to warm to lukewarm to cold, where hot
and cold are opposites. Converse terms, by contrast, usually involve a reciprocal
relationship—as with the verbs buy and sell, give and receive, or teach and learn and
the nouns doctor and patient or employer and employee.
Cousin Kevin
• . Words like mine and yours are “deictic” expressions, and their
meaning depends, in this case, on who is saying them. Mine means something
like ‘belonging to the speaker’ (or the reported speaker), so when cousin Kevin
says “It’s mine,” he’s claiming ownership, and when his daughter uses the very
same words she’s claiming ownership. Deictic words must be interpreted in
context. ■
Exercises
Practice Exercise
A. Provide a word whose referent has the specified semantic relationship to the
words below.
1. mother and father are the hyponyms.
2. knee is the part.
3. jewel is the superordinate term.
4. bicycle is the whole.
5. tall is the antonym.
6. grandmother is the converse.
7. niece is the converse.
8. obese is the synonym.
B. From Table 6.1, provide the numbers of the KWIC concordance lines in which
the word little could be glossed in each of these senses:
1. ‘small’
2. ‘not much’
3. ‘small amount of’
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 223
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 223 1/4/11 9:53:44 PM
1/4/11 9:53:44 PM
224 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Based on English
6-1. The following sentences are ambiguous. Based on the discussion in this
chapter and Chapter 5, describe the ambiguity.
1) They found the peasants revolting.
2) The car I’m getting ready to drive is a Lamborghini.
3) There is nothing more alarming than developing nuclear power
plants.
4) Erika does not like her husband, and neither does Natalie.
5) They said that they told her to come to them.
6) He met his challenger at his house.
6-2. Identify the differences in linguistic, social, and affective meaning among the
words and phrases in each of the following sets:
1) hoax, trickery, swindle, rip-off, ruse, stratagem
2) delightful, pleasant, great, far-out, nice, pleasurable, bad, cool
3) man, guy, dude, jock, imp, lad, gentleman, hunk, boy
4) eat, wolf down, nourish, devour, peck, ingest, graze, fill one’s tummy
5) tired, fatigued, pooped, weary, languorous, zonked out, exhausted,
spent
6) stupid person, idiot, nerd, ass, jerk, turkey, wimp, punk, airhead,
bastard
6-3. Some of the sets of terms below form semantic fields. For each set:
a. Identify the words that do not belong to the same semantic field as the
others in the set.
b. Identify the superordinate term of the remaining semantic field, if there is
one (it may be a word in the set).
c. Determine whether some terms are less marked than others, and justify
your claim.
1) acquire, buy, collect, hoard, win, inherit, steal
2) whisper, talk, narrate, report, tell, harangue, scribble, instruct,
brief
3) road, path, barn, way, street, freeway, avenue, thoroughfare, inter-
state, method
4) stench, smell, reek, aroma, bouquet, odoriferous, perfume, fragrance,
scent, olfactory
6-4. For each semantic relationship specified below, provide one or more exam-
ples of words whose referents have that relationship to the specified word
and identify the name of the semantic category that is used to cover your
answer.
Example: fish is the superordinate term (hypernym).
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 224
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 224 1/4/11 9:53:45 PM
1/4/11 9:53:45 PM
Exercises 225
Answer: salmon, trout, ling cod, flounder, swordfish, tuna are its hyponyms.
1) Irish setter, dalmatian, cocker spaniel are the hyponyms.
2) tabby, tom, Persian, alley are the hyponyms.
3) dog, cat, goldfish, parakeet, hamster are the hyponyms.
4) knife, fork, spoon are the hyponyms.
5) true is the antonym.
6) inaccurate is the antonym.
7) sister is the converse.
8) teacher is the converse.
9) partner is the converse.
10) toe is the part.
11) menu is the whole.
12) friend is the synonym.
13) teacher is the synonym.
6-5. In the following sets of sentences one or more words are used metaphorically.
Provide a general statement describing the principle that underlies each set of
metaphors; then add to the set one metaphor that follows the principle.
Example:
I let my manuscript simmer for six months.
She concocted a retort that readers will appreciate.
There is no easy recipe for writing effective business letters.
General statement: “The writing process is viewed as cooking.” Additional
example: “He is the kind of writer who whips up another trashy novel every
six months.”
1) Members of the audience besieged him with counterarguments.
His opponents tore his arguments to pieces.
My reasoning left them with no ammunition.
The others will never be able to destroy this argument.
His question betrayed a defensive stance.
2) This heat is crushing.
The sun is beating down on these poor laborers.
The clouds seem to be lifting.
The northern part of the state is under a heavy snowstorm.
The fresh breeze cleared up the oppressive heat.
6-6. Determine whether the words in each of the following sets are polysemic,
homonymous, or metaphorically related. In each case, state the criteria used
to arrive at your conclusion. You may use a dictionary.
1) to run down (the stairs); to run down (an enemy); to run down (a list
of names)
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 225
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 225 1/4/11 9:53:45 PM
1/4/11 9:53:45 PM
226 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
2) the seat (of one’s pants); the seat (of government); the (driver’s) seat
(of a car)
3) an ear (for music); an ear (of corn); an ear (as auditory organ)
4) to pitch (a baseball); pitch (black); the pitch (of one’s voice)
5) to spell (a word); (under) a spell; a (dry) spell
6) vision (the ability to see); (a man of) vision; vision (as a hallucination)
7) the butt (of a rifle); the butt (of a joke); to butt (as a ram)
6-7. Identify the semantic role of each underscored noun phrase in these
sentences:
1) In October, I gazed from the wooden bridge into the small river behind
our college.
2) I have forgotten everything that I learned in grade school.
3) The snow completely buried my car during the last storm.
4) Fifty kilos of cocaine were seized by the DEA.
5) Natalie was awarded one thousand dollars’ worth of travel.
6) The hurricane destroyed the island.
7) Their ingenuity never ceases to amaze me.
6-8. a. Examine Table 6.1 to determine which words frequently co-occur with
little, either preceding or following it.
b. List all the immediate constituents of which little is an element in the ex-
amples of Table 6.1; on that basis say what kind of a phrase little functions
in—for example, an adjective phrase or adverb phrase.
Example 12: a little longer—adverb phrase; 20: a little dispirited—adjective
phrase
Based on English and Other Languages
6-9. A “tag” is attached to every verb in the lexicon, indicating which semantic
role can be assigned to each noun argument. For example, the verb bake can
have an agent as its subject (as in sentence 1), a patient (as in sentence 2), a
cause (3), or an instrument (4). But in subject position it does not allow loca-
tives (5) or temporals (6).
1) Matthew baked scones.
2) The cake is baking.
3) The sun baked my lilies to a crisp.
4) This oven bakes wonderful cakes.
5) *The kitchen bakes nicely.
6) *Tomorrow will bake nicely.
a. Determine which semantic roles these verbs allow as subject on the basis
of the sentences provided: feel, provide, absorb, thaw, taste.
1) His hands felt limp and moist.
I could feel the presence of an intruder in the apartment.
This room feels damp.
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 226
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 226 1/4/11 9:53:46 PM
1/4/11 9:53:46 PM
Exercises 227
They all felt under the blanket to see what was there.
This semester feels very different from last semester.
2) Gas lamps provided light for the outdoor picnic.
These fields provide enough wheat to feed a city.
Who provided these scones?
The accident provided me plenty to worry about.
Your textbooks provide many illustrations of this phenomenon.
The bylaws provide for dissolution of the board in these cases.
3) The students have absorbed so much material that they can’t make
sense of it anymore.
This kind of sponge does not absorb water well.
The United States absorbed the Texas Republic in 1845.
My work hours are absorbing all my free time.
The soil is absorbing the rain.
4) If Antarctica suddenly thawed, the sea level would rise dramatically.
Chicken does not thaw well in just two hours.
The crowd thawed after Kent arrived.
Kent’s arrival thawed the party.
The heat of the sun will thaw the ice in the ice chest.
Ice thaws at 0 degrees Celsius.
The peace treaty will thaw relations between the United States and
China.
5) This wine tastes like vinegar.
He’s tasted every single hors d’oeuvre at the party.
I can taste the capers in the sauce.
b. Languages may differ with respect to the semantic roles that particular
verbs may take. The following are semantically well-formed French sen-
tences with the verb goûter ‘taste’:
Il n’a jamais goûté au caviar.
he not-have ever tasted the caviar
‘He’s never tasted caviar.’
Je goûte un goût amer dans ce café.
I taste a taste bitter in this coffee
‘I taste a bitter taste in this coffee.’
By contrast, the following sentence is not well constructed:
*Les cuisses de grenouille goûtent bon.
the thighs of frog taste good
‘Frogs’ legs taste good.’
What is the difference between English taste and French goûter in terms of the
range of semantic roles that they permit as subject?
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 227
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 227 1/4/11 9:53:46 PM
1/4/11 9:53:46 PM
228 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
6-10. Your high school ESL class asks you whether bank in bank of a river and in
savings bank are the same word. You note that the terms are both nouns and
are spelled alike and pronounced alike. By trying to identify synonyms and
antonyms (as in Figure 6.4), you construct an argument designed to persuade
your students that they are different words and not the same word with dif-
ferent senses. To show the contrast, identify another pair of word forms that
represent different senses of the same word, again constructing the argument
by identifying synonyms and antonyms.
6-11. In your first year of teaching, you tell your middle school English class that
the subject of a sentence is the “doer” of the action, and give as an example,
Devon scored the most points. When you ask for other examples, a student vol-
unteers Disneyland is fun, and you immediately see a problem: Disneyland is
the subject of the sentence but not the doer of any action. Relying on your
knowledge of semantic roles, what do you say to correct your explanation
about the roles that subjects play in sentences?
6-12. Draw up characterizations of one or two sentences each to help your students
remember the difference between a grammatical relation (e.g., subject or ob-
ject) and a semantic role (e.g., agent or instrument).
6-13. Cite three pairs of expressions in each of which the referent for the two ex-
pressions is the same but the sense is different. Ex.: Mt. McKinley and the high-
est peak in the United States.
6-14. Writing handbooks sometimes urge writers to be cautious about where in a sen-
tence to position the word only. They may recommend placing only immediately
in front of the constituent within its scope (handbooks may phrase it as placing
only in front of the words it modifies). In the sentences below, bracket the con-
stituent within the scope of only and insert a caret where only could be placed to
have it directly preceding the structure in its scope. (Note: These sentences are
adapted from the British National Corpus.)
Example: That only leaves [one logical explanation]. ( =That leaves only one
logical explanation.)
a. She only needed to rest.
b. I only saw one tiny bit of it.
c. The opportunities have only been adopted halfheartedly.
d. Ads in newspapers usually only offer one product or a small range of products.
e. Cassie only knew of one stone like that.
Other Resources
Internet
LISU website: http://www.CengageBrain.com For users of this textbook.
Provides updated Internet links as well as supplemental material for students
and instructors. Here you will find interactive learning tools.
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 228
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 228 1/4/11 9:53:47 PM
1/4/11 9:53:47 PM
Other Resources 229
British National Corpus: http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/ Here you can ob-
tain up to 50 authentic sentences containing any word or expression you
specify, chosen at random from the 100-million-word resources of the British
National Corpus.
Internet Thesaurus: http://thesaurus.com At this website you’ll find
access to an online thesaurus. With it you can explore the relationships
among words, especially those in synonymous and antonymous
relationships.
WordNet: http://wordnet.princeton.edu/ In the words of its website,
WordNet is a lexical database of English, developed under the direction
of George A. Miller, with support from the National Science Foundation
and other agencies. Nouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs are grouped
into sets of cognitive synonyms called “synsets,” each expressing a dis-
tinct concept. The synsets are interlinked by means of conceptual-seman-
tic and lexical relations. You can explore the network of related words
and concepts with the browser at the website. The site also provides some
information about ongoing research supported by NSF and Google into
ways of enhancing and improving WordNet. There is so much to be
learned at this website that you owe it to yourself to pay a visit and en-
joy the experience!
Thinkmap’s Visual Thesaurus: http//www.visualthesaurus.
com/ Type in a word at this site and venture into a visual thesaurus.
Besides an impressive network of lexical and semantic relations usefully
displayed, the site provides access to a visual thesaurus and pronuncia-
tions for modest fees. Clicking on any word in a displayed net rearranges
the configuration to reveal a new set of relationships. Well worth at least
a trial visit.
Suggestions for Further Reading
Stephen R. Anderson & Edward L. Keenan. 1985. “Deixis,” in Timothy Shopen, ed.,
•
Language Typology and Syntactic Description, vol. 3 (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press), pp. 259–308. A relatively brief and comprehensive treatment of deixis.
Alan Timberlake. 2007. “Aspect, Tense, and Mood,” in Timothy Shopen, ed.,
• Language
Typology and Syntactic Description, vol. 3: Grammatical Categories and the Lexicon, 2nd
ed. (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press), pp. 280–333. Provides a concise discus-
sion of the semantic notions named in the title.
George Lakoff & Mark Johnson. 2003.
• Metaphors We Live By (Chicago: University
of Chicago Press). An update of the 1980 classic work on metaphors, reissued with an
“Afterword, 2003,” from which comes our quote in the section on “Metaphors.”
George A. Miller. 1996.
• The Science of Words (Indianapolis: W. H. Freeman). An acces-
sible and award-winning treatment of the psychology of lexical meaning.
Sebastian Lobner. 2002.
• Understanding Semantics (London: Arnold; New York: Oxford
University Press). Appearing in the “Understanding Language Series,” this is a thorough
and wide-ranging introduction to semantics in general. It goes beyond the current chapter
by treating sentence meaning more fully and by treating cognition, translation, and formal
semantics.
Simon Winchester. 1998.
• The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity,
and the Making of the Oxford English Dictionary (New York: HarperCollins). Whether
you’re interested in a tale of murder and insanity or the making of the OED, this page-turner
proves that lexicographers aren’t harmless drudges.
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 229
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 229 1/4/11 9:53:47 PM
1/4/11 9:53:47 PM
230 Chapter 6 The Study of Meaning: Semantics
Advanced Reading
Accessible treatments of semantics can be found in Lyons (1995) and Saeed (2009). Lexical se-
mantics is discussed in Lehrer (1974), which focuses on semantic universals (discussed in Chapter
7 of this textbook). Cruse (1986) is a good overview of lexical semantics. Several of the papers in
Holland and Quinn (1987) investigate connotation and the cultural elements in the organization
of semantic fields. Other valuable works in related veins are Lakoff and Johnson (1989) and Fau-
connier and Turner (2002). Cognitive linguistics and cognitive grammar, which we only mention
in this chapter but which are increasingly important in semantic understanding, are discussed in
Croft and Cruse (2004) and Langacker (2008). Deixis is discussed in Chapter 2 of Levinson (1983).
General and practical treatments of lexicography can be found in Landau (2001) and the some-
what more advanced Atkins and Rundell (2008), the latter complemented by Fontenelle (2008), a
collection of previously published influential articles, accessible to keen students.
References
Atkins, B. T. Sue & Michael Rundell. 2008. The Oxford Guide to Practical Lexicography (Oxford:
Oxford University Press).
Croft, William & D. Alan Cruse. 2004. Cognitive Linguistics (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press).
Cruse, D. A. 1986. Lexical Semantics (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Fauconnier, Gilles & Mark Turner. 2002. The Way We Think: Conceptual Blending and the Mind’s
Hidden Complexities (New York: Basic Books).
Fontenelle, Thierry, ed. 2008. Practical Lexicography: A Reader (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Holland, Dorothy & Naomi Quinn, eds. 1987. Cultural Models in Language and Thought
(Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Lakoff, George & Mark Johnson. 1989. More than Cool Reason: A Field Guide to Poetic Metaphor
(Chicago: University of Chicago Press).
Landau, Sidney I. 2001. Dictionaries: The Art and Craft of Lexicography, 2nd ed. (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press).
Langacker, Ronald W. 2008. Cognitive Grammar: A Basic Introduction (New York: Oxford
University Press).
Lehrer, Adrienne. 1974. Semantic Fields and Lexical Structure (Amsterdam: North-Holland).
Levinson, Stephen C. 1983. Pragmatics (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Lyons, John. 1995. Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press).
Saeed, John I. 2009. Semantics, 3rd ed. (Chichester: Wiley-Blackwell).
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 230
00419_06_ch06_p187-230.indd 230 1/4/11 9:53:48 PM
1/4/11 9:53:48 PM
231
Language Universals
and Language Typology
7
What Do You Think?
Your niece announces one day that her teacher said English has 13 vowels,
•
and she asks whether all languages have 13 vowels. What do you tell her?
When cousins visit you in Chicago for your twenty-first birthday, you notice
•
that in addressing more than one person Terry from Texas says “y’all” and
Jerry from Jersey says “youse.” You know those pronouns aren’t “standard,”
but you wonder whether English ought to have a separate second-person
plural pronoun. You also wonder whether languages typically have
equivalents of y’all and youse. What’s your conclusion?
Your classmate Clarence is studying Japanese and comments that its word order
•
is illogical: verbs appear at the end of the sentence and prepositions after the
noun. He claims the logical order is Subject-Verb-Object, as in English, and says
pre-position obviously means before the noun. What arguments might persuade
Clarence that Japanese and English word orders are equally logical (or illogical)?
Bruce wonders why his coworker Francesca, originally from the Philippines,
•
mixes up English pronouns, referring even to her daughter as “he” and
her son as “she.” “Whenever she talks about someone, she uses the wrong
pronoun,” Bruce says. What would you suppose about pronouns in Tagalog
that could cause such confusion?
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 231
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 231 1/4/11 10:14:04 PM
1/4/11 10:14:04 PM
232 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
The languages of the world exhibit many different patterns of phonology, mor-
phology, syntax, and semantics. Some have large inventories of phonemes;
others only a few. In some languages, including French, Italian, and English, the
basic structure of the clause is SVO: the subject comes before the verb, and the
direct object follows the verb, as in these examples:
Subject (S) Verb (V) Object (O)
French Haussmann fait aménager la place.
English Haussmann redesigned the square.
Italian Keplero modificò la teoria di Copernico.
English Kepler modified Copernicus’s theory.
In languages such as Japanese and Persian, the subject and the direct object
both occur before the verb, in an SOV pattern:
Subject (S) Object (O) Verb (V)
Japanese Sono hebi ga inu o korosita.
That snake the dog killed. ‘That snake killed the dog.’
Persian Ali ketabhara mibæræd.
Ali the books is carrying. ‘Ali is carrying the books.’
Given such variation, you might wonder whether the world’s languages share
any characteristics. As it happens, there are basic principles that govern the
structure of all languages. These language universals determine what is pos-
sible and what is impossible in language structure. For example, while some lan-
guages have voiced and voiceless stops (b and p; d and t) and others have only
voiceless stops (p and t), no language has yet been encountered that has voiced
stops but no voiceless stops. This observation can be translated into a generaliza-
tion expressing what is possible in the structure of a language (that is, a language
can have both voiced and voiceless stops or only voiceless stops in its phonemic
inventory) and excluding a combination of phonemes that is not known to occur
in any of the world’s languages (that is, voiced stops without voiceless stops).
Why Uncover Universals?
Language universals are statements of what is possible and impossible in languages.
Viewed from a purely practical perspective, such principles are useful in that, if we
can assume them to apply to all languages, they need not be repeated in the de-
scription of each language. Thus the study of language universals underscores the
unity underlying the enormous variety of languages found in the world.
Much more important, language universals are important to our understand-
ing of the brain and of the principles that govern interpersonal communication
in all cultures. In the course of evolution, the human species alone has developed
the ability to speak, thus distinguishing itself from all other animals, including
other higher mammals. Humans have developed not one single language that is
spoken and understood by everybody, but nearly 7,000 different ones, all com-
plex and all sophisticated. If basic principles govern all languages, they are likely
Similarity and Diversity Across Languages
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 232
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 232 1/4/11 10:14:05 PM
1/4/11 10:14:05 PM
Similarity and Diversity Across Languages 233
to be the result of whatever cognitive and social skills enabled human beings to
develop the ability to speak in the first place. By studying language universals,
we begin to understand what in the human brain and the social organization of
everyday life enables people to communicate through language. The study of lan-
guage universals offers a glimpse of the cognitive and social foundations of hu-
man language, about which so much remains to be discovered and about which
so much research has been actively pursued in recent decades.
When postulating language universals, researchers must exercise caution
because only relatively few of the world’s languages have been adequately de-
scribed. Further, much more is known about European languages and the major
non-Western languages (such as Chinese, Japanese, Hindi, and Arabic) than about
the far more numerous other languages of Africa, Asia, the Americas, and Oceania.
In Papua New Guinea alone (an area about the size of the states of Washington
and Oregon combined), over 700 languages are spoken, although grammatical de-
scriptions of only a few dozen are available; very little or nothing at all is known
about the others. Linguists proposing language universals must ensure that the
proposed principles are applicable to more than the familiar European languages.
Universals must be generally valid, whether for languages spoken by only a few
dozen people in a highlands village of Papua New Guinea or by millions of people
in Europe, Africa, or Asia. Since little or nothing is known about the structure of
hundreds of languages, universal principles can be proposed only as tentative
hypotheses based on the languages for which descriptions are available.
Caution must also be exercised in drawing inferences from language univer-
sals. These universal principles help explain why language is species specific,
but there is a big step between uncovering a universal and explaining it in terms
of human cognitive or social abilities. More often than not, explanations for
language universals as symptoms of cognitive or social factors rely on logical
arguments rather than on solid scientific proof. Of course, the fact that expla-
nations can be only tentative does not mean they should not be proposed, but
it does mean that linguists must be cautious and keep in mind that languages
fulfill many roles at once.
Language Types
A prerequisite to the study of universals is a thorough understanding of the
variety found among the world’s languages. Language typology focuses on
classifying languages according to their structural characteristics. (Typology
means the study of types or the classification of objects into types.) Examples
of typological classifications are “languages that have both voiced and voiceless
stops in their phonemic inventories” (like English, French, and Japanese) and
“languages that have only voiceless stops” (like Mandarin Chinese, Korean, and
Tahitian). Since no language has voiced stops without voiceless stops, that type
does not exist. Naturally, the languages in each category will differ, based on
the criteria of classification. Of course, linguists can establish categories only
according to specific criteria; the world’s languages are so diverse in so many
different ways that no overall typological classification of languages exists, even
within a single level of linguistic structure such as phonology.
Typological categories have no necessary correspondence with groups of lan-
guages that have descended from the same parent language; in fact, typological
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 233
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 233 1/4/11 10:14:05 PM
1/4/11 10:14:05 PM
234 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
categories cut across language families. Language types are independent of
language families in principle, but members of the same family often do share
certain typological characteristics as a result of their common heritage. Con-
sequently, linguists include as many unrelated languages as possible in their
proposed language types to ensure that the similarities among languages of any
category are not the result of familial relationships.
This chapter explores both the variety found among the world’s languages
and the unity that underlies this variety. Uncovering language universals and
classifying languages into types are complementary tasks. In order to uncover
universal principles, we first need to know the extent to which languages dif-
fer from one another in terms of their structure. We would not want to posit a
language universal on the basis of a limited sample of languages, only to dis-
cover that the proposed universal did not work for a type of language that we
had failed to consider. A universal must work for all language types and all
languages.
Similarly, the way in which we go about classifying languages and describ-
ing the different types of structures is determined in large part by the search for
universals. It would be possible, for example, to set up a typological category
grouping all languages that have the sound /o/ in their phonemic inventory. But
such a typology tells us nothing about any universal principle underlying the
structure of these languages, and their structures might have little in common
other than the fact that /o/ appears in their phonemic inventory. In contrast, a
typology of languages based on the presence or absence of nasal vowels reveals
interesting patterns. It turns out that no language in the world has only nasal
vowels. All languages must have oral vowels, whether or not they also have
nasal vowels. This suggests that oral vowels are in some sense more “basic” or
more indispensable than nasal vowels, which could be of great interest to our
understanding of language structure. Therefore, this typology is useful, in that it
has helped uncover a language universal. Whether a particular typological clas-
sification is interesting or useful depends on whether it helps uncover universal
principles in the structure of languages.
The next few sections present examples of language universals and lan-
guage types from semantics, phonology, syntax, and morphology. For each
example, observe the interaction of typologies with universals, and note how
different kinds of language universals are stated. Some examples will be taken
up again toward the end of the chapter, where we examine cognitive and so-
cial explanations that have been proposed to account for language universals
and language types.
Semantic Universals
Semantic universals govern the composition of the vocabulary of all languages.
That semantic universals should exist at all may seem surprising at first. Any-
one who has studied a foreign language knows how greatly the vocabularies
of two languages can differ. Some ideas that are conveniently expressed with
a single word in one language may require an entire sentence in another lan-
guage. The English word privacy, for example, does not have a simple equiva-
lent in French. (That doesn’t mean that the French lack the notion of privacy!)
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 234
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 234 1/4/11 10:14:06 PM
1/4/11 10:14:06 PM
Similarity and Diversity Across Languages 235
Similarly, English lacks an equivalent for the Hawaiian word aloha, which can
be roughly translated as ‘love,’ ‘compassion,’ ‘pity,’ ‘hospitality,’ or ‘friendliness’
and is also used as a general greeting and farewell. Despite these cross-linguistic
differences, however, there are some fundamental areas of the vocabulary of
every language that are subject to universal rules. These areas include color
terms, body part terms, animal names, and verbs of sensory perception.
Semantic universals typically deal with the less marked members of semantic
fields (see Chapter 6), which are called basic terms in this context. As an ex-
ample, consider the following terms, which all refer to shades of blue: turquoise,
royal blue, and blue. Blue is a more basic term than the others: turquoise derives
from the name of a precious stone of the same color, while royal blue refers to
a shade of blue. The word blue is thus more basic than each of the other words,
although for different reasons: unlike turquoise, blue refers primarily to a color,
not an object; unlike royal blue, blue is a simple, unmodified term. The combina-
tion of these characteristics makes blue a less marked—more basic—color term
than the others. Basic terms have three characteristics:
1. They are morphologically simple.
2. They are less specialized in meaning than other terms.
3. They are not recently borrowed from another language.
Semantic universals deal with terms like blue and not with terms like turquoise
and royal blue.
Pronouns
Although pronoun systems can differ greatly from language to language,
the pronoun system of every language follows the same set of universal
principles.
All known languages have pronouns for at least the speaker and the ad-
dressee: the first person (I, me) and the second person (you). But there is great
variability among the world’s languages in the number of distinctions that are
made by pronouns. The following chart presents the English pronominal system
(we limit ourselves to subject pronouns).
English Pronouns
SINGULAR PLURAL
FIRST PERSON I we
SECOND PERSON you you
THIRD PERSON he, she, it they
In this chart, columns represent number: “singular” and “plural.” The rows list
person: first-person pronouns, second-person pronouns, and third-person pro-
nouns. Standard American English uses the same form for both the singular and
plural second-person pronoun (you).
The pronoun systems of other languages display other patterns. Spoken
Castilian Spanish has separate forms for the singular and plural in each person;
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 235
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 235 1/4/11 10:14:06 PM
1/4/11 10:14:06 PM
236 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
in the example below, the two plural forms are the masculine and feminine pro-
nouns. (Spanish also has “polite” pronoun forms, but we ignore them here.)
Castilian Spanish Pronouns
SINGULAR PLURAL
M F
FIRST PERSON yo nosotros nosotras
SECOND PERSON tú vosotros vosotras
THIRD PERSON él, ella ellos ellas
Some languages make finer distinctions in number. Ancient Sanskrit made a
distinction between two people and more than two people. The form for two
people is called the dual, and the form for more than two is called the plural. (In
the chart below, the three words for the third person are the masculine, femi-
nine, and neuter forms.)
Sanskrit Pronouns
SINGULAR DUAL PLURAL
FIRST PERSON aham āvām vayam
SECOND PERSON tvam ūvām yāyam
THIRD PERSON sas, tat, sā tau, te, te te, tāni, tās
Other languages have a single pronoun to refer simultaneously to the speaker
and the addressee (and sometimes other people) and a separate pronoun to refer
to the speaker along with other people but excluding the addressee. The first of
these is called a first-person inclusive pronoun, the second a first-person exclusive
pronoun. In English, both notions are encoded in we.
In contrast, Tok Pisin has separate inclusive and exclusive pronouns.
Tok Pisin Pronouns
SINGULAR PLURAL
FIRST-PERSON EXCLUSIVE mi mipela
FIRST-PERSON INCLUSIVE yumi
SECOND PERSON yu yupela
THIRD PERSON em ol
Tok Pisin is an English-based creole (see Chapter 12), with most of its vocabu-
lary coming from English. The English pronouns and other words that were
taken by Tok Pisin speakers to form their pronoun system are easily recogniz-
able: mi from me, yu from you, em probably from him, yumi from you-me, ol from
all, and the plural suffix -pela probably from fellow.
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 236
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 236 1/4/11 10:14:06 PM
1/4/11 10:14:06 PM
Similarity and Diversity Across Languages 237
Fijian has one of the largest pronoun systems of any language. It has a singu-
lar form for each pronoun, a dual form for two people, a separate “trial” form
that refers to about three people, and a plural form that refers to more than
three people (in actual usage, trial pronouns refer to a few people and the plu-
ral refers to a multitude). In addition, in the first-person dual, trial, and plural,
Fijian, like Tok Pisin, has separate inclusive and exclusive forms.
Fijian Pronouns
SINGULAR DUAL TRIAL PLURAL
FIRST-PERSON EXCLUSIVE au keirau keitou keimami
FIRST-PERSON INCLUSIVE kedaru kedatou keda
SECOND PERSON iko kemudrau kemudou kemunii
THIRD PERSON koya rau iratou ira
Between the extremes represented by English and Fijian are many varia-
tions. Some languages have separate dual pronouns; others do not. Some
systems make a distinction between inclusive and exclusive pronouns; others
do not.
All the world’s languages have distinct first- and second-person pro-
nouns, and most languages have third-person pronouns, inclusive first-person
pronouns, and exclusive first-person pronouns. A four-person system (inclusive
first-person and exclusive first-person, second-person, and third-person pro-
nouns) is by far the most common. The four-person pronoun system is thus
somehow more basic than a two-person or three-person type. In this respect,
English is atypical.
Variations in pronoun systems are governed by a set of universal rules. To
discover these universals, we need to establish a typology of pronoun systems.
Some Types of Pronoun Systems in the World’s Languages
Systems with singular and plural forms—e.g., English, Spanish
Systems with singular, dual, and plural forms—e.g., Sanskrit
Systems with singular, dual, trial, and plural forms—e.g., Fijian
Systems lacking inclusive/exclusive distinction in first-person plural—
 e.g., English, Spanish
Systems with inclusive/exclusive distinction in first-person plural—e.g., Tok
 Pisin, Fijian
Some Types of Pronoun Systems That Do Not Occur
Systems lacking first-person and second-person pronouns
Systems with singular and dual forms but no plural forms
Systems with singular, dual, and trial forms but no plural forms
Systems that make an inclusive/exclusive distinction, but not in the first person
 (a logical impossibility)
Based on what we do and don’t find in our typology, we postulate some univer-
sal rules.
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 237
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 237 1/4/11 10:14:06 PM
1/4/11 10:14:06 PM
238 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
Some Universal Rules
1. All languages have at least first-person and second-person pronouns.
2. If a language has singular and dual forms, then it will also have plural forms.
3. If a language has singular, dual, and trial forms, then it will also have plural
forms.
4. If a language makes an inclusive/exclusive distinction in its pronoun system, it
will make it in the first person.
Note that the converse of these rules is not true. The converse of universal
rule 2, for instance, would state that if a language had separate plural forms,
it would have separate dual forms. But even English proves this generalization
wrong: it has separate plural forms but no dual. The implications thus go in
only one direction.
It is important to note that semantic typologies and universals do not repre-
sent a measure of complexity in language or culture. The most we can infer from
these differences is that some categories are more salient in some cultures than in
others. Comparing the two examples of semantic universals discussed in this sec-
tion, we also see that the pronoun system of English is one of the most restricted
in the world, despite the fact that English has very rich scientific and color lexi-
cons, to mention only two arenas. Thus, different arenas of the lexicon exhibit
different degrees of elaboration in different languages. This does not mean that
some languages are “richer” or “better” or “more developed” than others.
Vowel Systems
Another level of linguistic structure in which we can identify universal rules and
classify languages into useful typological categories is phonology. In Chapter 3
we discussed the fact that languages can have very different inventories of
sounds. Figure 7.1 represents the vowel system of standard American English,
classified according to place of articulation. Compare this with Figure 7.2,
which represents the vowel system of standard Parisian French (a conservative
dialect retaining certain oppositions that have been lost in many other French
dialects). The symbol /ü/ represents a high front rounded vowel as in the word
Phonological Universals
Figure 7.1 Vowels of American English
i u
ɪ ʊ
e ә o
ɛ ʌ ɔ
æ a ɑ
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 238
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 238 1/4/11 10:14:07 PM
1/4/11 10:14:07 PM
Phonological Universals 239
/ʁü/ rue ‘street’; /ø/ is an upper mid rounded vowel as in /fø/ feu ‘fire’; /œ/
is a lower mid rounded vowel as in /bœʁ/ beurre ‘butter’; and /ɛ̃/, /œ̃ /, /ɔ̃/,
and /ã/ are nasal vowels. Finally, Figure 7.3 compares the vowel systems of
Quechua (spoken in Peru and Ecuador) and Hawaiian.
The first thing these four examples demonstrate is that different languages
may have very different sets of vowels: English has several vowels in its inven-
tory that French does not have, and vice versa. Second, the number of vowels in a
language can vary considerably. Quechua has only 3 distinct vowels; along with
the vowel systems of Greenlandic Eskimo and Moroccan Arabic, the Quechua
vowel system is one of the smallest in the world. Hawaiian has 5 vowels, a very
common number among the world’s languages. At the other end of the spectrum,
English has 13 vowels and French has 15, including the four nasal vowels.
Underlying such diversity, however, we find universal patterns. If we charted
the vowel inventories of all known languages, we would confirm that languages
usually have vowel systems that fall between the two extremes represented by
Quechua and French. Thus every language has at least 3 vowel phonemes. Some
have 4 vowels, like Malagasy, the language of Madagascar (whose vowels are
/i ɛ ə ʊ/), and the Native American language Kwakiutl (which has /i a ə ʊ/).
Some have 5 vowels, such as Hawaiian, Mandarin Chinese, and, as shown in
Tables 3.3 and 3.5, Spanish and Japanese. Others, such as Persian and Malay,
have 6 vowels; and so on up to 15.
Comparing the charts, we find that all languages include in their vowel in-
ventory a high front unrounded vowel (/i/ or /ɪ/), a low vowel (/a/), and a
high back rounded (/u/ or /ʊ/) or unrounded (/ɯ/) vowel. These vowels have
allophones in some languages, particularly in languages with few vowels. In
Greenlandic Eskimo, for example, /i/ has the allophones [i], [e], [ɛ], and [ə],
depending on the consonants that surround it; but there are no minimal pairs
that depend on these variants. Small variations also exist, but these variations
Figure 7.2 Oral and Nasal Vowels of Parisian French
  Oral Nasal
i ü u
e ø ə o
ɛ œ ɔ ɛ̃ œ̃ ɔ̃
a ã
Figure 7.3 Vowels of Quechua and Hawaiian
i u i u
e o
a a
  Quechua  Hawaiian
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 239
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 239 1/4/11 10:14:07 PM
1/4/11 10:14:07 PM
240 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
do not really contradict the universal rule, which can be stated as follows: All
languages have a high front unrounded vowel, a low vowel, and a high
back rounded or unrounded vowel in their phoneme inventory. Note that
this first universal rule describes what constitutes the minimal type and what is
included in all other types.
The second universal rule is stated: Of the languages that have four or more
vowels, all have vowels similar to /i a u/ (as indicated by the first universal
rule) plus either a high central vowel /ɨ/ (as in Russian vɨ ‘you’) or a mid
front unrounded vowel /e/ or /ɛ/. The third universal rule we can uncover
from our vowel charts is this: Languages with a five-vowel system include a
mid front unrounded vowel. In the five-vowel system of Hawaiian, for exam-
ple, /e/ has allophones [ɛ] and [e]. Other languages with five-vowel inventories
include Japanese (whose inventory is /i ɛ a ɔ ɯ/) and Zulu (/i ɛ a ɔ u/). Most
languages with five vowels have a mid back rounded vowel (either /ɔ/ or /o/) in
their inventory, like Japanese, Hawaiian, and Zulu. A few languages with a five-
vowel system lack a mid back rounded vowel, although a similar sound is often
included, as with Mandarin Chinese, whose inventory (/i ü a ë u/) includes the
lower-mid back unrounded vowel /ë/.
We can thus state that languages with five-vowel inventories generally (but
not always) have a mid back rounded vowel. This observation is applicable to
languages with more than five vowels as well. The fourth universal rule thus
reads: Languages with five or more vowels in their inventories generally
have a mid back rounded vowel phoneme. This rule is stated in a different
way from the first three rules in that it is not absolute. But it is a useful observa-
tion because it describes a significant tendency across languages.
Languages with six-vowel inventories like Malayalam (spoken in southwest-
ern India) include /ɔ/ in their inventory and either /ɨ/ or /e/. Malayalam has in
its inventory the three “obligatory” vowels /i a u/; the vowels /e/ and /ɔ/, as
predicted by the second and third universal rules; and /ɨ/. These universal rules
can be summarized as in Figure 7.4.
LANGUAGE TYPE
1 2 3 4
i
ɨ
ɛ
ɛ
ɔ
ɔ
e
a
u
NUMBER OF VOWELS 3 4 5 6
EXAMPLE Quechua Malagasy Hawaiian Malayalam
Figure 7.4 Summary of Universal Vowel Rules
Nasal and Oral Vowels
Other universal rules that regulate the vowel inventories of the world’s lan-
guages can be uncovered, but we will mention only two more. The first states:
When a language has nasal vowels, the number of nasal vowels never
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 240
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 240 1/4/11 10:14:07 PM
1/4/11 10:14:07 PM
Phonological Universals 241
exceeds the number of oral vowels. We can find examples of languages with
fewer nasal vowels than oral vowels: Standard French, for example, has four nasal
vowels and eleven oral vowels. We can also find examples of languages with an
equal number of oral and nasal vowels: Punjabi (a language of northern India)
has ten of each. But there are no known languages with a greater number of nasal
vowels than oral vowels.
The second universal rule of interest is not a rule in the usual sense but a
description of the most common vowel system: a five-vowel system consisting
of a high front unrounded vowel (/i/ or /i/), a mid front unrounded vowel (/e/
or /ɛ/), a low vowel (/a/), a mid back rounded vowel (/o/ or /ɔ/), and a high
back rounded vowel (/u/ or /ʊ/). Hawaiian is an example of such a system, as
you can see by looking at the symmetry in the chart for Hawaiian vowels. Each
vowel is maximally distant from the others, which minimizes the possibility of
two vowels being confused. Such a five-vowel system thus has an ideal quality,
a matter to which we return later in this chapter.
Consonants
Vowel systems are not the only area of phonology in which universal rules oper-
ate. The consonant inventories of the languages of the world also exhibit many
universal properties. A few examples are presented here, although not in great
detail, since they do not differ in nature from universals of vowel systems.
Recall (from Chapter 3) that the sounds /p t k/ are voiceless stops. Every
language has at least one of these voiceless stops as a phoneme. While some lan-
guages lack affricates or trills, voiceless stops are found in all languages. In fact,
most languages have all three of these sounds, even languages with small con-
sonant inventories. Niuean (a Polynesian language), for example, has only three
stops, three nasals, three fricatives, and an approximant, totaling ten consonants
(in contrast to the twenty-four of American English). Yet the three stops are
/p t k/. Put in the form of a universal, this generalization reads: Most languages
have the three stops /p t k/ in their consonant inventory. This universal sug-
gests that these three consonants are in some sense more basic than others.
It is clear, given our discussion, that this universal is not an absolute rule.
Hawaiian (a language related to Niuean) has only /p/ and /k/. (That is why
English words with the sound /t/ are borrowed into Hawaiian with a /k/, like
kikiki ‘ticket’). This universal is thus a tendency, rather than a statement of what
is and isn’t found among the world’s languages.
Another important universal referring to stops has already been mentioned.
Recall that the difference between the two sets of stops /p t k/ and /b d g/ is
that the first set is voiceless, the second voiced. All six sounds have phonemic
status in English, as is true in French, Spanish, Quechua, and many other lan-
guages. In some languages, however, we find only voiceless stops, such as in
Hawaiian (and all other Polynesian languages), Korean, and Mandarin Chinese.
Thus far, we have identified two types of languages: languages with both
voiced and voiceless stops, and languages with only voiceless stops. As noted,
every language has at least one voiceless stop in its inventory; consequently,
there are no languages that have voiced stops but no voiceless stops, and no
languages that have neither voiced nor voiceless stops. This typology allows us
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 241
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 241 1/4/11 10:14:07 PM
1/4/11 10:14:07 PM
242 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
to derive the following universal rule: No language has voiced stops without
voiceless stops.
Note that of the universals of stop inventories explored thus far, only one
rule (and it is only a tendency) says anything about which stops are included in
the inventories of languages. But there are other universals that deal with this
question. We give only one example here: If a language lacks a stop, there is
a strong tendency for that language to include in its inventory a fricative
sound with the same place of articulation as the missing stop. For instance,
Standard Fijian, Amharic (the principal language of Ethiopia), and Standard
Arabic all lack the phoneme /p/, which is a labial stop. As predicted by the
universal rule, all these languages have a fricative /f/ or /v/, whose place of
articulation is similar to that of /p/. The fricative thus “fills in” for the missing
stop. This rule, too, is only a tendency, as there are languages that violate it.
Hawaiian, which lacks a /t/, has none of the corresponding fricatives /ð/, /θ/,
/z/, or /s/. But most languages do follow the rule.
Word Order
Speakers of English and other European languages commonly assume that the
normal way of constructing a sentence is to place the subject first, then the
verb, and then the direct object (if there is one). Indeed, in English, the sentence
Mary saw John, which follows this order, is well formed, while variations like
John Mary saw and saw Mary John are not.
However, normal word order in a sentence differs considerably from lan-
guage to language. Consider the following Japanese sentence, in which the sub-
ject is Akiko, the verb is butta ‘hit (past tense),’ and the direct object is Taro.
akiko ga taroo o butta
Akiko Subject Taro Object hit
‘Akiko hit Taro.’
In Japanese, the normal word order is thus subject, direct object, and verb
(SOV). If we changed this order, the result would be ungrammatical.
Now consider Tongan, in which the verb must come first, the subject second,
and the direct object last (VSO). In the following sentence, the verb is taaʔi ‘to hit,’
the subject is a person named Hina, and the direct object is a person called Vaka.
naʔe taaʔi ʔe hina ʔa vaka
Past hit Subject Hina Object Vaka
‘Hina hit Vaka.’
Of course, not all English sentences follow the order subject-verb-direct ob-
ject, or SVO. To emphasize particular noun phrases, English speakers sometimes
place direct objects in clause-initial position as with sewing in Sewing I hate, but
I’ll do it for you. In questions like Who(m) did you see? the direct object who(m)
Syntactic and Morphological Universals
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 242
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 242 1/4/11 10:14:07 PM
1/4/11 10:14:07 PM
Syntactic and Morphological Universals 243
is in first position. Similar word order variants are found in most languages.
Sentences like the sewing and whom examples derive from more basic sentences,
however, and are also less common than sentences that follow SVO order. Thus,
even though some English constructions do not follow this order, we say that
SVO order is basic in English, and that English is an SVO language. Examples
of SVO languages include Romance languages (such as French, Spanish, and
Italian), Thai, Vietnamese, and Indonesian. Japanese is an SOV language, as are
Turkish, Persian, Burmese, Hindi, and the Native American languages Navajo,
Hopi, and Luiseño. Tongan is a VSO language, as are most other Polynesian
languages, Welsh, a number of Native American languages such as Salish,
Squamish, Chinook, Jacaltec, and Zapotec, and some dialects of Arabic.
There are three other logical possibilities for combining verbs, subjects,
and direct objects besides VSO, SVO, and SOV. Remarkably, however, very
few languages have VOS, OVS, or OSV as basic word orders. Only a handful of
languages are VOS, the best known being Malagasy and Fijian. Following is a
basic sentence in Fijian showing that the direct object precedes the subject.
ea taya na ŋone na yalewa
Past hit the child the girl
‘The girl hit the child.’
OVS and OSV are the basic word order of only a handful of languages of the
Amazon Basin, including Hixkaryana (OVS) and Nadëb (OSV). By far the most
common word orders found among the world’s languages are SVO, SOV, and, to
a lesser extent, VSO.
Try It Yourself What characterizes the ordering of S and O in SVO,
SOV, and VSO languages (the most common ones) and diﬀerentiates
them from VOS, OVS, and OSV languages (the uncommon ones)?
In each of the three common configurations, S precedes O; in the uncommon
configurations, S follows O. We can thus make a generalized statement: In the
basic word orders of the languages of the world there is an overwhelming
tendency for the subject of a sentence to precede the direct object.
There is a great deal more to universals of syntax. Two extreme cases are lan-
guages in which the verb comes first in the clause (called verb-initial languages
and illustrated by Tongan) and languages in which the verb comes last (called
verb-final languages and illustrated by Japanese). For the sake of simplicity, we
exclude VOS and OSV languages from our discussion, though they follow basi-
cally the same rules as VSO and SOV languages respectively.
Possessor and Possessed Noun Phrases
If we look at the order of other syntactic constituents in verb-initial and verb-
final languages, we find strikingly regular and interesting patterns. First of all,
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 243
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 243 1/4/11 10:14:08 PM
1/4/11 10:14:08 PM
244 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
in most verb-final languages such as Japanese, possessor noun phrases precede
possessed noun phrases.
taroo no imooto
Taro of sister
‘Taro’s sister’
In verb-initial languages the opposite order is most commonly found; in the
following example from Tongan, the possessed entity is expressed first, the pos-
sessor last.
ko e tuongaʔane ʔo vaka
the sister of Vaka
‘Vaka’s sister’
We have thus established the following rule: There is a strong tendency for
possessor noun phrases to precede possessed noun phrases in verb-final
languages and to follow possessed noun phrases in verb-initial languages.
Prepositions and Postpositions
To express position or direction, many languages use prepositions. As the word
indicates, prepositions come before modified noun phrases (NP). In Tongan, for
example, the prepositions ki, which indicates direction, and ʔi, which denotes
location, both precede the NP they modify.
ki tonga ʔi tonga
to Tonga in Tonga
Other languages have postpositions instead of prepositions. Postpositions fulfill
the same functions as prepositions, but they follow the NP, as in this Japanese
example.
tookyoo ni
Tokyo to
‘to Tokyo’
Overwhelmingly, verb-initial languages have prepositions and verb-final lan-
guages have postpositions. The third rule can be stated as follows: There is
a strong tendency for verb-initial languages to have prepositions and for
verb-final languages to have postpositions.
Relative Clauses
Depending on the language, relative clauses either precede or follow head
nouns. In English relative clause constructions (the book that Judith wrote), the
relative clause (that Judith wrote) follows its head (the book). The same is true in
Tongan.
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 244
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 244 1/4/11 10:14:08 PM
1/4/11 10:14:08 PM
Syntactic and Morphological Universals 245
ko e tohi [naʔe faʔu ʔe hina]
the book Past write Subject Hina
‘the book that Hina wrote’
In Japanese, by contrast, the relative clause precedes its head.
[hiroo ga kaita] hon
Hiro Subject wrote book
‘the book that Hiro wrote’
The great majority of verb-initial languages place relative clauses after the
head noun, and the great majority of verb-final languages place relative clauses
before the head noun. We can therefore note the following universal: There is
a strong tendency for verb-initial languages to place relative clauses after
the head noun and for verb-final languages to place relative clauses before
the head noun.
Overall Patterns of Ordering
We have established that verb-initial languages (VSO) place possessors after
possessed nouns, place relative clauses after head nouns, and have prepositions.
Verb-final languages (SOV), on the other hand, place possessors before pos-
sessed nouns, place relative clauses before head nouns, and have postpositions.
In all these correlations a pattern emerges. Notice that possessors and rel-
ative clauses modify nouns; the noun is a more essential element to a noun
phrase than any of the modifiers. In a similar sense, noun phrases modify prepo-
sitions or postpositions; likewise, though it is not intuitively obvious, the most
important element of a prepositional phrase is the preposition itself, not the
noun phrase—it is the preposition that makes it a prepositional phrase. Finally,
in a verb phrase, the direct object modifies the verb. In light of these observa-
tions, we can draw a generalization about the order of constituents in different
language types: In verb-initial languages the modifying element follows the
modified element, while in verb-final languages the modifying element
precedes the modified element. This pattern is illustrated in Table 7.1.
This generalization is of course based on tendencies rather than absolute
rules. At each level of the table some languages violate the correlations. Persian,
Table 7.1 Summary of Constituent Orders
VERB-INITIAL LANGUAGES
(EXAMPLE: TONGAN)
VERB-FINAL LANGUAGES
(EXAMPLE: JAPANESE)
Modified—Modifier Modifier—Modified
verb—direct object direct object—verb
possessed—possessor possessor—possessed
preposition—noun phrase noun phrase—postposition
head noun—relative clause relative clause—head noun
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 245
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 245 1/4/11 10:14:08 PM
1/4/11 10:14:08 PM
246 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
for example, is an SOV language like Japanese and thus should have the prop-
erties listed in the right-hand column of the table. But in Persian possessors
follow possessed nouns, prepositions are used, and relative clauses follow head
nouns—all of which are properties of verb-initial languages. Such counterex-
amples to the correlations are rare, however.
Notice that our discussion has mentioned nothing about verb-medial (SVO)
languages like English. These languages appear to follow no consistent pattern.
English, for example, places relative clauses after head nouns and has preposi-
tions (both properties of verb-initial languages). With respect to the order of
possessors and possessed nouns, English has both patterns (the man’s arm and the
arm of the man). In contrast, Mandarin Chinese, another verb-medial language,
has characteristics of verb-final languages.
Word order universals are an excellent illustration of the level that linguists
attempt to reach in their description of the universal properties of language.
Table 7.1 implies that in the structure of virtually all verb-initial and verb-
final languages, the same ordering principle is at play at the levels of the noun
phrase, the prepositional phrase, and the whole sentence. This is remarkable in
that it applies to a great many languages whose speakers have never come in
contact with each other. It is thus likely that some cognitive process shared by
all human beings may underlie this ordering principle.
Relativization Hierarchy
Another area of syntactic structure in which striking universal principles are
found is the structure of relative clauses. English can relativize the subject of
a relative clause, the direct object, the indirect object, obliques, and possessor
noun phrases (see Chapter 5). The following set of English examples illustrates
these different possibilities.
the teacher [who talked at the meeting] (subject)
the teacher [whom I mentioned —to you] (direct object)
the teacher [that I told the story to —] (indirect object)
the teacher [that I heard the story from —] (oblique)
the teacher [whose book I read] (possessor)
Other languages do not allow all these possibilities. Some languages allow rela-
tivization on only some of these categories but not others. For example, a rela-
tive clause in Malagasy is grammatical only if the relativized noun phrase is the
subject of the relative clause.
ny mpianatra [izay nahita ny vehivavy]
the student who saw the woman
‘the student who saw the woman’
In Malagasy there is no way of directly translating a relative clause whose direct
object has been relativized (‘the student that the woman saw’), or the indirect
object (‘the student that the woman gave a book to’), or an oblique (‘the student
that the woman heard the news from’), or a possessor (‘the student whose book
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 246
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 246 1/4/11 10:14:08 PM
1/4/11 10:14:08 PM
Syntactic and Morphological Universals 247
the woman read’). If speakers of Malagasy need to convey what is represented
by these English relative constructions, they must make the relative clause pas-
sive, so that the noun phrase to be relativized becomes the grammatical subject
of the relative clause (‘the student who was seen by the woman’). Alternatively,
they can express their idea in two clauses—that is, instead of ‘the woman saw
the student who failed his exam,’ they might say that ‘the woman saw the stu-
dent, and that same student failed his exam.’
Some languages have relative clauses in which subjects or direct objects can
be relativized, but indirect objects, obliques, or possessors cannot. An example
of such a language is Kinyarwanda, spoken in East Africa. Other languages,
like Basque, spoken in northwestern Spain and southwestern France, have rela-
tive clauses in which the subject, the direct object, and the indirect object can
be relativized, but not an oblique or a possessor. Yet another type of language
adds obliques to the list of categories that can be relativized; such is the case in
Catalan, spoken in northeastern Spain. Finally, languages like English allow all
possibilities.
Table 7.2 recapitulates the types of relative clause systems found among the
world’s languages; the plus sign indicates a grammatical category that can be
relativized, while a minus sign indicates one that cannot be relativized. Notice
that a plus sign does not imply anything about the signs to the right of it—they
may be plus or minus. A plus sign implies that all categories to the left can be
relativized.
It is a remarkable fact that there are no languages in which, for example, an
oblique can be relativized (‘the man [that I heard the story from]’) but not sub-
jects, direct objects, and indirect objects as well. Indeed, relative clause forma-
tion in all languages is sensitive to a hierarchy of grammatical relations:
Relative Clause Hierarchy
Subject < Direct object < Indirect object < Oblique < Possessor
The hierarchy predicts that if a language allows a particular category on the hi-
erarchy to be relativized, then the grammar of that language will also allow all
positions to the left to be relativized. For example, possessors in English can be
relativized (‘the woman [whose book I read]’). The hierarchy predicts that Eng-
lish would allow all positions to the left of possessor (namely, oblique, indirect
object, direct object, and subject) to be relativized. The hierarchy also predicts
Table 7.2 Relativization Hierarchy: Types of Relative Clause Systems
LANGUAGE
TYPE SUBJECT
DIRECT
OBJECT
INDIRECT
OBJECT OBLIQUE POSSESSOR EXAMPLE
1 + – – – – Malagasy
2 + + – – – Kinyarwanda
3 + + + – – Basque
4 + + + + – Catalan
5 + + + + + English
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 247
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 247 1/4/11 10:14:08 PM
1/4/11 10:14:08 PM
248 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
that Basque, which permits indirect objects to be relativized, will allow direct
objects and subjects to be relativized; Basque does not allow categories to the
right of indirect object on the hierarchy (obliques or possessors) to be relativ-
ized. The hierarchy is thus a succinct description of the types of relative clause
formation patterns found in the languages of the world.
In this section we draw on the universals treated in the previous sections in
order to classify the different types of universals. It should be clear by now that
language universals are not all alike. Some do not have any exceptions. Others
hold for most languages but not all. It is important to distinguish between these
two types of universals because the first type appears to be the result of an
absolute constraint on language in general, while the other is the result of a
tendency.
Absolute Universals and Universal Tendencies
The first two types of universals are distinguished by whether they can be stated
as absolute rules. The typology of vowel systems established earlier indicates
that the minimum number of vowels in a language is three: /i a u/. The two
universal rules that are suggested by the typology read as follows:
1. All languages have at least three vowels.
2. If a language has only three vowels, these vowels will be /i a u/.
From the descriptions of all languages studied to date, it appears that these
two rules have no exceptions. The two rules are thus examples of absolute
universals—universal rules that have no exceptions. Other examples of abso-
lute universals include: If a language has a set of dual pronouns, it must have
a set of plural pronouns; if a language has voiced stops, it must have voiceless
stops.
In contrast to absolute universals, a number of universal rules have some
exceptions. A good example is the rule stating that if a language has a gap in its
inventory of stops, it is likely to have a fricative with the same place of articula-
tion as the missing stop. This rule holds for most languages that have gaps in
their inventory, but not all. Such rules are called universal tendencies. (A pos-
sible explanation for universal tendencies is that they represent the coming to-
gether of partly competing universal rules.)
Naturally, researchers must be careful when deciding that a particular rule
is absolute. Until relatively recently, it would have been easy to assume that no
language existed with OVS or OSV as basic word order (since none had been
described) and that there was an absolute universal stating that “no language
has OVS or OSV for basic word order.” But we now know of a few OVS and OSV
languages, all spoken in the Amazon Basin. Thus the rule that had been stated
as an absolute universal seemed absolute only because no one had come across
a language that violated it.
Types of Language Universals
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 248
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 248 1/4/11 10:14:09 PM
1/4/11 10:14:09 PM
Explanations for Language Universals 249
Implicational and Nonimplicational Universals
Independently of the contrast between absolute universals and tendencies, we
can draw another important distinction—between implicational and nonimpli-
cational universals. Some universal rules are in the form of a conditional impli-
cation, as in the following examples:
If a language has five vowels, it generally has the vowel /o/ or /ɔ/.
◆
If a language is verb-final, then in that language possessors are likely to
◆
precede possessed noun phrases.
All rules of the form “if condition P is satisfied, then conclusion Q holds”
are called implicational universals. Other universals can be stated without
conditions: All languages have at least three vowels. Such universals are called
nonimplicational universals.
There are thus four types of universals.
Types of Universals
Absolute implicational universal
If a language has property X, it must have property Y.
Implicational tendency
If a language has property X, it will probably have property Y.
Absolute nonimplicational universal
All languages have property X.
Nonimplicational tendency
Most languages have property X.
Given the extreme structural diversity that they otherwise exhibit, it is remark-
able that all languages of the world fall into clearly defined types and are subject
to universal rules. It is thus reasonable to ask why universal rules exist at all.
The question is extremely complex, and no one has come up with a definitive
explanation for any universal. But for many universals we can make hypotheses
or at least educated guesses about the reasons for their existence.
Original Language Hypothesis
The first explanation for language universals that may come to mind is that all
languages derive historically from the same original language. This hypothesis
is difficult to support, however. First of all, archaeological evidence strongly
suggests that the ability to speak developed in our ancestors in several parts
of the globe at about the same time, and it is difficult to imagine that different
groups of speakers not in contact with one another would have developed ex-
actly the same language. Second, even if we ignore the archaeological evidence,
the existence of an original language is impossible to prove or disprove because
Explanations for Language Universals
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 249
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 249 1/4/11 10:14:09 PM
1/4/11 10:14:09 PM
250 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
we have no evidence for or against it. Thus the original language hypothesis is
not a very good explanation; it is so hypothetical that it does not adequately
fulfill the function of an explanation.
Universals and Perception
A more likely hypothesis explaining language universals is that they are symp-
toms of how all humans perceive the world and conduct verbal interactions. In
the following sections, several such explanations will be applied to the univer-
sals established earlier in this chapter. In the discussion of vowel systems, you
may have noticed that the three vowels found in all languages—/i a u/—are
mutually very distant in a vowel chart. The two vowels /i/ and /u/ differ in
terms of frontness and usually rounding, and /a/ differs from the other two
in terms of frontness and height. From these observations, it is not difficult to
hypothesize why these three vowels are the most fundamental vowels across
languages: There is no other set of three vowels that differ from each other
more dramatically.
Acquisition and Processing Explanations
Some language universals have psychological explanations with no physiologi-
cal basis. The explanations that have been proposed for word order universals,
for example, are based on the notion that the more regular the structure of a
language, the easier it is for children to acquire. Thus the fact that verb-initial
languages have prepositions and place adjectives after nouns, possessors after
possessed nouns, and relative clauses after head nouns can be summarized by
the following rule: In verb-initial languages, the modifier follows the modi-
fied element. Languages that strictly follow this rule exhibit a great deal of
regularity from one construction to another; a single ordering principle regu-
lates the order of verbs and direct objects, adpositions and noun phrases, nouns
and adjectives, possessors and possessed nouns, and relative clauses and head
nouns. It seems that such a language would be easier to acquire than a language
with two or more ordering principles underlying different areas of the syntax.
The fact that so many languages in the world follow one overall ordering pat-
tern (modified-modifier) or the other (modifier-modified) with such regularity
thus reflects the suggested general tendency for the structure of language to be
as regular as possible so as to be as easy as possible to acquire.
Psychological explanations have also been proposed to explain the relative
clause formation hierarchy. Relative clauses in which the head functions as the
subject of the relative clause (‘the woman [who left]’) are easier to learn and
understand than relative clauses in which the head functions as the direct object
of the relative clause (‘the man [that I saw]’). Children generally acquire the
first type before they begin using the second type. Furthermore, people take
less time to understand the meaning of relative clauses on subjects than on di-
rect objects. Relative clauses on direct objects, in turn, are easier to understand
than those on indirect objects, and so on down the hierarchy: Subject < Direct
object < Indirect object < Oblique < Possessor. There is thus a psychological
explanation for the cross-linguistic patterns in the typology of relative clause
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 250
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 250 1/4/11 10:14:09 PM
1/4/11 10:14:09 PM
Explanations for Language Universals 251
formation: A language allows a “difficult” relative clause type only if all the
“easier” types are also allowed.
Social Explanations
Finally, recall that language is both a cognitive and a social phenomenon. Some
language universals have a basis in cognition; others reflect the fact that lan-
guage is a social tool.
Universals of pronoun systems can be explained in terms of the uses of lan-
guage. Why, for example, do all languages have first-person and second-person
singular pronouns? Consider that the most basic type of verbal interaction is
face-to-face conversation. Other contexts in which language is used to commu-
nicate (in writing, over the telephone, on the radio, texting, and so on) are
relatively recent inventions compared to the ability to carry on a conversation;
they occur less frequently and perhaps less naturally than face-to-face interac-
tions. In a face-to-face interaction, it is essential to be able to refer efficiently
and concisely to the speaker and the addressee, the two most important entities
involved in the interaction. An argument between two individuals who were
unable to use I and you or had to refer to themselves and each other by name
would be notably less efficient. Obviously, first-person and second-person singu-
lar pronouns are essential for ordinary efficiency of social interaction. It is thus
not surprising that every language has first-person and second-person singular
pronoun forms, even though its pronoun system may have a gap elsewhere. The
universal that all languages have first-person and second-person pronoun forms
thus has a social motivation.
Furthermore, as noted earlier, the most frequent pronoun system has separate
first-person, second-person, and third-person forms, and separate first-person
inclusive (‘you and me and perhaps other people’) and exclusive (‘other people
and me, but not you’) forms. Why would this system be so frequent and in some
way more basic than other systems? Pronoun systems can be viewed as a ma-
trix, with each slot of the matrix characterized by whether the speaker and the
addressee are included in the reference of the pronoun, as in Table 7.3.
In light of the fact that speaker and addressee are the more important ele-
ments of face-to-face interactions, it should come as no surprise that speaker
and addressee inclusion or exclusion should be the crucial factor in defining
each slot of the matrix. The most basic (and most common) type of pronoun
system is thus the most balanced matrix, one in which each slot is filled with a
separate form.
Table 7.3 Matrix of Pronoun Systems
SPEAKER INCLUDED SPEAKER EXCLUDED
ADDRESSEE INCLUDED —— second-person singular
first-person inclusive plural second-person plural
ADDRESSEE EXCLUDED first-person singular third-person singular
first-person exclusive plural third-person plural
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 251
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 251 1/4/11 10:14:09 PM
1/4/11 10:14:09 PM
252 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
Language universals may thus stem from the way in which humans perceive
the world around them, learn and process language, and organize their social
interactions. Underlying the search for universals is the desire to learn more
about these areas of cognition and social life.
Throughout this chapter we’ve examined various linguistic generalizations.
Some have been typological, having to do with the various aspects of the
world’s languages. We’ve also examined language universals—characteristic of
every language, of language in general—and we noted absolute and implica-
tional universals. We’ve seen examples in phonology, morphology, and syntax
and semantics. We noted that the ultimate goal in the study of universals is to
explain them (not merely describe them), and we pointed in the direction of
physiological, psychological, and social reasons.
In recent decades, the question of the nature of language universals has taken
on increased prominence. What do language universals tell us about the human
mind, the brain? What questions do they raise about how human language is
acquired and how it functions in the brain and interfaces with perceptions of
the world, on the one hand, and with phonological or manual realization, on
the other? Is there a separate faculty in the brain that is devoted specifically to
language? Or does a combination of other, more general, mental processes sup-
port the acquisition and functioning of language?
In our discussions of syntax in Chapter 5, we pointed out relationships be-
tween active and passive sentences, declarative and interrogative sentences,
sentences with and without embedded clauses, and so on. We took a structural/
generative approach, modern but mindful of more traditional grammar. In our
analyses we addressed the question, “How does English (or Spanish or Japanese
or . . . ) work? How are its sentences shaped and related to one another?” We
described operations like those for passivization and subject-auxiliary inver-
sion that change one constituent structure into another. Toward the end of that
chapter, we indicated that some theories of syntax do not rely on particular
operations for relating sentences to one another, but instead rely on a very gen-
eral movement rule operating on much more abstract structures than we por-
trayed. In the traditions in which our analyses are rooted, syntax in particular
has become increasingly abstract, far more so than we indicated in our treat-
ment, and the reason for its increasing abstractness is related to an understand-
ing of language universals as described in the present chapter.
Among the wealth of research in linguistics in recent decades, two strands are
particularly noteworthy here. The generative enterprise, spearheaded by Noam
Chomsky, focused especially in its early years on descriptions of various lan-
guages and the operations that were thought to underlie relationships between
one sentence and another (e.g., active and passive). Part of the aim was to char-
acterize a universal grammar that children brought to the task of learning their
language. The other enterprise, inspired by the work of Joseph H. Greenberg,
Language Universals, Universal Grammar,
and Language Acquisition
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 252
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 252 1/4/11 10:14:09 PM
1/4/11 10:14:09 PM
Language Universals, Universal Grammar, and Language Acquisition 253
looked at scores of languages in search of universal properties, some of which
we’ve described in this chapter. Greenberg’s work highlighted the facts about
universals and went a long way toward characterizing them.
In the past two decades, those research strands have begun in some ways
to converge. In the generative enterprise it was essential to understand what a
child brought to the acquisition task innately because it was clear that to master
the astonishingly complex system that constitutes a human language, and to
do so in a very short time, presumed an initial state of mind somehow rich in
language (or in aptitude for language). Generative linguists took as a principal
objective to characterize that initial state. While, generally speaking, it is lan-
guage diversity that is most apparent in viewing languages, generativists sought
to show that “the apparent richness and diversity of linguistic phenomena is
illusory and epiphenomenal, the result of interaction of fixed principles under
slightly varying conditions” (as Chomsky himself put it). In other words, from
an underlying universal grammar and some language-specific determinants, all
the world’s linguistic diversity can arise. Meanwhile, inheritors of the Green-
berg tradition have also actively engaged in efforts to understand the universal-
ity of linguistic patterns around the globe.
As a result, linguists and other language scientists are undertaking active col-
laboration with biologists, computational linguists and computer scientists, cog-
nitive neuroscientists, and others in pursuit of whatever it is in the human brain
that allows children to acquire language so well and efficiently and gives rise to
the universals that underlie the more apparent diversity of nearly 7,000 human
languages around the world.
For more than half a century researchers have been
trying to craft devices that can translate between
languages. Except in limited ways, however, that goal
has eluded even the best attempts thus far. Word-for-
word translation does not do the trick because, for
one thing, languages diﬀer in their word orders and,
for another, the metaphors of one language may not
translate into the relevant metaphor of another lan-
guage. Countless other reasons also contribute to the
failure of word-for-word translation.
Consider two models of translation. In a trans-
fer translation model, one set of rules or procedures
is established for translating from language A into
language B and a second set for translating in re-
verse—that is, from B into A. The rules would have
to be completely explicit, and a set of procedures
in each direction would be needed, because trans-
lation is not symmetrical. If a machine translation
(MT) device were established for
even six languages, then 6 × 5 (i.e.,
30) sets of procedures would be
needed to translate each language into all of the
other ﬁve.
Now consider an alternative system—an interlin-
gual translation model—in which the basic semantic
elements of each language can be represented ab-
stractly and then encoded into other languages. A
procedure would be needed for each language to de-
code it into abstract semantic elements (forming an
abstract semantic representation), along with a sec-
ond procedure for encoding abstract semantic repre-
sentations into the lexicon, syntax, and (for spoken
texts) phonology of each target language.
The interlingual translation model would require
twelve procedures—one decoding procedure and one
encoding procedure for each of the six languages.
Computers and the Study of Language Universals
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 253
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 253 1/4/11 10:14:10 PM
1/4/11 10:14:10 PM
254 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
Such a model is simpler than the transfer translation
model that requires 30 procedures. Unfortunately,
we don’t know the extent to which sentences can
be decomposed into the kinds of abstract semantic
representations needed for an interlingual model,
especially in making a language-neutral intermediate
representation.
Diﬃculties related to translation in either model
concern what one language encodes that another may
not encode. Fijian, for example, as shown in the chart
of that language’s pronouns, has four second-person
pronouns, while English has only one. That would
make it very easy to translate any second-person pro-
noun from Fijian into English, provided the abstract
semantic representation of the Fijian pronouns con-
tains the element ‘second person.’ All such represen-
tations would be mapped onto English you. But would
translating the other way around be equally straight-
forward? Given an English sentence containing the
pronoun you, no machine could determine from the
word itself its underlying semantic representation,
other than second person. Because English does not
code a distinction among singular, dual, trial, and plu-
ral number in the second person, an MT device could
not decide which Fijian pronoun to choose. We can
represent the ﬁrst part of the problem in the follow-
ing schema, where translating from Fijian to English
would be easy.
Fijian English
iko
kemudrau
you
kemudou
kemunii
But translating English you into Fijian would be
a challenge. While the text or context might make
clear the number of addressees represented by the
pronoun you, that information would prove diﬃcult
or impossible for an MT device to decipher except in
rare cases (e.g., you two, the three of you).
To confound things, the situation is reversed for
third-person singular pronouns. Fijian does not distin-
guish between masculine, feminine, and neuter sin-
gular pronouns, but English does; as indicated in the
accompanying chart, Fijian has only the pronoun koya
corresponding to the English pronouns he, she, and it.
Fijian English
?he
koya ?she
?it
From koya alone, no device could decide which
English pronoun would be the correct translation.
Again, context might make it clear, but interpreting
context creates an even more diﬃcult challenge for
an MT device.
English
Interlingual Translation
French Italian
abstract semantic representations of sentences
Fijian Japanese Irish
English French Italian Fijian Japanese Irish
English French Italian Fijian Japanese Irish
English French Italian Fijian Japanese Irish
Transfer Translation
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 254
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 254 1/4/11 10:14:10 PM
1/4/11 10:14:10 PM
Summary 255
Summary
Underlying the great diversity of the world’s languages, universal principles are
•
at play at all levels of language structure—phonology, morphology, syntax, and
semantics.
The study of typology aims to catalog languages according to types, while the
•
study of universals aims to formulate the universal principles themselves.
In lexical semantics, the composition of pronoun systems, in which cross-
•
linguistic variation is found, is dictated by several universal rules that regulate
distinctions in number and person.
Vowel systems and inventories of stops are two examples of universals at play in
•
phonology.
In syntax and morphology, universals are found that regulate the basic order of
•
constituents in sentences and phrases.
In syntax, the relativization hierarchy is a striking example of a universal
•
principle.
The salient characteristic of all universals is that the most common patterns are
•
the most regular and harmonious.
The problems we’ve discussed can be minimized by
limiting the translation machinery to two languages
and to very specialized domains of discourse. For ex-
ample, if you were translating only medical texts or
only technical documents from English into another
language, you would deal with a limited subset of vo-
cabulary and structures. Analysis of particular kinds
of text may reveal that certain lexical or grammatical
options rarely (or never) occur in them. When creat-
ing a list of words that appear in medical journals, for
example, most informal vocabulary could be elimi-
nated from consideration.
Similarly, to return to the pronoun problem dis-
cussed above, English-language medical journals
would almost certainly not use the full range of po-
tential semantic distinctions represented in Fijian,
so for projects translating medical documents, some
possible Fijian pronouns might be eliminated for
practical purposes.
The need for translation has grown urgently in
recent decades with the formation of the European
Union, and considerable financial resources have
been made available for exploring automatic transla-
tion. In pursuit of better methods of machine transla-
tion, corpora containing more than one language have
been created, and analysis of them will yield ﬁndings
helpful for designing automatic translation devices.
Some multilingual corpora contain the same kinds of
texts but not identical texts. For example, the texts
in the Aarhus Corpus of Danish, French, and English
law are not translations of one another, but they rep-
resent a reservoir of information about the legislative
language in these languages. Other corpora contain
texts that are translations of one another, as with the
Canadian Hansard Corpus, which contains parliamen-
tary proceedings in French-to-English and English-to-
French translations.
When a corpus contains translations it is pos-
sible to create a “parallel aligned corpus.” This is
a corpus containing texts in different languages
that have been aligned, sometimes automatically,
so that sections correspond to one another—
paragraph to paragraph or sentence to sentence.
Researchers can use these corpora to explore the
mathematical properties of vocabulary and syntax
in languages and pairs of languages. By relying on
knowledge of such properties, automatic transla-
tion may be able to avoid some of the difficulties
of either of the transfer translation or interlingual
translation models depicted above. Instead, cer-
tain mathematical properties of languages would
help determine likely translations, independently
of how the human mind processes languages and
makes translations. ■
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 255
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 255 1/4/11 10:14:10 PM
1/4/11 10:14:10 PM
256 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
Four types of universals can be distinguished, depending on whether they
•
have exceptions (absolute versus tendency) and according to their logical form
(implicational versus nonimplicational):
Absolute implicational universals: Languages with property X must have
property Y.
Implicational tendencies: Languages with property X will probably have
property Y.
Absolute nonimplicational universals: All languages have property X.
Nonimplicational tendencies: Most languages have property X.
The ultimate goal of the study of language universals is to provide explanations
•
for such universal principles.
Language universals may have physiological, psychological, or social
•
explanations.
Physiological: Universals are often indicative of how we perceive the world
around us. Thus, languages tend to highlight categories that are physiologi-
cally and perceptually salient, as with vowels.
Psychological: Structural simplicity and consistency make languages easier to
acquire and process. Thus many universals predict that the simplest and most
consistent systems will be preferred.
Social: Distinctions drawn on the expression side of language reflect impor-
tant social distinctions on the content side.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
Your niece
• . Many people tend to think about a language in terms of its written
form rather than its spoken form. That’s why so many people report that English
has 5 vowels (a, e, i, o, and u). But Figure 7.1 shows your niece to be correct.
Besides its 13 vowels, English has 3 diphthongs, as in the words buy, toy, and
cow. Languages vary in the number of vowels they have. Quechua, Greenlandic
Eskimo, and Moroccan Arabic have 3 vowels; Hawaiian has 5; English 13;
Parisian French 15.
Cousins in Chicago
• . Many speakers of English say you whether they’re
addressing one person or several, but other speakers use a distinct form for
more than one addressee: y’all, youse, or y’uns (y’uns in Western Pennsylvania
and parts of the Ohio Valley). Probably quite a few of your friends say you
guys when addressing more than one person. As shown in the pronoun charts
in this chapter, it is not unusual for languages to have distinct singular
and plural forms for second-person pronouns—or even to distinguish two
addressees from more than two. Fijian, for example, has four distinct forms:
for addressing one person (singular), two persons (dual), three (trial), and
more than three (plural). In English some dialects distinguish between second-
person singular and second-person plural pronouns, and you guys is gaining
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 256
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 256 1/4/11 10:14:11 PM
1/4/11 10:14:11 PM
Exercises 257
in popularity among speakers who don’t otherwise have a distinct plural form
like y’all or youse.
Clarence on Japanese
• . It seems inevitable to think one’s own language natural
and logical and to suspect that other languages are odd or illogical if they differ.
Perhaps nowhere is this more true than with word order. Like other aspects
of language, though, word order isn’t a matter of logic. Some languages have
a basic SVO order, but others favor SOV or VSO or some other order. German
uses SVO in main clauses and SOV in subordinate clauses, whereas English uses
SVO for main clauses (I bought it) and subordinate clauses (because I wanted
it). Despite its having a basic SVO word order, other word orders are possible
in English: Carrots I like, peas I hate! And while English has “prepositions,”
there’s nothing that says words that function like prepositions but follow the
noun phrase can’t be called by another name, such as postpositions. Certain
word order patterns often go together in a language, and such patterns invite
speculation and hypotheses as to why they do so.
English has separate masculine and feminine third-person pronouns (
• he
and she), but Tagalog and many other languages use the same pronoun for
masculine and feminine referents (see the discussion of Fijian pronouns
in this chapter). When speaking a second language, it’s easier to ignore a
distinction made in one’s native tongue than to make a distinction your own
language doesn’t make. Francesca wouldn’t use the wrong pronoun every time
she speaks about someone, but she could do it often enough to create that
impression. ■
Exercises
Practice Exercise
The statements in sets A and B contain universal statements, some true and
some false. Identify which set contains absolute universals and which set con-
tains implicational universals, and for each universal say whether it is true or
false. Also, then, for set C, say whether each statement is true or false.
A. i. Every language has vowels and consonants.
ii. Every language has Subject-Verb-Object as its basic word order.
iii. Every language has the same number of personal pronouns.
iv. Every language in its pronouns differentiates between singular and
plural ‘you.’
v. Every language in its pronouns differentiates between inclusive and
exclusive ‘we.’
B. i. If a language has only three vowels, they may all be front vowels.
ii. If a language has only three vowels, they may all be back vowels.
iii. If a language has only three vowels, they may all be high vowels.
iv. If a language has stop consonants, they may all be voiced.
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 257
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 257 1/4/11 10:14:11 PM
1/4/11 10:14:11 PM
258 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
C. i. Language universals probably exist because all languages derive historically
from one original language.
ii. There is no limit to the ways in which human languages may differ from one
another.
iii. Some language universals have a basis in human cognition.
iv. Some language universals have a basis in human social interaction.
Based on English and Other Languages
7-1. Make a judgment about how usual or unusual the following features of
standard English are in comparison with other languages discussed in this
chapter. Explain your judgment in each case.
1) a 13-vowel system
2) no (phonemically distinct) nasal vowels
3) Subject-Verb-Object word order
4) adjectives preceding head nouns
5) relative clauses following head nouns
6) no dual pronoun forms
7) no trial pronoun forms
8) no distinct second-person plural pronouns
9) no distinction between inclusive and exclusive pronouns
7-2. Determine whether each of the following is an absolute implicational
universal, an absolute nonimplicational universal, an implicational universal
tendency, or a nonimplicational universal tendency.
1) The consonant inventories of all languages include at least two different
stops that differ in terms of place of articulation.
2) Languages always have fewer nasal consonants than oral stops.
3) In all languages, the number of front vowels of different height is
greater than or equal to the number of back vowels of different
height.
4) Most VSO languages have prepositions, not postpositions.
5) Diminutive particles and affixes tend to exhibit high vowels.
6) If a language has separate terms for ‘foot’ and ‘leg,’ then it must also
have different terms for ‘hand’ and ‘arm.’
7) The future tense is used to express hypothetical events in many lan-
guages, and the past tense is often used to express nonhypothetical
events.
8) Languages that have a relatively free word order tend to have inflec-
tions for case.
9) Many verb-initial languages place relative clauses after the head of the
relative clause.
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 258
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 258 1/4/11 10:14:12 PM
1/4/11 10:14:12 PM
Exercises 259
7-3. In English, conditions can be expressed in two ways: by placing the
conditioning clause first and the conditioned clause second, as in (1) below, or
by placing the conditioning clause second and the conditioned clause first, as
in (2). In numerous languages, however, only the first pattern is grammatical.
In Mandarin Chinese, the conditioning clause must come first, as in
(3); if it is placed second, as in (4), the resulting string is ungrammatical. No
language allows only pattern (2)—conditioning clause second, conditioned
clause first.
1) If you cry, I’ll turn off the TV.
2) I’ll turn off the TV if you cry.
3) rúguǒ wǒ dìdi hē jiǔ wǒ jiù hěn shēngqì
If my younger-brother drink wine I then very angry
‘If my younger brother drinks wine, I’ll be very angry.’
4) *wǒ hěn shēngqì rúguǒ wǒ dìdi hē jiǔ
I very angry if my younger-brother drink wine
a. From this information, formulate descriptions of an absolute implicational
universal, an absolute nonimplicational universal, and a universal ten-
dency, all of which refer to conditional clauses.
b. Propose an explanation for the universal ordering patterns that you for-
mulated in (a). (Hint: Think of the order in which the actions denoted by
the conditioning and the conditioned clauses must take place.)
7-4. The composition of vowel inventories of the world’s languages is predicted by
the hierarchy given in Figure 7.4. The hierarchy predicts the composition of
a vowel inventory consisting of six phonemes. Complete the next step in the
hierarchy by determining the composition of seven-vowel inventories. Use
the following information on the composition of the seven-vowel inventories
of three languages, which you should assume are representative of possible
seven-vowel inventories.
Burmese i e ɛ a ɔ o u
Sundanese i ɨ ɛ a ɔ u ə
Washkuk i ɨ e ɛ a ɔ u
7-5. Consider the following typology of pronoun systems found among the world’s
languages. The first column of each set represents singular pronouns; the sec-
ond column, dual pronouns; and the third column, plural pronouns. An ex-
ample of a language also is given for each type (incl. = inclusive, excl. =
exclusive).
8-pronoun Systems
1) I we-2 we Greenlandic Eskimo
thou you-2 you
s/he they
2) I we Arabic
thou you-2 you
s/he they-2 they
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 259
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 259 1/4/11 10:14:12 PM
1/4/11 10:14:12 PM
260 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
3) I we-2-incl. we-incl. Southern Paiute (North America)
thou you
s/he they
9-pronoun Systems
1) I we-2 we Lapp (Arctic Scandinavia)
thou you-2 you
s/he they-2 they
2) I we-2-incl. we-incl. Maya (Central America)
we-2-excl. we-excl.
thou you
s/he they
3) I we-2-incl. we Lower Kanauri (India)
we-2-excl.
thou you-2 you
s/he they
10-pronoun Systems
1) I we-2-incl. we Coos (North America)
we-2-excl.
thou you-2 you
s/he they-2 they
2) I we-2-incl. we-incl. Kanauri (India)
we-2-excl. we-excl.
thou you-2 you
s/he they-2 they
11-pronoun Systems
1) I we-2-incl. we-incl. Hawaiian
we-2-excl. we-excl.
thou you-2 you
s/he they-2 they
2) I we-2-incl. we-incl. Ewe (West Africa)
we-2 excl. we-excl.
thou you-2 you
s/he they-2 they
he and they
a. On the basis of these data, which you may assume to be representative,
formulate a set of absolute universal principles that describe the composi-
tion of 8-, 9-, 10-, and 11-pronoun systems. State your principles as gener-
ally as possible.
b. Of these systems, the most common is the 11-pronoun system of type 1,
exemplified by Hawaiian, followed by the 9-pronoun system of type 1,
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 260
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 260 1/4/11 10:14:13 PM
1/4/11 10:14:13 PM
Exercises 261
exemplified by Lapp. Formulate a set of universal tendencies that describe
the preponderance of examples of these two systems.
7-6. From a logical standpoint, the possible basic ordering combinations of subject,
verb, and direct object are SOV, SVO, VSO, VOS, OVS, and OSV. We have seen
that there is great variation in the percentage of languages exhibiting each com-
bination as a basic word order. Linguists have recognized this fact for several
decades, but there has been little agreement on the exact distribution of these
basic word order variations across the world’s languages. Here are results from
five researchers who conducted cross-linguistic analyses of the distribution of
basic word order possibilities. (The figures are cited from Tomlin 1986.)
RESEARCHER
LANGUAGES
SAMPLED
PERCENTAGE
SOV SVO VSO VOS OVS OSV UNCLASSIFIED
Greenberg  30 37 43 20 0 0 0  0
Ultan  75 44 34.6 18.6 2.6 0 0  0
Ruhlen 427 51.5 35.6 10.5 2.1 0 0.2  0
Mallinson/Blake 100 41 35  9 2 1 1 11
Tomlin 402 44.8 41.8  9.2 3.0 1.2 0  0
a. In what ways do these researchers’ data agree, and where do they dis-
agree? Describe in detail.
b. What are the possible causes of the discrepancies in the results?
c. What lesson can typologists learn from this comparison?
7-7. Relative clauses can be formed in a variety of ways. In English, we “replace”
the relativized element by a relative pronoun that links the relative clause to
its head (type 3). Other languages do not have distinct relative pronouns but
replace the relativized element by a personal pronoun (type 2). For example,
in Gilbertese (spoken in the central Pacific), the position of the relativized ele-
ment in the relative clause is marked with a personal pronoun.
Type 2 Type 2
te ben [e bwaka iaon te auti] te anene [i nori-a]
the coconut  it fall on the house the coconut  I saw-it
‘the coconut [that fell on the house]’ ‘the coconut [that I saw]’
In other languages, such as Finnish, relative clauses are formed by simply de-
leting the relativized element from the relative clause; no relative pronoun or
personal pronoun is added to the relative construction (type 1).
Type 1 Type 1
[tanssinut] poika [näkemäni] poika
had-danced boy I-had-seen boy
‘the boy [that had danced]’ ‘the boy [that I had seen]’
Some languages have several types of relative clauses. Mandarin Chinese has
types 1 and 2. (In Mandarin the relative clause is ordered before its head and
is separated from the head by the particle de.)
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 261
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 261 1/4/11 10:14:13 PM
1/4/11 10:14:13 PM
262 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
Type 1 Type 2
[mǎi píngguǒ de] rén [tā jièjie zài měiguó de] rén
buy apples Particle man he sister is-in America Particle man
‘the man [who bought apples]’ ‘the man [whose sister is in America]’
In Mandarin Chinese, type 1 is used only when relativizing a subject or direct
object, while type 2 can be used when relativizing a direct object, an indirect ob-
ject, an oblique, or a possessor, as indicated in the accompanying table. When-
ever two types of relative clauses are found in a language, the pattern is the
same: as we go down the relativization hierarchy (from subject to direct object
to indirect object to oblique to possessor), one type can end but the other type
takes over. Here are the patterns for some languages:
Grammatical Relation Relativized
SUBJECT
DIRECT
OBJECT
INDIRECT
OBJECT OBLIQUE POSSESSOR
Aoban (South Pacific)
Type 1 + – – – –
Type 2 – + + + +
Dutch
Type 1 + + – – –
Type 2 – – + + +
Japanese
Type 1 + + + + +
Type 2 – – – – +
Kera (Central Africa)
Type 1 + – – – –
Type 2 – + + + +
Mandarin Chinese
Type 1 + + – – –
Type 2 – + + + +
Roviana (South Pacific)
Type 1 + + + – –
Type 2 – – – + +
Tagalog (Philippines)
Type 1 + – – – –
Type 2 + – – – –
Catalan (Spain)
Type 1 + + + – –
Type 2 – – – + –
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 262
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 262 1/4/11 10:14:14 PM
1/4/11 10:14:14 PM
Exercises 263
What cross-linguistic generalizations can you draw from these data on
the distribution of relative clause types in each language? How can we
expand the universal rules associated with the hierarchy to describe these
patterns?
7-8. Below is a sentence from the program notes to Officium, produced by ECM Re-
cords. After that, in sections, the sentence is repeated with translations from
the program notes in German and French. Comparable sections are marked
typographically. After examining the English sentence and the three transla-
tions, answer the questions that follow.
The oldest pieces on this record (if one can use words like “new” and
“old” in this context) are the chants, the origins of which are not known
to us.
The oldest pieces on this record
Die ältesten Stücke dieser Aufnahme
Les morceaux les plus anciens figurant sur ce disque
the pieces the most old figuring on this record
(if one can use words like “new” and “old” in this context)
—so man in diesem Zusammenhang überhaupt von ,,neu” und ,,alt” sprechen kann—
 if one in this situation at all of new and old speak can
(si tant est que les termes «nouveau» et «ancien» conviennent à ce contexte)
if such it is that the terms new and old suit to this context
are the chants, the origins of which are not known to us.
sind Gesänge, deren Ursprung uns nicht bekannt ist.
are chants whose origin to-us not known is.
sont les chants, dont l’origine nous est inconnue.
are the chants whose origin to-us is unknown
a. Which of the languages have prepositions, and which of them have
postpositions?
b. Each of the translations contains three clauses, the equivalents of
i. the oldest pieces on this record are the chants
ii. if one can use words like new and old in this context
iii. the origins of which are not known to us
Do any of the languages use a word order other than SVO in the main
clause? In the subordinate clauses? If any other word orders are
represented, identify them.
c. Which languages have adjectives preceding head nouns? Which have ad-
jectives following head nouns?
d. Neither German nor French uses a prepositional phrase to express what
English expresses as to us. What do they do instead, and how is the mean-
ing conveyed without a preposition?
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 263
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 263 1/4/11 10:14:14 PM
1/4/11 10:14:14 PM
264 Chapter 7 Language Universals and Language Typology
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
7-9. This chapter describes “language universals.” Do you think everything said
here about language universals applies to all varieties of every language—
including all dialects of a language as well? What about nonstandard dialects?
Explain your position.
7-10. At an appropriate level for the students you teach or are preparing to teach,
explain what a language universal is and how there can be so much diversity
in the world’s languages when such universals exist.
Other Resources
Suggestions for Further Reading
Bernard Comrie. 1989.
• Language Universals and Linguistic Typology: Syntax and
Morphology, 2nd ed. (Chicago: University of Chicago Press). Accessible and basic; highly
recommended.
William Croft. 2003.
• Typology and Universals, 2nd ed. (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press). More advanced and wide-ranging than Comrie (1989); particularly good
on explanations for various kinds of universals.
Jae Jung Song. 2001.
• Linguistic Typology (Harlow, Essex: Pearson). Also accessible, focuses
on morphological and syntactic typologies.
Lindsay J. Whaley. 1997.
• Introduction to Typology: The Unity and Diversity of Language
(Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage). This book is the most basic of the four listed.
Advanced Reading
Mallinson and Blake (1981) is a good introduction to typology. Shopen (2007) is a collection of
excellent essays by distinguished researchers on selected areas of syntactic typology and is also
useful on the range of morphological and syntactic variation found among the world’s languages.
Some of the most influential work on language universals was conducted by Greenberg, who
edited a four-volume compendium of detailed studies of universals on specific areas of linguistic
structure (1978); these volumes provided data for some of the exercises in this chapter. Brown
(1984) is an interesting investigation of universals of words for plants and animals. Lehrer
(1974) is a good summary of research on semantic universals. Tomlin (1986) surveys the basic
word orders of the world’s languages. The relativization hierarchy was uncovered by Edward
L. Keenan and Bernard Comrie, and Chapter 7 of Comrie (1989) offers a clear discussion of
the topic. Butterworth, Comrie, and Dahl (1984) is a collection of papers on theoretical
explanations for language universals. Christiansen et al. (2009) points to the converging strands
of universals research, with chapters by specialists in linguistics, biology, psychology and
cognitive neuroscience, computer science and computational linguistics, and philosophy; while
not all chapters will be accessible to LISU’s readers, students and instructors will find some of
them highly instructive (the LISU website provides links to some chapters available in published
journals or elsewhere on the Internet). Chomsky (2004) is an accessible overview of highly
abstract approaches to universals and their explanation, in essence encapsulating what appears
in much greater detail in Chomsky (1995), from which our quote in this chapter comes.
References
Brown, Cecil H. 1984. Language and Living Things: Uniformities in Folk Classification and Naming
(New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press).
Butterworth, Brian, Bernard Comrie & Östen Dahl, eds. 1984. Explanations for Language
Universals (Berlin: Mouton).
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 264
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 264 1/4/11 10:14:15 PM
1/4/11 10:14:15 PM
Other Resources 265
Chomsky, Noam. 1995. The Minimalist Program (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press).
——. 2004. “Language and Mind: Current Thoughts on Ancient Problems.” In Lyle Jenkins, ed.,
Variation and Universals in Biolinguistics (Amsterdam: Elsevier). [Also available at http://
fccl.ksu.ru/papers/chomsky1.htm]
Christiansen, Morten H., Chris Collins & Shimon Edelman, eds. 2009. Language Universals
(New York: Oxford University Press).
Greenberg, Joseph H., ed. 1978. Universals of Human Language, 4 vols. (Stanford: Stanford
University Press).
Lehrer, Adrienne. 1974. Semantic Fields and Lexical Structure (Amsterdam: North-Holland).
Mallinson, George & Barry J. Blake. 1981. Language Typology (Amsterdam: North-Holland).
Shopen, Timothy, ed. 2007. Language Typology and Syntactic Description, 2nd ed., 3 vols.
(Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Tomlin, Russell S. 1986. Basic Word Order: Functional Principles (London: Croom Helm).
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 265
00419_07_ch07_p231-266.indd 265 1/4/11 10:14:15 PM
1/4/11 10:14:15 PM
This page intentionally left blank
267
Part Two
In Part One you examined the structure of words, phrases, and sentences.
In Part Two you’ll examine how you use those structures in ordinary social
interactions. You’ll see that languages provide alternative ways of saying the
same thing and what those alternative ways accomplish socially and communi-
catively. Languages exist only to be used, and our use of language distinguishes
us from all other animals. It is language use that makes us uniquely human.
By putting language to use, we do things, we accomplish things, and we can
achieve social and intellectual satisfaction. In this section, you’ll explore how
putting sentences together into texts—spoken and written discourse—affects
choices among alternative sentence structures and how what is actually said
and what is relied upon in context interact to achieve successful communication
between one person and another.
Besides communicating what you intend to communicate, the forms of lan-
guage that you use reflect your social identity and mirror the character of the
situation in which you are communicating. Part Two explores the patterns of
linguistic variation across diverse social groups—whose language varieties are
called dialects—and the patterns of linguistic variation across communicative
situations—where characteristic varieties are called registers.
Language Use
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 267
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 267 1/4/11 10:24:29 PM
1/4/11 10:24:29 PM
268
What Do You Think?
Annie, an international student you are tutoring, asks about the function
•
of definite and indefinite articles in English. You explain that the definite
article refers to particular persons, places, or things—the Golden Gate Bridge,
the mayor—whereas the indefinite article refers to any entity—a chef, a park,
an apple. Annie says she’s been paying attention to what people say, and
your explanation doesn’t match what she’s heard. She points out that you
yourself had recommended “a movie” you’d seen, and you meant Avatar, a
particular movie. You immediately recognize that she’s right. What better
explanation can you offer her for the use of definite and indefinite articles?
During an ESL class discussion about active and passive sentences, Thom
•
from Taiwan asks why English has two ways of saying exactly the same
thing, and as an example he cites this active/passive pair of sentences:
Spain won the 2010 World Cup. (active)
The 2010 World Cup was won by Spain. (passive)
You’re saved by the bell and think about your answer overnight. At the next
class meeting, what do you tell Thom?
Your classmate Clint, who’s majoring in business, wants to know when
•
objects can precede subjects in English. He noticed a TV commentator say
about the mayor of New York City, Him I like! Clint wants to know what
you think.
Information Structure
and Pragmatics
8
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 268
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 268 1/4/11 10:24:30 PM
1/4/11 10:24:30 PM
Introduction: Encoding Information Structure 269
Syntax and semantics are not the only regulators of sentence structure. A sen-
tence may be grammatically and semantically well formed but still exhibit prob-
lems when used in a particular context. Examine the following versions of a
local news report. (The sentences of Version 1 are numbered because we refer
to them later.)
Version 1
(1) At 3 a.m. last Sunday, the Santa Clara Fire Department evacuated two apart-
ment buildings at the corner of Country Club Drive and Fifth Avenue. (2) Oil
had been discovered leaking from a furnace in the basement of one of the build-
ings. (3) Firefighters sprayed chemical foam over the oil for several hours. (4) By
8 a.m., the situation was under control. (5) Any danger of explosion or fire had
been averted, and the leaky furnace was sealed. (6) Residents of the two apartment
buildings were given temporary shelter in the Country Club High School gymna-
sium. (7) They regained possession of their apartments at 5 p.m.
Version 2
As for the Santa Clara Fire Department, it evacuated two apartment buildings at
the corner of Country Club Drive and Fifth Avenue at 3 a.m. last Sunday. In the
basement of one of the buildings, someone had discovered a furnace from which
oil was leaking. What was sprayed by firefighters over the oil for several hours was
chemical foam. It was by 8 a.m. that the situation was under control. What some-
one had averted was any danger of explosion or fire, and as for the leaky furnace,
it was sealed. What the residents of the two apartment buildings were given in the
Country Club High School gymnasium was temporary shelter. Possession of their
apartments was regained by them at 5 p.m.
Virtually the same words are used in the two versions, and every sentence in
both versions is grammatically and semantically well formed. Still, something
is strikingly odd about Version 2. It runs counter to our expectations of how in-
formation should be presented in a text. Somehow, it emphasizes the wrong ele-
ments or emphasizes the right elements at the wrong time. Though grammatical,
the sentence structures of Version 2 seem inappropriate to this news report.
The problem with Version 2 is the way in which different pieces of informa-
tion are marked for relative significance. In any sequence of sentences, it is es-
sential to mark elements as more or less important or necessary. Speakers and
writers are responsible for foregrounding certain elements and backgrounding
others, just as a painter uses contrasts of color, shape, and value to highlight
some details and deemphasize others.
In language texts, such highlighting and deemphasizing is called information
structure. Unlike syntax and semantics, which are sentence-based aspects of
language, information structure requires consideration of discourse—coherent
sequences of sentences rather than isolated ones. Out of context, there is nothing
wrong with the first sentence of Version 2:
As for the Santa Clara Fire Department, it evacuated two apartment buildings at the
corner of Country Club Drive and Fifth Avenue at 3 a.m. last Sunday.
Introduction: Encoding Information Structure
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 269
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 269 1/4/11 10:24:31 PM
1/4/11 10:24:31 PM
270 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
But as the opening to a news report it strikes us as odd and inappropriate. It feels
as though something has been said before this or that we have missed out on a
reference to something or other. When we talk about information structure we
need to account for discourse context—the environment in which a sentence is
produced and especially what precedes that sentence. We can describe a dis-
course as a sequence of utterances that “go together” in a particular situation.
A conversation at dinner, a newspaper column, a personal letter, a radio inter-
view, and a subpoena to appear in court are examples of discourse. We could
even say that an utterance like Oh, look! (intended to draw attention to a beauti-
ful sunset, for example), although not a sequence of utterances, is nevertheless
discourse because it is produced within a situational context that helps deter-
mine an appropriate information structure.
In order to mark information structure in an utterance, speakers rely on
the fact that syntactic operations permit alternative ways of shaping sen-
tences. For example, the following sentences are alternative ways of saying
the same thing.
1. The firefighter discovered a leak in the basement.
2. In the basement, the firefighter discovered a leak.
3. A leak in the basement was discovered by the firefighter.
4. It was the firefighter who discovered a leak in the basement.
5. What the firefighter discovered in the basement was a leak.
6. It was a leak that the firefighter discovered in the basement.
7. What was discovered by the firefighter was a leak in the basement.
8. The firefighter, he discovered a leak in the basement.
Exploiting such a choice of alternatives enables us to mark information
structure. You might ask yourself what question each of the sentences above
is an appropriate answer to. This
chapter will describe how that can be
discovered.
Pragmatics is the branch of lin-
guistics that studies information struc-
ture. In Chapter 9, we’ll discuss other
aspects of language use that fall under
the umbrella of pragmatics.
In order to describe the differences between alternative ways of saying the same
thing, we identify the basic categories of information structure. These categories
must be applicable to all languages (although how each category is used may
differ). With these categories, we want to explain how discourse is constructed
in any language. These explanations ultimately may suggest hypotheses about
how different components of the human mind (such as memory, attention,
Categories of Information Structure
Try It Yourself To the eight sentences
above, add two more that say the same
thing, stated diﬀerently but containing the same
information as sentence 1 (and all the others), no
more, no less.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 270
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 270 1/4/11 10:24:32 PM
1/4/11 10:24:32 PM
Categories of Information Structure 271
and logic) work and interact. Thus, categories of information structure, like
other aspects of linguistics, should be as independent of particular languages
as possible.
There is an important difference between the types of syntactic constructions
found in particular languages and the categories of information structure. The
range of available syntactic constructions differs considerably from language to
language. As an example, some languages have a passive construction (She was
tricked by a con artist), while others do not. Since the categories of information
structure are not language-dependent, they cannot be defined in terms of par-
ticular structures. Nevertheless, there is a close kinship between pragmatics and
syntax, and one principal function of syntax in all languages is to encode prag-
matic information. What differs from language to language is how pragmatic
structure maps onto syntax.
Given Information and New Information
One category of information structure is the distinction between given and new
information. Given information is information currently in the forefront of an
addressee’s mind; new information is information just being introduced into
the discourse. Consider the following two-turn interaction:
Alice: Who ate the pizza?
Dana: Erin ate the pizza.
In Dana’s answer, the noun phrase Erin represents new information because it
is being introduced into the discourse there; by contrast, the pizza in the reply
is given information because it can be presumed to be in the mind of Alice,
who has just introduced it in the previous turn. We’ll see shortly that given
information often finds expression in condensed form, for example as Erin ate
it or Erin did.
In the following sequence of sentences, uttered by a single speaker, the
underlined element represents given information because it has just been
introduced in the previous sentence and can thus be assumed to be in the
addressee’s mind.
A man called while you were on your break. He said he’d call back later.
As another example, look at Version 1 of the Santa Clara Fire Department
newspaper piece in the introduction to this chapter. Notice in (1) that the noun
phrase two apartment buildings is new information and in (2) that oil and a fur-
nace are new information; they have not been mentioned earlier and cannot be
presumed to exist in a reader’s mind. Note, also, that in (2) the buildings is given
information, following mention of two apartment buildings in (1). In (3), the oil
is given information by virtue of oil having been previously mentioned in (2).
Likewise, in (5) reference is made to the leaky furnace, which is given informa-
tion because in (2) a furnace was mentioned, along with the fact that it was
leaking. Below, we’ll see that the difference between new information and given
information is reflected in the use of indefinite and definite articles, as in the
phrases a furnace and the furnace.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 271
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 271 1/4/11 10:24:32 PM
1/4/11 10:24:32 PM
272 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
A piece of information need not be explicitly mentioned in order for it to be
given information. Information is sometimes taken as given because of its close
association with something that has been introduced into the discourse. For ex-
ample, when a noun phrase is introduced into a discourse, all the subparts of
the referent can be treated as given information.
When Kent returned my car last night, the gas tank was nearly empty and the
glove compartment was stuffed with candy wrappers.
Ellen went on a Caribbean cruise last year and loved the food and the sights.
In the first sentence, my car is new information, but because a car typically has
a gas tank and a glove compartment, mention of my car suffices to make its
gas tank and glove compartment given
information. Similarly, the food and
the sights represent given information
in the second example because men-
tion of a Caribbean cruise suffices to
enable an addressee to have in mind
those things customarily associated
with a cruise, including meals and
sightseeing.
Because face-to-face conversation
and most other kinds of discourse
have at least implicit speakers and
addressees, participants always take
the speaker and first-person pronouns
such as I and the addressee and
second-person pronoun you to be given information. They do not need to be
introduced into the discourse as new information.
Expressing New Information Noun phrases representing new information
usually receive more stress in speech than those representing given informa-
tion and are commonly expressed in a more elaborated fashion—for example,
with a full noun phrase (rather than a pronoun) and sometimes with a prepo-
sitional phrase, relative clause, or other modifier that helps identify the refer-
ent. The following are typical of how new information is introduced into a
discourse.
When I entered her office, I saw a tall man wearing an old-fashioned hat.
Before she went to dinner, she found a tidy note he’d written.
Expressing Given Information Given information is commonly expressed in
more reduced or abbreviated ways. Typical reducing devices for encoding given
information include pronouns and unstressed noun phrases. Sometimes given in-
formation is left out of a sentence altogether. In the following interaction, the
information given by Adam’s question (namely, is at the door) is entirely omitted
from Bella’s answer, which expresses only new information.
Adam: Who’s at the door?
Bella: The mail carrier.
Try It Yourself Examine Version 1 of
the Santa Clara Fire Department newspaper
report in the introduction to the chapter. In sentence
(2), note the constituent a furnace in the basement of one
of the buildings. Sentence (1) mentions two apartment
buildings, but prior to (2) there has been no mention of
a furnace or a basement. Assess whether a furnace and
the basement in (2) represent given or new information,
and explain your assessments.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 272
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 272 1/4/11 10:24:33 PM
1/4/11 10:24:33 PM
Categories of Information Structure 273
The contrast between given and new
information is important in character-
izing the function of several construc-
tions in English and other languages, as
you’ll see in the next section.
Topics
The topic of a sentence is its center
of attention—what it’s about, its point
of departure. The notion of topic is
contrasted with the notion of comment,
which is the element of a sentence that
says something about the topic. Often,
given information is the sentence
element about which we say something
and is thus the topic. New information
represents what we say about the topic
and is thus the comment. For example,
if Erin ate the pizza is offered in answer to the question What did Erin do?, the
topic would be Erin (the given information) and the comment would be ate the
pizza (the new information). The topic of a sentence can sometimes be phrased
as in these examples:
Speaking of Erin, she ate the pizza.
As for Erin, she ate the pizza.
The topic is not always given information. In the second sentence of the
sequence below, the noun phrase her little sister is new, not given, information,
but it is the topic.
Erin ate the pizza. As for her little sister, she preferred the ice cream.
Note that in the phrase her little sister, the word her anchors the new information
to the given information represented by Erin.
In conversation, we often first establish a topic with a preliminary remark or
question and only then make a comment about it.
Sheila: Remember that guy I said was pestering me?
Ammon: Yeah.
Sheila: Well, he fell off his skateboard in front of the whole class today.
In Sheila’s second turn, he is the topic and fell off his skateboard in front of the
whole class today is the comment.
Given information can sometimes serve as comment, as in the underlined
element in the following sequence:
Hal didn’t believe anything the charlatan said. As for Sara, she believed it all.
So the given/new contrast differs from the topic/comment contrast.
It is difficult to define precisely what a topic is. While the topic is the ele-
ment of a sentence that functions as the center of attention, a sentence like Oh,
look!, uttered to draw attention to a stunning sunset, has an unexpressed topic
Try It Yourself Look for abbreviating
devices used for given information in
Version 1 of the Santa Clara Fire Department
newspaper report discussed earlier in the chapter. For
example, in (4) instead of saying By 8 a.m. last Sunday,
the report omits last Sunday because, having already
been expressed in (1), it is given information, whereas
by 8 a.m. is new information. Identify two additional
instances of given information omitted from the
sentences of Version 1; identify a pronoun used to
encode given information; and specify which full noun
phrase the pronoun represents.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 273
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 273 1/4/11 10:24:33 PM
1/4/11 10:24:33 PM
274 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
(the setting sun or the sky). Thus, topic is not necessarily a property of the sen-
tence; it may be a property of the discourse context.
Topics are less central to the grammar of English than to the grammar of
certain other languages. In fact, the only construction that unequivocally marks
topics in English is the relatively uncommon as for construction in sentences
such as the following:
As for Colin, he’d seen enough and went to bed.
As for British politicians, John Major was no match for Clinton’s youthful
vigor.
In English, marking the topic of a sentence is far less important than marking
the subject.
Although topics aren’t usually marked
in English, writers take advantage of the
fact that topics usually occur toward
the beginning of a sentence to maintain
topic continuity in a paragraph. One
way of doing that (but not the only one)
is by having the same referent as the
topic for a series of sentences.
Marking topics is considerably more
important in certain other languages
than it is in English. Korean and Japa-
nese, for example, have function words
whose sole purpose is to mark a noun
phrase as topic. In Chinese and some
other languages, no special function
words attach to topic noun phrases, but
topics are marked by word order. In
Korean, Japanese, and Chinese, noun
phrases marked as topic occur very fre-
quently. Thus, despite difficulty in de-
fining it, topic is an important notion and needs to be distinguished from other
categories of information structure.
Contrast
A noun phrase is said to be contrastive when it occurs in opposition to another
noun phrase in the discourse. Here, for example, Sara in Beth’s answer is con-
trasted with Matt in Alan’s question.
Alan: Did Matt see the accident?
Beth: No, Sara did.
Contrast Beth’s answer with another possible one in which the noun phrase
would not be contrastive: Yes, he did.
Contrast is also marked in sentences that express the narrowing down of a
choice from several candidates to one. In such sentences, the noun phrase that
refers to the candidate thus chosen is marked contrastively.
Try It Yourself In the excerpt below,
identify the noun phrase that is the topic
in each sentence. What is noteworthy about the
referents of those topics?
(1) Jennifer Weiner, the best-selling author of eight books,
had been battling traﬃc for close to an hour before landing
at the Four Seasons Hotel in Beverly Hills. (2) With her kids
ensconced in an upstairs room, she collapses into a perfect
leather chair and sweetly, if sweatily, orders off the bar
menu. (3) The unpretentious 40-year-old is diﬀerent from
many other novelists. (4) She’s online, engaged, and quick
to speak up for women’s ﬁction. (5) And she’s one of the few
authors a publisher will book into a hotel in Beverly Hills.
[Adapted from “Calendar,” Los Angeles Times, July 30, 2010]
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 274
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 274 1/4/11 10:24:33 PM
1/4/11 10:24:33 PM
Categories of Information Structure 275
Of everyone present, only Chloe knew what was going on.
Compare that sentence with the following one, in which Chloe is not
contrastive.
Gerard knew what was going on, and Chloe did, too.
A simple test exists for contrast: if a noun phrase can be followed by rather than,
it is contrastive.
Speaker A: Did Matt see the accident?
Speaker B: No, Sara, rather than Matt, saw the accident.
A single sentence can have several contrastive noun phrases. In the following
exchange, Dina contrasts with Milo, and an entire cast of spirits contrasts with a
ghost.
Aaron: Did Milo see a ghost?
Bella: Yes, Milo saw a ghost, but Dina saw an entire cast of spirits.
The entity with which a noun phrase is contrasted may be understood from
the discourse or from the situational context. In the following example, Rachel
could be marked contrastively if the sentence were part of a conversation about
how the interlocutors dislike going to Maine during the winter.
Rachel likes going to Maine during the winter.
Below, in an exchange between an employee and one of several managers, the
noun phrase I in the manager’s reply can be made to contrast with other manag-
ers, which is not expressed but is understood from the situational context.
Employee: Can I leave early today?
Manager: I don’t mind.
With strong stress on I, the implication of the manager’s answer is, ‘It’s fine with
me, but I don’t know about the other managers.’ The employee can readily un-
derstand the implication from shared knowledge of the situational context.
In English, contrastive noun phrases can be marked in a variety of ways,
most commonly by pronouncing the contrastive noun phrase with strong stress.
You may be smarter, but he’s more popular.
Other ways of marking contrastiveness will be investigated in the next section.
Deﬁnite and Indeﬁnite Expressions
Among other possible reasons, speakers mark a noun phrase as definite when
they assume that the addressee can identify its referent. Otherwise, the noun
phrase is marked as indefinite. In the example below, the definite noun phrase
the neighbor in Bundy’s answer presupposes that Andrea can determine which
neighbor Bundy is talking about.
Andrea: Who’s at the door?
Bundy: It’s the neighbor.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 275
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 275 1/4/11 10:24:33 PM
1/4/11 10:24:33 PM
276 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
Bundy’s answer is appropriate if she and Andrea have only one neighbor or have
reason to expect a particular neighbor at the door. If they have several neighbors
and Bundy cannot assume that Andrea will be able to identify which neighbor is
at the door, the answer to Andrea’s question would be indefinite: It’s a neighbor.
Proper nouns and pronouns are generally definite. Pronouns such as you and
we usually refer to individuals who are identifiable in the discourse context.
And a speaker who refers by name to someone (say, Hillary Clinton or Michelle)
or something (Hamilton High School or Iowa) assumes that the addressee will
be able to determine the referents of those proper nouns. Still, there are excep-
tions, as when clerks in a government office say to each other:
I have a Susie Schmidt here who hasn’t paid her taxes since 2006.
Use of the indefinite article a marks Susie Schmidt as indefinite. It marks the fact
that neither the speaker nor the addressee knows the particular individual who
goes by the name of Susie Schmidt and
that Susie Schmidt is new information
in the discourse.
Definiteness in English and many
other languages is marked by the choice
of articles (definite the versus indefinite
a) or by demonstratives (this and that,
both definite). Indefinite noun phrases
in English are marked by a or an (a
furnace, an apartment building) or by the
absence of any article (oil, fire, apartment
buildings). While the definite article can
be used with singular and plural nouns
(the building, the firefighters), the indefinite article can be used only with singular
nouns (a building, *a firefighters). Even lacking an indefinite article, plural nouns
can still be indefinite.
Article choice is not always a way to mark definiteness. Some languages have
only one article. Fijian has only a single article—na—and it is definite. To mark
indefiniteness, speakers of Fijian use the expression e dua, which means ‘there
is one.’
1. na tuuraŋa (definite)
Article gentleman
‘the gentleman’
2. e dua na tuuraŋa (indefinite)
there is one Article gentleman
‘a gentleman’
Hindi, in contrast, has only an indefinite article ek, and a noun phrase with no
article is interpreted as definite.
1. maĩ kitaab ḍhũũṛh rahii thii (definite)
I book search -ing Past-tense
‘I was looking for the book.’
2. maĩ ek kitaab ḍhũũṛh rahii thii (indefinite)
I a book search -ing Past-tense
‘I was looking for a book.’
Try It Yourself To determine how
English expresses indeﬁniteness with plural
noun phrases, examine the ﬁrst words of sentences (3)
and (6) in Version 1 of the Santa Clara Fire Department
newspaper report in the chapter introduction. Also in
Version 1, compare the phrase two apartment buildings
in (1) with the two apartment buildings in (6) and
identify which is deﬁnite and which is indeﬁnite.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 276
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 276 1/4/11 10:24:34 PM
1/4/11 10:24:34 PM
Categories of Information Structure 277
Many languages do not have articles and rely on other means to mark definite-
ness, if it is marked at all. Mandarin Chinese relies on word order. A subject that
comes before the verb, as in 1 below, is definite; if it follows the verb, as in 2,
it is indefinite.
1. huǒchē lái le (definite)
train arrive New-situation
‘The train has arrived.’
2. lái huǒchē le (indefinite)
arrive train New-situation
‘A train has arrived.’
Other systems also exist. In Rotuman, spoken in the South Pacific, most nouns
have two forms, one definite and one indefinite.
Definite Indefinite
futi ‘the banana’ füt ‘a banana’
vaka ‘the canoe’ vak ‘a canoe’
rito ‘the young shoot’ rjot ‘a young shoot’
The indefinite form derives from the definite form through a set of phonological
rules.
Definite versus Given Definiteness and givenness are not the same thing.
A noun phrase can be definite and given, definite and new, indefinite and
given, or indefinite and new, with the first and last combinations being the
most common. Below, a lecture is indefinite and new, and the lecturer is definite
and given.
Last night, we went to Hayden Planetarium for a lecture, and the lecturer
fainted.
A noun phrase referring to new information can also be definite. The follow-
ing sequence, in which the plumber is definite, is acceptable whether or not
the speaker has introduced a particular identifiable plumber into the previous
discourse.
The kitchen faucet is leaking; we’d better call the plumber.
In certain circumstances, a noun phrase can be both indefinite and given, as
with the underlined noun phrase in this example:
I ate a hamburger for lunch—a hamburger that was the worst I’ve ever eaten.
Clearly, definiteness and givenness are distinct categories of information
structure.
Try It Yourself In Version 1 of the newspaper report in the chapter
introduction, identify at least one noun phrase in each of the following
categories: (a) indeﬁnite and new; (b) deﬁnite and new; (c) indeﬁnite and given;
(d) deﬁnite and given.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 277
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 277 1/4/11 10:24:34 PM
1/4/11 10:24:34 PM
278 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
Referential Expressions
A noun phrase is referential when it refers to a particular entity (or more than
one). In the first example below, the expression a Greek with blue eyes does not
refer to anyone in particular and is thus nonreferential. By contrast, in the sec-
ond example the same phrase does have a referent and is referential.
Jen wants to marry a Greek with blue eyes but hasn’t met one yet.
(nonreferential)
Jen wants to marry a Greek with blue eyes; his name is Yanni. (referential)
Out of context, Jen wants to marry a Greek with blue eyes is ambiguous because
nothing in the sentence indicates whether or not a particular Greek is intended.
In everyday discourse, sentences of this type are rarely ambiguous, given the
power of context to clarify.
Because referentiality and definiteness are not the same thing, a noun phrase
can be
referential and definite—Where are the keys to the office?
referential and indefinite—She leased a new Ford Raptor.
nonreferential and definite—What’s the smartest thing to do now?
nonreferential and indefinite—You’ve got to buy a new car.
While pronouns and proper nouns are usually referential, certain pronouns such
as you, it, they, and one are often nonreferential.
In this county, if you own a house you have to pay taxes.
It is widely suspected that the commissioner had links to the insurance
industry.
They’re forecasting thunderstorms for tonight.
One just doesn’t know what to do for the best.
Because none of these pronouns refers to a particular entity, they are
nonreferential.
Generic and Speciﬁc Expressions
A noun phrase may be generic or specific depending on whether it refers to a
category or to particular members of a category. In the first example below, the
bombardier beetle is generic because it refers to the set of all bombardier beetles;
but in the second, which could have been uttered during a visit to a zoo, The
giraffe refers to a particular animal and is thus specific.
It describes the bombardier beetle, which squirts a lethal mixture into the face
of its enemy.
The giraffe bent slowly forward and gingerly took a carrot from my palm.
In the first sentence, the bombardier beetle is generic and definite, while a
lethal mixture is generic and indefinite. In the second sentence, The giraffe is
specific and definite, and a carrot is specific and indefinite. Thus, the generic/
specific contrast differs from the definite/indefinite contrast.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 278
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 278 1/4/11 10:24:34 PM
1/4/11 10:24:34 PM
Information Structure: Intonation, Morphology, Syntax 279
Categories of Information Structure
Information structure is not marked solely on noun phrases. Other parts of
speech, verbs in particular, can represent given or new information and can
also be contrastive. In the following exchange, the underlined verb represents
contrastively marked new information.
Jerry visits occasionally, but Sara encamps every holiday.
Similarly, prepositions can sometimes be marked for information structure, as
in this example of contrastive marking.
I said on the table, not under it!
In this chapter, we concentrate almost exclusively on the marking of informa-
tion structure on noun phrases, in part because the role of other constituents in
the structure of discourse is still not well understood.
Languages differ in how much pragmatic information they encode and in how
they encode it. In many languages intonation is used to mark contrast. While
intonation is an important tool for marking information structure in English,
it is less important in that role in languages such as French and Chinese. Other
languages, such as Japanese, have function words whose sole purpose is to in-
dicate pragmatic categories. Still others, including English, depend on syntactic
structures such as the passive to convey pragmatic information. Thus, different
languages use different strategies to encode pragmatic information. What fol-
lows is a sampling of these strategies.
New-Information Stress
In English and some other languages, intonation is an important device for
marking information. Generally, noun phrases representing new information
receive stronger stress than those representing given information, and they are
Information Structure: Intonation, Morphology, Syntax
Try It Yourself The sentence below appears in a U.S. Supreme
Court decision about trucks on interstate highways in Iowa. Identify
one underscored noun phrase that is speciﬁc and another that is generic. Is
the remaining noun phrase speciﬁc or generic? Which of the noun phrases are
deﬁnite and which indeﬁnite? Which referential and which nonreferential?
Indeed, the State points to only three ways in which the 55-foot single is even arguably
superior.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 279
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 279 1/4/11 10:24:34 PM
1/4/11 10:24:34 PM
280 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
uttered on a slightly higher pitch than the rest of the sentence. This is called
new-information stress.
Aaron: Whose footprints are these on the sofa?
Bianca: They’re Lou’s footprints.
English speakers also exploit stress to mark contrast.
1. Aaron: Are these your footprints on the sofa?
Bianca: They’re not mine, they’re Lou’s.
2. She told Hal he needed two more years to graduate, but she gave Zoe full
clearance.
Phonetically, new-information stress and contrastive stress are similar, but func-
tionally they differ. English uses stress in complex ways, much more so than
such languages as French and Chinese.
Information Structure Morphemes
Some languages have grammatical morphemes whose sole function is to mark
categories of information structure. In Japanese, the function word wa, which
is placed after noun phrases, marks either givenness or contrastiveness. When a
noun phrase is neither given nor contrastive, it is marked with a different func-
tion word (usually ga for subjects and o for direct objects). That wa is a marker
of given information is illustrated by the following exchange:
Kenn: basu ga kimasuka
bus Subject come-Question
‘Is the bus coming?’
Yumiko: basu wa kimasu
bus Given coming-is
‘The bus is coming.’
In Kenn’s question, basu could not be marked with wa unless he and Yumiko
had been talking about the bus in the previous discourse. But in Yumiko’s an-
swer, basu is given information and must be marked with wa.
Japanese wa also marks contrastive information, as in the following sentence:
basu wa kimasu demo takushi wa kimasen
bus Contrast coming-is but taxi Contrast coming-isn’t
‘The bus is coming. But the taxi isn’t (coming).’
Here, basu wa need not represent given information, for wa can simply mark
the fact that the noun phrase to which it is attached is in contrast with another
noun phrase also marked with wa (takushi ‘taxi’).
The most transparent way of marking information structure is with function
words, and this is the preferred way in many languages. Such grammatical mor-
phemes as Japanese wa do not affect the overall shape of a sentence. Rather,
they straightforwardly point out which sentence element is given, which is con-
trastive, and so on.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 280
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 280 1/4/11 10:24:35 PM
1/4/11 10:24:35 PM
Information Structure: Intonation, Morphology, Syntax 281
Fronting
Among several syntactic operations that serve to mark information structure is
fronting. Fronting operates in many languages, although its exact function varies
from language to language. In English, it creates sentence 1 from the structure
underlying sentence 2, which has the same meaning.
1. A boy he may be, but just a boy he’s certainly not.
2. He may be a boy, but he’s certainly not just a boy.
In English, one function of fronting is to mark givenness, and a fronted noun
phrase must represent given information.
Avi: I heard that you really like mushrooms.
Bert: Mushrooms I’d kill for.
A noun phrase can be fronted if its referent is part of a set that has been
mentioned previously in the discourse, even though the referent itself may not
have been mentioned. In the following example, Barnyard is a hyponym of fam-
ily movies, which is mentioned in the question asked of Courteney Cox-Arquette
that immediately precedes the fronted noun phrase; the result is pragmatically
acceptable.
Q: Did you deliberately make two family movies back to back?
CCA: No, Barnyard I did when I was breast-feeding.
Fronted noun phrases are often contrastive in English.
Ali: Do you like Lady Gaga?
Basho: I like her early songs, but Lady Gaga herself I’m not crazy about.
Fronted noun phrases do not always have the same function in other languages
as they do in English. In Mandarin Chinese, fronted noun phrases commonly
represent the topic of the sentence.
1. zhèi běn shū pízi hěn hǎo kàn
this Classifier book cover very good-looking
‘This book, the cover is nice looking.’
2. zhèi ge zhǎnlǎnhuì wǒ kàndào hěn duō yóuhuàr
this Classifier exhibition I see very many painting
‘(At) this exhibition, I saw many paintings.’
What is interesting about Chinese fronted noun phrases is that they do not nec-
essarily have a semantic role in the rest of the sentence. In the following sen-
tence, for example, mógū ‘mushrooms’ cannot be a patient because the sentence
already has a patient: zhèi ge dōngxi ‘that sort of thing.’ Yet the sentence is both
grammatical and pragmatically acceptable.
mógū wō hěn xǐhuan chī zhèi ge dōngxi
mushroom I very like eat this Classifier thing
‘Mushrooms, I like to eat that sort of thing.’
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 281
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 281 1/4/11 10:24:35 PM
1/4/11 10:24:35 PM
282 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
Furthermore, fronted noun phrases do not need to be contrastive in Chinese,
though they frequently are in English. The comparison of English and Chinese
fronting illustrates an important point: a grammatical process such as a move-
ment operation may have comparable syntactic properties in two languages, but
its pragmatic functions may differ considerably.
Left-Dislocation
Left-dislocation is an operation that derives sentences such as 1 from the structure
underlying basic sentences such as 2.
1. Holly, I can’t stand her.
2. I can’t stand Holly.
Left-dislocation is syntactically similar to fronting, but there are notable differ-
ences between the two. In particular, a fronted noun phrase does not leave a
pronoun in its stead, whereas a left-dislocated noun phrase does.
Holly I can’t stand. (fronting)
Holly, I can’t stand her. (left-dislocation)
Unlike a fronted noun phrase, a left-dislocated noun phrase is set off from the
rest of the sentence by a very short pause, represented in writing by a comma.
Left-dislocation is similar in nature and function to right-dislocation, which
moves a noun phrase to the right of a sentence.
I can’t stand her, Holly.
In our discussion, we concentrate on left-dislocation.
Left-dislocation is used primarily to reintroduce given information that has
not been mentioned for a while. In the following example, the speaker names
and comments on a number of people. Hal, mentioned early in the discourse, is
reintroduced in the last sentence. There, because nothing has been said about
him in the previous two sentences, the speaker reintroduces Hal as a left-dislo-
cated noun phrase.
I’ve kept in touch with lots of classmates. Occasionally, I still see Hal, who was my
best friend in high school. And then there’s Jim, my college roommate. And Stan
and Sara. I met them as sophomores at Ohio State. I really like Jim and Stan and
Sara. But Hal, I can’t stand him now.
In addition to reintroducing given information, left-dislocation may be contras-
tive. In the example above, Hal clearly contrasts with Jim, Stan, and Sara. As
a result of its double function, left-dislocation is typically used when speakers
go through lists and make comments about each element in the list. Some lan-
guages exploit left-dislocation more frequently than English does. In colloquial
French, left-dislocated noun phrases are more frequent than the equivalent basic
sentences.
Mon frère, il s’en va en Mongolie.
my brother he is-going to Mongolia
‘My brother, he is leaving for Mongolia.’
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 282
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 282 1/4/11 10:24:35 PM
1/4/11 10:24:35 PM
Information Structure: Intonation, Morphology, Syntax 283
Right-dislocation, illustrated by the following sentence, is also common.
J’sais pas, moi, c’qu’il veut.
I know not me what-he wants
‘Me, I don’t know what he wants.’
Left-dislocation in colloquial French differs in function from the equivalent op-
eration in English. In French, a left-dislocated noun phrase represents a topic.
Left-dislocated noun phrases are particularly frequent when a new topic is intro-
duced into the discourse (as in the first of the following examples) or when the
speaker wishes to shift the topic of the discourse (as in the second example).
1. [Asking directions of a stranger in the street]
Pardon, la gare, où est-elle?
excuse-me the station where is it
‘Excuse me, where is the station?’
2. Pierre: Moi, j’aime bien les croissants.
me I like a lot the croissants
‘Me, I like croissants a lot.’
Marie: Oui, mais le pain frais, c’est bon aussi.
yes but the bread fresh it-is good too
‘Yes, but fresh bread is also good.’
The pragmatic function of left-dislocation is thus broader in French than in
English.
It Clefts and wh Clefts
Clefting operations are used in many languages to mark information structure.
In the English examples below, 1 is an it-cleft sentence, 2 is a wh-cleft sentence,
and 3 is the basic sentence that corresponds to 1 and 2.
1. It was a very strange sight that Stan saw at the party. (it-cleft)
2. What Stan saw at the party was a very strange sight. (wh-cleft)
3. Stan saw a very strange sight at the party.
It-cleft sentences are of the form It is/was . . . that, in which what comes between
the first part and the second part of the construction is the clefted noun phrase,
prepositional phrase (It was in March that she last visited), or adverb (It’s only recently
that she’s learned to sing). wh-cleft constructions can be of the form wh-word . . .
is/was/will be, in which the wh-word is usually what. In wh-cleft constructions,
the clefted noun phrase, clefted prepositional phrase, or clefted adverb is placed
after the verb be, and the rest of the clause is placed between the two parts of the
construction. Other variants of wh-cleft sentences also exist, as in these examples:
The one who saw Nick at the party was Stan.
Nick is who Stan saw at the party.
Besides is and was, some other forms of be may also occur in clefts.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 283
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 283 1/4/11 10:24:35 PM
1/4/11 10:24:35 PM
284 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
Both it-cleft and wh-cleft constructions are used to mark givenness. In an
it-cleft construction, the clefted phrase presents new information, while the
rest of the sentence is given information. Thus, the information question in
1 below can be answered with 2, in which the answer to the question (that is,
the new information) is clefted, but it can’t be answered with 3 because the
clefted element is not the requested new information.
1. Who did Stan see at the party?
2. It was Nick that Stan saw at the party.
3. *It was Stan who saw Nick at the party.
That the part of the sentence following that/who in a cleft sentence presents
given information is illustrated by the fact that it can refer to something just
mentioned in the previous sentence. In the following example, the second sen-
tence contains a cleft construction in which the elements following that are sim-
ply repeated from the previous sentence in the discourse.
Alice told me that Stan saw someone at the party that he knew from his high
school days. It turns out it was Nick that Stan saw at the party.
Clearly, the element following that in a cleft sentence represents given
information. wh-cleft constructions are similar to it-cleft constructions. In wh-
cleft sentences, the new information comes after the verb be, and the rest of the
clause is placed between the wh-word and the be verb.
1. What did Stan see at the party?
2. What Stan saw was Nick salsa dancing.
Question 1 could not be answered with either of the following clefted sentences
because in neither 3 nor 4 is the clefted noun phrase the new information.
3. *The one who saw Nick salsa dancing was Stan.
4. *Where Stan saw Nick was at the party.
The rest of a wh-clefted sentence marks given information, as in an it-clefted
sentence. The following sentence pair, in which given information is under-
lined, illustrates this fact.
I liked her latest novel very much. In particular, what I liked about it was the
character development.
Both it-clefting and wh-clefting highlight which element is new information and
which is given information.
In addition, both constructions can mark contrast. Consider the following
sequences. In 1 (whose second sentence is an it-cleft construction) and 2 (whose
second sentence is a wh-cleft), the new information can readily be understood
as contrastive. Possible implied information is provided in square brackets after
each example.
1. Alice said Stan saw someone at the party that he knew from his high school
days. It turns out it was Nick that Stan saw at the party [ . . . not Larry, as you
might have thought].
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 284
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 284 1/4/11 10:24:36 PM
1/4/11 10:24:36 PM
Information Structure: Intonation, Morphology, Syntax 285
2. I liked her latest novel very much. In particular, what I liked about it was the
way the characters’ personalities are developed. [I liked the character devel-
opment more than the style of writing.]
You might wonder why English should have two constructions with the
same function. Languages usually exploit different structures for different
purposes—and, indeed, there is a subtle difference in the uses for these two
constructions. An it-cleft construction can be used to mark given information
that the listener or reader is not necessarily thinking about. In a wh-cleft
construction, though, the listener or reader must be thinking about the given
information. Thus, it is possible to begin a narrative with an it-cleft construc-
tion but not with a wh-cleft construction. The first sentence below, an it-cleft
construction, would be an acceptable opening for a historical narrative, but
the second sentence is a wh-cleft construction and would not normally make
a good beginning.
It was to gain their independence from Britain that the colonists started the
Revolution.
*What the colonists started the Revolution to gain was their independence from
Britain.
The first sentence is an acceptable opening because it does not necessarily as-
sume that the reader has in mind the given information (the colonists started the
Revolution) when the narrative begins. The second sentence does assume that
the given information ([what] the colonists started the Revolution to gain) is in the
reader’s mind and thus does not make a good opening sentence.
The difference between it-cleft and wh-cleft constructions shows that given
information is not an absolute notion. There may be different types of given-
ness: information that the addressee knows but is not necessarily thinking
about at the moment and information that the addressee both knows and is
thinking about.
Passives
As with other languages that have a passive construction, the choice between an
active structure and its passive equivalent can be exploited in English to mark
information structure. Compare the following sentences:
1. Bureaucrats could easily store and retrieve data about the citizenry. (active)
2. Data about the citizenry could easily be stored and retrieved by bureaucrats.
(passive)
3. Data about the citizenry could easily be stored and retrieved. (passive)
Of these three sentences, all of which may represent the same situation,
sentence 1 is an active sentence, whereas the other two are passives. In 2,
the agent is expressed (bureaucrats) in what is called an agent passive or by-
passive construction. Because no agent is expressed in sentence 3, it is called
an agentless passive or short passive.
Agentless passives and agent passives serve specific purposes. An agentless
passive serves well if the agent is particularly unimportant in the action or state
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 285
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 285 1/4/11 10:24:36 PM
1/4/11 10:24:36 PM
286 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
represented by the sentence—for example, when the agent is a generic entity
whose identity is irrelevant to the point of the sentence.
A new shopping mall is being built near the airport.
Those laws, however noxious, are rarely enforced.
In the first sentence, the agent is likely a real-estate developer; in the second
one, police authorities. In each case, the exact identity of the particular agent
is either known or irrelevant to the situation represented by the sentence.
In spoken language, instead of agentless passives, active sentences with the
indefinite and nonreferential pronoun they often occur, as in these examples:
They’re building a new shopping mall near the airport.
They issue new Christmas stamps every year.
They rarely enforce those noxious laws.
An agent passive construction is used when a noun phrase other than the agent
is the given information. Imagine a news report that begins as follows:
The World Health Organization held its annual meeting last week in Geneva.
This sentence establishes the annual meeting as given information for the rest of
the report. If the sentence that follows it uses the noun phrase the meeting, that
phrase will likely occur in subject position because it represents given informa-
tion. In that following sentence, if the meeting does not have the semantic role of
agent, the sentence is likely to be expressed as a passive construction in order to
allow the meeting to be the grammatical subject.
The meeting was organized by health administrators from 50 countries.
This generalization is not absolute, and there is nothing fundamentally wrong
with a sequence in which the second sentence is active rather than the passive
predicted by the generalization, as shown below:
The World Health Organization held its annual meeting last week in Geneva.
Health administrators from 50 countries organized the meeting.
But the equivalent sequence with a passive second sentence flows better and
may be easier to understand:
The World Health Organization held its
annual meeting last week in Geneva.
The meeting was organized by health
administrators from 50 countries.
In English, the choice of a passive sentence
over its active counterpart is regulated
by information structure. Specifically,
agentless passives are used when the agent
is known or not particularly significant (as
in this very sentence). Agent passives (with
by) are used when a noun phrase other than
the agent of the sentence is more prominent
as given information than the agent itself.
Try It Yourself In the following
sentences, identify the two agentless
passives and say what the agent is likely to be. For
the agent passive, specify the agent.
1) Two state governors were mentioned by the
president. 2) Most people would feel fear if their
capital were attacked. 3) The Japanese auto maker
has been hurt as stock markets fell.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 286
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 286 1/4/11 10:24:36 PM
1/4/11 10:24:36 PM
Information Structure: Intonation, Morphology, Syntax 287
Not all languages have a passive construction. Chinese and Samoan, for
example, do not. But such languages have other ways of saying what English
expresses with the passive. In Samoan, when the agent of a sentence is not im-
portant, it is simply not expressed; the sentence remains an active structure.
ʔua ʔoteŋia le teiŋe
Present-tense scold the young-woman
‘The young woman is being scolded.’ (Literally: ‘Is scolding the young woman.’)
Word Order
Many languages use the sequential order of noun phrases to mark differences
in information structure. English cannot use the full resources of word order
for this purpose because it uses word order to mark subjects and direct objects
(see Chapter 5). In the sentence The cat is chasing the dog, it is word order that
indicates who is doing the chasing and who is being chased. If we invert the two
noun phrases, the semantics of the sentence (who is agent and who is patient)
changes: The dog is chasing the cat.
In a language like Russian, however, the noun phrases can be scrambled
without changing the semantics. All the following sentences mean the same
thing. (Note that š is pronounced [ʃ], like sh in English ship.)
1. koška presleduet sobaku
cat is chasing dog
2. sobaku presleduet koška
3. presleduet koška sobaku ‘The cat is chasing the dog.’
4. presleduet sobaku koška
5. koška sobaku presleduet
6. sobaku koška presleduet
In each of these sentences we know who is doing what to whom because the
inflections on the noun differ from one another. The -u ending of sobaku ‘dog’
marks it as the direct object (if it were the subject, it would be sobaka), and
the -a ending of koška ‘cat’ marks it as the subject (as direct object, it would
be košku).
The differences among these versions of the same sentence reside in their
information structure. More precisely, in Russian, word order marks givenness.
The information question Što koška presleduet? ‘What is the cat chasing?’ can
only be answered as follows:
koška presleduet sobaku
cat is-chasing dog
‘The cat is chasing the dog.’
On the other hand, the question Što presleduet sobaku? ‘What is chasing the dog?’
must be answered as follows:
sobaku presleduet koška
dog is-chasing cat
‘The cat is chasing the dog.’
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 287
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 287 1/4/11 10:24:36 PM
1/4/11 10:24:36 PM
288 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
Thus, what comes first in the Russian sentence is not the subject but the
given information, and what comes last is the new information. In answer to
the question What is the cat chasing?, the dog is new information and comes at
the end of the Russian sentence. By contrast, in answer to the question What
is chasing the dog?, the cat is new information and comes last in the sentence.
Word order in Russian, as in many other languages, is thus used to mark
givenness. Similar explanations could be offered for the other variants of the
Russian sentence we have cited, but we will not develop them here. (See
Exercise 8-9.)
Typically, in languages that exploit word order to encode pragmatic infor-
mation, syntactic constructions such as passives, it-clefts, and wh-clefts do not
exist (or are rare). Russian has a grammatical construction that resembles the
English passive, but it is rarely used. The reason is simple: given the rich in-
flectional system for marking grammatical relations, word order is left free to
mark information structure, and there is no need to use complex structures like
the passive to mark givenness. Passives are useful in languages that exploit
word order for other purposes and thus cannot manipulate it to indicate prag-
matic information.
We have outlined some of the basic notions needed to describe how informa-
tion is structured in discourse and analyzed a number of constructions in terms
of information structure. From the discussion in this and previous chapters, it
should be clear that the syntactic structure of any language is driven by two
factors. On the one hand, syntax must encode semantic structure: the syntactic
structure of a sentence must enable language users to identify who does what
to whom—the agent, patient, and so on for other semantic roles. On the other
hand, syntax must encode information structure: which constituents represent
given information, which represent new information, which can be easily iden-
tified by the addressee, which cannot, and so on. Schematically, the relationship
can be viewed as follows:
SEMANTIC INFO PRAGMATIC INFO
SYNTAX
Syntax is thus used to convey both semantic information and pragmatic
information.
The Relationship of Sentences to Discourse:
Pragmatics
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 288
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 288 1/4/11 10:24:36 PM
1/4/11 10:24:36 PM
The Relationship of Sentences to Discourse: Pragmatics 289
A thorough understanding of pragmatics will even-
tually prove important for speech recognition and,
to a lesser extent, for speech synthesis. To date,
however, features of pragmatics have been less well
explored in computational linguistics than morpho-
logical, lexical, phonological, grammatical, and se-
mantic features of texts.
One reason for the relative neglect of pragmatics
is that modeling the world knowledge and discourse
knowledge that speakers rely on when producing and
understanding texts is even more challenging than
creating models of structural aspects of language. An-
other is that the kinds of linguistic features by which
some pragmatic categories are realized are not always
expressed in ways that computers can readily track.
As we have seen, speakers base some aspects of
expression on their beliefs about what addressees
know and are thought to have in the forefront of their
minds. This is true in marking noun phrases as deﬁnite
or indeﬁnite, in choosing between active and passive
structures, and in indicating contrast by intonation,
for example. While these three features have some
representation in a text, others such as given and new
information have little or no textual realization and
would be extremely challenging or even impossible
for a computer to identify.
If you’ve ever used a grammar checker, you know
that even rudimentary ones readily spot passive
verbs. What checkers cannot do is
distinguish between those passives
that effectively serve a pragmatic
function such as topicalization and those that do not.
If a writer rewrote all passives as actives, the individ-
ual rewritten sentences would remain grammatical,
but the changes would likely do serious damage to
the pragmatic structure of the text. (Exercise 8-7 asks
you to consider revising the passives in a short text.)
Computer programs can identify pragmatic cat-
egories only if they are somehow marked in the
text. For example, the Japanese function word wa
can be automatically identiﬁed as easily as an Eng-
lish passive, and most English noun phrases can be
automatically identiﬁed as deﬁnite or indeﬁnite. But
other categories—for example, topic, givenness, and
referentiality—cannot be identiﬁed automatically. If
researchers wanted to make use of such categories,
their texts would have to be manually tagged to re-
ﬂect those categories. To do this, an interactive anal-
ysis program would tag each potential item—say, all
referring expressions—as “given” and then present a
human editor with a menu of alternatives for the ten-
tative tag, much as a spell checker oﬀers alternative
spellings. Once such categories were tagged in the
texts of a corpus, researchers could explore related
matters, relying on the computer’s capacity for speed
and accuracy.
Computers and Pragmatics
70
Given
New
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
45
16
24
39
17
34
Number
of
referring
expressions
per
200
words
Conservation News reportage Academic prose
Figure 8.1 Average Number of Given and New Referring Expressions in Three
Kinds of Text
Source: D. Biber, S. Conrad, R. Reppen, 1998.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 289
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 289 1/4/11 10:24:37 PM
1/4/11 10:24:37 PM
290 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
Suppose a corpus contained referring expressions
that had been manually tagged as given or new. It
would be a simple matter to calculate the number of
given and new references for any group of texts in the
corpus—for conversations, say, or for news report-
age in newspapers. It turns out that different kinds
of texts diﬀer signiﬁcantly in the average number of
given and new references they contain, and that and
similar facts have implications for artificial intelli-
gence, for speech recognition, and for teaching, espe-
cially teaching foreign languages for speciﬁc purposes
such as law or science.
Figure 8.1 shows two sets of relations: those
between given and new information in each column
for three kinds of text and the relationships among
the three kinds of text. For example, conversation
has about three times as many given noun phrases
as new ones. Academic prose, by contrast, has half
as many given noun phrases as new ones. Likewise,
while conversation and news reportage have approx-
imately the same number of noun phrases per 200
words of text, the proportion of given and new noun
phrases is reversed between them. Conversational-
ists use noun phrases that are mostly given. News
reportage introduces new referents about twice as
often as it mentions given referents. A good many
noun phrases in conversation are first-person and
second-person pronouns, which always represent
given information. (By contrast, the use of ﬁrst-per-
son and second-person pronouns in news reportage
is virtually limited to quoted speech and do not con-
stitute the bulk of news reportage.)
As Figure 8.1 shows, a second kind of information
can be drawn from counts of given and new referring
expressions in diﬀerent kinds of text. For example, the
number of new noun phrases is relatively low in con-
versation as compared with academic prose or news
reportage. Not surprisingly, news reportage contains
more than twice the number of new references as
conversation, and so does academic prose.
With suitably tagged corpora, a good deal can be
learned about the character of diﬀerent kinds of texts.
Such information will prove critical in speech recogni-
tion, machine translation, foreign language teaching,
and other real-world applications of linguistics where
computers and natural language meet. ■
Summary
Pragmatics is concerned with the encoding of information structure—the relative
•
significance of different elements in a clause, principally noun phrases. It treats
the relationship of sentences to their discourse environment.
Relational categories include
• givenness (whether a piece of information
is new or already exists in the discourse context), topic (the center of
attention), and contrast (whether a piece of information is contrasted with
another piece).
Nonrelational notions include
• definiteness (whether the referent of a noun phrase
is identifiable) and referentiality (whether a noun phrase has a referent).
Some syntactic operations serve to mark certain elements of sentences for
•
pragmatic categories. In English, fronting, left-dislocation, it-cleft, wh-cleft, and
passivization single out particular noun phrases as sentence topics or as given
information or new information.
Contrast is marked through sentence stress and is a secondary function of certain
•
syntactic operations such as fronting.
Many languages exploit word order or grammatical morphemes to mark
•
information structure.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 290
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 290 1/4/11 10:24:37 PM
1/4/11 10:24:37 PM
Summary 291
The functions of a particular syntactic operation or information-structure device
•
may differ from language to language because each language favors particular
strategies over others.
Syntax encodes two types of information: semantic information (the semantic
•
role of a noun phrase) and pragmatic information (the relative significance of
noun phrases in a discourse).
What Do You Think? REVISITED
Annie
• , the international student. Sources sometimes suggest that definite articles
are used to refer to particular persons, places, and things, as in the Eiffel Tower
and the president. But it is inaccurate to say indefinite articles are used exclusively
to refer to any person, place, or thing (i.e., not a particular one). That is one
function of an indefinite article (I’m looking for a present in the $50 range for
Toni; got a suggestion?). Commonly, though, an indefinite article signals that the
speaker believes the addressee does not have the (particular) referent already in
mind (I bought Toni a present after I got a suggestion from Barry). In other words,
an indefinite noun phrase can signal to a hearer (or reader) that an entity is
new to the discourse. Once the entity is in the addressee’s mind, speakers use
definite noun phrases (the present, the suggestion, it) to signal that the referent
is given information and the speaker believes the addressee can identify it. In
a conversation (or newspaper article or other discourse, for that matter), it is
routine for an initial mention of something to be indefinite and subsequent
mentions to be definite.
Thom from Taiwan and the ESL class discussion
• . The active and passive versions
of the sentence about the World Cup mean the same thing. For example, if one
version is true, the other must be true; if one is false, the other must be false.
Also, they describe the same situation. Still, the sentences would not be used
in the same circumstances because they’re about different things. The active
version (Spain won the 2010 World Cup) says something about the Spanish team.
The sentence is about Spain’s team. The passive version (The 2010 World Cup
was won by Spain) is about the 2010 World Cup. Thus, the sentences have the
same referential meaning, but they present different perspectives. Ask Thom
to consider the two requests below and decide whether the active and passive
versions above could be used equally well as answers:
Tell me something good about Spain’s team.
Tell me something about the 2010 World Cup.
Speakers (and writers) tend to be efficient, and while two sentences might
mean the same thing, that doesn’t mean they could be used interchangeably
in all discourse contexts. Different versions serve different purposes and
situations.
Your classmate Clint
• . English generally places subjects before verbs and verbs
before objects (I like popcorn!), but to express contrast an object can sometimes
be moved into first position before the subject (Popcorn I like!). ■
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 291
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 291 1/4/11 10:24:38 PM
1/4/11 10:24:38 PM
292 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
Exercises
Based on English
8-1. In an article called “Ellen’s ‘Heart Issue’: A Friend’s Report,” actress Kathy
Najimy writes as follows about her first meeting with Ellen DeGeneres. After
examining the passage (sentence numbers have been added), answer the
questions that follow:
(1) I met Ellen three or four years ago when I was a guest on her show.
(2) She was funny, smart and charming, and I was moved by her vul-
nerability and what she was going through in regards to her sexuality.
(3) We would sit in the trailer and talk about what was happening to
her personally and politically. (4) It was interesting to me because I
know lots of gay people, and I know lots of famous people, but I had
never known anyone who was famous and gay and struggling with
what to do about it. [Los Angeles Times, “Calendar,” December 21,
1997, p. 79]
a. In 1, is the first-person pronoun I given or new information? Explain the
basis for your answer.
b. In 2, is She given or new information? Explain the basis for your
answer.
c. In 3, is We given or new information? Explain the basis for your
answer.
d. In 4, is It given or new information, and what constituent does It refer
to?
e. Identify the noun phrase that is the topic in sentences 2, 3, and 4.
f. From your answers to b through e above, what inference can you draw
about topics in this paragraph?
g. From the examples you have just examined and the other pronouns in the
passage, would you say that personal pronouns generally represent given
information or new information?
h. In 1, is Ellen given or new information? Definite or indefinite? Explain.
i. In 1, whose show does her show refer to? Is her show definite or
indefinite?
j. List all indefinite noun phrases in the passage. (Remember that pronouns
are noun phrases.)
k. Prior to its mention in 3, the trailer has not been mentioned, so how do you
explain that it is definite?
8-2. Examine the passage below and answer the questions that follow:
(1) They were metal mirrored sun glasses, the kind you buy at a drug-
store on the way to the beach, standard Angeleno equipment, as note-
worthy as sunscreen or sandals. (2) But when Lane Kiffin stared down
from behind them on the Rose Bowl’s outdoor stage at Pac-10 media
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 292
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 292 1/4/11 10:24:38 PM
1/4/11 10:24:38 PM
Exercises 293
day—while the conference’s other nine coaches removed their shades—
they were reflections of a reputation. (3) What is he hiding? (4) Who
is he hiding? [Adapted from the Los Angeles Times “Sports,” July 30,
2010, C1]
a. From the following list, identify all the non-referential noun phrases:
sun glasses, a drugstore, the beach, the Rose Bowl’s outdoor stage,
a reputation.
b. From the following list, identify all the generic noun phrases: sun glasses,
a drugstore, the beach, sunscreen, sandals, their shades, a reputation.
c. Identify any contrastive noun phrases in the passage.
d. In 2, they represents given information and is definite. What noun phrase
in 1 has the same referent as they but is indefinite? Explain why the first
of these noun phrases is indefinite and the second definite even though
they have identical referents.
e. From the passage, identify a noun phrase in each of the following
categories:
(i). referential and definite
(ii). referential and indefinite
(iii). nonreferential and definite
(iv). nonreferential and indefinite
(v). generic and definite
(vi). generic and indefinite
8-3. Consider the following text as a complete story in a newspaper. Analyze each
sentence in its context and state what is odd about it in terms of information
structure.
(1) As for the Santa Clara Fire Department, it evacuated two apartment
buildings at the corner of Country Club Drive and Fifth Avenue at 3
a.m. last Sunday. (2) Nancy Jenkins had discovered a furnace in the
basement of a building at the corner of Country Club Drive and Fifth
Avenue, and the furnace was leaking oil. (3) What the firefighters did
was to spray chemical foam over the oil for several hours. (4) It was
by 8 a.m. last Sunday that the situation was under control. (5) What
someone had averted was any danger of the explosion or the fire, and
as for a leaky furnace, it was sealed. (6) What the residents of the
two apartment buildings at the corner of Country Club Drive and Fifth
Avenue were given in the Country Club High School gymnasium was
temporary shelter. (7) Possession of their apartments was regained by
the residents of the two apartment buildings at the corner of Country
Club Drive and Fifth Avenue at 5 p.m. last Sunday.
8-4. Choose a short article (approximately one newspaper column) or an excerpt
of an article from a newspaper’s front page. Identify all the sentences that
have undergone a syntactic operation of some kind (such as passivization or
clefting). In each case, explain the most likely reason for using a transformed
sentence instead of the equivalent basic sentence.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 293
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 293 1/4/11 10:24:39 PM
1/4/11 10:24:39 PM
294 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
8-5. In certain dialects of English, a syntactic operation moves a noun phrase to
the beginning of its clause. It derives sentence (1) from the same underlying
structure as the basic sentence (2):
1) A bottle of champagne and caviar he wants.
2) He wants a bottle of champagne and caviar.
The operation is called “Yiddish movement” because it is characteristic of
the English dialect spoken by native speakers of Yiddish. Yiddish movement
is syntactically similar to fronting but differs in its pragmatic function. Here
are three pragmatic contexts in which Yiddish movement is appropriate. On
the basis of these data, describe succinctly the pragmatic function of Yiddish
movement.
1) Speaker A: What does he want?
Speaker B: A bottle of champagne and caviar he wants!
2) Speaker A: How’s your daughter?
Speaker B: So many worries she causes me to have!
3) Speaker A: Are you willing to help me?
Speaker B: Not a finger would I lift for you!
Compare in particular the following interactions. In the first, the answer can
undergo Yiddish movement; in the second, it cannot.
4) Speaker A: Who is Deborah going to marry?
Speaker B: A scoundrel Deborah is going to marry!
5) Speaker A: Who is going to marry Deborah?
Speaker B: *Deborah a scoundrel is going to marry!
8-6. Below is an excerpt, taken and slightly adapted from a U.S. Supreme Court
case (Kassel v. Consolidated Freightways Corp.); some noun phrases have been
underscored and the sentences numbered. Read it attentively and answer the
questions that follow.
(1) None of these findings is seriously disputed by Iowa. (2) Indeed,
the State points to only three ways in which the 55-foot single is
even arguably superior: singles take less time to be passed and to
clear intersections; they may back up for longer distances; and they
are somewhat less likely to jackknife. (3) The first two of these
characteristics are of limited relevance on modern interstate highways.
(4) As the District Court found, the negligible difference in the time
required to pass, and to cross intersections, is insignificant on 4-lane
divided highways because passing does not require crossing into
oncoming traffic lanes, and interstates have few, if any, intersections.
(5) The concern over backing capability also is insignificant because it
seldom is necessary to back up on an interstate. (6) In any event, no
evidence suggested any difference in backing capability between the
60-foot doubles that Iowa permits and the 65-foot doubles that it bans.
(7) Similarly, although doubles tend to jackknife somewhat more
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 294
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 294 1/4/11 10:24:39 PM
1/4/11 10:24:39 PM
Exercises 295
than singles, 65-foot doubles actually are less likely to jackknife than
60-foot doubles.
a. Using notions of given and new information and definite and indefinite
noun phrases, explain how you know in sentence 2 that the State refers to
Iowa.
b. Identify one underscored noun phrase in each of these categories:
(i) generic and definite; (ii) specific; (iii) definite; (iv) generic and indefinite;
(v) definite and referential; (vi) indefinite and referential; (vii) given and defi-
nite; (viii) given and indefinite; (ix) indefinite and new.
c. In light of the discussion of the relationship between indefinite and new,
on the one hand, and definite and given, on the other, explain why these
indefinite noun phrases in sentence 7 represent given information: doubles,
singles, 65-foot doubles, 60-foot singles.
d. Identify the noun phrase that is the topic of sentences 1, 3, 4, and 5.
e. Sentence 1 uses a passive structure. The active equivalent would be,
Iowa does not seriously dispute any of these findings. Which noun phrase
is topicalized in the passive version? Given the topic that you have just
identified, what is the paragraph preceding this excerpt likely to be
about?
8-7. Examine the passage that follows and note the underscored passive verbs.
Then offer a pragmatic reason that may have motivated the authors to use
each of the underscored passives. Next, for any clause or sentence whose pas-
sive verb you cannot justify, rewrite it using an active verb. Finally, consider
your revised passage, and judge whether the text is more pragmatically effec-
tive than the original. Explain your judgment.
This work examines linguistic and structural features present in written
criminal statements for predictive value in determining the likelihood of
veracity or deception. Statements written by suspects and victims were
identified through the investigation of criminal incidents and serve as
data. Support was found for a positive relationship between deception
and the attributes of equivocation, negation, and relative length of the
prologue. A positive relationship was also found between veracity and
unique sensory details. Weak support was found for a relationship be-
tween veracity and emotions in the epilogue. More than 80 per cent of
the statements were correctly classified as containing veracity or decep-
tion. [Adapted from Susan H. Adams and John P. Jarvis. 2006. “Indi-
cators of Veracity and Deception: An Analysis of Written Statements
Made to Police.” International Journal of Speech, Language and the Law,
13.1: p. 1.]
Based on Languages Other Than English
8-8. As in Russian, word order in Spanish is used to encode information structure.
The constituents of a sentence may be ordered in a variety of ways, as shown
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 295
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 295 1/4/11 10:24:40 PM
1/4/11 10:24:40 PM
296 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
by the following examples from Castilian Spanish, all of which can describe
the same event. (S = subject; V = verb; O = direct object)
Consuelo envió el paquete. (SVO)
Consuelo sent the package
Envió Consuelo el paquete. (VSO)
sent Consuelo the package
Envió el paquete Consuelo. (VOS)
‘Consuelo sent the package.’
sent the package Consuelo
El paquete lo envió Consuelo. (OVS)
the package it sent Consuelo
Consider the following conversational exchanges, focusing on the order of
constituents in the answers.
1) Q: ¿Qué hizo Consuelo?
what did Consuelo
‘What did Consuelo do?’
A: Consuelo preparó la sangria.
Consuelo prepared the sangria
‘Consuelo made the sangria.’
2) Q: ¿Quién comió mi bocadillo?
who ate my sandwich
‘Who ate my sandwich?’
A: Tu bocadillo lo comió Consuelo.
your sandwich it ate Consuelo
‘Consuelo ate your sandwich.’
3) Q: ¿A quién dió Consuelo este regalo?
to whom gave Consuelo this present
‘Who did Consuelo give this present to?’
A: Este regalo lo dió Consuelo a su madre.
this present it gave Consuelo to her mother
‘Consuelo gave this present to her mother.’
4) Q: ¿Que pasó?
what occurred
‘What happened?’
A: Se murió Consuelo.
died Consuelo
‘Consuelo died.’
5) Q: ¿Recibió Consuelo el premio?
received Consuelo the prize
‘Did Consuelo get the prize?’
A: No, el premio lo recibió Paquita.
no the prize it received Paquita
‘No, Paquita got the prize.’
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 296
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 296 1/4/11 10:24:40 PM
1/4/11 10:24:40 PM
Exercises 297
6) Q: ¿Recibió Consuelo esta carta?
received Consuelo this letter
‘Did Consuelo get this letter?’
A: No, Consuelo recibió este paquete.
no Consuelo received this package
‘No, Consuelo got this package.’
7) Q: ¿Recibió Consuelo el premio?
received Consuelo the prize
‘Did Consuelo get the prize?’
A: Si, el premio lo recibió Consuelo.
yes the prize it received Consuelo
‘Yes, Consuelo got the prize.’
a. On the basis of these data, describe how word order is used to mark infor-
mation structure in Spanish statements (but not in questions). In particu-
lar, state which categories of information structure are marked through
which word order possibility. Make your statement of the rules as general
as possible.
b. Notice that in certain sentences the pronoun lo ‘it’ appears before the verb.
What is the syntactic rule that dictates when it should and should not
appear? Which rule of English does the presence of the pronoun in these
sentences remind you of?
 8-9. In light of the function of Russian word order, provide an information question
(in English) to which sentences 5 and 6 in the “Word Order” section of this
chapter would be pragmatically acceptable Russian answers.
8-10. Examine the Japanese utterances below, made while two friends were wait-
ing at a bus stop. Explain why Yumiko used basu ga to refer to the bus, while
Kimiko used basu wa.
Yumiko: basu ga kimasu
bus Subject coming-is ‘The bus is coming.’
Kimiko: basu wa konde-imas
bus Given crowded-is ‘The bus is crowded.’
8-11. Tongan has an operation that incorporates the direct object (Object) into the
verb, forming a verb-noun compound. It generates a sentence like (a) from
the underlying structure of the basic sentence (b):
a) naʔa ku inu pia (Object incorporated)
Past-tense I drink beer
‘I drank beer.’ (literally: ‘I beer-drank.’)
b) naʔa ku inu ʔa e pia (Object not incorporated)
Past-tense I drink Object the beer
‘I drank the/a beer.’
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 297
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 297 1/4/11 10:24:41 PM
1/4/11 10:24:41 PM
298 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
Below are three more examples of object-incorporated constructions (trans-
lated loosely to highlight the meaning of the Tongan sentence):
ʔoku nau fie kai ika (Object incorporated)
Present-tense they hungry-for fish
‘They are fish-hungry.’
naʔa ma sio faiva (Object incorporated)
Past-tense we see movie
‘We (went) movie-watching.’
ʔoku ne faʔu hiva-kakala (Object incorporated)
Present-tense she compose love-song
‘She is love-song composing.’
An incorporated direct object cannot be followed by a restrictive relative
clause, but a direct object that has not been incorporated can be. Compare:
*naʔa ku inu pia [naʔa nau omai]
(Object incorporated)
Past-tense I drink beer Past-tense they give-me
‘I drank beer [that they gave me].’
naʔa ku inu ʔa e pia [naʔa nau omai]
(Object not incorporated)
Past-tense I drink Object the beer Past-tense they give-me
‘I drank the/a beer [that they gave me].’
Assuming that restrictive relative clauses have the same function in Tongan
and English, describe the pragmatic function of Tongan object incorporation.
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
8-12. To jog your students’ memories about what constitutes given and new in-
formation and how information status affects the marking of a noun phrase
as definite or indefinite, you offer this short report: Last weekend I went to a
wedding. The bride and groom were friends of mine. Then you give your students
these opening lines (below) from a newspaper article about Annika Sorenstam
(adapted from the Los Angeles Times, March 20, 2003). You instruct them to
fill in the blanks with a/an or the, as appropriate. Using a level of explana-
tion you deem appropriate for your students, tell a classmate how you would
teach your students about their ability to restore definite or indefinite articles
to the piece.
The best female golfer in the world is standing at ___ grill, on ___ black rub-
ber mat, ___ squadron of pots and pans flying in formation on hooks above
her head. Annika Sorenstam feels very much at home as she conducts ___
tour of ___ kitchen at the Lake Nona resort, where her thoughts are far
removed from her world of professional golf. In ___ kitchen, it’s not Pak
or Webb or Inkster on her mind. It’s crab cakes, stuffed mushrooms and
tiramisu. That’s why chef Gary Hoffman handed her 60 fillets to sear for
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 298
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 298 1/4/11 10:24:41 PM
1/4/11 10:24:41 PM
Other Resources 299
___ recent evening meal in ___ club’s dining room. Sorenstam also knows
how to carve ___ flower out of ___ wedge of melon, the easiest way to peel
potatoes, and how to whip up rice pilaf.
Here’s ___ story she enjoys telling. One evening at dinner, ___ club mem-
ber enjoyed his meal. “He said, ‘Bring out the chef,’” Sorenstam said. “So
Gary came out and ___ member said, ‘No, not that chef, the other one.’ So
I came out.”
8-13. In a dictionary appropriate to your current or prospective students (or a desk
dictionary you use yourself), examine the entries for a and the to identify
which definition among the several listed for each word best matches your
understanding as discussed in this chapter. Then assess whether those defini-
tions adequately represent the facts about indefinite and definite articles as
you understand them. If they don’t, write an amended definition at a level
appropriate for your students.
Other Resources
Internet
LISU website: http://www.CengageBrain.com For users of this textbook.
Provides updated Internet links as well as supplemental material for students
and instructors. Here you will find interactive learning tools.
AT&T text-to-speech demonstration: http://www.research.att.
com/~ttsweb/tts/demo.php In an earlier chapter, you may have visited
this website for a demonstration of speech synthesis and been impressed with
the synthesizer’s ability to produce the consonantal and vocalic sounds of the
sentence you submitted. It’s worth returning to the site to submit sentences
that illustrate some information structure devices such as left-dislocation or
contrast. Judge for yourself to what extent this speech synthesis engine cap-
tures the intonation that conveys such pragmatic information.
Suggestions for Further Reading
Geoffrey N
• . Leech. 1983. Principles of Pragmatics (London: Longman). An accessible
introduction.
Kenneth R
• . Rose & Gabriele Kasper, eds. 2001. Pragmatics in Language Teaching
(Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press). Especially for language teachers and those
learning a second language, these essays emphasize matters often overlooked in language
learning and language teaching.
George Yule
• . 1996. Pragmatics (Oxford: Oxford University Press). A brief and accessible in-
troduction, appearing in a series designed to introduce students to various linguistic subfields.
Besides material covered in the current chapter, it treats material covered in Chapters 6 and 9.
Advanced Reading
Overviews of the issues addressed in this chapter can be found in Lambrecht (1994), Foley
(2007), Givón (1979a), Chafe (1976), McCarthy (1991), and Georgakopolou and Goutsos
(2004). A thoughtful discussion of topics discussed in this chapter can be found in Chafe
(1994). The papers in Givón (1979b) and Li (1976) investigate the interaction of syntax and
pragmatics in various languages, while Chafe (1970) examines this interaction in English.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 299
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 299 1/4/11 10:24:42 PM
1/4/11 10:24:42 PM
300 Chapter 8 Information Structure and Pragmatics
Givenness and related topics are discussed in Prince (1979), definiteness in Lyons (1999).
The discussion of it-cleft and wh-cleft constructions in this chapter relies on Prince (1978),
and the discussion of fronting and Yiddish movement on Prince (1981). Lambrecht (1981)
analyzes left-dislocation and right-dislocation in spoken French. English passive constructions
are investigated in Thompson (1987). A concise discussion of the function of Russian word
order can be found in Comrie (1987). For an overview of research on intonation and sentence
stress and their pragmatic functions, see Bolinger (1986). Other means of marking pragmatic
structure in English are discussed in Halliday and Hasan’s classic (1976). Schiffrin et al. (2001),
a broad treatment of discourse, is a useful resource for instructors. Our Figure 8.1, modeled
on Figure 5-2 from Biber et al. (1998), infers approximate numerical counts from the purely
visual representation in the original; Biber et al.’s chapter treating “The Study of Discourse
Characteristics” accessibly discusses interactive methods for tracking discourse features.
References
Biber, Douglas, Susan Conrad & Randi Reppen. 1998. Corpus Linguistics: Investigating Language
Structure and Use (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Bolinger, Dwight L. 1986. Intonation and Its Parts: Melody in Spoken English (Stanford: Stanford
University Press).
Chafe, Wallace L. 1970. Meaning and the Structure of Language (Chicago: University of Chicago
Press).
Chafe, Wallace L. 1976. “Givenness, Contrastiveness, Definiteness, Subjects, Topics, and Point
of View,” in Li (1976), pp. 25–55.
Chafe, Wallace L. 1994. Discourse, Consciousness, and Time: The Flow and Displacement of
Conscious Experience in Speaking and Writing (Chicago: University of Chicago Press).
Comrie, Bernard. 1987. “Russian,” in Timothy Shopen, ed., Languages and Their Status
(Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press), pp. 91–151.
Foley, William A. 2007. “A Typology of Information Packaging in the Clause,” in Timothy
Shopen, ed., Language Typology and Syntactic Description, 2nd ed. (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press), 1, pp. 362–446.
Georgakopolou, Alexandra & Dionysis Goutsos. 2004. Discourse Analysis: An Introduction, 2nd
ed. (Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press).
Givón, Talmy. 1979a. On Understanding Grammar (New York: Academic).
Givón, Talmy, ed. 1979b. Syntax and Semantics 12: Discourse and Syntax (New York: Academic).
Halliday, M. A. K. & Ruqaiya Hasan. 1976. Cohesion in English (London: Longman).
Lambrecht, Knud. 1981. Topic, Antitopic, and Verb Agreement in Non-standard French (Amsterdam:
Benjamins).
Lambrecht, Knud. 1994. Information Structure and Sentence Form: Topic, Focus, and the Mental
Representation of Discourse Referents (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Li, Charles N., ed. 1976. Subject and Topic (New York: Academic).
Lyons, Christopher. 1999. Definiteness (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
McCarthy, Michael. 1991. Discourse Analysis for Teachers (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press).
Prince, Ellen F. 1978. “A Comparison of wh-clefts and It-clefts in Discourse,” Language
54:883–906.
Prince, Ellen F. 1979. “On the Given/New Distinction,” Papers from the Fifteenth Regional Meeting
of the Chicago Linguistics Society (Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society), pp. 267–78.
Prince, Ellen F. 1981. “Topicalization, Focus Movement, and Yiddish Movement: A Pragmatic
Differentiation,” Proceedings of the Seventh Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society
(Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society), pp. 249–64.
Schiffrin, Deborah, Deborah Tannen & Heidi E. Hamilton. 2001. The Handbook of Discourse
Analysis (Malden, MA: Blackwell).
Thompson, Sandra A. 1987. “The Passive in English: A Discourse Perspective,” in Robert
Channon & Linda Shockey, eds., In Honor of Ilse Lehiste (Dordrecht: Foris), pp. 497–511.
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 300
00419_08_ch08_p267-300.indd 300 1/4/11 10:24:43 PM
1/4/11 10:24:43 PM
301
What Do You Think?
Your friend Isabella wonders aloud why the words “I now pronounce you
•
husband and wife” will create a legal marriage between two people at a
wedding but not when uttered on stage in a play. At first you dismiss the
question as silly. “No, really,” she says. “What makes the difference?” You
think the answer’s obvious, but you try. What’s the best explanation you
can give?
Kimberly complains that just last week her boyfriend Tyler promised to take
•
her along the next time he went skiing. Then this weekend he went skiing
and didn’t invite her. Asked what Tyler said when he made his promise,
Kimberly reports that he said, “I will. I will. Honestly, I will.” You ask
whether Tyler said, “I promise,” and Kimberly says “No.” You tell her you
think Tyler’s a lout, but you’re not sure he made a promise because he didn’t
use that word. “C’mon,” she says, “a promise is a promise.” How do you
explain your interpretation of a promise to her?
Your younger brother Brandon complains that when Daniel, a French friend
•
from college, phones to speak with you, he takes forever to get to the point
and apologizes endlessly for nothing! Brandon wonders why Daniel can’t
get to the point. You’re aware that people from different cultures behave
differently on the telephone. What explanation do you offer Brandon for
Daniel’s telephone behavior?
Speech Acts and
Conversation
9
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 301
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 301 4/1/11 19:17:39
4/1/11 19:17:39
302 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
People use language principally as a tool to do things: request a favor,
make a promise, report a piece of news, give directions, offer a greeting,
seek information, extend an invitation, request help, and do hundreds of
other ordinary things. Sometimes what we do with language has serious
consequences: propose marriage, swear to tell the truth, fire an employee,
declare a mistrial, and so on. Such speech acts are part of speech events—
conversations, lectures, student-teacher conferences, news broadcasts,
marriage ceremonies, and courtroom trials. In addition to births, deaths,
fires, robberies, hurricanes, automobile accidents, and the like, which are
not speech acts, much of what is reported in newspapers, blogs, and radio
and television news broadcasts are speech acts: arrests, predictions, denials,
promises, accusations, announcements, warnings, threats, exhortations, and
so forth. Earlier chapters in this book examined the structure of words and
sentences. Now we examine what we do with linguistic structures and how
our utterances accomplish their work.
Knowing a language is not simply a matter of knowing how to encode a
message and transmit it to a second party, who then decodes it in order to
understand what we intended to say. If language use were a matter simply of
encoding and decoding messages—in other words, of grammatical competence—
every sentence would have a fixed interpretation irrespective of its context of
use. But that’s not the case, as the scenarios below illustrate.
1. You’re stopped by a police officer, who surprises you by informing you
that you’ve just driven through a stop sign. “I didn’t see the stop sign,”
you say.
2. A friend has given you directions to her apartment, including instructions to
turn left at the first stop sign after the intersection of Oak and Broad. You ar-
rive about 30 minutes late and say, “I didn’t see the stop sign.”
3. You’re driving with an aunt who’s in a hurry to get to church. You slow down
and glide through a stop sign, knowing that on Sunday mornings there is sel-
dom traffic at that intersection. As you enter the intersection, you see a car
approaching and jam on the brakes, startling your aunt. “I didn’t see the stop
sign,” you say.
To the police officer, your utterance (“I didn’t see the stop sign”) is
an explanation for failing to stop and a subtle plea not to be cited for the
violation. To the friend, your utterance is an excuse for your tardiness and a
claim that it was neither intended nor entirely your fault. To your aunt, the
same sentence (an untruthful one in this case) is uttered as an apology for
having frightened her. She recognizes your intention to apologize and says,
“It’s all right. But please be careful.” The linguistic meaning of the sentence
I didn’t see the stop sign is the same in all three cases, but uttering it in these
different contexts serves different purposes, conveys distinct messages, and
does different things.
Language in Use
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 302
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 302 4/1/11 19:17:41
4/1/11 19:17:41
Sentence Structure and the Function of Utterances  303
Traditional grammar books say that declarative sentences make statements (It’s
raining), imperative sentences issue directives (Close the door), and interrogative
sentences ask questions (What time is it?). That analysis is oversimplified, even
misleading. Consider the sentence, Can you shut the window? Taken literally,
its interrogative structure asks a question about the addressee’s ability to shut a
particular window. If asked this question by a roommate trying to study while
a college marching band practiced nearby, you would probably interpret it not
as a question about your abilities (and thus requiring a verbal response) but as
a request to close the window. (A request in question form is usually marked
in speech by the absence of voice raising and sometimes in writing by the
absence of a question mark: Would you please respond promptly.) Conversely,
the imperative structure Tell me your name again would normally be taken not
as a directive to do something but as a request for information.
Take another case: Suppose a knock is heard at the door, and Megan says
to Alex I wonder who’s at the door. If Megan believed Alex knew the answer,
this declarative sentence might be uttered as a request for information. Often,
though, it would be a polite request for Alex to open the door.
Finally, interrogative sentences can sometimes be used to make statements,
as in Suze’s reply to Eric’s question.
Eric: Is Amy pretty easy to get along with?
Suze: Do hens have teeth?
Suze’s question communicates an emphatically negative answer to Eric’s inquiry.
Two things are clear, then: (1) People often employ declarative, interrogative,
and imperative sentences for purposes other than making statements, asking
questions, and issuing commands, respectively; and (2) a pivotal element in the
interpretation of an utterance is the context in which it is uttered. Recall the
three faces of language use depicted in Chapter 1, showing context as the base of
a triangle linking meaning and expression.
You recognize that a sentence is a structured string of words carrying a
certain meaning. By contrast, an utterance is a sentence that is said, written, or
signed in a particular context by someone with a particular intention, by means
of which the speaker intends to create an effect on the addressee. Thus, as an
interrogative sentence, Can you close the window? may be said to carry the
meaning of a request for information (‘Are you able to close the window?’), but
as a contextualized utterance it would typically be a request for action (‘Please
shut the window’). Drawing the appropriate inferences from conversation is an
essential ingredient for interpreting utterances. To understand utterances, you
must be skilled at “reading between the lines,” and the skills you employ in
using and interpreting the sentences shaped by grammatical competence are part
of your communicative competence.
Sentence Structure and the Function
of Utterances
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 303
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 303 4/1/11 19:17:42
4/1/11 19:17:42
304 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
Besides what we accomplish through physical acts such as cooking, eating, bi-
cycling, gardening, or getting on a bus, we accomplish a great deal each day by
verbal acts. In face-to-face conversation, telephone calls, job application cover
letters, notes scribbled to a roommate, and a multitude of other speech events,
we perform verbal actions of different types. In fact, language is the principal
means we have to greet, compliment, and insult one another, to plead and flirt,
to seek and supply information, and to accomplish hundreds of other tasks in
a typical day. Actions that are carried out through language are called speech
acts, and, as noted in Chapter 8, a surprisingly large number of reports in news-
papers are reports of speech acts.
Try It Yourself Which headlines report speech acts and which
report physical acts:
Fight Brews at FCC CSC Awarded Contract
Judge Limits Skid Row Sweeps Winds Wreak Havoc
Smuggling Suspects Acquitted POW Rescued from Captors
Tut’s Chariot Arrives in Times Square F.B.I. Challenges Use of Seal
Two Convicted in Kennedy Airport Plot Woods Denies Taking Drugs
Types of Speech Act
Among the various kinds of speech act, six have received particular
attention:
1. Representatives represent a state of affairs: assertions, statements, claims,
hypotheses, descriptions, suggestions. Representatives can generally be
characterized as true or false.
2. Commissives commit a speaker to a course of action: promises, pledges,
threats, vows.
3. Directives are intended to get the addressee to carry out an action: commands,
requests, challenges, invitations, entreaties, dares.
4. Declarations bring about the state of affairs they name: blessings, hirings,
firings, baptisms, arrests, marryings, declaring mistrials.
5. Expressives indicate the speaker’s psychological state or attitude: greetings,
apologies, congratulations, condolences, thanksgivings.
6. Verdictives make assessments or judgments: ranking, assessing, appraising,
condoning. Because some verdictives (such as calling a baseball player “out”)
combine the characteristics of declarations and representatives, these are
sometimes called representational declarations.
Speech Acts
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 304
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 304 4/1/11 19:17:42
4/1/11 19:17:42
Speech Acts 305
Locutions and Illocutions
Every speech act has several principal components, two of which directly concern
us here: the utterance itself and the intention of the speaker in making it. First,
every utterance is represented by a sentence with a grammatical structure and a
linguistic meaning; this is the locution. Second, speakers have some intention in
uttering the locution, and what they intend to accomplish is called the illocution.
(A third component of a speech act—one we do not discuss at length—is the
effect of the act on the hearer; this is the perlocution, or the “uptake.”)
Consider the utterance, Can you shut the window? Like all utterances, it can
be viewed as comprising a locution and an illocution. The locution is a yes/no
question about the addressee’s ability to close a particular window; as such,
convention would require an answer of yes or no. Let’s assume that the speaker’s
intention (the illocution) is to request the addressee to shut the window; as
such, convention would enable the addressee to recognize the structural ques-
tion as a request for action and to comply or not. In discussions of speech acts, it
is common for the illocutionary act itself to be called the speech act; thus prom-
ises, assertions, threats, invitations, and so on are all speech acts.
Distinguishing Among Speech Acts
How do people distinguish among different types of speech acts? How do we
know whether a locution such as Do you have the time? is a yes/no question (Do
you have the time [to help me]?) or a request for information about the time
of day? To put the matter in more technical terms, given that a locution can
serve many functions, how do addressees understand the illocutionary force of
a speaker’s utterance? The answer of course is “context.” But how do people
interpret context accurately?
We begin our analysis by distinguishing between two broad types of speech
act. Compare the following two utterances:
1. I now pronounce you husband and wife.
2. It is going to be a very windy day.
In the appropriate context, the first utterance creates a new relationship be-
tween two individuals; it is a declaration that effectuates a marriage. The sec-
ond utterance is a simple statement or representation of a state of affairs. As any
weather forecaster will attest, it will have no effect on the weather. As you saw
earlier, utterances such as sentence 2 make assertions or state opinions and are
representatives. Utterances such as sentence 1 change the state of things and are
declarations; they provide a striking illustration of how language in use is a form
of action. Children exposed to fantastical declarations such as Abracadabra, I
change you into a frog! eventually learn that real-life objects are more recalci-
trant than fairy-tale objects, but all speakers come to recognize a verbal power
over certain aspects of life, especially with respect to social relationships.
With the utterance I now pronounce you husband and wife, the nature of the
social relationship between two people can be profoundly altered. Similarly, the
utterance You’re under arrest! can have consequences for one’s social freedom,
as can Case dismissed. An umpire can change the outcome of a baseball game
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 305
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 305 4/1/11 19:17:42
4/1/11 19:17:42
306 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
with a simple declaration like Safe! or Strike three! Typically, to be effective,
declarations of this type must be uttered by a specially designated person. If
called by a nondesignated individual—a fan in the stands, for example—Out!
would be a verdictive, not a declaration. Indeed, a declaration by a single
designated umpire will override the opposite call by an entire stadium of fans.
Appropriateness Conditions and Successful Declarations
The efficacy of any declaration depends on well-established conventions. I now
pronounce you husband and wife can bind two individuals in marriage, but only
if several conditions are satisfied: the setting must be a wedding ceremony and
the utterance made at the appropriate moment; the speaker must be a desig-
nated officiator approved to marry others (minister, rabbi, justice of the peace)
and must intend to officiate at a marriage; the two individuals must be legally
eligible to marry each other; and they must intend to become spouses. Finally,
of course, the words themselves must be uttered. If any condition is not satis-
fied, the utterance of the words will be ineffectual as a performative speech act—
one whose words effectuate the act. Made on a Hollywood movie set by an actor
in the role of a pastor and addressed to two actors playing characters about to
marry, the utterance may help secure an Academy Award, but it will not effec-
tuate a marriage.
The conventions that regulate the conditions under which an utterance serves
as a particular speech act—as a marriage, promise, arrest, invitation—have been
called appropriateness conditions by philosopher John Searle, and they can
be classified into four categories.
1. Propositional content condition requires merely that the words of the
sentence be conventionally associated with the intended speech act and
convey the content of the act. The locution must exhibit conventionally
acceptable words for effecting the particular speech act: Is it raining out?,
I now pronounce you husband and wife, You’re under arrest, I promise to . . . ,
I swear . . . .
2. Preparatory condition requires a conventionally recognized context in which
the speech act is embedded. In a marriage, the situation must be a genuine
wedding ceremony (however informal) at which two people intend to ex-
change vows in the presence of a witness.
3. Sincerity condition requires the speaker to be sincere in uttering the declara-
tion. At a wedding, the speaker must intend that the marriage words effectuate
a marriage; otherwise, the sincerity condition will be violated and the speech
act will not be successful.
4. Essential condition requires that the involved parties all intend the result; for
example, in a wedding ceremony, the participants must intend by the utter-
ance of the words I now pronounce you husband and wife to create a marriage
bond.
Successful Promises Now consider the commissive, I promise to help you with
your math tonight. In order for such an utterance to be successful, it must be
recognizable as a promise; in addition, the preparatory, sincerity, and essential
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 306
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 306 4/1/11 19:17:42
4/1/11 19:17:42
The Cooperative Principle 307
conditions must be met. In the propositional content condition, the speaker
must use the conventional term promise to state the intention of helping the
addressee. The preparatory condition requires that speaker and hearer are sane
and responsible, that the speaker believes he or she is able to help with the
math, and that the addressee wishes to have help. The preparatory condition
would be violated if, for example, the speaker is knowingly not available or
unable to do the math himself or herself, or if the participants were reading
the script of a movie in which the utterance appears. If the speaker knew that
the hearer did not want help, the promise would not succeed. For the sincerity
condition to hold, the speaker must sincerely intend to help the addressee. This
condition would be violated (and the promise formula abused) if the speaker
had no such intention. Finally, the essential condition of a promise is that the
speaker intends by the utterance to place himself or herself under an obligation
to provide some help to the hearer. These four appropriateness conditions de-
fine a successful promise.
Successful Requests and Other Speech Acts Appropriateness conditions are use-
ful in describing not only declarations and commissives but all other types of
speech acts. In a typical request (Please pass me the salt), the content of the utter-
ance must identify the act requested of the hearer (passing the salt), and its form
must be a conventionally recognized one for making requests. The preparatory
condition includes the speaker’s beliefs that the addressee is capable of passing the
salt and that, had the speaker not asked the addressee to pass it, he or she would
not have ventured to do so. The sincerity condition requires that the speaker genu-
inely desires the hearer to pass the salt. Finally the essential condition is that the
speaker intends by the utterance to get the hearer to pass the salt.
The principles that govern the interpretation of utterances are diverse and com-
plex, and they differ somewhat from culture to culture. Even within a single
culture, they are so complex that we may wonder how languages succeed at
communication as well as they do. The principles that we examine in this sec-
tion, however commonsensical they may seem to Western readers, are by no
means universal; as you’ll see later, what seems commonsense to one group may
not be commonsense to all groups.
Despite occasional misinterpretations, people in most situations manage to
understand utterances essentially as they were intended. The reason is that,
without cause to expect otherwise, interlocutors normally trust that they and
their conversational partners are honoring the same interpretive conventions.
Hearers assume simply that speakers have honored the conventions of
interpretation in constructing their utterances. Speakers, on the other hand, must
make a twofold assumption: not only that hearers will themselves be guided by
the conventions, but also that hearers will trust speakers to have honored those
conventions in constructing their utterances. There is an unspoken pact that
people will cooperate in communicating with each other, and speakers rely on
this cooperation to make conversation efficient.
The Cooperative Principle
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 307
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 307 4/1/11 19:17:43
4/1/11 19:17:43
308 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
The cooperative principle, as enunciated by philosopher H. Paul Grice, is
as follows:
Make your conversational contribution such as is required, at the stage at which it
occurs, by the accepted purpose or direction of the talk exchange in which you are
engaged.
This pact of cooperation touches on four areas of communication, each of which
can be described as a maxim, or general principle.
Maxim of Quantity
First, speakers are expected to give as much information as is necessary for
their interlocutors to understand their utterances but to give no more than
is necessary. If you ask an acquaintance whether he has any pets and he an-
swers, I have two cats, it is the maxim of quantity that permits you to assume
he has no other pets. The conversational implication of such a reply is ‘I have
two (and only two) cats (and no other pets).’ Notice that I have two cats would
be true even if the speaker had six cats or six cats, two dogs, and a llama. But
if he had such other pets, you would have reason to feel deceived. While his
reply was not false as far as it went, your culturally defined expectation that
relevant information will not be concealed would have been violated. In most
Western cultures (but not in all cultures), listeners expect speakers to abide
by this maxim, and—equally important—speakers know that hearers believe
them to be abiding by it. It is this unspoken cooperation that creates conver-
sational implicatures.
To take another example, suppose you asked a couple painting their house
what color they had chosen for the living room, and one of them replied:
The walls will be an eggshell white to contrast with the black sofa and the Regency
armchair I inherited from my grandmother. Bless her soul, she passed away last year
after a lengthy marriage to my grandfather, who never appreciated grandmother’s
love of the performing arts—or the visual arts, for that matter. Then the trim will
be peach except near the door, which our consultant said should be salmon so it
doesn’t clash with the black and red Picasso print we brought back from Spain when
we vacationed there in, uh, let’s see, I think it was 2008. Or was it 2009? I forget,
actually. Gosh! time flies, doesn’t it? And the stairway leading to the bedrooms will
be a pale yellow, which is my favorite color.
In providing too much information, far more than was sought or expected,
the speaker is as uncooperative as the man who withheld information about
his pets. The maxim of quantity provides that, in normal circumstances,
speakers say just enough, that they supply no less information—and no
more—than is necessary for the purpose of the communication: Be appropri-
ately informative.
Society stigmatizes individuals who habitually violate the maxim of
quantity; those who give too much information are described as “never
shutting up” or “always telling everyone their life story,” while those who
habitually fail to provide enough information are branded sullen, secretive, or
uncommunicative.
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 308
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 308 4/1/11 19:17:43
4/1/11 19:17:43
The Cooperative Principle 309
Maxim of Relevance
The second maxim directs speakers to organize their utterances in such a way
that they are relevant to the ongoing context: Be relevant at the time of the
utterance. The following interaction illustrates a violation of this maxim.
Zach: How are you and Zora getting along?
Zane: There’s a great movie on HBO Thursday night.
On its face, Zane’s reply seems unrelated to what Zach has asked; if so, it
would violate the maxim of relevance. Owing to the maxim of relevance, when
someone produces an apparently irrelevant utterance, hearers typically strive
to understand how it might be relevant (as a joke, perhaps, or an indication
of displeasure with the direction of the conversation and a desire to change
it). Chronic violations of this maxim are characteristic of schizophrenics, whose
sense of “context” differs radically from that of other people.
Maxim of Manner
Third, people follow a set of miscellaneous rules that are grouped under the
maxim of manner. Summarized by the directive Be orderly and clear, this maxim
dictates that speakers and writers avoid ambiguity and obscurity and be orderly
in their utterances. In the following example, the maxim of manner is violated
with respect to orderliness.
A birthday cake should have icing; use unbleached flour and sugar in the cake; bake
it for one hour; preheat the oven to 325 degrees; and beat in three fresh eggs.
This recipe is odd for the simple reason that English speakers normally follow a
chronological order of events in describing a process such as baking.
Orderliness is dictated not solely by the order of events: in any language
there are rules that dictate a “natural” order of details in a description. Because
in American English more general details usually precede more specific ones,
when a speaker violates this rule the result appears odd, as in the example
below, where sentences have been numbered.
(1) My hometown has five shopping malls. (2) It is the county seat. (3) My father
and my mother were both born there. (4) My hometown is a midwestern town of
105,000 inhabitants, situated in the middle of the Corn Belt. (5) I was brought up
there until I was 13 years old.
As a third example, consider the utterance Ted died and was hit by lightning.
If it was the lightning that killed Ted, the maxim of manner has been violated
here. Although in logic and joins
clauses whose time reference is not
relevant (thus, She studied chemistry
and she studied biology is logically
equivalent to She studied biology and she
studied chemistry), the maxim of manner
dictates that an utterance such as They
had a baby and got married has different
Try It Yourself In accordance with the
maxim of manner (and placing more general
details before more speciﬁc ones), what would be a
better order for sentences (1)–(5) just above?
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 309
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 309 4/1/11 19:17:43
4/1/11 19:17:43
310 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
conversational implications from those in the utterance They got married and
had a baby. The maxim of manner in this instance suggests that the sequence
of expressions reflects the sequence of events or is irrelevant to an appropriate
interpretation. Of course, English and other languages provide ways around
misinterpretation: They had a baby before they got married; First they had a baby
and then they got married; They got married after they had a baby; and so on.
Maxim of Quality
The fourth general principle governing norms of language interpretation is the
maxim of quality: Be truthful. Speakers and writers are expected to say only
what they believe to be true and to have evidence for what they say. Again, the
other side of the coin is that speakers are aware of this expectation; they know
that hearers expect them to honor the maxim of quality. Without the maxim
of quality, the other maxims are of little value or interest. Whether brief or
lengthy, relevant or irrelevant, orderly or disorderly, all lies are false. Still, it
should be noted that the maxim of quality applies principally to assertions and
certain other representative speech acts. Expressives and directives can hardly
be judged true or false in the same sense.
It is useful to reflect further on the maxim of quality. On the one hand, it is
this maxim that constrains interlocutors to tell the truth and to have evidence
for their statements. Ironically, on the other hand, it is this maxim that makes
lying possible. Without the maxim of quality, speakers would have no reason to
expect hearers to take their utterances as true, and without the assumption that
one’s interlocutors assume one to be telling the truth, it would be impossible to
tell a lie. Lying requires that speakers are expected to be telling the truth.
It is no secret that people sometimes violate the maxims of the cooperative prin-
ciple. Certainly not all speakers are completely truthful; others have not observed
that efficiency is the desired Western norm in conversational interaction. More in-
terestingly, speakers are sometimes forced by cultural norms or other external fac-
tors to violate a maxim. For example, irrespective of your aesthetic judgment, you
may feel constrained to say What a lovely painting! to a host who is manifestly proud
of a newly purchased artwork. The need to adhere to social conventions of polite-
ness sometimes invites people to violate maxims of the cooperative principle.
Indirect Speech Acts
As mentioned earlier, interrogative structures can be used to make polite re-
quests for action, imperative structures can be used to ask for information, and
so on. Such uses of a structure with a supposed meaning to accomplish a dif-
ferent task frequently play a role in ordinary interaction, as in this exchange
between colleagues who have stayed at the office after dark.
Violations of the Cooperative Principle
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 310
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 310 4/1/11 19:17:43
4/1/11 19:17:43
Violations of the Cooperative Principle 311
Kayla: Is the boss in?
Ryan: The light’s on in her office.
Kayla: Oh, thanks.
Ryan’s answer makes no apparent reference to the information Kayla is seeking
and would thus appear to violate the maxim of relevance. Yet Kayla is satisfied
with the answer. Recognizing that the literal interpretation of Ryan’s reply
violates the maxim of relevance but assuming that as a cooperative interlocutor
Ryan is being relevant, Kayla seeks an indirect interpretation. To help her, she
knows certain facts about the boss’s habits: she works in her own office, doesn’t
work in the dark, and isn’t in the habit of leaving the light on when gone for
the day. Relying on this information, Kayla infers an interpretation from Ryan’s
utterance: Ryan believes the boss is in.
Ryan’s reply is an example of an indirect speech act—one that involves an
apparent violation of the cooperative principle but is in fact indirectly coopera-
tive. For example, an indirect speech act can be based on an apparent violation
of the maxim of quality. When we describe a friend as someone who never parts
with a dime, we don’t mean it literally; we are exaggerating. By exaggerating
the information, we may seem to flout the maxim of quality. But listeners usu-
ally appreciate that the statement should not be interpreted literally and make
an appropriate adjustment in their interpretation. Similarly, we may exclaim
in front of the Willis Tower in Chicago, That’s an awfully small building! This
utterance appears to violate the maxim of quality in that we are expressing an
evaluation that is manifestly false. But speakers readily spot the irony of such
utterances and take them to be indirect speech acts intended to convey an op-
posite meaning.
Characteristics of Indirect Speech Acts From these examples, we can identify
four characteristics of indirect speech acts:
1. Indirect speech acts violate at least one maxim of the cooperative principle.
2. The literal meaning of the locution of an indirect speech act differs from its
intended meaning.
3. Hearers and readers identify indirect speech acts by noticing that an utterance
has characteristic 1 (it violates a maxim) and by assuming that the interlocu-
tor is following the cooperative principle.
4. As soon as hearers and readers have identified an indirect speech act, they
identify its intended meaning with the help of knowledge of the context and of
the world.
Thus, to interpret indirect speech acts, hearers use the maxims to sort out the
discrepancy between the literal meaning of the utterance and an appropriate
interpretation for the context in which it is uttered.
Indirect Speech Acts and Shared Knowledge One prerequisite for a successful
indirect speech act is that interactors share sufficient background about the
context of the interaction, about each other and their society, and about the
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 311
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 311 4/1/11 19:17:43
4/1/11 19:17:43
312 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
world in general. If Jacob asks Emma
Have you finished your sociology paper?
and she replies as in either B or Bˈ be-
low, Jacob will certainly recognize her
answer as an indirect speech act. But
whether or not he can interpret it will
depend on his knowledge of the world.
A. Jacob: Have you finished your
sociology paper?
B. Emma: Is Rome in Spain?
Bˈ. Emma: Is the Pope Catholic?
Using and understanding indirect speech acts requires familiarity with both
language and society. To cite an example from another culture, when speak-
ers of the Polynesian language Tuvaluan want to comment on the fact that a
particular person is in the habit of talking about himself, they may say koo
tagi te tuli ki tena igoa ‘The plover bird is singing its own name.’ The expres-
sion derives from the fact that the plover bird’s cry sounds like a very sharp
“tuuuuuliiiii,” from which speakers of Tuvaluan have created the word tuli
to refer to the bird itself. Thus the expression has become an indirect way of
criticizing the trait of singing one’s own praises. In order to interpret the ut-
terance as an indirect speech act, one must be familiar not only with the plo-
ver bird’s cry and the fact that it resembles the bird’s name but also with the
fact that Tuvaluans view people who talk about themselves as being similar
to a bird “singing its own name.” Clearly, considerable background informa-
tion about language, culture, and environment is needed to interpret indirect
speech acts.
Indirect speech acts appear to be a complicated way of communicating. Not
only must you spot them, but you must then go through a complex reason-
ing process to interpret them. One might think it would be more efficient to
communicate directly. The fact is, though, that indirect speech acts have uses
besides asking and answering questions, criticizing others, and so on. They
sometimes add humor and sometimes show politeness. Emma’s indirect reply
(Is Rome in Spain?) to Jacob’s question suggests ‘Don’t be ridiculous; of course
I’m not done.’ By contrast, the alternative reply (Is the Pope Catholic?) would
suggest ‘You know I always get my papers done on time!’ Questions such as
Can you shut the window? are perceived as more polite and less intrusive and
abrasive than a command such as Shut the window! One message that indirect
speech acts convey is, ‘I am being polite toward you.’ Indirect speech acts are
thus an efficient tool of communication: they can convey two or more mes-
sages simultaneously.
Politeness
Try It Yourself In this brief exchange,
what name would you give to the speech act
in A? In B? Does D represent a direct speech act or an
indirect one? What about A? Direct or indirect?
A. Anna: Who ate the bread I made yesterday?
B. Juan: With the raisins?
C. Anna: Yeah.
D. Juan: Did you ask Raul?
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 312
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 312 4/1/11 19:17:43
4/1/11 19:17:43
Speech Events 313
Respecting Independence and Showing Involvement
There are two basic aspects to being polite. The first rests on the fact that human
beings respect one another’s privacy, independence, and physical space. We avoid
intruding on other people’s lives; we try not to be overly inquisitive about their
activities; and we take care not to impose our presence on them. We respect their
independence and don’t intrude (sometimes called negative politeness). On the
other hand, when we let people know we enjoy their company, feel comfortable
with them, like something about their personality, or are interested in their well-
being, we show involvement (sometimes called positive politeness). While everyone
expects both independence and involvement, the first requires us to leave people
alone, while the second requires us to do the opposite. Fortunately, these compet-
ing needs usually arise in different contexts. When we shut ourselves in a room or
take a solitary walk on the beach, we affirm our right to independence. When we
attend a party, invite someone to dinner, or call friends on the telephone to check
up on them, we show involvement. Both are forms of politeness.
In conversation, interlocutors give one another messages about their needs
for independence and their wishes for involvement and also acknowledge one
another’s needs for both types of politeness. The expectation that others won’t
ask embarrassing questions about our personal lives stems from the need for
independence. By contrast, when you tell a friend about a personal problem
and expect sympathy, you are seeking involvement. Excusing yourself before
asking a stranger for the time acknowledges the stranger’s right to freedom
from intrusion. When we express the hope of meeting an interlocutor at a
later date (Let’s get together soon!), we acknowledge the interlocutor’s need for
involvement and sociability.
News broadcasts, public speeches, classroom lectures, religious sermons, and
conversations are speech events in which members of a community interact on
one or more topics, for a particular purpose, and with awareness of the social
relations among the interlocutors. “Speech” events need not involve speaking:
personal letters, shopping lists, office memos, birthday cards, and newspaper
editorials also count as speech events.
Conversation provides the matrix in which native languages are acquired,
and it stands out as the most frequent, most natural, and most representative of
verbal interactions. A person can spend a lifetime without writing a letter, com-
posing a poem, or debating public policy, but only in rare circumstances does
someone not have frequent conversation with friends and companions. Conver-
sation is an everyday speech event. We engage in it for entertainment (gos-
siping, passing the time, affirming social bonds) and for accomplishing work
(getting help with studies, renting an apartment, ordering a meal at a restau-
rant). Whatever its purpose, conversation is our most basic verbal interaction.
Although lovers in movies can conduct heart-to-heart conversations with
their backs to each other, conversation usually involves individuals facing
Speech Events
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 313
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 313 4/1/11 19:17:44
4/1/11 19:17:44
314 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
each other and taking turns at speaking. They neither talk simultaneously nor
let the conversation lag. In some societies, even with several conversational-
ists in a single conversation, there are only tenths of a second between turns
and extremely little overlap in speaking. At the beginning of a conversation,
people go through certain rituals, greeting one another or commenting about
the weather. Likewise, at the end of a conversation, people don’t simply turn
their backs and walk away; they take care that all participants have finished
what they wanted to say and only then utter something like “I have to run”
or “Take care.” Throughout the entire interaction, conversationalists maintain
a certain level of orderliness—taking turns, not interrupting one another too
often, and following certain other highly structured but implicit guidelines for
conversation.
These guidelines can be considered norms of conduct that govern how con-
versationalists comport themselves. Though it is tempting to think of relaxed
conversation as essentially free of rules or constraints, the fact is that many
rules are operating, and the unconscious recognition of these rules helps iden-
tify particular interactions as conversations.
If it seems surprising that casual conversation should be organized by rules,
the reason is that, as in most speech events, more attention is paid to content
than to organization; we take the organization of conversations for granted.
A conversation can be viewed as a series of speech acts—greetings, inquiries,
congratulations, comments, invitations, requests, refusals, accusations, denials,
promises, farewells. To accomplish the work of these speech acts, some
organization is essential: we take turns at speaking, answer questions, mark
the beginning and end of a conversation, and make corrections when they are
needed. To accomplish such work expeditiously, interlocutors could give one
another traffic directions.
Okay, now it’s your turn to speak.
I just asked you a question; now you should answer it, and you should do so
right away.
If you have anything else to add before we close this conversation, do it now
because I am leaving in a minute.
Such instructions would be inefficient, however, and would deflect attention
from the content. In unusual circumstances, conversationalists do invoke the
rules (Would you please stop interrupting? or Well, say something!), but invoking
the rules underscores the fact that they have been violated and can itself seem
impolite. Conversations are usually organized covertly, and the organizational
principles provide a discreet interactional framework.
The covert architecture of conversation must achieve the following: organize
turns so that more than one person has a chance to speak and the turn taking
is orderly; allow interlocutors to anticipate what will happen next and, where
there is a choice, how the selection is to be decided; provide a way to repair
glitches and errors when they occur.
The Organization of Conversation
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 314
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 314 4/1/11 19:17:44
4/1/11 19:17:44
The Organization of Conversation 315
Turn Taking and Pausing
Participants must tacitly agree on who should speak when. Normally we take
turns at holding the floor and do so without overt negotiation. A useful way to
uncover the conventions of turn taking is to observe what happens when they
break down. When a participant fails to take the floor despite indications that it
is her turn, other speakers usually pause, and then someone else begins speak-
ing. In this example, Emily repeats her question, assuming that Sarah either
didn’t hear it or didn’t understand it the first time.
Emily: But he didn’t like it?
[pause]
Emily: [louder] So he didn’t like it?
Sarah: Oh, no. But then later, he said he did.
Turn-taking conventions are also violated when two people attempt to speak
simultaneously. In the next example, the beginning and end of the overlap are
marked with brackets.
Speaker 1: After John’s party we went to Ed’s house.
Speaker 2: So you—  so you—you—
[ ]
Speaker 3: What— what—time did you get there?
When such competition arises in casual conversation, a speaker may either
quickly relinquish the floor or turn up the volume and continue speaking. Both
silence and simultaneous speaking are serious problems in conversation, and
the turn-taking norms are designed to minimize them.
Different cultures have different degrees of tolerance for silence between
turns, overlaps in speaking, and competition among speakers. In the Inuit and
some other Native American cultures, for example, people sit comfortably to-
gether in silence. At the other extreme, in French and Argentine cultures several
conversationalists often talk simultaneously and interrupt each other more fre-
quently than Americans typically feel comfortable doing.
However much tolerance they may have for silences and overlaps, people
from all cultures appear to regulate turn taking in conversation in essentially
similar ways: Speakers signal when they wish to end their turn, either selecting
the next speaker or leaving the choice open; the next speaker takes the floor
by beginning to talk. These simple principles, which seem second nature to us,
regulate conversational turn taking very efficiently.
Turn-Taking Signals Speakers signal that their turn is about to end with ver-
bal and nonverbal cues. As turns commonly end in a complete sentence, the
completion of a sentence may signal the end of a turn. A sentence ending in
a tag question (isn’t it?, are you?) explicitly invites an interlocutor to take
the floor.
Speaker A: Pretty windy today, isn’t it?
Speaker B: Sure is!
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 315
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 315 4/1/11 19:17:44
4/1/11 19:17:44
316 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
The end of a turn may also be signaled by sharply raising or lowering the pitch
of your voice, or by drawling the last syllable of the final word of the turn. In
very informal conversations, one common cue is the phrase or something.
Speaker 1: So he was behaving as if he’d been hit by a truck, or something.
Speaker 2: Really?
Other expressions that can signal the completion of a turn are y’know, kinda, I
don’t know (or I dunno), and a trailing uhm. As with y’know, some of these can
also function within a turn to help the speaker keep the floor while thinking
about what to say next. Another way to signal the completion of a turn is to
pause and make no attempt to speak again.
Daniel: I really don’t think he should’ve said that at the meeting, particularly
in front of the whole group. It really was pretty insensitive.
[pause]
David: Yeah, I agree.
Of course, speakers often have to pause in the middle of a turn to think about
what to say next, to emphasize a point, or to catch a breath. To signal that a
speaker has finished a turn, the pause must be long enough, but “long enough”
differs from culture to culture.
Nonverbal as well as verbal signals can indicate the end of a turn. Although
in speaking the principal role of gestures is to support and stress what we say,
continuing our hand gestures lets our interlocutors know we have more to say.
Once we put our hands to rest, our fellow conversationalists may infer that we
are yielding the floor.
In a more subtle vein, eye gaze can help control floor holding and turn tak-
ing. In mainstream American society, speakers do not ordinarily stare at their
interlocutors; instead, their gaze goes back and forth between their listener
and another point in space, alternating quickly and almost imperceptibly. But
because listeners, on the other hand, usually fix their gaze on the speaker, a
speaker reaching the end of a turn can simply return her gaze to an interlocutor
and thereby signal her own turn to listen and the interlocutor’s to speak. In cul-
tures in which listeners look away while speakers stare, a speaker who wishes to
stop talking simply looks away. While eye gaze plays a supportive role in allo-
cating turns, the success of telephone conversations makes it clear that eye gaze
is not essential in the allocation of turns.
Getting the Floor In multiparty conversations, the speaker holding the floor can
select who will speak next, or the next speaker can select himself or herself. In
the first instance, the floor holder may signal the choice by addressing the next
speaker by name (What’ve you been up to, Helen?) or by turning toward the se-
lected next speaker. If the floor holder does not select the next speaker, anyone
may take the floor, often by beginning the turn at an accelerated pace so as to
block other potential claims for the floor.
When the floor holder does not select the next speaker, competition can
arise, as in the following example, in which overlaps are indicated with square
brackets.
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 316
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 316 4/1/11 19:17:44
4/1/11 19:17:44
The Organization of Conversation 317
Speaker 1: Who’s gonna be at Jake’s party on Saturday?
[pause]
Speaker 2: Todd to—
[ ]
Speaker 3: I don’t kn—
[pause]
Speaker 2: Todd told me—
[ ]
Speaker 3: I don’t know who’s—
[short pause]
Speaker 2: [to speaker 3] Go ahead!
Speaker 3: I don’t know who’s gonna be there, but I know it’ll be pretty
crowded.
Speaker 2: Yeah, that’s what I was gonna say. Todd told me a lotta people
would be there.
Friendly participants strive to resolve such competition quickly and smoothly.
Social inequality between conversationalists (boss and employee, parent
and child, doctor and patient) is often reflected in how often and when
participants claim the floor. In American work settings, superiors commonly
initiate conversations by asking a question and letting subordinates report. Thus
subordinates hold the floor for longer periods of time than superiors; subordinates
perform while superiors act as spectators. In some cultures, superiors talk while
subordinates listen.
Adjacency Pairs
One useful mechanism in the covert organization of conversation is that certain
turns have specific follow-up turns associated with them. Questions that request
information take answers. The reply to a greeting is usually also a greeting, to
an invitation an acceptance or refusal, and so on. Certain sequences of turns go
together, as in these adjacency pairs.
Request for Information and Providing Information
Adam: Where’s the milk I bought this morning?
Betty: On the counter.
Invitation and Acceptance
Alex: I’m having friends to dinner Saturday, and I’d really like you to come.
Bert: Sure!
Assessment and Disagreement
Angel: I don’t think Nick would play such a dirty trick on you.
Brit: Well, you obviously don’t know Nick very well.
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 317
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 317 4/1/11 19:17:44
4/1/11 19:17:44
318 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
Explanation and Concurrence
Mary: You can get them at Thrifty for about ten bucks.
Sylvia: Right.
Such adjacency pairs comprise two turns, one of which directly follows the
other. In a question/answer adjacency pair, the question is the first part, the
answer the second part. Here are other examples of adjacency pairs.
Request for a Favor and Granting
Guest: Can I use your phone?
Host: Sure.
Apology and Acceptance
Eli: Sorry to bother you this late at night.
Dave: No, that’s all right. What’s up?
Summons and Acknowledgment
Mark: Bill!
Bill: Yeah?
Structural Characteristics of Adjacency Pairs Three characteristics of adjacency
pairs can be noted.
1. They are contiguous. The two parts of an adjacency pair are contiguous and are
uttered by different speakers. A speaker who makes a statement before respond-
ing to a question that has been asked sounds strange (and can provoke frustra-
tion) because adjacency pairs are structured to be consecutive:
Adam: Where’s the milk I bought this morning?
Betty: They said on the radio the weather would clear up by noon. It’s
on the counter.
2. They are ordered. The two parts of an adjacency pair are ordered. Except
on TV game shows like Jeopardy, the answer to a question cannot precede
the question. Ordinarily, you cannot accept an invitation before it has been
offered, and an apology cannot be accepted before it is uttered (except
sarcastically).
3. They are matched. The first and second parts of an adjacency pair are ap-
propriately matched. Appropriate matching avoids odd exchanges such as the
following:
Kimi: Do you want more coffee?
Sasa: That’s all right. You’re not bothering me in the least!
Insertion Sequences Sometimes the requirement that the two parts of an adja-
cency pair be contiguous is violated in a socially recognized way.
Adam: Where’s the milk I bought this morning?
Betty: The skim milk?
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 318
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 318 4/1/11 19:17:44
4/1/11 19:17:44
The Organization of Conversation 319
Adam: Yeah.
Betty: On the counter.
In that exchange, in order to provide an accurate answer to Adam’s question,
Betty must first know the answer to another question, and to find out she initi-
ates an insertion sequence—an adjacency pair that interrupts the original one
and puts it “on hold.” The interaction thus consists of an adjacency pair embed-
ded within another one. Here’s another example from a telephone call.
Speaker 1: Can I speak to Mr. Armstrong?
Speaker 2: May I tell him who’s calling?
Speaker 1: Alberto Contador.
Speaker 2: Please hold, Mr. Contador.
Preferred and Dispreferred Responses Certain kinds of adjacency pairs are
marked by a preference for a particular type of second part. For example, re-
quests, assessments, and invitations have preferred and dispreferred answers.
Compare the following interactions, in which the first exchange displays a pre-
ferred second part and the second exchange a dispreferred one.
Fran: I really enjoyed the movie last night. Did you?
Frank: Yeah, it was pretty good.
Fran: I really enjoyed the movie last night. Did you?
Frank: Well, I thought it was a bit sappy, but I can see how you might’ve liked
parts of it.
The preferred second part is agreement to an assessment as well.
Fiona: I think Ralph’s a pretty good writer.
Kieran: I think so, too.
Fiona: I think Ralph’s a pretty good writer.
Kieran: Well, his imagery’s colorful, but apart from that I’m not sure he writes
well at all.
Dispreferred second parts tend to be preceded by a pause or begin with a
hesitation particle such as well or uh. Preferred second parts tend to follow the
first part without a pause and to consist of structurally simple utterances.
Michelle: Wanna meet for lunch tomorrow?
Michael: Sure!
Michelle: Wanna meet for lunch tomorrow?
Michael: Well, uh . . . tomorrow’s Tuesday, right? I told Lori I’d have lunch with
her. And it’s her birthday, so I can’t cancel. How about Wednesday?
In addition, even dispreferred second parts often begin with a token agreement
or acceptance, or with an expression of appreciation or apology, and character-
istically include an explanation.
Wade: Can I use your phone?
Frank: Oh, I’m sorry; I’m expecting a business call. Could you wait a bit?
main
adjacency
pair
insertion sequence
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 319
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 319 4/1/11 19:17:44
4/1/11 19:17:44
320 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
Opening Sequences
Conversations are opened in socially recognized ways. Before beginning their
first conversation of the day, conversationalists normally greet each other, as
when two office workers meet in the morning.
Jeﬀ: Mornin’, Stan!
Stan: Hi. How’s it goin’?
Jeﬀ: Oh, can’t complain, I guess. Ready for the meeting this afternoon?
Stan: Well, I don’t have much choice!
Greetings exemplify opening sequences, utterances that ease people into a con-
versation. They convey the message “I want to talk to you.”
Greetings are usually reserved for acquaintances who have not seen each other
for a while, or as opening sequences for longer conversations between strangers.
Some situations do not require a greeting, as with a stranger approaching in
the street to ask for the time: Excuse me, sir, do you know what time it is? The
expression Excuse me, sir serves as an opening sequence appropriate to the
context. Thus, greetings are not the only type of opening sequences.
Very few conversations do not begin with some type of opening sequence,
even as commonplace as the following:
Eric: Guess what.
Jo: What?
Eric: I broke a tooth.
Conversationalists also use opening sequences to announce that they are about
to invade the personal space of their interlocutors. Here, two friends are talking
on a park bench next to a stranger; at a pause in their conversation, the stranger
interjects:
Stranger: Excuse me, I didn’t mean to eavesdrop, but I couldn’t help over-
hearing you mention Dayton. I’m from Dayton.
[Conversation then goes on among the three people.]
It’s not surprising that opening sequences take the form of an apology in such
situations.
Finally, opening sequences may serve as a display of your voice to enable the
interlocutor to recognize who is speaking, especially at the beginning of tele-
phone conversations. Here, the phone has just rung in Alfred’s apartment.
Try It Yourself To an apology, a preferred second part is an
acceptance, while a dispreferred second part is a refusal to accept it.
For each of these speech acts, name one preferred and one dispreferred second
part: request for information; invitation to a party; greeting; accusation; oﬀer of
congratulations; assessment.
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 320
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 320 4/1/11 19:17:44
4/1/11 19:17:44
The Organization of Conversation 321
Alfred: Hello?
Helen: Hello!
Alfred: Oh, hi, Helen! How you doin’?
In the second turn, Helen displays her voice to enable Alfred to recognize her.
In the third turn, Alfred indicates his recognition and simultaneously provides
the second part of the greeting adjacency pair initiated in the previous turn.
Opening Sequences in Other Cultures In many cultures, the opening sequence
appropriate to a situation in which two people meet after not having met for a
while is an inquiry about the person’s health, as in the American greeting How
are you? Such inquiries are essentially formulaic and not meant literally. Indeed,
most speakers respond with a conventional upbeat formula (I’m fine or Fine,
thanks) even when feeling terrible. In other cultures, the conventional greeting
may take a different form. Traditionally, Mandarin Chinese conversationalists
ask Nǐ chī guo fàn le ma? ‘Have you eaten rice yet?’ When two people meet on
a road in Tonga, they ask Ko hoʔo ʔalu ki fe? ‘Where is your going directed to?’
These greetings are as formulaic as How are you?
In formal contexts, or when differences of social status exist between par-
ticipants, many cultures require a lengthy and formulaic opening sequence. In
Fiji, when an individual visits a village, a highly ceremonial introduction is con-
ducted before any other interaction takes place. This event involves speeches
that are regulated by a complex set of rules governing what must be said, and
when, and by whom. This ceremony serves the same purpose as opening se-
quences in other cultures.
Functions of Opening Sequences A final aspect of opening sequences in which
cultural differences are found is the relative importance of their various func-
tions. In telephone conversations in the United States, opening sequences serve
primarily to identify speakers and solicit the interlocutor’s attention. In France,
opening sequences for telephone conversations normally include an apology for
invading someone’s privacy.
Person called: Allô?
Person calling: Allô? Je suis désolé de vous déranger. Est-ce que j’peux parler
à Marie-France?
(‘Hello? I’m terribly sorry for disturbing you. Can I speak to
Marie-France?’)
In a U.S. telephone conversation, such an opening sequence is not customary.
Thus, in two relatively similar cultures, the role played by the opening sequence
in a telephone call is different. As a result, the French can find Americans intru-
sive and impolite on the telephone, while Americans may be puzzled by French
apologetic formulas, which they find pointless and exceedingly ceremonious.
Closing Sequences
Conversations must also be closed appropriately. A conversation can be
closed only when the participants have said everything they wanted to say.
Furthermore, a conversation must be closed before participants begin to feel
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 321
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 321 4/1/11 19:17:45
4/1/11 19:17:45
322 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
uncomfortable about having nothing more to say. As a result, conversationalists
carefully negotiate the timing of closings, seeking to give the impression of
wanting neither to rush away nor to linger on. These objectives are reflected
in the characteristics of the closing sequence. First of all, a closing sequence
includes a conclusion to the last topic covered in the conversation. In
conclusions, conversationalists often make arrangements to meet at a later time
or express the hope of so meeting. These arrangements may be genuine, as in
the first example here, or formulaic, as in the second.
Carl: Okay, it’s nice to see you again. I guess you’ll be at Kathy’s
party tonight.
Dana: Yeah, I’ll see you there.
Elizabeth: See you later!
Farouk: See ya!
The first step of a closing sequence helps ensure that no one has anything fur-
ther to say. This is accomplished by a simple exchange of short turns such as okay
or well. Typically, such preclosing sequences are accompanied by a series of pauses
between and within turns that decelerate the exchange and prepare for closing
down the interaction. In the following example, Dana takes the opportunity to
bring up one last topic, after which Carl initiates another closing sequence.
Carl: Okay, it’s nice to see you again. I guess you’ll be at Kathy’s party tonight.
Dana: Yeah, I’ll see you there.
Carl: Okay.
Dana: I hear there’s gonna be lots of people there.
Carl: Apparently she invited half the town.
Dana: Should be fun.
Carl: Yeah.
Dana: Okay.
Carl: Okay. See you there.
Dana: Later!
Sometimes, after a preclosing exchange, speakers refer to the original moti-
vation for the conversation. In a courtesy call to inquire about someone’s health,
the caller sometimes refers to this fact after the preclosing exchange.
Person calling: Well, I just wanted to see how you were doing after your
surgery.
Person called: Well, that was really nice of you.
If the purpose of a conversation was to seek a favor, this short exchange
might take place:
Alex: Well, listen, I really appreciate your doing this for me.
Beth: Forget it. I’m glad to be of help.
Finally, conversations close with a parting expression: bye; goodbye; see ya;
catch you later; later, dude.
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 322
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 322 4/1/11 19:17:45
4/1/11 19:17:45
The Organization of Conversation 323
A striking thing about closings is their deceptive simplicity. In fact, they are
complex. Participants exercise care not to give the impression that they are
rushing away or that they want to linger, and they try to ensure that everything
on the unwritten agenda of any participant has been touched on. However in-
formal and abbreviated they may be, closing sequences are characterized by a
good deal of negotiated activity.
Conversational Routines
Both openings and closings are more routinized than the core parts of conversa-
tions. Core parts are relatively less predictable; while people are trained from
childhood not to ask certain kinds of questions, they are also drilled on the
proper way to open and close conversations. Because of the routinized nature
of openings and closings, conversations can be begun and, equally important,
ended expeditiously.
Repairs
A repair takes place in conversation when a participant feels the need to cor-
rect herself or another speaker, to edit a previous utterance, or simply to restate
something, as in the following examples.
1. Speaker: I was going to Mary’s—uh, Sue’s house.
2. Speaker: And I went to the doctor’s to get a new—uh—a new whatchamacallit,
a new prescription, because my old one ran out.
3. Alex: Aren’t those roses pretty?
Kate: They’re pretty, but they’re tulips.
4. Winston: Todd came to visit us over the spring break.
David: What?
Winston: I said Todd was here over the spring break.
In 2, the trouble source is the fact that the speaker cannot find a word. In 4, David
initiates a repair because he has not heard or has not understood Winston’s
utterance. Conversationalists thus make repairs for a variety of reasons.
To initiate a repair is to signal that you have not understood or have mis-
heard an utterance, that a piece of information is incorrect, or that you are
having trouble finding a word. To resolve a repair, someone must repeat the
misunderstood or misheard utterance, correct the inaccurate information, or
supply the word. To initiate a repair, interlocutors may ask a question, as in
4 above; repeat part of the utterance to be repaired, as in 5 below; abruptly
stop speaking, as in 6; or, as in 1 above, use particles and expressions like uh,
I mean, or that is.
5. Speaker: I am sure— I am absolutely sure it was him I saw last night
prowling around.
6. Nelson: And here you have what’s called the—
[pause]
Juan: The carburetor?
Nelson: Yeah, that’s right, the carburetor.
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 323
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 323 4/1/11 19:17:45
4/1/11 19:17:45
324 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
Repairs can be initiated and re-
solved by the person who uttered the
words that need to be repaired or by
another conversationalist. There are
thus four possibilities: repairs that
are self-initiated and self-repaired;
repairs that are other-initiated and
self-repaired; repairs that are self-
initiated and other-repaired; and
repairs that are other-initiated and
other-repaired. Of these possibilities,
conversationalists show a strong pref-
erence for self-initiated self-repairs
(as in 1 and 2 above), which are least
disruptive to the conversation and to
the social relationship between the conversationalists. In general, conversa-
tionalists wait for clear signals of communicative distress before repairing
an utterance made by someone else. The least preferred pattern is for repairs
that are other-initiated and other-repaired (as in 3 above). Individuals in
the habit of both initiating and repairing utterances for others get branded
as poor conversationalists or know-it-alls (although such repairs seem not
uncommon among couples long familiar with one another).
Found in many cultures, these preference patterns reflect a widespread but
unspoken rule that all participants in a conversation among equals be given a
chance to say what they want to say by themselves. Conversationalists provide
assistance to others in initiating and resolving repairs only if no other option is
available.
Politeness: An Organizational Force in Conversation
Violating the turn-taking principles by interrupting or by failing to take turns
is considered impolite. Turning your back on interlocutors at the end of a con-
versation without going through a closing sequence is also stigmatized in the
conventions of politeness. Other aspects of politeness are more subtle but never-
theless play an important role in structuring conversation.
There are covert ways in which we communicate respect for independence
and involvement. When we expect interlocutors to allow us to both initiate and
resolve a repair ourselves, we are expecting them to respect our right to make a
contribution to the conversation without intrusion from others; that is, we are
asking them to respect our independence. Similarly, we recognize another per-
son’s need for independence when, instead of ending a conversation abruptly,
we initiate a preclosing exchange, affording our interlocutors a chance to say
something further before closing. In contrast, when we initiate a conversation
with a greeting, we convey concern about our addressee’s health and well-being,
thereby acknowledging the other’s need for involvement. Many of the principles
of conversational architecture can be explained in terms of politeness and the
recognition of the politeness needs of others.
Try It Yourself In this brief exchange,
identify the trouble source and the repair.
Then note which of the four possibilities the repair
represents: self-initiated, self-repaired; other-initiated,
self-repaired; self-initiated, other-repaired; other-
initiated, other-repaired.
Eric: She shows her this garden furniture, and
she says we got—
Sylvia: PATIO furniture!
Eric: Patio furniture.
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 324
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 324 4/1/11 19:17:45
4/1/11 19:17:45
Cross-Cultural Communication 325
When people of different cultures have different norms about what type of po-
liteness is required in a particular context, trouble can easily arise. We’ve de-
scribed how callers in France begin telephone conversations with an apology;
such apologies seldom form part of the opening sequence of an American tele-
phone conversation. Obviously, members of the two cultures view telephone
conversations differently: Americans generally see the act of calling as a sign of
involvement, while the French tend to view it as a potential intrusion.
As a consequence of such variability, people from different cultures often
misinterpret each other’s signals. In the conversations of Athabaskan Indians, a
pause of up to about one and a half seconds does not necessarily indicate the end
of a turn, and Athabaskans often pause that long within a turn. In contrast, most
European Americans consider a pause of more than one second sufficient to signal
the end of a turn (although there may be social variation). When Athabaskan
Indians and Euro-Americans interact with each other, the latter often misinterpret
the Athabaskans’ midturn pauses as end-of-turn signals and feel free to claim the
floor. From the Athabaskans’ perspective, the Euro-Americans’ claim of the floor
at this point constitutes an interruption. With the same situation occurring time
and again in interactions between the two groups, negative stereotypes arise.
Athabaskans find Euro-Americans rude, pushy, and uncontrollably talkative,
while Euro-Americans find Athabaskans conversationally uncooperative, sullen,
and incapable of carrying on a coherent conversation. Unwittingly carrying those
stereotypes into a classroom, Euro-American teachers may judge Athabaskan
students unresponsive or unintelligent because the teachers’ unspoken cultural
expectations are for students to speak up, interact, and be quick in their responses.
While these tend to be the actions of children in mainstream Euro-American
culture, Athabaskan children, honoring the norms of their own culture, tend not
to behave in that manner. Though most people are unaware of such subtle cross-
cultural differences, they can have profound social consequences.
Cross-Cultural Communication
As we saw in the previous chapter in this section,
pragmatics has not yet been thoroughly explored in
computational linguistics and corpus studies. It re-
mains necessary to create models of politeness, turn
taking, and the other phenomena discussed in this
chapter before many of the applications of computer
technology to speech will be mastered.
The building of corpora of written language has
proceeded more quickly than the compilation of spo-
ken corpora, and the reasons are obvious. Especially
in recent years, machine-readable texts initially pub-
lished as books, magazines, and newspapers have
been widely available, as is the Web. In addition,
scanners can eﬀectively transform
many older printed materials into
machine-readable text. Creating
electronic representations of transcribed spoken
language is quite a different matter. First of all, it
must be captured, on audio or video. Then it must be
transcribed—a challenging and expensive task, and
one partly dependent on the quality of the record-
ing and the degree of ambient noise in the original
environment.
Still, a substantial part of the British National Corpus
is based on speech. About one hundred volunteers
throughout Britain carried recorders in the course of
Computers, Speech Acts, and Conversation
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 325
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 325 4/1/11 19:17:45
4/1/11 19:17:45
326 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
several days’ ordinary activities, observing in a note-
book the conditions surrounding the conversations and
other exchanges recorded, such as the participants and
their relationships to one another, the physical setting
of the recorded speech, and so on. The recordings were
then transcribed in ordinary English spelling. We have
reported findings from the British National Corpus in
earlier “Computer” sections of this book (for example,
see the “conversation” category in Figure 8.1) and will
report other findings in later chapters. For American
speech, other corpora have been compiled, including
the American National Corpus and the Corpus of Con-
temporary American English (see the “Other Resources”
section in this chapter and the next chapter). ■
Summary
Utterances accomplish things such as asserting, promising, pleading, and
•
greeting. Actions accomplished through language are called speech acts.
That language is commonly used to perform actions is most clearly illustrated
•
by declarations such as You’re fired! or Case dismissed! Whether declarations
or not, all speech acts can be described with four appropriateness conditions
that identify aspects of or prerequisites for a successful speech act: the
content, the preparatory condition, the sincerity condition, and the essential
condition.
In most normal circumstances, language users are bound by an unspoken pact
•
that they adhere to and expect others to adhere to. This “cooperative principle”
consists of four maxims—quantity, quality, relevance, and manner.
On occasion, a speaker may flout a maxim to signal that the literal interpretation
•
of the utterance is not the intended one.
To encode and decode the intended meaning of indirect speech acts, people use
•
patterns of conversational implicature based on knowledge of their language,
their society, and the world around them.
Indirect speech acts convey more than one message and are commonly used for
•
politeness or humor.
Respecting other people’s needs for privacy demonstrates independence
•
politeness, while showing interest and displaying sympathy expresses
involvement politeness.
A speech event is a social activity in which language plays an important role.
•
Speech events are structured, and appropriate verbal and nonverbal behavior
•
characteristics of particular speech events can be described systematically.
Conversations are organized according to certain regulatory principles.
•
Turn taking is regulated by one set of norms.
•
Adjacency pairs are structured by a local set of organizational principles, and
•
many have preferred and dispreferred second parts.
Organizational principles shape conversational openings and closings.
•
The organization of repairs can be described with a set of rules that rank
•
different repair patterns in terms of preference. Repairs that are self-initiated
and self-made are favored.
At the root of many organizational principles in conversation is the need to
•
display independence politeness and involvement politeness to other people.
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 326
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 326 4/1/11 19:17:46
4/1/11 19:17:46
Exercises 327
Culture-specific norms determine when and where independence politeness and
•
involvement politeness behaviors are appropriate.
Because the organization of polite conversational behavior differs from culture
•
to culture, miscommunication of intent across cultures is common.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
Isabella
• ’s question. Every speech act has appropriateness conditions surrounding
it. Among those associated with the act of pronouncing two people married by
saying certain words is the intention of the two people to get married to one
another at that time. In the case of a play, the actors intend merely to depict a
wedding ceremony but not to marry. As a consequence, an essential condition
of a marriage pronouncement is lacking, and the utterance is ineffectual as a
marriage pronouncement.
Kimberly
• ’s complaint. Making a promise requires using the word promise, as
in, I promise to do the dishes if you’ll cook dinner. Without the word, there’s no
promise. (Of course, if someone asks, Do you promise? and the reply is Yes,
the reply would constitute a promise.) Pledges and expressed intentions don’t
require the word promise, so Tyler may have had good intentions, but he didn’t
make a promise.
Brandon
• ’s complaint. Brandon’s observation probably has less to do with Daniel
as an individual than with his French social practices. The French regard
telephoning people as intruding on them and may apologize for phoning and
take longer to get to the point than Americans expect. By contrast, Americans
regard calling a friend as showing involvement, being generally positive, and not
requiring apology. ■
Exercises
Based on English
9-1. Make a list of the headlines on the front page or home page of a daily news-
paper. Indicate which of the headlines report physical actions and which re-
port speech acts.
9-2. Observe a typical lecture meeting of one of your courses and identify the
characteristics that define it as a lecture (as distinct from an informal conver-
sation, workshop, seminar, or lab meeting). Identify characterizing features
of the areas listed below. To what extent is there room for variability in how
a lecture is conducted (depending, for example, on the personality of the par-
ticipants)? When does a lecture stop being a lecture?
a. Setting (physical setting, clothing, social identity of the participants, and
so on)
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 327
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 327 4/1/11 19:17:46
4/1/11 19:17:46
328 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
b. Nonverbal behavior of the participants (body movement, stance and posi-
tion with respect to each other, and so on)
c. Verbal behavior of the participants (turn taking, openings, closings, as-
signment of pair parts among participants, and so on)
d. Topic (what is appropriate to talk about? to what extent can this be devi-
ated from? and so on)
9-3. Make a tape recording of the first minute of a radio interview. Transcribe
what is said during that first minute in as much detail as possible (indicating,
for example, who talks, when pauses occur, and what hesitations occur).
Label each turn as to its illocutionary force (greeting, inquiry, compliment,
and so on). Then describe in detail the strategies used in opening the radio
interview. Illustrate your description with specific examples taken from your
transcript.
9-4. Make a tape recording of the first minute of a broadcast of the evening news
on radio or television. Transcribe what is said during that minute in as much
detail as possible. Then answer the following questions, citing specific illus-
trations from your transcript.
a. What effect do radio or television newscasters try to achieve initially?
b. How is this accomplished? Describe at least two strategies, using specific
illustrations.
c. Suppose you played your tape recording to friends without identifying
what was taped. Exactly what features would help them recognize it as a
recording of the evening news? Cite three specific telltale characteristics
other than content.
d. Which of the news items are reports of physical actions and which are re-
ports of speech acts?
9-5. Observe the following interaction between two people who are working at
nearby desks.
Amy: Zach?
Zach: Yeah?
Amy: Do you have a ruler?
Amy’s first turn is an opening sequence. What does it signal, and what does
Zach’s response indicate? Why did Amy not open merely with Do you have a
ruler?
9-6. The next time you talk on the telephone to a friend, observe the distinctive
characteristics of talk over the telephone, and take notes immediately after
you hang up. Identify several ways in which a telephone conversation differs
from a face-to-face conversation. Try to re-create specific linguistic examples
from your telephone conversation to illustrate your points.
9-7. Consider the following excerpts, each of which contains a repair. For each
excerpt, determine whether the repair is (a) self-initiated and self-repaired,
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 328
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 328 4/1/11 19:17:47
4/1/11 19:17:47
Exercises 329
(b) self-initiated and other-repaired, (c) other-initiated and self-repaired, or
(d) other-initiated and other-repaired.
a. Jan: What’s the sales tax in this state?
James: Seven cents on the dollar.
Patricia: Seven cents on the dollar? You mean eight and a half cents.
James: Oh, yeah, eight and a half cents.
b. Anne: There’s a party at Rod’s tonight. Wanna go?
Sam: Rod’s? Rod’s outta town!
Anne: I mean Rick’s.
c. Peter: And then he comes along an’ tells me he’s droppin’ his ac-
counting cl— uh, his economics class.
Frank: Yeah, he told me the same thing the next mornin’.
d. Rick: His dog’s been sick since last month an’ he won’t be able to go
to the wedding ’cause he’s gotta take care of it.
Alice: Well, his dog’s been sick for at least two months. So it’s nothin’
new.
e. Sam: Do you remember the names of all their kids? The oldest one
is Daniel, the girl’s Priscilla, then there’s another girl—What’s
her name again?
Regie: Susie, I think.
Sam: Yeah, Susie, that’s it.
f. Ellie: What do they charge you for car insurance?
Ted: Two thousand bucks a year, but then there’s a three-hundred-
dollar deductible. Three hundred or one hundred—I can’t
remember.
Ellie: Probably one hundred, right?
Ted: Yeah, I think you’re right. One hundred sounds right.
g. Sarah: He’s been cookin’ all day for her birthday party.
Anne: Actually he’s been cooking for three days now.
h. Will: There wasn’t much I could do for her. She needed five thou-
sand bucks for tuition and I jus’ didn’t have it.
David: I thought it was four thousand.
Will: Yeah, four thousand, but I didn’t have that much.
9-8. Consider the following excerpts, all of which are prestructures initiating
conversation. Describe in detail the structure and the function of each pre-
structure using the terms turn (or turn taking), signal, adjacency pair, first part,
second part, and claiming the floor.
a. Larry: Guess what.
Lauren: What?
Larry: Pat’s coming tomorrow.
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 329
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 329 4/1/11 19:17:47
4/1/11 19:17:47
330 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
b. Tom: [reading the newspaper] I can’t believe this!
Fred: What?
Tom: Congress passed another new immigration law.
c. Ruth: [chuckles while reading a book]
Anne: What’re you chuckling about?
Ruth: This story—it’s so off the wall!
 9-9. Consider the following excerpt from a conversation among three friends.
 1) Cindy: Heard from Jill recently? She hasn’t written or called
in ages.
 2) Larry: Yeah, she sent me a postcard from England.
 3) Barb: From England?
 4) Larry: Uh, maybe it was from France, I can’t remember.
 5) Cindy: What’s she doin—
 6) Barb: No, I know it must’ve been from France ’cause she was
gonna stay there all year.
 7) Cindy: What’s she doin’ in France?
 8) Larry: Why are you asking about her?
 9) Cindy: I don’t know, I’ve just been thinkin’ about her.
10) Larry: She’s on some sort of exchange program. Studying French
or something.
11) Cindy: Sounds pretty nice to me.
12) Larry: Yeah. Well, I don’t know. She said she was tired of Europe
and wants to come home.
a. In the conversation above, how many turns does each interlocutor have?
b. Identify an example of each of the following in the conversation above:
turn-taking signal, claiming the floor, preferred response, dispreferred response,
repair, trouble source, initiation, and resolution.
c. Identify an adjacency pair in the conversation, giving the name of the first
part and second part.
9-10. Conversations in fiction and drama and those re-created in movies or on stage
often differ from ordinary everyday conversations. The following is an ex-
cerpt from a conversation in Isak Dinesen’s autobiographical novel Out of Af-
rica (New York: Random House, 1937).
“Do you know anything of book-keeping?” I asked him.
“No. Nothing at all,” he said, “I have always found it very difficult to
add two figures together.”
“Do you know about cattle at all?” I went on. “Cows?” he asked. “No,
no. I am afraid of cows.”
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 330
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 330 4/1/11 19:17:48
4/1/11 19:17:48
Exercises 331
“Can you drive a tractor, then?” I asked. Here a faint ray of hope
appeared on his face. “No,” he said, “but I think I could learn that.”
“Not on my tractor though,” I said, “but then tell me, Emmanuelson,
what have you even been doing? What are you in life?”
Emmanuelson drew himself up straight. “What am I?” he exclaimed.
“Why, I am an actor.”
I thought: Thank God, it is altogether outside my capacity to assist this
lost man in any practical way; the time has come for a general human con-
versation. “You are an actor?” I said, “that is a fine thing to be. And which
were your favourite parts when you were on the stage?”
“Oh I am a tragic actor,” said Emmanuelson, “my favourite parts were
that of Armand in ‘La Dame aux Camelias’ and of Oswald in ‘Ghosts.’”
On the basis of this example, analyze the differences between the organiza-
tion of conversations represented in writing and the organization of actual
conversations. Why do these differences exist?
9-11. The transcribed conversational excerpt below includes two adjacency pairs.
Provide the letter or letters of the turn(s) for each of these categories: (1)
insertion sequence, (2) first part of first adjacency pair, (3) second part of first
adjacency pair, (4) first part of second adjacency pair, (5) second part of second
adjacency pair. Next, match each of these speech acts to a turn that exemplifies
it: (6) clarification, (7) rejection, (8) proposal, (9) request for clarification.
A. Eric: Wanna watch Civil War tonight?
B. Nan: The Ken Burns series?
C. Eric: He made it with his brother.
D. Nan: Sorry. I’ve got an econ quiz tomorrow.
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
9-12. Below are two sets of turns from conversations among college students, most
spoken within a few months after graduating from high school. In utterances
(1) to (4), the highlighted word like is used in at least two distinct ways. Ana-
lyze (1)–(4) and characterize the two ways. In utterances (5) to (7), the word
all is highlighted. Characterize its function in these turns. Then imagine a dis-
cussion with your students in which you and they are analyzing a transcrip-
tion. One student reports that another teacher pokes fun at the use of like, and
another student chimes in that her father ridicules it, too. What points would
you make to indicate that these relatively new uses for like and all function in
conversation in ways that are similar to other, more traditional expressions?
With what words can like and all be compared? Discuss why these newer us-
ages are sometimes ridiculed.
1) Adam: I don’t want to break up with her like . . . this time.
Brent: Yeah don’t break up this time.
Break up like Thanksgiving or something.
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 331
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 331 4/1/11 19:17:48
4/1/11 19:17:48
332 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
2) Ben: So she called and was like,
I can’t believe you did this,
I can’t believe you did this.
I’m like—,
3) Ali: I was like,
I was like why,
why,
you know . . .
4) Rod: I was like all happy and stuff.
5) Jose: Wait. Why is she all bitchin’ at you first of all?
6) Jaime: I am all sitting here trying to read.
7) Danny: I was like all happy and stuff.
9-13. Your students are probably familiar with a version of the old adage that
claims, “Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt
me.” At a level appropriate for your students, draw up a lesson plan that
analyzes this saying in terms of the power of speech acts. You might consider
beginning the lesson by inquiring whether any students have ever been hurt
by what others have said to them or about them.
9-14. Call upon students of various cultural backgrounds to discuss their experience
calling and being called on the phone by members of other cultural groups.
Also discuss their attitudes toward telemarketing calls and how their attitudes
might reflect cultural values.
Other Resources
Internet
LISU Website: http://www.CengageBrain.com On the site for this text-
book (LISU), you’ll find an audio recording and transcription of a conversa-
tion among four university students about an outing to buy a birthday present.
In the conversation, from which a couple of modified examples appear within
this chapter, Eric and Sylvia (boyfriend and girlfriend) tell the Chia Pets story
to their friends Mary and Maria. The interaction illustrates several features of
conversation discussed in this chapter.
Corpus of Contemporary American English: http://www.
americancorpus.org Compiled by Mark Davies at Brigham Young University,
“COCA” contains significant quantities of American English speech and
writing, the latter in the categories of fiction, magazine, newspaper, and
academic. It groups its materials into five-year periods beginning in 1990,
with the most recent materials coming from the summer of 2010. The site
allows a variety of search types (including KWIC concordances—discussed
toward the end of Chapter 6) and provides guidance for several kinds of
research inquiries, with access free of cost.
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 332
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 332 4/1/11 19:17:48
4/1/11 19:17:48
Other Resources 333
Video
John J. Gumperz, T. C. Jupp, and C. Roberts. 1979.
• Crosstalk: A Study of Cross-
Cultural Communication (London: National Centre for Industrial Language Training and
BBC) A one-hour video illustrating and discussing miscommunication between East Indian
immigrants and bank clerks, librarians, and other institutional figures in London; a moving
demonstration of the painful difficulties that can arise from differing conversational norms
across cultural boundaries.
Suggestions for Further Reading
Diane Blakemore. 1992.
• Understanding Utterances: An Introduction to Pragmatics
(Oxford: Blackwell). A basic introduction; a natural follow-up to the contents of this
chapter.
Peter Grundy. 2008.
• Doing Pragmatics, 3rd ed. (London: Hodder Education). A basic
and clear introduction, with an effective conversational and interactive style, containing
a chapter on doing project work in pragmatics and others on politeness, speech acts, and
deixis (the last of which we treated in Chapter 6); examples mostly British.
Barbara Johnstone. 2008.
• Discourse Analysis, 2nd ed. (Malden, MA: Blackwell). Covering
material treated in the present chapter and Chapter 8. Well written, highly stimulating, and
including a wide range of critical analyses.
Jacob L. Mey. 2001.
• Pragmatics: An Introduction, 2nd ed. (Oxford: Blackwell). A thorough
and more advanced treatment than Grundy, containing chapters on speech acts, pragmatics
across cultures, and conversation analysis, as well as literary pragmatics.
Deborah Tannen. 1990.
• You Just Don’t Understand: Women and Men in Conversation
(New York: Ballantine). Accessible and highly popular best-seller discusses misunderstanding
between the sexes; also treats Gricean maxims very simply.
Deborah Tannen. 1994.
• Gender and Discourse (New York: Oxford University Press).
An accessible treatment of the background to Tannen’s You Just Don’t Understand.
Ronald Wardhaugh. 1985.
• How Conversation Works (New York: Blackwell). A well-
focused, basic, and accessible textbook.
Advanced Reading
The analysis of speech acts has been an enterprise chiefly of philosophers. Austin (2005) is a
set of 12 readable lectures laying out the nature of locutionary and illocutionary acts (as well
as perlocutionary acts). Grice (1975, 1989) formulates the cooperative principle and enumer-
ates the conversational maxims we’ve discussed. Searle (1976) discusses the classification of
speech acts and their syntax, while Searle (1975) lays out the structure of indirect speech acts.
Besides these primary sources, Levinson (1983) remains invaluable.
Profoundly differing from the philosophical traditions in their methodological approach,
the inductive studies of the conversation analysts are challenging to read: turn taking was first
analyzed systematically by Sacks et al. (1974), closings by Schegloff and Sacks (1973), and
repairs by Schegloff et al. (1977). More accessible for student readers are these treatments of
conversation analysis and language use in informal contexts: Levinson (1983) and Chapters 11
and 12 of Wardhaugh (2010).
The theoretical background to the study of speech events is presented in Goffman (1986;
original edition 1974) and Hymes (1974). Goffman (1981) presents interesting and entertaining
analyses of various speech events, including lectures and radio talk. Goodwin (1981) describes
how talk and gestures are integrated in conversation. The organization of conversation in the
workplace is investigated in Boden (1988). The characterization of communication between
subordinates and superordinates as spectator/performer or performer/spectator was proposed
by Bateson (2000), a new edition of a classic text, laying out the philosophical foundation
for the study of human communication. Cross-social and cross-cultural differences in the
organization of conversation are analyzed in Gumperz (1982a, 1982b), Blum-Kulka et al.
(1989), Trosborg (1995), and Scollon and Scollon (1981, 1995), from the last of which a few
examples appear in this chapter. Godard (1977) is an interesting study of Franco-American
differences in behavior on the telephone, and this and other aspects of French interaction are
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 333
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 333 4/1/11 19:17:49
4/1/11 19:17:49
334 Chapter 9 Speech Acts and Conversation
discussed in Chapter 10 of Ager (1990). Brown and Levinson (1987) and chapters of Levinson
(1983) and Wardhaugh (2010) discuss politeness. Drew and Heritage (1993) is a collection of
essays discussing interaction in institutional settings.
References
Ager, Dennis E. 1990. Sociolinguistics and Contemporary French (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press).
Austin, John. 2005. How to Do Things with Words, 2nd ed. (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press).
Bateson, Gregory. 2000. Steps to an Ecology of Mind: Collected Essays in Anthropology, Psychiatry,
Evolution, and Epistemology (Chicago: University of Chicago Press).
Blum-Kulka, Shoshana, Juliane House & Gabriele Kasper, eds. 1989. Cross-cultural Pragmatics:
Requests and Apologies (Norwood, NJ: Ablex).
Boden, Deirdre. 1988. The Business of Talk: Organizations in Action (Cambridge, UK: Polity).
Brown, Penelope & Stephen C. Levinson. 1987. Politeness: Some Universals in Language Usage
(Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Drew, Paul & John Heritage, eds. 1993. Talk at Work (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press).
Godard, Daniele. 1977. “Same Setting, Different Norms: Phone Call Beginnings in France and
the United States,” Language in Society 6:209–19.
Goffman, Erving. 1986. Frame Analysis: An Essay on the Organization of Experience [Repr. ed.,
with a foreword by Bennett Berger] (Boston: Northeastern University Press).
Goffman, Erving. 1981. Forms of Talk (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press).
Goodwin, Charles. 1981. Conversational Organization: Interaction between Speakers and Hearers
(New York: Academic).
Grice, H. Paul. 1975. “Logic and Conversation,” in Peter Cole & Jerry L. Morgan, eds., Syntax
and Semantics 3: Speech Acts (New York: Academic), pp. 41–58.
Gumperz, John J. 1982a. Discourse Strategies (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Gumperz, John J., ed. 1982b. Language and Social Identity (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press).
Hymes, Dell. 1974. Foundations in Sociolinguistics (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania
Press).
Levinson, Stephen C. 1983. Pragmatics (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Sacks, Harvey, Emanuel A. Schegloff & Gail Jefferson. 1974. “A Simplest Systematics for the
Organization of Turn-Taking in Conversation,” Language 50:696–735.
Schegloff, Emanuel A., Gail Jefferson & Harvey Sacks. 1977. “The Preference for Self-Correction
in the Organization of Repair in Conversation,” Language 53:361–82.
Schegloff, Emanuel A. & Harvey Sacks. 1973. “Opening Up Closings,” Semiotica 7:289–327.
Scollon, Ron & Suzanne B. K. Scollon. 1981. Narrative, Literacy and Face in Interethnic
Communication (Norwood, NJ: Ablex).
Scollon, Ron & Suzanne Wong Scollon. 1995. Intercultural Communication (Oxford: Blackwell).
Searle, John R. 1975. “Indirect Speech Acts,” in Peter Cole & Jerry L. Morgan, eds. Syntax and
Semantics 3: Speech Acts (New York: Academic), pp. 59–82.
Searle, John R. 1976. “A Classification of Illocutionary Acts,” Language in Society 5:1–23.
Trosborg, Anna. 1995. Interlanguage Pragmatics: Requests, Complaints and Apologies (Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter).
Wardhaugh, Ronald. 2010. An Introduction to Sociolinguistics, 6th ed. (Malden, MA: Blackwell).
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 334
00419_09_ch09_p301-334.indd 334 4/1/11 19:17:50
4/1/11 19:17:50
335
What Do You Think?
English major Michael comments that the dialogue in a P. D. James novel
•
he’s reading is “awesome, totally natural.” You scoff because you’ve
recently corrected a transcribed deposition you’d given in connection with
an insurance claim for an automobile accident, and your answers to the
attorney’s questions were peppered with false starts and uhms and uhs. Your
answers didn’t resemble the tidy fictional dialogue of novels at all. And
neither did the attorney’s questions! What can you tell Michael about what’s
totally natural in fictional dialogue?
Nina, a ninth grader, asks why her teachers dislike slang and colloquialisms,
•
and she wonders what’s the difference between them. What do you tell her?
Your classmate Clarence says he’s shocked to see contractions like
• it’s and
don’t used in this textbook and claims they’re supposed to be avoided in
college textbooks and in college writing classes. You think they create
an informal, relaxed tone and are appropriate in the textbook. What
justification can you offer for your preference?
Poring over a cookbook, your uncle Colin laments: “What strange English
•
this is! ‘Toast pine nuts in medium skillet. Remove and add 1 tbsp. oil
and garlic. Cook 4 minutes and drain remaining liquid. Sprinkle salt and
pepper inside trout cavity and stuff with spinach mixture. Brush trout with
remaining oil.’ What ever happened to words like of and for and them and
the and the other Anglo-Saxon glue of the language?” What do you say?
Language Variation
Across Situations of Use:
Registers and Styles
10
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 335
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 335 4/1/11 18:46:42
4/1/11 18:46:42
336 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
Language varieties characteristic of particular social situations—for example,
face-to-face conversation, telephone conversation, interviews, and biography—are
called registers (or styles). Across different circumstances, everyone varies
language forms. For example, you may call one person Michelle or Ted; another
person Dr. Lavandera or Mr. Olson; and still others Your Honor or Mr. President;
to some you say Sir or Madam or Miss. If you use the address term dude, you
don’t use it indiscriminately for anyone at all. Speakers of French address some
individuals with the second-personal singular pronoun tu but others with the
plural pronoun vous. In some communities, different social situations call for
alternative forms of a single language; in other communities, different social
situations call for different languages altogether.
Language Choice in Multilingual Societies
You might assume that in multilingual countries such as Switzerland, Belgium,
and India different languages are spoken by different groups of people, and that’s
true of course. Typically, though, one language or another is also systematically
allocated to specific social situations. In communities employing several lan-
guages, the choice of one language or another is not arbitrary. Instead, a particu-
lar setting such as a classroom or government office may favor or even require
one language, while other languages will be appropriate to other speech situa-
tions. Although there may be roughly equivalent expressions in two languages,
the social meaning that attaches to use of one particular language generally dif-
fers from that attached to use of another. As a result, speakers must attend to the
social import of language choice, however unconsciously they make their choice.
Linguistic Repertoires in Brussels, Tehran, and Los Angeles
The use of selected varieties from two languages among government workers in
the capital of Belgium illustrates the nature of language choice in one European
community.
Government functionaries in Brussels who are of Flemish origin do not always speak
Dutch to each other, even when they all know Dutch very well and equally well. Not
only are there occasions when they speak French to each other instead of Dutch, but
there are some occasions when they speak standard Dutch and others when they use
one or another regional variety of Dutch with each other. Indeed, some of them also
use different varieties of French with each other as well, one variety being particularly
loaded with governmental officialese, another corresponding to the nontechnical con-
versational French of highly educated and refined circles in Belgium, and still another
being not only a “more colloquial French” but the colloquial French of those who are
Flemings. All in all, these several varieties of Dutch and of French constitute the lin-
guistic repertoire of certain social networks in Brussels (Fishman [1972], pp. 47–48).
Introduction
Language Varies Within a Speech Community
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 336
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 336 4/1/11 18:46:42
4/1/11 18:46:42
Language Varies Within a Speech Community 337
The language variety that Brussels residents use is prompted by the setting
in which the talk takes place, by the topic, by the social relations among the
participants, and by certain other features of the situation. In general, the use of
Dutch is associated with informal and intimate interaction, whereas French has
more official or “highbrow” connotations. Given these associations, the choice
to speak French or Dutch carries a social meaning in addition to the referential
meaning of the words and utterances.
We use the term linguistic repertoire for the set of language varieties exhib-
ited in the speaking and writing patterns of a speech community. As in Brussels,
the linguistic repertoire of any speech community may consist of several lan-
guages and include several varieties of each language.
In the mid-1970s, there was considerable multilingualism in Tehran, the cap-
ital of Iran. Christian families spoke Armenian or Syriac at home and in church,
Persian at school, all three in different situations while playing or shopping, and
Azerbaijani Turkish at shops in the bazaar. Muslim men from northwest Iran,
who were working as laborers in the then-booming capital city, spoke a va-
riety of Persian with their supervisors at construction sites but switched to a
variety of Turkish with their fellow workers and to a local Iranian dialect when
they visited their home villages on holidays; in addition, they listened daily to
radio broadcasts in standard Persian and heard passages from the Koran recited
in Arabic. It was not uncommon for individuals to command as many as four or
five languages and deploy them in different situations. Much the same situation
exists today.
In Los Angeles, the Korean-speaking community supports bilingual institu-
tions of various sorts: banks, churches, stores, and a wide range of services from
pool halls and video rental shops to ho-
tels, construction companies, and law
firms. At some banks in the neighbor-
hood known as Koreatown all the tell-
ers are bilingual, and in the course of a
day’s work many often switch between
Korean and English. As the tellers alter-
nate between customers, they naturally
switch between Korean and English as
appropriate.
Switching Varieties Within a Language
If we examine the situation in Europe, besides switching between languages
we see examples of language-internal switching. Brussels residents switch not
only between French and Dutch but among varieties of French and varieties of
Dutch. In Hemnes, a village in northern Norway, residents speak two distinct
varieties of Norwegian. Ranamål, the local dialect, serves to identify speakers
of that region. Bokmål, one of two forms of standard Norwegian (the other
being Nynorsk), is in use for education, religion, government transactions, and
the mass media. All members of the Hemnes community control both Ranamål
and Bokmål and regard themselves at any given time as speaking one or the
other. Between Ranamål and Bokmål there are differences of pronunciation,
Try It Yourself Identify a situation on
your campus or in your community where
people can be heard switching between languages
in the course of a conversation, depending on who
it is they’re speaking with or the topic or who else is
present or some other aspect of the social situation.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 337
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 337 4/1/11 18:46:43
4/1/11 18:46:43
338 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
morphology, vocabulary, and syntax, and speakers do not perceive themselves
as mixing the two varieties in their speech. Here’s an illustration with a simple
sentence, meaning ‘Where are you from?’
ke du e ifrå (Ranamål)
vor ær du fra (Bokmål)
Bokmål is the expected variety in certain well-defined situations, and resi-
dents of Hemnes do not accept its use among themselves outside those situa-
tions. In situations in which speakers customarily use Ranamål, speaking Bokmål
would signal social distance and disregard for community spirit. To use Bokmål
in Hemnes with fellow locals is to snakkfint or snakk jalat ‘put on airs.’ As the
researchers who reported these findings note, “Although locals show an overt
preference for the dialect, they tolerate and use the standard in situations where
it conveys meanings of officialdom, expertise, and politeness toward strangers
who are clearly segregated from their personal life” (Blom and Gumperz [1972],
pp. 433–34). Regard for the social situation is thus highly important in choosing
varieties of the same language, just as it is in switching between languages.
As we have seen in Hemnes, Los Angeles, Brussels, and Tehran, language
switching can be triggered by a change in any one of several situational factors,
including the setting and purpose of the communication, the person addressed,
the social relations between the interlocutors, and the topic.
Elements of a Speech Situation
If we define a speech situation as the coming together of significant situational
factors such as purpose, topic, and social relations, then each speech situation in
a bilingual or multilingual community generally allows only one of the commu-
nity’s languages to be used. Table 10.1 illustrates this concept for an English/
Spanish bilingual community in Los Angeles.
As you see, in situation A, a variety of Spanish is appropriate, but in situa-
tion C a variety of English. Only in the relatively uncommon case of situation E
Speech Situations
Table 10.1 Linguistic Repertoire
Situation
Relation of
Speakers Place Topic Type Spanish English
A intimate school not academic X
B intimate home not academic X
C not intimate school not academic X
D not intimate home academic X
E intimate school academic X X
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 338
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 338 4/1/11 18:46:43
4/1/11 18:46:43
Speech Situations 339
might an individual have a genuine choice between Spanish and English with-
out calling attention to the language chosen. In situation E, the competing val-
ues of intimacy (which usually requires Spanish, as in situations A and B) and
an academic topic (for which English is usually preferred) may sometimes yield
Spanish and sometimes English.
Table 10.2 charts certain aspects of a speech situation that may prompt or
require a change in language variety.
In terms of purpose, the kind of activity is crucial and so is the goal. Are you
making a purchase, giving a sermon, telling a story? Entertaining, reporting in-
formation, greeting a friend, or affirming a social relationship? The activity may
have an influence on your language selection.
As to setting, you may switch from one language to another as the topic
switches from one of local interest, say, to one of national concern, or from a
personal matter to one about your college. Location, too, can influence language
choice in that you might well use one language in an academic setting but a dif-
ferent one in a religious setting or at home for otherwise roughly comparable
situations. The mode—that is, whether you are speaking or writing (or using ten
fingers or two thumbs)—can also influence the forms of language you select, as
is clear, for example, in contrasting instant messaging, telephone conversations,
and texting.
As to participants, the identity of the speaker will influence language choice,
as will the identity of the person being addressed. Speakers typically adapt ut-
terances to the age of an addressee. In some societies, the older a person, the
higher his or her social standing; younger people must address older people
more respectfully than they address their peers. As noted, in French the second-
person singular pronoun ‘you’ has two forms: tu for a social equal or to express
intimacy, vous for a person of higher social status or to mark social distance (and
for addressing more than one person, irrespective of social relations). A younger
person addressing an older person may be expected to use vous, not tu, unless
the older person is a close relative. Given that tu is the grammatically singular
form and vous the plural form, and given that verbs exhibit agreement with
their subject, French illustrates one way in which even verb morphology may
vary according to the age or social status of the addressee. Persian shows simi-
lar patterns with singular to [to] and plural shoma [ʃomɑ] and with appropriate
verbal agreement with the grammatical number of the subject, as do several
other European tongues.
It is not just the social identity of speaker and addressee that is relevant, but
also their roles in the particular speech situation. A judge, for example, typically
Table 10.2 Elements of a Speech Situation
Purpose Setting Participants
Activity Topic Speaker
Goal Location Addressee
Mode Social roles of speaker and addressee
Character of audience
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 339
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 339 4/1/11 18:46:43
4/1/11 18:46:43
340 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
speaks one variety at home—where she may be mother, wife, neighbor—and
another as judge in the courtroom. A parent who works as a teacher and has
his child for a student may speak different varieties at home and at school, even
when topic and addressee are the same.
The various aspects of the speech situation come together in a particu-
lar choice of language variety. In each situation—a general one such as home
or church or a specific one such as discussing politics in a cafe with a close
friend—one variety is usually more appropriate than others. In fact, people get
so accustomed to speaking a particular language in a given setting that they
can experience difficulty using another language in that setting, no matter how
familiar that language may be in other settings. (Of course, professional transla-
tors, bilingual educators, and certain businesspersons who regularly engage in
negotiations with members of their own and another culture will be among the
exceptions to this generalization.) As a result, switching between language va-
rieties is common throughout the world and is known as code switching. It is
far, far more common than many monolingual speakers might guess.
The recognition that in multilingual societies there are settings and speech situ-
ations in which one language is appropriate but not another has a parallel in
monolingual speech communities, where varieties of a single language consti-
tute the entire linguistic repertoire. Consider the difference between the full
forms of careful speech and the abbreviations and reductions characteristic of
fast speech that occur in relaxed face-to-face communication: not only worka-
day contractions like he’s and I’ll but reduced sentences like Jeetyet? [ʤitjɛt] for
‘Did you eat yet?’ and Wajjasay? [wɑʤəse] for ‘What did you say?’
To take another example, you know that you don’t typically use the same
terms for certain body parts when speaking to friends and when speaking to
a physician. You might use collarbone at home and clavicle with a physician,
while either term might be used with friends, depending on other aspects of the
speech situation. Lexical choices made for more intimate body parts would be
yet more strikingly different.
The distribution of alternative terms for the same referent may seem arbi-
trary and without communicative benefit. With body parts, for example, all
the terms may be known and used by all the parties in equivalent situations.
A physician may use clavicle speaking with her own physician, but collarbone
with family and friends. Since all the terms could communicate referential
meaning and be equally well understood, the choice of a socially appropri-
ate variant is cognitively unhelpful. But such variation as has lasted for cen-
turies in a society can be assumed to serve an important function, and you
may wonder why linguistic expression differs from one speech situation to
another. The answer is that different expressions for the same content can in-
dicate different affective relationships to salient aspects of the situation (set-
ting, topic, social relations between speaker and addressee, and so on) and
even help define a situation.
Registers in Monolingual Societies
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 340
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 340 4/1/11 18:46:43
4/1/11 18:46:43
Markers of Register 341
From a young age, everyone learns to control several language varieties for
use in different speech situations. No one is limited to a single variety in a single
language. These language varieties may belong to one language or several. Just
which speech situations—which purposes, settings, participants—prompt which
variety depends on social norms. In one society, the presence of in-laws may
call for a different variety (as in Dyirbal and several other aboriginal Australian
societies). In other societies, the presence of children or members of the oppo-
site sex may be crucial. In Western societies, adults have a slew of words they
avoid saying in the presence of children (and children struggle to avoid saying
in the presence of adults). There are also differences associated with mode—for
example, written versus spoken. You are familiar with the term colloquial: it is
merely a label for informal speech.
Languages differ from one another in vocabulary, phonology, grammar, and se-
mantics, and registers of a single language may also differ at every level. Differ-
ent speech situations may call for different interactional patterns as well—for
example, the allocation of turns in conversation differs starkly from how turns
are allocated in courtrooms and classrooms. In addition, social rules govern non-
linguistic behaviors such as physical proximity, face-to-face positioning, stand-
ing and sitting, which accompany register variation. Interactional patterns and
body language are beyond the scope of this book, but they are part and parcel
of social and cultural communication.
Generally speaking, when you find characteristic features of a register at one
level of the grammar, you can expect corresponding features at other levels as
well. For example, to describe legalese or face-to-face conversation requires at-
tention to characteristic vocabulary, sentence structure, semantics, and phonol-
ogy. There are some provisos that need to be made in this regard. It is customary
to talk about slang and jargon when discussing registers, but their characteris-
tic linguistic features are limited to vocabulary, and the concomitant linguistic
forms (for example, in pronunciation and grammar) are those of the situation in
which that vocabulary is being used.
Lexical Markers of Register
Registers vary along certain social dimensions. For example, people speak (and
write) in markedly different fashions in formal and informal situations. Formal-
ity and informality can be seen as polar opposites of a situational continuum
along which forms of expression may be arranged.
The words pickled, high, drunk, and intoxicated may all refer to the same state
of inebriation, but you can rank them on a scale of formality, and you would
likely agree on a ranking from least formal to most formal in the order given.
In one context, to suggest inebriation may require the word intoxicated, while
another may require drunk or under the influence. Bombed, buzzed, and pissed
are terms favored by younger people in situations of considerable informality.
Markers of Register
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 341
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 341 4/1/11 18:46:43
4/1/11 18:46:43
342 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
One thesaurus lists more than 125 expressions for ‘intoxicated.’ Needless to say,
they are not situationally equivalent and cannot be substituted for one another
irrespective of the social situation.
Not every word that can be glossed as ‘inebriated’ is suitable for use on all oc-
casions when reference to intoxication is intended. The chosen words can indi-
cate quite different attitudes toward the addressees, the person being described,
the state of intoxication itself, and so on. It can also index the speech situation
in which the term is being used as intimate or distant, formal or informal, seri-
ous or jocular. Consider this fictitious dialogue between judge and defendant at
an arraignment in a courtroom:
Judge: I see the cops say you were wasted last night and drove an old
junker down the middle of the road. That right?
Defendant: Your honor, if I might be permitted to address this baseless
allegation, I should like to report that I was neither inebriated
nor under the influence of an alcoholic beverage of any kind;
for the record, I imbibed no booze last evening.
In the first place, the judge’s language seems out of place: words like cops, wasted,
and junker seem inappropriate for a judge presiding at an arraignment. The ab-
breviated form That right? may be appropriate in relaxed conversation, but it
suggests a level of informality unsuitable in a courtroom interaction between a
judge and someone charged with an offense. As for the defendant’s response, it
too seems out of place, even more so following the extremely informal language
used by the judge. Even if the judge had used courtroom-appropriate language,
the defendant’s language seems overly formal. And, of course, it seems odd for
the informal word booze to appear in an utterance characterized by the formal
words imbibed, inebriated, beverage, and allegation.
Compare the judge’s language above with the following, which seems more
appropriate to an arraignment.
Judge: You are charged with driving a 2004 blue Ford while under the influ-
ence of alcohol. How do you plead?
Even within a single language, then, registers or styles match specific situations
of use.
Terms of Address Along with other
lexical, grammatical, and phonologi-
cal features, appropriate forms of ad-
dress for a given person may differ
from situation to situation. The Queen
of England is addressed by her subjects
and others as Your Majesty (or Ma’am),
though Prince Philip, her husband, pre-
sumably uses a more intimate address
term when speaking to her in private.
In court, judges are addressed as Your
Honor or Judge, though their friends
and neighbors may call them Judy or
Try It Yourself Name a speech situ-
ation of your choosing (e.g., a conference
with a professor, dinner with your grandparents, a job
interview) and list ﬁve words for things you would
likely talk about in that situation but for which the
expression you’d likely use would diﬀer from the one
you’d use for the same referent when speaking with a
close friend. Provide both words.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 342
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 342 4/1/11 18:46:43
4/1/11 18:46:43
Markers of Register 343
Vaughn. Each of us is addressed in multiple ways, depending on the situation: by
first name (Pat); family name (Smith); family name preceded by a title (Doctor
Smith, Ms. Jones); the second-person pronoun (you); terms showing respect (Sir,
Madam); and various informal generic terms (guy, dude). At the opposite end of
the scale are terms of disrespect such as buster or you bastard.
Phonological Markers of Register Registers are marked not only by lexical
choices but also by features of syntax, morphology, semantics, pragmatics, and
for spoken registers, phonology. In a study of New York City speechways that
we will discuss further in the following chapter, considerable phonological vari-
ation was uncovered among all groups of speakers in different situations of use.
Figure 10.1 presents frequencies for the pronunciation of -ing as /ɪŋ/ (that is,
“with the g”) in three speech situations. We use -ing to represent the pronuncia-
tion of the suffix in words like talking, running, eating, and watching. The speech
situations in this case consist of three kinds of interaction during a sociolinguistic
interview in the homes of four groups of respondents (labeled LC, WC, LMC, and
UMC). The style of the interview, with its interlaced questions and answers, can
be regarded as “careful” speech. Respondents also read a set passage aloud, and
“reading” style was taken to represent more careful speech than interview style. In
order to prompt more relaxed speech, at the end of the interview the interviewer
asked respondents whether they’d ever had a close call with death, and this gam-
bit usually elicited a relaxed, unguarded variety, here called “casual” speech.
In their casual speech, LC respondents (LC is an abbreviation for lower class,
a socioeconomic ranking based on a combination of income, education, and
employment type) pronounced the -ing suffix as /ɪŋ/ 20 percent of the time
(the other 80 percent as /ɪn/). In their careful speech, the occurrence of /ɪŋ/
increased to 47 percent (while /ɪn/ decreased to 53 percent). When reading a
passage aloud, the LC respondents pronounced /ɪŋ/ 78 percent of the time (and
/ɪn/ only 22 percent). This represents a dramatic increase of /ɪŋ/ pronuncia-
tions in increasingly formal speech situations. The same overall pattern holds
20
47
78
51
69
89
68
79
99 95 96 100
LC WC LMC UMC
Social Groups: Lower class, Working class, Lower middle class, Upper middle class
Casual Careful Reading
Figure 10.1 Percentage of -ing Pronounced as /ɪŋ/ in Three Speech
Situations among Four Social Groups in New York City
Source of data: Labov 2006.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 343
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 343 4/1/11 18:46:43
4/1/11 18:46:43
344 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
0 2
34
5
12
56
13
26
85
58
85
90
LWC MWC UWC LMC
Social Groups: Lower working class, Middle working class, Upper working class,
Lower middle class, Middle middle class
Casual Careful Reading
72
97 100
MMC
for the other social groups. Each group used more /ɪŋ/ pronunciations in careful
speech than in casual speech and more in reading style than in careful speech.
In this New York City speech community, then, /ɪŋ/ indexes formality, with
more frequent /ɪŋ/ pronunciations signaling increased formality.
In another study, college students in Los Angeles gathered data showing that
both males and females used more /ɪŋ/ pronunciations in arguments than in jok-
ing. Again, we can view arguing as a more careful register than joking. The fre-
quencies are given in Figure 10.2. Although men and women don’t have the same
percentages for the distribution of -ing (a topic we return to in Chapter 11), they
exploit this phonological feature in the same way as an index to situations of use.
A study in Norwich, England, uncovered similar patterns. Among five social
groups, the highest-ranking group in the study (the middle middle class) always
used /ɪŋ/ in the formal register of reading style, while the lowest group in the
study (lower working class) never used it in their most casual speech. Thus,
while all five social groups used both pronunciations, the range of difference
was 100 percentage points at the extremes of socioeconomic status and situ-
ational formality.
As the frequencies in Figure 10.3 show, the Norwich and New York City pat-
terns are the same: each social group uses most /ɪŋ/ in reading style and least
in its casual speech, with an intermediate percentage for careful speech. It is
clear that widely separated English-speaking communities use /ɪŋ/ to index the
formality of a situation. Note that it is not the absolute percentage that indexes
situations but the relative percentages across situations. This linguistic marker is
a continuous variable, able to indicate fine distinctions in degrees of formality
across a range of speech situations.
As another example of phonological variation (or its equivalent spelling vari-
ation), the distribution of ordinary contractions like can’t, won’t, and I’ll shows
that speakers exhibit differential use of such forms across speech situations.
54
76 72 79
Males Females
Joking Arguing
Figure 10.2 Percentage
of -ing Pronounced as /ɪŋ/
in Two Speech Situations
by Males and Females in
Los Angeles
Source of data: B. Wald and
T. Shopen, “A Researcher’s Guide to
the Sociolinguistic Variable (ING)” in
Shopen and Williams (1981), p. 247.
Figure 10.3 Percentage of Pronunciation of -ing Pronounced as /ɪŋ/ in
Three Speech Situations among Five Social Groups in Norwich, England
Source of data: Trudgill 2000.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 344
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 344 4/1/11 18:46:44
4/1/11 18:46:44
Markers of Register 345
Based on a corpus of written and spoken British English, the frequency counts
in Figure 10.4 represent the average number of contractions per 1,000 words.
Notice that in going from telephone conversations with friends to telephone
conversations with strangers to interviews to broadcasts and so on up the list,
there is a graded increase in formality, which is accompanied by fewer and
fewer contractions.
Grammatical Markers of Register
Situations of use are also marked by syntactic variables. As an example, consider
the occurrence of prepositions at the end of a clause or sentence. You may recall
from your school days that some teachers frown on sentence-final prepositions.
Instead of That’s the teacher I was telling you about, they recommend That’s the
teacher about whom I was telling you. Well, it’s no secret that, despite the admoni-
tion to avoid them, sentence-final prepositions abound in English. What’s less
well known is that they don’t occur with equal frequency in all speech situa-
tions. Using the same corpus of texts as was used for contractions, Figure 10.5
presents the number of sentence-final prepositions per 1,000 prepositions for
nearly a dozen spoken and written registers. This figure does not show the same
continuous incline from least formal to most formal that we saw with contrac-
tions. Instead, it shows a major distinction between speech and nonfiction writ-
ing, with fiction writing (which includes fictional dialogue) having intermediate
values. In the spoken registers, average counts of between 33 and 56 preposi-
tions per 1,000 appear in sentence-final position. In the registers of nonfiction
writing, though, final prepositions are fewer than in any of the spoken registers.
Figure 10.4 Number of Contractions per 1,000 Words in Different Registers
Source of data: Biber 1988.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 345
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 345 4/1/11 18:46:44
4/1/11 18:46:44
346 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
Thus, there is a notable difference between speech and writing with respect to
sentence-final prepositions.
As a second, more striking, example of grammatical variation across regis-
ters, examine this brief passage of legalese.
Upon request of Borrower, Lender, at Lender’s option prior to full reconveyance of
the Property by Trustee to Borrower, may make Future Advances to Borrower. Such
Future Advances, with interest thereon, shall be secured by this Deed of Trust when
evidenced by promissory notes stating that said notes are secured hereby.
This passage illustrates several syntactic features characteristic of legalese:
1. Frequent use of passive structures: shall be secured, are secured
2. Preference for repetition of nouns instead of pronouns: Lender/at Lender’s
option, promissory notes/said notes, Future Advances/Such Future Advances
3. Variable omission of indefinite and definite articles: Upon request, of Borrower,
to Borrower, Lender, at Lender’s, by Trustee
Semantic Markers of Register
A given word form often carries different meanings in different registers. Con-
sider the word notes. As used in the legalese passage above, it means promissory
note, or IOU. In its everyday meaning, note refers to a brief, informal written
message (and it may have other senses, such as a musical note); the point is
Figure 10.5 Number of Sentence-Final Prepositions per 1,000 Prepositions in
Different Registers
Source of data: Biber 1988.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 346
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 346 4/1/11 18:46:45
4/1/11 18:46:45
Markers of Register 347
simply that note carries a sense specific to legalese. Among words carrying one
sense in everyday use but a different sense in legal register are these.
Expressions Carrying a Distinctive Sense in Legalese
to continue hearing sentence
to alienate action rider
to serve executed motion
save suit reasonable man
party note consideration
Not only lawyers but also some of their clients may give specialized mean-
ings to words. Criminal jargon contains many words and expressions that are in
common use but carry a different meaning when used in the context of criminal
behavior. The following lists are illustrative.
General Criminal Jargon
mob sing bug
hot rat bird cage
fence racket slammer
sting a mark joint (‘prison’)
Drug World Jargon
crack pot downer
coke grass speed
snow toot pusher
rock high dealer
dime down joint (‘marijuana cigarette’)
Each of these expressions bears one sense in ordinary situations but a differ-
ent sense in the underworld. While the words carry specialized meanings when
used in such specific speech situations, they do not constitute separate registers
with their own phonological, morphological, grammatical, and pragmatic mark-
ers. But they do index a social situation by drawing on characteristics of wider
social situations such as informality and conversation, while at the same time
relying on specialized words or words with situation-specific meanings.
Slang The vocabulary sometimes used in situations of extreme informality is
called slang. Like jargon, slang functions as the lexical part of a highly infor-
mal register, such as conversation, instant messaging, or texting. It is sometimes
said that slang signals rebellious undertones or an intentional distancing of its
users from certain mainstream values, and it is certainly popular among teen-
agers and college students. But its use isn’t limited to those groups, and by no
means does it always signal rebellion or rejection of mainstream values. Slang
has some of its wellsprings in specialized groups of all sorts, from physicians
and computer “hackers” to police officers and stockbrokers. But, fundamentally,
it is the characteristic vocabulary of highly informal usage.
While slang may change as quickly as some clothing fashions, the fact that
there are slang dictionaries suggests that some slang expressions lead longer
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 347
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 347 4/1/11 18:46:45
4/1/11 18:46:45
348 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
lives. These examples from the dust
jacket of a slang dictionary are illustra-
tive of relatively recent slang: awesome,
bells and whistles, cover your ass, designer
drug, dork, kick ass, netiquette, pocket
pool, puzzle palace, spam, tits and zits,
and whatever! The effectiveness of slang
depends crucially on the circumstances
of its use. In an appropriate situation,
anyone of any age and any social stand-
ing can legitimately use slang.
Just as informal clothing can extend
its welcome from informal circum-
stances into somewhat more formal cir-
cumstances, so slang expressions often
climb up the social ladder, becoming acceptable in more formal circumstances.
The words mob and pants are among many that were slang at an earlier pe-
riod of their history but can now be used in relatively formal circumstances. As
words become established in more formal circumstances, they lose their status
Try It Yourself While some of the
following expressions carry a sense that is
not slang, each also carries a slang sense in extremely
informal situations. Provide a slang sense for each
term: the nouns skinny, cougar, hunk, buzz, nerd,
wuss, and tube; the verbs veg out, wig out, party, and
nuke; the adjectives awesome, cool, and clueless; the
directives get a life, get a clue, and get real; and the
exclamation Not!
College Slang: The Top 20
In Slang and Sociability, Connie Eble reports the top slang expressions used by
students at the University of North Carolina between 1972 and 1993. Which
of them are still in use on your campus? Have any gone completely out of
use, so far as you know, or have any changed their meaning? Can you suggest
current alternatives in use on your campus?
sweet ‘excellent, superb’ chill/chill out ‘relax’
slide ‘easy course’ blow off ‘neglect, not attend’
bag ‘neglect, not attend’ killer ‘excellent, exciting’
jam ‘play music, dance, scope ‘look for partner
party’ for sex or romance’
wasted ‘drunk’ clueless ‘unaware’
diss ‘belittle, criticize’ pig out ‘eat voraciously’
bad ‘good, excellent’ crash ‘go to sleep’
cheesy ‘unattractive, hook (up) ‘locate a partner
out of fashion’ for sex or romance’
buzz/catch ‘experience slight tool ‘socially inept person’
a buzz intoxication’
trip (out) ‘have a bizarre cool ‘completely acceptable’
experience’
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 348
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 348 4/1/11 18:46:45
4/1/11 18:46:45
Similarities and Differences Between Spoken and Written Registers  349
as slang, and newer slang terms may replace them. Among the slang terms
illustrated on the dust jacket of the dictionary mentioned above is emoticon.
Since 1995, when the dictionary was published, emoticon has become the stan-
dard term for facial glyphs used to indicate emotions in emails and certain other
contexts. Such a rise up the social ladder is far from uncommon, but some slang
expressions endure only in informal circumstances. Bones meaning ‘dice’ was
used by Chaucer in the fourteenth century and remains marked in dictionaries
today as informal or slang.
Jargon Specialist terms used by groups with shared specialized interests when
engaged in activities surrounding those interests, including talk about them, are
called jargon. Jargon is the specialized vocabulary associated with professions
such as medicine, finance, and engineering and with activities such as sports,
music, and computing. Unlike slang, jargon isn’t limited to situations of extreme
informality but may be used wherever professionals interact with one another
(and sometimes with others). Argot is another term associated with “profes-
sional” language or activities, but argot tends to suggest the language of under-
ground or criminal activities.
Because jargon consists of terms that
are used elsewhere in a different sense
or perhaps not used elsewhere at all,
discourse that deals with specialized
topics and displays jargon may perplex
the uninitiated. Here’s a sentence from
a Los Angeles Times story about a base-
ball game. If you’re familiar with the
sport, the meaning of the sentence will
be transparent, but otherwise you’re
not likely to understand it despite its
straightforward and ordinary gram-
matical structure:
The momentum carried them to load the bases in the bottom of the sixth on two
walks and an error, but Suppan struck out Jose Valentin and had Chavez fly to cen-
ter to end the inning.
The newspaper story contains plenty of baseball jargon, including the nouns
plate, pitch, curveball, fastball, changeup, swing, hit, run, out, home run, left fielder,
baseman, starter, closer, stand-in, runner, reliever, warning track, and pocket, as
well as the verbs tied, doubled, pitched, singled, and homered. For baseball fans,
such jargon is easy to understand; for others, it can be utterly opaque.
Although it is sometimes said that writing is simply speech written down—
visual as distinct from audible language—writing and speaking ordinarily
Similarities and Differences Between Spoken
and Written Registers
Try It Yourself Besides the baseball
jargon noted in the nearby discussion,
identify six additional terms (including nouns and
verbs) with senses particular to baseball in the short
illustrative sentence. On the basis of your familiarity
with baseball or because you are unfamiliar with the
sport, you should be able to identify the jargon.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 349
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 349 4/1/11 18:46:45
4/1/11 18:46:45
350 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
serve different purposes and have highly distinctive linguistic characteristics.
Conversation is not a written register, of course, but it can be represented in
novels and screenplays. Nor are legal contracts ordinarily spoken. Imagine
how the words and syntax of a handwritten last testament would differ from
one made by a person who leaves a will or last testament by speaking on a
camcorder. Or consider the linguistic differences between a note stuck on a
refrigerator door and the same basic message spoken to someone face-to-face.
You’ll quickly recognize that speaking and writing are not mirror images of
each other.
1. Oral communication can exploit intonation and voice pitch to convey
information. Face-to-face communication can also utilize gestures, posture,
and physical proximity between participants. In writing, the only channels
available are words and syntax, supplemented by typography and punctua-
tion. In speaking, communication is possible on multiple channels simul-
taneously. We can criticize someone’s personality in a seemingly objective
manner while expressing with intonation or body language how much
we greatly admire the person, or vice versa. In writing, much more must
be communicated lexically and syntactically, although there are ways of
achieving ironic and sarcastic tones that enable addressees to read “between
the lines.”
2. Speech and writing differ in the amount of planning that is possible.
Most written registers allow time for composing and revising. But pausing
to find just the right word in a highly interactive conversation can test your
interlocutor’s patience and cost you the floor. The difference in the avail-
able time for planning and editing in written registers produces character-
istic syntactic patterns that are difficult to achieve under the real-time or
“online” processing constraints imposed in spontaneous speech. Written
registers typically show a more specific and varied vocabulary, in part be-
cause writers have time to choose their words carefully (or even consult a
thesaurus). Of course, not every written register is more planned than ev-
ery spoken register. Academic lectures and job interviews may reflect some
characteristics of planned discourse more common with writing. On the
other hand, some types of writing are produced with relatively little plan-
ning, and the language of an email note typed in a hurry is likely to be quite
speechlike.
3. Speakers and addressees often stand face-to-face, whereas writers and
readers ordinarily do not. In face-to-face interactions, the immediacy of the
interlocutors and the contexts of interaction allow them to refer to themselves
(I think, you see) and their own opinions and to be more personal in their
interaction. By contrast, the contexts of writing limit the degree to which
written expression can be personal. But we wouldn’t want to overgeneralize.
Consider, for example, a personal letter and a face-to-face friendly
conversation. People may feel they have a right to be equally personal in both
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 350
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 350 4/1/11 18:46:46
4/1/11 18:46:46
Two Registers Compared 351
contexts. An impersonal stance is thus a feature of only some written registers,
as a personal stance is a feature of only some spoken registers.
4. Written registers tend to rely less on the context of interaction than spo-
ken registers do. Writing is more independent of context. In spoken regis-
ters, expressions of spatial deixis (such as demonstrative pronouns like this
and that) and temporal deixis (like today and next Tuesday) can be understood
with reference to the here and now of the utterance. By contrast, in writing,
the lack of a shared environment may make such expressions opaque or con-
fusing. To which day would today refer in an undated written text? And to
what would this refer when found in a printed document? Like other distinc-
tions among registers, reliance on deictic expressions does not constitute an
absolute difference between speech and writing. In telephone conversations,
for example, you cannot say this thing (referring to something in the speaker’s
environment) without risking confusion. In contrast, you can leave a written
note on the kitchen table that reads Please don’t eat this!—provided the refer-
ent of this is obvious from what lies near the note; an author of a textbook can
reliably refer to this page or this sentence.
There are many ways in which spoken and written registers differ. But when
we examine the differences, we don’t find an absolute dichotomy between
them. For example, not many words could occur only in speech or only in
writing, even though certain words may occur more frequently in one mode
or the other. Most written registers tend to be more formal, more informa-
tional, and less personal. Along a personal/impersonal continuum, the type of
writing found in biographies falls toward the impersonal end, while informal
conversation tends toward the personal end. But personal letters may be close
to conversation in their linguistic character, whereas instant text messages,
though written, exhibit some characteristics of speech. Writing and speaking
thus do not form a simple dichotomy, and to describe their differences we must
observe which written register and which spoken register is being considered.
With all language choices, the situation of use is the most influential factor in
determining linguistic form.
To illustrate the linguistic character of different registers, let’s examine
excerpts from two kinds of text, both biographical. The first comes from a
Pulitzer Prize–winning biography of Harry S. Truman and the second from
an interview with Truman. The first is thus a written text, the second a
transcribed spoken text.
In 1945 Truman had been vice-president for only a few months when
President Franklin D. Roosevelt died in office. In the first passage, biographer
David McCullough, reporting events surrounding Truman’s preparing to address
Two Registers Compared
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 351
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 351 4/1/11 18:46:46
4/1/11 18:46:46
352 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
Written Biography of Harry S. Truman Line Sentence
But the main work, and at Truman’s request,  1 1
was done by a rising new star at the White House,  2
Navy Captain Clark Clifford, who had been posted temporarily  3
the summer before as assistant to Jake Vardaman,  4
and then, when Vardaman was removed,  5
had stepped in as naval aide.  6
Clifford was thirty-nine years old, over six feet tall,  7 2
broad in the shoulders, slim-waisted, and handsome as a screen actor,  8
with wavy blond hair and a silky baritone voice.  9
In his Navy uniform he looked almost too glamorous 10 3a
to be true, or to be taken seriously; 11
but he was calm, clearheaded, polished as a career diplomat, 12 3b
and, as Truman had quickly perceived, exceedingly capable. 13
Indeed, Clifford’s almost chance presence on the staff 14 4
would prove to be one of the luckiest breaks of Truman’s presidency. 15
The second passage is from a face-to-face interview conducted with Truman by Merle Miller.
Oral Interview with Harry S. Truman Line Sentence
Q. What do you consider the biggest mistake you made as President?  1 1
A. That damn fool from Texas that I first made Attorney General  2 2
and then put on the Supreme Court.  3
I don’t know what got into me.  4 3
He was no damn good as Attorney General, and on the Supreme  5 4
Court . . . it doesn’t seem possible, but he’s been even worse.  6
He hasn’t made one right decision that I can think of.  7 5
And so when you ask me what was my biggest mistake, that’s it.  8 6a
Putting Tom Clark on the Supreme Court of the United States.  9 6b
I thought maybe when he got on the Court he’d improve, 10 7
but of course, that isn’t what happened. 11
I told you when we were discussing that other fellow. 12 8a
After a certain age it’s hopeless to think people are going to 13 8b
change much. 14
It’s apparent at a glance how strikingly different these passages are. They
contain about the same number of words (the biography excerpt 132, the in-
terview exchange 135), but a close examination reveals many differences. For
one, their average sentence lengths differ. The biography comprises only four
sentences (or, if we count 3a and 3b separately, five), while the interview con-
tains eight sentences. (Although the interviewer represented Truman’s spoken
words in nine sentences, we twice combined pairs of the transcribed sentences
the American people about a nationwide steel workers strike, takes the occasion
to introduce a staffer who worked on Truman’s address.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 352
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 352 4/1/11 18:46:46
4/1/11 18:46:46
Two Registers Compared 353
into single sentences so as to avoid ex-
aggerating the already small number of
sentences.) That means the spoken sen-
tences are strikingly shorter than the
written ones.
Lexicon and Grammar
Another difference between the spoken
and written registers can be seen in the
lexicon of the excerpts. Truman’s direct
(and sometimes earthy) vocabulary is
characteristic of conversations, includ-
ing such relatively informal interviews
as the one quoted, and his language
would likely strike readers of a narra-
tive biographical passage as inappropriate except in quoted speech. By the same
token, the biography contains words and phrases that would seem perhaps stiff
or even snooty in an interview. Striking differences in the preferred lexical cat-
egories and in syntax are also apparent, as we’ll see. Such features—not in iso-
lation but taken together—mark passages as particular kinds of text, particular
registers, reflective of particular speech situations, including the circumstances
of their production.
Vocabulary Truman’s spoken language during the interview relies on short
everyday words, ones that are easy to retrieve and produce in the course of real-
time talking: damn fool, what got into me, no damn good, maybe, when you ask
me, that isn’t what happened. By contrast, a biographer composing text and with
opportunities to reflect on word choice has time to retrieve more semantically
specific words, such as request, posted, temporarily, perceived, exceedingly, and
polished—and, if need be, to revise them afterward, an option not available to
speakers reaching for words as they speak.
Lexical Bundles and Repetition Because conversations and interviews rely on
real-time speech production, they take advantage of expressions already spo-
ken and of lexical bundles. Local repetitions are expressions that get echoed
exactly or nearly exactly within a very short space of time. Truman’s near
repetition of and then put on the Supreme Court (line 3) and putting Tom Clark
on the Supreme Court (line 9) exemplifies the pattern; another example is his
saying my biggest mistake (line 8), echoing the interviewer’s the biggest mistake
you made (line 1).
The term lexical bundle refers to a group of words that occur frequently to-
gether in particular registers and serve common needs of that register. In conver-
sation and informal interviews such as Truman’s, several lexical bundles serve
to introduce other thoughts; they offer a ready frame for saying things. Among
lexical bundles occurring frequently in conversations are several that appear in
the interview: I don’t know what . . . ; that isn’t what . . . ; I thought . . . ; and I told
you . . . . Such lexical bundles, which need not be particular kinds of phrases,
stand ready for use as “launchers” of something to follow; they are ready-made
Try It Yourself Before you consider
the analysis that follows, examine the two
passages above with some care yourself. Compare
the complexity of the syntax—for example, how
much coordination occurs and whether it coordinates
clauses or phrases. Consider which lexical categories
are favored in each passage (more nouns or pronouns,
adjectives or adverbs?) and whether both passages
use active and passive voice equally. What other
observations can you make?
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 353
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 353 4/1/11 18:46:46
4/1/11 18:46:46
354 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
frames for producing fluent speech in real time. Another kind of lexical bundle,
not a launcher but a relative clause, can be seen in that I can think of (line 7),
illustrating how relative clauses can help define or delimit a referent (here, one
right decision).
Nouns and Pronouns In comparable amounts of text, the written biography
contains about thirty nouns, the spoken interview only about half that number.
By contrast, the interview exhibits a dozen first-person and second-person pro-
nouns, whereas the biographical excerpt has none and shows fewer third-person
pronouns than the spoken interview.
There are other differences in pronominal use as well. In his speaking,
Truman uses the demonstrative pronoun that as a “sentential” pronoun, referring
to an entire clause (not merely a noun phrase, the most common referent of a
pronoun): that isn’t what happened (line 11). Elsewhere, in that’s it (line 8), that is
used somewhat vaguely, referring back to my biggest mistake or ahead to Putting
Tom Clark on the Supreme Court of the United States or to both. The biography
contains no such examples and, if a vague pronoun were to find its way into a
draft version, the author or an editor would likely clarify it at revision.
Prepositions and Prepositional Phrases The biography and the interview have
about the same number of prepositional phrases, but the interview contains a
sentence-final preposition (He hasn’t made one right decision that I can think of ), a
feature that occurs rarely in formal writing of any kind but is relatively frequent
in interviews and conversation, as shown in Figure 10.5.
Verbs The excerpt from the interview contains twenty-four verb groups (main
verbs with any auxiliaries: told, would prove, were discussing, are going to change),
twice as many as appear in the biography. Since each verb group represents a
clause, the spoken interview contains twice as many clauses as the biographical
excerpt. Frequent verbs—thus frequent and shorter clauses for an equivalent
number of words—are far more characteristic of spontaneous speech than of
planned and edited writing. As to particular verbs, Truman uses several “pri-
vate” verbs such as think and know, and his interviewer uses consider—verbs that
represent a person’s internal mental state. Such private verbs are characteristic
of conversation and interviews but not of the narrative portions of a biography.
Because speakers in an interview (as in a conversation) face real-time pres-
sure to retrieve words as they speak, speech produced in real time tends to show
relatively frequent use of verbs with broad semantic scope (which are appar-
ently easier to retrieve from the internal
lexicon). By contrast, registers such as
written biographies, whose composition
allows time for retrieving semantically
more precise verbs, show relatively
higher frequencies of verbs with nar-
rower scope. Quite a few of Truman’s
verbs—made, put, get, happen—have
broad semantic scope. Even in this short
passage, he uses made and got twice
each (that I first made; he hasn’t made;
Try It Yourself In the biographical
passage, identify four instances of the
auxiliary verb be used as part of a passive verb
structure, and note whether each is a by-passive or
an agentless passive. Then try to explain the function
of including or omitting the by phrase in each of the
passive structures.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 354
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 354 4/1/11 18:46:46
4/1/11 18:46:46
Two Registers Compared 355
what got into me; he got on the Court) and put (then put on the Supreme Court)
instead of, say, nominated or appointed.
One feature of the written biography is its use of passive voice verbs (was
done, had been posted, was removed, to be taken), which number a third of all the
verbs in the passage. By contrast, the spoken interview contains no passive voice
verbs. This difference in our excerpts mirrors a more general contrast between
active and passive verbs in written and spoken registers.
The interview concerns the years of Truman’s presidency, as the preponderance
of past-tense verbs reflects. Among its two dozen verb groups, more than half are
in the past-tense (including made, put, got, was, thought, happened, told), while most
of the present-tense verbs refer to the ongoing interaction between Truman and his
interviewer or to Truman’s own thought processes in the course of the interview:
when you ask, I don’t know, I can think. The biographical passage, entirely narrative,
contains past-tense verbs almost exclu-
sively. There are also striking differences
in verb aspect (see Chapter 6), but we do
not address aspect here.
Adverbs Truman uses adverbs for refer-
ence to time sequencing (first, then) and
as hedges to indicate his stance toward
what he is saying, as with of course and
maybe. He uses the emphatic adverbs
damn and even (damn good, even worse).
In the biographical passage, adverbs
refer to time sequencing (before, then), as in the interview, and also serve as
emphatics (too, exceedingly) and hedges (almost in lines 10 and 14). Only the
biographical passage exhibits manner adverbials (temporarily, seriously, quickly).
Coordination and Subordination The interview shows several examples of con-
joining, using the conjunctions and and but, chiefly to link clauses, as in lines
5, 6, and 8. The biographical passage shows a preference for conjoining phrases
rather than clauses, including noun phrases (wavy blond hair and a silky baritone
voice), adjective phrases (thirty-nine years old, over six feet tall, broad in the shoul-
ders, slim-waisted, and handsome as a screen actor), and verb phrases (had been
posted . . . and . . . had stepped aside and to be true, or to be taken seriously).
By contrast, the biographical passage contains several subordinate clauses: a
relative clause starting in line 3 (who had been posted . . .); adverbial clauses in
lines 5 (when Vardaman was removed) and 13 (as Truman had quickly perceived);
and the conjoined complement clauses after glamorous in line 10 (to be true, or
to be taken seriously). The interview also contains several subordinate clauses,
including those in lines 4, 8, 10, 12, and 13. Among other subordinate clauses
are those that complement the verb think in lines 10 and 13. In both cases, the
subordinator that has been omitted, rendering I thought [that] maybe . . . he’d
improve and it’s hopeless to think [that] people are going to change much. Omission of
the complementizer that—especially after the verb think and a few others—is very
frequent in conversation and informal interviews and relatively uncommon at all
in academic prose and the kind of writing represented in our biographical excerpt.
The excerpt happens not to have any possible examples of complementizer
Try It Yourself In the biographical
passage, identify an example of four
conjoined adjective phrases other than those in the
series of ﬁve noted in our discussion. Can you identify
any conjoined adjective phrases in the interview?
What do you make of that diﬀerence?
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 355
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 355 4/1/11 18:46:46
4/1/11 18:46:46
356 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
that-omission. (We are not addressing relative clauses in the interview, where that
is sometimes omitted, as in line 1, but not invariably, as in line 7).
Syntactic Shortening and Syntactic Incompleteness Syntactic shortening is a well-
known linguistic feature, and it is particularly common in conversation and certain
other kinds of interaction, including interviews. In answer to the interviewer’s
question in line 1, Truman does not offer a complete sentence but only a noun
phrase, albeit a noun phrase containing a relative clause. Similarly, Truman’s
utterance in line 9 (Putting Tom Clark on the Supreme Court of the United States) is
not a complete sentence (although our considering that phrase as a possible part
of the preceding utterance could lead to a different syntactic analysis).
Questions Almost too obvious to mention, the interview contains a question (as
interviews must), a syntactic structure that would be uncommon in a biography
except in quotations. Strikingly, though, in his reply Truman uses the syntax of
a direct question (When you ask me what was my biggest mistake), rather than an
indirect question (When you ask me what my biggest mistake was). His repetition
of the form of the question in his answer is not uncommon in conversation and
contributes to an impression of informality.
Phonology
We can’t make straightforward comparisons of pronunciation because only the
interview is speech-based. Nor do we have a phonetic transcription of Truman’s
words, but the interviewer’s transcribed text suggests that Truman, like most
speakers, exhibited frequent phonological contraction during the interview. In-
stead of full forms like do not and has not, the excerpt exhibits eight contracted
forms: don’t, doesn’t, isn’t, hasn’t, he’s, he’d, that’s, and it’s. The biographical ex-
cerpt maintains (line 3) the full form who had rather than who’d, the only pos-
sible contraction in the excerpt. (Figure 10.4 shows the relative frequency of
contractions in various registers, confirming the patterns in our excerpts.)
Comparing Registers
No single feature identifies the registers our excerpts exemplify. Instead, fea-
tures occurring in combination characterize the first passage as a planned and
revised written biography or narrative and the second as a spoken face-to-face
interview produced in real time. Truman’s style is so casual that it suggests con-
versation more than a formal interview, perhaps the result of the interviewer’s
having spent several months with him, morning and afternoon. With the pass-
ing days and an increased familiarity between Truman and the interviewer, the
interview came to resemble conversation between acquaintances or friends.
We have now seen some of the ways in which linguistic features differ from
one speech situation to another and thus help characterize the respective regis-
ters. We’ve seen that often there is more of one feature in a given register than
in another, and occasionally a feature occurs in (or is absent from) one regis-
ter exclusively or almost exclusively, as with contractions. Sometimes the same
linguistic form occurs in more than one register but with different meanings or
uses, as we saw for example with coordination.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 356
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 356 4/1/11 18:46:47
4/1/11 18:46:47
Summary 357
In the ﬁeld of artiﬁcial intelligence, in expert systems,
and in a number of critically important high-tech ﬁelds
today, the role of registers is crucial. The reasons are
complex. Consider the different patterns of syntax
and vocabulary across registers that any system would
need to master, such as information given in the form
of headlines or medicalese or legalese or conversation.
Think of it this way: if your corpus contained nothing
but writings from newspapers but failed to distinguish
among the distinctly different kinds of newspaper
texts (reportage, personal ads, editorials and edito-
rial letters, advertising, cartoons, sports commentary,
business analysis, stock market and weather reports,
and so on), it would have to be immeasurably more
complicated than would a set of individual systems
designed to handle various registers one by one.
It would be difficult to overestimate the impor-
tance of computers to the study of register and reg-
ister variation. Compilers of corpora have always
been mindful of the importance of sorting texts into
registers. (In eﬀect, this means designating each text
as belonging to a particular register.) Since so much
study of registers has been quantitative, large-scale
corpora help ensure reliability and validity, although
the design of a corpus is critically important in es-
tablishing validity. Earlier we saw that the Brown and
LOB corpora of English ran to about 1 million words
each. By today’s standards, those are not big corpora.
Although even the British National Corpus is not the
biggest corpus in the world, it has more than one
hundred million words. According to information pro-
vided at the BNC website,
The Corpus occupies about 1.5 gigabytes of disk space—
the equivalent of more than a thousand high capacity
ﬂoppy diskettes.
To put these numbers into per-
spective, the average paperback
book has about 250 pages per cen-
timeter of thickness; assuming 400 words a page, we
calculate that the whole corpus printed in small type on
thin paper would take up about ten metres of shelf space.
Reading the whole corpus aloud at a fairly rapid 150 words
a minute, eight hours a day, 365 days a year, would take
just over four years.
Some of the research findings reported in this
chapter, with its emphasis on quantitative assess-
ments of corpora, have relied on computers. Leaving
aside the tasks of their physical creation on paper,
the data in several tables and ﬁgures were generated
without computers, such as Figure 10.2, which re-
ports the frequency of -ing pronounced as /ɪŋ/ among
males and females in Los Angeles. But for other data,
computers were needed, at least in a practical sense.
Identifying some features would be utterly straight-
forward, given a tagged corpus. In the straightforward
category we can include nouns, prepositions, demon-
strative pronouns, private verbs, and so on. Depend-
ing on the extent of the tagging, other categories
could be identified, such as past-tense verbs, but if
the corpus weren’t tagged for tense, an algorithm
would have to be speciﬁed to instruct the computer
what to look for. Algorithms would also be necessary
to identify such structures as sentence pronouns and
sentence-ﬁnal prepositions. Some algorithms would
prove particularly tricky to design. Think about the
nature of an algorithm that would instruct a com-
puter how to identify that omissions, as in She said
he tried rather than She said that he tried. After all, it’s
one thing to write an algorithm that identiﬁes a fea-
ture that is present, but identifying a feature that is
not present is more challenging. ■
Computers and the Study of Register Variation
Summary
Three principal elements determine each
• speech situation: setting, purpose, and
participants.
Topic and location are part of
• setting.
Activity type and goals are part of
• purpose.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 357
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 357 4/1/11 18:46:47
4/1/11 18:46:47
358 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
With respect to
• participants, it is not only the people themselves who
influence language form but also the roles they are playing in that speech
situation.
As we wear different clothing for different occasions and different activities, so
•
we generally do not speak the same way in court, at dinner, and on the soccer
field.
In multilingual communities, different speech situations call sometimes
•
for different languages and sometimes for different varieties of the same
language.
Registers
• are language varieties characteristic of particular speech situations.
Registers are sometimes also called styles.
The set of varieties used in a speech community in various speech situations is
•
called its linguistic repertoire or its verbal repertoire.
The linguistic repertoire of a monolingual community contains many registers,
•
which differ from one another in their linguistic features either in an absolute
sense or, usually, in a relative sense.
Each register is characterized by a set of linguistic features, not by a single
•
feature.
The sum total of such features (lexical, phonological, grammatical, and
•
semantic), together with the characteristic patterns for the use of language in a
particular situation, determines a register.
Because register or style varieties within a language draw on the same
•
grammatical system, the differential exploitation of that system to mark different
registers occurs not in absolute but in relative terms.
Writing differs from speaking in a number of fundamental ways, but the
•
linguistic differences between the two modes are not absolute.
Spontaneous spoken language relies heavily on lexical bundles and local
•
repetition of expressions to achieve fluency.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
Michael and fictional dialogue
• . Not many people have had occasion to read a
transcript of actual speech, and fewer still have transcribed an ordinary recorded
conversation. Given the spontaneous character of conversation, speakers often need
to search for words and sort out their syntax to convey what they intend. They
sometimes wander down syntactic dead ends and have to backtrack. For Michael,
“natural” may simply mean dialogue that seems genuinely colloquial and doesn’t
appear stiff. If he had to read a transcription of an actual conversation (with its
hesitations and restarts and uhms and uhs), he would doubtless grow impatient.
To prevent such impatience, novelists scrupulously avoid making their dialogue
entirely natural.
Nina and slang
• . Probably not all Nina’s teachers dislike slang and colloquialisms,
and it’s a safe bet that not all of them dislike them in all situations. But teachers
understand that slang is characteristic of extreme informality and probably regard
most classroom interactions as relatively formal situations and written essays as an
especially formal register. By definition, colloquial expressions characterize spoken
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 358
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 358 4/1/11 18:46:47
4/1/11 18:46:47
Exercises 359
language, and given that language-related school tasks focus chiefly on reading
and writing, teachers may discourage “colloquial” expressions in student essays.
Language appropriate to an informal conversation may not be appropriate in a
written essay.
Clarence and contractions
• . Contractions are a shortcut and in writing usually
represent words as they are commonly spoken in informal situations. Written
contractions thus mimic the relaxed tone of conversation. When they’re
used, say, in friendly letters, they mimic the informality of conversation.
By extension, textbooks may aim for a more conversational and engaging
tone by using contractions to help create something of an informal, perhaps
conversational, tone. In this textbook, an interactive tone is established partly
by asking readers to figure things out (“Try it yourself”) and answer questions
(“What do you think?”) and partly by using contractions that help create an
informal tone.
Uncle Colin
• ’s recipe. Sometimes passed on from cook to cook and written
hurriedly on index cards or scraps of paper, family cooks may be inclined
to omit unnecessary words, using a kind of telegraphic language for speed
and efficiency. It shouldn’t be surprising, then, that any omitted words in
a recipe would be ones carrying little information and easily restored from
context: ‘Toast the pine nuts in a medium skillet. Remove them and add
1 tbsp. [tablespoon] of oil and garlic. Cook them for 4 minutes and drain the
remaining liquid. Sprinkle some salt and pepper inside the trout cavity and
stuff it with the spinach mixture. Brush the trout with the remaining oil.’ It’s a
common, if somewhat old-fashioned, recipe style. ■
Exercises
Based on English
10-1. Consider the following expressions.
Kindly extinguish the illumination upon exiting.
Please turn off the lights on your way out.
The content of the directive is basically the same in both expressions, but the
social meanings differ notably. Identify features that highlight the differences
between the two directives; then discuss the impression that each is likely to
make and under which circumstances each might be appropriate.
10-2. a. List five pairs of terms for body parts or bodily functions, such as clavicle/
collarbone or urinate/pee, that could mark a distinction between a discussion
you were having with a physician, say, and a friend on the same topic.
b. Rank the words in each set below in order of formality:
1) prof, teacher, instructor, mentor, educator
2) guru, mullah, maestro, trainer, coach, don
c. Are any of the words in (1) or (2) above so informal as to be slang?
Explain.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 359
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 359 4/1/11 18:46:48
4/1/11 18:46:48
360 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
10-3. Collections of campus slang are popular, and gathering and discussing
examples can be helpful in understanding aspects of language structure
and language use. At the University of Southern California, students of
Professor Carmen Silva-Corvalán identified the words below as examples
of slang. For each term, indicate whether you hear it used in situations of
extreme informality on your campus, identify its lexical category (e.g., noun,
adjective), and give a concise definition for any you are familiar with. Note,
too, which processes of word formation were employed to create these slang
terms (e.g., semantic shift, conversion, blending—see Chapter 2). If you
regard any term as geographically limited, explain yourself. As an extension
to the exercise, the next time you hear someone use any of these terms over
the next week, jot down the full utterance as though you were collecting
citation examples for a dictionary of slang, and note whether the speech
situation was informal or not.
Ex: bounce. Yes, verb ‘leave, usually in a quick or abrupt manner’; semantic
shift.
cheese
chill
chillax
clutch
dank
hella
ride it
sick
sketch
tight
weaksauce
wingman
10-4. Record about 30 seconds of a radio news report and a television news report
(if possible, use the same news item). After transcribing the passages, com-
pare them to see what effect the medium and, in particular, the presence of
visuals has on the choice of linguistic forms.
10-5. Here’s the continuation to the Truman interview quoted in this chapter; the
sentences have been numbered for reference.
Q. (1) How do you explain the fact that he’s been such a bad Justice?
A. (2) The main thing is . . . well, it isn’t so much that he’s a bad man. (3) It’s
just that he’s such a dumb son of a bitch. (4) He’s about the dumbest
man I think I’ve ever run across. (5) And lots of times that’s the case.
(6) Being dumb’s just about the worst thing there is when it comes to
holding high office, and that’s especially true when it’s on the Supreme
Court of the United States. (7) As I say, I never will know what got into me
when I made that appointment, and I’m as sorry as I can be for doing it.
[Plain Speaking, p. 242].
a. Is it clear what that refers to in that’s the case (sentence 5) and that’s espe-
cially true (sentence 6)? If so, what type of constituent does that refer to in
these instances?
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 360
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 360 4/1/11 18:46:48
4/1/11 18:46:48
Exercises 361
b. What is the name of the linguistic feature you examined in question a
above?
c. Identify all instances of be as a main verb. How many are there?
d. What is the function of well in sentence 2?
e. Wherever possible, supply a noun phrase that would have the same refer-
ent as the pronoun it in sentences 2, 3, 6 (two instances), and 7. Explain
those cases where a noun phrase could not be identified as having the
same referent as it.
10-6. a. Look up the definition of slang in a good desk dictionary and, using the
definition as a guideline, list as many slang words and expressions as you
know for two notions each in (1) and (2) below.
1) drunk; sexually carefree person; ungenerous with money; sloppy in
appearance
2) sober; chaste person; generous with money; neat and tidy
b. What is it about the notions represented in (1) that makes them more sus-
ceptible to slang words and expressions than those in (2)?
c. To the extent you could cite slang terms for the items in (2), do they carry
negative or positive connotations?
d. Does the dictionary definition of slang help explain the differential distri-
bution of slang terms in (1) and (2) and the connotations associated with
the slang terms in (2)? If so, explain how. If not, revise the dictionary defi-
nition to accommodate what you have discovered about the connotations
of slang terms.
10-7. Some of the most common words of English (the, of, and, a, to, it, is, that) ap-
pear in both the biography and the interview, as well as in nearly all other
registers of English. But one register in which these words are relatively infre-
quent is headlines.
a. Identify two other registers in which you can observe a relatively infre-
quent use of these words.
b. Choose a sample from one of the two registers you’ve identified or from
newspaper headlines, and identify the lexical categories that strike you as
occurring with higher frequency than in conversation. Note which lexical
categories, if any, occur relatively infrequently.
c. Offer a hypothesis as to why the distribution is as you found it.
d. Examine of course in line 11 of the Truman interview. On one level it
could be analyzed as a prepositional phrase consisting of the preposition
of and the noun course. If instead you think of it as a compound, what
lexical category would it belong to? (Hint: Substitute single words for the
compound and decide which category the substitutes belong to.)
e. In terms of its distribution with respect to other word classes, determine
which lexical category too belongs to in line 10 of the biography. Using
the same criterion, what is the lexical category of almost in the same line?
What about so in line 8 and much in line 14 of the interview?
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 361
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 361 4/1/11 18:46:48
4/1/11 18:46:48
362 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
f. Make a list of the determiners in the biographical passage and a list of
those in the interview. Specify the particular word class for each deter-
miner in your list (for example, article, demonstrative).
g. The biography has no examples of that, whereas the interview has six:
lines 2 (twice), 7, 8, 11, and 12. Identify the word class for each instance
of that.
h. Give an argument for not categorizing in (biography, line 6) as a
preposition.
i. The passages contain several compounds (for example, the compound
noun Navy Captain in the biography, line 3). Identify all the compounds in
both passages, and note their lexical categories and the lexical categories
of their parts (for example, Navy Captain is a noun, comprising a noun
and a noun). What similarities exist in the categories of compounds in the
biography and the interview? What differences?
j. Examine occurrences of to in the biography (lines 4, 11, 15) and the inter-
view (twice in line 13). Which, if any, is a preposition? What are the others?
k. Assuming that the passages are typical of their registers, what generaliza-
tions can you make about the registers in terms of their exploitation of
particular word classes?
10-8. Examine the letters below. The first is a recommendation for a student seeking
admission to a master’s degree program in linguistics, the second a letter to
a magazine, and the third a personal note from a young woman to a female
friend in another state. Identify two particular linguistic characteristics of
each type of letter.
Letter of Recommendation (182 words)
I have known Mr. John Smith as a student in three of my courses at State,
and on the basis of that acquaintance with him, it is my recommendation
that he should certainly be admitted to graduate school.
John was a student of mine in Linguistics 100, where he did exception-
ally well, writing a very good paper indeed. On the basis of that paper,
I encouraged him to major in linguistics and subsequently had the good
fortune to have him in two more classes. In one of these (historical linguis-
tics) he led the class, manifestly working more insightfully than the other
seventeen students enrolled. In the other course (introduction to phonol-
ogy), he did less well, perhaps because he was under some financial pres-
sure and was forced to work twenty hours a week while carrying a full
academic load. In all three courses, John worked very hard, doing much
more than was required.
I recommend John Smith to you without reservation of any kind. He
knows what he wants to achieve and is clearly motivated to succeed in
graduate school.
Editorial Letter (91 words)
Your story on Afghanistan was in error when it stated that the Russian-
backed coup of 1973 was bloodless. As a Peace Corps volunteer in
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 362
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 362 4/1/11 18:46:48
4/1/11 18:46:48
Exercises 363
Afghanistan at the time, I saw the bodies and blood and ducked the
bullets. It was estimated that between 1,000 and 1,500 died, but it is hard
to get an accurate count when a tank pulls up to the house of the shah’s
supporters and fires repeatedly into it from 30 feet away, or when whole
households of people disappear in the middle of the night.
Personal Letter (142 words)
So, what’s up? Not too much going on here. I’m at work now, and it’s been
so slow this week. We haven’t done anything. I hate it when it’s so slow.
The week seems like it’s never going to end.
Well how have you all been? Did you get the pictures and letter
I sent you? We haven’t heard from you in a while. Mother has your
B’day present ready to send and Dan’s too, but no tellin’ when she’ll get
around to sending it. How are the kids? Does Dan like kindergarten?
Well, Al has gone off to school. I miss him so much. He left Monday
to go to LLTI. It’s a trade school upstate. You only have to go for two
years, and he’s taking air conditioning and refrigeration and then he’s
going to take heating.
10-9. Below are personal ads (slightly adapted) from a weekly newspaper published
in Los Angeles. Examine their linguistic characteristics and answer the ques-
tions that follow.
1) Aquarius SWM, 33, strong build, blue eyes. You: marriage-minded,
bilingual Latin Female 23–30, children ok.
2) Busty, brilliant, stunning entrepreneur, 40s (looks 30). Seeks possibly
younger, tall, handsome, caring SWM, who respects individuality. Some-
one who lives the impossible dream, financially secure, good conversa-
tion, for relationship, n/s.
3) SWM, 28, attractive college student, works for major US airlines, enjoys
traveling. Seeks Female, 23–32, humorous and intelligent for world-class
romance and possibly marriage.
4) English vegetarian. SWM, 31. Sincere, sensitive, original, thinking, untypi-
cal, amusing, shy, playful, affectionate professional. Seeking warm, witty,
open-minded WF, under 29, to share my life with.
5) Slim, young, GWM, straight appearance, masculine, athletic, healthy,
clean-shaven, discreet. Seeks similar good-looking WM, under 25, for mo-
nogamous relationship.
6) Very romantic SBM, 24, college educated. Seeks wealthy, healthy and
beautiful Lady for friendship and maybe romance. Phonies and pranksters
need not apply.
7) Hispanic DF, petite but full of life, likes sports, dancing, traveling, looking
for someone with same interests, 30+, race unimportant.
8) Evolved, positive thinking, spiritual, affectionate, honest, handsome,
healthy, secure, 36, 6', 160#, blue-eyed, unpretentious, unencumbered,
professional. Seeking counterpart, soul mate, marriage, family.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 363
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 363 4/1/11 18:46:49
4/1/11 18:46:49
364 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
a. Compared to conversation, which lexical categories are very frequent in
the ads? Which ones are particularly rare?
b. Identify eight characteristic linguistic features of personal ads. They
may be features of syntax, morphology, vocabulary, abbreviation con-
ventions, and so on.
c. List the verbs in all the ads, and identify their grammatical person (first,
second, third) and number (singular, plural) where possible. (Hint: Sup-
ply the pronoun that would serve as subject of each verb in order to
determine person and number.)
d. Choose one of the ads and attempt to write it out fully in conversational
English solely by supplying additional words; keep the word order and
word forms of the original ad.
e. On the basis of your attempt, what indication is there that the ads rep-
resent a reduced or abbreviated form of conversational English? If you
judge the ads not to be reductions of the sentences of conversational Eng-
lish, what explanation can you offer for the form of their sentences?
f. Which linguistic features of personal ads strike you as conventionalized
to the point of requiring previous knowledge of the register in order to
understand it?
10-10. Examine a current issue of your campus newspaper and identify as many
different registers as you can find in it (for example, editorials and movie
reviews). Choose a passage from one register and list eight linguistic fea-
tures that contribute by their high frequency to the characterization of that
register; provide an example of each feature from your passage.
10-11. Headline styles vary somewhat across newspapers and other sources.
Consider the linguistic characteristics of the headlines below, selected from
The New York Times (online edition) in the summer of 2010. Identify all
the prepositions and adjectives. Identify any adverbs. (Review Chapter 2
if necessary so as to distinguish between adjectives and nouns used
attributively—that is, preceding other nouns.) What is noteworthy about the
use of determiners? What accounts for the difference between the relative
lack of determiners and the relatively high frequency of prepositions? Can
you offer an explanation for which lexical categories predominate in these
headlines? What tense do these verbs exhibit: rules, is, cites, and faces? In
which headlines are other tenses used? Do any of the headlines lack verbs
altogether? What do you find noteworthy about the use of auxiliary verbs in
5, 8, 10, 24? Rewrite the following examples as though they were complete
sentences within the article captioned by the headline: 2, 3, 15, 17, 21, 22,
and 25.
1) U.S. Judge Rules Against Obama’s Stem Cell Policy
2) Graft Dispute in Afghanistan Is Test for U.S.
3) New Orleans Levees Nearly Ready, but Mistrusted
4) U.S. General Cites Goals to Train Afghan Forces
5) Plotting Doubted in WikiLeaks Case
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 364
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 364 4/1/11 18:46:49
4/1/11 18:46:49
Exercises 365
 6) Scant Progress in Effort on Racial Killings
 7) Egg Industry Faces New Scrutiny After Outbreak
 8) Drive to Overhaul Low-Performing Schools Delayed
 9) McCain Looks to Complete a Comeback
10) Bush Ties Disputed as Crucial in Ohio Senate Race
11) U.S. Judges Sound Off on Bank Statements
12) Hacker’s Arrest Offers Glimpse Into Crime in Russia
13) Nordstrom Links Online Inventory to Real World
14) Yankees Rookie Gives as Good as He Gets
15) Venezuela, More Deadly Than Iraq, Wonders Why
16) In S.E.C. Fraud Suit, Texas Brothers Stand Firm
17) Floods Force Thousands From Homes in Pakistan
18) Students, Welcome to College; Parents, Go Home
19) Florida Candidate Veers From Tea Party’s Script
20) In Alaska, Names Not on Ballot Play Roles
21) Scrutiny for Chinese Telecom Bid
22) Crowded Field for Bringing Web Video to TVs
23) As Semenya Returns, So Do Questions
24) Canceled Brooklyn Concert Reinstated
25) Proposed Muslim Center Draws Opposing Protests
Based on English and Other Languages
10-12. Identify several instances of linguistic features that vary across registers in a
foreign language you have studied. (Some features may be mentioned in your
foreign language textbook, others by your instructor.) Identify at least one
phonological feature, one grammatical feature, and several vocabulary items
that vary across situations of use. For each feature, specify the situation in
which it is appropriate and another in which it would not be. (Hint: Consider
such differences of situation as writing versus speaking, formal versus informal,
fast speech versus careful speech, interaction between you and, say, a teacher
versus you and a close friend.)
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
10-13. Examine a foreign language textbook, and identify any evidence the author
has provided that the particular language varies from situation to situation.
That evidence may focus on formality versus informality, differences be-
tween speech and writing, forms of address for addressees of different social
status, slang terms or jargon, or any other linguistic variation that depends
on situation of use. What’s your assessment about how clear the book is
about the importance of such differences in sounding like a native speaker
or writing like one?
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 365
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 365 4/1/11 18:46:49
4/1/11 18:46:49
366 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
10-14. Examine the front matter of your dictionary (or the one you recommend to
students) and locate the discussion of how it treats slang. (You may have to
look under “usage” or “labels” for the discussion.) Compare what the diction-
ary says about slang in the front matter with the definition it gives in the
main body of the dictionary’s list of entries. Finally, look up six common slang
words your students (or classmates) use and see whether the dictionary notes
the slang sense you have in mind and whether that sense is labeled as slang.
On the basis of this exercise, would you judge that particular dictionary to be
a useful source of information about slang for you? For your students? Who
would ordinarily use a dictionary to determine slang meanings? Would stu-
dents ordinarily use a dictionary to gather information about slang? To what
extent should a dictionary attempt to include slang terms and slang senses?
10-15. From one of the registers listed or from another that you deem interesting,
choose one that is be appropriate for your students and craft an exercise that
would help guide them to collect a small set of examples and analyze them
appropriately: texting, instant messages, classified ads, course descriptions
in college catalogs, recipes, rental agreements. Exercises 10-9 and 10-10
may serve as examples.
10-16. What implications for teaching ESL/EFL (or any foreign or second language)
do you see in the fact that even in a brief passage like the Truman interview
so much of the language is already structured either by repetition or by lexi-
cal bundling? How important a role should lexical bundles play in creating
model conversations for second language learners?
Other Resources
Internet
LISU Website: http://www.CengageBrain.com For users of this textbook.
Provides updated Internet links as well as supplemental material for students
and instructors. Here you will find interactive learning tools.
British National Corpus: http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/ The home page
for the British National Corpus permits you to submit queries and receive
sample sentences containing the expression you queried.
American National Corpus: http://www.americannationalcorpus.org/ 
A project of the Language Data Consortium, ANC aims eventually to match
the contents of the British National Corpus. ANC remains under development
and welcomes documents of any kind (including student essays and email)
created by native speakers of English (visit the website for details). Meanwhile,
OANC (O for “open”) provides material for research on American English,
including transcripts of about 3.2 million words of face-to-face and telephone
interactions and about 11.4 million words of written English.
Suggestions for Further Reading
Allan Bell
• . 1991. The Language of News Media (Cambridge, MA: Blackwell). The most
accessible in-depth analysis of a single register.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 366
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 366 4/1/11 18:46:50
4/1/11 18:46:50
Other Resources 367
Vijay K
• . Bhatia. 1993. Analysing Genre: Language Use in Professional Settings (London:
Longman). A qualitative approach to registers, a next step beyond this textbook.
Robert L
• . Chapman, ed. 1995. Dictionary of American Slang, 3rd ed. (New York:
HarperCollins). A handsome dictionary of slang; also discusses the nature and sources of
slang. We have taken examples of slang for illustration in this chapter from dust jackets of
this volume.
David Crystal & Derek Davy
• . 1969. Investigating English Style (London: Longman).
Contains accessible chapters on the language of conversation, religion, newspaper reporting,
and legal documents.
Connie Eble
• . 1996. Slang and Sociability: In-group Language among College Students
(Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press). Highly informative with a glossary of over
1,000 slang terms.
J
• . E. Lighter, ed. 1997— . Random House Historical Dictionary of American Slang
(New York: Random House). A major work of interest to historians of American English
and American slang and anyone interested in the history of particular slang terms. Two
volumes (through the letter O) have been published.
Timothy Shopen & Joseph M
• . Williams, eds. 1981. Style and Variables in English
(Cambridge, MA: Winthrop). Essays treating discourse, literary style, and other styles.
Advanced Reading
Brown and Fraser (1979) surveys the elements of speech situations that can influence lan-
guage. Joos (1962) is a popular treatment of the notion of linguistic style. The description of
switching in Brussels comes from Fishman (1972), while Blom and Gumperz (1972) describes
switching between Bokmål and Ranamål. Biber (1988) is a quantitative study of variation
in a corpus of spoken and written English, while Biber (1995) discusses textual variation in
Korean, Somali, and other languages. O’Donnell and Todd (1991) treats English in the media,
advertising, literature, and the classroom. Discussions of other written registers can be found
in Ghadessy (1988). Crystal (2006) discusses how email, instant messaging, and chat may be
influencing English, while Crystal (2009) tackles the same subject with respect to texting and
argues against the widespread view that it is harming the language or young people’s mastery
of it. Chapters in Biber and Finegan (1994) describe sports-coaching registers, personal ads,
and dinner-table conversations, as well as register variation in Somali and Korean. Andersen
(1990) describes register use among children. Finegan (1992) discusses the evolution of fic-
tion, essays, and letters over the course of several centuries, along with attitudes toward
standardization during that formative period. Lambert and Tucker (1976) reports several
social-psychological studies of address forms, principally in Canadian French, Puerto Rican
Spanish, and Colombian Spanish. Useful and insightful discussions of French registers can be
found in Sanders (1993) and George (1993), while French slang and colloquial usage is abun-
dantly illustrated in Burke (1988). Barbour and Stevenson (1990) contains two chapters that
discuss aspects of situational variation in German, and Clyne (1999) touches on situational
variation as well. More advanced discussions of register can be found in Duranti and Goodwin
(1992), which provides descriptive and theoretical perspectives on the importance of context.
Eckert and Rickford (2001) reflects anthropological approaches to style, the traditional socio-
linguistic notion of style as attention paid to speech, the important matter of audience design,
and functionally motivated situational variation. Accessible chapters on American slang (by
Connie Eble), rap and hip hop (by H. Samy Alim), the language of cyberspace (by Denise E.
Murray), and talk between doctors and patients (by Cynthia Hagstrom) appear in Finegan and
Rickford (2004). The biographical passage about Truman comes from McCullough (1992:502)
and the interview passage from Miller (1974:242). Many of the generalizations about spoken
and written registers discussed in this chapter are based on information reported in Biber et
al. (1999), an exceptionally rich source of information about grammar and the occurrence of
linguistic forms across four registers.
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 367
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 367 4/1/11 18:46:51
4/1/11 18:46:51
368 Chapter 10 Language Variation Across Situations of Use: Registers and Styles
References
Andersen, Elaine S. 1990. Speaking with Style (London: Routledge).
Barbour, Steven & Patrick Stevenson. 1990. Variation in German: A Critical Approach to German
Sociolinguistics (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Biber, Douglas. 1988. Variation across Speech and Writing (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press).
———. 1995. Dimensions of Register Variation: A Cross-Linguistic Comparison (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press).
Biber, Douglas & Edward Finegan, eds. 1994. Sociolinguistic Perspectives on Register (New York:
Oxford University Press).
Biber, Douglas, Stig Johansson, Geoffrey Leech, Susan Conrad & Edward Finegan. 1999.
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English (Harlow, UK: Longman).
Blom, Jan-Petter & John J. Gumperz. 1972. “Social Meaning in Linguistic Structure,” in John J.
Gumperz & Dell Hymes, eds., Directions in Sociolinguistics (New York: Holt), pp. 407–34.
Brown, Penelope & Colin Fraser. 1979. “Speech as a Marker of Situation,” in Klaus Scherer &
Howard Giles, eds., Social Markers in Speech (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press),
pp. 33–62.
Burke, David. 1988. Street French: How to Speak and Understand French Slang (New York: John
Wiley).
Crystal, David. 2006. Language and the Internet, 2nd ed. (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press).
———. 2009. Txtng: The Gr8 Db8 (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Clyne, Michael G. 1999. The German Language in a Changing Europe (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press).
Coupland, Nikolas. 2007. Style: Language Variation and Identity (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press).
Duranti, Alessandro & Charles Goodwin, eds. 1992. Rethinking Context: Language as an Interactive
Phenomenon (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Eckert, Penelope & John R. Rickford, eds. 2001. Style and Sociolinguistic Variation (Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press).
Finegan, Edward. 1992. “Style and Standardization in England: 1700–1900,” in Tim
William Machan & Charles T. Scott, eds., English in Its Social Contexts: Essays in Historical
Sociolinguistics (New York: Oxford University Press), pp. 102–30.
Finegan, Edward & John R. Rickford, eds. 2004. Language in the USA: Themes for the Twenty-first
Century (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
George, Ken. 1993. “Alternative French,” in Carol Sanders, ed., French Today: Language in Its
Social Context (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press), pp. 155–70.
Ghadessy, Mohsen, ed. 1988. Registers of Written English: Situational Factors and Linguistic
Features (London: Pinter).
Joos, Martin. 1962. The Five Clocks (New York: Harcourt).
Labov, William. 2006. The Social Stratification of English in New York City, 2nd ed. (Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press).
Lambert, Wallace E. & G. Richard Tucker. 1976. Tu, Vous, Usted: A Social-Psychological Study of
Address Patterns (Rowley, MA: Newbury House).
McCullough, David. 1992. Truman (New York: Touchstone).
Miller, Merle. 1974. Plain Speaking: An Oral Biography of Harry S. Truman (New York: Berkley
Books).
O’Donnell, W. R. & Loreto Todd. 1991. Variety in Contemporary English, 2nd ed. (London:
HarperCollins).
Sanders, Carol. 1993. “Sociosituational Variation,” in Carol Sanders, ed., French Today: Language
in Its Social Context (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press), pp. 27–54.
Trudgill, Peter. 2000. Sociolinguistics: An Introduction to Language and Society, 4th ed.
(New York: Penguin).
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 368
00419_10_ch10_p335-368.indd 368 4/1/11 18:46:51
4/1/11 18:46:51
369
What Do You Think?
Returning from summer camp, your 9-year-old niece Nina reports that one
•
of the counselors “talked funny”: he called the TV a telly; trucks, lorries; dish
towels, tea towels; and cookies, biscuits. What do you tell Nina about who
“talks funny” and who doesn’t?
Your friend Daniel, a teacher in Chicago, tells you that after a substitute
•
teacher who grew up in Alabama replaced him one day, the students
reported that the sub spoke with a distinct Southern accent. But, they said,
the sub claimed he had no accent at all. They wondered how the sub could
possibly imagine he didn’t have an accent. What explanation would you
offer them?
In a discussion about whether teachers in the United States should know
•
something about the structure and pronunciation patterns of Ebonics,
your classmate Evan claims Ebonics is “just broken English” and teachers
shouldn’t have to study it. What arguments can you make that if Ebonics is
“broken,” then every variety of English is “broken” when viewed from the
perspective of every other variety?
In the cafeteria, you and some classmates are discussing to what degree
•
male and female college students talk differently. Sammy says they speak
the same. What do you tell her?
Language Variation Among
Social Groups: Dialects
11
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 369
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 369 4/1/11 18:45:45
4/1/11 18:45:45
370 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
It is an obvious fact that people of different nations tend to use different languages:
Spanish in Spain, Portuguese in Portugal, Japanese in Japan, Somali in Somalia,
and so on. Along with other cultural characteristics, language is part of what distin-
guishes one nation from another. Of course, it isn’t only across national boundaries
that people speak different languages. In the Canadian province of Quebec, ethnic
French-Canadians maintain a strong allegiance to the French language, while eth-
nic Anglos maintain a loyalty to English. In India, scores of languages are spoken,
some confined to small areas, others spoken regionally or nationally.
Among speakers of any widely spoken language there is considerable
international variation, as with Australian, American, British, Indian, and Irish
English, among others. Striking differences can be noted between the varieties
of French spoken in Montreal and Paris and among the varieties of Spanish in
Spain, Mexico, and various Central and South American countries. In addition,
even casual observers know that residents of different parts of a country speak
regional varieties of the same language. When Americans speak of a “Boston
accent,” a “Southern drawl,” or “Brooklynese,” they reveal their perception
of American English as varying from place to place. These linguistic markers
of region identify people as belonging to a particular social group, even when
that group is as loosely bound together as are most American regional groups.
In countries where regional affiliation may have social correlates of ethnicity,
religion, or clan, regional varieties may be important markers of social affiliation.
Like the existence of different languages, the existence of regional varieties of
a language suggests that people who speak with one another tend to speak like
one another. It’s also reasonable to think that people who view themselves as
distinct from other groups may tend to mark that distinction in their speech.
A language can be thought of as a collection of dialects that are historically
related and similar in vocabulary and structure. Dialects of a single language
characterize social groups whose members choose to say they are speakers of
the same language.
Social Boundaries and Dialects
Language varies from region to region and also across ethnic, socioeconomic,
and gender boundaries. Speakers of American English know that many white
Americans and black Americans tend to speak differently, even when they live
in the same city. Similarly, middle-class speakers can often be distinguished
from working-class speakers. Women and men also differ from one another in
their language use. Throughout the world, in addition to regional dialects, there
are ethnic varieties, social class varieties, and gender varieties. These constitute
what some call social dialects, although the word dialect is commonly limited
to a regional variety.
Distinguishing Among Dialect, Register, and Accent
Dialect and Register The term dialect refers to the language variety
characteristic of a particular regional or social group. Partly through his or her
Language or Dialect: Which Do You Speak?
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 370
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 370 4/1/11 18:45:45
4/1/11 18:45:45
How Do Languages Diverge and Merge? 371
dialect we recognize a person’s regional, ethnic, social, and gender affiliation.
Thus the term dialect has to do with language users, with groups of speakers.
In addition, as we saw in the preceding chapter, all dialects vary according
to the situation in which they are used, creating what in the previous chapter
we called registers: language varieties characteristic of situations of use. In this
chapter we deal with dialects—language varieties characteristic of particular
social groups. Languages, dialects, and registers are all language varieties.
What this means is that there is no linguistic distinction between a language
and a dialect. Every dialect is a language, and every language is realized in its
dialects. From a linguistic point of view, what is called a language and what is
called a dialect are indistinguishable.
Dialect and Accent Dialect refers to a language variety in its totality—including
vocabulary, grammar, pronunciation, pragmatics, and any other aspect of the
linguistic system. The terms language and variety also refer to an entire linguistic
system. By contrast, the word accent refers to pronunciation only. When we
discuss a “Southern accent” or a “Boston accent,” we mean the pronunciation
characteristic of the Southern dialect or the Boston dialect.
How is it that over time certain language varieties, once similar to one an-
other, come to differ while other varieties remain very much alike? There is
no simple answer to that question, but the more people interact, the more
alike their language remains or becomes. The less the contact between social
groups, the more likely it is that their language varieties will develop distinc-
tive characteristics.
Geographical separation and social distance promote differences in
speechways. From the Proto-Indo-European language spoken about 6,000 years
ago have come most of today’s European languages and many languages of
Central Asia and the Indian subcontinent. Not only the Romance languages
but the Germanic, Celtic, Greek, Baltic, Slavic, and Indo-Iranian languages
have developed from Proto-Indo-European. When you consider that only about
200 generations have lived and died during that 6,000-year period, you can
appreciate how quickly a multitude of languages can develop from a single
parent language.
Just as physical distance can promote dialect distinctions, social distance can
help create and maintain distinct dialects. In part, middle-class dialects differ
from working-class dialects because of a relative lack of sustained interactional
contacts across class boundaries in American society. African-American English
remains distinct from other varieties of American English partly because of the
social distance between whites and many African Americans in the United States.
A dialect links its users through recognition of shared linguistic characteristics,
and speakers’ abilities to use and understand a dialect mark them as “insiders”
and allow them to identify (and exclude) “outsiders.” But as we will see, it is not
necessarily the case that varieties differ from one another in a tidy fashion. It
may be that two varieties share vocabulary but differ in pronunciation, or share
How Do Languages Diverge and Merge?
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 371
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 371 4/1/11 18:45:45
4/1/11 18:45:45
372 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
a good deal of their phonology but differ in some other respects. All language
varieties change and develop continuously.
Language Merger in an Indian Village
Just as physical and social distance enable speakers of one variety to distinguish
themselves from speakers of other varieties, so close contact and frequent
communication foster linguistic similarity. As varieties of the same language
spoken by people in close social contact tend to become alike, different
languages spoken in a community may also tend to merge.
Kupwar is a village in India on the border between two major language
families: the Indo-European family (which includes the languages of North India)
and the unrelated Dravidian family (the languages of South India). Kupwar’s
3,000 inhabitants fall into three groups and regularly use three languages in their
daily activities. The Jains speak Kannada (a Dravidian language), the Muslims
speak Urdu (an Indo-European language closely related to Hindi), and the
Untouchables speak Marathi (the regional Indo-European language surrounding
Kupwar and the principal literary language of the area). These groups have lived
in the village for centuries, and most men are bilingual or multilingual. Over
the course of time, with individuals switching back and forth among at least
two of these languages, the varieties used in Kupwar have come to be more and
more alike. In fact, the grammatical structures of the village varieties are now so
similar that a word-for-word translation is possible among the languages because
word order and other structural characteristics of the three languages are now
virtually identical. This merging is remarkable because the varieties of these
languages that are used elsewhere are very different from one another.
Even in Kupwar, though, where the three grammars have been merging, the
vocabulary of each language has remained largely distinct. On the one hand,
the need for communication among the different groups has encouraged gram-
matical convergence. On the other hand, the social separation needed to main-
tain religious and caste differences has supported the continuation of separate
vocabularies. As things now stand, communication is relatively easy across
groups, while affiliation and group identity remain clear. This is the linguistic
equivalent of having your cake and eating it, too.
In the following example sentence, the word order and morphology are rela-
tively uniform across the three Kupwar varieties, but the vocabulary identifies
which language is being spoken.
Language Merger in Kupwar
URDU pala jəra kaat ke le ke a ya
MARATHI pala jəra kap un ghe un a l o
KANNADA tapla jəra khod i təgond i bə yn
greens a little cut having taken having come past I
‘I cut some greens and brought them.’
To a remarkable extent the three grammars have merged by combining
grammatical elements from each language, while social distinctions have been
preserved (and are partly maintained) by differences in vocabulary.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 372
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 372 4/1/11 18:45:46
4/1/11 18:45:46
National Varieties of English 373
Language/Dialect Continua
In contrast to the situation in Kupwar, the Romance languages, which include
Spanish, French, Italian, and Portuguese, have evolved distinct national varieties
from the colloquial Latin spoken in their regions in Roman times. Whereas the
varieties of language spoken in Kupwar have converged, the language varieties
arising from Latin have diverged over the centuries. The reasons in both cases
are the same. First, people use language to mark their social identity. Second,
people who talk with one another tend to talk like one another. A corollary of
the second principle is that people not talking with one another tend to become
linguistically differentiated.
Today the languages of Europe look separate and tidily compartmentalized
on a map. In reality they are not so neatly distinguishable. Instead, there is a
continuum of variation, and languages “blend” into one another. The national
border between France and Italy also serves as a dividing line between French-
speaking and Italian-speaking areas. But the French spoken just inside the
French border shares features with the Italian spoken just outside it. From Paris
to the Italian border lies a continuum along which local French varieties be-
come more and more “Italianlike.” Likewise, from Rome to the French border,
Italian varieties become more “Frenchlike.”
Swedes of the far south can communicate better with Danish speakers
in nearby Denmark using their local dialects than with their fellow Swedes
in distant northern Sweden. A similar situation exists with residents along
the border between Germany and the Netherlands. Using their own local
varieties, speakers of German can communicate better with speakers of Dutch
living near them than with speakers of southern German dialects. Examples
of geographical dialect continua are found throughout Europe. In fact, while
the standard varieties of Italian, French, Spanish, Catalan, and Portuguese are
not mutually intelligible, the local varieties form a continuum from Portugal
through Spain, halfway through Belgium, then through France down to the
southern tip of Italy. There are also a Scandinavian dialect continuum, a
West Germanic dialect continuum, and South Slavonic and North Slavonic
dialect continua.
In the case of Kupwar, if there were no outside reference varieties against
which to compare the varieties spoken in the village, we might be inclined to
say that the varieties spoken there were dialects of one language. The residents
of Kupwar, however, have found it socially valuable to continue speaking “dif-
ferent” languages, despite increasing grammatical similarity. What counts most
in deciding on designations for language varieties and on whether such names
represent dialects of a single language or separate languages are the views of
their speakers.
In this section we briefly examine some national varieties of English, with em-
phasis on American English and British English.
National Varieties of English
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 373
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 373 4/1/11 18:45:46
4/1/11 18:45:46
374 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
American and British National Varieties
The principal varieties of English throughout the world are customarily divided
into British and American types. British English is the basis for the varieties
spoken in England, Ireland, Wales, Scotland, Australia, New Zealand, India,
Pakistan, Malaysia, Singapore, and South Africa. American (or North American)
includes chiefly the English of Canada and the United States.
Despite the groupings just suggested, certain characteristics of Canadian
English are closer to British English, while certain characteristics of Irish English
are closer to North American English. And there are many differences between,
say, standard British English and standard Indian English. But we can still make
a number of generalizations about British-based varieties and American-based
varieties, provided we recognize that neither group is completely homogeneous.
Spelling Of the well-known spelling differences between British and American
English, some are systematic, others are limited to a particular word. American
red, white, and blue are colours in Britain, and many other words ending in
-or in American English end in -our in British English. Among idiosyncratic
spellings are British tyres and kerb versus American tires and curb. Interestingly,
Canadians use some British and some American spellings, a reflection of their
close historical association with the two countries. For the most part, these
spelling differences don’t reflect spoken differences. Below are listed some
common American ~ British spelling correspondences.
American British American British
labor, favor labour, favour tire tyre
license, defense licence, defence curb kerb
spelled, burned, spilled spelt, burnt, spilt program programme
analyze, organize analyse, organise pajamas pyjamas
center, theater centre, theatre check cheque
judgment, abridgment judgement, abridgement ton tonne
dialed, canceled dialled, cancelled catalog catalogue
installment, skillful instalment, skilful czar tsar
Pronunciation Differences in vowel and consonant pronunciation, as well as
in word stress and intonation, combine to create American and British accents.
Speakers of both varieties pronounce the vowel of words in the cat, fat, mat class
with /æ/. For similar words ending in a fricative such as fast, path, and half,
American English has /æ/, while some British varieties have /ɑː/, the stressed
vowel of father. Americans pronounce the vowel in the new, tune and duty class
with /u/, as though they were spelled “noo,” “toon,” and “dooty.” Varieties
of British English often pronounce them with /ju/, as though spelled “nyew,”
“tyune,” and “dyuty,” a pronunciation also heard among some older Americans.
As to consonants, perhaps the most noticeable difference has to do with in-
tervocalic /t/. When /t/ occurs between a stressed and an unstressed vowel,
Americans and Canadians usually pronounce it as a flap [ɾ]. As a result, the
word sitter is pronounced [sɪɾər], and latter and ladder are pronounced alike. By
contrast, speakers of some British varieties pronounce intervocalic /t/ as [t].
As another example, most American varieties have a retroflex /r/ in word-final
position in words such as car and near and also preceding a consonant as in cart
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 374
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 374 4/1/11 18:45:46
4/1/11 18:45:46
National Varieties of English 375
and beard, whereas some British variet-
ies, including standard British English,
do not. With respect to post-vocalic /r/,
speakers of Irish and Scottish English
follow the American pattern, while
speakers of dialects in New York City,
Boston, and parts of the coastal South
follow the British pattern.
Among differences of word stress,
British English tends to stress the
first syllable of garage, fillet, and ballet, while American English places stress
on the second syllable. The same is true for patois, massage, debris, beret, and
other borrowings from French. In certain polysyllabic words such as laboratory,
secretary, and lavatory the stress patterns differ, with American English
preserving a secondary stress on the next-to-last syllable.
Syntax and Grammar Some noun phrases that denote locations in time or space
take an article in American English but not in British English.
American British
in the hospital in hospital
to the university to university
the next day next day
Some collective nouns (those that refer to groups of people or to institutions)
are treated as plural in British English but usually as singular in American
varieties. An American watching a soccer game might say Cornell is ahead by two,
whereas a British observer might say Manchester are ahead by two. Americans rely
more on form than on sense. Thus, speaking of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim
baseball team, a writer or sportscaster might say Los Angeles has won again or The
Angels have won again. In both British and American English, a noun such as police
takes a plural verb, as in The police are attempting to assist the neighbors.
A further illustration of the grammatical differences between the two variet-
ies is the use of the verb do with auxiliaries. If asked Have you finished the assign-
ment?, American English permits Yes, I have, while British English allows that
and Yes, I have done. Asked whether flying time to Los Angeles varies, a British
Airways flight attendant might reply, It can do.
Vocabulary There are also vocabulary differences between American and British
English, such as those below.
American British American British
elevator lift second floor first floor
TV telly flashlight torch
hood (of a car) bonnet trunk (of a car) boot
cookies biscuits dessert pudding
gas/gasoline petrol truck lorry
can tin intermission interval
line queue exit way out
washcloth/facecloth flannel traffic circle/rotary roundabout
Try It Yourself Use the IPA symbols
given on the inside front and back covers
of this text to transcribe the word laboratory to
represent both British and American pronunciations
with four syllables.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 375
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 375 4/1/11 18:45:46
4/1/11 18:45:46
376 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
Try It Yourself In some cases, a word used in Britain is hardly
known in the United States. In other cases, the most common British
term happens not to be the most common American term. For each of the
following, give the ordinary American English equivalent: fortnight, holiday,
motorway, diversion, roadworks, joining points, tailback, hire car, car park,
windscreen, spanner.
Starting in the 1940s, investigation of vocabulary patterns in the eastern United
States suggested Northern, Midland, and Southern dialects. Midland was divided
into North Midland and South Midland varieties. Boston and metropolitan New
York were seen as distinct varieties of the Northern dialect. Midwestern states such
as Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio, which had formerly been thought of as representing
“General American,” were seen as situated principally in the North Midland dialect,
with a narrow strip of Northern dialect across their northernmost counties and a
small strip belonging to the South Midland variety across their southern counties.
More recent investigations suggest refinements of that scheme, such as those
represented in the geographical patterns of Figure 11.1, and the term “General
American” has fallen out of favor because it came to mean very little.
Regional Varieties of American English
Figure 11.1 Major Dialectic Regions of the USA, Based on Vocabulary
Source: Carver 1987.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 376
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 376 4/1/11 18:45:46
4/1/11 18:45:46
Regional Varieties of American English 377
Mapping Dialects
To propose a map such as the one in Figure 11.1, dialectologists investigate
vocabulary, pronunciation, or grammar. Typically, a researcher with a question-
naire visits a town and inquires of residents what they call certain things or how
they express certain meanings. Based solely on regional vocabulary, Figure 11.1
divides the United States into two main dialects (North and South), each di-
vided into Upper and Lower sections, with the West viewed as an extension of
the North dialect. The map in Figure 11.1 relies on fieldwork undertaken in the
1960s and 1970s for the Dictionary of American Regional English, or DARE.
Prior to DARE, several linguistic atlas projects were undertaken, part of a
project called the Linguistic Atlas of the United States and Canada. Data collection
in several regions was completed and the results published, but parts of the project
remain incomplete. Still, the data collected provide a useful view of regional
variation. To take an example, when atlas investigators asked respondents for
the commonly used term for the large insect with transparent wings often seen
hovering over water, local terms came to light. Figure 11.2 shows darning needle
as the most common term in New England, upstate New York, metropolitan
New York (including northern and eastern New Jersey and Long Island), and
northern Pennsylvania. Elsewhere, other terms predominated: mosquito hawk
in coastal North Carolina and Virginia, snake doctor in inland Virginia, and
snake feeder along the northern Ohio River in West Virginia, Ohio, western
Pennsylvania, and the upper Ohio Valley toward Pittsburgh.
Figure 11.2 shows that not all the terms for ‘dragonfly’ were neatly
distributed. In some areas only a single form occurred, in others more than
one. The larger Os on the map in New England indicate that darning needle
was the only regional term found there. Figures 11.3 and 11.4 show that
mosquito hawk was virtually the only regional response given in parts of
southeast Texas and portions of central Texas, as well as all of Louisiana and
Florida, and much of southern Alabama, Mississippi, and Georgia. But snake
doctor was the favored form in west, north, and northwest Texas, the western
half of Tennessee, the northern parts of Alabama and Mississippi, and part of
northwestern Georgia. Snake feeder occurred occasionally in Oklahoma along
the Canadian and Arkansas rivers (which aren’t labeled in our figure but can
be identified within Oklahoma near the solid triangles of Figure 11.3). Both
mosquito hawk and snake doctor were used in the southern half of Arkansas
(in Figures 11.3 and 11.4). Darning needle, so popular in New York and New
England, occurred too infrequently even to be recorded on these maps of the
South. Some respondents were unacquainted with local terms and reported
using only dragonfly. (If you live in or come from an area represented on the
maps but find the terms indicated there unfamiliar, bear in mind that the
data were often gathered in rural areas and represent “folk” speech as well as
“cultivated” speech. Moreover, some of the interviews took place decades ago,
and word usage may have changed in the meanwhile.)
Determining Isoglosses Once a map has been marked with symbols for vari-
ous features, lines called isoglosses can often be drawn at the boundary for the
different forms. For example, in Figure 11.5 the four isoglosses traversing the
North-Central states of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois represent the northernmost
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 377
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 377 4/1/11 18:45:47
4/1/11 18:45:47
378 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
Figure 11.2 Words for ‘Dragonfly’ in the Eastern States
Source: Kurath 1949.
limits of greasy pronounced with a /z/ [grizi], of snake feeder as the term for
‘dragonfly,’ and of two other features.
Figure 11.6 represents seven isoglosses in the Upper Midwest. Three of
them mark the southernmost boundaries of Northern features: humor pro-
nounced [hjumər] (/hj/ is represented in the map’s legend as /hy/); bou-
levard referring to the grass strip between the curb and sidewalk; and come
in (fresh), meaning ‘to give birth’ and (in rural areas) usually said of a cow.
The four other isoglosses mark the northernmost boundaries of Midland fea-
tures: the word on pronounced with a rounded vowel (/ɔ/ or /ɒ/, where /ɒ/
is like /ɑ/ but pronounced with lip rounding) instead of an unrounded /ɑ/;
the term caterwampus, meaning ‘askew’ or ‘awry’; the term roasting ears for
‘corn on the cob’; and lightbread for ‘white bread.’
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 378
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 378 4/1/11 18:45:47
4/1/11 18:45:47
Regional Varieties of American English 379
Figure 11.3 Words for ‘Dragonfly’ in Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma
Source: Atwood 1962.
Figure 11.4 Words for ‘Dragonfly’ in the Gulf States
Source: Pederson 1986.
DRAGONFLY
mosquito hawk
snake doctor
snake feeder
NM
TX
OK
AR
LA
DRAGONFLY
snake doctor
snake feeder
mosquito hawk
TX
AR
LA
MS
AL
TN
GA
FL
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 379
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 379 4/1/11 18:45:48
4/1/11 18:45:48
380 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
grea[z]y
snake feeder
sook, so (call to cows)
sugar tree
WI
MI
IL
IN
OH
KY
TN
WV
Figure 11.5 Four Isoglosses in the North-Central States (Northern Limits)
Source: Marckwardt 1957.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 380
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 380 4/1/11 18:45:48
4/1/11 18:45:48
Regional Varieties of American English 381
Southern limits of Northern
/hy/ in humor
boulevard
come in (fresh)
Northern limits of Midland
/ / in on
caterwampus
roasting ears
light bread
ND
SD
NE
IA
MN
Figure 11.6 Seven Isoglosses in the Upper Midwest
Source: Allen 1973.
Dialect Boundaries
Imagine the isogloss maps stacked on top of one another on a transparency. The
result would be a map similar to the one in Figure 11.6 and would show the
extent to which the isoglosses from different maps “bundle” together. The geo-
graphical limit for the use of a particular word (say, caterwampus) often corre-
sponds roughly to the limit for other terms or pronunciations. Where isoglosses
bundle, dialectologists draw dialect boundaries. Thus, a dialect boundary is simply
the location of a bundle of isoglosses. The map in Figure 11.1 is a distillation of
dozens of maps similar to those in Figures 11.5 and 11.6.
Speech patterns are influenced partly by the geographical and physical bound-
aries that facilitate or inhibit communication and partly by the migration routes
followed in settling a place. Among the isoglosses of Figure 11.5, the one for
/grisi/ versus /grizi/ essentially follows a line (now approximated by Interstate 70)
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 381
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 381 4/1/11 18:45:48
4/1/11 18:45:48
382 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
that was the principal road for the west-
ward migration of pioneers during the
postcolonial settlement period.
In the western United States, the di-
alect situation is more complex than in
the longer established areas of the East,
South, and Midwest. The West drew
settlers speaking dialects from various
parts of the country. California contin-
ues to welcome immigrants from other
parts of the country and the world.
Dictionary of American Regional English
The Dictionary of American Regional English makes available more information
about regional words and expressions throughout the United States than has
ever been known before.
Based on answers to more than 1,800 questions asked by field workers who
traveled to 1,002 communities across the country, the maps used for exhibiting
DARE’s findings do not represent geographical space, as most maps do, but pop-
ulation density. Thus the largest states on a DARE map are those with the larg-
est populations. As a result, DARE maps depict states in somewhat unfamiliar
shapes. (To view a DARE map with labeled state names, follow the lead given in
the “Other Resources” section at the end of this chapter.)
Figure 11.7 shows the distribution of the terms mosquito hawk and skeeter
hawk on a DARE map and a conventional map. Along with an occasional occur-
rence in California and New Mexico, you can see the distribution of these terms
through the Gulf states and up the eastern seaboard and appearing occasionally
in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, and a few other states. The name cruller,
for ‘a twisted doughnut,’ has a different distribution, as shown in Figure 11.8.
Cruller is used in the northeast, in New England, New York, New Jersey, Penn-
sylvania, and so on, as well as in some Great Lakes states and California, but
does not occur in Alaska, Washington, Oregon, Nevada, New Mexico, Montana,
Wyoming, North Dakota, and Hawaii.
As the result of various regional dialect projects, especially DARE, a complex
picture of American English dialects emerges, as Figure 11.1 shows. In the fig-
ure, the darker the shading of a dialect area, the greater the number of vocabu-
lary items that distinguish it from other dialect areas. As you can see, the farther
west you go, the fewer the special vocabulary characteristics that appear. To
judge by vocabulary, boundaries for American dialects are better established in
the eastern states than in the more recently settled western ones.
Based on the vocabulary findings of DARE, the United States appears to have
basically North and South dialects, each divided into upper and lower regions as
shown in Figure 11.1. The Upper North contains the dialects of New England, the
Upper Midwest, and the Northwest, with some lesser-marked dialect boundaries
in the Central West and Northern California. The Southwest is also a dialect area,
with Southern California having some distinct characteristics. The South is divided
into Upper South and Lower South, and each of those has subsidiaries.
Try It Yourself If you live in a state
represented in Figures 11.5 or 11.6 (or in a
neighboring state), identify the location of your town
or city with respect to one of the isoglosses and
determine whether your usual pronunciation of the
initial sound in humor or the intervocalic consonant in
greasy is accurately reﬂected in the ﬁgure.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 382
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 382 4/1/11 18:45:49
4/1/11 18:45:49
Regional Varieties of American English 383
Figure 11.7 Distribution of Mosquito Hawk and Skeeter Hawk on DARE Map
and Conventional Map
Source: Dictionary of American Regional English, I, 1985.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 383
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 383 4/1/11 18:45:49
4/1/11 18:45:49
384 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
Figure 11.8 Distribution of Cruller on a DARE Map
Source: Dictionary of American Regional English, I, 1985.
A major investigation of pronunciation in U.S. and Canadian urban areas took
place in the 1990s. The Atlas of North American English, or ANAE, is indepen-
dent of the Linguistic Atlas of North America and Canada and of DARE in its
aims, methods, and findings. ANAE was created with data from a telephone sur-
vey of North American urban centers in a project called Telsur.
On the basis of telephone discussions with respondents who identified them-
selves as born or raised in the speech community in which they were reached,
Telsur combined impressionistic judgments of pronunciation with rigorous
acoustic analysis of recorded conversations. Telsur and ANAE focused on vowel
sounds, in particular several vowel pronunciations known to be in flux.
Vowel Mergers
Among notable changes taking place in North American pronunciation are
mergers of vowels that were formerly separate: /ɑ/ and /ɔ/ in words like cot
and caught and /ɪ/ and /ɛ/ in words like pin and pen. To distinguish these last
two items, many speakers who pronounce them the same call the first a straight
pin or safety pin and the second an ink pen.
The Atlas of North American English
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 384
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 384 4/1/11 18:46:04
4/1/11 18:46:04
The Atlas of North American English 385
Cot ~ Caught Merger The traditional pronunciations of cot and caught have been
distinct, the first with the nucleus /ɑ/ and the second with /ɔ/. Because /ɑ/
is a low back vowel and /ɔ/ is a lower-mid back vowel, the merger is often
called the low back merger. It involves word pairs like Don and Dawn, wok and
walk, and hock and hawk. For the many speakers of American English who don’t
merge these vowels, /ɑ/ and /ɔ/ are distinct phonemes, and those word pairs
are minimal pairs (which we discussed in Chapter 4). With the merger of these
two phonemes, the number of vowels in the English inventory is reduced, and a
good many homophonous pairs may result.
Pin ~ Pen Merger Another merger involves the vowels in word pairs like
pin ~ pen, him ~ hem, lint ~ lent, and cinder ~ sender. For many speakers, these
vowels are kept distinct as [ɪ] and [ɛ], but for others they are homophonous and
cannot be distinguished in speech. This merger is sometimes called the IN ~ EN
merger.
Conditioned and Unconditioned Mergers The merger of /ɑ/ and /ɔ/ isn’t limited
to specific phonological environments within a word but occurs everywhere.
Such an unconditioned merger affects all words that contain the sounds, with the
result that a vowel contrast is lost. By contrast, the vowels /ɪ/ and /ɛ/ merge
only when they precede the nasals /n/ or /m/ but not elsewhere. Speakers who
pronounce pin and pen identically don’t merge pit and pet, lit and let, whipped
and wept, and so on, because these words don’t match the phonological environ-
ment required for the merger.
We can summarize the discussion of mergers in the chart below.
Name Vowels Condition Examples
cot ~ caught merger /ɑ/ ~ /ɔ/ unconditioned cot ~ caught, hock ~ hawk
pin ~ pen merger /ɪ/ ~ /ɛ/ preceding /n/ or /m/ pin ~ pen, cinder ~ sender
Vowel Shifts
Other major changes in North American English involve shifting the pronuncia-
tion of vowels from one location in the mouth to another. The effect is that a
word pronounced with a given vowel is heard by outsiders as having a different
vowel. As an example, the word spelled cod may be heard as cad. You know that
vowels can be represented in a chart such as the one on the inside front cover
and in Figure 3.4. In addition to the simple vowels in the figure, English has
three diphthongs: /aj/ (my, line), /ɔj/ (toy, coin), and /aw/ (cow, town). (In this
book, we generally represent other English vowels as simple vowels, or monoph-
thongs. Thus, we represent the underlying vowel of made as /e/, of flowed as
/o/, and of food as /u/. These vowels are often pronounced as diphthongs and
represented as diphthongs in some books, which give their underlying forms as,
for example, /ey/, /ow/, and /uw/.)
Northern Cities Shift Across the major cities of the North—including Syracuse,
Rochester, and Buffalo in New York, Cleveland and Akron in Ohio, Detroit
in Michigan, Chicago and Rockford in Illinois, and Milwaukee and Madison
in Wisconsin—a set of vowel shifts is occurring that is remarkable in its
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 385
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 385 4/1/11 18:46:06
4/1/11 18:46:06
386 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
scope. They constitute the Northern Cities Shift and can be represented as
in Figure 11.9. This shift includes Canadian as well as U.S. cities. The shift’s
characteristics include those given below. (The numbers in parentheses refer
to the numbered shifts in Figure 11.9; for simplicity, we don’t include shift
number 6 in our list.)
1. /æ/ is raised and fronted to [iə]—man and bad can even sound like the under-
scored vowel in idea: [miən], [biəd] (1 in figure)
2. /ɑ/ is fronted to [æ]—cod sounds like cad (2 in figure)
3. /ɔ/ is lowered and fronted to [ɑ]—cawed sounds like cod (3 in figure)
4. /ɛ/ is lowered and centered to [ʌ]—Ked sounds like cud (4 in figure)
5. /ʌ/ is backed to [ɔ]—cud sounds like cawed (5 in figure)
Southern Shift In the South, a different set of vowel shifts is occurring, as repre-
sented as in Figure 11.10. This Southern Shift’s qualities include the five listed
below in which italicized words serve as examples. (The parentheses refer to the
numbered shifts in Figure 11.10; for simplicity, we don’t include shifts 7 or 8 in
our list.)
1. /aj/ is monophthongized to [a]—hide sounds like [had] or [haːd] (1 in figure)
2. /e/ is lowered, centralized, and diphthongized to [aj]—slade sounds like slide
(2 in figure)
3. /i/ is lowered, centralized to [ɪ]—keyed [ki-əd] sounds like kid [kɪ-əd]
(3 in figure)
4. /o/ is fronted—code and boat sound like [kɛod] and [bɛot] (6 in figure)
Figure 11.9 Northern Cities Shift
Source: Adapted from Labov 1996.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 386
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 386 4/1/11 18:46:06
4/1/11 18:46:06
The Atlas of North American English 387
5. /ɪ/, /ɛ/, /æ/ are raised, fronted, and diphthongized—kid sounds like keyed
([ki-əd]), Ted like tid ([tɪ-əd]), pat like pet ([pɛ-ət]) (4 in figure)
6. /u/ is fronted—cooed sounds like “kewl” ([kɪu-əl] (5 in figure)
It is worth noting the widespread diphthongization of vowels in the South,
making some of the illustrative words above possibly misleading for speakers
of other varieties. It may be helpful to bear in mind how a Southern linguist
characterized this process when he reported the voice of a local restaurant
server asking whether he wants “swuheet tuhee with a leeuhd”—sweet tea
with a lid.
ANAE Findings
Relying on 439 telephone respondents for whom acoustic analyses have been
completed, the Atlas of North American English provides a map of the United
States and Canada in which new dialect boundaries are proposed. You can get
a clear picture of these results at the ANAE website. Meanwhile, the map in
Figure 11.11 (on the following page) suggests the major North American dialect
regions, as based on Telsur pronunciation data. The map indicates four main
U.S. pronunciation regions: West, North, Midland, and South. Within the North
are Inland North and Western New England dialects and within the South are
Texas South and Inland South dialects. You’ll also note designations for dia-
lects named Mid-Atlantic, New York City (NYC), Eastern New England (ENE),
Western Pennsylvania, and others. There are also two pronunciation regions in
Canada—one labeled simply Canada and the other Atlantic Provinces.
Figure 11.10 Southern Shift
Source: Adapted from Labov 1996.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 387
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 387 4/1/11 18:46:07
4/1/11 18:46:07
388 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
Below is a table adapted from the ANAE website that indicates some salient
characteristics of the pronunciation of some dialects. In keeping with the repre-
sentation of Figure 11.11, we indicate characteristics of each region as a whole
and sometimes of dialects within the region.
NORTH Less fronting of /o/ than in other areas
Inland North Northern Cities Shift
Western New England Less advanced Northern Cities Shift
SOUTH Monophthongization of /aj/
Inland South Southern Shift
Texas South Southern Shift
MIDLAND Transitional low back merger
Fronting of /o/
WEST Low back (cot ~ caught) merger
Stronger fronting of /u/ than of /o/
CANADA Low back (cot ~ caught) merger
Atlantic Provinces No low back merger
Additional data on the map are not sufficiently accessible in this black-and-
white image to discuss further. Among the information you can glean from the
color maps at the website are the fact that the St. Louis Corridor (which isn’t
marked on Figure 11.11) falls within the Midland region but nevertheless displays
Figure 11.11 Urban Dialect Areas of the United States, Based on Pronunciation
Source: Adapted from Labov 1996.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 388
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 388 4/1/11 18:46:08
4/1/11 18:46:08
Ethnic Varieties of American English 389
the Northern Cities Shift. You can also note that nearly all of Florida lies outside
the South region. This is because Florida does not participate in the Southern
Shift, although it does display the fronting of /u/ (step 5 in Fig. 11.10) but not of
/o/ (step 6 in Fig. 11.10). In Canada, the Atlantic Provinces are conservative in
pronunciation and don’t (at least yet) participate in the changes characteristic of
other parts of Canada such as the low back (cot ~ caught) merger.
Just as oceans and mountains separate people and may eventually lead
to distinct speech patterns, so social boundaries also promote distinct
speechways. Perhaps the most notable social varieties of American English are
ethnic varieties. Ethnicity is sometimes racial and sometimes not. For example,
differences in the speech of Jewish and Italian New Yorkers have been noted,
and the variety of English influenced by Yiddish speakers who settled in
America is sometimes called “Yinglish.” But the social separation that leads
to ethnic varieties of language is particularly noticeable in the characteristic
speech patterns of many urban African Americans. In Philadelphia and other
cities, the speech of African-American residents is becoming increasingly
distinct from the speech of white residents.
Such a distinction between social groups is also noticeable in the characteris-
tic speech patterns of other ethnic groups. Spanish-speaking immigrants in Los
Angeles, New York, Chicago, Miami, and elsewhere have learned English as a
second language, and their English is marked by a foreign accent. The children
and grandchildren of these immigrants acquire English as a native language
(and many are bilingual), but the native variety of English that many Hispanic
Americans speak identifies them as being of Hispanic ancestry or growing up in
neighborhoods with children of Hispanic ancestry.
The discussion that follows identifies certain characteristics of African-
American English and Chicano English. Both are bona fide varieties of American
English like any other regional or social variety. Both have complete grammatical
systems overlapping to a great degree with other varieties of English. And,
like standard American English, both have a spectrum of registers. While both
varieties share many characteristics with other varieties of American English,
they also exhibit certain distinctive features and a set of shared features that
taken together distinguish each of them from all others.
Like all other social varieties, these two have rules that determine what is
well formed and what is ill formed. Rules govern the structures and use of all
dialects, and no dialect exists without phonological, morphological, and syntac-
tic rules. All the language universals described in Chapter 7 apply to African-
American English and Chicano English as well.
African-American English
Not all African Americans are fluent speakers of African-American English, and
not all speakers of African-American English are African Americans. After all,
Ethnic Varieties of American English
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 389
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 389 4/1/11 18:46:09
4/1/11 18:46:09
390 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
people grow up speaking the language variety around them. In an ethnically
diverse metropolitan area like Los Angeles, you can meet teenaged and young
adult speakers of African-American English whose foreign-born parents speak
Chinese or Vietnamese. The variety of English spoken by these Asian-Americans
reflects the characteristic speechways of their friends and of the neighborhoods
in which they acquired English. To underscore an obvious but often overlooked
fact, the acquisition of a particular language or dialect is as independent of skin
color as it is of height or weight.
The history of African-American English is not completely understood, and
there are competing theories about its origins and subsequent development.
But there is no disagreement concerning its structure and functioning. Like
all varieties, it has characteristic phonological, morphological, and syntactic
features, as well as some vocabulary of its own. Like all other social groups,
speakers of African-American English also share characteristic ways of inter-
acting. In this section we examine some phonological and syntactic features
of African-American English, but not lexical or interactional characteristics.
It is important to recognize that while it is customary to talk about regional
and ethnic varieties of a language in terms of particular features, no variety is
simply a set of features. Every social variety represents a rich syntax, phonol-
ogy, lexicon, and pragmatics, most of which is shared with other varieties of
the same language.
Phonological Features We examine four characteristic pronunciation features of
African-American English (AAE).
1. Consonant cluster simplification Consonant clusters are frequently simpli-
fied. Typical examples occur in the words desk, pronounced as “des” [dɛs],
passed pronounced as “pass” [pæs], and wild pronounced as “wile” [wajl].
Consonant cluster simplification also occurs in all other varieties of American
English. Among speakers of standard English, the consonant clusters <sk> in
ask and <ld> in wild are also commonly simplified, as in “asthem” [æsðəm]
for ask them and “tole” [tol] for told. But consonant cluster simplification oc-
curs more frequently and to a greater extent in African-American English than
in other varieties.
2. Deletion of final stop consonants Final stop consonants, such as /d/, may
be deleted in words like side and borrowed. Speakers of AAE frequently delete
some word-final stops, pronouncing side like sigh and borrowed like borrow.
This deletion rule is systematically influenced by the phonological and gram-
matical environment:
a. Whether a word-final stop consonant represents a separate morpheme
(as in the past tense marking of followed and tried) or doesn’t repre-
sent a separate morpheme but is part of the word stem (as in side and
rapid). Final [d] is preserved much more frequently when it is a separate
morpheme.
b. Whether word-final stops occur in a strongly stressed syllable (tried) or
a weakly stressed syllable (rapid)—note that the second syllable of rapid
is not as strongly stressed as the first syllable. Strongly stressed syllables
tend to preserve final stops more than weakly stressed syllables do.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 390
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 390 4/1/11 18:46:09
4/1/11 18:46:09
Ethnic Varieties of American English 391
c. Whether a vowel follows the stop (as in side angle and tried it) or a consonant
follows it (as in tried hard and side street). A following vowel helps preserve
the stop; in fact, it appears to be the most significant factor in determining
whether a final stop is deleted.
3. Interdental ~ labiodental substitution Other phonological features are less
widespread. For some speakers of AAE, the th of words like both, with, and
Bethlehem may be realized not as the voiceless interdental fricative /θ/ but
the voiceless labiodental fricative /f/, yielding [bof] or [wɪf], for example.
Likewise the voiced interdental fricative /ð/ in words like smooth or bathe and
brother or mother may be realized with the voiced labiodental fricative /v/,
yielding [smuv], [bev], [brʌvə], and [mʌvə]. Note too in brother and mother
the absence of word-final /r/, a feature that AAE shares with the English of
New York City, eastern New England, and parts of the coastal South.
4. Aunt and ask Two other pronunciations are often noted. The first is that the
initial vowel of aunt and auntie is pronounced as /ɑ/, a pronunciation also
characteristic of eastern New England, but not of most other U.S. dialects,
which have /æ/. The second is the pronunciation of ask as [æks] instead of
[æsk]. By no means is this pronunciation unique to AAE, but it is a feature
that has been stereotyped and stigmatized.
In investigations of ongoing changes in the pronunciation of American English,
researchers have been surprised to discover that African Americans living in
those cities affected by the Northern Cities Shift don’t seem to participate in
it. This is one indication that leads some observers to conclude that AAE and
standard American English are diverging rather than becoming more alike.
Grammatical Features We examine four grammatical features of African-
American English.
1. Copula deletion Compare the uses of the copula—the verb BE—in African-
American English and standard American English below. Sentences 1 and 2
illustrate that AAE permits deletion of be in the present tense precisely where
standard English permits a contracted form of the copula.
AFRICAN-AMERICAN STANDARD AMERICAN
1. That my bike. That’s my bike.
2. The coffee cold. The coffee’s cold.
3. The coffee be cold there. The coffee’s (always) cold there.
2. Habitual be As example 3 above indicates, speakers of AAE express recur-
ring or habitual action by using the form be. It may seem to speakers of
other varieties that AAE be is equivalent to standard American English is. In
fact, though, in sentences such as 3 be is equivalent to a verb expressing a
habitual or continuous state of affairs. As African-American linguist Geneva
Smitherman wrote about sentences such as 2 and 3, “If you the cook and the
coffee cold, you might only just get talked about that day, but if The coffee
bees cold, pretty soon you ain’t gon have no job!” Thus, the verb be (or its
inflected variant bees) is used to indicate continuous, repeated, or habitual
action. The following examples further illustrate this function.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 391
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 391 4/1/11 18:46:10
4/1/11 18:46:10
392 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
AFRICAN-AMERICAN STANDARD AMERICAN
Do they be playing all day? Do they play all day?
Yeah, the boys do be messin’
around a lot.
Yeah, the boys do mess around
a lot.
I see her when I bees on my way to
school.
I see her when I’m on my way to
school.
3. Existential it Another feature of African-American English is the use of the
expression it is where standard American English uses there is, as when after
hurricane Katrina a resident of New Orleans reported, It’s nothing left. Below
are two more examples of existential it:
AFRICAN-AMERICAN STANDARD AMERICAN
Is it a Miss Jones in this office? Is there a Miss Jones in this office?
She’s been a wonderful wife and it’s
nothin’ too good for her.
She’s been a wonderful wife and
there’s nothing too good for her.
4. Negative concord The African-American English sentences below contain
more than one word marked for negation—a syntactic phenomenon techni-
cally called negative concord but better known as double negation or mul-
tiple negation. In AAE, multiple-negative constructions are well formed, as
they are in some other varieties of American English and as they were more
generally in earlier periods of English.
AFRICAN-AMERICAN STANDARD AMERICAN
Don’t nobody never help me do my
work.
Nobody ever helps me do my
work.
He don’t never go nowhere. He never goes anywhere.
The fact that these constructions are not regarded as standard English today
has no bearing on their grammaticality or appropriateness in other varieties.
Chicano English
Another important set of ethnic dialects of American English are those called
Latino English or Hispanic English. The best known variety is Chicano English,
spoken by many people of Mexican descent in major U.S. urban centers and in
rural areas of the Southwest.
As with African-American English and all other varieties of English, many
features of Chicano English are shared with other varieties, including other
varieties of Hispanic English, such as those spoken in the Cuban community
of Miami and the Puerto Rican community of New York City. Chicano English
comprises many registers for use in different situations. Some characteristic
features doubtless result from the persistence of Spanish as one of the language
varieties of the Hispanic-American community, but Chicano English has become
a distinct variety of American English and cannot be regarded as English spo-
ken with a foreign accent. It is acquired as a first language by many children
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 392
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 392 4/1/11 18:46:10
4/1/11 18:46:10
Ethnic Varieties and Social Identification 393
and is the native language of hundreds of thousands of adults. It is thus a sta-
ble variety of American English, with characteristic patterns of grammar and
pronunciation.
Phonological Features Phonological features of Chicano English include
consonant cluster simplification, as in [ɪs] for it’s, “kine” for kind, “ole” for
old, “bes” for best, and “un-erstan” [ʌnərstæn] for understand. Much of this can
be represented in the phrase, It’s kind of hard, which is pronounced [ɪs kɑnə
hɑr]. Another notable characteristic is the devoicing of /z/, especially in word-
final position. Because of the widespread occurrence of /z/ in the inflectional
morphology of English (in plural nouns, possessive nouns, and third-person-
singular present-tense verbs such as goes), this characteristic is stereotyped.
Chicano English pronunciation is also characterized by the substitution of stops
for the standard fricatives represented in spelling by th: [t] for [θ] and [d] for
[ð], as in “tick” for thick and “den” for then. Also characteristic is pronunciation
of verbal -ing as “een” [in] rather than /ɪn/ ([ən]) or /ɪŋ/, as in waiting or
building. Other -ng words such as sing and long end with a combined velar nasal
/ŋ/ and velar stop /g/, as in [sɪŋg], not [sɪŋ], and long [lɔŋg], not [lɔŋ]. A
well-known and stereotyped feature is substitution of “ch” [ʧ] for “sh” [ʃ], as
in pronouncing she as [ʧi] instead of [ʃi], shoes as [ʧuz] (homophonous with
choose) instead of [ʃuz], and especially as [ɛspɛʧəli]. There is also substitution
of “sh” for “ch,” as in “preash” [priʃ] for preach and “shek” [ʃɛk] for check
[ʧɛk], though this feature seems not to be stereotyped. Chicano English also
exhibits certain intonation patterns that may strike speakers of other dialects of
American English as uncertain or hesitant.
As with speakers of AAE, speakers of Hispanic varieties of English who live
in cities affected by the Northern Cities Shift don’t appear to be participating in
these shifts, at least to the same extent as other groups.
Grammatical Features Chicano English also has characteristic syntactic patterns.
It often omits the past-tense marker on verbs that end with the alveolars /t/, /d/,
or /n/, yielding “wan” for wanted and “wait” for waited. At least in Los Angeles,
either . . . or either is sometimes heard instead of either . . . or, as in Either I
will go buy one, or either Terry will. Another feature is the use of dialect-specific
prepositions such as out from for away from, as in They party to get out from
their problems. As with many other varieties, Chicano English permits multiple
negation, as in You don’t owe me nothing and Us little people don’t get nothin’.
It’s important to reemphasize that some customary features of Chicano English
and African-American English are characteristic of other varieties of American
English. In some cases, as with consonant cluster simplification, these features
are widespread in mainstream varieties, including standard English. In other
cases, as with negative concord, they are not characteristic of standard American
English but are shared with other nonstandard varieties. What makes any variety
distinct is not a single feature but a cluster of features, some of which may also
occur in other varieties to a greater or lesser degree.
Ethnic Varieties and Social Identification
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 393
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 393 4/1/11 18:46:10
4/1/11 18:46:10
394 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
Ethnic dialects are an important
ingredient in social identity, and fea-
tures that are recognized as character-
istic of specific social groups can be
used to promote or reinforce affiliation
with that identity. When speaking, an
African-American man or woman who
wants to stress his or her social iden-
tity as an African American may choose
to emphasize or exaggerate features of
African-American English. The same is
true for speakers of Hispanic English
varieties who wish to emphasize their
Hispanic identity. News correspon-
dents on English-language radio and
television broadcasts generally speak
without marked social group accents.
To emphasize their ethnic identity,
however, some correspondents use a
marked ethnic pronunciation of their own names at the conclusion of a report.
A broadcast journalist named Maria Hinojosa identifies herself as mah-REE-ah
ee-noh-HOH-sah, with a trill /r̃/ in REE. Another, Geraldo Rivera, pronounces
his first name heh-RAHL-doh. Such ethnically marked pronunciations highlight
pride in one’s ethnic identity.
Less striking than regional and ethnic varieties, but equally significant, are the
remarkable patterns of speech that characterize different socioeconomic status
groups. Here we describe some speech patterns of the English spoken in New
York City and in Norwich, England, as well as of the French of Montreal and the
Spanish of Argentina.
New York City
New Yorkers sometimes pronounce /r/ and sometimes drop it in words like
car and beer, cart and fourth (where /r/ follows a vowel in the same syllable
and appears either word finally or preceding another consonant). The presence
or absence of this /r/ does not change a word’s referential meaning. A “cah
pahked” in a red zone is ticketed as surely as a similarly parked car. And whether
you live in New York or “New Yoahk,” you have the same mayor (or “maya”).
Still, the occurrence of /r/ in these words is anything but random and any-
thing but meaningless. Linguist William Labov hypothesized that /r/ pronun-
ciations in New York correlated with social-class affiliation and that any two
socially ranked groups of New Yorkers would differ in their pronunciation
Socioeconomic Status Varieties: English, French,
and Spanish
Try It Yourself Consider these
pronunciations of Hispanic names: “deh-
lah-CROOS” for de la Cruz; “FWEHN-tehs” for Fuentes;
“GAHR-sah” for Garza, and “ehr-NAHN-dehs” for
Hernandez. Say these names aloud as you think they
would be said without an ethnic pronunciation.
Compare those pronunciations with the ones in
quotation marks, and identify two features in the
Hispanic pronunciations that are characteristic
of Chicano English. Identify two other features
we did not discuss but that you think may reﬂect
characteristics of Hispanic English.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 394
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 394 4/1/11 18:46:10
4/1/11 18:46:10
Socioeconomic Status Varieties: English, French, and Spanish  395
of /r/. On the basis of preliminary observations, he predicted that members of
higher socioeconomic status groups would pronounce /r/ more frequently than
would speakers in lower socioeconomic class groups.
To test his hypothesis, Labov investigated the speech of employees in three
Manhattan department stores of different social rank: Saks Fifth Avenue, an
expensive, upper-middle-class store; Macy’s, a medium-priced, middle-class
store; and S. Klein, a discount store patronized principally by working-class
New Yorkers. He asked supervisors, sales clerks, and stock boys the where-
abouts of merchandise he knew to be displayed on the fourth floor of their
store. In answer to a question such as “Where can I find the lamps?” he elic-
ited a response of fourth floor. Then, pretending not to have caught the answer,
he said, “Excuse me?” and elicited a repeated—and more careful—utterance of
fourth floor. Each employee thus had an opportunity to pronounce postvocalic
/r/ four times (twice each in fourth and floor) in a natural and realistic setting in
which language itself was not the focus of attention.
Employees at Saks, the highest-ranked store, pronounced /r/ more often than
those at S. Klein, the lowest-ranked store. At Macy’s, the middle-ranked store,
employees pronounced an intermediate number. Figure 11.12 presents the re-
sults of Labov’s survey. The darker sections represent the percentage of employ-
ees who pronounced /r/ four times; the lighter sections above the darker areas
represent the percentage who pronounced it once, twice, or three times (but not
four). Employees who did not pronounce /r/ at all are not directly represented in
the bar graph. As can be seen, 30 percent of the Saks employees pronounced all
/r/, and an additional 32 percent pronounced some /r/. At Macy’s, 20 percent
pronounced /r/ four times, and an additional 31 percent pronounced some /r/.
At S. Klein, only 4 percent of the employees pronounced all /r/, with an addi-
tional 17 percent pronouncing one, two, or three /r/s. Labov’s hypothesis about
the social stratification of postvocalic /r/ seemed strikingly confirmed.
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Saks Macy’s S. Klein
30
32
20
31
4
17
Percent
of
Respondents
Some /r/
All /r/
N = 68 125 71
Figure 11.12 Overall Stratification of /r/ by Store in New York City
Source: Labov 2006.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 395
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 395 4/1/11 18:46:10
4/1/11 18:46:10
396 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
You may be able to suggest other possible explanations for these findings
because factors other than socioeconomic status might have influenced the
results, as Labov recognized. For example, if he spoke to more men than
women in one store or more stock boys than sales clerks, or more African
Americans than whites, the difference in pronunciation of /r/ could have been
produced by gender, job, or ethnic differences. As it happened, there were
more white female sales clerks than any other single group, and looking at
their pronunciations separately from those of everyone else would eliminate
the possibility of findings skewed by gender, job, or ethnicity. Figure 11.13
reveals an overall pattern of distribution similar to that for the whole sample of
respondents. The white female sales clerks at Saks pronounced more /r/ than
those at Macy’s, who in turn pronounced more than those at S. Klein. Thus
Labov could rule out the possibility that his findings reflected ethnic, gender,
or in-store job differences.
Following the department store study, Labov undertook a different and com-
plementary kind of investigation. Equipped with detailed sociological descrip-
tions of individual residents of Manhattan’s Lower East Side, he spent several
hours with each of about a hundred respondents there and recorded the con-
versations. His interviewing techniques prompted the respondents to use speech
samples characteristic of different speech situations, or registers, as we discussed
in Chapter 10. Here are six variables he examined:
postvocalic /r/ (as in the department store survey)
◆
th
◆ in words such as thirty, through, and with (New Yorkers say thirty some-
times with /θ/ and sometimes with /t/)
th
◆ in words such as this, them, and breathe (the infamous “dis, dat, dem,
and dose” words, with variants /ð/ and /d/)
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Saks Macy’s S. Klein
33
34
28
31
4
26
Percent
of
Respondents
Some /r/
All /r/
N = 49 65 27
Figure 11.13 Stratification of /r/ by Store in New York City: White Female Sales Clerks
Source: Labov 2006.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 396
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 396 4/1/11 18:46:11
4/1/11 18:46:11
Socioeconomic Status Varieties: English, French, and Spanish  397
alternate pronunciation of -
◆ ing words like running and talking, with /ɪŋ/
and /ɪn/ variants (Often referred to as “dropping the g,” you know from
Chapter 3 that the alternation is between the velar nasal /ŋ/ and the
alveolar nasal /n/; only the spelling has a “g” to drop.)
pronunciation of the vowel in the word class
◆ soft, caught, coffee
pronunciation of the vowel in the word class
◆ bad, care, sag
In the interviews, Labov spoke with women and men, parents and children,
African Americans and whites, Jews and Italians—a representative sample of
Lower East Side residents. On the basis of extensive information about their
background, he assigned each respondent to a socioeconomic status group based
on a combination of three factors:
the
◆ education of the respondent
the
◆ income of the respondent’s household
the
◆ occupation of the principal breadwinner in the household
Using these criteria, he placed individuals into one of four socioeconomic
status categories, which he called lower class, working class, lower middle
class, and upper middle class. As expected, and as Figure 11.14 shows, upper-
middle-class (UMC) respondents exhibited more /ɪŋ/ than lower-middle-class
(LMC) respondents, who in turn exhibited more than working-class (WC)
respondents, who used more than lower-class (LC) respondents. Each group
also pronounced more /ɪŋ/ as attention paid to speech was increased in various
styles. Through several graded speech registers—casual style, interview style,
Figure 11.14 Percent of -ing pronounced as /ɪŋ/ by Four Socioeconomic Groups in
New York City
Source of data: Labov 2006.
20
78
51
89
68
99
95
100
LC WC LMC UMC
Socioeconomic Status Groups
Casual
Reading
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 397
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 397 4/1/11 18:46:11
4/1/11 18:46:11
398 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
and reading style—respondents in all socioeconomic groups increased the
percentage of /ɪŋ/ pronounced. Interview style is not shown here.
Labov found that all six variables were socially stratified. Each socioeco-
nomic status group had characteristic patterns of pronunciation, and the per-
centage of pronunciation of the variants was ranked in the same way as the
groups themselves. The upper middle class pronounced most /θ/ for th (as in
thing), most /ð/ for th (as in then), most /ɪŋ/ (as in running), and most /r/ (as
in car). The lower-class respondents pronounced fewest of these variants, while
the lower middle class and working class fell in between, with the lower middle
class pronouncing more than the working class. Such regular patterns of varia-
tion suggest that even subtle differences in social stratification may be reflected
in language use.
The vowels were stratified in a similar way. New Yorkers have several
pronunciations of the first vowel in coffee, ranging from high back tense [u]
through mid back [ɔ] down to low back [ɑ]. The vowel of words in the bad class
also varies—from low front lax [æ] to high front tense [iᵊ] with an offglide, as
we saw in our discussion of the Northern Cities Shift. In New York City, higher
socioeconomic status groups favored lower vowels in both cases.
Norwich, England
British linguist Peter Trudgill investigated the speech patterns of residents of
Norwich, England, and found strikingly similar results in syntactic as well as
phonological variation. Respondents were divided into five groups: middle mid-
dle class (MMC), lower middle class (LMC), upper working class (UWC), middle
working class (MWC), and lower working class (LWC). Figure 11.15 illustrates
the distribution of final /ɪŋ/ in the suffix -ing among these groups in casual and
reading styles.
Comparing data from New York City (Figure 11.14) and Norwich
(Figure 11.15) shows that the patterns of distribution for socioeconomic status
are similar in the two cities. Each successively higher socioeconomic status group
pronounces more /ɪŋ/ than the group immediately below it.
5
56
13
85
58
90
72
100
MWC UWC LMC MMC
Socioeconomic Status Groups
Casual
Reading
100
80
60
40
20
0
0
34
LWC
Figure 11.15 Percent of -ing Pronounced as /ɪŋ/ by Five Socioeconomic Groups
in Norwich
Source of data: Trudgill 2000.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 398
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 398 4/1/11 18:46:11
4/1/11 18:46:11
Socioeconomic Status Varieties: English, French, and Spanish  399
Montreal, Canada
In Montreal, French speakers vary the pronunciation of pronouns and definite
articles. Except in the word le, /l/ is sometimes pronounced and sometimes
omitted in personal pronouns such as il ‘he’ and elle ‘she’ and articles (and pro-
nouns) such as les ‘the (plural)’ and la ‘the (feminine).’ (See Table 2.11.) In the
usage of two occupational groups, professionals and laborers, the laborers con-
sistently omitted /l/ more frequently than the professionals did, as shown for
four such words in Figure 11.16.
Argentina
Spanish speakers show similar patterns of phonological variation. To cite one
example in Argentina, speakers sometimes delete /s/ before pauses (as in
English, /s/ is a common word-final sound in Spanish, occurring on plural nouns
and on several verb forms). In a study of six Argentinian occupational groups,
the percentage of /s/-deletion was greatest in the lowest-status occupations and
least in the higher-status occupations, as shown in Figure 11.17.
General Comments
On the basis of evidence from these and other studies, parallel patterns of dis-
tribution may be expected for phonological variables wherever comparable
social structures are found. Morphological and syntactic variation also exists,
though evidence about variation at these levels of the grammar is scanty. What
holds true of variation in English, French, and Spanish presumably holds true of
similarly structured communities speaking other languages, although here, too,
evidence is scanty.
72
100
30
82
19
62
13
38
il
(personal)
elle les
(pronoun)
la
(pronoun)
Professionals
Laborers
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Figure 11.16 Percent of /l/-Deletion in Montreal French for Two Occupational Groups
Source of data: Sankoff and Cedergren 1971.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 399
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 399 4/1/11 18:46:11
4/1/11 18:46:11
400 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
You know that in many speech communities women and men don’t speak iden-
tically. In the United States, certain words are associated more with women
than men and may “sound” feminine as a result. Adjectives such as lovely, dar-
ling, and cute may carry feminine associations, as do words that describe precise
shades of color, such as mauve and chartreuse.
In some languages, the differences between women’s and men’s speech are
more dramatic than in English. In informal situations among speakers of Japa-
nese, even the first-person pronoun ‘I’ differs for women (atasi) and men (boku).
In French, je is the first-person pronoun for men and women, but because adjec-
tives are marked for gender agreement, Je suis heureux ‘I am happy’ identifies a
male speaker, while Je suis heureuse identifies a female speaker.
Reports of striking differences between gender varieties have been reported
for Chukchee (spoken in Siberia) and for Thai. In polite Thai conversation be-
tween men and women of equal rank, women say dičʰàn while men say phǒm for
the first-person singular pronoun ‘I.’ Thai also has a set of particles used differ-
ently by men and women, especially in formulaic questions and responses such
as ‘thank you’ and ‘excuse me.’ The polite particle used by men is kʰráp, while
women use kʰá or kʰâ. Because these politeness particles occur frequently in
daily interaction, speech differences between men and women can seem highly
marked in Thai, despite the fact that few words are so differentiated.
There are also more subtle differences between men’s and women’s speech,
the kinds of quantitative differences we saw between other social groups. For
example, in Montreal, where professionals delete /l/ from articles and pronouns
less frequently than laborers do, men and women also differ in pronouncing these
same words. Figure 11.18 shows that men delete /l/ more frequently than women
for il (personal, as in il chante ‘he sings’), for elle, and for the pronouns les and la.
The Language Varieties of Women and Men
II III V VI
(high)
Ranked Occupational Groups
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
I
(low)
IV
68
63
41
19 16 14
Figure 11.17 Percent of Prepausal /s/-Deletion in Argentine Spanish for
Six Occupational Groups
Source of data: Terrell 1981.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 400
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 400 4/1/11 18:46:11
4/1/11 18:46:11
The Language Varieties of Women and Men 401
Patterns in which women delete sounds less frequently than men also ap-
pear in New York City and Norwich. In these cities, when higher socioeconomic
classes behave linguistically in one way to a greater extent than lower ones,
women tend to behave like the higher socioeconomic groups to a greater extent
than men do.
In English, besides vocabulary differences, more subtle linguistic differences
between the sexes can go largely unnoticed. One study examined the pronun-
ciation of the -ing suffix in words like running and talking. In a semirural New
England village, the speech patterns of a dozen boys and a dozen girls between
the ages of 3 and 10 showed that, even in such young children, all but three
used both alveolar [n] and velar [ŋ] pronunciations for verbal -ing. Interest-
ingly, twice as many girls as boys showed a preference for the /ɪŋ/ forms, as
shown below.
Pronunciation of -ing by 12 Boys and 12 Girls in a New England Village
PREFERENCE FOR /ɪŋ/ NO PREFERENCE FOR /ɪŋ/
GIRLS 10 2
BOYS  5 7
The finding that girls and boys differ in this way may seem surprising, given
that in this New England village (as generally in Western societies) girls and
boys are in frequent face-to-face contact with each other, although they also
play separately. A significant separation in the communication channels, sug-
gested earlier as a motivating factor in the differentiation of dialect speech
patterns, does not appear to explain this case. What, then, is the explanation?
One hypothesis is the “toughness” characteristic associated with working-class
Figure 11.18 Percent of /l/-Deletion in Montreal French for Women and Men
Source of data: Sankoff and Cedergren 1971.
84
94
60
67
41
53
23
31
il
(personal)
elle les
(pronoun)
la
(pronoun)
Women
Men
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 401
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 401 4/1/11 18:46:12
4/1/11 18:46:12
402 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
lifestyles combined with the “masculinity” characteristic associated with the -in’
forms. In other words, an association between masculinity and “dropping the g”
may outweigh the associations with prestige and higher socioeconomic status
that otherwise accompany the -ing variant with the g (that is, [ŋ]). This analysis
suggests that linguistic differences between males and females are related not to
biological sex but to socially constructed gender roles.
You may wonder why speakers don’t give up their stigmatized varieties for
more prestigious ones. The explanation lies partly in the fact that a person’s
identity—as a woman or man, as an American or Australian, as a member of
a particular ethnic or socioeconomic group—is entwined with the speech pat-
terns of the group he or she belongs to. To change the way you speak is to
Why Do Stigmatized Varieties Persist?
Masculinity and the Toughness Factor
There’s evidence for the greater prestige of running and talking pronunciations
with [ŋ] over those that “drop the g” (that is, pronounce –ing with [n]). Here
are two facts. (1) English speakers who use both variants (that’s virtually all
of us) tend to pronounce –ing with [ŋ] more often when speaking in situa-
tions of greater formality. (2) Social groups with higher socioeconomic status
pronounce –ing with [ŋ] more often than lower status groups. Interestingly,
girls and women pronounce –ing with [ŋ] more frequently than boys and
men do. One explanation may be that women are more status conscious than
men—sociologists have found that to be the case in other arenas, so why not
in language, too? But linguists suggest an additional reason. Think of it as the
“toughness factor.” Boys and men may associate pronunciations like runnin’
and talkin’ with working-class “toughness”—and that connection apparently
outweighs any link to prestige because the less prestigious pronunciation
marks “masculinity” and masculinity outranks prestige. Now you might ob-
ject that using the term “masculinity” to explain the linguistic behavior of
boys and men seems to beg the question. After all, what’s gained by calling a
pronunciation “masculine” just because men use it more than women? Well,
masculinity and femininity are not the same thing as male and female. Sex
differences (male and female) are biological, and language differences don’t
reflect biology. Instead, what they do reflect is the phenomenon of gender—
what it means to be male or female in a particular sociocultural environ-
ment. You’re aware of gender differences marked by clothing, hair length,
body decoration, and jewelry use. (“Wear some earrings, for God’s sake,” the
mother of Emma Thompson’s character in the movie “The Winter Guest” tells
her after she’s cut her hair short. “Let folks know you’re a woman!”) So you
shouldn’t be surprised that language also reflects the important social identity
of gender roles.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 402
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 402 4/1/11 18:46:12
4/1/11 18:46:12
Why Do Stigmatized Varieties Persist? 403
signal changes in who you are or how you want to be perceived. For a New
Yorker transplanted to California, speaking like a Californian is to relinquish
some identity as a New Yorker. To give up speaking African-American English
is to relinquish some identity as an African American. To give up working-class
speech patterns acquired in childhood is to take on a new identity. In short, to
take on new speech patterns is to reform oneself and present oneself anew.
Language is a major symbol of our social identity, and we have seen how re-
markably fine-tuned to that identity it can be. If you wish to identify with “non-
native” regional, socioeconomic, or ethnic groups and have sufficient contact
with them, your speech will naturally and gradually come to resemble theirs.
We can illustrate with a telling story of linguistic and social identity on
Martha’s Vineyard, an island off the coast of Massachusetts. There the vowels /aj/
and /aw/ have two principal variants, with the first element of each diphthong
sometimes pronounced [a] and sometimes with a more centralized [ə]. Words
like night and why may be pronounced [aj] or [əj]; words like shout and how may
be pronounced with [aw] or the more centralized [əw]. These variants are not
typical dialect features: they don’t reflect gender, ethnicity, or socioeconomic
status. Instead, vowel centralization represents identity with traditional
values of the island and its life. In an investigation carried out by sociolinguist
William Labov, the up-island residents showed more vowel centralization than
the residents in sections catering to summer visitors. Young men intending to
leave the island and lead their lives on the mainland showed the least vowel
centralization, while the greatest vowel centralization was shown by a young
man who had moved to the mainland but returned to Martha’s Vineyard. Thus
the centralized diphthongs may be viewed as representing rejection of mainland
values and a positive view of the values of island life.
The symbolic value of a person’s language variety cannot be overestimated.
In Britain speakers of regional varieties who were asked to evaluate oral argu-
ments rated the quality of an argument higher when it was presented in a stan-
dard accent but found the same argument more persuasive when it was made
using a regional accent.
It’s easy for speakers higher on the socioeconomic ladder to ask about
speakers lower on the ladder, “Why don’t they start talking like us?” The an-
swer may not be so difficult to recognize: their social identity is different,
and they don’t necessarily share the values of other groups, including higher
socioeconomic groups. Think about gender dialects: it is perfectly acceptable
for women to speak like women and men to speak like men. Imagine men ask-
ing women to speak like them in order to get ahead in “a man’s world.” Or
imagine a female CEO or manager asking her company’s male truck drivers to
speak more like women to get ahead in “a woman’s world.” These are patently
unacceptable scenarios.
Language is a central factor in a person’s identity. Asking people to change
their customary language patterns is not like asking them to wear different
styles or colors of sweaters. It is asking them to assume a new identity and to
espouse the values associated with that identity, that is the identity of speakers
of a different dialect. One reason nonstandard varieties successfully resist the
urgings of education is that vernacular language varieties are deeply entwined
with the social identities and values of their speakers.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 403
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 403 4/1/11 18:46:12
4/1/11 18:46:12
404 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
Given the mass of both quantitative and qualitative
data represented in our discussion of dialects,
it should be no surprise that computers are being
used by dialectologists to accomplish their goals. Re-
searchers are digitizing the kinds of data that in the
past have been manually represented, as on some
maps in this chapter. For example, researchers for
the Linguistic Atlas of the Middle and South Atlantic
States (LAMSAS) have used a program called Map-
Info to plot longitude and latitude coordinates for
the residences of all 1,162 LAMSAS informants, which
will enable maps of various sizes and degrees of de-
tail to represent features that were elicited from the
informants. In Figures 11.7 and 11.8 you saw the use
of computers in generating nontraditional maps for
dialectology. In a diﬀerent vein, the work represented
in the Telsur project and the Atlas of North American
English depends crucially on using computers to per-
form acoustic analyses of vowel sounds.
In addition to a wide variety of tasks that have used
computers for map-related activities, the kinds of
resources that corpora make available to researchers
interested in language variation are beginning to
revolutionize the study of dialects. A project called
the International Corpus of English
aims to provide texts totaling about
one million words of written and
spoken English of the 1990s from each of 20 centers
around the world, representing the English spoken
in the Caribbean, Fiji, Ghana, Hong Kong, India,
Kenya, Nigeria, the Philippines, Singapore, and other
regions. The texts of these corpora will be tagged and
annotated, making their use in dialect comparisons
extremely valuable.
In our discussions of variation across dialects, we
have seen that vocabulary and pronunciation vary.
In the real world, an understanding of vowel varia-
tion has proven useful in keeping an innocent person
out of jail. Computers have been used to help analyze
the vowel characteristics in tape recordings that con-
tained illegal speech acts—in this case, acts of threat-
ening. Someone had telephoned a major airline with
a serious threat of violence, and workers who heard
the call thought they recognized the voice as belong-
ing to a disgruntled former employee. A computer
analysis of the vowel quality of the caller showed that
his dialect was not the same as that of the former
employee. ■
Computers and the Study of Dialect
Summary
When separated physically or socially, people with shared speechways come to
•
speak differently. Given sufficient time and separation, distinct languages can
arise.
Conversely, the speech of people talking as members of the same community can
•
develop in unison, even tending to merge in some situations.
There is no linguistic basis upon which to distinguish between a dialect and
•
a language. Every language is made up of dialects, and in terms of linguistic
principles and linguistic universals every dialect is a language.
Linguistic differences exist among social groups within every speech community.
•
Linguistic forms can vary greatly from one social group to the next, and social
•
groups may be defined in a number of ways besides regionally.
Both ethnicity and socioeconomic status are bases for social group affiliation.
•
Women and men may also be thought of as belonging to different social groups,
•
called gender groups.
Combining these different group distinctions yields a complex picture of the
•
composition of society. Within a particular ethnic group, we find socioeconomic
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 404
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 404 4/1/11 18:46:12
4/1/11 18:46:12
Summary 405
classes whose members are male or female. Differences in speechways support
such social identities.
Whatever the social group, its language variety will typically exhibit characteris-
•
tics that distinguish it from the language varieties of other social groups.
The linguistic features that characterize social varieties may also serve as
•
markers (or symbols) of social identity.
One way to stress membership in an ethnic group is to emphasize or even
•
exaggerate the characteristic features of that ethnic language variety.
If a woman wants to appear particularly feminine, she may choose to exhibit
•
features associated with women’s speech and avoid “masculine-sounding”
expressions.
Individuals can use socially marked language characteristics for their own
•
purposes.
Everyone speaks with a pronunciation that is characteristic of social identity.
•
No one can speak without an accent, though we tend to be acutely aware of the
accents of others and to think members of our own social groups do not carry
accents.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
Nina talks
• “funny,” too. Nina’s camp counselor appears to be a speaker of
British English. As funny as the counselor’s dialect may have struck Nina, this
camper’s dialect might have sounded just as unusual to the counselor. Every
group’s language variety differs—more or less—from those of other groups. Of
course, there is nothing “funny” about anyone’s speech, except possibly that it’s
different, and patterns that differ from our own may seem odd simply because
they differ from what we’re accustomed to.
Daniel
• ’s Alabama sub. There is no speaker of any language who doesn’t carry
an accent; everyone speaks a language variety whose pronunciation reflects
something about his or her social identity. Speakers of English recognize British,
American, Canadian, and Australian accents, among others. Even if you could
shed your native accent, you’d have to replace it with another one because you
can’t speak a language without an accent. (See Ex. 11–11a.)
Evan and Ebonics
• . In 1997, at the height of the Ebonics controversy, much of the
comment in newspapers and other media indicated a widespread perception that
a dialect of a language can legitimately be judged good or bad by how closely
it resembles the “standard” variety of the language. All language varieties differ
from one another to greater or lesser degrees. French is ungrammatical if judged
by the rules of Spanish or Japanese and American English if judged by the rules
of British English. Ebonics is ungrammatical if judged by the rules of standard
English. And standard English is ungrammatical if judged by the rules of Ebonics
or standard French. The very notion of a “standard” English is problematical,
given the great differences among spoken varieties even of U.S. presidents.
Women talk
• , men talk. The degree to which the talk of men and women differs
isn’t the same from one cultural group to the next. This is also true for variation
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 405
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 405 4/1/11 18:46:12
4/1/11 18:46:12
406 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
across social groups within a given culture. Research has found some differences,
such as different words for the same item or some forms used more frequently
by men or women. If Sammy recalls the many ways in which boys and girls are
brought up differently, she shouldn’t be surprised that men and women also
speak somewhat differently. ■
Exercises
Based on English
11-1. Distinguish between an accent and a dialect. Distinguish between a dialect and
a language. What is meant by a “language variety”? Does it make any sense to
say of a language variety that “it isn’t a language, it’s only a dialect”?
11-2. Examine a copy of a newspaper or magazine published in Britain (for example,
The Times, The Economist, Punch, The Spectator, The Listener) and list as many
examples of differences between American and British English as you can
notice on any two pages. Include examples of vocabulary, syntax, spelling,
and punctuation.
11-3. Which of the following words are you familiar with? Make two lists, one con-
sisting of those you normally use and the other consisting of those you don’t
use but have heard others use. With what regional or national group do you
associate the words you have heard others use but don’t use yourself? Com-
pare your judgments with those of your classmates.
dragonfly darning needle, mosquito hawk, spindle, snake feeder,
snake doctor
pancake fritter, hotcake, flannel cake, batter cake
cottage cheese curds, curd cheese, clabber cheese, dutch cheese, pot
cheese
string beans green beans, snap beans
earthworm night crawler, fishing worm, angle worm, rain worm, red
worm, mud worm
lightning bug firefly, fire bug
baby carriage baby buggy, baby coach, baby cab, pram
11-4. The following questions (some slightly adapted) are from the questionnaire
used to gather data for DARE. Answer each question yourself, and then com-
pare your answers with those of your classmates. Do you and your classmates
agree on the regions in which the particular variants are used? (DARE pro-
vides maps for answers to these questions.)
a. How do you speak of roads that have numbers or letters? For example, if
someone asks directions to get to (Supply local city name), you might say,
“Take ___.”
b. What names are used around here for:
 1) the part of the house below the ground floor?
 2) the kind of sandwich in a large, long bun, that’s a meal in itself?
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 406
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 406 4/1/11 18:46:13
4/1/11 18:46:13
Exercises 407
 3) a small stream of water not big enough to be a river?
 4) a round cake of dough, cooked in deep fat, with a hole in the center?
 5) a piece of cloth that a woman folds over her head and ties under her
chin?
 6) the common worm used as bait?
 7) vehicles for a baby or small child, the kind it can lie down in?
 8) a mark on the skin where somebody has sucked it hard and brought
the blood to the surface?
 9) a bone from the breast of a chicken, shaped like a horseshoe?
10) the place in the elbow that gives you a strange feeling if you hit it
against something?
11) very young frogs, when they still have tails but no legs?
11-5. What was Labov’s hypothesis about the distribution of /r/ in New York City
department stores? If in your city or town there are three socially ranked
stores that could be similarly investigated, can you name two phonological
features you would expect to be socially differentiated? Design a question
for each feature that would uncover the data needed to test your hypothesis.
(Make the question a natural one for the kind of store you have in mind.)
Would you ask your respondents to repeat their answers as Labov did? Explain
why or why not.
11-6. “William Labov . . . once said about the use of black English, ‘It is the goal of
most black Americans to acquire full control of the standard language with-
out giving up their own culture.’ . . . I wonder if the good doctor might also
consider the goals of those black Americans who have full control of standard
English but who are every now and then troubled by that colorful, grammar-to-
the-winds patois that is black English. Case in point—me.”
So wrote a twenty-one-year-old African-American college student in
Newsweek (Dec. 27, 1982, p. 7). She cites several features of African-
American English such as those described in this chapter.
a. Look up the meaning of patois in your desk dictionary and note its conno-
tations in referring to particular language varieties. Are those connotations
positive or negative? What does her use of the phrase “grammar-to-the-
winds” suggest about the student’s attitude toward the grammaticality of
African-American English?
b. What features of African-American English do you think the student means
in calling it a “grammar-to-the-winds patois”?
c. What would be the implications for communication if any speech variety
were indeed “grammarless”? Give two reasons why African-American Eng-
lish cannot accurately be called a “grammar-to-the-winds” dialect.
d. What would you assume to be the reason for the student’s attitudes toward
African-American English? What might you explain to her about patterns
of language in every variety and about the status of particular varieties in
terms of their linguistic features?
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 407
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 407 4/1/11 18:46:13
4/1/11 18:46:13
408 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
11-7. Describe two ways in which you have noticed that the speech of women and
men differs in greetings, threats, swearing, and promises. What do you think
accounts for these differences? Do you think such differences are increasing
or decreasing? Explain the bases for your answers.
11-8. Among many functions of the word like in English, it is used by certain speak-
ers to mark the beginning of a direct quotation. Here are two examples of this
quotative like:
“And then she’s like, ‘I don’t want to go.’”
“So he’s like, ‘But you promised!’”
To complete this exercise, you will need natural data from the speech of
your acquaintances. Collect 20 naturally occurring examples of quotative
like from the speech of at least five people (including some people younger
and others older than you). Write down the examples exactly as they were
spoken, taking care not to call attention to the speech of your acquain-
tances or the fact that you are observing their language. Relying on five-
year ranges (15–19, 20–24, and so on), note the approximate age of every
speaker you set out to observe (whether or not he or she actually uses
quotative like).
a. Some researchers call this feature “quotative be like” because their data
indicate that this use of like generally occurs with the verb be, as in the
examples above. Explain whether or not your data lend support to using
the alternative name.
b. Identify the tense (past or nonpast) of the verbs that precede quotative
like in your data. Identify the time (present, past, or future) that
the verbs refer to. Keep in mind that tense and time are not the same
phenomena.
c. In both the examples above, the verb form has been contracted to ’s. What
percentage of your examples show a similar contraction?
d. In both of the examples above, the subject of be in the quotative like
clauses is a pronoun (he, she). What lexical categories are the subjects in
your examples?
e. Identify which age groups use this feature and which don’t. On the basis
of your admittedly limited evidence, propose a hypothesis about whether
use of this feature is age related.
f. Compare your findings about use and age with the findings of some
classmates, and reconsider your hypothesis in light of the pooled data.
g. Do you think that younger users will continue using quotative like as they
get older (which would make it an example of language change in prog-
ress) or that they will not continue using it beyond a certain age (which
would make it an age-graded feature)? Explain your view.
h. In your data, do you note any examples that represent uses of like other
than the quotative, leaving aside its use as a preposition (He looks like his
dad), subordinating conjunction (Winstons taste good like a cigarette should),
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 408
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 408 4/1/11 18:46:14
4/1/11 18:46:14
Exercises 409
or verb (She likes asparagus)? If so, analyze those uses and try character-
izing them; what name(s) might suit them?
i. What other expressions have you heard that function like quotative like?
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
11-9. a. Below are the opening words of a presentation by a college teacher to a
group of Southern teachers at a professional meeting. (Imagine it spoken
with a distinctive Southern accent: the college teacher was born in the
South and clearly wished to play upon those affiliations.)
“Years ago, during my first week in Wisconsin, I was asked by a fellow
teacher, ‘Do you mean they let you teach English?’ The speaker was a
Canadian with what I thought a very peculiar accent. Soon after that, a
woman working on a degree in speech asked me with all the kindness
and gentleness of which she was capable whether I would let her teach
me how to talk right. If I had had her zeal and patience and kindness,
I might very well have made the offer first, for I thought her speech
highly unsatisfactory.”
Provide answers to these questions, most of which the teacher posed to her
audience:
1) Who should teach whom how to speak “right”?
2) Is there a standard pronunciation in American English and, if so, what
is it?
3) Should education aim to make everyone sound like everyone else?
4) Is it possible that training could make everyone sound like everyone
else?
5) If the training succeeded, how would everyone sound?
6) Assuming uniformity could be achieved, how long could it last?
b. The same college teacher reported these comments from a Southern
teacher and a Southern physician ([ʍ] represents [hw]):
Teacher: [ aː hæv dɪlɪbərɪtlɪ wəkt tu gɛt rɪd av ɪnɪ tresɪz av æksɪnt æz aː
θɪŋk ɔwl ɛʤəketɪd pipəl ʃʊd du aː prad masɛf ðæt aː hæv nat wən ʍɪt av ɪnɪ
tresəbəl æksɪnt ɪn ma: spiʧ ]
Physician: [ mɪnɪ av ma pəjʃəns θɪŋk aː æm fram ðə nɔəθ bɪkɔwz æz ən
ɛʤəketɪd pəsən aː don av kɔəs hæv ə səðən æksɪnt ]
1) After reading the comments aloud, write them out in standard
orthography.
2) Give the standard orthography for these words as pronounced in the
same dialect:
i) [mɔwnɪn] ii) [kaəd] iii) [kent] iv) [hɛp] v) [spikɪn] vi) [həjd] vii)
[mɪnɪ] viii) [bɪnɪfɪt]
c. Compare Figure 11.10 and the description of the Southern Shift
with the transcriptions of comments by the Southern teacher and
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 409
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 409 4/1/11 18:46:14
4/1/11 18:46:14
410 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
physician. For each of these features of the Southern Shift, cite two
words from the comments or the list of words in (2) that exemplify it:
(i) monophthongization of /aj/; (ii) /ɛ/ pronounced higher and more
fronted; (iii) /æ/ pronounced higher and more fronted. (For all examples,
provide the words in standard orthography and the transcribed version.)
d. Cite a pair of words in the transcriptions that indicate whether the pin
~ pen merger is characteristic of this dialect. Cite a pair of words with
/r/-omission after vowels. Cite a pair with /l/-omission after vowels.
(Adapted from Jane Appleby, “Is Southern English Good English?” In David
L. Shores and Carol P. Hines, eds., Papers in Language Variation [Tuscaloosa:
University of Alabama Press, 1977], p. 225.)
11-10. Looking at the content of what the physician and teacher reported in
Ex. 11-9, answer these questions:
a. Does the physician believe that Northerners have accents?
b. Does he or she believe that education removes or should remove a
regional accent?
c. Do you think the physician is pleased that the patients believe their
physician is from the North?
d. The teacher twice uses the word traces in reference to accent. Does the
choice of this term suggest whether the teacher regards regional accents
positively or negatively? Had this teacher grown up speaking a Northern
accent, do you think he or she would have reported trying to get rid of
any traces of accent? What do you think of this teacher’s view of the re-
lationship between education and accent?
e. Do you like it when people recognize where you’re from? Do you have
an accent that outsiders admire? Has anyone ever said anything unfa-
vorable about your accent to you? Have you ever tried to get rid of any
“traces” of accent in your speech? All things considered, what do you
think about your own accent?
f. Putting yourself into the frame of mind of the Southern teacher, why
might he or she believe that educated people should rid themselves of
any traces of accent in their speech?
g. To judge from the transcribed comments of the teacher and the physi-
cian, how easy is it for a person to get rid of all traces of accent?
11-11. a. What would it mean to speak without an accent? (Think globally as
well as regionally: what would it mean to speak English without an
American, British, Canadian, Australian, or other national accent? What
would it mean to speak French without a North American, European,
or other accent?) Why do you imagine some people appear to think it’s
better to be from nowhere than somewhere?
b. Provide a list of four regional features of your own pronunciation that oth-
ers have called to your attention or you are otherwise aware of.
c. Make a list of features you admire in the speech of others. What’s admi-
rable about those features?
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 410
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 410 4/1/11 18:46:14
4/1/11 18:46:14
Other Resources 411
d. Make a list of features you dislike in the speech of others. Can you spec-
ify what it is about those features that you dislike?
e. What explanation can you offer for the fact that many people believe
they speak without an accent?
11-12. Cockney is a British dialect spoken by working-class Londoners, and the
number of Cockney speakers doubtless exceeds the estimated 1.5 million
speakers of the variety of English known as RP (Received Pronunciation)
or BBC (British Broadcasting Corporation) English that is taught in
England’s private schools. Among the features of Cockney is /h/-dropping,
especially in unstressed words, such as the pronouns he, him, and her, the
verbs has, have, and had, as well as in all other word classes: nouns like
hospital, heaven, and hell, adjectives like hot and heavy, verbs like help
and hiss. Cockney speakers pronounce a glottal stop for the medial /t/ in
words like bitter and later and accompanying medial /p/ as in paper. Also
characteristic is an /f/ pronunciation for the initial consonant of words
like thin and the final consonant of words like with and mouth, as well as
the medial consonant in words like pithy and Cathy. Instead of [θɪn] for
thin, Cockney speakers say “fin,” and “wif” for with, and “Caffee” [kæfi]
for Cathy. They merge /ð/ and /v/ in specific phonological environments:
word finally, as in “breave” and “bave” for breathe and bathe, and in
medial position, yielding “bruvver” for brother and “muvver” for mother.
Comment on the phonological similarity and differences between Cockney
and African-American English. What do the pronunciation similarities
between (largely white) Cockney speakers and black speakers of African-
American English indicate about the relationship between race and
pronunciation? What do the similarities suggest about the systematic
nature of phonological variants within dialects?
Other Resources
Internet
LISU Website: http://www.CengageBrain.com For users of this text-
book. Provides updated Internet links as well as supplemental material for
students and instructors. Here you will find interactive learning tools.
Dictionary of American Regional English: http://dare.wisc.edu/
?q=node/17 Contains information about DARE, including base map with
state codes compared to a U.S. geographical map.
American Dialect Society: http://www.americandialect.org Offers
information about the American Dialect Society (ADS), including a special
page for student members. Also provides links to pages for DARE and various
Linguistic Atlas projects.
Linguistic Atlas Projects: http://www.lap.uga.edu/ An ambitious website
providing information about the nine Linguistic Atlas projects. Best repre-
sented is LAMSAS—Linguistic Atlas of the Middle and South Atlantic States
(ranging from New York to northern Florida and including West Virginia and
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 411
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 411 4/1/11 18:46:15
4/1/11 18:46:15
412 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
Pennsylvania)—but you can find useful information about all the atlas
projects.
Linguist List’s Topic Page on Ebonics: http://linguistlist.org/topics/
ebonics/ Linguist List is the major discussion list among linguists for issues
of general interest. Ebonics was such a popular topic in 1996 and 1997
that the list managers collected all the information Linguist List has on it at
one site.
Atlas of North American English: http://www.ling.upenn.edu/phono_
atlas/home.html ANAE is based on a systematic telephone survey of the
major urban areas of the United States and Canada in a project called Tel-
sur, based at the University of Pennsylvania. The website presents the lat-
est research, with color maps showing vowel pronunciation. When you
visit the site, keep in mind that in this textbook we represent only three
English vowels as diphthongs, but the ANAE site uses a different set of rep-
resentations, which are provided here for convenience:
LISU ANAE WORDS
/aw/ /aw/ pout, plowed
/aj/ /ay/ my, mine
/ɔj/ /oy/ boy, soy
/e/ /ey/ made, frayed
/o/ /ow/ flowed, code
/u/ /uw/ food, cooed
/ɔ/ /oh/ talk, dawn, caught
/ɛ/ /e/ pet, Seth, wedge
/ʊ/ /u/ wood, could
Ebonics Information Page: http://www.cal.org/topics/dialects/aae.
html Maintained by the Center for Applied Linguistics, a rich page, full of
valuable discussion and analysis of African-American English and issues
related to Ebonics.
Survey of English Usage: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/english-usage/ 
Information about the International Corpus of English, especially the million-
word British contribution.
LSA: Videos on the Web: http://www.uga.edu/lsava/Wolfram/Wolfram.
html Clips from “Indian by Birth: The Lumbee Dialect,” reflecting Walt
Wolfram’s work among the Lumbee Indians of Robeson County, North
Carolina, and from “The Ocracoke Brogue” (about the dialect of English
spoken on Ocracoke Island).
The Language Samples Project: http://www.ic.arizona.edu/~lsp/
main.html Under development at the University of Arizona, this project
provides information about varieties of English, including African-American
English, Southern (American) English, and British English.
Video and Audio
Some of the videos and DVDs listed below are available in libraries and video
rental outlets. Some can be purchased through educational video suppliers, such
as Insight Media (http://www.insight-media.com) or PBS.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 412
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 412 4/1/11 18:46:16
4/1/11 18:46:16
Other Resources 413
 
• American Tongues This award-winning video treats regional accents from
Boston to Texas, with a focus on the speech of some very engaging teenagers.
 
• Black on White From the BBC’s 1986 Story of English series narrated by
Robert MacNeil, this video explores the origins and spread of African-
American English.
  
• Communities of Speech In this video Walt Wolfram and Deborah Tannen
debate issues as they examine the concept of standard American English and
other American dialects.
 
• Do You Speak American? Robert MacNeil travels the United States in 2003,
exploring traditional dialect characteristics and new developments.
Suggestions for Further Reading
Craig M
• . Carver. 1987. American Regional Dialects: A Word Geography (Ann Arbor:
University of Michigan Press). An overview of American English dialects based upon
vocabulary findings in the Dictionary of American Regional English.
Frederick Cassidy
• , Joan Houston Hall, eds. 1985–. Dictionary of American Regional
English (Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press). The most comprehensive treatment of American
regional vocabulary, with four volumes published so far, up to the word sky writer.
Edward Finegan & John R
• . Rickford, eds. 2004. Language in the USA (Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press). Treats a wide range of topics related to dialects,
including American regional dialects and social varieties, Ebonics, hip hop, slang, and
adolescent language (the “Advanced Reading” section below cites several chapters in this
collection).
Carmen Fought
• . 2006. Language and Ethnicity: Key Topics in Sociolinguistics (Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press). Ethnicity is an increasingly important topic of investigation,
and this accessible treatment asks not only what ethnicity is but whether there are “white”
ways of speaking and what it means to construct an ethnic identity and to borrow features
of another’s ethnic identity.
Arthur Hughes
• , Peter Trudgill & Dominic Watt. 2005. English Accents and Dialects:
An Introduction to Social and Regional Varieties of English in the British Isles, 4th ed.
(London: Arnold). Particularly good on pronunciation. Includes discussion not only of
London, but of Belfast, Dublin, South Wales, Edinburgh, and speakers from 11 other regions,
with a CD containing edited interviews with the speakers.
William Labov
• , Sharon Ash & Charles Boberg. 2006. The Atlas of North American
English: Phonetics, Phonology, and Sound Change (Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter). A richly
illustrated multimedia analysis of recent vowel pronunciation in North America, with
colorful maps illustrating patterns of distribution and their relationship to older dialect
patterns, this extraordinary work won the 2008 Leonard Bloomfield Book Award from the
Linguistic Society of America.
Rosina Lippi-Green
• . 1997. English with an Accent: Language, Ideology, and Discrimination
in the United States (London: Routledge). A provocative introduction to facts and myths
surrounding discussion of accent and other aspects of dialect in the United States.
Salikoko S
• . Mufwene, John R. Rickford, Guy Bailey & John Baugh, eds. 1998.
African-American English: Structure, History and Use (London: Routledge). Distinguished
researchers analyze the structure and use of African-American English. Besides treatment of
phonology, lexicon, grammar, discourse, and the history of African-American English, you
can learn what linguists and anthropologists think of Ebonics, the Oakland school district
resolution, obscenity, hip-hop, and Ice-T.
Peter Trudgill
• . 2000. The Dialects of England (Oxford: Blackwell). A reliable treatment of
traditional and modern dialects in England, with maps.
Peter Trudgill
• . 2000. Sociolinguistics: An Introduction to Language and Society, 4th ed.
(New York: Penguin). A basic, brief, and accessible treatment.
Peter Trudgill & J
• . K. Chambers, eds. 1991. Dialects of English: Studies in Grammatical
Variation (New York: Longman). Contains 22 descriptions of grammar in various dialects of
the United States, Australia, Canada, Scotland, and especially England.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 413
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 413 4/1/11 18:46:17
4/1/11 18:46:17
414 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
Advanced Reading
Chambers and Trudgill (1998), Hudson (1996), and Wardhaugh (2010) discuss dialects
generally. The discussion of convergence in Kupwar in this chapter is based on Gumperz and
Wilson (1971). Green (2002) is a thorough and accessible treatment of African-American
English. More popular treatments can be found in Rickford and Rickford (2000) and
Smitherman (1986), the latter providing some of the examples in this chapter. Baugh (2004)
addresses the Ebonics controversy of 1996–1997. Ornstein-Galicia (1988) and Fought (2003)
are useful on Chicano English. On the sociolinguistics of French, see Sanders (1993) and Ball
(1997); on German, see Stevenson (1997); on Spanish, see Mar-Molinero (1997).
Ferguson and Heath (1981) is a collection of essays describing language use among Native
Americans, Filipinos, Puerto Ricans, Jews, Italian Americans, French Americans, German
Americans, and others. The principal findings for the Linguistic Atlas of the United States
for the East Coast can be found in Kurath (1949), Atwood (1953), and Kurath and McDavid
(1961). See Allen (1973–76) for the Upper Midwest, Pederson (1986–91) for the Gulf states,
Bright (1971) for California and Nevada, Atwood (1962) for Texas. Discussion of the Southern
Shift can be found in Nunnally (2008), which inspired several of the diphthongizations given
in connection with Figure 11.10 (and my appreciation to Nunnally himself for the “sweet
tea with a lid” report and translation in my discussion of the Southern Shift above). From
a highly knowledgeable outsider’s point of view, Tottie (2002) offers a fresh perspective on
American English.
The relationship between language and gender is treated in Eckert and McConnell-Ginet
(2003). A chapter-length overview, including discussion of the contributions of lesbians and
women of color to an understanding of multicultural feminism can be found in Bucholtz
(2004). The data in the present chapter on gender differences in Thai come from Haas
(1940), who also discusses Chukchee. Fischer (1958) reports the New England -ing data cited
here. Johnson and Meinhof (1997) is a collection of essays on masculine sociolinguistics,
addressing power, conversation, gossip, expletives, and other topics. Holmes (1995) asks
whether women are more polite than men. Ochs (1992) relates language and gender through
social activities, social stances, and social acts. Labov and Harris (1994) report the story of
the threatening phone call to an airline and the dialect identification task they undertook.
Language and social identity—and the linguistic construction of social identity—are treated
in Alim (2004a,b), Bucholtz (1999), Eckert (1989, 2000), and Fought (2006; cited in
“Suggestions for Further Reading”).
References
Alim, H. Samy. 2004a. You Know My Steez: An Ethnographic and Sociolinguistic Study of
Styleshifting in a Black American Speech Community. Publication of the American Dialect
Society, No. 89.
———. 2004b. “Hip Hop Nation Language.” In Finegan & Rickford, pp. 387–409.
Allen, Harold B. 1973–1976. The Linguistic Atlas of the Upper Midwest, 3 vols. (Minneapolis:
University of Minnesota Press).
Atwood, E. Bagby. 1953. A Survey of Verb Forms in the Eastern United States (Ann Arbor:
University of Michigan Press).
———. 1962. The Regional Vocabulary of Texas (Austin: University of Texas Press).
Ball, Rodney. 1997. The French-Speaking World: A Practical Introduction to Sociolinguistic Issues
(London: Routledge).
Baugh, John. 2004. “Ebonics and Its Controversy.” In Finegan & Rickford, pp. 305–18.
Bright, Elizabeth S. 1971. A Word Geography of California and Nevada (Berkeley: University of
California Press).
Bucholtz, Mary. 1999. “You da Man: Narrating the Racial Other in the Production of White
Masculinity.” Journal of Sociolinguistics 3: 443–60.
———. 2004. “Language, Gender, and Sexuality.” In Finegan & Rickford, pp. 410–29.
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 414
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 414 4/1/11 18:46:17
4/1/11 18:46:17
Other Resources 415
Chambers, J. K. & Peter Trudgill. 1998. Dialectology, 2nd ed. (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press).
Eckert, Penelope. 1989. Jocks and Burnouts: Social Categories and Identity in the High School
(New York: Teachers College Press).
———. 2000. Linguistic Variation as Social Practice: The Linguistic Construction of Identity in
Belten High (Malden, MA: Blackwell).
Eckert, Penelope & Sally McConnell-Ginet. 2003. Language and Gender (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press).
Ferguson, Charles A. & Shirley Brice Heath, eds. 1981. Language in the USA (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press).
Fischer, John L. 1958. “Social Influences on the Choice of a Linguistic Variable,” Word
14:47–56; repr. in Hymes 1964, pp. 483–88.
Fought, Carmen. 2003. Chicano English in Context (New York: Palgrave Macmillan).
Green, Lisa J. 2002. African American English: Character and Contexts (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press).
Gumperz, John J. & Robert Wilson. 1971. “Convergence and Creolization: A Case from the
Indo-Aryan/Dravidian Border in India,” in Dell Hymes, ed., Pidginization and Creolization of
Languages (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press), pp. 151–67.
Haas, Mary R. 1940. “Men’s and Women’s Speech in Koasati,” Language 20:142–49; repr. in
Hymes 1964, pp. 228–33.
Holmes, Janet. 1995. Women, Men and Politeness (London: Longman).
Hudson, R. A. 1996. Sociolinguistics, 2nd ed. (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Hymes, Dell, ed. 1964. Language in Culture and Society (New York: Harper & Row).
Johnson, Sally & Ulrike Hanna Meinhof, eds. 1997. Language and Masculinity (Oxford:
Blackwell).
Kurath, Hans. 1949. A Word Geography of the Eastern United States (Ann Arbor: University of
Michigan Press).
Kurath, Hans & Raven I. McDavid, Jr. 1961. The Pronunciation of English in the Atlantic States
(Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press).
Labov, William. 2006. The Social Stratification of English in New York City, 2nd ed. (Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press).
———. 1972. Sociolinguistic Patterns (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press).
———. 1996. “The Organization of Dialect Diversity in America.” Available at http://www
.ling.upenn.edu/phono_atlas/ICSLP4.html
——— & Wendell Harris. 1994. “Addressing Social Issues through Linguistic Evidence.” In
John Gibbons, Language and the Law (London: Longman), pp. 265–305.
Marckwardt, Albert H. 1957. Principal and Subsidiary Dialect Areas in the North-Central States.
Publication of the American Dialect Society, No. 27.
Mar-Molinero, Clare. 1997. The Spanish-Speaking World: A Practical Introduction to Sociolinguistic
Issues (London: Routledge).
Nunnally, Thomas, ed. 2008. Tributaries. Journal of the Alabama Folklife Society, No. 10.
Ochs, Elinor. 1992. “Indexing Gender,” in Alessandro Duranti & Charles Goodwin, eds.,
Rethinking Context (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press), pp. 335–58.
Ornstein-Galicia, Jacob, ed. 1988. Form and Function in Chicano English (Malabar, FL: Robert E.
Krieger).
Pederson, Lee. 1986–1991. Linguistic Atlas of the Gulf States, 7 vols. (Athens: University of
Georgia Press).
Rickford, John R. & Russell J. Rickford. 2000. Spoken Soul (New York: John Wiley & Sons).
Sanders, Carol, ed. 1993. French Today: Language in its Social Context (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press).
Sankoff, Gillian & Henrietta Cedergren. 1971. “Some Results of a Sociolinguistic Study of
Montreal French,” in R. Darnell, ed., Linguistic Diversity in Canadian Society (Edmonton:
Linguistic Research), pp. 61–87.
Smitherman, Geneva. 1986. Talkin and Testifyin: The Language of Black America (Detroit, MI:
Wayne State University Press).
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 415
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 415 4/1/11 18:46:17
4/1/11 18:46:17
416 Chapter 11 Language Variation Among Social Groups: Dialects
Stevenson, Patrick. 1997. The German-Speaking World: A Practical Introduction to Sociolinguistic
Issues (London: Routledge).
Terrell, Tracy D. 1981. “Diachronic Reconstruction by Dialect Comparison of Variable
Constraints,” in David Sankoff & Henrietta Cedergren, eds., Variation Omnibus (Edmonton:
Linguistic Research), pp. 115–24.
Tottie, Gunnel. 2002. An Introduction to American English (Oxford: Blackwell).
Wardhaugh, Ronald. 2010. An Introduction to Sociolinguistics, 6th ed. (New York: Wiley-
Blackwell).
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 416
00419_11_ch11_p369-416.indd 416 4/1/11 18:46:17
4/1/11 18:46:17
417
Part Three
Part Three combines Part One’s focus on language structure with Part Two’s
emphasis on language use. Here we investigate three topics that are peren-
nial favorites:
how languages change over time and are related to one another
•
how English developed from
• Beowulf to the twenty-first century
how children and adults learn languages.
•
You know that French and Spanish are related languages in that they derive
from the same historical source. You also know that the English of Shakespeare
differs from today’s English. In Part Three you’ll learn how languages change
and develop, which languages are related to one another, and which ones have
no known relatives.
You’ll also investigate language acquisition by children and adults. For chil-
dren acquiring a first language and for anyone interacting with them during
that process, a child’s first words and early utterances prompt wonder and tickle
the imagination. In contrast to the frolicsome time children have acquiring their
first tongue, adolescents and adults often must exert strenuous efforts to learn
a second language. For children, success with a native language is guaranteed.
For adults, learning a second language can be a challenge and is not always suc-
cessful. You’ll see why.
Language Change,
Language Development,
and Language Acquisition
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 417
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 417 4/1/11 18:49:23
4/1/11 18:49:23
418
What Do You Think?
Pre-med Melissa conjectures that English must derive from Latin because
•
it contains so many Latin words. What can you tell her about the historical
relationship between Latin and English and about why English contains so
many Latin words?
On a field trip to Chinatown in San Francisco with your sixth-grade class,
•
a colleague from Taiwan accompanies you. When she tries to buy pieces
of jade from a Chinese street vendor, they cannot understand one another
and enlist help from a translator. Afterward your colleague explains that
she speaks Mandarin dialect, and the vendor spoke only Cantonese dialect.
Your students claim that if speakers of Mandarin and Cantonese cannot
understand one another, they must be speaking different languages. They’re
not both speaking Chinese! Are they right?
Examining a map of the Middle East, classmates notice that many places
•
in Iraq have names beginning with al, an, or as (Al Fallūjah, Al Basrah, An
Najaf, As Sulaymānīyah), but those in neighboring Iran don’t. Someone
claims Persian and Arabic must be related because the writing systems look
the same. What can you tell them about the relationship between Persian
and Arabic? Between speech and writing?
Students in a geography class note two kinds of place names in Oklahoma—
•
transparent ones like Sweetwater, Sand Springs, Granite, Grove, Beaver, and
Mountain View and others like Okmulgee, Oktaha, Chickasha, Comanche,
Chattanooga, Manitou, Cherokee, Arapaho, and Wynona, which don’t have
independent meanings in English. What can you tell them about languages
in contact with one another and how place-names come to be?
Language Change Over Time:
Historical Linguistics
12
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 418
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 418 4/1/11 18:49:24
4/1/11 18:49:24
Do Living Languages Always Change? 419
It’s no secret that languages change over the years. Usually the most noticeable
differences between generations are in vocabulary. What one generation called
hi-fi, car phone, and studious young man or woman, a younger generation calls
iPod, cell phone or mobile phone, and (in some instances) nerd. Your parents’
grandparents may not have used the terms tank tops, six-packs, sitcoms, or cy-
berspace in their youth, nor referred to certain verbal actions as bad-mouthing,
dissin, or dumping on someone. Until relatively recently none of us had heard
of a Segway, an SUV, or smartphones; we weren’t yet googling for information or
friending and defriending on Facebook and MySpace.
Pronunciation also changes—in individual words and whole classes of words
containing a particular sound. For example, a few decades ago the word nu-
clear was commonly pronounced [nukliər], but today you often hear “nukular”
[nukjələr]. In the same vein, realtor, formerly pronounced “re-al-tor” [riəltər],
is increasingly pronounced “real-a-tor” [rilətər]. Sound changes that affect indi-
vidual words like nuclear and realtor are called sporadic sound changes.
Regional accents and dialects change as well. As we saw in Chapter 11, in
much of Canada and the western United States, the vowel sounds in the words
cot and caught are pronounced identically, so that these words—and similar pairs
like Don and Dawn and wok and walk—are no longer distinguished, although in
other regions of the United States they remain distinct. Sound changes that af-
fect all the words in which a particular sound occurs in a particular sound en-
vironment are called regular sound changes, and they may be conditioned or
unconditioned, as we’ll see.
Sometimes a change affects a sound only when it occurs in a particular lin-
guistic environment. For example, in some dialects of the American South, the
vowels /ɪ/ and /ɛ/ are merging, but only when they occur before the nasal con-
sonants /n/ or /m/. In those dialects, him and hem sound the same, but pit and
pet remain distinct in pronunciation. This kind of regular sound change is called
conditioned sound change. We also saw extensive shifting of North American
vowels in the Northern Cities Shift and the Southern Shift. These shifts are un-
conditioned sound changes: they affect every word in which the particular
sound appears.
The meaning of terms can also change. About 1,000 years ago, the English
verb starve (Old English steorfan) meant simply ‘die’ (by any cause). Today, it
refers principally to deprivation and death by hunger (or, by metaphorical ex-
tension, to ‘deprive of affection’). Until recently, the adjective natural, which
has been used in English for over 700 years, did not have the meaning ‘with-
out chemical preservatives,’ which it commonly has today, as in all-natural ice
cream. The meanings of joint, bust, fix, high, hit, and many other words have
been extended, in these cases by their use in the world of drugs. To take a final
example, if you check the meaning of the expression to beg the question, you’ll
find that the Oxford English Dictionary defines it as ‘take for granted the matter
in dispute,’ but among your friends and on radio and television you’ll notice
that it often means simply ‘lead to another question.’ When enough people in
enough contexts use it this way, the new definition will be added to the existing
one in the OED and other dictionaries.
Do Living Languages Always Change?
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 419
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 419 4/1/11 18:49:24
4/1/11 18:49:24
420 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
There can also be grammatical differences in the speech of different generations.
Goes the king hence today? Shakespeare’s Lennox asks Macbeth. Today, the same
inquiry (were there occasion to use it) would more likely be Is the king going
away today? The simple fact is that certain grammatical features of seventeenth-
century English are no longer in use. To cite a more recent development, in
many parts of the American South, double modals have come into use, and it’s
not uncommon to hear people using them in sentences such as I might could
do it. Whether these “double modal”
constructions will spread remains to be
seen, but they have a certain appeal.
Generalizing from one’s own linguis-
tic experience may be risky, but it is safe
to say that the common experience of
noticing linguistic differences between
one generation and another reflects the
simple fact that languages do not stand
still. Languages are always in the pro-
cess of changing—and they change at
all levels of the grammar: phonology,
morphology, syntax, and semantics.
One result of ongoing language changes is that a single language can develop
into several languages. The early stages of such development are apparent in
differences among Australian, American, Canadian, Indian, and Irish dialects
of English, all of which have sprung from English spoken in Britain. In order
for different dialects to develop into separate languages, groups of speakers
must remain relatively isolated from one another, separated by physical
barriers such as mountain ranges and great bodies of water or by social
and political barriers such as those drawn along tribal, religious, ethnic, or
national boundaries.
You’ve probably heard it said that French, Spanish, and Italian come from
Latin. The “Vulgar Latin” spoken in parts of the Roman empire lives on in to-
day’s French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Rumanian, Catalan, Galician, and
Provençal, all of which are its direct descendants. On the other hand, the clas-
sical Latin of Cicero, Virgil, Caesar, and other Roman writers is “dead,” and the
written varieties of French, Spanish, and Italian are based on the modern spo-
ken languages, not the classical written language.
You may also have heard it claimed that English comes from Latin. English
and Latin are indeed related, but Latin is not an ancestor of English. Both lan-
guages come from a common ancestor, but they traveled along different paths.
During the Renaissance, English borrowed hundreds and hundreds of words
from Latin—for example, conspicuous, dexterous, eradicate, halo, insane, and
jocular. But borrowed words don’t affect genealogy. English is descended from
Proto-Germanic, a language spoken about the time of classical Latin and a few
centuries earlier, a language that ultimately gave rise not only to English but
to German, Dutch, Norwegian, Danish, and Swedish (among others). Thus, as
Language Families and the Indo-European Family
Try It Yourself Decide whether you say
“nu-kyu-ler” or “nu-cle-er” and which of the
two you think your parents say and your friends say.
Then listen attentively over the next few days to see
whether your impressions match the facts. Afterward,
check one or two dictionaries to see whether the
pronunciation you’ve actually heard people using is
recorded in the dictionary or not. Should it be?
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 420
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 420 4/1/11 18:49:25
4/1/11 18:49:25
Language Families and the Indo-European Family 421
Latin is the parent language of French and Spanish, so Proto-Germanic is the
parent language of English and its Germanic relatives.
Except for a few carved runic inscriptions from the third century a.d., Proto-
Germanic (unlike Latin) has left no written records. Modern knowledge of
Proto-Germanic has been inferred from the character of its daughter languages
through comparative reconstruction, a technique explained in this chapter.
Proto-Germanic and Latin are themselves daughters of Proto-Indo-European,
another unattested (unrecorded) language. In a simplified manner, we can rep-
resent the situation by the family tree in Figure 12.1, which has two branches.
While the fact that languages change and give rise to new languages is famil-
iar to modern readers, it is a notion that was postulated clearly only two centu-
ries ago. In 1786, while he was serving as a judge in Calcutta, Sir William Jones
addressed the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal about his linguistic experience.
The Sanskrit language, whatever be its antiquity, is of a wonderful structure; more
perfect than the Greek, more copious than the Latin, and more exquisitely refined
than either, yet bearing to both of them a stronger affinity, both in the roots of
verbs and in the forms of grammar, than could possibly have been produced by
accident; so strong indeed, that no philologer could examine them all three, with-
out believing them to have sprung from some common source, which, perhaps, no
longer exists: there is a similar reason, though not quite so forcible, for supposing
that both the Gothic and the Celtic, though blended with a very different idiom,
had the same origin with the Sanskrit; and the old Persian might be added to the
same family . . . .
Today linguists would avoid such judgmental statements as Sanskrit having a
“more perfect” structure than Greek and being “more exquisitely refined” than
Latin, but Jones recognized that languages give rise to other languages. Indeed,
Sanskrit, Latin, Greek, Celtic, Gothic, and Persian did spring from a “common
source” that “no longer exists.” Jones had achieved an important insight. The
common source of Latin, Greek, Sanskrit, Celtic, Gothic, Persian, and many
other languages (including English and its Germanic relatives, and French and
Spanish and their Romance relatives) is Proto-Indo-European. A parent language
and the daughter languages that have developed from it are collectively referred
to as a language family, and the family that Jones recognized is called the
Indo-European family. While there are no written records of Proto-Indo-
European itself, a rich vein of inferences about its words and structures can be
mined from the inherited linguistic characteristics of its daughter languages.
Figure 12.1 Germanic and Romance Branches of the Indo-European Family
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 421
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 421 4/1/11 18:49:25
4/1/11 18:49:25
422 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
The working assumption of historical linguists is this: a feature that occurs
widely in daughter languages and cannot be explained by reference to language
typology, language universals, or borrowing from another tongue is likely to
have been inherited from the parent language.
There is evidence of massive migrations from Central Asia to Europe about 4000 b.c.
by a people who probably spoke Proto-Indo-European. There are no written records
to document these earlier migrations, but archaeologists have found buried remains
from the daily life of people who inhabited particular parts of the globe. Combined
with what we can reconstruct of ancestral languages, archaeological records enable
researchers to make educated guesses about where our ancestors came from and
where they migrated to, as well as how they lived and died.
When scholars reconstruct an ancestral language, they also implicitly
reconstruct an ancestral culture. Every culture lives on the lips of its speakers,
so words ascribed to a prehistoric group represent artifacts in their culture and
facets of their daily social and physical activities. In this chapter, we concentrate
not on Indo-European culture and the Indo-European homeland but on the
Polynesians, whose linguistic development presents another interesting case of
reconstruction of a protolanguage and the culture of its speakers. (At the end
of this chapter you’ll find references for similar reconstructions of the Indo-
European and Algonquian families.)
Polynesian and Paciﬁc Background
On land, the only physical obstacles to sustained contacts between people are
insurmountable mountains and wide rivers, which are in fact not very common.
Boundaries between languages and cultures therefore are often blurred. In
contrast, once people settle on an isolated island, contact with inhabitants of
other islands is difficult and limited, and languages and cultures develop in
relative isolation. Islands thus offer an opportunity to study what happens when
a protolanguage evolves into distinct daughter languages. Because the South
Pacific region consists of small islands and isolated island groups, it provides an
almost ideal “laboratory” for researchers interested in the past.
The South Pacific is home to three cultural areas—Polynesia (‘many islands’),
Melanesia (‘black islands’), and Micronesia (‘small islands’)—whose approximate
boundaries are shown in Figure 12.2. Among other things, each area is
distinguished by the physical appearance of its inhabitants: Polynesians are
generally large, with olive complexions and straight or wavy hair; Melanesians
typically are dark-skinned, with smaller frames and curlier hair; and Micronesians
tend to be slight of frame, with light brown complexions and straight hair.
We will concentrate on Polynesians and ask what can be learned about their
origins and their early life in Polynesia from the languages they speak today.
The islands of Polynesia vary greatly in size and structure. The main island of
Hawaii and the islands of Samoa and Tahiti are comparatively large land masses
formed through volcanic eruptions. Other islands are tiny atolls, little more than
How to Reconstruct the Linguistic Past
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 422
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 422 4/1/11 18:49:26
4/1/11 18:49:26
How
to
Reconstruct
the
Linguistic
Past 
423
Figure 12.2 Cultural Areas in the Pacific
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd
423
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd
423
4/1/11
18:49:26
4/1/11
18:49:26
424 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
sand banks and coral reefs that barely reach the surface of the ocean; typically,
one can walk or wade around an atoll in a few hours. Atolls are found in Tuvalu,
the Tuamotu Archipelago, and the northern Cook Islands. Some coral islands in
Tonga and elsewhere have been raised by underground volcanic activities and
are medium-sized and hilly, in contrast to atolls, which are utterly flat.
No written records exist to aid in tracing the Polynesians’ cultural and lin-
guistic development because they had no system of writing before literacy was
introduced by Westerners. But modern languages and the archaeological record
provide useful tools for reconstruction.
There is every indication that all the islands of Polynesia were settled by a
people who shared a common language, a common culture, and a common way
of dealing with the environment. We know that they traveled by sea from west
to east, settling islands on their way, because the languages of Polynesia are
clearly related to languages spoken to the west in Melanesia but have no con-
nection with languages spoken to the east in South America. In addition, Poly-
nesian cultures have many affinities with Melanesian cultures but virtually none
with those of South America. Finally, the human bones, artifacts, and other ar-
chaeological remains found on the western islands of Polynesia are older than
those found on the eastern islands. The conclusion that western Polynesia was
settled prior to eastern Polynesia contradicts the hypothesis that the Polyne-
sians originated in South America, a theory popularized by Norwegian explorer
Thor Heyerdahl, who in 1947 reached Polynesia in a raft after setting sail from
Peru and who subsequently told his story in the book Kon-Tiki.
The oldest archaeological records in Polynesia were found in western Polyne-
sia: in Tonga, Samoa, Uvea, and Futuna (see Figure 12.2). Consisting mostly of
pottery fragments similar to those found farther west in Melanesia, these records
date to between 1500 and 1200 b.c. This implies that people moved from some-
where outside Polynesia and settled on these western islands about 3,500 years
ago. No pottery has been found in eastern Polynesia (the Cook Islands, Tahiti
and the Society Islands, the Marquesas Islands, and the Tuamotu Archipelago),
but other archaeological remains indicate that these eastern islands were settled
around the first century a.d. The most recent remains are found in Hawaii and
New Zealand. That these two island groups were settled last is not surprising,
given that they are the most remote from other islands of the region. The ear-
liest artifacts found on these islands suggest that the ancient Hawaiians and
the ancestors of the New Zealand Maoris first arrived on their respective island
homes between the seventh and eleventh centuries a.d.
Polynesian Languages and Their History
We said earlier that all of Polynesia was settled by the same people or by groups
of closely related people from a single region. Linguistic evidence can help us de-
termine the original homeland of the Polynesians. In Table 12.1 you can see some
striking similarities among words in five Polynesian languages. These and other
widespread similarities of expression for equivalent content demonstrate that the
languages of Polynesia are related. Not finding similar close correspondences in
vocabulary between the languages of Polynesia and any other language, we can
safely say that Polynesian languages form a language family. In other words, all
the Polynesian languages are daughter languages of a single parent language, the
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 424
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 424 4/1/11 18:49:27
4/1/11 18:49:27
How to Reconstruct the Linguistic Past 425
ancestor of the 30 or so Polynesian languages and of no other existing language.
Known as Proto-Polynesian, the parent language was spoken by the people who
first settled western Polynesia between 1500 and 1200 b.c.
In Table 12.1, the word manu ‘bird’ is exactly the same—in form and sense—
in all five languages. The other words have the same vowel correspondences
(where one has /a/, all have /a/) and differ slightly from one another in some of
the consonants. The Polynesian words in each line of the table are cognates—
words that have developed from a single, historically earlier word. In examining
other words, you’ll find the consonant correspondences between the different
languages to be strikingly regular. On the basis of many word sets in addition to
the nine in Table 12.1, you can see that in words where the phonemes /m/ and
/n/ (as in manu) occur in one Polynesian language, they tend to occur in all. On
the other hand, Tongan, Samoan, Tahitian, and Maori /t/ corresponds to /k/
in Hawaiian, as in the words for ‘forbidden’ and ‘eye.’ We can represent these
sound correspondences as in Table 12.3 on page 429.
If we examine still other words, these sound correspondences are maintained,
and additional correspondence sets can be established. As the words in
Table 12.2 reveal, Tongan and Maori /k/ corresponds to a glottal stop /ʔ/
in Samoan, Tahitian, and Hawaiian, while Tongan, Samoan, and Maori /ŋ/
corresponds to Tahitian /ʔ/ and Hawaiian /n/. We can thus establish regular
sound correspondences among modern-day Polynesian languages.
Table 12.1 Common Words in Five Polynesian Languages
Tongan Samoan Tahitian Maori Hawaiian
manu manu manu manu manu ‘bird’
ika iʔa iʔa ika iʔa ‘fish’
kai ʔai ʔai kai ʔai ‘to eat’
tapu tapu tapu tapu kapu ‘forbidden’
vaka vaʔa vaʔa waka waʔa ‘canoe’
fohe foe hoe hoe hoe ‘oar’
mata mata mata mata maka ‘eye’
ʔuta uta uta uta uka ‘bush’
toto toto toto toto koko ‘blood’
Table 12.2 Cognates in Five Polynesian Languages I
Tongan Samoan Tahitian Maori Hawaiian
toki toʔi toʔi toki koʔi ‘axe’
taʔi taŋi taʔi taʔi kani ‘to cry’
taŋata taŋata taʔata taŋata kanaka ‘man’
kafa ʔafa ʔaha kaha ʔaha ‘rope’
kutu ʔutu ʔutu kutu ʔuku ‘louse’
kata ʔata ʔata kata ʔaka ‘to laugh’
moko moʔo moʔo moko moʔo ‘lizard’
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 425
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 425 4/1/11 18:49:27
4/1/11 18:49:27
426 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
In comparative reconstruction, it
is important to exclude all borrowed
words because the only words that can
profitably provide sounds for use in a
correspondence set are those that have
descended directly from the ancestor
language. For example, because Proto-
Polynesian *s became /h/ in Tongan
(but remained /s/ in some daughter
languages), Tongan has very few words
with /s/—among them sikaleti, mean-
ing ‘cigarette.’ While sikaleti was obviously borrowed from a language outside
the Polynesian family, words borrowed from other languages within the same
family may not be so easy to spot.
Comparative Reconstruction
The method just illustrated is known as comparative reconstruction. It aims
to reconstruct an ancestor language from the evidence that remains in daugh-
ter languages. Its premise is that, borrowing aside, similar forms with similar
meanings across related languages are reflexes of a single form with a related
meaning in the parent language. This commonsense approach is at the foun-
dation of the comparative method and, indeed, of historical linguistics.
When we examine correspondence sets such as m-m-m-m-m and t-t-t-t-k in
Table 12.3, it seems reasonable to assume that *m and *t existed in the parent
language and that /m/ was retained in each of the daughter languages, while /t/
was retained except in Hawaiian, where it became /k/. Such assumptions are the
everyday fare of historical linguistics. When we assume the existence of a sound
(or other structure) in a language for which we have no evidence except what
can be inferred from daughter languages, that sound (or structure) is said to be
reconstructed. Reconstructed forms are “starred” to indicate that they are unat-
tested. We can represent the reconstructions from correspondence sets this way:
m m m m m
*m
t t t t k
*t
In describing the development of Hawaiian from Proto-Polynesian, we would
postulate a historical rule of the form: *t > k. (A shaftless arrow indicates that
one form developed into another form over time.) A sound change in which one
sound (*t) develops into two or more sounds (t and k) is called a split.
Instead of *t, we could have reconstructed a *k in Proto-Polynesian. We
would then say that *k was retained in Hawaiian and became /t/ in all the
other languages. But we posit *t because experience with many languages has
led historical linguists to prefer reconstructions that assume the least change
consistent with the facts, unless there is good reason to do otherwise. In this
instance, reconstructing *t assumes fewer subsequent changes than would a re-
construction of *k. You can think of this as the majority rule.
Try It Yourself The words for ‘rope’ in
Table 12.2 provide suﬃcient information for
two correspondence sets of consonant sounds. The
ﬁnal line in Table 12.3 gives k-ʔ-ʔ-k-ʔ as one of those
correspondence sets. What’s the other one that can
be proposed from the words for ‘rope’?
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 426
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 426 4/1/11 18:49:27
4/1/11 18:49:27
How to Reconstruct the Linguistic Past 427
Now let’s inspect the reconstruction of *m more closely. To postulate that
/m/ existed in the protolanguage and was retained in all the daughter languages
is the simplest hypothesis but not the only logical one. You could hypothesize
some other sound in the protolanguage that independently became /m/ in each
daughter language.
Because /m/ is a bilabial nasal, both the bilabial /b/ and the nasal /n/ would
be other likely candidates for this reconstruction because they share phonetic
features with the /m/ found in all the daughter languages. On the other hand,
Polynesian languages generally lack the phoneme /b/, so it seems more rea-
sonable to assume that the parent language also lacked /b/. Alternatively, you
could reconstruct an /n/ that changed to /m/ in all the daughter languages in-
dependently of one another. But there are two reasons to reject this hypothesis.
First, it is not a minimal assumption, and, second, the daughter languages have
an /n/ that also requires a source in the parent language. We thus postulate
Proto-Polynesian *m and *n, which were retained unchanged in all the daugh-
ter languages.
Let’s examine one other correspondence set: ŋ-ŋ-ʔ-ŋ-n. We have just pos-
tulated Proto-Polynesian *n as the reconstructed earlier form (technically,
the etymon) of the correspondence set
n-n-n-n-n. It’s interesting to compare
this reconstruction with one for the cor-
respondence set ŋ-ŋ-ʔ-ŋ-n, for which the
most likely reconstruction is *ŋ.
n n n n n
*n *
Given these reconstructions, *ŋ was retained in Tongan, Samoan, and Maori
but became /ʔ/ in Tahitian and /n/ in Hawaiian. As a result, the distinction be-
tween *n and *ŋ that existed in Proto-Polynesian and is maintained in Tongan,
Samoan, and Maori does not exist in Hawaiian, where *n and *ŋ have merged
in /n/. Hawaiian /n/ therefore has two historical sources. When two sounds
merge into one, that sound change is called a merger. We can represent this
historical merger either in rules (*n > n; *ŋ > n) or schematically.
Table 12.3 Sound Correspondences in Five Polynesian Languages
Tongan Samoan Tahitian Maori Hawaiian
m m m m m
n n n n n
ŋ ŋ ʔ ŋ n
p p p p p
t t t t k
k ʔ ʔ k ʔ
Try It Yourself Given that /m/,
the sound in all the daughter languages
of Table 12.3, is a bilabial nasal, which other two
sounds would make good candidates as the sound
from which /m/ might have developed in the ﬁve
daughter languages represented in the table?
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 427
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 427 4/1/11 18:49:27
4/1/11 18:49:27
428 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
Merger
Hawaiian
Proto-Polynesian
n
*n *
Subgroups On the basis of lexical and structural characteristics, it is apparent
that some Polynesian languages are more closely linked than others. As shown
in Table 12.4, Tongan differs from other Polynesian languages in at least two
respects: it has initial /h/ where other languages do not have anything; and it
has nothing where other languages have either /l/ or /r/. Niuean, another Poly-
nesian language, shares these and certain other characteristics with Tongan. On
the basis of such evidence, Tongan and Niuean can be seen to form a subgroup,
or branch, of Polynesian. This implies that Tongan and Niuean were at one time
a single language distinct from Proto-Polynesian and that Proto-Tongic, as that
language is called, developed certain features before splitting into Tongan and
Niuean. The retention in both languages of these features (those that developed
after Proto-Tongic split from Proto-Polynesian but before Tongan and Niuean
split into separate languages) constitutes the characteristic shared features of
the Proto-Tongic branch of the Polynesian family.
In the meantime, the other branch of Proto-Polynesian also evolved in-
dependently after its speakers lost contact with speakers of Proto-Tongic.
As this second branch, called Proto-Nuclear-Polynesian, developed its dis-
tinctive characteristics, it emerged as a separate language that gave rise to
still other languages. Except for Tongan and Niuean, all modern Polynesian
languages share certain features inherited from Proto-Nuclear-Polynesian. In
turn, Proto-Nuclear-Polynesian has two main subgroups: Samoic-Outlier and
Eastern Polynesian. The evolution of Polynesian languages can be represented
in the family tree shown in Figure 12.3. Such family trees usefully represent
the general genealogical relationships in a family of languages, although
they inevitably oversimplify the complex facts of history, especially by ex-
cluding borrowings and other influences that languages in contact can exert
on one another.
Table 12.4 Cognates in Five Polynesian Languages II
Tongan Samoan Tahitian Maori Hawaiian
hama ama ama ama ama ‘outrigger’
hiŋoa iŋoa iʔoa iŋoa inoa ‘name’
mohe moe moe moe moe ‘to sleep’
hake aʔe aʔe ake aʔe ‘up’
ua lua rua rua lua ‘two’
ama lama rama rama lama ‘torch’
tui tuli turi turi kuli ‘knee’
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 428
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 428 4/1/11 18:49:30
4/1/11 18:49:30
How to Reconstruct the Linguistic Past 429
Reconstructing the Proto-Polynesian Vocabulary
On the basis of the evidence provided by modern-day Polynesian languages,
we can reconstruct the sound system and vocabulary of Proto-Polynesian (and
make educated guesses about its grammatical structure). In turn, reconstructed
linguistic information can tell us a good deal about the people who first settled
Polynesia more than 3,000 years ago.
A word can be reconstructed in Proto-Polynesian if we find reflexes of it—
that is, cognates—in at least one language of each major subgroup (Tongic,
Samoic-Outlier, and Eastern Polynesian; see Figure 12.3) and are confident
that the cognates are not borrowed words. If we reconstructed a lexical
item for Proto-Polynesian based simply on evidence from Tongan and, say,
Samoan, we would run the risk of having found a word that existed originally
only in Tongan—after Tongan became a separate language—and that was
borrowed by the early Samoans. You can see from the map in Figure 12.2
that Tonga and Samoa are geographically close enough to have had contacts
in prehistoric times.
For example, since cognate words for ‘bird,’ ‘fish,’ and ‘man’ are found in all
major subgroups of the Polynesian family (as shown in Tables 12.1 and 12.2),
we can reconstruct a Proto-Polynesian form for each word. According to regu-
lar sound correspondences and the most plausible reconstructed sounds, these
words are *manu, *taŋata, and *ika. In contrast, the word for a ‘night of full
moon,’ which in Maori and Tahitian is hotu and in Hawaiian hoku, cannot be
reconstructed for Proto-Polynesian because there is no cognate in any Tongic or
Samoic-Outlier language. Similarly, an etymon for the Tongan and Niuean word
kookoo ‘windpipe’ cannot be reconstructed for Proto-Polynesian because there is
no reflex in any Samoic-Outlier or Eastern Polynesian language.
Using the comparative method of historical reconstruction just outlined, the
lexical items in Table 12.5, all referring to the physical environment, can be
reconstructed for Proto-Polynesian. From Table 12.5, you can see that the Proto-
Polynesian people had words for ocean-related notions (the left-hand column)
and for topographic features typically found on large volcanic islands (the right-
hand column). As it happens, there are no waterfalls, precipices, mountains, or
lakes on coral atolls, and only rarely are they found on raised coral islands.
In interpreting such results, linguists make the assumption that the presence
of a word for a particular object in a language usually indicates the presence
of that object in the speakers’ environment. (There are exceptions to this rule,
as we will see, but they are few and far between.) In particular, complete land-
lubbers will not normally have an elaborate native vocabulary for the sea and
Proto-Tongic
Tongan Niuean
Proto-Polynesian
Proto–Nuclear-Polynesian
Samoic–Outlier Eastern Polynesian
Tahitian Maori Hawaiian
Samoan (and other languages)
(and other languages)
Figure 12.3 Polynesian Languages
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 429
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 429 4/1/11 18:49:30
4/1/11 18:49:30
430 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
for seafaring activities, barring the possibility of a recent move inland from a
coastal area. We thus surmise that the early Polynesians inhabited a high island
or a chain of high islands but lived close enough to the ocean to be familiar with
the landscape and phenomena of the sea.
In Table 12.6, we reconstruct other Proto-Polynesian names for animals and
make the assumption that the ancient Polynesians were familiar with them.
Names of many other reef and deepwater fish and other sea creatures can be
reconstructed besides those listed in the left-hand column. In contrast, we can
reconstruct only a handful of names for land animals: a few domesticated ani-
mals (dog, pig, chicken) and a few birds and reptiles. We surmise that the Poly-
nesians’ original habitat was rich in sea life but probably relatively poor in land
fauna—that the Polynesians originally inhabited coastal regions and not island
interiors. The character of the land fauna offers pointed information about the
Proto-Polynesian homeland. Since the Proto-Polynesian terms *peka ‘bat’ and
*lulu ‘owl’ can be reconstructed, we can exclude as possible homelands Tahiti,
Easter Island, and the Marquesas, where bats and owls are not found.
Furthermore, snakes are found only east of Samoa. Though we find reflexes
of Proto-Polynesian *ŋata ‘snake’ in many languages, we find no snakes west
of Samoa. Had the Proto-Polynesians inhabited an island west of Samoa, they
Table 12.5 Reconstructed Terms in Proto-Polynesian I
*awa ‘channel’ *hafu ‘waterfall’
*hakau ‘coral reef’ *lanu ‘fresh water’
*kilikili ‘gravel’ *lolo ‘flood’
*peau ‘wave’ *mato ‘precipice’
*sou ‘rough ocean’ *maʔuŋa ‘mountain’
*tahi ‘sea’ *rano ‘lake’
*ʔone ‘sand’ *waitafe ‘stream’
Table 12.6 Reconstructed Terms in Proto-Polynesian II
*maŋoo ‘shark’ *kulii ‘dog’
*kanahe ‘mullet’ *puaka ‘pig’
*sakulaa ‘swordfish’ *moko ‘lizard’
*ʔatu ‘bonito’ *kumaa ‘rat’
*ʔono ‘barracuda’ *ŋata ‘snake’
*ʔume ‘leatherjacket’ *fonu ‘turtle’
*manini ‘sturgeon’ *peka ‘bat’
*nofu ‘stonefish’ *namu ‘mosquito’
*fai ‘stingray’ *lulu ‘owl’
*kaloama ‘goatfish’ *matuku ‘reef heron’
*palani ‘surgeonfish’ *akiaki ‘tern’
*toke ‘eel’ *moa ‘chicken’
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 430
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 430 4/1/11 18:49:30
4/1/11 18:49:30
How to Reconstruct the Linguistic Past 431
would very likely have lost the term *ŋata over the centuries. Similarly, we
know that pigs (for which the word *puaka can be reconstructed) are not native
to Polynesia, but Europeans first arriving between the sixteenth and nineteenth
centuries found them everywhere except on Niue, Easter Island, and New
Zealand. These three regions are thus unlikely homelands.
Words for some animals have undergone interesting changes in certain Poly-
nesian languages. For example, New Zealand is much colder than the rest of
Polynesia, and its native animals are very different from those found on the
tropical islands to the north. Upon arrival in New Zealand, the ancient Maoris
encountered many new species to which they gave the names of animals they
had left behind in tropical Polynesia; thus, the following correspondences exist.
Proto-Polynesian Maori
*pule ‘cowrie shell’ pure ‘bivalve mollusk’
*ŋata ‘snake’ ŋata ‘snail’
*ali ‘flounder’ ari ‘small shark’
Names for other animals were either dropped from the Maori vocabulary or
applied to things commonly associated with the animal.
Proto-Polynesian Maori
*ane ‘termite’ ane ‘rotten’
*lupe ‘pigeon’ rupe ‘mythical’
Other changes are more complex. The word lulu (or ruru) refers to owls in
languages such as Tongan, Samoan, and Maori, which are spoken in areas where
owls are found. On some islands, such as the Marquesas and Tahiti, owls do
not exist, and the reflex of Proto-Polynesian *lulu ‘owl’ has either disappeared
from the language, as in Marquesan, or been applied to another species, as in
Tahitian. Owls inhabit Hawaii, but the Proto-Polynesian term *lulu has been
replaced by the word pueo there.
Why would the early Hawaiians replace one word with the other? In the
Marquesas, as we noted, there are no owls, and the language spoken there has
no reflex of *lulu. Apparently the ancient Polynesians settled the Marquesas
and stayed for several centuries, during which they lost the word *lulu for
lack of anything to apply it to. When they subsequently traveled north and
settled Hawaii, they encountered owls, but by that time the word lulu had been
forgotten, and a new word had to be found.
The linguistic evidence argues that the ancestors of the Polynesians were
fishermen and cultivators. Here are a few of the many terms that refer to fishing
and horticulture.
*mataʔu ‘fishhook’ *too ‘to plant’
*rama ‘to torch fish’ *faki ‘to pick’
*paa ‘fish lure’ *lohu ‘picking pole’
*kupeŋa ‘fish net’ *hua ‘spade’
*afo ‘fishing line’ *maʔala ‘garden’
*faaŋota ‘to fish’ *palpula ‘seedling’
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 431
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 431 4/1/11 18:49:31
4/1/11 18:49:31
432
Chapter
12
Language
Change
Over
Time:
Historical
Linguistics
Figure 12.4 The Settlement of Polynesia
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd
432
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd
432
4/1/11
18:49:31
4/1/11
18:49:31
What Are the Language Families of the World? 433
By contrast, hunting terms are limited, with three words apparently exhaust-
ing all possible reconstructions for verbs related to hunting: *fana ‘to shoot with
a bow,’ *welo ‘to spear,’ and *seu ‘to snare with a net.’ It is probably safe to infer
that the major source of food for the ancient Polynesians was not the bush but
the sea and garden.
One field with a notable array of vocabulary is canoe navigation, with the
following reconstructions: *folau ‘to travel by sea,’ *ʔuli ‘to steer,’ *fohe ‘pad-
dle,’ *fana ‘mast,’ *laa ‘sail,’ *kiato ‘outrigger boom,’ *hama ‘outrigger.’ That the
speakers of Proto-Polynesian were expert seafarers comes as no surprise, given
that they traveled enormous distances between islands (2,000 miles stretch be-
tween Hawaii and the closest inhabited island).
Historical Linguistics and Prehistory
Linguistic evidence combined with archaeological evidence leads to the following
hypotheses, which are summarized (and can be tracked) in Figure 12.4.
1. The speakers of Proto-Polynesian inhabited the coastal region of a high island
or group of high islands.
2. This homeland is likely to have been in the region between Samoa and Fiji,
including the islands of Tonga, Uvea, and Futuna.
3. The ancient Polynesians were fishermen, cultivators, and seafarers.
4. Around the first century a.d., the ancient Polynesians traveled eastward
from their homeland, settling eastern Polynesia: Tahiti, the Cook Islands, the
Marquesas, the Tuamotu, and the neighboring island groups.
5. Then, between the fourth and sixth centuries, Easter Island, Hawaii, and
New Zealand were settled from eastern Polynesia.
Our discussion has focused on Polynesian origins and migrations. By judi-
ciously combining linguistic evidence with evidence from other disciplines, we
have constructed a probable picture of an ancient people, the environment they
lived in, and the skills they developed for survival. These same methods have
been used for other peoples and to reconstruct other migration patterns, includ-
ing the Indo-Europeans and the Algonquian Indians.
The comparative method that is used to trace the historical development of lan-
guages can also be applied to determine which languages are related within
families. In this section we survey the major language families of the world.
Counting Speakers and Languages
It is not easy to determine with certainty how many people speak languages such
as English, Chinese, and Arabic. Nevertheless, these and a few others stand out for
the sheer number of people that claim them as a native language. Of the world’s
What Are the Language Families of the World?
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 433
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 433 4/1/11 18:49:32
4/1/11 18:49:32
434
Chapter
12
Language
Change
Over
Time:
Historical
Linguistics
Figure 12.5 Location of the Major Indo-European, Dravidian, Caucasian, Uralic, and Turkic Languages
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd
434
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd
434
4/1/11
18:49:32
4/1/11
18:49:32
What Are the Language Families of the World? 435
several thousand languages, ten are spoken natively by 100 million individuals or
more. (For purposes of counting speakers, we have coupled Hindi and Urdu.)
Chinese 1.2 billion
English 325 million
Spanish 325 million
Hindi-Urdu 245 million
Arabic 220 million
Bengali 180 million
Portuguese 180 million
Malay 150 million
Russian 145 million
Japanese 120 million
Of these, Chinese, English, Spanish, Arabic, and Russian are, alongside French,
the working languages of the United Nations.
Equally difficult to estimate is the number of languages currently spoken in the
world. It is difficult to determine, in many cases, whether particular communities
speak different dialects of one language or different languages. Furthermore, little
is known about many of the world’s languages. In Papua New Guinea, a nation of
only 5.4 million people, more than 800 languages are spoken, although we have
descriptions of a mere handful. Many Papuan languages are spoken in remote
communities by only a few hundred speakers, or even a few dozen.
The following discussion is arranged by language family, beginning with
Indo-European, Sino-Tibetan, Austronesian, and Afroasiatic, which are the
four most important families in terms of numbers of speakers and numbers of
languages. The three major language families of sub-Saharan Africa are then
discussed, followed by other language families of Europe and Asia, including
important isolated languages such as Japanese. Finally, we discuss the native
languages of the Americas, Australia, and central Papua New Guinea. Pidgins
and creoles are discussed after a brief discussion of the proposed Nostratic
macrofamily.
The Indo-European Family
To the Indo-European language family belong most languages of Europe (which
are now spoken natively in the Americas and Oceania and play prominent roles
in Africa and Asia), as well as most languages of Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan,
Bangladesh, and most of India. Of the ten languages with more than 100 million
native speakers, six belong to the Indo-European family. Yet Indo-European
languages number only several hundred, about 6 percent of the world’s
languages. The extensive spread of Indo-European languages is shown in Figure
12.5. The Indo-European family is divided into several groups. Figure 12.6 is a
family tree showing a few languages for each group.
Germanic Group Modern-day Germanic languages include English, German,
Yiddish, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch (and its derivative Afrikaans),
and a few other languages such as Icelandic, Faroese, and Frisian. The closest
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 435
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 435 4/1/11 18:49:33
4/1/11 18:49:33
436 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
relative to English is Frisian, spoken in the northern Netherlands. As Table 12.7
illustrates, Germanic languages bear striking similarities to one another in vo-
cabulary, and similarities in phonology and syntax are also numerous. Some
Germanic languages are mutually intelligible, and all bear the imprint of a com-
mon ancestor. English has diverged significantly in the course of its history, as
discussed in Chapter 13.
Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Icelandic, and Faroese—the North Germanic
group—are more closely related to each other than to the other languages of the
Germanic group. They descended from Proto-North-Germanic, which evolved as
a single language for a longer period of time than the West Germanic subgroup
that includes English, German, Frisian, and Dutch. We also have written records
of Gothic, which was spoken in central Europe but disappeared around the eighth
century. Gothic alone forms the East Germanic subgroup. Figure 12.7 is the fam-
ily tree for the Germanic group (with Gothic in parentheses because it is extinct).
Figure 12.7 Germanic Languages
West Germanic
English German Frisian Dutch
Proto-Germanic
East Germanic
Swedish Danish Norwegian Faroese Icelandic
North Germanic
& Yiddish & Afrikaans
(Gothic)
Table 12.7 Common Words in Seven Germanic Languages
English German Dutch Swedish Danish Norwegian Icelandic
mother Mutter moeder moder moder moder móðir
father Vater vader fader fader fader faðir
eye Auge oog öga øje øye auga
foot Fuss voet fot fod fot fótur
one ein een en en en einn
three drei drie tre tre tre þrír
month Monat maand månad måned måned mánaður
Proto-Germanic Proto-Italic Old Celtic Ancient
West North
Germanic Germanic
Proto-Indo-European
English German Swedish
Latin
French Portuguese Spanish Irish Gaelic Greek
Greek
Figure 12.6 Partial Tree of the Indo-European Language Family
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 436
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 436 4/1/11 18:49:33
4/1/11 18:49:33
What Are the Language Families of the World? 437
Table 12.8 Common Words in Six Romance Languages
French Italian Spanish Rumanian Catalan Portuguese
mère madre madre mamǎ mare mãe ‘mother’
père padre padre tatǎ pare pai ‘father’
œil occhio ojo ochiu ull ôlho ‘eye’
pied piede pie picior peu pé ‘foot’
un uno uno un un um ‘one’
trois tre tres trei tres três ‘three’
mois mese mes luna mes mês ‘month’
With about 325 million speakers, English is spoken in the British Isles, the
United States, most of Canada, the Caribbean, Australia, New Zealand, and
South Africa. In addition, there are numerous bilingual speakers of English and
another language on the Indian subcontinent, in eastern and southern Africa,
and in Oceania. To these we must add the countless speakers of English as a
second language scattered around the globe. English is the second most popu-
lous spoken language in the world after Chinese, but it is unrivaled in terms of
its geographical spread and popularity as a second language. German, which
has not spread as much as English, is still one of the world’s most widely spoken
languages. It claims 95 million native speakers, mostly in central Europe.
Italic Group and Romance Subgroup The Romance languages include French,
Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, and Rumanian, as well as Provençal (in the south of
France), Catalan (in northern Spain), Galician (in the Autonomous Region of Galicia
in northwest Spain), and Romansch (in Switzerland). The Romance languages are
closely related to each other, as witnessed by the sample of vocabulary correspon-
dences in Table 12.8. The Rumanian words for ‘mother,’ ‘father,’ ‘foot,’ and ‘month,’
which are not derived from the same roots as those in the other Romance languages,
illustrate the type of historical change that can hinder communication between
speakers of closely related languages. Such examples are particularly common in
Rumanian, which is geographically isolated from other Romance languages.
The languages of the Romance family are descendants of Vulgar Latin. Because
the Romance languages have remained in close contact over the centuries,
subgroups are more difficult to identify than for Germanic languages. Latin is one
descendant of Proto-Italic. Oscan and Umbrian, the other principal descendants,
were once spoken in central and southern Italy but are now extinct and little is
Common Slavonic Old Indo-Iranian
East West
Slavonic Slavonic
Russian Ukrainian Polish
Sanskrit Proto-Iranian
Hindi Urdu Bengali Armenian Albanian
Persian
Proto-Indo-European (continued)
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 437
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 437 4/1/11 18:49:33
4/1/11 18:49:33
438 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
known about them. Spanish, with approximately 325 million native speakers in
Spain and the Americas, is the second or third most populous language. Portuguese
is spoken by nearly 180 million people, principally in Portugal and Brazil. French
has about 65 million native speakers in France, Canada, and the United States,
as well as many second-language speakers, particularly in North Africa and West
Africa. The tree for Italic and Romance languages is shown in Figure 12.8.
Slavonic Group Slavonic languages are spoken in eastern Europe and the
former Soviet Union. The Slavonic group can be divided into three subgroups:
East Slavonic, which includes Russian (spoken in Russia), Ukrainian (spoken in
Ukraine), and Belarusan (spoken in Belarus); South Slavonic, which includes
Bulgarian, Serbian, and Croatian; and West Slavonic, which groups together
Polish, Czech, Slovak, and a few minor languages. All are derived from Common
Slavonic (see Figure 12.9). Even more so than the Germanic and Romance
languages, Slavonic languages are remarkably similar, especially in their
vocabulary (see Table 12.9).
Table 12.9 Common Words in Six Slavonic Languages
Russian Ukrainian Polish Czech
Serbian/
Croatian Bulgarian
mat’ mati matka matka mati mayka ‘mother’
otec otec’ ojciec otec otac baʃʧa ‘father’
oko oko oko oko oko oko ‘eye’
noga noga noga noha noga krak ‘foot’
odin odin jeden jeden jedan edin ‘one’
tri tri trzy tři tri tri ‘three’
mesjac misjac’ miesiac meʃíc mjesec mesec ‘month’
Note: Russian oko ‘eye’ is archaic; the modern word is glaz.
East Slavonic
Russian Belarusan Ukrainian
Common Slavonic
West Slavonic
South Slavonic
Bulgarian Serbian Croatian Polish Czech Slovak
Figure 12.9 Slavonic Languages
Latin
French Italian Catalan Spanish Galician Provençal Portuguese Rumanian
Proto-Italic
Osco-Umbrian
(Oscan) (Umbrian)
Figure 12.8 Italic Languages
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 438
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 438 4/1/11 18:49:34
4/1/11 18:49:34
What Are the Language Families of the World? 439
By far the most widely spoken Slavonic language is Russian, with 145 million
speakers. Ukrainian has 39 million speakers, Polish 43 million, Serbian
11 million, Croatian 6 million, Czech 11 million, and Belarusan 9 million.
Indo-Iranian Group At the other geographical extreme of the Indo-European
family is the Indo-Iranian group, subdivided into Iranian and Indic (see
Figure 12.10). Persian (or Farsi) has 32 million speakers principally in Iran and
Afghanistan, and Pashto has 20 million speakers principally in Pakistan. Indic
languages include Hindi-Urdu, spoken in India (where it is called Hindi and is
written in Devanāgarī script) and Pakistan (where it is called Urdu and uses
Arabic script). Other Indic languages include:
Bengali 170 million Bangladesh, India, and Nepal
Marathi 68 million Central India
Gujarati 46 million Western India, Tanzania, Uganda, Kenya
Panjabi 61 million Pakistan and Northern India
Bihari 37 million Northeastern India, Nepal (also called Bhojpuri)
Many of these languages are also spoken by ethnic Indian populations in
Southeast Asia, Africa, the Americas, Great Britain, and Oceania. The parent
language of the modern Indic languages is Sanskrit, the ancient language of
India immortalized in the Vedas and other classical texts.
Table 12.10 presents sample vocabulary correspondences among a few Indo-
Iranian languages. Not all the words with one meaning are cognates because
some have sources other than a common parent language.
Hellenic Group The sole member of the Hellenic group is Greek. Certain lan-
guages, while belonging to a major language family, were isolated early enough
Table 12.10 Common Words in Six Indic Languages
Hindi Bengali Marathi Gujarati Persian Pashto
mãː ma maː maː mɑdær moːr ‘mother’
baːp baːp babaː baːp pedær plaːr ‘father’
ãːkʰ cókʰ dola aːnkʰ ʧæʃm starga ‘eye’
pãːw paː paː paːg pɑ pşa ‘foot’
ek ak ek eːk jek jaw ‘one’
tiːn tiːn tiːn traːn se dreː ‘three’
mahiːnaː mas mahiːnaː mahiːno mɑh miaːʃt ‘month’
Note: c represents a voiceless unaspirated palatal obstruent; ş represents a voiceless retroflex fricative.
Sanskrit
Hindi Urdu Bengali Bihari Panjabi Marathi Gujarati
Old Indo-Iranian
Proto-Iranian
Persian Pashto
Figure 12.10 Indo-Iranian Languages
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 439
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 439 4/1/11 18:49:34
4/1/11 18:49:34
440
Chapter
12
Language
Change
Over
Time:
Historical
Linguistics
Figure 12.11 Map of Austronesian Languages
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd
440
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd
440
4/1/11
18:49:34
4/1/11
18:49:34
What Are the Language Families of the World? 441
that they do not bear any particularly close affiliations to other languages of the
family. Such is the case with Greek, which evolved through the centuries in rel-
ative isolation. Greek stands out from other isolated Indo-European languages
because of its relatively large number of speakers (12 million) and its historical
importance in Indo-European linguistics, owing to the survival of early written
records of Ancient Greek.
Other Indo-European Language Groups Of the other Indo-European groups,
Celtic includes Irish Gaelic, Scots Gaelic, Breton, and Welsh, which together are
spoken by fewer than 1 million people today. Baltic includes Lithuanian and
Latvian. Tocharian and Anatolian (including Hittite) are now extinct. Armenian
and Albanian form two additional groups.
The Sino-Tibetan Family
Included in the Sino-Tibetan family are about 400 East Asian languages, many
of which remain relatively unexplored. This family is divided into a Sinitic, or
Chinese, group and a Tibeto-Burman group.
The Sinitic group includes more than a dozen named varieties (including
Hakka, Jinyu, Mandarin, Min Nan, Wu, Xiang or Hunan, Yue or Cantonese).
Most are structurally similar and are regarded by their speakers as dialects of a
single language. With more than one billion speakers, this is the world’s most
populous language; it is, of course, Chinese. Five dialect groups can be identified.
Mandarin includes the Běijīng dialect, which serves as the official language of
the People’s Republic of China; Yue includes the dialect of Guǎngzhōu (Canton),
which is spoken by the greatest number of overseas Chinese.
By contrast, the Tibeto-Burman group includes nearly all of the Sino-Tibetan
languages, but each has relatively few speakers. Among the languages of this
group with more than a million speakers are Burmese (spoken in Myanmar),
Meitei or Manipuri (spoken in India), Kam or Khams Tibetan, and Tibetan.
The Austronesian Family
The Austronesian family has over 1,200 languages scattered over one-third of the
Southern Hemisphere. It includes Malay, spoken by about 150 million people in
Indonesia and Malaysia; Javanese, with 75 million speakers on the island of Java
in Indonesia; Tagalog or Pilipino, the official language of the Philippines; Cebuano,
another language of the Philippines; and Malagasy, the principal language of
Madagascar. Most other Austronesian languages have fewer than a million speakers
each, and many of them are spoken by only a few hundred people.
The Austronesian family contains several groups. The most ancient division is
between three groups of minor Formosan languages spoken in the hills of Taiwan
and all other Austronesian languages; the latter group is called Malayo-Polynesian.
The most important split divides Western Malayo-Polynesian (languages spoken
in Indonesia, Malaysia, Madagascar, the Philippines, and Guam) from Oceanic or
Eastern Malayo-Polynesian (extending from the coastal areas of Papua New Guinea
into the islands of the Pacific). Fijian and the Polynesian languages are Oceanic
languages. Table 12.11 gives a sample of vocabulary correspondences between
representative Austronesian languages. Figure 12.12 is a simplified family tree,
and the distribution of Austronesian languages is illustrated in Figure 12.11.
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 441
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 441 4/1/11 18:49:35
4/1/11 18:49:35
442 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
The Afroasiatic Family
The Afroasiatic family comprises about 375 languages scattered across the
northern part of Africa and western Asia. It includes Arabic, dialects of which are
spoken across the entire northern part of Africa and the Middle East; Hebrew,
the traditional language of the Jewish nation and revived in the twentieth
century as the national language of Israel; Egyptian, the now extinct language
of the ancient Egyptian civilization; and Hausa, one of Africa’s major languages,
spoken natively in Nigeria, Niger, and neighboring nations (see Figure 12.13).
Hebrew and Arabic form the Semitic group, to which also belong Amharic, the
official language of Ethiopia, and Akkadian, a language of ancient Mesopotamia
(modern Iraq). Akkadian appears to have been the first language ever written,
but it was replaced largely by Aramaic, which is also Semitic. Aramaic dialects
include Palestinian Aramaic (the language Jesus spoke) and Modern Syriac,
spoken by Christians in Iran, Iraq, and Georgia (in the former Soviet Union).
Somali, the principal language of Somalia, is one of almost 50 members of
the Cushitic group. Kabyle and other languages that belong to the Berber group
are scattered across North Africa. Hausa and close to 200 other languages form
the Chadic group, all of which have developed tone systems. Ancient Egyptian
forms a separate Afroasiatic group; Coptic is used as a liturgical language of the
Coptic Church but has no native speakers. Table 12.12 is a comparative vocabu-
lary for representative members of the Afroasiatic family.
Formosan Languages
Malay
Proto-Austronesian
Proto-Malayo-Polynesian
Proto-Oceanic
Proto-Western-
Malayo-Polynesian
Javanese Philippine
languages
Malagasy New Guinean
languages
Pacific-Island
languages
Figure 12.12 Tree of Austronesian Languages
Table 12.11 Common Words in Six Austronesian Languages
Malay Malagasy Tagalog Motu Fijian Samoan
ibu ineny inâ sina tina tinaa ‘mother’
bapa ikaky amá tama tama tamaa ‘father’
mata maso mata mata mata mata ‘eye’
satu isa isa ta dua tasi ‘one’
tiga telo tatló toi tolu tolu ‘three’
batu vato bato nadi vatu fatu ‘stone’
kutu hao kuto utu kutu ʔutu ‘louse’
Note: Samoan fatu actually means ‘fruit pit,’ a meaning closely related to ‘stone.’
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 442
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 442 4/1/11 18:49:35
4/1/11 18:49:35
What Are the Language Families of the World? 443
The Three Major Language Families of Sub-Saharan Africa
Besides the Afroasiatic family spoken north of the Sahara Desert, Africa is home
to three other language families: the Niger-Congo (or Niger-Kordofanian) family,
with perhaps 1,500 languages spoken by about 150 million people in a region
that stretches from Senegal to Kenya to South Africa; the Nilo-Saharan family,
with 200 languages spoken in and around Chad and the Sudan; and the Khoisan
family in southern Africa, with 25 languages. The Khoisan family, traditionally
associated with the Bushmen of the Kalahari Desert, is the only language fam-
ily in the world that has click sounds (discussed in Chapter 3). The boundaries
between these language families are shown in Figure 12.13.
Most of the better-known languages of sub-Saharan Africa belong to the Niger-
Congo family. These include Akan, spoken in Ghana; Congo, spoken in Angola
and the Democratic Republic of Congo; Fula (also called Fulani and Fulfulde),
spoken in Guinea and Senegal; Wolof, spoken principally in Senegal, Gambia,
and Guinea; Yoruba, spoken in Nigeria; Éwé, spoken in Ghana and Togo;
Igbo, spoken in Nigeria; Swahili, with relatively few first-language speakers and
perhaps 30 million second-language speakers, chiefly in East Africa; and other
Bantu languages of southern Africa such as Zulu and Sotho.
Other Language Families of
Asia and Europe
Scattered throughout Asia and Europe
are a few smaller language families and
a few languages that are not genealogi-
cally related to any other language fam-
ily, so far as linguists can determine,
and are therefore called isolates.
The Dravidian Family Languages of the
Dravidian family are spoken principally
in southern India (see Figure 12.5).
Table 12.12 Common Words in Six Afroasiatic Languages
Arabic Hebrew Amharic Kabyle Hausa Somali
um ɛm annat jemma inna hoojjo ‘mother’
ab av abbat baba baba aabe ‘father’
ʕain ajin ajn allen ido il ‘eye’
ʔeӡer rɛgɛl agar aḍaṛ k’afa ʕag ‘foot’
waḥad ɛxad and waḥed ’daya hal ‘one’
ṭalaṭa ʃloʃa sost tlata uku saddeħ ‘three’
ʃaher xodɛʃ wár eccher wata bil ‘month’
Note: ħ is the symbol for a voiceless pharyngeal fricative and ʕ for its voiced counterpart;
ṭ represents an “emphatic” or pharyngealized t, represented by a superscripted ʕ [tʕ] in the
International Phonetic Alphabet.
Try It Yourself Compare the words for
‘month’ in the four Dravidian languages given
in Table 12.13 (page 447) with the words for ‘month’ in
the six Indic languages of Table 12.10 (page 441). Which
Dravidian language appears to have borrowed the
word for ‘month’ from an Indic language? Which Indic
language has the word for ‘month’ most like the one
borrowed by the Dravidian language?
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 443
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 443 4/1/11 18:49:35
4/1/11 18:49:35
444 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
The four major Dravidian languages are Tamil, Malayāḷam, Kannaḍa, and
Telugu, all of which have been written for centuries. All Dravidian languages
have been somewhat influenced by the Indic languages spoken to their north.
The Mon-Khmer Family The Mon-Khmer family includes almost 150 languages
spoken in Southeast Asia (Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, and Myanmar),
China, and India. The most important of these are Vietnamese, spoken mostly in
Vietnam, and Cambodian or Khmer, the official language of Cambodia. Coupled
with the Munda languages (such as Santali, Mundari, and Ho) spoken chiefly in
Figure 12.13 The Language Families of Africa
Source: Adapted from Gregersen, Edgar A. 1977. Language in Africa: An Introductory Survey (New York: Gordon & Breach).
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 444
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 444 4/1/11 18:49:36
4/1/11 18:49:36
What Are the Language Families of the World? 445
India, the Mon-Khmer languages constitute what some scholars call the Austro-
Asiatic family.
The Tai Family The best-known languages of the Tai family are Thai and Lao,
the official languages of Thailand and Laos respectively. There are about
50 other members of the Tai family scattered throughout Thailand, Laos,
Vietnam, Myanmar, eastern India, and southern China, where they intertwine
with Sino-Tibetan and Mon-Khmer languages. Tai languages have been related
to a number of languages spoken in Vietnam, with which they form a Kam-Tai
family, and to still others in Vietnam and China, forming a Tai-Kadai family.
The Caucasian Family With about 35 languages, the Caucasian family is confined
to the mountainous region between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea in Turkey,
Iran, and what was part of the former Soviet Union. Caucasian languages
typically have complex phonological and morphological systems. The best-
known Caucasian language is Georgian, spoken in Georgia (see Figure 12.5).
The Turkic Family This family comprises about 60 languages, all of which are
quite similar. The better-known members are Turkish and Uzbek. Most Turkic
languages are spoken in Turkey and central Asia (see Figure 12.5). Some schol-
ars include Turkic in a larger Altaic family.
The Uralic Family With about 40 members, the Uralic family is thought by some
to be related to the Turkic family, though this link is tenuous. The better-known
Uralic languages are Finnish and Hungarian; also included are Estonian and
Lapp (see Figure 12.5).
Japanese The Japanese language does not have any universally agreed-upon
relatives, although many scholars regard Japanese and Korean as belonging to
an Altaic family, along with Turkic. Ryukyuan, spoken in Okinawa, is a dialect
of Japanese, and Ainu, a nearly extinct language spoken in the north of Japan,
may also be related but is generally considered an isolate. Japanese has ab-
sorbed considerable influence from Chinese, to which it is not related.
Korean Many scholars regard Korean and Japanese as related members of the
Altaic family, but this hypothesis remains unproven. Like Japanese, Korean has
been greatly influenced by Chinese over the centuries.
Table 12.13 Common Words in Four Dravidian Languages
Tamil Malayāḷam Kannaḍa Telugu
ammaː amma awwa amma ‘mother’
appaː aːcchan tande naːnna ‘father’
kaṇṇu kaṇṇu kanṇṇu kannu ‘eye’
kaːlu kaːl kaːlu kaːlu ‘foot’
onru oru ondu okaṭi ‘one’
muːnru muːnnu muːru muːḍu ‘three’
maːsam nela tingaḷu tingḷu ‘month’
Note: Subscript dots represent retroflection.
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 445
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 445 4/1/11 18:49:38
4/1/11 18:49:38
446 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
Other Isolated Languages of Asia and Europe Of the remaining isolated lan-
guages of Eurasia, Basque is the best known. It is spoken in an area that strad-
dles the Spanish-French border on the Atlantic coast (see Figure 12.5).
Native American Languages
Compared to the Old World, the linguistic situation in the New World is bewil-
dering, with numerous Native American language families in North and South
America. While proposals for the genealogical integration of these languages
have been made, solid evidence for a pan-American link is lacking. Below are
listed a few of those families and some of their members.
Eskimo-Aleut In North America, we distinguish the Eskimo-Aleut family (whose
speakers are not genetically related to Amerindians) from other language fami-
lies. Inuktitut has about 14,000 speakers across northern Canada and Alaska,
and Yupik has about 17,000 speakers in Alaska and a few score in Siberia.
Algonquian Also called Algic, the Algonquian languages include Cree (with 90,000
speakers in Canada and Montana) and Ojibwa (with 64,000 speakers in Ontario,
Manitoba, Michigan, Minnesota, and North Dakota). Represented by fewer
speakers are Arapaho (Wyoming), Blackfoot (Canada and Montana), Cheyenne
(Montana and Oklahoma), Kickapoo (Kansas, Oklahoma, and Coahuila, Mexico),
Malecite-Passamaquoddy (Maine and New Brunswick), Micmac (Maritime Canada
and Boston and Maine), Potawatomi (a mere 50 speakers spread across Wisconsin,
Michigan, Kansas, and Ontario), and Shawnee (Oklahoma).
Muskogean Related to the Algonquian languages are the Muskogean languages.
The largest language is Choctaw, with speakers in Oklahoma, Mississippi, and
Louisiana. Also Muskogean are Chickasaw (Oklahoma), Koasati (Louisiana and
Texas), and Alabama (Texas).
Athabaskan In the Athabaskan family, some varieties of Apache are becoming
extinct, but Western Apache has speakers in Arizona, and Mescalero-Chiricahua
Apache has speakers, chiefly in New Mexico. Navaho has nearly 150,000 speak-
ers in Arizona, Utah, and New Mexico. Chipewyan has a few thousand speak-
ers in Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, and the Northwest Territories. Often
included with the Athabaskan languages in a group called Na-Dene are Tlingit
and Haida, both spoken in Alaska and British Columbia.
Iroquoian Excepting principally Cherokee (with speakers in Oklahoma and
North Carolina), the Iroquoian languages Cayuga, Mohawk, Oneida, and Seneca
are spoken mainly in Ontario, Quebec, and upstate New York.
Siouan Located mainly in the upper Midwest of the United States and in Canada,
the Siouan family includes Dakota (20,000 in Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska,
and the Dakotas, as well as Manitoba and Saskatchewan). Crow has speakers in
Montana, and Lakota has speakers in Nebraska, Minnesota, Montana, and the
Dakotas, as well as Manitoba and Saskatchewan. Winnebago (or Ho-Chunk) has
speakers in Nebraska and Wisconsin, while Omaha has speakers in Nebraska
and Oklahoma.
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 446
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 446 4/1/11 18:49:38
4/1/11 18:49:38
What Are the Language Families of the World? 447
Penutian The Penutian family includes Tsimshian (spoken mostly in British
Columbia), Yakima (Washington), and Walla Walla (Oregon).
Salishan Among the languages of the Salishan family are Shuswap (British
Columbia), Spokane (Washington), and Thompson (British Columbia).
Uto-Aztecan The Uto-Aztecan language family remains robust. Varieties of
Nahuatl are spoken by about 1 million people in central and southern Mexico.
On a much smaller scale, Huichol has speakers in Nayarit and Jalisco, and
Papago-Pima (also called Tohono O’odham) in Arizona and Mexico. Hopi is
spoken in Arizona, and Yaqui near Phoenix and Tucson and in Mexico. Shoshoni
has a couple thousand speakers in California, Nevada, Idaho, Wyoming, and
Utah, while Ute-Southern Paiute is spoken by about the same number in
Colorado, Utah, Arizona, and Nevada. Comanche has a couple hundred speakers
in Oklahoma. Also Uto-Aztecan are Cahuilla and Luiseño, spoken by no more
than a score or two in Southern California.
Hokan Hokan includes Kumiái, or Diegueño (Baja California and Southern
California), Havasupai-Walapai-Yavapai (Arizona), Karok (northwestern
California), Maricopa (near Phoenix), Mohave (spoken on the California-Arizona
border), and Washo (on the California-Nevada border).
Mayan The largest Mayan language is Yucatec, whose 940,000 speakers live
mostly in the Yucatán Peninsula. Mam has about 400,000 speakers, most in
Guatemala. The Mayan family also embraces Kekchi (with perhaps 365,000
speakers), Quiché (with perhaps 600,000), Cakchiquel (with perhaps 400,000),
and about two dozen other languages.
Quechua Quechua was the language of the ancient Incan Empire. Today it has
perhaps 6 million speakers in the Andes and is the most popular indigenous
South American language; its genealogical affiliation is unclear.
Tupi The Tupi family includes Guaraní, with nearly 5 million speakers in
Paraguay (where it is an official language), Bolivia, and southwestern Brazil.
Oto-Manguean Members of the Oto-Manguean family include Zapotec (with
almost half a million speakers), Mixtec (about a quarter of a million), and Otomi
(100,000), all spoken in central and southern Mexico.
Totonacan Totonacan includes eleven languages, including nine varieties of
Totonac, spoken by about 250,000 speakers in Mexico.
Extinct and Dying Amerindian Languages Scores of indigenous languages of
the Americas have fallen silent over the past few decades. The last speaker of
Tillamook, a Salishan language, died in 1970, eight years after the last speaker
of Wiyot, related to the Algonquian languages. Algonquian has also lost Miami,
spoken in Indiana and Oklahoma, and Massachusett (also called Natick and
Wampanoag). Also extinct are Huron (or Wyandot) of the Iroquoian family, and
the Hokan languages Chumash, from Santa Barbara, California, but extinct since
1965, and Salinan, from California’s central coast, as well as the Uto-Aztecan
language Cupeño, formerly spoken in Southern California, and Penobscot in Maine,
and Shasta in California. Other extinct Amerindian languages include Chinook, of
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 447
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 447 4/1/11 18:49:38
4/1/11 18:49:38
448 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
Washington and Oregon; Natchez and Tonkawa, both of Oklahoma; and Mohegan-
Montauk-Narragansett, spoken earlier in Wisconsin and from Long Island to
Connecticut and Rhode Island; and Iowa-Oto of Oklahoma, Iowa, and Kansas.
Amerindian languages are disappearing in the face of mounting pressure for
younger speakers to adopt English, Spanish, or Portuguese, and many native
languages are known only to a few older speakers. Besides several varieties of
Apache, here are a few other languages with fewer than 50 speakers each (in
fact, fewer than a handful in most cases); the family name is given in italics.
Abnaki (Quebec)—Algic/Algonquian
Coeur d’Alene (Idaho), Squamish (near Vancouver)—Salishan
Menominee (Wisconsin), Delaware—Algic/Algonquian
Osage (Oklahoma)—Siouan
Wichita (Oklahoma)—Caddoan
Miwok, Yokuts (both California), Coos (Oregon)—Penutian
Pomo (California)—Hokan
Tuscarora (formerly North Carolina, now near Niagara Falls, New York, and in
Ontario, Canada)—Iroquoian
Languages of Aboriginal Australia
Before settlement by Europeans in the eighteenth century, Australia had been
inhabited by Aborigines for up to 50 millennia. It is estimated that at the time
of first contact with Europeans about
200 to 300 Aboriginal languages were
spoken. Today many have disappeared,
along with their speakers, decimated
by imported diseases and sometimes
(as on the island of Tasmania) by geno-
cide. Today, only about 100 Aboriginal
languages survive, most spoken by tiny
populations of older survivors.
Virtually all Australian languages fall
into a single family with two groups:
the large Pama-Nyungan group, which
covers most of the continent and in-
cludes most Aboriginal languages, and
the Non–Pama-Nyungan group, which includes about 50 languages spoken in
northern Australia.
Papuan Languages
Papuan languages are spoken on the large island of New Guinea, which is
divided politically between the nation of Papua New Guinea and the Indonesian-
controlled section called Irian Jaya. While the inhabitants of coastal areas of
the island speak Austronesian languages, about 800 of the languages are not
Austronesian languages. Referred to as Papuan languages, most are not in any
danger of extinction, though many are spoken by small populations. They fall
Try It Yourself In many places in the
world, including the United States, Canada,
Australia, Latin America, and South America, indigenous
languages are still spoken, sometimes by very few
speakers, most of whom may be elderly. Use the web—
for example, the on-line Ethnologue—to discover which
endangered language is geographically closest to you
and how many speakers remain. See, too, whether there
are eﬀorts being made to record or preserve it.
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 448
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 448 4/1/11 18:49:38
4/1/11 18:49:38
Languages in Contact 449
into more than 60 different families, with no established genealogical link
among them. Little is known about most of these languages.
Nostratic Macrofamily
Recent years have seen renewed focus on linking certain language families
within larger “macrofamilies.” The proposed Nostratic macrofamily has
received attention even in the popular press. Some scholars have proposed
that several language families that are generally regarded as distinct should
be viewed as having a common source further back in time. The languages
hypothesized to belong to Nostratic differ slightly from scholar to scholar, but
most scholars espousing this theory include Indo-European, Afroasiatic, Uralic,
Altaic, Dravidian, and Eskimo-Aleut. Assuming that detailed comparative
reconstruction confirmed this hypothesis, the Nostratic macrofamily would
then make distant cousins of English (Indo-European); Hebrew, Arabic, Somali,
and Hausa (Afroasiatic); Finnish and Hungarian (Uralic); perhaps Korean and
Turkish (Altaic); Tamil (Dravidian); and Inuktitut (Eskimo-Aleut).
Although the links among these far-flung languages are not widely accepted
among scholars, the hypothesis is provocative in an important way. As
demonstrated in this chapter, the principal method for establishing genealogical
relations among languages is by comparative reconstruction, whereby the forms
of a parent language are hypothesized and the forms of the various daughter
languages are derived by regular rules. Before any comparative reconstruction can
be attempted, there must be hypotheses about which languages are and are not
related. With the Nostratic hypothesis in mind, you may find it thought provoking
to reexamine the tables of common words for those Nostratic languages illustrated
in this chapter: Tables 12.7 through 12.10 for four Indo-European groups, Table
12.12 for Afroasiatic, and Table 12.13 for Dravidian. Bear in mind that the sound
correspondences among these languages would not be directly between sounds of
the daughter languages but between sounds of the reconstructed parent languages,
so any immediate correspondences you might spy could be deceptive.
At no other time in history have there been such intensive contacts between
language communities as in recent centuries. As a result of the exploratory and
colonizing enterprises of the English, French, Dutch, Spanish, and Portuguese,
European languages have come into contact with languages of Africa, Native
America, Asia, and the Pacific. These colonizing efforts put members of differ-
ent speech communities in contact with each other. For example, the importing
of slaves from Africa to the Americas forced speakers of different African lan-
guages to live side by side. Several language contact phenomena can arise when
speakers of different languages interact.
Multilingualism
Bilingualism The first of these phenomena is bilingualism or multilingualism,
in which members of a community natively acquire more than one language. In
a multilingual community, children grow up speaking several languages. Use of
Languages in Contact
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 449
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 449 4/1/11 18:49:38
4/1/11 18:49:38
450 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
each language is often compartmentalized, as when one is used at home and an-
other at school or work. Multilingualism is such a natural solution to the chal-
lenge of language contact that it is extremely widespread throughout the world.
In this respect, industrialized societies such as the United States and Japan, in
which bilingualism is not widespread, are exceptional. In the United States, bi-
lingualism is mostly relegated to immigrant communities, whose members are
expected to learn English upon arrival. This adaptation is one-sided in contrast
to what is found in most areas of the globe, where neighboring communities
learn each other’s languages with little ado. In central Africa, India, and Papua
New Guinea, it is commonplace for small children to grow up speaking four or
five languages. In Papua New Guinea, multilingualism is a highly valued attri-
bute that enhances a person’s status in the community.
Nativization A possible side effect of multilingualism is nativization, which
takes place when a community adopts a new language (in addition to its native
language) and modifies the structure of the new language, thus developing a
characteristic dialect of the community. That is precisely what happened with
English in India, where Indian English is recognized as a separate dialect of
English with some of its own structural characteristics. Indeed, it has become one
of India’s two national languages (along with Hindi) and is used in education,
government, and communications within India and with the rest of the world.
Pidgins Another process that may take place in language contact situations is
pidginization. Although it is probably derived from the word business, the origin
of the word pidgin is unclear, but the term refers to a contact language that de-
velops where groups are in a dominant/subordinate situation, often in the con-
text of colonization. Pidgins arise when members of a politically or economically
dominant group do not learn the native language of the political or economic
subordinates they interact with. To communicate, members of the subordinate
community create a simplified variety of the language of the dominant group
as their own second language. These simplified varieties then become the lan-
guage of interaction between the colonizer and the colonized. Pidgins are thus
defined in terms of sociological and linguistic characteristics. They are structur-
ally simpler versions of the language of the dominant group. They lack native
speakers and are typically used for a restricted range of purposes.
Pidgins have arisen in many areas of the world, including West Africa,
the Caribbean, the Far East, and the Pacific. Many pidgins have been based on
English and French, the languages of the two most active colonial powers in the
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Portuguese, Spanish, Dutch, Swedish, German,
Arabic, and Russian, among others, have also served as a base for the development
of pidgins. Today, most pidgins have given way to creole languages.
From Pidgin to Creole At some point, a pidgin may begin to fulfill a greater
number of roles in social life. Instead of using the pidgin only in the workplace
to communicate with traders or colonizers, speakers may begin to use it
at home or among themselves. Such situations frequently arise when the
colonized population is linguistically diversified, and members of such a
diversified community may find it convenient to adopt the new language as
a lingua franca—a means to communicate across language boundaries. As a
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 450
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 450 4/1/11 18:49:38
4/1/11 18:49:38
Languages in Contact 451
result, children begin to grow up speaking the new language, and as greater
communicative demands are put onto that language its structure becomes more
complex in a process called creolization. A creole language is thus a former
pidgin that has “acquired” native speakers. Creoles are structurally complex,
eventually as complex as any other language, and they differ from pidgins in
that they exhibit less variability from speaker to speaker than pidgins do.
The boundary between pidgin and creole is often difficult to establish. Cre-
olization is a gradual process, and in many places pidgins are undergoing cre-
olization. In such situations, there will be much variability from speaker to
speaker and from situation to situation. For some speakers and in some contexts,
the language will clearly be at the pidgin stage; for speakers whose language is
more advanced in the creolization process, or in contexts that call for a more
elaborated variety, the language will be structurally more complex. Further-
more, as a creole gains wider usage and becomes structurally more complex,
it often comes to resemble the language on which it is based. For example, in
the Caribbean and in Hawaii, English-based creoles are very similar to standard
English for many speakers. Typically in such situations we find a continuum
from speaker to speaker and from situation to situation—from a nonstandard
dialect of the parent language to a very basic pidgin.
Figure 12.14 shows the location of the more important creoles in the world.
Note that in common parlance many creoles are called pidgins, as with Hawaiian
Pidgin and Papua New Guinea Tok Pisin (from ‘talk Pidgin’), both of which are
actually creoles.
Some creoles have low status where they are spoken. Hawaiian creole, or Da
Kine Talk, is often referred to as a “bastardized” version of English or “broken
English.” The fact is that Hawaiian creole has its own structure, different from
that of English, and you could not pretend to speak Da Kine Talk by speaking
“broken” English.
In contrast, in many areas of the world creoles have become national
languages used in government proceedings, education, and the media. In Papua
New Guinea, Tok Pisin is one of the three national languages (along with English
and Kiri Motu, also a creole) and has become a symbol of national identity. Some
creoles have become the language of important bodies of literature, particularly
in West Africa. Elsewhere, creoles are used in newspapers and on the radio
for various purposes, including cartoons and commercials. Figure 12.15 is a
publicity cartoon in Papua New Guinea Tok Pisin; the English translation of the
captions is given underneath. Tok Pisin is even used to write about linguistics,
as illustrated by the following discussion of relative clause formation in Tok
Pisin; it begins with three example sentences.
1. Ol ikilim pik bipo.
2. Na pik bai ikamap olosem draipela ston.
3. Na pik ia [ol ikilim bipo ia] bai ikamap olosem draipela ston.
Sapos yumi tingting gut long dispela tripela tok, yumi ken klia long tupela sam-
ting. Nambawan samting, sapos pik istap long (1) em inarapela pik, na pik istap
long (2) em inarapela, orait, yumi no ken wokim (3). Tasol sapos wanpela pik tasol
istap long (1) na (2), em orait long wokim (3). Na tu, tingting istap long (1) ia, mi
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 451
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 451 4/1/11 18:49:38
4/1/11 18:49:38
452
Chapter
12
Language
Change
Over
Time:
Historical
Linguistics
Figure 12.14 Location of Major Pidgin and Creole Languages
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd
452
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd
452
4/1/11
18:49:38
4/1/11
18:49:38
Languages in Contact 453
bin banisim insait long tupela banis long (3), long wonem, em bilong kliaim yumi
long wonem pik Elena itok en.
[Translation]
1. They killed the pig.
2. The pig looks like a big rock.
3. The pig [that they killed] looks like a big rock.
If we think carefully about these three sentences, we can obtain two interpretations.
First, if the pig of sentence (1) is one pig, and the pig of sentence (2) is another
pig, then we cannot construct (3). However, if the pig in (1) and (2) is the same,
then we can construct (3). Thus, I have bracketed in (3) the meaning corresponding
to (1) with two brackets, because it has the purpose of identifying for us which
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 453
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 453 4/1/11 18:49:40
4/1/11 18:49:40
Text not available due to copyright restrictions
454 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
pig Elena [the speaker who produced these sentences] is talking about. [Gillian
Sankoff, “Sampela Nupela lo Ikamap Long Tok Pisin,” 1975.]
In short, creoles can fulfill all the demands that are commonly imposed on
a language. The structural similarities among creoles worldwide are striking.
For example, many creoles lack indefinite articles and a distinction between the
future and other tenses, and many have preposition stranding (as in the English
expression the house I live in). Such similarities have led some researchers to
propose that the development of pidgins and creoles follows a “program” that
is genetically innate in humans. There are, however, many differences among
the world’s creoles, in which the imprint of various native languages is clear.
In many South Pacific creoles, for example, a distinction is made in the pro-
noun system between dual and plural and between inclusive first-person dual
and plural and exclusive first-person dual and plural (see Chapter 7, where the
Tok Pisin pronoun system is given). These distinctions are not found in West
African creoles, and their presence in South Pacific creoles reflects the fact that
many languages spoken in the South Pacific make these distinctions. In Nigerian
creole, on the other hand, we find honorific terms of address (Mom and Dad)
that are used when addressing high-status individuals. These honorifics are not
found in any other creole; again, they are transferred from local languages. Thus
there is both homogeneity and heterogeneity among the creoles of the world.
In the study of historical linguistics and language
change, computers have been particularly helpful in
their ability to manipulate large quantities of data
accurately and efficiently. Several major historical
corpora have been compiled over the past couple of
decades, and their ability to aid researchers in tracing
lexical, morphological, semantic, and syntactic change
in language has proven impressive and interesting.
Among the influential historical corpora is the
Helsinki Corpus of English Texts: Diachronic and
Dialectal (called the Helsinki Corpus for short).
Here we concentrate on the historical (diachronic)
part. Compiled by researchers at the University of
Helsinki, this corpus contains texts of English from
the Old English period (starting at about a.d. 800)
and continuing through the early eighteenth century
in the period known as Early Modern English. Unlike
the LOB and Brown corpora, which contain 2,000-
word extracts of texts, the Helsinki Corpus contains
texts varying in length from 2,500 to almost 20,000
words. Altogether, there are 242 text ﬁles totaling
about 1.5 million words of running text. For each
text, information is included about
the author’s name, sex, education,
origin, and social status, as well
as about the date of composition and the genre
of the text (akin to what we have called register).
Using the Helsinki Corpus, researchers have been
able to investigate patterns of development with
certain genres across time, across genres within
a given period of time, between male and female
writers, and between British and American English,
to mention just some of the dimensions along which
it is possible to explore.
ARCHER (A Representative Corpus of Historical
English Registers) includes eight registers over the
centuries from 1650 to 1990, broken into half-century
periods. For the periods 1750 to 1799, 1850 to 1899, and
1950 to 1999, it contains parallel British and American
texts; for the other periods, only British texts. The
eight registers include written (such as ﬁction, medi-
cine) and speech-based registers (ﬁctional conversa-
tion, drama, sermons). All told, ARCHER contains over
1,000 texts and about 1.7 million words. ■
Computers and the History of Languages
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 454
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 454 4/1/11 18:49:41
4/1/11 18:49:41
Summary 455
Summary
Languages are always changing.
•
All levels of the grammar change: phonology, morphology, lexicon, syntax, and
•
semantics.
From one language many others can develop in the course of time if groups of
•
speakers remain physically or socially separated from one another.
Comparative reconstruction enables linguists to make educated guesses about
•
the structure and vocabulary of prehistoric peoples and to infer a good deal
about their cultures from the nature of the reconstructed lexicon.
The thousands of languages in the world can be grouped for the most part into
•
language families whose branches represent languages that are genealogically
closer to one another than to other languages of the family.
When speakers of different languages come into contact, bilingualism may
•
develop, with speakers commanding two or more languages.
In some circumstances—usually when a dominant and a subordinate group are
•
in contact—a pidgin may spring up for limited use, usually in trade. Over time,
if the pidgin comes to be used for other purposes and children learn it at home
as a first language, the process of creolization starts.
Creolization is a process of linguistic expansion in both uses and structures.
•
What Do You Think? REVISITED
Pre-med Melissa
• . Both English and Latin are descended from Indo-European, but
English has come down through the Germanic branch and Latin through the
Romance branch. English borrowed thousands of words from Latin during the
Renaissance when scientific writing moved from Latin to the local languages,
and those borrowings from Latin may create a mistaken impression that English
derives from Latin, but it does not.
Chinatown jade
• . Mandarin and Cantonese derive from the same historical sources
and are regarded by their speakers as dialects of one language. In addition, using
a set of Chinese characters, speakers of both dialects can comprehend a given
written text, though if they read it aloud it would not be understood by speakers
of the other dialect. There is no precise point in the historical development of
languages at which linguists can say two varieties that have descended from
a common parent language have become different languages as opposed to
different dialects of the same language.
Iraqi place names
• . The al, an, and as in Iraqi place names such as Al Basrah,
An Najaf, and As Sulaymānīyah are forms of the Arabic definite article. (The
article also appears in words like algebra and alcohol that English has borrowed
from Arabic.) The language of Iran is Persian, an Indo-European language
distantly related to English but not to Arabic. For writing, though, both Persian
and Arabic use forms of Arabic script, in part as a consequence of their being
Muslim countries with Muslim culture and history. Of course, any spoken
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 455
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 455 4/1/11 18:49:41
4/1/11 18:49:41
456 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
language can be written in a variety of scripts so it is a mistake to assume
that two languages using the same script are necessarily derived from a single
ancestor tongue.
Oklahoma
• . Oklahoma place names such as Okmulgee, Comanche, Chattanooga,
Manitou, Cherokee, Arapaho, and Wynona are now “naturalized” English names,
borrowed from Native Americans and now pronounced by speakers of English
as English words. Languages in contact often borrow from one another, and
newcomers may ask local inhabitants for the name of a place and incorporate
that name into their own language. The more transparent names—Grove and
Granite and the like—appear to be descriptive terms, presumably given to places
by English speakers or in a few cases perhaps translations of Native American
names. ■
Exercises
Based on Languages Other Than English
The Amara data used here are taken from an unpublished Amara lexicon by Bil
Thurston; the Hiw, Sowa, Mota, and Raɣa data from Darrell Tryon, New Hebrides
Languages (Pacific Linguistics, C, 50, 1976); the Waskia data from Malcolm Ross and
John Natu Paol, A Waskia Grammar Sketch and Vocabulary (Pacific Linguistics, B, 56,
1978); the Lusi and Bariai data from Rick Goulden, “A Comparative Study of Lusi and
Bariai” (M.A. thesis, McMaster University, 1982).
12-1. The following is a comparative word list from seven languages spoken in the
South Pacific. (β represents a voiced bilabial fricative and ɣ a voiced velar
fricative.)
Hiw Waskia Motu Amara Sowa Mota Raɣa
yoŋ utuwura lai akauliŋ laiŋ laŋ laŋi ‘wind’
en laŋ miri olov on one one ‘sand’
βət maŋa nadi epeiouŋo βət βət fatu ‘stone’
yə didu matabudi opon tariβanaβi uwə afua ‘turtle’
eɣə wal gwarume ouŋa ek iɣa iɣa ‘fish’
noɣa kasim namo ovinkin tapken nam namu ‘mosquito’
yo nup lada serio se sasa iha ‘name’
moɣoɣe kulak natu emim dozo natu nitu ‘child’
suɣe buruk boroma esnei bo kpwoe poe ‘pig’
tø kemak tohu elgo ze tou toi ‘sugarcane’
a. Identify which languages are likely to be related and which are not, and
justify your claims.
b. Of the languages that appear to be part of the same family, which are
more closely related? Justify your answer.
12-2. The following is a comparative word list from Lusi and Bariai, closely related
languages spoken on the island of New Britain in Papua New Guinea.
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 456
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 456 4/1/11 18:49:41
4/1/11 18:49:41
Exercises 457
Lusi Bariai Lusi Bariai
βaza bada ‘to fetch’ βua bua ‘Areca nut’
kalo kalo ‘frog’ niu niu ‘coconut’
ɣali gal ‘to spear’ uβu ubu ‘hip’
ahe ae ‘foot’ rai rai ‘trade wind’
zaŋa daŋa ‘thing’ oaɣa oaga ‘canoe’
tazi tad ‘sea’ mata mata ‘eye’
tupi tup ‘to peek’ zoɣi dog a type of plant
tori tol ‘to dance’ hani an ‘food’
ŋiŋi ŋiŋ ‘to laugh’ aŋari aŋal a type of bird
a. List the consonant correspondences between Lusi and Bariai.
b. Identify which vowel is lost in Bariai and give a rule that states the envi-
ronment in which it is lost.
12-3. Table 12.3 provides some correspondence sets among five Polynesian languages.
We noted that Tongan had lost a phoneme /r/ from its inventory, which was
kept as /r/ or became /l/ in the other four languages. Furthermore, Tongan has
kept a phoneme /h/ in certain words, which has been lost in all other Polyne-
sian languages. The following cognates illustrate these two changes.
Tongan Samoan Tahitian Maori Hawaiian
hama ama ama ama ama ‘outrigger’
ama lama rama rama lama ‘torch’
a. On the basis of this information and the following words, complete the
table of consonant correspondences for Tongan, Samoan, Tahitian, Maori,
and Hawaiian.
Tongan Samoan Tahitian Maori Hawaiian
leʔo leo reo reo leo ‘voice’
ʔuha ua ua ua ua ‘rain’
lili lili riri riri lili ‘angry’
hae sae hae hae hae ‘to tear’
hihi isi ihi ihi ihi ‘strip’
huu ulu uru uru ulu ‘to enter’
fue fue hue hue hue type of vine
afo afo aho aho aho ‘fishing line’
vela vela vera wera wela ‘hot’
hiva iva iva iwa iwa ‘nine’
b. Using your table of consonant correspondences and assuming that vowels
have not undergone any change in any Polynesian language, complete the
following comparative table by filling in the missing words.
Tongan Samoan Tahitian Maori Hawaiian
kaukau ‘to bathe’
mata ‘eye’
tafe kahe ‘to flow’
laʔe ‘forehead’
laŋo ‘fly’
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 457
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 457 4/1/11 18:49:42
4/1/11 18:49:42
458 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
c. Reconstruct the Proto-Polynesian consonant system on the basis of the in-
formation you now have; take into account the genealogical classification
of Polynesian languages discussed in this chapter. (Hint: The protosystem
has to be full enough to account for all the possible correspondences found
in the daughter languages. No daughter language has innovated new pho-
nemes, but all have lost one or more from the protosystem.)
d. Reconstruct the Proto-Polynesian words for ‘outrigger,’ ‘rain,’ ‘to enter,’
‘strip,’ and ‘nine.’
12-4. Below is a list of Modern French words in phonetic transcription with
the Vulgar Latin words from which they derive. (Notice that word-initial
/k/ in Latin becomes /k/, /ʃ/, or /s/ in Modern French, depending on its
environment.)
Modern French Vulgar Latin
kɔʁd korda ‘rope’
ʃã kampus ‘field’
sɛdʁ kɛdrus ‘cedar’
kʁaʃe krakkaːre ‘to spit’
ʃamo kameːlus ‘camel’
sɛʁkl kirkulus ‘circle’
kuʁiʁ kurrere ‘to run’
ʃaʁ karrus ‘carriage’
kle klavis ‘key’
sitɛʁn kistɛrna ‘tank’
kɔlɔ̃b kolomba ‘dove’
ʃa kattus ‘cat’
ku kollum ‘neck’
a. Provide a rule that predicts which of the three French phonemes will
appear where Latin had /k/. (Address only the initial consonant of
words.)
b. Consider the additional data below.
Modern French Vulgar Latin
ʃov kalvus ‘bald’
ʃɛn katena ‘chain’
ʃo kalidum ‘hot’
ʃɛʁ karo ‘flesh’
At first glance, these forms are problematic for the rule you stated in (a).
Note, however, that in Modern French these four words are spelled chauve,
chaine, chaud, and chair, respectively. Given the fact that French orthography
often reflects an earlier pronunciation of the language, explain in detail what
has likely happened to the four words in the history of the language.
12-5. Consider the following Proto-Indo-European reconstructions. Conspicuously,
no word for ‘sea’ can be reconstructed for Proto-Indo-European.
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 458
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 458 4/1/11 18:49:42
4/1/11 18:49:42
Exercises 459
*rtko ‘bear’ *peisk ‘fish’
*laks ‘salmon’ *sper ‘sparrow’
*or ‘eagle’ *trozdo ‘thrush’
*gwou ‘cow/bull’ *suː ‘pig’
*kwon ‘dog’ *agwhno ‘lamb’
*mori ‘lake’ *sneigwh ‘snow’
*bherəg ‘birch’ *gṛano ‘grain’
*yewo ‘wheat’ *medhu ‘honey’
*weik ‘village’ *sel ‘fortification’
*seː ‘to sow’ *kerp ‘to collect (food)’
*yeug ‘to yoke’ *webh ‘to weave’
*sneː ‘to spin’ *arə ‘to plow’
*ayes ‘metal’ *agro ‘field’
a. Describe in detail what these reconstructions (or lack of reconstructions)
tell us about the activities and environment of the Proto-Indo-Europeans.
b. Based on these reconstructions and on what you know about the current
distribution of Indo-European languages, which area or areas of the
world would be the best candidates as the homeland of the Proto-Indo-
Europeans? Defend your claim.
12-6. Here is a list of Proto-Indo-European reconstructions with Modern English
glosses. Cite a Modern English word (perhaps itself borrowed from another
language) that contains a reflex for each of the reconstructions.
*akwa ‘water’ *agro ‘field’
*kwetwer ‘four’ *bhugo ‘ram, goat’
*bhreu ‘to boil’ *pel ‘skin’
*reg ‘to rule’ *gel ‘to freeze’
*wen ‘to strive for’ *ghans ‘goose’
*med ‘to measure’ *yeug ‘to join together’
*ped ‘foot’ *genə ‘to give birth’
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
12-7. Think about conversations you’ve had with your grandparents and their
peers and identify several of their words or expressions that you regard as
old-fashioned and no longer in use by you or your peers. Are there any char-
acteristic pronunciations that identify speakers you know as belonging to an
older generation? Are there any characteristics of your speech or that of your
fellow teachers that your students would regard as old-fashioned? Do you
teach any particular views of language use that your students regard as old-
fashioned? Are there usages you insist your students not use that may now be
judged acceptable by respected usage guides?
12-8. Given that languages change within a lifetime, teachers need to be attentive
to such changes and consider whether usages they may have been taught as
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 459
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 459 4/1/11 18:49:42
4/1/11 18:49:42
460 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
correct in the past remain the only correct form. Identify two prescriptive
rules you were taught that you believe may reflect outdated usage. Check
a good usage handbook or dictionary to see what they report about current
usage for those linguistic features.
Other Resources
Internet
LISU Website: http://www.CengageBrain.com For users of this textbook.
Provides updated Internet links as well as supplemental material for students
and instructors. Here you will find interactive learning tools.
Ethnologue: Languages of the World: http://www.ethnologue.com/ The
Ethnologue is a catalog of the world’s languages, an extraordinary source of
information about all languages—where they are spoken, by how many
people, and to what family they belong. It is the source of much of the data
presented in this chapter. The Ethnologue website provides an electronic
version and includes a language name index and a language family index. A
typical entry is given below:
UTE-SOUTHERN PAIUTE [UTE] POPULATION: 1,980 (2000 census).
20 monolinguals (1990 census). 3 Chemehuevi on Chemehuevi
Reservation, 10 on Colorado River Reservation (1994 L. Hinton).
Ethnic population: 5,000 (1977 SIL).
REGION: Ute in southwest Colorado, southeast and northeast; Southern
Paiute in southwest Utah, north Arizona, and south Nevada;
Chemehuevi on lower Colorado River, California.
LANGUAGE USE: Mostly adults.
LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT: Literacy rate in L1: Below 1%. Literacy
rate in L2: 75%–100%. Bible portions: 2006.
WRITING SYSTEM: Latin script.
Ethnologue Maps of Native American and all other Languages: http://
www.ethnologue.com/country_index.asp At this site you can access maps
representing the distribution of languages by country, including maps of
Native American languages.
Lydia Green’s Project: http://www.lydiajewlgreen.com/yupik/ Focusing
on Central Yupik in Alaska, a language spoken by fewer than 17,000, Lydia
Green demonstrates how a college student can carry out a firsthand
investigation of a Native American language.
Joseph Henderer’s Project: http://www.archive.org/details/
SouthernCaliforniaIndigenousLanguagesPilotFilm In this short film,
college student Joseph Henderer hits the road to find the last fluent speakers
of Southern California’s indigenous languages.
Video
In Search of the First Language
•
Part of the NOVA video series, this fascinating exploration was first broadcast in 1997. It in-
cludes discussion by prominent linguists on a wide range of topics related to language change
and language families, including the controversial Nostratic hypothesis. (No longer available
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 460
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 460 4/1/11 18:49:42
4/1/11 18:49:42
Other Resources 461
for purchase. A transcript of the broadcast is available at http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/
transcripts/2120glang.html.)
Suggestions for Further Reading
Jean Aitchison
• . 2001. Language Change: Progress or Decay? 3rd ed. (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press). Combines traditional historical analysis with sociolinguistic
insights.
Lyle Campbell
• . 1997. American Indian Languages: The Historical Linguistics of Native
America (New York: Oxford University Press). Called a landmark in the analysis of Native
American languages, this comparative and historical analysis won the Linguistic Society of
America’s Leonard Bloomfield Award in 2000.
Bernd Heine & Derek Nurse
• . 2000. The Languages of Africa (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press). An excellent introduction to the languages of Africa, written specifically
for undergraduate students. Contains chapters on each of the families and on the phonology,
morphology, and syntax of African languages, along with chapters on comparative linguis-
tics, language in society, and language and history.
Calvert Watkins
• . 2000. “Indo-European and the Indo-Europeans.” The American Heritage
Dictionary of the English Language, 4th ed. (Boston: Houghton Mifflin). Conveniently appended
to the dictionary and included on its CD-ROM version, this article describes Indo-European
and the cultural inferences that can be drawn from the reconstructed lexicon, providing an
introduction to a dictionary of Indo-European roots, with cognates in several languages.
Advanced Reading
Many good textbooks treat historical linguistics, among them Crowley and Bowern (2010) and
Campbell (2004). Lehmann (1967) contains many of the original documents of historical work
from the nineteenth century, including the speech of Sir William Jones quoted earlier. Bellwood
(1979; 1987) and Jennings (1979) survey research on Polynesian and Austronesian migrations,
including extensive discussion of language history. Pawley and Green (1971) discusses the
linguistic evidence for the location of the Proto-Polynesian homeland. Bomhard (1992) and
Kaiser and Shevoroshkin (1988) discuss the Nostratic macrofamily.
A convenient reference work treating about a dozen language families and 40 of the world’s
major languages is Comrie (2009), with a list of references for each family and language. The
Cambridge Language Survey Series includes volumes on lesser-known areas and language
families by Comrie (1981), Foley (1986), and Suárez (1983), and on major languages, such
as Shibatani (1990). The languages of China are succinctly surveyed in Ramsey (1987),
Native North American languages in Mithun (1999), Amazonian languages in Derbyshire and
Pullum (1986–1998), and South American languages in Manelis Klein and Stark (1985). An
accessible chapter-length treatment of Native American languages is Yamamoto and Zepeda
(2004), while Hinton (1994) offers informative chapters on Native American languages in
California. Romaine (1991) includes chapters on the indigenous and non-indigenous languages
of Australia with an emphasis on their sociolinguistic contexts. Using a method like the one
that determined the Proto-Polynesian homeland, Siebert (1967) discusses the original home of
the Proto-Algonquian people.
Nativization is discussed in Kachru (1982). Good surveys of the structure and use of pid-
gins and creoles include Romaine (1988) and Holm (2000). A provocative look at the origins
and evolution of language can be found in Bickerton (2009). The death of Texas German is
described in detail in Boas (2009), an award-winning work offered as a model for the study of
other endangered dialects and languages. Nettle and Romaine (2000) discusses the extinction
of languages around the world.
References
Bellwood, Peter. 1979. Man’s Conquest of the Pacific: The Prehistory of Southeast Asia and Oceania
(New York: Oxford University Press).
———. 1987. The Polynesians: Prehistory of an Island People, rev. ed. (London: Thames and
Hudson).
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 461
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 461 4/1/11 18:49:43
4/1/11 18:49:43
462 Chapter 12 Language Change Over Time: Historical Linguistics
Bickerton, Derek. 2009. Adam’s Tongue: How Humans Made Language, How Language Made
Humans (New York: Hill and Wang).
Boas, Hans C. 2009. The Life and Death of Texas German, Publications of the American Dialect
Society 93 (Durham, NC: Duke University Press).
Bomhard, Allan R. 1992. “The Nostratic Macrofamily (with Special Reference to Indo-
European),” Word 43:61–83.
Campbell, Lyle. 2004. Historical Linguistics: An Introduction, 2nd ed. (Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press).
Comrie, Bernard. 1981. The Languages of the Soviet Union (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press).
Comrie, Bernard, ed. 2009. The World’s Major Languages, 2nd ed. (London: Routledge).
Crowley, Terry & Claire Bowern. 2010. An Introduction to Historical Linguistics, 4th ed. (New
York: Oxford University Press).
Derbyshire, Desmond C. & Geoffrey K. Pullum, eds. 1986-1998. Handbook of Amazonian
Languages, 4 vols. (Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter).
Foley, William A. 1986. The Papuan Languages of New Guinea (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press).
Hinton, Leanne. 1994. Flutes of Fire, rev. ed. (Berkeley, CA: Heyday).
Holm, John. 2000. An Introduction to Pidgins and Creoles (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press).
Jennings, Jesse D., ed. 1979. The Prehistory of Polynesia (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press).
Kachru, Braj, ed. 1982. The Other Tongue: English across Cultures (Urbana: University of Illinois
Press).
Kaiser, M. & V. Shevoroshkin. 1988. “Nostratic,” Annual Review of Anthropology 17:309–29.
Lehmann, Winfred, ed. 1967. A Reader in Nineteenth-Century Historical Linguistics (Bloomington:
Indiana University Press).
Manelis Klein, Harriet E. & Louisa R. Stark, eds. 1985. South American Indian Languages:
Retrospect and Prospect (Austin: University of Texas Press).
Mithun, Marianne. 1999. The Languages of Native North America (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press).
Nettle, Daniel & Suzanne Romaine. 2000. Vanishing Voices: The Extinction of the World’s
Languages (New York: Oxford University Press).
Pawley, Andrew & Kaye Green. 1971. “Lexical Evidence for the Proto-Polynesian Homeland,”
Te Reo 14:1–35.
Ramsey, S. Robert. 1987. The Languages of China (Princeton: Princeton University Press).
Romaine, Suzanne. 1988. Pidgin and Creole Languages (London: Longman).
———. 1991. Language in Australia (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Sankoff, Gillian. 1975. “Sampela Nupela lo Ikamap Long Tok Pisin.” In K. A. McElhanon, ed.,
Tok Pisin i Go We? (Ukarumpa: Linguistic Society of New Guinea).
Shibatani, Masayoshi. 1990. The Languages of Japan (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press).
Siebert, Frank T. 1967. “The Original Home of the Proto-Algonquian People,” Bulletin No. 214
(Ottawa: National Museum of Canada), pp. 13–47.
Suárez, Jorge A. 1983. The Mesoamerican Indian Languages (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press).
Yamamoto, Akira Y. & Ofelia Zepeda. 2004. “Native American Languages.” In Edward Finegan &
John R. Rickford, eds., Language in the USA (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press),
pp. 153–81.
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 462
00419_12_ch12_p417-462.indd 462 4/1/11 18:49:44
4/1/11 18:49:44
463
What Do You Think?
You visit Ye Olde Coffee Shoppe with your friend Scott, who reads on
•
the back of the menu that the word “Ye” in the shop name should not
be pronounced “yee.” The menu says Y is a variant of an older letter
pronounced like th and the name of the shop is actually The Old Coffee Shop.
Scott scoffs. What do you say to skeptical Scott?
Your niece Agnes, who’s recently moved west from Cleveland, notices on
•
a map in her geography textbook that many cities in California and the
Southwest have names like San Diego and Santa Monica that include the
words “San” or “Santa,” and she asks why such names don’t occur elsewhere
in the United States. What do you tell her?
Jeremy, a secondary school teacher of modern languages, wonders why
•
English has so few inflections on its nouns when its close relative German
has so many. Do you know?
Isabelle, an international student, asks why some English nouns such as
•
“sheep” and “deer” do not have ordinary plural forms like most English
nouns. They’re irregular, you say, but she wants to know why. What
explanation can you offer?
Stodgy Stan is stewing over a correction made by his English composition
•
instructor to his essay on fraud. Stan wrote, “In every case the fraud victim
had signed a document without understanding what they agreed to,” and his
instructor corrected “they” to “he or she.” Stan says everyone uses “they”
because “he or she” sounds clumsy. “What’s the point?” he asks. What can
you suggest?
Historical Development
in English
13
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 463
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 463 1/7/11 3:30:48 AM
1/7/11 3:30:48 AM
464 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
Nearly every secondary school student in the English-speaking world has stud-
ied the writings of Shakespeare and Chaucer. You may recall that when you
read Shakespeare’s plays, some lines were opaque, as with these opening lines
of Henry IV:
So shaken as we are, so wan with care
Find we a time for frighted peace to pant
And breathe short-winded accents of new broils
To be commenced in stronds afar remote.
The English spoken in and around London four centuries ago is sometimes subtly
and sometimes strikingly different from the English spoken there and throughout
the English-speaking world today. Still, much of it is accessible and very little of it
is so foreign that it eludes us completely. Many of the words in the brief passage
just cited are familiar enough, although some are used in ways that strike a mod-
ern reader as peculiar. While the words of the opening line are familiar and can
be sorted out syntactically as poetic English, the second line is a bit tougher, even
though all the words except frighted exist in Modern English in exactly the same
forms. (The line means ‘Let us find a time for frightened peace to catch its breath.’)
As the many worldwide Shakespearean productions testify to, reciting
Shakespeare’s plays with their sixteenth-century vocabulary and syntax but
with a modern pronunciation enables audiences today to follow the plays with
little difficulty. With costumed actors interacting, there is not much in Romeo
and Juliet, Henry IV, or King Lear that modern audiences fail to grasp.
Far more difficult to understand is Middle English, the language of Chaucer,
who lived in London two centuries earlier. His Canterbury Tales, whose opening
lines follow, was the first major book to be printed in England. William Caxton
published it in 1476, almost a century after it was written and well after
Chaucer’s death in 1400.
Whan that Aprill with his shoures soote
The droghte of March hath perced to the roote,
And bathed every veyne in swich licour,
Of which vertu engendred is the flour . . .
Thanne longen folk to goon on pilgrimages.
Although Chaucer’s pronunciation of
these words differed dramatically from
ours, quite a few of them still have the
same written form as they did then.
Several other words in the passage
may be recognizable, although their
Modern English counterparts differ a
bit: droghte is ‘drought,’ perced ‘pierced,’
veyne ‘vein,’ vertu ‘virtue, strength,’
and flour ‘flower.’ Others are more
A Thousand Years of Change
Try It Yourself Examine the opening
lines of the Canterbury Tales above and
identify 10 words besides that and with that appear
exactly the same as Modern English words. Then
identify ﬁve others that appear almost, but not
exactly, the same as Modern English words.
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 464
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 464 1/7/11 3:30:50 AM
1/7/11 3:30:50 AM
A Thousand Years of Change 465
opaque, such as soote, which is ‘sweet’; swich, which is ‘such’; thanne, which is
‘then’; and the verbs longen ‘to long’ and goon ‘to go.’ As a whole, the Chaucer
passage is harder to grasp than the one written by Shakespeare. In the two
centuries between Chaucer’s death in 1400 and Shakespeare’s in 1616, English
changed—as languages always do. Chaucer understood language change and
the arbitrariness of linguistic form for accomplishing the goals of language, as
he indicates in these lines from Troilus and Criseyde (II, 22–26), with a modern
version on the right.
Ye knowe ek, that in forme of speche
is chaunge
Withinne a thousand yeer, and
wordes tho
That hadden pris, now wonder
nyce and straunge
Us thinketh hem, and yet thei spake
hem so,
And spedde as wel in love as men
now do.
You know also that in speech’s form
(there) is change
Within a thousand years, and
words then
That had value, now wondrously
foolish and strange
To us seem them, and yet they spoke
them so,
And fared as well in love as men
now do.
The English spoken in Chaucer’s time is far enough removed from today’s
English that students often study the Canterbury Tales in “translation”—from
fourteenth- into twenty-first-century English. We’re not yet so estranged from
Shakespeare’s language that we require a translation, but published editions of
his plays have abundant glosses and footnotes to help explain his language to
speakers of Modern English.
If we now examine the language of the epic poem Beowulf, written down
almost four centuries before Chaucer lived, we are struck by its utterly foreign
appearance. Indeed, speakers of Modern English cannot recognize Beowulf as
English, and it seems as far removed from Modern English as today’s Dutch and
German are. We don’t know the identity of the Beowulf poet, but he composed
his grim epic about 600 years before Chaucer, who would have found its lan-
guage about as unintelligible as modern readers do. Here are the first three lines
from a Beowulf manuscript transcribed around the year a.d. 1000, with a rough
word-for-word translation on the right:
Hwæt wē Gār–Dena in geārdagum
þēodcyninga þrym gefrūnon,
hū ðā æþelingas ellen fremedon.
What! We of Spear-Danes in yore-days
People’s-kings glory have heard,
How the nobles heroic-deeds did.
A more colloquial rendering might be: Yes, we have heard of the might of the kings
of the Spear-Danes in days of yore, how the chieftains carried out heroic deeds.
Old English seems “foreign.” Scarcely a word in the passage is familiar
(although when you have finished reading this chapter, a few may seem not
quite so strange). Even certain letters are different: Modern English no longer
uses <æ>, <þ>, or <ð>. Still, an imaginative inspection may reveal that
some function words remain in present-day English (wē = we, in = in, and
hū = how). Perhaps you also suspected that hwæt is what, but it is not easy
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 465
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 465 1/7/11 3:30:50 AM
1/7/11 3:30:50 AM
466 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
to recognize geārdagum as yore plus days or cyninga as kings. Even knowing
these words, you would find the passage far from transparent. You would need
to know the meaning of the nouns þēod, þrym, and æþelingas (none of which
survives in Modern English), the verbs gefrūnon and fremedon, and the adjective
ellen (here used as a noun). And given all that lexical information, the syntax of
Old English would still be elusive.
Before the beginning of the modern era, Britain was inhabited by Celtic-
speaking peoples, ancestors of today’s Irish, Scots, and Welsh. In 55 b.c.,
Britain was invaded by Julius Caesar, but his attempt to colonize it failed, and
the Romans conquered Britain only in a.d. 43 and remained there for nearly
four centuries. When the Roman legions withdrew in 410, the Celts, who had
long been accustomed to Roman protection, were at the mercy of Picts and
Scots from the north of Britain. In a profoundly important development for the
English language, Vortigern, king of the Romanized Celts in Britain, sought help
from three Germanic tribes. Around the year 449 these tribes set sail from what
is today northern Germany and southern Denmark, but when they landed in
Britain they liked it and decided to settle, leaving the Celts only the remote
corners—Scotland, Wales, and Cornwall.
The invaders spoke closely related varieties of West Germanic, the dialects that
were to become English. The word England derives from the name of one of the
tribes, the Angles: thus England, originally Englaland, is the ‘land of the Angles.’
The Old English language used by the Germanic inhabitants of England and their
offspring up to about a.d. 1100 is often called Anglo-Saxon, after two of the tribes
(members of the third tribe were called Jutes). The oldest surviving English-language
written materials come from the end of the seventh century, with an increasing
quantity after that, giving rise to an impressive literature, including Beowulf.
Once the Anglo-Saxon peoples had settled in Britain, there were additional
onslaughts from other Germanic groups starting in 787. In the year 850, a
fleet of 350 Danish ships arrived. In 867, Vikings captured York. Danes and
Norwegians settled in much of eastern and northern England and from there
launched attacks into the kingdom of Wessex in the southwest. In 878, after
losing a major battle to King Alfred the Great of Wessex, the Danes agreed by the
Treaty of Wedmore to become Christian and to remain outside Wessex in a large
section of eastern and northern England that became known as the Danelaw
because it was subject to Danish law. After the treaty, Danes and Norwegians
were assimilated to Anglo-Saxon life, so much so that 1,400 English place-names
are Scandinavian, including those ending in -by ‘farm, town’ (Derby, Rugby),
-thorp ‘village’ (Althorp), -thwaite ‘isolated piece of land’ (Applethwaite), and -toft
‘piece of ground’ (Brimtoft, Eastoft).
Attacks from the Scandinavians continued throughout the Viking Age (roughly
750–1050) until finally King Svein of Denmark was crowned king of England
and was succeeded almost immediately by his son Cnut in 1016. England was
then ruled by Danish kings until 1042, when Edward the Confessor regained the
throne lost to the Danes by his father Æthelred. The intermingling between the
Where Does English Come From?
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 466
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 466 1/7/11 3:30:50 AM
1/7/11 3:30:50 AM
Where Does English Come From? 467
Anglo-Saxon invaders and the subsequent Scandinavian settlers created a mix of
Germanic dialects in England that molded the character of the English language
and distinguishes it from its cousins.
English Is a Germanic Language
We noted in Chapter 12 that West Germanic is distinguished from two other
branches of the Germanic group of Indo-European languages: North Germanic
(which includes Swedish, Danish, and Norwegian) and East Germanic (including
only Gothic, which has since died out).
During the first millennium b.c., before Germanic had split into three branches
but after it had split from the other branches of Indo-European, Common (or
Proto-) Germanic developed certain characteristic features that continue in its
daughter languages, setting them apart as a group from all other Indo-European
varieties. Among these characteristics are features belonging to every level of
grammar, including phonology, lexicon, morphology, and syntax.
Consonant Shifts The most striking phonological characteristic of the Germanic
languages, including English, is a set of consonant correspondences found in none
of the other Indo-European languages. In 1822, Jacob Grimm, one of the Brothers
Grimm of fairy-tale fame, formulated these correspondences in what is now called
Grimm’s law. Grimm described the sound shifts that had occurred within three
natural classes of sounds in developing from Indo-European into Germanic.
Grimm’s Law
1. Voiceless stops became voiceless fricatives:
p > f t > θ k > h
2. Voiced stops became voiceless stops:
b > p d > t g > k
3. Voiced aspirated stops became voiced unaspirated stops:
bʰ > b dʰ > d gʰ > g
The impact of these changes can be seen in Figure 13.1 by examining the shift
of voiceless stops in Indo-European to voiceless fricatives in Germanic. We il-
lustrate this shift by citing English words that have inherited the sounds /f θ h/
from Germanic as in part 1 of Grimm’s law and by contrasting them with cor-
responding words in Romance languages, which (like all the other branches of
Indo-European) did not undergo these sound shifts.
f p
*p
Germanic Romance
t
*t
Germanic Romance
h k
*k
Germanic Romance
θ
Figure 13.1 Reflexes of Indo-European Voiceless Stops in Germanic and Romance
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 467
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 467 1/7/11 3:30:50 AM
1/7/11 3:30:50 AM
468 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
Germanic Romance
English Latin French Spanish
fish piscis poisson pez
three tres trois tres
heart cor cœur corazón
Stress Shifts Another important phonological development of Common
Germanic was a shift in stress patterns. Indo-European had variable stress on
its words, so that a morpheme could be stressed on a particular syllable in one
word but elsewhere in a different word. But in Common Germanic, stress shifted
systematically to a word’s first or root syllable, where it remained, irrespective
of the word in which the morpheme occurred. Contrast Modern English
fáther, fátherly, unfátherly, and fátherless, all with stress on the root syllable in
the Germanic fashion, to the Greek borrowings phótograph, photógrapher, and
photográphic, with variable stress in the Indo-European fashion.
Vocabulary The pattern of consonant shifting described by Grimm’s law set
apart the pronunciation of the Germanic vocabulary from that of other Indo-
European languages (as seen in the Romance examples above). In addition, the
Germanic languages have a set of words found nowhere else in Indo-European.
Once the Germanic tribes separated from the rest of the Indo-European peoples,
any words borrowed from speakers of a non-Indo-European tongue or innovated
would be distinctively Germanic within Indo-European. Among the English
words found in other Germanic languages but not in any other Indo-European
languages are the nouns arm, blood, earth, finger, hand, sea, and wife; the verbs
bring, drink, drive, leap, and run; and the adjectives evil, little, and sick. Here are
the strictly Germanic nouns from English and German (to illustrate the similar-
ity among Germanic tongues) and from French (to illustrate the striking contrast
between Germanic and Romance languages).
English German French
arm Arm bras
blood Blut sang
earth Erd terre
finger Finger doigt
hand Hand main
sea See mer
wife Weib femme
These Germanic words could have existed in Indo-European and been lost in all
the daughter languages except Germanic, but that isn’t likely, so we can assume
they were not inherited from Indo-European but innovated during the Common
Germanic period or borrowed from a now-lost source at that time.
Morphology and Syntax in Indo-European
Indo-European—at least at some stages—was a highly inflected language. In
fact, Sanskrit, one of the oldest attested Indo-European languages, had eight case
inflections on nouns, so it is possible that Indo-European itself had eight cases
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 468
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 468 1/7/11 3:30:51 AM
1/7/11 3:30:51 AM
Old English: 700–1100 469
(although, alternatively, case distinctions absent from Proto-Indo-European could
have arisen in the Indic branch to which Sanskrit belongs). If we assume that the
rich inflectional morphology of Sanskrit reflects the complexity of Indo-European,
then Indo-European nouns would have had eight cases, three numbers (singular,
dual, plural), and three genders (masculine, feminine, neuter). Verbs were also
highly inflected, probably for two voices (active and a kind of passive), four moods
(indicative, imperative, subjunctive, optative), and three tenses (present, past,
future). In addition, verbs carried markers for person and number.
The Indo-European system of indicating verb tenses was principally word
internal (as in English sing/sang/sung). While this internal sound gradation
(sometimes called ablaut) is typical of Indo-European languages, the typical
English inflection for the past tense, pronounced [-t] (kissed) or [-d] (judged), is
characteristically Germanic. Thus the two-tense system, with past tense marked
by a dental or alveolar suffix, sets the Germanic group apart from all its Indo-
European cousins.
Periods in the History of English
Because languages change continuously, any division into historical stages
or periods must be somewhat arbitrary. Scholars have nevertheless divided
the history of English into three main periods representing different stages of
the language. We refer to the language spoken in England from the end of the
seventh century to the end of the eleventh century (700–1100) as Old English or
Anglo-Saxon. The English spoken since 1450 or 1500 is called Modern English
and that spoken in between—roughly from 1100 to 1450 or 1500—is Middle
English. Thus Beowulf is written in Old English, Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales in
Middle English, and Shakespeare’s Henry IV in (early) Modern English.
The Angles, Saxons, and Jutes who first invaded England settled in different parts
of the island, and four principal Old English dialects sprang up: Northumbrian in
the north (north of the Humber River); Mercian in the Midlands; Kentish in the
southeast; and West Saxon in the southwest (see Figure 13.2). Because Wessex
was the seat of the powerful King Alfred, its dialect, West Saxon, achieved a
certain status, and it forms the basis of most surviving Old English literature
and of the study of Old English today.
Like the classical Latin of Roman times and today’s German and Russian,
Old English was a highly inflected language. It had an elaborate system of
inflectional suffixes on nouns, pronouns, verbs, adjectives, and even determiners.
Only traces of these inflectional forms survive in Modern English.
Old English Script
Only a few Old English graphs, or letters, differ from those of Modern English,
but they occurred in some of the most frequently used words, giving Old
English an exaggerated air of strangeness. Among the graphs no longer used in
Old English: 700–1100
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 469
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 469 1/7/11 3:30:51 AM
1/7/11 3:30:51 AM
470 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
English are <þ> (called thorn), <ð> (eth), <ƿ> (wynn), and <æ> (ash).
Editors usually let the graphs thorn, eth, and ash remain in modern texts but
substitute <w> for wynn.
Thorn <þ> and eth <ð> (and their respective capitals <Þ> and <Đ>)
were alternative spellings for the sounds [θ] or [ð], which were allophones of
a single phoneme in Old English. Scribes did not assign one graph to the sound
[θ] and the other to [ð] because, being allophones of a single phoneme, these
sounds were not perceived as different. Old English speakers were no more
aware of the difference between [θ] and [ð] than Modern English speakers
are aware of the different p sounds in pot and spot.
The graph <æ>, rarely used in Modern English, represented a pronunciation
in Old English much like the vowel of hat. The Old English vowel combinations
<ēo> and <ēa> represented the diphthongs [eːɔ] and [ɛːə] respectively.
The letter sequence <sc> is equivalent to Modern English <sh> [ʃ], so that
Old English scip was pronounced just like Modern English ship. The letter <c>
represented one of two sounds: [k] as in cӯpmenn or [ʧ] as in æðellīce. The letter
<g> represented three sounds: it was pronounced as [j] word-initially when it
preceded a front vowel (as in gelamp and gӯt) and word-finally when it followed one
(as in Rōmānabyrig); elsewhere it was pronounced as [g] or [ɣ]. The letter <y>
was always the high front rounded vowel [ü]. The letters <j> and <q> were not
used in Old English, and <k> was rare (hence folc ‘folk’), although the sounds
Figure 13.2 The Old English Dialects
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 470
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 470 1/7/11 3:30:51 AM
1/7/11 3:30:51 AM
Old English: 700–1100 471
they represent today did exist as in cwēn ‘queen’ and cēpan ‘keep.’ The letter <x>
was an alternative spelling of <cs>, pronounced [ks], as in axode [ɑksɔdɛ] ‘asked.’
Finally, we might mention that <⌉> ‘and’ was the customary representation in
original manuscripts of the Old English equivalent of an ampersand sign <&>.
Old English Sounds
Much could be said about the Old English sound system. We make only a few
comments about some patterns that have implications for the development of
Modern English.
Vowels Old English had long and short vowels and diphthongs, although in
late Old English the diphthongs tended to become monophthongs. (A similar
simplification occurs today in American dialects of the South, in which words
such as time /tajm/ tend to be pronounced [thaːm]; throughout the United States
the pronunciation of I is simplified from [aj] to [a] or [aː] in a phrase such
as I’m gonna [amgʊnə].) Over the centuries the short vowels have remained
relatively constant so that many words are pronounced today much as they
were pronounced in Old English: fisc ‘fish,’ æt ‘at,’ þorn ‘thorn,’ benc ‘bench,’
and him ‘him.’ By contrast, the long vowels have undergone significant changes.
Suffice it to say that Old English long vowels had their “continental” values, as
in the words stān [staːn] ‘stone,’ sēon [seːɔn] ‘see,’ sōðlīce [soːðliːʧɛ] ‘truly,’ būton
[buːtɔn] ‘without, except,’ and swīðe [swiːðɛ] ‘very.’
Consonants Old English permitted
certain word-initial consonant clusters
that Modern English does not allow;
hence /hl/ in hlud ‘loud,’ /hr/ in hring
‘ring,’ and /kn/ in cniht ‘knight.’ Three
pairs of sounds whose members are
distinct phonemes in Modern English
were allophones of single phonemes in
Old English: [f] and [v]; [θ] and [ð]; and
[s] and [z]. The voiceless allophones
[f θ s] occurred at the beginning and
end of words and when adjacent to voiceless sounds within words; between
voiced sounds, however, the voiced allophones occurred. Thus in the nominative
case of the word wīf [wiːf], <f> represented the allophone [f], but in the
genitive case it represented the allophone [v]: wīfes [wiːvɛs] (note the final [s],
too). The phonemes /s/ and /θ/ figure prominently in the history of English
because they occur in so many inflections and function words.
Old English Vocabulary and Morphology
Compounds Old English writers were fond of compounding. The three lines of
Beowulf cited earlier contain three compounds: Gār-Dena meaning ‘spear Danes,’
geār + dagum meaning ‘yore days,’ and þēod + cyninga meaning ‘nation kings.’
Others from Beowulf include seglrād ‘sail road’ and hrōnrād ‘whale road’ for sea
and bānhūs ‘bone house’ for body.
Try It Yourself Using the description
given in the paragraph above, determine the
allophone of /f/ or /θ/ that occurs in each of these
words: fōt ‘foot,’ līf ‘life,’ heofon ‘heaven,’ stæð ‘shore,’
stæðe ‘shore (dative singular form),’ ōþer ‘other,’ oð
‘until,’ oft ‘often,’ hwæðer ‘whether,’ hǣðen ‘heathen.’
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 471
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 471 1/7/11 3:30:51 AM
1/7/11 3:30:51 AM
472 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
Noun Inﬂections Old English had several inflections for noun phrases, depending
on their grammatical and semantic role in a sentence. Four principal cases could
be distinguished: nominative (usually for subjects), genitive (for possessives and
certain other functions), dative (for indirect objects and certain other functions),
and accusative (for direct objects and objects of certain prepositions). Each noun
carried a grammatical gender, which occasionally reflected natural gender;
guma ‘man’ and brōðor ‘brother’ were masculine, while brӯd ‘bride’ and sweostor
‘sister’ were feminine. But usually gender had little to do with the natural sex
of a noun’s referent. For example, the nouns mīl ‘mile,’ wist ‘feast,’ and lēaf
‘permission’ were feminine; hund ‘dog,’ hungor ‘hunger,’ wīfmann ‘woman,’
and wingeard ‘vineyard’ were masculine; and wīf ‘woman, wife,’ manncynn
‘mankind,’ and scip ‘ship’ were neuter. Grammatical gender is simply a category
that determined the way a noun was inflected and the inflections on adjectives
and other constituents of the noun phrase, as well as pronominal agreement.
Table 13.1 shows the paradigms for the nouns fox ‘fox,’ lār ‘learning, lore,’ dēor
‘animal,’ and fōt ‘foot.’ From the Old English fox declension (declension is the name
for a noun paradigm) come the only productive Modern English noun inflections:
the genitive singular in -s and all plurals in -s. The dēor declension survives in
uninflected modern plurals such as deer (whose meaning has been narrowed from
‘animal’) and sheep, but new words never follow this pattern. The fōt declension
has yielded a few nouns (such as goose, tooth, louse, mouse, and man) whose
plurals are signaled by an internal vowel change rather than by the common -s
suffix. Modern English phrases such as a ten-foot pole are relics of the Old English
genitive plural (‘a pole of ten feet’), whose form fōta has yielded foot. Over the
centuries, most nouns that had been inflected according to other declensions have
come to conform to the fox paradigm, and new nouns (with the exception of a few
loanwords such as alumni and phenomena) are also inflected like it. Irregular forms
of words tend to be relics that have been inherited from earlier regularities.
Articles The Modern English definite article the has a single orthographic shape
with two standard pronunciations, [ði] before vowels and [ðə] elsewhere. In
sharp contrast, the Old English demonstratives—forerunners of today’s definite
article—were inflected for five cases and three genders in the singular and for
Table 13.1 Four Old English Noun Declensions
Masculine
‘Fox’
Feminine
‘Learning’
Neuter
‘Animal’
Masculine
‘Foot’
Singular
Nominative fox lār dēor fōt
Accusative fox lār-e dēor fōt
Genitive fox-es lār-e dēor-es fōt-es
Dative fox-e lār-e dēor-e fēt
Plural
Nom./Acc. fox-as lār-a dēor fēt
Genitive fox-a lār-a dēor-a fōt-a
Dative fox-um lār-um dēor-um fōt-um
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 472
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 472 1/7/11 3:30:51 AM
1/7/11 3:30:51 AM
Old English: 700–1100 473
three cases without gender distinction in the plural (see Table 13.2). The fifth case,
the instrumental, was used with or without a preposition to indicate such semantic
roles as accompaniment or instrument (‘with the chieftains,’ ‘by an arrow’). It’s
instructive to compare the Old English demonstrative in Table 13.2 with the
Modern German definite article in Table 2.10. The similarities are striking.
As with Modern English indefinite plural noun phrases (She writes novels),
Old English indefinite noun phrases frequently lacked an explicit marker
of indefiniteness. But sometimes sum ‘a certain’ and ān ‘one’ occurred in the
singular for emphasis and were inflected like adjectives.
Adjective Inﬂections Old English adjectives owe their complexity to innovations
that arose in Common Germanic and consequently do not appear in other Indo-
European languages.
Old English adjectives were inflected for gender, number, and case to agree
with their head noun. There were two adjective declensions. When a noun
phrase had as one of its constituents a highly inflected possessive pronoun or
demonstrative, adjectives were declined with the so-called weak, or definite,
declension. In other instances, such as predicative usage (It’s tall), when
indicators of grammatical relations were few or nonexistent, the more varied
forms of the strong, or indefinite, declension were required. Table 13.3 gives
the indefinite and definite adjective paradigms for gōd ‘good.’ Notice that Old
English has ten forms, as compared to the single form good in Modern English.
Nothing remains of the Old English inflectional system for adjectives.
Today all adjectives occur in a single shape such as tall, old, and beautiful (with
comparative and superlative inflections, as in taller and tallest). For any gender,
number, or case of the modified noun, and for both attributive functions (the tall
ships) and predicative functions (the ship is tall), the form of a Modern English
adjective remains invariant.
Personal Pronouns Modern English personal pronouns preserve more of their
earlier complexity than any other word class. The Old English paradigms are
given in Table 13.4, alongside their modern counterparts. As you can see,
besides singular and plural pronouns, Old English had a dual number in the first
and second persons to refer to exactly two people (‘we two’ and ‘you two’). The
dual was already weakening in late Old English and eventually disappeared.
So did the distinct number and case forms for the second-person pronoun
(þū ‘thou’/þē ‘thee’ and gē ‘ye’/ēow ‘you’ are all now you) and the distinct dative
case form for the third-person-singular neuter pronoun.
Table 13.2 Old English Declension of Demonstrative ‘That’
Masculine
Singular
Feminine Neuter
Plural
All Genders
Nominative sē sēo þæt þā
Accusative þone þā þæt þā
Genitive þǣs þǣre þæs þāra
Dative þǣm þǣre þǣm þǣm
Instrumental þӯ þǣre þӯ þǣm
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 473
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 473 1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
474 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
Table 13.4 Old English and Modern English Pronouns
OLD ENGLISH MODERN ENGLISH
First Second Third Person First Second Third Person
Masc Fem Neut Masc Fem Neut
Singular
Nom. ic þū hē hēo hit I you he she it
Acc. mē þē hine hie hit me you him her it
Gen. mīn þīn his hiere his mine yours his hers its
Dat. mē þē him hiere him me you him her it
Dual
Nom. wit git
Acc. unc inc
Gen. uncer incer
Dat. unc inc
All Genders All Genders
Plural
Nom. wē gē hīe we you they
Acc. ūs ēow hīe us you them
Gen. ūre ēower hiera ours yours theirs
Dat. ūs ēow him us you them
Table 13.3 Old English Declensions of the Adjective ‘Good’
SINGULAR PLURAL
Masc. Fem. Neut. Masc. Fem. Neut.
Indefinite
Nom. gōd gōd gōd gōd-e gōd gōd
Acc. gōd-ne gōd-e gōd gōd-e gōd gōd
Gen. gōd-es gōd-re gōd-es gōd-ra gōd-ra gōd-ra
Dat. gōd-um gōd-re gōd-um gōd-um gōd-um gōd-um
Ins. gōd-e gōd-re gōd-e gōd-um gōd-um gōd-um
Definite All genders
Nom. gōd-a gōd-e gōd-e gōd-an
Acc. gōd-an gōd-an gōd-e gōd-an
Gen. gōd-an gōd-an gōd-an gōd-ra (gōd-ena)
Dat. gōd-an gōd-an gōd-an gōd-um
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 474
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 474 1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
Old English: 700–1100 475
Relative Pronouns In Old English, an invariant particle þe or ðe marked the
introduction of a relative clause, though þe was often compounded with
the demonstrative sē, sēo, þæt, as in sē þe (for masculine reference) and sēo þe
(for feminine reference) ‘who, that.’ Forms of the demonstrative sē, sēo, þæt
could also occur alone as relatives:
ānne æðeling sē wæs Cyneheard hāten
a prince Rel was Cyneheard called
‘a prince who was called Cyneheard’
Old English relative clauses were also sometimes introduced by þe and a form of
the personal pronoun; as in this example with þe and him.
Nis nū cwicra nān þe ic him mōdsefan mīnne durre āsecgan.
(there) isn’t now alive no one Rel I him mind my dare speak
‘There is no one alive now to whom I dare speak my mind.’
As this example shows, Old English relativized indirect objects (him). According
to the relative clause hierarchy that we examined in discussing universals in
Chapter 7, Old English should also have relativized direct objects and subjects—
and in fact it did.
Verbs and Verb Inﬂections Like other Germanic languages, Old English had two
types of verbs. The characteristically Germanic ones have a [d] or [t] suffix
in the past tense (and are called “weak”). The traditional Indo-European ones
are called “strong” and show a vowel alternation (as in sing/sang/sung). Old
English had seven patterns for strong verbs. Table 13.5 lists the principal parts
(the forms from which all other inflected forms can be derived) of these seven
classes. All the illustrative strong verbs in Table 13.5 survive as irregular verbs
in Modern English, but many others have developed into regular verbs in the
course of time. For example, shove, melt, wash, and step followed strong patterns
in Old English but are regular in Modern English.
Two tenses (present and past) and two moods (indicative and subjunc-
tive) could be formed from a verb’s principal parts. Table 13.6 gives a typi-
cal Old English regular verb conjugation for dēman ‘judge, deem’ (conjugation
Table 13.5 Seven Classes of Old English Strong Verbs
Infinitive Past Singular Past Plural Past Participle
1. rīdan rād ridon geriden ‘ride’
2. frēosan frēas fruron gefroren ‘freeze’
3. drincan dranc druncon gedruncen ‘drink’
4. beran bær bǣron geboren ‘bear’
5. licgan læg lǣgon gelegen ‘lie’
6. standan stōd stōdon gestanden ‘stand’
7. feallan fēoll fēollon gefeallen ‘fall’
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 475
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 475 1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
476 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
is the name for a verb paradigm). Note that the present-tense indicative had
three singular forms and one plural, but the present-tense subjunctive had only
one singular and one plural form. In contrast to the twelve distinct forms of
an Old English weak verb paradigm, the Modern English regular paradigm has
only four distinct forms (judge, judges, judged, and judging) and does not include
any distinct subjunctive forms.
Compared to its elaborate Indo-European ancestors and some of its even
more elaborate cousins, Old English had a simple verbal system. Old English
verbs were inflected for person, number, and tense in the indicative mood and
for number and tense in the subjunctive mood; the subjunctive was used more
frequently in Old English than in Modern English.
Inﬂections and Word Order in Old English
Having a rich inflectional system, Old English could rely on its morphological
distinctions to indicate the grammatical relations (subject, object) of nouns (and,
to a lesser extent, their semantic roles). Noun phrases had agreement in gender,
number, and case among the demonstrative/definite article, the adjective, and
the head noun. Adjectives were declined, either definite or indefinite, as already
described. Using some of the declensions provided in Tables 13.1, 13.2, and
13.3 and two other adjectives, we can form the following Old English noun
phrases. Note that in each instance the adjective and demonstrative article agree
Table 13.6 Conjugation of ‘Judge, Deem’ in Old English
Indicative Mood Subjunctive Mood
Present Tense
Singular
first person dēm-e
second person dēm-st (or dēm-est) dēm-e
third person dēm-þ (or dēm-eþ)
Plural
first, second, and third dēm-aþ dēm-en
Past Tense
Singular
first person dēm-d-e
second person dēm-d-est dēm-d-e
third person dēm-d-e
Plural
first, second, and third dēm-d-on dēm-d-en
Gerund tō dēm-enne (or dēm-anne)
Present Participle dēm-ende
Past Participle dēm-ed
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 476
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 476 1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
Old English: 700–1100 477
with the noun (that is, they have inflections that match the noun in gender,
case, and number).
sē gōda fox ‘the good fox’ (masculine nominative singular)
gōd dēor ‘good animals’ (neuter nominative/accusative plural)
þā gōdan fēt ‘the good feet’ (masculine nominative/accusative plural)
langra fōta ‘of long feet’ (masculine genitive plural)
þǣre micelan lāre ‘of/for the great learning’ (feminine genitive/dative singular)
The rich inflectional system operating within Old English noun phrases could
indicate grammatical relations and certain semantic roles without having to rely
on word order the way Modern English does. Word order was therefore more
flexible in Old English than in Modern English. Still, by late Old English, word
order patterns were already similar in many respects to those of Modern English.
In main clauses, both Old English and Modern English show a preference for
SVO order (subject preceding verb preceding object). Modern English prefers
SVO in subordinate clauses as well. Old English (like Modern German) preferred
verb-final word order (SOV) in subordinate clauses.
As in Modern English, the order of elements in Old English noun phrases
was usually determiner-adjective-noun: sē gōda mann ‘the good man.’ Far more
frequently than in Modern English, genitives preceded nouns, as in the following:
folces weard ‘people’s protector’
mǣres līfes mann ‘splendid life’s man’ (‘a man of splendid life’)
fotes trym ‘foot’s space’ (‘the space of a foot’)
Old English generally had prepositions, although when used with pronouns they
often occurred in postposition (that is, after the pronoun), as in this example:
sē hālga Andreas him tō cwæþ …
the holy Andrew him to said …
‘St. Andrew said to him …’
Like Modern English adjectives, Old English adjectives almost uniformly
preceded their head nouns (sē foresprecena here ‘the aforesaid army’), although
they could sometimes follow them:
wadu weallendu
waters surging
‘surging waters’
As they do in Modern English, relative clauses generally followed their head
nouns.
ðā cyningas ðe ðone onwald hæfdon
the kings who the power had
‘the kings who had the power’
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 477
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 477 1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
478 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
The Old English passage in Figure 13.3 originates in Bede’s Ecclesiastical History
of the English People, which was completed in a.d. 731 and subsequently
translated from Latin into English, perhaps by Alfred the Great during his reign
as king of Wessex (871–899). The passage here is a slightly edited version of a
later translation by the English abbot Ælfric (c. 955–1020). The story tells how
Gregory the Great, who reigned as pope between 590 and 604, first learned of
the English people as he walked through a marketplace in Rome and saw boys
being sold as slaves. The passage seems as foreign as any language written in
Companions of Angels: A Narrative in Old English
 1. Đā gelamp hit æt sumum sǣle, swā, swā gyt for oft dēð,
Then happened it at a certain time as yet very oft does,
 2. þæt Englisce cӯpmenn brōhton heora ware tō Rōmānabyrig,
that English traders brought their wares to Rome
 3. ⌉ Grēgōrius ēode be þǣre strǣt tō ðām Engliscum mannum,
and Gregory went through the street to the English men,
heora ðing scēawigende.
their things looking at.
 4. Þā geseah hē betwux ðām warum cӯpecnihtas gesette,
Then saw he among the wares slaves seated
 5. þāw wǣron hwītes līchaman ⌉ fægeres andwlitan menn, ⌉ æðelīce gefexode
who were of white body and of fair countenance men, and nobly haired.
 6. Grēgōrius ðā behēold þǣra cnapena wlite,
Gregory then saw the boys’ countenances.
 7. ⌉ befrān of hwilcere þēode hī gebrōhte wǣron.
and asked from which people they brought were.
 8. Þā sǣde him man þæt hī of Englalande wǣron,
Then said to him someone that they from England were,
 9. ⌉ þæt ðǣre ðēode mennisc swā wlitig wǣre.
and that that nation’s people so handsome were.
10. Eft ðā Grēgōrius befrān, hwæðer þæs
Again then Gregory asked, whether that
11. landes folc crīsten wǣre ðe hǣðen.
land’s people Christian were or heathen.
12. Him man sǣde þæt hī hǣðene wǣron…
Him someone told that they heathen were…
13. Eft hē āxode, hū ðǣre ðēode nama wǣre þe hī of cōmon.
Later he asked, how the people’s name was that they from came.
14. Him wæs geandswarod, þæt hī Angle genemnode wǣron.
To him was answered that they Angles named were.
15. Hwæt, ðā Grēgōrius gamenode mid his wordum tō ðām naman ⌉ cwæð
Well, then Gregory played with his words on the name and said,
16. “Rihtlīce hī sind Angle gehātene, for ðan ðe hī engla wlite habbað,
“Rightly they are Angles called, because they angels’ countenances have.
17. ⌉ swilcum gedafenað þæt hī on heofonum engla gefēran bēon.
and for such it is right that they in heaven angels’ companions be.
Figure 13.3 Old English Narrative Written Around the Year 1000
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 478
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 478 1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
Companions of Angels: A Narrative in Old English 479
the Roman alphabet and more so than some, given its unfamiliar letters. (Don’t
be shy about reading it aloud, at least in private.)
Vocabulary in the Narrative
There is greater difference between Old English and Modern English in nouns,
verbs, and adjectives than in function words.
Function Words Focusing on prepositions, demonstratives, and pronouns, you’ll
see notable similarities between the Old English passage and Modern English:
in the prepositions æt ‘at,’ tō ‘to,’ betwux ‘between, among,’ of ‘of, from’; in the
conjunction <⌉> ‘and,’ which occurs more than half a dozen times in the pas-
sage; in the conjunction þā ‘then,’ used frequently to introduce sentences. The
subordinator þæt (lines 8 and 17) was used as it is in Modern English. Some of
the personal pronouns functioned exactly as they do in Modern English: hit ‘it,’
he ‘he,’ hi ‘they,’ him ‘him.’ (Note that some of the demonstratives in the passage
differ slightly in spelling from those in Table 13.2, as with the dative plural þām
in lines 3 and 4 as compared to þǣm.)
Content Words Some of the unfamiliarity of nouns, verbs, and adjectives is due
to inflections (mannum, the dative plural of ‘man’) and much of it to spelling
differences or pronunciation rather than to loss or gain of words themselves.
Thus you can see earlier forms of the nouns English, street, thing, men, and name
in Englisce, strǣt, ðing, menn, and nama. In brōhton, behēold, sǣde, and wǣre are
the etymons of the modern verbs brought, beheld, said, and were. You can see in
the verb be the singular past-tense inflection -e (wǣre) and the plural past-tense
inflection -on (wǣron). Among other words that still exist today are hwǣðer
‘whether,’ hū ‘how,’ crīsten ‘Christian,’ and hǣðen ‘heathen.’ Not so transparent
are a few others that can trigger a flash of recognition once the link is pointed
out: rihtlīce ‘rightly,’ cwæð ‘quoted,’ heofonum ‘heaven,’ engla ‘angel.’
Grammar: Syntax and Morphology in the Narrative
While there was a preference for SVO in main clauses, other orders also occurred.
For example, the verb appeared in second position after an introductory adverb
such as þā (þā gesēah he, line 4; note also lines 1 and 8). In subordinate clauses,
the verb tended to occur in final position (þæt hī hǣðene wǣron, line 12, and
1, 7, 9, 13, 14, 17). As in Modern English, noun phrases had the order adjective-
noun (sumum sǣle ‘a certain time’) or article-noun (þǣre strǣt ‘the street’), and
prepositional phrases had the order preposition-(article)-(adjective)-noun (æt
sumum sǣle, be þǣre strǣt). There happen to be no negatives in the passage, but
Old English had negative concord (double negative) as in Nis nū cwicra nān . . . ,
the example given above in the discussion of relative pronouns.
Text Structure of the Narrative
One striking characteristic of Old English prose was a strong preference for link-
ing sentences with <⌉> ‘and’ and þā ‘then,’ much as in Modern English oral
narratives. Subordinators that made explicit the relation between one clause and
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 479
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 479 1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
480 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
another (because, whether, as, when) existed in Old English but their frequent use
in writing was a later development. More typically in Old English writing (as
in Modern English conversation) clauses are introduced with ‘and’ or ‘then’
as in lines 1, 3, 4, 8, and 17. In addition to the relative clauses, the passage
contains a few other examples of subordination: swā swā ‘as’ in line 1, hwæðer
‘whether’ in line 10, and for ðan ðe ‘because’ in line 16.
Middle English refers to a period of great variation and instability in the history
of English.
The Norman Invasion
In the year 1066, William, Duke of Normandy, sailed across the Channel to claim
the English throne. After winning the Battle of Hastings, he was crowned king
of England in Westminster Abbey on Christmas Day, and with his coronation
Anglo-Saxon England passed into history. Thus was a Norman kingdom
established in England, and for generations the king of England and the duke
of Normandy would be the same person. The Norman invasion would reshape
England’s institutions and exercise a profound effect on its language.
The Norman French spoken by the invaders quickly became the language
of England’s ruling class, while the lower classes continued to speak English.
Following the invasion, English took a forced recess from many of its previous
duties. In particular, it was relieved of many of its functions in the affairs of
government, the court, the church, and education; such important activities
were now conducted in French. Indeed, for two centuries after the conquest, the
kings of England could not speak the language of many of their subjects, and
monolingual English-speaking subjects could not understand their king. Richard
the Lion-Hearted, the most famous king of the period, was in every way French
and, during his 10-year reign (1189–1199), visited England only twice for a
total of less than 10 months. Eventually the middle classes became bilingual,
speaking English to peasants and French to the ruling classes.
After 1200 the situation began to change. In 1204 King John lost Normandy
to King Philip of France, and on both sides of the Channel decrees were issued
commanding that no one could own land in both England and France. Cut
off from its Norman origins, the force that had sustained the use of French in
England began to dissipate.
Middle English Vocabulary
A hundred years later, at the beginning of the fourteenth century, spoken English
came to be known again by all of England’s inhabitants. Not surprisingly, though,
the English that emerged was strikingly different from the English used prior
to the Norman invasion. For one thing, the vocabulary of Middle English was
spiced by thousands of Norman French words as speakers learning English
used French words for things whose English labels they no longer knew.
Middle English: 1100–1500
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 480
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 480 1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
Middle English: 1100–1500 481
It has been reliably estimated that approximately 10,000 French words came
into English during the Middle English period, and most remain in use today.
Especially plentiful were words pertaining to religion, government, the courts,
and the army and navy, although many borrowings relate to food, fashion,
and education—arenas in which the Norman invaders and their successors had
wielded great influence in England.
Once English had been reestablished as the language of the law, the resi-
dents of England found themselves without sufficient English terminology to
carry on the activities that had been conducted for centuries in French. Hence
a good many French legal terms were borrowed, including even the words jus-
tice and court. To discuss events in a courtroom today, the following words are
used—all borrowed from French during the Middle English period: judgment,
plea, verdict, evidence, proof, prison, and jail. The actors in a courtroom have
French names: bailiff, plaintiff, defendant, attorney, jury, juror, and judge, as do
certain crimes, including felony, assault, arson, larceny, fraud, libel, slander, and
perjury. The word crime itself comes from French. We have cited examples only
from the domain of law (a word that derives from Old English lagu). Extensive
lists of French borrowings could also be provided for other arenas in which the
French were socially and culturally influential.
Middle English Sounds
There was considerable change in some vowels and consonant patterns between
Old English and the end of Middle English.
Vowels Most long vowels of Old English remained unchanged in Middle English.
But the Old English long vowel /ɑː/ in words like bān, stān, and bāt became long
/ɔː/ (and in Modern English /o/) as in boon ‘bone,’ stoon ‘stone,’ and boot ‘boat.’
Many diphthongs were simplified in late Old English and early Middle English.
Thus the vowels of sēon ‘see’ and bēon ‘be’ were monophthongized to long /eː/,
a sound that later became /i/ in Modern English.
Short vowels in unstressed syllables, which had been kept distinct at least in
early West Saxon, tended to merge in schwa [ə], usually written <e>.
Consonants and Consonant Clusters The Old English initial consonant clusters
/hl-/, /hn-/, /hr-/, and /kn-/ were simplified to /l/, /n/, and /r/, losing their
initial /h/ or /k/ː hlāf ‘loaf,’ hlot ‘lot,’ hnecca ‘neck,’ hnacod ‘naked,’ hrōf
‘roof,’ hræfn ‘raven,’ hring ‘ring,’ cnif ‘knife,’ cnoll ‘knoll,’ cniht ‘boy, knight.’
Of considerable consequence was the merging of word-final /m/ and /n/ in
a single sound (/n/) when they occurred in unstressed syllables (foxum >
foxun). Significantly, unstressed syllables included all the inflections on nouns,
adjectives, and verbs. By the end of the Middle English period even this /n/
was dropped altogether (foxun > foxen > foxe), and the final -e was also
eventually dropped.
Middle English Inﬂections
Three of the phonological changes just mentioned had a profound effect on the
morphology of Middle English.
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 481
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 481 1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
482 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
1. -m > -n
2. -n > Ø
3. a, o, u, e > e [ə] (when not stressed)
Figure 13.4 shows how, as a consequence of these few sound changes, certain
sets of Old English inflections merged, becoming indistinguishable in Middle
English and being further reduced or even dropped in early Modern English.
As a result of these mergers, the Old English noun and adjective paradigms
became greatly simplified in Middle English, and grammatical gender
disappeared (see Table 13.7).
Nouns The frequently used subject and object noun phrase forms (nominative
and accusative cases) established the nominative and accusative plural form
foxes (and the -es inflection for other nouns in general) throughout the plural.
-a
-e
-u
-an
-en
-on
-um
-as
-es
-aþ
-eþ
e
-en
-es
-e
-(e)s
-(e)th
Ø
Old English Middle English Early Modern English
Figure 13.4 The Historical Reduction of English Inflections
Table 13.7 Four Middle English Noun Declensions
‘Fox’ ‘Lore’ ‘Animal’ ‘Foot’
Singular
Nom./Acc. fox loor deer foot
Genitive foxes loor(e) deeres footes
Dative fox(e) loor(e) deer(e) foot
Plural
Nom./Acc. foxes loor(e) deer feet
Genitive/Dative foxes loor(e) deer(e) foot(e)
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 482
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 482 1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
1/7/11 3:30:52 AM
Middle English: 1100–1500 483
They also established the nominative and accusative singular throughout the
singular except that the genitive in -s was maintained. Thus the Middle English
paradigm for a noun such as fox came to be what it is in Modern English: fox
and foxes in the singular (foxes is now spelled fox’s) and foxes throughout the
plural (possessive foxes’).
In some other noun paradigms, damage to the morphological distinctions
caused by the merging of unstressed vowels was even greater. Old English dēor
was reduced to three forms (deer/deeres/deere), while lār was reduced to two
(loor and loore), with a distinction that was then lost when final inflected -e
vanished about 1500.
We have the Modern English forms of the word deer (deer and deer’s) from the
nominative and accusative singular inflection, which were extended throughout
the singular (except that the ending in -s has been kept in the genitive). The
parallel nominative and accusative plural form extended throughout the
plural (except that by analogy with all other nouns the genitive plural adds -s
to the form of the nominative plural). From the foot declension, the origin of
the Modern English forms is clear: Middle English nominative and accusative
foot was extended throughout the singular, with the -s of the genitive form footes
maintained; the nominative and accusative plural feet was extended throughout
the plural (and, as usual, the inflected genitive is formed by adding -s to the
nominative).
Adjectives The merging of distinct inflections that collapsed the noun
declensions also had a drastic effect on adjectives. The only indefinite forms
to survive the phonological change from Old English were goodne (masculine
accusative singular), goodes (masculine and neuter genitive singular), and goodre
(feminine genitive, dative, and instrumental singular, and genitive plural). Then
good became the universal form for the singular. In the plural, the nominative,
accusative, and dative forms for all genders became good, and by analogy the
genitive plural also became good. That left good as the only form in the singular
and plural, which yielded Modern English good as the invariable form of the
adjective (comparative and superlative forms aside).
In the definite declension, the only forms to survive were good and goodre.
Then goodre was re-formed to good by analogy (whereby one form takes on the
shape of other forms in the same or another paradigm), thus leaving only a sin-
gle definite adjective form, which was the same as the indefinite. Astonishingly,
a few simple phonological changes (and some analogical adaptations) reduced
the complexity of Old English adjectives to the striking simplicity of today’s.
Middle English Word Order
Much could be said about Middle English syntax, but the language changed so
thoroughly during the four centuries of this period that a good deal of provision
would have to be made for intermediate stages. Since we have described Old
English and Modern English syntax, suffice it to say that Middle English was
a transitional period, especially with respect to the change from relying on
inflection to relying on word order for a considerable amount of information
about grammatical relations. As the inflections of Old English disappeared, the
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 483
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 483 1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
484 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
word order of Middle English became increasingly fixed. The communicative
work previously accomplished by inflectional morphology on nouns fell
principally to prepositions and word order. We have already noted that Old
English preferred SVO word order in main clauses and SOV in subordinate
clauses. The exclusive use of the SVO pattern emerged in the twelfth century
and remains characteristic to this day.
You can now see how some of these features of morphology and syntax came
together in Middle English prose. Figure 13.5 is a passage from The Travels of
John Mandeville. It’s a translation of Mandeville’s French work by an unknown
English writer in the fifteenth century (about the time of Chaucer’s death in
1400). In our passage, Mandeville describes a fabulous place called Lamary.
We analyze the passage with a view to how early fifteenth-century English
differs from today’s. The passage is intelligible, although you’ll note a few
marked differences (and some subtle ones) between it and today’s English.
Vocabulary in the Fable
Not a single word in the passage will be unknown to you, although a few (such
as lond ‘land,’ hete ‘heat,’ ӡeer ‘year,’ byӡen ‘buy,’ and hem ‘them’) may not be
instantly recognizable. (The graph <ӡ>, called yogh, was pronounced [j],
like <y> in you.) Not all the words borrowed from French during the Middle
English period immediately took their current form, but most are nevertheless
transparent: custom, strange, clothed, nature, comoun, clos, contradiccioun, contree,
habundant, marchauntes.
Morphology in the Fable
In the fable, only a few inflections remain from Old English that have not
survived into Modern English. For example, third-person singular present-tense
verbs end in -(e)th: holdeth, hath, lyketh, taketh, and plural present-tense verbs
end in -n or -en: gon, scornen, seyn, ben, eten, bryngen, byӡen, and others. This -n or
-en is not the direct reflex of the Old English plural form -aþ but was apparently
introduced from the subjunctive plural (see Table 13.6) so as to maintain a
distinction between the singular and the plural, which otherwise would have
been lost when the unstressed vowels of the singular -eþ and the plural -aþ
merged to give Middle English -eth for both forms (see Figure 13.4). As shown
in line 3 of Figure 13.5, Mandeville’s translator alternates between the spellings
þei and thei for the third-person plural subject pronoun, but the þ/th forms of
the objective case do not yet appear in this passage, which instead shows the
objective form hem (lines 19, 20, and 21). Otherwise, several of the Modern
English inflections have their current form (after slight spelling adjustments):
goynge ‘going,’ clothed, godes ‘goods,’ þinges ‘things,’ marchauntes ‘merchants,’ and
Where Men and Women Go All Naked:
A Middle English Travel Fable
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 484
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 484 1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
Where Men and Women Go All Naked: A Middle English Travel Fable  485
 1. In þat lond is full gret hete,
In that land is very great heat,
 2. and the custom þere is such þat men and wommen gon all naked.
and the custom there is such that men and women go all naked.
 3. And þei scornen, whan thei seen ony strange folk goynge clothed.
And they scorn, when they see any strange folk going clothed.
 4. And þei seyn, þat god made Adam and Eue all naked
And they say, that God made Adam and Eve all naked
 5. and þat no man scholde schame him to schewen him such as god made him;
and that no man should shame himself to show himself such as God made him;
 6. for no thing is foul þat is of kyndely nature . . .
for no thing is foul that is of natural nature . . .
 7. And also all the lond is comoun; for all þat a man
And also all the land is common; for all that a man
 8. holdeth o ӡeer, another man hath it anoþer ӡeer,
keeps one year, another man has it another year,
 9. and euery man taketh what part þat him lyketh.
and every man takes what part that him pleases.
10. And also all the godes of the lond ben comoun, cornes and all oþer þinges;
And also all the goods of the land are common, grains and all other things;
11. for no þing þere is kept in clos, ne no þing þere is vndur lok,
for no thing there is kept in a closet nor no thing there is under lock,
12. and euery man þere taketh what he wole, withouten ony contradiccioun.
and every man there takes what he wants, without any contradiction.
13. And als riche is o man þere as is another.
And as rich is one man there as is another.
14. But in þat contree þere is a cursed custom:
But in that country there is a cursed custom:
15. for þei eten more gladly mannes flesch þan ony oþer flesch.
for they eat more gladly man’s flesh than any other flesh.
16. And ӡit is þat contree habundant of flesch, of fissch,
And yet is that country abundant with flesh, with fish,
17. of cornes, of gold and syluer, and of all oþer godes.
with grains, with gold and silver, and with all other goods.
18. Þider gon marchauntes and bryngen with hem children,
Thither go merchants and bring with them children,
19. to selle to hem of the contree; and þei byӡen hem.
to sell to them of the country; and they buy them.
20. And ӡif þei ben fatte, þei eten hem anon; and ӡif þei ben lene,
And if they are fat, they eat them at once; and if they are lean,
21. þei feden hem till þei ben fatte, and þanne þei eten hem.
they feed them until they are fat, and then they eat them.
22. And þei seyn, þat it is the best flesch and the swettest of all the world.
And they say, that it is the best flesh and the sweetest of all the world.
Figure 13.5 A Travel Fable Written in Middle English Around the Year 1400
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 485
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 485 1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
486 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
swettest ‘sweetest.’ Even certain words that had kept their exceptional forms from
Old English are the same or nearly the same in 1400 and today: men, wommen,
folk, children, and best. Being among the more common words, they were more
likely to maintain their unusual forms than were less frequently used words.
Syntax in the Fable
A notable difference in syntax can be seen in the first line. Where Modern
English requires a so-called “dummy subject” (one without a referent), Middle
English did not require one: In þat lond is . . . . But it allowed a dummy subject,
as with þere in line 14: But in þat contree þere is . . . . Another feature is negative
concord, as in ne no þing ‘nor nothing’ in line 11, which remains widespread
today in nonstandard usage.
There are marked word order differences. In line 13, compare this word-for-
word equivalent with its current English version (following the slash): And as rich
is one man there as is another/And one man there is as rich as another. Note, too, that
the adverb phrase more gladly (line 15) follows its verb instead of preceding it as it
would in Modern English. Finally, note the relic of Old English verb-second word
order in line 18 (Thither go merchants) and the prepositional phrase with hem in the
same line, which in Modern English would follow the direct object children.
Among subtler syntactic differences is the use of scorn as an intransitive
verb (that is, a verb without a direct object) in line 3. In Modern English, scorn
requires a direct object: you must scorn something or someone. Note, too, the
use of the nonreflexive pronoun him in line 5. You can note another difference in
line 9, where the object form him complements the verb lyketh (in a benefactive
semantic role); him lyketh literally translates to him (it) likes ‘it pleases him.’
Since Old English times, this impersonal construction had not required a subject
but a dative (or, later, objective) case form of the pronoun. It resembles the
French s’il vous plait ‘if it you pleases,’ which may have influenced the now
archaic formulation if it please you or if it please the court.
Because we are accustomed to finding relatively conservative syntax in
such places as the King James Bible and certain formal prose styles such as
legalese, it is easy to overlook some of the syntactic differences between late
Middle English and current English. Still, this passage, now six centuries old, is
obviously English and surprisingly transparent.
Chapters 2 through 6 of this book examined the structure of current English in
detail, and there is no need to recapitulate that material here. This section focuses
instead on what changes occurred in the earliest stages of Modern English to move
the language from the forms of Middle English to those we know today.
Early and Late Modern English
As our analysis of Mandeville’s travel fable shows, by the beginning of the
fifteenth century Middle English had developed many of the principal syntactic
patterns we know today. The complex inflectional system of Old English
Modern English: 1500–Present
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 486
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 486 1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
Modern English: 1500–Present 487
had been dramatically simplified; and today’s system, with fewer than ten
inflections, had emerged. Most nouns that had been inflected in Old English
according to various patterns now conformed to the fox pattern. By the time
of Shakespeare, third-person plural pronouns with th- (they, their, and them)
instead of h- had been in general use for a century; Chaucer and the Mandeville
translator had used they but still used the older possessive form her (not their)
and objective form hem (not them). In addition, word order had become more
fixed, essentially as it is in Modern English.
The language of the late 1400s is in most ways Modern English—although
we should be mindful that a dramatic shift already under way in the pronuncia-
tion of vowels had a profound effect on English phonology sometime between
1450 and 1650, as we’ll see. That phonological change is not apparent to the
eye simply because the modern spelling of English vowels had essentially been
established by the time of William Caxton, who founded his printing press in
the vicinity of Westminster Abbey in 1476, before the shift had progressed very
far and whose spellings disguise the fundamental alteration that subsequently
affected the system of English vowels.
Phonology: The English Vowel Shift
In the Mandeville travel passage, certain words are easily recognized by their
similar spellings to Modern English, as with gret, hete, schame, and foul, which
are similar to their modern counterparts. The written similarity, however,
disguises the fact that the words as pronounced in Chaucer’s time would not
likely be recognizable by a modern listener. Sometime during the centuries
between 1450 and 1650, all the long vowels of Middle English underwent a
systematic shift. Each long front vowel was raised and became pronounced
like another vowel higher in the system, and each long back vowel was raised
and pronounced like a vowel higher in the system. Thus /ɔː/ came to be
pronounced /oː/, /eː/ came to be pronounced /iː/, and so on. The two high-
est long vowels, /iː/ and /uː/, unable to be raised farther, became the diph-
thongs /aj/ and /aw/ respectively. Thus Middle English I /iː/ became /aj/,
hous /huːs/ became /haws/ ‘house,’ and so on. We can represent the situation
as in Figure 13.6.
Pre-shift long
vowel system
Post-shift long
vowel system
i
e o
u
a
ɔ
ɛ
i
e o
u
a
ɔ
ɛ
i
e o
u
ɛ
aj aw
Figure 13.6 The English Vowel Shift
Source: Adapted from Theodora Bynon, Historical Linguistics (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1977), p. 82.
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 487
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 487 1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
488 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
Modern English Morphology
Verbs Of the hundreds of strong (irregular) verbs in Old English, relatively few
survive in Modern English. Of those that do, many are now inflected as regu-
lar verbs. One tally suggests that of the 333 strong verbs of Old English, only
68 continue as irregular verbs in Modern English. Among those that have be-
come regular over the centuries are burned, brewed, climbed, flowed, helped, and
walked. By contrast, slightly more than a dozen weak verbs have become irregu-
lar in the history of English, including dive, which has developed a past-tense
form dove alongside the historical form dived. You also likely have heard drug
for dragged and snuck for sneaked, as they have become more frequent, even in
formal written usage. Among other verbs that are now irregular but were for-
merly regular are wear, spit, and dig, with their newer past-tense forms being
wore, spat, and dug.
Deﬁnite Article The initial consonant of sē and sēo, the Old English masculine
and feminine nominative singular demonstrative, differed from all other forms,
which began with [θ] (orthographic <þ>). Sē was reshaped, apparently by
analogy with forms having initial [θ]. By Middle English, þe had become the
only definite article in the north of England, and its use soon spread. Chaucer
uses only the, pronounced [θə], not [ðə]. The voicing of the initial consonant as
we know it today occurred because the customary lack of stress on the encour-
aged assimilation to the vowel nucleus, which is voiced.
Indeﬁnite Article The history of the indefinite article a/an is also remarkable,
for while Old English did not use an indefinite article, a/an is among the top
ten most common words in English today. While a has been pronounced as [ə]
and [e] (or [eɪ] or [ej]) for some time, with [e] being used for emphasis, its use
seems to be on the rise even in neutral situations that don’t call for emphasis.
Personal Pronouns Personal pronouns retain more of their Old English com-
plexity than any other part of speech. Still, there have been some significant
changes in pronouns over the centuries. Our comparison of Old English and
Try It Yourself Note that in becoming the diphthongs /aj/ and
/aw/, the highest long vowels /iː/ and /uː/ have, in eﬀect, moved from
the highest positions in vowel space to the lowest, with /a/ being a low vowel.
You’ll recall from Chapter 11 that one of the hallmarks of Southern American
English is a monophthongization of /aj/ in general. What similarities can you
identify in the English Vowel Shift of Figure 13.6 and the Southern Shift as
pictured in Figure 11.10 in “The Atlas of North American English” section of
Chapter 11? What about between the English Vowel Shift and the Northern Cities
Shift, as pictured in Figure 11.9?
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 488
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 488 1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
Modern English: 1500–Present 489
Modern English pronouns in Table 13.4 shows that the dual number (‘you two’
and ‘we two’) was lost entirely (starting at the beginning of the Middle English
period). During the early Modern English period, the distinction between the
second-person singular and plural forms—between singular thou and thee (Old
English þū and þē) and plural ye and you (Old English gē and ēow)—evaporated.
Under the apparent influence of French, speakers of English began using the
plural forms ye, your, and you as a sign of respect or formality, much as happens
with French vous, which is grammatically plural but is used to show respect and
deference when addressing a solitary stranger, elder, or social superior. Among
the upper social classes in England, the historical plural form you came to be
used as a mutual sign of respect even in informal conversation between equals.
In time, the singular forms all but disappeared, along with the distinction be-
tween the plural subject and object forms ye and you. Thus, from the sixfold dis-
tinction found in Old English and much of Middle English, Modern English has
only a twofold distinction—between you and yours. (See Table 13.4 in the “Old
English Vocabulary and Morphology” section above.)
Many Modern English speakers find it challenging to get along without a
distinct second-person plural pronoun, and new plural forms have cropped
up in some varieties. Some of these forms are regionally marked: y’all in the
American South; youse (pronounced [juz], [jɪz], or [jəz]) in New York City and
parts of Ireland and England; and y’uns (pronounced [jənz] or [jɪnz]) in western
Pennsylvania and the northern Ohio valley; you lot in parts of England. Standard
English no longer has a distinctive second-person plural pronoun, although one
can say such things as you two or all of you. Increasingly heard as an informal
plural, especially in American English, is you guys, and it is used for males and
females alike.
Ye Olde Booke Shoppe
In the early fourteenth century some English writers merged the runic letter
<þ> and the Roman letter <y> in their manuscripts, setting the stage for
readers to confuse the two graphs. In the fifteenth century, the use of <þ>
decreased, but even Chaucer, who died in 1400, generally used <th> where
earlier writers had used <þ>. Some writers and printers of the time used
ye, yt, yei, ym, yu to represent the words the, that, they, them, and thou, and
such abbreviations (or compendia, as they are called) continued in manu-
scripts into the eighteenth century. In books printed as late as the sixteenth
century you can find ye for the (sometimes with <e> superscripted directly
above <y>) and yt for that (also sometimes with <t> appearing directly
above <y>). Among the citations listed in the Oxford English Dictionary are
these from eighteenth-century letters: “I am to inform you yt ye Duchess con-
tinues as well as can be, and ye Babe too” and “He told ym yt ye French was
landing in the Marsh.” Some of these shorthand forms continued into nine-
teenth-century correspondence as well. As for current use of <y> for <th>,
the OED characterizes it as “pseudoarchaic” and gives as examples Lewis
Carroll’s “Ye Carpette Knighte” and shop signs like “Ye Olde Booke Shoppe.”
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 489
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 489 1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
490 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
Through the first three quarters of the twentieth century, forms of the mas-
culine singular pronoun were commonly used not only in reference to males
but also for females and males, as in Everyone should give meaning to his life.
A notable recent development is a vigorous move away from such sexist pro-
noun use in favor of nonsexist practice. This move has led to the introduction of
an occasional new and not highly successful written form, the most apparent
of which is s/he (first recorded in the 1970s). More important, it has fostered
thoughtful use of third-person pronouns generally and prompted much more
frequent use of he or she (not he alone) following antecedent indefinite pro-
nouns, as in The coach has never told anyone that he or she didn’t make the team,
and following noun phrases representing both males and females, as in A doctor
should tell everyone he or she treats what to expect with new medications. Instead of
he or she, which seems stilted to many users, the third-person plural pronouns
are common, and they too have the virtue of being gender neutral. As a result,
sentences like Everyone should take their share of responsibility and Has anyone
here ever told anybody they’re a writer? are common. Although widespread in
speech in North America and in both speech and writing in Britain, some edi-
tors, teachers, and others object to the use of a plural pronoun in reference to a
grammatically singular antecedent. This development in the use of third-person
pronouns thus remains in flux and unsettled.
Modern English Word Order
Deprived of its earlier inflectional signposts to meaning, Modern English has be-
come an analytical language—more like Chinese than Latin. With nouns inflected
only for the possessive case (and for number), word order is now the chief signal
of grammatical relations such as subject and object. Pronouns preserve more case
distinctions than nouns, but even pronouns are subordinate to the grammatical
relations that word order signals, so that Him and me saw her at the party, though
not standard, is not confusing in any way as to subject and object.
Why English advanced farther than its Germanic cousins along the path to
becoming an analytical language (rather than remaining an inflected one) is
not altogether clear. Possible explanations may be found in the thoroughgoing
contact between the Danes and the English after the ninth century, in the
French ascendance over English for numerous secular and religious purposes
in the early Middle English period, and in the preservation of the vernacular
chiefly in folk speech and therefore without the conservationist brake of writing
for several generations in the eleventh and twelfth centuries. The influence of
the Danes is particularly important. When they invaded England in the eighth
and ninth centuries, they spoke Germanic varieties that must have been quite
similar to the dialects spoken in England, but the Danish varieties had different
inflections. It’s easy to imagine that children exposed to parents and friends
using different inflectional suffixes might look for other means to signal the
differences indicated by these competing inflections.
In any case, decades before the Norman Conquest in 1066, those inflectional
reductions started that became apparent when English reemerged. Doubtless
they had advanced further in speech than the written texts of the day indicate.
Thus phonological reductions undermined the inflectional morphology, and, as
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 490
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 490 1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
Modern English: 1500–Present 491
inflection grew less able to signal grammatical relations and semantic roles, word
order and the deployment of prepositions came to bear those communicative
tasks less redundantly. Gradually, the freer word order of Old English yielded
to the relatively fixed order of Modern English, in which linear arrangements of
words are the chief marker of grammatical relations.
Spurred by an almost total absence of inflections on nouns, Modern English
syntax has evolved to permit unusually free interplay among grammatical
relations and semantic roles. With nouns marked only for possessive case and
pronouns only for possessive and objective cases, Modern English exercises
minimal inflectional constraint on subject noun phrases, which are consequently
free to represent an exceptionally wide range of semantic roles (as illustrated in
Chapter 6 in the “Semantic Roles and Grammatical Relations” section).
Modern English Vocabulary
As had earlier happened during the Middle English period, when English
supplanted French and borrowed thousands of French words to do what had
long been done using the French language, so in the course of the early Modern
English period, as English came to be used for functions Latin had previously
served, a great many words were borrowed from Latin (and through Latin from
Greek). The borrowed words tend to be more learned words, reflecting the
arenas in which Latin was used. Even with these borrowings, English needed
still more words as it spread into every sphere of activity. The Oxford English
Dictionary records loan words from about 50 different languages borrowed
during the first century and a half of Modern English (1500–1650) when the
vernacular replaced Latin in nearly every learned arena.
Among the Latin borrowings of this period are the following nouns (we limit
ourselves to just a few beginning with the letter a):
allusion appendix
anachronism atmosphere
antipathy autograph
antithesis axis
Among the adjectives are abject, agile, and appropriate; among the verbs,
adapt, alienate, and assassinate. Some of these, although introduced to English
from Latin, came originally from Greek, but during the Renaissance some other
words were borrowed directly from Greek, including these:
acme idiosyncrasy
anonymous lexicon
catastrophe ostracize
criterion (and criteria) polemic
tantalize tonic
Not everyone in England appreciated borrowed words, and writers using
these unfamiliar terms were criticized for their “inkhorn” words. Not every
borrowed term survived.
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 491
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 491 1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
492 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
Borrowing continued to this day, and French has remained the major
contributor, but over the intervening centuries English has shown increasing
reliance on native sources to expand its lexicon. In particular, late Modern English
favors compounding, especially of nouns with nouns. Strings of nouns put together
to create other nouns are abundant, as with these comprising two nouns: chat room,
car crash, news junkies, juice bar, brick wall, summer vacation, park sorcerers, fireworks
display, coaster ride, school rules, highway bridge, tomb raider, assassination plot, video
game, ad business, race relations, gender equality, reality show, and foot traffic. Not
quite as common are those with three nouns: Florida theme park, family-vacation
budget, theme-park eatery, thriller-movie division, industry newsletter, consumer book
market, print sales figures, civil rights worker; community news summit, cell-phone call,
cell-phone usage, and Internet-investigations unit. Those with four are less common
still: hit 1998 space opera-strategy game, video-game-style showdown, daredevil stunt
work, and cell-phone surveillance service.
But by no means are compounds the only vital way of increasing the English
wordstock. Blends are popular, as with animatronic, infomercials, sexting,
swellegant, podcast, walkathon, e-tailer and e-zine, not all of which are destined
for long life. Remaining productive are prefixing (preshow, postride, off-peak,
superkillers, minidress, e-reader, multiplayer, co-workers, nonobvious, cyberdissidents,
hyperlocal, underreported, overcrowded, mega-low) and suffixing (preposterousness,
limitless, Cheeveresque, corporatize, foodies, full-timer). Conversion, too, continues
to make contributions, as in a must-see, to monitor, to mushroom, to text, to fist-
bump, and to deejay. Shortenings are also numerous, and these few illustrate
some of the patterns: exes (e.g., ex-boyfriends, ex-wives), adman (advertising
man), perps (perpetrators), and prep time (preparation time). Phrasal verbs are
also very popular, as in to cheer someone on ‘encourage’; to leave off ‘stop, quit’;
to move on; to grow up; to figure something/someone out; to sign on; to turn out
‘found to be’; to wear off ‘diminish in effect.’ All of these examples are taken
from a single issue of Time magazine—and they could have been multiplied
many times over from that source alone.
A project of major importance for the study of
the history of English is the digitizing of the Oxford
English Dictionary (OED). The OED is a mammoth
multivolume dictionary that records every word
appearing in English printed materials since the Old
English period. Or perhaps we should say nearly every
word, for the OED was compiled during Victorian
times and not every word of English was allowed
access to its Victorian pages. Among words you won’t
ﬁnd in the original OED are the infamous four-letter
“Anglo-Saxonisms.” The OED took half a century to
complete, and by time the ﬁnal volume was published
in 1928, a good deal more had been learned about the
words at the beginning of the alphabet, which had
appeared in the earliest volumes.
That new information required
a large supplemental volume. In
the 1970s a further four-volume supplement was
needed, so much had the language changed since
the supplement of 1933. Then, in 1989, the original
12 volumes were digitized with the ﬁve supplemental
volumes incorporated, creating a second edition of this
grand dictionary, which appeared in 20 large volumes,
weighing 137 pounds and taking up nearly four feet of
shelf space. The second edition was made available on
a compact disc, smaller, less expensive, and easier and
more efficient to use. With access to the CD-ROM,
you can readily search through a thousand years of
How Computers Track Change in English
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 492
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 492 1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
1/7/11 3:30:53 AM
Summary 493
Summary
English belongs to the West Germanic group of the Germanic branch of the Indo-
•
European language family. It is not descended from Latin, but both Latin and
English are members of the Indo-European language family and are descended
from Proto-Indo-European.
In the course of its history, English has been enriched by thousands of loan
•
words from more than 100 languages—most notably French, as the descendants
of the Norman invaders started using English in the thirteenth century, and
Latin, when the vernacular came to be used during the Renaissance in arenas
previously reserved for the classical language.
Beowulf
• is an epic poem of the Old English period (700–1100). Chaucer
(1340–1400) wrote during the Middle English period (1100–1500). Shakespeare
(1564–1616) wrote early in the Modern English period (1500–present).
Old English was a highly inflected language, but sound changes subsequently
•
eroded most of the inflectional morphology.
As a result of the erosion of inflections in the Middle English period, Modern
•
English is an analytical language, relying principally on word order to express
grammatical relations that were formerly marked by inflections.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
Ye Olde Coffee Shoppe
• . The information in the menu is correct. Ye is a
misinterpretation of the letter thorn Þ or its lowercase variant þ as it appeared in
the word the. Far from being hogwash, this use of Ye underscores the tentative
relationship between a sound and its representation in writing.
San Diego and Santa Monica
• . Many cities in California and the Southwest carry
names given to honor patron saints when Spaniards first established missions
in those cities. In Spanish, San is the masculine form for ‘saint’ and Santa the
feminine form. Niece Agnes may be interested to know that just north of Santa
Barbara lies the Santa Ynez Valley, named in honor of Saint Agnes. Place-names
often reveal something about the cultural background of earlier settlers in those
places.
English language history and find citations for any
word that interests you, along with information about
the author, date, and source for each citation. You can
determine the date of a word’s ﬁrst recorded use; you
can limit your search to any time period or author. The
CD-ROM makes it possible to discover all the words
that entered the language in a speciﬁed time period or
all the words borrowed from a particular language—
say, Japanese or French or Hindi.
Several major historical corpora of English have
been compiled in recent years. In the previous chapter,
we described the Helsinki Corpus and ARCHER.
Corpora such as these have made possible previously
unknown information about the history of English,
and accessibility to them has given researchers an
opportunity to explore the history of particular
structures or words. ■
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 493
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 493 1/7/11 3:30:54 AM
1/7/11 3:30:54 AM
494 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
English and German inflections
• . About 1,000 years ago, German and English
had about the same number of inflections on nouns, and those inflections have
remained relatively constant in the course of the history of German. In contrast,
as English developed, a few sound changes in unstressed syllables led to the
merging of various endings. Once that happened, their usefulness was greatly
reduced and they faded from use.
Irregular English plurals
• . In Old English, sheep and deer belonged to a group of
nouns that had different endings (that is, they were declined differently) from
those nouns that became the modern-day ones ending in -s.
Stodgy Stan
• . A preference for gender-neutral pronouns responds to concerns
that using masculine pronouns to refer to men and women is sexist and socially
unacceptable. In Britain, they is a vigorous solution in speech and writing,
even when referring to a grammatically singular antecedent (the fraud victim).
In North America, they is a common solution in speech, but many teachers,
editors, and others object to its use in writing on the grounds that he or she can
do the job and doesn’t violate traditional rules of number agreement. Usage in
this matter remains unsettled (although s/he seems out of favor), but in either
case the important social point is honored: they and he or she are both gender
neutral. ■
Exercises
13-1. Any Modern English word that was borrowed from Latin or Greek does
not show the influence of Grimm’s law, which affected only the Germanic
branch of Indo-European. For many such borrowed words, English also has
a word that it inherited directly from Indo-European through Germanic.
Of course, any such inherited word would have undergone the consonant
shifts described by Grimm. For each borrowed word below, cite an English
word that is related in meaning and whose pronunciation shows the result
of the consonant shift. For this exercise, focus only on the initial consonant
of each word.
Example: Given pedal, you would seek a word like foot, which has a related
meaning and begins with [f] (because Indo-European [p] became [f] in
Germanic).
cardiac paternal plenitude cordial
dual pentagon dentist canine
capital piscatory triangle decade
13-2. This exercise is like the preceding one, except here you’re given English words
that have undergone the Germanic consonant shift. You must provide another
English word that is likely to have been borrowed because it has a closely
related meaning but does not show the results of Grimm’s law. Bear in mind
that Latin and Greek borrowings tend to be more learned or technical than
the related ones inherited directly from Indo-European. Focus only on the
boldfaced consonant.
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 494
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 494 1/7/11 3:30:54 AM
1/7/11 3:30:54 AM
Exercises 495
Example: Given foot, you would seek a word that begins with [p] such as
podiatrist ‘foot doctor.’
tooth lip fire
ten hound eat
13-3. You know that, by the effects of Grimm’s law, Indo-European *[bh] became
[b] and Indo-European *[gh] became [g] in Germanic. Not being a Germanic
language, Latin did not undergo these consonant shifts. Instead, in Latin,
Indo-European *[bʰ] became [f] and *[gʰ] became [h]. We represent these
facts in the following correspondences:
b f g h
*bh
Germanic Latin
*gh
Germanic Latin
Given this information, provide an English word inherited directly from Indo-
European for each of the following words, which are all borrowed from Latin,
sometimes via French or another Romance language. Focus on the initial con-
sonant, bearing in mind that other changes may have affected the remainder
of the word.
fraternity flame
fundamental hospitable
fragile fracture
13-4. Indicate which allophone of /f/, /θ/, or /s/ was pronounced in each of the
following Old English words (use the description of the allophonic distribution
given earlier to help you determine the correct answer): þæt, sēo, his, ūs,
wæs, æðeling ‘prince,’ frēosan ‘freeze,’ dēmst ‘judge,’ līfes ‘of life,’ þā ‘then,’
drīfan ‘drive,’ wulfas ‘wolves,’ hræfn ‘raven,’ bosm ‘bosom,’ seofon ‘seven,’
bæþ ‘bath,’ sceaft ‘shaft.’
13-5. a. Identify the grammatical gender of the following Old English nouns and
give the genitive singular and nominative plural forms for each of them.
sē stān ‘the stone’
þæt word ‘the word’
sēo wund ‘the wound’
b. For each of these Old English noun phrases, provide the Old English pro-
noun that would be used in the space given.
Sē stān, is gōd. ‘The stone, it is good.’
Ðæt word, is gōd. ‘The word, it is good.’
Sēo wund, nis gōd. ‘The wound, it isn’t good.’
13-6. Compare the Old English passage with the Middle English passage and identify
ways in which Middle English differs from Old English in orthography,
vocabulary, morphology, and word order. Provide an example from the
passages to illustrate each point.
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 495
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 495 1/7/11 3:30:55 AM
1/7/11 3:30:55 AM
496 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
13-7. Earlier in this chapter you saw several words whose meaning has changed from
Old English to Modern English. One example is dēor, which meant ‘animal’
in Old English but has narrowed its meaning to ‘deer’ in Modern English.
Among several other ways, words can change their meaning by becoming
more specialized, as with deer, or by becoming more generalized. Examine
the Old English words and meanings that follow and note what each word has
become in Modern English. State whether each word’s meaning has become
more specialized or more generalized in the course of its development.
Old English Modern English
steorfan ‘die’ starve
berēafian ‘deprive of’ bereave
hlāf ‘bread’ loaf
spēdan ‘prosper’ speed
spellian ‘speak’ spell
hund ‘dog’ hound
mete ‘food’ meat
wīf ‘woman’ wife
dōm ‘judgment’ doom
sellan ‘give’ sell
tīd ‘time’ tide
13-8. Nearly all of the words listed below were borrowed into English from other
languages. Keeping in mind the character of the word and what it signifies,
make an educated guess as to the likely source language for each word and the
approximate date of borrowing using half-century periods such as 1900–1950.
Then, look up each word’s origin in a good dictionary, noting for borrowed
words the actual source language and the date of borrowing. For which words
has no source been identified? (The source language will be identified in
most good dictionaries; the date of borrowing may not be. Merriam-Webster’s
Collegiate Dictionary, eleventh edition, and some others do supply dates. It
may be useful for different students or groups to tackle separate columns and
compare their findings.)
barf duffel hummus tandoori
zilch mai tai tortilla ginseng
kibble moped nosh glitch
bummer jeans ginger schlock
dinosaur disco giraffe kvetch
leviathan dude ciao glasnost
tae kwon do sphere karate kayak
piña colada taffy kimono shtick
kerchief dim sum kung fu moussaka
teriyaki cadaver paparazzi whiskey
catsup denim taffeta karma
hunk algebra falafel caucus
honcho alarm mutton caddie
macho a la mode klutz goober
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 496
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 496 1/7/11 3:30:55 AM
1/7/11 3:30:55 AM
Other Resources 497
13-9. Go to a website at which you can find an image of the beginning of the original
Beowulf poem (one such site is identified as “Hwæt we Gar-Dena” under
“Other Resources” below). Carefully compare the beginning of the manuscript
version with the transcription given earlier in this chapter. Then, on the basis
of the correspondences between the Old English orthography and the Modern
English transcription, provide the transcription for another three lines.
Other Resources
Internet
LISU Website: http://www.CengageBrain.com For users of this textbook.
Provides updated Internet links as well as supplemental material for students
and instructors. Here you will find interactive learning tools.
The English Companions: http://www.tha-engliscan-gesithas.org
.uk/ This site represents a society for people interested in the history and
culture of Anglo-Saxon England, including Old English. It has links to
YouTube segments of people reciting Old English poetry and much else of
interest. For members of the society there is an inexpensive correspondence
course on Old English.
Hwæt we Gar-Dena: http://web.cn.edu/kwheeler/images/Beowulfpage
.jpeg To see an Old English manuscript containing the words from Beowulf given
in the “Thousand Years of Change” section at the beginning of this chapter, visit
this site (or others that you can identify by doing a Google search for “Beowulf
manuscript”). For an informative exercise, compare the manuscript version with
what is printed in this chapter.
The Oxford English Dictionary Online: http://oed.com/ Many college and
university libraries subscribe to the online OED, which can be accessed over the
web. The online OED is continuously updated, so you can watch lexicographers
endeavoring to keep pace with an evolving English lexicon.
Video and Audio
The Story of English
• A video series hosted by Robert MacNeil. Two videos treat the
development of English—“The Mother Tongue” and “A Muse of Fire.” Available in libraries
and through video rental outlets.
The Chaucer Studio
• A good source for audiocassettes of Old and Middle English; some
recordings available for downloading. Go to http://creativeworks.byu.edu/chaucer/.
Suggestions for Further Reading
John Algeo. 2010.
• The Origins and Development of the English Language, 6th ed. (Boston:
Wadsworth/Cengage Learning). Based on an earlier work by Thomas Pyles, this time-tested
and well-written chronological treatment artfully balances internal and external history.
Tim William Machan and Charles T. Scott, eds. 1992.
• English in its Social Contexts:
Essays in Historical Sociolinguistics (New York: Oxford University Press). Accessible essays
aiming to contextualize changes in English within the social contexts of their times. Also
contains chapters on the spread of English around the globe and British, American, and
Australian English.
Richard Hogg and David Denison, eds. 2006.
• A History of the English Language.
(Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press). Organized topically (phonology, morphology,
syntax, vocabulary) rather than by historical periods, this volume neatly complements many
others and contains separate chapters on the history of British dialects, North American
English, and English worldwide.
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 497
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 497 1/7/11 3:30:55 AM
1/7/11 3:30:55 AM
498 Chapter 13 Historical Development in English
Advanced Reading
There are excellent general histories of the English language. Baugh and Cable (2001)—
from which come our examples of French borrowings into Middle English, Latin and Greek
borrowings into early Modern English, and regular and irregular verbs—is superb on the
external history of the language. Millward and Hayes (2011) is also very good. Mugglestone
(2006) comprises chapters written by experts on the various periods of English. Smith (1996)
integrates internal and external history in systematically explanatory ways. Hughes (2000)
focuses on the lexicon. Several of our Old English examples come from Quirk and Wrenn
(1957). Especially valuable for Old English syntax is Mitchell and Robinson (2007). Burrow
and Turville-Petre (2004) provides Middle English texts and discussion. For the early Modern
English period, Barber (1997) is good on language structure, attitudes toward borrowing and
correctness, and semantic change in the lexicon. Görlach (1991) is useful, especially on writing
and spelling. Dillard (1992) treats American English.
Background information about Indo-European is conveniently found in Philip Baldi’s “Indo-
European Languages” and about Germanic in John A. Hawkins’s “Germanic Languages,” both
in Comrie (2009). Two excellent sources about life in Anglo-Saxon Britain are Campbell et
al. (1982) and Wood (1986), with photographs of artifacts, ruins, and manuscripts; Wood’s
book accompanied a BBC series. The lavishly illustrated Evans (1986) describes the treasures
evacuated at the site of a burial ship for a seventh-century king of an Anglo-Saxon kingdom.
Highly readable is Laing and Laing (1982), with a bias toward the archaeological.
Hogg (1992–2001) is a multivolume reference work that synthesizes what is known about
the history of English. Designed for an educated general audience, instructors will find the
work useful in providing additional insight into most matters related to historical English.
References
Barber, Charles. 1997. Early Modern English (Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press).
Baugh, Albert C. & Thomas Cable. 2001. A History of the English Language, 5th ed. (Englewood
Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall).
Burrow, J. A. & Thorlac Turville-Petre, eds. 2004. A Book of Middle English, 3rd ed. (Malden,
MA: Wiley-Blackwell).
Campbell, James, Eric John & Patrick Wormald. 1982. The Anglo-Saxons (Oxford: Phaidon).
Comrie, Bernard, ed. 2009. The World’s Major Languages, 2nd ed. (London: Routledge).
Dillard, J. L. 1992. A History of American English (London: Longman).
Evans, Angela Care. 1986. The Sutton Hoo Ship Burial (London: British Museum Publications).
Görlach, Manfred. 1991. Introduction to Early Modern English (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press).
Hogg, Richard M., ed. 1992–2001. The Cambridge History of the English Language, 6 vols.
(Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Hughes, Geoffrey. 2000. A History of English Words (Oxford: Blackwell).
Laing, Lloyd & Jennifer. 1982. Anglo-Saxon England (London: Paladin).
Millward, C. M. & Mary Hayes. 2011. A Biography of the English Language, 3rd ed. (Boston:
Wadsworth/Cengage Learning).
Mitchell, Bruce & Fred C. Robinson. 2007. A Guide to Old English, 7th ed. (New York: Blackwell).
Mugglestone, Lynda, ed. 2006. The Oxford History of English (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Quirk, Randolph & C. L. Wrenn. 1957. An Old English Grammar (New York: Holt).
Smith, Jeremy. 1996. An Historical Study of English: Function, Form and Change (New York:
Routledge).
Wood, Michael. 1986. Domesday: A Search for the Roots of England (London: BBC Books).
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 498
00419_13_ch13_p463-498.indd 498 1/7/11 3:30:56 AM
1/7/11 3:30:56 AM
499
What Do You Think?
Brenda brags about her two-and-a-half-year-old daughter, DeeDee. “She
•
doesn’t use vocabulary she hasn’t heard, but she’s always uttering sentences
she’s never heard before.” Brenda asks how that’s possible. What do you
tell her?
At the nursery school where you work after class, a parent reports reading
•
in the Sunday newspaper that all children acquire the grammatical parts of
their language in approximately the same order. “But,” she confides, “I don’t
believe it!” Who’s right?
At a family picnic, Brad notices that toddler Tricia consistently says “maked”
•
and “breaked” and “runned” for made, broke, and ran. “Where do kids learn
those words!” he exclaims. “They don’t hear them from adults. Where do
they get them?” What do you tell Brad?
Friend Frank is having a tough time mastering Spanish and feels frustrated
•
because it’s obviously so easy for young kids to master it. He wants to know
why it’s so tough for him. What’s the explanation?
Acquiring First and
Second Languages
14
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 499
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 499 4/1/11 19:21:40
4/1/11 19:21:40
500 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
The language of children, even very young ones, is remarkably rich. Early
in life children reveal mastery of the phonological, syntactic, and semantic
systems described in earlier chapters, as well as a high degree of communicative
competence in the appropriate use of language. To cite one example, as early as
age five, children playing with hand puppets demonstrate productive control over
a range of registers, including aspects of the characteristic talk between doctors
and patients and between doctors and nurses. Language acquisition seems so
natural and effortless that parents, elated with the addition of each successive
word, take it for granted that children will acquire their native language without
a hitch. It seems obvious to anyone who has interacted with children that the
process of acquiring a first language is largely automatic, even if it is subject
to some predictable missteps. Still, if the ease with which a child accomplishes
this magnificent achievement tickles parents, it challenges researchers. In this
chapter you’ll see why language acquisition intrigues and puzzles linguists and
psychologists and why not everyone agrees about the nature of a child’s task.
For much of the twentieth century, it was widely thought that language learn-
ing was essentially a process of induction, much like other learned behavior.
A child would generalize about linguistic patterns from the language samples it
heard in its interactions with parents, siblings, and other caretakers. Rather than
resembling such bodily systems as digestion and respiration (which do not re-
quire learning), language was thought
to be different. Because languages vary
from culture to culture, it was thought
that children must induce the patterns of
their language from the speech of those
around them. In this respect, language
learning appeared to resemble other
forms of cultural behavior like brushing
your teeth, tying your shoelaces, or do-
ing addition and subtraction.
The view of first-language learning
as similar to other forms of learning
is now regarded as implausible, and
in a dramatic shift of perceptions,
language acquisition is viewed as an inductive process only in limited respects.
Indeed, rather than focusing on differences in languages, some linguists and
psychologists focus on the similarities across languages, linguistic universals
like those described in Chapter 7, and explain their universality by positing
structures of the human mind that are innate and do not depend on learning.
Other linguists and psychologists view the similarities across languages as the
result not so much of uniform mental structures as of uniform mental strategies
or dispositions for analyzing and acquiring language. For decades there
has been, and continues to be, intense interest in characterizing what some
psycholinguists call the language-making capacity and some grammarians call the
language acquisition device.
Introduction
Try It Yourself “Children master the
intricacies of their native language before
they are able to tie a knot, jump rope, or draw a decent-
looking circle,” writes William O’Grady. Given what
you know about the complexity of language systems
as discussed earlier in this book, what is the likelihood
that children could learn all they know about language
by imitating what they hear when adults talk?
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 500
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 500 4/1/11 19:21:42
4/1/11 19:21:42
Acquiring a First Language 501
Acquiring a language entails more than learning the meaning of various
expressions. A child acquiring a language must master an entire system that can
generate countless sentences (surprisingly few of which have been heard before)
and deploy them appropriately in conversations and other social interactions.
Language acquisition also entails the ability to understand both new and
familiar utterances of those around us and to interpret them appropriately in
their social contexts.
Besides the words of their language and a range of meanings for them, children
must master morphological, phonological, syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic
patterns. A child must know when to speak and when to listen, when and how
to interrupt, when and how to greet, when to tease and how to recognize teasing
from its contextualization cues, and so on. All children must learn how to make
utterances achieve their intended objective and how to understand under what
circumstances a particular utterance serves different functions—for example, to
offer food to someone (Do you like chocolate? Have you ever tasted a kumquat?) or
request information (Do you like chocolate? Have you ever tasted a kumquat?). In other
words, every child must learn the grammar of his or her language and the culturally
appropriate use of its grammar in diverse social situations. Acquiring a language
entails mastery of the full range of grammatical and communicative competence.
There is evidence to suggest that at least some (and perhaps a good deal) of
what children know about language structure could not have been learned from
the data surrounding them. To the extent that certain language structures can-
not be inferred from the data available to children, it is reasonable to hypoth-
esize that the human language capacity provides those structures at birth or in
the course of natural development. The issue can be framed in terms of “nature”
versus “nurture,” what is inborn versus what must be learned, what is prewired
into the brain at birth (“hardware”) and what must be programmed by interac-
tion with adult language (“software”). The challenge is to determine the nature
and degree of the contributions made by biology and by socialization.
Alternatively, some psychologists and linguists suspect not so much that
children share particular language structures as that they share strategies
for analyzing language. In Chapter 4, we discussed how difficult it would
be for a child to sort out the continuous string of sound in adult speech into
the distinct sounds that constitute the phonological inventory of his or her
language. Children appear to arrive at the task of language learning already
in possession of the “knowledge” that language consists of distinct sounds.
They are “preprogrammed” to analyze a continuous string of vocal sounds for
its individual phonological segments. In the same way, they seem naturally
endowed with strategies for analyzing other aspects of language, and it is
this set of operating principles for analyzing language that would contribute
to the similarity of acquisition patterns across languages. As illustrations of
such operating principles, children are thought to pay attention to the order
of words in utterances and the order of morphemes in words, with particular
attention to the ends of words (where inflections occur), to focus on consistent
relationships between form and content, and to look for generalizations.
Acquiring a First Language
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 501
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 501 4/1/11 19:21:43
4/1/11 19:21:43
502 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
Operating Principles in First-Language Acquisition
Pay attention to the order of words in utterances.
Pay attention to the order of morphemes in words.
Pay particular attention to word endings (inflections).
Focus on consistent relationships between expression and content.
Look for generalizations.
Many linguists and psychologists are convinced that language is not acquired
by imitation—certainly not solely by imitation and probably not principally—
although exposure to a particular language is, obviously, an essential ingredient
in the process of its acquisition. Still, children have an undeniable capacity to
be creative with language and certainly don’t need to hear a particular sentence
before saying it. They often utter sentences they haven’t heard before and know
intuitively which sentences are possible and which are not, although they go
through periods when they make predictable mistakes. While they may say He
eated my candy or Oh! Hurt meself or Where did you found it? they don’t say
“Mine is candy that” or “Candy my eated he” or countless other conceivable but
nonoccurring sentences. In fact, the errors children make are of a very limited
sort. English-speaking children can be heard overgeneralizing the past tense by
adding an -ed ending to all verbs and making the other mistakes noted previ-
ously. Because adult native speakers of English don’t say eated or did you found
and because even children who lack contact with other children do say such
things, errors such as these cannot arise from mimicry. Language acquisition is
a robust process that goes beyond inducing the correct generalizations on the
basis of forms that have been heard.
Principles of Language Acquisition
Two aspects of general maturation are crucial to a child’s ability to acquire a
language: the ability to symbolize and the ability to use tools.
Maturation and Symbolization As a system of symbols, language is an arbitrary
representation of other things—other entities, experiences, feelings, thoughts,
and so on. In order to acquire language, a child must first be able to hold in
mind a symbolic realization of something else. Even if it is no more than a men-
tal picture of an absent object, such symbolization is a prerequisite to language
acquisition.
Using Tools The second ability—wider-ranging than its application to
language—is the ability to use tools to accomplish goals. Language is a tool
made up entirely of symbols, and among other characterizations it can be seen
as a system of symbols that gets work done. From an early age, children rou-
tinely use language to get fed, changed, handed a toy, and all the other things
they can’t do for themselves. Such purposeful activity is called tool use, and
language is an effective tool for accomplishing work of many sorts. Given their
extremely limited ability to achieve their goals physically, children’s motivation
to develop this powerful symbolic tool must be extraordinarily strong (and may
be influential in the evolution of the human species).
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 502
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 502 4/1/11 19:21:43
4/1/11 19:21:43
Acquiring a First Language 503
All Languages Are Equally Challenging Every child who is capable of acquiring a
particular human language is capable of acquiring any human language. There is
no biological basis—in the lips or the brain—that disposes some children to learn
a particular language. Children find all languages about equally easy to acquire,
although acquiring particular features of one language may require more time
than acquiring equivalent aspects of a different language. For example, German
definite articles have several different forms representing three genders, two
numbers, and four cases (see Table 2.10). Children acquiring German need
more time to master its definite articles than English-speaking children
need to learn the form the that English uses for any gender, number, and case.
(English speakers use the in the phrases the boy, for the daughter, and to the
lions, whereas the German definite article would have different forms in those
phrases, reflecting different cases and genders: der, die, and den, respectively).
On balance, though, when considered in their entirety, all languages are about
equally easy (or equally challenging) for a child to learn.
By the age of 6, barring severe mental or physical impairments, children the
world over have acquired most of what they need to know to speak their lan-
guage fluently. By the time a child arrives in school, perhaps 80 percent of the
structures of his or her language and more than 90 percent of the sound system
have been acquired. “Doubtless the greatest intellectual feat any one of us is
ever required to perform,” Leonard Bloomfield remarked of language acquisi-
tion. Fortunately, it is a feat that human beings are gifted at. This universal
success has convinced linguists and psycholinguists that infants come to the task
of acquiring a language with a genetic predisposition to do so and with certain
analytical advantages that facilitate the process. There is little doubt that, at the
very least, children are born with certain mechanisms or cognitive strategies
that help in the task of language acquisition, and certain structures or kinds of
structure may be innate as well.
Adult Input in Language Acquisition
Stating that language acquisition is not a process of imitation doesn’t diminish
the crucial importance of exposure to linguistic input in acquiring a language.
Acquisition requires interaction with speakers of the language being acquired.
As witness to the necessity of adult input, there is the case of Genie, a child who
was not exposed to any language while she was growing up. Genie’s parents
locked her away for the first 13 years of her life and seldom spoke to her. When
she was discovered, she was unable to speak. Deprived of linguistic input in the
first few years of life, Genie’s capacity for language acquisition had become im-
paired. Linguist Susan Curtiss tried teaching her English, but the attempts were
not altogether successful.
On the other hand, parents do not generally teach language to young children
directly and, in ordinary settings, rarely correct young children’s grammatical
mistakes, although they do correct utterances that are inaccurate or misleading.
A child who says Kitty’s hands are pink may be told No. Kitty doesn’t have hands:
Kitty has PAWS. But if a child asks, Where Kitty go? (for ‘Where did Kitty go?’),
adults are not likely to correct the utterance. To a great extent, then, children
acquire the grammar of their language without direct instruction from adults.
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 503
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 503 4/1/11 19:21:43
4/1/11 19:21:43
504 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
Of course, certain aspects of language use are deliberately
taught to children. In cultures around the world, children are
engaged in conversation with adults almost from the start, as in
the photograph of a mother and her 4-month old baby. In West-
ern cultures, though not in all cultures, parents often treat baby
noises as openings to conversations. From their first few months
children are socialized into interactional routines of turn taking,
where even their burps, hiccups, and sneezes are regarded as
opening turns to which parents respond. Children are socialized
so effectively that the turn-taking patterns of school-age children
have been pretty much established since age 1. Later, when young
children go trick-or-treating at Halloween (to take the example of
a context in which politeness becomes a salient aspect of inter-
action), they may not produce the appropriate utterances unless
prompted (Say “thank you”! What do you say?). So children need consciously to
learn certain rules of language use, and adults typically provide instruction for
these politeness rules.
Baby Talk: How Adults Talk to Children Even when adults are not explicitly
teaching children the rules of language use, they frequently modify their speech,
adapting it to what they think children will readily understand and acquire. You
have probably witnessed parents and siblings using baby talk (also called “moth-
erese” or “infant-directed speech”) in addressing babies.
Ooohh, what a biiig smiile! Is Baby smiling at Mommy?
◆
Baby is smiling at her Mommy? Yeess!
◆
Is Baby happy to see Mommy?
◆
Is Baby hungry? Yeess? Oopen wiiide . . .
◆
Hmmmm! Baby likes soup. Yeess!
◆
Wheere’s the soup? All gone!
◆
This example, uttered slowly and with exaggerated intonation, is typical of the
kind of linguistic input that English-speaking parents and other caregivers pro-
vide to young children.
Baby talk differs from talk between adults in characteristic ways. When ad-
dressing babies, adults’ voices frequently assume a higher pitch than usual.
Adults also exaggerate their intonation and speak slowly and clearly. Repeti-
tions and partial repetitions (Is Baby smiling at Mommy? Baby is smiling at her
Mommy?) are frequent in baby talk. Sentences are short and simple, with few
subordinate clauses and few modifiers. Personal names like Baby and Mommy
are preferred over pronouns like you and I. Compared to adult talk to other
adults, baby talk has more frequent content words (nouns, verbs, adjectives)
and fewer function words (subordinators, determiners). Utterances addressed
to very young children frequently include special baby-talk vocabulary—words
such as doggie, horsie, tummy, and din-din, which are more easily perceived or
pronounced but do not normally occur in adult talk—and the choice of baby-
talk words is more restricted than in ordinary speech. Baby talk is typically
concrete and refers to items and actions in the child’s immediate environment
Edward
Finegan
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 504
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 504 4/1/11 19:21:43
4/1/11 19:21:43
Acquiring a First Language 505
and experience. It also includes a high proportion of questions, particularly for
young children (Is Baby hungry?), and of imperatives (Oopen wiiide). These mod-
ifications may serve to hold a child’s attention or to simplify the linguistic input
he or she hears, possibly making utterances easier to perceive or analyze. Espe-
cially in repetitions and shorter expressions addressed to young children, adults
chunk their speech by constituent structure, a practice that could provide useful
syntactic insight to learners. Baby-talk features are summarized below.
Characteristics of Talk to Babies
Higher than usual pitch Concrete, immediate referents
Frequent questions Exaggerated intonation contours
Frequent repetitions Slow and clear enunciations
Frequent imperatives Baby-talk words (doggie, tummy)
Few modifiers Frequent content words (nouns, verbs)
Few function words Personal names instead of pronouns (Mommy, not I)
Few subordinate clauses Chunking by constituent structure
At a somewhat more advanced stage, when children start producing utterances,
parents and other caretakers have been observed to echo those utterances in a
fuller form than the child offered. Sometimes the intonation of the caretaker’s
expansions confirms what the child has said; sometimes a questioning intonation
seems to be seeking clarification. The following examples are illustrative.
Adult Expansions of Children’s Utterances
CHILD ADULT
Baby highchair Baby is in the highchair.
Mommy eggnog Mommy had her eggnog.
Eve lunch Eve is having lunch.
Throw Daddy Throw it to Daddy.
Expansions occur far less frequently when parents and other caretakers are
alone with children than when other adults are present, and such expansions
may be intended as “translations” of the baby’s speech, more for the aid of the
observer than for the benefit of the child.
Features of baby talk are found in cultures far and wide. When the Berbers
of North Africa address babies, they simplify their language in some of the
same ways that Americans do; the same is true of the Japanese. Not all cultures
modify speech to children, but modification is widespread. Children themselves
acquire baby talk very early in life, and 4-year-olds can be heard using features
of this register when addressing younger children, while even 2-year-olds use it
with younger siblings.
The extent to which baby talk helps children in acquiring language is difficult
to assess, but in cultures where baby talk is absent (as it is in Samoa, parts of
Papua New Guinea, and among the Kipsigis of Kenya, for example) children
acquire their native language at the same rate as children exposed to baby talk.
So baby talk is not essential to successful language acquisition.
Still, baby talk does serve some functions. First, it exposes small children to
simple language, and simple language may be helpful in the task of unraveling
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 505
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 505 4/1/11 19:21:44
4/1/11 19:21:44
506 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
constituent structures and certain grammatical operations. Since children have
to figure out so many different grammatical features, selective input (fewer
words, fewer complex sentences, and repetitions) facilitates their task. In addi-
tion, considering English, the unusually high percentage of questions that care-
givers address to infants has the effect of exposing them to a greater number of
auxiliaries (Did Baby fall?) than would the use of declarative sentences (Baby
fell). Baby talk may also inculcate certain rules of language use, particularly the
rules of conversation (see Chapter 9). By asking many questions of small chil-
dren, adults help socialize them into the question-answer sequences and into
the alternating turn-taking patterns of conversation. From the earliest stages,
adults alternate their utterances with a baby’s babblings, and the implicit mes-
sage is to alternate one’s utterances with one’s interlocutor’s. Interactional pat-
terns between caregivers and children can thus provide a framework within
which utterances can be situated and acquisition of grammar can take place.
Stages of Language Acquisition
Babbling Whatever the nature of the input they receive, children go through
several stages in the process of acquiring their native language. At the bab-
bling stage, which starts at about 6 months of age, children first utter a series of
identical syllables such as ba-ba-ba or ma-ma-ma. A couple of months later, as
the vocal apparatus matures, this reduplicated babbling blossoms into a wider
range of syllable types such as babbab and ab-ab. These early babblings are simi-
lar the world over and occur with or without others present. When some bab-
bled sounds stabilize for a child and are linked to a consistent referent or appear
to be used with a consistent purpose (for example, to be handed something),
they are called vocables or protowords. Children may use a vocable such as baba
to indicate they do not want something while mama serves to indicate they do
want something.
One-Word Stage Starting around a year old, when children take their first steps,
they are also heard uttering words such as mama, dada, and up. These early
words are of simple structure and typically refer to familiar people (mother and
father), toys and pets (teddy bear and kitty), food and drink (cookie and juice),
and social interaction (as in bye-bye). By this stage children already use vocal
noises to get and hold attention socially and to achieve other objectives.
Often, the same word is used to refer to things that have a similar appear-
ance, as when a child learns the word doggie for the family dog and then extends
it to all dogs. Children are thus inclined to generalize word meanings and even
to overgeneralize, as when doggie is applied to cats as well as dogs, or even to
all animals.
Observation of utterances at the one-word stage suggests that children are
not rehearsing simple words but expressing single words to convey whole prop-
ositions. A child uses the word dada, for example, to mean different things in
different contexts: ‘Here comes Daddy’ (upon hearing a key in the door at the
end of the day); ‘This is for Daddy’ (when handing Daddy a toy); ‘That is where
Daddy usually sits’ (when looking at Daddy’s empty chair at the kitchen table);
or ‘This shoe is Daddy’s’ (when touching a shoe belonging to Daddy).
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 506
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 506 4/1/11 19:21:44
4/1/11 19:21:44
Acquiring a First Language 507
One-Word Stage
EXPRESSION CONTENT
Here comes Daddy!
This is for Daddy.
“Dada”
That is where Daddy sits.
This shoe is Daddy’s.
In different contexts, a child may give the same word different intonations.
Holding a shoe and uttering dada, a child is not merely naming the object of
its focus but is using a relatively simple expression to communicate relatively
complex content.
Two-Word Stage From the one-word-utterance stage, children move on to
utterances such as Daddy come, Shoe mine, and Apple me. The transition from
the one-word stage to the two-word stage occurs at about 20 months of age,
when the child has a vocabulary of about 50 words. At this stage, utterances
show a preference for combining a nounlike element with a predicate-like
element, and children tend to verbalize in propositions—to name something
and then say something about it: Daddy, [he is] com[ing], Shoe, [it’s] mine;
Apple, [give it to] me. Other forms also occur, as in More juice and There
Daddy, in which the predicate-like element precedes the noun. One strik-
ing fact about the two-word-utterance stage is that children from different
cultures appear to express basically similar things in their propositions at
this stage.
Two-Word Stage
EXPRESSION CONTENT
“Daddy come” Daddy, he is coming.
“Shoe mine” The shoe, it’s mine.
“Apple me” The apple, give it to me.
“More juice” I want more juice.
“There Daddy” There is Daddy.
We don’t know whether the disposition to verbalize in propositions is a
tendency of the language process itself or is tied to aspects of perception.
But from the start children seem to be trying to convey propositions, even
when the expression is a mere word. If this interpretation is correct, children
at the two-word stage are not attempting to communicate more content by
using two words instead of one but to express more of the content than at
the one-word stage. As children master their language system, they learn to
balance expression and context so as to communicate content efficiently and
effectively.
Beyond Two Words Beyond the two-word stage, distinct three-word and four-
word stages are not recognized. Instead, progress is typically measured by the
average number of morphemes (or sometimes words) in a child’s utterances.
Between about two years (2;0) and two-and-a-half years (2;6) of age, a child’s
expressions become considerably more complex. Utterances contain several
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 507
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 507 4/1/11 19:21:44
4/1/11 19:21:44
508 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
words representing single clauses. Consider these single-clause utterances from
a boy of 2 years and 5 months:
1. Mimo hurt me. [about a past action by his brother]
2. Yeah, that money Neina. (‘Yeah, that money is Zeina’s.’)
3. Me put it back. (‘I’ll put it back.’)
4. No do that again! [to an adult whispering in his ear]
5. Oh! hurt meself. [upon bumping his arm into a door]
6. That’s mine, Uncle Ed. [showing a toy to an uncle]
To utter such sentences, the boy must
have a good deal of information about
English vocabulary, syntax, and prag-
matics. Obviously, he knows such Eng-
lish words as money, mine, and that’s.
Saying those words entails knowing what
sounds they contain and in what order.
That the words are used in appropriate
contexts indicates that he knows what
the words refer to and in what situa-
tions they are appropriate. He knows the
lexical categories (the parts of speech) of
these words and how to combine them with other categories, both morphologically
(me, meself, mine) and syntactically (Mimo hurt me and Me put it back). Possibly he
knows which form of the copula be agrees with the demonstrative subject that and
how to contract is to ’s and attach it to that, although that’s may be an unanalyzed
unit for him at this stage. The child has also mastered basic SVO word order, as in
Mimo hurt me (although pronominal subjects are not yet obligatory, as a compari-
son between Me put it back and Hurt meself shows). He also shows knowledge of
declarative and imperative sentence structures and of negative imperatives.
The phrase that money (in 2) indicates knowledge that money belongs to the
category of nouns—the category that takes determiners such as that and the.
Given the contexts in which the utterances occur, it is also apparent that the
child is uttering propositions, although some are incompletely encoded or differ
from adult formulations. More noteworthy than the matches between some of
these utterances and those of an adult grammar, as with 1 and 6, is the fact that
the child is using language in a systematic fashion. The structured utterances
are governed by rules of grammar that stay constant from utterance to utter-
ance: subjects precede verbs; verbs precede objects and other complements; and
adverbs (back and again) follow objects.
Of course, there are many other forms of the adult grammar that the child
has not yet fully mastered, including syntactic and morphological matters.
Syntactically, no subject is expressed in 5, no verb in 2, and no auxiliary in 3, all
of which would be required in well-formed adult utterances. Morphologically, the
possessive marker is not fully mastered: it appears in mine but is lacking in Neina;
the adult subject form of the first-person pronoun I and the adult reflexive form
myself have not yet been acquired. By around 3 years of age, utterances containing
multiple clauses appear, at first coordinating two clauses, as in There’s his face and
Try It Yourself To make these
utterances, the boy must have considerable
knowledge of English, even if his knowledge does not
exactly match the linguistic knowledge of an adult.
Examine the six utterances and spell out in as much
detail as possible just what linguistic knowledge the
boy must have to say them in the contexts described.
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 508
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 508 4/1/11 19:21:44
4/1/11 19:21:44
Acquiring a First Language 509
he’s Mister George Happy. Later, children subordinate one clause to another with
subordinators like ’cause, so, and if in the early stages and then why and what: Me
don’t know where box is now. Why did you give to her when her been flu?
How Do Children Acquire Morphology and Grammar?
Interestingly, the morphemes and grammatical structures of language are gen-
erally acquired by children in a set order, with variation from child to child
tending to be slight. This pattern suggests an internally regulated sequence
for grammatical acquisition. Psychologist Roger Brown examined the order in
which 14 morphemes were acquired by three English-speaking children and
found that they were acquired in the order given below:
Acquisition Order for English Morphemes
1. Present progressive verb (with or without auxiliary): (is) playing, (are)
singing
2-3. Prepositions in and on
4. Regular noun plural: toys, cats, dishes
5. Irregular past-tense verbs: came, fell, saw, hurt
6. Possessive noun: Daddy’s, doggie’s
7. Uncontractible copula: Here I am, Who is it?
8. Articles: a and the
9. Regular past-tense verbs: played, washed, wanted
10. Regular third-person singular present-tense verbs: sees, wants, washes
11. Irregular third-person singular present-tense verbs: does, has
12. Uncontractible auxiliary: She isn’t crying, He was eating
13. Contractible copula: That’s mine, What’s that?
14. Contractible auxiliary: He’s crying
The three children acquired these forms basically in the same order, but
not at the same speed. Between acquisition of the present progressive (the
earliest acquired) and the contractible auxiliary (the last), anywhere from 6 to
14 months elapsed. One child acquired the contractible auxiliary by 2;3, while
another took until 3;6.
The order tracked among Brown’s young “consultants” basically replicated
the order other linguists and psychologists had tracked with other children,
and the slight variations probably have to do with the criteria used for judging
“acquisition.” For example, Brown judged a feature to be acquired only when
a child used it correctly in 90 percent of the required cases in three successive
sampling sessions. Other researchers used different criteria, such as the first
time that a correct use was observed.
What Determines Acquisition Order? As to what determines the order of
acquisition, it would seem reasonable to suppose that the frequency with
which a child hears a form from adults will influence the order of acquisition.
In fact, however, Brown was unable to correlate frequency of parental use
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 509
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 509 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
510 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
with the order of acquisition. The most frequent of the 14 morphemes in the
parents’ speech was the articles, which appeared eighth in the order of child
acquisition. The prepositions, on the other hand, were acquired second by
children although they were used relatively little by parents. In determining
the order of acquisition, what seems more influential than frequency is relative
complexity. Morphemes that encode several semantic notions and those that are
syntactically more complex tend to be acquired later than those that encode a
single semantic notion and are syntactically simpler.
Exceptions and Overgeneralizations No doubt you have observed that children
tend to overgeneralize the patterns of inflectional morphology. You’ve heard
kids say things like “eated” for ate and “foots” for feet. There are some sixty-odd
irregular verbs in English, and among those that get overgeneralized are the
ones listed below.
Overgeneralization of Past-Tense Verbs
eated ate doed did
maked made speaked spoke
finded found breaked broke
hitted hit goed went
falled fell runned ran
English has far fewer nouns like foot that form their plurals irregularly; among
those that children overgeneralize are those listed below.
Overgeneralization of Noun Plurals
foots feet mans men
tooths teeth mouses mice
childs children peoples people
Evidence from several languages suggests that children tend naturally to over-
generalize or “overregularize” the morphological rules they acquire.
Sentence Structure The sentences of the 29-month-old (2;5) boy (in the
“Beyond Two Words” section earlier) contain single clauses only. Before that
boy was 5 years old, negative sentences were under control, as in That isn’t
yours and That doesn’t belong to you, and sentences incorporating more than one
clause were commonplace, including imperatives (Guess who’s visiting me) and
interrogatives (Do you know what I did at school today?). Even at age 5, though,
relative clauses were not fully acquired, although certain kinds of relatives are
understood by children as early as 3 years of age. When children first produce
relative clauses, they attach them to object noun phrases, as in You broke the one
that I found. Attaching relative clauses to subjects (as in The one that I found is
red) represents a later stage of acquisition; attaching them to other grammatical
relations comes later still.
Negation Every language has ways of expressing negation. At first, children
express negation by the simple utterance no, either alone or preceding other
expressions: No. No want. No that. No do that. At a somewhat later stage, by
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 510
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 510 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
Acquiring a First Language 511
3 years of age, more complex expressions incorporate negations, as in these:
Can’t get it off. Don’t know. It doesn’t go that way. That not go in there.
Questions Every language also has ways of asking questions. Some do so
simply by adding a question word to the end of a statement. English has a
relatively complex way of forming questions, and mastery of its question-
formation rules takes time. In the early stages, interrogative utterances have
the same syntax as declaratives, as in That mine. Sometimes the intonation
of questions differs from that of statements. By 3 years of age, children have
mastered most aspects of question formation, as in these questions from a
3-year-old girl named Sophie:
Information Questions Yes/No Questions
What is he called? Is this a box?
What goes in this hole? Do it go this side?
Why didn’t me get flu? Can me put it in like that?
Why’s he so small?
Where are you Mummy?
How Fast Do Children Acquire Vocabulary?
At the start of the two-word stage, around 20 months (1;8) of age, a child knows
approximately 50 words. Mostly they are nouns referring to concrete, familiar
objects (shoe, clock, apple, baby, milk, nose) or expressions for salient notions
in the child’s environment (more, no, bye-bye, oh, walk, what’s that). By age 5,
the child’s vocabulary is increasing by about 15 or 20 words a day. Estimates
of the number of basic words known by schoolchildren of age 6 run about
7,800, even counting a word set like cat, cats, cat’s, cats’ or walk, walks, walked,
walking as a single word. If you count derived forms such as dollhouse as a third
word besides doll and house, then 13,000 words would be a reliable figure.
Astonishingly, two years later, by age 8, a child’s vocabulary has increased to
17,600 basic words (or 28,300 words including derived forms). This represents
an average increase each day of more than 13 basic words (or 21 words and
derived forms). Of course, a full range of meanings for any word is generally
acquired only by stages over a period of time. Indeed, this phenomenon, like
the acquisition of vocabulary itself, continues well into adulthood, though at a
drastically reduced rate.
How Do Children Acquire the Sounds of Language?
You have probably listened to a child uttering words and expressions that
you could understand within their context even though the pronunciations
did not match your own. “Neina” /nenɑ/ for Zeina /zenɑ/ in the speech from
the boy of 2 years, 5 months is one illustration. Other examples might be
“poon” or “bude” for spoon, “du” for juice, and “dis” or “di” [dɪ] for this. Such
pronunciations suggest that a child masters certain aspects of a word before
others. In these cases, the context indicates that the child knows the word’s
lexical category and certain semantic information (such as its referent); the
child also knows some of its phonological content, although mastery of the
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 511
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 511 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
512 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
pronunciation is incomplete. Here we examine certain patterns of phono-
logical acquisition among English-speaking children and draw some cross-
linguistic comparisons.
From as early as 2 months of age, infants react differently to different speech
sounds, and they can recognize individual voices—their mother’s, for example.
(We know this from changes in the rate of sucking when voices alternate.) Prior
to their production of recognizable utterances at about 12 months of age, infants
go through a lengthy babbling stage, during which they appear to be rehearsing
a wide range of sounds, extending beyond the sounds spoken around them and
therefore beyond the phonological inventory needed for their own language.
Early babbling consists of simple syllable-like sequences of a consonant fol-
lowed by a vowel: ba-ba-ba. Repetitions of CV syllables are then followed by
sequences that juxtapose different CV syllables (bamama), first yielding CVCV
patterns and then CVC patterns (such as bam and mam, which lack the vowel of
the second CVCV syllable). These early babblings reveal a preference for voiced
stops and nasals [b d g m n] and a dispreference for fricatives [f v θ ð s z] and
liquids [l r]. Not surprisingly, sounds that are relatively rare among the world’s
languages tend to be acquired later than sounds that are common. By 8 or
9 months of age children are able to mimic adult intonation patterns to a strik-
ing degree. Unlike the sounds of babbling, these intonation patterns differ from
language to language.
Consonant Sounds of Babbling
PREFERRED DISPREFERRED
b d g v ð z
m n f θ s
l/r
Before the first recognizable words are produced around age 1, the list of
speech sounds actually shrinks (and a few children even go through a silent
period), after which the inventory of sounds belonging to the adult language
is gradually and systematically acquired. Full phonological development takes
several years, and the last sounds may not be acquired before age 6 or so.
Between 12 months and 18 months of age, a child learns to produce about
50 words (which is only about a fourth of those it can recognize). The range
of sounds and of syllable types needed to give voice to so small a lexicon is
relatively limited (5 vowels and 10 consonants would generate 50 mono-
syllabic words of CV type). At about 18 months of age, however, children
typically experience a “word spurt,” and for this larger lexicon the previous
inventory of sounds and syllables is
inadequate and must be expanded.
Around 24 months (2;0) of age, an
English-speaking child typically has ac-
quired the following consonant sounds,
although not all of them can be pro-
duced in all the positions within a word
where adults produce them:
Try It Yourself What generalization
can you make about the preferred sounds of
babbling as compared to the dispreferred sounds? Think
in terms of phonological features or natural classes.
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 512
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 512 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
Acquiring a First Language 513
Inventory of English Consonants at Age Two
Nasals m n
Stops b d g
p t k
Fricatives f s h
Approximants w
A year later, at about 36 months (3;0), the child has added /j/ and /ŋ/ to its
inventory, although [b], [d], [g], and [k] still remain elusive in word-final posi-
tion. Consonant clusters (as in spilled [spɪld] or [spɪlt], stopped [stɑpt], and asked
[æskt]) present children with particular challenges. In fact, of the wide range of
clusters that adults use, the 3-year-old may have mastered only final /ŋk/, as in
pink and sink.
By around 4 years of age, the inventory of consonants has expanded signifi-
cantly and stands approximately as given here.
Inventory of English Consonants at Age Four
Nasals m n ŋ
Stops b d g
p t k
Fricatives f s ∫ h
v z
Affricates ʧ
ʤ
Approximants w l/r j
At this stage the voiced fricatives /v/ and /z/ may be present only in medial
position (as in over and dizzy), but the child may not yet be able to produce
them in word-final or word-initial position. Recall that the 29-month-old (2;5)
boy whose utterances we analyzed earlier substituted the nasal [n] for initial
[z] in the name Zeina, presumably influenced by anticipation of the [n] to fol-
low, as commonly happens with children. The interdental fricative sounds /θ/
and /ð/ (as in thin and then) have yet to be added to the 4-year-old’s inventory
in any position, as has the relatively rare /ӡ/ (as in measure). Between the ages
of 4 and 6, then, an English-speaking child may still lack /ӡ/, /v/, /θ/, /ð/, and
/z/, at least in some positions. And still ahead lies mastery of the morphopho-
nemic rules that account for variation between underlying forms and surface
forms (as in the [t]/[ɾ] alternation of late [let] and later [leɾər] or the [d]/[ɾ]
alternation of dad and daddy). Mastery of the more complex syllable structures
and consonant clusters also lies ahead.
Substituting and Omitting Sounds Can you imagine that, until a child mastered
the phonological inventory of his or her language, the child would skip the
sounds not yet learned, producing pronunciations such as oo [u] for shoe and
juice? As you know, that isn’t what happens. Instead, children generally attempt
to pronounce all the sounds in a word, although they manage it by various
simplifications. The principal ones in early pronunciations involve substituting
easier sounds for harder ones, as in these processes:
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 513
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 513 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
514 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
Stopping: fricatives and affricates pronounced as stops
Devoicing: final obstruents devoiced
Voicing: initial obstruents voiced before vowels
Fronting: velars and alveopalatals pronounced as alveolars
Gliding: liquids pronounced as approximants (i.e., as glides)
Vocalization: liquids replaced by vowels
Denasalization: nasals replaced by oral stops
Processes of Substitution in Child Language
Stopping v → b van → [bæn]
ð → d, n that → [dæt], there → [nɛr]
ʤ → d jack → [dæk], jam → [dæb]
ʧ → d check → [dɛk]
Devoicing b → p knob → [nɑp]
-d → t bad → [bæt]
-g → t dog → [dɑt]
-v → f stove → [duf]
Voicing p- → b pot → [bɑt]
t- → d toe → [duː]
k- → d kiss → [dɪ]
Fronting k → t duck → [dɑt]
g → d gate → [det]
θ → f thumb → [fʌm]
∫ → z shoes → [zus]
ӡ → z rouge → [wuːz]
ʧ → ts match → [mæts]
ʤ → dz cabbage → [tæːbədz]
Gliding r → w rock → [wɑt], sorry → [sɑwɑ]
Vocalization l → u table → [dubu]
Denasalization m → p, b lamb → [bæp], broom → [bub], jam → [dæb]
(After Ingram 1989, pp. 371–72)
Actually, besides the substitution processes described above, some omission
also takes place. For example, as illustrated below, young children typically
delete unstressed syllables from trisyllabic words (as in nana for banana) and
sometimes the unstressed syllable of a disyllabic word; they sometimes omit
final consonants; and they often reduce consonant clusters.
Processes of Omission in Child Language
Deletion of syllable banana → [nænə], kitchen → [kɪʧ], pocket → [bɑt]
Deletion of final consonant doll → [dɑ], far → [fɑ]
Reduction of consonant clusters
stop + liquid → stop glass → [dæs], bread → [but]
s- + stop → stop star → [dɑ]
s- + nasal → nasal snake → [nek]
nasal + voiced stop → nasal hand → [hæn]
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 514
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 514 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
How Do Researchers Study Language Acquisition? 515
Determinants of Acquisition Order It isn’t entirely clear what determines the
order in which sounds are acquired. If it would seem reasonable to assume that
the more frequently a child heard a particular sound, the sooner it would be
acquired, the facts point elsewhere. Consider that the most frequent English
consonant sounds are the fricatives [s], [d], [z], and [v]. Either [s] or [z] occurs
in the plural form of most nouns, the possessive form of every noun, the third-
person singular present-tense form of all verbs (eats, does, is), certain common
pronouns and possessive determiners (his, hers, yours), and some other common
words (was and some). In light of such frequency, it is not surprising that [s]
is acquired relatively early (by about 24 months). But, perplexingly, [z] is not
acquired until 4 years of age and then usually only in medial position. Con-
sider also that [ð] is acquired very late although it occurs in extremely frequent
words like this, that, and the, while [v], even at 4 years of age, is produced in
medial position but not initially or finally, where it is common in such words
as very, have, and of. Clearly, frequency of occurrence in adult speech is not the
sole determinant in the order of acquisition.
More influential than frequency is the functional importance of a sound in
its phonological system. A sound has a high functional load if it serves to differ-
entiate many words (or words that are very frequent), and high functional load
seems to promote early acquisition. Thus, the affricate /ʧ/ is acquired much
later by children learning English than by Guatemalan children learning the
Mayan language Quiché. The reason appears to be that /ʧ/ contrasts with other
sounds in many more Quiché words than it does in English words, and the high
functional load of the /ʧ/ sound in Quiché fosters early acquisition. By contrast,
the low functional importance of /ʧ/ in English bumps it towards the end of the
acquisition line.
Phonological Idioms Before acquiring all the sounds in the inventory of his
or her language, a child may be able to produce some sounds as part of fixed
phrases or phonological “idioms.” In much the same way that adults have
semantic idioms (kick the bucket, bite the dust) and syntactic idioms (the sooner
the better), so children may produce unanalyzed words containing sounds that
they do not yet have as separate units of their phonological inventory. They
have learned to pronounce the word as a whole but haven’t mastered all the
individual sounds as such. The child can thus make a lexical contrast without
yet having the contrasting sounds in its phonological inventory.
Studies of child language and language acquisition have most commonly been
naturalistic, or observational, studies. At regular intervals researchers have tape-
recorded ordinary interactions between adults and children or among children
and transcribed those results for analysis. There have also been diary studies
(carried out by parents who were themselves linguists or psychologists) that re-
cord a child’s utterances, the age at which they occur, and the situational context
surrounding them. Depending on the focus and goals of the observer, diary stud-
ies represent different degrees of detail, ranging from ordinary orthography to
How Do Researchers Study Language Acquisition?
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 515
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 515 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
516 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
a narrow phonetic transcription. Quite naturally, observational studies of child
language have focused on the production of words and sentences.
Receptive Competence and Productive Competence
So far we haven’t said much about a child’s receptive mastery, or understanding,
nor drawn a distinction between what a child’s grammatical competence might
allow but its production apparatus be unable to utter. After all, a child could have
the grammatical competence to generate adult pronunciations but remain un-
able to utter them because of physiological immaturity in the vocal apparatus.
“FIS” Phenomenon An oft-repeated story tells of a child who pronounced fish
as fis [fɪs] but objected to an adult imitating the fis pronunciation. “This is your
fis?” the adult asked. “No,” said the child: “my fis.” When the adult repeated the
question, the child again rejected the fis pronunciation. When the adult eventually
said, “Your fish?” the child concurred: “Yes, my fis”! The child could hear the
distinction between fish and fis and recognized fis as an incorrect pronunciation.
But in attempting to say fish the child produced a word that replicated the fis
it knew to be wrong. We should be careful interpreting such data, however. It
may seem that the child knows and recognizes the difference between [fɪʃ] and
[fɪs] while being unable to pronounce [fɪʃ] because of limitations in the vocal
apparatus, but there are other possible explanations. Consider the case of the
child who consistently pronounced puddle as puggle: the obvious hypothesis that
the vocal apparatus was not yet capable of pronouncing /d/ intervocalically was
belied by the fact that the child systematically pronounced puzzle as puddle.
Big Bigs In saying a word like pig or tug, the voicing required in pronouncing the
vowels is anticipated by adults in such a fashion that /p/ and /t/, though they begin
without voicing, become voiced just preceding the onset of the vowel. It is almost
as if the pronunciation were [pbig] and [tdʌg]. The key to an adult’s distinguishing
initial /p/ and /b/ before vowels is how long the voicing is delayed, not whether it
is present or absent. A child may be perceived as failing to distinguish voiced from
voiceless initial stops, pronouncing tug and Doug alike as [dʌg] or pig and big alike
as [big]. But laboratory analyses indicate that some children systematically distin-
guish initial /t/ from /d/ and initial /p/ from /b/ by delaying the voicing onset
time for the voiceless stops (/t/ and /p/) for a longer period than they delay voicing
for the voiced stops (/d/ and /b/). The delayed voicing is detectable by laboratory
instruments but not by the human ear. This would indicate that the child has heard
the voiceless and voiced stops and internalized the difference between them but has
not yet learned to delay the onset of voicing long enough to be detected by adults.
There is general agreement that receptive mastery of language outpaces
production, but it is not clear that this is so at all stages of language development
and in all respects. Still, children generally seem able to understand more than
they can produce—that is, their lexical and syntactic repertoire is greater than
their production reveals. At about 18 months of age, as we mentioned above,
a child understands about 200 words, although only about 50 appear in his or
her speech. In attempts to analyze the language competence of children, then,
naturalistic observation alone may offer an incomplete picture, so researchers
have had to invent ingenious ways to get at receptive competence.
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 516
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 516 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
Acquiring a Second Language 517
Wugs and Other Experimental Techniques
One experimental technique elicits utterances that children would not otherwise
have occasion to say. In one study, children were shown drawings of an imaginary
bird or animal and told, for example, “This is a wug.” The next drawing would
depict two such birds or animals, and the child would be suitably prompted to
offer a plural form: “Now there is another one. There are two of them. There are
two ____?” This technique can uncover how much morphophonemic variation
of the plural morpheme (for example, [s] versus [z]) the child has mastered.
Alternatively, pictures of people carrying out novel actions such as “ricking”
can be used to elicit past tenses and progressive forms of verbs. With another
technique, children using hand puppets speak in the voices of their puppets to
another puppet voiced by the researcher. In a third technique, children are asked
simply to repeat words or sentences (to display their progress for repetition
of sounds, syllable structures, and grammatical forms). In a fourth technique,
designed to gauge understanding, children playing with dolls are asked to act
out such sentences as “The horse pushed the cow” and “The horse was pushed
by the cow,” which would test their understanding of the meaning of passives.
Although child language and first-language acquisition are important to
many aspects of linguistic theory, a good deal about the processes of acquisition
remains unclear or uninvestigated. The interaction between physiological and
mental limitations, on the one hand, and the nature of the internalized gram-
mar, on the other, makes interpreting child language data challenging. Given
the complexities of interpreting child language data, the most reliable findings
and theories will be those that emerge from using a variety of naturalistic and
experimental methodologies.
Besides your first language, you have probably acquired at least the rudiments
of a second language, perhaps Russian, Spanish, German, French, Japanese—or
English. The term first language refers to the language one acquires in infancy.
A second language is any language that is acquired after one’s first language;
it may well be a third or fourth “second language.” When we speak of second
languages in this chapter, we focus on those acquired beyond childhood.
First and Second Languages
There are two common situations in which adults learn a second language.
Some may study a foreign language in school or college. As with English taught
abroad, such situations often provide relatively little opportunity for experience
with the spoken language outside the classroom. In this sense, the study of
French in the United States could be called “French as a foreign language,”
paralleling the “English as a foreign language” studied in Jiddah, Tokyo, Taipei,
and elsewhere. It’s useful to bear in mind that studying a foreign language
typically involves activities that differ significantly from those surrounding first-
language acquisition and the acquisition of a second language in a community
Acquiring a Second Language
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 517
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 517 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
518 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
where it is spoken natively and widely. When people acquire a language in a
community in which it is spoken natively, they can participate in a range of
communicative activities in the target language.
When populations of Poles, Italians, Germans, Norwegians, and others
migrated to America in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, they settled
in a land that was largely English speaking, although many immigrants initially
lived in neighborhoods where their first language could be used with neighbors
and shopkeepers as well as at home. The migrations of the present day, from
Asia and Latin America, for example, represent a similar situation, although
the communities in which immigrants now settle often have large enough
immigrant populations to maintain the “foreign” language in newspapers and
in radio and television broadcasting, as well as in shops, churches, and homes.
In some metropolitan areas, dozens of locally broadcast “foreign” languages can
be heard on the radio every day, and cable networks regularly broadcast news
and entertainment in languages other than English. In Los Angeles, for example,
television news is broadcast in Korean, Mandarin, Spanish, Persian, Tagalog,
and several other languages every day, and there are soap operas and variety
shows in these languages and others. Daily newspapers are also published
locally in several languages and sold at newsstands side by side with English-
language dailies. For elections, sample ballots in Los Angeles typically include
a full-page notice informing registered voters that voter information pamphlets
are available not only in English but in Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese,
Tagalog, and Spanish. (See the photo in Chapter 1.)
Staff members at many bank branches in Los Angeles are bilingual in English
and another language spoken in the neighborhood, and many other commercial
and professional establishments routinely provide bilingual service. As a result
of such interwoven linguistic networks in some North American communities
and communities around the globe, the distinction between second language
and “foreign” language is not altogether tidy.
Comparing First- and Second-Language Acquisition
Typically there are significant differences between first- and second-language
learning. To begin with (and by definition), first-language acquisition involves an
initial linguistic experience, while a second language is mastered only by some-
one who already speaks another language. However blank the language slate may
be at birth, it is certainly not blank after first-language acquisition is completed.
Additionally, a first language is usually acquired in a home environment by
an infant in the care of parents and other caretakers, with many activities—
linguistic and otherwise—jointly focused on the child. In such circumstances, lan-
guage use is closely tied to the immediate surroundings and the context of
language use. Caretakers use language in reference to objects in the immediate
environment (objects that can be seen or heard by the infant), and language
content reflects ongoing activity in which child and caretaker are participating
as actors (as with eating or bathing) or as observers (of activities within sight or
earshot). In contrast, second-language learning is seldom so context bound. Or-
dinarily an adult speaking a second language in a classroom is using it to discuss
imaginary or decontextualized events removed from the learning situation.
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 518
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 518 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
Acquiring a Second Language 519
A third difference has to do with the adaptability and malleability of learners
as a consequence of age and of social identity. Infants have not yet developed
strong social identities as to gender, ethnicity, or social status, factors that can
be an important part of the social identity and self-awareness of adolescents
and adults. Since language use reflects (and helps create) social identity,
as you saw in Chapter 11, the social-psychological experiences of first- and
second-language acquisition can differ greatly. For many second-language
learners, the language variety being studied is emblematic of a different social
status or different ethnicity from that represented by their first language, and for
nearly all learners it represents new and different cultural values. For infants,
this is not the case, of course, so such factors do not come into play in first-
language acquisition. Ordinarily, acquisition of a first language and of a social
identity go hand in hand and are inseparable.
A fourth difference is that second-language learners ordinarily have linguistic
meta-knowledge that is lacking at least in the early stages of a first language.
That is, with a second language, speakers may already possess a vocabulary for
referring to language structures and language uses. They will certainly be aware
that words and sounds differ from language to language, that some sounds are
more difficult to make than others, that languages differ grammatically, and
that speakers can be recognized as native or nonnative by their speech patterns.
Naturally, such meta-knowledge is lacking for the first-language acquirer, who
plays with language spontaneously and unselfconsciously.
Even when second-language learners haven’t been exposed to such terms as
noun, verb, and sentence, they are aware of certain linguistic phenomena—the
existence of words, the notions of regional, social, and foreign accent, the existence
of well-formed and ill-formed sentences, and so on. For many other second-
language learners, phonological terms such as consonant and vowel and grammatical
terms such as verb and subject are familiar. Just what influence knowledge of
such categories may have on second-language acquisition is not known. Some
investigators believe that conscious knowledge of grammar can facilitate acquisition
for some learners, but to what degree and in what ways are not well understood.
The Role of Motivation in Second-Language Learning
Among the things that clearly affect mastery of a second language is the learner’s
motivation. People learn another language for many reasons, from preparing to
vacation abroad, where one may need to seek directions in the local language, to
preparing to take up permanent residence in a locale where it is the sole means of
communication. For some students the principal reason for second-language study
is to meet a graduation requirement. Motivations for second-language learning can
be grouped under the headings of instrumental and integrative.
Instrumental Motivation An instrumental motivation is one in which
knowledge of the target language will help achieve some other goal: reading
scientific works, singing or understanding opera, conducting business. For such
uses, only a narrow range of registers (or even a single register) is necessary,
and little or no social integration of the learner into a community using the
language is desired.
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 519
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 519 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
520 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
Integrative Motivation By contrast, when you take up residence in a community
that uses the target language in its social interactions, integrative motivation
encourages you to learn the new language as a way of integrating yourself
socially into the community and becoming one of its members. Integrative
motivation typically underlies successful acquisition of a wide range of registers
and a nativelike pronunciation, achievements that usually elude learners with
instrumental motivation.
The Role of Attitudes in Second-Language Learning
Language attitudes can have a profound effect on your ability to acquire a
second language, especially beyond adolescence. Studying a foreign language is
parallel to learning math or history; a body of information must be mastered,
certainly including much vocabulary and perhaps including terms such as
case, tense, (subjunctive) mood, and (subordinate) clause. This kind of foreign-
language learning differs not only from first-language acquisition but also from
second-language acquisition in immersion situations in which you can acquire a
language in a fashion approximating (however inadequately) the environment
normally surrounding first-language acquisition. Because the language variety
you acquire becomes part of your social identity, the acquisition of a second
language must be seen not just as an intellectual exercise but as an enterprise
that affects or alters your social identity.
Your attitude toward the second language and your motivation can affect the
success of acquisition. In acquiring a foreign language, your efforts are mediated
by what linguist Stephen Krashen has called an affective filter—a psychological
disposition that facilitates or inhibits your natural language-acquisition capaci-
ties. Krashen maintains that if there is sufficient comprehensible language use
surrounding a learner, the acquisition of a second language, even by an adult,
can proceed as effortlessly and efficiently as first-language acquisition, provided
that the affective filter is not blocking the operation of these capacities.
The learning of a second language in school is increasingly viewed not as an
intellectual or educational endeavor but as a social-psychological phenomenon.
One social psychologist describes this perspective as follows:
In the acquisition of a second language, the student is faced with the task not
simply of learning new information . . . which is part of his own culture but rather
of acquiring symbolic elements of a different ethnolinguistic community. The new
words are not simply new words for old concepts, the new grammar is not simply a
new way of ordering words, the new pronunciations are not merely ‘different’ ways
of saying things. They are characteristics of another ethnolinguistic community.
Furthermore, the student is not being asked to learn about them; he is being asked
to acquire them, to make them part of his own language reservoir. This involves
imposing elements of another culture into one’s own lifespace. As a result, the
student’s harmony with his own cultural community and his willingness or ability
to identify with other cultural communities become important considerations in
the process of second language acquisition. (R. C. Gardner, “Social Psychological
Aspects of Second Language Acquisition,” in Howard Giles and Robert St. Clair,
eds., Language and Social Psychology [Oxford: Blackwell, 1979], pp. 193–94.)
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 520
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 520 4/1/11 19:21:45
4/1/11 19:21:45
Acquiring a Second Language 521
Teaching and Learning Foreign Languages
Among methods of foreign-language instruction, you are probably familiar
with pattern drills, translation, composition, listening comprehension, and
a few others. Some methods are grounded in the behaviorist assumption
that language mastery is a matter of inducing the right habits, much as first-
language acquisition was earlier assumed to be. Other methods, aiming to be
more naturalistic, attempt to emulate the kinds of language experience children
have when acquiring a first language. With naturalistic methods the emphasis
is on interactional use, especially conversation, focused on matters close at
hand; noninteractional use aims to provide abundant input that is nearly fully
comprehensible to the learner because of its familiarity.
Contrastive Analysis For decades, learning a second language was viewed as a
matter of knowing and practicing the well-formed utterances of the target lan-
guage. Learning a second language was approached as a matter of drilling gram-
matical patterns, and drill focused on patterns that differ from those of the first
language. To prepare teaching materials, researchers carried out a contrastive
analysis of the phonological and grammatical structures of the native and tar-
get languages, producing a list of morphological, grammatical, and phonologi-
cal features that might prove difficult for learners because they differed from
those of the first language.
For various reasons, teaching materials based on contrastive analysis have not
proven very effective. A number of problems have been uncovered, among them the
recognition of an asymmetry between learners acquiring one another’s language.
Contrastive analysis predicts that when two languages contrast, the difference be-
tween them should prove equally challenging for speakers of both languages. In
fact, however, difficulties typically prove asymmetrical. Rather than English and
Chinese speakers having equivalent difficulties learning one another’s language,
there are great differences in various parts of the grammar. Mastering a distinc-
tion such as English makes between masculine and feminine singular pronouns (he
versus she) proves difficult for speakers of Chinese, which makes no such distinc-
tion, whereas it is easy for English speakers to ignore the distinction in learning
Chinese. Similarly, Chinese doesn’t express the copula be in many places where
English requires it. It is relatively easy for English speakers to omit be in such sen-
tences but very challenging for Chinese speakers to express it in English when it
is required. Likewise, English speakers find it tough to learn the Chinese tone sys-
tem, while Chinese speakers find it easy to adapt to the absence of a tone system
in English. Contrastive analysis also suggests that certain differences in structure
should warrant considerable attention, whereas in practice learners may avoid the
structure, substituting alternative means of expression in the target language.
Interlanguage Some researchers view second-language learners as developing a
series of interlanguages in their progression toward mastery of the target lan-
guage. An interlanguage is that form of the target language that a learner has in-
ternalized, and the interlanguage grammar underlies the spontaneous utterances
of a learner in the target language. The grammar of an interlanguage can differ
from the grammar of the target language by containing rules borrowed from the
native language, by containing overgeneralizations, by lacking certain sounds of
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 521
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 521 4/1/11 19:21:46
4/1/11 19:21:46
522 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
the target language, by inappropriately marking certain verbs in the lexicon as
requiring (or not requiring) a preposition, by lacking certain rules altogether, and
so on. A language learner can be viewed as progressing from one interlanguage to
another, each one approximating more closely the target language.
Fossilizing For various reasons, often related to the kind of motivation a learner
has, the language-learning process typically slows down or ceases at some point,
and the existing interlanguage stabilizes, with negligible further acquisition ex-
cept in vocabulary. When such stabilization occurs, the interlanguage may con-
tain rules or other features that differ from those of the target language. This
fossilization underlies the nonnative speech characteristics of someone who
may have spoken the target language for some time but has stopped the process
of learning. In other words, many second-language learners fossilize at a stage
of acquisition that falls far short of nativelike speech.
Fossilization then is at the root of a foreign accent when, for instance, certain
sounds have not been acquired or their allophonic distribution in the fossilized
interlanguage does not match that of native speakers of the target language.
The pronunciation of English thin and then as sin and zen by native speakers of
French may reflect fossilization at a stage before the English sounds /θ/ and /ð/
(which do not occur in the French inventory) have been acquired. Likewise, the
language of the English speaker who pronounces the French words pain ‘bread’
and Pierre with the aspirated [ph] that English has in word-initial position (in-
stead of the unaspirated [p] of French) may have fossilized before the distribu-
tion of the French allophones was mastered.
Grammatical fossilization is manifest in expressions such as those below, spo-
ken by a native speaker of Mandarin.
1. I want to see what can I buy.
2. Where I can buy them?
3. What you gonna do on Tuesday?
4. I will cold.
5. Where did you found it?
6. Why you buy it?
7. How you pronounce this word?
8. Oh! Look this.
Such sentences reflect the speaker’s current interlanguage grammar; for a
speaker whose acquisition of English has ceased to develop, the utterances
would represent fossilization.
Language Teaching Practices Researchers have been investigating second-
language learning and second-language teaching methods intensely for several
decades, and a good deal is known now, but some of the findings and conclusions
point in different directions. In part, of course, that reflects the very different
circumstances in which second and foreign languages are acquired when com-
pared to first languages. Reflecting on the research of past decades, Rod Ellis, a
respected researcher himself, has recently compiled a set of recommended princi-
ples for teachers of second languages to help ensure the success of their students.
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 522
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 522 4/1/11 19:21:46
4/1/11 19:21:46
Acquiring a Second Language 523
We list some of the principles below (the rest—and discussion of all of them—can
be found under Ellis in the “References” section given at the end of this chapter):
1. Instruction needs to ensure that learners develop both a rich repertoire of for-
mulaic expressions and a rule-based competence.
2. Instruction needs to ensure that learners focus predominantly on meaning.
3. Instruction needs to ensure that learners also focus on form.
4. Instruction needs to be predominantly directed at developing implicit knowl-
edge of the L2 while not neglecting explicit knowledge.
5. Successful instructed language learning requires extensive L2 input.
6. Successful instructed language learning also requires opportunities for output.
7. The opportunity to interact in the L2 is central to developing L2 proficiency.
8. Instruction needs to take account of individual differences in learners.
From these principles, you should be able to infer several things about the
state of the art in second-language teaching and the research that underlies
it. For example, the first principle suggests that second languages are learned
partly by rule and partly in whole chunks—one an analytic, the other a gestalt
approach. The second and third principles, coupled with the fifth and seventh,
underscore the fact that language can be represented as a triangle—as we saw
in Chapter 1—with meaning, expression (or form), and interaction (or context)
as its three sides and that second-language learning is best done with respect
to all sides of the triangle. The eighth principle recognizes the fact that, unlike
first-language acquisition, which despite differences around the globe is highly
uniform in its motivation and outcomes, second-language acquisition differs
greatly across situations and learners and that what may succeed with one stu-
dent may not succeed with another.
In recent years, computers have played an
increasingly important role in the study of first-
language acquisition. The question of nature versus
nurture—addressing the likelihood that language is
either partly innate or entirely learned—has prompted
researchers to create models of how language would
be acquired given one set of assumptions or another.
Computers have proven essential to such complicated
modeling, and while little agreement exists about
the facts of acquisition, computational modeling is a
strong ally in addressing the question.
On another front, data collection and analysis
have been the bedrock of many of the best studies
of acquisition, so it isn’t surprising that corpora of
children’s language have been
compiled. Collecting copious
data of children’s language is
challenging and time-consuming, as well as diﬃcult
and expensive to transcribe for research purposes.
In order to pool resources and make available to a
spectrum of researchers the data that have been
collected, researchers at Carnegie Mellon University
have spearheaded a project called CHILDES (Child
Language Data Exchange System), which makes its
database and software programs available to scholars
worldwide. The child language data, transcribed
to agreed-upon standards by researchers around
the globe, is accompanied by a set of software
Computers and Language Learning
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 523
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 523 4/1/11 19:21:46
4/1/11 19:21:46
524 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
programs nicknamed CLAN. With CLAN, researchers
have explored the vast resources of the CHILDES
database and have made a major impact on the ways
in which research into ﬁrst-language acquisition is
carried out. (For more information about CHILDES
or for access to the ﬁles, see the CHILDES website,
cited in the “Other Resources” section at the end of
this chapter.)
Corpora of second-language learners are also
now being compiled. They, too, give promise of
providing researchers with previously unimagined
access to high-quality data in abundance. For
example, the compilers of the Longman Active
Study Dictionary of English relied on the “Longman
Learner’s Corpus of Students’ English” to write over
250 new usage notes.
For decades computers have been used in
language laboratories to support students studying
foreign languages, and an entire ﬁeld has sprung up
that goes by the nickname of CALL, for computer-
assisted language learning. You are doubtless
familiar with some of the language teaching
methods facilitated by CALL. Among the most
familiar ways in which computers have assisted
language learners are by making CD-ROMs available
for listening to language lessons. Of course, in some
sense CD-ROMs have simply replaced audiocassette
recordings, but they enable much freer interaction
with the foreign-language materials. They also
enable multimedia language lessons, including audio
and visual presentations. Programs on CD-ROM are
sometimes accompanied by interactive teaching
and testing.
Other uses of the computer are even more
innovative, though not everyone is convinced of their
eﬃcacy. In one interesting application, CD-ROM audio
programs are accompanied by voiceprints of native
speakers and a microphone for use by the learner.
Using a relatively advanced speech recognition
technology, learners of Spanish, German, French, and
English, for example, can practice their pronunciation
until it matches the pronunciations of the native
speaker voice.
There is no doubt that computers will enable
researchers to test their hypotheses more eﬃciently
and more definitively than has been possible
before. There is also no doubt that microcomputer
technologies are revolutionizing the way that learners
can tackle a foreign language. What the future holds
in these respects can hardly be imagined. ■
Summary
Children do not acquire their native language through instruction by adults or
•
through mere imitation of what they hear adults say.
While a child must receive some linguistic input in order to acquire language,
•
input is not the sole factor and may not be the chief factor that accounts for
the development of grammatical competence and the ability to produce and
understand language.
There is considerable evidence that children are born with the mental capacity
•
to acquire language, probably with a disposition to acquire certain kinds of
structures, and perhaps with additional specifications as to the kinds of grammar
that are eligible for acquisition.
Various stages of language acquisition can be identified, distinguished by the
•
amount of content a child is able to express in an utterance vis-à-vis an adult’s
expression in equivalent circumstances.
Even before children utter their first interpretable words, they use language
•
socially, for example, by engaging in turn-taking expressions with caregivers.
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 524
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 524 4/1/11 19:21:46
4/1/11 19:21:46
Exercises 525
Adopting a second-language variety—whether a standard variety of one’s first
•
language or a foreign language—is not merely an intellectual exercise but an
experience fraught with emotional overtones.
The study of a foreign language cannot be equated with the study of history or
•
math because, more than understanding, it involves adapting to certain customs
of a different social group.
What Do You Think? REVISITED
Bragging Brenda.
• Kids learn vocabulary only by hearing it. But they intuit
syntactic processes as abstract patterns that apply to broad categories and use
those patterns to produce sentences they’ve never heard before.
Nursery school parent.
• It’s true. Although there’s some variation, children acquire the
grammatical parts of their language in approximately the same order.
Brad and Tricia.
• Kids don’t hear anyone say “maked,” “breaked,” or “runned”
for made, broke, and ran, but they often overgeneralize the patterns they do hear
for creating grammatical forms. The fact that they overgeneralize suggests that
they don’t imitate what they hear but apply intuited patterns, sometimes even to
words that are exceptions.
Frustrated Frank.
• Once a first language is acquired, it may “interfere” with
acquisition of a second language and contribute to a “foreign accent.” There’s
no interference acquiring a first language. In addition, Frank’s social identity
is intertwined with his first language, and acquiring a second language may
require adaptation to the social identity represented by the other language.
That’s also something that’s not true of first language acquisition. Much of
the process of acquiring a first language is automatic and not consciously
learned. Likewise, the process of acquiring a second language is not altogether a
conscious activity and not altogether under one’s conscious control. ■
Exercises
14-1. Make a list of baby-talk vocabulary in your first language. Identify the kinds
of referents baby-talk vocabulary has, the lexical categories most frequently
represented, and the phonological form of such vocabulary. If there are dif-
ferent first languages represented in your class, compare the characteristics of
baby-talk terms cross-linguistically as to kinds of referents, lexical categories,
and phonological form.
14-2. a. Explain in what ways the use of personal names such as Baby and Mommy
could be easier for a young child to perceive and analyze than personal
pronouns such as I and you.
b. Explain in what ways the use of content words (nouns, verbs, adjectives)
could make baby talk easier for a child to analyze and understand than
function words such as conjunctions and articles.
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 525
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 525 4/1/11 19:21:46
4/1/11 19:21:46
526 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
14-3. Tape-record a brief passage of talk between an adult or older child and a
young child. Transcribe 30 seconds of the recorded talk and identify an ex-
ample of each feature of baby talk discussed in this chapter. Organize your
list into features of phonology, vocabulary, syntax, and discourse. (Television
shows for children may provide access to such samples.)
14-4. On the basis of what you know about overgeneralizations of morphological
rules, what forms would you predict children might use for each of the adult
words below? In each case identify the rule that is being overgeneralized.
Verbs Nouns Adjectives Pronouns
hurt told took threw geese better I
ate came bled broke sheep (pl.) beautiful myself
14-5. The utterances below (taken, slightly adapted, from Fletcher [1985]) were
spoken by an English child named Sophie on three separate days over the
course of about a year. Examine them closely and characterize the progress of
Sophie’s language acquisition across the three occasions with respect to the
following features:
possessive determiners (my, your) yes/no questions
the copula be (is, are) prepositions
adverbs (down, there) interrogative word order
declarative word order negative sentences
clauses per utterance information questions
auxiliary do auxiliaries other than do
contractible copula regular noun plurals
Example: Personal pronouns—Based on this sample, Sophie, at 2;4,
displays second-person you and first-person singular me; she uses me for
both subject and oblique grammatical relations. At 3;0 she uses her for
subject and oblique relations. At 3;5, the adult forms I, you, and we occur
as subjects, me as object, and it as subject and object, but her appears as
the subject form instead of she.
Age 2 Years, 4 Months
 (1) Me want your tea.
 (2) Where’s the doll house?
 (3) Mary come me.
 (4) Me want Daddy come down.
 (5) That your turn.
 (6) That’s a mess.
 (7) You play “Snakes and Ladders” me?
Age 3 Years
 (8) Shall me sit mon my legs?
 (9) Can me put it in like that?
(10) That not go in there.
(11) Why did Hester be fast asleep?
(12) What this one called?
(13) What did her have wrong with her?
(14) What is that one called?
(15) Daddy didn’t give me two in the end.
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 526
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 526 4/1/11 19:21:47
4/1/11 19:21:47
Exercises 527
Age 3 Years, 5 Months
(16) This isn’t a piano book.
(17) I don’t know what to do.
(18) Where my corder?
(19) Can you take off my shoes?
(20) How did that broke?
(21) You won’t let me play a guitar.
(22) If you do it like this, it won’t come down.
(23) While Hester at school we can buy some sweets.
(24) When her’s at school I’ll buy some sweeties.
(25) I want to ring up somebody and her won’t be there tomorrow.
14-6. Compare the nonnative adult English sentences in the section on
“Fossilizing” with the native English sentences of the child Sophie given in
Exercise 14-5. List as many features as you can that are shared by both sets
of data and that belong only to one set or the other. Which features seem
easier for the young Sophie to learn than for the adult nonnative speaker,
and which seem easier for the nonnative speaker than for Sophie? What
explanation can you offer for why certain features might be harder for
Sophie or harder for the nonnative speaker to learn?
14-7. Cite four reasons that make it more difficult to gather language data from
preschoolers than from schoolchildren and adults, and identify several
technological advances (beginning with the tape recorder) that can help
overcome those difficulties and increase the quantity or quality of data for
research into first-language acquisition.
Especially for Educators and Future Teachers
14-8. Reflect on your experience in learning a second language. Were you gener-
ally successful at it? If so, what contributed to that success? If not, what
made it difficult for you? Were there others—perhaps fellow students—
who found it easier or harder than you to learn a second language? If you
have learned more than one second language, were they equally easy or
equally difficult? If not, what could account for the difference? Did your
attitude toward the people whose language you were learning influence
your success?
14-9. What implications for second-language teachers do you see in the discus-
sion of identity and attitudes in this chapter?
14-10. A print ad for the language learning program Rosetta Stone asks, “What’s
the fastest way to learn a language?” and answers in big letters: ACT LIKE
A BABY. Generally speaking, you wouldn’t want your students acting like
babies, so what does the ad mean? In what way does it make sense for a
second-language learner to act like a baby?
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 527
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 527 4/1/11 19:21:48
4/1/11 19:21:48
528 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
Other Resources
Internet
LISU Website: http://www.CengageBrain.com For users of this textbook.
Provides updated Internet links as well as supplemental material for students
and instructors. Here you will find interactive learning tools.
CHILDES: http://childes.psy.cmu.edu/ A rich source of information about
research in child language acquisition, this website also offers data and
software.
Videos
Acquiring the Human Language: “Playing the Language Game”
•  Part of The Human
Language Series, an award-winning set of four videos originally broadcast on PBS in 1995.
This 55-minute video explores how children seem to acquire language spontaneously and
without instruction. It asks, “Do people imitate those around them or is grammar inherited?”
(available through Transit Media at http://www.transitmedia.net/).
The Human Language Evolves: “With and Without Words”
•  Part of the same series as the
previous entry, this excellent 55-minute video explores the reasons human beings acquired
language while chimpanzees and other species did not; includes fascinating discussion of
animal and human gestures.
Baby Talk
•  An informative video about first-language acquisition beginning in the womb;
produced by NOVA and first broadcast in 1985; available only on VHS cassette from libraries
and video rental outlets; copies may be available from vendors at www.amazon.com.
Secret of the Wild Child
•  This Emmy-winning video in the NOVA series explores the
troubled history of Genie. You can get NOVA videos from many video rental outlets. For
information about purchasing NOVA videos, visit WGBH’s website at http://www.pbs.org/
wgbh/nova/novastore.html. To read an online transcript of this video, visit http://www
.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/transcripts/2112gchild.html.
An English-Speaking World
•  From The Story of English series with host Robert MacNeil, this
video discusses English around the world and offers insight into instrumental motivations for
second-language acquisition; available only on VHS videocassettes from libraries and video
rental outlets; copies may be available from vendors represented at http://www.amazon.com.
Suggestions for Further Reading
Gerry T. M. Altmann. 1999.
• The Ascent of Babel: An Exploration of Language, Mind,
and Understanding (Oxford: Oxford University Press). Written by a psychologist, this
wide-ranging treatment of the cognitive aspects of first-language acquisition is written in
nontechnical language but requires some worthwhile effort.
Roger Brown. 1973.
• A First Language: The Early Stages (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press). An accessible classic. Our examples of adult expansions of children’s utterances and
the list of 14 morphemes ordered by acquisition sequence come from this book.
Eve V. Clark. 2009.
• First Language Acquisition, 2nd ed. (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press). Another highly accessible follow-up to the present chapter.
Rod Ellis. 1997.
• Second Language Acquisition (Oxford: Oxford University Press). An
accessible textbook about how second languages are acquired.
Susan M. Gass & Larry Selinker. 2008.
• Second Language Acquisition: An Introductory
Course, 3rd ed. (New York: Routledge). Well rehearsed over the years, this staple is highly
recommended for beginning students.
Jean Berko Gleason & Nan Bernstein Ratner, eds. 2008.
• The Development of Language,
7th ed. (Boston: Allyn & Bacon). A good next step after the present chapter, with separate
chapters on phonology, syntax, semantics, and pragmatics, as well as on atypical language
and the neurological bases of language acquisition.
Patsy M. Lightbown & Nina Spada. 2006.
• How Languages Are Learned, 3rd ed. (Oxford:
Oxford University Press). An excellent and time-tested blend of practical and theoretical
approaches to second-language acquisition.
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 528
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 528 4/1/11 19:21:48
4/1/11 19:21:48
Other Resources 529
Lourdes Ortega. 2009.
• Understanding Second Language Acquisition (London: Hodder
Education). Written as an introductory textbook, this enthusiastic approach is recommended
especially for graduate students approaching language acquisition as a new subject.
Robert E. Owens, Jr. 2007.
• Language Development: An Introduction, 7th ed. (Boston:
Allyn and Bacon). A detailed, accessible treatment attending to social and psychological
concerns and including a chapter on school-age literacy development.
Muriel Saville-Troike. 2005.
• Introducing Second Language Acquisition (Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press). An excellent first book in SLA, covering the basics from
psychological and social points of view and including discussion of pedagogy.
Virginia Yip & Stephen Matthews. 2007.
• The Bilingual Child: Early Development and
Language Contact (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press). Winner of the Linguistic
Society of America’s Leonard Bloomfield Book Award in 2009, this richly detailed study
traces the acquisition of English and Cantonese by the authors’ two children.
Advanced Reading
Comprehensive treatments of first-language acquisition can be found in Bavin (2009) and
Fletcher and MacWhinney (1995). In some instances, the chapters in the latter work may
rely on more background than students who have read only the present textbook will possess,
but they are useful overviews for instructors. Chapter 4 of Slobin (1979) is highly accessible.
Goodluck (1991) provides a clear introduction to aspects of child language acquisition that bear
closely on current grammatical theory. O’Grady (1997; 2005) are well-balanced treatments of
syntactic development, offering analysis from various theoretical points of view.
Curtiss (1977) recounts the story of Genie, the child who received virtually no language
input. Schieffelin and Ochs (1986) contains fascinating descriptions of socialization into
linguistic and social roles in diverse cultures, including those of Samoa, Papua New Guinea,
Lesotho (in southern Africa), and Japan. Andersen (1990) describes preschoolers’ mastery
over the registers associated with social roles such as father, mother, and child in middle-class
American homes, as well as teacher and doctor. The socialization of children into gender roles
is explored in Swann (1992). Gleason (1980) describes observations of adults teaching children
politeness rules for Halloween trick-or-treating, an example of consciously prescriptive input.
Slobin (1985) provides a wealth of information on language acquisition around the globe.
Peters (1983) investigates the strategies that children use to analyze linguistic input and ways
in which baby talk may help that process.
Wanner and Gleitman (1982) lays out the state of knowledge in language acquisition from
diverse vantage points; we have relied for some of our discussion on the overview chapter by
the editors and on Slobin’s chapter, “Universal and Particular in the Acquisition of Language.”
Ingram (1989), on which we have relied for the stages of phonological acquisition, offers
detailed discussion of the research on first-language acquisition. Fletcher (1985) contains four
samples of Sophie’s language at six-month intervals between 2;6 and 4;0; we have borrowed
several examples from these transcriptions. Our discussion of vocabulary acquisition follows
M. C. Templin’s Certain Language Skills, as reported in Miller (1977).
For second-language acquisition, Krashen and Terrell (1983) presents an integrated
approach, emphasizing naturalistic ways of experiencing comprehensible input. Ryan and Giles
(1982) discusses the empirical study of language attitudes and address the role of attitudes in
second-language acquisition. Gardner and Lambert (1972) discusses attitudes and motivation
in second-language acquisition.
References
Andersen, Elaine Slosberg. 1990. Speaking with Style: The Sociolinguistic Skills of Children
(London: Routledge).
Bavin, Edith L., ed. 2009. The Cambridge Handbook of Child Language (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press.
Curtiss, Susan. 1977. Genie: A Psycholinguistic Study of a Modern-day “Wild Child” (New York:
Academic).
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 529
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 529 4/1/11 19:21:49
4/1/11 19:21:49
530 Chapter 14 Acquiring First and Second Languages
Ellis, Rod. 2005. “Principles of Instructed Language Learning.” Asian EFL Journal 7 (3): 9-24.
[Available at: http://www.asian-efl-journal.com/September_2005_EBook_editions.pdf]
Fletcher, Paul. 1985. A Child’s Learning of English (London: Blackwell).
Fletcher, Paul & Brian MacWhinney. 1995. The Handbook of Child Language (Malden,
MA: Blackwell).
Gardner, Robert C. & Wallace E. Lambert. 1972. Attitudes and Motivation in Second-Language
Learning (Rowley, MA: Newbury House).
Gleason, Jean Berko. 1980. “The Acquisition of Social Speech: Routines and Politeness
Formulas,” in Howard Giles, W. Peter Robinson & Philip M. Smith, eds., Language: Social
Psychological Perspectives (New York: Academic).
Goodluck, Helen. 1991. Language Acquisition: A Linguistic Introduction (Oxford: Blackwell).
Ingram, David. 1989. First Language Acquisition: Method, Description, and Explanation (Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press).
Krashen, Stephen D. & Tracy D. Terrell. 1983. The Natural Approach: Language Acquisition in the
Classroom (Hayward, CA: Alemany).
Miller, George A. 1977. Spontaneous Apprentices: Children and Language (New York: Seabury).
O’Grady, William. 1997. Syntactic Development (Chicago: University of Chicago Press).
———. 2005. How Children Learn Language (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press).
Peters, Ann M. 1983. The Units of Language Acquisition (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press).
Ryan, Ellen Bouchard & Howard Giles, eds. 1982. Attitudes towards Language Variation: Social
and Applied Contexts (London: Edward Arnold).
Schieffelin, Bambi B. & Elinor Ochs, eds. 1986. Language Socialization across Cultures (Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press).
Slobin, Dan I. 1979. Psycholinguistics, 2nd ed. (Glenview, IL: Scott Foresman).
———. ed. 1985. The Crosslinguistic Study of Language Acquisition. 2 vols. (Hillsdale,
NJ: Erlbaum).
Swann, Joan. 1992. Girls, Boys and Language (Oxford: Blackwell).
Wanner, Eric & Lila R. Gleitman, eds. 1982. Language Acquisition: The State of the Art (Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press).
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 530
00419_14_ch14_p499-530.indd 530 4/1/11 19:21:50
4/1/11 19:21:50
531
Glossary
This glossary characterizes important terms used in this book. Typically, when first
discussed in the text, such terms are printed in boldface to indicate their impor-
tance. Some terms, boldfaced only in headings, are included in the glossary as well
because of their frequent use throughout the text. Within the glossary, *italicized
terms with an asterisk have their own entry. For further discussion of a term, consult
the index.
A
absolute universal A linguistic pattern at play in all languages of the world without
exception. Example: “Any language with voiced stops also has voiceless stops.”
accent The pronunciation features of any spoken language *variety.
acronym An abbreviation formed by combining the initials of an expression into a
pronounceable word. Examples: NATO, SARS, radar, yuppy, scuba (but not USA,
CNN, SUV, UN, BBC, ATM, whose pronunciations merely voice the names of the
letters, as in C-N-N).
adjacency pair A set of two consecutive, ordered turns that “go together” in a con-
versation, such as question/answer sequences and greeting/greeting exchanges.
adjective A lexical category of words that serve semantically to specify the attributes
of *nouns (as in tall ships) and that can represent degrees of comparison morpho-
logically (taller) or syntactically (most beautiful); adjectives may have attributive
function (those tall ships) or predicative function (those ships are tall).
adverb A lexical class with wide-ranging functions and no inflections. Many English
adverbs are derived from *adjectives with the *derivational morpheme -ly (as in
suddenly, quickly from sudden, quick), but the most common adverbs have no dis-
tinguishing marks (soon, very, today).
affective meaning Information conveyed about the attitudes and emotions of
language users toward the content or context of their expression; together with
*social meaning, affective meaning is sometimes called connotation.
aﬃx A *bound morpheme that attaches to a root or stem *morpheme (called the root or
stem). *Prefixes and *suffixes are the most common types of affixes in the world’s
languages; less common are *infixes and *circumfixes.
aﬀricate A sound produced when air is built up by a complete closure of the oral
tract at some *place of articulation and then released and continued like a *frica-
tive; also called a stop fricative. Examples: English [ʧ] as in chin and [ʤ]) as in gin;
German [ʦ] as in Zeit ‘time.’ In American practice, [ʧ] is sometimes represented
by [č] and [ʤ] by [ǰ].
agreement The marking of a word (as with an *affix) to indicate its grammatical
relationship to another word in the sentence. Thus, a verb that agrees with its
*subject in *person and *number has a form that indicates that relationship; an
adjective may agree with a noun in *gender, *number, and *case.
allomorph An alternate realization (i.e., phonological form) of a morpheme in a par-
ticular linguistic environment. For example, the English ‘plural’ morpheme has
three allomorphs: [əz] (as in buses), [z] (twigs), and [s] (cats).
allophone A phonetic realization (i.e., a pronunciation) of a *phoneme in a particu-
lar phonological environment. Example: In English, unaspirated [p] and *aspi-
rated [pʰ] are allophones of the phoneme /p/, and they occur in *complementary
distribution.
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 531
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 531 4/1/11 19:32:07
4/1/11 19:32:07
532 Glossary
alphabet A writing system in which, ideally, each graphic sign represents a distinc-
tive sound (i.e., a *phoneme) of the language.
alveolar A sound articulated at the alveolar ridge, the bony ridge just behind and
above the upper teeth.
alveo-palatal A *place of articulation in the oral cavity between the alveolar ridge
and the palate. Example: The English sound [ʃ] (sometimes written [š]) repre-
sented by <sh> in shoe is articulated in the alveo-palatal region.
ambiguous Characterizes an expression that can be interpreted in more than one
way as a consequence of having more than one *constituent structure ([french fries
and cole slaw] or soup; french fries and [cole slaw or soup] ) or more than one *ref-
erential meaning (bank of a river, savings bank).
antonymy In *lexical semantics, denotes opposite meanings; word pairs with oppo-
site meanings are said to be antonymous, as with wet and dry; new and old.
appropriateness conditions Conventions that regulate the interpretation under
which an *utterance serves as a particular *speech act, such as a question, prom-
ise, or invitation.
approximant A sound produced when one articulator approaches another but the
vocal tract is not sufficiently narrowed to create the audible friction that typically
characterizes a *consonant sound. Examples: [w], [j], [r], [l]. See *liquid.
argot The specialized vocabulary of a group, often an occupational or recreational
group; unlike *slang, argot is not limited to situations of extreme informality.
aspect A grammatical category of the verb, marking the way in which a situation
described by the verb takes place in time, for example, as continuous, repetitive,
or instantaneous. The English progressive (as in is walking or was walking, as dis-
tinct from walks or walked) marks continuous aspect.
aspirated Sounds produced with an accompanying puff of air; represented in pho-
netic transcription by the *diacritic raised [ʰ], as in [pʰ].
assimilation A phonological process whereby a sound becomes phonetically similar
(or identical) to a neighboring sound. Examples: In Korean, underlying /p/ is
pronounced as [b] between vowels; that is, /p/ assimilates to the voicing of the
neighboring vowels.
auxiliary verb Used with (or instead of) the main verb to carry certain kinds of gram-
matical information, such as *tense and *aspect. In English, the auxiliary verb is
inverted with the *subject in yes/no questions (Can Lou swim?) and carries the
negative element in contractions (Lou can’t swim).
B
bilabial A *place of articulation involving both lips; a sound produced there.
bilingualism The state of having *competence, both grammatical and communica-
tive, in more than one language.
bound morpheme A *morpheme that cannot stand alone as a word. Examples: -ment
(as in establishment), -er (painter), and ‘plural’ (zebras). See *free morpheme.
branch A line in a tree or tree diagram that descends from a *node.
C
case A grammatical category associated with nouns and pronouns, indicating their
grammatical relationship to other elements in the clause, often the verb. Exam-
ple: The pronoun I is marked for common case, me for objective case, while book
is said to be unmarked or to be marked for common case. In some languages,
adjectives agree in case with nouns.
circumﬁx A discontinuous morpheme that combines a *prefix and *suffix in a single
*morpheme occurring on both ends of a root or stem.
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 532
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 532 4/1/11 19:32:07
4/1/11 19:32:07
Glossary 533
clause A constituent unit of syntax consisting of a verb with its noun phrases;
a clause can stand alone as a simple sentence or function as a *constituent of
another clause.
click A *stop *consonant defined by its *manner of articulation and pronounced at
various *places of articulation; clicks such as the alveolar click used in English to
express disapproval, as in tsk-tsk or tut-tut, function as phonemes in some Bantu
languages, such as Zulu and Xhosa.
coda Any consonants that follow the *nucleus in the *rhyme of a *syllable; for ex-
ample, in the syllable [pɛn], [n] is the coda; in [spɛnt], [nt] is the coda.
code switching Alternating between two or more language *varieties when speaking
with others who share those varieties.
cognates Words or *morphemes that have developed from a single, historically ear-
lier source. Example: English father, German Vater, Spanish padre, and Gothic fa-
dar are cognates because all of them have developed from the same reconstructed
Proto-Indo-European word (pəter). Also said of languages that have a common
historical ancestor, as with English, Russian, German, Persian, and the other
*Indo-European languages.
collocation Word pairs or sets that habitually co-occur (i.e., occur near one another)
in *texts.
communicative competence See *competence.
comparative reconstruction A method used in historical linguistics to uncover vo-
cabulary and structures of an ancestor language by drawing inferences from the
evidence remaining in several daughter languages. See also *cognates and *cor-
respondence set.
competence The ability to produce and assign meaning to grammatical sentences is
called grammatical competence; the ability to produce and interpret utterances ap-
propriate to their context of use is called communicative competence.
complementary distribution A pattern of distribution of two or more sounds that
do not occur in the same position within words in a given language. Example: In
English, [pʰ] does not occur where [p] occurs (and vice versa).
conditioned sound change A *regular sound change that occurs only in a particular,
specifiable sound environment but not in all environments in which the sound
appears. Example: The merger of the vowels in pin and pen in Southern American
English is a conditioned sound change because it occurs only before nasals; thus,
pit and pet are not pronounced alike, but him and hem are homophonous.
conjugation See *paradigm.
conjunction A closed class of words that serve to link clauses or phrases; *coordinat-
ing conjunctions conjoin expressions of the same status, as with clauses (She went
but he stayed) or noun phrases (Alice and I); *subordinating conjunctions embed one
clause into another (Leave when you’re ready).
consonant sound A speech sound produced by partial or complete closure of part
of the vocal tract, thus obstructing the airflow and creating audible friction. Con-
sonants are described in terms of *voicing, *place of articulation, and *manner of
articulation. Abbreviated C.
constituent A syntactic unit that functions as part of a larger unit within a sentence;
typical constituent types are verb phrase, noun phrase, prepositional phrase, and
*clause.
constituent structure The linear and hierarchical organization of the words of a sen-
tence into syntactic units.
content word A word whose primary function is to describe entities, ideas, qualities,
and states of being in the world; *nouns, *verbs, *adjectives, and *adverbs are con-
tent words; content words are contrasted with *function words.
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 533
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 533 4/1/11 19:32:07
4/1/11 19:32:07
534 Glossary
context One of three main elements (besides *expression and *meaning) in a speech
situation. Context typically refers to those aspects of a speech situation that affect
the expression and enable an interpretation.
contractions Spoken or written expressions that represent a fusion of two or more
words in a single word. Examples: can’t/cannot; she’ll/she will; could’ve/could have;
wanna/want to; gonna/going to.
contrastive In *semantics, a noun phrase that is marked as being in opposition to
another noun phrase in the same *discourse.
contrastive analysis A method of analyzing languages for instructional purposes
whereby a native language and target language are compared with a view to es-
tablishing points of difference likely to cause difficulties for learners.
converseness A reciprocal relationship between two words, as in husband and wife
or buy and sell.
cooperative principle Four maxims that describe how language users cooperate in
producing and understanding utterances in context: quantity, quality, relevance,
manner.
coordinating conjunction A category of *function words that serve to conjoin expres-
sions of the same status, such as *clause (He spoke and I wept), *adverb (slowly but
surely), or noun (Thelma and Louise).
corpus A representative collection of texts, usually in machine-readable form and
including information about the situation in which each text originated, such as
the speaker or author, addressee, or audience.
corpus linguistics The activities involved in compiling and using a *corpus to inves-
tigate natural language use.
correspondence set A set of sounds in different languages, all of which derive from
a single sound in a historically earlier language.
creole A contact language, a former *pidgin, that has “acquired” native speakers.
creolization The process a *pidgin undergoes once it acquires native speakers and
develops into a full-blown language.
cuneiform A written sign developed by the Sumerians and Akkadians in the Middle
East around 3000 b.c.; characterized by the wedgelike shape that results from its
being written on wet clay with a stylus.
D
declension A noun *paradigm, as in English woman, woman’s, women, women’s.
deﬁnite A noun phrase that is marked to indicate that the speaker believes the
addressee can identify its referent; contrast with indefinite. In English, definite-
ness and indefiniteness can be marked by the choice of determiner (e.g., the
versus a).
deixis The marking of the orientation or position of entities and situations with re-
spect to certain points of reference such as the place (here/there) and time (now/
then) of utterance.
demonstrative pronouns *Pronouns that refer to things relatively near or relatively
far away from the speaker or the focus of discussion, as with this, that, and those.
derivation In morphology designates a process whereby one lexical item is trans-
formed into another one with a related meaning but belonging to a different
lexical class. Example: The *adverb slowly is derived from the *adjective slow by
suffixing the *derivational morpheme -ly.
derivational morpheme A *morpheme that serves to derive a word of one class or
meaning from a word of another class or meaning. Examples: -ment (as in estab-
lishment) derives the noun from the verb establish; re- (repaint) changes the mean-
ing of the verb paint to ‘paint again.’
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 534
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 534 4/1/11 19:32:07
4/1/11 19:32:07
Glossary 535
determiner Occurring as part of a noun phrase, a closed class of words including
indefinite and definite articles (a, the) and several other kinds generally having
the same distributional properties as articles: demonstratives, possessives (my,
our), and interrogatives.
diacritic A mark attached to a phonetic character (or letter) to indicate a specific
feature of the represented sound, such as aspiration [ʰ] or tone [ˇ].
dialect A language *variety characteristic of a particular social group; dialects can be
characteristic of regional, ethnic, socioeconomic, or gender groups.
diphthong A vowel sound whose production requires the tongue to start in one place
and move to another. Examples: the vowels in lied, loud, and Lloyd. See also *glide.
direct object A kind of grammatical relation; one of two kinds of objects; the noun
phrase in a *clause that, together with the verb, usually forms the verb phrase
*constituent; the object NP is immediately dominated by VP. Example: She drove
a truck. See also *indirect object.
discourse Spoken or written language use in particular social situations; discourse is
a broader term than *text in that it includes context and the intended and actual
interpretations.
displacement The characteristic of languages whereby speakers are able to refer to
events that are not temporally or spatially present in the *speech situation.
E
etymon The linguistic form from which a word or *morpheme is historically
derived.
expression Any bit of spoken, written, or signed language; the audible or visible as-
pect of language use that conveys particular content in a given *context.
F
family See *language family.
ﬂap A *manner of articulation produced by quickly flapping the tip of the tongue
against some *place of articulation on the upper surface of the vocal tract, com-
monly the *alveolar ridge, as for <t> in the American English pronunciation of
metal [mɛɾəl]; also called a tap.
fossilization Refers to a final form of *interlanguage that falls short of the target lan-
guage; the stage of second-language acquisition where a learner has ceased mak-
ing substantial progress toward the target language.
free morpheme A *morpheme that can stand alone as a word. Examples: zebra,
paint, pretty, very. See *bound morpheme.
free variation *Allophones of a given *phoneme that can occur in the same position in
a word without altering the word’s meaning, as in the final sound of the English
word step, which can be released [p] or unreleased [p˺].
fricative A consonant sound made by passing a continuous stream of air through a
narrowed passage in the vocal tract, thereby causing turbulence, such as that cre-
ated between the lower lip and the upper teeth in the production of [f] and [v].
function words Words such as *determiners and *conjunctions whose primary role is
to mark grammatical relationships between *content words or structures such as
*phrases and *clauses.
G
gender A system in which all the nouns of a language fall into distinct classes. Ex-
ample: German has a gender system of three noun classes (masculine, feminine,
and neuter) whose inflections and associated determiners and *adjectives vary in
form for *number and *case in *agreement with the gender class of the noun.
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 535
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 535 4/1/11 19:32:08
4/1/11 19:32:08
536 Glossary
given information Information already introduced into a *discourse and therefore
presumed to be at the forefront of a hearer’s mind; also called old information.
glide A transition from a vowel of one quality to a vowel of another quality. In [iᵊ],
the superscript schwa represents a glide from the high front position of [i] to the
mid central position of [ə]. Glides can be offglides, with the peak on the first ele-
ment (as in [iᵊ]), or onglides, with the peak on the second element (as in certain
pronunciations of spoon [ᶦu]). See also *diphthong.
glottis A narrow aperture between two folds of muscle (the vocal cords) in the
*larynx.
grammatical competence See *competence.
grammatical relation The syntactic role that a noun phrase plays in its *clause (for
example, *subject or *direct object).
H
head The pivotal or central word in a phrase, giving the phrase its name and char-
acter, including its distributional and agreement properties, as with the noun in a
noun phrase or the preposition in a prepositional phrase. Example: In a sentence
like A dozen pints of blood were donated, the plural verb were donated agrees with
pints, the head of the noun phrase subject, and not with blood.
homonymy The state of having identical expression but different meanings (book a flight
and buy a book); homophonous is sometimes used with the related sense of ‘sounding
alike’ but not necessarily having the same written form (see and sea) or meaning.
homophony In semantic analysis, refers to words that are pronounced alike but
have different meanings, as in two, to, too; see, sea.
hyponym A term whose *referent is included in the referent of another term. Ex-
ample: Blue is a hyponym of color; sister is a hyponym of sibling.
I
iconic sign See *representational sign.
illocution The intention that a speaker or writer has in producing a particular utter-
ance. Example: The illocution of the utterance Can you pass the salt? is a request
that the salt be passed and not (as the structure would indicate) an inquiry about
the addressee’s ability to pass the salt.
implicational universal A universal rule of the form “If condition P is satisfied, then
conclusion Q holds.”
indeﬁnite See *definite.
indirect object One of two *grammatical relations known as objects, the other being a
*direct object. Indirect objects usually occur in English before the direct object (He
gave the clerk a rose).
indirect speech act An *utterance whose *locution (or literal meaning) and *illocution
(or intended meaning) are different. Example: Can you pass the salt? is literally a
yes/no question but is usually uttered as a request or polite directive for action.
Indo-European A *language family whose members are descendants of an ancestral
language called Proto-Indo-European, spoken probably in Central Asia about
6,000 years ago.
inﬁnitive The basic form of a verb, expressed in English sometimes with the particle
to, as in to see.
inﬁx A bound *morpheme that is inserted within another morpheme.
inﬂectional morpheme A *bound morpheme that creates variant forms of a word to
mark its syntactic function in a sentence. Examples: The suffix -s added to a *verb
(as in paints) marks the verb as agreeing with a third-person singular *subject; -er
(taller) marks *adjectives for comparative *degree.
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 536
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 536 4/1/11 19:32:08
4/1/11 19:32:08
Glossary 537
information structure The level of structure at which certain elements in a sentence
are highlighted or backgrounded according to their prominence in the discourse.
See also *pragmatics.
instrumental motivation The kind of motivation one has in acquiring a second lan-
guage so as to be able to use it for any purpose other than becoming a participat-
ing member of the social community that speaks the language.
integrative motivation The kind of motivation one has in acquiring a second lan-
guage in order to become a socially functioning member of the community speak-
ing that language.
interdental A *place of articulation between the upper and lower teeth. Also used of
sounds produced at that place. Examples of the sound: <th> as in English thin
[θ] and then [ð].
interlanguage The form of a second language that a learner has internalized at any
point in the acquisition process and which therefore underlies the learner’s spon-
taneous utterances in the target language.
interrogative pronoun A kind of *pronoun that serves to ask a question, as with who,
which, and whose.
interweaving morpheme A discontinuous morpheme that is distributed across or
within elements of another discontinuous morpheme, as various morphemes are
distributed within the tri-literal Arabic root ktb (as in kitaaba and iktataba).
intransitive verb A verb that does not take a *direct object. Examples: She smiled
graciously. Joyce died in Zurich.
isogloss The geographical boundary marking the limit of the regional distribution
of a particular word, pronunciation, or usage.
J
jargon Specialist terms, especially those used by occupational, recreational, or other
specialist groups, such as with medical jargon or computer jargon.
L
language family A group of languages that have all developed from a single ances-
tral language.
language typology The classification of languages into types or kinds according to
useful criteria such as word order or general phonological characteristics.
language universal See *universal.
larynx The part of the windpipe that houses the vocal cords; also called the voice box.
layered structure The levels of analysis in linguistic expression: expressions comprise
*constituents that are in turn made up of constituents that are in turn. . . . Example:
unalterable has the two constituents un and alterable; alterable has the two constitu-
ents alter and able; this can be represented in the bracketing [un [alter + able]].
lexical category The category such as *noun, *verb, or *preposition that a word be-
longs to based on its inflectional, distributional and collocational characteristics,
and to a lesser extent its meaning. Also known as word class or part of speech.
lexical item A unit in the *lexicon; the notion of lexical item includes all inflected forms;
thus, child, child’s, children, and children’s constitute the lexical item child.
lexical semantics The subfield of *semantics that deals with word meaning.
lexicon The list of all words and *morphemes stored in a native speaker’s memory;
this internalized dictionary includes all nonpredictable information about each
*lexical item.
lingua franca A language *variety used for communication among groups of people
who do not otherwise share a common language. Example: English is the lingua
franca of the international scientific community.
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 537
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 537 4/1/11 19:32:08
4/1/11 19:32:08
538 Glossary
linguistic meaning The term used to cover sense meaning and referential meaning.
linguistic repertoire The set of language *varieties (including *registers and *dialects)
used in the speaking and writing practices of a speech community; also called
verbal repertoire.
liquid The name given to [r] and [l] in order to distinguish them from other
*approximants.
locution The literal meaning of an *utterance. Example: The locution of the utterance Can
you close the window? is a question about the hearer’s ability to close the window.
logographic writing Writing in which each sign represents a word. Examples: <8>
‘eight’ and <$> ‘dollar’ are logographic signs, as are Chinese characters and
Japanese kanji.
low back merger The result of a sound change in which the two formerly distinct
vowels [ɑ] and [ɔ] came to be pronounced identically, such that in some North
American English dialects the members of the pairs hock and hawk and cot and
caught are not distinguished.
M
manner of articulation How the airstream is obstructed in the vocal tract in the pro-
duction of a sound.
marked The elements of a *semantic field with less basic meaning. Usually, more
marked elements have more precise meanings than less marked elements, can
be described in terms of less marked elements, and are less frequent in natural
speech. Example: Cocker spaniel is more marked than dog.
matrix clause A clause in which another clause is embedded, as in the underscored
parts of The film that he rented had been widely panned.
meaning The term covers *linguistic meaning, *social meaning, and *affective meaning.
merger The historical process in which two distinct sounds evolve into a single
sound, as exemplified in the *low back merger.
metaphor An extension of a word’s use beyond its primary meaning to include refer-
ents that bear some similarity to the word’s primary referent, as in eye of a needle.
minimal pair A pair of words that differ by only a single sound in the same position.
Examples: look/took; spill/still; keep/coop.
modality A grammatical category of *verbs marking speakers’ attitudes toward the
status of their assertions as factual (indicative), hypothetical (subjunctive), and
so on; also called mood. While some languages mark modality by inflection on
the verb, English uses modal verbs (e.g., must, may, and can, as in must begin, may
arrive, can talk), which lack typical morphological inflections such as -s and -ing.
modes Channels of linguistic expression: speaking, writing, and signing.
monomorphemic Said of a word comprising a single *morpheme, as with tell, tall, or
the tale.
mood See *modality.
morpheme The smallest linguistic unit that carries meaning or serves a grammatical
function. A morpheme can be realized as a word, as with zebra and paint, or part
of a word, as in zebras, which contains two morphemes (zebra and ‘plural’)
and repainted, containing three (-re, paint, and ‘past tense’).
N
nasals A class of sounds (including the consonants [m] and [n]) produced by lower-
ing the velum and allowing air to pass out of the vocal tract through the nasal
cavity.
nativization The process through which a speech community adopts another
speech community’s language as its own and modifies the structure of that new
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 538
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 538 4/1/11 19:32:08
4/1/11 19:32:08
Glossary 539
language, thus developing a new dialect that becomes characteristic of the adopt-
ing community.
natural class A set of speech sounds that can all be characterized by one or a few
phonological features and that includes all the sounds of a given language that
are characterized by those phonological features. Example: /p t k/ form the natu-
ral class of voiceless stops in English because the class includes all the voiceless
stops in the language and no other sounds.
negative concord The realization of negation on all of the elements of an expression
that are able to carry such markers; also called double negation or multiple nega-
tion. Example: She don’t want none.
neutralized The localized loss of a distinction between two *phonemes that have
identical *allophones in a certain environment. Example: In American English, /t/
in metal and /d/ in medal are neutralized in that both are pronounced [ɾ] (inter-
vocalically following a stressed syllable).
new information Information introduced into a *discourse for the first time. See
*given information.
node The name given to a point in a tree diagram (or tree) from which at least one
*branch descends.
noun A *lexical category of words that function syntactically as *heads of noun
phrases and semantically as *referring expressions; nouns can be characterized
morphologically by certain inflections and syntactically by their distribution in
phrases and clauses; in traditional terms, a noun is defined semantically as the
name of a person, place, or thing.
nucleus In a *syllable, that part of the *rhyme that is the peak; usually a *vowel, but
sometimes a *sonorant; the nucleus is the sole essential element of a syllable. Ex-
ample: In the English syllable [pɛn], [ɛ] is the nucleus.
number A grammatical category associated with *nouns and *pronouns and indicat-
ing something about the quantity of referents. Example: Car and he are marked
for singular number, while cars and they are marked for plural number. Number
can also be marked on verbs, usually in *agreement with subjects, as in singular
He sleeps, plural They sleep.
O
object See *direct object.
oblique A noun phrase whose *grammatical relation in a *clause is other than *sub-
ject, *direct object, or *indirect object; oblique usually marks semantic categories
such as location or time and in English is usually expressed as the object of a
preposition.
obstruent A cover term for *stops, *fricatives, and *affricates, three classes of con-
sonant sounds that impede or obstruct the airflow by constricting the vocal
passage.
oﬀglide See *glide.
onset One or more consonants that precede the *rhyme in a *syllable constitute the
onset; [p] is the onset in the syllable [pɛn]; [sp] in [spɛnt]; [str] in [strɛʧ].
orthography A system of spelling used to achieve a match between the sound system
of a language and the alphabet representing it.
P
paradigm The set of forms constituting the inflectional variants of a particular word;
see also *declension and *conjugation.
participle Refers to -ing and -ed/-en forms of the verb, as in is walking, had kicked,
or had been stolen. (It does not refer to past-tense forms as in they walked or she
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 539
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 539 4/1/11 19:32:08
4/1/11 19:32:08
540 Glossary
swam); traditional terminology calls the -ing form the present or progressive par-
ticiple and the -ed/-en form the past or perfective or passive participle.
person A grammatical category associated principally with pronouns marking refer-
ence to the speaker (first person), the addressee (second person), a third party
(third person), or a combination of these; verbs in a clause are sometimes marked
for person *agreement, usually with their *subject.
personal pronoun A kind of *pronoun that refers to another entity whose referent is
clear from the linguistic or situational *context; personal pronouns represent par-
ties to an interaction and are typically marked for *person (speaker: first person;
addressee: second person; or entities spoken about: third person) and *number
(e.g., singular, dual, plural).
phoneme A distinctive structural element in the sound system of a language. A pho-
neme is an abstract element (defined by a set of phonological features) that can
have alternative manifestations (called *allophones) in different phonological en-
vironments. Example: The English phoneme /p/ has several allophones, includ-
ing aspirated [pʰ], unreleased [p˺], and unaspirated [p].
phonetics The study of sounds made in the production of human speech.
phonological rule A rule that specifies the *allophones of a *phoneme and their distri-
bution in a particular language and generally of the form A → B / C__D, meaning
A is realized as B in the environment after C and before D.
phonotactic constraints Rules that specify the structure of *syllables permitted in a
particular language.
phrase Refers to syntactic *constituents smaller than a *clause and, usually but not
always, larger than a word—as in noun phrase, adjective phrase, prepositional
phrase.
phrase-structure rule A rule that describes the composition of *constituents in *un-
derlying structure; also called rewrite rule or phrase-structure expansion rule. Ex-
ample: S → NP VP is a phrase-structure rule stating that a sentence is made up of
a noun phrase and a verb phrase in that order.
pictogram A symbolic drawing that represents an object or idea independently of
the word that refers to that object or idea, such as highway signs that pictorially
indicate dangerous curves or merging traffic without the use of words.
pidgin A contact language that develops in multilingual colonial situations, in which
one language (commonly that of the colonizer) forms the base for a simple and
usually unstable new *variety; pidgins are restricted in use and not spoken na-
tively by anyone.
place of articulation The location in the mouth cavity where the airstream is ob-
structed in the production of a sound. Example: *Alveolar sounds such as [t] and
[s] are produced by obstructing the airstream at the alveolar ridge.
polysemy Refers to multiple related meanings for a given word or sentence; a word
with more than one meaning is said to be polysemic.
portmanteau word A word combining more than one *morpheme in such a way that
the morphemes cannot be separated into distinct sets of phonological segments.
Examples: French du, comprising de and le; sometimes used to refer to a word
combining parts of other words, as with smog (from smoke and fog).
possessor A *grammatical relation between two nouns that are closely associated,
often by virtue of having a possessive relationship. Examples: Luke’s harp, the
book’s cover.
postposition A category of words that serve syntactically as *heads of postpositional
phrases and semantically to indicate a relationship between two entities; except
that they follow their complements, postpositions are like *prepositions. Examples:
Japanese Taroo no ‘of Taro’ and hasi de ‘with chopsticks.’
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 540
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 540 4/1/11 19:32:08
4/1/11 19:32:08
Glossary 541
pragmatics The subfield of linguistics that studies language use, in particular the
relationship among *syntax, *semantics, and interpretation in light of the *context
of situation.
predication The part of a *clause that makes a statement about a particular entity.
Example: In Lou likes ice cream, the predication made of Lou is likes ice cream.
preﬁx An *affix that attaches to the front of a word stem.
preposition A category of words that serve syntactically as *heads of prepositional
phrases and semantically to indicate a relationship between two entities. Exam-
ples: to school, with liberty, in the spring. See also *postpositions.
productivity The ability to generate and comprehend an infinite number of sen-
tences by relying on a language’s ability to combine and recombine a relatively
small number of structures into sentences.
pronoun Any of several closed categories of words, traditionally defined as taking
the place of nouns (or more accurately noun phrases). *Personal pronouns (e.g.,
she, they, you) are the most familiar type; other types include *relative pronouns,
*demonstrative pronouns, *interrogative pronouns, and *indefinite pronouns (e.g,
anyone, someone).
prosody Refers to variations in the volume, pitch, rhythm, and speed of speech.
R
recursion The property of incorporating linguistic structures within other linguistic
structures, as with embedding a *clause within another clause; saying She said
[she wanted one] instead of She said [something].
redundancy Repeated information in a linguistic expression. Example: Those books
expresses plurality of the noun phrase in both the *determiner and the *noun, as
contrasted with the books, which represents it only on the noun.
reduplication A morphological process by which a *morpheme or part of a mor-
pheme is repeated, creating a word with a different meaning or lexical category.
Example: Mandarin Chinese sànsànbu ‘to take a leisurely walk’ is formed by redu-
plicating the first syllable of sànbu ‘to walk.’ Unlike reduplication, repetition (as
in English very, very tired) does not create a new word.
reference A semantic category through which language provides information about
the relationship between a noun phrase and its *referent.
referent The real-world entity (person, object, notion, situation) referred to by a
linguistic expression.
referential Said of a noun phrase that refers to a particular entity; a good piano
teacher is referential in Tom knows a good piano teacher but not in Tom wants to
find a good piano teacher.
referential meaning The meaning that an *expression has by virtue of its ability to
refer to an entity; referential meaning is contrasted with *social meaning and *af-
fective meaning and is sometimes called denotation.
referring expression An *expression that refers to an entity or situation.
reﬂex In historical linguistics, a linguistic form that derives from an earlier form
called its *etymon; reflexes of the same etymon are called *cognates.
register A language *variety associated with a particular situation of use. Examples:
baby talk, legalese, telephone conversation.
regular sound change A sound change that affects all the words in which a particu-
lar sound occurs in a particular sound environment. Regular sound change may
be *conditioned sound change or *unconditioned sound change. See *sporadic sound
change.
relative clause A *clause syntactically embedded in a noun phrase and semantically
serving to modify a noun. The modified noun is the *head of the relative clause.
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 541
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 541 4/1/11 19:32:08
4/1/11 19:32:08
542 Glossary
Example: In This is the book that I told you about, the underscored relative clause
modifies book.
relative pronoun Within a relative clause, a *pronoun referring to an entity expressed
in the *matrix clause, as in The book that I gave to Shirley disappointed her.
repair A sequence of turns in a conversation during which a previous *utterance is
edited, corrected, or clarified.
repertoire See *linguistic repertoire.
representational sign A sign that is basically arbitrary but nevertheless bears some
resemblance to its referent or some feature of its referent. Example: III ‘three’;
trickle, meow.
rhyme That part of a *syllable comprising the *nucleus and the *coda. Example: In
the syllable [pɪn], [ɪn] is the rhyme; in [wɪʃt] ‘wished,’ [ɪʃt] is the rhyme.
S
segment An individual sound in a language, comprising a set of phonological fea-
tures such as voiced alveolar stop for [d] or voiceless interdental fricative for
[θ]. More accurately, a segment is a set of gestures comprising the combination
of those features. As examples, the English words [θɪn] ‘thin,’ [nod] ‘node,’ [ʃɪp]
‘ship,’ [ʧɪp] ‘chip,’ and [ʤʌʤ] ‘judge’ have three segments each.
semantic ﬁeld A set of words with an identifiable semantic affinity. Example: angry,
sad, happy, exuberant, depressed.
semantic role The way in which the *referent of a noun phrase is involved in the
situation described or represented by the *clause, for example as agent, patient,
or cause.
semantics The systematic ways in which languages structure meaning, especially in
words, phrases, and sentences; also used of the study of those ways.
sequence constraints See *phonotactic constraints.
sibilant A member of a set of *fricative sounds made by passing a continuous stream
of air through a narrowed passage in the vocal tract, thereby causing hissing,
such as that created between the blade of the tongue and the back of the *alveolar
ridge in the production of [s] and [ʃ], as in sis and shush.
sign An indicator of something else, for example of an object or event, as smoke is
a sign of fire and <8> is a sign of the number ‘eight.’ See also *representational
sign.
simple sentence A sentence that contains only one *clause.
slang Words and expressions used in situations of extreme informality, sometimes
with rebellious undertones or an intention of distancing its users from certain
mainstream social values.
social dialect A language *variety characteristic of a social group, typically socioeco-
nomic groups, gender groups, or ethnic groups, as distinct from regional groups.
social meaning Information that linguistic *expressions convey about the social char-
acteristics of their producers and of the situation in which they are produced;
together with *affective meaning, social meaning is sometimes called connotation.
sonorant A class of *consonant sounds comprising *nasals and *liquids.
speech act An action carried out by the use of language in particular circumstances,
as with promising, lying, and inviting.
speech event An event in which members of a community interact linguistically on
one or more topics, for a particular purpose, with awareness of the social rela-
tions among the interlocutors.
speech situation Usually broader than a *speech event but used in this book to rep-
resent the coming together of significant factors such as purpose, setting, and
participants in the creation of a *discourse.
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 542
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 542 4/1/11 19:32:08
4/1/11 19:32:08
Glossary 543
split A historical development in which a single sound changes into two sounds, one
of which may be the original sound. Example: Proto-Indo-European *p became
/f/ in Germanic and /p/ in Romance.
sporadic sound change A sound change that affects individual words but not all
words in which the sound occurs or even all those that share a particular lin-
guistic environment. Example: The pronunciation of nuclear as “nu-ku-lar” is a
sporadic sound change. See *regular sound change.
standard variety The language *variety that has been recorded in dictionaries and
grammars and serves a speech community especially in its written and public
functions.
stop A speech sound created when air is built up at a *place of articulation in the vo-
cal tract and suddenly released through the mouth; called oral stops when nasals
are excluded.
style See *register.
subcategorization Information about the types of clause structure that each *verb
permits in the verb phrase. For example, a verb may permit one or two noun
phrases, or none; as in He burned the rice, She sold him the book, and He fell,
respectively.
subgroup A set of languages that belong to the same *language family and devel-
oped as a single language for a period of time after other subgroups had become
separate languages. Examples: Romance and Germanic are subgroups of *Indo-
European; West Germanic is the subgroup of Germanic to which English belongs;
also called a branch.
subject A noun phrase immediately dominated by S in a phrase structure.
subordinating conjunction or subordinator A word that links clauses to one another
in a noncoordinate role, thus marking the boundary between an embedded clause
and its *matrix clause. Examples: I think that he fell. She wondered whether he won.
suﬃx An *affix that attaches to the end of a word stem.
surface form A word’s actual pronunciation; generated by the application of the
*phonological rules of a language to the *underlying form; sometimes also said of
sentences (see *underlying structure).
surface structure The *constituent structure of a sentence after all applicable *syntactic
operations (sometimes called transformations) have applied.
syllabic writing Writing in which each graphic *sign represents a *syllable rather than
a word or a sound.
syllable A phonological unit consisting of one or more sounds, including a peak (or
*nucleus) that is usually a *vowel or *diphthong; frequent syllable types in the
world’s languages are CV and CVC.
synonymous Used in *semantics to refer to words or sentences that mean the same
thing.
syntactic operation A process (or rule) that alters a *constituent structure, transform-
ing it into another constituent structure in a systematic way.
syntax The structure of sentences and the study of sentence structure.
T
tap See *flap.
tense A category of the *verb that marks time reference, for example past (walked)
or present (walk).
text A unitary stretch of *expression created in a real-world social situation; usually
but not always longer than a sentence (Smoking Not Permitted; Closed; Gesundheit);
more commonly used in written than in spoken or signed expression but appli-
cable to any mode; sometimes used for a piece of text rather than an entire text.
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 543
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 543 4/1/11 19:32:09
4/1/11 19:32:09
544 Glossary
Examples: a novel, a personal letter, a classified advertisement, a screenplay,
song lyrics, a scholarly or scientific article.
topic The main center of attention in a sentence; what the sentence is about.
transformation See *syntactic operation.
transitive verb A verb that takes a *direct object, as in She found the book.
trill A *manner of articulation characterized by the rapid vibrating of one articulator
against another articulator (but not including vocal cord vibration).
turn A basic term in the analysis of conversation, which comprises a series of turns
among interlocutors.
typology A field of inquiry that seeks to classify the languages of the world into dif-
ferent types according to particular structural characteristics.
U
unconditioned sound change A *regular sound change that affects every word in
which the sound occurs. See *conditioned sound change.
underlying form The form of a *morpheme that is stored in the internalized *lexicon;
sometimes also said of sentences (see *underlying structure).
underlying structure The abstract structure of a sentence before any *syntactic opera-
tion has applied; sometimes called deep structure.
universal A linguistic pattern at play in most or all of the world’s languages. See
also *absolute universal and *universal tendency.
universal tendency A linguistic pattern at play in most, but not all, of the world’s
languages. Example: Most verb-final languages place adjectives before the nouns
they modify.
utterance *Expression produced in a particular context with a particular intention.
V
variety Any language, *dialect, or *register.
velar A *consonant sound whose *place of articulation is the velum, that is, a conso-
nant produced by the tongue approaching or touching the roof of the mouth at
the velum.
verb A category of words that syntactically determine the structure of a *clause,
especially with respect to noun phrases; that semantically express the action or
state of being represented by a clause; and that can be marked morphologically
for certain categories (not all of which are realized in English): *tense (present:
walk/past: walked), *mood, *aspect (walk/walking), *person (first: walk/third:
walks), and *number (singular: walks/plural: walk). See also *auxiliary verb.
voicing The vibration in the *larynx caused by air from the lungs passing through
the vocal cords when they are partly closed; speech sounds are said to be voiced
or voiceless.
vowel sounds One of two major classes of sounds (the other being *consonants),
vowels are articulated without complete closure in the oral cavity and without
sufficient narrowing to create the friction characteristic of consonants. Abbrevi-
ated V.
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 544
00419_15_glo_p531-544.indd 544 4/1/11 19:32:09
4/1/11 19:32:09
545
Index
NOTE: Separate indices for languages, internet sites and videos follow this general
index. Terms followed by an asterisk * are defined in the Glossary. The abbreviation
“ex” following a page number refers to an exercise.
Aboriginal Australian languages,
341, 448
absolute universals*, 248
accents*, 99, 371, 410ex
foreign, 121, 130, 522
acoustic phonetics, 86
acronyms*, 56
active and passive structures,
174–175
active sentences, 157–158
see also passive sentences;
syntax
address, terms of, 342–343
adjacency pairs*, 317–320
adjectives*, 40, 42
adverbs and, 45
attributive function,
364ex, 473
Middle English, 483
Old English, 473, 474, 477
predicative function, 473
adverbs*, 44–45
of place, 211–212
register and, 355
affective filter, 520
affective meaning*, 189, 191–193
affix*, 49, 52, 208
affricate*, 93, 124
African-American English (AAE),
371, 389–392, 394, 407ex
Afroasiatic languages, 435,
442–443
agentless passive construction,
285–286
agent passive construction,
285–287
agents, 215
agglutinating languages, 61
agreement*, gender and, 64–65
Alfred, King of England, 469
Algonquin languages, 446
algorithm, 357
allomorphs*, 65–66
allomorphy, 132–138, 141–142ex
allophones*, 114–119, 120
see also phonemes
alphabets*
phonetic, 86
writing and orthography, 85
alveolar flap, 95–96
alveolars*, 90, 91, 92
alveo-palatals*, 91
ambiguity*
semantics and, 189, 224ex
structural, 155
American Dictionary of the English
Language, An (Webster),
13–14, 27
American English, 16, 65
African-American English, 371,
389–392, 394, 407ex
British English compared, 96,
373–376
Chicano English, 389,
392–393, 394
common words in, 72ex
dialects, 11–12, 384–389
ethnic varieties, 191, 389–393
glottal stop in, 91
invented words in, 59
orderliness in, 309
phonetics, 91, 95, 96, 97
phonology, 124–125, 135
regional varieties of, 370,
376–384
signing in, 18–20, 22
American Sign Language (ASL),
18–20, 22
Anglo-Saxons, 466
animal communication, 20–23
anomalous sentences, 189
antonymy*, 201–202
appropriateness conditions*,
306–307
approximant*, 94
arbitrary signs, 6–7, 8
ARCHER (A Representative
Course of Historical English
Registers), 454
Argentina speechways, 399, 400
argot*, 349
articles, 44
definite, 64–65, 274, 488, 503
Modern English, 488
Old English, 472–473
articulation, manner and place of,
90–91
articulatory phonetics, 86
aspect*, 213
aspirated sound*, 114, 115, 117
aspiration rule, 120–122
assimilation*, 132–133, 134, 138
Athabaskan languages, 325, 446
Æthelred, 466
Atlas of North American English
(ANAE), 384–389, 404
attitude, and second-language
acquisition, 520
Austro-Asiatic family, 445
Austronesian languages, 440,
441–442, 448
auxiliary verbs*, 166–167
babbling stage, 506, 512
baby talk, 112, 504–506,
525–526ex
back formation, 57
benefactives, 216
Beowulf, 465
bilabial*, 90, 91, 118
bilingualism*, 337, 338–339,
449–450, 518
see also second-language
acquisition
blends, 56, 492
Bloomfield, Leonard, 503
borrowed words, 58–59, 496
bound morphemes*, 46–47, 49
branches*, in tree diagrams, 153
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 545
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 545 7/1/11 20:09:57
7/1/11 20:09:57
546 Index
constituency/constituents*,
153–155, 163
coordination in identifying,
159
hierarchical ordering
of, 154–155
linear ordering of, 154
noun phrases and verb phrases,
155–157
structural ambiguity and, 155
testing, 158–159
tree diagrams, 153–155
underlying structure, 167
content words*, 193, 479
context*, 5–6, 270, 275, 303
see also information
structure
contractions, 344–345, 356, 359
contradictions, 189
contrast, 274–275
contrastive analysis*, 521
contrastive*, 274–275, 279, 281
conversation, 251
see also speech acts
adjacency pairs, 317–320
closing sequences, 321–323
conversational routines, 323
cooperative principle
in, 307–312
culture and, 315, 317,
321, 324
opening sequences, 320–321
organization of, 314–324
politeness and, 313, 324
repairs, 323–324, 328–329ex
as speech event, 313–314
turn taking and pausing,
315–317, 325
converseness*, 202–203
conversion, 57, 492
cooperative principle*, 307–312
indirect speech acts, 310–312
maxim of manner, 309–310
maxim of quality, 310
maxim of quantity, 308
maxim of relevance, 309
violations of, 310–312
coordinating conjunctions/
coordinators*, 45
coordination, 355
constituents and, 159
copula deletion, 391
comparative reconstruction,
426–428
competence*, 9, 10–11, 302, 516
complementary distribution*,
114–115
complex sentences
COMP node (complementizer),
171–173
compounds, 54–55, 71ex,
471, 492
computational linguistics, 27
computers
corpora and semantics, 219
dialects and, 404
historical linguistics and, 454
language learning and,
523–524
linguistics and, 27
phonetics and, 102
phonology and, 139
pragmatics and, 289–290
registers and, 357
study of language universals
and, 253–255
study of syntax and, 175–176
for study of words, 67
terms associated with, 71–72ex
tracking change, in
English, 492–493
concordance, 220–221
conditional sentences, 8
conditioned mergers, 385
conditioned sound change*, 419
conjugation. see paradigm
conjunctions*, 45–46
connotation, 193
consonant clusters, 129, 142ex, 481
simplification of, 390
consonant shifts, 467, 494–495ex
consonant sounds*, 87, 89–96
acquisition of, 512–513
deletion of final stop, 390–391
dialects, 374–375
English, arranged by position
in word, 87
kinds of, 91–96, 101
Middle English, 481
Old English, 471
phonological universals,
241–242
underlying form, 135
voicing, 89, 90–91
British English, 16, 373–376
Cockney, 411ex
contractions, 344–345
dialects, 403
pronunciation, 96, 374–375
semantics, 203
spelling, 374
syntax and grammar, 375
vocabulary, 375–376
British National Corpus,
325–326, 357
Brown, Roger, 509
Brown University Corpus, 27, 66,
67, 72–73ex
Brussels, linguistic repertoire
in, 336–337
CALL (computer-assisted language
learning), 524
Canadian English, 374, 387, 388,
389, 398
Canterbury Tales
(Chaucer), 464–465
case*, 63
Caucasian languages, 445
Caxton, William, 84, 487
Chaucer, Geoffrey, 464–465
Chicano English, 389, 392–393,
394
CHILDES (Child Language
Data Exchange System),
523–524
Chomsky, Noam, 252, 253
circumfix*, 50
Civil Tongue, A (Neuman), 30–31ex
clauses*, 152, 216
see also relative clauses
embedded, 168–170
clefting, 283–285
Clements, G. N., 147ex
clicks*, 95
closed classes, 52
closing sequences, in conversation,
321–323
Cockney dialect, 411ex
coda*, 127
code switching*, 340
cognates*, 425, 429
collocation*, 219
comment, 273
commissives, 304, 306–307
communication, cross-cultural, 325
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 546
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 546 7/1/11 20:09:57
7/1/11 20:09:57
Index 547
ethnic dialects, 389–394
see also dialects
social identification and,
393–394
Ethnologue, The, 2–3, 4, 448
etymon*, 427
existential it, 392
experiencers, 215–216, 218
expression*, 5, 6
definite, indefinite, 275–277
generic and specific, 278–279
iconic, 7
referential, 278
expressives, 304
extinct languages, 437, 441,
447–448
eye gaze, in turn taking, 316
face-to-face interactions, 251,
272, 350
families. see language families;
specific language family
feature voice, 138
finger spelling, 20
first-language acquisiton. see
language acquisition
fis phenomenon, 516
flap*, 95–96
foreign accents, 121, 130, 522
foreign language learning, 518,
521–523
fossilization*, 522
free morphemes*, 46–47
free variation*, 115
fricatives*, 91, 92–93, 124, 242
Fromkin, Victoria, 136–137
fronting, 281–282
functional shift, 57
function words*, 193, 479
categories of meaning and,
207–214
Gallaudet, Thomas
Hopkins, 20
Gardner, Allen, 21–22
Gardner, Beatrix, 22
gender*
agreement and, 64–65
language varieties and, 344,
400–402
generative linguistics, 253
generic expressions, 278–279
national varieties of English,
11, 373–376
Old English, 469, 470
regional varieties of American
English, 370, 376–384
registers, accents, and,
370–371
social, 11–12
social boundaries and, 370
socioeconomic status of
English, French, Spanish,
394–400
stigmatized varieties,
persistence of, 402–403
dictionaries, 13–14, 27, 30ex, 39,
67, 107ex, 419, 492
Dictionary of American Regional
English (DARE), 377,
382–384, 406ex
diphthongs*, 97, 385, 387
directives, 304
direct object*, 163, 164
discontinuous morphemes, 50
discos, 59
discourse*, 267, 270, 272
discreteness, 9
displacement*, 9–10
distinct utterances
“double modal,” 420
double negative, 24
dragonfly, regional terms for, 377,
378–380
Dravidian languages, 443–444,
445
duality, of languages, 9
dying languages, 447
see also extinct languages
Early Modern English period,
486–487
Ecclesiastical History of the English
People (Bede), 478–480
echo questions, 168, 174
Ellis, Rod, 522–523
embedded clauses, 168–170
emoticons, 17, 349
encoding, 269–270, 302, 510
English, historical development in.
see historical development,
in English
epistemic modality, 208
essential condition, 306, 307
corpora, 493
computers and semantics, 219
multilingual, 255
written vs. spoken, 325
corpus*, 27, 67
corpus linguistics*, 27
correspondence sets*, 425, 426,
427, 457–458ex
cot/caught merger, 385
creoles* and pidgins, 236, 450–454
creolization*, 2, 451
cross-cultural communication, 325
cruller, 382, 384
culture, 307
conversation and, 315, 317,
321, 324
Curtiss, Susan, 503
Da Kine Talk, 451
dative movement, 180–181ex
declarations, 304, 305, 306–307
see also speech acts
declensions*, 63
decoding, 302
definite article, 64–65, 274,
488, 503
definite* noun phrase, 275–277
deixis*, 209–214, 351
demonstrative pronouns*, 43
deixis and, 211–212, 214
Old English, 472–473
denotation, 193
deontic modality, 208
derivation*, 48
derivational morphemes*, 47–49
determiners*, 43–44
diacritic*, 99
dialects*
see also registers; styles
Atlas of North American
English, 384–389
boundaries of, 381–382
changes in, 419
different dialects vs. distinct
languages, 2, 12–13
ethnic varieties of American
English, 389–394
gender and, 400–402
“insiders” and, 373
language divergence and
mergers, 371–373
mapping (isoglosses), 377–381
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 547
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 547 7/1/11 20:09:57
7/1/11 20:09:57
548 Index
human language, defined, 5
hyponymy/hyponyms*, 197–199,
225ex
iconic sign*, 7–8
identity. see social identity
illocution*, 305
immediate dominance, 163–164
implicational universal*, 249
indefinite article*, 276, 488
indefinite expressions, 275–277
indefinite pronouns, 43
independence, politeness and, 313
indirect object*, 165
indirect speech acts*, 310–312
Indo-European* languages, 420,
421–422, 435–439, 441
morphology and syntax in,
468–469
Indo-Iranian languages, 439
infix*, 49
inflection, 42
Middle English, 481–483
Old English, 472, 473, 476–477
inflectional morphemes*, 49,
61–65
information, quantity of, 308
information questions, 168, 172,
174, 511
information structure*, 268–288
see also pragmatics
categories, 270–279
contrast, 274–275
defined, 269
definite expressions, 275–277
encoding, 269–270
generic and specific
expressions, 277, 278–279
given information, new
information, 271–273, 277,
282, 284, 285
intonation, morphology,
syntax, 279–288
referential expressions, 278
topics, 273–274
initialisms, 56
insertion sequences, 318–319
“insiders,” dialect and, 373
instrumental motivation*, 519
instruments, 216, 218
integrative motivation*, 520
historical development, in English,
463–497
English as Germanic language,
467–468
Middle English (1100–1500),
464–465
Modern English
(1500–present), 486–492
morphology and syntax in
Indo-European, 468–469
Old English (700–1100),
465–466, 469–480
historical linguistics, 418–456
Aboriginal Australian
languages, 448
Afroasiatic family,
442–443, 444
Austronesian family, 440,
441–442
Basque language, 446
Caucasian family, 445
comparative reconstruction,
426–428
contact between language
communities, 449–454
Dravidian family, 443–444
Indo-European family,
420–422, 435–439, 441
Japanese family, 445
Korean family, 445
language families, 433–449
Mon-Khmer family, 444–445
Native American languages,
446–448
Nostratic macrofamily, 449
Papuan languages, 448–449
in Polynesia and
Pacific, 422–433
prehistory and, 433
Proto-Polynesian vocabulary,
reconstructing, 429–431, 433
Sino-Tibetan family, 441
Sub-Saharan Africa, language
families of, 443, 444
Tai family, 445
Turkic family, 445
types of change, 419–420
Uralic family, 445
Hokan languages, 447
homonymy*, polysemy and,
203–205
Genie (language acquisition case
study), 503
Germanic languages, 435–437,
467–468
“getting the floor,” 316–317
given information*, 271–273, 277,
282, 285
word order and, 287–288
glottal stop, 91–92
glottis*, 89
Goodall, Jane, 9–10, 23
google (verb), 59
Gothic languages, 436
gradable antonyms, 201–202
grammar, 6, 26
see also syntax
checker, 183ex
dialects, 372, 375
grammatical markers of
register, 345–346
iconicity and, 7–8
prescriptive rules of, 15–16
signing, 19–20
universal, language acquisition
and, 252–253
grammatical competence*, 9,
10, 302
grammatical relations*, 163–165
semantic roles and, 217–219
Greenberg, Joseph H., 252–253
Grice, H. Paul, 308
Grimm, Jacob, 467
Grimm’s law, 467, 494–495ex
habitual be, 391–392
Hall, Rich, 131
Halle, Morris, 147ex
Hayes, Catherine, 21
Hayes, Keith, 21
head*, of phrase, 156
hearers, 307
see also conversation
Hellenic language
group, 439, 441
Helsinki Corpus of English
Texts, 454
Heyerdahl, Thor, 424
hierarchical ordering, of
constituents, 154–155
Hispanic English, 389,
392–393, 394
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 548
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 548 7/1/11 20:09:57
7/1/11 20:09:57
Index 549
language universals*, defined, 232
see also universals
language use, 267, 302
see also dialect; information
structure
language variation, 26
larynx*, 89
lax vowels, 98
layered structure*, in
morphemes, 50–51
left-dislocation, 282–283
legalese, 346, 347
length, of vowel sounds, 98,
123–125
lexemes, 195
lexical bundles, repetition and,
353–354
lexical categories*, 40–46, 57
adjectives, 40, 42
adverbs, 44–45
conjunctions, 45–46
conversion and, 57
determiners, 43–44
identifying, 40–41, 70ex
nouns, 40, 42
prepositions, postpositions, 44
pronouns, 42–43
tagging and, 67, 175
verbs, 40, 41–42
lexical items*, 195
lexical semantics*, 195–207
antonymy, 201–202
converseness, 202–203
hyponymy, 197–199
metaphors, 205–207
part/whole relationships,
199–200
polysemy and homonymy,
203–205
relationships in the lexicon, 207
semantic field and markedness,
196–197
synonymy, 200–201
lexicon*, 38
see also morphology
mental, 39
sign language, 19
underlying form in, 135,
137–138
words as tangible, 39
Lightfoot, David W., 53
foreign language, 521–523
morphology, grammar, 509–511
phonology, 112, 515
principles of, 502–503
receptive and productive
competence in, 516
research on, 515–517
of second language, 517–523
stages of, 506–509
universal grammar and, 252–253
universals and processing
explanations, 250–251
universals and social
explanations, 251–252
language change, 417, 419–420
see also historical linguistics
language families*, 420–422,
424, 435
see also individual names of
language families
language policy, 26
languages
see also typology; universals
development of, 417
dialects and, 11, 12–13
divergence and mergers,
371–373
extinct and dying, 447–448
human language, 5
modes of linguistic
communication, 17–20
of non-human animals, 20–23
number of, 2–3
original language
hypothesis, 249–250
origin of, 23–25
as patterned structures, 8–10
signs in, 6–8
speech as patterned language
use, 10–11
standard variety, 13–15
in United States, 3–4
language structures, 37, 501
see also lexicon; morphology;
phonetics; phonology;
semantics; typology; syntax;
universals
language system, 5–6
language teaching, 522–523
language typology*, defined, 233
see also typology
interdental*, 391
interdental fricatives, 91
interlanguage*, 521–522
interlingual translation system,
253–254
International Corpus of
English, 404
International Phonetic Alphabet
(IPA), 86, 104–108ex
interrogative pronouns*, 43
interweaving morphemes*, 50
intonation, 192, 279–280
intransitive verbs*, 42, 164
invented words, 59
involvement, politeness and, 313
IPA. see International Phonetic
Alphabet
Iran, speechways in, 337
Iroquoian languages, 446
isoglosses*, 377–381
isolating morphology, 60
Italic languages, 437–438
it clefts, 283–285
it is/there is, 392
jargon*, 347, 349
jeans, 59
Johnson, Mark, 207
Johnson, Samuel, 13, 27
Jones, William, 421
Julius Caesar, 466
Keller, Helen, 20
key word in context (KWIC), 219
Khoisan languages, 443, 444
Kon-Tiki (Heyerdahl), 424
Krashen, Stephen, 520
Kupwar, India speechways, 372
labiodental, 391
Labov, William, 394–398, 407ex
Ladefoged, Peter, 12
Lakoff, George, 207
language acquisition, 417,
499–527
acquiring sounds and, 511–515
adult input, 503–506
baby talk, 112, 504–506,
525–526ex
experimental techniques, 517
of first language, 501–515
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 549
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 549 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
550 Index
morphology, 38
see also lexicon
agglutinating, 61
inflectional, 61–65
isolating, 60
language acquisition
and, 509
Middle English, 484, 486
Old English, 479, 488
overgeneralized, 510
phonology and, 132–138
universals, typology, 242–248
mosquito hawk, 377, 379, 383
motivation, second-language
learning and, 519–520
movement, constituent and,
158–159
multilingualism, 449–450
language choice and, 336–337
Muskogean languages, 446
My Fair Lady, 12
Na-Dene languages, 446
nasals*
nasalization rule, 98, 113,
119–120, 143ex
stops, 94–95
vowels, phonological
universals, 234
nationality, language and, 11
Native American languages,
446–448
nativization*, 450
natural classes* of sounds,
122, 138
negation, 510–511
negative concord*, 392
neutralization*, 125
new information*, 271–273,
279–280
Newman, Edwin, 30–31ex
New York City speechways,
3, 11, 343–344,
394–398, 401
Niger-Congo languages, 443, 444
Nilo-Saharan languages, 443, 444
nodes*, in tree diagrams, 153
nongradable antonyms, 201–202
nonimplicational universals, 249
Non-Pama-Nyungan language
group, 448
Norman invasion, 480
mental lexicon. see lexicon
merger*, 427–428
vowel, 384–385
meronymy, 199–200
metaphors*, 205–207, 225ex
Micronesia, 422, 423
Middle English (1100–1500),
480–486
Chaucer, 464–465
inflection, 481–483
Norman invasion, 480
sounds, 481
The Travels of John Mandeville,
484–486
vocabulary, 480–481
word order, 483–484
Midland dialect (American
English), 376, 378, 388
minimal pairs*, 117, 118
modality*, tense and, 207–208
Modern English (1500–present),
486–492
early and late, 486–487
morphology, 488–490
phonology, 487
vocabulary, 491–492
word order, 490–491
modes*
colloquial, 341
speaking, 339
writing, 339
Mon-Khmer languages, 444–445
monolingual societies, registers in,
340–341
monomorphemic words*, 46
Montreal, Canada speechways,
399, 400–401
morphemes*
see also writing
allomorphy, 65–66
bound, 46–47, 49
defined, 46
derivational, 47–49
discontinuous, 50
free, bound, 46–47
inflectional, 49, 61–65
information structure, 280
layered structure, 50–51
organization of, 49–52
past-tense, 66, 134
plural, 66, 132
portmanteau words, 50
like, 331–332ex, 408–409ex
linear ordering, of
constituents, 154
lingua franca*, 450
Linguistic Atlas of the Middle and
Southern Atlantic States
(LAMSAS), 404
linguistic communication, modes
of, 17–20, 29–30ex
see also signing; speaking;
writing
linguistic meaning*, 190–191
linguistic meta-knowledge, 519
linguistic repertoire*, 336–338
linguistics, 5
branches of, 26
defined, 25–26
research in, 252–253
liquid*, 94
locatives, 216
locution*, 305
London-Oslo/Bergen (LOB)
corpus, 27
Los Angeles, 4, 344, 518
linguistic repertoire in, 337
speech situations in, 338
speechways, 344
low back merger*, 385
machine-readable texts, 27
macrofamilies, of languages, 449
manner, maxim of, 309–310
manner of articulation*, 90, 117
marked elements*, 196–197
Martha’s Vineyard, linguistic
identity in, 403
masculinity, 402
see also gender, language
varieties and
matrix clause*, 168–170
maturation, language acquisition
and, 502
maxim of manner, 309–310
maxim of quality, 310
maxim of quantity, 308
maxim of relevance, 309
Mayan languages, 447
McCullough, David, 351
meaning*, 5, 6, 9, 46
see also morphemes; semantics
Melanesia, 422, 423, 424
men, language varieties of, 402
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 550
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 550 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
Index 551
phonology, 111–148
allophones, 115–119
contractions and, 356
defined, 112
first language and, 501
introduction, 112–119
morphology and, 132–138
phonological markers of
register, style, 343–345
rules of, 119–126
stress and, 116, 130–131
syllables, 126–130
universals, typology, 238–242
vowel shift, 487
phonotactic constraints*, 128–130
phrasal verbs, 492
phrases*, head of, 156
phrase-structure rules*, 160–163
see also noun phrases; verb
phrases
expanding prepositional
phrase, 160–161
expanding sentence and verb
phrase, 161–162
grammatical relation, 163–165
immediate dominance, 163–164
passive sentences and structure
dependence, 165
subject and direct object,
164–165
surface and underlying
structures, 165–173
tree diagrams and, 162–163
pictograms*, 17, 18
pidgins*, 2, 450–454
pin/pen merger, 385
pitch and tone, 99
place of articulation*, 90–91, 117
Plain English movement, 26`
plural morphemes, 66, 132, 133
plural nouns, 42
politeness, 312–313, 324
Polynesian languages, 243,
422–433
comparative reconstruction,
426–428
correspondence sets, 425,
457–458ex
history and, 424–426
reconstructing vocabulary in,
429–431, 433
settlement and, 432
oral communication, 17, 350
see also registers; styles
oral vowels, 234
ordering patterns, 245–246
see also word order
original language hypothesis,
249–250
Oto-Manguean languages, 447
Oxford English Dictionary (OED),
27, 419, 491, 492
Pama-Nyungan language
group, 448
Papuan languages, 11, 233,
435, 448–449
paradigm*, 63–64
parallel aligned corpus, 255
parsers, 175–176
part/whole relationships, 199–200
passive sentences
see also syntax
agent and agentless, 285–287
structure dependence and, 165
syntax, 157–158
past-tense morphemes, 66, 134
patients, 215, 218
pausing, in conversation,
315–317, 325
Penutian languages, 447
perception, universals and, 250
person*, 43, 63–64
personal deixis, 210–211
personal pronouns*, 43, 210
Modern English, 488–490
Old English, 473, 474
phonemes*, 114–115
see also allophones
phonetics*, 81–110
consonant sounds, 89–96
phonetic alphabets, 86,
104–108ex
sounds vs. spellings, 82–85
vocal tract and, 86–89
vowel sounds, 96–101
phonological processes, 131
phonological rules*, 119–126
foreign accents, 121
generalizing, 120–122
nasalization rule and, 119–120
natural classes of sounds, 122
rule ordering, 123–126
underlying forms, 122–123
Northern Cities Shift, 385–386
Northern dialect (American
English), 376, 377, 378,
382, 388, 410ex
Norwich, England speechways,
344, 398, 401
Nostratic language
macrofamily, 449
noun phrase* (NP), 152, 153,
155–157, 294–295ex
see also information structure;
nouns; subject
contrastive, 274–275
definite, 275, 277, 278
grammatical relations and,
164, 165
Old English, 477
possessed, 243–244
referential, 278
relative clauses and, 171
semantic roles of, 216–217,
226ex
nouns*, 40, 42
declensions and, 63
Middle English, 482–483
Old English, 472
plural, 66, 132–133
proper nouns, 276
register and, 354
novel sentences, 175
nucleus*, 127
number*, 42, 211
object. see direct object; indirect
object
oblique*, 165
obstruents*, 93
Old English (700–1100), 465–466,
469–480
Ecclesiastical History of the
English (Bede), 478–480
inflections and word order,
476–477
script, 469–471
sounds, 471
vocabulary and morphology,
471–476
one-word stage, 506–507
onset*, 127
open classes, 52
opening sequences, in
conversation, 320–321
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 551
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 551 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
552 Index
speech situations, 338–340
spoken vs. written, 349–356
regular sound changes*, 419
relative clauses*, 170–171,
181–182ex
Old English, 477
relativization hierarchy,
246–248, 250–251
syntactic and morphological
universals, 244–245
universals and typology,
261–262ex
relative pronouns*, 43, 170, 172,
181–182ex
Old English, 475
repair*, in conversation, 323–324,
328–329ex
repertoire, linguistic, 336–338
representational signs*, 7–8
representatives, 304, 305
requests, successful, 307
rhyme*, 127, 138
Richard the Lion-Hearted, 480
right-dislocation, 283
Romance languages, 12, 243, 373,
467–468
rounding, 98, 99–100
Salishan languages, 447
Samoic-Outlier subgroup, 428,
429
schwa insertion rule, 132–133,
134, 143–144ex
second-language acquisition,
517–523
bilingualism, 337, 338–339,
449–450, 518
foreign language learning, 518,
521–523
role of motivation in, 519–520
segment*, 112, 113, 115, 118,
120, 126, 131, 132, 134,
136-137, 138, 139
semantic categories, deixis and,
213–214
semantic fields*, 196–197, 224ex
semantic information, 288
see also information structure
semantic roles*, 193, 226–227ex
defined, 217
grammatical relations, 217–219
sentence meaning and, 214–217
socioeconomic status and,
394–399, 402
sound/spelling discrepancies,
83–84
proper nouns, 276
propositional content condition,
306, 307
Proto-Germanic language,
420–421, 436
Proto-Indo-European languages,
371, 421
Psammetichus, King of Egypt, 25
quality, maxim of, 310
questions, 5–6
formation, 166–168
information, 168, 172, 174, 511
language acquisition, 511
register and, 356
syntactic operation and, 174
receptive competence, 516
recipients, 216
recursion*, 10, 175
Red Thunder Cloud, 2
reduplication*, 54
reference*, 209
referential* expressions, 278
referential meaning*, 190, 192,
214–215
referents*, 190, 191
social status of, 211
referring expression*, 152,
289–290
reflexes*, 429
registers*, 335
see also styles
comparison of, 351–356
dialects, accents, and, 370–371
grammatical markers of,
345–346
language variation within
speech community, 336–338
lexical markers of, 341–342
markers of, 341–349
in monolingual societies,
340–341
phonological markers of,
343–345
semantic markers of, 346–349
slang and, 347–349, 360ex,
361ex, 366ex
polysemy* and homonymy,
203–205
portmanteau words*, 50
possessive morphemes, 133, 134
possessor*, 165, 243–244
postpositions*, 44, 244, 477
pragmatics*, 26, 195
see also information structure
defined, 270
syntax and, 271, 288
predication*, 152
see also verb phrases
prefixes*, 47, 49, 52–53, 492
preparatory condition, 306, 307
prepositional phrases,
160–161, 354
prepositions*
postpositions and, 44, 244, 477
register and, 345–346, 354
productive competence, 516
productivity*, of languages, 10
pro-forms, substitution of, 1159
promises, successful, 306–307
Pronouncing Dictionary of American
English, A (Kenyon, Knot)
pronouns*, 42–43, 70ex
see also relative pronouns
definite, 276
demonstrative, 211–212
gender distinctions
in, 64, 211
Modern English, 488–490
noun phrases and, 157
Old English, 473–475
paradigms and, 63–64
personal deixis, 210–211
referential, 278
register and, 354
translation and, 254, 255
universals and typology,
235–238, 251, 259–261ex
pronunciation, 30ex
see also phonetics
accent and, 371
allomorphy and, 65–66,
132–138, 141–142ex
changes in, 419
dialects and, 374–375,
384–385
different spelling and, 82–83
register and, 343–344
same spelling and, 82
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 552
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 552 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
Index 553
Southern dialect (American
English), 376, 377, 382, 388
Southern Shift, 386–387,
409–410ex
SOV (subject, object, verb )
languages, 242, 245–246
spatial deixis, 211–212
speakers, 307, 339–340
see also conversation
specific expressions, 278–279
speech, 17
lexical categories, 40–46
natural, 102, 139
as patterned language use,
10–11
synthesis, 139 (see also
computers)
writing and, 18, 20, 85
written registers and, 349–356
speech acts*, 301
see also conversation
appropriateness conditions
and successful declarations,
306–307
cooperative principle,
violations, 310–312
cooperative principle and,
307–312
cross-cultural communication
and, 325
defined, 304
distinguished among, 305–306
indirect, 310–312
language in use, 302
locutions and illocutions, 305
organization of conversation
and, 314–324
politeness and, 312–313
sentence structure and function
of utterances, 303
speech events, 302, 313–314
types of, 304
speech errors, 136–137
speech events*, 302, 313–314
see also speech acts
speech patterns, 381
see also dialect
speech situations*, 338–341, 342
speech sounds. see sounds
spelling
dialects and, 374
finger spelling in sign, 20
snake doctor/feeder, 377, 378, 379
sniglets, 131, 142ex
social boundaries, dialects and,
370
social dialects*, 11–12
social diexis, 211
social distance, 338
dialects and, 371
registers and, 341–342
social identity, 339, 519, 520
dialects and, 403
ethnic varieties and, 393–394
social meaning*, 189, 191
socioeconomic status varieties,
343–344, 403
Argentina, 399, 400
Montreal, Canada, 399
New York City, 343–344,
394–398
Norwich, England, 344, 398
sonorants*, 127
sound changes, 419
sounds
see also consonant sounds;
phonetics; vowel sounds
acquisition, 511–515
affricates, 93
approximants, 94
clicks, flaps, trills, 95–96
consonants, 91–96
diphthongs, 97, 385, 386
fricatives, 92–93
length, 98, 123–125
manner of articulation, 90, 117
nasalization, 98
nasals, 94–95
natural classes of, 122
obstruents, 93
place of articulation, 90–91,
117
rounding, 98, 99–100
spellings and, 82–85
stops, 91–92
tenseness, 98
tone, 99
vocal tract and, 86–89
voicing, 89, 117–118
vowel, 96–101
vowel height and frontness,
96–97
sound systems of language.
see phonology
semantics*
see also information structure
computerized corpora and, 219
defined, 188
function words and categories
of meaning, 207–214
lexical, 195–207
linguistic, social, affective
meaning and, 189–193
meaning and, 187, 188–189
semantic markers of register,
346–349
semantic shift, 57–58
sense meaning, 190–191
sentences
see also syntax
active and passive, 157–158
expanding, and verb phrase,
161–162
meaning of, 193, 195
sentence meaning and semantic
roles, 214–217
topic of, 273–274
sentence structure
function of utterances and, 303
language acquisition and, 510
sequence constraints*, 128–130
Shakespeare, William, 464, 465
shared knowledge, indirect speech
acts and, 311–312
Shaw, George Bernard, 12, 81, 83,
108ex
shortenings, 55–56, 492
Shuy, Roger W., 53
sibilants*, 132
signing, 18–20
sign language, 18–20, 22
signs*
arbitrary, 6–7, 8
nonarbitrary, 21
representational, 7–8
Simon, John, 30–31ex
sincerity condition, 306, 307
singular nouns, 42
Sinitic language group, 441
Sino-Tibetan languages, 441
Siouan languages, 446
skeeter hawk, 379, 383
slang*, 347–349, 360ex, 361ex,
366ex
slips of the tongue, 136–137
Smitherman, Geneva, 391
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 553
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 553 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
554 Index
topics*, 273–274
Totonacan languages, 447
transfer translation system,
253, 254
transitive verbs*, 42, 164
translation models, 253–255
Travels of John Mandeville, The,
484–486
tree diagrams, 51–52
COMP node, 172–173
constituency and, 153–155,
179–180ex
imbedded clauses, 169–170
phrase-structure rules and,
162–163
trill*, 96
Trudgill, Peter, 398
Truman, Harry S., 351–356,
360–361ex
Tupi languages, 447
Turkic languages, 445
turn taking* and pausing,
315–317, 325
two-word stage, 507
typology*, 231
see also universals
phonological universals,
238–242
semantic, 234–235
similarity and diversity,
231–238
syntactic, morphological
unconditioned mergers, 385
unconditioned sound
changes*, 419
underlying form*, 122–123
consonants, 135
vowels, 137–138
underlying structures*. see surface
structures and underlying
structures
United Nations, languages
of, 2
United States, languages in,
3–4, 26
see also American English;
dialects; individual names
of cities
universals*, 231–257
see also typology
explanations for, 232–233,
249–252
symbolization, 502
synonymous sentences*, 188
synonyms/synonymy, 200–201,
219
syntactic operations*
dative movement, 180–181ex
functions of, 173–175
question formation and
auxiliary, 166–168
shortening and incompleteness,
356
types of, 173
syntax*, 151–153
see also information structure
constituency and tree diagrams,
153–155
dialects, 375
grammatical relations, 163–165
information structure and,
279–288
introduction to, 152–153
major constituents of sentences,
155–157
phrase-structure expansions,
160–163
pragmatics and, 271, 288
surface structures and
underlying structures,
165–173
universals, typology, 246
tagging, of lexical categories,
67, 175
Tai languages, 445
tapping rule, 125–126, 131,
135, 137
Tehran speechways, 337
Telsur project, 384, 404
temporal deixis, 212–213
temporals, 216
tense*, 469
modality and, 207–208
temporal deixis and,
212–213
tenseness, in vowels, 98
terms of address, 342–343
Terrace, Herbert, 23
text*, 267, 289
textual deixis, 214
third-person singular
morphemes, 133
tone, of vowel sounds, 99
tool, language as, 502
spelling (cont.)
reform during Renaissance, 84
sounds and, 82–85
split* (sound change), 426
spoken register, written register
and, 349–351
see also speech
Spooner, William Archibald, 136
sporadic sound changes*, 419
standard variety*, 13–15
stops*
see also universals
glottal, 91–92
nasal, 94–95
voiced and voiceless, 90–91,
241–242
stress, 116, 130–131, 138, 142ex,
468
dialects and, 375
intonation and, 192
new-information, 279–280
structural ambiguity, 155
styles, 335
see also registers
lexical markers of, 342
phonological markers of, 343
subcategorization*, 41–42
subgroups*, 428
subject*
see also syntax
grammatical relations and,
163–165, 217
SVO languages, 231–232,
242, 246
subject-auxiliary inversion, 174
subordinating conjunction/subordi-
nator*, 46, 169–170, 355
Sub-Saharan Africa, language
families of, 443, 444
substitution
in child-language, 513–514
of pro-forms, 159
suffix*, 42, 48, 49, 53–54
surface form*, 123
surface structures* and underlying
structures, 165–173
Svein, King of Denmark, 466
SVO (subject, verb, object)
languages, 231–232, 242
syllabary, 85
syllabic writing*, 85
syllables*, 126–130, 138
sequence constraints, 128–130
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 554
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 554 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
Index 555
WH-constituent, 168, 172
who-whom distinction,
184–185ex
William, Duke of
Normandy, 480
women, language varieties of, 344,
400–402
word, sentence, utterance meaning
and, 193–195
word order
definiteness and, 277
inflection and, 62–63
information structure and,
287–288
Middle English, 483–484
Modern English, 490–491
Old English, 477
syntactic and morphological
universals, 242–243
words
see also lexicon; morphemes
compounding, 54–55, 71ex,
471, 492
computers for study
of, 67
deriving new, 52–53
meaning of, 193–194
open vs. closed classes, 52
as tangible elements, 39
writing, 17–18
pictograms, 17, 18
register and style in,
362–365ex
script vs. spelling, 85
speech and, 18, 20, 85
spoken register compared,
345–346, 349–356
style in, 362–363ex
syllabic writing systems, 85
wugs, 517
y’all/youse, 231, 256
yes/no questions, 5–6, 166, 174,
511
Yinglish, 56, 389
verdictives, 304
vocabulary
see also historical development,
in English
acquisition, 511
American vs. British English,
375–376
changes in, 419
Germanic, 468
increasing within a language,
52–59
Modern English, 491–492
Proto-Polynesian,
429–431, 433
register and, 353
vocal tract, 86–89
voicing*, 88, 89, 113,
117–118, 516
von Frisch, Karl, 21
Vortigern, King of Romanized
Celts, 466
vowel shifts, 385–387
vowel sounds*, 96–101
dialects and, 374, 384–387,
403, 404
dipthongs, 97, 385, 387
lengthening, 98, 123–125
mergers, 384–385
nasalization, 98
phonological universals,
238–241
rounding, 98, 99–100
tenseness, 98
tone, 99
underlying form, 137–138
universal and
typology, 234
vowel height and
frontness, 96–97
Vulgar Latin, 420, 437, 458ex
Webster, Noah, 13–14, 27
Webster’s Third New International
Dictionary, 27
WH-clefts, 283–285
grammar and language
acquisition, 252–253
phonological, 238–242
pronouns, 235–238, 251
semantic, 234–235
similarity and diversity,
231–238
syntactic, morphological,
242–248
types of, 248–249
universals, typology, 234–235
universal tendencies*, 248
Uralic languages, 445
Uto-Aztecan languages, 447
utterances*, 16
discourse and, 270
meaning of, 194–195
repairs in, 323–324
sentence structure and, 303
variety*, 371
velar*, 90, 91
verb-final (SOV) languages, 242,
245–246
verb-initial (VOS) languages, 243,
245, 250
verb-medial (SVO) languages,
231–232, 242
verbs*
adverbs and, 45
auxiliaries, 166–167
directional, 212
morphology, 339
noun phrase complement
and, 153
past-tense forms, 66, 134
phrasal, 492
prefixes added to, 53
register and, 354–355
subcategories of, 41–42
transitive vs. intransitive,
42, 164
verb phrase (VP), 155–157,
161–162
VOS languages, 243, 245, 250
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 555
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 555 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
This page intentionally left blank
557
Index of Languages
Abnaki, 448
Achumawi, 4
Ainu, 445
Akan, 443
Akkadian, 442
Alabama, 4, 446
Albanian, 441
Algonquian, 446, 447
Amharic, 4, 242, 442, 443
Anatolian, 441
Anglo-Saxon, 83
Apache, 446
Apache, Mescalero-Chiricahua,
446
Apache, Western, 446
Arabic, 24, 239, 242, 337, 435
historical linguistics, 442, 443
lexicon and morphology, 50
phonetics, 88
pronouns in, 260ex
Aramaic, 442
Arapaho, 446
Armenian, 441
Baltic, 441
Bantu languages, 61, 443
Bariari, 457ex
Basque, 15, 247–248, 446
Belarusan, 438, 439
Bengali, 435, 439
Bhojpuri, 439
Bihari. see Bhojpuri
Blackfoot, 446
Bo, 2
Bokmål, 337–338
Breton, 441
Bulgarian, 438
Burmese, 243, 441
Cahuilla, 447
Cakchiquel, 447
Cambodian, 4, 444
Cantonese, 2, 3, 13, 84, 99, 441,
455
Catalan, 247, 263ex, 437
Catawba, 2
Cayuga, 446
Cebuano, 4, 441
Celtic, 441
Chamorro, 4
Cherokee, 446
Cheyenne, 446
Chickasaw, 446
Chinese, 2–3, 99, 279, 281–282,
435
see also Cantonese; Mandarin
English compared, 521
fronted noun phrases and,
281–282
historical linguistics, 441
lexicon and morphology, 60
temporal deixis in, 213
universals and typology
writing, 84, 85
Chinook, 243, 447
Chipewyan, 446
Choctaw, 446
Chukchee, 400
Chumash, 447
Coeur d’Alene, 448
Comanche, 447
Congo, 443
Coos, 260ex, 448
Cornish, 2
Cree, 446
Croatian, 438, 439
Crow, 446
Cupeño, 447
Czech, 131, 438, 439
Dakota, 446
Danish, 373, 436
Diegueño. see Kumiái
Dutch, 262ex, 336–337, 373, 436
English, 3, 4, 9, 44
acquisition, 112, 502, 509, 513,
515
allomorphs in, 132–134
borrowed words in, 58, 420,
491–492
competence in, 10
creoles, 236, 451
derivational process in, 47–49,
52–53
dialects, 11, 370, 406–409ex
dictionaries, 13–14
French and, 83, 375, 480, 481,
489, 522
fronting in, 281–282
historical linguistics, 420–421,
435, 436, 437
inflection, 42, 63
information structure and,
274, 276, 285, 286,
292–295ex
learning as second language,
437, 450, 517–518,
521, 523
lexicon and morphology, 52–53,
57, 60, 61–62, 70–73ex
paradigms for pronouns, 63–64
personal deixis in, 211
phonetics, 91, 93, 94–95, 98,
104–108ex
phonology, 115, 116–125,
142–144ex
pronunciation in, 66
registers, styles, 338–339
relative clauses in, 170–172,
246–247
semantics, 200, 202, 219,
224–227ex
sound/spelling discrepancies,
81–84
speech acts in, 327–332ex
standard, 13, 15
stress in, 130–131
SVO word order in,
242–243, 245
syllables in, 127–129
syntax, 158, 160, 163,
164, 166, 173,
178–183ex
translation and, 254–255
universals and typology,
231–232, 235, 237, 238,
239, 256–257, 256ex
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 557
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 557 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
558 Index of Languages
Khmer. see Cambodian
Kickapoo, 446
Kinyarwanda, 247
Koasati, 446
Korean, 129, 274, 337
historical linguistics, 445
phonology, 118–119, 120
universals and typology, 241
Kumiái, 447
Kwakiutl, 239
Lakota, 4, 446
Lao, 4, 445
Lapp, 260ex, 445
Latin, 62–63, 373, 421, 491
Vulgar, 420, 437, 458ex
Latvian, 441
Lithuanian, 441
Lower Kanauri, 260ex
Luiseño, 243, 447
Lusi, 457ex
Malecite-Passamaquoddy, 446
Malagasy, 239, 240, 243,
246–247, 441, 442
Malay, 50, 239, 435, 441, 442
Malayāḷam, 240, 444, 445
Mam, 447
Mandarin, 3, 54, 129, 203, 522
Cantonese and, 13, 84, 441,
455
compounds in, 54
conditioning clause in, 259
fronting in, 281
phonetics, 93
relativization hierarchy in,
262ex
verb-medial (SVO) word order
in, 245
voiceless stops in, 242
vowels in, 239, 240
word order in, 277
Manx, 2
Maori, 425, 427, 428, 431, 457ex
Marathi, 372, 439
Maricopa, 4, 447
Marquesan, 431
Massachusett, 447
Maya, 260ex, 447
Menominee, 448
Miami, 447
Hawaiian, 4, 92, 129, 457ex
creole, 451
historic linguistics, 425, 426,
427–428
universals, 235, 239, 240, 241,
242, 260ex
Hebrew, 442, 443
Hindi, 4, 13, 85, 243, 276, 435,
439
Hiw, 456ex
Hixkaryana, 243
Hmong, 4
Hopi, 243, 447
Huichol, 447
Hunan, 441
Hungarian, 4, 445
Huron, 447
Icelandic, 436
Igbo, 443
Indonesian, 50, 54, 55, 60
Inuktitut, 446
Iowa-Oto, 448
Irish (Irish Gaelic), 2, 93, 441
Italian, 12, 88, 96, 231–232,
373, 437
Jacaltec, 243
Japanese, 58, 76ex, 211, 274, 435,
445
information structure and, 279,
280
lexicon and morphology, 147ex
phonetics, 87–88, 92, 100
postpositions in, 44, 244
relativization hierarchy in,
262ex
SOV word order in, 242, 243,
245–246
universals and typology, 232
vowels in, 100, 239, 240
Javanese, 441
Jinyu, 441
Kabyle, 442, 443
Kam. see Khams Tibetan
Kanauri, 260ex
Kannaḍa, 372, 444, 445
Kekchi, 447
Kera, 262ex
Khams Tibetan, 441
Eskimo, 212, 239, 259, 446
Estonian, 445
Éwé, 92, 260ex, 443
Faroese, 436
Farsi. see Persian
Fijian, 48, 183–184ex, 242, 243,
441, 442
definiteness in, 276
demonstratives, 212
phonetics, 96
phonology, 124, 144ex
pronouns, 254, 255
universals and typology, 237
Finnish, 76ex, 262ex, 445
French, 12, 65, 131, 279, 450
borrowed words in, 58
dialects, 11, 370, 373, 399
English and, 83, 375, 480, 481,
489, 522
gender and, 400, 401
historical linguistics, 437, 438
language choice and, 339
left-dislocation in, 282–283
linguistic repertoire, 336–337
nasalization in, 98, 119, 241
personal deixis in, 211
phonetics, 88, 93, 99
universals and typology,
231–232
vowels in, 239
vulgar Latin and, 458ex
Frisian, 436
Fula, 443
Galician, 437
Georgian, 434, 445
German, 61, 146ex, 219, 257, 373,
436
compounds in, 54–55
gendered article in,
64–65, 503
phonetics, 88–89, 93, 98, 100
Gikuyu, 61
Greek, 439, 441, 491
Guaraní, 447
Gujarati, 439
Hakka, 3
Hausa, 442, 443
Havasupai-Walapai-Yavapai, 447
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 558
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 558 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
Index of Languages 559
phonetics, 88, 92–93, 96, 100
phonology, 145ex
registers, styles, 338–339
semantics, 218
universals and typology,
235–236, 237
Spokane, 447
Squamish, 243
Swahili, 4, 61, 131, 443
Swedish, 373, 436
Tagalog, 257, 263ex, 441, 442
Tahitian, 129, 206, 425, 428, 431,
457ex
Tamil, 4, 444, 445
Telugu, 4, 444, 445
Thai, 76ex, 87–88, 243, 400, 445
Thompson, 447
Tibetan, 441
Tillamook, 447
Tlingit, 446
Tocharian, 441
Tok Pisin, 11, 76–77ex, 236, 451,
453–454
Tongan, 2, 4, 144–145ex, 425,
426, 427–428, 429, 457ex
semantics, 208, 210
verb-initial word order in, 243,
244–245
verb-noun compound in,
297–298ex
Tonkawa, 448
Totonac, 447
Tsimshian, 447
Turkish, 4, 54, 61, 75ex, 85, 243,
337, 434, 445
Tuscarora, 448
Tuvaluan, 75ex, 213, 312
Ukrainian, 438, 439
Urdu, 13, 85, 372, 435, 439
Ute-Southern Paiute, 447
Uyghur, 2, 4
Uzbek, 434, 445
Vietnamese, 4, 60, 99, 243, 444
Vulgar Latin, 420, 437, 458ex
Walla Walla, 447
Wampanoag. see Massachusett
Washo, 447
Potawatomi, 446
Proto-Austronesian, 442
Proto-Germanic, 420–421
Proto-Indo-European, 421,
458–459ex
Proto-Malayo-Polynesian, 442
Proto-Nuclear-Polynesian, 428
Proto-Polynesian, 424–431
reconstructing vocabulary,
429–431, 433
Proto-Western-Malayo-Polynesian,
442
Provençal, 437
Punjabi, 4, 241, 439
Quechua, 239, 240, 447
Quiché, 447, 515
Ranamål, 337–338
Raɣa, 456ex
Romansch, 437
Rotuman, 277
Rumanian, 12, 437
Russian, 61, 62, 145ex, 218, 219,
435, 438, 439
word order in, 287–288
Ryukyuan, 445
Salinan, 447
Salishan, 447
Samoan, 4, 50, 76ex, 129, 146ex,
287, 425, 427, 428, 429,
442, 457ex
semantics, 203, 206, 218–219
Sanskrit, 236, 421, 439, 468–469
Scots Gaelic, 441
Seneca, 446
Serbian, 438, 439
Shasta, 44
Shawnee, 446
Shoshoni, 447
Shuswap, 447
Somali, 15, 442, 443
Southern Paiute, 260ex
Sowa, 456ex
Spanish, 3–4, 12, 65, 74ex, 239, 435
demonstratives, 212
dialects, 11, 370, 399, 400
historical linguistics, 437, 438
information structure and,
295–297ex
Micmac, 446
Min Nan, 441
Miwok, 448
Mixtec, 447
Modern Syriac, 442
Mohave, 447
Mohawk, 76ex, 446
Mohegan-Montauk-Narragansett,
448
Mota, 456ex
Motu, 54, 442, 456ex
Munda languages, 444–445
Na’vi, xxiii, 92
Nadëb, 243
Nahuatl, 447
Natchez, 448
Natick. see Massachusett
Native American languages, 4,
208, 243, 446–448
see also individual Native
American language names
Navajo, 4, 243, 446
New Guinea languages. see Papuan
languages
Niuean, 241, 428
Norman French, 83
Norwegian, 336–337, 436
Ojibwa, 446
Omaha, 446
Oneida, 446
Osage, 448
Otomi, 447
Pacific Island languages, 422–433
see also individual Pacific-Island
language names
Palestinian Aramaic, 442
Panjabi. see Punjabi
Papago-Pima, 447
Papuan languages, 54, 233, 435,
448–449
Pashto, 439
Penobscot, 447
Persian, 48, 73–74ex, 130, 232,
239, 243, 337, 339, 439
Philippine languages, 441
Polish, 131, 438, 439
Pomo, 448
Portuguese, 12, 435, 437, 438
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 559
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 559 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
560 Index of Languages
Yucatec, 447
Yue, 3, 441. see also Cantonese
Yupik, 446
Zapotec, 4, 243, 447
Zulu, 240, 443
Xiang. see Hunan
Yakima, 447
Yaqui, 447
Yiddish, 58, 294ex, 389
Yokuts, 448
Yoruba, 443
Waskia, 456ex
Welsh, 243, 441
Wichita, 448
Winnebago, 446
Wolof, 443
Wu Chinese, 3
Wyandot. see Huron
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 560
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 560 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
561
Index of Internet Sites,
Films and Videos
Acapela Text to Speech Demo, 149
Acquiring the Human
Language, 528
American Dialect Society, 78, 411
American National Corpus, 366
American Tongues, 413
Animated ASL Dictionary, An, 33
Atlas of North American English
(ANAE), 412
AT&T text-to-speech
demonstration, 149, 299
Babytalk, 528
Beowulf, 497
Black on White, 413
Bookmarks for Corpus-Based
Linguistics, 78
British National Corpus, 229, 366
Census 2000 Gateway, 33
CHILDES, 528
Communities of Speech, 413
Corpus Linguistics, 78
Corpus of Contemporary American
English, 78, 332
Dictionary of American Regional
English (DARE), 411
Domain of Linguistics, The, 32
Do You Speak American?, 413
Ebonics Information Page, 412
Endangered Language Alliance, 33
English Companions, The, 497
English-Speaking World, An, 528
Ethnologue: Languages of the
World, 460
Ethnologue, The, 33
Human Language Evolves,
The, 528
Human Languages Project, The, 33
In Search of the First
Language, 460
International Phonetic
Association, 109
Internet Thesaurus, 229
James Crawford’s Language Policy
Website & Emporium, 33
Joseph Henderer’s Project, 460
Ladefoged’s Concatenative Speech
Synthesis, 149
Language Samples Project, 412
Linguistic Atlas Projects, 411
Linguist List’s Topic Page on
Ebonics, 412
Linguists, The, 33
LISU (Language: Its Structure and
Use), 32, 78, 109, 148, 228,
299, 332, 366, 411, 460,
497, 528
LSA: Videos on the Web, 412
Lydia Green’s Project, 460
Merriam-Webster OnLine, 78
Oxford English
DictionaryOnline, 497
PhpSyntaxTree, 79
Secret of the Wild Child, 528
Signal Analysis and Interpretation
Laboratory, 109
Sound and Fury, 33
Sounds of the IPA, The, 109
SpeechLinks, 149
Speech on the Web, 148
Student Productions, 33
Survey of English Usage, 412
Thinkmap’s Visual Thesaurus, 229
UCLA Phonetics Lab Data, 109
UCREL Links, 78
UNESCO Endangered
Languages, 33
WordNet, 229
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 561
00419_16_ind_p545-562.indd 561 7/1/11 20:09:58
7/1/11 20:09:58
This page intentionally left blank
563
Credits
This page constitutes an extension of the copyright page. We have made every
effort to trace the ownership of all copyrighted material and to secure permission
from copyright holders. In the event of any question arising as to the use of any
material, we will be pleased to make the necessary corrections in future printings.
Thanks are due to the follow authors, publishers, and agents for permission to use
the material indicated.
Chapter 1: 19: Source: “Language in the USA” edited by Edward Finegan and John
R. Rickford, p. 232 (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2004). 19:
Source: “Language in the USA” edited by Edward Finegan and John R. Rickford,
p. 233 (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2004).
Chapter 3: 88: From Ladefoged. “Course in Phonetics,” 4E. © 2001 Heinle/Arts
& Sciences, a part of Cengage Learning, Inc. Reproduced by permission. www
.cengage.com/permissions
Chapter 8: 289: Source: D. Biber, S. Conrad, R. Reppen, “Corpus Linguistics.”
(Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998).
Chapter 10: 343: Source: “The Social Stratification of English in New York City”
by William Labov (Washington, D.C.: Center for Applied Linguistics, 1966).
344: Source: B. Wald and T. Shopen, “A Researcher’s Guide to the Sociolinguistic
Variable (ING)” in “Style and Variables in English,” ed. Timothy Shopen and
Joseph Williams, p. 247 (Cambridge, MA: Winthrop, 1981). 344: Source:
“Sociolinguistics: An Introduction to Language and Society,” 4th ed., by Peter
Trudgill (New York: Penguin, 2000). 345, 346: Source: Biber, D., “Variation
across Speech and Writing” (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press,
1988).
Chapter 11: 376: Source: From “American Regional Dialects: A Word Geography” by
Craig M. Carver, p. 248 (Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 1987). 378:
From “A Word Geography of the Eastern United States” by Hans Kurath (Ann
Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 1949). 379: Source: From “The Regional
Vocabulary of Texas” by E. Bagby Atwood (Austin: University of Texas Press,
1962). Copyright © 1962. 379: Source: From “Linguistic Atlas of the Gulf States,
Vol. I: Handbook for The Linguistic Atlas of the Gulf States” edited by Lee
Pederson (Athens: University of Georgia Press, 1986). Reprinted by permission
of The University of Georgia Press. 380: “Principal and Subsidiary Dialect Areas
in the North-Central States” by Albert H. Marckwardt, 1957. 381: From Allen.
“Linguistic Atlas of Upper Midwest, Vol. 1,” 1E. © 1982 Gale, a part of Cengage
Learning, Inc. Reproduced by permission. www.cengage.com/permissions.
383, 384: Reprinted by permission of the publisher from “Dictionary of American
Regional English, Vol. 1 A–C,” edited by Frederic G. Cassidy, Cambridge, Mass.:
The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, Copyright © 1985 by the President
and Fellows of Harvard College. 386, 387, 388: Source: Labov, William, 1996.
“The Organization of Dialect Diversity In America,” available at http://www
.ling.upenn.edu/phono_atlas/ICSLP4.html. 395, 396, 397: From: Labov,
00419_17_cre_p563-564.indd 563
00419_17_cre_p563-564.indd 563 1/7/11 11:11:12 PM
1/7/11 11:11:12 PM
564 Credits
William. 2006. “The Social Stratification of English in New York City,” 2nd ed.
(Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press). 398: From” Sociolinguistics:
An Introduction to Language and Society,” 4th ed., by Peter Trudgill (New
York: Penguin, 2000). 399: Source: ‘Some Results of a Sociolinguistic Study
of Montreal French’ by Gillian Sankoff and Henrietta Cedergren in “Linguistic
Diversity in Canadian Society,” edited by R. Darnell, pp. 61–87 (Edmonton:
Linguistic Research, 1971). 400: Source: ‘Diachronic Reconstruction by Dialect
Comparison of Variable Constraints’ by Tracy D. Terrell in “Variation Omnibus,”
edited by David Sankoff and Henrietta Cedergren, pp. 115–124 (Edmonton:
Linguistic Research, 1981). 401: Source: ‘Some Results of a Sociolinguistic Study
of Montreal French’ by Gillian Sankoff and Henrietta Cedergren in “Linguistic
Diversity in Canadian Society,” edited by R. Darnell, pp. 61–87 (Edmonton:
Linguistic Research, 1971).
Chapter 12: 423: Source: “The Prehistory of Polynesia,” Jennings, J. D., 1979. 432:
Source: Terrell, 1986, “Prehistory in the Pacific Islands: A Study of Variation
in Language, Customs, and Human Biology.” 440: Source: “The Prehistory
of Polynesia,” Jennings, J. D., 1979. 444: Source: “Language in Africa: An
Introductory Survey” by Edgar A. Gregersen (New York: Gordon & Breach,
1977). 453: Copyright © Grass Roots Comic Company Ltd. (bob.browne@
global.net.pg).
Chapter 13: 487: From “Historical Linguistics” by Theodora Bynon, p. 82
(Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press, 1977). Reprinted with the
permission of Cambridge University Press.
Chapter 14: 514: After Ingram, David. 1989. “First Language Acquisition: Method,
Description, and Explanation” (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press),
pp. 371–72.
00419_17_cre_p563-564.indd 564
00419_17_cre_p563-564.indd 564 1/7/11 11:11:12 PM
1/7/11 11:11:12 PM
Phonetic Symbols for Consonants
PLACE OF ARTICULATION
MANNER OF
ARTICULATION BILABIAL
LABIO-
DENTAL
INTER-
DENTAL ALVEOLAR
ALVEO-
PALATAL PALATAL VELAR UVULAR PHARYNGEAL GLOTTAL
STOPS
voiceless p t k ʔ
voiced b d g
NASALS m n ɲ ŋ
FRICATIVES
voiceless ɸ f θ s ʃ (š) ç x ħ h
voiced ß v ð z ʒ (ž) ɣ ʁ ʕ
AFFRICATES
voiceless ʦ ʧ (č)
voiced ʣ ʤ (ǰ)
APPROXIMANTS
voiced central w r (ɹ) j (y)
voiced lateral l
OTHERS
voiced trill r̃ (r)
voiced flap/tap ɾ
00419_ibc.indd
i
00419_ibc.indd
i
4/1/11
14:50:17
4/1/11
14:50:17
