23
2.3  
Icelandic Language Policy
The official language policy of Iceland is that Icelandic is the national language of
Iceland including in government and in the education system (Article 8) and that the
government should ensure that Icelandic is used at all levels of society for all pur-
poses (Article 2).
Stjórnvöld skulu tryggja að unnt verði að nota hana á öllum sviðum íslensks
þjóðlífs (2. gr. Málstefna 2012)
As an example, during early efforts to promote mother tongue education for
immigrant children in Iceland in the first National Curriculum Guidelines (1999),
the author was informed by the then Education Minister that this was not possible
as, by law, there could be no teaching in languages other than Icelandic in Icelandic
schools. Despite the official stance, however, English has increasingly become the
medium of instruction at Iceland‘s universities (see the chapter, Using English at
University, this volume). Six out of seven universities in Iceland have language poli-
cies which state that Icelandic is the language of instruction, research and gover-
nance, with the stipulation that this may not always be true for graduate programs
and research purposes where the use of English may be necessary (Kristinsson and
Bernharðsson 2014; Menntamálaráðuneyti 2009, p. 48).
Although not an official policy, the Icelandic government has been cognizant of
the need to promote efforts to translate the interface of computer software sold in
Iceland into Icelandic. The government’s goal in 2009 was that all software inter-
faces would be in Icelandic by 2012 (Málstefna 2012). In 2012, 40% of schools in
Iceland used English on their Windows operating systems despite Microsoft having
made available interfaces in Icelandic. However, Apple has not translated its inter-
face into Icelandic (Harðardóttir et al. 2012) and, as children increase their com-
puter use, English exposure can only grow (Broddason 2006). Computer interface,
despite official efforts is still a major source of English exposure for Icelanders.
There are no official policies that guide or govern language use in the work place
with the exception of the non-binding Common Nordic Language Policy that
encourages business to develop strategies for the parallel use of languages (p. 94).
The fact remains that for more and more Icelandic companies, English is becoming
the company language (Kvaran 2008).
Icelandic is the official language of Iceland and there is no reference to other
languages in official language policy documents. The only mention of the role of the
English language in Iceland in official documents appears in the National Curriculum
Guides 2011a, b, where English is grouped with other foreign languages.
The Policies and Contexts that Frame English Education and Use in Iceland
24
3  
English in Primary Education
The Icelandic education system is three tiered and has separate Curriculum Guides
for each level. Compulsory or primary education begins at age six. Prior to that, the
vast majority of children have had up to four years of pre-school. Compulsory edu-
cation ends in the 10th grade when students are 16 years old. Most students move
on to secondary education from age 16–20, but about a fifth does not graduate
(Statistics Iceland 2016). This section provides an overview of the educational poli-
cies that guide English education at the primary level in Iceland. The goal is to
demonstrate that because of a dissonance between educational policy and linguistic
reality, implementation of policies may not be as effective as intended in guiding
educators to meet the linguistic needs of students.
English was first introduced as a subject at primary level in 1936. Before that, the
notion was that children had to be proficient in their mother tongue before they were
ready to learn a foreign language (Hauksdóttir 2007, p. 35). English instruction
began at the 6th grade level in 1974 when English was introduced as a second for-
eign language after Danish. However, in 1999 English instruction began at 5th grade
when it replaced Danish as the first foreign language taught in school. The respon-
sibility of choosing instructional approaches and finding pertinent teaching material
was left up to teachers (Menntamálaráðuneyti 1999). In 2010, English instruction
was started in the 4th grade, while in 2016, at the time of writing, the onset of formal
English instruction is even earlier with many pre-schools offering English pro-
grams. Thus, before entering the tertiary level, the average Icelandic student has
studied English for at least seven years in primary school (Grades 1-10) and another
three to eight semesters in secondary school (Grades 11–14), depending on the field
of study. Each of the three educational levels has their own Curriculum Guides with
a subguide for foreign languages. We begin with the Guide for the primary level.
3.1  
The National Curriculum Guide for the Primary Level (1st
–10th Grade)
The 1999 National Curriculum Guide had clearly defined curriculum goals for
English at the end of 10th grade along with objectives and ways to attain those
goals. Each school also had a school curriculum that aligned with the National
Curriculum Guide. In the current Guide from 2011b, this detailed approach has
been replaced by more general benchmarks for proficiency for all foreign languages
based on the Common European Framework of Reference (CEFR) (Mennta- og
menningarmálaráðuneytið 2011b; Reynisdóttir and Jóhannesson 2013). A subsec-
tion of the Guide is devoted to the teaching and learning of foreign languages.
The Curriculum Guide for foreign languages (2013) in effect at the time of writ-
ing contains three benchmarks, or competency levels, in seven different skill areas:
listening, reading comprehension, spoken interaction, spoken production, writing,
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
25
cultural literacy, and learning skills at the end of the 10th grade. The competencies
apply to both the foreign languages taught at this level, English and Danish, and
reflect general traditional foreign language and culture competencies. The Guide,
although thorough and broad, ignores the vastly different linguistic contexts in
which children learn these two languages. In the introduction to the Guide, there is
a short paragraph about the importance of English. It states: “English is the key
language in higher education and science and therefore it is essential to have a good
command of English right from the beginning … as most study material in Icelandic
universities is in English” (Mennta- og menningarmálaráðuneytið 2013 p.  129).
However, there is no reflection of this status in the competencies themselves, nor is
there an acknowledgement of the rich English input Icelandic children receive from
infancy. There is no special emphasis on academic English in the Guide itself
despite the statement above (Guðmundsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2014). On the
contrary, about three times more space is devoted to the importance of learning
Danish or other Nordic languages. The Guide states that in order to continue their
English studies at the secondary level without remediation, students should have
reached level 3  in the Guide or B1 on The Common European Framework of
Reference (p. 127). The following section describes briefly the implementation of
English language learning at the primary level.
3.2  
Instruction at the Primary Level, 1–10th Grade
Studies of formal English learning spaces including instructional practice, educa-
tional materials and teacher preparation, find that traditional approaches prevail and
that most English instructors have little formal training as English teachers
(Kristjánsdóttir et al. 2005/2006; Ingvarsdóttir 2011a, b), and that English is taught
for 2–4 h a week.
As a follow-up to the 1999 Curriculum Guide, the Ministry of Education com-
missioned a study on the implementation of the then new Guide in practice.
Participants were 788 students in the 5th, 9th and 10th grades and 23 teachers in
eight primary schools in Iceland. Data were collected through mixed methods that
includedsurveys,interviewsandclassobservations(Kristjánsdóttiret al.2005/2006).
The main findings were that, although innovative communicative approaches exist,
instructional practice and assessment was largely traditional, teacher-centered with
little opportunity for students to practice productive skills (Kristjánsdóttir et  al.
2005/2006, p. 11). These findings are supported by later studies (Ingvarsdóttir and
Jóhannsdóttir, this volume; Jeeves, this volume).
In most primary schools, there are four lessons of English per week in grades 9
and 10. The lower grades have two lessons per week but these may be combined so
that many students have English only once a week (Kristjánsdóttir et al. 2005/2006).
English instructional materials are, for the most part, chosen by the Icelandic
Curriculum Center (Námsgagnastofnun) and are not usually written especially for
The Policies and Contexts that Frame English Education and Use in Iceland
26
Icelandic students. The older students are not satisfied with the study materials, a
view that is also expressed by some of the teachers (Kristjánsdóttir et al. 2005/2006).
In the Kristjánsdóttir et al study, a third of the 23 participating teachers was certi-
fied to teach English and most of those taught in the Reykjavík area. In the younger
grades, none of the teachers had certification in English teaching. By 2014, only
about 5% of teachers in Iceland’s state schools were without teacher certification
(Statistics Iceland 2016). No numbers were available about certification of those
teachers who teach English specifically.
In-service training for Icelandic teachers appears to be haphazard, unstructured
and voluntary. There is no requirement for further professional development upon
completion of initial certification, which hampers growth in professional knowledge
and adoption of new methodologies and approaches (Ingvarsdóttir 1999). Funding
allocated for general in-service training by the government has, to a large extent,
gone to fund “study trips” abroad. These trips, organized by individual schools, do
not always focus on specific subjects or on instruction and “have limited value for
professional or school development” (Þorsteinsdóttir and Þorsteinsson 2014,
p. 521).
These earlier studies highlighted that practices were teacher centered and that
there were insufficient opportunities for students to produce English in the few
hours a week allocated to English instruction. The lack of in-service training
reported in these studies does little to enhance the likelihood of teachers adopting
more student centered instructional practices. The next section addresses the educa-
tional outcomes of the system described above.
3.3  
Educational Outcomes – Icelandic Children’s English
Proficiency
The history of standardized testing in Iceland is not long and there seems to have
been a philosophical and political aversion to the notion of such examinations as a
means to gauge the outcomes of the Icelandic educational system. Over the last few
years, however, there have been efforts to introduce standardized tests in Iceland.
Currently, the outcome of primary education is measured by means of optional
National Exams in Icelandic, Mathematics and English (Námsmatsstofnun 2016).
English proficiency is only tested at the end of primary school in the 10th grade
while the other subjects are also tested in the 4th and 7th grades. The frequent
changing of the evaluation instruments, by which competencies are measured,
makes any comparison between years and tests difficult (Egilsdóttir 2012).
The current Guide provides a description of a learner’s competence rather than a
target benchmark of mastery to be attained at the culmination of a specific school
level. The description includes ability ratings given in letters, A, B, C, and
D. Students who receive a grade A-B in English at the end of the 10th grade have
reached competency level 2 (CEFR, B1/B2) required to continue English studies at
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
27
secondary level without remediation (Mennta- og menningarmálaráðuneytið 2013,
p. 138).
In 2014, over 60% of Icelandic students in the 10th grade were found to be at
level 2 (B1/B2) in English upon completion of their compulsory education
(Námsmatsstofnun 2016). This seems paradoxical when measured against the
instructional picture presented above. However, it seems clear from other studies,
that this proficiency may be attained outside of school (Jóhannsdóttir, this volume;
Jeeves, this volume) and that conversational English skills, especially receptive
skills exceed the proficiency goals of the National Guide.
Three major studies of Icelandic children’s English proficiency have been con-
ducted over the last decades that demonstrate this fact. These studies are compara-
ble as they used similar methodology and measurements and give a good overview
of English proficiency and use by children over time (Torfadóttir et  al. 2006;
Jóhannsdóttir 2010; Lefever 2010). Two studies are presented here and the third,
and most recent, is presented in the next section. The first study is a survey of 275
young Icelanders’ English proficiency conducted in 2006. Participants were fourth
graders from eight schools with no English instruction and fifth graders in the first
year of instruction from eight schools in and outside of Reykjavík (Torfadóttir et al.
2006). Results showed that on average the score was 72% correct answers on the
comprehension test. In the 5th grade the average score was 77% with a score of 80%
correct for boys and 74% for girls. The overall score for the 4th grade was 69% with
only a slight difference between boys and girls (Torfadóttir et al. 2006, p. 16). These
findings are important as they demonstrate that the children score high on English
tests prior to onset of formal English instruction suggesting that their English profi-
ciency was attained extramurally.1
This comprehension test gives an indication of
receptive proficiency. A further twenty children were also tested for their productive
skills in the form of short conversations about familiar topics. The majority of the
children were able to take part in simple conversations with prompts (Torfadóttir
et al., p. 31). The researchers concluded that the children had “considerable” com-
municative skills in English (p. 31), that their English was close to the target and
that they had exceeded the 1999 Curriculum goals then in effect for the 4th grade.
In spoken conversational English, the children had attained the A1/A2 competence
level of the CEFR.
In a follow up study of 182 third graders that replicated the 2005/2006 study,
Lefever (2010) concluded that the 3rd grade students had also exceeded Curriculum
guidelines for the 4th grade. Additionally, the participants had developed beginning
level English literacy skills as measured by the Cambridge Examination for Young
Learners who have received approximately 100 h of instruction. Lefever concluded
that the 3rd graders’s conversational English skills were on par with A1/A2 on the
European Common Framework (CEFR, Council of Europe 2014).
The same is not true for English literacy skills. In a more recent study, Egilsdóttir
(2012) compared 9th grade students’ comprehension of three reading comprehen-
sion parts of the national English exams from the last three decades. Her ­participants
1
 Extramural here means language exposure outside of the classroom (Sundquist and Sylvén 2016).
The Policies and Contexts that Frame English Education and Use in Iceland
28
were 146 9th graders in 2012 who completed three comprehension tests that had
previously been administered in 1983, 1997 and 2008. The results were then com-
pared to the original test takers’ scores from each of those three years. The results
show a decline in comprension that correlated with text length and number of aca-
demic words as measured by the Academic Word List (Coxhead 2000). The longer
and more academic the text, the less the 2012 students understood and the more
frustrated they became. Egilsdóttir concluded that her participants from 2012 did
not have a large enough vocabulary to support effective reading comprehension of
academic texts. This conclusion is supported by a study by Fleckenstein (2016) of
the average receptive vocabulary size of 66 10th graders using a vocabulary test
designed by Nation (Nation and Beglar 2007). The overall conclusion gleaned from
these studies is that students prior to the onset of instruction may have acquired
some conversational skills, but at the end of primary school may lacking in formal
academic English skills.
4  
Formal English Instruction at the Secondary Level (11–14)
We now turn our attention to English education the secondary level. Earliest refer-
ences to English instruction in Iceland are from the early part of the 19th century
when the Danish linguist, Rasmus Rask, offered English instruction to the public.
Formal English instruction began in Iceland’s only secondary school in 1847
(Einarsdóttir 2001). The first English language textbook was published in 1863 and
the first Curriculum Guide for secondary education in 1904 included English as a
subject (Einarsdóttir 2001, p. 5). In 1930, English instruction was offered to the
public through Icelandic National Radio (Matthiesen 1930). In her description of
the radio course, Matthiesen (1930) mentions several English language learning
texts available in Icelandic book stores. The section begins with an overview of the
Curriculum Guide for that level and then the implementation of the Guide is
described along with the educational outcomes.
4.1  
Curriculum Guide for the Secondary Level
The current Curriculum Guide for foreign languages at secondary level provides
guidelines on foreign language instruction and applies to all foreign languages
taught at this level: English, Danish, French, German, etc. The description of knowl-
edge and skills at different competency levels applies to an individual student’s
proficiency in all foreign languages regardless of level and linguistic context
(Mennta- og menningarmálaráðuneytið 2011a). As with the primary level, there has
been some criticism of this grouping as the status of English vis-a-vis the other
languages is very different, to a point where English can hardly be considered a
foreign language in Iceland (Guðmundsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2014;
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
29
Arnbjörnsdóttir 2007). The 2011 Curriculum Guide is broad and open to interpreta-
tion, especially the highest, third level which emphasizes general competencies,
including reading and writing, without acknowledging the rich English input con-
text (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2011) that affects English proficiency. Furthermore, the 2011
Guide does not reflect the fact that students go on to tertiary education in Iceland
where over 90% of the textbooks are written for native speakers of English
(Arnbjörnsdóttir, (Using English at University) this volume). There is little refer-
ence in the Guide as to how secondary level courses should prepare students for
university studies in English. As seen in the previous section, the goal for profi-
ciency upon completion of primary level is B1with over 60% of students actually
graduating with a B1/B2 level proficiency. This delineation continues at secondary
level where Level 1 is partially comparable to European level B1, Level 2 is compa-
rable to levels B1 and B2, and Level three in the Guide to C1. There is no recom-
mendation as to what proficiency level should be the target at the completion of
secondary level. The criteria are descriptions of competence in line with the
European Benchmarks rather than target proficiency goals at the end of secondary
education. The fact that the benchmarks are not target goals, added to the lack of
standardized tests in English at the end of secondary school, makes it difficult to
establish an overall competency goal at the end of secondary education. This has led
to the development of entrance exams for some programs at tertiary level to gauge
applicants’ English proficiency prior to entering University. Guðmundsdóttir and
Arnbjörnsdóttir (2014) point out that the 2011 Curriculum Guide is general and
open to interpretation. Implementation of the Curriculum Guide is left open to indi-
vidual schools where cost may be the governing factor as to what type of courses are
offered rather than adequate preparation for further education or the workforce.
All secondary school students take three semesters of English, regardless of con-
centration or which program of study they choose. Students pursuing a program
with a focus on languages take more courses, both compulsory and optional English
courses. Optional English courses are also available to students in other programs of
study to some extent. Furthermore, as the Guide is vague and provides only three
broad proficiency levels, it is unclear whether students are adding to their profi-
ciency when taking optional English courses, which in practice seem mostly to be
parallel in terms of proficiency level (Guðmundsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2014,
Arnbjörnsdóttir, (Using English at University) this volume). Many students enter
university with only the three required English courses taken in the first and second
year of a four-year secondary school.2
Given the gap between the Guide and the
linguistic reality of secondary students, it comes as no surprise that many students
feel that their secondary school courses added little to their proficiency (Jeeves
2013), and that more than a third of students struggle with English at University, as
reported in Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir (2010, 2015) and Arnbjörnsdóttir
(chapter 8, this volume). The next section contains a brief description of instruc-
tional practices at secondary school level.
2
 
As of 2016, secondary education in Iceland has been reduced to 3 years. The consequences for
English education are not yet clear.
The Policies and Contexts that Frame English Education and Use in Iceland
30
4.2  
Curriculum and Instruction at Secondary Level (Year
11–14)
There is a dearth of studies of formal English education at secondary level  in
Iceland. Two of the chapters in this volume have this topic as their focus and there-
fore this section is somewhat shorter than the discussion about English teaching at
primary level. Previous studies indicate that there is not in fact a great variety in
instructional practice at secondary level. For example, Ingvarsdóttir (2007) observes
that in secondary school, “the teaching was teacher and text-book-centered. Very
little in the way of personalized instruction, project work, cooperative learning,
other constructivist learning, or other constructivist methods to enhance student
autonomy was observed” but there are exceptions (Ingvarsdóttir 2007, p. 337).
Ingvarsdóttir (2007, 2011a, b) reports that, although the 1999 Curriculum
Guidelines emphasize student centered, communicative approaches, classroom
observations only partially confirm that English teachers have adopted communica-
tive methods (Ingvarsdóttir 2007, 2011a, b). Furthermore, very little effort was
made to connect classroom English to students’ reality and there was very little
awareness that extramural English could be an important source for classroom
activity (p. 337). More recent studies of secondary school instruction confirm this
view. For example, Árnadóttir (2014) examined whether Cooperative Learning
practices were being implemented in the classroom and found hardly any examples
of such practices. Furthermore, the group work that she did observe was unstruc-
tured and haphazard (See also the chapter “Learning and Using English: The Views
of Learners at the End of Compulsory Education” this volume).
English courses at the highest level do not seem to emphasize genre awareness
nor academic discourse and vocabulary, or to prepare students for the next educa-
tion level. An examination of four school curricula based on the general Guide from
2011 reveals upper level courses with an overrepresentation of literature courses at
the expense of other genres (Guðmundsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2014).
Guðmundsdóttir (2015) continued this line of study and found great variety in the
nature and amount of assigned reading materials at the transition between primary
and secondary level, in the 10th grade and at the beginning of secondary school. The
results indicate that there is extensive use of literary texts at both educational levels
or, on average, 61% of all reading materials assigned in the EFL courses and that
input of other genres, especially academic genres, is minimal. Guðmundsdóttir
found that the type of literature assigned and amount of reading varied from 100 to
600 pages from course to course even at the same proficiency level. This calls into
question students’ genre awareness and reading proficiency and to what extent they
are prepared to tackle academic texts once at tertiary level. The consequences of this
difference on students’ English reading fluency is unclear (Guðmundsdóttir 2015).
These findings suggest that there may be an overemphasis on literary genres over
expository or academic genres and that teacher centered approaches lead to lack of
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
31
participation by students. Students may therefore not have enough training in
­
reading English and working with a variety of genres, e.g. academic texts, which
await them at tertiary level.
4.3  
Standardized Tests of English at Secondary Level
There is no tradition of standardized testing at secondary level. An effort to imple-
ment such tests was made in 2004 but they were only in effect for one year – in
2005. The tests were optional and hardly representative as those students intending
to go on to university were likely to complete them. The tests from 2005 reveal that
1890 students opted to take the test with an average grade of 6.2 out of a possible
grade of 10. No national standardized tests of students’ English proficiency are
available at time of writing.
Other English proficiency studies reveal secondary school students’ higher
receptive colloquial proficiency than formal productive English proficiency.
Pétursdóttir (2013) found that her secondary school students’ receptive vocabulary
far exceeded their productive capabilities, and that students’ productive lexical
knowledge varied greatly. The nature of English proficiency of Icelandic secondary
school students will be revisited in Edgarsson’s chapter (this volume) and Jeeves’
chapter (this volume).
5  Conclusions
This chapter is an effort to describe the official policy and educational backdrop that
frames the formal and extramural acquisition of English in Iceland. Clearly,
Icelanders, although geographically isolated, have a tradition of language learning
that goes back generations. Icelanders have easy access to English historically and
their English proficiency is comparatively good on an international scale. English
education begins early and, by the time of graduation from secondary school,
Icelandic students have had up to ten years of English or even longer. This is in addi-
tion to massive exposure outside of school (see next chapter).
Education policies do not reflect this presence of English in Iceland and nor do
National Curriculum Guides which group English with other foreign languages.
This grouping does not reflect the complex language ecology of Iceland. The goal
of the subsequent chapters in this book is to do just that – to provide an illuminating
picture of a linguistic society with a fully functional national language that has
embraced an additional language – English – which has no official status other than
that of a foreign language, even though, as many speakers claim, without it, it would
be difficult to function in Iceland.
The Policies and Contexts that Frame English Education and Use in Iceland
32
References
Agnarsdóttir, A., & Stephensen, Þ. (2010). Ferðadagbækur Magnúsar Stephensen 1807–1808.
Reykjavík: Sögufélag.
Árnadóttir, K. (2014). Cooperative learning in foreign language teaching: A study of the use
of group work in language studies in Icelandic secondary schools. Unpublished MA thesis.
University of Iceland.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2011). Exposure to English in Iceland: A quantitative and qualitative study.
Netla – Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun. Menntavísindasvið Háskóla Íslands [Netla, a web-
journal on Pedagogy and Education. School of Education, University of Iceland. http://netla.
hi.is/menntakvika2011/004.pdf. Accessed Sep 15 2016.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2015). English in a new linguistic context: Implications
for higher education. In D. Slobodanka, A. K. Hultgren, & C. Jensen (Eds.), English-medium
instruction in European higher education. English in Europe (Vol. 3, pp. 137–156).Amsterdam:
DeGruyter.
Arnbjörnsdóttir,B.(2015).ThespreadofEnglishinIceland.“InM. Whelpton,G. B.Guðsteinsdóttir,
B.  Arnbjörnsdóttir & M.  Regal (Eds.), An intimacy of words/Innileiki orðanna. Essays in
Honour of Pétur Knútsson/Festschrift til heiðurs Pétri Knútssyni (pp. 196–218). Reykjavík:
Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur og Háskólaútgáfan.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2007). Teaching and learning English in Iceland: In
honor of Auður Torfadóttir. Reykjavík: Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur & Háskólaútgáfan.
Broddason, T. (2006). Youth and new media. New millennium. Nordicom review, 27(2), 105–118.
CEFR Council of Europe. (2014). http://www.coe.int/t/dg4/linguistic/cadre1_en.asp. Accessed
Oct 24 2016.
Coxhead, A. (2000). A new academic word list. TESOL Quarterly, 34, 213–238.
Egilsdóttir, O. (2012). English reading comprehension of 9th grade students in Iceland.
Unpublished BA thesis. University of Iceland.
Dimova, S., Hultgren, A. K., & Jensen, C. (2015). English-medium instruction in European higher
education. Language and social life (Vol. 4). Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton.
Einarsdóttir, S. (2001). Þegar Íslendingar fóru að læra ensku [When Icelanders started learning
English]. Málfríður, 17(1), 20–31.
Fleckenstein, L. (2016). Vocabulary in 10th grade: The receptive vocabulary size of 10th graders
in Iceland. Unpublished BA thesis. University of Iceland.
Guðmundsdóttir , J.G. (2015). Genre based pedagogy: The use of literature in EFL education
at upper primary and secondary level in Iceland. Unpublished master‘s thesis. University of
Iceland.
Guðmundsdóttir, G., & Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2014). Undirbúningur framhaldsskólanemenda fyrir
notkun ensku í háskólanámi: Námskrár og nýtt íslenskt málumhverfi [Preparation of secondary
school students’ for the use of English at university: Curriculum Guides and the new linguistic
context in Iceland]. Netla – Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun. Menntavísindasvið Háskóla
Íslands [Netla, a webjournal on Pedagogy and Education . School of Education, University of
Iceland. http://netla.hi.is/greinar/2014/ryn/010.pdf. Accessed Sept 23 2016.
Harðardóttir, V.H., Þorsteinsdóttir, L.M., & Þorvaldsson, M. (2012, February–March). Tölvur
og íslenskt mál í grunnskólum [Computers and Icelandic in Primary School]. Mennta- og
menningarmálaráðuneytið.
Hauksdóttir, A. (2007). Stiklur úr sögu enskukennslu [Excerpts from the history of English teach-
ing]. In B. Arnbjörnsdóttir & H. Ingvarsdóttir (Eds.), Teaching and learning English in Iceland
(pp. 15–50). Reykjavík: Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur and Háskólaútgáfan.
Hauksdóttir, A. (2013). Language and the development of national identity: Icelanders’ attitudes to
Danish in Turbulent Times. In L. B. Christiansen, K. Hvenegård-Lassen, & N. K. Hansen (Eds),
Made in Denmark. Investigations of the dispersion of ‘Danishness’, (pp. 65–94). KULT 11
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
33
Hilmarsson-Dunn, A. M., & Kristinsson, A. P. (2009). Iceland’s language technology: Policy ver-
sus practice. Current Issues in Language Planning, 10(4), 361–376.
Hultgren, A. K. (2016). Parallel language use. In A. Linn (Ed.), Investigating English in Europe:
Contexts and agendas (pp. 158–163). Berlin: Mouton.
Hultgren, A., Gregersen, F., & Thøgersen, J. (2014). English in Nordic universities: Ideologies and
practices. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ingvarsdóttir, H. (1999). Áhrif endurmenntunar á þróun kennsluhátta (The impact of in-service on
the development of teaching approaches). In F. Jónsson & I. Hannibalsson (Eds.), Rannsóknir
í félagsvísindum III (pp. 171–180). Háskólaútgáfan (University Press): Félagsvísindastofnun
Háskóla Íslands.
Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2007). Námsaðferðir: leiðir til árangursríkara tungumálanáms. In Auður
Hauksdóttir og Birna Arnbjörnsdóttir, (Eds.), Mál málanna. (pp. 295–309). Reykjavík: Stofnun
Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur í erlendum tungumálum/Háskólaútgáfan.
Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2011a, September). Teaching English in lower secondary schools within the
expanding circle. Symposium conducted at Menntakvika annual conference at University of
Icelands’ School of Education, Reykjavík.
Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2011b). Teaching English in a new age: Challenges and opportunities. In
B. Hudson & M. Meinert (Eds.), Beyond fragmentation: Didactics, learning and teaching in
Europe (pp. 93–106). Opladen: Barbara Budrich Publishers.
Jeeves, A. (2013). Relevance and the L2 self in the context of Icelandic secondary school learn-
ers: Learner views. Ph.D., University of Iceland, Reykjavík. http://hdl.handle.net/1946/16755.
Accessed Oct 12 2016.
Jóhannsdóttir, A. (2010). English in the 4th grade in Iceland: Exploring exposure and measuring
vocabulary size of 4th grade students. In ráðstefnurit Netlu –Menntakvika 2010. Ráðstefnurit
Netlu Veftímarits um uppeldi og menntun og Menntavísindasviðs Háskóla Íslands. http://netla.
khi.is/menntakvika2010/007.pdf. Accessed Aug 2011.
Jónsson, S. (1976). Haugfje. Reykjavík: Þjóðsaga.
Kjartansson, H. S. (2002). Ísland á 20.öld. Reykjavík: Sögufélag.
Kristinsson, A.P., & Bernharðsson, H. (2014). Landerapport Island: Islandsk eller engelsk i
islandsk universitetsvirksomhed? [Country report Iceland: Icelandic or English at Icelandic
Universities?]. In F.  Gregersen (Ed.), Hvor parallelt: Om parallellspråkighet på Nordens
universitet [How parallel: On parallellingualism at Nordic universities] (pp.  427–486).
Copenhagen: Nordic Council of Ministers. url:norden.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:730884/
FULLTEXT01.pdf
Kristjánsdóttir, L., Bjarnadóttir, L., & Lefever, S. (2006). Úttekt á enskukennslu í grunnskólum
veturinn 2005-2006. Reykjavík: Menntamálaráðuneytið. http://www.reykjavik.is/Portaldata/1/
Resources/skjol/svid/menntasvid/pdf_skjol/utgafur/grunnskolar/ymsarskyrslurogbaeklingar/
enskukennsla.pdf. Accessed Oct 2 2013.
Kvaran, G. (2008). The Icelandic language in business and commerce in Iceland.http://www.
efnil.org/documents/conference-publications/lisbon-2008/14-EFNIL.Lisbon-publ.Kvaran.pdf.
Accessed Sept 19 2016.
Kvaran, G., & Svavarsdóttir, A. (2002). Icelandic. In M.  Görlach (Ed.), English in Europe
(pp. 82–107). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Lefever, S. (2010). English skills of young learners in Iceland: “I started talking English when I
was 4 years old. It just bang… just fall into me.” Í Netla – Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun og
Menntavísindasvið Háskóla Íslands. http://skemman.is/is/stream/get/1946/7811/20404/1/021.
pdf. Accessed July 6 2015
Málstefna. (2012). https://www.forsaetisraduneyti.is/media/frettir1/Malstefna-Stjornarradsins-
161112.pdf. Accessed Sept 23 2016.
Matthiesen, K. (1930). Útvarpið og enskukennslan [The radio and English teaching]. Reykjavík:
Ísafoldarprentsmiðja.
Menntamálaráðuneyti. (1999). Aðalnámskrá grunnskóla. ­https://www.stjornarradid.is/verkefni/
menntamal/namskrar/
The Policies and Contexts that Frame English Education and Use in Iceland
34
Mennta- og menningarmálaráðuneyti (Ministry of Education, Science and Culture). (2009).
Íslenska til alls: tillögur Íslenskrar málnefndar að íslenskri málstefnu samþykktar a’ Alþingi
12. mars 2009 [‘Icelandic for Everything: Proposals of The Icelandic Language Council
approved by Parliament on March 12, 2009]. http://www.islenskan.is/Islenska_til_alls.pdf
Mennta- og menningarmálaráðuuneytið. (2013). Aðalnámskrá grunnskóla. Curriculum Guide for
Foreign Languages. https://www.menntamalaraduneyti.is/utgefid-efni/namskrar/adalnamskra-
grunnskola/. Accessed Oct 10 2016.
Mennta-og menningamálaráðuneytið. (2011a). Aðalnámskrá framhaldsskóla.https://www.mennta-
malaraduneyti.is/utgefid-efni/namskrar/adalnamskra-framhaldsskola/. Accessed Oct 24 2016.
Mennta-og menningamálaráðuneytið. (2011b). Aðalnámskrá grunnskóla. Almennur Hluti
II.https://www.menntamalaraduneyti.is/utgefid-efni/namskrar/adalnamskra-grunnskola/.
Accessed Oct 24 2016.
Námsmatsstofnun. (2016). http://www.namsmat.is/vefur/rannsoknir/pisa/pisa.html. Accessed
May 8 2016
Nation, I. S. P., & Beglar, D. (2007). A vocabulary size test. The Language Teacher, 31(7), 9–13.
Nordic Council of Ministers. (2008). Deklaration om nordisk språkpolitik [A Nordic language
policy declaration]. Copenhagen: Nordiska ministerrådet. http://www.norden.org/en/publica-
tions/publikationer /2007-746. Accessed Jan 20 2014.
Pétursdóttir, M. (2013). Explicit teaching of academic vocabulary in EFL: Preparing Icelandic
students for education at university level. Unpublished MA thesis, University of Iceland.
Reynisdóttir, Á. H., & Jóhannesson, I. Á. (2013). Fleiri vindar blása: Viðhorf reyndra fram-
haldsskólakennara til breytinga í skólastarfi 1986–2012 [More winds blowing: Views of
experienced secondary school teachers to changes in instructional practice 1986–2012).
Netla – Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun Menntavísindasvið Háskóla Íslands. http://netla.
hi.is/greinar/2013/ryn/006.pdf. Accessed Oct 10 2016.
Statistics Iceland. (2016). www.hagstofa.is. Accessed Sept 19 2016.
Sundqvist, P., & Sylvén, L. K. (2016). Extramural English in teaching and learning: From theory
and research to practice. London: Palgrave/Macmillan.
Þorsteinsdóttir, G., & Þorsteinsson, T. (2014). Gildi náms- og kynnisferða grunnskólakennara fyrir
starfsþróun [Value of primary school teachers’ educational visits for teacher development].
Stjórnmál & stjórnsýsla 2. tbl. 10. árg. 2014, 521–542. http://skemman.is/stream/get/1946/233
99/53198/1/a.2014.10.2.16.pdf. Accessed Aug 29 2016.
TOEFL. (2016). Test and score data summary for TOEFL iBT tests. https://www.ets.org/s/toefl/
pdf/94227_unlweb.pdf
Torfadóttir, A., Ragnarsdóttir, B., & Lefever, S. (2006). Enskukunnátta barna í 4. og 5. bekk
grunnskólans – Hvað kunna þau? Reykjavík: Rannsóknarstofnun Kennaraháskóla Íslands.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
35
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir, H. Ingvarsdóttir (eds.), Language Development across the Life Span,
Educational Linguistics 34, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67804-7_3
English Exposure, Proficiency and Use
in Iceland
Birna Arnbjörnsdóttir
Abstract  This chapter describes the findings of several studies on the exposure,
proficiency and use of English in the daily lives of children and adults in Iceland.
Results of national surveys, interviews and diary studies provide a unique and con-
vincing country profile of the effect of the spread if English as a World Language at
the national level. The findings show a high and consistent presence of English in
Iceland, especially informal receptive English, transmitted through the media for
several hours a day. The massive exposure leads to a high level of confidence among
Icelanders in their English skills. A large majority of respondents report that their
English listening, speaking, reading and writing skills are good or very good. The
younger the respondents, the higher the reported English skills and the more likeli-
hood of using English daily. However, although a majority of Icelanders hear
English every day, very few speak or write English calling into question the basis of
the self-evaluation and expressed confidence. The fact that university educated
respondents are less confident in their English skills than those with shorter educa-
tion backgrounds suggests that they may have difficulty executing language related
functions characteristic of university level education or higher level professions.
The fact that young Icelanders use English more than older speakers, including in
communication, may indicate that English use is spreading across skills and
domains.
1  Introduction
This chapter describes the exposure and use of English by children and adults in
their everyday lives. Icelanders today, who already speak a fully functional national
language, find it advantageous to adopt an additional language for certain functions.
Furthermore, it is possible to view this process as it happens. This evolution of the
linguistic ecology of Iceland has taken place without official intervention. Officially,
English is considered a foreign language in Iceland and references to an official
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir (*)
School of Humanities, University of Iceland, Reykjavík, Iceland
e-mail: birnaarn@hi.is
36
status of English appear only in National Curriculum Guides to foreign language
education. The use of English as an additional language is spurred by a massive
amount of English exposure in Icelanders’ daily existence, from entertainment to
education to business and industry. The extent of this exposure is described below.
The findings are based on several recent mixed methods studies about the type and
amount of English encountered by Icelanders in their everyday lives. Most of the
studies are part of the same large-scale research project. The findings provide a
revealing picture of Icelanders’ exposure to and use of English at a nation-wide
level. The ultimate goal of this chapter is to provide the backdrop for subsequent
chapters which focus on how the nature of the input encountered in everyday life
explains the type of English proficiency attained by Icelanders and how it functions,
especially in education settings.
2  
English Exposure and Use by Children Outside the
Classroom
Children are the agents for linguistic change and examining the linguistic context of
young Icelanders is therefore relevant to a study of the relationship between lan-
guage input, proficiency and function. In the previous chapter it was suggested that
Icelandic children’s English skills are developed as a result of extramural1
learning
rather than formal instruction (Sundquist and Sylvén 2016). In the next section we
examine more closely how Icelandic children acquire English outside of school.
2.1  
Children’s Programming and Exposure
Few studies are available on the actual exposure to English by Icelandic children
through the media and no statistics are in fact available about how much material for
children is available in English through books, television, movies or the internet
(Ortega 2011; Þórsdóttir 2012).
Both major television stations, the National Broadcasting Service (RÚV) and
Channel 2 (Stöð 2), dedicate a few hours a week to children’s programs and almost
80% of those programs are dubbed into Icelandic. But there are many other televi-
sion channels available for children broadcast in English without dubbing or subti-
tles (Þórsdóttir 2012). More and more children also access entertainment through
the internet which is also not dubbed into Icelandic.
Recent studies demonstrate a reduction in reading of Icelandic and an increase in
television viewing by children. Broddason and his colleagues (2006) conducted a
longitudinal study of Icelandic children’s television viewing and found that in 1997,
1
 Extramural language here means language encountered outside the classroom.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
37
19% of the 10–15 year olds used the internet, while in 2003 the number had risen to
48%. Importantly, for our purposes, Broddason et al. conclude that watching TV
and using the computer had, over the years, become a lone activity indicating less
communality, less family conversation and, by implication, less opportunity to
interact in Icelandic. Movies aimed at families have an average rental ratio of 1
English against 2.5 Icelandic, while movies aimed at young children have a higher
ratio: 1:6 (Broddason 2006). Theaters offer children’s films both in Icelandic and in
the original language (usually English). However, no statistics are available show-
ing children’s attendance at movies by language. Moreover, all the popular video
games in Iceland are only playable in English, which means that the children that
play these games are getting a fair amount of English input. Although the informa-
tion on hand from the media providers is of short supply, it can be concluded that
Icelandic children have access to a substantial amount of English material through
television, movies, and computer games and the internet and that they spend a con-
siderable amount of time using media. Reports on use of media by the children
themselves are the subject of the next section.
2.2  
Children’s English Language Use
Studies of English use by children over the last decade reveal that the older the chil-
dren the more likely they are to encounter English and that they may be moving to
more productive uses of English.
Children report reading less (in Icelandic and English) and viewing increasingly
takes place on the computer in English without subtitles. In a 2005 study of the
viewing habits of 5th graders (10–11 years old) and 9/10th grades (14–15 years
old), almost 90% of the children said they listened to music and watched TV and
movies in English often (Kristjánsdóttir et al. 2006. Almost all of the 788 students
or 92% reported using English while using media from listening to music to using
English on the computer (Kristjánsdóttir et al. 2006, p. 37). Of the 9th/10th graders,
55% reported reading sometimes or often in English, while 14% said they never
read in English. It should be borne in mind that the lower amounts of reading could
be caused by less reading in general in any language. The same study showed that
use of English by Icelandic children increases between the 5th and 9/10th grades for
all categories. Older children watch substantially more movies, use the Internet
more and listen to English lyrics more than the younger children in the 2005 survey.
They also use English more to speak to non-Icelanders. The older the children
become, the more likely they are to use English, probably because his/her linguistic
environment becomes wider with increased contact outside the home (Kristjánsdóttir
et al. 2006).
Jóhannsdóttir (2010, this volume) replicated the 2005 study to some extent when
she examined almost 400 4th graders’ use of English 5 years later. In 2010, the use
of English overall had not increased but the use of English had been transferred to
the computer and had become more interactive than indicated by the results from
English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland
38
the 2005 study. Almost all or 92% of Jóhannsdóttir’s respondents report using
English while watching movies and 76% that they listened to English lyrics. This
means that fifth-graders in 2005 listened to more music and watched more movies
or TV in English than 4th graders 5 years later. Again this could be due to greater
age and maturity, rather than to English use, but it should not be discounted that
some children’s viewing may have been transferred from TV to the computer by the
year 2010 and even more so by 2016. This suggests that English use may be stable
in terms of TV and movie watching, possibly due to official efforts to increase chil-
dren’s programming in Icelandic.
Importantly though, this difference is not as great, or is not found at all, in pro-
ductive use of English by the two groups over a 5 year period. About half the chil-
dren said they speak English with non-Icelanders in 2005 (Kristjánsdóttir et  al.
2006) whereas 38% of the 4th graders in 2010 say that they speak English to non-­
Icelanders. This suggests that English use by 9–10 year-olds for this category does
not follow the same patterns seen for older children and adolescence who report
frequent encounters with non-Icelanders (see next sections). This finding needs spe-
cial attention and further study as opportunities for face to face reciprocal language
practice affects the type of language proficiency attained. Lefever (2010) reported
in a study from 2010 that although his 4th grade subjects had good receptive English
skills, the students’ productive skills were also considerable. Other factors may also
influence productive use of English among Icelandic children, such as more interac-
tive computer use.
A crucial factor to consider when examining productive uses of English among
Icelandic children is the nature of Internet use today, as opposed to the less interac-
tive pre Web 2.0. The two surveys of children’s use of English from 2005 and 2010
were not consistent in terms of questions about Internet use and they reflected tech-
nological developments from 2005 to 2010 that impact language use. Jóhannsdóttir
asked specifically about types of computer use, especially interactive use of English.
In the 2005 survey there was only one question about Internet use, but in
Jóhannsdóttir’s 2010 study there were three. Both surveys asked about the use of
English while playing videogames, but it seems likely that by 2010 Internet based
computer games might have replaced earlier types of video games. In 2005 5th
graders were asked about their English use on the internet and 57% said they used
English often or sometimes while almost a fifth said they never used English under
these circumstances. Five years later, 56% of the 4th graders said they used English
while playing games on the internet and 69% said they used English while playing
video games. Clearly the 4th graders make a distinction between general internet
use and gaming.
It is difficult to determine from these surveys whether the use of English on the
Internet has increased, but children’s use of the Internet may have changed. The
second generation of Internet users has become more interactive (Web 2.0). Whereas
previously, Internet users required mainly perceptive skills for reading and gaming,
after Web 2.0 Internet users were able to interact with others through social media
and interactive multiplayer games, which rely more on productive language skills,
most often English.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
39
Finally, when comparing the responses of the 4th graders to those of the 5th
graders 5 years earlier, a quarter of the respondents in both studies say that they
never use English. This supports perceptions that children begin formal English
instruction with highly varied proficiency, some knowing little or no English while
others seem almost bilingual.
A small diary study conducted over a one week period in 2016 provides an illu-
minating and more detailed description of the use of English by four siblings at ages
4, 8, 14 and 17 (Jónsdóttir 2016). Jónsdóttir found that the two youngest children
did not produce English at all during the week and the older children only spoke
English in English class. She found that there was an increase in her children’s
receptive English use according to age: the youngest listened to English for little
less than four hours during the week, while the oldest listened to English for almost
15 h. As expected, the older children watched more English material without sub-
titles and the 17 year old exclusively so. The younger children at 4 and 8 watched
more Icelandic TV dubbed into Icelandic or subtitled (Jónsdóttir 2016). Jónsdóttir
comments on the fact that none of the children encountered any English without
subtitles while watching TV with other family members i.e. on national Icelandic
television stations. The three younger children encountered over 90% of the English
without Icelandic subtitles when they watched alone, then mainly on the computer.
Jónsdóttir further comments that the presence of grandparents over the week, and
therefore more family time, may have reduced the overall amount of time the chil-
dren spent in front of the TV and computer.
Jónsdóttir’s findings support Broddason’s (2006) claim that watching TV and
using the computer reduces family encounters which in turn affects children’s
opportunities to use language for communication with others, which has implica-
tions for the kind of linguistic repertoires children are likely to acquire. This devel-
opment along with reduced reading has implications for the type of English, or for
that matter, Icelandic, that children are learning and to what use their English may
be applied later in life. Finally, a quarter of the children report never using English
at all which has major implication for their own educational experience as well as
for English instruction in general as children enter school with varied English skills.
3  
The Use of English in Iceland by Adults
Today, as in most of the rest of the world, the influence of Anglo-Saxon culture and
language is widespread in Iceland. There has been surprisingly little interest in
studying the use of English in Iceland and its effect on the cultural and linguistic
repertoire of adult Icelanders. The few studies that are available document the over-
whelming presence of English in everyday life in Iceland.
According to an independent research organization, Capacent, individuals in
Iceland spent an average of 2.5 h daily watching television in 2011 (Capacent 2011)
and two thirds of the material broadcast by Icelandic TV stations was in English
(Ortega 2011). In 2010, half of almost 700 respondents in a national survey reported
English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland
40
reading books for pleasure in a foreign language, and for 92% of those the language
was English. More people reported that they read English books than Icelandic
books. Over 40% of those aged 18–29 watched more “foreign language” material
than Icelandic, 20% of those aged 30–39 and fewer than 10% of the older groups
watched more “foreign language“ material than material in Icelandic (Dofradóttir
et al. 2010, pp. 34–40) indicating a sharp rise in viewing non-Icelandic material
(mostly English) the younger the respondent.
Iceland has the highest individual internet access in the world or 98.2% accord-
ing to the 2015UN Broadband Commission report (p. 91). The majority of computer
interfaces are in English and as reported in Jeeves (2013 and this volume), and
Icelanders use the internet to access information and entertainment on a daily basis
through English. Younger people are more likely to use English at work and with
family and friends in Iceland suggesting that young people may use more produc-
tive language than older groups.
In 2001, The Ministry of Education conducted an extensive national telephone
survey of foreign language use in Iceland (Tungumálakönnun 2001). The survey
included 732 respondents, a representative sample of the entire population from
urban and rural areas, both men and women, ranging in age from 18 to 75. The sur-
vey did not ask specifically about the amount of listening, reading, speaking and
writing that participants did in English. However some of the questions clearly indi-
cated that these activities were inherent to the actions asked about. Use of English
in general increased the younger the respondent. About 96% of the 18–29 year olds,
91% of the 30–49 year olds and 80% of respondents in the 50–67 year range said
they used English more than any other language apart from Icelandic in 2001
(Tungumálakönnun 2001). The amount of listening may be determined from a ques-
tion about whether respondents used their “best” foreign language, i.e. English, to
watch movies and television, listen to radio, etc. The answers reflect the amount of
listening, and 87% of all participants said that they did so in English (as opposed to
other languages, including Icelandic). Ninety-four percent of the youngest partici-
pants (18–29) said they used English to listen to music compared to 87% of the
middle group (30–49) and 81% of oldest group. These give an indication of the
patterns of English use found in different age groups already in 2001.
Ten years after the study reported above, or in 2011, another national telephone
survey was launched as part of this project examining the status of English in
Iceland. The overarching research question was: What is the amount and nature of
English usage among Icelanders including listening, reading, speaking and writing?
The 740 respondents were randomly selected from a pool that included the whole
population of Iceland at the age of 18 and above. The respondents, a representative
sample of Icelanders in terms of age, gender, location, education and occupation,
were asked to indicate how often they heard, read, spoke and wrote English. They
were given the following response options: daily (more than 4 hours pr. day), 1–4 h
daily, less than 1 h a day, 3–6 times a week, 1–2 a week, 2–3 times a month, or once
a month or less for each “skill”. In the tables below, the results are condensed to
monthly, weekly and daily for each skill. (For a more detailed presentation and dis-
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
41
cussion of the results, please see,Arnbjörnsdóttir 2011; Leiknisdóttir and Sturludóttir
2011). The results may be seen in Table 1.
Table 1 shows that about 86% of respondents say they hear English every day
and that 43% say that they read English every day. A quarter read in English weekly
and a little over a third read monthly. Respondents thus report that they hear English
twice as much as they read it on a daily basis.
The questions about how much respondents heard and read English focused on
how much Icelanders use English receptively. Receptive language refers to lan-
guage that is heard or read, but does not need to be produced. Although reading is
to some extent interactive, it is important here that readers are not asked to explain
or demonstrate their comprehension. The table shows an inverse image for the pro-
ductive versus receptive use of English. Less than 20% speak daily (this is still a
high number of Icelandic English users in Iceland), less than a third speak weekly
and over half speak monthly or less. Over four times more respondents say they hear
English daily than speak it. As regards the amount of English writing performed by
Icelanders, again the numbers indicate that compared to the numbers describing
receptive use of English, 60% write monthly or less, and only 20% write daily or
weekly, i.e. four times as many hear English as write it.
The 2011 survey also provided specific data on the distribution and use of English
according to respondents’ gender (male or female); age (18–29, 30–39, 40–49,
50–59, 60+); residence (urban or rural); education (primary school, secondary
school, university); and occupation (manager or specialist, technical person/profes-
sional; office, retail, service industries; farmer, fisherman, laborer).
With the exception of age, the different factors did not greatly affect the amount
of English heard by Icelanders. This comes as no surprise as the majority of pro-
gramming broadcast by Icelandic media is in English. A person’s gender or occupa-
tion was not a significant determiner of how much English he or she heard. The
higher the education and income, the more English respondents heard, and those
living in urban areas heard English more often than those in rural areas. The num-
bers are based on percentages of all respondents, and the difference was significant
at the p < 0.05 level. Education was significant at the p<0.01 level. It is an important
finding and an indication of the type of English proficiency of Icelanders that how
much they heard English did not vary nearly as much as how much they report read-
ing English and especially how much they report speaking and writing.
Reading varied according to all factors other than gender. A respondent’s resi-
dence, education, occupation, income and age were highly significant at the
Table 1  Frequency of English heard, read, spoken and written
Monthly or less Weekly Daily
N % N % N %
How often do you hear English? 28 4 72 10 636 86
How often do you read English? 235 32 186 25 312 43
How often do you speak English? 510 53 199 28 147 19
How often do you write English? 438 60 148 20 147 20
English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland
42
p < 0.001 level. Half the respondents in the Greater Reykjavík area read English at
least once a day, but only a little less than one-third outside of the capital region.
Half of the respondents with primary school education (Grade 1–10) read English
once a month or less often, but only 6% of those with a university education. Almost
60% of managers, but 30% of farmers/fishermen/laborers, read English once a day,
and the higher the income, the more likely the respondent was to read English daily,
with a leap in the middle income bracket, i.e. a third of those in the two (out of 4)
lower income brackets read English daily, compared to half of those in the higher
two income brackets. Thus, those who are most likely to read English daily are
highly educated speakers working at a managerial level in the Reykjavík area.
Residence, income, and occupation were not significant factors affecting the
amount respondents speak English, but education and gender were. An Icelandic
person’s gender affects how much he or she reports speaking English in that 22% of
male respondents and 17% of female respondents said they speak English daily.
Education was also a significant factor in how often Icelandic adults spoke English,
with the highest use of spoken language among those who had completed the high-
est level of education. These statistics are significant at the p < 0.05 level.
No difference was found between men and women when they were asked about
how much English they write, but residence, education, age and occupation and
income were significant at the p < 0.01 level. Respondents who were managers with
the highest incomes and lived in the Reykjavík area were most likely to write in
English. The more educated and younger the respondents were, the more they
reported writing in English.
There was a highly significant increase in English according to age for hearing,
reading, speaking and writing, as the younger the speaker is, the more he/she uses
English. These results are described below.
3.1  
The Use of English by Age
One overriding determining factor in how much English respondents used English
was age, which was significant at the p < 0.001 level for all four skill categories of
English use. This warrants further discussion as it may indicate the spread of English
in Iceland over time and especially how English use and exposure may be changing.
Respondents were divided into five age groups for this study: 18–29 year olds,
30–39, 40–49, 50–59 and 60 and older. The findings are presented according to the
type of exposure, receptive exposure first (hearing and reading) and then productive
use (speaking and writing).The original categories of the amount of English heard
have been condensed to three: daily, weekly, monthly.
The first question asked how often each respondent heard English and the fre-
quency rises steadily from the oldest to the youngest. This is presented in Table 2.
With the exception of the oldest speakers, around 90% of respondents in all age
groups report hearing English every day although 77% of the 60 and over group say
they hear English daily. About 95% of the youngest age group heard English daily.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
43
Next, the survey asked how much reading each respondent did in English by age
where the distribution more striking than it was when people were asked about hear-
ing English. This is seen in Table 3.
Table 3 shows that 64% of young Icelanders aged 18–29 read English daily, and
88% (24%+64%) at least weekly. These numbers go down to 25% daily and 44%
(25% + 19%) at least weekly for the oldest age group, 60 and older. The increase
according to age is gradual as the younger the respondent, the more likely he/she is
to read English daily. This is not surprising and is partially explained by more
Internet use and the fact that many young people are in school, where English is a
required subject.
The two questions discussed above address the respondents’ receptive use of
English. The next paragraphs focus on the productive use of English. Table 4 pres-
ents how often respondents speak English.
Table 4 shows that overall respondents speak English much less than they hear it
or read it. Almost 30% of the youngest age group, but only 9% of the oldest age
group report speaking English daily. Of the respondents, 60 years or older, 76% said
they speak English once a month. This means that younger people speak English
more than older speakers, and the increase is gradual. The data also indicates a
Table 2  Frequency of English heard according to age
Age N Monthly (%) Weekly (%) Daily (%)
18–29 129 0 5 95
30–39 128 2 8 90
40–49 141 2 11 88
50–59 146 3 10 87
60 196 10 14 77
Table 3  Frequency of reading English according to age
Age N Monthly (%) Weekly (%) Daily (%)
18–29 127 13 24 64
30–39 126 15 32 53
40–49 139 30 25 44
50–59 146 33 30 38
60 195 56 19 25
Table 4  Frequency of speaking English according to age
Age N Monthly (%) Weekly (%) Daily (%)
18–29 127 38 33 28
30–39 125 41 32 26
40–49 139 45 29 26
50–59 143 51 32 17
60 196 76 16 9
English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland
44
slight increase in productive use of the language by age. But the findings strongly
indicate the much greater receptive uses of English than speaking.
The last question in the survey focused on the amount of English writing respon-
dents did. As we are focusing on age-related differences, Table 5 shows the amount
of writing done according to the age of the respondent.
Table 5 shows that 41% of younger respondents said they wrote English daily,
while only 5% of the age group 60+ did. The youngest respondents write even more
than they speak English, and they write more than any other age group. This could
be because they write for school, but it is more likely that young people write
English on social media such as Facebook, Twitter, and text-messaging.
A cross-sectional analysis of the four tables above indicates a clear increase in
the use of English according to age. The younger the respondent, the more likely he
or she is to use English, especially productively. This increase is gradual, as each
age group uses English more than the one above in age. In addition to a spread over
time, there is an increase in productive use of English as the younger respondents
not only use more English, but are also more likely than older ones to use English
productively, i.e. speak it and write it.
Perhaps it is no less interesting to note who is not exposed to English and in
simple terms the group of people who have the fewest encounters with English are
those over 60 who live outside of Reykjavík and have a primary school education.
Comparing the results of the studies from 2001 (Tungumálakönnun) and 2011
the amount of listening has increased slightly. The numbers for both surveys are
high. In 2001, when asked about the use of English to watch movies and television,
listen to radio, etc., 94% of the youngest participants (18–29) said they used English
in these situations. In 2011, listening had risen to 95% of young people (18–29) who
listened to English every day, and 100% who listened to English 1–2 times per week
or more often. In 2001, 87% of the 30–49 year olds group listened to movies, TV
and over 12% said they never did as compared to 89% and only 2% in 2011.
Percentages for the oldest group were 81% and 16.5% in 2001 and 84% and 10% in
2011. These are conservative figures from 2011 as the option ‘never’ (as in they
never listen to English) from the 2001 survey is being compared to the option once
a month or less in 2011.
Direct comparisons are difficult as the surveys were not identical. Furthermore,
the impact of Internet use post Web 2.0, especially with the increased use of interac-
tive social media, has increased young people’s use of English, not only the amount,
but also the type of language used (Jeeves 2013; Jóhannsdóttir 2010). Interactive
Table 5  Frequency of writing English according to age
Age N Monthly (%) Weekly (%) Daily (%)
18–29 127 35 25 41
30–39 124 43 27 29
40–49 140 56 22 23
50–59 145 67 21 12
60 197 84 11 5
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
45
media call for more productive use of English through speech and writing than
­
pre-­
Web 2.0 Internet use did in 2001. Clearly English plays a highly significant role
in the linguistic repertoire of modern Icelanders.
The respondents in this survey are a representative sample of the Icelandic popu-
lation, equally distributed between men and women, rural or urban residence, level
of education, and different age levels (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2011). Very little difference
is found in English use between Icelandic men and women, and only a slight differ-
ence in English use according to level of education or residence, especially in terms
of the perceptive use of English. Productive use, on the other hand varies greatly
with age being the most significant factor. The younger respondents are, the more
likely they are to hear English and more young people also report reading, speaking,
and writing English than the older groups.
The important aspects of these general findings is that English use is pervasive at
all levels of society, and that there is a clear and overarching predominance of recep-
tive English exposure over productive English use in the population on a daily basis
(Arnbjörnsdóttir 2011). Follow-up diary studies of individual’s encounters with
English provide a further glimpse into the average Icelander’s use of English.
4  
Diary Studies: An Average Day with English in Iceland
The quantitative survey of English usage reported above was followed by two diary
studies in 2011 and 2015 where individual Icelanders were asked to keep an account
of their daily use and exposure to English. The goal was to obtain a more in depth
view of the type of exposure encountered by a cross section of Icelanders, i.e. how
much English a person living in Iceland hears/uses English every day through TV,
films, radio, music, meetings, conferences and conversations.
Thirty-two Icelanders participated in the diary study, fourteen in the first study in
2011 and eighteen in the 2015 study. Half the participants were male and half female
and they ranged in age from 18 to 66+. The same methodology was used in both
studies although the field researchers were different. Sixteen field researchers chose
their participants according to set criteria in order to maintain an even distribution
according to age, gender, occupation, etc. Participants were asked to keep a diary
over the course of twenty-four hours and to write down all instances of English
exposure and use on a form that was provided. Participants were also asked about
the amount of TV and movies they watched without subtitles, how much they, or
their friends, code switched or used English words and phrases in otherwise
Icelandic sentences. Finally, they were asked to reflect on their experiences in an
interview with a field researcher who elicited further comments relevant to the study.
Of the 32 participants eight were in the 18–24 year age range, seven between 25
and 35 and seven in the age group 36–45, while four were in the 46–55 category
and six participants were 56 or older. Educational backgrounds varied - seven par-
ticipants did not finish secondary school, twelve completed secondary education
and/or had some university experience while thirteen were university educated.
English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland
46
Seven of the informants were students and others had various professions. The
participants do not represent a cross section of Icelandic society nor do the age
categories exactly match the previous surveys. However, the diaries should give
some insight into the kind of English adult are exposed to. The results of the diary
study are presented in Fig. 1.
This study supports the findings of the surveys presented above as Icelanders are
engaged in listening to English, on average, for almost triple the amount of time that
they spend producing it. As the data is based on the English use of only 32 infor-
mants, the distribution of the scores is wide and standard deviation is high. Listening
times ranged from 30 min to 5 h – mostly spent watching (listening to) movies and
TV shows. Speaking time ranged from 0 to 240 min, with most informants spending
no time or only a few minutes each (at work) speaking English. The exceptions were
two interviewees who work in the travel industry who speak with clients and an
actor who recited monologues in English in acting class that day. Other informants
did not document much speaking and then only at work with non-Icelandic speak-
ing colleagues. Reading was mostly done online, looking up information and brows-
ing social network sites. As six informants were students, they wrote that they read
academic books (two said they struggled with understanding their academic books).
The single academic in the group also read a great deal at work. Two of the infor-
mants wrote online blogs and chatted in writing with foreigners on social network-
ing websites such as Facebook. The academic wrote some English.
Clearly the pattern is that productive English use occurs in the work place while
all interviewees listen to English throughout the day, though mostly at home in the
evening doing recreational activities.
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
Category 1
Listening
Reading
Speaking
Writing
Fig. 1  Average time in minutes spent daily using English (The Y axis indicates number of
minutes)
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
47
Informants were also asked to reflect on their English use and whether this was a
typical day in terms of their use of English. Most said that it was, with the exception
of the monologue reciting actor. Younger people were more likely to watch movies
and shows without subtitles on the computer and some watched exclusively movies
without subtitles. There was a clear increase in this respect between the first study
from 2011 and the second, 2015, study.
In the last part of the diary study, informants were asked to share other reflections
about English use. Here are some of their comments, first their views on the spread
of English in Iceland:
“I use English a lot and could imagine just using English”
Young male student
“There is more English use now than when I was younger”
Older male retiree
“Some of my teachers use English to explain ideas (in otherwise Icelandic speech)”
Young female student
The overall result of this study indicates that most of the informants’ waking
hours are spent listening to English. If one takes away time spent on daily errands
and other times spent in silence, the percentage is even higher. Informants reported
that they listened to English lyrics on the radio while getting ready for work and on
their way to work, as well as during work. But the bulk of their leisure time outside
work was spent listening to music while doing housework, watching television and,
increasingly among younger people, being engaged with English while on the com-
puter. It should be emphasized that these findings are based on a very small sample;
however, they offer interesting insights supporting the findings of the larger dataset.
There is a great deal of receptive exposure and, it seems, to an informal context-­
embedded register from movies and social media. In the next section, we examine
how this massive exposure affects English proficiency. We surveyed a cross section
of Icelanders about their perception of their English proficiency. The findings are
presented below.
5  
Icelanders’ Perceptions of Their English Proficiency
The enormous amount of English exposure in Iceland described above is mirrored
in Icelanders’ perception of their level of English proficiency. In 2014, a nation-­
wide telephone survey was commissioned by this project. Nine hundred and six
Icelanders, randomly chosen from the Icelandic Census, were asked to evaluate
their English proficiency in the four different skills. The overarching research ques-
tion was: How do Icelanders view their English proficiency? Sub-questions include:
Does their evaluation vary by different social factors and do the responses reflect the
amount and type of exposure encountered in terms of receptive and productive lan-
guage? The 906 participants are a representative sample of the Icelandic population
English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland
48
in terms of gender, age, education, occupation, residence and income (Gunnlaugsson
and Jónsdóttir 2014, p. 4). Respondents were asked to evaluate how well they were
able to understand, read, speak and write English. The response options given were
on a Likert scale: Very well, rather well, neither nor, rather poorly, very poorly. The
overall results are presented in Table 6.
Table 6 shows that 74% of respondents believe their ability to understand English
is very good or rather good while only 10% overall say their English is poor or very
poor. Seventy percent believe that their reading proficiency is rather good or very
good. These pertain to receptive skills. The next two questions asked about respon-
dents’ ability to use productive English or ability to speak and write where they
seem a little less confident. Two thirds or 65% say that their ability to speak English
is very good or rather good and 15% say that it is rather poor or very poor. As
regards respondents’ writing abilities, 55% say that their English writing is very
good or rather good and a little less than half are not sure or say it is rather or very
poor.
As we might expect 3/4 of the respondents say that their understanding of English
is good or very good while 2/3 say that their reading is good or very good. There is
a surprisingly small difference reported between the receptive proficiency skills
(understanding and reading) and productive skills (speaking and writing). Two
thirds said that their ability to speak English was good or very good while over half
reported that their writing skills were good or very good. It is not clear what these
perceptions are based on as fewer than half reported in the usage survey, described
previously, that they spoke or wrote weekly or more often. Furthermore, according
to the diary studies the respondents’ speaking and writing consists mostly of con-
versational English at work or on social media.
The proficiency survey also included data on the distribution of respondents
according to various background factors. Below the data on ability to understand,
read, speak and write were examined in relation to background factors such as gen-
der, education, occupation and location before the discussion about the significance
of age.
More men than women report that they understand English very well or 40% to
32% women. When the two categories well and very well are combined there is no
difference between Icelandic men and women, i.e. about 74% of Icelanders say that
they understand English well or very well. Respondents in Reykjavík understand
English slightly better than people outside Reykjavík. There is a gradual increase in
reporting of understanding of English by education from primary education through
Table 6  Respondents’ perceptions of their ability to understand, read, speak and write English
Ability to: N
Very
well(%)
Rather
well(%)
Neither well nor
poorly (%)
Rather
poorly (%)
Very poorly
(%)
Understand 902 36 38 16 6 4
Read 902 34 36 17 7 6
Speak 903 27 38 21 9 6
Write 901 23 33 23 11 11
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
49
trade school to secondary university preparatory schools. The respondents in the last
category reported the highest level of understanding or almost 60%. Then there is a
drop of 14% as only 46% of University educated respondents say they understand
English very well. These findings are significant.
There is no difference between respondents’ evaluation of their English skills by
gender, but slightly more respondents in Reykjavík say that their English reading is
very good. The same pattern appears in this skill category as with understanding as
there is a drop when it comes to the highest education category, those who finished
university.
When asked about speaking English, men report slightly higher proficiency but
again if the options well and very well are combined there is no difference. Location
makes very little difference here as 29% vs. 27% say they speak very well.Also here
the University educated respondents report a lower proficiency than the group below
although only by 6%.
Twenty five percent of men say that their writing is very good while 20% of
women do. The average for the two highest skill options is 56% for men and 54%
for women. Location seems to be a factor when it comes to writing English as 26%
of respondents in Reykjavík check that skills level while only 17% of those outside
Reykjavík do. In this category there is no difference between university educated
speakers and the education category below although only 10% of those with a trade
school education say they write English very well. Nevertheless, if the options well
and very well are combined a remarkable 47% of those with a primary education
chose those options, 36% of those with education in the trades, 76% with a second-
ary school education and 68% with a university education are remarkably confident
about their English writing. Again it is not clear on what this confidence is based as
few respondents in previous surveys report ever writing English and then mostly on
social media. How they have interpreted the question is not clear i.e. what did they
understand by writing? Writing e-mails or comments on social media or writing
assignments at tertiary level or important reports for government or other
institutions?
Although there is some difference between men and women in the highest skill
category, this difference almost disappears when the two highest skill options are
combined. It is possible that this difference is a mark of confidence rather than
actual differences in English skills. It is an interesting fact that university educated
respondents report lower proficiency in all the four skills than the graduates of sec-
ondary school which is the next category below. It is tempting to explain this as a
realization that, perhaps when actually tested, people in jobs that require university
education come to realize that their English is not as good as they had perceived
after all and does not meet the requirements of the job. However, it is also quite
­
possible that respondents’ English at lower education levels serves the function to
which it is put. Like native speakers of any language, native speakers of English
vary in their skills and what they can use their language skills for, and the same
applies to users of English as an additional language. Nevertheless Icelanders are
quite confident in their English language skills. Below the correlation between age
and English language skills are presented.
English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland
50
5.1  Age
Age is a highly significant factor when it comes to self-reports of English skills as
the younger the respondent, the better their English skills. Furthermore, this differ-
ence is the greatest when reports on productive skills are measured. Proficiency
reports according to age are presented in the next four Figs. 2, 3, 4 and 5. First
responses about how well or poorly they were able to understand English are
presented.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Very well Rather well Neither nor Rather poor Poor
Age 18-29
30-44
45-59
60+
Fig. 2  Perceived ability to understand English by age
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Very well Rather well Neither nor Rather poor Very poor
Age 18-29
30-44
45-59
60+
Fig. 3  Perceived ability to read English by age
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
51
As in previous surveys, age is a significant factor when it comes to assessing
one’s ability to understand English as 68% of respondents in the youngest age cat-
egory say they understand English very well and the number rises to almost 100%
when the rather well responses are included for that age group. Very few respon-
dents admit to understanding poorly and most of those are over 60. There is a linear
line from the youngest to the oldest age category is terms of assessment of ability to
understand English. This result is not surprising given how much Icelanders hear
English every day as shown in the exposure survey above.
A similar linear pattern appears across the age groups when respondents were
asked about their ability to read English. Slightly fewer are as confident about their
reading ability as their ability to understand English. In the youngest age group,
64% of respondents said that their English reading was very good. This result is
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Very well Rather well Neither nor Rather poor Very poor
18-29
30-44
45-59
60+
Fig. 4  Perceived ability to speak English by age
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
Very well Rather well Neither nor Rather poor Very poor
18-29
30-44
45-59
60+
Fig. 5  Perceived ability to write English by age
English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland
52
supported by the exposure study which revealed that the same number or 64% of the
youngest group reported reading English daily. These questions addressed the abil-
ity to use receptive English. The next two figures present results of the questions
addressing respondents’ ability to use productive English.The number of respon-
dents who say they are good at speaking English goes down somewhat as 48% of
the youngest age category claim to speak English very well. The number goes up to
92% when the response rather well is added. In the next age category with the two
values grouped, 78% of the age group 30–44 say they speak English rather or very
well and the number goes down to 53% for those aged 45–59 and 38% for the over
60 group. These results are somewhat surprising when compared to Icelanders’
reports of how much they actually speak English as seen in Table 4 in the previous
section. Figure 5 shows reported ability to write according to the age of the respon-
dent.Icelanders’ evaluation of their English writing proficiency is somewhat in line
with the amount they report writing in the exposure survey in the last section. Of the
youngest age group, 89% report that they write English rather or very well. Only
about half of this age group says they write English weekly or monthly. Eight of the
diary keepers were students but it is unlikely that they would write in English as part
of their studies as most assignments are written in Icelandic at Icelandic universities
and secondary schools (see Arnbjörnsdóttir, chapter “Using English at University”,
this volume). Most interesting is the older two groups in this respect as a third of
them say they write rather well or very well. Perhaps it is the same group who report
reported writing weekly or more often as seen in Table 5?
It is difficult to ascertain on what the evaluations reported above are based.
Possibly it is the fact that respondents hear a great deal of highly contextualized
English through the media which they can understand. Perhaps they extend their
comprehension skills to productive uses which they do not perform very often or not
at all. Icelanders may be overestimating their English skills. It is also quite possible
that many people can actually perform the English language tasks they actually do
perform, which may be simple reading and writing conversational language on
social media.
6  Conclusions
The goal of this chapter was to present the rich English input experienced by
Icelanders of all ages on a daily basis and how the nature of the input may be
reflected in how Icelanders evaluate their English proficiency. The chapter provides
a backdrop for the subsequent chapters which describe to what extent this rich input
serves Icelanders in the functions that English actually serves, especially in educa-
tion. The findings suggest that young children and people over 60 use English less
than the age groups in between while English use increases exponentially the
younger the respondents, until age 18. Adult Icelanders (other than the oldest age
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
53
group) use English for education, entertainment and professional purposes.2
The
conclusion must be that the use of English is increasing among adults over the age
of 18, but that linguistic behavior among children, although also on the increase for
older children, does not follow the same trend as the youngest children still use
almost exclusively Icelandic in their everyday lives.
English exposure in Iceland is high, but to a large extent in the form of receptive
language. Overall, Icelanders hear English almost four times more than they report
speaking it. Furthermore, the younger the adult respondent the more likely he/she is
to hear English every day and more than 4 h a day. Younger people are also more
likely to use English productively in that they speak and write more than the older
groups. The diary study supports the surveys in terms of amount of English use, but
it also shows that younger people are more likely to watch un-texted materials and
are more likely to use English at work and on social media. The increased use of
mobile devices for entertainment, although not examined specifically here, may
serve to increase children’s consumption of un-texted material and thus radically
increase the amount of English they are exposed to as online material is unlikely to
be dubbed in Icelandic.
Icelanders in general are very confident about their English proficiency as seen
in the surveys above. In comparing the amount and nature of exposure to the reports
on proficiency, it is not always clear on what their self-evaluations are based, espe-
cially regarding productive uses of English. It is quite possible that Icelanders over-
estimate their proficiency as it is not necessarily put to the test as they write on
social media in registers previously restricted to informal spoken language. The fact
that university educated respondents are less confident in their English skills than
those with shorter education backgrounds suggests that they may have difficulty
executing language related functions characteristic of university level education or
higher level professions, or in academic genres and formal registers. Most likely
they understand more than they can actually produce. The fact that young Icelanders
use English more than older speakers may indicate that English use is spreading
across skills and domains.
Overestimation of English skills may have consequences for Icelanders’ ability
to actually use English in education and the workplace. However, it is also quite
possible that their English serves them adequately for every day purposes, under-
standing texted materials, having short conversations on social media and having
conversations with non-intimates in highly contextual situations. What does seem
clear is that when Icelanders are asked to evaluate their English skills, they are not
necessarily thinking about using English for academic purposes. Subsequent chap-
ters describe the functions of English in Iceland, namely in education, where espe-
cially at the tertiary level, the language of textbooks and increasingly the language
of instruction is English.
2
 
The reader is reminded that this is most likely not because older speakers have stopped using
English, but rather that they never did to the extent that younger speakers today do.
English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland
54
On a final note, the findings presented in this chapter become even more signifi-
cant and are strengthened by the fact that they are grounded in studies executed at
the national level. The results are based on studies of a very high percentage of the
whole population of Iceland which provide a unique laboratory to examine the rela-
tionship between exposure, proficiency, and in the following chapters, functions of
English as an Additional Language. We are not aware of studies of this nature from
other countries.
References
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2011). Exposure to English in Iceland: A quantitative and qualitative study í
sérriti Netlu – Menntakviku 2011. Netla –Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun. Menntavísindasvið
Háskóla Íslands [Netla, a webjournal on Pedagogy and Education]. School of Education,
University of Iceland. http://netla.hi.is/menntakvika201
Broddason, T., et al. (2006). Youth and New Media in the New Millennium. Nordicom Review.,
27(2), 105–118.
Capacent. (2011). Fjölmiðlar. http://www2.capacent.is/?pageid=2331&templateid=50. Accessed
July 2011.
Dofradóttir, A., Arnalds, Á. A., Sturludóttir, G. J., & Jónsson, F. H. (2010). Íslensk Menningarvog:
Könnun á menningarneyslu Íslendinga. http://www.menntamalaraduneyti.is/nyrit/nr/5371.
Accessed Aug 2011
Gunnlaugsson, B.  J., & Jónsdóttir, V. (2014). Þjóðmálakönnun  – enskufærni. Social sciences
research institute. Reykjavík: University of Iceland.
Jeeves, A. (2013). Relevance and the L2 Self in the Context of Icelandic Secondary School
Learners: Learner Views. Ph.D. dissertation. School of Humanities. University of Iceland.
Hugvísindastofnun: University of Iceland.
Jóhannsdóttir, Á. (2010). English in the 4th grade in Iceland: Exploring exposure and measur-
ing vocabulary size of 4th grade students. Ráðstefnurit Netlu – Menntakviku 2010. Netla –
Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun. Menntavísindasvið Háskóla Íslands [Netla, a webjournal
on Pedagogy and Education]. School of Education, University of Iceland. http://netla.khi.is/
menntakvika2010/007.pdf. Accessed Aug 2011
Jónsdóttir, K. B. (2016). The English influence in Iceland. A diary study. Unpublished BA thesis.
University of Iceland
Kristjánsdóttir, K., Bjarnadóttir, L., & Lefever, S. (2006). Úttekt á enskukennslu í grunnskólum
veturinn 2005–2006. Reykjavík: Menntamálaráðuneytið. http://www.reykjavik.is/Portaldata/1/
Resources/skjol/svid/menntasvid/pdf_skjol/utgafur/grunnskolar/ymsarskyrslurogbaeklingar/
enskukennsla.pdf. Accessed Oct 2 2013.
Lefever, S. (2010). English skills of young learners in Iceland: “I started talking English when
I was 4 years old. It just bang… just fall into me.” Ráðstefnurit Netlu – Menntakviku 2010.
Netla – Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun. Menntavísindasvið Háskóla Íslands [Netla, a web-
journal on Pedagogy and Education]. School of Education, University of Iceland. http://skem-
man.is/is/stream/get/1946/7811/20404/1/021.pdf. Accessed July 9 2016
Leiknisdóttir,A. M., & Sturludóttir, G. J. (2011). Enskunotkun Spurt í vagni Félagsvísindastofnunar
í febrúar 2011. Félagsvísindastofnun Háskóla Íslands.
Ortega, S. G. (2011). Media exposure and English language proficieny levels: A comparative study
in Iceland and Spain. Unpublished BA thesis: University of Iceland
Sundquist, P., & Sylvén, K. L. (2016). Extramural English in teaching and learning: From theory
and researh to practice. London: Palgrave Macmillan.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
55
Tungumálakönnun [A Survey of Foreign Languages]. (2001). Price Waterhouse Cooper.
Reykjavík: Menntamálaráðuneyti.
UN Broadband Commission Report. (2015). http://www.broadbandcommission.org/documents/
reports/bb-annualreport2015.pdf. Accessed Sept 16 2016.
Þórsdóttir, Þ. H. (2012). English encountered by Icelandic children. Is English becoming the sec-
ond language of Iceland’s youth? Unpublished BA thesis: University of Iceland.
English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland
57
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir, H. Ingvarsdóttir (eds.), Language Development across the Life Span,
Educational Linguistics 34, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67804-7_4
English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency
at the Onset of English Instruction
Ásrún Jóhannsdóttir
Abstract  This chapter reports findings of a study that explores 4th grade students’
attitudes towards English and examines which contributing factors influence their
motivation for learning English, specifically English vocabulary. The study then
maps out students’ actual English vocabulary proficiency at the mandated onset of
formal instruction, and after one to four years of formal instruction. The study is
part of the author’s PhD study of over 400 4th graders in different compulsory
schools throughout Iceland. Data was collected through surveys, interviews and
receptive and productive vocabulary tests. Tests showed themselves to have internal
and external validity and reliability. Results support previous assumptions of the
extensive English proficiency of young learners, which exceeds curriculum goals
for the 4th grade. However, onset of English instruction was not a strong factor in
accounting for the learners’ lexical proficiency. The results show a strong relation-
ship between proficiency and personal needs to use English to understand television
programs and music lyrics, while using computers and speaking to foreigners.
Further, these results suggest a disconnect between official curriculum goals and
guidelines, including what is the most appropriate age to begin formal instruction
and from the linguistic reality in which these children find themselves. Young chil-
dren do not seem to equate English as a school subject with the English they use
outside of school. The findings are that children’s language proficiency is acquired
largely extramurally and motivated by a need to use English in their daily lives
rather than within the school setting.
1  Introduction
In Iceland, as in many countries in the world, there is increased pressure to lower the
starting age of formal English instruction. This pressure is based on the perceived
need that good English proficiency is a necessity to function in the modern world,
and support is drawn from research carried out in immersion contexts where
Á. Jóhannsdóttir (*)
School of Humanities, University of Iceland, Reykjavík, Iceland
e-mail: asrunj@hi.is
58
children acquire the new language faster than their parents do, and that the earlier
the onset of acquisition the more successful the acquisition will be.
Up until recently, the focus of language research in Iceland has been on attitudes
and proficiency at a point in time without a longitudinal follow-up. Although this
study follows that same focus, it aims to set the stage for further research and longi-
tudinal examination of the status of English in Iceland. Doing so will provide us
with an opportunity to monitor how or whether English spreads as fast as generally
observed in the past years. Because of the changed educational environment in
Iceland (see Arnbjörnsdóttir, (The Policies and Contexts that Frame English
Education and Use in Iceland), this volume), it is time to study the amount and
nature of exposure and vocabulary in English in Iceland.
Because we do not have a clear understanding of what motivates learners, espe-
cially young learners to learn languages, the focus of this chapter is to explore 4th
grade students’ English proficiency and experience. This is done by focusing spe-
cifically on their learning of English vocabulary, to map out their actual English
lexical knowledge at the onset of instruction, and examining what, if any, relation-
ship exists between students’ vocabulary proficiency on the one hand, and on the
other hand, the frequency of use, desired use and expected use of English.
The main objective of the doctoral study was to examine the lexical proficiency
of 4th grade students (8–9 years) in Iceland at the onset of instruction, to identify the
factors that motivate students to learn English at this early age, and finally, to exam-
ine the amount and type of English young children are exposed to prior to beginning
English studies in school. This chapter will address one of the aspects of the larger
study, how motivation and the amount and nature of exposure contribute to lexical
proficiency among children at the onset of English formal instruction in Iceland.
This is done by focusing on the relationship between context specific factors, use of
English in Education, TV/music, on the Computer, with Peers, Family, Texts and
use as a Lingua Franca, and vocabulary proficiency. In addition, the article exam-
ines whether exposure, the desired use (Ideal Self) and expected use (Ought-to Self)
of English have a predictive value towards successful vocabulary acquisition in 4th
grade students’ use of English. The study aims to answer the research question:
	
1.	Does a relationship exist between students’ vocabulary knowledge and where
and how frequently (L2 experience), expected (Ought-to Self) and desired (Ideal
Self) use of English?
2  
Age, Input and Language Learning
In this study, an attempt is made to bring forward a realistic picture of the linguistic
environment of young learners of English in Iceland as they start learning English
in school. For example, motivational research has focused on older children learn-
ing languages (12 years and older). Possibly because previous research has shown
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
59
that the youngest learners’ motivation to learn foreign languages is not immediately
clear, their goals may be vaguer than older learners’ goals (Nikolov 1999), and
teaching foreign languages to young learners is a fairly recent occurrence in many
countries. On the other hand, vocabulary studies have focused on demonstrating
how much vocabulary is needed for successful attainment of a foreign language
within the academic environment or a second language in an immigration or immer-
sion environment. In addition, the tools used to measure language attainment are
mostly based on adult sources.
The usual target language learning contexts have either been to learn the lan-
guage in the target culture, considered a second language situation (SL), or as a
foreign language where learners learn the target language in a classroom (FL)
(Arnbjörnsdóttir 2007, pp. 51–52). The context here is English in Iceland, a lan-
guage that is both naturally acquired extramurally and studied at school in Iceland
(see Arnbjörnsdóttir, (The Policies and Contexts that Frame English Education and
Use in Iceland), this volume).
Although the assumption has been that a young age is the only necessary condi-
tion to guarantee success within the FL environment (Munoz 2008), it is the amount
and type of input that seem to play a larger role. Some studies report that early start-
ers, with much longer instruction or exposure, outperform late starters (see Singleton
and Ryan 2004). On the other hand, late starters frequently catch up with early start-
ers. Many have expressed the long-term advantage of early learners in a naturalistic
language-learning context with unlimited input, over early learners in an instructed
context with limited access to L2 input. However, this has been disputed given the
evidence that not even a very young age guarantees native like command of an L2
(Hyltenstam and Abrahamsson 2003) even in a bilingual environment. In a foreign
language learning situation, the stakes are different from an SL situation. For exam-
ple, the source of input may vary, the target language is not spoken outside of the
classroom and not even in the classroom depending on the instructor’s level of FL
fluency. In addition, there may be limited exposure to the language outside of
school. Munoz (2008) expressed this clearly by pointing out that the amount of
exposure may have as an important role in successful language learning as the age
which students begin receiving formal language instruction at school.
Nevertheless, age seems to play a fundamental role in improving second and
foreign language attainment, assuming that language learners receive enough input.
Beginning instruction at a young age is one way to ensure more language input over
time even when input is only minimal at each point in time (Larson-Hall 2008). In
the FL learning context, Munoz (2008 predicts, based on data from Spain, that dif-
ferences between younger and older beginners will disappear once, given the same
time and exposure, they reach the same state of cognitive development. In contrast,
Larson-Hall 2008 reports in her study a modest difference to both phonological and
basic morphosyntactic abilities in favor of a younger starting age in a minimal input
situation. However, other studies of age and proficiency (Munoz 2008; Serrano and
Munoz 2007), and age, exposure and lexical knowledge (Mirlpeix 2007) show a
difference in favor of learners who receive intensive exposure over those receiving
the same amount of input over a longer period. Therefore, the conclusion may be
English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction
60
that the amount and type of input is the defining factor in language attainment rather
than the young age.
There are a number of factors yet to be examined in relation to age effects in
foreign language learning. For example, the role of exposure or instruction in early
language learning in regular programs has not been sufficiently explored to date.
Because it has been suggested that young learners may benefit particularly from
greater amounts of input, given their advantage in implicit language learning, it is of
great interest to study the interplay of age and intensity of exposure in order to
examine whether there is a relationship that favors lower onset of formal
instruction.
3  Vocabulary Acquisition
Research has increasingly stressed the significance of lexis with emphasis on study-
ing the teaching and learning of vocabulary. It is clear that “certain levels and quali-
ties of lexical knowledge are important prerequisites for successful language
learning and language use” (Schoonen and Verhallen 2008, p. 211). Furthermore,
reading comprehension and vocabulary size are intrinsically connected as numerous
studies demonstrate (Daller et al. 2007; Laufer 1997; Laufer and Hill 2003; Nation
2013; Paribakht and Wesche 1999, 2000). Acquiring the considerable amount of
lexical items needed for comprehension has to be approached in a variety of ways
and requires both explicit intentional teaching as well as incidental continued expo-
sure, for example through reading (Schmitt 2008). However, as young learners are
still acquiring reading skills in their first language, expecting them to learn inciden-
tally through reading is unrealistic, as presented by Coady (1997) with the begin-
ner’s paradox: how can L2 readers learn enough words “to learn vocabulary through
extensive reading when they do not know enough words to read well” (p. 229).
Nonetheless, children´s learning is considered predominantly implicit (DeKeyser
2003; Hulstijn 2003), and considerable credit has been given to incidental language
learning by children from television (d’Ydewalle and Van de Poel 1999). However,
the vocabulary demands of television require a similar word knowledge as reading
does (Webb and Rodgers 2009). Thus, we do not have enough evidence from testing
to assume how much vocabulary is actually learned by children through television
and how or if it may, or may not, benefit them in the formal instructional environ-
ment. In the next section, we turn to the factors that may serve to motivate children
to learn English.
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
61
4  Motivation
In recent years, an increased number of programs have been set up to teach foreign
languages to young learners. At the same time there has been an increased interest
in young foreign language learners’ proficiency and motivation (Djigunović 2009;
Nikolov 2009a, b). Research on language learning motivation has gone through
considerable change since Gardner and associates in Canada first initiated and pur-
sued the issue in 1972 (for review see Dörnyei 2005; Masgoret and Gardner 2003).
Gardner and Lambert’s (1972) focus was embedded in a bilingual and immersion
environment where they divided motivation in language learning into instrumental
and integrative orientation. For a time, interest in motivation seemed to wane as
more grammar oriented approaches prevailed. However, the 90s brought a change
of perspectives in L2 motivational research with stronger revitalized interest, where
the focus moved towards an approach connected more with learners’ overall dispo-
sition and the classroom context (Dörnyei 2010, p. 251). Finally, in 1999, Dörnyei,
Ushioda and colleagues in Europe began to explore the ongoing changes of motiva-
tion over time, which resulted in Dörnyei reframing L2 motivation as a part of the
self-system and offered a model ‘The L2 Motivation Self System’ (Dörnyei 2005).
Dörnyei (2005) suggested that through the process of language learning and in
conjunction with learners’ individual differences, different types of selves can be
identified to describe how learners view themselves, depending on the time, type,
amount and circumstance. He proposed a new conceptualization of L2 motivation
that emerged from the theory of ‘possible selves’ derived from sociology. To explain
the emerging selves he developed the ‘L2 Motivational Self System’ where stu-
dents’ learning is affected by the L2 learning environment, what they could become,
what they aspire to become (the Ideal Self) and what they are afraid of becoming
(the Ought-to Self) (Dörnyei 2005). Dörnyei aspired to move beyond the integra-
tiveness in language learning and suggested that the possible selves theory lent the
most promising way forward (Dörnyei 2009, p. 25). Since then, a plethora of studies
have emerged focusing on the importance of Self in SLA (see Dörnyei and Ryan
2015 for further review).
As noted by Nikolov and Djigunovic (2006), it is often assumed that children
learn FL in similar ways and their motivation towards learning foreign languages is
highly positive (Djigunović 2009; Edelenbos and Kubanek 2009). Nevertheless, as
the ways children learn they vary among themselves and their individual character-
istics or motives for learning foreign languages should be explored. However, it is
important to adopt a methodology suitable for their developmental stage as children
have different sources of motivation to speak English (Nikolov 1999, 2009b).
Furthermore, Edelenbos and Kubanek’s (2009) review of the research on young
learners’ motivation demonstrates that as learners grow older their positive attitude
diminishes and their motivation in foreign language learning suffers accordingly.
However, this does not seem to be as connected to the age of the learners as to their
learning experience. Continued research on this matter is needed, especially in light
of the general tendency in the world to begin foreign language education earlier and
English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction
62
earlier in addition to children’s increased access to technology resulting in changes
in linguistic environment.
5  
Measuring Children’s Language
Measuring children’s language poses many challenges and, while children are often
considered highly motivated to learn a foreign language, are successful and have a
positive attitude, some concern has been voiced as to whether children have the
cognitive, communicative and social skill to produce “good quality” responses to
survey questions (Bell 2007), that is, responses that demonstrate the actual feeling
or knowledge of the respondent. However, “in most of the western world, it is now
recognized that children have a voice that should be heard and there is a demand for
research that focuses on children as actors in their own right” (De Leeuw et al. 2004,
p. 409). Several studies have been conducted and results show that despite the res-
ervations, children in general are able to answer survey questions from the age of
seven, provided the questionnaires are adapted to suit their language and contain
explicit instruction (Bell 2007; Dörnyei 2003). Although children and adults have
different thoughts and ideas, children bring their own judgment to research and are
important contributors (Pinter 2011).
The changing status of English in Iceland calls for a reconsideration of the effect
English has on children’s language learning and how we can make use of learners’
possible existing English proficiency when formal instruction begins. The study of
Icelandic 4th graders’ lexical proficiency and the origins of that knowledge will be
presented in the next section to discover some of the elements contributing to lexical
success.
6  Methodology
The purpose of this study is to identify the factors that affect 4th grade students’
motivation to learn English and to evaluate young learners’ lexical knowledge. The
study is an effort to establish a baseline for vocabulary proficiency at the onset of
formal instruction by looking into the English proficiency of Icelandic learners and
where the proficiency could be derived from. The research question is:
	
1.	Does a relationship exist between students’ vocabulary knowledge and where
and how frequently (L2 experience), expected (Ought-to Self) and desired (Ideal
Self) use of English?
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
63
6.1  Participants
The participants in this study were 416 Icelandic students in the 4th grade (8–9 years
old) in the fall of 2010. Four thousand one hundred and thirty six students were
enrolled in the 4th grade in Iceland and 68% (2840) of those attended school on the
south-west coast of Iceland, in and around the capital area in 2010 (Statistics
Iceland). In our representative sample of 378 students, 63.3% (239 students) come
from the south-west area, with the remaining 36.6% (139 students) representing the
remainder of the country, 190 girls and 188 boys in Iceland from 12 primary schools
were submitted for analysis. Thus our data is representative of the population in
focus.
In Iceland exposure to English at school is minimal, and never more than the
equivalent of 40 minutes a week in grades 1–4 (Statistics Iceland 2017). However,
as Lefever (2007) reported, some schools break down these 40 min into 10–15 min
classes, two or three times a week to maintain regular exposure and continuous
acquisition (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2015; Jóhannsdóttir 2017).
6.2  
Survey and Testing Instruments
At the developmental stage of this study it was decided to adopt previous question-
naires used in Iceland (Kristjánsdóttir et al. 2006) and adapt them to conform to
Dörnyei’s three dimensions of the Ideal Self, the Ought-to Self and the L2
Environment from the L2 motivational system. The previous survey used in Iceland
was aimed at exploring student’s views and attitudes towards their English language
use and language learning and I chose to add and adapt items from the question-
naires rather than build a completely new survey. The survey questionnaire also
adopts statements and questions from previous instruments used in Hungary (Csizer
and Kormos 2009; Dörnyei et  al. 2006; Kiss and Nikolov 2005) and Iceland
(Kristjánsdóttir et  al. 2006) but order, structure and language is rearranged and
adapted for this test. The questions were also designed to explore participants’ use
of English according to seven context specific factors previously chosen by the
researcher, namely, TV/music (watching and listening), Computers (playing games),
Education (using English at school), Peers (speaking to friends), Family (speaking
to parents and other family members), Texts (reading texts) and Lingua Franca
(speaking to foreigners home and abroad) (Jóhannsdóttir 2017). Two vocabulary
tests were then administered to participants to test their self-perceived vocabulary
skills, their receptive vocabulary size and their ability to provide meaning out of
context, or what is termed as their “sight” vocabulary (Laufer and Ravenhorst-­
Kalovski 2010). One test was a Yes-No test intended to explore students’ basic
vocabulary size (Cobb 2008; Milton 2009; Stemach and Williams 1988) and the
other test was a Vocabulary Scale test (Paribakht and Wesche 1997) intended to
explore the scale of students’ word knowledge.
English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction
64
To determine the size of student’s vocabulary the Yes-No vocabulary size test
was set up in similar fashion as Meara & Milton’s X_Lex (Meara and Milton 2003),
but adapted to suit the age of the participants as mentioned above. Students indi-
cated whether they knew 120 words (they were not asked to give the meaning) to
explore students’ receptive vocabulary size. For this study a pen and paper version
of theYes-No test format was retained but the frequency list used is derived from the
Word Express: the first 2500 words in spoken English (Stemach and Williams 1988),
as a list of words elicited from children was deemed more appropriate for the pur-
pose of this study. For this study, we chose to use 100 words from the first five levels
(the 1250 most frequent) of the Word Express list. Words were chosen at random
and run against an updated version of the list on Cobb’s website Lextutor.ca (Cobb
2008) to strengthen the relevance of the analysis for current use. Pseudo words were
included to lessen the risk of guessing and over-estimation of knowledge. The
pseudo-words also allow the score on the real words to be adjusted to give an esti-
mation of participants’ vocabulary size. Thus the score participants received for the
test was between 0 and 100.
The second vocabulary test aimed to look at the scale of student’s vocabulary
knowledge and asked students to provide meaning in Icelandic for 25 words from
the first test in Icelandic in the self-perception tradition of theVocabulary Knowledge
Scale (VKS) introduced by Paribakht and Wesche (1997, 1999). These types of tests
have already been shown to be reliable in assessing students’ vocabulary size
(Milton 2009) although this has not been fully tested with this age group. The scale
ratings range from complete unfamiliarity, to recognition of the word, and knowing
its meaning, and it eliminates the guessing factor frequently associated with multi-
ple choice tests and yes-no tests. Learners were presented with a list of target words
and asked to indicate their level of knowledge for each word, to explore their “sight
vocabulary” knowledge (Laufer and Ravenhorst-Kalovski 2010; Paribakht and
Wesche 1999; Read 2000). Therefore participants received a score of 0 to 3 for each
item with total score between 0 and 75. In both cases, survey and test modifications
(Jóhannsdóttir 2017) are made to accommodate the age and cognitive capabilities of
the participants in the hope of acquiring reliable results.
6.3  
Data Collection and Analysis
Questionnaires and tests were administered to individual class groups during the fall
of 2010. In general, survey and testing time ranged from 30 to 45 min for all classes.
The SPSS statistical program was used for the data analysis.
For the research question in this study a frequency analysis was conducted to get
a general view of the answers to each individual item and word. This allowed for
detecting whether there were any problematic items by looking at missing data.
After correcting missing data due to input errors the remaining missing values were
on average less than 3% of cases in this sample and ranged from 1 to 5 per variable,
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
65
therefore, it was decided to use maximum-likelihood estimations to replace missing
values which maintained the same mean estimates as before the correction (Dörnyei
2007; Field 2005). The multi item scales and vocabulary tests were tested for inter-
nal consistency reliability and good alpha ratings were achieved (Table 1).1
The quantitative analysis of the surveys and vocabulary tests includes descriptive
statistics, correlation coefficient, and a hierarchical multiple regression analysis for
the examination of the relationship between motivating factors, exposure and the
vocabulary test results.
7  Results
The research question in this chapter addresses the relationship between the motiva-
tional dimension proposed by Dörnyei (2005) divided by context-specific variables
and English vocabulary knowledge. Results showing the relationship between stu-
dents’ exposure, expected and desired use of English, and English vocabulary size
are identified. These items are explored to see which factors significantly contribute
to explain the variance in test scores.
1
 
Internal consistency reliability is measured by the Cronbach Alpha coefficient. This is a figure
ranging between 0 and 1, and if it is very low, either the particular scale is too short or the items
have very little in common. Internal consistency estimates for well-developed scales containing as
few as 10 items ought to approach 0.80. However, in light of the complexity of the second language
acquisition process, L2 researchers usually want to measure many different areas in one question-
naire, and therefore cannot use very long scales. This means that somewhat lower Cronbach Alpha
coefficients are to be expected, but even with short scales of 3-4 items we should aim at reliability
coefficient in excess of 0.70; a scale with a Cronbach Alpha that does not reach 0.60 should sound
warning bells (Dörnyei 2007).
Table 1  Internal consistency reliability estimates for multi item scales
Scale No. of items Cronbach‘s alpha
L2 Experience ( I use English to …)  15 .816
The Ideal Self (I want to be able to use English to…)  15 .858
Ought-to-Self (I have to learn English to ..)  10 .829
Yes-No vocabulary test 120 .939
The Vocabulary Knowledge Scale  25 .945
English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction
66
7.1  
The Nature of English Exposure, the Ideal and Ought
to Self in 4th Grade
To begin with we compare the mean of each context specific factor using Dörnyei’s
motivational dimensions of L2 Experience, the Ideal Self and the Ought-to Self as
shown in Fig. 1. Asking students how often they use English in several different
circumstances may indicate where their English knowledge comes from. Questions
are grouped according to context-specific variables, namely, TV/music (watching
and listening), Computers (playing games), Education (using English at school),
Peers (speaking to friends), Family (speaking to parents and other family members),
Texts (reading texts) and Lingua Franca (speaking to foreigners home and abroad).
Lately, as discussed above, the focus of motivational research has focused on the
Self and how it affects language learning (Dörnyei and Ushioda 2009; Dörnyei and
Ryan 2015). In this study, we explored student’s desired and expected use in addi-
tion to current use and focus on students’ L2 Experience, Ideal Self and Ought-to
Self to examine students’ views on their use of English (Fig. 1) and to explore if
those factors influence the lexical proficiency of 4th grade students.
The mean for the L2 Experience shows that students report using English most
frequently while watching television, listening to music and using the computer to
play computer games while they seldom or never read or write in English. To exam-
ine students’ desired use of English or their Ideal Self dimension (Dörnyei 2005)
students were asked how frequently they would like to be able to use English.
Although computers and TV are still important mediums of English, students’ aspi-
ration to use English at school is more important and the wish to communicate with
foreigners in English (lingua franca) is more frequent than current use
demonstrates.
0
0,5
1
1,5
2
2,5
3
3,5
4
L2 Experience
The Ideal Self
Ought-to-Self
Fig. 1  Context specific factors divided by motivational dimensions
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
67
The Ought-to-Self factor shows how participants evaluate their future expected
(obligation) use of English and is generated from statements starting with „I have to
use English because...“ and asked students to agree or disagree with the statements
for each independent factor. Students rather uniformly agree with English class
being the place where they are obliged to use English alongside speaking to foreign-
ers. They are not so obliged to use English with family and peers and for those fac-
tors, they vary the most in response, which suggests that those factors are less
relevant to students at this age.
7.2  
English Lexical Proficiency in 4th Grade
Table 2 exhibits the mean total results from the vocabulary tests for all participants,
According to the Yes-No test the participants know on average 40 words out of 100
on the test. The VKS test shows us that students are scoring on average 36 out of 75
which amounts to 48% (Table 2).
Figures 2 and 3 shows the distribution of scores indicating that there is a consid-
erable variance in the scores.
An analysis using Pearson’s correlation coefficient was run to further compare
and explore the validity of the tests as well as the relationship between students’ test
score on the two tests. The results show a high positive relationship between the
Yes-No vocabulary test scores and the VKS scores (r = .86, p < .01). This means that
it is likely that a student scoring high in the yes-no test will also score high on the
VKS test (Fig. 4).
However, the number of words on each test are not equal since the Yes-No has
100 words and the VKS contains 25 words. Therefore, the scores for the 25 words
from the Yes-No test were run separately against the correct translation on the VKS
and again the Pearson’s correlation coefficient showed an almost identical high
positive relationship (r = .855, p < .01). This further strengthens the assumption that
conjointly those two tests are showing students’ estimated vocabulary knowledge,
and the chance is high that a student marking many words on theYes-no test is 73%
(r2
) likely to be able to translate those words.
Table 2  Vocabulary test scores
Total N Mean test score Standard deviation
Total (0–100) 378 40.09 (100) 25.14
Total (0–75) 378 36.01(75) 20.26
English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction
68
Fig. 3  VKS vocabulary score distribution
Fig. 2  Yes-No vocabulary score distribution
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
69
7.3  
Context Contribution to 4th Grade Student’s Vocabulary
Success
The correlation between each context specific factor from each dimension, the L2
Experience, the Ideal Self and the Ought-to Self (independent variables), and each
vocabulary test (dependent variables) was calculated. It must be noted that correla-
tion statistics do not represent cause and effect, which means that, based on these
results, the significant relationship indicates that the factors are interrelated and the
strength of that individual relationship. Research correlations of as low as 0.3–0.5
can be considered meaningful, and if two variables correlate with each other at 0.6,
they measure more or less the same thing (Dörnyei 2007, p. 223).
Table 3 shows how vocabulary scores for each test correlate with each context
specific variable. This shows that around 19% of the variance in the scores is
explained by the relationship between vocabulary scores and the total L2 Experience
where individually, Lingua Franca and Texts show a moderate relationship with
each test followed by use of English on computers for theYes/No test and with peers
for the VKS test. Notably, the Educational factor is the only factor which does not
show significant relationship with vocabulary scores, suggesting that for 4th grade
students in Iceland the reported use of English at school does not contribute signifi-
cantly to lexical success. Furthermore, the results also show a slight significant posi-
tive relationship between test scores and The Ideal Self (the want to be able to use
English) when it comes to Texts, Computer use, Lingua Franca, Education and,
Music/TV factors. However, when we look at the results for the Ought-to-self
dimension (I must use English) the only factor demonstrating a positive relationship
with test scores is Lingua Franca. Nevertheless, both the Ideal Self and Ought-to-­
Self relationships are below what is considered meaningful suggesting that although
students in 4th grade desire and expect to use English, no single context specific
factor within those dimensions, contributes meaningfully to lexical success.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
VKS
test
scores
Yes_No test scores
Fig. 4  Scatterplot comparing Yes-No test scores to VKS test scores also here
English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction
70
7.4  
Lexical Success Models
To uncover which of the context specific factors combined contribute to lexical suc-
cess a standard regression was run and included all motivational dimension factors.
From that analysis, it was decided to extract those factors that were statistically
significant and run a standard regression only including those factors. Throwing all
factors together may not give a very good model as the numbers increase they con-
tribute very little to change in the model but may skew the interpretation. Thus, a
hierarchical regression is run in the final step and order of inclusion of factors is
based on the standardized coefficients (Beta) from the previous analysis. An analy-
sis of standard residuals was carried out, which showed that the data contained no
outliers (Yes-No model = Std. Residual Min = −2.10, Std. Residual Max = 2.66,
Table 3  Correlation coefficients comparing context specific factors to vocabulary test scores
Variable
Yes/No
test (r) CI
Effect
size (R2
)
VKS test
(r) CI
Effect
size (R2
)
The L2 experience .427** .351, .507 0.182 .444** .365, .523 0.197
 Lingua Franca .363** .264, .461 0.131 .375** .276, .479 0.141
 Texts .347** .248, .442 0.120 .359** .262, .450 0.129
 Computers .318** .229, .413 0.101 .293** .196, .393 0.086
Music and TV .285** .196, .366 0.081 .265** .173, .355 0.070
 Peers .263** .162, .357 0.069 .313** .215, 411 0.098
 Family .254** .158, .345 0.064 .272** .173, .364 0.074
 Education .025 .−.079, .141 0.001 .074 −.033, .197 0.005
The Ideal Self .183** .059, .291 0.033 .186** .066, .301 0.034
 Texts .231** .121, .338 0.053 .237** .129, .341 0.056
 Computer use .173** .059, .280 0.030 .188** .074, .298 0.035
 Lingua Franca .157** .054, .261 0.024 .156** .048, .265 0.024
 Education .122* .011, .217 0.015 .146** .029, .243 0.021
 Music and TV .118* −.007, .238 0.014 .126** .005, .247 0.016
 Peers .103 −.015, .222 0.011 .099 −.012, .208 0.010
 Family .000 −.112, .105 0.000 −.013 −.115, .094 0.000
The Ought-to Self .071 −.032, .180 0.005 .074 −.024, .176 0.005
 Lingua Franca .106* .002, .214 0.011 .104* .008, .206 0.010
 Computer use .073 −.025, .189 0.005 .070 −.034, .182 0.005
 Texts .060 −.053, .165 0.003 .070 −.036, .179 0.005
 Music and TV .045 −.067, .158 0.002 .051 −.056, .167 0.003
 Education .039 −.047, .123 0.002 .047 −.041, .141 0.002
 Peers −.039 −.137, .064 0.002 −.048 −.151, .058 0.002
 Family .001 −.116, .115 0 ,032 −.069, .142 0.001
**Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed)
*Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level (2-tailed)
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
71
VKS model = Residual Min = −2.44, Std. Residual Max = 2.49). Tests to see if the
data met the assumption of collinearity indicated that multicollinearity was not a
concern. A histogram of standardized residuals indicated that the data contained
approximately normally distributed errors, as did the normal P-P plot of standard-
ized residuals, which showed points that were not completely on the line, but close.
The scatterplot of standardized predicted values showed that the data met the
assumptions of homogeneity of variance and linearity. The data also met the
assumption of non-zero variances (see further Jóhannsdóttir 2017). Consequently,
all assumptions for a relatively good fit model were met. This regression analysis
yielded that seven context specific factors significantly contribute to explaining the
Yes-No test scores (Table 4).
The hierarchical multiple regression revealed that, L2 Exp – Computer Use con-
tributed significantly to the regression model, F (1, .376) = 42.16, p < .001 and
accounted for 10.1 % of the variation in scores on the Yes-no vocabulary test.
Introducing the L2 Exp – Lingua Franca variable explained an additional 8.3% of
variation in scores and this change in R2
was significant, F (2, 375) = 42.36, p < .001.
Adding the Ought-to-Self – Peers factor to the model explained an additional 1.3%
of the variation and this change in R2
was significant, F (3, 374) = 30.71, p < .001.
Including the L2 Exp – Peers explained an additional 2.1% significant change in R2,
F (4, 373) = 26.07, p < .01, and adding L2 Exp – Education explained additional
1.4% significant variance, F (5, 372) = 22.54, p < .01. The sixth factor added is L2
Exp – TV/Music which added 1.9% to the variance, F (6, 371) = 20.73, p < .01 and
finally, the addition of L2 Exp – Texts to the regression model explained an addi-
tional 1% of the variation in scores and this change in R2
square was also significant,
F (7, 370) = 370, p < .05. This model presented in Table 5 explains 26.1% of the
variance in vocabulary size for receptive vocabulary.
The regression analysis for the VKS test scores yielded six context specific fac-
tors that significantly contribute to explaining the VKS test scores (Table 5).
Table 4  A 7-Factor Model of Yes-No test success
Model R2
∆R2
B 95% CI for B Tolerance VIF
(constant) −8.578 −21.814, 4.999
L2-Exp – Computers .101 .101 6.292*** 3.489, 9.095 .837 1.195
L2 Exp – Lingua
Franca
.184 .083 5.159*** 2.173, 8.145 .632 1.582
Ought-to Self- Peers .198 .013 −2.957*** −4.704,
−1.210
.934 1.071
L2 Exp – Peers .219 .021 3.996** 1.302, 6.689 .811 1.234
L2 Exp – Education .233 .014 −3.981** −6.581,
−1.382
.877 1.141
L2 Exp – TV/music .251 .019 5.270** 1.399, 9.141 .779 1.283
L2 Exp – Text use .261 .010 4.302* .461, 8.144 .615 1.625
***Correlation is significant at the 0.001 level (2-tailed)
**Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed)
*Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level (2-tailed)
English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction
72
The hierarchical multiple regression revealed that, L2 Exp – Lingua Franca con-
tributed significantly to the regression model, F (1, 376) = 61.57, p < .001 and
accounted for 14.1 % of the variation in scores on the VKS vocabulary test.
Introducing the L2 Exp – Peers use variable explained an additional 4% of variation
in scores and this change in R2
was significant, F (2, 375) = 41.27, p < .001. Adding
the Ought-to-Self – Peers factor to the model explained an additional 2.1% of the
variation and this change in R2
was significant, F (3,  374) = 31.51, p  <  .001.
Including the L2 Exp  – Computer use explained an additional 3.3% significant
change in R2, F (4, 373) = 28.69, p < .001, and adding L2 Exp – Texts explained
additional 1.4% significant variance, F (5, 372) = 24.70, p < .05. Finally, the addi-
tion of the Ideal self – Education to the regression model explained an additional
0.9% of the variation in scores and this change in R2
square was also significant, F
(6, 371) = 21.52, p < .05. This model presented in Table 5 explains 25.8% of the
variance in vocabulary score for semi productive vocabulary with their English use
with foreigners as the predominant predictor of their VKS test scores.
8  Discussion
The research question is: How does motivation and the amount and nature of expo-
sure contribute to lexical proficiency among children at the onset of English formal
instruction in Iceland? The response is that students’ L2 Experience demonstrates
that they are using English now primarily to watch TV and films, to listen to music
and play on a computer. This suggests a primarily media exposed youth acquiring
English incidentally through recreational activities rather than focused learning
such as at school. Likewise, students do not report engaging in activities that require
speaking English. Regardless, students in this sample of 4th grade students in
Iceland know a considerable amount of words ranging from the average of 395 up
to 600 words at the onset of formal instruction according to these results. On aver-
age, they answered 40% of the Yes-No test and 48% of the VSK test. This supports
previous studies that show that students bring some proficiency in English at the
Table 5  A Six-Factor Model of VKS test success
Model R2
∆R2
B 95% CI for B Tolerance VIF
(constant) −6.624 −17.854, 4.606
L2 Exp – Lingua Franca .141 .141 4.470*** 2.097, 6.844 .650 1.538
L2 Exp – Peers .180 .040 4.301*** 2.165, 6.437 .838 1.193
Ought-to Self-Peers .202 .021 −2.680*** −4.089, −1.272 .934 1.071
L2-Exp – Computers .235 .033 3.890*** 1.684, 6.096 .878 1.139
L2 Exp- Text Use .249 .014 3.835* .765, 6.905 .626 1.597
The Ideal Self – Education .258 .009 2.791* .202, 5.381 .960 1.041
***Correlation is significant at the 0.001 level (2-tailed)
**Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed)
*Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level (2-tailed)
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
73
onset of formal instruction (Kristjánsdóttir et  al. 2006; Lefever 2007, 2010;
Torfadóttir et al. 2006). In addition, the National Curriculum guidelines include a
section to aid educators who wish to offer formal instruction from grade 1 (6-year-­
old students). This however is only offered in a limited amount of school with the
average length of lessons a week ranging from 16 min in 1st grade to 36 min a week
in grade 3 (Statistics Iceland 2017), thus providing a very limited exposure to
English at school as opposed to extramural English.
Using Dörnyei’s L2 motivational self-system to explore student’s context spe-
cific use gives an opportunity to explore the linguistic environment these students
experience. In addition it adds a different approach to the plethora of motivational
research that has emerged in the recent years (as introduced in Dörnyei and Ryan
2015). Although the participants are not using much English at school, their Ideal
Self and Ought-to-Self responses show that they desire and expect to use English in
that context. Nevertheless, these goals do not individually contribute to lexical suc-
cess and thus may still be vague as previous research suggests (Nikolov 1999,
2009b). Combining Dörnyei’s model and the youth’s context to explore the relation-
ship and contribution of factors allows us to explain the variance in test scores on
both receptive and productive vocabulary tests.
Test scores are significantly correlated individually with all L2 Experience fac-
tors but one, five Ideal Self factors but only one Ought-to Self factor. However,
when hierarchical multiple regression analyses are conducted for each test, those
analyses each yielded 7 factor model for receptive vocabulary (yes-no test) explain-
ing 26.1% of variance and 6 factor model for semi-productive vocabulary (VKS
test) explaining 25.8% of variance in scores showing how factors significantly con-
tribute to explaining test scores. These models show that for receptive proficiency
students’ use of English to play computer games is the most powerful predictor of
scores on a Yes-No vocabulary test with Lingua Franca the second strongest,
together explaining 18.4% of the variance. For the semi-productive proficiency, the
most powerful predictors are on the one hand, English speaking to foreigners
(Lingua Franca) and on the other hand, speaking English to friends, i.e. productive
skills. The more frequently they use English under those circumstances, the higher
they score on the vocabulary test.
Notably, two factors, that individually did not significantly correlate with the test
scores, appear in each of the models, namely, how frequently English is used at
school (L2 Exp – Education) and having learn English to speak to friends (Ought-­
to-­
Self Peers) in theYes-No model and the desire to use English at school (The Ideal
Self – Education) and having to learn English to speak to friends (Ought-to-Self –
Peers) in the VKS model. This mean that as the level of frequency of use of English
to play computer games goes up by 1 it is likely that the score on the yes-no test
goes up 6.2 points. This is inline with the lack of statistically significant effect of
onset of instruction on vocabulary gain between student who began learning in 1–3
grade which showed that vocabulary increase between those grades is very limited
(less than 100 word difference between years) and not what is expected from a for-
mal instructional environment (Milton 2009; Jóhannsdóttir 2017). However, this
does not necessarily mean that students are hindered by English use at school as this
English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction
74
study did not explore that use in detail but rather that students are learning a differ-
ent type of vocabulary.
The tests are based on frequency of English words from children’s speech and
may not represent the type of English vocabulary taught at school in Iceland in the
early years. The results from the overall study support that amount and type of input
play a larger role than age and onset of instruction in acquisition success of English
in Iceland as Munoz (2008) predicted for an FL learning context as the difference
between early and late starters seems to disappear as they progress. This similarity
suggests that the Icelandic formal instructional environment still teaches English as
a foreign language whereas the increased exposure is more in line with a second
language context (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2007, 2011, 2015; Jóhannsdóttir 2010, 2017).
Therefore, the results further support that learners who receive intensive exposure
have a larger vocabulary size than those with exposure over a longer period as previ-
ous research has shown (Mirlpeix 2007; Munoz 2008; Serrano and Munoz 2007).
Exploring those results an image appears of a student who plays computer games
while interacting with friends and those friends could possibly be both Icelandic
and foreign. This student is more likely to acquire more vocabulary than a student
who does not engage in said activities at this early age regardless of when they
began learning English at school.
Bearing in mind, that our learners are still acquiring academic skills in their first
language we need to consider the relationship between L2 and academic achieve-
ment. Collier (1989) suggests, “Children around the age of 8 to 12 who have had L1
schooling are the most efficient L2 school language acquirers” (p.  518). This
assumption is based on a second language environment with considerable exposure
to the L2. As this is rapidly becoming the reality in Iceland this may apply here.
Therefore, moving the onset of formal instruction to the beginning grades to take
advantage of the presumed innate ability to acquire languages may not be the best
route to take as there seems to be a discrepancy between what is taught in class and
what is acquired extramurally.
The relationship between the L2 Experience and English vocabulary knowledge
of 4th grade students in Iceland is by no means simple. The results above show that
different L2 Experience factors explain the variance in students’ test scores depend-
ing on type of test. In general, the predominant predictor for the vocabulary scores
is the use of English to play computer games, interacting with foreigners (Lingua
Franca) followed by speaking to friends in English. This suggests that success on
vocabulary scores is significantly connected to students’ traveling habits and fre-
quency of playing computer games providing learners with both receptive and pro-
ductive exposure. Notably, education does not significantly contribute to success on
either vocabulary tests, but when combined with other factors it shows a negative
contribution, suggesting that the vocabulary used at school and vocabulary acquired
extramurally, may not be the same. Because students who often use English for
extramural use have a higher vocabulary size than students who do not, the fre-
quency of contact and type contributes more to success at this point. In addition,
those learners are still acquiring academic skills in their first language it poses the
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
75
question how productive it is to begin formal instruction in a foreign language at
school before the age of eight (3. grade).
9  Conclusion
This study focuses on young learners at the age of nine, who are beginning 4th
grade education in the Icelandic school system. I suggest that the learners in this
study are in the middle stages of language learning development, as they have had
three years of schooling and are progressing from being young to older child learn-
ers. The results suggest a disconnect between official curriculum goals and guide-
lines, and the new linguistic reality in which these children find themselves. The
overall study (Jóhannsdóttir 2017) shows onset of instruction does not significantly
affect the outcomes. Thus, these results suggest that young children in Iceland do
not seem to view English as a school subject with the English they use outside of
school. The findings reported in this chapter are that children’s language proficiency
is acquired largely extramurally, and motivated by a need to use English in their
daily lives. However, this study only focuses on lexical knowledge and it is not the
only indicator of proficiency although it provides the basis for language learning.
Limits to this study are that we do not know whether the outcomes are connected to
participants L1 literacy skills. Although we now have an idea of Icelandic children’s
English use we need to explore the connection between L2 and L1 skills to further
discover the effects the complex linguistic environment has on their language devel-
opment in both languages.
References
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2007). English in Iceland: Second language, foreign language, or neither? Í
Teaching and learning English in Iceland. Birna Arnbjörnsdóttir og Hafdís Ingvarsdóttur (rit-
stj.). Reykjavík. Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur/Háskólaútgáfan.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2011). Exposure to English in Iceland: A quantitative and qualitative
study. In Netla  – Menntakviku 2011. Menntavísindasvið Háskóla Íslands. http://netla.hi.is/
menntakvika201.pdf. Accessed 29 Sept 2016.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2015).The spread of English in Iceland. In M. Whelpton, G. B. Guðsteinsdóttir,
B.  Arnbjörnsdóttir, & M.  Regal (Eds.), An Intimacy of words: Essays in honour of Pétur
Knútsson (pp. 196–217). Reykjavík: Háskólaútgáfan.
Bell, A. (2007). Designing and testing questionnaires for children. Journal of Research in Nursing,
12(5), 461–469.
Coady, J. (1997). L2 vocabulary acquisition through extensive reading. In J. Coady & T. N. Huckin
(Eds.), Second language vocabulary acquisition: A rational for pedagogy (pp.  225–237).
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Cobb, T. (2008). Ten 250-word Stemach and Williams kid spoken vocab lists. http://www.lextutor.
ca/vp/kids. Accessed 4 July 2016.
Collier, V. P. (1989). How long? A synthesis of research on academic achievement in second lan-
guage. TESOL Quarterly, 23, 509–531.
English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction
76
Csizer, K., & Kormos, J. (2009). Learning experiences, selves and motivated learning behaviour:
A comparative analysis of structural models for Hungarian secondary and university learners
of English. In Z. Dörnyei & E. Ushioda (Eds.), Motivation, language identity and the L2 self
(pp. 98–117). Bristol: Multilingual Matters.
d’Ydewalle, G., & Van de Poel, M. (1999). Incidental foreign-language acquisition by children
watching subtitled television programs. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 28(3), 227–244.
Daller, H., Milton, J., & Treffers-Daller, J. (2007). Modeling and assessing vocabulary knowledge.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
De Leeuw, E., Borgers, N., & Smits, A. (2004). Presenting questionnaiers for children and adoles-
cents. In S. Presser, J. M. Rothgeb, M. Couper, J. T. Lessler, E. Martin, J. Martin, & E. Singer
(Eds.), Methods for testing and evaluating survey questionnaires. Hoboken: Wiley Online
library. https://doi.org/10.1002/0471654728.ch20.
DeKeyser, R. M. (2003). Implicit and explicit learning. In C. J. Doughty & M. H. Long (Eds.), The
handbook of second language acquisition (pp. 313–348). Oxford: Blackwell.
Djigunović, J. M. (2009). Individual differences in early language programmes. In M. Nikolov
(Ed.), The age factor and early language learning (pp. 199–225). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Dörnyei, Z. (2003). Questionnaires in second language research: Construction, administration,
and processing. Mahwah: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Dörnyei, Z. (2005). The psychology of the language learner: Individual differences in second lan-
guage Acquisition. New York: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Dörnyei, Z. (2007). Research methods in applied linguistics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Dörnyei, Z. (2009). The psychology of second language acquisition. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Dörnyei, Z. (2010). The relationship between language aptitude and language learning motivation:
Individual differences from a dynamic systems perspective. In E. Macaro (Ed.), Continuum
companion to second language acquisition (pp. 247–267). London: Continuum.
Dörnyei, Z., & Ryan, S. (2015). The psychology of the language learner revisited. New York:
Routledge.
Dörnyei, Z., & Ushioda, E. (Eds.). (2009). Motivation, language identity and the L2 self. Bristol:
Multilingual Matters.
Dörnyei, Z., Csizér, K., & Németh, N. (2006). Motivation, language attitudes and globalisation: A
hungarian perspective. Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Edelenbos, P., & Kubanek, A. (2009). Early foreign language learning: Published research, good
practice and main principles. In M. Nikolov (Ed.), The age factor and early language learning
(pp. 39–58). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Field, A. (2005). Discovering statistics using SPSS (2nd ed.). London: Sage.
Gardner, R. C., & Lambert, W. E. (1972). Attitudes and motivation in second-language learning.
Rowley: Newbury House Publishers.
Hulstijn, J. (2003). Incidental and intentional learning. In C. J. Doughty & M. H. Long (Eds.), The
handbook of second language acquisition (pp. 349–381). Oxford: Blackwell.
Hyltenstam, K., &Abrahamsson, N. (2003). Maturational constraints in SLA. In M. H. L. Catherine
& J. Doughty (Eds.), The handbook of second language acquisition (pp. 538–588). London:
Blackwell.
Jóhannsdóttir, Á. (2010). English in the 4th grade in Iceland: Exploring exposure and measuring
vocabulary size of 4th grade students. Ráðstefnurit Netlu – Menntakvika 2010.
Jóhannsdóttir, Á. (2017).Young learners English proficiency: A study of 4th grade students’ views,
usage and lexical proficiency in English in Iceland. Doctoral dissertation, University of Iceland.
Kiss, C., & Nikolov, M. (2005). Developing, piloting, and validating an instrument to measure
young learners’. Aptitude. Language Learning, 55(1), 99–150.
Kristjánsdóttir, L., Bjarnadóttir, L., & Lefever, S. (2006). Úttekt á enskukennslu í grunnskólum
veturinn 2005–2006. Reykjavík: Menntamálaráðuneytið. http://reykjavik.is/sites/default/files/
ymis_skjol/skjol_utgefid_efni/enskukennsla.pdf. Accessed 24 June 2016.
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
77
Larson-Hall, J. (2008). Weighing the benefits of studying a foreign language at a younger starting
age in a minimal input situation. Second Language Research, 24(1), 35–63.
Laufer, B. (1997). The lexical plight in second language reading: Words you don’t know, words
you think you know, and words you can’t guess. In J. Coady, T. Huckin, & J. C. Richards (Eds.),
Second language vocabulary acquisition (pp. 20–34). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Laufer, B., & Hill, M. (2003). Type of task, time-on-task and electronic dictionaries in inciden-
tal vocabulary acquisition. IRAL, International Review of Applied Linguistics in Language
Teaching, 42(2), 87–106.
Laufer, B., & Ravenhorst-Kalovski, G. C. (2010). Lexical threshold revisited: Lexical text cover-
age, learners’ vocabulary size and reading comprehension. Reading in a Foreign. Language,
22(1), 15–30.
Lefever, S. (2007). Putting the cart before the horse. Málfríður, Tímarit samtaka tungumálaken-
nara á Íslandi, 23(2), 24–28.
Lefever, S. (2010). English skills of young learners in Iceland: “I started talking English when I
was 4 years old. It just bang…just fall into me.”. Ráðstefnurit Netlu – Menntakvika 2010. http://
netla.hi.is/menntakvika2010/021.pdf. Accessed 2 June 2015.
Masgoret, M., & Gardner, R. C. (2003). Attitudes, motivation, and second language learning: A
meta-analysis of studies conducted by Gardner and Associates. Language Learning, 53(1),
167–210.
Meara, P., & Milton, J. (2003). X-Lex: The Swansea levels test. Newbury: Express.
Milton, J.  (2009). Measuring second language vocabulary acquisition. Bristol: Multilingual
Matters.
Mirlpeix, I. (2007). Lexical knowledge in instructed language learning: The effects of age and
exposure. International Journal of English Studies, 7(2). https://doi.org/10.6018/ijes.7.2.49061.
Munoz, C. (2008). Age – Related differences in foreign language learning. Revisiting the empiri-
cal evidence. IRAL – International Review of Applied Linguistics in Language Teaching, 46(3),
197–220.
Nation, I. S. P. (2013). Learning vocabulary in another language(2nd ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Nikolov, M. (1999). ‘Why do you learn English?’ ‘Because the teacher is short.’ A study of
Hungarian children’s foreign language learning motivation. Language Teaching Research,
3(1), 33–56. https://doi.org/10.1177/136216889900300103.
Nikolov, M. (Ed.). (2009a). The age factor and early language learning (Vol. 40). Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Nikolov, M. (Ed.). (2009b). Early learning of modern foreign languages: Processes and outcomes.
Bristol: Multilingual Matters.
Nikolov, M., & Djigunovic, J. M. (2006). Recent research on age, second language acquisition,
and early foreign language learning. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 26(−1), 234–260.
doi:10.1017/S0267190506000122.
Paribakht, T. S., & Wesche, M. B. (1997). Vocabulary enhancement activities and reading for
meaning in second language vocabulary acquisition. In J. Coady, T. Huckin, & J. C. Richards
(Eds.), Second language vocabulary acquisition (pp.  174–202). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Paribakht, T. S., & Wesche, M. B. (1999). Reading and “Incidental” L2 vocabulary acquisition:
An introspective study of lexical inferencing. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 21(2),
195–224.
Paribakht, T. S., & Wesche, M. B. (2000). Reading-based exercises in second language vocabulary
learning: An introspective study. Modern Language Journal, 84(2), 196–213.
Pinter, A. (2011). Children learning second languages. Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan.
Read, J. (2000). Assessing vocabulary. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Schmitt, N. (2008). Instructed second language vocabulary learning. Language Teaching Research,
12(3), 329–363. https://doi.org/10.1177/1362168808089921.
English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction
78
Schoonen, R., & Verhallen, M. (2008). The assessment of deep word knowledge in young
first and second language learners. Language Testing, 25(2), 211–236. https://doi.
org/10.1177/0265532207086782.
Serrano, R., & Munoz, C. (2007). Same hours, different time distribution: Any difference in EFL?
System, 35(3), 305–321. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.system.2007.02.001.
Singleton, D., & Ryan, L. (2004). Language acquisition: The age factor (2nd ed.). Clevedon:
Multilingual Matters.
Statistics Iceland. (2017). Nemendastundir eftir námsgreinum og bekk 2006–2015. http://www.
statice.is/statistics/society/education/. Accessed 11 Jan 2017.
Stemach, G., & Williams, W. B. (1988). Word express: The first 2500 words of spoken English.
Novato: Academic Therapy.
Torfadóttir, A., Ragnarsdóttir, B., & Lefever, S. (2006). Enskukunnátta barna í 4. og 5. bekk
grunnskólans. Hvað kunna þau? Reykjavík: Rannsóknarstofnun Kennaraháskóla Íslands.
Webb, S., & Rodgers, M. P. H. (2009). Vocabulary demands of television programs. Language
Learning, 59(2), 335–366.
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
79
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir, H. Ingvarsdóttir (eds.), Language Development across the Life Span,
Educational Linguistics 34, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67804-7_5
Learning and Using English: The Views
of Learners at the End of Compulsory
Education
Hafdís Ingvarsdóttir and Ásrún Jóhannsdóttir
Abstract  This study was carried out amongst students in grade ten at the end of
their primary education (lower secondary school). The study set out to investigate
students’ views and use of English in and outside of school including their present
and anticipated future use of English. Data was collected in schools throughout
Iceland with 703 students participating. The findings support emerging evidence of
Icelandic students’ extensive receptive use of English outside the classroom, even
from an early age in some instances. A gap was identified between learners’ use of
English in school and their use of English outside the classroom calling into ques-
tion the relevance of the prevalent teaching pedagogy in grade ten. Traditional for-
eign language teaching methods seem still to be prevalent and the extramural
English students are exposed to seems to for the most part to be ignored in the
classroom. The results highlight the need for a more pragmatic instructional
approach, taking into account the learners’ interests in English, their present and
future use and need for English proficiency. The study indicates that important
aspects promoted in the National Curriculum Guide have not found their way into
the classroom. These include an emphasis on learner autonomy, e.g. learners’ meta-
cognitive awareness and learner’s skills in monitoring and assessing their own
proficiency.
H. Ingvarsdóttir (*)
School of Education, University of Iceland, Reykjavík, Iceland
e-mail: hei@hi.is
Á. Jóhannsdóttir
School of Humanities, University of Iceland, Reykjavík, Iceland
e-mail: asrunj@hi.is
80
1  Introduction
This chapter describes the views of young adolescents (15–16 years of age) at the
end of primary education1
on learning and using English today and their anticipated
use of English in the future. English is now used worldwide as a means of commu-
nication between speakers from different linguistic and cultural backgrounds
(Llurda 2004). This has changed the way we think about English and has brought
with it the notions of English as a Lingua Franca (ELF) or English as an International
language (EIL) or World English (WE)2
that for many is no longer associated with
specific Anglophone cultures. Braine (2010) suggests that since already 80% of
regular English speakers are non-native it will undoubtedly have an impact on the
development of the English language. Bolton (2005) argues that there has been a
growing recognition of “Englishes” in the plural and that research has contributed
to a paradigm shift in English studies. Bolton also predicts that this paradigm shift
affects all users of English among whom are teachers and learners.
These global changes in communication associated with travel, business, and
academia should thus have brought radical changes in the way we think about teach-
ing and learning English, including what skills should be emphasised and which
target models should be the end goal of English education. This is especially true for
situations that are neither in an English as a Foreign Language (EFL) context, nor in
a traditional English as a Second Language (ESL) context (Arnbjörnsdóttir and
Ingvarsdóttir 2007). English is now being used as a lingua franca among non-native
speakers of English, including amongst speakers who do have another language in
common. This is the situation in Iceland as reported in the Introduction “Language
Development Across the Life Span. English in Iceland: From Input to Output” in
this volume).
Given the unclear linguistic context in Iceland, in this chapter we examine how
Icelandic adolescents at the end of compulsory education view their use of English in
and outside school. The aim of this study was to explore this further by focusing on
the attitudes of pupils at the end of their compulsory /primary education in the 10th
grade. The findings presented in this chapter are based on surveys of a representative
sample of over seven hundred Icelandic students. It focuses on four themes: (1)
Participants’ perceived proficiency in English; (2) Their present and anticipated future
use of English; (3) Attitudes to English as a school subject; (4) Attitudes to teaching
1
 
Primary education in Iceland begins at age 6 in the first Grade and ends at age 16 in the 10th
Grade.
2
 
The terms World English, English as an International Language (EIL) and English as a Lingua
Franca (ELF) are used in the literature for the same or similar phenomena although there is no
consensus of the appropriateness of these terms. Here we will use ELF for English used between
native and non- native speakers or between non- native speakers in different realms of
intercommunication.
H. Ingvarsdóttir and Á. Jóhannsdóttir
81
materials and tasks. The study was motivated by previous observations that suggest
that a gap exists on the one hand, between Icelandic youth’s exposure to and use of
English outside school and, on the other hand, the English pedagogical goals and
practices that characterize their English language learning in school.
2  
Research on Teaching and ELF
The focus of the extensive literature on the teaching of English in ELF settings has
mostly focused on teaching and learning English at tertiary level (Dimova et al.
2015, p. 319). Many of the studies are based on data from Asian contexts (Bruthiaux
2010); others have focused on the cultural politics of EFL (Pennycook 1994) and
whether ELF should be introduced into the EFL classroom and which norms and
models of EFL (Jenkins 2014; Baumgardner and Brown 2003; Canagarajah 1999),
and finally the role of the native teacher versus the non-native teacher teaching
English as an international language has been investigated (Llurda 2004; Braine
2010).
Research on the development of English learning and teaching at lower second-
ary level in the changing linguistic contexts of rich English input countries of the
Expanding Circle (Kachru 1985) is limited. Baumgardner and Brown (2003) have
argued for models of teaching English taking the local context into account and that
the pedagogical model(s) should come from the users and potential users them-
selves (p. 249). In Scandinavia, Ranta (2010) investigated the views of teachers and
students in secondary schools in Finland and she found that Finnish students and
teachers are well aware of the lingua franca role of English in the ‘real world’.
However, the foreign language model is still prevalent in education and teachers are
not fully aware of the consequences of this new linguistic context for classroom
pedagogy. Studies on the attitude of young adolescents (end of primary school)
towards using and learning English in and outside school in the Expanding Circle
have been scarce. However, studies are emerging on how the rich input extramurally
or outside the classroom affects teaching and learning in schools (Sundquist and
Sylvéen 2016). Sundquist and Sylvéen (2016), who collected their data in Sweden,
argue that involvement in extramural English activities tends to be incidental and is
currently underutilized in classroom work in the Swedish schools they examined.
As seen in the previous chapters, the spread of English has radically changed the
linguistic context of Iceland (Chapters “The Policies and Contexts that Frame
English Education and Use in Iceland” and “English Exposure, Proficiency and Use
in Iceland” this volume) and previous categorizations of English as a foreign lan-
guage with subsequent educational policies no longer reflect the linguistic reality
for young Icelanders. The effect of the changing language environment on chil-
dren’s English proficiency at the onset of formal instruction is described in the pre-
vious chapter, which suggests that children have exceeded the National Curriculum’s
proficiency benchmarks for the 4th grade even before they start school.
(Arnbjörnsdóttir2007;Jóhannsdóttir,“EnglishExposureandVocabularyProficiency
Learning and Using English: The Views of Learners at the End of Compulsory Education
82
at the Onset of English Instruction”, this volume). This chapter focuses on students‘
experiences in the 10th grade at the end of their primary education.
3  
English and the Icelandic National Curriculum Guide
The purpose of this section is to describe the learning goals presented in the Icelandic
National Curriculum Guide (Guide) and the language policy it reflects, which
schools are expected to follow.As the current Guide endorses the Common European
Framework for Language Learning (CEFR), we will discuss how it fits into the
teaching and learning of English in Icelandic schools.
English is the first foreign language in Iceland and starts according to the cur-
riculum in grade four (age 9–10) but schools can offer English from an earlier age
and many do. The practicality of knowing foreign languages for Icelanders in gen-
eral has been emphasized in National Curriculum Guides since 1999. The Icelandic
National Curriculum from 1999 states: “It should be emphasised that the teaching is
practical and that it widens the horizon” (National Curriculum Guide, Foreign lan-
guages, 1999, p. 6). It thus focuses on the pragmatic aspect of language learning and
reflects a general EFL stance. This importance of knowing foreign languages is
stressed even further in the National Curriculum from 2006 (National Curriculum
2006); however, English is highlighted as playing a key role for Icelanders. In the
latest version from 2011 (National Curriculum Guide 2011), the importance of
English for Icelanders is emphasized in much greater detail than before:
As English strengthens its position as a lingua franca [in Iceland], both in the economy and
in leisure, the value of solid good command of English becomes more obvious. The world
of information and multimedia also demands competence in English.
Here the Guide even uses the concept of Lingua Franca. However, English is still
lumped with other foreign languages in the NC from 2011. In the introduction to the
foreign language section it is furthermore stated that the National Curriculum for
foreign languages is based on the Common European Framework of Reference for
Languages (CEFR). Kohonen (2007) states that the CEFR accentuates an action-­
oriented view of intercultural communication. The language user is seen as a social
agent and student autonomy is seen as developing in the interactive, dialogical pro-
cess of learning to learn and learning to use language for authentic communication
purposes. Learner strategies and providing the learner with skills to monitor and
assess their own learning at each stage of the learning process are considered a key
to autonomy. Furthermore, great emphasis is placed on developing skills that are
relevant to the learner as a user of the language in the real world beyond the class-
room (Little 2006). The philosophy of the CEFR framework with an emphasis on
what the learner can do is clearly geared toward meeting the needs of modern day
learners who will have to use foreign languages, not least English, in a number of
unforeseen situations for personal as well as professional reasons.
H. Ingvarsdóttir and Á. Jóhannsdóttir
83
The Icelandic National Curriculum Guide (National Curriculum Guide 2011)
points out that the world of the classroom is restricted, input is limited and teaching
should therefore be organized to enhance connections with the world outside as
much as possible (p. 6). It can be argued therefore that it endorses building a bridge
between school English and the use of English in the “real world”. It is emphasized
that learners need to be able to use the language and gain pragmatic competence that
will serve them under different circumstances. Finally the importance of cultivating
a positive attitude towards the target language and the culture(s) it represents is
underlined. According to the CEFR it is also important to be able to talk about one’s
own culture and to be able to see the commonalities between nations and cultures as
well as the differences.
It is therefore of interest to explore how well the guidelines of CEFR and hence
the Icelandic National Curriculum Guide, which is designed with a foreign lan-
guage situation in mind, harmonizes with the rapid development of English in soci-
ety and the views of the learners about learning English in the ELF context.
4  
Research on Teaching and Learning English in Iceland
The changing status of English in Iceland calls for a re-examination of the tradi-
tional approach to the teaching of English. Notably, students’ learning spaces have
changed considerably. Learners now have access to a wide range of material in
English through computers, television and movies, all of which demonstrate the
massive exposure to English in Iceland. However, the type and amount of that pro-
ficiency is yet to be fully explored as is its effect on education in the English
language.
A previous survey of 5th, 9th and 10th grade students’ attitudes towards English
in 2006 illustrates that they considered themselves rather proficient, and regarded
English as an important subject to study (Kristjánsdóttir et al. 2006). According to
this survey, English moved from being a subject that was a lot of fun for 70% of
students in the 5th grade to 25% in grades 9 and 10. It seems that by the 9th grade
most students are learning English at school like any other academic subject and a
disconnect has formed as they have limited opportunities to practice the productive
language in a real life situations (Kristjánsdóttir et al. 2006).
One of the factors which has radically changed young people’s learning spaces
is the new technology which they have embraced. Young people are experts in the
use of new technology and media. According to Statistics Iceland (Statistics Iceland
2014), 95% of the Icelandic population are now regular users of the Internet and
interestingly, 99% of homes with children under the age of 16 have computers, the
highest percentage in Europe. A survey executed as early as 2005 showed that many
computer programs used by students are in English (IMG Gallup 2005). Therefore,
it is reasonable to assume that the young Icelandic learners in this survey are exposed
to a considerable amount of English through computer and other media use.
Learning and Using English: The Views of Learners at the End of Compulsory Education
84
In a previous chapter in this volume it was shown that incidental exposure to
English in Iceland is extensive. The effect, as Arnbjörnsdóttir (2007) points out, of
the “exposure to highly contextual and visually enhanced input is that students
develop passive (or receptive) language skills” (p. 54). Later, students develop pro-
ductive skills in colloquial language which leads them to believe that they are highly
proficient, often more so than they actually are (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2007). In the light
of the situation described above it was found of interest to investigate the attitudes
of the students at the end of primary education (grade ten) toward their use of
English currently and in the future, and towards learning English in school.
5  The Study
The aims of this study were to explore how young adolescents who are leaving
compulsory education view their proficiency, present and future needs for English,
and how they feel the school is meeting those needs. Hence the following research
questions were developed:
	
1.	 How proficient do students in grade ten think they are in English?
	
2.	 How do students perceive and anticipate their current and future use of English?
	
3.	 What are students’ attitudes towards English at school?
	
a.	 What is their attitude to English curriculum materials?
	
b.	 What activities do they feel they learn most from?
5.1  Participants
The participants in this survey were 703 students in the 10th grade, at the end of
compulsory education in Iceland. Data was collected from 18 schools from around
the country. Students were between 15 and 16 years old at the time of the study and
were almost equally divided between girls and boys: 359 were girls (51%) and 343
were boys. In general, participants had begun formal English instruction in the 5th
grade. Strategic sampling was used to best represent the population division of this
group in the country. In 2009, 4511 students were enrolled in 10th grade in Iceland
and 59.8% (2698) of the population attended school on the south-west coast of
Iceland, in and around the capital area (www.statice.is). In our sample 59.7% (420
students) of the participants come from that area, with the remaining 283 represent-
ing the remainder of the country, both large and small towns.
H. Ingvarsdóttir and Á. Jóhannsdóttir
85
5.2  Instruments
The questionnaire used in this study was partially based on a previous survey pub-
lished in 2006 for the Ministry of Education in Iceland (Kristjánsdóttir et al. 2006).
The aim of the Kristjánsdóttir et al. (2006) study was to describe English language
instruction in preschools and primary schools in Iceland. Although our study aimed
at a narrower group and focused on the views of older learners, it was found useful
to use some part of the questionnaire which related to the exploration of learners’
self-perceptions of their English proficiency and use, which might also lay the
ground for some future comparisons. The survey which took about 40 min to com-
plete, included 16 sets of questions.
The questions in the survey reported in this article explore how students perceive
their English use outside school as well as English as a school subject, how they
perceive their own proficiency in English, and their present and anticipated use of
English. In addition it explores how students perceive English instructional methods
and which activities in school they feel are most beneficial to their development of
English.
5.3  
Data Collection and Analysis
Data was collected through a survey administered to students at the end of year ten.
Data was collected in April and May at the end of the school year. The questionnaire
was presented to students during one class period. The responses were analyzed
using SPSS program and before generating results for individual questions, data
corrections were made to handle missing data and internal consistency reliability
analysis was conducted.
Internal consistency reliability was measured by Cronbach Alpha coefficient
(Dörnyei 2007). Internal reliability for each group of questions stays within the
expected range (above 0.6) suggested appropriate by Dörnyei (2007) (Table 2).
Missing data was on average less than 1% in this sample and therefore, it was
decided to use maximum-likelihood estimations which maintained the same mean
estimates as before correction. Although, the data presented here is descriptive this
was decided for later data analyses with methods sensitive to missing data.
6  Results
The results presented in this article are descriptive outcomes. We will show response
frequency to each item relevant to each research questions. First, the results show
that almost all the participants in this survey feel that the English language is very
important: 70% (N = 492) said that English is very important while 27% (N = 190)
Learning and Using English: The Views of Learners at the End of Compulsory Education
86
said it is rather important. Only 12 (1,7%) out of 703 respondents reported that
English was not important or not needed. No significant difference was found
between boys and girls in this category. In order to answer the research questions
the results are divided into four categories and presented in the following order:
learners’ perceived proficiency in English, their present and anticipated future use
of English, attitudes to English as a school subject and finally, attitudes to teaching
material and tasks.
6.1  
Learners Perceived Proficiency in English
To begin with we will look at results demonstrating how the participants perceive
their general English knowledge.
Table 1 shows that a total of 70% of participants perceive their English knowl-
edge to be good or very good. However, there is a significant difference between
boys and girls, i.e. 81% of the boys and 60% of the girls perceive their English
knowledge good or very good.
The question was then broken down to see if they perceived differences in their
proficiency regarding the four skills so they were asked how difficult or easy they
found listening, speaking, reading and writing English.
As we can see from Table 2, over half of the participants found listening to
English very easy while 37% found it very easy to speak English. Similarly, 47%
found it very easy to read English while only 35% reported writing English as very
easy. The receptive skills are rated higher and boys rated their proficiency slightly
higher than girls for all the skills.
Table 1  Questionaire catergories (full survey)
Scale No. of items Questionnaire items
Background questions 2 1–2
The importance of English 1 3
Self-perceived knowledge of English 5 4, 7(a–d)
The desire to use English 8 5 (a–h)
Current English Use 9 6 (a–i)
English as a school subject/material 2 8–9
Spoken English in class 3 10–12
Classroom methods 21 13 (a–v)
Are you ready for English study 1 14
Would you like to change anything in your English lessons 1 15
How much time spent on homework 1 16
H. Ingvarsdóttir and Á. Jóhannsdóttir
87
6.2  
Current and Future English Use
Students were asked to evaluate their current English use in different contexts on a
4-point scale (often, sometimes, seldom, and never) as can be seen in Table 3.
As Table 3 illustrates, 10th graders‘ use English in a variety of ways outside
school. Receptive language use is most prevalent. Listening to music has the highest
score whereas watching television and movies comes in second place. Productive
use is more limited. Only 19% mention speaking English to a friend. Using English
when traveling probably indicates that they use at least three skills: reading, listen-
ing and speaking. The only salient gender differences found were in the category of
playing computer games where boys play considerably more than girls. This once
again underlines the fact that most of the English Icelanders use in daily life is
receptive (Tables 4 and 5).
Table 3  General English knowledge
How do you estimate your proficiency in English?
Girls Boys Total
% N % N % N
Very good 26 92 45 154 35 246
Good 34 123 36 125 35 248
Fairly good 20 71 11 36 15 107
Fair 12 44 6 19 9 63
Not good 8 29 2 9 6 38
Total N=703
Table 4  Degree of self-perceived knowledge divided by the four skills
How easy or difficult do you find...
Very easy Easy Fairly difficult Difficult
% N % N % N % N
Listening to English 55 386 34 243 10 68 1 6
Speaking English 37 257 47 333 13 92 3 21
Reading English 47 333 40 277 10 72 3 21
Writing English 36 250 43 301 16 115 5 37
Total N=703
Table 2  Internal reliability scales
Scale No. of items Cronbach‘s alpha
The desire to use English 8 .796
Current L2/English learning environment 9 .629
Self-perceived English Knowledge 4 .873
English as a school subject/material 2 .630
English spoken in the classroom 3 .763
Classroom methods 21 .904
Learning and Using English: The Views of Learners at the End of Compulsory Education
88
Students were also asked how they expected to use English in the future and, as
might be expected, the most important factor is to be able to use English in foreign
countries. It is noteworthy that they are most keen on being able to speak English
(abroad!) which is a skill only 37% find very easy.
Then students were asked what they wanted to use English for in the future.
Their responses are shown in Table 6.
The table shows that students want to be able to use English abroad and also for
their studies in the future. Talking to tourists has a lower score which is understand-
able as they are too young to be much involved in the tourist industry. What we
found most striking is that understanding song lyrics does not score very highly nor
does playing computer games. This makes us wonder if the music is the all-­important
issue while the lyrics are not so important for this age group, or that they already
perceive themselves as understanding lyrics and what to do on the computer.
Table 5  10th graders’ current use of English
Context of use
Frequency of use
Often Sometimes Seldom Never
% N % N % N % N
I listen to music with English lyrics 91 640 6 42 2 14 1 7
I watch television shows or movies in English 85 598 13 91 2 14 0 0
I have used English while traveling 51 359 30 211 16 112 3 21
I use English on the Internet 47 330 32 225 18 127 3 21
I play computer games in English 33 232 20 141 25 176 22 155
I read or browse through magazines in English 29 204 35 246 27 190 9 63
I speak English to foreigners 22 155 36 253 35 246 7 49
I have a friend or a relative who I speak
English to
19 134 21 148 25 176 35 246
I read books in English 12 84 25 176 37 260 26 183
Total N=703
Table 6  10th graders’ future use of English
What would you like to be able to use
English for? % N
To speak English abroad/in foreign
countries
97 684
Because it is useful for studying or
work in the future
88 618
To understand movies and television
shows in English
88 615
To use the Internet 82 573
To read books and magazines in
English
81 566
To speak to tourists in Iceland 69 487
To understand song lyrics 62 432
To play computer games 49 345
Total N=703
H. Ingvarsdóttir and Á. Jóhannsdóttir
89
6.3  
Attitudes to English as a School Subject
It was deemed important to obtain data on students’ attitudes to learning English as
a school subject to answer our questions whether in student‘s view school English
differed from their attitudes to English outside of school or in general.
Table 7 shows students’ views on English as a school subject followed by a table
showing students attitudes to the materials they are working with in school.
Students overall find English an interesting subject: 81% of girls and 80% of
boys find it very interesting or rather interesting with only a slight gender differ-
ence. This might be explained by how relevant they think it is for their future and in
their daily lives outside school.
The results from their view of the curriculum materials are in stark contrast as
can be seen in Table 6.
Table 8 demonstrates students’ attitudes to teaching material in general as well
as rating individual learning activities. Only 6% find English materials very interest-
ing although 42% of the girls and 36% of the boys say it is rather interesting. What
is most noteworthy is that over half of students do not find the materials interesting
and even find it boring.
Finally students were asked about teaching tasks and activities they felt they
learned most from. They were given a long list of activities which they were asked
to rank. These are presented in Table 9.
The results show that students are quite traditional when it comes to attitudes to
what helps them learn. Tried and trusted activities like translations and explicit
grammar exercises rank high among those they report they learn from. Students
report they learn very much or much from doing grammar exercises or 77% and 3/4
Table 7  English as a school subject
How do you find English as a school subject?
Boys Girls Total
% N % N % N
Very interesting 29 104 24 82 27 186
Rather interesting 52 188 56. 193 54 381
Not interesting 15 56 15 51 15 107
Boring 4 12 5 17 4 29
Total N=703
Table 8  Views on material used for teaching English at school
What do you think of the material used
for English at school?
Girl Boy Total
% N % N % N
Very interesting 6 22 6 20 6 42
Rather interesting 43 153 36 123 39 276
Not Interesting 39 142 39 134 39 276
Boring 12 43 19 66 16 109
Total N=703
Learning and Using English: The Views of Learners at the End of Compulsory Education
90
(73% and 76%) say that they learn much from translations both from and into
Icelandic. Activities like games do not rank highly as only 36% of students report
that they learn much or very much from those, and only 25% say they learn much
from role playing. This can be explained by that fact that they report that they sel-
dom or hardly ever experience this type of activity in class. It is also worth
­
mentioning that their answers reflect the testing method used in grade ten where
there is emphasis on written English and grammatical accuracy.
7  Discussion
The results from this survey give an interesting picture of students’ attitudes towards
English at the end of compulsory school. It is clear that the majority of students are
quite confident when estimating their own proficiency in English (although boys
rate their proficiency slightly higher than girls). Respondents’ confidence should
not come as a surprise if we bear in mind the massive input they encounter in their
daily lives (see the chapter “The Policies and Contexts that Frame English Education
Table 9  Views on how much students learn from learning activities
Very much Much Not much Little or nothing
Activity % N % N % N % N
Read books or magazines in Eng. 30 211 45 316 15 105 10 70
Watch videos with Engl. texts 36 253 40 281 15 105 9 63
Write essays etc. 29 204 47 330 17 120 7 49
Translate from Ice. to Eng. 31 218 41 288 18 127 10 70
Grammar ex. 29 204 48 337 17 120 6 42
Translate from Eng. to Ice. 35 246 41 288 15 105 9 63
Listen to Eng. 28 197 39 274 16 112 17 120
Workbook 24 169 46 323 25 176 5 35
Conversations in E. 23 162 46 323 17 120 14 98
Note taking 28 197 44 309 20 141 8 56
Recap homework 24 169 39 274 23 162 14 98
Oral practice 14 98 42 295 22 155 22 155
Music and lyrics 19 134 40 281 23 162 18 127
Reading aloud 20 141 44 309 26 183 10 70
Computer based activities 21 148 44 309 19 134 16 112
Games 12 84 23 162 27 190 38 267
Role play 12 84 18 127 25 176 45 316
Student Presentations 12 84 29 204 37 260 22 155
Groupwork 14 98 42 295 31 218 13 91
Pairwork 14 98 45 316 27 190 14 98
Theme based work 13 91 35 246 30 211 22 155
Total N=703
H. Ingvarsdóttir and Á. Jóhannsdóttir
91
and Use in Iceland”, this volume). However, when broken down into the four skills
we get a slightly different picture as they rate their receptive skills (listening and
reading) slightly higher than their productive English skills (speaking and writing).
Yet, they are surprisingly confident even when it comes to writing as 78% say they
are either good or very good at writing English and 75% say that they learn much or
very much from writing. The question remains how much writing they have done up
to now and how they understand the concept of writing. In Jeeves’ (2010) discus-
sion on writing she argues that beginners may feel pride in their first basic phrases
and sentences in writing but at the same time they sometimes feel frustration and
battle with fossilized grammar or spelling mistakes. Our informants seem not to
suffer from such frustration. Very few of the tenth graders experience English as
difficult which is in line with the findings from secondary school (Jeeves 2014).
Comparing present and anticipated use of English demonstrates that those ele-
ments are not intrinsically connected. There may be other factors influencing stu-
dents’ views. The students in this sample have a clear vision of how they intend to
use English in the future. All but 3% want to be able to use it for traveling and 88%
want to be able to use it for further study or employment in the future. They are thus
fully aware of the importance of knowing English for their adult lives. On the other
hand, at present they are most often using English while watching films, shows and
listening to music, followed by traveling and using the Internet (Table 3). The activi-
ties they are engaged in mostly require receptive use of language, often in highly
contextual and colloquial contexts supported by images or Icelandic subtitles. The
overall conclusion is that a great deal of their language use during leisure time is
conducted in English. The findings support our assumption that there is indeed a gap
between English in school and their extramural activities.
The need and motivation to use and learn English at school is not immediately
clear. Student have a generally positive opinion about English as Jeeves (2014)
found among her secondary school students, but find the materials and activities in
school boring in many instances. This is an indication that the curriculum has little
relevance to their everyday use of English? Even more significant seems to be the
fact that students have a considerable amount of exposure to English outside school
and that English plays an increasing role in their everyday lives. This gap or lack of
relevance may have an effect on motivation to engage in the activities offered in
school.
Their views on what activities they feel they learn most from indicate that teach-
ing is traditional and teacher centered. It also implies that evaluation is traditional
and the emphasis is on testing grammar and accuracy over measuring fluency and
communicative skills. This is in contrast with the CEFR guidelines that the NC
Guide reflects. English seems still to be taught as a foreign language with little con-
nection to the immense English exposure and confidence in their proficiency that
students report. The results also suggest that important aspects of learner autonomy
have not found their way into the classroom curriculum e.g. learners’ metacognitive
awareness and learner’s skills in monitoring and assessing their own learning seem
not to be implemented. The message in the National Curriculum Guide which pro-
motes learner autonomy, where students have a voice and activities relate to their
Learning and Using English: The Views of Learners at the End of Compulsory Education
92
use of English outside the classroom, has seemingly not reached the classroom.
These finding are in line with Sundquist and Sylvén’s findings (2016). They claim
that the English students encounter outside school is underutilized in classroom
work in the Swedish schools they surveyed. The assumption which can be drawn
from our informants is that the activities do not relate to their real world as users of
English and, as is shown in Chapters 8 and 9 “Using English at University” and
“Simultaneous Parallel Code Use”, in this volume, do not prepare them for the pro-
ficiency and skills required of them later in life, a future use they already
anticipate.
8  Conclusion
These data have revealed a discrepancy between the nature and amount of extramu-
ral English exposure and use of our tenth graders and their school based activities.
They provide more evidence that Iceland is entering a new linguistic era where
English is no longer a foreign language on a par with e.g. French or German. The
exposure to English in Iceland is simply too much for this to be the case. Therefore
the paradigms of foreign language pedagogy for the teaching of English can no
longer provide a basis for educational policy and instructional practice. This study
has revealed a need to bridge the gap between English in school and the English
students meet and use extramurally. Students are generally well disposed towards
English as a language and see it as an important part of their linguistic repertoire
currently and in the future. The fact that they find the curriculum they work with in
school uninteresting may indicate that the materials are not relevant to their every-
day lives. The fact that they find “old/established” methods most helpful may indi-
cate that they actually add to what they already know from outside school- or that
they have separated English as a subject from the English they use outside of
school – and they view these traditional activities to be school tasks that they are
tested on, but have little relevance to their lives.
There is growing evidence at least in the Nordic countries that schools have not
reacted to the situation of the new role of English in society and that students find
that English as a subject has little to do with English as part of their linguistic rep-
ertoire (Jeeves 2014; Ranta 2010; Sundquist and Sylvén 2016). The gap between
English as a subject and the functional requirements of every day English use is
exacerbated by the increased use of formal and academic English at local universi-
ties (see the chapters “Using English at University” and “Simultaneous Parallel
Code Use”, this volume). The receptive informal English students are exposed to
through TV, movies, music and the internet contrasts with the formal English genres
required of students at university. There is an urgent need to review instructional
approaches in English at the primary and secondary level in countries such Iceland
where English exposure is intense. This means a radical reinvention of pre-service
and in-service teacher education and development to better meet the needs of stu-
dents in a changing linguistic context. The new linguistic context described in this
H. Ingvarsdóttir and Á. Jóhannsdóttir
93
volume in all likelihood applies to other countries where English occupies more and
more space and which has wide-ranging implications for English language educa-
tion, for teacher education and educational policy.
References
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2007). English in Iceland: Second language, foreign language or neither? In
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir & H. Ingvarsdóttir (Eds.), Teaching and learning English in Iceland. In
honour of Auður Torfadóttir (pp. 51–69). Reykjavík: Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, A., & Ingvarsdóttur, H. (2007). Teaching and learning English in Iceland. In
honour of Auður Torfadóttir. Reykjavík: Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur/ Háskólaútgáfan.
Baumgardner, R. J., & Brown, K. (2003). World Englishes: Ethics and pedagogy. World Englishes,
22(3), 24–251.
Bolton, K. (2005). Where we stands: Approaches, issues, and debate in world Englishes. World
Englishes, 24(1), 69–83.
Braine, G. (2010). Nonnative speaker English teachers: Research, pedagogy, and professional
growth. London: Routledge.
Bruthiaux, P. (2010). World Englishes and the classroom: An EFL perspective. TESOL Quarterley,
44(2), 365–369.
Canagarajah, S. A. (1999). Resisting linguistic imperialism in English teaching. Oxford University
Press.
Dimova, S., Hultgren, A. K., and Jensen, C. 2015. English-medium instruction in European higher
education: Review and future research. In S. Dimova, A. K. Hultgren, & C. Jensen (Eds.),
English-Medium Instruction in European Higher Education (Language and social life Vol. 4,
pp. 317–324). Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton.
Dörnyei, Z. (2007). Research methods in applied linguistics: Quantitative, qualitative and mixed
methodologies. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
IMG Gallup. (2005). Fræðslumiðstöð Reykjavík. Tölvunotkun í grunnskólum [The use of ITC in
primary school]. Reykjavík: IMG Gallup.
Jeeves, A. (2010). English at secondary school: Perceptions of relevance. Ráðstefnurit Netlu –
Menntakvika 2010. Netla – Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun og Menntavísindasvið Háskóla
Íslands. http://netla.hi.is/menntakvika2010/002.pdf
Jeeves,A. (2014). The relevance of English language learning in a changing linguistic environment
in Iceland: The L2 self of young Icelanders. Multilingual Matters, 33(3–4), 267–290.
Jenkins, J.  (2014). English as a Lingua Franca in the International University. Abingdon:
Routledge.
Kachru, B. (1985). Standards, codification and sociolinguistic realism: The English language in
the outer circle. InEnglish in the world: Teaching and learning the language and literatures
(pp. 11–30). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kohonen, V. (2007). The European language portfolio (ELP): Fostering student autonomy, aware-
ness and ownership in foreign language education. In B. Arnbjörnsdottir & H. Ingvarsdóttir
(Eds.), Teaching English in Iceland (pp. 51–78). Reykjavík: TheVigdís Finnbogadóttir Institute
and Iceland University Press.
Kristjánsdóttir, L., Bjarnadóttir, L., & Lefever, S. (2006). Úttekt á enskukennslu í grunnskólum
veturinn 2005–2006 [Report on the teaching of English in lower secondary schools]. Reykjavík:
Ministry of Culture and Science.
Little, D. (2006). The common European framework of reference for languages: Content, purpose,
origin, reception and impact the classroom. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Llurda, E. (2004). Non-native-speaker teachers and English as an international language.
International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 14(3), 314–323.
Learning and Using English: The Views of Learners at the End of Compulsory Education
94
National Curriculum Guide. (1999). Reykjavik: Ministry of Science and Culture.
National Curriculum Guide. (2006). Reykjavik: Ministry of Science and Culture.
National Curriculum Guide. (2011). Reykjavik: Ministry of Science and Culture.
Pennycook, A. (1994). The cultural politics of English as an international language. Harlow:
Longman Group Limited.
Ranta, E. (2010). English in the real world vs. English at school – Finnish English teachers’ and
students’ views. International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 20, 156–177.
Statistics Iceland. (2014). Computer and Internet usage in Iceland the highest in Europe. Retrieved
November 10, 2016, http://statice.is/publications/news-archive/science-and-technology/
computer-and-internet-usage-in-iceland-the-highest-in-europe/
Sundqvist, P., & Sylvéen, L. K. (2016). Extramural English in teaching and learning. London:
Palgrave Macmillan.
H. Ingvarsdóttir and Á. Jóhannsdóttir
95
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir, H. Ingvarsdóttir (eds.), Language Development across the Life Span,
Educational Linguistics 34, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67804-7_6
Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading
Comprehension Among Icelandic Secondary
School Students
Guðmundur Edgarsson
Abstract  This chapter presents the findings of a comprehensive study on English
academic vocabulary proficiency and its role in reading comprehension among sec-
ondary school students in Iceland, ranging in age from 18 to 20 (Secondary school
in Iceland is 3 years from age 16–19. At the time of this study, secondary education
was 4 years from age 16–20). The data is based on two surveys, a test on academic
vocabulary proficiency administered in six upper-secondary schools across the
country (N = 249), and a reading comprehension test of academic texts adminis-
tered in three secondary schools (N = 168). The reading comprehension test also
included the same receptive vocabulary task as the one used in the previous study,
substantially extending the sample size for this task (N = 249 + 168 = 417). The
results show that, on average, academic reading proficiency among Icelandic stu-
dents nearing completion of their secondary education barely meets the minimum
requirements for University admission as measured by the IELTS standards.
Moreover, knowledge of academic vocabulary, particularly productive knowledge,
was found to be inadequate for university level reading. A strong positive correla-
tion was found between receptive academic vocabulary knowledge and academic
reading comprehension.
1  Introduction
Increasingly, materials and instruction at tertiary level in Iceland are in English and
demand substantial academic English skills (Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir
2015). The proliferation of EMI programs at Icelandic universities and previous
research findings demonstrate that despite high self- reported English proficiency,
about a third of Icelandic university students struggle with using English
(Arnbjörnsdóttir, “Using English at University”, this volume). These studies are
based on self-reports. The purpose of this study is to measure actual academic
G. Edgarsson (*)
University of Reykjavík, Reykjavík, Iceland
e-mail: gudmundured@ru.is
96
proficiency in English among upper-secondary students in Iceland with respect to
academic vocabulary and academic reading fluency. Apart from crucial skills such
as reading comprehension of academic texts and passive knowledge of academic
vocabulary, other important skills will also be investigated and discussed, namely
skills relating to productive use of academic language such as those useful for writ-
ing academic papers.
A number of studies have been performed in some of Iceland’s neighboring
countries, particularly Scandinavia where exposure to English is comparable. They
have found that English academic proficiency of secondary school students is lack-
ing and that many struggle with English once at university (Hellekjær 2008, 2009;
Pecorari et al. 2011). A few studies have been carried out in Iceland that shed light
on general English proficiency among upper-secondary and tertiary students.
Torfadóttir (2003) conducted a study on receptive vocabulary knowledge of the
most common 2000 words in English among Icelandic students in upper secondary
schools who were about to complete their last compulsory course in English.
Torfadóttir used Meara’s ‘Yes/No’ test (Meara and Buxton 1987). Her findings indi-
cate that students’ vocabulary knowledge at the highest frequency level, was gener-
ally insufficient, especially those characteristic of academic texts at University
level. Berman (2010) reported that close to 40% of incoming students in the School
of Science and Engineering in Iceland lacked reading comprehension skills for uni-
versity textbooks in English and suggested that this might be due to a lack of general
reading skills rather than specifically English reading skills. This is to some extent
borne out in Jeeves’ (2008) study who found that for higher scoring students in
secondary school, difficulty with reading comprehension of texts in English is an
English reading problem, for they performed markedly better on a reading compre-
hension test in Icelandic than in English in her study. However, low-ability students
did equally poorly on both tests indicating that the challenges of the low ability
students were general reading problems rather than an English reading problem.
The most comprehensive study to date, examining students’ English proficiency
and coping strategies for university studies in Iceland, is a self-reported study con-
ducted by Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir (2015, this volume). The study reports
on the experience of over a thousand university students at the University of Iceland.
About 65% of the students reported their English proficiency in reading, speaking
and comprehension was good or very good, whereas 50% reported their writing
proficiency was good or very good. Almost 50% of the participants report that using
English increases their workload. Over a third of their respondents reports strug-
gling with reading academic texts in English. Consequently, students spend a great
deal of time and effort on linguistic activities at the expense of understanding and
processing the content at a deep level. Finally, Pétursdóttir (2013) found knowledge
of words on the Academic Word List (Coxhead 2000) lacking among her 122
Icelandic students in two upper-secondary schools in suburban Reykjavík, particu-
larly productive knowledge. The average score on a multiple-choice receptive test
on randomly selected AWL words evenly distributed across sublists 3, 5, 7, and 9,
was 60% correct answers.
G. Edgarsson
97
No study has been conducted in Iceland that is specifically aimed at measuring
learners’ lexical proficiency in English for academic purposes at upper secondary
level especially related to reading comprehension. It was thus deemed necessary to
measure actual English skills especially academic vocabulary and reading compre-
hension of a representative group of secondary school students at the end of their
secondary education to examine to what extend they meet the requirements for aca-
demic study in English at university where the bulk of textbooks are written for native
speakers of English. This study measures receptive and productive knowledge of aca-
demic vocabulary, reading comprehension of academic texts and compares the find-
ings to standard proficiency benchmarks for university study in English.
2  
How Much Vocabulary is Needed for Functional Academic
Reading in English?
Reading, and the role of the lexicon in reading, is multifaceted and includes influ-
encing variables such as a reader’s background knowledge of the subject, reading
strategies and motivation to read. A major distinguishing factor that determines
reading fluency is the size of the reader’s lexicon which is also complex. When
assessing the number of words in a person’s lexicon, the most common unit of mea-
surement is the word family that consists of a base word and its inflected and derived
forms. Thus the words intelligent, intelligently, intelligence, unintelligent all belong
to the same word family and are counted as one word under this measurement. In
this paper a word means word family. Moreover, vocabulary knowledge includes
receptive knowledge and productive knowledge, and each type can be subdivided
into numerous aspects (Henriksen 1999; Nation 2001; Read 2000). Another factor
that influences reading comprehension is the frequency of words the reader sees or
hears in the input. The 3000 most frequent words in English have been shown to
cover about 90% of words in a text if proper names (about 5%) are included (Nation
2001; Laufer 1992). Note that knowing 90% of words in a text is equivalent to not
knowing 10% of those words which in turn means that there is an unknown word in
about every line. It is evident that such an amount of unknown words interferes with
comprehension of most texts. In order to have a reasonable comprehension of varied
and unsimplified texts in English, learners have to know at least the most frequent
5000 words (Nation 2001). Those 5000 words cover about 95% of each average text
if proper names are included (Cobb n.d.). Ninety-five percent of text means that 5%
of the words are unknown, i.e. one can expect a new word in every other line on
average which, of course, can be quite troubling for the reader, although he or she
should get the main ideas of the text (Nation 2001). However, this level of vocabu-
lary knowledge is hardly sufficient for extensive or pleasurable reading unless the
reading texts are comparatively simple.
Numerous studies have revealed high correlations between vocabulary size,
depth of vocabulary knowledge and reading comprehension (e.g., Laufer 1992,
1996; Liu and Nation 1985; Alderson 2000; Birch 2002; Pulido and Hambrick 2008;
Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic…
98
Qian 1998). Depth of vocabulary knowledge refers to a learner’s level of knowledge
of various aspects of a given word, or how well the learner knows this word.
An important distinction with regard to learners’ vocabulary knowledge is the
difference between receptive knowledge and productive knowledge. Receptive
knowledge relates to being able to understand vocabulary while reading or listening
whereas productive knowledge involves being able to use vocabulary when speak-
ing or writing. Receptive and productive vocabulary knowledge can each be subdi-
vided into several sub-skills. Nation (2001), for instance, lists numerous aspects of
word knowledge. Examples of receptive knowledge include recognizing the written
form of a word and being familiar with some of its collocations whereas pronounc-
ing a word correctly and using it in an appropriate context would illustrate aspects
of productive vocabulary knowledge (Nation 2001, pp. 24–28).
One category of words, academic vocabulary, deserves particular attention for
the purpose of higher education, especially reading. Currently, the most widespread
collection of such words is the Academic Word List (AWL) (Coxhead 2000). The
AWL is a list of 570 headwords of word families, a 3,500,000 token academic cor-
pus, intended for University students, across four disciplines, liberal arts, com-
merce, law, and science. The list excludes about 2000 high-frequency words of
English from the General Service List of English Words (West 1953) as well as
technical and specialized terminology, proper nouns, and Latin forms (Huntley
2006). The 570 headwords of the AWL are divided into ten sublists according to
range and frequency. Each sublist contains 60 headwords except sublist 10 which
consists of 30 words. Sublist 1 includes the most frequent AWL words in the corpus,
sublist 2 the second most frequent words, and so on. Examples of AWL words
include headwords such as acknowledge, intrinsic, fluctuate and maintain. Example
words within the corresponding word families include words such as acknowledged,
acknowledgement, intrinsic, intrinsically, fluctuated, fluctuation, maintaining,
maintenance.
Recent studies show that a reader needs a vocabulary of up to 8–9000 words
(Nation 2006) to be able to read effortlessly for full understanding of different texts
on various issues (e.g. Newsweek) and also to be able to discuss those issues. Such
vocabulary covers about 98–99% of an average text. For comparison, a young native
speaker of English with a college degree knows about 17,000–20,000 words
(Goulden et al. 1990; Zechmeister et al. 1995). Although Coxhead’s AWL has not
been without criticism (Hyland and Tse 2007), it provides a general list of academic
words (Gardner and Davies 2013), and was used in this study along with its vali-
dated measuring tests. The study reported here was guided by the following research
questions:
	
1.	 What is the level of receptive academic vocabulary knowledge among Icelandic
students in secondary school?
	2.	 What is the level of productive academic vocabulary knowledge among Icelandic
students in secondary school? What is the ratio between productive and receptive
academic vocabulary knowledge?
	
3.	What is the relationship between learners’ receptive knowledge of academic
vocabulary and academic reading comprehension?
G. Edgarsson
99
3  The Study
This study is based on two interrelated measurements, one measuring vocabulary
and the other measuring reading comprehension. The studies were conducted in
2013 and 2015. The 2013 study was in the form of a vocabulary test administered to
students in six secondary schools of various types across Iceland and consisted of a
30 item task on receptive academic vocabulary and an 18 item task on productive
academic vocabulary. The 2015 study replicated the 2013 study to some extent but
also included a reading comprehension test that was administered to students in
three out of the six schools that took part in the 2013 study.
3.1  Methodology
For the sake of simplicity, I refer to the 2013 study as the vocabulary test and the
2015 study as the reading test.1
The number of valid responses in the two studies
was 249 for the vocabulary test and 168 for the reading test. It should be noted,
however, that because the receptive vocabulary task was administered in both stud-
ies, the total number of valid responses for that particular component was 417.
Each part of the study, the vocabulary test and the reading test, will be discussed
separately in this section. The vocabulary test was administered in six secondary
schools (out of 30) in Iceland in the late spring term of 2013. The reading test, how-
ever, was administered in three secondary schools in Iceland in the late spring term
of 2015. These three schools were a subsample of three out of the six secondary
schools that participated in the vocabulary study.
3.2  The Vocabulary Test
3.2.1  Participants
A total of 249 students in six secondary schools across the country (out of 32
schools in all) participated in the study. Four of the participating schools are located
in Reykjavík and two in the rural suburbs. All the students were about to complete
an English language course which in most cases is the final English course at sec-
ondary level (labeled ENS 403 in most schools). Special care was taken to select
schools that would reflect the diverse range of students in the total population of
secondary school students in Iceland at this level in their English language studies.
1
 Although the 2015 study was primarily a reading comprehension task, it also contained the same
receptive academic vocabulary task used in the 2013 test. This was done for two reasons: one for
the purpose of correlation calculations between reading comprehension of academic texts and
receptive academic vocabulary; the other to expand the sample of respondents to this very impor-
tant task.
Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic…
100
Most students were 18–19 years old although this varied by school. About an equal
amount of males and females participated in the study. When the study was carried
out, towards the end of the term, it can be assumed that participants had generally
completed four full courses in English at secondary level in addition to English
instruction from the 4th to the 10th grade in primary school which means that they
have received about 10 years of English and extensive and meaningful input of
authentic English through the media and the internet for over a decade (see
Arnbjörnsdóttir, “The Policies and Contexts that Frame English Education and Use
in Iceland”, this volume; Jeeves, “Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at
Secondary School”, this volume).
3.2.2  Instruments
The Vocabulary test comprised a receptive academic vocabulary task, on the one
hand, and a productive academic vocabulary task, on the other. The receptive part
consisted of 30 items and the productive part 18 items. Each task took about
10–15 min to complete. I will now discuss each of these two tasks in turn.
Receptive Knowledge of Academic Words
For practical purposes, it was decided to use a computerized version of theAcademic
Vocabulary section of the Vocabulary Levels Test-Test B, composed and developed
by Schmitt et al. (2001). This test is based on Coxhead’s (2000) Academic Word
List and has been thoroughly validated by various experts (e.g. Read 2000 and
Schmitt et al. 2001). These validation studies have demonstrated that the test has a
high degree of construct validity as well as being consistently reliable. The test has
been used in numerous vocabulary studies (e.g. Songbo Zhou 2010; Golkar and
Yamini 2007; Laufer and Goldstein 2004; Laufer and Paribakht 1998). An example
of the original format of this test is shown below:
This is a vocabulary test. You must choose the right word to go with each meaning. Write
the number of that word next to its meaning.
1 area
2 contract _____written agreement
3 definition _____way of doing something
4 evidence _____reason for believing
5 method something is or is not true
6 role
1 debate
2 exposure _____plan
3 integration _____choice
4 option _____joining something into a whole
5 scheme
6 stability
G. Edgarsson
101
and so on with eight additional blocks of questions. These are only two blocks of
questions out of ten, testing three AWL words each. The other words are distractors,
i.e. other academic words that do not match any of the three descriptions given. For
instance, in the first block the correct responses would be as shown below:
1 area
2 contract __2__written agreement
3 definition __5__way of doing something
4 evidence __4__reason for believing
5 method something is or is not true
6 role
In other words, learners who write 2, 5, and 4, respectively, are judged to have at
least a basic receptive knowledge of the academic words contract, method and evi-
dence. This further means that such learners are likely to recognize other forms of
these words, e.g. contractual, methods and evident.
Productive Knowledge of Academic Words
As no validated test of productive knowledge of AWL has been published in the
research literature, developing such a test for this study was inevitable. However,
the Vocabulary Levels Test includes productive versions of the 2000, 3000, 5000
and 10,000 frequency levels-all of which have been found to be valid, reliable and
practical measures of vocabulary gains (Laufer and Nation 1999) and so it was
decided to structure the productive AWL test in a similar fashion. An example item
from the productive version of the 5000th level is shown below. Respondents are
supposed to write out the target word (cavalry) using the clues contained in the first
letters and the sentence context:
The soldier was asked to choose between infantry and cav_______________.
However, in this type of productive test, the number of initial letters provided for
the target words varies considerably in different tests, extending from two to five
initial letters, depending on the length of the words tested. This is problematic, for
the more initial letters that are provided, the more the test items begin to resemble
those of a receptive vocabulary (Read 2000; Schmitt 2010).
Therefore, I developed my own productive test on the AWL using the format
already used for the 2000, 3000, 5000 and 10,000 word levels tests, but with two
major changes. First, only the first letter of the target word would be given as
opposed to two or more letters. Second, to narrow down the number of other alter-
natives for the target word, only definitional sentences were used. A definitional
sentence is a sentence where the definition of the target word is directly or indirectly
embedded in the sentence.
In this part of the academic vocabulary test, participants were awarded 0, 1 or 2
points and were not penalized for minor spelling mistakes. If the spelling reflected
correct pronunciation, no marks were taken off. To obtain the full mark (2 points)
the correct form of the target word had to be inserted and without semantically dis-
turbing spelling errors. However, if the correct target word was placed on the empty
line but not in its appropriate grammatical form (e.g. the adjective form instead of
Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic…
102
the adverb form), they were awarded half a mark, i.e. one point out of two. If no
word or the wrong word was written, the students received no marks.
As this part of the vocabulary test was not computerized, the grading had to be
done manually. To illustrate, here are a few questions from the test on productive
academic vocabulary along with instructions and an example.
Active vocabulary
For each question, complete the word on the line. Only the first letter is given. Use the con-
text to help you. Note that you may be given the full mark even if the spelling is not
entirely correct. An example is given.
Example: My ambition is to write books and I want to do it for a living. In other words, I
want to become an a uthor
75. In some parts of the country there is a shortage of people with proper training or job
qualifications; that is, some regions simply lack skilled l_______________.
84. Be certain that you will be able to accomplish what you set out to do; that is, before you
set your targets, make sure they are a_______________.
After pilot testing a few minor changes and revisions were made to the produc-
tive task in the vocabulary study.
3.3  
The Reading Test
One of the most important skills for university study in Iceland is the ability to com-
prehend academic texts in English. It was therefore decided to include in the study
a measure on reading comprehension of academic texts of a general, rather than
terminology specific to certain subjects. Reading comprehension tasks normally
take a considerable amount of time, so I decided to administer the reading test sepa-
rately. Due to unforeseen circumstances the reading test had to be postponed until
the spring term of 2015.
3.3.1  
Participants in the 2015 Reading Comprehension Test
A total of 168 students in three out of the six secondary schools which participated
in the vocabulary test 2 years earlier delivered valid responses in the reading test.
Based on the results of the vocabulary test, the following sub-sample of student
were deemed representative. Participants came from three different schools, one
academically competitive school, one urban comprehensive school with students of
mixed academic abilities, and another rural comprehensive, about 60 students from
each school.
G. Edgarsson
103
3.3.2  
Reading Comprehension Instruments
Although the reading test was intended for eliciting information about students’
reading comprehension skills of academic texts in English, it also included the same
receptive academic vocabulary task that was used in the vocabulary study. This was
done for two reasons: first, to increase the sample of participants on this very impor-
tant variable; second, to be able to work out the correlation between reading com-
prehension and vocabulary knowledge.
Two academic reading texts of a general nature were used in the test; one rela-
tively manageable (The Triune Brain) with 13 questions, and the other more techni-
cal and challenging (Helium’s Future is up in the Air) with 14 questions. The texts
were taken from an example paper of a three-text academic reading practice task as
part of the IELTS (International English Language Testing System) university
admission test (“British Council: Reading Practice Test 1-IELTS Academic”, 2016).
This practice test has been thoroughly piloted and validated and reflects a typical
IELTS reading comprehension task of academic English.
The texts are characterized by academic language both in terms of sentence
structure and vocabulary. The Brain text is about the nature, function and develop-
ment of the three most important parts of the human brain; the reptilian cortex, the
limbic cortex, and the neocortex. The Helium text discusses the possible depletion
of Helium, the impact this may have on our planet, and how this can be prevented.
Neither text goes into the degree of specialization that would only be intelligible to
experts in the field of psychology and physiology (the Brain text) or chemistry (the
Helium text). As with most academic texts, these texts are characterized by a com-
paratively high ratio of AWL words and a relatively high level of formality. They are
written in the third person.
The comprehension questions for the texts can be classified as (1) literal, (2)
inferential (implied information), or (3) evaluative questions (draw conclusions),
i.e. the type of questions that highlight the kinds of information and ideas that uni-
versity students are expected to understand as well as the reasoning skills needed for
linking cause and effect and arriving at various other logical conclusions. Most
questions were of the inferential type, a handful of them could be regarded as literal,
and only a few would fall under the category of evaluative questions.
3.3.3  Administration of the Reading Test
According to the published instructions for the IELTS academic reading compre-
hension task, students are asked to finish reading each text and answer the corre-
sponding questions within 20 min, which translates into 40 min for the two texts
selected for the reading test in this study. None of the participants had seen the texts
before. The receptive AWL vocabulary task took about 10–15 min to answer, so the
participants were allotted an hour for completing the whole test.
Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic…
104
4  Results
This section will be divided into two parts. One part presents the statistical results
from the vocabulary test from six schools from 2013. The other part displays the
statistical results based on the reading test administered in the spring term of 2015 in
a sub-sample of three out of the six secondary schools from the vocabulary study.
We will begin with the results from the vocabulary test. The implications of the tests
may be found in the discussion section.
4.1  
Results from the Vocabulary Test in 2013
The vocabulary test comprised the following two tasks:
	I.	 Receptive academic vocabulary test (AcV-rec)
	
II.	 Productive academic vocabulary test (AcV-pro)
As has been noted earlier, the receptive academic vocabulary test (task I) was also
administered as part of the reading test in 2015, increasing the number of partici-
pants for that component alone substantially (Tables 1 and 2).
4.2  
Results from the Reading Test in 2015
As previously mentioned, this test was administered 2 years later to a representative
sample of the schools that participated in the vocabulary study in 2013. Therefore,
only three out of the six schools in the 2013 study were given this test. It should be
reiterated that apart from a comprehensive reading task it also included a receptive
Table 1  Vocabulary test – 2013: Means and standard deviations
Task N Mean Sdev
AcV-Rec 249 8.20 1.41
AcV-Pro 249 3.28 2.13
Abbreviations and symbols used in the tables:
AcV-Rec Academic Vocabulary-Receptive test, AcV-Pro Academic Vocabulary-Productive test, N
Number of participants, Mean Mean score on a ten point scale, Sdev Standard deviation of test
scores, Read compr. Reading comprehension
Table 2  Vocabulary test – 2013: A selection of Pearson correlations (r) at 0.01 significance level
(two-tailed)
Task AcV-Rec AcV-Pro N
Acv-Rec 1 0.617 249
AcV-Pro 0.617 1 249
G. Edgarsson
105
academic vocabulary task (the same as in the 2013 study). A total of 168 students
completed this test with the following results (Table 3).
The Pearson correlation between receptive academic vocabulary and Reading
comprehension was r = 0.70. The Pearson correlation coefficient represents the
strength of correlation within the range from 0 (no correlation) to 1 (perfect correla-
tion) (Fig. 1).
Weighted Mean Score for Receptive Academic Vocabulary
Adding together the number of participants in the 2013 and 2015 study for the
receptive academic vocabulary task a total of 249 + 168 = 417 valid responses was
obtained. Hence, the weighted mean score (out of 10) for this task is
	
x =
⋅ + ⋅
+
= =
249 8 20 168 8 67
249 168
3498 36
417
8 39
. . .
.
	
5  Discussion
In addition to seeking to answer the specific research questions, this section will
discuss the results from various perspectives with reference to findings of previous
studies. The instruments used will also be explored, for the nature of the tests is
inextricably linked with participants’ scores and performance. This is especially
Table 3  Results from reading test in 2015
Task N Mean Sdev.
Read compr. 168 5.58 1.94
AcV-Rec 168 8.67 1.39
y = 0,9744x- 27,705
R² = 0,4893
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
Reading
comprehension
Academic vocabulary-receptive
Vocabulary vs Reading
Fig. 1  Correlation between receptive vocabulary and reading comprehension
Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic…
106
important when comparing findings across various studies using different types of
tests. Below the research questions are answered in the order they are presented
above.
The first question is: What is the level of receptive academic vocabulary knowledge
among Icelandic students in secondary school?
On the surface it appears that students’ receptive knowledge of the most useful
academic vocabulary as defined by Coxhead’s academic word list is quite impres-
sive. Their combined score of 8.39 from the two studies on a ten-point scale suggest
a solid receptive knowledge of academic words. However, this result is not very
encouraging for a number of reasons. First, this test only measures basic receptive
knowledge of one core meaning of each academic word. Second, chances of correct
guessing are considerable due to the multiple choice format of the test as well as the
semantically clear-cut distinctions between the target words and the distractors.
Third-and most importantly, the majority of the participants did not reach the mini-
mum passing score of 8.67 for adequate receptive knowledge of academic vocabu-
lary. The passing rate for each level is a matter of judgment and varies by researcher
within the range from 25 correct answers out of 30 (83.3%) (e.g. Cobb’s WWW
adapted levels tests http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/r21270/levels/) to 27 out of 30
(90%) (e.g. Tschirner 2004; Olmos 2009). According to Read (2001:119), respond-
ing correctly to 16 out of 18 items (88.8%) on the shorter version of each of the
levels on the Vocabulary Levels Tests, including the academic level, corresponds to
knowing most or all the words within each level. For the purpose of this study, a
score of 26–27 out of 30 (86.7–90.0%) should therefore be considered indicative of
receptive mastery of academic words in English. I decided to select the more con-
servative estimate of 86.7% as the minimum score for the participants to be judged
as having acquired a large enough receptive knowledge of academic words in
English for basic comprehension.
In addition, students need not know anything about other aspects of the words
such as register, derived forms or common collocations, in order to select the correct
description. For example, if a student has a vague idea that the word supplementary
has something to do with extra, he or she will correctly match it to the given descrip-
tion added to although he may not be able to use it appropriately in a given context
or knowing any other grammatical forms such as supplement, nor will he be able to
distinguish its meaning from that of related words such as complementary. In this
regard, Read (1988, p. 18) notes that the students need not “differentiate between
semantically related words or show awareness of shades of meaning”. Consequently,
it is possible that some students scored high on this test despite being only vaguely
familiar with many of the target words and yet managed to match them correctly
with their corresponding definitions.
If the minimum passing score for this task is 8.67, then a mean score of 8.39 does
not qualify as a satisfactory grade, especially when taking possible guessing effects
into account. However, the standard deviation of scores across both studies was
about 1.40 which means that most students scored within the range of 8.39 ± 1.40
or approximately between 7.0 and 9.8, indicating a considerable variation in the
G. Edgarsson
107
informants’ test scores. In other words, despite the fact that a large number of stu-
dents failed to show adequate comprehension of academic vocabulary in English, of
which some have actually a very limited knowledge, a substantial amount demon-
strated a solid receptive knowledge of such vocabulary. Nevertheless, it appears that
the average student in secondary school (from18 to 20 years old) in Iceland has not
yet acquired adequate knowledge for good understanding of the kind of vocabulary
that is prevalent in academic language.
The second question was: What is the level of productive academic vocabulary
knowledge among Icelandic students in secondary school? What is the ratio
between productive and receptive academic vocabulary knowledge? Of all the
tasks which the participants in the study carried out (both tests), they scored low-
est on the productive test. When evaluating the difference between learners’
receptive and productive vocabulary knowledge it is common to calculate the
ratio between the two proficiencies. In the former study, where learners were
asked to complete both a receptive and productive vocabulary task, this ratio was
3.28/8.20 = 0.4, i.e. the students were only capable of recalling and properly
using about 40% of their receptive academic vocabulary. Moreover the fact that
the mean score is only 3.28 (approximately 6 correct responses out of 18) indi-
cates that for every academic word that needs to be used in speaking or writing,
the participants in this study could only recall about a third.
Admittedly, productive vocabulary tasks have consistently been shown to be
considerably more demanding than receptive tasks of the same category of words.
In other words, the ratio between receptive and productive knowledge of vocabu-
lary, academic or general, has invariably been shown to be in favor of receptive
knowledge. These ratios vary according to variables such as participants’ first lan-
guage, aggregate amount of English training, and type of test. Generally, however,
productive knowledge has been shown to be about 40–70% of receptive knowledge
(see, e.g., Stoddard 1929; Erigna 1974; Laufer and Paribakht 1998; Tschirner 2004;
Eyckmans et al. 2007; Songbo Zhou 2010). However, the low ratio of 0.4 compared
to that of many other studies, is probably due to differences in test types.
The productive test used for the Icelandic students was considerably more chal-
lenging than the ones used in other comparable studies, for although the sentence
contexts for the vocabulary items in the present study were more descriptive of the
target words than is the case with the sentences around the target words in other
similar studies, only the initial letter was given as opposed to the first two to five
letters (depending on the length of word). To illustrate, let us compare two examples
from a typical productive task in other studies, on the one hand, and from the pres-
ent study, on the other. In both tasks the students were asked to complete the words
on the empty lines provided from the given letters and sentence context.
Typical productive task in other studies
•	 A considerable amount of evidence was accum_______________ during the
investigation.
•	 The urge to survive is inh_______________ in all creatures.
Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic…
108
Present study
•	 In a clever and rather dishonest way, Jane has got the media to do what she’s
wanted. In other words, she’s m_______________ the media for years.
•	 I think he’s been having problems with money lately, which shouldn’t be a sur-
prise; he’s always had problems with his f_______________.
Although this has not been investigated yet, it appears that providing more letters
gives more information about the target word than a more descriptive sentence con-
text. However, this may depend on the word; e.g. for a student already having recep-
tive knowledge of the academic word accumulate, providing him with the first five
letters practically exposes the word regardless of the sentence context. On the other
hand, the first three letters of the word inherent are not as revealing, for numerous
other words start with inh (e.g. inhibit, inhabit, inhale) and the sentence context is
not definitional. Nevertheless, if a student already possesses receptive knowledge of
the word inherent, the probability of recalling the whole word from inh embedded
in a meaningful sentence context, is considerably high.
Although the sentences used in the productive task for the Icelandic students
have a considerably more defining power, the only cue for the shape of the target
word is the initial letter. This means that it is rarely enough to have only superficial
receptive knowledge of the word, for most words in English can share the first letter
with hundreds of other words. Thus, the difference between the two question types
lies in the nature of the clue. If more letters are given, the form of the word begins
to unravel quickly regardless of the given words surrounding it. If only the initial
letter is given, the learners will first have to think of the meaning context before they
can begin looking for words in their mental lexicon – essentially without any clue
about the shape of the tested word except for the first letter which may share the
same initial letter with an indefinite amount of other words. As a result, the link
between the form and meaning must have been firmly established and consolidated
before they can hope to retrieve the correct word and write it out in its appropriate
form.
All in all, it appears that productive skills in the use of academic vocabulary in
English is severely lacking among students in Icelandic secondary schools. The
majority of Icelandic students are far from being proficient in terms of recalling and
using academic vocabulary in English, and only a small proportion display the level
of knowledge adequate for productive use in an academic setting. As already dis-
cussed, productive skills lag behind receptive skills to a large degree in general, so
Icelandic students are no exception in that respect. However, it is important that this
discrepancy be acknowledged. Otherwise, students, their teachers and educators in
English language instruction may deceptively believe their academic proficiency in
English is more advanced than is actually the case.
The third research question asked: What is the relationship between learners’recep-
tive knowledge of academic vocabulary and academic reading comprehension?
The strong positive correlation of r = 0.70 between receptive knowledge of aca-
demic vocabulary and reading comprehension of academic texts indicates that hav-
ing a large passive academic vocabulary predicts academic reading comprehension
G. Edgarsson
109
remarkably well. In fact, for r = 0.70, the explained variance is r2
 = 0.49, which
means that about 50% of the variance of the reading comprehension scores among
the secondary students in the present study can be explained by the level of their
receptive academic vocabulary knowledge. Nevertheless, the strong positive corre-
lation between vocabulary knowledge and reading skills in this study should not be
surprising, for, as has been noted earlier, this relationship has been established
numerous times in various studies. This finding supports Hellekjær’s study (2009)
as the participants who performed poorly blamed unfamiliar vocabulary as the main
obstacle for reading comprehension. In this respect, Hellekjær (2009) cites Grabe
(1988) where he contended that the lack of “a massive receptive vocabulary that is
rapidly, accurately and automatically processed … may be the greatest single
impediment to the fluent reading by ESL students” (p. 63).
Finally one could ask whether academic vocabulary proficiency and level of
reading comprehension of academic texts among students in secondary school in
Iceland is sufficient for university studies? The IELTS academic reading scores are
categorized across nine proficiency bands. Most universities require proficiency
level of Band 6 for admission. The minimum score for achieving Band 6 is 23 from
40 questions across three reading texts. On a ten-point scale, 23 correct answers out
of 40 translates into a grade of 5.75. The current study used two out of three aca-
demic IELTS texts with a total of 27 questions. Proportionally, 15 correct responses
out of 27 comes out as 5.6, marginally lower than the benchmark grade of 5.75, and
16 correct answers is equivalent to 5.9, slightly higher. However, the students were
not used to the format of the questions which could have been somewhat distractive.
Furthermore, it is possible that some students did not apply themselves sufficiently
as they may have experienced the outcome of the test as low-stakes and insignifi-
cant. To compensate for this, I decided to use 5.6 as a minimum score for Band 6
instead of the official IELTS score of 5.75.
Rounded off to one decimal number, the mean score of the secondary students in
the present study was also 5.6. This means that the average student in secondary
school in Iceland barely meets the criteria for Band 6 which most universities con-
sider a minimum requirement for admission. This result is in line with Hellekjær’s
(2008) study on 217 Norwegian secondary students whose mean grade in a ­three-­text
academic IELTS reading comprehension task was 5.8, marginally higher than that
of the Icelandic students but this slight difference could be explained on account of
the longer time the Norwegian students were allotted for each text (30 min per text
as opposed to 20–25 min in the present study).
A mean grade of 5.6 among Icelandic secondary students in the present study,
equivalent to the minimum acceptable standard for reading comprehension for stud-
ies at tertiary level, raises concerns in its own right. What is somewhat disquieting
though is the high ratio of students who scored below 5.6, namely 67 students out
of 168, or about 40%. This ratio is of concern considering the tremendous amount
of English language instruction the students have enjoyed throughout primary and
secondary school as well as the massive input of English through the media they
have been exposed to since childhood, not to mention linguistic similarities between
their mother tongue and English. Moreover, some validation studies cast doubt on
whether the Band 6 level is satisfactory for university studies where English
Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic…
110
language textbooks constitute the overwhelming majority of course materials (Feast
2002; Lee and Greene 2007).
In another study, conducted by Hellekjær (2009) using IELTS tests of academic
reading proficiency among 578 Norwegian university students, a somewhat brighter
picture was revealed, for in his study, 33% of learners did not achieve Band 6, a
markedly lower ratio than that found in the present study. However, it must be
stressed that the students in Hellekjær’s university study were generally older than
the Icelandic secondary students. This is undoubtedly an advantage, for in both
countries, Norway and Iceland, the amount of English language input through the
media is fully comparable, and, hence, the older the students are, the more exposure
to English they have had through the media. Nevertheless, a third of Norwegian
university students do not meet the minimum requirements for academic reading
comprehension. Furthermore, Hellekjær’s finding is consistent with a study in the
form of a self-reported survey, conducted by Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir,
which suggests that Icelandic university students struggle with the academic lan-
guage in textbooks (Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2015). The results of that
study also indicate that the perceived notion of high proficiency in English among
Nordic students’ needs to be reconsidered.
6  Conclusion
It is evident from this study that a substantial number of Icelandic secondary and
tertiary students do not have adequate proficiency in English and will find academic
texts difficult to read and understand (see also Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir
2015). It is also clear that Icelandic secondary students’ receptive vocabulary far
exceeds productive academic vocabulary which subsequently limits which func-
tions their English can serve. Hence, the purported high level of fluency in English
among young Icelanders in general appears to apply primarily to oral competence
in everyday interactions (Cummins 2000). However, in terms of academic language
proficiency necessary for university studies, a considerable number of students in
Iceland are not sufficiently competent in the kind of English that characterizes lan-
guage use in the academic community.
The limitations of this study are mainly that the vocabulary tests and the reading
tests were not administered to the same number of students and not to the same
students. The fact that modified versions of tried and true tests were used in this this
study also warrants further validation. In view of the findings of this study, it is
important to investigate whether proficiency levels increase once at university after
the first or second year. Does the proficiency gap narrow as a result of studying at
university? Also, studies are needed on how academic proficiency in English can
effectively be developed under formal instruction in the education system for exam-
ple through more content based instruction at the secondary level and or whether
there should be more focus on courses that specifically target English for Academic
G. Edgarsson
111
Purposes at both primary and secondary level. By exposing students to academic
English in a more focused and systematic manner, they will hopefully develop the
proficiency in academic vocabulary and discourse for success at the tertiary level.
References
Alderson, J. C. (2000). Assessing reading. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2015). Simultaneous parallel code use: Using English in
University studies in Iceland. In A. H. Fabricius & B. Preisler (Eds.), Transcultural interaction
and linguistic diversity in higher education: The student experience (pp. 142–163). London:
Palgrave MacMillan.
Berman, R. (2010). Icelandic university students’ English reading skills. Málfríður, 26(1), 15–18.
Birch, B. M. (2002). English L2 reading: Getting to the bottom. Mahwah: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates, Inc.
British Council N.D. Reading practice test 1 – IELTS Academic.http://takeielts.britishcouncil.org/
prepare-test/practice-tests/reading-practice-test-1-academic Accessed 16 Mar 2016.
Cobb, T. (n.d.) From concord to lexicon: Development and test of a corpus-based lexical tutor.
Montreal: Concordia University, Unpublished PhD dissertation. Accessed 2 Oct 2016.
Coxhead, A. (2000). A new academic word list. TESOL Quarterly, 34, 213–238.
Cummins, J. (2000). Language, power and pedagogy. Clevedon: MultilingualMatters.
Diane, P., Shaw, P., Irvine, A., & Malmström, H. (2011). English textbooks in parallel language
tertiary education. TESOL Quarterly, 45, 313–333.
Erigna, D. (1974). Einseigner, c’est choisir:Vocabulaire-verwerving. Levende Talen, 306, 260–267.
Eyckmans, J., Van de Velde, H., van Hout, R., & Boers, F. (2007). Learners’ response behavior
in yes/no vocabulary tests. In H. Daller, J. Milton, & J. Treffers-Daller (Eds.), Modelling and
assessing vocabulary knowledge (pp. 59–76). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Feast,V. (2002). The impact of IELTS scores on performance at university. International Education
Journal, 3(4), 70–85.
Gardner, D., & Davies, M. (2013). A new academic vocabulary list. Applied Linguistics, 1–24.
doi:https://doi.org/10.1093/applin/amt015. Accessed 11 Nov 2016.
Golkar, M., & Yamini, M. (2007). Vocabulary proficiency and reading comprehension. The
Reading Matrix, 7(3), 88–112.
Goulden, R., Nation, P., & Read, J. (1990). How large can a receptive vocabulary be? Applied
Linguistics, 11, 341–363.
Grabe, W. (1988). Reassessing the word interactive. In P. L. Carrell, J. Devine, & D. E. Esky
(Eds.), Interactive approaches to second language reading (pp. 56–70). Cambridge: Cambridge
University press.
Hellekjær, G. O. (2008). A case for improved reading instruction for academic EnglishReading
proficiency. Acta Didactica Norge, 2(1), 1–17.
Hellekjær, G.  O. (2009). Academic English reading proficiency at the University level: A
Norwegian case study. Reading in a Foreign Language, 21(2), 198–222.
Henriksen, B. (1999). Three dimensions of vocabulary development. Studies in SecondLanguage
Acquisition, 21(2), 303–317.
Huntley, H. (2006). Essential academic vocabulary. Boston: Houghton Mifflin.
Hyland, K., & Tse, P. (2007). Is there an ‘academic vocabulary’? TESOL Quarterly, 41(2),
235–253.
Jeeves, A. (2008). “Some words are simply very difficult”: Reading proficiency in English.MA
thesis. School of Social Sciences, University of Iceland.
Laufer, B. (1992). How much lexis is necessary for reading comprehension? In P.  Arnaud &
H. Bejoint (Eds.), Vocabulary and applied linguistics (pp. 126–132). Basingstoke: Macmillan.
Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic…
112
Laufer, B. (1996). The lexical threshold of second language reading comprehension: What it is and
how it relates to L1 reading ability. In K. Sajavaara & C. Fairweather (Eds.), Approaches to
second language acquisition (pp. 55–62). Jyväskylä: University of Jyväskylä.
Laufer, B., & Goldstein, Z. (2004). Testing vocabulary knowledge: Size, strength, and computer
adaptiveness. Language Learning, 54(3), 399–436.
Laufer, B., & Nation, P. (1999). A vocabulary-size test of controlled productive ability. Language
Testing, 16(1), 33–51.
Laufer, B., & Paribakht, T. S. (1998). The relationship between passive and active vocabularies:
Effects of language learning context. Language Learning, 48(3), 365–391.
Lee,Y.-J., & Greene, J. (2007). The predictive validity of an ESL placement test: A mixed methods
approach. Journal of Mixed Methods Research, 1, 366–389.
Liu, N., & Nation, P. (1985). Factors affecting guessing vocabulary in context. RELC Journal, 16,
33–42.
Meara, P., & Buxton, B. (1987). An alternative to multiple choice vocabulary tests. Language
Testing, 4(2), 142–151.
Nation, I.  S. P. (2001). Learning vocabulary in another language. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Nation, P. (2006). How large a vocabulary is needed for reading and listening? The Canadian
Modern Language Review, 63(1), 59–82.
Olmos, C. (2009). An assessment of the vocabulary knowledge of students in the final year of sec-
ondary education. Is Their vocabulary extensive enough? IJES, Special Issue, 73–90.
Pétursdóttir, M. (2013). Explicit Teaching of Academic Vocabulary in EFL: Preparing Icelandic
students for education at university level. Unpublished MA thesis. University of Iceland.
Pulido, D., & Hambrick, D. Z. (2008). The virtuous circle: Modeling individual differences in L2
reading and vocabulary development. Reading in a Foreign Language, 20(2), 164–190.
Qian, D. D. (1998). Depth of vocabulary knowledge: Assessing its role in adults’reading compre-
hension in English as a second language. Toronto: University of Toronto.
Read, J. (1988). Measuring the vocabulary knowledge of second language learners. RELC Journal,
19, 12–25.
Read, J. (2000). Assessing vocabulary. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Schmitt, N. (2010). Researching vocabulary. A vocabulary research manual. Basingstoke:
Palgrave & Macmillan.
Schmitt, N., Schmitt, D., & Clapham, C. (2001). Developing and exploring the behavior of two
new versions of the vocabulary levels test. Language Testing, 18(1), 55–88.
Stoddard, G. D. (1929). An experiment in verbal learning. Journal of Educational Psychology, 20,
452–547.
Torfadóttir, A. (2003). Könnun á orðaforða í ensku. Uppeldi og menntun, 12(1), 57–78.
Tschirner, E. (2004). Breadth of vocabulary and advanced English study: An empirical investiga-
tion. Electronic Journal of Foreign Language Teaching, 1(1), 27–39. http://e-flt.nus.edu.sg/
v1n12004/tschirner.htm. Accessed 14 July 2006.
West, M. (1953). A general service list of English words. London: Longman.
Zechmeister, E. B., Chronis, A. M., Cull, W. L., D’Anna, C. A., & Healy, N. A. (1995). Growth of
a functionally important lexicon. Journal of Reading Behavior, 27, 201–212.
Zhou, S. (2010). Comparing receptive and productive academic vocabulary knowledge of Chinese
EFL learners. Asian Social Science, 6(10), 14.
G. Edgarsson
113
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir, H. Ingvarsdóttir (eds.), Language Development across the Life Span,
Educational Linguistics 34, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67804-7_7
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education
at Secondary School
Anna Jeeves
Abstract  The chapter focuses on Icelandic students’ perceptions of the relevance
of studying English at school. Little research has been done into compulsory lan-
guage learning at school in a context of extensive exposure outside the classroom
and with relevance to second language learning motivation. Semi-structured inter-
views were taken in Icelandic. Sixteen participants at secondary school, aged 18–21,
related their views on studying English in the present time frame. Twenty-two inter-
views with young Icelanders at university or in employment, aged 19–28, provided
retrospective observations on secondary school English and its relevance to lan-
guage needs after school.
The importance of Iceland as a new research context was revealed. Although
advanced proficiency is needed for tertiary study and employment, the high level of
exposure to English in Iceland means that some school learners see formal study as
an anomaly. The relevance of English is presented as an individual, dynamic rela-
tionship between the present, past and future. Many participants at university and in
employment described clearly their current needs in English and of the increased
proficiency gained at secondary school. Rich qualitative data obtained also show
that Iceland stands outside present paradigms of second-language learning motiva-
tion. An adapted framework attempts to encompass Iceland. This model may also
suit other countries in Northern Europe where exposure to English is similar. Finally
suggestions are made for areas of focus for learners and teachers of English in
Iceland.
1  Introduction
This chapter will focus on students’ perceptions of English and the relevance of
studying English at secondary school in Iceland. The Icelandic context is one of
extensive exposure to English outside the classroom (see Arnbjörnsdóttir’ chapters
“The Policies and Contexts that Frame English Education and Use in Iceland”,
A. Jeeves (*)
Fjölbrautaskólinn í Garðabæ, Garðabæ, Iceland
e-mail: annaj@fg.is
114
“English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland”, and “Using English at
University”, this volume). Although advanced proficiency is needed for tertiary
study and employment, the high level of exposure to English in Iceland means that
some school learners see formal study for several years as an anomaly. Up until
now, little research has been done into compulsory English learning at school in a
context of this kind. The study reported here sought to investigate the central
research question: What characterises learner perceptions of practical and personal
relevance of secondary school English studies in Iceland? Further and more detailed
research questions explored were: (a) What vision of future L2 self do English lan-
guage learners (aged 18–20) at secondary schools in Iceland have, and what is the
connection between relevance of English at school, motivation and future L2 self
among learners?; and (b) Does the L2 self of employees and university students
(aged 22–24) in Iceland match their earlier vision, and, in retrospect, what is the
connection between relevance of English at school, motivation and L2 self among
young people after leaving school?
Research data obtained present perceived relevance of English as a school sub-
ject as a dynamic and ever-changing relationship between the present, past and
future. Learners’ perceptions of English change as their proficiency develops and
their language needs change, thus creating a dynamic state of flux in which what is
valid for learners today may no longer hold good tomorrow.
Dörnyei’s L2 Motivational Self System (Dörnyei 2005) introduced into research
on motivation in foreign language learning the element of the language learner’s
“Self” and more specifically the importance of how learners perceive themselves as
future language users. The rich qualitative data discussed in this chapter suggest that
the language context of Iceland places the country outside this framework of second-­
language learning motivation. Adapting the framework would allow it to include
Iceland and other countries in Northern Europe where extensive exposure to English
means English is not seen by school students in the same light as other foreign
languages.
The chapter begins with an overview of Icelandic teenagers’ exposure to English
in the environment and through school study. Dörnyei’s paradigm is discussed
briefly and the concept of relevance in language learning is explained. The method-
ology is described and results of the study are discussed. The chapter concludes
with a discussion of the implications of the findings: how our understanding of the
importance of English to young Icelanders today is enhanced; how new focuses in
secondary school English teaching, such as increased emphasis on individual choice
and the development of new skills, could benefit Icelanders entering tertiary educa-
tion and employment; and how, with some slight adaptation, Dörnyei’s language
motivation framework could be extended to include Iceland and other countries
with high exposure to English.
A. Jeeves
115
2  Background
2.1  Exposure
Previous chapters in this volume have described exposure to English in Iceland. It is
clear that many teenagers spend several hours every day experiencing an English-­
speaking environment, be it through listening to music with English lyrics, watch-
ing television series and films, reading on the Internet or interacting with
non-Icelandic speakers. Recent research points to English occupying a similarly
strong position in Sweden, where the language influences young people’s identity
formation (Henry and Goddard 2015).
The dominance of English as the language of the Internet can, furthermore, be
inferred from the concern of educators in Iceland over the position of Icelandic in
schools, as a recent microblogging session entitled “What is the future of Icelandic:
digital death or digital Icelandic?” (Ómarsson 2016) suggests. Fears about a possi-
ble future supremacy of English over Icelandic are also expressed by some partici-
pants in the study, for example, Telma, a 17-year-old school student, who says: I
think that English will more or less take over Iceland. It may definitely be dangerous
for the Icelandic language. Despite English being officially a foreign language in
Iceland (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2009; Icelandic Ministry of Education 2012), it has been
argued that this is no longer the case (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2007, 2011). It is true to say
that “English represents significant linguistic capital in Iceland” (Hilmarsson-Dunn
2009, p. 54) and has become the “common language” (Björkman 2008, p. 35) in
many areas of life. The linguistic context of Iceland in the second decade of the
century is that Icelandic is the home language and English is a further language for
extended use or a “Utility Language” (Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2012).
Little research has been done into Icelandic students’ use of English outside the
classroom, a use so far-reaching that young Icelanders view English as essential to
their daily lives (Jeeves 2013, 2015; Jóhannsdóttir’s chapter “English Exposure and
Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction”, this volume). This
means that the gap observed in some other North European countries between the
English of compulsory school study and the English used in activities outside school
(Henry and Apelgren 2008; Sundqvist and Olin-Scheller 2013) may also exist in
Iceland.
2.2  
English at School in Iceland
By the time students start secondary school in Iceland they have been learning
English at school for at least 6 years. First- and second-year English courses at
Icelandic secondary schools typically focus on building up grammar and language
skills through the use of ‘traditional’ internationally-marketed EFL course books,
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
116
with some time spent also on essay-writing and reading literature. Later courses
may concentrate on more specific areas of English such as business English or the-
atre literature. Since no textbooks are designated by the Ministry of Education, sec-
ondary school teachers are free to select their own material.
The framework of objectives given in the current Icelandic national curriculum
for upper-secondary schools (a new curriculum has been introduced since the study
discussed here was carried out) links performance objectives to the European
Language Portfolio. Thus competence level three of the national curriculum
(Icelandic Ministry of Education 2012), which all upper-secondary school students
are expected to reach, is equivalent to level C1 of the Common European Framework
of Reference (Arnbjörnsdóttir, “The Policies and Contexts that Frame English
Education and Use in Iceland”, “English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland”,
and “Using English at University”, this volume; Council of Europe 2001).
There are no standardised national examinations at the conclusion of secondary
school in Iceland and matriculation is the responsibility of each school. This means
that teachers are responsible both for teaching and assessing students. Research has
revealed a dichotomy between the English taught at school and later needs
(Arnbjörnsdóttir 2007; Jeeves 2010, 2012, 2014, 2015), as well as a lack of skills in
reading (Torfadóttir 1991), basic vocabulary (Torfadóttir 2003) and advanced writ-
ing (Berman 2007; Jeeves 2012; Sigurðardóttir 2007).
It is understandable, however, that conflicting attitudes to English may arise
among school learners due to its being a school subject for nine or more years con-
currently with being the language of entertainment and summer holidays. If learners
are familiar with “youth culture English” (Henry and Apelgren 2008; Norton 2001)
and are accustomed to using English outside school, they may well feel little need
for classroom study. As Jeeves (2014, 2015) points out, television, films and reading
are seen as prime sources of learning English. Moreover, some see the Internet as a
more effective medium than formal language study.
On the other hand, the fact that there is extensive exposure to a colloquial form
of the language does not preclude students’ need for other registers. The limited
language used in films and on television (Hayes 2006; Rodgers and Webb 2011;
Webb and Rodgers 2009) may lead learners to believe that formal English is a rarity.
Teenage students may also be unaware of the gap between their proficiency and the
advanced proficiency needed for academic study and professional work. Because
much exposure to English is receptive and colloquial (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2007; 2011),
Icelandic teenagers may have good pronunciation but lack skills in academic read-
ing and in production (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2011). There are aspects of English that
cannot be learned through exposure to informal language (Jeeves 2012, 2014) and
secondary school learners may in particular have difficulty discussing serious topics
in a formal register. The spoken ability expected at level B2 (“Can give clear, sys-
tematically developed descriptions and presentations”) and C1 (“Can give clear,
detailed descriptions and presentations on complex subjects”) of the Common
European Frame of Reference (Council of Europe 2001, p. 67) illustrates the prog-
ress learners will need to make. It is for this reason that the responsibility of schools
A. Jeeves
117
to prepare students as well as possible for studying content through English should
be underestimated (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2009).
2.3  
Dörnyei’s L2 Motivational Self System and Recent
Research
Learner motivation has been a fertile area of focus since early research reported its
major influence on progress in foreign language learning. Research in a bilingual
Canadian context led to a distinction between instrumental (for a utilitarian gain)
and integrative (for participation in a language culture) orientations in motivation
(Gardner 1960; Gardner and Lambert 1959, 1965). Motivation to learn a new lan-
guage is linked to ideas about identity and culture and can help to counteract a lack
of language aptitude (Cook 2008; Dörnyei 2005; Dörnyei and Skehan 2003; Dörnyei
and Ushioda 2011; Gardner and Lambert 1972; Horwitz et al. 1986; Mercer 2011;
Skehan 1997).
Dörnyei’s L2 Motivational Self System (Dörnyei 2005, 2009a, b) introduced to
the discussion elements from the psychology of the self (Higgins 1987; Markus and
Nurius 1986; Miller and Brickman 2004) and thus presented a new approach to the
question of how motivation influences language learning. The L2 Motivational Self
System has three main aspects: the Ideal L2 Self, which represents an individual’s
imagined future; the Ought-to L2 Self, which represents a view of the self that an
individual wishes to avoid and the self he or she feels obliged to be; and the L2
Learning Experience, which includes a range of aspects of classroom language
learning.
A central tenet of the L2 Motivational Self System is that both learners in a con-
text with little exposure to the target language (that is, a traditional foreign-language
classroom), and those learning a language “associated with a global culture”
(Dörnyei 2005, p. 104) such as English, will be able to create an ideal image of
themselves as future users of the language. Learners will make and hold in their
minds images of themselves using the target language just as a sportsperson may
envisage winning a prize in the future (Dörnyei 2009a).
Dörnyei presents achievement as involving success or failure, with successful
language students envisaging an “ideal self … associated with the mastery of an L2”
(Dörnyei 2009a, p. 27). Attaining this ideal image may be difficult, since learning a
language at school is associated with a “high rate of language learning failure”
(Dörnyei 2005, p. 110). In terms of identity, school students may be torn between
belonging to an easy-going student culture in the present and the industrious and
conscientious university or employment group that they hope to be part of in the
future.
Because the L2 Motivational Self System was established from research in
Hungary, a country where English has become a significant language only in fairly
recent years (Csizér and Kormos 2009; Petzold and Berns 2000), it would seem
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
118
possible that the findings of the studies may not necessarily transfer to contexts
which differ radically from the Hungarian one. Dörnyei describes the situation of
English in Hungary as “a foreign language … taught as a school subject without any
direct contact with its speakers” (Dörnyei 2009a, p. 24). On the other hand, the
European Commission found “above-average scores for students’ target language
exposure and use through traditional and new media” in Sweden (European
Commission 2012) and it seems safe to assume that a similar situation exists in
Iceland. Research data clearly point to young people coming into daily contact with
English, albeit not necessarily in face to face interactions with native speakers.
Recently, research in Scandinavia has concerned itself with questions of lan-
guage identity and language self (e.g. Henry and Goddard 2015; Pitkänen-Huhta
and Nikula 2013; Rindal 2010; Rindal and Piercy 2013; Sundqvist and Sylvén
2014;Yang and Kim 2011). Demotivation in English language learning is also being
researched, for example in Sweden (Sundqvist and Olin-Scheller 2013), where
some learners experience a dichotomy between their generally informal uses of
English outside school (EE or Extramural English) and the language taught at
school. The English encountered outside school is considered more “authentic”
than “school English”, leading to a lack of interest in material presented at school
and a perceived lack of relevance of school study of English to students’ extramural
English uses. Parallels can be seen with Iceland, where school learners appear satis-
fied with their (in fact) rather limited English skills and unaware “that more advanced
language skills are expected of them in full-time employment or tertiary study than
in their leisure activities or on holiday abroad” (Jeeves 2015, p. 278).
2.4  
The Concept of Relevance
The definition of relevance is not clear-cut. It has been described (with regard to
relevance logic) as “a fuzzy term” (Serber and Wilson 1995), or as involving “rela-
tion to the matter at hand” (Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary 2016). There has
been some study of relevance within the fields of information technology (Hjørland
and Sejer Christensen 2002; Saracevic 1975); second-­
language acquisition (de
Paiva and Foster-Cohen 2004; Foster-Cohen 2004); psychology (Kember et  al.
2008); and career guidance (Johnson 2000; see also Higgins 2005).
As yet, however, relevance has received little attention in the context of motiva-
tion and individual differences in second-language acquisition. However, relevance
can be construed as a potentially significant aspect of motivation in second-­language
learning. Relevance is a factor that may change over time, is not a fixed construct,
and can be influenced by learners and teachers. Relevance may also affect motiva-
tion to study English in countries such as Iceland where the population must be
prepared to use English in many daily situations, and teachers need to promote
awareness of how important a high level of proficiency is after students finish
school.
A. Jeeves
119
There are also links between relevance, motivation and autonomy, since learners
who “are able to scope [their study] according to their developing interests” (Little
2004, p. 105) are at the same time strengthening their motivation. Learner autonomy
is emphasised in the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages,
which also stresses the need for relevant skills and proficiency (Council of Europe
2001; Little 2006). Classroom tasks will be more willingly undertaken by students
if their relevance is clear, for example if they are encouraged to envisage their future
goals (Hjørland 2010). Grammar exercises may be seen as relevant exercises in the
same way as training drills in football or swimming are essential to improving
skills.
Motivation frameworks need to take learners’ individual situations into account
since motivation is “actively shaped through personal meaning-making, intentional-
ity and reflexivity” (Ushioda 2011, p. 13). Relevance can thus be conceived as form-
ing part of the L2 Learning Experience of Dörnyei’s L2 Motivational Self System
(Dörnyei 2009a, b) as it connects students’ individual interests and their activities
outside school.
Relevance as it applies to the study reported in this chapter is defined as: a con-
textualised close or significant connection situated in a present time reference, link-
ing possibly to a future goal, and having meaning for the individual.
3  Methodology
3.1  Method
The study aimed at investigating to what extent young Icelanders perceive their
English studies at secondary school as relevant in practical and personal terms and
what form or forms that relevance might take. The topic was explored with refer-
ence to the present through the perceptions of secondary school students, and to the
past through the opinions of university students and young people in employment.
Other areas explored were young Icelanders’ perceptions of themselves as pres-
ent and future users of English outside the school environment and other motiva-
tional factors concerning learning English at school. A further goal of the study was
to offer suggestions for possible beneficial changes in learning and teaching in the
secondary school English classroom in Iceland.
Relevant and rich data (Bogdan and Biklen 2003; Brown 2001; Charmaz 2006;
Kvale and Brinkmann 2009; Polkinghorne 2005) were obtained through the semi-­
structured interview form, that is, “neither an open everyday conversation nor a
closed questionnaire” (Kvale and Brinkmann 2009, p. 27). Interviews followed a
question outline but allowed for participants to side-track into areas which were
perhaps not foreseen by the interviewer but which had potential value. The inter-
views were recorded and transcribed verbatim (Creswell 2007; Giorgi 1997; Kvale
and Brinkmann 2009; Reid et al. 2005; Smith et al. 2009).
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
120
All the interviews were taken in Icelandic (the first language of participants) and
were on average 38 min long. Questions were asked in the same order in each inter-
view and participants were prompted for more detailed answers when it was felt
necessary.
3.2  Participants
Participant sampling for the study was purposive (Miles and Huberman 1994; Smith
et al. 2009) insofar as participants in a particular age range and from different cir-
cumstances were sought. Interviews were taken with secondary school students in
Iceland aged 18–20 and university students and young people in employment aged
22–24. In Iceland, upper-secondary (post-compulsory) education begins at age 16,
meaning that by the age of 18, many students have completed three semesters of
English. Young people matriculate from secondary school at 19 or 20 years old and
it seemed likely that participants aged 22–24 would easily recall their English stud-
ies at school.
Over a hundred people were contacted at schools, universities and places of
employment in the search for participants. Students from 11 secondary schools and
five universities were interviewed. No secondary school or university students who
were majoring in foreign languages were interviewed since it seemed possible that
their responses might be skewed by their interest in learning languages. Similarly,
effort was put into accessing young people in a range of jobs and, although finding
willing participants in employment proved time-consuming, eventually young peo-
ple in varied areas of employment such as retail, health care, catering and informa-
tion technology took part.
The study was granted approval by the Data Protection Authority. Parental per-
mission was not necessary since all participants were over the age of 18. Pseudonyms
wereusedandparticipantswereassuredofconfidentialityandanonymity.Potentially
traceable details such as names of schools, towns or places of work were omitted.
Credibility of data (Charmaz 2006) is supported by the number of interviews taken,
the diversity of participants, both by age and location and by the richness of data
obtained.
By the time new data was no longer providing fresh insights into the study, or
“saturation”, had been reached (Charmaz 2006; Creswell 2007; Glaser and Strauss
1967; Robson 2002), a total of 38 interviews had been taken: 16 with secondary
school students; 11 with university students aged 19–28; and 11 with young people
aged 21–24 in employment. The distribution between male and female participants
was equal. All the participants came from the Reykjavík area and from South and
North Iceland, the western and eastern regions being less accessible during the early
spring when data collection took place.
Transferability of the study (Trochim 2006) is supported by the fact that data
collection continued until no new information was forthcoming, suggesting that the
data can be generalised to a larger but similar population. Studies in other
A. Jeeves
121
Scandinavian countries (see Sect. 7.2.3 above) that describe a linguistic context not
unlike that of Iceland also strengthen the transferability of the findings of the study
to other contexts.
3.3  Analysis
Elements of Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis (Smith et al. 2009) and of
grounded theory research (Charmaz 2006; Creswell 2007; Strauss and Corbin 1990)
were used in data analysis. Analysis opened up the field of relevance in English-­
language learning in Iceland as a whole and allowed areas of interest to be
isolated.
4  Results
4.1  
Dörnyei’s Motivational Framework
Dörnyei’s second-language framework consists of the Ideal Self, the Ought-to Self
and the Learning Experience. Participants confirm the generally acknowledged cur-
rent significance and level of exposure of English in Iceland and its importance in
the daily life of young people:
English is very important for me. I need it almost as much as Icelandic. (Bjarki, at
university)
You sort of don’t function properly in society if you don’t know English. (Hera, at
university)
Everyday things are all so tied up with English. … How are you supposed to be able to
do this and that if you don’t know English? (Soffía, at school)
However, the study provided little data to support the concept of learners of English
in Iceland striving towards a future “ideal” image of themselves as language users
and it was striking that participants at school expressed little need or desire to
improve their English skills. For them, English is strongly connected to entertain-
ment and travel and they expect these uses to continue in the future. Perhaps because
they are already able both to watch films and television shows (some, but not all,
with subtitles) and to use English successfully on holiday, they appear to lack the
future yet-to-be-attained image of doing these things in their minds that Dörnyei
discusses in his framework.
The exception is one participant who does have a clear picture of herself using
English in a new and challenging way in the future. She sees her future L2 Self tak-
ing part in conferences (although it could be argued that it is an “ideal” professional
self that she is envisaging rather than a second-language self):
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
122
All sorts of conferences, and something big, you know. It would be held in English, when
there are lots of people together from different parts of the world. (Jóhanna, at school)
On the other hand, there is evidence in the study of the Ought-to L2 Self and its
aspect of obligation. Several participants experience it as their duty to be able to
communicate with foreigners in Iceland as well as when they are abroad them-
selves. As Marta and Hera explain:
I actually think it’s expected of me that I know [English] because my language is so rare.
In reality you’re supposed to speak pretty fluent English when you’re only 15. It seems like
that to me, everyone does that, or at least lots of people. My little sister, she’s 14, can talk,
or understand perhaps, an awful lot of English.
Many older Icelanders do not have strong oral skills in English, having learned
English before every household had television. Some, therefore, depend on young
people to help out by ‘doing the talking’ when the family is abroad and to write
emails if they themselves have poor writing skills in English. On the other hand,
young Icelanders seem to feel little pressure from parents and family to achieve
certain goals and no externally-imposed obligation to excel at school, possibly as a
result of university study in Iceland (in some subjects) requiring only pass grades at
matriculation. The Ought-to L2 Self is also characterised by learners’ feelings about
how they do not want to be perceived. In the case of young Icelanders, this can
clearly be seen as a strong reluctance to be seen as lacking in English skills, be it
written accuracy or native-speaker pronunciation:
Someone makes mistakes when he’s writing, then he’s stupid. He doesn’t know what he’s
talking about. I don’t want to be the idiot who’s always making mistakes. (Vala, at school)
When you’re an Icelander you have a certain pride and you want to be in the same boat
as others. (Magnús, in information technology)
To sum up, it appears that a certain naivety about future language needs leads
young Icelanders to imagine they will not be using English for more than media
entertainment and tourist travel, activities they can manage at the age of 18. This in
turn means that they have no language goal or Ideal L2 Self to strive towards. The
Ought-to L2 Self is evident in two forms – an obligation to know English and a
reluctance to lose face because of poor English skills.
Through the research a wealth of information about studying English in Icelandic
secondary schools was obtained, information that belongs within the third area of
the L2 Motivational Self System, the L2 Learning Experience. What comes across
strongly is the belief of most students in themselves and in their own English profi-
ciency, and their understanding that low demands are made in English class:
I think [my English] is very good. I get very good grades anyway, basically 10’s. So I think
it’s very good. (Soffía, at school)
I think [my English] is above, just above average. (Kolbeinn, at school)
I would have liked to do badly once in order to have to work harder. (Dagný, in retail
trade)
A. Jeeves
123
Although Númi is evidently less confident, he is nonetheless satisfied with his
level of English:
No top grades or anything like that, just ok. Yes, shall we say it’s good enough.
There may be apprehension about using English textbooks at university, although
worries seem to be at a vocabulary level rather than grammatical or syntactical.
Addi comments, for example, using the English phrase, that: “scientific terms, are
maybe the only thing I would have difficulties over”.
The implications of these data are again young Icelanders’ unrealistic appraisal
of their current proficiency and the challenges of tertiary study through the medium
of English. Learners’ desire for personalised study, topics of individual interest and
choice of tasks is also evident, as is the seeming absence from English classes of
self-study skills and self-evaluation. Some participants describe their compulsory
English reading material as uninteresting:
There were just some crap love stories, there was nothing that I wanted to read at all. Still,
you’re taking an exam, you just have to get through it. (Egill, at school)
Something you really don’t want to read about, camels in Australia or some such rubbish.
(Númi, at school)
Númi, however, seems to have nothing against doing tasks in English per se, since
he is able to suggest a range of assignments he would like to do if he was allowed to
choose:
The first thing that comes to mind is to compose a song or something. Otherwise there’s so
much that I could do. I could make a short movie, I could make a sketch, I could make a
radio play, I would do something more practical than theoretical, even though I’m a student
at [grammar] school I’m obviously more interested in doing something practical in English.
In similar vein, Bogi is enthusiastic about an assignment where students could
choose their own topic:
We had to make a booklet in English and we could choose what we wanted to do, whether
it was to be a photographer or a psychologist or a car mechanic, just something. It was good
fun, a change from previous courses.
Viewing young Icelanders’ attitudes to English school studies from the perspective
of Dörnyei’s framework was valuable in that it confirmed the importance to students
of the learning environment. Students have clear opinions about both their language
skills and the study material and tasks they are assigned. However, some anomalies
appeared that may not be evident in studies carried out in other countries. For exam-
ple, some young people in Iceland do not seem to strive towards future language
goals since they perceive the skills they have acquired by their late teens as adequate
for the future. Students’ ability to attain good grades consistently suggests that per-
haps learning gains are not being made, as the Icelandic school system expects
increasing demands as study progresses.
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
124
4.2  
Perceived and Actual Uses after School
As well as data being analysed with reference to Dörnyei’s L2 Motivational Self
System, recurring themes were isolated concerning participants’ feelings about
English, their learning gains and uses of English. This last area of interest includes
how secondary school students anticipated using English after school and how
young people were in fact using English a few years after finishing school.
Broadly speaking, Icelandic school students expect to continue using English for
entertainment, Internet searches and travel. All participants mentioned watching
English-language television shows and films. Many intend to travel for long periods
or study abroad. Knowledge of English is a necessity since, as Hannes says, “You
can always get by in other countries”. Rather than spending time learning another
foreign language, English can be used as a stepping-stone to a new culture:
Of course I want to move abroad. So English should help me for the first few months while
I’m getting used to the language and the culture. (Addi, at school)
Because textbooks in almost all subjects at university in Iceland are in English
(Icelandic and philosophy are exceptions) Icelanders need to build up good reading
skills in English at school. Some school participants, like Jóhanna, who wants to
work in health care, accept this as a fact of life:
I can’t see myself reading books in any other language than English, and then for all the
time that I’m studying, and of course it’s a pretty long course.
On the other hand, this is a daunting prospect for a student who struggles with read-
ing difficult texts in English:
Most of the books at university are in English of course. I’m a bit stressed out about how
I’m going to cope with that, since my vocabulary isn’t so good. (Daníel, at school)
One participant, who says he has never had to work hard at English and who
belongs to the group of school students who believe they have no need for further
English proficiency, erroneously believes that reading material at university will be
in Icelandic. The contrast between his elevated belief in his knowledge of English
and his lack of knowledge about what university study in Iceland involves is striking
and begs the question of whether he is prepared for tertiary study:
I think I’ve done enough English.
If I went to university in Iceland, then I reckon that [textbooks] would definitely be in
Icelandic. (Ingi, at school)
It is interesting to consider the similarities and differences between how teenag-
ers at secondary school foresee themselves using English in the future and how
young Icelanders only a few years older than them actually do use English and how
they feel in retrospect about their English studies at school.
For this older age-group, English is the common lingua franca used with foreign-
ers, be this in face-to-face communication or on social media, in Iceland or when on
holiday abroad, and despite the fact that all Icelanders in this age group studied two
A. Jeeves
125
other European languages at school. All the participants watch films and television
programmes in English, use the Internet in English and listen to songs with English
lyrics. Participants’ daily use of English seems to be taken for granted and is as they
expected when they were at school. Bjarki says:
Yes, I’d say [my use of English] is pretty much the same, I expected that I would have to
read English at university and I’ve been reading English for fun for a long time, since I was
in secondary school and primary school, so I think it’s very similar to what I expected then.
Participants at university read textbooks in English, although written work and
examinations are usually completed in Icelandic. Learning new subject matter
through two languages is something a minority of Icelandic school students will
have encountered. Jakob, who is in distance-learning and thus does not attend lec-
tures (normally held in Icelandic) complains about not knowing the Icelandic equiv-
alents of concepts in English when he does assignments. Marta may be atypical: she
lets lectures and slides presentations suffice rather than reading her English univer-
sity material. It is unclear whether she finds her textbooks excessively difficult but
she is presumably provided with an Icelandic-English glossary of terms for assign-
ments and exams:
Some people read the books from cover to cover, but I don’t know whether they’re better off
than me, I don’t know.
Neither Jakob nor Linda have much opportunity to speak English but Hera is
confident about coping in a part-time job which will involve speaking to foreign
tourists. Orri avoids speaking because “it’s uncomfortable talking wrong in front of
people and especially when you make grammar mistakes and use the wrong tense”.
This suggests that school did not provide him with the instruction he needed to pre-
pare him for using English after school.
Few of the university participants have to write in English, although some take
part in online Internet forums. Jakob is writing a novel in English in his spare time
and Linda is planning on taking an English medium course. Linda reads in English
in her leisure time. No participants mention having difficulty understanding English-­
language films but Agla, who studies in a European country entirely through the
medium of English, recalls having trouble understanding lectures initially. Her
comments show clearly that following a lecture in English on a new academic topic
is far removed from watching television or films:
It took a while because, to begin with in lectures, you were concentrating so hard on under-
standing the words that you couldn’t actually listen. You were always thinking about what
the instructor was saying, except that if you’re listening to the content then you aren’t con-
centrating so much on the words. So that you maybe walked out of the lecture not exactly
sure what had been said.
Unsurprisingly, participants who went into employment after leaving school use
English for similar leisure activities as university students, as well as on holiday.
However, they are also obliged to use English at work as well, something that not all
of them feel they were prepared for. Svava, who works in care, says:
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
126
No, I didn’t think [that English classes were practical]. There was nothing you could use in
the future, as if nobody was thinking about that. It seemed to me that no-one was thinking
about that.
These participants work in a wide range of environments and their English language
needs are very varied. Egill is encountering a new kind of English and lacks special-
ised vocabulary, although what constitutes “ordinary English” is unclear:
The English I use here at work and ordinary English are quite different. People ask about
mattresses and I may not have the words to explain a mattress for them.
Baldur, a skilled tradesman, has to understand and follow the instructions on “all
sorts of goods and materials and things connected to work that aren’t translated into
Icelandic”. Dagný and Egill both work in shops and have to deal with non-­Icelandic-­
speaking customers. Dagný also deals with emails from head office and writes sales
reports.
Even before he started work in the food industry, Freyr foresaw that he would
have to explain dishes to customers in English, but he is also expected to answer
general enquiries about Iceland. Customers “can ask about everything” so that he
may have to do an Internet search in order to find the answer. Tinna works at a nurs-
ery and has to speak English to foreign parents, both native and non-native speakers.
She also interprets for the nursery principal:
Just last week, the class leader said to me “Do you speak English?” I said “Yes”. “Can you
talk to X’s parents”, because there was something they didn’t understand in the parent
interview. I thought that was quite okay.
English is the common language in workplaces in Iceland that employ non-­
Icelandic-­
speaking staff. This means that Lilja, who works in a warehouse, spends
her entire working day in an English-speaking environment. She recalls:
It was last year, then I hardly spoke any Icelandic here all day. When I was walking home
I’d start thinking to myself in English as well because I was only ever talking English. They
know a bit less than us, well, in their countries films aren’t in English, it’s all translated. So
it’s not as if you have to use everything you know, but still you have to use [English].
Jakob and Magnús, however, do need a high level of proficiency in English at work.
Jakob works part-time for a non-governmental organisation, and has to write letters
in formal register in English, because “in order to be able to sound rather serious it’s
important to write well”. Magnús works for a telecommunications company. He
writes emails and sets up video-conferences. For him, “English is just [number]
one, two and three, what we use when we’re dealing with other countries”.
Some participants in employment feel that they foresaw correctly the ways in
which they would use English. They assumed they would use English for travel and
for leisure activities, which they have done. However, some feel that school did not
prepare them for using English at work. Life has taken these young Icelanders down
various unplanned paths and they have found themselves in situations demanding a
register or lexical area of English that they did not encounter at school and had no
inkling that they would ever need to know.
A. Jeeves
127
4.3  
Perceived Proficiency and Gains at School and After
School
The study did not involve any language testing, meaning that all data concerning
proficiency in English were obtained through participant self-assessment. With a
few striking exceptions, the participants at secondary school declare themselves to
be good at English and feel little need to put effort into their English studies at
school:
I think [my English] is very good. At any rate I’ve been doing very well – top grades.
(Soffía)
I think [my English] is just very good, I’m very happy about it at any rate. I don’t think I
really have to improve, not that much. I think it’s quite okay. (Addi)
However, as discussed above, the level of proficiency of some may not reach C1 of
the Common European Frame of Reference, the level expected of Icelandic school
students by the end of their studies and which includes “the capacity to deal with
unfamiliar topics” (Council of Europe 2001, p. 244).
When asked to estimate on a scale of 1–10 how much effort they have to put into
learning English, many participants give a figure below five. Ingi gives English a
two on the effort scale, saying “English is my easiest subject”. Hannes, who has
relatives abroad, comments on how easy it is to learn spoken English:
It’s like a second language that’s taught from when you’re a kid. First you read the subtitles
and then it sticks in your mind. Then you just speak it.
School students in Iceland seem to have little understanding that increasing
demands will be made of them in advanced courses (despite the national curriculum
in use during data collection clearly implying a progression within all subjects by
listing courses as 100, 200, 300, and so on). The implication is that good grades at
compulsory level will guarantee good grades in later study and that higher profi-
ciency will not be expected. Addi, for one, does not think English courses will get
harder:
The [presentations about] the movie and about London went well, so I don’t expect any
great change there.
School students’ belief in themselves as ‘being good at English’ seems to be
closely connected with their ability to understand television material and express
themselves informally. Hannes’ comment above suggests that young people per-
ceive English as a language used orally and informally. The following observations
show that television, movies, and computer games are seen as the main sources of
knowledge of English and that a lack of media input rather than a lack of application
in class weakens their proficiency:
I think that the main teaching of English goes on outside school, on the Internet. People
who aren’t on the Net much, they don’t learn English so well. (Unnar)
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
128
Some kids have played computer games a lot and got a basic knowledge there and in films
and so on, but I’ve always tended to be outside somewhere doing something that doesn’t
involve English at all, so I haven’t got that basic knowledge. (Daníel)
[I learned] an awful lot from television. You download everything now, so it doesn’t have
Icelandic subtitles. It’s all in English, then you have to listen, or with English subtitles.You
get an awful lot from that. (Jóhanna)
There are indications, however, that although these teenage participants initially
evaluate their English skills as very good, they do in fact have doubts about the
extent of their proficiency.
I would say [my English] is very good. If I say it myself, I would say that I speak pretty well
faultless English. To some extent, at any rate. (Unnar)
Of course I understand and speak English, but generally the big problem is writing English,
so I – but I am still terribly good at it. (Telma)
What seems to be the question here is what participants’ understanding of “being
good at English” is. In terms of colloquial language memorised from the media their
proficiency may be good but some aspects of English cannot be gained from watch-
ing television and playing computer games. Hannes comments that “at school I’ve
learnt more to write than to speak” while Telma values “learning new words…since
you basically know everything else, and it’s just words that you’re learning now.”
Similarly, although these participants consider their English speaking skills to be
good, some would like more speaking practice at school:
We need to do more discussions in English, to train us better. (Addi)
If it was like ‘You only speak English here’, I think that would work but I don’t because I
can get away with not speaking. We need to be made to. You don’t speak much English in
class. (Einar)
For the main part, older participants at university and in employment also believe
their English proficiency is good:
Of course I watch a lot of television, movies without subtitles and so on. It doesn’t make
any difference to me – I understand it all. (Tinna, in child care)
These participants have the confidence to speak English and are able to read and
write about any topics. They also recall doing well in English at secondary school
while expending little effort.
I didn’t work very hard, I have to admit. I think I actually did best in English as well. I didn’t
have to work very hard, I got quite high grades without having to be studying all the time.
(Lilja, in distribution)
The slight age difference brings the realisation that school has made a difference
and that English skills are not gained uniquely through activities outside school.
Snorri has gained the “self-confidence to communicate and just … not to be scared
of the language”. Learning formal register in English has empowered him in a way
that informal competence has not:
A. Jeeves
129
Just using English, knowing how to use a major language and having control of formal and
informal language, knowing how to write a formal letter, knowing how to express yourself
informally as well, but doing it right.
There is also a realisation at this age of the distinction between “knowing” English
and having gained language accuracy and precision:
I look back at things that I wrote when I was starting secondary school, things I thought
were good. What you see mainly is that the grammar was sometimes terrible. It was because
you hear so much, you watch movies and you listen to music and somehow it doesn’t
always get through to you how grammar works in English. It was really important that that
came slowly and surely. (Jakob, at university)
Actually I think that English teaching at secondary school helped me with spelling and
more difficult words, and perhaps grammar. But they weren’t really teaching you the lan-
guage - it was more like teaching Icelandic, teaching you to write correct English, rather
than teaching you the language. (Bjarki, at university)
As with the younger participants, it seems that however keen some participants
are to claim good proficiency in English, they may be measuring their skills against
a rather short yardstick. For Marta, a university student of health sciences, “being
good” at English does not mean knowing words but merely looking up words one
does not know:
I can read books and magazines and I can get by okay everywhere, but I’m no grammar
genius. I never was good at it, but I think I try hard. I try to look things up if I come across
something I haven’t seen. I would say I’m pretty good at English.
The limitations of being “pretty good” at English came home to Marta when, at a
language course in Washington, she realised that she was far weaker in grammar
proficiency than her fellow students from Asia:
I especially felt that the Asian kids knew all the grammar but had no vocabulary, so we were
kind of opposites. We could talk but they knew all the conjugations.
We also see that Bjarki puts less trust in his English proficiency than would
appear at the beginning of his interview when he claims that he can “read and write
just about anything in English”. As the interview progresses, his fears about having
to use English autonomously in postgraduate study abroad come to light. His com-
ments reveal not only his own lack of proficiency but also the importance of feed-
back given by teachers:
Almost all of what I’ve written in English has been informal, talking to people over the Net
on chat sites. I’ve always tried to write correctly, I use it as a chance to practise my English,
but of course the built-in spell-check programs are a problem. I’m a bit scared that actually
I’m losing my ability to write correct English, because of course in the English exams and
translations you did at secondary school you got a grade for spelling and so on, but now you
just have to write well enough for the computer to understand. And because I haven’t been
writing formal texts I haven’t been getting any comments about whether the language is
correct. No-one’s going to tell me off for making grammar mistakes when I write on the
Net.
Bjarki’s words bring to light the discrepancy between participants’ self-assessment
of their English skills, their actual uses of English and their likely uses after
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
130
secondary school. It seems that some young Icelanders may be “good at English”
only at a fairly basic level.
Some participants at university and in employment found English a hard subject
at school and are critical of their current English proficiency. Baldur, a skilled
worker in the car industry, acknowledges his poor proficiency when he says “I think
I can make myself understood” while Svava, who works in care, feels bitter that she
did not gain the English skills at school that she now needs for the further education
course she has embarked on. Lilja, who works in a warehouse, believes that students
do not realise how limited their knowledge is and regrets not having worked harder
at secondary school. She is talking here about the first, second and third English
courses at secondary school:
Kids don’t realise in 100 and 200 – they think they know it all.And then they’ve just scraped
through those courses, and then they go into 300 and it’s no longer possible to bluff your
way through it. If I was doing it again I’d work harder in 100 and 200, definitely 100%,
because in 300 I studied like I don’t know what because I knew that I wouldn’t pass without
studying. But just think if I’d worked harder in 100, 200, and not taken it for granted and
thought that I knew it, then I would have been even better in 300.
When asked whether their English proficiency has changed since they were at
compulsory school (that is, since the age of 16) most participants are aware of
improvements. Some say that learning new vocabulary has been valuable and that
they can express themselves better. For example, Soffía now notices the incorrect
language and slang used in movies and likes knowing “the old words…the difficult
words” that she learns at school. Being taught vocational vocabulary has been
essential to a participant who works in catering:
It’s relevant to the industry, so yes I think it would have made a huge difference if I hadn’t
taken these two English courses. Because then you would have to teach yourself. I would
never have been bothered to do it if I hadn’t taken these courses. (Freyr)
Participants find it both personally fulfilling and useful for tertiary study that
reading skills are honed at secondary school:
Once I had to read the page over and over again to understand what was happening properly.
… But when you get [good at reading] it’s such fun to read quickly and understand so
much. It’s like you don’t realise you’ve been reading an English book.
[Without secondary school English] I would understand less – it would take longer. You
wouldn’t be able to be in full-time study because it would take you such a long time to read.
Improved grammar and spelling accuracy is valued and would not have been gained
outside the school environment:
The thing is that actually I talk like characters on television talk, but I know English gram-
mar, that is, what we’ve been learning. So all the grammar part and things like that, it all
comes from school and all the rest comes from the television and films. (Dagný, in retail
trade)
You can be hard to understand if you don’t spell right, or decline words right, so that’s the
most useful [thing at school], to make you easier to understand. (Baldur, a skilled
tradesman)
A. Jeeves
131
Although the study centred on English and English studies in these young
Icelanders’ lives, it was interesting and rewarding to learn that English classes offer
much more than language proficiency. New friends are made, self-confidence is
gained and presentation skills are learned in English lessons:
What’s most fun is group work. Some people find it hard to make friends so they get to
make friends as well. (Birna, at school)
In an essay you’re learning so much. You’re learning sentences, you’re learning how to
pronounce words, how to pronounce sentences, and how to present yourself when you’re
reading the essay out.You have to learn to talk to the class without looking at your paper all
the time. Apart from learning English you’re also learning to face a crowd. (Magnús, in
information technology)
There are participants, however, who see the improvement in their skills at sec-
ondary school as negligible. Contemplating what they would have missed out on if
they had not done English at secondary school, Kolbeinn and Haraldur comment:
Based on how my generation uses the Internet and movies and all of that such a lot now, I
don’t think there would be any tremendous difference.
It wouldn’t have changed anything in how much English I know, because I didn’t learn
anything.
Four of the five male participants in employment mention secondary school English
tasks that they found useless, such as learning vocabulary lists (the words translated
by the teacher), writing a diary, and watching films. Whether discussion took place
in class about the purpose of these tasks is not known, but an interesting and con-
trasting comment is made by one of the weaker students of English (by his own
account) in the study. It seems likely that there is some truth in his evaluation of
young Icelanders’ English needs:
There’s no-one in secondary school that good that he doesn’t need to learn more, there’s
no-one at all I don’t think that good at English that he doesn’t need to learn more. You can
always improve.
5  Discussion
The data provide a wealth of information about the position of English in Iceland
and about young people’s attitudes towards the language both within and outside of
school. A wider range of uses for English than was expected is seen, among them
uses that participants did not anticipate. Comments in the data are characterised by
an unexpected depth of interest, awareness and criticism. Some participants’ ini-
tially-voiced satisfaction with their English proficiency is tempered by subsequent
hints about insecurity and less than perfect skills.
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
132
5.1  
Implications for Dörnyei’s Framework
In the Ideal L2 Self of Dörnyei’s framework (Dörnyei 2009a, b) learners foresee
themselves using the target language in the future. Indeed, they may belong to a
linguistic environment in which the target language plays little part outside the
classroom. However, there are several reasons why school learners of English in
Iceland fall outside this paradigm.
Firstly, because Icelandic youngsters use receptive English skills (for example,
watching television) from childhood, their self-image as language users is already
present – knowing English is simply taken for granted. Participants’ confidence in
their present English language abilities may be another reason why envisaging
higher language skills in the future is alien to them. Those school participants who
expect to continue using English only for entertainment, computer use and travel in
the future and who experience confidence in these areas feel no need to improve
their English. However, this may form part of a general self-confidence among
Icelandic children and teenagers rather than being purely foreign-language based.
Thirdly, although some participants in the study do foresee themselves using
English in different ways in the future (for example reading university textbooks,
living abroad, or attending conferences), they may be looking forward to a new
phase of life as a university student, an immigrant in a new country, or a research
scientist rather than a new identity as a highly-proficient second language learner.
They may also not foresee the challenges that these different uses will entail.
An Ought-to L2 Self is present among young Icelanders. Young Icelanders feel
under an obligation to know English for computer use, travel and communication
with foreigners in Iceland, as well as to be of support to older Icelanders who have
more rudimentary English skills. On the other hand, in Iceland, parents and family
do not appear to pressurise young people to get high grades in English. The Ought-to
L2 Self also touches on participants’ anxiety about appearing foolish. The possibil-
ity of being ridiculed for making language mistakes worries young Icelanders, as
does not meeting up to their own expectations. This is summed up in Bjarki’s disap-
pointment at not understanding foreign loan phrases in his university textbook that
“the author obviously assumes the reader will understand”.
The third element of the L2 Motivational Self System is concerned with the expe-
rience of language learning. Clearly more research is needed into classroom learn-
ing of English in Iceland and into Icelanders’ uses and needs of English. Qualitative
research into motivation in the classroom is able to take the person-in-­
context
(Ushioda 2009, 2011) into account. There are young Icelanders whose extramural
activities do not require a knowledge of English and also those whose English skills
are not good. There are learners who attain grades they find acceptable with little
effort. This leads to learning English at secondary school not being the challenging
and enjoyable experience it should be if every individual is to make progress.
It seems that some students are not being prepared for using English in employ-
ment or further education after school (although they may write essays at school).
Generally speaking, for Icelanders learning English at secondary school, Dörnyei’s
A. Jeeves
133
“experience of success” (Dörnyei 2009a, p. 29) seems to be limited to expressing
superficial ideas and feelings in an informal register, the register which young
Icelanders are well accustomed to. Few of the participants in the study have experi-
ence in using a more formal register of English outside school and those that do find
the academic register that was taught at secondary school a valuable bonus.
Thus data suggest strongly that Iceland stands outside the perimeters of the pres-
ent L2 Motivational Self System, particularly with regard to the Ideal L2 Self. It is
likely that research carried out in contexts with extensive exposure to English, such
as the Scandinavian and some Northern European countries, would reach similar
conclusions and that the findings discussed here are transferable.
The adapted framework below aims to encompass Dörnyei’s framework within
the construct of relevance, with the Ideal and Ought-to L2 Selves and the L2
Learning Experience all inter-connected. Participant observations are classified
according to whether they concern feelings about English or learning or using
English.
RELEVANCE
L2 Learning Experience
Ideal L2 Self Ought-to L2 Self
fun responsibility
autonomy
Affective Self
security self-esteem
boredom
the four skills
world knowledge
Cognitive Self
learning and social skills
nothing learned
European
Language
Portfolio
Larsen-Freeman
(2008; 2011)
Complexity
Theory
Higgins
(2000;2005)
Regulatory Fit
Yashima (2002)
International
Posture
Krumboltz (2009)
Happenstance
Learning Theory
Sperber & Wilson
(1986/1995)
Relevance
Theory
Ushioda (2009)
Person-in-
Context
entertainment friends travel
work information-gathering study
Interactive Self
independence self-evaluation national
identity
no uses of English
Representation of the L2 Motivational Self System adapted for
Scandinavia/Northern Europe, with the construct of relevance
5.2  
Implications for Learning and Teaching English in a New
Linguistic Environment
That English plays an important part in the lives of young Icelanders is supported by
the study. The variety of ways in which English is used far surpassed expectations
at the outset of the study. English is necessary for talking to friends and family in
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
134
Iceland and abroad; at work for general communication with non-Icelandic speak-
ing co-workers or within specific domains; for reading study material and for recre-
ational reading. However, attending classes in English between the ages of 16 and
20 is considered more valuable than participants’ beliefs about their English profi-
ciency might suggest. Several factors concerning learning and teaching will be
addressed below.
Firstly, it is necessary to bear in mind that for Icelanders in their late teens and
early twenties, English is inextricably bound up with entertainment. English may be
a major language used in commerce and politics but for present-day Icelanders it is
the language of movies, television shows and social media. The result is that English
is associated with using colloquial language and having fun, and means that young
people have a comfortable view of themselves as second-language users from an
early age. Even participants’ comments on what was missing from school study of
English (for example, speaking practice, vocabulary, practical skills for the future)
do not seem to detract from their overall positive perception of their ability.
In Iceland (and in other rich input situations) there is thus a link between class-
room study, entertainment and high self-esteem. Some students complete simple
tasks they feel little anxiety about, achieve grades they are content with and expend
little effort, and their self-assessment of proficiency shows that they believe there is
little lacking in their language skills. We see here, for example, that rather than work
harder Rósa’s class persuaded their teacher to reduce the amount of reading material
on the course:
The teacher expected too much from us. But we pointed it out to her and she took one book
off the list. Because of course she saw that we couldn’t read so terribly fast. (Rósa, at
university)
The fact that obtaining school matriculation is sufficient for entry to an Icelandic
university (for most, but not all, courses) and that unemployment is low in Iceland
may mean that there is little pressure to attain top grades at school in any subjects.
However, it is interesting to contemplate whether students anticipate being “pro-
fessionally successful” (Dörnyei 2010, p. 79) in English and whether they realise
what level of proficiency may be expected in tertiary study and employment. Study
data show that some young Icelanders do have reservations about their grammar and
writing skills (Jeeves 2012, 2015). That some believe that written accuracy at uni-
versity will not be required (Jeeves 2012) or that university textbooks will be in
Icelandic may explain why they do not make use of English instruction at secondary
school to improve their proficiency.
This being said, some participants do want teachers at secondary school to make
demands and to cover higher-level skills that younger students do not have the
maturity to learn:
We’re finishing English now. We just need to work systematically; just make us talk and
read difficult texts. (Daníel, at school)
I finally managed to stand in front of the class and [do a presentation] in English. The
teacher was always tough on us, “Just go and do it”, and I really needed that and somehow
I was able to get over my fear of speaking English in front of the class and I did really well
in that class. (Elsa, at school)
A. Jeeves
135
There are things that you really can’t learn in primary school either, like looking at grammar
or starting to read some sort of literature classics. (Jakob, in information technology)
Study data show that attitudes towards English, as well as perceptions of profi-
ciency and needs, change over time. Almost all the participants at university and in
employment have extended their uses of English in ways they did not anticipate
when they were at school. It is important that young people are helped to understand
that their English needs may well change in the future, that their reading in English
may move into different contexts and that they may need to write in different regis-
ters. They need to be helped to understand why certain classroom tasks will benefit
them even though their value may not be obvious at first sight. It is undergraduate
students and young people in employment who have high-level language needs in
English and who find themselves in situations where a good use of English increases
their credibility, as Jakob points out:
In order to sound rather serious, like where I’m working now, it’s important to write well.
Finally, what students of English at secondary school want is more choice of
classroom tasks. The wide range of interests of participants is ever-present in the
data collected and being allowed to find their own point of departure, their own
relevance, within what is a compulsory school subject could make an enormous dif-
ference to their learning gains.
I turn now to the implications of the study for teaching English in Iceland. Since
data collection did not include specific questions about teaching materials or meth-
ods and since no teachers were interviewed for the study, the suggestions for teach-
ing discussed here are inferred from participants’ comments. Further research into
English learning and teaching from the perspective of teachers would be necessary
to give a more complete picture.
It may be that young Icelanders use English in their day-to-day life as much or
even more than their teachers, who perhaps have less free time for watching televi-
sion and using social media. Bearing this in mind, teachers of English in Iceland
need to recognise their students’ good colloquial and receptive skills and emphasise
teaching useful formal and productive language skills which can be learned in the
classroom.
Although students can “get by” with superficial skills in English as a result of
general exposure, their self-confidence increases with the ability to perform in more
demanding situations. As Birna says, school English has given her “more ways of
saying what I want to get across”. The importance of linking present and future
relevance with language study and proficiency has already been pointed out (Council
of Europe 2001). Students of English in Iceland are expected to attain the profi-
ciency Dörnyei links with “international holidays” (Dörnyei 2009a, p. 34) by the
end of compulsory schooling at 16 years of age. The English language skills needed
in employment or for tertiary study are far higher, and English medium teaching is
becoming increasingly widespread (Coleman 2006). However, there is little evi-
dence to suggest that participants fully appreciate the full implications of using
English in employment or for further study. Teachers clearly need to take into
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
136
account that one of their tasks is to help students see the value of proficiency over
and above a basic, threshold level. They must do their best to provide students with
material of diverse content and register and to set challenging tasks that encourage
development of productive language skills and progress from B2 (e.g. “read with a
large degree of independence”) to C1 level (e.g. “understand in detail lengthy, com-
plex texts”) (Council of Europe 2001, p. 69). Class discussions about the range of
Icelanders’ needs for English might build up more understanding of why demand-
ing reading texts or lengthy essays form part of the curriculum. This type of study
and reflection, with its emphasis on metacognitive skills and on preparation for
university study and employment, would be well suited to students’ final year at
secondary school.
Teachers also need to make use of learners’ extramural exposure to English and
their interest in and enjoyment of the language so that students can make connec-
tions between their in-school and out-of-school language learning. With more indi-
vidual choice in school work, autonomous learning and support of skills relevant to
students’ future needs, English at secondary school in Iceland can become more
focused.
A further matter of concern is that some students evidently lack the experience
of success in classroom study. The experience of some students is that teachers
award grades for general ability (possibly gained from the media) rather than for
study material, meaning that those who do not use English outside school are at a
disadvantage regardless of how hard they work at classroom tasks. If this bias is
true, it needs to be addressed by teachers.
Writing about the English needs of post-graduate students in Sweden, Pamela
Vang comments, “We are expected to encourage our students to “learn for life”. It is
the duty of teachers to empower students and to help them not only to have some-
thing to say, but … say it in such a way that they will be believed and respected.”
(Vang 2013, p. 180). This observation harks back to participants’ comments about
credibility. It also points out the parallels between English language needs in
Scandinavia and Iceland.
6  Conclusion
This chapter has shown how important Iceland is as a new research context. Icelandic
learners of English at post-compulsory level and young people at university and in
employment find themselves in a language environment different from that of some
European countries where Dörnyei’s framework has been researched. We have also
seen great diversity in Icelanders’ perceptions of their study of and proficiency in
English. What stands out is their belief that they are good at English and yet, at the
same time, their frankness in admitting weaknesses when probed. The proficiency
level of English needed in a range of employment situations is higher and the skills
themselves more diverse than participants expected. It has previously been noted
A. Jeeves
137
that some Icelandic university students have difficulties understanding English-­
language material and instruction despite perceiving their English skills as satisfac-
tory (Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2010). It is clear that the English skills
taught at school are necessary to young Icelanders and cannot be gained solely from
watching television.
In this study we see the interesting situation of English learners in a country
where exposure to English is great and where children grow up hearing and using
English. This near-bilingual environment contrasts with the more traditional EFL
context of countries such as Hungary, where Dörnyei developed the L2 Motivational
Self System (Dörnyei 2005) and where English is learned at school and with limited
contact with English speakers (Dörnyei 2009a; Kormos and Csizér 2008). For this
reason, a new adapted framework is presented that takes into account the context of
Iceland and could be extended to include other Scandinavian and Northern European
countries.
The findings are relevant in the wider context of other Northern European coun-
tries with extensive exposure to English and where good English skills are expected
in study and employment situations. For example, Hellekjær has found that both
Norwegian and German students studying through English-medium instruction
encounter unexpected difficulties understanding lectures, with understanding
vocabulary and taking notes being particularly problematic (Hellekjær 2010).
Neither is English proficiency in Norway adequate for business situations and,
although communication skills may be emphasised during learning, advanced pro-
ficiency is lacking:
The present study of business use of and need for English clearly shows that educated pro-
fessionals need improved English proficiency to function in an increasingly international
workplace. (Hellekjær 2012, p. 17)
Similarly, the European Commission’s report points out a dichotomy between
receptive listening skills and productive writing skills among Swedish learners of
English, where 91% of students achieve level B (“independent users”) in listening
but only 75% in writing (European Commission 2012). By contrast, in Spain,
despite figures being lower, there is less discrepancy between skills, with 24%
attaining level B in listening and 29% in writing.
It is evident that qualitative research of the kind reported here provides valuable
knowledge about young people’s perceptions of how they learn and use English.
Attitudes towards English clearly change over time, as do young people’s percep-
tions of their language proficiency and needs. English-language learning in Iceland
can be seen as a dynamic process, forever shifting as skills and uses develop and
change, or in the words of Larsen-Freeman, “there is no target language: it’s always
moving” (Larsen-Freeman 2011). What is equally striking are the personal aspects
of learning English and the different forms that relevance of English has for young
people in Iceland. It is these personal connections with the language that can give
the study of English value and purpose in the eyes of school students. What students
would also do well to grasp is that English will always present new challenges as
their uses of the language will inevitably change over time. Teachers of English
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
138
must accept the task of preparing students to cope with unforeseen language situa-
tions involving a wide range of English registers and specialised vocabulary.
References
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2007). English in Iceland: Second language, foreign language, or neither?
In B. Arnbjörnsdóttir & H. Ingvarsdóttir (Eds.), Teaching and learning English in Iceland: In
honour of Auður Torfadóttir (pp. 51–78). Reykjavík: Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2009). Enska í háskólanámi. In R. Þráinsdóttir & M. Sigurðsson (Eds.), Milli
mála (pp. 77–94). Reykjavík: Háskólaútgáfan/Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2011). Exposure to English in Iceland: A Quantitative and Qualitative Study.
Ráðstefnurit Netlu – Menntakvika 1–10. http://netla.hi.is/menntakvika2011/004.pdf
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2010). Coping with English at University: Students’
Beliefs. Ráðstefnurit Netlu – Menntakvika 1–16. http://netla.khi.is/menntakvika2010/008.pdf
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2012). English in Iceland: Using Two Languages in
Academia. Paper presented at the Hugvísindaþing Reykjavík 9–10 March.
Berman, R. (2007). Transfer of writing skills between languages. In B.  Arnbjörnsdóttir &
H.  Ingvarsdóttir (Eds.), Teaching and learning English in Iceland: In honour of Auður
Torfadóttir (pp. 79–100). Reykjavík: Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur.
Björkman, B. (2008). ‘So where we are?’ Spoken lingua franca English at a technical university in
Sweden. English Today, 94(2), 35–41.
Bogdan, R. C., & Biklen, S. K. (2003). Qualitative research for education: An introduction to
theories and methods (4th ed.). Boston: Pearson.
Brown, J. D. (2001). Using surveys in language programs. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Charmaz, K. (2006). Constructing grounded theory: A practical guide through qualitative analy-
sis. London: Sage.
Coleman, J.  A. (2006). English-medium teaching in European higher education. Language
Teaching, 39(1), 1–14.
Cook, V. (2008). Second language learning and language teaching (4th ed.). London: Hodder
Education.
Council of Europe. (2001). Common European framework of reference for languages: Learning,
teaching, assessment. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Creswell, J. W. (2007). Qualitative inquiry and research design: Choosing among five approaches
(2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Csizér, K., & Kormos, J. (2009). Learning experiences, selves and motivated learning behaviour:
A comparative analysis of structural models for Hungarian secondary and university learners
of English. In Z. Dörnyei & E. Ushioda (Eds.), Motivation, language identity and the L2 self
(pp. 98–119). Bristol: Multilingual Matters.
de Paiva, B. M. M., & Foster-Cohen, S. H. (2004). Exploring the relationships between theo-
ries of second language acquisition and relevance theory. Second Language Research, 20(3),
281–288.
Dörnyei, Z. (2005). The psychology of the language learner: Individual differences in second lan-
guage acquisition. Mahwah: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Dörnyei, Z. (2009a). The L2 motivational self system. In Z.  Dörnyei & E.  Ushioda (Eds.),
Motivation, language identity and the L2 self (pp. 9–42). Bristol: Multilingual Matters.
Dörnyei, Z. (2009b). The psychology of second language acquisition. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
A. Jeeves
139
Dörnyei, Z. (2010). Researching motivation: From integrativeness to the ideal L2 self. In S. Hunston
& D. Oakey (Eds.), Introducing applied linguistics: Concepts and skills (pp. 74–83). London:
Routledge.
Dörnyei, Z., & Skehan, P. (2003). Individual differences in second language learning. In C. J.
Doughty & M. H. Long (Eds.), The handbook of second language acquisition (pp. 589–630).
Oxford: Blackwell.
Dörnyei, Z., & Ushioda, E. (2011). Teaching and researching motivation (2nd ed.). Harlow:
Pearson Education Limited.
European Commission. (2012). First European survey on language competences – Final report.
http://ec.europa.eu/languages/policy/strategic-framework/documents/language-survey-final-
report_en.pdf. Accessed 23April 2016.
Foster-Cohen, S. H. (2004). Relevance theory, action theory and second language communication
strategies. Second Language Research, 20(3), 289–302.
Gardner, R. C. (1960). Motivational variables in second-language acquisition. Ph.D., McGill,
Montreal. http://publish.uwo.ca/~gardner/docs/phd.pdf. Accessed 1 July 2011.
Gardner, R. C., & Lambert, W. E. (1959). Motivational variables in second-language acquisition.
Canadian Journal of Psychology, 13(4), 266–272. https://doi.org/10.1037/h0083787.
Gardner, R. C., & Lambert, W. E. (1965). Language aptitude, intelligence and second-language
achievement. Journal of Educational Psychology, 56(4), 191–199.
Gardner, R. C., & Lambert, W. E. (1972). Attitudes and motivation in second-language learning.
Rowley: Newbury House.
Giorgi, A. (1997). The theory, practice, and evaluation of the phenomenological method as a quali-
tative research. Journal of Phenomenological Psychology, 28(2), 235. http://search.ebscohost.
com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=67720&site=ehost-live. Accessed 5 April 2010.
Glaser, B. G., & Strauss, A. L. (1967). The discovery of grounded theory: Strategies for qualitative
research. Chicago: Aldine.
Hayes, D. P. (2006). A Spectrum of natural texts: Measurements of their lexical demand levels.
Ithaca: Department of Sociology, Cornell University.
Hellekjær, G. O. (2010). Lecture comprehension in English-Medium Higher Education. Hermes –
Journal of Language and Communication Studies, 45, 11–34. http://download2.hermes.asb.dk/
archive/download/Hermes-45-hellekj%C3%A6r.pdf. Accessed 5 April 2013.
Hellekjær, G. O. (2012). A survey of English use and needs in Norwegian export firms. Hermes –
Journal of Language and. Communication Studies, 28, 7–18.
Henry, A., & Apelgren, B. M. (2008). Young learners and multilingualism: A study of learner atti-
tudes before and after the introduction of a second foreign language to the curriculum. System,
36(4), 607–623.
Henry, A., & Goddard, A. (2015). Bicultural or hybrid? The second language identities of stu-
dents on an English-mediated university program in Sweden. Journal of Language, Identity &
Education, 14(4), 255–274.
Higgins, E. T. (1987). Self-discrepancy: A theory relating self and affect. Psychological Review,
94(3), 319–340.
Higgins, E. T. (2005). Value from regulatory fit. Current Directions in Psychological Science,
14(4), 209–213.
Hilmarsson-Dunn, A. (2009). The impact of English on language education policy in Iceland.
European Journal of Language Policy, 1(1), 39–59.
Hjørland, B. (2010). The foundation of the concept of relevance. Journal of the American Society
for Information Science and Technology, 61(2), 217–237.
Hjørland, B., & Sejer Christensen, F. (2002). Work tasks and socio-cognitive relevance: A specific
example. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, 53(11),
960–965.
Horwitz, E. K., Horwitz, M. B., & Cope, J. (1986). Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety. The
Modern Language Journal, 70(2), 125–132. http://www.jstor.org/stable/327317 Accessed 18
May 2013.
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
140
Icelandic Ministry of Education. (2012). The Icelandic national curriculum guide for upper sec-
ondary school: general section: 2012. Reykjavík: Ministry of Education, Science and Culture.
http://eng.menntamalaraduneyti.is/publications/curriculum/. Accessed 1 Sept 2013.
Jeeves, A. (2010). English at secondary school: Perceptions of relevance. Ráðstefnurit Netlu –
Menntakvika 2010, 1–16. http://netla.khi.is/menntakvika2010/002.pdf. Accessed 28 Jan 2011.
Jeeves, A. (2012). “Being able to speak English is one thing, knowing how to write it is another”:
Young Icelanders’ perceptions of writing in English. Netla – Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun,
1–18. http://netla.hi.is/greinar/2012/ryn/012.pdf. Accessed 10 Nov 2012.
Jeeves, A. (2013). Relevance and the L2 self in the context of Icelandic secondary school learners:
Learner views. Reykjavík: Ph.D., University of Iceland. http://hdl.Handle.Net/1946/16755.
Accessed 22 Oct 2013.
Jeeves, A. (2014). The relevance of English language learning in a changing linguistic environ-
ment in Iceland: The L2 self of young Icelanders. Multilingua - Journal of Cross-Cultural and
Interlanguage Communication, 33(3–4), 267–290. https://doi.org/10.1515/multi-2014-0013.
Jeeves, A. (2015). Learning English in contemporary Iceland – The attitudes and perceptions of
Icelandic youth. In A. R. Linn, N. Bermel, & G. Ferguson (Eds.), Attitudes towards English in
Europe (pp. 271–295). Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Johnson, L. S. (2000). The relevance of school to career: A study in student awareness. Journal of
Career Development, 26(4), 263–276.
Kember, D., Ho, A. H., & Hong, C. (2008). The importance of establishing relevance in moti-
vating student learning. Active Learning in Higher Education, 9, 249–263. https://doi.
org/10.1177/1469787408095849.
Kormos, J., & Csizér, K. (2008). Age-related differences in the motivation of learning English as
a foreign language: Attitudes, selves, and motivated learning behavior. Language Learning,
58(2), 327–355.
Kvale, S., & Brinkmann, S. (2009). InterViews: Learning the craft of qualitative research inter-
viewing (2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Larsen-Freeman, D. (2011). Chaos/complexity theory: The boundlessness of potentiality. Paper
presented at the Nordand 10 Konference om Nordens sprog some andet- og fremmedsprof,
Reykjavík.
Little, D. (2004). Democracy, discourse and learner autonomy in the foreign language classroom.
Utbildning & Demokrati, 13, 105–126.
Little, D. (2006). The common European framework of reference for languages: Content, purpose,
origin, reception and impact. Language Teaching, 39, 167–190.
Markus, H., & Nurius, P. (1986). Possible Selves. American Psychologist, 41(9), 954–969.
Mercer, S. (2011). Towards an Understanding of Language Learner Self-Concept. Dordrecht:
Springer.
Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary. (2016). http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/rel-
evance. Accessed 20 Feb 16.
Miles, M. B., & Huberman, A. M. (1994). Qualitative data analysis: An expanded sourcebook
(2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Miller, R. B., & Brickman, S. J. (2004). A model of future-oriented motivation and self-regulation.
Educational Psychology Review, 16(1), 9–33.
Norton, B. (2001). Non-participation, imagined communities and the language classroom. In M. P.
Breen (Ed.), Learner contributions to language learning. New directions in research (pp. 159–
171). Harlow: Longman.
Ómarsson, I.  H. (2016). Education chat on language technology. http://ingvihrannar.com/
menntaspjall-um-maltaekni/. Accessed 24 April 16.
Petzold, R., & Berns, M. (2000). Catching up with Europe: English in Hungary. World Englishes,
19(1): 113–124. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/1467-971X.00159/pdf. Accessed
26 April 2013.
Pitkänen-Huhta, A., & Nikula, T. (2013). Teenagers making sense of their foreign language prac-
tices: Individual accounts indexing social discourses. In P. Benson & L. Cooker (Eds.), The
A. Jeeves
141
applied linguistic individual: Sociocultural approaches to identity, agency and autonomy
(pp. 104–118). Sheffield: Equinox Publishing Ltd..
Polkinghorne, D.  E. (2005). Language and meaning: Data collection in qualitative research.
Journal of Counseling Psychology, 52(2), 137–145.
Reid, K., Flowers, P., & Larkin, M. (2005). Exploring lived experience. The Psychologist, 18(1):
20–23. The IPA website: www.psyc.bbk.ac.uk/ipa Accessed 20 Feb 12.
Rindal, U. (2010). Constructing identity with L2: Pronunciation and attitudes among Norwegian
learners of English. Journal of SocioLinguistics, 14(2), 240–261.
Rindal, U., & Piercy, C. (2013). Being ‘neutral’? English pronunciation among Norwegian learn-
ers. World Englishes, 32(2), 211–229.
Robson, C. (2002). Real world research: A resource for social scientists and practitioner-­
researchers (2nd ed.). Oxford: Blackwell.
Rodgers, M. P. H., & Webb, S. (2011). Narrow viewing: The vocabulary in related television pro-
grams. TESOL Quarterly, 45(4), 689–717. https://doi.org/10.5054/tq.2011.268062.
Saracevic, T. (1975). Relevance: A review of and a framework for the thinking on the notion in
information science. Journal of the American Society for Information Science, 26(6), 321–343.
Sigurðardóttir, G. (2007). The development of form and function of conjunctive relations in
expository writing. In B. Arnbjörnsdóttir & H. Ingvarsdóttir (Eds.), Teaching and learning
English in Iceland: In honour of Auður Torfadóttir (pp. 101–132). Reykjavík: Stofnun Vigdísar
Finnbogadóttur.
Skehan, P. (1997). Individual differences in second-language learning. London: Arnold.
Smith, J. A., Flowers, P., & Larkin, M. (2009). Interpretative phenomenological analysis: Theory,
methods and research. Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Serber, D., & Wilson, D. (1995). Relevance: Communication and cognition. Oxford: Blackwell.
Strauss, A. L., & Corbin, J. (1990). Basics of qualitative research: Grounded theory procedures
and techniques. Newbury Park: Sage.
Sundqvist, P., & Olin-Scheller, C. (2013). Classroom vs. extramural English: Teachers dealing
with demotivation. Language and Linguistics Compass, 7(6), 329–338.
Sundqvist, P., & Sylvén, L.  K. (2014). Language-related computer use: Focus on young L2
English learners in Sweden. ReCALL European Association for. Computer Assisted Language
Learning, 26(1), 3–20. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0958344013000232.
Torfadóttir, A. (1991). Könnun á lesskilningi meðal 1. árs nema í Kennaraháskóla Íslands vorið
1990. Málfríður: Tímarít samtaka tungumálakennara, 7(1)
Torfadóttir, A. (2003). Könnun á orðaforða í ensku. Uppeldi og menntun, 12, 65–77.
Trochim, W.  M. K. (2006). Qualitative Validity. Retrieved from http://www.socialresearch-
methods.net/kb/qualval.php
Ushioda, E. (2009). A person-in-context relational view of emergent motivation, self and identity.
In Z. Dörnyei & E. Ushioda (Eds.), Motivation, language identity and the L2 self (pp. 215–
228). Bristol: Multilingual Matters.
Ushioda, E. (2011). Motivating learners to speak as themselves. In G. Murray, X. A. Gao, &
T. Lamb (Eds.), Identity, motivation and autonomy in language learning (pp. 11–24). Bristol:
Multilingual Matters.
Vang, P. (2013). Motivating English language study among Master’s students: The case for sum-
mary writing. Nordic Journal of English Studies, 13(1), 163–186.
Webb, S., & Rodgers, M. P. H. (2009). Vocabulary demands of television programs. Language
Learning, 59(2), 335–366. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9922.2009.00509.x.
Yang, J.-S., & Kim, T.-Y. (2011). The L2 motivational self-system and perceptual learning styles
of Chinese, Japanese, Korean, and Swedish students. English Teaching, 66(1), 141–162.
Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School
143
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir, H. Ingvarsdóttir (eds.), Language Development across the Life Span,
Educational Linguistics 34, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67804-7_8
Using English at University
Birna Arnbjörnsdóttir
Abstract  The purpose of the study presented here is to explore how Icelandic stu-
dents cope with using English at their national university where over 90% of text-
books are written for native speakers of English. The views of over one thousand
Icelandic university students were elicited on how using English affects their stud-
ies, especially their ability to comprehend their textbooks. Data on students’ views
were collected through electronic surveys of all students at the University of Iceland.
The study asked: (1) to what extent do students perceive that they are prepared to
meet the demands of reading textbooks written in English, (2) what effect this has
on the quality of their academic work. The student surveys reveal that even though
most students express confidence in their English skills and believe that they are
prepared to study the curriculum in English, once probed, they say that working
with two languages increases workload. They also employ various strategies to
overcome the linguistic constraints posed by English textbooks. The results suggest
that at least a third of students struggle with English. This indicates a disconnect
between instruction and assessment in secondary school which leads to over confi-
dence in their English skills by the students themselves, and a disconnect between
the curriculum the actual functions English serves at university.
1  English in Academia
The previous chapters in this book describe the presence of English in the lives of
Icelanders at school and extramurally. The omnipresence of English in Iceland,
especially in the lives of children and adolescents contrasts with the official status
of English as a foreign language. This chapter examines how the outcomes of the
extramural and formal English learning of Icelandic youth serve students while per-
forming the educational functions that require the use of English in supposedly
monolingual Iceland. Since this phenomenon parallels the language situations in all
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir (*)
University of Iceland, Reykjavík, Iceland
e-mail: birnaarn@hi.is
144
of the Nordic countries, the chapter begins by presenting the common challenges
faced by Nordic university students with regard to use of academic English.
The fastest growth of internationalization of the tertiary level has been in
Northern Europe, especially in the Nordic countries. This is seen in a proliferation
of courses and study programs that have English as a Medium of Instruction (EMI).
In Denmark the increase is over 70% in Denmark over the last few years (Wächter
and Maiworm 2015, p. 38). Most of these EMI programs are attended by local stu-
dents. Nordic university language policies presuppose that students are prepared for
studies in English and many have an explicit goal to increase EMI programs
(Hultgren et al. 2014). Additionally, the heavy reliance on foreign language texts is
a tradition in the Nordic countries where publishing textbooks in the local language
may be financially prohibitive. Thus Nordic university students are expected to use
textbooks written in English and increasingly pursue their studies in English
medium courses despite the fact that their previous academic training has been in
their L1. This is an expectation that is not associated with native speakers of English,
at least in the USA, where most university students take courses in academic liter-
acy in their first year of university. A scientific research field has developed around
this practice. Studies in Composition and Rhetoric in the United States center on the
manifold issues associated with the teaching and learning of academic literacy by
native speakers of English.
Studies on the effect of the use of English as a Medium of Instruction (EMI) on
academic study in non English speaking countries are beginning to appear. Smith
(2004) concluded that many university students in Europe who are required to use
English in their studies have “inadequate language skills“, and that there is a need
for indigenous staff and students to meet the challenges of using English (p. 7).
Studies in Holland on the effect of English on the quality of instruction and educa-
tional outcomes have been inconclusive. Some studies have demonstrated poorer
student achievement in EMI courses as opposed to courses taught in the native lan-
guage (Vinke et al. 1998). Secru (2004: 547 cited in Coleman 2006, p. 10) claims,
based on “substantial evidence”, that the consequences of English language use are
“a decrease in the quality of teaching and the students’ overall learning results and
an increase in study/teaching loads” These findings are contradicted by others which
suggest that EMI programs increase the general prestige of the institution through
greater participation in international research and education, facilitate student and
teacher mobility, and that English medium programs seem generally well received
by students (Coleman 2006; Wilkinson 2005). As Wilkinson (2005) puts it “any
language deficiencies in programmes are not reflected in overall ratings” (p. 1).
The instrumental motivation for taking part in English medium courses seems to
outweigh any doubt about how studying in a second language affects the mastery of
the content. The question as to whether the use of English as a Medium of Instruction
has a detrimental effect on academic achievement remains unresolved. So too is the
effect of the reliance on foreign language texts on learning, a long standing tradition
in smaller countries where publishing textbooks in the local language is impractical
and financially prohibitive (Brock-Utne 2001; Ljösland 2007, 2008; Haastrup 2008;
Björkman 2008, 2010). It seems to have been taken for granted through the years
that Nordic students are able to access academic texts in foreign languages without
specific assistance.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
145
The Nordic secondary scool system seems to lag behind in efforts to adeqately
prepare students for academic study in English. Multiple studies report that many
Nordic students find using English at university problematic (Arnbjörnsdóttir and
Ingvarsdóttir 2015; Pecorari et al. 2011; Hellekjær 2009). English education has not
kept up with the changing role of English in the Nordic countries and the same is
true for Iceland. New research is emerging indicating that the demands for radical
changes in the emphasis of teaching and learning English in Nordic schools are not
being met. Ranta (2010) investigated the views of teachers and students in second-
ary schools in Finland and she found that Finnish students and teachers are well
aware of the lingua franca role of English in the ‘real world’. However, the native
speaker model is still prevalent and teachers are not fully aware of the consequences
for classroom practices. Hellekjær and Westergaard (2003) found that in Norway
“language seems to constrain teaching and instructional methods” (p. 1) (see also
Wilkinson 2005; Hellekjær 2005).
Hellekjær’s pioneering studies amongst Norwegian secondary school students
have shown a lack of proficiency in English academic vocabulary and understand-
ing of academic texts (Hellekjær 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010). His main conclusion is
that “the current Norwegian complacency about the quality of upper secondary
English as a foreign language (EFL) instruction as preparation for higher education,
or for occupational purposes, is unmerited” (Hellekjær 2008: 15). He argues that
serious changes in teaching practices and learning objectives as well as in examina-
tions and testing are called for (Hellekjær 2008). Hellekjær also claims that EFL
instruction at the lower secondary schools has to give far higher priority to reading
other material outside the “perennial EFL textbooks” and he calls for instruction in
literacy and learning strategies (Hellekjær 2008). The recent work of Rindal (2015)
and Brevik (2015) support Hellekjær’s conclusions. Studies from other Nordic
countries support the Norwegian findings including; Ljösland 2008; Pecorari et al.
(2012); Swerts and Westbrook (2013). The same is true for Iceland.
Jeeves’ Icelandic young adult interviewees reported in her chapter  (“Perceptions
of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School”, this volume), in and out-
side of educational contexts, report that while they enjoyed reading literature and
expanding their vocabulary, the general consensus was that secondary school
English studies did not add much to what they had already learned outside of school.
Although some students reported that school was the place where they learned to
write correct English, it is clear that students’ receptive English skills are enhanced
at secondary school with little opportunity for expression, oral or written (Jeeves
2013). These perceptions are borne out in Pétursdóttir’s (2013) study that measured
secondary school students’ lexical proficiency. She found that students’ receptive
vocabulary far exceeded their productive capabilities and that productive lexical
knowledge varied greatly among students. Icelandic teachers in both lower and
upper secondary school acknowledge the increased importance of English but a
response to the new context has been slow to emerge (Ingvarsdóttir 2010, 2011).
Ingvarsdóttir suggests that instructional emphases enhance the English proficiency
of Icelandic school already attained extramurally (see also Prinz andArnbjörnsdóttir
2014; Jóhannsdóttir’s chapter “English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the
Using English at University
146
Onset of English Instruction”, this volume; Edgarsson’s chapter “Academic
Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic Secondary
School Students”, this volume). English as a school subject does little to expand the
English proficiency children already have attained outside of school. The findings
have significant consequences for academic work at the tertiary level where most
textbooks are written for native speakers of English and more and more programs
adopt English as a Medium of Instruction.
2  
English at Icelandic Universities
The linguistic changes occurring at tertiary level in the Nordic countries are also
found at Icelandic universities. Icelandic language and educational policies have not
kept up with the rapid growth in English use. Nor has the secondary education sys-
tem which is guided by National Curriculum Guides that do not reflect the linguistic
reality of Icelandic youth. Studies reported in this volume attest to this
(Arnbjörnsdóttir’s chapter “English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland”, this
volume; Jóhannsdóttir’s chapter “English Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at
the Onset of English Instruction”, this volume; Edgarsson’s chapter  “Academic
Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic Secondary
School Students”, this volume; Jeeves’ chapter  “Perceptions of Relevance of
English Education at Secondary School”, this volume).
The official language policy is that Icelandic is the national language of Iceland
and that it is the government’s role to ensure that Icelandic is used at all levels of
society for all purposes (art. 2). Article 8 of the policy further declares that Icelandic
is the language of education at all levels (Lög um stöðu íslenskrar tungu og íslensks
táknmáls). The language policy of the national University of Iceland, Háskóli
Íslands, echoes this stance as seen in its policy from May 2016.
Háskóli Íslands er íslensk vísinda- og menntastofnun og hluti af hinu alþjóðlega fræðasam-
félagi. Málstefna Háskólans tekur mið af þessu tvíþætta hlutverki hans. Málstefnan hefur
að leiðarljósi að talmál og ritmál Háskólans er íslenska, jafnt í kennslu, rannsóknum sem
stjórnsýslu. Þetta felur m.a. í sér að kennsla og próf til fyrstu háskólagráðu fara að mestu
fram á íslensku. …. Rannsóknum og framhaldsnámi fylgja erlend samskipti og fleiri mál en
íslenska eru notuð í því starfi, einkum enska. Megin kennslumál í framhaldsnámi er þó
íslenska, eftir því sem við verður komið. (Stefna Háskóla Íslands. University of Iceland,
Háskóli Íslands, 2016a).
[The University of Iceland is an Icelandic scientific and educational institution and part of
the international academic community. The language policy of the University takes account
of this dual role. The language policy is that the official spoken and written language of the
University is Icelandic, in teaching, research and administration. This includes, among
other things, that the training and examination for first degrees should be mostly in
Icelandic.
… The main medium of instruction at the graduate level is Icelandic, whenever possible.
The University wants to promote reading and writing about the sciences in Icelandic by
instructiors, experts and students and make them available to the public… the main lan-
guage of instruction at the graduate level is Icelandic whenever possible….]
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
147
The language policies of other Icelandic universities echo the one above
(Kristinsson and Bernharðsson 2014, p. 99).
Icelandic language and educational policies are much more conservative than
parallel policies in the other Nordic countries (Saarinen and Tallas 2016). As the
official language of education is Icelandic and Icelandic is the medium of instruc-
tion in the public schools, there is no acknowledgement nor support for the same
students when they move on to tertiary level where much of their work will be con-
ducted in English. (see Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir, chapter “Simultaneous
Parallel Code Use”, this volume). According to an unpublished informal survey
conduced on behalf of the Department of Foreign Languages  and Cultures by
Ólafsson (2016), internal surveys of heads of departments in 2016 indicated a grow-
ing awareness of their students‘lack of academic English skills even though several
department heads admitted that they had never thought of this issue.
There is a clear dissonance between the policies described above and the reality
of the linguistic context of higher education in Iceland.As in other Nordic countries,
study programs and courses that have English as a Medium of Instruction (EMI)
have proliferated due to the Bologna process, more frequent faculty and student
exchanges and efforts to attract more and better international students in an effort to
elevate the international ranking of Icelandic universities. The University of Iceland
is steadily climbing up the list and is currently number 201–250 according to the
2015–16 Times Higher Education World University Rankings. In 2015–2016, 346
courses were taught in English and international students numbered 1355, up from
695 in 2006. This is out of a total number of 13,307 students (University of Iceland,
Háskóli Íslands, 2016b). Between 2000 and 2011, 84.2% (N = 181) of doctoral the-
ses submitted were written in English with a steady annual increase (Kristinsson
and Bernharðsson 2014, p. 109). There is no indication that this trend will change
as, in the summer of 2016, a record number of 432 applications by exchange stu-
dents were accepted for Icelandic as a second language alone (University of Iceland,
Háskóli Íslands, 2016c). With more international instructors and students, EMI
courses can only increase. However, textbooks in foreign languages continue to be
the single most prevailing source of English input at Iceland’s universities. This is
the topic of the next section.
2.1  
Textbooks in English at the University of Iceland
The presence of English at the tertiary level is nowhere more dominant than in the
number of textbooks and readings assigned at University. Icelandic university stu-
dents, due to the small size of the textbook market in Iceland, have from the begin-
ning of established tertiary education had to rely on textbooks written in foreign
languages. This is an accepted fact and no one has, until now, questioned this prac-
tice or examined the effect this may have on students’ learning. Educational and
university officials take it for granted that students who have had their previous
Using English at University
148
academic training in Icelandic, can pursue university studies in English, using the
English they have learned mostly extramurally (see Jóhannsdóttir’s chapter “English
Exposure and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction”, this vol-
ume; Jeeves’s chapter “Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary
School”, this volume; Edgarsson’s chapter “Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and
Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic Secondary School Students”, this
volume).
Icelandic students graduate from secondary school where almost all the readings
and the instruction are in Icelandic and enter their national university where a great
number of assigned readings are written for native speakers of English. The assump-
tion is that they will not be challenged by the shift to another language. Furthermore,
recently, a lengthy discussion on the faculty postlist focused on students’ inability
to comprehend and use ‘proper’ Icelandic in tests. Several members of the faculty
echoed this view, without mentioning the possiblility that the fact that input was
mostly in English might affect students’ ability to present output in Icelandic
(Hi-starf: thread “Kennsla, próf og óverulegur skilningur á íslensku”May 4–7,
2016). As part of this project we undertook to examine just how much of the cur-
riculum at Icelandic universities was in fact written in English.
A major study on the number of textbooks in English assigned at Icelandic uni-
versities was conducted in 2008. Two universities are by far the largest, Háskóli
Íslands (HÍ) with almost 14,000 students and Háskólinn í Reykjavík (HR) with
close to 2900 students in 2007–2008). Data were collected by surveying different
Schools and Departments and comparing the results against booklists provided by
University Bookstores, and by collecting relevant information on university
­
websites. The study did not include articles or other reading materials distributed by
instructors. We believe that the study included most, if not all the textbooks assigned
at the universities for the academic year 2007–2008. Table 1 presents the languages
of textbooks at different universities in Iceland.
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Hí HR HA Bifröst LHÍ LBHÍ Hólaskóli
Other lang. Icelandic English
Table 1  Languages of textbooks at Icelandic Universities
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
149
The study confirms that the vast majority of textbooks in higher education in
Iceland is in English. The amount varied by disicplines. In the Natural and Health
Sciences almost 100% of the textbooks are in English at all the universities. Same
is true for the Agriculture colleges (LBHÍ and Hólaskóli), and the University of the
Arts (LHÍ). Only in the Department of Languages and Cultures and in the
Departments of Icelandic and the undergraduate Law Department at the University
of Iceland are textbooks to any degree written in other languages.
The survey did not include materials that instructors disseminated to students
directly or materials that students translate on their own initiative. These were
included as part of a study in 2009 where a follow-up question asked over a thou-
sand students at the University of Iceland to estimate the amount of all reading
materials written in English in their study programs. The numbers support previous
findings of the predominance of texts in English and that they are most frequent in
Health Sciences and Engineering and less so in the Humanities. Overall 77% of
students estimated that their study materials in English were over 75% of all materi-
als, 93%, and in Engineering and Natural Sciences 90% of textbooks are written in
English according to students’ estimates. Education was included in this survey and
respondents said that English texts constituted almost 60% of their overall curricu-
lum materials (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2009).
The student survey of the amount of all study materials supports the previous
study on the number of textbooks written in English that reading assignments at the
University of Iceland (and other universities) are overwhelmingly written in English.
This begs the questions of what effect, if any, this may have on students’ ability to
tackle these academic texts. This is the goal of the study reported below.
3  The Study
Young people entering university today, as we have seen in earlier chapters, who
would previously have been barred from tertiary education, come with a much more
diverse educational background and abilities than were found in previous exclusion-
ary systems. As a result of increased exposure to English popular culture (see
Arnbjörnsdóttir's chapter “English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland”, this
volume), Icelandic youth also enter university with skills in receptive colloquial
English (Edgarsson's chapter  “Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading
Comprehension among Icelandic Secondary School Students”, this volume). In
order to examine how students cope with a curriculum mostly written in English, a
mixed method study was conducted in the form of surveys and interviews. Surveys
were sent out to all students enrolled at the University of Iceland during the academic
year 2009–2010. The surveys were followed by in-depth interviews a year later with
ten students, two from each School of the University of Iceland: Education,
Engineering and Natural Sciences, Health Sciences, Humanities, and Social Sciences.
The purpose of the study was to examine to what extent the proliferation of
English input in the lives of young Icelanders serves them in their university stud-
Using English at University
150
ies? In this chapter we explore this issue by putting forward the following research
questions:
	1.	 What is students’ self reported level of proficiency and preparation to use English
textbooks at university?
	
2.	 What, if any, challenges do students encounter using English texts?
	
3.	 Do students receive instructional support, and if so, from whom and what kind
of support?
3.1  Surveys
Surveys’ were sent to all students registered in December 2009 at the University of
Iceland to elicit views about the use of English.Almost 15%, or 1081, of the approx-
imately 14,000 students on the University student postlist responded after two
prompts. The distribution of the responses reflected the actual gender ratio in that
approximately three times more women responded (N = 788) than men who num-
bered 293. Of the respondents, 40% (N  =  432) were first year students, 47%
(N = 502) were in their 2nd to 4th year of study. Twelve percent (N = 130) were
master’s level students and 16% doctoral students. The survey included 21 ques-
tions that were categorized according to three main themes: The first set of ques-
tions elicited information about respondents’ background, perceived English
proficiency and preparation to tackle academic English. The second theme centred
on the challenges, if any, students encountered working with English and the final
theme elicited views about the strategies they used to access English texts. The
results of the last set of questions on strategies will be presented in the next chapter.
A four or five point Likert scale was used for most questions while two questions
had open ended options. All the responses were analysed using SPSS both to tabu-
late frequency and a Pearson correlation coefficient to establish correlations between
chosen factors. All these correlations were significant (For further discussion on
methodology, please see Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2010).
3.2  Results of the Surveys
The first theme focused on English preparation and proficiency. Students’ responses
reflect their confidence in their English skills and they report being well prepared to
tackle English textbooks. The vast majority, or 86%, stated that their English speak-
ing, comprehension and reading skills were either good or very good, while slightly
fewer, or 75%, reported that their English writing skills were good or very good.
Two thirds of students overall or 65%, felt prepared to use English at university,
while only 43% of Education felt adequately prepared. (for a more detailed discus-
sion see Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2010).
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
151
Another question asked directly to what extent, if at all, students felt it posed
difficulty to work with English. This question was included for comparison with
responses to the previous question about their preparation. Table  2 shows the
responses including the correlations with different factors such as discipline/school,
sex, age, number of years completed at university, length of stay in an English
speaking country, grades in English and number of English courses completed at
secondary school. Overall the responses given in percentages in Table 2 were that
26% thought working with English was easy, 37% rather easy and 37% felt it was
rather difficult or difficult. This is out of 1081 respondents. This view varied between
schools, sex, age and university level of study as expected, and not surprisingly a
correlation was found between length of stay in an English speaking country and the
effects of numbers of English courses completed at university.
Overall two-thirds of respondents seem to be content with their skills, and find
using English easy or rather easy. Responses by school and gender give a different
picture from the average overall responses, as can be seen in Table 2. Twenty-three
percent of men thought using English was difficult or rather difficult whereas 42%
of women thought using English textbooks posed difficulty. Again, Education stu-
dents responded differently to students from other schools and found it more diffi-
cult to use English. It is not a coincidence that the majority of Education students
are women. Almost three quarters of students in the Sciences found it easy or rather
easy to work with English, while 61% in the Social Sciences and only 43% of stu-
dents in Education found it easy or rather easy. Note that students who had taken
five semesters of English seemed to find it easiest to use English while students who
have taken fewer courses and those who have taken more advanced courses at sec-
ondary level find it less so. The implication is that students who have taken more
than five semester may have gained some genre awareness and recognize that their
English is not quite up to par. Students who had stayed in an English speaking coun-
try for a year or longer seem to benefit linguistically and find using English easy
while shorter stays do not seem to have had a major effect on facility to use English.
The next set of questions focus on the possible challenges students face using
English. Students were asked to respond to a number of questions aimed at eliciting
their views about the effect using English had on their studies in general. The gen-
eral question was: What effect, if any, does it have on your studies that much of the
curriculum is in English? They were given the following options and could chose
one or more: It‘s an advantage; It is a disadvantage, or; It has no effect. They were
also asked about the effect on their workload. Table 3 presents the results, first over
all results and then responses by School.
As seen in Table 3, only 24% of respondents report that there are advantages to
using English yet only 15% report disadvantages and 16% say that it has no effect.
In the School of Engineering and Natural Science (ENS), 30% say it is an advantage
to use English and only 15% say it is a disadvantage. Education students report the
lowest advantage and highest disadvantage.
Students were also asked about the effect of using English on their work load.
Almost half of the students, or 44%, say that working with English texts increases
workload. In the School of Engineering and Natural Science (ENS) only 30% say it
Using English at University
152
Table 2  (Q. 15) Do you find it easy or difficult to use English materials?
Easy (%)
Rather
easy (%)
Rather
difficult (%)
Difficult
(%)
All (N = 1081) 26 37 28 8
Schools***
 Social Sciences 22 38 29 10
 Health Sciences 27 44 23 6
 Humanities 38 33 25 5
 Education 14 29 42 16
 
Engineering and Natural Sciences 32 40 21 6
Sex***
 Men 39 38 18 5
 Women 21 37 32 10
Age***
 
19 to 24 years 17 46 27 10
 
25 to 30 years 33 34 27 7
 
31 and older 28 32 31 8
University years completed***
 
1. ár (bachelor) 17 38 31 14
 
2.-4. ár (bachelor) 26 38 30 6
 Masters level 49 35 18 2
 Doctoral level 81 13 0 6
Stay in an English speaking country***
 Never 18 38 36 13
 1–3 months 23 40 30 8
 4–12 months 28 37 30 6
 1–5 years 53 34 13 0
 
More than 5 years 83 10 3 3
Grade in secondary school***
 
4–6 average grade 6 15 45 34
 
7–8 average grade 22 40 32 6
 
9–10 average grade 45 42 11 2
Level of courses completed at secondary
school***
 ENS300 12, 25 37 27
 ENS400 22 34 36 9
 ENS500 19 42 30 9
 ENS600 31 40 25 3
 ENS700 41 38 18 3
*Correlation significant; p < 0.05
**Correlation significant; p < 0.01
***Correlation significant; p < 0.001
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
153
increases workload while half or 48% of students in Social Sciences report an
increase in workload. Education students report greatest increase in workload or
almost 60%.
A highly significant correlation was found between age of respondents and the
advantages they assign to using English in that students between the ages of 25–30
felt it was most advantageous. This correlated also with numbers of years completed
at University. Also, a marked difference in advantage was found if students had
stayed a year or longer in an English speaking country. Less time spent did not seem
to lead to advantages. This supports the results for level of difficulty using English
as seen in Table 2.
While amount of workload correlated with grades and stays in English speaking
countries, the higher the grade and longer the stay, the lower the workload, this
linear correlation is not found when applied to the number of courses taken in sec-
ondary school. Table 4 shows respondents’ answers correlated with numbers of
English courses taken in secondary school demonstrating again an interesting result.
Those who have taken English 500 (five semesters of English) report the greatest
increase in workload while the numbers go down both directions from there. Thirty-­
three percent of those who took only ENS 300, the obligatory course (three
­
semesters) report increased workload. Only 11% of those who have only taken the
obligatory course in English say that using English does not affect their learning
while 40% say that it is a disadvantage to use English.
Table 3  The effect of English on studies
Advantage (%) Disadvantage (%)
No effect
(%) N
All respondents 24 15 16 1081
Responses by school
 Social Sciences 24 15 14 374
 Health Sciences 33 8 8 169
 Humanities 24 15 27 175
 Education 11 22 10 166
 
Engineering and Natural Sciences 30 15 25 188
Significant p < 0.001
Table 4  The effect of English and number of courses at secondary school
Advantage
(%)
Disadvantage
(%)
Increases workload
(%)
Has no effect
(%) N
English courses completed at secondary school
 ENS300 15 40 33 11 117
 ENS400 20 18 48 14 220
 ENS500 23 12 53 12 284
 ENS600 29 8 43 20 249
 ENS700 30 10 37 22 211
Using English at University
154
There is a robust correlation between reported English proficiency and advan-
tages to English use; the lower the reported proficiency, the more students reported
disadvantages of using English. However, this correlation was not as clear when
asked about workload, as seen in Table 5. In all cases the respondents with the best
and poorest self reported skills are more likely to report increased workload.
***Correlation significant; p < 0.001
Not surprisingly a significant difference was found between different disciplines
and views about advantages and disadvantages, as the Natural Sciences and
Technology students report more advantages and fewer disadvantages. This was not
necessarily reflected in reports about workload.
It seems clear that almost half the students believe that their work load increases
as a result of using English while only 16% saw it as a disadvantage. A quarter, or
24%, see using English at an advantage and only 15% see it as a disadvantage, yet
only 16% say it has no effect. These numbers vary by School and gender as
Education students seem to have the most difficulty and students in the Natural
Sciences have the least difficulty, yet over half of them say it increases their work-
load. These finding and the peak found in ease of use of English among those who
have taken five semesters of English at secondary school will be revisited in the
discussion section.
Table 5  Level of self-­
reported English skills***
Increased workload (%)
English skills:
 Very good 28
 Good 48
 Rather good 60
 Rather poor/poor 43
Comprehension***
 Very good 24
 Good 53
 Rather good 71
 Rather poor/poor 37
Reading***
 Very good 25
 Good 60
 Rather good 68
 Rather poor/poor 39
Writing***
 Very good 19
 Good 44
 Rather good 62
 Rather poor/poor 50
***Correlation significant; p < 0.001
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
155
3.3  Interviews
The quantitative study presented above was followed up by in-depth interviews with
ten students, two from each of the five schools at the University of Iceland, five men
and five women. The aim of the interviews was to gain insight into individual stu-
dents’ experience to shed further light on the findings of the survey. Informants
were chosen randomly based on the criteria given above. The interviews were semi-­
structured, based on open ended questions that explored the main themes identified
from the survey responses. The students were interviewed individually, face to face,
and in Icelandic. The general topics were: How well did students’ English profi-
ciency serve them at University? How well prepared were they to tackle English
academic texts? How did the use of English affect their work? What strategies did
they use to cope with English and what type of support did they receive. The last
two themes will be discussed in the next chapter.
The interviews were then transcribed verbatim and analysed using thematic anal-
ysis. The main findings from the themes which emerged from the data will be pre-
sented below. The interviews reveal more closely the challenges faced by students
who find themselves having to use academic English. In the next section, the find-
ings are presented and discussed in combination with the main result from the
survey.
The surveys had revealed that students generally felt well prepared to tackle the
university curriculum, but this was not borne out in the interviews. At the outset of
an interview the interviewee often began by stating that they did not have much dif-
ficulty with English. But they also reported challenges related to their insufficient
genre awareness and lack of academic English vocabulary and reading fluency. The
interviewees seemed more aware of the challenges (or more willing to discuss them)
that they experienced using English than  were reflected in the survey response.
Students were quite honest and forthcoming about these challenges in the inter-
views. When asked about whether their English proficiency sufficed when working
with the English curriculum, one student responded: “I thought about quitting in the
first semester, there was so much reading in English that I struggled with – I read so
slowly”. Another interviewee said: “I had a difficult time with English at University
with my primary and secondary school English”. Another student responded in this
way when asked about the English tasks in secondary school, “we had oral exams
and read novels, we didn’t work with academic texts”. This view is supported by
another interviewee, “I am used to reading novels and such in English, not scholarly
articles, it’s not the same”. Clearly there is an overemphasis on one particular genre
in secondary school English at the expense of exposure to more diverse types of text
and students do not feel that reading literature in secondary school served them well
once at university (Jeeves 2013; Ingvarsdóttir 2011).
Some students confess to not reading the set reading material at all as: “it takes
too long to get through the English text” (Natural Sciences). A student from
Humanities said there was”not enough time to read all the texts” and another stu-
dent, also from Humanities, said, “In Icelandic I can read more text more quickly”.
Using English at University
156
The perception that many students who use English in academia avoid reading the
textbook and simply depend on the teachers’ overhead slides is supported by
Pecorari and her colleagues in Sweden (2012).
Below are some representative examples of responses when interviewees were
asked about whether, and if so, how, working with English increased their work
load. One student in Humanities said:
… when you are reading a text with textbooks in English, there is also the discipline of
having to look up all the words you don’t know, and even if you think you know them, you
look them up anyway because it can make such a huge difference. One word can completely
change the whole text.
Another student, from Social Sciences, said:” there are ten of us who divide articles
between us and either translate them or write summaries, we also have a study
group because sometimes the translation is so odd that we can’t understand it so we
discuss it in a group”.
These translation groups are not without problems as another student in Social
Science said, “I stopped taking part in translation groups because once I happened
to have read the actual chapter in English and found that the summary they gave me
was not accurate”. This illustrates the lengths to which students must go to access
the curriculum, extra work that is not acknowledged when course workload is con-
verted to course credit.
The confidence in English proficiency which appears in the survey may be
explained by the fact that students feel that they have, and probably do have, a good
command of conversational English/informal English. This gives them confidence
when entering university as they have very limited genre awareness and little prac-
tice reading formal academic text despite almost 10 years of English study prior to
university. It is also interesting to note the gender differences found in the surveys
where male students report finding using English easier than female students
(Table 2). In the interview this difference does not appear. However there may be
too few participants to make any claims about this.
4  Discussion
The main purpose of this study was to examine how outcomes the extramural and
formal English learning of Icelandic youth serve students while performing the edu-
cational functions that require the use of English at tertiary level. The main findings
are that despite confidence in the English skills, over a third of students struggle
with using English at university and that work load is increased as a result. The
numbers go up for female students and students in the Humanities, Social Sciences
and Education. Another major finding is that these difficulties may be due in part to
a dissonance between educational and language policies and subsequently
Curriculum Guides for secondary education that seems to constrain English educa-
tional practice and aim for general English language, literature and culture goals
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
157
rather than prepare all students adequately for the challenges posed by academic
study in English. A third major finding is that these challenges seem to be largely
hidden as students, unless probed specifically seem to be largely unaware of the
extra work load and challenges posed by having academic preparation in Icelandic.
They, along with educational authorities and university officials, seem to equate
conversational English skills with academic language skills leading to over confi-
dence and, by default, this leads to lack of English support.
The results of the survey show that the vast majority of students are confident in
their English skills, yet when probed, more than a third struggle with English and
their work load increases. These results are supported by other studies in the Nordic
countries (Tella et al. 1999; Hellekjær and Westergaard 2003; Hellekjær 2009). To
what extent students struggle varies according to disciplines as they are are affected
differently by the use of English. Clearly, students in the Natural Sciences,
Engineering and Health Sciences feel less affected by the use of English although
they acknowledge that their workload increases. There are also more textbooks and
more courses offered in English in those fields than in other disciplines. On the
other hand, Education seems most negatively affected by the curriculum written in
English. Education students find it most cumbersome to understand English texts
and feel the least comfortable about their preparation and proficiency. One explana-
tion may be that most Education students are women and women report being less
prepared and having to do more work to overcome the problems posed by English.
The assumption seems to be that somehow women’s English proficiency is not as
high as that of men’s. Possibly, women are simply more candid and more reflective
on the amount of work that they do. This gender difference does not appear in the
interviews where men are just as forthcoming about the challenges they face as
women are. But it is also likely that the nature of texts in the different disciplines
may have an effect on how easy they are to comprehend. Björkman (2008) mentions
that the nature of scientific texts may differ from texts in other disciplines, as their
composition is more formulaic, they contain more graphs and pictures and fewer
cultural and contextual connotations than textbooks in, for example, Education
where texts tend to be interdisciplinary, culture specific and require interpretation.
It is not surprising that the higher the reported proficiency level the easier the
comprehension of textbbooks in English. However, gains were made only after one
year of living in an English speaking country. A few months in an English speaking
country did not seem to affect students’ facility with using English textbooks. A
significant difference was found between number/level of courses taken in second-
ary schools and how easy or well prepared students found coping with the English
curriculum. Students who have taken five semesters of English report having the
greatest ease with English while both those students who took fewer or more courses
report having some difficulty. This indicates that having only three compulsory
modules in English at secondary schools as is required by the National Curriculum
Guide may not be sufficient. This finding also suggests that optional English courses
over 5 semesters may not add much to students’ proficiency as suggested by
Guðmundsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir (2014). Perhaps the more advanced students
have gained more genre awareness in that they recognize their lack of specific
Using English at University
158
English skills (academic vocabulary and reading fluency) to understand academic
text.
Another prominent outcome of this study is the incongruence between the per-
ceived adequate English proficiency, and the extra work caused by the use of English
texts along with the lack of awareness of the challenges expressed by the students.
It seems that students have not really given the gap in profiency much thought when,
according to the survey, 60% cannot make up their mind whether using so much
English is an advantage or disadvantage. The fact that less than a quarter of respon-
dents in the surveys believe it is advantageous to use English and 15% believe it is
a disadvantage and 16% say it has no affect might indicate that this is a “hidden
challenge” and that, despite many years of English study, students lack the genre
awareness, in addition to possible vocabulary and reading fluency necessary to rec-
ognize that at least some of them come to their studies without the necessary aca-
demic English skills to tackle textbooks written for native English speakers. This
reported lack of awareness supports the findings reported in the next chapter as the
vast majority of students when probed, go to some lengths to access the curriculum
using a multitude of strategies (seeArnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir, “Simultaneous
Parallel Code Use”, this volume).
Finally the findings reveal that educational policy and National Curriculum
Guides are not aligned with students’ linguistic reality nor their needs. Students
graduate from secondary school confident in the English skills and largely unaware
of their actual proficiency. Others have expressed concerns about the lack of clear
learning goals for academic English and an overemphasis on literary genres
(Guðmundsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2014). The lack of clarity of the curriculum
goals in advanced courses in Secondary School leads to courses that seem linear in
their proficiency level and add little to students’ English skills. This is borne out by
this study as students who had taken five semesters of English seemed to find it easi-
est to use English while, as expected, students who have taken fewer courses and,
surprisingly, those who have taken more advanced courses at secondary level find it
less so. In a world of Global English where students are more likely to use English
in communication with other non-native speakers of English than native English
speakers, its seems off the mark to focus almost exclusively on competencies in
Anglo-Saxon literature and culture in advanced English classes rendering too many
students unable to cope with other genres, vital to their academic needs.
5  Implications
The majority of Icelandic students seem to come to university confident in their
English skills which are mostly receptive and mostly developed through their recre-
ational activities extramurally and fortified at school (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2011; Jeeves
2013). However, as the findings suggest, the formal registers of language used in
writing and in professional and educational discourse are still problematic for most
students. It is also noteable that, due to this rich English input they have been
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
159
exposed to, many of them seem to be unaware of possible problems. The seem to
equate conversational language with other registers, This is an issue well known to
educators in second language contexts where fluency in colloquial language masks
the lack of proficiency in formal language that is usually attained through literacy
and education (Cummins 1979, 2008; Hyland 2009).
The question remains as to how academia can adjust to and cope with the new
linguistic context which has been developing in the last decades (Ingvarsdóttir and
Arnbjörnsdóttir 2014). The results of this study, supported by findings in recent
studies indicate that there is still much work to be done in this area (Jóhannsdóttir
2010; Jeeves 2013, 2014; Ingvarsdóttir 2010, 2011). The language problems at ter-
tiary level may be caused by several interrelated issues suggested by our findings.
The first is students’ lack of academic English preparation. Although students
develop good general English proficiency at school, seemingly mostly supported by
what they have already learned out of school, the skills are mostly receptive and
limited to informal registers which do not suffice for academic use. Formal instruc-
tion seems not to lead to awareness of different genres or registers, academic vocab-
ulary acquisition nor second language reading strategies.
Additionally, the challenges faced by university students when accessing English
academic texts seem to go largely unacknowledged. This is changing. The University
of Iceland has recently established anAcademic English Program specifically aimed
at students who are not English majors but need to improve their academic English.
The goal of the program is to improve students’ academic English proficiency in all
fields of study. A writing program has also been developed based on the “genre
approach to writing” (Swales 2004) that considers the specific needs of students
who have receptive and colloquial English proficiency, but who have developed
academic language proficiency in another language. However this effort has been
mostly at the grassroots level rather than initiated from above. There is still a lack of
awareness of students’ needs and most study programs do not allow transfer of
Academic English credits into their programs. Lastly, and perhaps most important
is the recognition of the need for a paradigm shift in the emphasis on both content
and teaching methods in secondary schools. To prepare future students for the level
of English they need at tertiary level, the curriculum in secondary schools needs to
be revised. Students need exposure to more variety of reading texts written in differ-
ent styles and genres and be introduced to the structures and vocabulary found in
academic textbooks. Just as importantly, they need to be trained in reading ­strategies
as our study amongst university students indicates that their reading strategies are
lacking (Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2010, this volume).
The projection is that in the near future, the number of secondary school students
who pursue university studies will only increase. Our studies have shown that at
present more than a third of university students struggle with English even if they
estimate their English proficiency level as good and have good grades from second-
ary schools (Jeeves 2013; Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2010). There are also
other issues such as increased student diversity that affect academic achievement at
university. During the last few decades there has been an explosion in the number of
Icelandic students who are eligible for university. At the same time, there has been
Using English at University
160
an increase in the number of universities and university programs. This means that
the students are socially and educationally more heterogeneous and the curriculum
content is more diverse now than in previous decades. At university level the lan-
guage policy needs to reflect reality, accepting that English is no longer a foreign
language in Iceland but is used by a large percentage of the population as an addi-
tional language on a daily basis. Speaking and listening skills at higher education
levels are also becoming more important as more and more courses are taught in
English and the number of foreign lecturers and students is increasing. Students
need more support which is different from traditional ESL and EFL instruction. A
critical need for teaching and learning practices to adapt to this new linguistic con-
text has emerged. In the next chapter the possible consequences of using two lan-
guages simultaneously on the mastery of the content is discussed.
References
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2009). Enska í háskólanámi. In M. Sigurðsson & R. Þráinsdóttir (Eds.), Milli
mála (pp. 77–94). Reykjavík: Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2011). Exposure to English in Iceland: A quantitative and qualitative study.
Ráðstefnurit Netlu – Menntakvika 1–10. http://netla.hi.is/menntakvika2011/004.pdf
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2010). Coping with English at University: Students’
beliefs. Ráðstefnurit Netlu – Menntakvika 1–16. http://netla.khi.is/menntakvika2010/008.pdf
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2015). English in a new linguistic context: Implications
for higher education. In S.  Dimova, A.  K. Hultgren, & C.  Jensen (Eds.), English-Medium
Instruction in European Higher Education. English in Europe 3 (pp. 137–156). Amsterdam:
DeGruyter.
Björkman, B. (2008). English as a lingua franca of engineering education.http://www.kth.se/
ingenjorsutbildningarna/papers/Bjorkman.pdf. Accessed 1 Nov 2010.
Björkman, B. (2010). So you think you can ELF: English as a Lingua Franca as the medium
of instruction. Hermes, 45, 77–99. http://download2.hermes.asb.dk/archive/2010/Hermes45.
html. Accessed 3 Oct 2016.
Brevik, L. M. (2015). Strategies and shoes: Can we ever have enough? Teaching and using read-
ing comprehension strategies in general and vocational programmes. Scandinavian Journal of
Educational Research. 1–19. doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/00313831.2015.1075310.
Brock-Utne, B. (2001). The growth of English for academic communication in the Nordic coun-
tries. International Review of Education, 47(3–4), 221–233.
Coleman, J.  A. (2006). English-medium teaching in European higher education. Language
Teaching, 39, 1–14.
Cummins, J.  (1979). Cognitive/academic language proficiency, linguistic interdependence, the
optimum age question and some other matters. Working Papers on. Bilingualism, 19, 121–129.
Cummins, J. (2008). BICS and CALP: Empirical and Theoretical Status of the Distinction. In
B. Street & N. H. Hornberger (Eds.), Encyclopedia of Language and Education, 2nd Edition,
Volume 2: Literacy (pp. 71–83). New York: Springer Science + Business Media LLC.
Guðmundsdóttir, G., & Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2014). Undirbúningur framhaldsskólanemenda fyrir
notkun ensku í háskólanámi: Námskrár og nýtt íslenskt málumhverfi [Preparation of secondary
school students’ for the use of English at university: Curriculum Guides and the new linguistic
context in Iceland]. Netla – Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun. Menntavísindasvið Háskóla
Íslands [Netla, a webjournal on Pedagogy and Education.School of Education, University of
Iceland. http://netla.hi.is/greinar/2014/ryn/010.pdf. Accessed 23 Sept 2016.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
161
Haastrup, K. (2008). English-medium higher education in Denmark (EMHED). Nordic Journal of
English Studies, 7(3), 205–206.
Hellekjær, G. O. (2005). The acid test: Does upper secondary EFL instruction effectively pre-
pare Norwegian students for the reading of English textbooks at colleges and universities?
Unpublished Doctoral thesis at the University of Oslo, The Faculty of Arts, The Department of
Teacher Education and School Development, Oslo.
Hellekjær, G. O. (2007). Reading: From a forgotten to a basic skill. Språk og Språkundervisning,
2, 23–29.
Hellekjær, G. O. (2008). A case for improved reading instruction for academic English reading
proficiency. Acta Didactica Norge, 2(1), 1–17.
Hellekjær, G. O. (2009).Academic English reading proficiency at the university level:A Norwegian
case study. Reading in a Foreign Language, 21(2), 198–222.
Hellekjær, G. O. (2010). Lecture comprehension in English-medium higher education. Hermes –
Journal of Language and Communication Studies, 45, 11–34.
Hellekjær, G. O., & Westergaard, M. R. (2003). An exploratory survey of content learning through
English at Nordic Universities. In C. van Leeuwen & R. Wilkinson (Eds.), University educa-
tion: Challenges and practis, Multilingual approaches in university education (pp. 65–80).
Nijmegen: Valkhof Pers.
Hultgren, F., Gregersen, F., & Thøgersen, J. (2014). English in Nordic Universities: Ideologies and
practices. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hyland, K. (2009). Academic discourse: English in a global context. London: Bloomsbury.
Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2010). Same subject, different goals? The views of teachers and their learners
in grade ten. Paper presented in a conference in honour of Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, 15–17, April
2010.
Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2011). Teaching English in a new age: Challenges and opportunities. In
B. Hudson & M. Meinert (Eds.), Beyond fragmentation: Didactics, learning and teaching in
Europe (pp. 93–106). Opladen: Barbara Budrich Publishers.
Ingvarsdóttir, H., & Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2014). English at the University of Iceland: Ideology and
reality. In A. K. Hultgren, F. Gregersen, & J. Thørgersen (Eds.), English at Nordic universities:
Ideologies and practices (pp. 179–193). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Jeeves, A. (2013). Relevance and the L2 self in the context of Icelandic secondary school learners:
Learner views. Ph.D. InThesis. Reykjavík: University of Iceland.
Jeeves, A. (2014). The Relevance of English language learning in a changing linguistic environ-
ment in Iceland: The L2 self of young Icelanders. Multilingua, 33(3–4), 267–290.
Jóhannsdóttir, Á. (2010). English in the 4th grade in Iceland Exploring exposure and measur-
ing vocabulary size of 4th grade students. Menntavísindasvið Háskóla Íslands: Ráðstefnurit
Netlu – Menntakvika.
Kristinsson, A. P., & Bernharðsson, H. (2014). Íslenska og enska í íslensku háskólastarfi. Orð og
tunga, 16, 93–122.
Ljösland, R. (2007). English in Norwegian academia: a step towards diglossia? World Englishes,
26(4), 395–410.
Ljösland, R. (2008). Lingua franca, prestisjespråk og forestilt fellesskap: om engelsk som
akademisk språk i Norge: et kasusstudium i bred kontekst. Trondheim: Norges teknisk-­
naturvitenskapelige universitet, Det historisk-filosofiske fakultet, Institutt for nordistikk og
litteraturvitenskap [Lingua franca, prestige language and imagined communities: English
as an academic language in Norway: A case study in a broad context. Tronheim: Norwegian
University of Science, Faculty of Arts, Department of Scandinavian Studies and Comparative
Literature.
Lög um stöðu íslenskrar tungu og íslensks táknmáls [Laws on the status of the Icelandic language
and Icelandic sign language], nr. 61 7. júní 2011. http://www.althingi.is/lagas/140a/2011061.
html (21. febrúar 2014).
Matskerfi opinberra háskóla. http://www.hi.is/sites/default/files/
Using English at University
162
Ólafsson, J. (2016). Language Survey: Survey of Department heads’ views about their students’
language needs. Unpublished Survey, Reykjavík: University of Iceland.
Pecorari, D., Shaw, P., Irvine, A., & Malmström, H. (2011). English textbooks in parallel language
tertiary education. TESOL Quarterly, 45, 313–333.
Pecorari, D., Shaw, P., Irvine, A., & Malmström, H. (2012). The textbook in tertiary education:
Undergraduate student practices and attitudes. Quality in Higher Education, 18, 21–22.
Pétursdóttir, M. (2013). Explicit teaching of academic vocabulary in EFL: Preparing Icelandic
students for education at university level. Unpublished MA thesis, University of Iceland,
Reykjavík.
Prinz, P., & Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2014). An English Academic Writing Course for Secondary
Schools: A Pilot Study. Netla, veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun. http://netla.hi.is/an-english-
academic-writing-course-for-secondary-schools-a-pilot-study/. Accessed 13 Sept 2016.
Ranta, E. (2010). English in the real world vs. English at school – Finnish English teachers’ and
students’ views. International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 20, 156–177.
Saarinen, T., & Tallas, P. (2016). Nordic language policies for higher education and their multi-­
layered motivations. Higher Education. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10734-015-9981-8.
Rindal, U. E. (2015). Who owns English in Norway? L2 attitudes and choices among learners. In
B. Linn & Ferguson (Eds.), Attitudes towards English in Europe. Walter de Gruyter. Part III:
Attitudes towards English in Schools (pp. 241–270).
Smith, K. (2004). Studying in an additional language: What is gained, what is lost and what is
assessed? In R. Wilkinson (Ed.), Integrating content and language: Meeting the challenge of a
multilingual higher education (pp. 78–93). Maastrict: Maastrict Universitaire Pers.
Stefna Háskóla Íslands. (2011–2016). http://www.hi.is/skolinn/stefna_haskola_
islands_2011%E2%80%932016. Accessed 1 May 2011.
Swales, J. M. (2004). Research Genres: Explorations and Applications. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Swerts, S., & Westbrook, P. (2013). Preparing students and lecturers for English medium instruc-
tion at the University of Copenhagen. Sprogforum, 56, 71–78.
Tella, S., Räsänen, A., & Vähäpassi, A. (Eds.). (1999). Teaching Through a Foreign Language:
From Tool to Empowering Mediator. An Evaluation of 15 Finnish Polytechnic and University
Level Programmes, with a Special View to Language and Communication (pp.  26–31).
Helsinki: Publications of Higher Education Evaluation Council 5.
University of Iceland. (2016a). Málstefna Háskóla Íslandshttp://www.hi.is/adalvefur/malstefna_
haskola_islands Accessed 3 Oct 2016.
University of Iceland. (2016b). Erlendir nemendur í Háskóla Íslands. http://www.hi.is/adalvefur/
erlendir_nemendur_i_haskola_islands Accessed 12 Oct 2016.
University of Iceland. (2016c). Vel á áttunda þúsund umsóknir um nám við HÍhttp://www.hi.is/
frettir/vel_a_attunda_thusund_umsoknir_um_nam_vid_hi. Accessed 12 Oct 2016.
University of Iceland Website. www.hi.is/is/skolinn/reglur_nr_263_2010. 8 January 2014.
Vinke, A. A., Snippe, J., & Jochems, W. (1998). English medium content courses in non-English
higher education: A study of lecturer experiences and teaching behaviours. Teaching in Higher
Education, 3(3), 383–394.
Wilkinson, R. (2005). The compact on teaching content: views from the content teachers. Extract
from a paper presented at a conference on Multilingual Universities – Challenges and Future
Prospects, Helsinki. September 2. 2005.
Wächter, B., & Maiworm, F. (2014). English-taught programmes in European higher education:
The state of play in 2014. Lemmens: ACA Papers on International Cooperation in Education.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
163
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir, H. Ingvarsdóttir (eds.), Language Development across the Life Span,
Educational Linguistics 34, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67804-7_9
Simultaneous Parallel Code Use
Birna Arnbjörnsdóttir and Hafdís Ingvarsdóttir
Abstract  Despite many positive implications of having one lingua franca in aca-
demia, the use of English in teaching and learning inevitably has many dimensions
including challenges for content mastery. To date the impact of the use of English
on instruction and especially on learning in the Expanding Circle (Kachru B,
Standards, codification, and sociolinguistic realism: the English language in the
outer circle. In: Quirk R, Widdowson H (eds) Teaching and learning in the language
and literature. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp 11–30, 1985) countries
has not been adequately researched. The term simultaneous parallel code use is
introduced to describe an academic context where the curriculum input is mainly in
English and the output is in the first language, in this case, Icelandic. The study
focuses on how students experience working in the situation of simultaneous paral-
lel code use as they negotiate meaning between a receptive language (English) and
the language of production (Icelandic). The findings also suggest that despite self-
reported high English proficiency, many students experience language-related chal-
lenges when extracting meaning from reading materials written for native speakers
of English.
1  Introduction
At the same time that pressure to use English mounts at Nordic universities, research
on English use and proficiency at tertiary level suggest that assumptions about the
good English skills among Nordic peoples (Deklaration 2007) may be overesti-
mated (see  Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir’s chapter  “Language Development
Across the Life Span. English in Iceland: From Input to Output”, this volume). This
is especially true for the levels of English proficiency among university students and
faculty, many of whom struggle with English academic reading and writing
(Hellekjær 2009; Pecorari 2012; Pilkinton-Pihko 2010; Ljösland 2007, 2008;
Swerts and Westbrook 2013), This has also been the case in Iceland for the last three
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir (*) • H. Ingvarsdóttir
University of Iceland, Reykjavík, Iceland
e-mail: birnaarn@hi.is; hei@hi.is
164
decades. English use has increased with unprecedented speed, while studies have
found that a substantial number of students struggle with simultaneous use of two
languages at tertiary level (Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2014, 2015).
The use of English in the Nordic countries is sometimes described as parallel to
thelocallanguageespeciallyinscienceandeducation(CenterforInternationalization
and Parallel Language Use 2014). The notion of parallel language use is based on a
prevailing view that everyone in the Nordic countries is able to use English along
with their first language in various domains including in educational and scientific
pursuits. (Deklaration, p. 94). Subsequently, English is increasingly being used as
language of instruction and communication in Nordic universities (Destination
2012) Brock-Utne 2001; Hellekjær 2009; Ljösland 2008; Ingvarsdóttir and
Arnbjörnsdóttir 2013). The view is that in a given situation, speakers should be able
to use the language of choice from their linguistic repertoires.
This chapter presents one such possible ‘parallel language’ scenario: the use of
English as a utility language by students at the University of Iceland. English as a
utility language here means generally the use of English to access information and
for educational purposes, a necessary skill for native speakers of small languages,
much like literacy or computer skills. Here we focus on the use of English as a util-
ity language by students for academic purposes to access academic content, while
processing the content and presenting it for evaluation takes place in the local lan-
guages at their local universities.
It is quite common at universities in the Nordic countries to switch the language of
instruction to English if only one of the students in the class is a native speaker of a
language other than the local one.Also, in the Nordic academic context use of English
is extended to interactions between readers and writers and text. Many faculty and
students at Nordic universities use English, not as a matter of choice, but as a neces-
sity in order to pursue education and scholarship. This chapter presents findings of a
study of over a thousand university students, who are high functioning ELF (English
as a Lingua Franca) users, and their experiences with using English and Icelandic in
learning. We are especially interested in how students experience simultaneous par-
allel code use in their academic study where the curriculum input is 90% in English
(in some fields even 100%) and the output is in the native language. Simultaneous
parallel code use (SPCU) is a term we have coined to refer to a learning situation
where the receptive language and productive language are not the same. This is an
important and under researched issue as it impacts how students interpret text and
process new knowledge. The study presented here focused on how students cope with
SPCU as they negotiate meaning between a receptive language (English) and produc-
tive language (Icelandic) and the strategies they use to negotiate meaning between the
two linguistic codes they must use simultaneously to master the curriculum.
2  
English as an Academic Language in Iceland
Despite the fact that instruction is predominantly in Icelandic, the vast majority of
texts assigned in courses at the University of Iceland are in English. A recent survey
found that approximately 90% of textbooks at University level in Iceland are
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
165
written  in English (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2009; this volume). However, according to
Kristinsson and Bernharðsson (2014) only 12% of courses, during the 2011–2012
academic year, had English as the medium of instruction (EMI). Students’ interac-
tions are therefore, more often than not, with texts written for native English speak-
ers with cultural references that may not be familiar to them (Connor 1996;
Mauranen 1993). The University of Iceland thus finds itself in a linguistic dilemma
involving the use of dual languages not unlike many local universities around the
world that aspire to international status (Jenkins 2011). The consequence of this
linguistic duality on reading comprehension and the learning process in general, is
not well researched.
There is extensive research about the challenges of reading in a second language
(Hyland 2009: Fitzgerald 1995; Bernhardt 1991). Early studies focused on the dif-
ference between context-embedded and context-reduced texts (Cummins 1979,
2000); the importance of strategies (Oxford 1990) especially, the complex cognitive
and metacognitive skills and processes required for successful reading comprehen-
sion. Additionally, second language reading research revealed the importance of
cultural context and background knowledge in extracting meaning from text1
(Collier
1989; Oxford 1990; Peregoy and Boyle 2005). University textbooks, in fields other
than English as a second or foreign language, are likelier than not to be written with
native English speakers as the target audience. Cultural references are often
assumed to have relevance by the authors yet have little or no meaning to the non-
native reader (Mauranen 1993; Connor 1996). Recently, research on second lan-
guage reading has expanded into the “rich diversity of texts, contexts and practices”
(Hyland 2006: 16) or genres that students encounter while studying at university or
in different academic ‘communities of practice’ (Swales 2004; Lave and Wenger
1991). The focus of these studies is still on situations where the language at school
differs from the home language such as in foreign or second language contexts.
The thrust of the studies of the effect of the use of English on academic study at
universities in the Expanding Circle has been on studies where English is the
medium of instruction (EMI) and these have been inconclusive as to the affect EMI
has on the quality of teaching and learning (Vinke et  al. 1998; Hellekjær and
Westergaard 2003; Wilkinson 2005; Coleman 2006; Airey 2009). Little attention
has been paid to what effect it may have on students’ academic experiences when
the curriculum is written in another language than the one in which their mastery of
said curriculum is assessed.
Few studies are available about the consequences of using English in academia
in Scandinavia. Haastrup (2008) points out, that institutions that have adopted
English medium courses and curricula in Denmark are experiencing some language
related challenges. The focus of some of the studies has been on examining to what
extent students’ English proficiency especially their English reading skills suffice to
comprehend their English textbooks (Hellekjær 2005; Jeeves 2008). Hellekjær
(2005) concluded that reading problems persist at the university level in Norway as
30–40% of respondents had poor language proficiency, exacerbated by a counter-
1
 There are other factors that impact reading such as level of cognitive development, but these are
not relevant for university students.
Simultaneous Parallel Code Use
166
productive tendency towards careful reading with excessive focus on the meaning
of unknown words. Hellekjær suggested that many of the secondary students in his
sample had an “unrealistic impression” of their level of reading proficiency in
English as their self-assessment scores were considerably higher than their test
scores. Hellekjær (2005) therefore calls into question the assumption that Norwegian
upper-secondary level EFL teaching effectively prepares for the reading of English
texts and textbooks in higher education.
Jeeves (2008) compared reading comprehension in the first language, Icelandic,
to reading comprehension in English among upper secondary school students in
Iceland. Jeeves concluded: “… that students with lower-ability reading skills in
Icelandic do not perform at a significantly lower level when reading in English,
whereas higher-scoring students in Icelandic reading do significantly worse when
reading in English” (p. 66). She found that the “good readers” in Icelandic overesti-
mated their English reading proficiency, whereas the poor readers in Icelandic rated
themselves as poor readers in English also.
Albrechtsen et al. (2008) conducted a major study in Denmark of how cognitive
learning skills transferred between their participants’ first language (Danish) and
their second language (English). They compared the size and structure of the lexi-
con in the two languages, and lexical inferencing between languages by the same
individuals and across learner groups at three levels. The data suggested that the use
of advanced processing was three times faster in the first language than the second
language (Albrechtsen et al. 2008). In general, process and product measures in the
first language were “clearly superior” (p. 96) to those in the second language.
The on-going research of Percorari and colleagues shows that Swedish univer-
sity students feel that reading in English places a burden on them (Pecorari et al.
2011). In a later study, they found that Swedish users of English read more slowly
than native English speaking students and that they had more difficulty acquiring
vocabulary specific to their field of study. These studies revealed that some students
even avoided reading the English textbooks altogether (Pecorari et al. 2011; Pecorari
2012; Mežek 2012).
Clearly mastering a curriculum written in English places demands on students’
second language reading and inferencing skills. Dual-language processing con-
strains the cognitive process and increases reliance on metalinguistic skills when
students must constantly transfer meaning between two different languages in the
extraction of meaning. This exacerbates the difficulties that all students beginning
university encounter when exposed to new and unfamiliar genres. At the very least
the added demands this places on cognition and memory must be a factor which
needs to be explored further.
In the Nordic countries, the notion of parallel language use refers to “a situation
in which two languages are considered equal in a particular domain, and where the
choice of language depends on what is deemed most appropriate and efficient in a
specific situation” (Centre for Internationalisation and Parallel Language Use). In
many Nordic universities, however, the use of English is not a matter of choice as
most of the curriculum may be in English while instruction and evaluation may be
in the local language.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
167
Nordic students overestimate their English skills and do not realize that their
proficiency is mainly informal and receptive, and this does not always serve them
adequately in their academic pursuits (see chapters entitled “Academic Vocabulary
Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic Secondary School
Students”, “Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School”
and “Using English at University”, this volume). Icelandic students have had their
academic preparation in their first language. However, the bulk of the academic
input at tertiary level is in English, while the output and evaluation is still mainly in
Icelandic. This creates a situation where students tackle the content in two lan-
guages simultaneously. This is neither a bilingual situation, nor a second language
situation, but neither is it parallel language use. We have termed this largely unac-
knowledged multilingual context simultaneous parallel code use or SPCU. SPCU
will be the focus of the next section.
3  
Simultaneous Parallel Code use
As far as we know, the impact of using two languages simultaneously on the teach-
ing and learning process has not been studied. Because in this new context where
students’ receptive language is not the same as the language in which they commu-
nicate their knowledge, constant negotiation between the two languages is involved.
The option of choosing the most appropriate language does not present itself since
students have no choice but to read curriculum material in English at the same time
as dealing with instruction and assessment in Icelandic.
Simultaneous parallel code use (SPCU) differs from the traditional parallel lan-
guage use because language use is not by choice. It also contrasts with bilingual
language use which often involves a home language that differs from the language
of school or work. In an SPCU situation students must extract meaning from a
receptive language that contains language, culture and discipline specific content.
They are then required to discuss and demonstrate mastery of that same content in
their first language with its own specific linguistic, cultural and academic rhetorical
conventions and knowledge base. The transfer of knowledge between the languages
under SPCU is essential for educational success. It is, after all, through this transfer
of knowledge from the language of curriculum material to the language of assess-
ment that constitutes the major method by which the student’s mastery of the sub-
ject is assessed.
Coping with SPCU is thus essential to students’ academic achievement and pro-
fessional future. However, under SPCU conditions there is very little awareness of
the challenges faced by students and no systematic attempt (see next section) to
adapt the curriculum to students’ language proficiency. The illustration below com-
pares the different language contexts:
Native Speaker Context
–
– L1 Native Proficiency
–
– L1 Input and Output
Simultaneous Parallel Code Use
168
Second Language Context (Parallel Language Use)
–
– L2 Proficiency (adaptation/awareness of L2 proficiency)
–
– L2 Input and Output
Simultaneous Parallel Code Use
–
– L2 Proficiency (no adaptation and often no awareness of L2 proficiency)
–
– L2 Input
–
– L1 Output
It seems evident that the SPCU negotiation process places constraints on the
learning process (Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2010). Furthermore, questions
arise about the depth of students’ acquisition of new knowledge when a good deal
of their cognitive and memory capacity is spent on linguistic processing. It is there-
fore crucial that consideration be given to the effect SPCU may have on teaching
and learning. Below we present some preliminary thoughts on the subject.
Significant research has been carried out on the effect on learning in higher edu-
cation of using a deep approach that focuses on meaning, versus a surface approach
focusing on memorization for the test (Marton and Säljö 1976; Entwistle and
Ramsden 1983; Prosser et al. 1994; Trigwell et al. 1999). Warburton (2003) has
described deep learning as the strategy by which students extract meaning and
understanding from course materials and experiences. He claims that to obtain deep
learning students need to adopt strategies that allow them to relate ideas to their own
experience. To fully understand the meaning of a text they need strategies which
allow them to distinguish evidence from argument, and identify patterns and prin-
ciples (Lucas 2001).
Studies in this area have focused on students’ acquisition of new knowledge in
their native language. Studies on deep learning with a focus on possible problems of
language code seem to be lacking. The picture outlined by research so far indicates
that a significant component of a deep approach is that the reader/learner engages in
a more active dialogue with the text. It is as if the learner is constantly asking him-
self questions such as how the various parts of the text relate to each other or whether
the argument is consistent and how it relates to what the reader already knows
(Trigwell et al. 1999). The question arises as to how much time the learner has for
these contemplations while hampered by questions about the meaning of individual
words, clusters of words, even whole paragraphs, not to mention cultural references
in the text that the reader may not be familiar with.
Albrechtsen et al. (2008) studied how learning skills transferred between the first
language (Danish) and second language (English) in terms of time expended. The
study looked at the differences between individuals and across learner groups at
three levels, the highest level was a group of university students. Their findings
showed that the use of advanced processing was three times faster in the first
­
language than the second language for individuals and that, in general, process and
outcome measures in the first language were “clearly superior” to those in the sec-
ond language (Albrechtsen et al. 2008: p. 96).
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
169
Clearly, dual language processing constrains the cognitive process. This is in
addition to the challenges students face when introduced to unfamiliar genre-based
differences that all first year university students encounter and that impede compre-
hension. At the very least, the added demands SPCU places on cognition and mem-
ory represent a factor which needs further exploration.
The SPCU situation is not reflected in educational policy in Iceland and no sys-
tematic measures are present to facilitate students’ access to the curriculum written
in a different language than the one in which students have had their previous aca-
demic preparation. This linguistic situation in fact goes largely unacknowledged by
educational authorities. It also goes counter to prevailing language and education
policies that proclaim Icelandic to be the national language to be used in all domains
of language use and the official language of the University of Iceland (Stefna
Háskóla Íslands 2011). Further research is needed into both parallel language use
and SPCU and how they affect students’ educational experiences at tertiary level.
While there is significant research on the effect of teaching methods on deep
versus surface learning in higher education (Marton and Säljö 1976; Entwistle and
Ramsden 1983; Prosser et al. 1994; Trigwell et al. Trigwell et al. 1999), studies in
this area with a focus on language code seem to be missing. With reference to defi-
nitions of deep learning the question needs to be raised whether it is possible that
having to constantly switch between two languages may encourage surface learning
rather than deep learning? This is clearly an area which needs closer scrutiny.
4  The Study
An effort to understand the effect that simultaneous parallel code use (SPCU) has
on students’ learning begins by asking the students themselves how prepared they
are to tackle a curriculum largely written in English and what strategies they use to
access the content of their textbooks. This study is meant to take the first steps
towards gaining information on students’ experiences and effects of the use of
SPCU, specifically. The following research question was developed:
What effect do students believe SPCU has on their academic output when the input is in
English?
4.1  Methodology and Participants
The set of questions on using two languages simultaneously were part of the larger
survey and interviews reported in the chapter “Using English at University”, this
volume. Over 1000 students at the University of Iceland participated in the survey
Simultaneous Parallel Code Use
170
and a further ten who took part in interviews expressed an overall confidence in
their English skills and satisfaction with their English academic preparation. A set
of questions asked how reading English texts affected students’ learning experi-
ences. Almost half said that it increased their workload. Over one third of the 1081
students, or 37%, thought it was difficult to use texts in English, while another 37%
felt it was somewhat easy and 26% felt it was easy to use texts in English. The
responses to the question whether students found it easy or difficult to use textbooks
written in English seem to contradict the generally positive response to the question
about whether they felt well prepared to use English reading materials
(Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2014).
Some differences were found between the views of men and women about the
difficulty in using English in their studies. Twenty-three percent of men thought
using English was difficult or rather difficult whereas 42% of women thought using
English course materials poses difficulty. Education students responded differently
than students from other schools and found it more difficult to use English.
We then asked more specific questions about working with English texts in an
otherwise Icelandic learning environment. These questions focused on the effect
students’ felt simultaneous parallel code use had on their learning. Question 16
elicited views about whether they found it difficult that terminology was in English
when the course was taught in Icelandic. A quarter of the respondents said that it
was often or always problematic to work with English terminology while 58%
claimed it sometimes posed problems. Only 17% of all respondents said that this
posed no problem (Table 1).
It is clear that the majority of students find that using English terminology poses
some problems. Again, Education students stand out as 35% of them felt that this
often or always posed problems while only18% of students in the Health Sciences
felt that way. Humanities students’ responses may reflect the fact that many of them
study foreign languages and Icelandic and may therefore not use English terminol-
ogy very much (thus, these may be the students who represent the 10% who do not
use English textbooks).
Table 1  Views on working with English terminology
Q. 16. What are your views on working with English terminology when the course is taught in
Icelandic?
Poses no
problems
(%)
Sometimes
poses problems
(%)
Often poses
problems
(%)
Always
poses
problems (%) N
All respondents 17 58 22 3 1081
School
 Social sciences 17 59 21 4 374
 Health sciences 15 66 17 1 169
 Humanities 23 58 15 4 175
 Education 11 54 29 6 166
 Engineering and
Natural Sciences
16 56 26 3 188
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
171
Question 20 also focused on SPCU. Students were asked: How easy or difficult
is it to discuss your field of study in Icelandic without using English terminology?
The responses were cautious in that 36% students responded “sæmilega” (e. rather
easy) while 31% said that it was easy. Nineteen percent said it was difficult or rather
difficult to discuss their field without using English terminology. Again, a different
picture appears when responses were broken down by disciplines as seen in Table 2.
Notice that the lowest number of students who said it was very easy to discuss
their field without using English terminology were in Health Sciences, Engineering
and Natural Sciences, and that these same students tended to be the ones who felt
using English had the least impact on their studies as shown in the chapter “Using
English at University”. The responses from Education students were somewhat
unexpected, but may reflect a view that as prospective teachers, they are reluctant to
admit difficulty in expressing themselves in Icelandic. Generally, students do not
seem to feel that they have difficulty discussing their field of study in Icelandic.
The last part of the survey asked what strategies, if any, students employ to nego-
tiate meaning between the two linguistic codes they must use to master the curricu-
lum. We gave them several options as seen in Table 3. The percentages indicate the
number of students responding to each question. Students had more than one option.
Table 2  Difficulty discussing topic in Icelandic
Q 20. How easy or difficult is it to discuss your field of study in Icelandic without using
English terminology
Very
easy
(%)
Easy
(%)
Rather
easy (%)
Rather
difficult (%)
Difficult
(%) N
All respondents 14 31 36 15 4 1081
School
 Social Sciences 15 32 35 15 3 374
 Health Sciences 7 28 41 17 7 169
 Humanities 17 35 33 11 4 175
 Education 21 36 36 6 1 166
 Engineering and
Natural Sciences
9 21 39 27 4 188
Table 3  Strategies used by
respondents to access
curriculum written in English
Strategy N Percentage %
Make an Icelandic glossary/
use a dictionary
604 59
Make an English glossary 204 19
Write a summary in Icelandic 320 30
Write a summary in English 73 7
Translate in my mind 718 66
Take part in group translation 47 4
Translate using Google 447 41
Use an online dictionary 728 67
Simultaneous Parallel Code Use
172
Here a very different picture emerges from the previous responses that indicated
a general satisfaction with preparation and use of English. Two thirds of respon-
dents or 67% mention using an online dictionary, or creating a glossary with the
help of a dictionary (59%). The response “Translate in my mind” may actually
mean that they pause to consider the meaning of single lexical items, phrases or
whole passages. Two thirds (66%) admit to translating in their mind, suggesting a
heavier cognitive load than reading in the first language would demand. Almost
50% use Google to translate, which may give reason for concern about appropriate
interpretation and subsequent comprehension. It is noteworthy that 30% write a
summary of the English text in Icelandic. Only 7% write a summary in English.
Perhaps the overemphasis on translating the language indicates that less time is
spent on actually understanding the content of what they are reading.
One would assume, given students’ satisfaction with their English skills, that
writing summaries in English would be a more efficient strategy to master the con-
tent than time- and energy-consuming translation activities.
There seems to be an even distribution of strategies used by students in the dif-
ferent schools. Women tended to use dictionaries more than men, who tended to
“translate in the mind” more than women did (Table 4). Notice that almost 40% of
students in Education and 34% of women from all Schools responded that they
write Icelandic summaries of the English texts. Google translation is used by 50%
of students in Engineering and Natural Science and 44% in Health Sciences. These
were the same students who claimed to have the least problems accessing the
curriculum.
Both students and teachers were asked what methods, if any, teachers used to
scaffold the English material for students. The goal here was to ascertain to what
extent teachers facilitate access to the English curriculum. The responses are shown
in Table 5.
Both groups agree that teachers discuss terminology in class. There is, however,
disagreement as to what extent teachers disseminate an Icelandic glossary of terms
or an Icelandic summary. Only 11 students (8%) say teachers disseminate glossaries
while almost half (48%) of the teachers claim to distribute Icelandic glossaries or
summaries. Among the 18% that claim teachers do not do anything to assist may be
students from departments that do not use English textbooks or they may be stu-
dents in faculties that do not use English. The discrepancy in the responses of the
students versus the teachers is food for thought. It should be said however that the
teachers surveyed were not necessarily teaching the particular students who were
surveyed. A final result of the university survey was that 83% of the over one thou-
sand respondents think it is problematic to use English in Icelandic mediated
courses; more so in Education and Social Sciences than in Natural Sciences
(Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2010).
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
173
Table 4  Strategies used by students to access the curriculum written in English by School and
gender
Q. Which of the following apply to you?
Social
Sciences
Health
Sciences Humanities Education
Engineering
and Natural
Sciences Men Women
Strategies % % % % % % %
Write a
glossary with
the help of a
dictionary
60 66 54 69 47 42 66
Write notes
in English
19 18 28 8 20 21 18
Write a
summary in
Icelandic
33 30 22 39 21 19 34
Write a
summary in
English
7 6 10 3 7 10 6
Translate in
my mind
63 73 73 61 66 70 65
Take part in a
translation
group
7 4 1 8 0.5 2 5
Google 39 44 39 36 50 46 40
Use an
online
dictionary
65 72 63 70 71 55 70
N 1096 528 507 489 533
Table 5 Strategies used by teachers to scaffold the English material according to students and
teachers
Strategy
Students’ responses
(%)
Teachers’ responses
(%)
Disseminate an Icelandic glossary of terms 11 48
Disseminate an Icelandic summary 8 42
Disseminate translation (in part) 8 17
Discuss the meaning of the terms 53 52
Incl. English terms (in part) in tests 58 41
Do none of the above 18 NA
Simultaneous Parallel Code Use
174
5  Discussion
The main findings of this study have been to uncover some of the learning experi-
ences of students who use English in their studies at the national University of
Iceland. We have introduced the term simultaneous parallel code use when stu-
dents’ learning input is not in the same language as their output and not in the same
language in which students’ learning is evaluated. This is to distinguish this situa-
tion from parallel language because language use here, using a different language
than L1, is not by choice. It also contrasts with bilingual language use which often
involves a home language that differs from the language of school or work. Under
SPCU conditions, even though there is indeed a long standing tradition of this phe-
nomenon in Scandinavia, there is very little awareness of the cognitive and linguis-
tic challenges faced by students in this context. They do not receive systematic
support nor are texts adapted to their English proficiency levels.
The study has demonstrated that even though students in general are content with
their English skills and their English language preparation, they acknowledge that
working in English increases their workload and that they must employ different
strategies to access the curriculum. The vast majority say that they use dictionaries
and one third of the respondents write summaries of the English content in Icelandic.
It is also worth noticing that over 60% of students translate the English text into
Icelandic in their mind when reading their textbooks. Bearing in mind Lucas’s
(2001) argument that students need strategies which allow them to distinguish evi-
dence from argument, and identify patterns and principles to fully understand the
meaning of a text, the strategies our students’ describe seem not to incorporate those
skills. All this raises the question of what effect this extra cognitive load and use of
rather simple and unsophisticated strategies may have on the student’s in-depth
understanding of the text. It seems clear that simultaneous parallel code use is
bound to place constraints on the reading process. Furthermore these constraints
can be added to the general challenges all students are exposed to when encounter-
ing new concepts, constructs and terminology and a new genre and discourse in an
unfamiliar field of academic study.
English is on the increase as a medium of instruction at universities around the
world. Although there is a long tradition of using textbooks written in foreign lan-
guages in Nordic universities, very little research has been conducted on the effect
this has on learning and on students’ ability to master the content of the curriculum.
The cultural references embedded in textbooks are assumed to be understood by all
students. Yet, it seems obvious that the context and nature of research in certain
disciplines may be heavily culturally embedded. As noted above, it has been sug-
gested that texts in the Sciences have much fewer cultural references than texts in
Education, Humanities, and Social Sciences where content is more culture specific
(Fløttum et al. 2006; Björkman 2008; Bazerman 2009).
Additionally, as the university student body grows larger and more educationally
and socially diverse, the prevailing ideology that reading textbooks in a foreign
language has no effect on learning is at the very least questionable. The issue of
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
175
transfer of cognitive skills between languages and its effect on the learning process
is a well-studied phenomenon in immigrant education, for example. Harklau et al.
(1999) coined the term Generation 1.5 for second generation immigrants who came
to higher education seemingly fluent in conversational English, only to realize later
that they do not have the academic language skills required for university study.
This has now also become an issue for Nordic university students studying in their
home countries, many of whom seem to be highly proficient users of receptive, col-
loquial English registers, but who struggle with academic English.
The reading process is even more complex when students’ receptive language is
not the same as the language used for assessment and for communicating their
knowledge. The study presented above shows that at least a third of university stu-
dents in Iceland go to some lengths in extra efforts to access English academic texts,
although there is some variation across disciplines. Other surveys in this project
suggest that many instructors try to accommodate students in a number of ways in
order to help them cope with the vocabulary of English texts. This may, however,
not be sufficient, and explicit help with strategies for understanding the deeper
meaning of the text may be necessary. Surveys of instructors indicate that the scaf-
folding they do is incidental, sporadic and dependent on the individual instructor in
terms of whether and what strategies he/she uses rather than on students’ needs. It
is not clear to what extent students and instructors, who are confident in their English
skills, are aware of the added constraints that the use of two languages poses on their
learning and teaching.
This study calls attention to the importance for universities to take seriously the
consequences of their language policy statements and the concomitant economic
and pedagogical costs. There must be recognition of the amount of cognitive
resources that are expended while pursuing academic work in a second language.
This transition to wider use of English at Nordic universities must be accompanied
by awareness of the need to support students’ comprehension of English texts and
build up knowledge and understanding of how instructors can best support students
who are struggling with simultaneous parallel code use.
6  Conclusions
In this chapter we have presented and discussed the main findings of a study which
shows that, contrary to generally-held beliefs, high functioning English users are
struggling with academic texts once at university. We have drawn attention to the
particular situation in which Icelandic university students find themselves regarding
language use. This is a situation where nearly all the reading input is in English and
the output is in the native language; a linguistic context we have termed simultane-
ous parallel code (SPCU). We believe that the SPCU situation may also be the case
in other Nordic countries (see e.g. Pecorari et al. 2011). The results of our study
pose critical questions. The first has to do with the depth of students’ acquisition of
new knowledge and understanding fully the meaning embedded in the new
Simultaneous Parallel Code Use
176
knowledge (Prosser et al. 1994) when a good deal of their cognitive and memory
capacity is spent on linguistic processing. Second, to what extent students are able
to master the academic discourse of their particular field of study in their first lan-
guage, when the linguistic input is largely in a different language. These questions
have implications for educational policy and call for further research. They become
increasingly important as the use of English spreads in academia at the same time
as the population of university students increases and becomes more socially and
educationally heterogeneous.
A university language policy must reflect the complexities of a dual language
situation, especially the use of simultaneous parallel code and parallel language
use and their effect on learning. University language policies must also reflect an
awareness of the fact that most faculty members and students will use their English
to communicate with other non-native speakers and provide the appropriate support
(Björkman 2010).
Increased use of English textbooks and other curriculum materials in universities
calls for a better understanding of the practice of scaffolding and other communica-
tion strategies aimed at assisting student learning. Finally, translanguaging and its
role in simultaneous parallel code use within academia worldwide needs further
study. It may also be time to consider the development of ELF non-culture-based
guidelinestopresentinginformation(Jenkins2011;IngvarsdóttirandArnbjörnsdóttir
2013) that reflect more tolerance of culture-specific non-English-based rhetorical
styles and code-switching in writing in English in multicultural academic contexts.
References
Airey, J. (2009). Science, language and literacy: Case studies of learning in Swedish university
physics. Ph.D. thesis, University of Uppsala.
Albrechtsen, D., Haastrup, K., & Henriksen, B. (2008). Vocabulary and writing in a first and sec-
ond language: Processes and development. Basingstoke: Palgrave/Macmillan.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2009). Enska í háskólanámi. In M. Sigurðsson & R. Þráinsdóttir (Eds.), Milli
mála (pp. 77–94). Reykjavík: Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2010). Coping with English at University: Students’
Beliefs. Netla – Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun. Menntavísindasvið Háskóla Íslands [Netla,
a webjournal on Pedagogy and Education. School of Education, University of Iceland]. http://
netla.khi.is/menntakvika2010/008.pdf. Accessed 23 Jan 2017.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2014). English at the University of Iceland: Ideology and
reality. In A. K. Hultgren, F. Gregersen, & J. Thørgersen (Eds.), English at Nordic universities:
Ideologies and practices (pp. 179–193). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2015). English in a new linguistic context: Implications
for higher education. In S.  Dimova, A.  K. Hultgren, & C.  Jensen (Eds.), English-medium
instruction in European higher education. English in Europe 3 (pp. 137–156). Amsterdam:
DeGruyter.
Bazerman, C. (2009). Genre and cognitive development: Beyond writing to learn. Practiques,
143(144), 127–138.
Bernhardt, E. B. (1991). Reading development in a second language: Theoretical, empirical, &
classroom perspectives. Norwood: Ablex.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
177
Björkman, B. (2008). English as a lingua franca of engineering education. http://www.kth.se/
ingenjorsutbildningarna/papers/Bjorkman.pdf. Accessed 1 Nov 2010.
Björkman, B. (2010). So you think you can ELF: English as a Lingua Franca as the medium
of instruction. Hermes, 45, 77–99. http://download2.hermes.asb.dk/archive/2010/Hermes45.
html. Accessed 24 Sept 2016.
Brock-Utne, B. (2001). The growth of English for academic communication in the Nordic coun-
tries. International Review of Education, 47(3–4), 221–233.
Center for internationalisation and parallel language use. 2014. University of Copenhagen. www.
cip.hum.ku.dk. 12 Jan 2014.
Coleman, J.  A. (2006). English-medium teaching in European higher education. Language
Teaching, 39, 1–14.
Collier, V. (1989). How long? A synthesis of research on academic achievement in a second lan-
guage. TESOL Quarterly, 23(3), 509–531.
Connor, U. (1996). Contrastive rhetoric: Cross-cultural aspects of second language writing.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Cummins, J. (1979). Linguistic interdependence and the educational development of bilingual
children. Review of Educational Research, 49(2), 222–251.
Cummins, J. (2000). Language, power and pedagogy: Bilingual children in the crossfire. Clevedon:
Multilingual Matters.
Deklaration om Nordisk Språkpolitik 2006. (2007). [A Nordic language policy declaration]. 2006.
Nordiska ministerrådet, Köpenhamn.
Destination 2012, Strategy for the University of Copenhagen. http://www.epages.dk/ku/236/.
Accessed 14 Jan 2016.
Entwistle, N., & Ramsden, P. (1983). Understanding student learning. London: Croom Helm.
Fitzgerald, J. (1995). English-as-a-second-language reading instruction in the United States: A
research review. Journal of Literacy Research, 27(2), 115–152.
Fløttum, K., Dahl, T., & Kinn, T. (2006). Academic voices – Across languages and disciplines.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishers.
Haastrup, K. (2008). English-medium higher education in Denmark (EMHED). Nordic Journal of
English Studies, 7(3), 205–206.
Harklau, L., Losey, K. M., & Siegal, M. (Eds.). (1999). Generation 1.5 meets college composition:
Issues in the teaching of writing to U.S.-educated learners of ESL. Mahwah: Erlbaum.
Hellekjær, G. O. (2005). The acid test: Does upper secondary EFL instruction effectively pre-
pare Norwegian students for the reading of English textbooks at colleges and universities?
Unpublished Ph.D. thesis at the University of Oslo.
Hellekjær, G. O. (2009).Academic English reading proficiency at the university level:A Norwegian
case study. Reading in a Foreign. Language, 21(2), 198–222.
Hellekjær, G. O., & Westergaard, M. R. (2003). An exploratory survey of content learning through
English at Nordic Universities. In C. van Leeuwen & R. Wilkinson (Eds.), University educa-
tion: Challenges and practis (pp. 65–80). Nijmegen: Valkhof Pers.
Hyland, K. (2006). English for academic purposes. London: Routledge.
Hyland, K. (2009). Academic discourse: English in a global context. London: Bloomsbury.
Ingvarsdóttir, H., & Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2013). ELF and academic writing: A perspective from the
expanded circle. Journal of English as a Lingua Franca, 2(1), 123–145.
Jeeves, A. (2008). “Some words are simply very difficult”: Reading proficiency in English.
Unpublished MA thesis. School of Social Sciences, University of Iceland.
Jenkins, J. (2011). Accommodating (to) ELF in the international university. Journal of Pragmatics,
43(4), 926–936.
Kachru, B. (1985). Standards, codification, and sociolinguistic realism: The English language in
the outer circle. In R. Quirk & H. Widdowson (Eds.), Teaching and learning in the language
and literature (pp. 11–30). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kristinsson, A. P., & Bernharðsson, H. (2014). Íslenska og enska í íslensku háskólastarfi. Orð og
tunga, 16, 93–122.
Simultaneous Parallel Code Use
178
Lave, J., & Wenger, E. (1991). Situated learning: Legitimate peripheral participation. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Ljösland, R. (2007). English in Norwegian academia: A step towards diglossia? World Englishes,
26(4), 395–410.
Ljösland, R. (2008). Lingua franca, prestisjespråk og forestilt fellesskap: om engelsk som akademisk
språk i Norge: et kasusstudium i bred kontekst. Trondheim: Norges teknisk-naturvitenskapelige
universitet, Det historisk-filosofiske fakultet, Institutt for nordistikk og litteraturvitenskap
[Lingua franca, prestige language and imagined communities: English as an academic lan-
guage in Norway: a case study in a broad context. Tronheim: Norwegian University of Science,
Faculty of Arts, Department of Scandinavian Studies and Comparative Literature.
Lucas, U. (2001). Deep and surface approaches to learning within introductory accounting: A
phenomenographic study. Accounting Education, 10(2), 161.
Marton, F., & Säljö, R. (1976). On qualitative differences in learning. Outcome and process.
British Journal of Educational Psychology, 46, 4–11.
Mauranen, A. (1993). Cultural differences in academic rhetoric: A textlinguistic study. New York/
Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Mežek, Š. (2012). Recall of subject specific content as a measure of textbook reading comprehen-
sion. Presentation at CALPIU 12. April 4, 2012.
Oxford, R. (1990). Language learning strategies: What every teacher should know. Boston: Heinle
& Heinle.
Pecorari, D. (2012). Factors influencing the likelihood of incidental vocabulary learning.
Presentation at CALPIU 12. April 4, 2012.
Pecorari, D., Shaw, P., Irvine, A., & Malmström, H. (2011). English textbooks in parallel language
tertiary education. TESOL Quarterly, 45, 313–333.
Peregoy, S. F., & Boyle, O. F. (2005). Reading, writing, and learning in ESL: A resource book for
K–12 teachers (4th ed.). Boston: Pearson Education.
Pilkinton-Pihko, D. (2010). English as a lingua franca, in Helsinki English Studies 6. In
A. Mauranen and N. Hynninen (Eds.), 58–74. Helsinki: University of Helsinki.
Prosser, M., Trigwell, K., & Taylor, P. (1994). A phenomenographic study of academics’ concep-
tions of science learning and teaching. Learning and Instruction, 4, 217–231.
Stefna Háskóla Íslands. (2011–2016). http://www.hi.is/skolinn/stefna_haskola_
islands_2011%E2%80%932016. Accessed 1 May 2011.
Swales, J. M. (2004). Research genres: Explorations and applications. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Swerts, S., & Westbrook, P. (2013). Preparing students and lecturers for English medium instruc-
tion at the University of Copenhagen. Sprogforum, 56, 71–78.
Trigwell, K., Prosser, P., & Waterhouse, F. (1999). Relations between teachers’ approaches to
teaching and students’ approaches to learning. Higher Education, 37, 57–70.
Vinke, A. A., Snippe, J., & Jochems, W. (1998). English medium content courses in non-English
higher education: A study of lecturer experiences and teaching behaviours. Teaching in Higher
Education, 3(3), 383–394.
Warburton, K. (2003). Deep learning and education for sustainability. International Journal of
Sustainability in Higher Education, 4(1), 44–56.
Wilkinson, R. (2005). The compact on teaching content: views from the content teachers. Extract
from a paper presented at a conference on Multilingual Universities – Challenges and Future
Prospects, Helsinki. September 2. 2005.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
179
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir, H. Ingvarsdóttir (eds.), Language Development across the Life Span,
Educational Linguistics 34, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67804-7_10
University Instructors’ Views on Using
Curriculum Materials in English
Hafdís Ingvarsdóttir
Abstract  Due to the small size of the textbook market, Icelandic universities have
traditionally relied on course materials written in English. Both instructors and stu-
dents take it for granted that the majority of the university course material will be in
English. The study reported here examines how Icelandic university instructors
cope with a linguistic situation when the language of instruction is Icelandic and
tests and assignments are for the most part in Icelandic, while written input is mainly
in English. This is a mixed method study. Data was collected through an electronic
survey that was sent to all instructors at the University of Iceland. The survey was
followed by interviews with ten instructors, two from each of the five schools at the
University. The research questions related to their views on the use of English
course material and the possible effect it had on their instructional practice. The
findings indicate that instructors take the situation for granted and initially maintain
that it causes little or no problems to use English materials. However, once probed,
many of them profess to use a variety of scaffolding devices to support their stu-
dents learning. This support is, however, not systematic and depends on individual
teachers rather than department- or university policy.
1  Introduction
The pressure to use English at the university level in Iceland is increasing. The new
language policy of the University of Iceland 2016–2021 states for the first time that
English should be the language of doctoral theses as a main rule, and more and more
masters’ theses are now written in English (University of Iceland 2016). Although
the majority of courses are still taught in Icelandic, an increasing number of courses
are being taught in English due to a rising number of international faculty and
exchange students. In 2014, out of a student body numbering 13,960, 1069 were
international students enrolled at the university (University of Iceland 2015, p. 7).
There is, however, one aspect of the use of English at the university which has a long
H. Ingvarsdóttir (*)
University of Iceland, Reykjavík, Iceland
e-mail: hei@hi.is
180
standing tradition i.e. the use of English curriculum materials. This chapter reports
findings of a study of university instructors’ views on having to use English materi-
als almost exclusively in their otherwise Icelandic as a Medium of Instruction (IMI)
courses.A 2009 study found that approximately 90% of the curriculum at University
level in Iceland is written in English. The percentage is even higher in the Health,
Engineering and Natural Sciences where almost all of the textbooks are written for
native speakers of English (Arnbjörnsdóttir 2009, this volume). Furthermore, there
are strong indications that Icelandic universities are heading the same way as other
Nordic higher education institutions where English is increasingly used as a medium
of instruction (EMI) (Bolton and Kuteva 2012; Jensen and Thørgesen 2011; Ljösland
2007). This is creating a gap between policy and reality and serves to change the
roles of universities in the Nordic countries from being the guardians of national
languages and cultures to becoming international scientific institutions active on the
world stage (Hultgren et al. 2014). To attain this goal to become international insti-
tutions, the liberal Nordic language policies call for “parallel” use of English and
the local languages in academic pursuits (Nordic Council Declaration 2006). This
transition is taking place despite the fact that the majority of faculty members at
Nordic universities who deliver instruction now in two languages, have had their
academic preparation in a language other than English.
Published research on the efficacy of programs in higher education taught in
English suggests that using English constrains both teaching and learning in spite of
instructors and students reported satisfaction with EMI programs (Coleman 2006;
Hellekjær and Westergaard 2003). In the Icelandic higher education context, most
programs are still taught in Icelandic and students write their course assignments for
the most part in Icelandic while nearly all the textbooks are written in English.
Higher education in Iceland is thus in a situation where teachers and students are
constantly engaged in what we have termed as simultaneous parallel code use i.e.
students are required to work with two languages simultaneously. Students must
thus negotiate meaning back and forth between a receptive language and productive
language that are not the same (see definition and discussion of SPCU in the chapter
“Simultaneous Parallel Code Use” this volume). In the previous chapters students’
views on working with two languages were presented. While substantial research is
emerging on the effect on the quality of teaching and learning in programs taught in
English (Coleman 2006; Wächter and Maiworm 2008; Dimova et al. 2015), there is
sparse literature on the effect it may have on instruction or students’ learning when
the written input is in a language different from the one in which students’ mastery
of the content is measured. In this chapter we address this knowledge gap by explor-
ing instructors’ attitudes and experience of this particular type of translanguaging at
tertiary level.
H. Ingvarsdóttir
181
2  Theoretical Background
Research on English as a Medium of Instruction in higher education addresses
mainly EMI programs where there is rich English input in the environment and the
output is also in English. Dutch universities have been offering EMI programs for
over two decades and it can be argued that they are forerunners in this development
(Edwards 2014). Vinke et al. 1998study was one of the first published studies that
investigated the perceived effect EMI has on teaching and instructional methods.
Their study yielded contradictory results. In spite of various language problems
being reported that restricted instruction, produced less varied instruction, and
increased workload, these constraints were not reflected in overall ratings of the
programs neither by instructors nor students who report a general satisfaction with
EMI courses. These findings suggest that both groups see the perceived benefits, i.e.
their own assumed improved proficiency in English, as outweighing the constraints.
Wilkinson (2005) investigated students’ views on the impact on instructional meth-
ods at three Dutch universities that used English as a Medium of Instruction. He
found that the lectures were not seen by students as very effective and that students
reported needing supplementary support. However, the teachers held a slightly more
positive opinion on the adequacy of their own level of English to deliver the curricu-
lum than their students did. A Danish study investigating students’ perceptions of
their instructors’ English language proficiency found that instructors’ English pro-
ficiency was a significant predictor of their perceptions of the instructors’ general
lecturing competence and vice versa (Jensen et al. 2013).
Sweden has a long tradition of using English texts parallel with Swedish texts.
Pecorari et al. (2011a) conducted a large-scale survey among university lecturers in
Sweden on their attitudes towards using English as a Medium of Instruction. Their
findings show that lecturers consider the use of English language textbooks as pro-
viding a useful opportunity for incidental language learning. However, no special
learning outcomes for English were formulated and thus no way of determining
whether incidental learning took place nor what methods were being used to
enhance students’ learning. No mention is made of whether using English enhanced
or impaired students’ ability to master the content.
Malmström et al. (2016) investigated through video recordings how teachers in a
SPCU setting (they call it partial EMI) help students bridge the gap in terminology
between the English reading text and Swedish which is the language of instruction.
They observed that the eight teachers they investigated use a number of scaffolding
devices to help students acquire the English vocabulary such as explanations, defini-
tions, presenting examples, etc. The findings also indicate that teachers nearly
always employ some sort of emphatic practice when using a term in a lecture.
However, they rarely adapt their repertoires to cater to the needs of their students for
whom English is a second language. Pecorari et al. (2011b) have argued that in a
partial EMI setting, exposure is limited and that some students even avoid reading
the textbooks. They also suggest that the simultaneous engagement in two ­distinctive
University Instructors’ Views on Using Curriculum Materials in English
182
codes may even lead to confusion and that content learning may rather be inhibited
than enhanced.
The question remains unanswered whether the pressure to use English as the
language of instruction makes teachers disregard the constraints this may place on
their instructional practice and on their students’ ability to achieve content mastery.
The work carried out at the Centre for Internationalization and Parallel Language
Use (CIP) the University of Copenhagen, not least their investigation on lecturers’
proficiency in English, is noteworthy. Officials at The University of Copenhagen
(KU) concluded back in 2008 that an assessment procedure should be developed
that could be used to certify the English language skills of university lecturers teach-
ing EMI courses (Kling et al. 2011). Even in situations where instruction is in the
local language, students at Nordic universities rely heavily on course materials in
English and questions have been raised whether students have enough reading pro-
ficiency to cope sufficiently with textbooks in English and what effects this has on
learning. To date few studies have been published on these effects, if any.
Hellekjær and Westergaard (2003) investigated reading proficiency amongst
Norwegian students in higher education and found that a third of students have
problems reading the English textbooks in their field of study. Furthermore,
Hellekjær (2009) found that secondary students overestimate their reading profi-
ciency and that it did not suffice for university level studies. He calls into question
the assumption that Norwegian upper secondary level EFL teaching effectively pre-
pares students for the reading of English texts and textbooks in higher education
(Hellekjær 2009). Clearly more research is needed into instructors’ reactions and
responses to the identified gap in students’ English proficiency and its effect on
learning and instruction. For further readings on Icelandic students’ views see the
chapters “Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School”
(Jeeves, this volume); and “Using English at University”, (Arnbjörnsdóttir, this vol-
ume). This again leads to the question if and how teachers experience and react to
challenges posed by parallel use of two languages in their classroom.
In light of reported research and subsequent identification of a knowledge gap,
four research questions were developed in order to take the first steps in gaining
insights into instructors’ views on the effect, if any, the use of Simultaneous Parallel
Code Use in the classroom had on their ability to deliver the content to the students.
The questions are:
	
1.	 How do Icelandic university lecturers’ evaluate their own proficiency in English?
	
2.	 How do they view their ability to cope with working with two languages in their
instruction?
	
3.	 What scaffolding devices, if any, do they use to help their students cope with
English teaching materials?
	
4.	 Do instructors’ attitudes toward the use of English materials differ according to
their discipline?
H. Ingvarsdóttir
183
3  The Study
This is a mixed method study which consists of a detailed questionnaire sent to
university instructors at the University of Iceland through the faculty post-list and a
further ten in-depth interviews with two instructors from each of the five schools at
the University. Below we report findings from both components. We begin with
results from the survey, followed by the findings from the interviews. The survey
questions centered on the instructors’ background, proficiency, what effect they felt
using curriculum texts in English had on their teaching, and if and how they scaf-
folded the course content to help students comprehend the English texts. Finally, we
wanted to explore whether attitudes varied depending on the respondents’ academic
fields. The survey was sent out electronically in November 2009 and a reminder was
sent 2 weeks later. At that time the post-list consisted of 643 academic staff mem-
bers and about 600 from administration with an additional 1250 part time instruc-
tors whose activity on the list varied (University of Iceland web page). The questions
were addressed to the academic staff. We received 238 responses in total; 121 from
women and 117 from men. The distribution according to the five different Schools
was relatively even from 39 to 49 per School while 59 responded from the School
of Social Sciences which is the largest School within the University.
The survey was followed by in-depth interviews with ten instructors, five female
and five male, who represented the five Schools at the University. The participants in
the interviews were chosen so they represented an equal number of males and females
and represented both older and younger professors. The interviews were transcribed
verbatim and then analyzed thematically. The questions focused on what effect, if
any, instructors believe using English curriculum materials has on their teaching (for
more detailed information please see Ingvarsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2010).
3.1  Findings from the Survey
We will start by describing the participants and their background. It was important
to investigate instructors’ sex, age, experience and educational background and to
elicit their assessment of their own level of proficiency in English as these might
have direct bearings on their views on how these factors affected their instructional
practices.
The first questions thus asked about gender and age of the respondents. There
were 117 male respondents or 49% and 121 female or 51%. The majority of partici-
pants were between 41 and 60 years of age. This reflects the distribution of age and
gender of the population which is the academic staff of the University of Iceland.
About half had completed their graduate work in an English speaking country
(Ingvarsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2013).
Eighty-eight percent of the instructors rated their proficiency in English as either
very good or good. In this context it should be mentioned that over half or 57% who
reported very good or good English skills also reported having studied in an English
speaking country. Self-reported English proficiency varied according to sex, age
University Instructors’ Views on Using Curriculum Materials in English
184
and discipline (or School). Men rated their English skills as better than women did.
The younger the respondents the better they assessed their English skills as 65% of
the youngest age group 21–30 rated their skills as very good while 41% of the over
60 years olds were confident in their English skills. Three-quarters of the faculty in
the School of Engineering and Natural Sciences (74%) rated their English as very
good while only 38% of the Education faculty evaluated their English proficiency as
very good. Others were around the 50% mark although 45% of Health Science
instructors rated their English as very good and 55% of Social Science faculty
marked their English is very good. This is somewhat surprising; however, the
Business School Faculty form a large part of the faculty in the School of Social
Sciences which may explain why, throughout the results of this study, they align
themselves with the Engineering and Natural Sciences in terms of their attitude
toward the use of English. Only around 10% overall said that their English was not
very good (for more detailed results see Ingvarsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2010).
Instructors were asked whether they thought that using English could be advan-
tageous or not for themselves or their students. Instructors from all five schools see
it as an advantage to use English as over 90% from four of the five schools strongly
agree or agree that it does have advantages to use English. Almost all instructors in
the Social Sciences see it as an advantage followed by the Health and Natural
Sciences. Lecturers in Education are not as convinced, yet over 84% of them see it
as an advantage for students to use English textbooks. The instructors’ views can be
seen in Table 1.
When asked about the advantages for themselves, they also agree to a large
extent. The responses are similar from all schools except Education.
The results are presented in Table 2.
Table 1  Is it advantageous for students to use textbooks in English?
Strongly
agree (%) Agree (%) Disagree (%) N
All 45 48 7 223
Social Sciences 51 46 3 59
Health Sciences 48 50 2 42
Humanities 43 54 3 30
Education 32 53 15 46
Engineering and Natural Sciences 47 44 9 45
Table 2  Is it advantageous for instructors to use textbooks in English?
Strongly agree
(%)
Agree
(%) Disagree (%) N
All 42 49 9 222
Social Sciences 41 53 7 59
Health Sciences 45 48 7 42
Humanities 45 45 10 29
Education 33 58 9 45
Engineering and Natural Sciences 48 39 13 46
H. Ingvarsdóttir
185
The majority of respondents agree or strongly agree that it is an advantage for
themselves and their students to use English textbooks and this is in line with the
reported proficiency; those who report the highest English proficiency also report
the greatest satisfaction with using English textbooks.
Then a series of questions were posed about the effects using English had on
their work. First participants were asked whether it posed difficulty to work with
two languages simultaneously. A little more than half of the instructors report that it
is easy to work with two languages. The responses for all participants are presented
in Table 3 below.
However, more variety in responses appeared when the different variables were
factored in as faculty, sex and age all affected the responses as seen in Table 4:
Clearly instructors in the Humanities and Education find it more difficult to use
two languages as do women and, not surprisingly, the better the English proficiency
the easier it is to work with two languages. Social Science faculty also align them-
Table 3  Degree of difficulty
in working with two
languages
All Percent Frequency
Very or rather
difficult
12 28
Rather easy 35 79
Easy 53 121
Table 4  Degree of difficulty in working with two languages by faculty, sex, age and English
proficiency
Very or rather difficult
(%)
Rather easy
(%)
Easy
(%) N
Faculty 228
Social Sciences 9 32 59 59
Health Sciences 10 39 51 41
Humanities 23 31 46 35
Education 11 47 43 48
Natural Sciences 13 24 62 45
Sex
Male 12 25 63 114
Female 12 45 43 114
Age
22–30 years 6 44 50 18
31–40 years 9 45 49 47
41–50 years 20 36 44 59
51–60 years 11 29 60 73
61–72 years 10 30 60 30
Own proficiency in English
Very good 9 26 65 122
Good 13 46 41
Fair 25 39 35
University Instructors’ Views on Using Curriculum Materials in English
186
selves here with the Natural Sciences. Also the age groups from 31 to 40 and 41 to
50 seem to find it more difficult. Possibly they are junior faculty in the process of
adjusting their instruction to the dual language context. The youngest age group
may have benefitted most to the massive exposure to English that Iceland has seen.
The oldest two groups may simply have adjusted to the situation.
When asked about how using English affected their work, over half of the respon-
dents said that using English required more preparation (Table 5).
We wanted to measure these responses against instructor’s reports of whether
they received complaints from students about using English reading materials and,
if so, whether there were any differences between schools (Table 6).
It is interesting in light of the answers that instructors do not see using English as
a disadvantage but see it as a benefit. All in all two-thirds of the respondents have
received complaints from students about having to read textbooks in English. Over
62% in Education and 47% of instructors in Social Sciences receive complaints
sometimes or often. Here responses from Social Sciences are aligned with other
Humanities fields as opposed to confidence measures where they align with the
Natural and Health Sciences.
The next question also sheds light on the nature of work load increase as instruc-
tors were asked whether they provided any form of translations to help their student
cope with the texts. The follow up question included a list of possibilities of some
forms of translations from English to Icelandic and asked instructors to check as
many boxes as applied to their situation. The table below shows the kind of support
professors provide. The list is in order of frequency.
Table 7 shows that instructors are offering translations even to the extent that
they translate whole books for their students although clearly the most frequent sup-
port is in the form of translating concepts.
Following the question on translation help, we asked an open ended question
where participants where asked to name the scaffolding devices, if any, they used
with their students. By far the most common response was that they did not provide
any assistance. They simply responded no, even “it has never occurred to me”. This
Table 5  Does it affect your preparation that most of the textbooks are in English?
More preparation (%) No effect (%) Less preparation (%) N
All 51 39 10 238
Table 6  Do you receive complaints from students about having to use English textbooks?
Never
(%)
Seldom
(%) Sometimes/often (%) N
All 34 36 30 238
Social Sciences 28 47 25 60
Health Sciences 50 31 19 42
Humanities 33 39 28 39
Education 6 32 62 47
Engineering and Natural Sciences 53 28 18 49
H. Ingvarsdóttir
187
is striking as our survey among students shows that many are struggling with the
English texts (see the chapter “Using English at University”, this volume).
The next most common response was “all my transparencies and lectures are in
Icelandic”. Other common responses to the open ended question on scaffolding
methods were in this order:
•	 Use English and Icelandic concepts simultaneously when lecturing
•	 Put English concepts in brackets on transparencies
•	 Provide Icelandic translations on handouts
•	 Go through the English text with students
•	 Distribute Power Point slides in Icelandic at the beginning of the course
•	 Ask students to compile a list of concepts on the course website.
It is interesting to compare lecturers’ attitudes as to how easy and difficult it is to
use two languages with the list of the help they say they provide. As can be seen
from the list above, lecturers go to great lengths to translate their own lectures and
slides. They also offer various kinds of support to their students. Because they are
providing language assistance, instructors may believe that these suffice to elimi-
nate any challenges for students. Their answers indicate that they do not consider
working with two languages as an extra burden, yet they offer this help and it does
increase their workload.
With closer scrutiny of the types of support instructors provide, it becomes clear
that it is confined to assistance with vocabulary development. Instructors in our
survey seem not to be aware of the help students may need with reading comprehen-
sion in general, e.g. guidance with reading strategies. It can be argued that instruc-
tors choose not to see students’ struggle with reading English texts as a problem but
rather as a part of the challenge of studying at tertiary level generally, which they
will eventually overcome. In order to gain better insights into the issues identified in
the survey, this was followed-up, about a year later, in 2010, with interviews with
teachers from the different Schools.
Table 7  Types of support provided by Instructors the to help with English comprehension
Number Percentage of responses Percentage of responders
Lists of concepts 113 39 60
Abstracts 42 14 2
Parts of texts 41 14 22
Glossaries 40 14 21
Whole articles or books 8 3 4
Other 48 16 25
University Instructors’ Views on Using Curriculum Materials in English
188
3.2  Findings from the Interviews
Surveys were followed up with interviews with instructors, two from each School at
the University, five men and five women. The interviewees were chosen so as to
gain a deeper perspective from each faculty and from both men and women. Each
interview was about 30 min in length and was conducted by the same interviewer
either in the participants’ office or a local coffee shop. The interviews were tran-
scribed verbatim and analyzed. As the interviews were conducted in Icelandic, rep-
resentative remarks were translated into English by the authors. Analysis was based
on an interpretative approach using an inductive method based on content analysis
(Patton 1990). A few representative examples are provided.
As in the survey, initially in the interviews, instructors do not see it as a problem
to have to use curriculum materials in English. They do comment on students’
declining English proficiency in general. All our interviewees complain about stu-
dents’ lack of proficiency in reading academic texts in English. A lecturer in
Education states: “They [first year students] experience a kind of a shock when they
see the textbook.” The lecturer in Engineering will not acknowledge that there are
any actual problems even if all the reading material is in English as in his discipline.
However: “The proficiency in English is not as good as people like to think. On the
whole Icelanders think their English is so good which is not true. This is some kind
of movie English they know.” Therefore he has both Icelandic and English concepts
on his PP slides. He points out that never the less the students have problems under-
standing the theoretical vocabulary in the exams where everything is in Icelandic
and some have only learned the English concepts.
Other themes which emerged from the interviews support the findings from the
survey. The themes were: extra work working with two languages, support to stu-
dents and advantages to using English.
3.2.1  
Extra Workload and Working with Two Languages
The interviews reveal that it is causing the instructors considerable extra work hav-
ing to use English textbooks and articles. Even instructors in Natural Sciences,
which perhaps have the longest tradition of using English curriculum materials,
admit to having to go to great lengths to help students. An instructor in Natural
Sciences states that when he receives new students he has to provide a great deal of
help with the language: “One of my major chores is to teach them to read Geology
in English” and he continues:
They are really surprised when I tell them that they don’t know any English. This is to be
expected. Many of them have done a lot of travelling and they get along fine in the world,
they can order food in restaurants and find a place to sleep but they cannot say a word in
English about Geology.
From their answers it is clear that most of them put in considerable extra work to
assist their students in accessing texts in English.
H. Ingvarsdóttir
189
3.2.2  Support to Students
The help instructors offer is the same or similar as appears in the survey i.e. that the
support is mainly in terminology. Instructors mostly agree that that the main prob-
lem is twofold: lack of discipline related terminology and lack of training in reading
academic texts. They try to help students with the former but do not see it their role
to help them with the latter: “they will learn it gradually by reading”. The reason for
their reluctance may be that they are not language teaching experts and do not know
how to teach reading strategies or even have an awareness of the existence of such
a phenomenon. Only one lecturer claims he does not help his students with English:
“No. I mean I don’t think anyone does anything systematic [in his department]. The
students just have to read the material and they use dictionaries, I guess.”
The other informants in our interviews report that they help students with the
terminology e.g. by having the English concept on the handouts in brackets after the
Icelandic. There are also examples of systematic vocabulary training:
I force them to read the book. I have weekly exercises where they have to answer questions
which are formulated in English and they have to understand the question to be able to
choose the right variant. This is multiple choice and they can use the book.
Here we have an example of how the instructor almost takes on the role as an
English teacher. However, although all informants in the interviews, with one excep-
tion, admit to offering some support, the support they offer varies.
3.2.3  Benefits
It seems that using so much English is a lot of extra work for the lecturers but they
see it as an advantage for students. In some of the disciplines everything or almost
everything is in English as little has been published in Icelandic. In other disciplines
such as Education and Philosophy and Law there are important publications in
Icelandic which are used. However a lecturer from Education explains:
You know, they find it difficult … you just give them lot of support and tell them that a part
of the curriculum is to learn English, not just to learn the content but you have to be able to
read English. You cannot just rely on what there is in Icelandic.
It seems that even if there is substantial publication in Icelandic within a particular
discipline the lecturers think that materials in English are also needed if students are
to obtain an education which can measure up to international university education.
Some also mention the fact that many Icelandic students go abroad to pursue post-
graduate studies and, having had to read academic English already in their under-
graduate studies, this will give them a better platform to work from.
University Instructors’ Views on Using Curriculum Materials in English
190
4  Summary of Findings
Before moving on to the discussion, it is time to revisit the research questions. The
first question in the survey asked about Icelandic university lecturers’ self- reported
proficiency in English and the study shows that the overwhelming majority of them
are satisfied with their proficiency, men more so than women, and instructors in the
Health and Natural Sciences and the Social Sciences more so than those in
Humanities and Education. Younger instructors report higher English proficiency
than older ones, and academic preparation in an English speaking country, not sur-
prisingly leads to higher proficiency. This is supported in the interviews.
Question two addressed instructors’ ability to cope with working with two lan-
guages in their instruction and again, the responses align themselves the same way
as the responses about their proficiency, in that most find it easy to work with two
languages. They see it as an advantage for themselves and their students to work
with English. However, over half of the respondents in the survey say that working
with two languages increases their workload. The interviewees express themselves
explicitly about the extra work and all but one confesses to having to help their
students.
The most common response to the question of which, if any, scaffolding devices
they use to assist their students is that they do not. Yet they report translating their
lectures and handouts and many also provide their students with translations of dif-
ferent kinds. When asked whether students complained about using English texts,
the responses are almost evenly divided between the options: they never complain,
sometimes, or often. Clearly some students are struggling and some instructors are
responding with support.
This study found that although all instructors were generally positive towards the
use of dual languages and using English text books, their attitudes differed accord-
ing to their discipline. Thus, the findings of this study support other studies of a
similar kind as instructors in the Natural Sciences seem more positive towards using
English materials and report less challenges associated with dual language use.
However, in the interviews the Science instructors also complain about the limited
English students have when entering university. Although Social Science faculty
align themselves with the Natural Sciences as opposed to the expected Humanities
fields, this may be due to the characteristics of the Social Science School at the
University of Iceland with its large Business School with discourse more along the
lines of the Natural Sciences (see discussion).
5  Discussion
When comparing and combining the findings from the survey and the interviews it
is clear that they support each other. The answers in the survey suggest that their
English proficiency is good or very good and they believe it is an advantage for
H. Ingvarsdóttir
191
everyone to use English. They say that it poses no problems overall to use two lan-
guages and seem to be unaware of the amount of unrecognized work they must
undertake to deliver their instruction in a dual language context. Instructors believe
that it is advantageous for them and their students to use English - instructors for
professional advancement, and students to attain an education that is on par with
international standards. Yet when probed in the interviews, instructors complain
about students’ lack of discipline related English proficiency, which they see as lack
of lexical proficiency, and describe how their work load increases when they scaf-
fold the English materials for students. It seems almost taken for granted that using
two languages is the norm and that neither they nor students are entitled to support
or recognition of the extra efforts required to deliver the content to the students, nor
that it may affect students’ ability to master the content. It should also be pointed
out that a majority of professors according to the survey do not offer any support.
The challenges students struggle with seem thus to go unnoticed by the majority of
the instructors.
In the interviews, instructors report that students’ English skills are not as good
as they (students) think and that students do need a lot of support. The frequency
and nature of the provision of that support is ad hoc and depends entirely on the
instructor. Instructors are on their own when it comes to the type of help they pro-
vide. It seems that the help is restricted in most cases to help with terminology and
is backed up in the interviews. The findings reveal that in spite of admitting to have
to support their students in understanding the English curriculum materials, our
informants are reluctant to confess or they do not recognize this as a source of dif-
ficulty. The explanation for this may be that they have accepted the situation and do
not question the consequences for themselves or their students. They have little
genre awareness and view the issue as a problem with lack of familiarity with ter-
minology rather than unfamiliarity with academic and genre specific discourse.
Although they do not see themselves in the role of English teachers, and have no
training or support as such, it is clear that in many ways, at least some of them, and
all out interviewees but one take on that role.
On the whole it can be said that instructor’s view is that the perceived benefits i.e.
assumed improved proficiency in English outweigh the constraints and increased
amount of work (Vinke et al. 1998; Coleman 2006; Pecorari et al. 2011b; Hultgren
et al. 2014). Instructors’ lack of recognition of students’ lack of academic English
proficiency as a cause for concern could be partly explained by instructors’ own
experience. They have confidence in their own proficiency in English. At a point in
time, they were in the same shoes as their students and overcame their lack of lan-
guage proficiency and completed a postgraduate degree in a second language.
However, it is our claim that today’s students are more heterogeneous than in
­
previous decades when students who were considered university material were spe-
cially selected for that track. Furthermore, students today have more English con-
versational skills and find it difficult to transpose those skills to more academic
pursuits (see  Arnbjörnsdóttir’s chapter “The Policies and Contexts that Frame
English Education and Use in Iceland”, “English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in
Iceland”, and “Using English at University”, this volume; Edgarsson’s  chapter
University Instructors’ Views on Using Curriculum Materials in English
192
“Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension Among Icelandic
Secondary School Students”, this volume).
Research in other Nordic countries has shown that lecturers who use English
course materials admit that it causes various complications (Brock-Utne 2001).
Hellekjær (2009) found in his study on the reading proficiency of Norwegian stu-
dents in higher education that they have problems reading the English texts and
textbooks on the reading lists. Our findings support findings from Pecorari et al.
(2011a) and others that instructors believe using English materials offers an extra
bonus as it may give opportunity for incidental language learning. More recent stud-
ies have now found clear evidence of incidental learning taking place (Malmström
et al. 2016).
The difference between the views of the instructors at the different Schools at the
University of Iceland with regard to English is not surprising. Instructors in
Engineering and Natural sciences maintain they have the least problems while the
instructors in Education see using English as really problematic. The studies related
to this show that English has been most widely used for the longest in the field of
Science and Engineering (Ljösland 2007; Björkman 2008).The School of Education,
where the students complain most, offers studies in a number of different academic
subjects with a variety of research, a wide range of vocabulary, different research
methods and different discourse traditions. Education also has the most female stu-
dents who may simply be more forthcoming about their challenges. Reading mate-
rials in Education and Humanities may therefore be more varied and take more
effort to master. The fact that Social Sciences seem to align themselves with Natural
Sciences in this study is likely due to the combination of fields that make up the
School of Social Sciences, the largest of which is the Business School with more
empiricist than interpretive discourse traditions. The difference between the dis-
course of Natural Sciences and Humanities is well established (Swales 1990;
Fløttum et al. 2006). Finally, many instructors at the School of Education may see it
as the role of Education to watch over the Icelandic language and hence hold a
strong view in that matter. This would be a worthwhile topic for investigation.
6  Conclusion
The findings in this study indicate that many instructors are making an effort to
accommodate students in a number of ways in order to help them cope with the
vocabulary in English texts in their field. This may, however, not be sufficient and
help with reading strategies for understanding the deeper meaning of the text may
be necessary. It also seems that the scaffolding provided by instructors is incidental
and sporadic and depends on the individual teacher whether and what strategies
they happen to be aware of rather than on students’ needs. Professors cannot all be
expected to be experts in second language reading. This issue needs to be addressed
in two ways: The emphasis on English teaching in secondary schools needs to be
geared towards reading strategies in addition to familiarizing students with the
H. Ingvarsdóttir
193
structure of academic discourse, both oral and written. Both seem to be neglected in
secondary schools today (Jeeves 2014). Secondly intensive courses in academic
reading need to be on offer at the start of academic studies at university level, simi-
lar to those offered in academic writing at many universities.
The findings call for further research; we need to examine secondary students’
preparation for academic study at university level. Secondary schools have instruc-
tors who are experts at language and literacy development. According to Edgarsson
(chapter “Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension among
Icelandic Secondary School Students”, this volume) secondary school students do
not have satisfactory genre awareness to be able to adequately read academic
English. Edgarsson’s (chapter “Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading
Comprehension among Icelandic Secondary School Students”, this volume) find-
ings support Hellekjær’s (2009) results that Norwegian students do not have the
necessary preparation for reading academic texts at the beginning of their university
studies. The participants in this study agree.
The findings raise our awareness of the extra burden many instructors take on to
help their students access reading materials in a language that neither instructors
have been trained to teach in nor in which students have been prepared to learn. The
study suggests that there is indeed very little awareness of this issue among instruc-
tors, many of whom do not see it as their role to help their students who are strug-
gling with English. The lack of awareness is reflected in the generally unproblematic
effects expressed by instructors about using English texts. They only acknowledge
that there may be some consequences for themselves and their students when probed
specifically. Instructors seem to accept that this dual language situation is the norm
but who have a limited capacity to respond appropriately to their students’ linguistic
needs. Consequently, assistance is ad hoc and depends on the willingness of the
instructor to take on the extra burden of bridging the gap between the two lan-
guages, in a sense, becoming a language and literacy teacher in addition to deliver-
ing content. It is therefore important to call this issue to the attention at the University
department level and establish systematic instructional support. Ultimately, policy
changes that impact instruction must be accompanied by measures to aid the instruc-
tors and students who are affected by the changes.
References
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2009). Enska í háskólanámi. In M. Sigurðsson & R. Þráinsdóttir (Eds.), Milli
mála (pp. 77–94). Reykjavík: Stofnun Vigdísar Finnbogadóttur.
Bjorkman, B. (2008). “So where we are?” spoken lingua franca English at a Swedish technical
University. English Today, 24(2), 11–17.
Bolton, K., & Kuteeva, M. (2012). English as an academic language at a Swedish University:
Parallel language use and the ‘threat’ of English. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural
Development, 33(5), 266–289.
Brock-Utne, B. (2001). The growth of English for academic communication in the Nordic coun-
tries. International Review of Education, 47(3–4), 221–233.
University Instructors’ Views on Using Curriculum Materials in English
194
Coleman, J.  A. (2006). English-medium teaching in European higher education. Language
Teaching, 39, 1–14.
Dimova, S., Hultgren, A. K., & Jensen, C. (2015). English-medium instruction in European higher
education: Review and future research. In S. Dimova, A. K. Hultgren, & C. Jensen (Eds.),
English –medium Instruction in European Higher Education. Review and future research,
English in Europe (Vol. 3, pp. 317–323).
Deklaration om Nordisk Språkpolitik. (2006). Nordiska ministerrådet . [A Nordic language policy
declaration 2006. Nordic Council of Ministers]. Copenhagen 2007.
Edwards, A. (2014). English in the Netherlands functions, forms and attitudes. Ph.D.thesis.
University of Cambridge. https://alisonedwardsdotcom.files.wordpress.com/2012/04/phd-the-
sis_edwards.pdf. Accessed 1 Oct 2016.
Fløttum, K., Trine, D., & Torodd, K. (2006). Academic voices: Across languages and disciplines.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hellekjær, G.  O. (2009). Academic English reading proficiency at the University level: A
Norwegian case study. Reading in a Foreign Language, 21(2), 198–222.
Hellekjær, G. O., & Westergaard, M. R. (2003). An exploratory survey of content learning through
English at Nordic Universities. In C. van Leeuwen & R. Wilkinson (Eds.), University educa-
tion: Challenges and practis (pp. 65–80). Nijmegen: Valkhof Pers.
Hultgren, A. K., Gregersen, F., & Thögersen, J. (Eds.). (2014). English in the Nordic Universities,
ideologises and practices. Amsterdam: Benjamins Publications.
Ingvarsdóttir, Hafdís & Arnbjörnsdóttir, Birna. (2010). Coping with English at tertiary level:
Instructors’Views In Netla – Menntakvika 2010. Menntavísindasvið HÍ. [Journal of the School
of Education, University of Iceland]. http://netla.khi.is/menntakvika2010/010.pdf Accessed 15
Sept 2016.
Ingvarsdóttir, H., & Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2013). ELF and academic writing: A perspective from the
expanded circle. Journal of English as a Lingua Franca, 2(1), 123–145.
Jeeves, A. (2014). The relevance of English language instruction in a changing linguistic environ-
ment in Iceland: The L2 self of young Icelanders. Multilingua. Degruyter.com
Jensen, C., & Thøgersen, J. (2011). Danish University lecturers’ attitudes towards English as the
medium of instruction. Ibérica, 22, 13–34.
Jensen, C., Denver, L., Mees, I. M., & Werther, C. (2013). Students’ attitudes to Lecturers’ English
in English-medium higher education in Denmark. Nordic Journal of English Studies, 12(1),
87–112.
Kling, J. M., Stæhr, L. S., & Stenious, L. (2011). Developing University lecturers’ language skills
through certification feedback. In R. Cancino, L. Dam, & K. Jæger (Eds.), Policies, principles,
practices: New directions in foreign language education in the era of educational globalization
(pp. 213–245). Cambridge: Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
Ljösland, R. (2007). English in Norwegian academia: A step towards diglossia? World Englishes,
26(4), 395–410.
Malmström, H., Mežek, I., Pecorari, D., & Irvine, A. (2016). Engaging with terminology in the
multilingual classroom: Teachers’ practices for bridging the gap between L1 lectures and
English reading. Classroom Discourse, 7, 1–16.
Nordiska ministerrådet. (2007). Deklaration om Nordisk Språkpolitik 2006. http://www.kotus.fi/
files/971/Deklaration_om_nordisk_sprakpolitik.pdf. Accessed 22 Oct 2016.
Patton, M.  Q. (1990). Qualitative evaluation and research methods. Newbury Park: Sage
Publications.
Pecorari, D., Shaw, P., Irvine, A., & Malmström, H. (2011a). Iberica, 22(22), 55–78.
Pecorari, D., Shaw, P., Irvine, A., & Malmström, H. (2011b). English textbooks in parallel lan-
guage tertiary education. TESOL Quarterly, 45, 313–333.
Swales, J.  (1990). Genre analysis: English in academic and research settings. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
University of Iceland. (2015). Facts and Figures. http://english.hi.is/files/sverrirg/factsfigures2015.
pdf. Accessed 18 Sept 2016.
H. Ingvarsdóttir
195
University of Iceland. (2016). University of Iceland language policyhttp://english.hi.is/university/
university_iceland_language_policy. Accessed 22 Oct 2016.
Vinke, A. A., Snippe, J., & Jochems, W. (1998). English medium content courses in non-English
higher education: A study of lecturer experiences and teaching behaviours. Teaching in Higher
Education, 3(3), 383–394.
Wächter, B., & Maiworm, F. (2008). English-taught programmes in European higher education:
The picture in 2007. InACA papers on cooperation in education. Bonn: Lemmens.
Wilkinson, R. (2005). The compact on teaching content: Views from the content teachers. Extract
from a paper presented at a conference on Multilingual Universities – Challenges and Future
Prospects, Helsinki. September 2 2005.
University Instructors’ Views on Using Curriculum Materials in English
197
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir, H. Ingvarsdóttir (eds.), Language Development across the Life Span,
Educational Linguistics 34, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67804-7_11
Writing English for Research and Publication
Purposes (ERPP): Personal Identity
and Professional Voice
Hafdís Ingvarsdóttir and Birna Arnbjörnsdóttir
Abstract  This chapter presents a third phase of a mixed method study (a survey
and 2 interview phases) on the perceptions of Icelandic academics on publishing
their research in English. The findings of this second set of interviews with ten
Icelandic scientists from various research fields suggest that they encounter a broad
spectrum of issues while writing for publication beyond extra time, effort and
expense identified previously. These issues pertain to the local as well as the inter-
national culture and discourse of their different disciplines, intended audience and
conflicts related to identity, personal voice and expression of authority in a language
different from their own. The interviews clearly show that it is in their L1 that their
thinking is rooted. This is further illustrated by the psychological conflict perceived
by the interviewees who profess to have a deeper and more authentic connection to
the content when writing in their first language. Finally participants express concern
for the development of academic Icelandic.
1  Introduction
I feel somewhat handicapped when I am writing in English. I do not have the same spec-
trum to express myself. My personal style is lost. I start copying instead of using my own
voice.
This is a direct quote from an Associate-Professor at the University of Iceland.
She is talking about her experience of having to present her research in English
instead of in her native language, Icelandic, which she did in her early years as a
researcher at the University. This quote describes a situation amongst many aca-
demics in Iceland. Iceland is thus no exception when it comes to the pressure of
publishing in international journals (read English). In the last decade this pressure
has been growing in the form of financial bonuses and professional advancement for
scholars if they publish in competitive international journals. The Icelandic
H. Ingvarsdóttir • B. Arnbjörnsdóttir (*)
University of Iceland, Reykjavík, Iceland
e-mail: hei@hi.is; birnaarn@hi.is
198
­
researchers add their voices to the growing number of academics whose working
environment and native language are not English and who experience this pressure
(Bolton and Kuteeva 2012; Jensen and Thøgersen 2011; Ljösland 2007; Brock-Utne
2001). Those issues have finally begun to receive closer attention in the last decade.
Flowerdew (2013) has pointed out that there is growing evidence for potential dis-
advantages to researchers who are not native speakers of English when it comes to
publishing in international refereed journals. The seminal work of Lillis and Curry
(2006, 2010) clearly unveiled the disadvantages of non-native writers in the interna-
tional publication process. Englander and Uzuner-Smith (2013) used the term
“peripheral scientist” of the researcher who is forced to publish in a language differ-
ent from the one used in his own academic environment. Bennett (2014) has
extended this discussion to include the semi-peripheral scientist who might be at a
disadvantage although his English skills might be adequate simply because he does
not have the same access to resources such as the very latest literature or center
based research networks (Bennett 2014). Those studies provides significant insights
into the disadvantages of non-native English speaking scientists in the publishing
process. Less attention has been focused on scientists’ self-perceptions and how
they view having to write in a second language for an international rather than a
local audience. The focus in this chapter is on Icelandic university lecturers’ experi-
ence of having to write in English and how they feel this influences their writing.
The scholars in this study differ in an important way from those who have previ-
ously been the objects in the research cited above. Although their native language is
Icelandic, they live and work in rich English input environment and many of them
have pursued their post graduate studies in UK or USA. They have thus had much
more access to English than scholars who are subjects of most of the previously
reported studies. The study reported in this chapter focuses on the voices of ten
scholars who were interviewed for the third and final phase of a larger project focus-
ing on the views of scholars in Iceland who write in English. (Ingvarsdóttir and
Arnbjörnsdóttir 2010, 2013). The findings from these last ten interviews consolidate
those from previous studies. However they do add crucial insights as the interview
frame was more focused on the writing process itself and the psychological dimen-
sions which were just hinted at in earlier interviews. This chapter begins with an
overview of the theoretical basis of this study including previous studies on writing
in English for publication purposes (ERPP) by the authors as well as others. The
current study is then described along with its methodology, findings and implica-
tions and finally, some concluding remarks.
2  Theoretical Foundations
With the fast growing Anglicization of the scientific world, attention has slowly
been turning towards the effects this might have on the world’s scientists and on the
creation of scientific knowledge in general. Among the first contributions which
H. Ingvarsdóttir and B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
199
raised our awareness was perhaps Kachru’s model (1985) where he defined the use
of English in the world in terms of three circles the outer most of which he termed
the “Expanding Circle”. At the time, Iceland sat squarely in Kachru’s Expanding
Circle. However, in the last three decades there has been no less than an explosion
in the use of English in Iceland not least in academia (Ingvarsdóttir and
Arnbjörnsdóttir 2014). In spite of the global spread of English it has taken some
time for universities to acknowledge this situation and the academic publishing
world still seems to more or less ignore the issue (Flowerdew 2001, 2013).
Towards the end of the last century researchers started to pay attention to and
investigate what it meant for scientists to publish their research in refereed interna-
tional journals written in a language which was not their own. Lillis’ and Curry’s
exhaustive work on European scholars in Eastern and Southern Europe and their
experience with the international publication process was an eye opener (Curry and
Lillis 2004; Lillis and Curry 2006, 2010). Those were countries where historically
there had been little exposure and access to English. Their study reported publica-
tion experiences of academics within the fields of Psychology and Education. One
important conclusion was that to be a valid participant in the international writing
community, one must master appropriate and current English discourse conven-
tions in one’s discipline. The authors claimed that this proficiency could only be
developed through continuous involvement in research networks where the lan-
guage of communication was English. Englander and Uzuner- Smith (2013) argue
that the impact of geopolitical factors in scientific publishing and research are
largely unexplored. They use the concept of the “peripheral scientist” based on their
research in two countries, Turkey and Mexico, which they define as academically
peripheral. The peripheral scientist, according to their definition, is used to desig-
nate scholars in nations that are economically disadvantaged in terms of level of
investment in research and development relative to the “center” regions of the world.
They are referring to scientists whose native language is not English but who are
under pressure to publish their research in international English medium journals
(p. 231).
The concept of the semi-peripheral scientist has later been used for scientists
who are not L1 users of English but work in an input rich environment yet may not
have the same access to resources and scientific networks as center scientists
(Bennett 2014). Icelandic academics along with other Nordic scientists do not fit the
definition of the semi-peripheral scientist entirely. They work in an input rich envi-
ronment and they have rich access to global academic resources but they are not L1
users of English. We can perhaps say they are partially-peripheral. In light of this we
might expect that scientists who fit the definition of partially -peripheral have little
or no problems when it comes to academic writing, but they do.
One of the dimensions which has emerged lately from research on academic
writing in foreign languages is psychological aspects like identity and voice. These
issues have already surfaced in our first set of interviews (Ingvarsdóttir and
Arnbjörnsdóttir 2013). In the next section we shall take a closer look at those issues.
Writing English for Research and Publication Purposes (ERPP): Personal Identity…
200
3  
Writing in a Second Language
This chapter concentrates on the under researched psychological conflicts and ten-
sions experienced by Icelandic scientists forced to write in a language other than the
one in their immediate environment. These tensions appear on top of the well-­
established challenges encountered by writers of English as a foreign language,
specifically those who write in English for Research and Publication Purposes
(ERPP). This body of research has matured over the last decades as traditional char-
acteristics of ESL and EFL writing have been expanded through genre based studies
to provide an overview of the challenges faced by non-native writers of ERPP. The
challenges range from basic grammatical issues to word and discourse level choices
to paragraph development and the “moves” that editors expect to encounter in the
different sections of scientific articles. Furthermore, culture specific traditions such
as expression of agency and too many foreign language citations have been identi-
fied as deterrents when editors evaluate articles written by non-center scientists.
Flowerdew summarizes the characteristics of his Chinese non-native speakers/writers
(NNSs) of English in the following way:
NNSs have less facility of expression
NNSs take longer to write
NNSs have a less rich vocabulary
NNSs are less capable of making claims for their research with the appropriate amount
of force
NNSs are better suited to write quantitative articles
NNSs‘ L1 may interfere in the composition process
NNSs are best advised to write in a simple style
Introductions and discussions are the most problematic parts of research articles for
NNSs to write (Flowerdew, 1999, p. 254).
Although written about Chinese writers of English in 1999, it seems clear that the
characteristics apply today and to other NNSs as well and represent views expressed
by participants in our study. Flowerdew reports (1999) that editors of international
review papers claim that the authorial voice which is central to ENL writing tradi-
tions is either absent in non-native English writing or is expressed in a culturally
inappropriate way. A Norwegian study found that elements of rhetoric, organiza-
tion, and voice of the text rather than grammar or spelling errors distinguish an
English as a Lingua Franca text from native language norms, and that rhetorical
conventions vary according to discipline (Fløttum et al. 2006).
As research on the impact of the Anglicization of the academic world has devel-
oped even more complex issues have emerged like the issues of voice and cultural
identity along with the concept of authorial voice (Canagarajah 2004; Hyland 2002).
By cultural identity in this context, Lustig’s definition seems to be appropriate:
Cultural identity refers to a person’s sense of belonging to a particular culture or group. This
process involves learning about accepting traditions, heritage, language, religion, ancestry,
aesthetics, thinking patterns, and social structures of a culture. Normally, people internalize
the beliefs, values, norms, and social practices of their culture and identify themselves with
that culture. The culture becomes a part of their self-concept (Lustig 2013, p. 133).
H. Ingvarsdóttir and B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
201
It can be postulated that academics may have a dual identity, some kind of national
identity in line with Lustig’s definition which develops through their childhood and
youth and is, in Lustig’s words, “central to a person’s sense of self”. However, as
they become professionals they may develop an alternative identity which subsists
within the culture of their discipline which may or may not be more international.
Different academic cultures may thus develop different identities. Bazerman already
pointed out decades ago that the context in which language operates affects how you
write (Bazerman 1981, 2009). Hyland (2002) argues that the ability of writers to
construct a credible representation of themselves and their work is a central element
of what he calls “pragmatic competence”. Writers need to identify with the socially
shaped identities of their communities which can be interpreted as either their native
community or their working community which may or may not be native. In previ-
ous research we found that identity may play an important part in choice of lan-
guage and intended audience of research findings. Closely related to the identity
issue is the claim that ELF writing feels less “genuine” (Ingvarsdóttir and
Arnbjörnsdóttir 2013). This raises a question about tensions that may exist between
a writer’s personal identity and professional voice.
4  
Policies and Practices in Iceland
The declared national language policy of Iceland is that Icelandic is the language of
higher education. Similarly the declared language policy of the University of Iceland
is that Icelandic is the language of the University both in written and spoken lan-
guage, research and in administration [Málstefnan hefur að leiðarljósi að talmál og
ritmál Háskólans er íslenska, jafnt í kennslu, rannsóknum sem stjórnsýslu]
(Arnbjörnsdóttir and Ingvarsdóttir 2014). There seems to be a discrepancy between
the proclaimed policy and the practice. Clear evidence of this can be seen in regula-
tions governing professional advancement at the University. Publications in interna-
tional journals are rated much higher than publications in Icelandic journals. The
same message is given in guidelines for applications to competitive research funds
where publishing research results in international journals are strongly encouraged.
Another sign of the pressure is that Icelandic university lecturers are rewarded with
financial bonuses and professional advancement if they publish in the most com-
petitive international journals (Ingvarsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2013).
This is in agreement with the pressure internationally on academic staff to pub-
lish their research in peer reviewed international journals (read English). However,
research on the consequences of assumed values behind the globalization of knowl-
edge has up to now been scarce. Englander and Uzuner-Smith (2013) examine the
ideology and discourse of the international discussion on scientific knowledge pro-
duction as a “commodity” that leads to more prestige and more wealth. They con-
clude that such a “commodified portrayal of scientific work” (p. 17) leads to tension
for nations and for scientists who are forced to publish in a language different from
their working academic environment. It has also been argued that universities are de
Writing English for Research and Publication Purposes (ERPP): Personal Identity…
202
facto deeply national when it comes to language policy- and language support
(Jenkins 2011). It is understandable that in a country with such a small population
as Iceland (330 thousand inhabitants), the status of the Icelandic is a major issue.
There is tension between scholars’ concerns about the mother tongue and the
University’s pursuit for international recognition and a prominent place on the vari-
ous ranking lists over the best universities. Many consider it one of the universities’
major roles to be a guardian of the native language. Academic staff at the university
may thus feel they are caught between rock and a hard place. To gain better insight
and understanding of how Icelandic researchers feel about these issues the follow-
ing research questions were developed:
	
1.	 How do Icelandic scholars experience the pressure of publishing in English?
	
2.	 In what way does it feel different to write in English from writing in Icelandic?
	
3.	What benefits and what problems do scholars envisage writing nearly exclu-
sively in English?
	
4.	 Is there a difference in interviewees’ opinions and if so what are the reasons?
5  
Investigating Faculty Members’ Experience: Methods
5.1  
The First Phase: The Surveys
The initial research plan included two phases: a survey phase and a follow up inter-
view phase. The survey was sent out in 2009 to 300 Icelandic university lecturers on
their perception of their English proficiency, views on the use of English in connec-
tion with their instruction in their academic fields and views on writing academic
papers in English (see the previous chapter in this volume). The cross-sectional
survey fell into three parts, of which the latest part is of relevance for this chapter,
and evolved around the use of English in their academic writing. The findings show
that approximately half of the survey respondents in all age groups write over three-­
quarters of their papers in English. The youngest group of academics writes their
papers exclusively in English. Findings also indicate that, even though faculty claim
that their general English is good or adequate, two-thirds admit having problems
when writing academic papers for publishing and call for formal writing support.
The results provide insights into lecturers’ self-perceptions and how they view hav-
ing to write in English and how they cope with that pressure. The findings also
indicate an interesting divide in opinion between disciplines where faculty members
in the Natural Sciences seem to require the least support. The surveys also revealed
certain differences in opinion between those who had their academic training in
English and those who did not (Ingvarsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2010, 2013).
H. Ingvarsdóttir and B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
203
5.2  
The Second and Third Phase: Interviews
The survey was followed by interviews. The aim of the interviews was to gain a
deeper insight into the experience of the instructors e.g. what they found difficult
and why there was such a difference between disciplines. The semi structured inter-
views were thus based on the survey and then transcribed verbatim and analyzed
through content analysis. Ten scholars were chosen for the interviews, five men and
five women, from the five different schools and at different ages at the University of
Iceland. This purposive sampling was used so as to catch the voices of instructors
from different disciplines at dissimilar stages in their careers. The interviews were
quite revealing and opened up issues which had received lesser attention in the
research on writing academic papers in a second language. Among those issues
were psychological dimensions, the notion of authenticity, conflicted purpose and
the problematic development of an authoritative voice (Ingvarsdóttir,Arnbjörnsdóttir
2013, 2014). Having arrived at those illuminative findings we were keen to explore
these themes even further.
Following the first interview phase ten additional interviews were carried out
focusing on the main findings of the previous interviews i.e. the psychological
dimensions. The same participant model was used as before: five men and five
women from all five schools representing different disciplines. These were not the
same interviewees as in the previous interviews. These participants were chosen so
as to represent an equal number of men and women and less and more experienced
scholars. As before, participants were given pseudonyms (see a table of participants
below). The interviews were semi-structured and the same analysis procedure was
used applying an inductive method. As it turned out, three of the participants had
pursued their studies in an English speaking country whereas, in the first interview
phase, five out of ten had done their post graduate studies in UK or USA. This may
affect the result as in the first interview there was a clear divide in the attitudes
towards writing in English between those two groups. This background was coinci-
dental but may give us a deeper understanding of the struggle the scholars experi-
ence when writing.
Table 1 shows the participants in the second interview phase who are the infor-
mants in this chapter.
6  Findings
The purpose of this part of the study was to gain deeper knowledge and understand-
ing of the scientists’ feelings and experiences of having to present the results of their
scientific work in English which is not their native language. In this chapter we will
present the themes which emerged from the latter ten interviews.
Writing English for Research and Publication Purposes (ERPP): Personal Identity…
204
6.1  
Exposure to English When Growing Up
When we think about the wide access to English young people have today it is inter-
esting that nearly all our interviewees claim that that they were hardly ever in con-
tact with English as children and young adults outside the classroom. Elsa who is
amongst the youngest of the interviewees says: “I can say absolutely no. I was
brought up on a farm, you see”, thereby, hinting that the countryside was more iso-
lated than the towns. And Jon who is our oldest participant says he knew of the
existence of “foreigners” because his dad had a brother-in law- in America. The
only awareness he had of foreign languages was from reading Donald Duck in
Danish (many children did that as the comic was not published in Icelandic). All the
others, whether they were brought up in towns or in the country, claim that there was
hardly any exposure to English when they were young except the English they read
in school. The only exception to this is Dora who was brought up bilingual as her
mother was American. However, when they entered university most of their curricu-
lum was in English although the instruction and evaluation was, and still is, in
Icelandic.
6.2  
The Academic World Is International
All our participants admit that the academic world has become international and
that there is only one language which all academics have in common. Nearly all
state that most of their academic writings are in English, some even say they publish
all their research in English. The only exception is Ólafur who is in Education and
although he wrote his doctoral thesis in English he has only written two articles in
English out of over 20, according to him. Besides the pressure which is manifested
through greater possibilities, grants, and professional advancement, another impor-
tant reason is their wish to be a part of the international research community and
gain a wider audience for their research.
Table 1  Participants in the second interview phase
Pseudonyms Faculty Country of postgraduate studies
1. Agnes Teacher education (elementary ed.) Nordic
2. Ólafur Teacher education (secondary ed.) Nordic
3. Elsa History and archaeology Nordic
4. Baldur Psychology English Center
5. Dora Nursing English Center
6. Jon Earth sciences Nordic
7. Anna Economics Nordic
8. Ari Social and human sciences Nordic
9. Ingi History and philosophy English Center
10. Eva Life and environmental Sciences Nordic
H. Ingvarsdóttir and B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
205
However, the emphasis on publishing in English has not always been so and is a
fairly recent development in Iceland: Anna says: “When I started [15 years ago] it
was fully accepted to write in Icelandic. Now there is an enormous pressure to write
in English. ” They all talk about the pressure using that word [IS. þrýstingur]. “Sure
there is a lot of pressure to publish in English” and Ingi continues [with a smirk]
“there is very little pressure to publish in Icelandic“. Only Jón puts it differently and
argues: „There is no pressure, just a reality. Our world is, is (pause) in a foreign
language (okkar heimur er … á útlensku)” It has been said that the Natural Sciences
have a longer tradition for communicating their research in English which may
explain why Jón takes a more definite standpoint.Although Eva comes from Natural
Sciences as well she takes a more critical stance:
All the articles are published in English that is the only thing that counts. I mean no other
publication matters. …When we bear in mind that Icelandic academics are educated in dif-
ferent countries, France, Germany or Scandinavia they start from a different point from the
ones who have studied in English speaking countries. I feel it is terribly unfair to thrust
everyone into this English package.
Agnes who really struggled with English tries to look at the pressure from a positive
side. She argues that if she is to function within international academia she has to use
English.” So I don’t want to look at it as a burden, rather as an opportunity to learn
English”. They all admit that when writing English their target audience is other
researchers in their field. “Our audience is just our colleagues” Jón says echoing
what they all say about their publishing in English. We now turn to how the scientists
describe their writing strategies when writing their research papers in English.
6.3  
The Experience of Writing in English
Our interviewees admit that it is easier for them to write in Icelandic than English
and having a choice they would all prefer to write in Icelandic regardless of their
background or discipline. Ari who has a PhD in Sociology from a Nordic country
puts it this way:
I can express myself more precisely and there is much more variety in my writings. Yes,
Icelandic definitely, using metaphors, direct and indirect quotation from Icelandic litera-
ture. It just comes to me more easily. … And even if you know the academic terminology
you are of course not emotionally connected to it [English].
Ingi who has his PhD in Philosophy from an English Center country and has spent
many years there expresses this in a similar way when comparing writing in the two
languages:
When I write in Icelandic you have much more freedom in how you write … It takes more
time and you feel how constricted you are, you don’t have the same options to make full use
of the potentials of the language. …I find it more difficult to structure things in English or
it takes longer anyway.
And even Jón who is in Science and had described his academic world as “foreign”
describes his writing experience.
Writing English for Research and Publication Purposes (ERPP): Personal Identity…
206
It [writing] is slow but steady. In Icelandic you can be sure that you are not writing some-
thing which could be misunderstood. But with English you never know… My eyes are
Icelandic and of course I would rather write in Icelandic it, it is my language. …I am not
that stupid that I don’t realize that if I write in Icelandic I am not talking to anyone, in fact
just my-self. …When I’m writing papers in English I always start with Icelandic, first draft
are memos in Icelandic. Text samples in Icelandic and gradually English takes over.
Dóra, who has an American mother, was brought up bilingual and did her PhD in
Nursing in an English Center country, claims that it is much easier for her to write
academic papers in Icelandic. She explains it by stating that Icelandic is the lan-
guage she uses daily and she feels her Icelandic is much better than her English:
“Oh, yes, I am more adept in Icelandic, I have better feel for the language and wider
vocabulary and as I say I think in Icelandic”. However, nearly everything she writes
is in English. Eva who is in Environmental Sciences argues that writing in English
is the most difficult part of the research. When writing Icelandic “it just flows”. She
writes a good deal in Icelandic as she often has to write reports for Icelandic authori-
ties or stakeholders who expect her to write in Icelandic. However, reports like this
although they are based on her research do not really count in academia according
to her. When she is writing in English she claims she has no feel for the nuances.
“Sometimes I look up my favorite authors for [to see how they write]. I hate how
long it takes me to write”.
Agnes uses an interesting phrase to describe her battle: “to grasp the thinking”.
She thinks that her Icelandic runs like a thread through her writings as she always
starts from Icelandic. Therefore when she is writing in English she finds it difficult
to reach the same depth in her thinking. It seems clear from their statements that the
academics master the terminology of their disciplines, however when dealing with
the discourse and the register they are challenged. After hearing how problematic
the writing path is, the question arises how they manage to cope as well as they do.
They have all obtained a professorship although not all of them have yet become full
professors.
6.4  Coping
The scholars are resourceful when trying to overcome their writing impediments.
Some of them are fortunate and have a co-writer or a close colleague whose native
language is English. Ingi has been working with an American researcher, who reads
over what Ingi writes: “He has often made a lot of changes”. Elsa chose to spend her
first research leave in England, not just because some English universities are quite
strong in her field, but to become more fluent in English. All our informants say they
need at least someone, preferably a native speaker, to proof-read or not necessarily
a proof-reader but someone to read it over. The problem with proof-readers accord-
ing to them is that they are usually not familiar with that particular field of inquiry.
Anna has been using the same “reader” over some time but her reader is not an
expert in her field and sometimes she can see that his “corrections” are not appropri-
ate. So they sit down together and negotiate the meaning. The researchers also
H. Ingvarsdóttir and B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
207
complain having to pay those readers out of their own pocket or use their research
grants to pay them. This can be costly as Eva explains:
I don’t want to send for reviewing something which is half bad or not well written and get
turned down for that reason. This means that sometimes I have to pay twice but I pay of
course less the second time. Sometimes I have sought out a former student of mine who
lives in the States. I have sometimes asked her to read over the revised article. I have of
course paid her but not as much as I have to pay a professional proof-reader.
Although nearly everyone shares the same story on this issue, money is not the only
matter. In Anna’s words:
The battle with English is not easy and lecturers should have “readers” [she does not use the
word proof-reader] paid for by the University. But it is not just a question of money. We
should also have access to a coach and seminars should be offered for lecturers on academic
writing. Less support means fewer publications. This is a question of life or death in the
academia.
We cannot leave the issue of coping without quoting the Natural Scientist who has
a different experience in this area. In his faculty there are scientists from many
countries and they proof read for each other although they are usually not L1 speak-
ers of English. It is also customary within his field that there are many authors of
each article and then they share the responsibility for both content and language. He
brings up a very interesting argument and says it is commonly acknowledged in this
field (Geology) that there may be different “Englishes”. He explains:
It has been accepted that most of the people who speak and write English for journals are
not native speakers of English. There it is no use making demands that it should be English
English (ensk enska). It is English with a character. German English with character, French
English, Nordic English all with character, understood by all. Once there was some criti-
cism of some syntax issues, no more.
None of the other informants share this experience. On the contrary, in their view
they are expected to write their journal articles in Standard American or British
English or otherwise their paper gets rejected or they receive condescending remarks
from reviewers about the language.
6.5  
The Psychological Dimensions
Issues of a more personal and psychological nature are mentioned by nearly every-
one. They talk about being handicapped, not being themselves, they find it difficult
to write in their own voice. Anna describes it this way:
I feel somewhat handicapped when I am writing in English. I do not have the same spec-
trum to express myself. There is this fright lurking. I know what I want to say but how do I
say it the way I want to. My personal style is lost. I start copying instead of using my own
voice.
Copying is a strategy which we have not mentioned before. She is not copying texts
but copying how native speakers express themselves and thus she feels her own
Writing English for Research and Publication Purposes (ERPP): Personal Identity…
208
personal voice is lost and with it the authenticity. Ingi agrees with her and he also
uses the word handicapped: “It is not the same personality who writes in English.
Yes you are somewhat handicapped, at least a little bit. There is certain depth you
never reach”. Many talk about the loss of nuances and character as Jón mentioned
earlier (although he thinks you can keep your own Icelandic writing character when
writing in English).Agnes feels that she never knows if the exact meaning she wants
to get across is there.
You see, I do not have this feeling for English that I don’t know exactly, you know, after it
has been translated [if this is what she really wanted to say]. And even so my character is
not in there, you know, my vocabulary is limited and I miss having nuances to choose from.
Elsa tries to find a reader who keeps her personal way of expressing herself: “My
interpretation, or it is difficult to explain, my voice, yes my voice must not disap-
pear”. She is worried that her readers when correcting the language will distort the
meaning.
The following quote sums up and echoes the feelings most of the interviewees
express:
Icelandic is my mother tongue and you are so deeply connected to it and it gives you much
more fulfilment to write in Icelandic, it is much more, much… like much more genuine, I
think. Writing in English is not just a question of language but of identity. Icelandic is my
native language”… it feels less, less… genuine to write in English. It is more authentic for
me to write in Icelandic
Being an Icelander and writing solely for a non-Icelandic audience is discussed
below.
6.6  
Writing for the Icelandic Community
We will conclude this chapter on findings by presenting a theme about the role of
Icelandic and the scientists’ roles as Icelanders, which emerged strongly through all
the interviews. Elsa’s remark is quite representative for their thinking:
Why should we only think about us in an international context when we have this language
which is somehow an integral part of our personality? We are publishing in international
journals and there is just a small group of people out there who reads it. But here in Iceland
no one here knows what we are doing. We have been discussing that we should perhaps
have a website in Icelandic. … Just so ordinary people, especially people who have taken
part in my research have some access. I feel some obligation to publish for them as well.
Ari takes up this issue and confirms that when writing in English you are writing for
your colleagues, while if your audience is ordinary people you write in Icelandic.
Agnes who is in Education says she will keep on publishing in English not least to
keep the professional relationships she has built up with colleagues around the
world. At the same times she finds it very important to stay connected to the teach-
ers in schools and for them she writes in Icelandic. Because Eva’s field is
Environmental Sciences she is often financed by government institutions and
H. Ingvarsdóttir and B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
209
various other stakeholders to do certain research projects and is expected to write in
Icelandic as, by law, all official governmental reports have to be written in Icelandic.
Often then she tries to make use of the research on which the report is based to write
it up and turn it into articles for refereed journals to meet the pressure from the uni-
versity. On these issues she finally says: “
It is also our duty to disseminate the research findings in this language, Icelandic. In the
light of that this is national university it is the role of the university to guard the language
and make sure it doesn’t get lost.
There seems to be a general consensus amongst our informants that they should
really be publishing more in Icelandic both because they want to but also because
the language of their discipline needs to develop in Icelandic. Many also talk about
moral obligations toward both the language and the Icelandic people.
Ingi, the philosopher, has very strong feelings towards the issue of writing in
Icelandic. This is not because of his English; after all he both studied and worked in
an English Center country, but he thinks the Icelandic language has an important
role in society and the University of Iceland should acknowledge that role.
The academic landscape has undergone radical changes and but if you want your writing to
make a difference for the general education in the country your writings have to be in
Icelandic. There has to be a language, there has to be, you see, a language which you can
use and work with and the kids understand. It is more important that they are able to discuss
Plato and Aristotle and other such ideas in Icelandic. More important than to excel in
English where you can find these writings. University of Iceland is the national University
and I think we should have some moral obligations to write in Icelandic for an Icelandic
audience.
Although they all seem to agree that it is not possible to exist in academia without
English they express concern for the development of academic Icelandic and of how
Icelandic can keep its status amongst young people in the future as the first language
of expression.
7  Discussion
The findings from this interview study are revealing and add to our understanding
of the multifarious dimensions which are embodied in writing complex theoretical
discourse in a language which is not your native language. It thus has a relevance
internationally in the the academic context. It was suggested in the literature review
that Icelandic scientists have rich exposure to English along with access to interna-
tional resources and thus fit neither the description of the peripheral scientist nor the
semi-peripheral scientist. We suggested the concept of partially-peripheral to
describe their position. We also argue that this also applies to the other Nordic
countries.
Looking at the results from all 20 interviews it is clear that there are still issues
to resolve and pay closer attention to in this partially-peripheral group. The scholars
Writing English for Research and Publication Purposes (ERPP): Personal Identity…
210
we have interviewed in both the former and latter interviews express similar views
about the changing linguistic environment and about the increased pressure to pub-
lish their research findings for an international audience. The rapid change in access
to English in Iceland can be witnessed through our informants’ insignificant contact
with English as children and adolescents. The younger generation would describe
their experience with English very differently.
It is also interesting to note how much consensus there is in the answers amongst
the informants regarding their writing, taking into account the fact that they come
from such different fields of inquiry, different age groups and have had different
experiences with English. They all subscribe to Coleman’s (2006: 6) argument that
the entire known world now has a shared second language of advanced education.
All the interviewees experience an enormous pressure to publish their research
in English and Jón does not think we should use the word ‘pressure’ and talks about
it as “reality” from which there is no escape. The informants in our previous research
experience the same (Ingvarsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2013). Not only is there
pressure to publish in English but preferably in high status journals if they hope for
advancement or grants. This corresponds with findings from international research
(Jenkins 2011; Englander and Uzuner-Smith 2013; Lee and Lee 2013). Curry and
Lillis (2013) point out that English-only journals predominate in the international
indexes and that 87% of Science Citation Index (SCI) journals, 88% of Social
Science Citation Indexes (SSCI) journals, and 65% of Arts and Humanities Citation
Index (AHCI) journals are English-medium. It is therefore logical that our inter-
viewees claim that if they want to share their findings with colleagues from outside
Iceland they have to publish in English. In fact, they accept the pressure although
some more reluctantly than others. It seems not to be their proficiency in English
which mainly explains their reluctance but rather how concerned they are with what
they see as a mixture of moral obligation and desire to write for Icelanders. This
difference in opinions is discipline-related which agrees with the results we found
in previous research (Ingvarsdóttir andArnbjörnsdóttir 2013). We found that Natural
Scientists had a longer tradition for writing exclusively in English and considered
the situation as fait accompli. An additional explanation could be that the natural
scientists work with people of many nationalities in Iceland and the cultural identity
of their workplace may be closer to their more personal cultural identity (Lustig
2013).
All the respondents express conflicting allegiances and the dilemma of wishing
to participate in international discussions in their field and the need to disseminate
their research findings to the people perhaps most affected by those findings. Some
of them also express concern about the fate of their native language and are con-
cerned that young Icelanders will in the future not be able to talk about their disci-
pline in Icelandic - this has been termed domain loss in the literature (Haberland
2005). Writing in Icelandic is in all instances preferable to writing in English and
many of the scholars describe quite eloquently why this should be so referring to
semantic problems but mostly issues of a more psychological nature like personal
and professional identity, emotional connection to the native language, and authen-
ticity. It is clear that they have a strong sense of cultural identity in the sense of
H. Ingvarsdóttir and B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
211
Lustig’s (2013) definition where the culture seems to be a part of their self-concept.
They seem emotionally connected to their native language and they feel that their
personal identity is Icelandic no matter how long they have spent in English speak-
ing countries.
The strategies they claimed to use when writing were unexpected and somewhat
surprising considering that these are people with a strong academic background.
This is even more striking as almost everything they read in their academic field is
in English. From their description of their strategies it seems that most of them are
unable to begin to frame their academic thinking in English. Their strategies remind
us of the description of strategies used by university students learning to write in
English (Flowerdew and Wang 2015). They admit that they start writing memos and
notes in Icelandic and then transfer their thinking into English.
This is not a question of vocabulary rather that they do not feel they are capable
of reaching the same depth when thinking in English. Consequently they confess to
all kind of problems when converting their thinking into English and many of them
use the word “handicapped”. They describe how they try copying how their native
English colleagues write. This copying is different from what we normally call pla-
giarism (Lee and Casanave 2012) as they are not borrowing the thinking but bor-
rowing small chunks of language from L1 writers of English. However, thereby they
feel their own voice is lost along with their authenticity as authors.
Sounding like an authority in a foreign language is a much more complicated and
often a subconscious process. If we compare with Flowerdew’s (1999) summariza-
tion of the characteristics of his Chinese non-native speakers/writers we see that
there are some common problems in spite of vast differences in culture and L1. In
agreement with the Chinese our informants take longer to write, they have less facil-
ity of expression and they state that their L1 interferes with their L2 in the composi-
tion process.
Pope and Denicolo argue that: “Knowledge should be a part of a person’s inner
experience and is therefore emotional as well as intellectual” (Pope and Denicolo
2001:28). Although the personal identity and the language identity of our infor-
mants are Icelandic they are at the same time deeply connected to their discipline
both emotionally as well as intellectually. It seems that their personal identity and
their professional identity are first and foremost Icelandic. However, the degree in
which their professional identity is international varies between disciplines.
Flowerdew and Wang (2015) discuss the process of identity transformation and
academic acculturation taking place when students are climbing up the academic
ladder. Our findings do not sustain Flowerdew and Wang’s argument of transforma-
tion. On the contrary our interviewees claim that their identity is and has stayed
Icelandic. This may partly be explained by the fact that our scientists are for the
most part not members of communities of practice in their daily working life
(Wenger 1998) where English is the working language. Hyland (2002) states that
writers need to identify with the socially shaped identities of their communities, and
the community, in the case of our informants, is Icelandic. The only exception from
this is within some disciplines within the School of Natural Sciences where a num-
ber of scientists come from various countries and are therefore working in interna-
tional communities of practice where English is the working language.
Writing English for Research and Publication Purposes (ERPP): Personal Identity…
212
We have elsewhere (Ingvarsdóttir and Arnbjörnsdóttir 2013, p. 141) argued that
it is time for the international academic community to accept some features of ELF
in academic writing as the majority of authors and consumers are in fact users of
ELF. It was therefore enlightening to hear one of our informants from the Natural
Sciences assert that, in his field, ELF features – what he calls “character”- were
fully accepted in their international publications. Natural Scientists have a longer
tradition for using English in their scientific work than other disciplines and perhaps
they will also lead the way to the acceptance of “language character” in interna-
tional publications.
8  Conclusions
The issues presented and discussed in this chapter focus on findings emerging from
interviews. The issues of biased reviewers were not raised by our interviewees
although such issues have been prominent in the literature. The interviewees are
also far from idealizing monolingualism (Hyland 2016). They are, however, calling
for a more balanced writing policy. In agreement with informants from our previous
studies they ask for professional writing support financed by the university. They are
keen to share and discuss their findings with international colleagues and do not see
themselves as any kind of victims of the pressure to publish in English. However,
most of them also want to have the opportunity to write for an Icelandic audience
without having to suffer professionally for it. Although the study reported here is
limited in scope and pertains to just one academic institution, it sheds light on criti-
cal issues like personal voice and identity, the authorial voice, and conflicting alle-
giances. These issues have not gained much attention in the literature. We argue that
they may be universal and of relevance for academics worldwide whose native lan-
guage is not English. However, all of these areas mentioned above need to be inves-
tigated further and carried out in multifarious settings and with diverse research
designs.
We also contend that the findings from such studies would inform how academics
can be aided in their writing process. Closer scrutiny into such issues would enhance
our understanding of psychological rather than skill based phenomena and their effect
on international publications by non-native English speaking academics.
References
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2014). English at the University of Iceland. Ideology and
reality (pp. 179–192). Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company.
Arnbjörnsdóttir, B., & Ingvarsdóttir, H. (2017). Writing English for research publication purposes:
The role of the semi-peripheral scientist. In M. J. Curry & T. Lillis (Eds.), Global academic
publishing: Policies, practices, and pedagogies. Bristol (in press): Multilingual Matters.
Bazerman, C. (1981). The informed writer. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company.
H. Ingvarsdóttir and B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
213
Bazerman, C. (2009). Genre and cognitive development: Beyond writing to learn. Practiques,
143(144), 127–138.
Bennett, K. (Ed.). (2014). The Semiperiphery of academic writing: Discourses, communities and
practices. London: Palgrave Macmillan.
Bolton, K., & Kuteeva, M. (2012). English as an academic language at a Swedish University:
Parallel language use and the ‘threat’ of English. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural
Development, 33(5), 266–289.
Brock-Utne, B. (2001). The growth of English for academic communication in the Nordic coun-
tries. International Review of Education, 47(3–4), 221–233.
Canagarajah, S. (2004). Multilingual writers and the struggle for voice in academic discourse. In
A. Pavlenko & A. Blackedge (Eds.), Negotiation of identities in multilingual context (pp. 266–
289). Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters.
Coleman, J.  A. (2006). English-medium teaching in European higher education. Language
Teaching, 39, 1–14.
Curry, M. J., & Lillis, T. (2004). Multilingual scholars and the imperative to publish in English:
Negotiating interests, demands and rewards. TESOL Quarterly, 38(4), 633–688.
Curry, M. J., & Lillis, Th. (2013). A scholar’s guide to getting published in English critical choices
and practical strategies. Multilingual Matters.
Englander, K., & Uzuner-Smith, S. (2013). The role of policy in constructing the peripheral scien-
tist in the era of globalization. Language Policy, 12(3), 231–250.
Fløttum, K., Dahl, T., & Kinn, T. (2006). Academic voices across languages and disciplines.
Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Flowerdew, J. (1999). Problems in writing for scholarly publication in English: The case of Hong
Kong. Journal of Second Language Writing, 8(3), 243–264.
Flowerdew, J. (2001). Attitudes of journal editors to non-native speaker contributions. TESOL
Quarterly, 35(1), 121–150.
Flowerdew, J.  (2013). Some thoughts on English for Research Publication Purposes (ERPP)
and related issues. Language Teaching (First View Articles). doi:https://doi.org/10.1017/
S0261444812000523. Accessed Mar 2016.
Flowerdew, J., & Wang, S. (2015). Identity in academic discourse. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics, 35, 81–99. https://doi.org/10.1017/S026719051400021X.
Haberland, H. (2005). Domain and domain loss. In B.  Preisler, A.  Fabricius, H.  Haberland,
S. Kjærbeck, & K. Risager (Eds.), The consequences of mobility (pp. 227–237). Roskilde:
Roskilde University, Department of Language and Culture.
Hyland, K. (2002). Authority and invisibility: Authorial identity in academic writing. Journal of
Pragmatics, 34, 1091–1112.
Hyland, K. (2016). Academic publishing and the myth of linguistic injustice. Journal of Second
Language Writing, 31, 58–69.
Ingvarsdóttir, H., & Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2010). Coping with English at tertiary level: Instructors’
views. Radstefnurit Netlu  – Menntakvika Netla  – Veftímarit um uppeldi og menntun og
Menntavísindasvið Íslands. http://netla.khi.is/menntakvika2010/010.pdf
Ingvarsdóttir, H., & Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2013). ELF and academic writing: A perspective from the
expanding circle. Journal of English as a Lingua Franca, 2(1), 123–145.
Ingvarsdóttir, H., & Arnbjörnsdóttir, B. (2014). English at the University of Iceland: Ideology
and reality. In A.  Hultgren, F.  Gregersen, & J.  Thøgersen (Eds.), English in Nordic
universities:Ideologies and practices (pp. 170–193). John Benjamins: Amsterdam.
Jenkins, J. (2011).Accommodating (to) ELF in the international University. Journal of Pragmatics,
43(4), 926–936. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pragma.2010.05.011.
Jensen, C., & Thøgersen, J. (2011). Danish university lecturers’ attitudes towards English as the
medium of instruction. Ibérica, 22, 13–34.
Kachru, B. J. (1985). Standards, codification and sociolinguistic realism: The English language
in the outer circle. In R. Quirk & H. Widdowson (Eds.), English in the world: Teaching and
learning the language and literatures (pp. 11–30). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Writing English for Research and Publication Purposes (ERPP): Personal Identity…
214
Lee, H., & Lee, K. (2013). Publish (in international indexed journals) or perish: Neoliberal ide-
ology in a Korean University. Language Policy, 12(3), 215–230. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s10993- 012-9267-2.
Li,Y., & Casanave, C. P. (2012). Two first year students writing strategies for writing form sources
: Patch writing or plagiarism? Journal of Second Language Writing., 21(2), 165–180.
Lillis, T., & Curry, M.  J. (2006). Professional academic writing by multilingual scholars:
Interactions with literacy brokers in the production of English-medium texts. Written
Communication, 23(1), 3–35.
Lillis, T., & Curry, M. J. (2010). Academic writing in a global context: The politics and practices
of publishing in English. London: Routledge.
Ljösland, R. (2007). English in Norwegian academia: A step towards diglossia? World Englishes,
26(4), 395–410.
Lustig, M. W. (2013). Intercultural competence interpersonal communication across cultures (7th
ed.). New York: Pearson.
Pope, M., & Denicolo, P. (2001). Transformative education - personal construct approaches to
education and research. London: Whurr Publishers.
Wenger, E. (1998). Communities of practice. Learning as a social system. Systems Thinker, 9(5),
2–3.
H. Ingvarsdóttir and B. Arnbjörnsdóttir
215
© Springer International Publishing AG 2018
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir, H. Ingvarsdóttir (eds.), Language Development across the Life Span,
Educational Linguistics 34, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67804-7_12
Conclusions
Birna Arnbjörnsdóttir and Hafdís Ingvarsdóttir
This volume describes the emergence of a new linguistic context in Iceland and its
implication for educational policymakers as well as for teaching and learning. The
findings are applicable far beyond the Icelandic context as similar developments are
taking place in all the Nordic countries. The new linguistic environment of Iceland,
identified in this study, is triggered by the spread of English as more Icelanders use
more English for more purposes than ever before. To this end we have used a wide
range of analytical methods to examine the development of Icelanders’ expanded
language repertoires throughout the lifespan with a special focus on and how the
repertoires of young Icelanders function in educational settings. The findings are the
results of a seven-year nation-wide research project that includes data from both
naturalistic and instructed English learning and data from the societal functions to
which the acquired English skills are put.
The project, which is made up of numerous studies provides a convincing profile
of the effect English as a World Language has had on a country in the Expanding
Circle of English use (Kachru 1985). The study profiles a whole country, Iceland, as
Icelanders, on the one hand, appropriate a variety of English for colloquial use at the
grass roots level, while they are under increased pressure to meet ENL standards,
imposed from above, in further education and the work place. Finally, the study
identifies a gap between the two main functions served by English of which both
speakers and officials seem largely unaware.
The major findings of this project suggest that high levels of exposure to English
lead to the acquisition of advanced levels of receptive informal English skills appro-
priated for translanguaging in informal situations. The high level receptive skills in
turn lead to an overestimation of proficiency and what functions English can serve
in Iceland. This is expressed to some extent in each of the chapters in the book and
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir (*) • H. Ingvarsdóttir
University of Iceland, Reykjavík, Iceland
e-mail: birnaarn@hi.is; hei@hi.is
216
collectively they provide a convincing overview of the cycle of English use in
Iceland from exposure to function.
Chapters 2 and 3, “The Policies and Contexts That Frame English Education and
Use in Iceland” and “English Exposure, Proficiency and Use in Iceland” present
findings of synchronic and diachronic comparative studies that illustrate the mas-
sive amount of English encountered by Icelanders daily. The findings suggest that
the spread of English is accelerating in terms of who uses English, as the younger
the speaker, the more English they are likely to use. The studies also demonstrate
that generally Icelanders are exposed to and report more facility with conversational
and receptive than productive English, and that they assume that their receptive
skills may be transferred to more productive functions of language when the need
arises, without questioning the truth value of such an assumption or ever putting it
to the test. Finally, the findings of the two chapters suggest that young people more
so than older speakers, may have more opportunity to use English in interactions
online and face to face and may therefore be developing more productive skills.
Chapter 4, “English Exposure andVocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English
Instruction” illustrates Icelandic children’s English proficiency at the onset of
instruction in the 4th grade. Jóhannsdóttir found that her learners have exceeded the
curriculum goals for that grade and that onset of formal instruction is not a strong
factor in accounting for the learners’ lexical proficiency. She found that children’s
language proficiency is acquired extramurally and motivated by a need to use
English in their daily lives rather than within the school setting. Jóhannsdóttir found
a disconnect between official curriculum goals and guidelines and students’ needs
as their extramural English is reinforced at school.
Chapter 5, “Learning and Using English: The Views of Learners at the End of
Compulsory Education”, describes the views of 10th graders who rate their profi-
ciency in English as quite high, even in writing, which they, in all likelihood, have
not had much experience with. They are highly motivated to learn English which
they are already using considerably in their daily lives albeit first and foremost
receptively. They are also well aware that English will play a major role in their
future not least for study and work. However, despite their interest in English, the
curriculum materials seem not to meet expectations. English is still taught as a for-
eign language in primary school and there is a disparity between what is recom-
mended in the National Curriculum Guide and the practices in school.
Chapter 6, “Academic Vocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension
Among Icelandic Secondary School Students” presents the actual proficiency of
students at the end of secondary school as measured by tests. The results show that
the participants’ academic reading proficiency barely meets the minimum require-
ments for university admission, according to IELTS standards. Moreover, knowl-
edge of academic vocabulary was found to be lacking, particularly productive
lexical knowledge.
Chapter 7, “Perceptions of Relevance of English Education at Secondary School”
describes young Icelanders’ views of English instruction in secondary school.
Jeeves’ over 40 interviewees describe their perceptions of English and what rele-
vance studying English at school in Iceland has for them. Many of Jeeves’
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
217
­
participants found that their school experience did little to enhance their English
skills. However, some also report that English in secondary schools has made a dif-
ference and admit that the increased proficiency gained at secondary school, espe-
cially through reading literature, could not have been gained through general
exposure to English outside school. Most notable are the students’ beliefs that they
are good at English and yet, at the same time, they point out how their skills are
lacking when asked.
Receptive English skills seem to be reinforced both at primary and secondary
level. Once at university, where 90% of the curriculum is written in English, partici-
pants who report high confidence in their English skills, also report challenges when
accessing the curriculum. Chapters 8,  “Using English at University”, and 9, 
“Simultaneous Parallel Code Use” describe to what extent the English learned at
school and extramurally serves the students once they reach university. Chapter 8,
“Using English at University” reveals that, despite confidence in their English skills
and satisfaction with the preparation gained in secondary school, more than a third
of university students find using English challenging and almost half report that it
adds to their workload. There seems to be a lack of genre awareness and students do
not seem to have given this issue much thought. This is seen in the discrepancy
between their initial responses and their reports during personal interviews when
they do confess to struggling with English. The term Simultaneous Parallel Code
Use is introduced in chapter 9, “Simultaneous Parallel Code Use”, to describe an
academic context where the curriculum input is mainly in English and the output is
in the first language, Icelandic. The study focused on how students experience
working with two languages at the same time as they negotiate meaning between a
receptive language (English) and the language of production (Icelandic). The find-
ings suggest that, despite self-reported advanced English proficiency, many students
experience language-related challenges when extracting meaning from reading
materials written for native speakers of English. Students report that they employ a
multitude of strategies while reading the English texts and some confess to avoiding
reading the text at all as it takes too much time.
Chapters 10, “University Instructors’ Views on Using Curriculum Materials in
English”, and 11,  “Writing English for Research and Publication Purposes (ERPP):
Personal Identity and Professional Voice” describe how increased pressure to use
English affects university faculty. Chapter 10, “University Instructors’ Views on
Using Curriculum Materials in English” illustrates the haphazard efforts by some
university instructors to aid students in their learning. The conclusions is, however,
that instructors either do not seem to be aware of the challenges faced by their stu-
dents, do not know how, nor see it as their role, to aid students and blame the stu-
dents for their lack of English proficiency (and Icelandic proficiency!). They do not
seem to be aware that English may have affected students’ ability to master the
content. Nor do instructors receive official systematic support in ways to help stu-
dents who struggle with English. Chapter 11, “Writing English for Research and
Publication Purposes (ERPP): Personal Identity and Professional Voice” illustrates
the lack of official acknowledgement of the consequences of pressuring researchers
to use English to publish their research results. Instructors feel under pressure to
Conclusions
218
publish in English, but receive no official support to do so. The younger the scholar
the more likely it is that all his/her publications are written in English. Many schol-
ars express concern about their ability to develop their own voice in their writing
and worry about the dissemination of their research results, which, in many cases,
excludes the very people affected by the research. Many feel conflicted between the
need to use English for professional advancement and what they see as their duty as
researchers towards the Icelandic public.
The findings of these studies may be summarized into larger practical, educa-
tional, empirical, and theoretical implications. To summarize: The main findings of
this research project are as follows:
•	 A new linguistic context has emerged in Iceland where English is taking over
certain language functions previously performed using Icelandic.
•	 Icelanders today experience massive daily exposure to English from kindergar-
ten and onwards.
•	 A gap has been identified between the receptive language skills that are fortified
at school and the formal productive language skills required for academic work
and in the work place.
•	 Icelanders are confident in their English language skills and many seem unaware
of the gap between their receptive and productive skills and what functions they
can perform.
•	 English has become indispensable as a utility language in Icelandic society at all
levels.
•	 The findings do not support the concept of parallel-language use and reveal a
severe lag between official language policy and the linguistic reality of modern
Iceland.
•	 A new concept Simultaneous Parallel Code Use (SPCU) has been introduced to
describe when academic input is in one language and output and assessment is in
another language as is the practice in Nordic universities.
The implications of these findings are far-reaching and give a strong message at
many levels of educational policy and practice beyond the Icelandic context:
•	 Language and educational policies need to be reexamined to better reflect the
linguistic reality of the Nordic countries as exemplified by the Icelandic
context.
•	 English curricula and instruction, beginning with the National Curriculum
Guide, should take into account the rich English input experienced by Icelandic
(and Nordic) youth and build on proficiency attained extramurally.
•	 Pre- and in-service education of English language teachers require reorganiza-
tion and adjustment to the changing role of English.
•	 Universities need to recognize the de facto status of English in their language
policy.
•	 Universities need to recognize and act upon the need for staff as well as students
to receive formal academic English support.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
219
The empirical contributions of this volume, reiterated from the introductory chapter,
include providing empirical support for the following:
•	 A profile of the level and nature of English proficiency of students at all educa-
tional levels through self-reports and actual measurements of proficiency at the
onset of instruction at the primary level, the secondary level and tertiary level.
•	 How attained proficiency at each education level serves the students in the transi-
tion to the next level.
•	 A clear overview of instructional practices and curriculum guidelines with a
view to measure to what extent they meet the actual academic needs of
students.
•	 The lack of connection between instructional policy and practice.
•	 The extent and effect of the use of English as a lingua franca in countries of the
Expanding Circle.
The theoretical contributions are the following:
•	 The study informs the current theoretical debate about the nature and effect of
the learning context for languages that are neither second nor foreign languages
and suggests that the learning context is more complex than previous dual cate-
gorizations imply.
•	 This study illustrates that English as a World language can indeed function in
different ways at the local level; as a colloquial language used freely in translan-
guaging with cross cultural references, and on another level as a formal language
demanding ENL standards. Schneider’s model (2007) may have to be adjusted to
account for the transposition of English to a new space and eventual development
of a local English variety, but also to account for the coexistence of different
Englishes in the Nordic countries; one for colloquial use that may in time develop
its own characteristics (Edwards 2014) and another for parallel language use that
demands ENL standards. This duality characterizes the use of English in the
Nordic countries.
Many further questions have emerged as a result of this project and it has identi-
fied areas and issues which are under researched. The findings from chapter, “The
Policies and Contexts That Frame English Education and Use in Iceland”, need to
be followed up and the changes and developments in how young people use English
should be monitored, especially whether their use of English demands more pro-
ductive skills that may constitute another phase in language acquisition. A great
majority of our informants at all age levels estimate their English to be either good
or very good. These self-reports on proficiency need to be supported by actual mea-
surements of language skills. Jóhannsdóttir’s study in the chapter “English Exposure
and Vocabulary Proficiency at the Onset of English Instruction” and Edgarsson’s
study in the chapter “AcademicVocabulary Proficiency and Reading Comprehension
Among Icelandic Secondary School Students” are an effort to begin that process.
Edgarsson’s findings indicate that more research is needed into measuring whether
Conclusions
220
students’ proficiency levels increase once at university after the first or second year.
Does the proficiency gap narrow as a result of studying at university?
Jóhannsdóttir’s, Edgarssons’ and Jeeves’ findings also send a clear message to
curriculum developers and to secondary schools that the emphasis in English
instruction should include a more genre based approach with an emphasis on aca-
demic literacy and formal language use so that school English expands, rather than
reinforces the skills acquired extramurally. The Chapters, “Using English at
University” and “Simultaneous Parallel Code Use” describe students’ struggle with
English once at university. Further research is needed into how SPCU affects stu-
dents’ content learning and learning outcomes. Ultimately, young Icelanders’
English academic skills need to be measured against their Icelandic academic skills.
In this volume we have presented a comprehensive set of data on the role of
English at a national level from input to output and described the consequences of
the adoption of English as an additional language. This book is of relevance to
researchers interested in English as a World Language in educational settings.
Finally, we maintain that the consequences of a new linguistic context need to be
acknowledged and critically evaluated, and that the findings presented in this vol-
ume will be of importance to university officials and policy makers engaged in
developing educational policies in a rapidly changing global linguistic landscape.
Although English is defined as an additional language in this book, that status
may not remain static. The Dynamic Model (Schneider, 2007, 2014) and the con-
texts the model has been measured against describe how a language may be appro-
priated for colloquial uses without the intervention of policy or local government
efforts (see  Edwards (2014) for the Netherlands; Higgins (2009) for Tanzania;
Hilgendorf for Germany (2001)). This is also true for Iceland, where massive expo-
sure to English has led to passive proficiency and translanguaging or the use of
Icelandic and or English in colloquial settings, the English often characterized by
ELF or L1 features. Further studies are needed to determine whether indeed a vari-
ety of English is emerging in Iceland. We also need studies about the dual functions
of English in different countries in the Expanding Circle, especially those with a
fully functional and strongly supported national language, as in the Nordic coun-
tries. Will English spread further or become stabilized as a utility language while
serving as a source for translanguaging at the grass roots level, or will it spread with
pressure both from the grass roots and from the “official” level from above? From
the theoretical perspective of Schneider’s revised Dynamic Model, the extra- territo-
rial force of English as a World Language meets intra –territorial forces in Iceland
in the form of an established preservationist leaning national language policy and a
national identity forged, more than anything else, by references to the language and
literature. These intra-territorial forces may work as a counterbalance to the massive
exposure to English. We need more research from different countries on how differ-
ent intra-territorial forces work against extra-territorial forces. We need a predictive
model to account for the effect of English on linguistic communities in the
Expanding Circle that do not have a colonial past.
The gap between use of English at the grass roots and its more formal functions
in education poses many questions. The findings support a notion that language is a
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
221
property of situations, and the speakers’ ability to function in a given situation
depends on the linguistic repertoire he or she has at their disposal. The notion that a
speaker has a mother tongue first and then has proficiency in a second or foreign
language fails to capture the skills gap identified in this study. When asked about
their English proficiency there is little or no awareness of the respondents’ actual
ability to use English for different functions. Receptive skills are equated with pro-
ductive skills and colloquial language is considered on par with formal written and
oral academic registers. This is reminiscent of studies from the early eighties when
immigrant children were suddenly found lacking in academic language skills
despite demonstrating adequate conversational skills whom Harklau et  al. later
called Generation 1.5 (Cummins 1979; Harklau et al. 1999). Little did we know that
we would be identifying a similar issue among students who never left home and are
studying at their national university. There is still little awareness of the situational
aspects of language use. There is, however, a certain contradiction in demanding
ENL standards from students who have had their previous academic training in a
different language while expressing disdain for translanguaging (Higgins 2009) and
lamenting the deterioration of Icelandic proficiency. It is unrealistic to expect stu-
dents to be able to speak fluently in their L1 about a topic that they have mainly
studied in their L2.
It is inevitable that a book about the status of English in Iceland should also
address the effect on Icelandic. The future role of English and Icelandic are aptly
expressed by young Icelandic lyricists (Andersen 2016). They were asked how they
saw the future of Icelandic given the large space occupied by English. A common
view expressed was that knowing English has become part of being Icelandic and a
person of the world. But as Anderson (2016) reports, her young poets see English as
a tool they use to reach the outside world, but their emotional bond with the Icelandic
language remains strong.
References
Andersen, I. (2016). But then there is still something, you know, of course, natural for one to
speak Icelandic, it is my mother tongue“: Icelandic lyricists’ identity and language choice.
Unpublished MA thesis. University of Iceland.
Cummins, J. (1979). Linguistic interdependence and the educational development of bilingual
children. Review of Educational Research, 49(2), 222–251.
Edwards, A. (2014). English in the Netherlands functions, forms and attitudes. Ph.D. dissertation,
Cambridge University.
Harklau, L., Losey, K. M., & Siegal, M. (Eds.). (1999). Generation 1.5 meets college composition:
Issues in the teaching of writing to U.S.-educated learners of ESL. Mahwah: Erlbaum.
Higgins, C. (2009). English as a local language. Postcolonial identities and multilingual practices.
Bristol: Multilingual Matters.
Hilgendorf, S. K. (2001). Language contact, convergence, and attitudes: The case of English in
Germany. PhD thesis, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.
Conclusions
222
Kachru, B. J. (1985). Standards, codification and sociolinguistic realism: The English language
in the outer circle. In R. Quirk & H. Widdowson (Eds.), English in the world: Teaching and
learning the language and literatures (pp. 11–30). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Schneider, E. W. (2007). Postcolonial English. Varieties around the world. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Schneider, E. (2014). New reflections on the evolutionary dynamics of world Englishes. World
Englishes, 33(1), 9–32.
B. Arnbjörnsdóttir and H. Ingvarsdóttir
