	 Attrition at the crossroads	 21
tional and psycholinguistic perspective, (c) it is likely that literacy contributes to
the grounding of a language in memory as it adds orthographic representations
and new synaptic connections. However, these effects are closely related to age,
and distinguishing the factors literacy and age in an experimental setting raises
methodological problems that might be impossible to overcome. It can neverthe-
less be claimed that less attrition is to be expected in subjects who have had the
opportunity to become literate in the L1, especially if they frequently use that
skill, a suggestion made by Olshtain (1986) in order to explain her findings in L2
attrition. While the methodological difficulties associated with the actual testing
of this factor may be insolvable, this aspect should nevertheless be kept in mind.
2.4	 Task dependency
Last but not least, attrition of oral production skills is largely a question of on-
line processing (see above) and as such is directly dependent upon task demands.
Different language tasks with different cognitive demands do not yield the same
results, even if exactly the same linguistic structures are tested. It has been shown,
for example, that lexical access in a picture/word matching task is easier than
lexical retrieval in a naming task (Ammerlaan 1996; Hulsen 2000), two tasks with
very different requirements regarding the level of activation needed for their ac-
complishment. Similarly, Major (1992) found that L1 Voice Onset Time (VOT)
was closer to native standards in a more formal read-aloud task than in informal
spontaneous speech. Köpke (1999) showed that interference was stronger in a
grammaticality judgement task than in an oral sentence generation task testing
the same grammatical structures.
The issue of task dependency certainly is a methodological question, but it
also raises important theoretical issues. Paradis (2004: 11) relates differential be-
haviour observed between online and offline language tasks to the type of memory
structures involved (procedural vs. declarative) in the resolution of a task. So, in
some cases, task dependent differences in linguistic behaviour are due to the fact
that some tasks allow for the use of metalinguistic knowledge, whereas others do
not. But variation in linguistic behaviour may be accounted for in different ways,
depending on the theoretical framework of the analysis: the psycholinguistic ac-
count relates variation to different task demands (e.g. leading to different activa-
tion levels required as in Ammerlaan 1996) or to different task goals as perceived
by the subject (e.g. focus on form in a formal read-aloud task as in Major 1992).
.	 The question of what exactly is actually measured by grammaticality judgements has fur-
thermore been extensively debated (Altenberg & Vago 2004) in the context of attrition.
22	 Barbara Köpke
The linguistic account would be to take variation as indicative of some sort of op-
tionality developing in the linguistic system of the attriter (e.g. Tsimpli, this vol-
ume). It is perhaps worth considering the possibility that these different accounts
may not merely be the outcomes of different theoretical frames, but that they
may reflect the complementarity of several factors within a more global approach
of attrition. Such considerations bring us back to the competence and perform-
ance distinction (Chomsky 1965; Fodor & Garrett 1966; Sharwood Smith & van
Buren 1991) discussed below. Since precise predictions arising from the issue of
task dependency need to be discussed with respect to each specific task, further
discussion of this issue is beyond the scope of this chapter.
In sum, it appears reasonable to assume that attrition is cumulatively pre-
dicted by
a.	 internal cognitive factors arising, for example, from characteristics of the
memory structures underlying linguistic competence,
b.	 structural organisation of the linguistic system (in relation namely with litera-
cy) and
c.	 linguistic aptitude of the subject
together with more task dependent factors. Many of these cognitive aspects are
closely linked to brain mechanisms and depend on constraints due to the charac-
teristics of the human brain and mind. But the claim in what follows will be that
the human mind does not develop in complete isolation, but rather in permanent
interaction with the subject’s social environment.
3.	 External factors
Linguistic development over the lifespan follows internal constraints related to
the characteristics of the human brain and mind, but these constraints merely
represent opportunities which may or may not be realised as a response to en-
vironmental conditions. However, since neuro- or psycholinguistic factors and
social conditions are closely linked, this is the point where the snake starts biting
its tail: the discussion of most of these aspects and the predictions they allow has
been initiated above. The discussions that follow will thus be restricted to the as-
pects that have not been developed yet.
	 Attrition at the crossroads	 23
3.1	 Language use
The issue of language use has already been considered extensively in relation with
activation and inhibition (see 1.2 and 1.3). Language use has often been assumed
to be an important predicting factor for language attrition and is often implic-
itly invoked by empirical work (see Köpke 2004 and Köpke & Schmid 2004 for
detailed reviews), even though it is difficult to measure. It has previously been
proposed to be the key variable at the interface of the psycholinguistic and so-
ciolinguistic aspects of attrition (de Bot 2001). However, the focus has been on
quantitative aspects of language use, e.g. amount of contact or frequency of L1
use (but see Schmid, this volume). Intuitively, it makes sense that individuals who
make little use of a language experience more attrition than speakers who use
the language more frequently, and frequency of L1 use is also a crucial aspect in
theoretical models in the context of the Activation Threshold Hypothesis. The
discussion of the inhibition mechanism, however, clearly shows that frequency
of use is not the only aspect of use that matters. As stressed also by Schmid (this
volume) quality of use, or type of contact, is equally important, and this aspect has
received hardly any attention.
First of all, a distinction needs to be applied to the use of productive skills and
receptive skills. In other words, is active language use (i.e. in production) neces-
sary in order to prevent the L1 from deteriorating, or is regular input sufficient
to maintain a language once completely mastered? This question is reminiscent
of the discussion around input and output in SLA research (e.g. Swain 2000) and
was first invoked in that context by Sharwood Smith and van Buren, who propose
that “…the native speaker not only needs evidence for developing an L1 system
but also needs evidence to maintain his or her L1” (1991: 23). In this view, input
would be crucial for the maintenance of a language. This implies also that input
might be sufficient, for example in the case of a speaker who has no opportu-
nity to interact with other L1 speakers but may nevertheless maintain the L1 by
written exchanges, or simply by input received from books, films or the Internet.
Secondly, this raises the question of the quality of that input, which may to some
degree be dependent on the sociolinguistic environment of the immigrant (see
below). Predictions arising from qualitative aspects of contact are discussed in
detail by Schmid (this volume).
3.2	 The cultural context of the immigrant
The relationship between cognition and culture is illustrated in Sperber and
Hirschfeld’s (2007) theory, where it is claimed that culture arises from Social
24	 Barbara Köpke
Cognitive Causal Chains (SCCC) establishing semantic relationships between
people. These SCCCs allow for stabilizing representations and practice within a
given community. This view implies that these representations concern – among
many other things – language status (see 3.3 below), but also linguistic and prag-
matic norms. In other words, SCCCs would include linguistic and pragmatic input
as discussed by Sharwood Smith and van Buren (1991). Adopting Sperber and
Hirschfeld’s view, it can be claimed that immigrants are cut off from the SCCCs of
the L1 community and no longer have any support in stabilizing their L1 represen-
tations and practice. This resembles Sharwood Smith and van Buren’s suggestion
that (1991: 23): “…the L1 changes not because of lack of use but because of lack of
confirming evidence that L1 is the way it is in the L1 community” (my emphasis).
The input, or lack thereof, from the L1 community would hence be the critical
factor in L1 attrition, and this is likely to be particularly true with respect to the
attrition of pragmatic norms (an area of language attrition which is very much
under-researched).
This raises the question of the L1 community which, in an immigrant set-
ting, can take various forms: either a) the immigrant has no contact with other
immigrants in the host country and any confirming evidence comes from the
home country, or b) she is a member of an immigrant community which will be
the source of at least part of the confirming evidence and new SCCCs. It has been
proposed recently (Köpke 2004b) that these two sorts of cultural contexts may
have different consequences for attrition:
a.	 In the case of completely isolated immigrants, L1 use is reduced to a necessar-
ily limited amount of contact with L1 speakers in the home country and, pos-
sibly, books, TV, and Internet. The SCCCs related to L1 will become weaker
and weaker, but they remain those of the L1 community in the home country.
The linguistic norms on which the L1 competence is based will not change,
but L1 will be more and more difficult to access since its activation level will
decrease as L1 becomes dormant (Green 1986); hence this case of attrition
will mainly be a question of control over intact knowledge, i.e. performance
attrition.
b.	 If the immigrant is part of an immigrant community in the host country,
she will be exposed to different kinds of input: possibly to input from the L1
community in the home country as in case a), but also to input from the im-
migrant community, including attrited speech and different learner varieties
.	 Following Sperber and Hirschfeld (2007), causal chains of culture consist in an alternation
of mental and public episodes, both of which are linked through imitation and communica-
tion.
	 Attrition at the crossroads	 25
from 2nd and 3rd generation speakers. The amount of contact will probably
be greater than in case a) due to regular L1 input in the migrant setting via
clubs, churches, contact with other migrants, community newspapers, etc.,
but the input will comprise much more structural variation. Moreover, the
contact with other migrants who live in close contact with another language
is likely to lead to new SCCCs (better adapted to the L2 culture) and to the de-
velopment of a contact variety, as has been observed by Grosjean & Py (1991)
for Spanish immigrants in Neuchâtel, or by Montrul (2004) or Silva-Corvalan
(1991) for Spanish speaking immigrants in the USA. In such a case, attrition
will involve a restructuring of L1 competence due to the development of new
L1 norms in the contact situation. This could furthermore be enhanced by
the possibility to communicate in a bilingual mode (Grosjean 1992) char-
acterised by massive codeswitching which may also have consequences on
inhibitory control in a largely bilingual context (see 1.3 above).
The issue of language use and contact certainly needs to be investigated further
in the context of attrition (see Schmid, this volume). Nevertheless, the predic-
tions arising from these thoughts on the type of language use as a function of the
cultural context of the immigrant are that attrition may be either more perform-
ance-oriented or more competence-oriented (Köpke 2004b: 1341), depending on
whether the L1 contact is mainly with members of the L1 community in the coun-
try of origin, or with other immigrants in the host country. But this is obviously
also a question of attitudes to the L1 norms and to the community.
3.3	 Attitudinal factors
Attitudinal factors include a complex variety of values attributed by the com-
munity or the social environment to the languages (L1 and L2) as well as issues
like bilingualism, immigration, integration, etc. (see Ben-Rafael & Schmid, this
volume). These values may or may not be identical with the internal values the
subject subscribes to (see 1.4 and Schumann 1997), but they will in all cases have
some influence on these internal values and on the motivation to acquire L2 and/
or to maintain L1.
Motivation usually arises from external factors such as the socio-economic
or ideological context. One example illustrating how integrative or instrumental
motivation (Gardner & Lambert 1972) are dependent on this kind of context is
given by Ben-Rafael & Schmid (this volume) for different groups of immigrants
in Israel: whereas the Francophone immigrants arrived in Israel during a period
where the exclusive use of Hebrew was an ideological imperative, language main-
tenance is much higher among more recent Russian immigrants who have a more
26	 Barbara Köpke
economic and hence instrumental motivation, allowing for the maintenance of
Russian as a family language.
Other aspects of motivation may be directly linked to age: for example, adults
differ from children in that L1 is an important part of their identity that cannot
easily be abandoned. On the other hand, a very young child does not have the
same motivation with respect to language as a child of school age who is much
more oriented to the peer group than to the family. School children should there-
fore be most prone to attrition since they are the age group most motivated to
integrate into the L2 environment. However, age and previously-acquired literacy
skills in L1 might counteract such a tendency.
Still another type of attitude and motivation may depend on the migrant’s
view of the immigrant situation, and will be directly linked to the cultural con-
text as discussed in 3.2. It includes the immigrants’ attitudes with respect to lan-
guage competence and bilingualism, their origins, and their integration into the
L2 community: is a need felt to be a ‘perfect’ speaker of each language? Does
the speaker accept codeswitching as a bilingual communication mode or is she
opposed to language mixing? Is L1 attrition seen as a logical consequence of in-
tegration into the L2 community or is it felt as the loss of some aspect of an im-
migrant’s personality? These and other questions (see Pavlenko 2005 for more
examples) contribute to a very complex picture of the immigrants’ relation with
their languages, which will influence language embodiment. Matters are further
complicated by the fact that the predictions arising from this are as numerous as
the personal configurations are variable.
It appears nonetheless that external factors are of crucial importance in attri-
tion. Even if attrition as a process is based on brain mechanisms and cognitive proc-
esses, external factors are most likely to play a major role in determining whether
there will be attrition, to what extent, and what type of attrition will occur.
4.	 General discussion
What emerges clearly from the discussion of these various predictions is that at-
trition is dependent on a large variety of factors. Further complications arise from
the fact that many of the factors involved weaken or even cancel each other out.
Nevertheless, two strong tendencies emerge:
.	 Of course it cannot be excluded that other factors, as for example group size, interact with
motivation in this case.
	 Attrition at the crossroads	 27
1.	 Internal and external factors may have an impact on either amount of attri-
tion, type of attrition, or both: it is proposed here that it is crucial to distin-
guish factors with quantitative effects, which will play a role in the extent of
attrition, and others which will be involved in the qualitative distinction of
different attrition phenomena.
2.	 Moreover, among the most important factors influencing attrition, it is pos-
sible to isolate some which seem to be more central than others because they
appear to be composite factors related to many others. For example, age and
cultural context are complex variables related to many of the other factors. It
is further suggested that none of these cluster factors alone may account for
L1 attrition.
4.1	 Quantitative vs. qualitative influence on attrition
The first observation is that some factors influence amount of attrition whereas
others may have an impact on type of attrition. Obviously, many cases do not
allow for clear-cut distinctions – age, for example, may be found in both catego-
ries since it is one of the most important cluster factors. The distinction between
quantitative and qualitative impact is nevertheless useful because of its theoretical
implications.
Among the factors that will have an impact on amount of attrition (i.e. how
strongly is the subject’s L1 affected?) are:
–	 age in relation to plasticity and literacy (children generally have more dif-
ficulties and undergo attrition more quickly);
–	 frequency of language use in relation to its consequences for activation
thresholds (people who make less use of L1 are supposed to be more vulner-
able to attrition);
–	 emotional impact in relation to motivation may strengthen attrition effects.
Still, the same factors and some others may also account for qualitative distinc-
tions between different attrition types:
–	 age in relation to type of memory involved (declarative vs. procedural) will
have an impact on the parts of the linguistic system that may be involved:
in older subjects, attrition will mostly affect those structures which are sub-
served by declarative memory, in younger subjects attrition will also extend
to implicit linguistic competence (i.e. grammar and phonology) subserved by
procedural memory;
28	 Barbara Köpke
–	 type of language use and its consequences on inhibition patterns will favour
attrition patterns in this respect: no or little L1 use in purely monolingual set-
tings will lead to processing difficulties, i.e. performance attrition; L1 use in
bilingual settings may bring about less performance attrition but there may
be competence attrition involving a restructuring of linguistic competence,
otherwise observed only in children;
–	 the cultural context may furthermore strengthen this distinction between
competence and performance attrition in relation to the characteristics of the
immigrant community (if there is one) and the prevailing attitudes with re-
spect to bilingualism, codeswitching, attrition, the respective language com-
munities etc.
Attrition research so far has focussed on the quantitative effects of extralinguistic
factors. It appears crucial to realize that different attrition types may arise, de-
pending on whether the immigrant is a child or an adult at the onset of bilingual-
ism and/or attrition, and whether she is part of an immigrant community or not.
Arguably the term ‘attrition’ in the sense of an individual phenomenon related to
psycholinguistic processes such as language acquisition, learning or pathology is
justified only with respect to attrition arising in isolated immigrants (children or
adults) – everything happening within the context of a community is likely to be
the development of a contact variety which is a sociolinguistic phenomenon re-
lated to language change and should be distinguished from individual attrition.
4.2	 Cluster factors
The second observation is that some factors seem to constitute clusters composed
of several factors. Age is one of the best examples of a cluster factor encompass-
ing others. It has been shown that age has consequences on (a) brain plasticity,
(b) on the type of memory structures involved in language learning and language
processing (declarative or procedural), (c) on the cognitive grounding of language
through its close correlation with literacy and education (involving higher meta-
linguistic knowledge which is of course also linked to b), (d) on motivation, since
the relations and expectations between the subject and her environment are also
partly related to age, and (e) language use, which also varies as a function of age.
The same is likely to apply to a number of other factors related to attrition. This is
perhaps the reason why maturational constraints have been shown to play such
an important role in attrition (e.g. reviews in Francis 2005; Kaufman 2000).
The linguistic and cultural environment can also be considered a cluster fac-
tor. Attrition is a response to a change in the linguistic environment of the emi-
grant. It is the linguistic environment that will provide the opportunities to use
	 Attrition at the crossroads	 29
a language – whatever the person chooses to do with that opportunity. So the
linguistic environment provides a certain amount of contact with the L1, but it
also delivers a certain type of input in the language. We have seen that both will
have consequences for activation and inhibition mechanisms. Furthermore, the
linguistic environment will also transmit language attitudes and cultural values
that will influence the attitudes, motivation and general emotional value systems
of the immigrant.
If there is less evidence for these latter factors in the attrition literature than
for maturational aspects, the main reason is that the linguistic and cultural envi-
ronment, and, a fortiori, emotional aspects are more difficult to compare across
studies or in literature reviews than the distinction between children and adults.
At this level, measures developed for other fields – e.g. Ethnolinguistic Vitali-
ty Theory measures developed for ethnic group comparisons (Giles, Bourhis &
Taylor 1977), Social Network Theory (Milroy 1987), or motivational and atti-
tudinal measures largely developed for language learning in classroom settings
(Gardner & Lambert 1972) – are usually not suited for the attrition situation and
the development of specifically adapted instruments is needed (for a more de-
tailed discussion see Köpke & Schmid 2004; Schmid, this volume). Despite this
gap, it has been shown that emotional factors may outweigh even such well-estab-
lished variables as age in attrition (e.g. Schmid 2002).
It can therefore be concluded that, even if some factors form clusters that
are closely linked to a great number of others, there is no one individual factor,
or cluster, that might be considered dominant. Rather, it appears that attrition
should be considered within a multi-componential view, outlined in Figure 1.
Each factor, cluster, or type of factor (e.g. biological, cognitive, or external as pro-
posed here by way of example), contributes with its specific weight arising from
the individual situation. The sum of the weight of each will determine whether
or not there will be attrition and if so to what degree. Note that, following such a
conception, levels of proficiency that are similar on the surface level may rely on
completely different underlying neuropsychosociological configurations. In some
cases (as in Language Proficiency B), biological factors (such as plasticity) may be
unfavourable to the maintenance of L1 (in the sense of great plasticity in a young
child predicting high attrition), but external factors will be highly favourable to
L1 maintenance (e.g. very positive attitudes and stimulating L1 use); in other
cases (as in Proficiency Level A) an inverse relationship may produce a similar re-
sult. Only when several components are unfavourable will there be a perceptible
.	 Note that I have excluded ‘aptitude’ from this discussion, not so much because it is not im-
portant, but because there are no studies at present which investigate this factor in the context
of language attrition, and it seems not to be related to other factors discussed here.
30	 Barbara Köpke
change in overall language proficiency. This might explain why attrition in adults
is generally so hard to measure: in many cases, the overall proficiency may remain
within a native-like range (see Hyltenstam & Abrahamsson 2003 for a discussion
of native-like proficiency; and the suggestions made by de Bot, this volume).
5.	 Conclusion
The preceding discussion on different kinds of internal and external factors re-
lated to L1 attrition allows some tentative conclusions and indications for the
future direction of research:
–	 Attrition in individual settings is a phenomenon different from the develop-
ment of a contact variety likely to arise in any setting where an immigrant is
exposed to a large variety of L1 input influenced by the contact language (L2).
The restructuring of linguistic competence observable in such cases entails
a modification of the linguistic norms (cf. Py 1986), but bears little resem-
blance to a psycholinguistic process. It is furthermore suggested that L1 attri-
tion may be of two types: either affecting online processing and performance
(as observed in most studies with adults), or entailing a restructuring of the
content of the subject’s grammar (as demonstrated in some studies, mostly
involving children).
–	 Some factors involved in L1 attrition are stronger than others due to their mul-
tiple links with others, forming ‘cluster factors’; but whatever their strength,
there is no one individual factor or cluster able to account for the attrition
Figure 1.  A multicomponential view of language proficiency in the context of attrition
	 Attrition at the crossroads	 31
phenomenon on its own. Attrition needs to be considered within a multi-
component view, relying unavoidably on the complementary contribution of
several disciplines of the humanities.
In other words, what follows clearly from these considerations is that attrition
cannot be conceived as an ‘abnormal condition’, characterised by very specific
symptoms and ascribable to one principal organic cause. Rather, attrition could
be described as a type of variety within the language proficiency of multilinguals,
arising from a multiplicity of causes and, more often than not, remaining within
the range of perceived native-like proficiency.
Acknowledgement
I am grateful to Monika S. Schmid, Jean-Luc Nespoulous, Angelika Rieussec and
two anonymous reviewers for their helpful comments on earlier versions of this
paper. I would further like to thank Bert Brouwenstijn for his help with the figure.
References
Abrahamsson, N. & Hyltenstam, K. (2005). “Grammaticality judgment and language learning
aptitude”. International Symposium on Age and Near-nativeness in L2 Acquisition and L1
Attrition. Stockholm: 2nd December 2005.
Altenberg, E. P. & Vago, R. M. (2004). “The role of grammaticality judgments in investigating
first language attrition: A crosslinguistic perspective”. In M. S. Schmid, B. Köpke, M. Kei-
jzer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language Attrition: Interdisciplinary perspectives on meth-
odological issues (pp. 105–129). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ammerlaan, T. (1996). “You Get a Bit Wobbly... Exploring bilingual lexical retrieval processes
in the context of first language attrition”. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Nijmegen:
Katholieke Universiteit Nijmegen.
Anderson, M. C. (2003). “Rethinking interference theory: Executive control and the mecha-
nisms of forgetting”. Journal of Memory and Language, 49, 415–445.
As, A. (1963). “The recovery of a forgotten language knowledge through hypnotic age regres-
sion: A case report”. American Journal of Clinical Hypnosis, 5, 24–29.
Baddeley, A. (1986). Working Memory. Oxford: OUP.
Baddeley, A. (2000). “The episodic buffer: A new component of working memory?” Trends in
Cognitive Science, 4 (11), 417–423.
.	 This conception is largely influenced by Hyltenstam & Abrahamsson’s hypothesis of ‘non-
perceivable non-native proficiency levels’ with respect to ultimate attainment in L2 learners
(Hyltenstam & Abrahamsson 2003: 572).
32	 Barbara Köpke
Baddeley, A. (2003). “Working memory: Looking back and looking forward”. Nature Reviews
Neuroscience, 4 (10), 829–839.
Bahrick, H. P. (1984). “Fifty years of second language attrition: Implications for programmatic
research”. The Modern Language Journal, 68 (2), 105–118.
Ben-Rafael, M. (2004). “Language contact and attrition: The spoken French of Israeli
Francophones”. In M. S. Schmid, B. Köpke, M. Keijzer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Lan-
guage Attrition: Interdisciplinary perspectives on methodological issues (pp. 165–188).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Berg, T. & Schade, U. (1992). “The role of inhibition in a spreading-activation model of lan-
guage production. I. The psycholinguistic perspective”. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research,
21 (6), 405–434.
Bialystok, E. & Sharwood Smith, M. (1985). “Interlanguage is not a state of mind: An evaluation
of the construct for second-language acquisition”. Applied Linguistics, 16, 101–117.
Birdsong, D. (1992). “Ultimate attainment in second language acquisition”. Language, 68, 706–
755.
Boujon, C. (2002). L’inhibition au carrefour des neurosciences et des sciences de la cognition.
Marseille: Solal.
Carroll, J. B. (1973). “Implications of aptitude test research and psycholinguistic theory for
foreign language teaching”. International Journal of Psycholinguistics, 2, 5–14.
Chomsky, N. (1965). Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Collette, F., van der Linden, M. & Poncelet, M. (2000). “Working memory, long-term memory
and language processing: Issues and future directions”. Brain and Language, 71, 46–51.
Cook, V. (1992). “Evidence for multicompetence”. Language Learning, 42, 557–591.
Crosson, B., Novack, T. A. & Trenerry, M. R. (1988). “Subcortical language mechanisms:
Window on a new frontier”. In H. A. Whitaker (Ed.), Phonological Processes and Brain
Mechanisms (pp. 24–58). New York, NY: Springer Verlag.
Damasio, A. R. (2003). Spinoza avait raison. Joie et tristesse, le cerveau des émotions. Paris: Odile
Jacob.
Daneman, M. & Carpenter, P. A. (1980). “Individual differences in working memory and read-
ing”. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 19, 450–466.
De Bode, S. (1996). First Language Attrition: Productive morphology disintegration and neuro-
biological support. A case study. Unpublished MA Thesis, Pomona, CA: California State
University.
de Bot, K. (2001). “Language use as an interface between sociolinguistic and psycholinguistic
processes in language attrition and language shift”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & P. van Avermaet
(Eds.), Theories on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages: Towards a more integrated
explanatory framework (pp. 65–82). Münster: Waxmann.
de Bot, K. & Stoessel, S. (2000). “In search of yesterday’s words: Reactivating a forgotten lan-
guage”. Applied Linguistics, 21 (3), 364–384.
de Bot, K. & Weltens, B. (1991). “Regression, recapitulation, and language loss”. In H. W. Seliger,
& R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 31–52). Cambridge: CUP.
Dell, G. S. (1986). “A spreading-activation theory of retrieval in sentence production”. Psycho-
logical Review, 93, 283–321.
Dressler, U. (1991). “The sociolinguistic and patholinguistic attrition of Breton phonology,
morphology, and morphophonology”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language
Attrition (pp. 99–112). Cambridge: CUP.
	 Attrition at the crossroads	 33
Dussias, P. (2004). “Parsing a first language like a second: The erosion of L1 parsing strategies in
Spanish-English bilinguals”. International Journal of Bilingualism, 8 (3), 355–371.
Ecke, P. (2004). “Language attrition and theories of forgetting: A cross-disciplinary review”.
International Journal of Bilingualism, 8 (3), 321–354.
Ellis, N. (1994). “Implicit and explicit language learning: An overview”. In N. Ellis (Ed.), Implicit
and Explicit Learning of Languages (pp. 1–31). New York, NY: Academic Press.
Fabbro, F. (1999). The Neurolinguistics of Bilingualism: An introduction. Hove: Psychology
Press.
Flege, J. E., Yeni-Komshian, G. & Liu, S. (1999). “Age constraints on second-language acquisi-
tion”. Journal of Memory and Language, 41, 78–104.
Fodor, J. & Garrett, M. (1966). “Some reflections on competence and performance”. In J. Lyons
& R. J. Wales (Eds.), The Edinburgh Conference on Psycholinguistics (pp. 135–182).
Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Francis, N. (2005). “Research findings on early first language attrition: Implications for the dis-
cussion on critical periods in language acquisition”. Language Learning, 55 (3), 491–531.
Fromm, E. (1970). “Age regression with unexpected reappearance of a repressed childhood
language”. International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis, 18, 79–88.
Gardner, R. C. & Lambert, W. E. (1972). Attitudes and Motivations in Second Language Learn-
ing. Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Giles, H., Bourhis, R. Y. & Taylor, D. M. (1977). “Towards a theory of language in ethnic group
relations”. In H. Giles (Ed.), Language, Ethnicity and Intergroup Relations (pp. 307–348).
New York, NY: Academic Press.
Grainger, J. & Dijkstra, T. (1992). “On the representation and use of language information in
bilinguals”. In R. J. Harris (Ed.), Cognitive Processing in Bilinguals (pp. 207–220). Amster-
dam: North Holland.
Green, D. W. (1986). “Control, activation, and resource: A framework and a model for the con-
trol of speech in bilinguals”. Brain and Language, 27, 210–223.
Green, D. W. (1993). “Towards a model of L2 comprehension and production”. In R. Schreuder
& B. Weltens (Eds.), The Bilingual Lexicon (pp. 249–278). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Green, D. W. (1998a). “Mental control of the bilingual lexico-semantic system”. Bilingualism:
Language and Cognition, 1, 77–82.
Green, D. W. (1998b). “Schemas, tags and inhibition”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition,
1, 100–104.
Grosjean, F. (1988). “Exploring the recognition of guest words in bilingual speech”. Language
and Cognitive Processes, 3, 233–274.
Grosjean, F. (1992). “Another view of bilingualism”. In R. J. Harris (Ed.), Cognitive Processing in
Bilinguals (pp. 51–62). Amsterdam: North Holland.
Grosjean, F. & Py, B. (1991). “La restructuration d’une première langue: l’intégration de vari-
antes de contact dans la compétence de migrants bilingues”. La Linguistique, 27, 35–60.
Gross, S. (2004). “A modest proposal: Explaining language attrition in the context of contact
linguistics”. In M. S. Schmid, B. Köpke, M. Keijzer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language At-
trition: Interdisciplinary perspectives on methodological issues (pp. 281–298). Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Gürel, A. (2002). Linguistic Characteristics of Second Language Acquisition and First Lan-
guage Attrition: Turkish overt versus null pronouns. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation,
Montreal: McGill University.
34	 Barbara Köpke
Gürel, A. (2004). “Selectivity in L2-induced L1 attrition: A psycholinguistic account”. Journal of
Neurolinguistics, 17 (1), 53–78.
Håkansson, G. (1995). “Syntax and morphology in language attrition: A study of five bilingual
expatriate Swedes”. International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 5 (2), 153–171.
Hulsen, M. (2000). Language Loss and Language Processing: Three generations of Dutch migrants
in New Zealand. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Nijmegen: Katholieke Universiteit
Nijmegen.
Hyltenstam, K. & Abrahamsson, N. (2003). “Maturational constraints in SLA”. In C. Doughty
& M. H. Long (Eds.), Handbook of Second Language Acquisition (pp. 539–588). Oxford:
Blackwell.
Ijalba, E., Obler, L. K. & Chengappa, S. (2004). “Bilingual aphasia”. In T. K. Bhatia & W. C.
Ritchie (Eds.), The Handbook of Bilingualism (pp. 71–89). Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Isurin, L. (2000). “Deserted islands or a child’s first language forgetting”. Bilingualism: Language
and Cognition, 3, 151–166.
Jakobson, R. (1941). Kindersprache, Aphasie und allgemeine Lautgesetze. Uppsala: Almqvist and
Wiksell.
Johnson, J. S. & Newport, E. L. (1989). “Critical period effects in second language learning:
The influence of maturational state on the acquisition of English as a second language”.
Cognitive Psychology, 21, 60–99.
Just, M. A. & Carpenter, P. N. (1992). “A capacity theory of comprehension: Individual differ-
ences in working memory”. Psychological Review, 99, 122–149.
Kaufman, D. (2000). “Attrition of Hebrew in the United States: Sociolinguistic perspectives”. In
E. Olshtain (Ed.), Immigration, Identity, and Language (pp. 409–420). Jerusalem: Magnes
Publications Hebrew University.
Kaufman, D. & Aronoff, M. (1991). “Morphological disintegration and reconstruction in first
language attrition”. In H.W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 175–
188). Cambridge: CUP.
Keijzer, M. C. J. (2004). “First language attrition: A cross-linguistic investigation of Jakobson’s
regression hypothesis”. International Journal of Bilingualism, 8 (3), 389–393.
Köpke, B. (1999). L’ attrition de la première langue chez le bilingue tardif: Implications pour
l’étude psycholinguistique du bilinguisme. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Toulouse:
Université du Mirail.
Köpke, B. (2001). “Quels changements linguistiques dans l’attrition de la L1 chez le bilingue
tardif?” TRANEL, 34/35, 355–368.
Köpke, B. (2002). “Activation thresholds and non-pathological first language attrition”. In F.
Fabbro (Ed.), Advances in the Neurolinguistics of Bilingualism (pp. 119–142). Udine:
Forum.
Köpke, B. (2004a). “Neurolinguistic aspects of attrition”. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17 (1),
3–30.
Köpke, B. (2004b). “Attrition is not a unitary phenomenon: On different possible outcomes of
language contact situations”. In A. M. L. Suarez, F. Ramallo & X.-P. Rodiguez-Yanez (Eds.),
Bilingual Socialization and Bilingual Language Acquisition: Proceedings from the Second
International Symposium on Bilingualism (pp. 1331–1347). Vigo: Servizo de Publicacions
da Universidade de Vigo. (http://webs.uvigo.es/ssl/actas2002/).
Köpke, B. & Schmid, M. S. (2004) “First language attrition: The next phase.” In M. S. Schmid, B.
Köpke, M. Keijzer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language Attrition: Interdisciplinary perspec-
tives on methodological issues (pp. 1–43). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
	 Attrition at the crossroads	 35
Krashen, S. (1981). Second Language Acquisition and Second Language Learning. Oxford:
Pergamon Press.
Lamendella, J. (1977). “General principles of neurofunctional organization and their manifes-
tation in primary and secondary language acquisition”. Language Learning, 27, 155–196.
Lenneberg, E. H. (1967). Biological Foundations of Language. New York, NY: Wiley.
Levine, G. (1996). “Elderly second-generation speakers of Yiddish: Toward a model of L1 loss,
incomplete L1 acquisition, competence, and control”. Southwestern Journal of Linguistics,
15 (1), 109–120.
Luria, A. R. (1966). The Higher Cortical Functions in Man. New York, NY: Basic Books.
Luria, A. R. (1974). “Basic problems in neurolinguistics”. In T. A. Sebeok (Ed.), Current Trends
in Linguistics (pp. 2561–2593). The Hague: Mouton.
MacLeod, C. M. (1976). “Bilingual episodic memory: Acquisition and forgetting”. Journal of
Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 15, 347–364.
Major, R. C. (1992). “Losing English as a first language”. The Modern Language Journal, 76 (2),
190–208.
McCarthy, R. A. & Warrington, E. K. (1994). Neuropsychologie cognitive. Une introduction cli-
nique. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.
McClelland, J. L. & Rumelhart, D. E. (1981). “An interactive activation model of context effects
in letter perception: Part 1. An account of the basic findings”. Psychological Review, 88,
375–407.
McClelland, J. L. & Elman, J. L. (1986). “The TRACE model of speech perception”. Cognitive
Psychology, 18, 1–86.
Meara, P., Milton, J. & Lorenzo-Dus, N. Swansea Language Aptitude Test (LAT) v2.0
(Lognostics, Swansea, 2003).
Meuter, R. & Humphreys, G. (1997). “The frontal lobe and bilingual switching: Asym-
metrical costs of language selection”. International Workshop on the Psycholinguistics of
Bilingualism, Université de Provence: 20–21 May 1997.
Milroy, L. (1987). Language and Social Networks. Oxford: Blackwell.
Montrul, S. (2004). “Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition and L1 loss”. In M. S. Schmid, B.
Köpke, M. Keizer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language Attrition: Interdisciplinary perspec-
tives on methodological issues (pp. 259–280). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Nespoulous, J-L. (1994). “Le langage: Introduction. Linguistique, neurolinguistique et neu-
ropsycholinguistique”. In M. Jeannerod & X. Seron (Eds.), Neuropsychologie Humaine (pp.
317–319). Bruxelles: Mardaga.
Nicoladis, E. & Grabois, H. (2002). “Learning English and losing Chinese: A study of a child
adopted from China”. International Journal of Bilingualism, 6 (4), 441–454.
Norman, D. & Shallice, T. (1986). “Attention to action: Willed and automatic control of behav-
ior”. In R. J. Davidson, G. E. Schartz & D. Shapiro (Eds.), Consciousness and Self-regulation
vol. 4 (pp. 1–18). New York, NY: Plenum.
Olshtain, E. (1986). “The attrition of English as a second language with speakers of Hebrew”.
In B. Weltens, K. de Bot & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 185–204).
Dordrecht: Foris.
Olshtain, E. & Barzilay, M. (1991). “Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition”. In
H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 139–150). Cambridge:
CUP.
Opitz, C. (2005). “Trade-offs between language proficiencies as a cause of L2 attrition”. Second
International Conference on First Language Attrition. Amsterdam: 17–20 August 2005.
36	 Barbara Köpke
Pallier, C., Dehaene, S., Poline, J.-B., LeBihan, D., Argenti, A.-M., Dupoux, E. & Mehler, J.
(2003). “Brain imaging of language plasticity in adopted adults: Can a second language
replace the first?” Cerebral Cortex, 13, 155–161.
Paradis, M. (1985) “On the representation of two languages in the brain”. Language Sciences, 7
(1), 1–39.
Paradis, M. (1993) “Linguistic, psycholinguistic, and neurolinguistic aspects of “interference”
in bilingual speakers: The Activation Threshold Hypothesis”. International Journal of
Psycholinguistics, 9 (2), 133–145.
Paradis, M. (1994). “Neurolinguistic aspects of implicit and explicit memory: Implications for
bilingualism and SLA”. In N. Ellis (Ed.), Implicit and Explicit Learning of Languages (pp.
393–419). New York, NY: Academic Press.
Paradis, M. (1997). “The cognitive neuropsychology of bilingualism”. In A. M. B de Groot
& J. Kroll (Eds.), Tutorials in Bilingualism: Psycholinguistic perspectives (pp. 331–354).
Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Paradis, M. (2004). A Neurolinguistic Theory of Bilingualism. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Pavlenko,A.(2003).“‘IfeelclumsyspeakingRussian’:L2influenceonL1narrativesofRussianL2users
ofEnglish”.InV.Cook(Ed.),EffectsoftheSecondLanguageontheFirst(pp.32–61).Clevedon:
Multilingual Matters.
Pavlenko, A. (2005). Emotions and Multilingualism. Cambridge: CUP.
Penfield, W. & Roberts, L. (1959). Speech and Brain Mechanisms. New York, NY: Atheneum.
Py, B. (1986). “Native language attrition amongst migrant workers: Towards an extension of the
concept of interlanguage”. In E. Kellermann & M. Sharwood Smith (Eds.), Crosslinguistic
Influence in Second Language Acquisition (pp. 163–172). Oxford: Pergamon Press.
Rieussec, A. & Köpke, B. (2005). “Conceptual bridges between attrition and L2 learning”. Second
International Conference on First Language Attrition. Amsterdam: 17–20 August 2005.
Rieussec, A. & Köpke, B. (2007). “Cognitive flexibility in lexical retrieval: Comparing L2 ac-
quisition and L1 attrition in German”. Fourth International Symposium on Bilingualism.
Hamburg: 30 May – 2 June 2007.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use, and Maintenance: The case of German Jews
in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S. (2004). “Le rôle du système linguistique: Attrition vs. contact de langues et
changement linguistique”. Journée ‘Quand la sociolinguistique rencontre la neurolinguis-
tique: l’exemple de l’attrition’. Toulouse: Université Toulouse-Le Mirail, 28 Mai 2004.
Schmitt, E. (2004). “No more reductions! To the problem of evaluation of language attri-
tion data”. In M. S. Schmid, B. Köpke, M. Keijzer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language
Attrition: Interdisciplinary perspectives on methodological issues (pp. 299–316). Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Schumann, J. H. (1997). The Neurobiology of Affect in Language. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Seliger, H. W. (1991). “Language attrition, reduced redundancy, and creativity”. In H. W. Seliger
& R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 227–240). Cambridge: CUP.
Sharwood Smith, M. (1983). “On explaining language loss”. In S. Felix & H. Wode (Eds.),
Language Development at the Crossroads (pp. 49–69). Tübingen: Gunter Narr.
Sharwood Smith, M. & van Buren, P. (1991). “First language attrition and the parameter set-
ting model”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 17–30).
Cambridge: CUP.
Silva-Corvalan, C. (1991). “Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English”. In H.
W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 151–174). Cambridge: CUP.
	 Attrition at the crossroads	 37
Speedie, L. J., Wertman, E., Ta’ir, J. & Heilman, K. M. (1993). “Disruption of automatic speech
following a right basal ganglia lesion”. Neurology, 43, 1768–1774.
Sperber, D. & Hirschfeld, L. (2007). “Culture and modularity”. In P. Carruthers, S. Laurence &
S. Stich (Eds.), The Innate Mind: Culture and cognition. Oxford: OUP.
Swain, M. (2000). “The output hypothesis and beyond: Mediating acquisition through collabo-
rative dialogue”. In J. P. Lantolf (Ed.), Sociocultural Theory and Second Language Learning
(pp. 97–114). Oxford: OUP.
Turian, D. & Altenberg, E. P. (1991). “Compensatory strategies of child first language attrition”.
In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 207–226). Cambridge:
CUP.
Ullman, M. T. (2001). “The neural basis of lexicon and grammar in first and second languages:
The declarative/procedural model”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 4 (1), 105–122.
van der Linden, M. & Collette, F. (2002). “Attention et mémoire de travail”. In J. Couillet, M.
Leclercq, Ch. Moroni, & Ph. Azouvi (Eds.), La neuropsychologie de l’attention (pp. 41–54).
Marseille: Solal.
Vago, R. M. (1991). “Paradigmatic regularity in first language attrition”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M.
Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 241–252). Cambridge: CUP.
Ventureyra, V. (2005). A la recherche de la langue perdue: Étude psycholinguistique de l’attrition
de la première langue chez des Coréens adoptés en France. Unpublished Doctoral Disserta-
tion, Paris: EHESS.
Ventureyra, V., Pallier, C. & Yoo, H.-Y. (2004). “The loss of first language phonetic perception
in adopted Koreans”. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17 (1), 79–91.
Yağmur, K. (1997). First Language Attrition among Turkish Speakers in Sydney. Tilburg: Tilburg
University Press.
Zobl, H. (1995). “Converging evidence for the ‘acquisition-learning’ distinction”. Applied
Linguistics, 16 (1), 35–56.
Understanding attrition within
a MOGUL framework
Mike Sharwood Smith
Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, Scotland
Linguistically-based accounts of attrition may give us an analysis of the prop-
erties of language observed at particular points in time. Then, by comparing
states, we may try to explain the transition between them but, still, discussion
concerning the actual mechanisms of change is typically left aside. The same
may be said of studies of language acquisition. To integrate accounts of linguis-
tic states at different points in time with psycholinguistic explanations about
the transition from one state to the next, we require a broader, interdisciplinary
approach. Sharwood Smith and Truscott’s MOGUL (Modular Growth and Use
of Language) is one such framework, adapting Ray Jackendoff’s model of the
language faculty to show how real-time processes might drive representational
change over time.
Keywords: modularity; interdisciplinary approach; Jackendoff’s model of the
language faculty
1.	 Introduction
There are a few key issues that persist in the research literature that looks at how
languages develop in the individual over time. By ‘develop’ I mean here change
in any direction, i.e. in a manner to be interpreted as either acquisition or as at-
trition. One issue is how to characterise the precise nature of the relationship
between these two processes. Another is the problem of reconciling two funda-
mental dimensions of change, ones that are normally kept strictly apart but which
really ought to be more closely and clearly related. I refer here to the dimension
which involves abstract knowledge states on the one hand and, on the other, the
processing dimension where the focus is on the workings of cognitive, psychologi-
cal mechanisms operating in real time. We are able to talk in fairly vague terms
about how we think the socio-, psycho- and purely linguistic aspects of attrition
40	 Mike Sharwood Smith
are all related but to do this in very precise and interesting ways requires an over-
arching theoretical framework and an associated metalanguage that can make this
achievable. An attempt to provide such a framework will be described below.
1.1	 Working with different domains of inquiry
There are of course, many ways to approach the study of attrition and in every
case one or more research fields seem to be involved. Researchers into language
development may generally find themselves working from one of two platforms.
The first would involve a primarily linguistic focus, studying the linguistic prop-
erties of learner/attriter performance. The second would be within a primarily
psychological (or ‘psycholinguistic’) framework, where the real-time processing
dimension is investigated, and where researchers typically work with lexical deci-
sion tasks, reaction times, and the like. The usefulness of working in a field with
a rich and long established tradition and with a variety of analytic tools at the
researcher’s disposal would seem to make either option attractive. A researcher
can also explore attrition (and acquisition) using the precision instruments of one
or more research domains. Whether each domain provides sufficiently precise
and appropriate instruments for analysing and interpreting the data, and whether
the different analyses can be somehow meshed together to provide a more com-
prehensive picture of development remain open questions: researchers naturally
make do with whatever is available.
1.2	 Real time: Synchronic versus transitional accounts
Within psycholinguistics itself, there is also a problem relating, in particular, to
the typical time periods that psycholinguistic research is supposed to involve. To
be more specific, working in a language or cognitive processing framework does
not typically mean trying to account for the longer term effects of processing. In
fact, psycholinguistics, for most people, has exclusively or mostly had to do with
the millisecond-by-millisecond processing of current resources, i.e., at a particu-
lar stage (final or intermediate or ‘post-final’) of a language user’s career, that is,
without reference to what happens later or what happened before. For example, it
is interesting to study how, say, an attriting individual’s more recent L2 knowledge
currently interacts with their L1 knowledge and to do this according to mode and
situational context. Data obtained can cast light on the current state of attrition
and on what part L2 linguistic knowledge plays in differentiating the individual’s
	 Understanding attrition within a MOGUL framework	 41
L1 behaviour from that of standard native speakers of the language. Neverthe-
less, how acquisition or attrition actually take place over longer periods of time
should also be an eminently ‘psycho-’ linguistic, and ‘processing’ concern because
a comprehensive theory of language attrition needs to explain exactly how change
comes about, how the state in which individuals find themselves at Time Ti ac-
tually develops, over periods of time to a different state at Time Ti+1. This issue
relates to the discussion of property theories versus transition theories: in the first
case we are dealing with the properties of a learner’s (and here, by extension an
attriter’s) current version of the language in question. In the second case, we are
dealing with the processes that transform one state into another (Cummins 1983;
Gregg 1996). The real-time issue discussed above has therefore added a further
important distinction, namely that which exists between synchronic processes and
transitional processes. The type of explanation to be offered below will make an
explicit connection between these two.
1.3	 Overarching frameworks
One obvious way to deal with theoretical areas that remain stubbornly opaque
is to simply continue doing research within a tried and trusted environment and
leave some knotty problems (e.g. the above-mentioned transitional issue and how
to define ‘native speaker’) for ‘later’. This would seem a safe strategy but ultimately
a counterproductive one since there may well be many local problems that can
be resolved in a wider context. The potential of a broader perspective seems to
be acknowledged in the sense that there is nowadays a stronger interdisciplinary
flavour to acquisition and attrition debates. Another option is to adopt a view of
development that simply removes awkward distinctions by dismissing them on
theoretical grounds.
A prime example would be a theory that would make no distinction between
‘knowledge’ and ‘processing’ in the tradition of behaviourism or its latter day
descendant, classical connectionism: no separate symbolic, representational sys-
tem, no mental grammar or mental lexicon would be part of such a perspective.
Language change in the individual would be, in some relatively straightforward
way, the creation, strengthening, weakening and disappearance of networks of
weighted connections in response to stimuli from the environment. Language
systems would emerge and develop into new variants in this way and speaking in
terms of discrete subsystems or ‘modules’ like phonology and syntax and refer-
.	 See Escudero & Sharwood Smith (2001) for a relevant discussion of how the term ‘native
speaker’ may be interpreted.
42	 Mike Sharwood Smith
ring to mental rules and mental representations would simply be a convenient
way for us to talk about the outcome, that is, in ways that describe the result but
have little or no role in explaining how the result came about.
Perhaps we could then rely on neuroscientists to use their own research into
neural structure to inform us about how the creation of new networks takes place
over time and import their accounts into our own theoretical explanations. The
problem is that, although this reductionist approach to knowledge change con-
stitutes a perfectly valid target for researchers to pursue, we have insufficient evi-
dence so far that this is a reliable way of looking at development and, in addition,
many reasons for retaining some form of the knowledge/processing distinction
as a way of explaining both the nature of language and the way it changes in the
individual (Pinker & Prince 1988; see also Marcus 2001 for ways of reconciling
the two approaches).
I shall now avoid any further discussion of the merits and demerits of con-
nectionist and/or emergentist approaches, and will proceed to apply the perspec-
tive called ‘MOGUL’ (Modular On-line Growth and Use of Language) to the is-
sue of language attrition: this will entail a solution that does, at least in some
sense, merge the two dimensions of representation and processing but, as will
be made clear below, ‘merging’ does not imply eliminating the distinction but
rather reconceptualising the distinction between knowledge and processing in
terms that allow a processing perspective to dominate the explanation of develop-
ment (Truscott & Sharwood Smith 2004a; 2004b). In this way, it is hoped that we
can interpret existing attrition data in more meaningful ways as well as develop
new lines of empirical investigation. In particular, we can produce a ‘transitional’
theory of attrition that accords with and builds on research claims in different
domains (see related discussion in Köpke & Schmid 2004).
2.	 MOGUL
2.1	 The theoretical setting
A brief exposé of what the MOGUL framework involves might well introduce a
variety of familiar terms like ‘modularity’, ‘connections’, ‘networks’, ‘activation lev-
els’ and ‘universal grammar’, concepts which, taken together, might not all seem
to be appropriate bedfellows. However, the whole point about casting research
questions within a MOGUL perspective is that it makes these various concepts
meaningful within single theoretical accounts of attrition and acquisition. In
actual fact, although some researchers working within a cognitivist framework,
broadly defined, in which notions such as ‘knowledge’ states are standard, might
	 Understanding attrition within a MOGUL framework	 43
feel uncomfortable talking about activation and the growth of ‘connections’, it is
actually the classical connectionists and people adhering to more or less behav-
iourist positions who will swiftly disassociate themselves from a MOGUL point
of view.
MOGUL frames questions of knowledge change in processing terms. How-
ever, it does so in ways which are partly or fully compatible with various non-con-
nectionist approaches, that is, with approaches that range from ‘general cognitiv-
ism’, involving concepts like, for instance, ‘declarative’ and ‘procedural’ knowledge
to domain-specific perspectives on language such as generative linguistics within
Chomsky’s Minimalist Programme (Chomsky 1995). In actual fact, the ‘modular’
part of MOGUL places it in the latter, domain-specific part of this spectrum al-
though concepts from the approaches to language cognition that deny the exist-
ence of a language faculty, and research associated with those concepts, may also
be usefully re-interpreted within MOGUL.
One of the aims underlying MOGUL is precisely to seek links that knit to-
gether strands of research across theoretical and disciplinary boundaries in a
theoretically cohesive manner. It is important therefore to understand that many
existing research claims and research findings can be re-examined within a
MOGUL perspective. There is already some indication that this process can shed
new light on old data (see, for example, the reanalysis of the role of metalinguistic
ability in Sharwood Smith 2004, the reinterpretation of the continuum-versus-
stage option when analysing development in Sharwood Smith & Truscott 2005,
and the reinterpretation of the Schwartz & Sprouse ‘Full-Transfer-Full-Access’
position, in second language acquisition, in Sharwood Smith & Truscott 2006;
see Schwartz & Sprouse 1996).
2.2	 The main tenets
2.2.1  Acquisition and attrition as an ongoing process
The core of MOGUL as it now stands is ‘A’-by-Processing-Theory (APT; Truscott
& Sharwood 2004b) where ‘A’ may stand for both attrition and acquisition. The
main idea is that development (in either direction) is a by-product of the language-
user’s actual use of the language system in question and no ‘LAD’, i.e., no separate,
dedicated acquisition or attrition mechanisms are needed to explain it. From this
one may infer that there is a point at which a language system becomes stable but
there is no literal ‘final’ state of language acquisition, where it is fixed in the learn-
er’s mind: you use a language or you lose it. The point of so-called ultimate attain-
ment in the acquisition of a first language (L1) is the point where all the evidence
couched in the ambient L1, the language as spoken and written in the acquirer’s
44	 Mike Sharwood Smith
environment has been so fully and frequently processed as to suggest the language
user currently possesses a near identical system to those around him or her.
The ‘system’ involves both the relevant linguistic properties and their high
degree of accessibility in performance. The language user appears to more or less
match those around him or her and therefore can be regarded as a full member
of that language community. The reason that the word ‘ultimate’ is chosen is that,
for a great number of speakers, this system will remain in this state more or less
until they die. The reason for this, which is given a specific interpretation in the
MOGUL framework, is simply that they will go on using it. If there are any chang-
es in the structural properties that their performance manifests then we may infer
either that the same speakers around them have themselves started to change or
that the language user has moved on to another community where that same lan-
guage is spoken much less frequently or not at all. The presence of a different am-
bient language normally accompanies and helps to explain the resulting changes.
MOGUL puts content into the notion that many have expressed about the
close relationship between attrition and acquisition despite the fact that tradition-
ally acquisition researchers work with notions such as ‘evidence’ and ‘input’ and
‘setting UG parameters’ which would seem to pose a challenge in language ‘loss’.
To what extent does it make sense to talk of an attriter ‘resetting’ L1 parameters
(however one chooses to understand these notions) where ultimate attainment
has by definition taken place? And is it possible to talk of attrition taking place in
response to ‘evidence’ (see discussion in Sharwood Smith & van Buren 1991)?
The architecture currently proposed for MOGUL as far as the core language
system is concerned is based on Ray Jackendoff’s proposals (Jackendoff 1987,
2002). The great strength of the Jackendoff approach is that it aligns explanations
of linguistic form and linguistic processing such that one can easily be translated
into the other. In MOGUL we take it a step further and elaborate its implica-
tions for a transitional account (see Carroll 2001 for a different elaboration of            
Jackenoff’s model).
It is important to understand that, as Carroll has pointed out in convincing
terms (Carroll 1999), environmental stimuli or the lack of them cannot influence
the course of development in a straightforward manner. Processing is understood
to go through different stages and what may be termed input is different at each
stage.Forexample,wehave,asmanyassume,aspecialsystemforprocessingsound
(or rather acoustic/auditory input), perceived sound from the environment that is
specifically relevant to language (Jusczyk 1997). This is a system whose operation
is evident from an early age and which is progressively tuned to cope with specific
types of linguistic sound actually encountered by the individual. We are driven to
interpret linguistically relevant auditory/acoustic information because this is all
	 Understanding attrition within a MOGUL framework	 45
part of the more general drive to make sense of sound, i.e. recreate messages that
sound may contain.
The first step in building an interpretation is, then, phonological. Phonologi-
cal processing will serve here as an illustration of how MOGUL interprets devel-
opment in general. The other, syntactic and conceptual-semantic, stages may be
understood, for present purposes, to operate in parallel and in essentially identi-
cal ways, each system possessing its own special processor and its own memory,
and in addition separate interface systems for chaining structures in one system
together with structures created in another (Jackendoff 2002: 125, 199). During
performance, a number of candidate chains across the various working memories
compete until a ‘best-fit’ chain is selected.
To return to our example of the phonological system, over time, this proc-
ess of continually trying to make sense of language sound results in the language
user/acquirer building up a bank of phonological structures in long term memory.
This process is a collaboration between (a) the phonological processor that runs
according to principles that phonologists attempt to explicate, (b) input to the pho-
nological system, and (c) the phonological structures already created and available
in phonological memory. The resulting structures serve to support current and
future attempts to interpret and produce messages in speech (see Fig. 1).
Our actual performance (in comprehension and production) will be affected
by the degree to which we can recruit these phonological structures in (long term)
memory on line. Here the notion of ‘activation level’ is crucial since some struc-
ture will be more accessible than others. Reformulating this in MOGUL terms,
.	 ‘Long term’ in this perspective is a relative term and should be taken here as simply mean-
ing ‘currently resident’ memory. Working memory involves elements in long term memory that
are, for a brief moment, undergoing various types of activation. In this way, one can therefore
Figure 1.  Phonological input processing
46	 Mike Sharwood Smith
some weakly established structures will have a low ‘resting level’ (also known as a
high threshold: Paradis 2000, 2001, this volume) making them weakly accessible.
The more they are recruited the higher the resting level becomes (or, in Paradis’
terms, the lower the threshold). From this we may infer that highly accessible,
strongly established structures will lose their position of strength if they are not
used over a period of time, hence the ‘use it or lose it’ dictum. Not only do the
resting levels of phonological (or syntactic or conceptual) structures in memory
need boosting to make them more readily available but they also need boosting
to prevent them sinking downwards again.
Note that phonological structures (or, for that matter morphosyntactic ones)
are not viewed here ‘simply’ as networks of connections which have been created
in response to language experience. There is no direct relationship between ex-
posure to sound and the strength of internal connections. Both representational
properties and frequency of use have a part to play (see Fig. 2). The networks
do respond to repeated activation but, to the degree that they are modular, each
module operating according to its own principles, the response to environmen-
tal stimuli is very indirect. The actual properties of phonological structures are
determined and constrained by the architecture of (the phonological part of) the
language faculty.
The constellations of properties which may form a particular linguistic struc-
ture can only be of a certain type and these constraints, we assume, are part of
what is generally known as universal grammar. Linguistic, and in this case pho-
nological research provides us with insights into what these constraints are. Put
crudely, input that is the wrong size, does not run on four wheels of a special type
and goes too fast, cannot enter the railway station. It is only what actually gets into
the station, i.e., what has a permissible shape, that counts when we talk about the
effects of frequency. This is what Jackendoff means when he describes modules as
being ‘structurally constrained’.
In MOGUL then, phonological structures are assembled from phonologically
permissible elements; the more they are formed and reassembled again and again
in real time the stronger they become. In this way and within these constraints,
the strength, and hence availability of linguistic structures for future production
and also interpretation of messages is determined by the frequency and intensity
of use. How this differs from classic connectionism is crucial. It is not the fre-
quency of the external environmental stimuli that dictates the strength of con-
nections in a network or, put another way, the strength or weakness of activation
levels. There could be highly frequent (linguistic) events in the language user’s en-
regard working memory as not being separate from long term memory (for discussion of this
issue see Miyake & Shah 1999).
	 Understanding attrition within a MOGUL framework	 47
vironment that make no impact at all because the language user’s current system
simply makes no sense of them, i.e., for one reason or another, cannot (or cannot
yet) create permissible linguistic representations out of them. This principle is
reflected in the concept of learner readiness, i.e. that only once certain pieces of
the language system have been formed, can a given structure be processed and
acquired even though the evidence for that structure has been loudly knocking
at the door, i.e. has, for some time, been highly frequent in the language that the
learner has been exposed to.
To recapitulate, in acquisition, a structure is created by matching input from
an adjacent system to (some combination of) available structures in the given
module (e.g. auditory-acoustic structure linked up to structures within the pho-
nological system) and this newly created structural association is thereafter es-
tablished, via repeated use, more and more strongly over a period of time in long
term memory.
The same process in reverse counts as attrition. Whether or not something
may be subject to total extinction, a long period of disuse will effectively render
it less well established and therefore less accessible. Less accessible structures
may lose out in the competition to select the best candidate structure in an effort
to produce or interpret utterances. Very inaccessible structures are either ones
that have only recently been created in memory or are ones that have been in
constant use at some point but have now been left unused for a long time. In
both cases, they may never appear in actual visible and audible performance and
their continuing presence in memory may only be established via indirect means,
e.g. priming experiments. Note that in constructing a representation in working
memory for unfamiliar input, the learners may be in possession of the newly cre-
ated structure for a brief moment.
If one allows for the possibility of almost immediate extinction, then acquisi-
tion and attrition at a micro level may be taking place all the time. The only reason
Figure 2.  Two basic factors affecting language development
48	 Mike Sharwood Smith
why this might not be so, with temporary structures that are never recreated (be-
cause the learner analyses the input in a different way on the next encounter), is if
we were to view memory as being, at some minimal level, ‘photographic’ (eidetic).
This would mean, perhaps implausibly, that nothing experienced is ever entirely
forgotten but still may remain at such a low resting level of activation that it is
never used, and simply appears to be forgotten.
From the above, it can be seen that MOGUL accords well with and can draw
support from a range of research findings in the bilingual processing literature.
Compatibility with Paradis’ account has already been mentioned; the same goes,
for example, for claims relating to the parallel activation of all available language
systems in the individual as explained in the Bilingual Interactive Activation
Model (BIA) of Dijkstra and van Heuven as also Grosjean’s language mode, etc.
(Dijkstra & van Heuven 1998; Grosjean 1998, 2001). Note that ‘drawing support
from’ does not necessarily mean espousing the complete theory underlying the
basic findings, however. This would make MOGUL an Incoherent Theory of
Everything. Take the case of the BIA for example. This is a model designed to
explain the operations of the bilingual mental lexicon and research has supported
the basic idea that access is non-selective – both or all languages are always ac-
tivated during language use whether the language user is operating in L1, L2, or
L3 (Dijkstra & van Heuven 1998, 2002). The claim is that there is an integrated
lexicon for words of different languages.
All of this fits very well into MOGUL, except some reinterpretation has to
take place. For a start, there is no single lexicon in the traditional sense but rather
multiple lexicons: the elements that make up the traditional lexicon in this model
are separately housed in respectively the phonological, syntactic and conceptual
memories (see Figs. 1 and 2). This shows both how MOGUL modularises the
language system (following Jackendoff) and also how it is a representational and
not purely connectionist account because the nodes that are linked together to
form a lexical chain have symbolic content: they are phonological, syntactic and
conceptual structures. However, none of this is an embarrassment to the basic
insights and findings that BIA (and BIA+) has yielded and it generally fits in well
with the MOGUL view of attrition (cf. Jacquet & French 2002 for an example of
a connectionist interpretation of acquisition based on the BIA+). What MOGUL
does is to set such mental lexicon research within a wider context enabling us to
draw conclusions for the whole language system. In MOGUL, the ‘lexicons’, taken
together, contain the crucial syntactic, phonological and conceptual properties
that drive the language system as a whole in specific ways. It also elaborates the
implications for language growth, attrition and acquisition.
The idea of an integrated lexicon and Grosjean’s view of independent but
interconnected language networks are not really different points of view, and
	 Understanding attrition within a MOGUL framework	 49
MOGUL also reflects Grosjean’s idea of a language mode. In line with what was
said above, the total deactivation of one language probably never takes place: it
is more a relative concept of more or less activation (or inhibition; Green 1986)
according to given conditions. What a Jackendoff-based architecture provides is
a way of conceptualising how the language operates. Note that the ‘core’ language
faculty in this system consists of the syntactic and phonological systems along
with the processors that link them together and that link them to outside sys-
tems.
One external system (or coalition of systems) is what processes auditory-
acoustic and visual information via the sense organs. The other one is concep-
tual structure which puts much of semantics and pragmatics outside the two core
language modules. The conceptual system is multiply connected: not only is it
interfaced with the core language system but also with everything else that con-
tributes to our mental life. This connectivity may be illustrated by visualising a
chain of structures, each stored in their own representational code but all obey-
ing the basic processing principles of activation and competition. At the heart of
this is something we recognise as the equivalent of a lexical item. This might be
represented as follows (ignoring mediating interface systems and with the core
language modules enclosed in square brackets):
		 Auditory structure ↔ [ Phonological structure ↔ Syntactic Structure] ↔
Conceptual Structure ↔ Episodic structure.
The chain above is in fact a gross simplification because it is only linear. In fact,
episodic memories are linked together directly with conceptual and auditory
structures: the sound of a bell can invoke the memory of an unpleasant or excit-
ing event at school, for example. The chains are in fact networks of connections in
which many other elements may play a role such as visual and affective structures
(supporting mental images and emotions). Take the sound of a school bell, which
is an auditory structure. On hearing it, the episodic memory is activated along
with the associated conceptual structure (meanings of bell) and, also, the linguis-
tic structures associated with bell. If we were at school in France, for example, the
activated network is going to be stronger for any element associated with France
including French phonological and syntactic structures, hence, following the BIA
principle of non-selective access, phonological and syntactic structures associated
with cloche and bell will be activated in the English-French bilingual but cloche
will probably be more strongly activated than its English neighbour.
This elaboration, sketchy as it is, should at least be sufficient to indicate how
MOGUL, using Jackendoff architecture, can use Grosjean’s insights and integrate
them into a much wider psycholinguistic framework. It should also suggest how
50	 Mike Sharwood Smith
more than one language can exist side by side in an integrated system as is also the
case for varieties within a single language (Cook 1991). A spoken French word, a
French-rated episodic memory or a conceptual structure that is uniquely associ-
ated with, say, French culture will trigger a chain or chains of associated structures
that will raise the activation levels of specific structural elements that, notwith-
standing, co-exist side by side in the same set of modules. The precise nature of
such activation scenarios is, of course, the stuff of future research but using frame-
works such as Jackendoff’s gets us further down the line in the right direction.
3.	 Conclusion
A MOGUL perspective permits us to see knowledge in processing terms but, with-
out invalidating the notion of abstract linguistic knowledge, make more explicit
the close relationship that (most of us intuitively accept) exists between acquisi-
tion and attrition. This is helped by the fact that Acquisition by Processing theory
removes the need to postulate a separate Language Acquisition Device. Attrition
research can benefit by reconciling processing explanations with knowledge-rep-
resentational explanations. Common frameworks are needed plus an associated
metalanguage with which to do it. MOGUL is one attempt to provide such a
framework. In its current form, it is certainly not theory-neutral but is sufficiently
flexible to allow different processing and abstract property explanations.
References
Carroll, S. E. (1999). “Putting ‘input’ in its proper place”. Second Language Research, 15, 337–
388.
Carroll, S. E. (2001). Input and Evidence: The raw material of second language acquisition.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chomsky, N. (1995). The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Cook, V. J. (1991). “The poverty-of-the-stimulus argument and multi-competence”. Second
Language Research, 7 (2), 103–117.
Cummins, R. (1983). The Nature of Psychological Explanation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Dijkstra, A. F. J. & van Heuven, W. J. B. (1998). “The BIA-model and bilingual word recognition”.
In J. Grainger & A. M. Jacobs (Eds.), Localist Connectionist Approaches to Human Cognition
(pp. 189–225). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Dijkstra, A. & van Heuven, W. J. B. (2002). “The architecture of bilingual word recognition:
From identification to decision”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 5, 175–198.
Escudero, P. & Sharwood Smith, M. (2001). “Reinventing the native speaker or ‘What you never
wanted to know about the native speaker so never dared to ask’”. In A. Nizegorodcew & S.
Foster-Cohen (Eds.), EuroSLA Yearbook 1 (pp. 275–286). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
	 Understanding attrition within a MOGUL framework	 51
Green, D. W. (1986). “Control, activation and resource: A framework and a model for the
control of speech in bilinguals”. Brain and Language, 27, 210–223.
Gregg, K. (1996). “The logical and developmental problems of second language acquisition”. In
W. C. Ritchie & T. K. Bhatia (Eds.), Handbook of Second Language Acquisition (pp. 49–81).
San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
Grosjean, F. (1998). “Transfer and language mode”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 1
(3), 175–176.
Grosjean, F. (2001). “The bilingual’s language modes”. In J. Nicol (Ed.), One Mind, Two
Languages: Bilingual language processing (pp. 1–22). Oxford: Blackwell.
Jackendoff, R. S. (1987). Consciousness and the Computational Mind. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Jackendoff, R. S. (2002). Foundations of Language. Oxford: OUP.
Jacquet, M. & French, R. M. (2002). “The BIA++: Extending the BIA+ to a dynamical distributed
connectionist framework”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 5 (3), 202–205.
Jusczyk, P. W. (1997). The Discovery of Spoken Language. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Köpke, B. & Schmid, M. S. (2004). “First language attrition: The next phase”. In M. S. Schmid,
B. Köpke, M. Keijzer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language Attrition: Interdisciplinary
perspectives on methodological issues (pp. 1–43). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Marcus, G. F. (2001). The Algebraic Mind: Integrating connectionism and cognitive science.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Miyake, A. & Shah, P. (Eds.) (1999). Models of Working Memory: Mechanisms of active
maintenance and executive control. Cambridge, MA: CUP.
Paradis, M. (2000). “The neurolinguistics of bilingualism in the next decades”. Brain and
Language, 71, 178–180.
Paradis, M. (2001). “An integrated neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism (1976–2000)”. LACUS
Forum, 27, 5–15.
Pinker, S. & Prince, A. (1988). “On language and connectionism: Analysis of a parallel
distributed processing model of language acquisition”. Cognition, 28, 73–193.
Schwartz, B. D. & Sprouse, R. A. (1996). “L2 cognitive states and the Full Transfer/Full Access
model”. Second Language Research, 12, 40–72.
Sharwood Smith, M. (2004). “In two minds about grammar: On the interaction of linguistic
and metalinguistic knowledge in performance”. Transactions of the Philological Society, 102
(3), 255–280.
Sharwood Smith, M. & Van Buren, P. (1991). “First language attrition and the parameter-
setting model”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 17–30).
Cambridge, MA: CUP.
Sharwood Smith, M. & Truscott, J. (2005). “Stages or continua in second language acquisition:
A Mogul solution”. Applied Linguistics, 22 (2), 219–240.
Sharwood Smith, M. & Truscott, J. (2006). “Full Transfer Full Access: A processing-oriented
interpretation”. In S. Unsworth, T. Parodi, A. Sorace & M. Young-Scholten (Eds.), Paths
of Development in L1 and L2 Acquisition: In honor of Bonnie D. Schwartz (pp. 201–216).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Truscott, J. & Sharwood Smith, M. (2004a). “Acquisition by processing: A modular perspective
on language development”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 7 (1), 1–20.
Truscott, J. & Sharwood Smith, M. (2004b). “How APT is your theory: Present status and future
prospects”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 7 (1), 43–47.
Dynamic systems theory, lifespan
development and language attrition
Kees de Bot
Rijksuniversiteit Groningen, The Netherlands
The two basic questions in the field of language attrition are: why do people lose
their language? and how do they lose their language? The former question con-
cerns the factors which cause attrition, the latter the mechanics of the attrition
process. Though the two questions are intimately related and mutually affect
each other, I will draw upon two fields of research which are as yet largely un-
connected to shed light on them. Where the why-question is concerned, I will
argue for a perspective of developmental psychology in which developments
over the whole lifespan are studied. The how-question, on the other hand, is
best addressed within the framework of a dynamic systems perspective which
focuses on the development over time of complex systems such as human cog-
nition and language.
Keywords: Dynamic Systems Theory; chaos and complexity theory; lifespan
perspective
1.	 The why of language attrition: A lifespan developmental
	 psychology perspective
The main aim of lifespan developmental psychology is to study development as a
life-long process. ‘Development’ implies that there may be gains and losses at dif-
ferent ages, so that development is not necessarily unidirectional. What counts as
growth or decline is largely dependent on external and basically inter-subjective
criteria. In their introduction to research methods in lifespan developmental psy-
chology, Baltes, Reese & Nesselroade (1977) define the goal of research from this
perspective as follows: “Life-span developmental psychology is concerned with
finding models that are appropriate for the construction of a theory of ontoge-
netic change over various age changes” (88). Two approaches are distinguished: a
continuity-oriented one in which models that have been developed for a specific
54	 Kees de Bot
period of life are applied to other phases of the lifespan, for example in the ap-
plication of the Piagetian model of early childhood to later ages. In the discon-
tinuous approach, on the other hand, qualitatively different models are applied to
different age ranges, for example in that a reduction of working memory capacity
and peripheral perception are more likely to play a role in language development
among elderly people than among adolescents.
The study of development over the lifespan covers a wide range of topics,
such as cognitive development, perceptual and motor development, social de-
velopment, personality development and developmental psychopathology (see
Magnusson 1996 and Demetriou, Doise & van Lieshout 1998 for overviews). In
the past, investigations of these different areas have been treated as specialized
subfields with few connections, but in the last two decades the awareness of the
interconnectedness of developments on different levels and in different subsys-
tems has grown. Research on brain functions, currently one of the most quickly
expanding fields of investigation, has made it clear that cognitive functions in-
teract with neurological functions, but also with physical changes and changes
in the environment. This implies that not all functions and subsystems develop
in parallel, some support each others’ growth or decline while others are com-
pensatory in nature. In addition, there is evidence that individual developmental
differences are task-dependent. The most important distinction in this respect is
between context-dependent and context-free tasks: “The stability of differences in
cognitive achievements on complex tasks between individuals is surprisingly low
during childhood as well as during adulthood [...]. In contrast, individual differ-
ences for highly aggregated measures of context free abilities (IQ) tend to be very
stable” (Weinert & Perner 1996: 214).
A lifespan perspective on development will allow us to link different age rang-
es and compare the differential impact of different factors in them. It will also help
us to see what changes over the lifespan are gradual and which ones are sudden.
2.	 Language development from a lifespan perspective
In this contribution the focus is on language development over the lifespan.
Although there is some treatment of language in handbooks on lifespan devel-
opmental psychology, the focus is generally narrow, as exemplified by Bernicot
(1998) who discusses well-known stages of first language development, such as
the prelinguistic period, the one-word period, the two-word period, and the sen-
tence period. There are short sections on second language development in child-
hood and on communication and language in the elderly, but the overall claim is
that “Communication and language during adulthood and old age have not yet
	 Dynamic systems and attrition	 55
been studied in a systematic way” (162). This may be true for the French-speaking
part of the world the author seems to focus on (though Luce Irigaray published
her ‘Le Langage des Déments’ in 1973), but it is certainly not true for other parts
of Western Europe and North-America. Klein’s (1996) contribution is less narrow
in scope, focusing on the comparison between first language development in chil-
dren and second language development in adults, in particular among migrants
in Europe, but he pays no attention to the large body of research on language in
the elderly. His treatment of ‘the age-factor’ in second language acquisition re-
search is limited to the so-called ‘critical period’ (see Köpke, this volume; Pallier,
this volume; see also Birdsong 2005 for a recent in-depth overview). This text is
representative for most of the language development literature in that the ‘age’
factor is limited to the time span between birth and puberty.
The same picture emerges in handbooks on language development where the
focus is usually on the early stages. There are good reasons for this: the founda-
tions of language develop in those early years. There seems to be an inverse rela-
tion between the increase in age of children and the number of studies devoted to
language development at that age. After the development of oral skills has stabi-
lized, scientific interest seems to shift to the development of reading and writing
skills and developmental disorders such as dyslexia. There are hardly any investi-
gations on language development in the age range from 18 till 55. As far as there is
research on language in different age groups, such as age grading in sociolinguis-
tics and the development of ethnolects and youth languages in adolescents, this
does not usually extend to a systematic investigation of how language develops in
that large age range and what factors play a role. On the contrary, approaches such
as the apparent time method in sociolinguistics proceed from the basic assump-
tion that the linguistic system, once acquired, is stable in the individual.
Where lifespan developmental psychology is concerned, the field has been
influenced by academic heavyweights such as Paul Baltes and K. Warner Schaie.
Over the years they have advocated the inclusion of the third age in the study
of development, and in some institutions lifespan development has become syn-
onymous with old age. As the elderly are becoming a more and more important
sociodemographic group in the Western world, research of cognitive, emotional
and physical aging has increased significantly over the last decade and many spe-
cialized subfields with their own journals and congresses have emerged. Recently,
Baltes (2003) has called attention to a further subdivision of the field that looks at
‘the fourth age’, the old-old group of 80 to 100 years old, a group that is growing
rapidly in many parts of the Western world.
56	 Kees de Bot
3.	 Language in the elderly
There now is a large body of research on language and aging, and some of that
research has merged with research on language attrition. Language attrition re-
search has typically focused on the decline of language skills in healthy individ-
uals over time, and in various typologies of attrition research, language in the
elderly has been presented as first language attrition in a first language environ-
ment. This assumes that language in the elderly and the changes that take place
are not caused by any disease. Obviously this all has to do with how we define
aging: Age as such is merely an index variable without explenatory power. In their
discussion of language and aging, de Bot & Makoni (2005) argue that aging in-
volves changes at three different levels that interact: physical changes, cognitive
changes and social changes. Linguistic decline may have its basis in biological
changes, but the interaction between psychological and social changes will affect
the rate of decline. Biological or neuropsychological changes lead to a reduction
of resource capacity, in particular with respect to working memory, which then
leads to changes in behavior. This may or may not be decline, objectively. What
is important is that these changes are generally interpreted as decline, and this
interpretation leads to changes in behavior. The elderly person is confronted with
a style of interaction that is less demanding, less complex, easier to understand,
and more easy to engage in.
There is also social pressure on the elderly person to accommodate in this re-
spect, even when the perception of cognitive decline is totally wrong. Here social
stereotypes with respect to elderly people come in which tend to be very strong
and persistent (Kemper & Harden 1999). Elderly people are forced into a type of
linguistic behavior which robs them of opportunities to use the language in all its
complexity. Given the skills character of language, non-use of a part of the sets
or registers, words and constructions may lead to a decline in the use of these
skills (see Paradis, this volume). If that happens, a catastrophic downward spiral
sets in: changes in behavior are interpreted as decline and these lead to simplified
language use. The lack of exercise of more advanced linguistic skills that results
from this simplified language use leads to a decline of these skills, and accordingly
the language used becomes less elaborate and complex, suggesting a decline in
cognitive abilities, which will lead to further adaptations and simplifications in
linguistic input and a reduction of the quality of the interaction (Ryan, Kennaley,
Pratt & Shumovich 2000).
There are strong indications that the core of the problem in language decline
is in the functioning of the working memory component. Different types of buff-
ers and short term storage systems are needed for language production and per-
ception, and the decline of the capacity of these systems may be very detrimental
	 Dynamic systems and attrition	 57
for language skills (Radvansky 1999; Brebion 2003). But working memory is more
than just a storage system, it is also the workbench where information is prepared
for the next processing step, and the tool used with the workbench is language.
So memory and language interact in an interesting way: better language skills
enhance memory performance, and a decline in working memory capacity can be
compensated by high levels of linguistic skills (Miyake & Friedman 1998).
Given global demographic changes, the interest in development in aging is
understandable, but there is a risk of a similarly narrow focus as in the study of
child language: studying one age group without looking at relevant mechanisms
that are at work over the lifespan but may have different impacts in different age
ranges. The three types of changes affecting language in the elderly – physical,
social and cognitive – can be observed across the lifespan. In different age ranges
one type of change may be more prevalent, e.g. in young adulthood, when deci-
sions relating to career choices, partnership and family life are generally the most
significant events, changes may be primarily social. In early childhood and in the
fourth age mentioned above, changes may be mostly physical, but they always
interact with changes on the other levels. In that sense the position taken here is
oriented towards continuity rather than discontinuity.
4.	 Major life events and language attrition
It should be obvious from the discussion of lifespan developmental psychology
that this perspective is highly relevant for the study of language attrition, and
that language attrition research should be a component of the study of language
development over the lifespan. In lifespan developmental psychology, the concept
of ‘Major Life Events’ has been propagated (Baltes et al. 1977; Braet & Verhofstadt-
Denève 1998). This concept refers to events that have a significant impact on the
course of life, and includes events like going to school, getting a job, getting mar-
ried, and migration; but also accidents, bereavement, losing one’s job and so on.
What makes an event a major life event is highly dependent on individual settings
and characteristics: getting divorced may be the worst possible nightmare for one
individual and have a very negative effect on the course of that person’s life, and
the best thing that could have happened for someone else.
For the study of language development (and thus for the study of language at-
trition) specific language-related major life events may be relevant. Such language-
related events may be insignificant on the larger scale of life, but they may be very
significant for the development of the language system. Going to a bilingual kin-
dergarten, having a pen friend abroad, choosing a school profile which includes
58	 Kees de Bot
foreign languages, study abroad, international school exchanges, migration, may
all be relevant. Again the patterns will be highly individual.
From a language attrition perspective all events that lead to a reduction of the
use of one language can be viewed as major life events. First language attrition
is basically the interaction between a decline of the availability of one language
and the development of another, competing one. Migration to an environment in
which another language is spoken and accordingly a reduction in the amount of
use of and contact with the L1 is the most obvious major life event for L1 attrition.
But other events, such as changes in social networks, and political decisions such
as the discontinuation of minority language teaching, may also be relevant.
To summarize: the argument here is that the study of language attrition
should benefit from developing links with lifespan developmental psychology.
This branch of psychology provides a framework that takes into account changes
that are not limited to certain age groups but may have an impact over the lifespan
and in this way connect different stages in life. A core concept is that of ‘major
life events’, events that appear to have an invasive effect on the course of life of
individuals. Different types of language attrition are typically linked to major life
events such as migration or language-related social changes. Both the theories
and the research tools and techniques that have been developed in the lifespan
tradition may prove to be useful for the study of language attrition.
5.	 The how of language attrition: A Dynamic Systems Theory approach
Dynamic Systems Theory (DST) is a relatively recent approach to the study of de-
velopment in complex systems. A dynamic system can be defined as: “a set of vari-
ables that mutually affect each other’s changes over time” (van Geert 1994: 50).
The main components are therefore sets of variables on the one hand and change
over time on the other. Some researchers have made the link between lifespan de-
velopmental psychology and DST, e.g. Demetriou (1998), who refers to the work
by van Geert and others who have developed some of Piaget’s theories further
into a dynamic approach. In recent years approaches to language and language
development based on Dynamic Systems Theory (DST) have also emerged. A
detailed discussion of DST is beyond the scope of the present contribution, and
there are a number of publications that provide more detailed accounts of lan-
guage as a dynamic system (van Geert 1994, 1998; Larsen-Freeman 1997; Herdina
& Jessner 2002; de Bot, Lowie & Verspoor 2005, 2007).
The difference from more static approaches to development is that in DST, the
variables affecting development are studied in their interaction over time. The ar-
gument is that different variables (in the case of language these might be motiva-
	 Dynamic systems and attrition	 59
tion to learn a language, success in learning a language, contact with a language)
do not have a fixed effect, but that they interact and that this interaction itself
changes over time: not only do motivation and success interact, but this interac-
tion itself is subject to change. The main characteristics of a dynamic systems
based approach are the following:
Sensitive dependence on initial conditions: in some systems, small differences in
initial conditions may have a big impact in the long run, while in other systems
large differences in initial conditions have hardly any effect over time and level
out. We have to keep in mind that most systems have no real beginning and that
we are only looking at particular windows in time. The best-known example of
a dynamic system is the weather system. It is impossible to locate one point of
origin for the development of this system, as it has been evolving as long as our
planet has existed.
For language development this means that small differences between learn-
ers may have a large impact on the outcome of the learning process and that the
same treatment (educational approach) does not necessarily lead to convergence.
The same may be true in language attrition: small differences at the beginning of
the attrition period may lead to big differences over time. Clyne’s work on Dutch
and German migrants in Australia shows numerous examples indicating such a
process: some individuals appear to be losing their first language very quickly,
while other individuals that seem to start from the same position maintain it over
decades with little observable change.
Complete interconnectedness: dynamic systems are typically nested: large sys-
tems consist of subsystems and these in turn consist of sub-subsystems and so
on. Where language is concerned, different subsystems of the cognitive system
such as memory, attention and perception play a role, and in the learning process
these and several other subsystems, such as motivation and language aptitude,
contribute. All of these subsystems are interconnected, which means that change
in one subsystem leads to changes in all others. With respect to language attrition
this means that we cannot study factors in isolation, we need to look at how the
interaction with other factors plays a role. This assumption is corroborated by
findings which indicate that ‘time since emigration’ is only a relevant factor when
the interaction with ‘amount of contact with the L1’ is taken into account (de Bot,
Gommans & Rossing 1991; Soesman 1997).
Non-linearity in development: the relation between cause and effect in a devel-
oping system may be disproportionate in the sense that some small change in
the system may lead to large effects while another change of similar size may be
absorbed. Also, a large change may have hardly any effect on the system, while
60	 Kees de Bot
a much smaller change may lead to major perturbations. For language attrition
there may be a disproportionate relation between time of non-use and decline in
the system. Such an effect is observable in the findings from Meara’s (2004) study
of lexical attrition (for a more detailed discussion see below).
Change and development through internal reorganization and interaction with the
environment: the classic example of self-reorganization is a pile of sand (Goles,
Morvan & Duong Phan 2002): when grains of sand fall on a flat surface they will
build a pile. As grains continue to fall, the pile of sand will change shape and settle
for a while and then change again. It will reorganize itself constantly, based on the
internal forces in the system. The particular way in which the system reorganizes
itself cannot be predicted because the total of forces and variables cannot be cal-
culated. Systems move from one stable state (attractor state) to the next. Attractor
states are states the system prefers to settle in. A well-known example of attractor
states are different ways in which horses run: they either gallop or trot, but there
is no intermediate state. Language is also a self-reorganizing system with attractor
states: input will affect the system, which will sometimes simply adopt a new ele-
ment without internal reorganization, and sometimes adapt itself to the new in-
put; but there may also be internal forces that lead to reorganization. Accordingly,
language attrition is not just the loss of single elements or patterns: when elements
are lost, the system may reorganize itself to find a new attractor state.
Systems are constantly changing and only temporarily settle in so-called ‘attractor
states’: the example of the pile of sand also serves to illustrate that systems are con-
stantly changing as long as there are forces working on or in them. Even within
a pile of sand there are forces at work: gravity will pull grains down, humidity
changes and changes in temperature will lead to changes in adhesion between
grains, the surface the pile is on will never be absolutely motionless, and so on.
Due to these forces the system will change, but not continually: layers of sand will
move and then settle for some time. When the system will change and what the
next attractor state will be cannot be predicted, as it is the result of all the forces
interacting over time. In language learning fossilization and stages of develop-
ment can be seen as attractor states, and though there is hardly any research on
this, it is likely that there will be similar stages in decline. Complete acquisition
of a pattern or a word can also be an attractor state. As research on attrition has
shown, complete mastery is not really an end-state: patterns that have been ac-
quired completely can also be subject to loss or change (Schmitt & Meara 1997).
Dependency on internal and external resources: the forces at work in a pile of
sand could be seen as resources for change, but in human learning other types
of resources play a role. Internal resources include motivation to learn, previ-
	 Dynamic systems and attrition	 61
ous knowledge and aptitude. External resources include opportunities to learn,
time invested by the environment, availability of tools for learning and material
conditions (food, shelter) that make learning possible. The carrying capacity of
a system is the sum of the resources that can be used for optimal development
and performance. The carrying capacity of a highly motivated, talented and well
educated learner in optimal learning conditions is markedly larger than that of
a poorly motivated, untalented learner with little time and opportunity to learn.
This all has to do with allocation of resources. Some minimal amount of resources
is also needed to keep a system going and to maintain elements within it. For
language attrition this means that at least some resources (time, contact) must be
spent on a language in order to maintain it, though we simply do not know how
much time and contact, and what type of contact, is needed for maintenance (see
also Schmid, this volume). Complete non-use eventually means decline: the car-
rying capacity of the system is so low that the system cannot be maintained in its
optimal form.
Systems may show chaotic variation over time: over time a dynamic system will
move from one attractor state to the next, but what the next attractor state will be
is unpredictable. Because of the complex interaction of variables, the same system
with almost identical initial conditions may show different attractor states. The
term ‘chaos’ has been brought to bear upon this unpredictability, but the meaning
of ‘chaos’ as a technical term only partly overlaps with the everyday usage. The
bedroom of a 14-year-old may be chaos from the parents’ perspective but it is not
really unpredictable: chaos is in fact the normal state in that setting. For language
learning, on the other hand, chaos is not the most likely state: the developmental
tract in L1 and L2 acquisition shows considerable inter-individual consistency,
variability between individual learners notwithstanding. This partial uniformity
in development may reflect either system-internal constraints on development
(which is basically what proponents of the role of universal grammar argue) or a
constraining effect of the language input. Smith, Kirby & Brighton (2003) argue
that the poverty of input a child receives in language development is in itself the
most important force shaping language: language is the way it is because it can be
acquired on the basis of a restricted amount of input.
Development is conceived of as an iterative process: this means that the present
level of development depends critically on the previous level of development.
Language evolves gradually and every use of the language is an iterative step in its
development. Similarly language attrition proceeds in steps in which the present
state of the system is crucial for the next phase.
62	 Kees de Bot
The main point is that language can be seen as a dynamic system and that lan-
guage development is a dynamic process in which the language system may grow
or decline depending on resources and interactions between input and internal
forces. There is no fundamental difference between the processes of growth and
decline, they are both governed by the same principles. All language users are
constantly going through phases of growth and decline, as their first and foreign
language systems are constantly changing, depending on internal reorganization
and input from the environment.
Another somewhat problematic characteristic of a DST approach to language
development, and particularly to language attrition, is that language development
cannot really be explained: the factors playing a role in development may all be
known, but how their interaction will change in the course of development can-
not be predicted and may in that sense be chaotic. A system develops in a certain
way because that is how this system develops. On the one hand this is not a very
satisfactory situation since research has traditionally been about hypothesis gen-
eration and hypothesis testing. The full interconnectedness of systems means that
isolating single variables as explanatory may be unproductive because the impact
of that variable on all the other variables is not taken into account. For the mo-
ment it seems wise to accept that we cannot explain development and to focus on
adequate descriptions of developmental processes.
In investigations which use DST as their starting point, simulations have been
used to develop models in which complexity can be implemented up to a certain
point and therefore allow the exploration of developmental paths. As in simula-
tions many more variables can be included, this approach allows for more com-
plete models than we can ever test in humans. But simulations can never be the
final answer. We need to link simulations with empirical data even though that
may not always be easy or even feasible in interconnected systems. In the last sec-
tion of this contribution an example of the application of a simulation is presented
that shows some of the potential and some of the problems of the use of DST and
simulations in attrition research.
6.	 An example of research on dynamic systems and attrition:
	 Meara (2004)
Meara (2004) is one of the first studies on attrition in lexical networks. He argues
that research on language attrition has failed to recognize that the lexicon is not
a set of single items, but a network of interrelated elements. Attrition in his view
is not the reduction of access to lexical items, but a complete reorganization of
a network. Since it is rather difficult to show this in human beings, and because
	 Dynamic systems and attrition	 63
the human cognitive system, even the part we call the mental lexicon, is far too
large and complex to approximate through the simulations of networks even the
most advanced computers can do, he developed fairly simple networks and in-
vestigated how they behave when elements are lost. He set up networks of 2,500
items, in which each word is connected to two other words, and all elements have
two states of activation, on or off (‘K = 2 random autonomous Boolean network’).
Activation of a particular word depends on the level of activation of the words
it is connected to. So changes in the activation status of one word will lead to
a cascade of activation/deactivation until the network settles in a new attractor
state. By varying the number of words that are deactivated (which are called ‘at-
trition events’ in his approach) the changes in the whole network can be studied.
The iterations with increasing numbers of switched-off words lead to remarkable
differences in attrition patterns. While in some cases there was a clear attrition
effect after a fairly small number of attrition events, in other cases the network
remained stable despite the large number of attrition events.
Meara’s networks are much more rudimentary than a real lexicon. There is
considerable evidence that words are not simply switched on or off but show de-
grees of activation, which are reflected in latencies in reaction time experiments
(Hakuta & d’Andrea 1992; Hulsen, de Bot & Weltens 2002). Investigations using
the savings paradigm, which tests residual knowledge through relearning, have
shown that word knowledge can be retained at a very low level (de Bot & Stoessel
2000). Therefore, a more realistic model would be one in which the lexicon con-
sists of elements with varying degrees of levels of activity. A general deactivation
effect of network connections due to lack of use leads to diminished activity for
elements once they have reached a certain critical threshold.
As Meara repeatedly emphasizes, the mechanics of artificial networks can-
not be compared to what happens in a real lexicon. However, some of the find-
ings are suggestive of how a dynamic systems approach may help us to interpret
empirical data in language attrition. Firstly, the simulations show that attrition in
such networks is clearly nonlinear: the effects of steadily increasing numbers of
attrition events lead to very different patterns of attrition (see Fig. 1), with some
iterations leading to stable networks without much attrition and others showing
heavy decline rapidly.
Secondly, the data underline the earlier point of a need for a different ap-
proach to variation: while the average patterns show a gradual decline (Fig. 2),
none of the individual cases show this pattern.
Interestingly, the findings in Meara’s rudimentary attrition network mirror
some of the crucial findings in attrition research. The first is that there is con-
siderable individual variation among individuals in more or less similar attrition
settings. The work on Dutch and German in Australia (Ammerlaan 1997; de Bot
64	 Kees de Bot
Figure 1.  Ten examples of attrition in a network (Meara 2004: 143, his Fig. 1)
	 Dynamic systems and attrition	 65
& Clyne 1994; Waas 1996) has shown that while some individuals already show
considerable attrition after a few years in the L2 environment, others show re-
markable stability of language skills even after more than 25 years. The second is
that there seems to be a part of the language system that, once acquired, is highly
resistant to loss. This finding first emerged in work on the attrition of Spanish
in the USA (Bahrick & Phelps 1987), which led Neisser (1984) to suggest a ‘per-
mastore’ of knowledge that is stable over time despite limited or no contact with
the language. This finding has been supported by a host of literature by various
researchers (Hansen 2001; Hedgcock 1991; Schmid 2002).
7.	 Concluding remarks
In several publications Schmid (2002, 2004) and Köpke & Schmid (2004) have
called for a more theoretical approach to language attrition research. There is
obviously a need for an overarching theory that links findings from attrition re-
search with findings from other fields, such as sociolinguistics, neurolinguistics
and psycholinguistics. There are two main questions; why does language attrition
occur? and how does it occur? In this contribution it is argued that two theoretical
approaches can be combined to further our understanding of language attrition
and to contribute to more solid theory building. Notions from lifespan devel-
opmental psychology and in particular what have been labelled language-related
major life events can help us to explain how changes over the lifespan on different
levels lead to a change in the linguistic setting that may have an impact on lan-
guage development.
Figure 2.  Pooled data abstracted from the ten cases in Figure 1 (Meara 2004: 145, his
Fig. 2)
66	 Kees de Bot
For the how of language attrition, Dynamic Systems Theory may provide use-
ful contributions. Other complex systems have been studied extensively using the
concepts and tools of DST. Though the complexity of language in use is such that
we may never be able to model language as a complex system in all its details,
the formalizations of DST will force us to become much more explicit about how
variables interact and what role they are assumed to play in language develop-
ment. Through the application of this general theory on development, language
attrition will lose some if its splendid isolation and independence, but it may gain
in significance through its contribution to our understanding of the process of
language development.
References
Ammerlaan, T. (1997). “‘Corrosion’ or ‘loss’ of immigrant Dutch in Australia: An experiment
on first language attrition”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies
in maintenance and loss of Dutch as an immigrant language (pp. 69–97). Tilburg: Tilburg
University Press.
Bahrick, H. & Phelps, E. (1987). “Retention of Spanish vocabulary over 8 years”. Journal of
Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 13, 344–349.
Baltes, P. B. (2003). Die Zukunft des Alterns. Berlin: Max Planck Institut.
Baltes, P. B., Reese, H. W., & Nesselroade, J. R. (1977). Life-Span Developmental Psychology:
Introduction to research methods. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Bernicot, J. (1998). “Communication and language development”. In A. Demetriou, W. Doise
& C. F. M. van Lieshout (Eds.), Life-Span Developmental Psychology (pp. 137–178).
Chichester: Wiley.
Birdsong, D. (2005). “Interpreting age effects in second language acquisition”. In J. Kroll & A.
M. B de Groot (Eds.), Handbook of Bilingualism: Psycholinguistic approaches (pp. 109–
127). New York, NY: OUP.
Braet, C. & Verhofstadt-Denève, L. (1998). “Developmental psychopathology”. In A. Demetriou,
W. Doise & C. F. M. van Lieshout (Eds.), Life-Span Developmental Psychology (pp. 447–
500). Chichester: Wiley.
Brebion, G. (2003). “Working memory, language comprehension, and aging: Four experiments
to understand the deficit”. Experimental Aging Research, 29, 269–301.
de Bot, K. & Clyne, M. (1994). “A 16-year longitudinal study of language attrition in Dutch
immigrants in Australia”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 15, 17–
28.
deBot,K.,Gommans,P.&Rossing,C.(1991).“L1-lossinanL2-environment:Dutchimmigrants
in France”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition: Structural and
theoretical perspectives (pp. 31–52). Cambridge: CUP.
de Bot, K., Lowie, W. & Verspoor, M. (2005). Second Language Acquisition: An advanced resource
book. London: Routledge.
de Bot, K., Lowie, W. & Verspoor, M. (2007). “A Dynamic Systems Theory approach to Second
Language Acquisition”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 10, 7–21.
	 Dynamic systems and attrition	 67
de Bot, K. & Makoni, S. (2005). Language and Aging in Multilingual Societies: Dynamic
perspectives. Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
de Bot, K. & Stoessel, S. (2000). “In search of yesterday’s words: Reactivating a long forgotten
language”. Applied Linguistics, 21, 333–253.
Demetriou, A. (1998). “Cognitive development”. In A. Demetriou, W. Doise & C. F. M. van
Lieshout (Eds.), Life-Span Developmental Psychology (pp. 179–270). Chichester: Wiley.
Demetriou, A., Doise, W. & van Lieshout, C. F. M. (Eds.) (1998). Life-Span Developmental
Psychology. Chichester: Wiley.
Goles, E., Morvan, M. & Duong Phan, H. (2002). “Sand piles and order structure of integer
partitions”. Discrete Applied Mathematics, 117, 51–64.
Hakuta, K. & D’Andrea, D. (1992). “Some properties of bilingual maintenance and loss in
Mexican background high-school students”. Applied Linguistics, 13, 72–99.
Hansen, L. (2001). “Language Attrition: The fate of the start”. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics, 21, 60–73.
Hedgcock, J. (1991). “Foreign language retention and attrition: A study of regression models”.
Foreign Language Annals, 24, 43–55.
Herdina, P. & Jessner, U. (2002). A Dynamic Model of Multilingualism: Perspectives of change in
psycholinguistics. Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Hulsen, M., de Bot, K. & Weltens, B. (2002). “Between two worlds: Social networks, language
shift and language processing in three generations of Dutch migrants in New Zealand”.
International Journal of the Sociology of Language, 153, 27–52.
Irigaray, L. (1973). Le langage des déments. The Hague: Mouton.
Kemper, S. & Harden, T. (1999). “Experimentally disentangling what’s beneficial about
elderspeak from what’s not”. Psychology and Aging, 14, 656–670.
Klein, W. (1996). “Language acquisition at different ages”. In D. Magnusson (Ed.), The Lifespan
Development of Individuals: Behavioral, neurobiological and psychosocial perspectives (pp.
244–264). Cambridge: CUP.
Köpke, B. & Schmid, M. S. (2004). “Language attrition: The next phase”. In M. S. Schmid,
B. Köpke, M. Keijzer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language Attrition: Interdisciplinary
perspectives on methodological issues (pp. 1–43). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Larsen-Freeman, D. (1997). “Chaos/complexity science and second language acquisition”.
Applied Linguistics, 18 (2), 141–165.
Magnusson,D.(Ed.)(1996).TheLifespanDevelopmentofIndividuals:Behavioral,neurobiological,
and psychosocial perspectives. Cambridge: CUP.
Meara, P. M. (2004). “Modeling vocabulary loss”. Applied Linguistics, 25 (2), 137–155.
Miyake, A. & Friedman, N. R. (1998). “Individual differences in second language proficiency:
Working memory as language aptitude”. In A. Healy & L. Bourne (Eds.), Foreign Language
Learning: Psycholinguistic experiments on training and retention (pp. 339–364). Mahwah,
NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Neisser, U. (1984). “Interpreting Harry Bahrick’s discovery: What confers immunity against
forgetting?” Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 113, 32–35.
Radvansky, G. A. (1999). “The fan effect: A tale of two effects”. Journal of Experimental
Psychology: General, 128 (2), 198–206.
Ryan, E. B., Kennaley, D. E., Pratt, M. W. & Shumovich, M. A. (2000). “Evaluations by staff,
residents, and community seniors of patronizing speech in the nursing home: Impact of
passive, assertive, or humorous responses”. Psychology and Aging, 15, 272–285.
68	 Kees de Bot
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German Jews
in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S. (2004). “First language attrition: The methodology revised”. International Journal
of Bilingualism, 8 (3), 239–256.
Schmitt, N. & Meara, P. M. (1997). “Researching vocabulary through a word knowledge
framework: Word associations and verbal suffixes”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition,
19, 17–36.
Smith, K., Kirby, S. & Brighton, H. (2003). “Iterated learning: A framework for the emergence
of language”. Artificial Life, 9 (4), 371–386.
Soesman, A. (1997). “An experimental study on native language attrition in Dutch adult
immigrants in Israel”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies in
maintenance and loss of Dutch as an immigrant language (pp. 181–194). Tilburg: Tilburg
University Press.
van Geert, P. L. C. (1994). “Vygotskian dynamics of development”. Human Development, 37
(6), 346–365.
van Geert, P. L. C. (1998). “A dynamic systems model of basic developmental mechanisms:
Piaget, Vygotsky and beyond”. Psychological Review 105 (4), 634–677.
Waas, M. (1996). Language Attrition Downunder. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Weinert, F. E. & Perner, J. (1996). “Cognitive development”. In D. Magnusson (Ed.), The Lifespan
Development of Individuals: Behavioral, neurobiological, and psychosocial perspectives (pp.
207–222). Cambridge: CUP.
The grammatical profile of L1 speakers
on the stairs of potential language shift
Carol Myers-Scotton
Michigan State University, USA
This chapter tests the hypothesis that a shift from an L1 to a community-domi-
nant language as speakers’ main public language is abrupt, not gradual (i.e.,
from one grammatical system to another, without implying L1 grammatical
attrition). When the situation biased urban Xhosa-English bilinguals in South
Africa to speak only Xhosa, many speakers showed Xhosa-English codeswitch-
ing (English content words in Xhosa grammatical frames).  Such codeswitching
does not necessarily predict a shift.  Rather, in such a situation the frequency of
L2 monolingual clauses (English here) does point to a shift and its abruptness.
A cluster analysis divided the sample (N = 48) into three groups based on use of
English elements; the ‘front runners’ group showed numerous English clauses.
Keywords: language shift; codeswitching; South Africa; Xhosa
Introduction
All over sub-Saharan Africa, local languages are often in contact with a communi-
ty-dominant, international language that is often either the sole official language
or a co-official language (i.e., English, French, or Portuguese, depending on the
nation). If that international language is the main language used in government
and business – no matter which languages are designated as official – it inevitably
captures prestige as the language necessary to speak for socio-economic advance-
ment, no matter how attached many ethnic groups are to their L1 for the solidar-
ity capital it offers. The emerging picture is that those Africans who want to be
on the stairs of upward mobility become bilinguals if that option is open to them
through advanced education or other means. They retain their L1 for some in-
group interactions, but speak the invading non-local language in more and more
situations. Will they lose their L1? For psychological and sociological reasons,
that seems unlikely to happen soon if at all, but that discussion is beyond the
70	 Carol Myers-Scotton
scope of this study. The question studied here is, even if they retain their L1, are
these bilinguals in the progress of shifting to the international language in their
community as their preferred public language? Quite possibly, many of these bi-
linguals have already made this shift.
This paper examines the grammatical steps in how such a shift may happen,
reporting on a study of mainly young adult Xhosa-English bilinguals in South
Africa. In the corpus studied, their speech includes three types of clauses: mono-
lingual clauses in Xhosa, clauses showing Xhosa-English codeswitching, and
monolingual clauses in English. The paper tests a set of hypotheses that include
two main propositions:
1.	 Within a group of bilinguals whose psycho-sociolinguistic profiles seem to
make them vulnerable to shift, differences in their use of the target language
of shift divides them into distinguishable groupings; that is, not everyone is
on the same “bilingual step”. Thus, in the case of the Xhosa-English bilinguals,
the prediction is that in an interaction potentially including both English and
Xhosa, their use of English can distinguish one sub-group from another.
2.	 When shift happens, it is abrupt from the grammatical point of view. That is,
speakers shift from one grammatical system to another without going through
a phase of incorporating grammatical elements from one language into the
other. In the case of Xhosa-English bilinguals, even those speakers who show
the greatest use of English, who may be on the brink of shifting to English
as their main language, do not use critical grammatical morphemes from
English when they are producing Xhosa-framed phrases or clauses. Critical
grammatical morphemes are those inflections and functional elements that
are defined as the two types of “late” system morpheme under the 4-M model
(cf. Myers-Scotton & Jake 2001; Myers-Scotton 2002). They serve either (a)
to join together elements within a phrase in order to meet a language’s well-
formedness conditions for that phrase (e.g. English of in ‘book of Laurie’), or
(b) to indicate grammatical relationships between phrases (e.g. subject-verb
agreement affixes or clitics, as well as case markers). Under the 4-M model,
the hypothesis is that, in language production, these morphemes are structur-
ally-assigned; that is, they only become salient at the level of the formulator
when the larger constituents are assembled. Thus, their production is later
than that of the other two types of morpheme in the 4-M model that mainly
convey content (cf. Myers-Scotton 2005). These other types are assumed to be
salient at the level of the mental lexicon. These are content morphemes (e.g.
nouns and verbs) and “early” system morphemes (e.g. determiners and other
morphemes that add meaning to their content morpheme heads and depend
on these content morphemes for information about their form).
	 Grammatical stairs in language shift	 71
This second proposition is motivated by existing studies of adult bilingual speak-
ers whose main language is no longer their L1. In general, contrary to the view
that ‘loss’ and ‘simplification’ mark all aspects of a speaker’s L1 when another lan-
guage becomes his/her main language, empirical evidence supports the predic-
tion that critical grammatical morphemes are maintained intact in a speaker’s L1
at a high frequency. However, unfortunately, most attrition studies that consider
morphology group together their results under one rubric, “morphology”. Still, a
number of studies give results specifically for one type of critical morpheme, the
morpheme marking case, and those results are instructive. For example, Hlavac
(2003) studied young adults who are second generation Croatians raised in Aus-
tralia; English had become their main language, but they still speak Croatian fre-
quently with in-group members, especially older relatives. Or, Gross (2000) stud-
ied German L1 speaking adults who had lived in the United States for about forty
years and who speak German only infrequently. In both studies, the researchers
found that affixes marking case were retained at a high rate. Hlavac found that 91
per cent of all Croatian NPs (8,444/9,318) receive target-like case assignments for
the five Croatian cases. Still, this percentage includes ‘zero’ as an accurate assign-
ment for masculine singular nominatives and masculine accusative inanimates;
zero is the realization expected in standard, monolingual Croatian. Yet, if these
forms are not considered, then 75 per cent of overt case marking is still target-like.
Gross found that in his German data, pre-nominal adjectives, which require case
marking, had non-target realizations in only 9.3 per cent of the cases. German
determiners were inaccurate in only 2.5 per cent of their occurrences (54/1,917).
It is important to note that these numbers for grammatical morphemes contrast
sharply with results for content morphemes (e.g. nouns and verbs, etc.). For these,
29.7 per cent shows some modification from their meanings in the home variety
of the German dialect studied.
Other studies of L1 attrition among adults include the well-known study of
East Sutherland Gaelic speakers in Scotland who were bilingual in English, but
either also remained fluent speakers of their L1 at the time they were studied,
or were labeled as semi-speakers (Dorian 1981, inter alia). Also, de Bot & Clyne
(1994) report on a longitudinal study of Dutch migrants to Australia. A more re-
cent study by Schmid (2002, 2004) considered pre-World War II Jewish migrants
from Germany 60 years after their migration to Anglophone countries.
All of these studies showed a good deal of retention of grammatical mor-
phemes, especially case, although results varied across groups of speakers and the
details given. For example, although Dorian found the case system in East South-
ern Gaelic was weakening, the nominative-dative distinction was strongly main-
tained in older fluent speakers (98 per cent in two villages, 77 per cent in another).
It was even 56 per cent by semi-speakers in two villages and 32 per cent in another
72	 Carol Myers-Scotton
village (Dorian 1981: 147 cited in Myers-Scotton 2002: 215–216). Schmid’s find-
ings are reported in different terms, but in discussing so-called mistakes in case
assignment in her sample, she states that results “... would point to the conclusion
that there is no overall reduction of the case system where the dative is lost first
and a binary system emerges, as the regression hypothesis predicts ...” (Schmid
2002: 95). And in her 2004 article, Schmid comments on the differences between
the emigration groups, stating “Where morphology is concerned, the repertoire
of emigra1 [one group] seems not to have been affected a great deal ...” (p. 251)
although she goes on to imply that the case system for the other two emigration
groups showed some reduction.
1.	 Language choice among Xhosa-English bilinguals
The present study reports on interview data from 48 Xhosa-English bilinguals
who are in-migrants to the Gauteng Province, the main industrial area of South
Africa; Pretoria, the national capital, and Johannesburg are located there. Most of
the interviews took place in Pretoria or Soweto or its environs. The speakers all
originally lived in the Eastern Cape Province, an area that is dominated by Xhosa-
L1 speakers. The speakers studied all have been living in Gauteng Province for at
least two years; their average age is 25. The motivation for selecting such speakers
to study is that, as in-migrants living far from their home area, they are vulnerable
to shift from their L1 for many interactions. English is the main lingua franca in
Gauteng Province, and in most other parts of South Africa. However, Afrikaans is
also regularly used in Gauteng, especially in Pretoria. (Interestingly enough, the
speakers, as a group, used very few Afrikaans words.)
Informal interviews were the source of data in which the bias was for the
interviewee to speak mainly or entirely in Xhosa. Speakers were asked open-end-
ed questions calling for their opinions about current issues that are relevant to
their lives. A 33-year-old woman living in Pretoria was the main interviewer. The
interviewers were L1 Xhosa-English bilinguals and introduced the interview by
speaking Xhosa and then spoke largely Xhosa, with only a few switches to English
for words or short phrases. Thus, the matter of language choice was left up to the
participants, but Xhosa was the obvious unmarked choice. Still, all speakers used
some English and a number used a good deal of English. The degree of a speakers’
proficiency in English was not tested formally; speaker selection was based on the
interviewer’s assessment of the speaker’s degree of bilingualism and the speaker’s
own self-reports on their daily language use. The interviewers themselves used
both Xhosa and English in their everyday lives; also, they held jobs that required
English use and they had advanced degrees that required study in English.
	 Grammatical stairs in language shift	 73
To give some idea of what the interview data look like, short extracts from
three interviews are reproduced here. English in the examples is in bold and
translations are in italics. Example (1) comes from Nw, a young woman in her
early thirties, who has her own business, but is also attending a technical college.
Here is her response to a question about social services in South Africa:
	 (1)	 I see South Africa as a charity work
		 ‘I see South Africa as a charity work.’
		 they are giving so much to people who are actually
		 aba-na-khathali-yo			 u-ku-bon-e
		 they-neg-care about-rel 	 you-inf-see-subjunctive
		 ‘they are giving so much to people who are actually – people who do not care
about you see–’
		 eziny’izinto			 a-zi-kho	
necessary	 ja 	 South Africa should give
		 other-c.10-thing 	 neg-it-exist			 yes
		 ku-bantu
		 to-people
		 ‘Some other things are not necessary – yes – South Africa should give to
people’
		 aba-need-a-yo
		 they-need-indic-rel
		 ‘who are needy’
		 but 	eziny’izi-nto		 a-ba-zi-deserv-i
			 other c.10-thing 	
neg-they-c.10.obj-deserve-neg
		 ‘but they do not deserve other things’.
Example (2) comes from a male in his thirties who has a graduate degree (MA)
and works in the government. He is comparing living in the city with living in his
home area.
	 (2)	 eh- 	kwi- big cities	 i-challenge		 e ma-ndi-qal-e			 ndi-thi
			 loc-			 cl.9-			 let-1s-start-subjunct	 1s-say-
		 ku-qal-a
		 inf-start-indic
		 ‘In the big cities the challenge – eh- let me start – I say to start’
		 yi-ku-mnandi	 apha	 e	 because		 u-fuman-a		 i-experience
		 it-is-nice		 here					 2s-get-indic	 c.9
		 ‘It is nice here eh because you get experience’
		 yo-m-sebenzi		 o-nge-na		 wu-yi-fuman-a	 xa	
		 assoc-cl.3-work	 rel-neg-with 	 2s-it-get-indic	 when
		
74	 Carol Myers-Scotton
		 u-kwi-homeland
		 2s-loc
	 	 ‘Of work which you do not get when you are in [the] homeland.’
Example (3) comes from S, a young woman in her twenties who lived in Cape-
town at one time, but now lives in Gauteng Province.
	 (3)	 Aph’-e-Rhawutini	 i-life	 it’s easy
		 here-loc-Gauteng	 c9-life	 it’s easy
		 ‘Here in Gauteng, life is easy’
		 all you need		 i-mali. It’s money makes the world go round and
						 c.9-money
		 e-Koloni	 i-mali
		 loc-Cape	 c.9-money
		 ‘All you need [is] money. It’s money makes the world go round and in Capetown
money
		 i-nqabile	 and		 into ezi-ninzi		 zi-nqabile		 and	
		 c.9-difficult			 thing c.10-many		 c.10-difficult 	 and
		 ku-ya-sokol-w-a.
		 loc-pres struggle-pass-indic
		 was difficult and many things were difficult and were struggled...’
2.	 Theoretical framework
The study was based on three theoretical premises that refer to the nature of
incursions of a sociolinguistically dominant language into the speech of an L1
speaker of a language with less socio-economic prestige in the community. First,
a premise is that in a milieu where a language other than the speaker’s L1 is so-
ciolinguistically dominant, speakers of any one L1 who have access to proficiency
in the dominant language will show indications of shift to that language, at least
for their public interactions. Second, progression to language shift is predicted to
consist of separable grammatical steps that are identified by the relative use of ele-
ments from the community-dominant language (English in this case); a speaker’s
position in terms of these steps is a predictor of that speaker’s likely shift to the L2
as his or her main public language. Third, the notion that there are steps implies
that shift is not gradual, but abrupt, in regard to the grammars of languages but
is shift from one grammatical system to another.
.	 The assumption in the sociolinguistic literature seems to be that language shift is gradual in
regard to changes from one domain to another; the evidence about the grammatical nature of
	 Grammatical stairs in language shift	 75
General hypotheses were stated in the introduction. Here they are made more
specific.
The Identifiable Group Hypothesis. Use and frequency of different types of
English elements divides 48 Xhosa-English bilinguals into discrete groups (i.e.
groups do not overlap in terms of their use of English). A sub-hypothesis is that
frequency of use of monolingual English clauses is the feature that most differen-
tiates groups. This leads to the prediction that speakers on the brink of shift will
use a high percentage of English-based clauses. This study does not document
the actual shift; it only predicts shifters show a high-percentage of English-based
clauses relative to Xhosa-framed clauses. (A clausal frame is abstract, but with
surface consequences. To say that a clause has a specific language frame means
that its surface structure shows whatever range of morpho-syntactic patterns are
well-formed in the framing language. In this data set, there are three types of
clause: monolingual Xhosa-framed clauses, monolingual English-framed claus-
es, and Xhosa-framed clauses that include English content morphemes that typi-
cally receive Xhosa affixes, i.e., codeswitching).
The Implicational Scale Hypothesis. Evidence will point toward an implica-
tional scale such that there is a positive relation between the use of various Eng-
lish elements. For example, a speaker who uses many English-based clauses and
English phrases will also use many singly-occurring English content morphemes
(nouns and verbs) with Xhosa affixes.
The Abruptness Hypothesis. Critical grammatical morphemes from the target
language for shift (the L2) will not appear in the L1. Critical morphemes (see
above) include two types. One type is the “bridge” late system morpheme; such
morphemes serve to make certain language-specific structures well-formed. In
English, these include the morpheme of that appears in associative constructions
in English (e.g. ‘cover of the book’) and also expletive it which appears in weather
constructions in English (e.g. ‘it’s raining’). Certain elements in Comp positions
in some languages also seem to be bridge system morphemes; for example that
in English seems to be a bridge; its designation needs more study in this corpus
shift that is reported here calls into question whether shift from any point of view is ever really
gradual.
.	 It is not quite true to say these clauses are monolingual in English. There are occasional
instances of Xhosa prefixes for noun class nine (e.g. i-budget) that appear on English nouns
in clauses that are otherwise entirely in English. The same class nine prefixes also more typi-
cally appear on English nouns when they are in Xhosa-framed clauses. Why these prefixes
occur sometimes, but not always, and how they function requires further analysis. They may
be Xhosa ‘identity markers’ to remind the listener – in the midst of all that English – that the
speaker is a Xhosa person, after all.
76	 Carol Myers-Scotton
(cf. Myers-Scotton & Jake 2007). The second type of critical morpheme is the
“outsider” late system morpheme; it is called an outsider because its form de-
pends on information outside the phrase in which it appears. These morphemes
include subject-verb agreement, so they include the English suffix -s, marking
third person singular in the present tense. They also include markers for English
past tense with regular verbs (-ed and the past tense construction did + unmarked
main verb).
The Convergence Hypothesis. Xhosa data will show some convergence to Eng-
lish in regard to at least minor syntactic structures, such as adjunct placement.
The Demographic Hypothesis. The demographic features of age, education,
and gender may correlate with specific patterns of the use of English elements.
3.	 Study results
Testing The Identifiable Group Hypothesis. A two-step Cluster Analysis shows that
the 48 L1 Xhosa speakers form three, discrete groups that do not overlap in their
use of the English elements studied. The groups are most discrete in regard to the
use of English phrases or full clauses. These findings support the premise that
sociolinguistically similar Xhosa-English bilinguals are not all on the same ‘step’
in their use of English. The groups are these: the Slow Starters (58% N = 28/48),
the Middle Pack (25% N = 12/48), and the Front Runners (17% N = 8/48). The
variables studied included these categories: overall total of English words used,
English nouns with Xhosa prefixes, English verbs with Xhosa affixes (prefixes or
suffixes), English adjectives with Xhosa prefixes, English phrases, and English-
framed clauses. Their production of English-framed clauses most graphically dif-
ferentiates the groups. The Slow Starters have a mean of only 3.21 for such clauses;
the Middle Pack has a mean of 25.33, and the Front Runners have a mean of
50.25. Looked at another way, the separations are equally clear: there were 20/48
speakers with ten or more full English clauses, and of these 12 had 29 or more
such clauses; in addition, 22/48 speakers had 11 or more English phrases. They
contrast with 13/48 speakers with no English clauses at all, and 13/48 speakers
who had three or fewer English phrases.
Testing the Implicational Scale Hypothesis. The data did not lend themselves
to setting up an actual implicational scale. However, preliminary analyses of the
data by means of scattergrams appeared to indicate a close relationship between
speakers’ use of English-framed clauses and English phrases in otherwise Xhosa
clauses, as well as between the frequency of use of monolingual English clauses
on the one hand and English nouns or verbs with Xhosa affixes on the other.
A scattergram that locates individual speakers on two axes (two of the English
	 Grammatical stairs in language shift	 77
variables just described) shows that those speakers who use many monolingual
English clauses are also the ones who use more English verbs with Xhosa affixes
(see Fig. 1). Similar relationships were found between the use of English clauses
and English nouns with Xhosa affixes, and between English-framed clauses and
English phrases (not in English clauses). These impressions were tested by means
of a Pearson correlation test, which shows a correlation between frequency of
English phrases and English clauses at .724 (p < .01). The correlation between
English clauses and English elements that are more integrated into Xhosa frames
is less; with English verbs with Xhosa affixes in Xhosa frames it is .463 (p < .01)
and it is .370 (p < .01) with English nouns with Xhosa affixes in Xhosa frames.
Still, the indication from the scattergrams is that the Front Runners, who are de-
fined as members of group three, the speakers who use the most English-framed
clauses, are the speakers who also use the most English verbs with Xhosa affixes.
They are the speakers who are the clear candidates for shift to English, at least as
their main public language.
Testing the Abruptness Hypothesis. This hypothesis is supported in the Xhosa-
English corpus. There are no examples at all of the most critical English gram-
matical morphemes (i.e. outsider system morphemes) in Xhosa-framed phrases.
.	 There are occasional instances of the English plural -s suffix with English nouns when they
appear in codeswitching patterns (Xhosa-framed clauses). However, this element is an early
English
verbs
with
Xhosa
affix
English clauses
Figure 1.  Scatterplot of use of English verbs with Xhosa affix and English clauses per
speaker
78	 Carol Myers-Scotton
Even those speakers who use a great deal of English keep these critical morphemes
of English separate from Xhosa contexts where they presumably could occur. For
example, one speaker used an associative construction with two English NPs, but
a Xhosa associative element (i-rate y-e crime ‘the rate of crime’). This associative
marker is multi-morphemic, because in addition to the marker itself (a “bridge”
under the 4-M model), it includes the noun class agreement for associative con-
structions, which is the agreement affix for class nine, the default class for foreign
words. This agreement prefix is an outsider system morpheme because it must
look for its form for information outside the maximal projection in which it oc-
curs (i.e., it looks to a preceding noun). There are other ample opportunities for
English critical morphemes to spill over into Xhosa because some speakers use a
Xhosa-framed clause next to an English-framed clause in the same conversational
turn (cf. examples (1) through (3) above).
Testing the Demographic Hypothesis. The hypothesis is not supported; there
is no indication that a speaker’s sociolinguistic profile correlates with his or her
use of English elements in the study’s context. That is, Pearson correlations show
no significant relations at all between frequency of any of the English variables
and either gender, age, or education. The only indication that any of these fac-
tors is important within the terms of this study is that a post hoc ANOVA finds
that gender is significant at the .05 level as a factor differentiating the 48 speakers
into three groups. The reason for this reading of significance surely is the fact
that six of the eight speakers in the Front Runners group are women. That the
demographic factors are not predictive of frequency of English elements implies
that other factors, possibly the psychology of what bilingualism means to each
individual, are important. That is, an expectation that the degree of one’s own pos-
sibility of socio-economic mobility may be critical to predicting English use.
Testing the Convergence Hypothesis. This hypothesis is very weakly supported,
but the only support is a small handful of examples. These indicate Xhosa L1
speakers are beginning to use English prepositions in locative constructions so
that, in effect, the English preposition doubles a Xhosa locative marker. Thus,
there are examples such as (4). The English preposition to seems to be functioning
in place of a Xhosa locative form. True, the prefix on town is a locative marker,
but indications are that the form e-town has been lexicalized as a single unit. Note
that the verb (even though it comes from English) receives the derivational suffix
el that typically appears with a locative predicate.
system morpheme under the 4-M model, not one of those morphemes defined here as critical
morphemes (late system morphemes under the 4-M model).
	 Grammatical stairs in language shift	 79
	 (4)	 si-mov-el-e					 to	 e-town.
		 1pl-move-appl-subjunct		 loc-town
		 ‘[that] we should move to town’
Otherwise, there are no indications that the Xhosa sections of this corpus show
any convergence to English. In some ways, this lack of convergence is a surprise,
and it may be that further analysis will uncover some ways in which there is more
subtle convergence. It is likely that these speakers did not learn Xhosa and Eng-
lish at all simultaneously. Given what is known about primary education when
these speakers were in the lower grades (MacDonald 1990), they may not have
had sufficient exposure to English to have learned it in primary school. Many
secondary schools also had poor instruction in English and that state of affairs
still persists in some areas. Thus, many in this sample probably developed any
real fluency in English on the job. That is, the two languages may be separate
phenomena both from the psycholinguistic (age of acquisition) and the sociolin-
guistic standpoint. Given the lack of obvious convergence to English structures,
it is interesting that extensive codeswitching occurs in this corpus. This suggests
that codeswitching is not a “mixing” of languages, as is a popular belief. There
are many examples of clauses that contain morphemes from both English and
Xhosa, but always with Xhosa supplying the grammatical frame; further analysis
of these clauses is planned. An informal examination of the corpus shows that
these speakers display a limited range of the Xhosa lexicon; for example, the word
into ‘thing’ appears over and over, covering a number of different meanings. But
this lack of lexical variety may be a function of the interview context. Still, the
speakers construct complex sentences in Xhosa; for example, embedded clauses
with relative pronouns or complementizers are very frequent. If anything, many
of their English clauses are fairly simple and formulaic, but conclusions are pre-
mature and more analysis is needed.
4.	 Conclusions
This study makes claims and reports on findings about the grammatical nature of
steps that lead to language shift. The findings have potential general theoretical
interest, especially if they stimulate research in other venues to see if the results
reported here can be replicated elsewhere. In this conclusion, only two findings
are highlighted. First, a two-step statistically-based Cluster Analysis shows that
the 48 Xhosa-English bilinguals studied divide into three separate groupings
based on their use of a set of English elements in informal interviews. That is, bi-
linguals who are relatively similar in their sociolinguistic profiles fall on different
80	 Carol Myers-Scotton
‘bilingual steps’ in terms of their use of English. To get a picture of the differences
across speakers, consider these findings: The Front Runners (8/48) have a mini-
mum of 21 and a maximum of 100 English-framed clauses. This contrasts with
the Middle Pack 12/48 which has a range of 1 to 53 English-framed clauses, and
the Slow Starters (28/48) with a range of 0 to 12 English-framed clauses. Produc-
ing full clauses in English in a context favoring Xhosa means that these speakers
are able to move from using only occasional English elements (i.e. English loan
words or codeswitches) in well-formed clauses in only one language (Xhosa) to
producing other clauses in another language (English) as well.
Still, among the Front Runners, who lead the pack in using English, Xhosa
clearly dominates in their speech, at least in this informal interview context. A
comparison shows that while these speakers have many monolingual English
clauses, they have many more that are framed by Xhosa (either monolingual Xhosa
clauses or Xhosa-framed codeswitching clauses). Three of the Front Runners (two
females and one male) have English as the framing language for 30% of their total
clauses. Three others (two females and one male again) show a lower percentage of
English-framed clauses; the percentages range from 12 to 21.
How do we relate these findings about the dominance of Xhosa and the ex-
pectation that these bilinguals ‘ought to’ be shifting to English if they are going to
move up the socio-economic stairs? Some explanations are presented, but explor-
ing them fully is beyond the scope of this paper. First, recall that the interview was
biased for speakers to use Xhosa, not English because the interviewer spoke main-
ly Xhosa and asked questions about the speakers’ views on everyday life. Second,
as already indicated, expectations about L1 attrition of grammatical morphemes
that are often found in the literature are not supported by data from adults; that
is, it seems speakers can maintain an L1 in its full, or near full, form even though
they largely speak a socio-economically prestigious L2 acquired much later than
early childhood. Third, there is a sociological explanation. In the South African
society, that ethnic group membership has instrumental as well as sentimental
value should not be overlooked. In “the new South Africa” (Apartheid rule was
only overthrown in 1995), the major re-apportioning of political and economic
power is still going on. Thus, the prudent citizen ‘knows’ his or her ethnic group
because of the competition between groups for the instrumental assets of not just
political office, but for the asset that matters most to individuals: jobs. Also, even
though these speakers work in cosmopolitan cities where they inevitably must
speak a good deal of English during the work day, they associate largely with eth-
nic brethren and travel to their home areas at times, at least for funerals. Finally, a
cautionary comment is in order: the study only documents the speakers’ language
choices in one context, an informal interview with a fellow Xhosa-English bilin-
gual, who was known to the speakers before the interview, even though he/she
	 Grammatical stairs in language shift	 81
was not a personal friend. It is entirely possible that some of the speakers studied
have already shifted to English as their main truly public language – as the lan-
guage they use all day long in their workplaces. Whatever the case, the goal of this
study was not to determine who had shifted to English and who had not; rather it
was to test hypotheses about the grammatical nature of bilingual language use by
potential shifters and differences in the types of English elements used and their
frequency across speakers.
Another question, of course, is why are sociolinguistically-similar bilinguals
on different steps in their use of a dominant L2, given the presumption that heavy
users are on their way to making the L2 their dominant public language? A cost-
benefit analysis provides one answer. That is, heavy users of the L2 are often per-
sons who perceive that the L2 can offer them more benefits than costs; further,
they are people whose expectations have an objective basis, given the available
evidence (e.g., their education level, their job prospects). In addition, speakers’
personal goals matter, too.
Second, the study supports the abruptness hypothesis that is related to the
predictive importance of producing L2 elements when the L1 is favored. The
sprinkling of many English elements in the speaker’s Xhosa might be taken as
evidence that a gradual, not an abrupt, shift is going on. But looked at from the
grammatical point of view, the evidence supports the hypothesis that any ongoing
shift is abrupt, not gradual. Yes, Xhosa-English bilinguals in this study produce
many clauses that show codeswitching between the two languages. But the point
to notice is that these clauses never contain any critical grammatical morphemes
from English (with the exception of those in embedded English phrases, EL is-
lands). Further, there is no attrition of Xhosa inflectional morphemes. That is,
no matter how many English nouns or verbs or discourse markers speakers em-
ploy, Xhosa continues to supply the critical morphemes of the morpho-syntactic
frames of these numerous clauses. Codeswitching may be a step on the way to
shift, but codeswitching itself does not signal that shift is inevitable. Viewed in
terms of the data studied here, the conclusion is that it is only when speakers shift
from Xhosa-framed clauses to producing many English-framed clauses – clauses
framed by critical morphemes from English – that we can speak of the real onset
of shift to English as the speaker’s primary public language. The data here are only
suggestive of numbers, but a conservative estimate is that if the L2 frames 30% of
clauses in an informal context where either the L1 or L1 framed codeswitching
frequently is used, then shift is on the way, or has already happened.
82	 Carol Myers-Scotton
Acknowledgement
Research was conducted under a National Science Foundation grant BCS-
0424829 to Carol Myers-Scotton as the principal investigator. Support is grate-
fully acknowledged. Thanks go to Laurie Sanders for assisting in data analysis, to
Roumen Vasselinov for statistical analyses, and to Nozibele Nomdebevana, the
primary interviewer.
References
de Bot, K. & Clyne, M. (1994). “A 16 year longitudinal study of language attrition in Dutch
immigrants in Australia”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 15, 17–
28.
Dorian, N. (1981). The Life Cycle of a Scottish Gaelic Dialect. Philadelphia, PA: University of
Pennsylvania Press.
Gross, S. (2000). The Role of Abstract Lexical Structure in First Language Attrition: Germans
in America. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Columbia, SC: University of South
Carolina.
Hlavac, J. (2003). Second Generation Speech, Lexicon, Code-Switching and Morpho-Syntax of
Croatian-English Bilinguals. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
MacDonald, C. A. (1990). Crossing the Threshold into Standard Three: Main report of the
threshold project. Pretoria: Human Resources Research Council.
Myers-Scotton, C. M. (2002). Contact Linguistics: Bilingual encounters and grammatical
outcomes. Oxford: OUP.
Myers-Scotton, C. M. (2005). “Supporting a differential access hypothesis: Code switching and
other contact data”. In J. F. Kroll & A. M. B. de Groot (Eds.), Handbook of Bilingualism:
Psycholinguistic approaches (pp. 236–348). New York, NY: OUP.
Myers-Scotton, C. M. & Jake, J. L. (2001). “Explaining aspects of codeswitching and their
implications”. In J. Nichol (Ed.), One Mind, Two Languages: Bilingual language processing
(pp. 84–116).Oxford: Blackwell.
Myers-Scotton, C. M. & Jake, J. L. (2007). “Uniform structure in code switching, principles and
processes”. In B. Bullock & A. J. Toribio (Eds.), Handbook of Codeswitching. Cambridge:
CUP.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German Jews
in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S. (2004). “First language attrition: The methodology revised”. International Journal
of Bilingualism, 8 (3), 239–255.
First language attrition from
a minimalist perspective
Interface vulnerability and processing effects
Ianthi Maria Tsimpli
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece
The present paper deals with first language attrition under the influence of a
second language. Two sets of data are presented: the first is offline data from
a variety of tasks aiming to address the question of selective vulnerability of
interfaces as opposed to the computational system underlying syntactic compe-
tence. This data is drawn from the study of Tsimpli, Sorace, Heycock and Filiaci
(2004). The second set of data is drawn from a pilot study (Kaltsa 2006), involv-
ing an online grammaticality judgment task testing Case on determiners. This
data is argued to address the possibility of syntactic attrition of a formal feature,
i.e. case, in the domain of syntactic processing alone indicating that perform-
ance rather than competence problems are also involved.
Keywords: selectivity; minimalism; interfaces; interpretability; Greek
Introduction
It has been repeatedly observed that attrition is a phenomenon that selectively af-
fects language, indicating certain areas of linguistic knowledge as more vulnerable
than others. Although L1 attrition studies presuppose the attainment of a mature
state of L1 knowledge, it is important to point out the significance of accounting
for incomplete L1 learners in attrition studies. Incomplete learning is directly as-
sociated with the onset of bilingualism and the onset of attrition (Sorace 2004). In
the present paper, the offline data from Tsimpli, Sorace, Heycock & Filiaci’s (2004)
study comes from L1 speakers of Greek or Italian, born and raised in Greece and
Italy respectively, who acquired English after childhood. These groups of speak-
ers are clearly excluded from the set of incomplete L1 learners since the onset
of L2 learning is after childhood. On the other hand, the online data presented
84	 Ianthi Maria Tsimpli
from Kaltsa’s (2006) study comes from L1 speakers of Greek, born and raised in
Sweden and Germany. L2 acquisition of Swedish or German began in childhood;
thus, these cases involve early bilinguals whose attrition effects in their L1, Greek,
may also involve age-related factors as well as incomplete L1 acquisition from the
point where L2 exposure began.
As far as selective vulnerability of language areas in attrition is concerned,
the lexicon has been the most frequently reported candidate, in terms of lexical
retrieval and access (Isurin 2000; Kohnert, Bates & Hernández 1999; Köpke 2002,
Olshtain & Barzilay 1991, a.o.). Pragmatic transfer of L2 concepts to L1 has also
been documented (Pavlenko 2000), as well as self-reported claims of general loss
of pragmatic abilities (Canagarajah 2001).
More recently, research on potentially affected areas within the domain of mor-
phosyntax has been presented. L2 influence on L1 morphosyntax has been found,
although not as extensive as in the lexical domain, in relation to case-, number-
marking and gender-assignment (Anderson 1999; Håkansson 1995; Schmid 2000),
preposition choice (Schmid 2002), pronominal use (Armon Lotem 2000; Lipski
1996; Satterfield 1999), verbal morphology (Montrul 2002), along with word-or-
der rules and subcategorization (Boyd & Andersson 1991; Waas 1996). Some of
the above phenomena, such as pronominal use or word-order flexibility, are areas
of syntax which interface with semantic and pragmatic properties. In this respect,
they could be distinguished from syntax proper which does not seem to be affected
by context or discourse factors.
Gürel (2004) examined the selective nature of L1 attrition through data col-
lected from Turkish speakers who have been long-term residents in an English
speaking community. The phenomenon investigated is pronominal use and bind-
ing, and the findings suggest that the L2 grammatical options reconfigure the L1
options and, hence, affect the level of syntactic competence. Notice, however, that
pronominal use and, in particular, the use of the appropriate pronominal form in
the appropriate discourse context involves the combination of morphosyntactic
and discourse constraints; as such it qualifies as a (syntax-discourse) interface
phenomenon.
Montrul (2004) examines L1 attrition of Spanish in the data of 24 Spanish
heritage speakers involving subject and (direct and indirect) object use which
is determined by syntactic, along with semantic and pragmatic features. It was
hypothesized that the heritage speakers “should display robust knowledge of null
subjects as well as object clitics, but variable behaviour in the pragmatic distribu-
tion of null vs. overt subjects […] and cases of semantically-based dative clitic-
doubling” (p. 125). The results confirmed the hypothesis while adding that no
severe loss was observed, and, thus, offered further evidence for the permeability
of interfaces between syntax and the discourse-pragmatic field.
	 First language attrition from a minimalist perspective	 85
In bilingualism too, there has been recent evidence that interface phenomena
are more vulnerable than syntax proper. Serratrice, Sorace & Paoli (2004) investi-
gated the distribution of subjects and objects in the Italian and English of a bilin-
gual child (1;10–4;6). The research hypothesis was that a crosslinguistic one-way
influence would occur subsequent to the instantiation of the C-system resulting
in the asymmetrical use of null subjects and objects. The findings corroborate the
prediction.
Given that a selective pattern of affected language areas has been found in
attrition studies but also in bilingualism, the question is whether this selective vul-
nerability can be accounted for by the architecture of the language system and
the resulting susceptibility of interfaces, as opposed to other areas, in cases where
‘language contact’ in the mind of an individual is involved. Minimalism (Chomsky
1995, 2004) offers the theoretical assumptions to evaluate the possibility of L1-L2
contact and crosslinguistic influence on interface and non-interface phenomena.
1.	 Minimalism
According to the minimalist program (Chomsky 1995, 2004), the language facul-
ty includes the computational system where UG-based operations such as Merge,
Agree or Move apply, depending on language-specific properties of formal fea-
tures such as Inflection, and two interface levels, namely PF (Phonetic Form) and
LF (Logical Form). The PF representation provides information visible to the ar-
ticulatory-perceptual systems (A-P), while the LF representation includes the se-
mantic information contained by grammatical features of lexical items and is vis-
ible to the conceptual-intentional systems (C-I). Interpretability is a property that
applies to features at each interface: PF-interpretable features are those visible to
the A-P systems; they include a phonetic matrix and are subject to constraints of
the relevant type. LF-interpretable features are those with some semantic content
that is relevant to the LF interface. At the interfaces, only interpretable features
can be found. Uninterpretable features play an important role in grammatical
derivations but should be deleted prior to the derivation reaching the interface in
order for the representation to converge.
L1 acquisition is a procedure of parameter setting which involves the selec-
tion of features and their values in a way that leads to syntactic language varia-
tion (Chomsky 1986, 1995). Assuming that the computational system of language
is impenetrable by other modules, unlike PF and LF which, by definition, can
interface with external systems and be read by them, we could regard attrition
as a process that cannot affect syntax proper and parametric choices of the com-
putational domain. On the other hand, features which are interpretable at either
86	 Ianthi Maria Tsimpli
PF, LF or both, are vulnerable in the mind of a speaker of two languages. In such
cases, attrition may surface as indeterminacy or optionality in the use of inter-
pretable morphosyntactic features in contexts where interface conditions in L1
and L2 differ (Sorace 2004; Tsimpli et al. 2004). The use of overt subject pronouns
in null and non-null subject languages is an appropriate example of attrition ef-
fects at the syntax-discourse interface: although overt subject pronouns are found
in both types of languages, the distribution in null subject languages is condi-
tioned by discourse features such as [focus] or [topic-shift]. In other words, their
use is based on the integration of syntactic and pragmatic/discourse information
(Platzack 2001; Rizzi 2002).
Accordingly, investigating features relevant to interfaces as compared to fea-
tures relevant to the syntactic derivation alone can be used to examine selective
attrition patterns in bilingual populations. Since the production and interpreta-
tion of a sentence involves grammatical features which differ in interpretability
and, hence, processes affecting interface or non-interface levels, we can concen-
trate on features with opposite values in L1 and L2 and examine whether gram-
maticality judgments, interpretations, and syntactic processing of the L1 may be
influenced by the L2 (cf. Sanz & Bever 2001).
Crucially, online syntactic processing is different from offline comprehension,
where time-constraints and automaticity are not necessarily involved, with re-
spect to the effects that feature identification and parsing have. It has been shown
that online data can reveal differences between native-like grammatical compe-
tence vs. performance (see Juffs & Harrington 1995, 1996). In this respect, there
have been studies of very advanced L2 learners who exhibit native-like perform-
ance in offline grammaticality judgment tasks as well as spontaneous use, but
differ from natives in online syntactic processing (Clahsen & Felser 2006; Felser,
Roberts, Marinis & Gross 2003; Papadopoulou & Clahsen 2003; Papadopoulou
2006; Papadopoulou & Tsimpli in press). This contrast indicates that the online
tasks do not just require knowledge of grammar but a certain degree of automa-
ticity at the morpho-phonological interface (PF) which is the basic input level for
the language processor. The data from advanced L2 learners indicates that lack
of automaticity in acquired grammatical knowledge may signal L1 interference
effects which lead to non-native-like performance. If this line of reasoning is cor-
rect, investigating L1 attrition effects in L1 syntactic processing may reveal that
interference is found in cases of bilingual or L2 learners in more than one direc-
tion, e.g. L1 to L2 or L2 to L1. Note, furthermore, that if such effects are found
in online processing of purely syntactic features (i.e. not just interface phenom-
	 First language attrition from a minimalist perspective	 87
ena) such as case, then attrition also affects the way in which the syntactic parser
‘reads’ the morphological interface level, i.e. PF.
2.	 Interface and syntactic features studied
The offline data comes from an L1 attrition study which includes Greek and
Italian speakers of English with near-native competence in the L2 (the data has
been published in Tsimpli et al. 2004). In this paper, production and interpreta-
tion data from Greek near-native speakers of English is presented.
In the above study, we concentrated on subjects in production and interpreta-
tion. In particular, the investigation included (a) null and overt subject pronouns
and (b) definite and indefinite preverbal and postverbal DP subjects. The motiva-
tion was the parametric difference between the L1s (Greek or Italian) and the L2
English with respect to the null subject property. As is well-known, null subject
languages like Greek and Italian use null subject pronouns as the unmarked op-
tion whereas overt subject pronouns are used only when some discourse feature,
such as [focus] or [topic-shift] motivates them. Thus, the syntactic availability of
null subjects interacts with a syntax-discourse interface property, namely pro-
nominal interpretation in particular discourse contexts.
In the present paper we concentrate on data involving the second phenome-
non, i.e. (in)definite preverbal and postverbal DP subjects. Null subject languages
allow both preverbal and postverbal subjects (Rizzi 1982) whereas English, a non-
null subject language, does not (e.g. Cardinaletti 1997, for Italian; Philippaki-
Warburton 1987 for Greek, among many others). The syntactic availability of
postverbal subjects interacts with interface interpretations as well. Specifically, in-
definite subjects appearing in postverbal position are supposed to be ambiguous
between ‘old’ and ‘new’ reference, whereby ‘old’ implies reference to an anteced-
ent already available in discourse, and ‘new’ implies reference to some entity not
mentioned in the discourse as yet. Thus, in the scenario presented in (1) below,
the preverbal subject is expected to refer to one of the twins, whereas the postver-
bal subject is neutral between reference to one of the twins or some other baby:
.	 In the generative framework, morphological features have a dual status: an abstract rep-
resentation in the Lexicon which is fed into the derivation and motivates operations such as
Agree or Merge, and an interface realization which involves constraints on spell-out which are
also subject to phonological and phonetic language-specific properties.
.	 The study was supported by ESRC grant R000239158.
88	 Ianthi Maria Tsimpli
	 (1)	 I ghitonisa mu ston trito orofo apektise dhidhima.
		 The neighbour my in-the third floor had twins
		 “My neighbour on the third floor had twins.”
		 a.	 Xtes vradhi ena moro ekleje.
			 Yesterday evening a baby was-crying
	 	 b.	 Xtes vradhi ekleje ena moro.
			 Yesterday evening was-crying a baby
Moreover, unaccusative predicates favour the postverbal position especially when
the subject is indefinite, hence the contrast in acceptability between sentences
such as (2a) and (2b) below (cf. Belletti 1988; Pinto 1997):
	 (2)	 a.	 Irthan kapji fitites.
			 arrived some students
		 b.	 #Kapji fitites irthan.
			 some students arrived
The preference for postverbal indefinites with unaccusatives is associated with
the standard assumption that unaccusative predicates have a single internal ar-
gument (Burzio 1986). Thus, the postverbal position is the underlying, non-de-
rived position of the verb’s argument. Moreover, indefiniteness of the argument
strengthens the preference for the postverbal position given that indefinite DPs
rarely make good topics. Recall that topichood, or ‘old’ reference is linked to
the choice of preverbal subjects in null subject languages, hence the contrast
between (2a) and (2b).
Overall, then, the syntactic availability of postverbal subjects is affected by (a)
the definiteness of the subject DP, (b) by discourse reference (e.g. (1)) and (c) by
thematic properties of the predicate (e.g. (2)).
On the assumption that L1 attrition affects interface constraints rather than
L1 syntactic options, in the above study we expected Greek attrited speakers to
still have postverbal subjects as a syntactic option in their Greek grammar and to
interpret them accordingly, i.e. denoting either ‘old’ or ‘new’ reference. However,
we also expect these speakers’ grammar to ‘relax’ the interface conditions that reg-
ulate the interpretation of an indefinite preverbal subject as a topic denoting ‘old’
reference, fluctuating between both referential options for preverbal subjects.
As far as production of indefinite subjects with unaccusative predicates is
concerned, we expected attrited Greek grammars to be inconsistent, using in-
definite subjects either pre- or post-verbally. This expectation is based on the as-
sumption that, although unaccusativity is a feature shared by both languages, the
interaction of definiteness, unaccusativity and postverbal subject position is an L1
property. Thus, attrited Greek speakers were expected to produce both preverbal
	 First language attrition from a minimalist perspective	 89
and postverbal indefinite subjects as ‘new’ information, in the same way that they
were expected not to distinguish between the interpretation of indefinite subjects
in pre- or postverbal position.
2.1	 The offline data
Starting with the offline data, we will concentrate on the results from two tasks: a
production task and an interpretation task from Greek speakers of English with
near-native competence in the L2 (originally published in Tsimpli et al. 2004).
The participants form two groups: a control group (n = 20) of native speak-
ers of Greek living in Greece with minimum or no knowledge of English, and an
experimental group (n = 19) of Greek near-native speakers of English living in
Britain. The near-native speakers have been living in Britain for a minimum of six
years and were using both the L1 Greek and the L2 English on an everyday basis.
They were tested for near-nativeness using White & Genesee’s (1996) criteria (for
details see Tsimpli et al. 2004).
The Headlines task was the production task used for the elicitation of sen-
tences which included a verb, a definite or indefinite subject DP and an adverbial
expression. The aim was to investigate production of preverbal and postverbal
subjects in relation to the definiteness condition. The constituents were presented
scattered on the computer screen and the participant was asked to form a sentence
with them starting with the expression Did you hear that…. The phrases were pre-
sented together with a picture depicting the sentence formed. The idea was that
the participant would imagine being on the phone to a friend and announcing
the ‘headlines’ by putting together the phrases presented on the computer screen.
The lack of context or discourse in this task formed an all-focus context where
all constituents would be presented as ‘new’ information. Thus, controls, unlike
near-natives, were predicted to produce overall more postverbal subjects. Half of
the sentences (total n = 30) included a definite and half an indefinite subject DP.
An example is presented in (3) below:
	 (3)	 Akuses oti katerefse ena ktirio eksetias ekriksis?
		 Heard-2s that collapsed a building because explosion-gen
		 “Did you hear that a building collapsed because of an explosion?”
The results from the production of preverbal definite and indefinite subjects in
this task are presented in Figure 1 below (from Tsimpli et al. 2004).
The two groups differed significantly in the production of preverbal definite
subjects (F(1,37) = 9.848, p = .003). An interaction between Definiteness and
Group was also found (F(1,37) = 4.018, p < .05). These results point to the attrited
90	 Ianthi Maria Tsimpli
group’s change in the direction of preference for postverbal subjects in the all-fo-
cus context, thus supporting our initial prediction. Note, however, that postver-
bal subjects are produced by the attrited group too, indicating that the syntactic
choice is still active in their L1 grammar.
The second task was an interpretation task which involved presentation of a
context and a test sentence such as (1a) or (1b) above. The sentence was accom-
panied by a set of pictures from which the participant had to pick the one that
matched the sentence best. Participants also had the choice of picking two pictures
as being good matches for the sentence. Choosing the third, irrelevant picture was
classified as a ‘non-valid’ answer. In Figures 2 and 3, the results from the interpreta-
tion of preverbal and postverbal indefinite subjects respectively, are presented.
The results show a significant difference between the two groups in the choice
of ‘new’ referent (F(1,37) = 12.14, p < .001) and in the choice of ‘both’, i.e. ‘old’
and ‘new’ referents (F(1,37) = 8.612, p < .006). There is also an effect of Refer-
ence (F(3,37) = 21.62, p < .0001), an interaction between Reference and Group
(F(3,37) = 5.512, p < .001) and an interaction between subject position and Refer-
ence (F(3,111) = 9.47, p < .0001). These results indirectly show indeterminacy in
the interpretations of the near-native group in that the choice of ‘both’ referents
being possible with preverbal subjects is in the right direction, as far as our pre-
diction regarding attrition effects is concerned.
.	 According to an anonymous reviewer the controls’ choice of ‘new’ referent in the preverbal
condition is not what we expected initially on the assumption of the topic status of preverbal
subjects. Still, the difference between ‘old’ and ‘new’ referent in the choice of the control group
(shown also by the interaction between subject position and reference) is found. Furthermore,
although the total number of responses of ‘both’ and ‘new’ referents seems to be similar in the
Figure 1.  Production of preverbal definite and indefinite subjects per group
	 First language attrition from a minimalist perspective	 91
The indeterminacy in the interpretation of postverbal subjects by the attrited
group is shown in Figure 3 where the two groups show a significant difference in
the preference of ‘both’ (F(1,37) = 7.243, p < .01). Although this difference was
not part of our predictions since postverbal subjects are not associated with one
or the other interpretation in the monolingual grammar – which is also indicated
by the similar degree of preference for ‘old’ and ‘new’ referent by the controls – the
high number of ‘both’ in the attrited group can be viewed as a side-effect of the in-
determinacy associated with preverbal subjects in Figure 2. A difference between
control and the near-native groups, it is important that indeterminacy characterizes the ‘at-
trited’ group alone.
Figure 2.  Referent interpretation of preverbal subjects per group
Figure 3.  Referent interpretation of postverbal subjects per group
92	 Ianthi Maria Tsimpli
the two groups is also found in the preference for the ‘old’ reference (F(1,37) =  
6.962, p < .02).
Overall then, the data from the offline production task seem to show stronger
results in the expected direction: more preverbal subjects are produced in con-
texts where the non-attrited grammar strongly favours postverbal subjects. The
interpretation task, however, shows a weaker tendency towards indeterminate in-
terpretations at the level of discourse reference. The contrast between preverbal
as opposed to postverbal subjects and reference is not as clearly shown as was
initially expected, possibly because of the complexity of the task (participants had
to match a sentence with pictures, two of which differed only minimally) and also
because more than one preference was allowed to be indicated for each sentence.
2.2	 The online data
The processing data comes from four adult native speakers of Greek two of whom
were born in Sweden and two in Germany, all born to Greek parents who were
immigrants in the above countries (see Kaltsa (2006) for details). All participants
were raised in Sweden and Germany respectively, and were early bilingual Greek/
Swedish or Greek/German speakers, which sets them apart from the group of
subjects who participated in the study reported in the previous section. As shown
in Table 1, all participants in the online study had been exposed to the L2 either
early in childhood or from birth, despite the fact that both parents spoke only
Greek to them. Exposure to L2 was primarily due to the nursery environment
or, in the case of GK and EL who were exposed to German from birth, this was
due to German-speaking care-takers. As for the differences between participants
with respect to the home language(s) used, EV and GK also heard Swedish and
German, respectively, at home because of older bilingual siblings. At the time of
testing all participants had moved permanently to Greece in the last 2–4 years but
considered Swedish or German to be their dominant language.
The task used was a speeded online grammaticality judgment task which
aimed at testing case on definite and indefinite DP arguments (Papadopoulou &
Tsimpli, in prep.). The definiteness and indefiniteness of the article and the gram-
matical and ungrammatical use of it comprise the four conditions:
.	 Kaltsa’s study included ten participants. Two of them are children and were excluded for
this reason, and the remaining four showed low accuracy in the fillers of the test presented here.
Kaltsa also tested all subjects on another online experiment (Papadopoulou & Tsimpli 2004)
involving subject-object ambiguity resolution through morphological cues.
	 First language attrition from a minimalist perspective	 93
	 (4)	 a.	 Tin kopela agapa o giatros Definite-Grammatical
			 the-acc girl loves the-nom doctor
			 “The doctor loves the girl”
		 b.	 *Tin kopela agapa ton giatro Definite-Ungrammatical
			 the-acc girl loves the-acc doctor
			 “*The doctor loves the girl”
		 c.	 Tin kopela agapa enas giatros Indefinite-Grammatical
			 The-acc girl loves a-nom doctor
			 “A doctor loves the girl”
		 d.	 *Tin kopela agapa enan giatro Indefinite-Ungrammatical
			 the-acc girl loves a-acc doctor
			 “*A doctor loves a girl”
All sentences were in the OVS order, thus beginning with an accusative-marked
definite DP. In the ungrammatical conditions, the first offending element was the
fourth segment, the determiner (definite or indefinite) which was also marked ac-
cusative. The noun always agreed with the determiner in case. Instructions were
in Greek and a training session preceded the actual experiment. There were 24 test
sentences and 72 fillers, half of which were grammatical and half ungrammatical.
Each word remained on the screen of the computer for 500 ms and immediately
after the next word appeared. At the end of each sentence the participants were
asked to press a button in order to indicate whether the sentence was grammatical
or ungrammatical within 2000 ms. Responses that took longer than 5000 ms were
not recorded. All four subjects were over 80% accurate in judging filler sentences
as grammatical or ungrammatical. The results from their accuracy in the critical
items are presented in Table 2. A control group consisting of twenty native speak-
ers of Greek was also included.
As shown in Table 2, all monolingual native controls performed equally well
in all conditions. Similarly, AK showed no significant differences between gram-
matical or ungrammatical items in the definite or the indefinite condition. Of
Table 1.  Information on participants
Participant AK EV GK EL
Age 23 25 21 21
L2 Swedish Swedish German German
Age of exp. to L2 4;0 3;0 from birth from birth
Home Language Gr Gr/Swed Gr/German Gr
Language of Schooling Swed Swed Ger: kindergarten
Gr: school
Ger/Gr
Yrs of residence in Greece 4 3 3 2
94	 Ianthi Maria Tsimpli
the remaining three participants, EV’s data showed a significant interaction be-
tween determiner type and grammaticality (x2 = 9.722, p < 01) and a significant
difference between Indef-Gram and Indef-Ungram (x2 = 16,667, p < 001). GK’s
data reveals a significant difference between Indef-Gram and Indef-Ungram (x2 =  
8,399, p < 01) but also between Def-Gram and Def-Ungram (x2 = 3,571, p = 059).
Finally, EL showed a significant difference between Indef-Gram and Indef-Un-
gram (x2 = 3,571, p = 059).
Given that ungrammatical items in this experiment exhibit robust ungram-
maticality and that all test sentences include few segments, being simple object-
verb-subject structures, it is of no surprise that accuracy in the judgments of the
controls is high in all conditions. At the same time, it is interesting that three out
of four participants show problems in judging the grammatical sentences, with
more obvious effects in the indefinite condition. These results point to a number
of possibilities that lead to poorer performance. First, it is possible that these
speakers have native competence in both L1 Greek and L2 Swedish or German,
but ‘dominance’ of the L2 interferes with L1 online processing. Note that these
speakers had no problems judging ungrammatical sentences as such, a charac-
teristic which is not shared by typical L2 learners. The latter typically consider
more ungrammatical sentences as grammatical, as shown in a number of studies.
In the four speakers’ data presented here it seems that L2 interference gives rise
to attrition in the ability to judge a formal feature on a functional category, the
determiner. Assuming that the PF-interface, which includes morpho-phonologi-
cal feature realisations, is the input to morphological and syntactic processing,
we can argue that language dominance can be translated into attrition effects at
interface levels.
.	 As an anonymous reviewer points out the problem in judging grammatical sentences could
be attributed to attrition of a syntax-discourse interface phenomenon. In particular, the OVS
sentence with an indefinite object and a definite subject may be considered problematic under
the influence of Swedish or German given that the ‘new’ information expressed by the indefi-
nite object precedes ‘old’ information. Although this sounds a possible alternative explanation,
I believe that it is also possible in Swedish or German to prepose a ‘focused’ object rather than
only a topicalised one. In the case of focus, the object could be new, exhaustive or contrastive
Table 2.  Accuracy (%) in each condition per subject
AK EV GK EL Controls
Def-Gram 100 100   75   88 92
Def-Ungram 100 100 100   88 95
Indef-Gram   88   50   63   75 92
Indef-Ungram   88 100 100 100 95
	 First language attrition from a minimalist perspective	 95
It is important to note that, in spontaneous production, these speakers use
case morphology in Greek like natives; their own perception of difficulties in the
use of Greek concerns primarily word-finding and communicative rather than
grammatical aspects of language. It is on these grounds that they justified their
claim that they are dominant in the L2. This implies that L2 interference affects
offline processes that involve ‘higher’ levels of language use as well, such as en-
cyclopaedic and lexical knowledge, pragmatic use and complexity in language
expressivity. Moreover, grammaticality judgments also involve meta-linguistic
abilities, which, in the case of adult speakers, are expected to reflect to a large
extent language competence, especially in the present study where a grammatical
feature such as case is involved.
It is also possible, however, that L2 dominance and subsequent attrition ef-
fects on L1 judgments is not the only possible explanation for the attested per-
formance in the online task. It could be argued that the Greek input these speak-
ers received in early childhood was not sufficient in quantity or quality (primarily
due to code-mixing) to attain native competence in Greek. If this is the case, then
L1 acquisition is incomplete in these learners and, as a result, L2 dominance and
subsequent interference effects are expected on an L1 grammar, which has not at-
tained a mature state. In any case, evaluation of the two possible accounts for the
attested performance, namely L1 attrition due to L2 dominance or incomplete L1
acquisition affecting online morpho-syntactic processing, requires further exten-
sive testing of these participants.
3.	 Concluding remarks
L1 attrition remains, among other issues, an important psycholinguistic question,
with respect to (a) the linguistic domains which seem to be affected by it and (b)
the degree of attainable generalisation of attrition effects to other language con-
tact situations in the mind of a speaker with two languages, regardless of language
direction and type of bilingualism.
The present paper addresses the first question starting from the theoretical
position that L1 attrition may only affect interface properties and not pure syn-
tactic L1 options (Sorace 2004; Tsimpli et al. 2004). This claim is primarily based
on the minimalist assumptions regarding the architecture of the language faculty
which allows the computational system alone to be modular, while interface levels
are interactive in nature and, as such, vulnerable to L1/L2 language interference.
information and in this case, it could be indefinite. As such, it should not be unacceptable in
first position.
96	 Ianthi Maria Tsimpli
Interference, a case of which is attrition, leads to indeterminacy or optionality in
the use of interface properties of the L1 under the influence of the L2. The offline
data from Tsimpli et al.’s (2004) study indicates that this claim is in the right di-
rection. The online data from Kaltsa’s (2006) study, on the other hand, indicates
that even grammatical features such as case may be subject to attrition effects in
speeded online judgment tasks. The implication is that, apart from the syntax-
discourse interface, other interface levels which serve as input to performance
systems, such as the parser, may be subject to attrition effects on grammatical
features.
References
Anderson, R. T. (1999). “Loss of gender agreement in L1 attrition: Preliminary results”. Bilingual
Research Journal, 23 (4), 319–338.
Armon Lotem, S. (2000). “Language attrition: Why are resumptive pronouns so susceptible?”
In S. C. Howell, S. Fish, & K. Thea (Eds.), Proceedings of the 24th Annual Boston University
Conference on Language Development (pp. 58–67). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla.
Belletti, A. (1988). “The case of unaccusatives”. Linguistic Inquiry, 19, 1–34.
Boyd, S. & Andersson, P. (1991) “Linguistic change among bilingual speakers of Finnish and
American English in Sweden: Background and some tentative Findings.” International
Journal of the Sociology of Language, 90, 13–35.
Burzio, L. (1986). Italian Syntax: A Government-Binding approach. Dordredt: Reidel.
Canagarajah, S. (2001). “The fortunate traveller: Shuttling between communities and literacies
by economy class”. In D. Belcher & U. Connor (Eds.), Reflections on Multiliterate Lives (pp.
23–37). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Cardinaletti, A. (1997). “Subjects and clause structure”. In L. Haegeman (Ed.), New Comparative
Syntax (pp. 33–63). London: Longman.
Chomsky, N. (1986). Knowledge of Language: Its nature, origin and use. New York, NY:
Praeger.
Chomsky, N. (1995). The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (2004). “Beyond explanatory adequacy”. In A. Belletti (Ed.), Structures and
Beyond: The cartography of syntactic structures, vol. III (pp. 104–131). Oxford: OUP.
Clahsen, H. & Felser, C. (2006). “Grammatical processing in language learners”. Applied
Psycholinguistics, 27, 3–42.
Felser, C., Roberts, L. Marinis, T., & Gross, R. (2003). “The processing of ambiguous sentences
by first and second language learners of English”. Applied Psycholinguistics, 24, 453–489.
Gürel, A. (2004). “Selectivity in L2-induced L1 attrition: A psycholinguistic account”. Journal of
Neurolinguistics, 17, 53–78.
Håkansson, G. (1995). “Syntax and morphology in language attrition: A study of five bilingual
expatriate Swedes”. International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 5 (2), 153–171.
Isurin, L. (2000). “Deserted islands or a child’s first language forgetting”. Bilingualism: Language
and Cognition, 3 (2), 151–166.
	 First language attrition from a minimalist perspective	 97
Juffs, A. & Harrington, M. (1995). “Parsing effects in L2 sentence processing: Subject and object
asymmetriesin wh-extraction”. Language Learning, 46, 286–324.
Juffs, A. & Harrington, M. (1996). “Garden path sentences and error data in second language
sentence processing research”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 17, 483–516.
Kaltsa, M. (2006). First Language Attrition in Greek. Unpublished BA thesis. Thessaloniki:
Aristotle University.
Köpke, B. (2002). “Activation thresholds and non-pathological L1 attrition.” In F. Fabbro (Ed.),
Advances in the Neurolinguistics of Bilingualism (pp. 119–142). Udine: Forum.
Kohnert, K., Bates, E., & Hernández, A. (1999). “Balancing bilinguals: Lexical-Semantic
production and cognitive processing in children learning Spanish and English”. Journal of
Speech, Learning and Hearing Research, 42, 1400–1413.
Lipski, J. (1996). “Patterns of Pronominal evolution in Cuban-American bilinguals”. In A. Roca
& J. Jensen (Eds.), Spanish in the United States (pp. 155–173). Berlin: Mouton.
Montrul, S. (2002). “Incomplete acquisition and attrition of Spanish tense/aspect distinctions
in adult bilinguals”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 5 (1), 39–68.
Montrul, S. (2004). “Subject and object expression in Spanish Heritage speakers: A case of
morphosyntactic convergence”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 7 (2), 125–142.
Olshtain, E. & Barzilay, M. (1991). “Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition”. In
H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 139–150). Cambridge:
CUP.
Papadopoulou, D. (2006). Cross-Linguistic Variation in Sentence Processing. Dordrecht:
Springer.
Papadopoulou, D. & Clahsen, H. (2003). “Parsing strategies in L1 and L2 sentence processing:
A study of relative clause attachment in Greek”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition,
25, 501–528.
Papadopoulou, D. & Tsimpli, I. M. (2004). “Morphological cues in children’s processing of
ambiguous sentences: A study of Subject/object ambiguities in Greek”. In A. Brugos, L.
Micciula & C. E. Smith (Eds.), Proceedings of the 28th Boston Conference on Language
Development (pp. 471–481). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Papadopoulou, D. & Tsimpli, I. M. (in press). “Morphological cues in L2 sentence processing:
Evidence from subject/object ambiguities in Greek as L2”. To appear in A. Belletti,
E. Bennati, C. Chesi, E. Di Domenico & I. Ferrari (Eds.), Language Acquisition and
Development: Proceedings of GALA2005. Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars Publishers.
Papadopoulou, D. & Tsimpli, I. M. (in prep.). Case on Greek determiners: An online study.
Pavlenko, A. (2000). “New approaches to concepts in bilingual memory”. Bilingualism: Language
and Cognition, 3, 1–5.
Philippaki-Warburton, I. (1987). “The theory of empty categories and the pro-drop parameter
in Modern Greek”. Journal of Linguistics, 23, 289–318.
Pinto, M. (1997). Licensing and interpretation of inverted subjects in Italian. Unpublished
Doctoral Dissertation, University of Utrecht.
Platzack, C. (2001). “The vulnerable C-Domain”. Brain and Language, 77, 364–377.
Rizzi, L. (1982). Issues in Italian syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Rizzi, L. (2002). On the Grammatical Basis of Language Development. Ms. University of Siena.
Sanz, M. & Bever, T. G. (2001). “A theory of syntactic interference in a bilingual”. In J. L. Nicol
(Ed.), One Mind, Two Languages: Bilingual language processing (pp. 134–158). Malden,
MA: Blackwell Publishers.
98	 Ianthi Maria Tsimpli
Satterfield, T. (1999). Bilingual Selection of Syntactic Knowledge: Extending the principles and
parameters approach. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publihers.
Schmid, M. S. (2000). First Language Attrition, Use, and Maintenance: The case of German Jews
in Anglophone countries. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Düsseldof: Heinrich-Heine-
Universität.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German Jews
in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Serratrice, L., Sorace, A., & Paoli, S. (2004). “Crosslinguistic influence at the syntax pragmatics
interface: Subjects and objects in English-Italian bilingual and monolingual acquisition”.
Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 7 (3), 183–205.
Sorace, A. (2004). “Native language attrition and developmental instability at the syntax-
discourse interface: Data, interpretations and methods”. Bilingualism: Language and
Cognition, 7 (2), 143–145.
Tsimpli, I., Sorace, A., Heycock, C., & Filiaci, F. (2004). “First language attrition and syntactic
subjects: A study of Greek and Italian near-native speakers of English”.   International
Journal of Bilingualism, 8 (3), 257–277.
Waas, M. (1996). Language Attrition Downunder. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
White, L. & Genesee, F. (1996). “How native is near-native? The issue of ultimate attainment in
adult second language acquisition”. Second Language Research, 12, 233–265.
(Psycho)linguistic determinants
of L1 attrition
Ayşe Gürel
Boğaziçi University, Istanbul, Turkey
This paper addresses the issue of selectivity in first language (L1) attrition 
of syntax by investigating the effects of L2 Turkish binding properties of reflex-
ives and pronouns in the L1 English grammar. The L2 Turkish-induced L1 
English attrition data is discussed in comparison with L2 English-induced L1 
Turkish attrition data reported in Gürel (2002). The aim is to explore linguistic
and psycholinguistic factors that affect interference-dependent syntactic attri-
tion in the L1. The paper argues that it might be possible to predict L1 syntactic
forms that are more vulnerable to restructuring through an attrition model that
incorporates learnability-based linguistic factors as well as psycholinguistic
factors involved in the retention and forgetting of linguistic forms among bilin-
guals.
Keywords: syntactic attrition; binding theory; activation threshold hypothesis;
Turkish
Introduction
It has been observed that prolonged exposure to a second language (L2), accom-
panied by long-term disuse of a first language (L1), might induce a restructuring
or change in the syntactic module of the L1 grammar, albeit slowly and selectively
(Gürel 2002, 2004a, 2004b; Larmouth 1974; Polinsky 1997; Schaufeli 1996; Seliger
1989, 1996; Sorace 2000; Tsimpli, Sorace, Heycock & Filiaci 2004). Syntactic at-
trition does not occur as quickly as processes such as lexical attrition, nor are all
aspects of syntactic knowledge subject to the same degree of change under the
influence of the L2.
Understanding the selective nature of L2-induced changes in the L1 syntax
has been one of the primary concerns of L1 attrition studies (see contributions in
Seliger & Vago 1991; Schmid, Köpke, Keijzer & Weilemar 2004); such studies try to
100	 Ayşe Gürel
characterize L2 syntactic forms and structures that are likely to be transferred into
the L1 system. Selective transfer is one such issue that has also been widely inves-
tigated in L2 acquisition research (see for example White 1989, 2000). In linguisti-
cally-oriented L1 attrition and L2 acquisition research, predictions on language
transfer are formulated solely in linguistic terms, while psycholinguistic factors
determining grammar change in the L1 and L2 have largely been ignored.
Therefore, this paper aims to fill this gap by investigating both linguistic and
psycholinguistic factors that might affect L2-dependent syntactic attrition in the
L1. The syntactic phenomena under investigation here are the binding proper-
ties of reflexives and pronouns – a central topic in generative syntax, studied
extensively in language acquisition research. This paper argues that it might be
possible to predict L1 (English) syntactic forms that are more vulnerable to L2
(Turkish)-induced restructuring by using an attrition model that incorporates
both learnability-based linguistic issues (e.g. the subset relations between the L1
and the L2) and psycholinguistic factors involved in the retention and forgetting
of linguistic forms among bilinguals. Using L1 and L2 syntactic features, linguis-
tically-oriented attrition theories have predicted the susceptibility of different L1
syntactic properties to L2-induced change. This paper argues that these theories
are insufficient in themselves, as research suggests that L1 linguistic properties
predicted to undergo attrition do so only when there are also suitable psycholin-
guistic conditions for attrition. Therefore, in this paper, it is asked to what extent
psychological factors such as frequency of use may play a role in the retention
of L1 syntactic features. Investigating attrition in the L1 English grammar is of
particular relevance to test the impact of frequency of L1 use. Due to the de facto
status of English as the lingua franca, native English speakers living and working
in Turkey (as in many other countries) continue to use their L1 dominantly over
the years. Therefore, this is a group that is not expected to demonstrate much at-
trition in the L1 grammar. Given this, in this paper the results of the L2 Turkish-
induced L1 English attrition study are presented in comparison with the results of
the L2 English-induced L1 Turkish attrition study reported in Gürel (2002). We
believe that comparison of these two groups can help us check learnability-based
linguistic models and the frequency-based psycholinguistic models against the
predictions they make for the selectivity in syntactic attrition.
1.	 Accounts for selectivity in L1 attrition
The selective nature of L1 attrition has long been documented in academic lit-
erature (Gürel 2002, 2004b; Seliger 1989, 1996; Sorace 2000; Tsimpli et al. 2004),
though accounts for this selectivity vary. For example, Seliger (1989, 1996) argues
	 (Psycho)linguistic determinants of L1 attrition	 101
that selective attrition is linked to the markedness of L1 and L2 features. In this
account, complex grammatical forms with narrow linguistic distribution are con-
sidered to be marked. In language contact situations, marked forms in the L1 are
predicted to be replaced by less marked forms in the L2, whereas less marked L1
forms do not easily undergo attrition.
In the more recent accounts of Sorace (2000) and Tsimpli et al. (2004), selec-
tive attrition in the L1 syntax is again explained in purely linguistic terms, sug-
gesting that the changes in the L1 syntax are restricted to the interface between
syntax and the conceptual/intentional cognitive systems (Tsimpli et al. 2004: 257).
More specifically, selectivity is considered to be a manifestation of the formal dis-
tinction between two types of linguistic features, namely [+interpretable] and
[–interpretable] features (Chomsky 1995). In their investigation of attrition in L1
Italian and L1 Greek – two null-subject languages – Tsimpli et al. (2004) observe
that null subjects, which result from the specification of [–interpretable] features
(e.g. case and agreement on verbs), are not affected by attrition. However, the dis-
tribution of null and overt subjects, which is determined by [+interpretable] (or
syntactic/pragmatic) features (e.g. [+Topic Shift]), is subject to attrition.
In another study, Gürel (2002) analyzes selective attrition within the context
of the set-theoretic transfer model (Berwick 1985; Manzini & Wexler 1987; White
1989) by investigating the attrition of binding properties of L1 Turkish overt and
null subject pronouns under the influence of L2 English. Turkish and English
differ with respect to binding domains and the type of pronominals present in
two languages. As a null-subject language, Turkish allows null subject pronouns
in main and embedded clauses. It also has a special type of nominative reflexive
pronominal, kendisi, for which English has no corresponding form.
The following examples illustrate the differences between Turkish and Eng-
lish with respect to pronominal binding in the context of Binding Principle B
(Chomsky 1986; Chomsky & Lasnik 1995).
	 (1)	 a.	 Elifi		 [o-nun*i/j	 kendi-si-nini/j	 / proi/j	 çok 		 inatçı
	 		 Elif		 s/he-gen	 self-3sg-gen			 very	 stubborn
			 ol-duğ-u]-nu				 bil-iyor
			 be-nom-3sgposs-acc 	 know-prg
		 b.	 Elifi knows that [shei /j /*herself /*pro is very stubborn]
The example in (1a) illustrates that the embedded subject position of a Turkish
sentence can be occupied by the pronouns o, kendisi or pro. As the above co-in-
.	 The following abbreviations are used in this paper: acc = Accusative; dat = Dative; gen =
Genitive; neg = Negation; nom = Nominalization; poss = Possessive; prg = Progressive; pst =
Past; sg = Singular.
102	 Ayşe Gürel
dexations indicate, the overt pronoun o cannot be bound by the matrix subject,
Elif in Turkish;, it only allows a disjoint reading. The overt pronoun kendisi and
pro, however, can be bound by either the matrix subject or have disjoint readings.
In contrast, English only allows the overt pronoun s/he in the embedded subject
position, and the binding properties of this overt pronoun are different from that
of its Turkish counterpart o.
The difference between Turkish and English overt pronoun binding is at-
tributed to differences in the binding domains of the two languages (Gürel 2002,
2004a). It has been suggested that Determiner Phrases (DPs) do not constitute
binding domains in Turkish. Most complement clauses in Turkish are nominal-
ised and they behave like lexical DPs with respect to their internal morphological
form and case-marking (George & Kornfilt 1981) (see examples (2a) and (3a)),
indicating that Turkish embedded clauses are not finite clauses but DPs and they
do not form binding domains. In contrast, both finite clauses and DPs count as
binding domains in English.
	 (2)	 a.	 Elifi		 DP[o-nun*i/j	 çok inatçı		 ol-duğ-u]-nu
			 Elif 		 s/he-gen	 very stubborn	 be-nom-3sgposs-acc
			 bil-iyor
			 know-prg
		 b.	 Elifi knows that IP[shei/j is very stubborn]
	 (3)	 a.	 Elifi		 DP[o-nun*i/j 	 yüz-ü-nü 			 yıka-dı]
			 Elif		 s/he-gen	 face-3sgposs-acc	 wash-pst
		 b.	 Elifi washed DP[heri/j face]
In the Turkish sentences in (2a) and (3a), the binding domain is the tensed matrix
clause that includes the pronoun and a finite inflection (I0). Therefore, in line with
Binding Principle B, the pronoun o has to be free in its binding domain, prevent-
ing co-indexation between the overt pronoun and the matrix subject Elif. How-
ever, in English, both finite Inflectional Phrase (IP) and DP constitute a binding
domain. Therefore, co-indexation between the pronouns she/her and the matrix
subject Elif is possible in the English sentences shown in (2b) and (3b).
By allowing both finite IPs and DPs as binding domains, the L2 English is a
less restrictive language than the L1 Turkish. Therefore, the L2 English constitutes
.	 In the standard assumptions of Binding Theory, ‘bound’ means co-indexed with a c-com-
manding DP (e.g. Chomsky 1981).
.	 C-command is defined as: α c-commands β if α does not dominate β and every γ that domi-
nates α dominates β. Where γ is restricted to maximal projections, α m-commands β (Chomsky
& Lasnik 1995).
	 (Psycho)linguistic determinants of L1 attrition	 103
the superset grammar in this construction, while the L1 Turkish constitutes the
subset.
Three different tasks (written interpretation, truth-value judgment and pic-
ture-identification) were used in Gürel’s (2002) study, in which native Turkish-
speakers living in North America (late L2 learners who are at the L2 end-state)
were tested as participants. The study’s results revealed that the binding proper-
ties of English overt pronouns (e.g. him/her) are transferred onto the overt Turk-
ish pronoun o due to long-term L2 English influence. However, the properties of
the Turkish null pronoun and the overt nominative reflexive form kendisi remain
unaffected by the L2 English. In other words, while native Turkish speakers main-
tain the binding properties of pro and kendisi, their L1 knowledge of the binding
properties of the overt pronoun o is restructured in keeping with the L2 English
grammar. This suggests that restrictions in the L1 grammar (i.e. a more restrictive
definition of the binding domain) were loosened due to L2 English. This finding
implies that in cases where the L2 grammar has broader options (the superset)
than the L1 grammar, the grammatical restrictions in the L1 are neutralized. That
is, due to frequent positive evidence from the L2, the grammatical options of the
L1 are expanded on the model of the L2, ultimately leading to a grammar that is
divergent from native norms.
In contrast, the binding conditions of the null pronoun and the overt pro-
nominal kendisi were maintained at the native competence level. These findings
can also be explained using the set-theoretic transfer model. In the case of the null
pronoun, the influencing language (i.e. the non-null-subject L2 English), forms
the subset of the L1, and neither interferes with the L1 grammar nor leads to its
restructuring. In this configuration, the L2 English does not provide any data that
is inconsistent with the L1; everything included in the L2 already exists in the L1.
Thus, the binding properties of null subjects remain relatively well-preserved in
the L1. As for the form kendisi, Turkish and English are distinct from each other
with respect to the presence of an anaphoric pronominal; the L2 English does not
have a nominative reflexive pronoun with binding properties similar to those of
the L1 Turkish form kendisi. The preservation of L1 knowledge of the binding
properties of kendisi suggests that so long as the L2 does not have an analogous
form, L2 interference does not occur.
Gürel (2002) interprets these results in the context of the subset-superset rela-
tions of the L1 and L2, stating that in the context of L1 attrition where the ‘influ-
encing language’ (i.e. L2) is the superset of the ‘affected language’ (i.e. L1), more
signs of L2 transfer into the L1 grammar are noticeable, resulting in more attrition
effects. In contrast, in configurations in which the L2 offers a more restrictive
grammar (i.e. as the subset of the L1), it does not lead to any restructuring in the
L1 grammar. This account therefore argues that whether or not a particular L1
104	 Ayşe Gürel
linguistic structure will undergo attrition can be determined by the subset rela-
tion between the L1 and the L2 with respect to that structure.
More recently, language attrition in general and selective attrition in particu-
lar have been analyzed within a psycholinguistic perspective with reference to
constructs such as frequency-based language activation or inhibition. Following
Paradis (2000) and Köpke (2002), Gürel (2004b), suggests that selectivity in L1
attrition can be predicted under the Activation Threshold Hypothesis, which es-
sentially suggests that the more frequently a linguistic item is activated, the lower
its activation threshold (see Paradis, this volume). In the context of L1 attrition,
this hypothesis predicts that when the L2 is frequently used (or activated), the
L1 (its competitor) is simultaneously inhibited (Green 1986; Köpke, this volume;
MacWhinney 1987; Paradis 1989). The activation threshold of the L1 thereby be-
comes higher than that of the L2. A heightened activation threshold makes an L1
linguistic form less accessible and thus potentially more susceptible to attrition
or change under L2 influence. However, this does not mean that the L1 linguistic
system will be inhibited altogether; only when the L1 and the L2 have correspond-
ing forms will there be a competition between them. In these cases, if the L1 form
is not stimulated frequently, the actively-used L2 form will win the competition.
When the L1 and the L2 have no corresponding forms, the competition between
them will not be relevant; L1 forms will not be inhibited due to L2 forms and these
L1 forms will be preserved even after long-term disuse.
As summarized above, selective attrition can be described adequately using
both linguistic and psycholinguistic models. Gürel’s (2002, 2004b) analyses sug-
gest that in some cases, both perspectives make similar predictions as to which
syntactic structures will undergo attrition. The study on L1 English attrition de-
tailed in the present paper tests the predictions of these two perspectives, the
Subset Model and the Activation Threshold Model, by examining the effects of
L2 Turkish on L1 English. Specifically, the L2 Turkish influence on the binding
properties of L1 English pronouns and reflexives was examined in the English of
a group of native English speakers who have been living in Turkey for an extended
period of time. In order to facilitate comparisons between the findings of the two
studies a design similar to that used by Gürel (2002) was employed.
2.	 Issue: Attrition effects in pronominal binding in L1 English
2.1	 Pronouns
As noted earlier, binding properties of pronouns are subject to Principle B of
Binding Theory. The previous section presented some examples involving sub-
	 (Psycho)linguistic determinants of L1 attrition	 105
ject pronouns. Consider now the following examples, which illustrate the binding
properties of the English and Turkish object pronouns.
	 (4)	 a.	 Georgei likes him*i/j
		 b.	 Georgei 	 o-nu*i/j	 sev-iyor
			 George	   s/he-acc	 love-prg
	 (5)	 a.	 Briani says [Georgej likes himi/*j/k]
		 b.	 Briani	 [George’unj 		 o-nui/*j/k 	 sev-diğ-i]-ni	
			 Brian	 George-gen		 s/he-acc	 like-nom-3sgposs-acc
			 söyl-üyor
			 say-prg
Pronouns cannot be bound by a c-commanding antecedent in their local domains.
The pronouns him (4a) and o in (4b) cannot be coreferential with the sentential
subject (George) in the local binding domain; they must refer to someone else in
the discourse. In biclausal sentences in (5a) and (5b), the clause boundary inter-
venes between the pronouns and their antecedents. In both the English and the
Turkish examples, the binding domain for the pronoun is the embedded clause
since it includes the pronoun and its governor (the embedded verb) as well as a
potential binder. The same binding conditions also apply in nonfinite clauses, as
illustrated below:
	 (6)	 a.	 Briani told [Georgej not to criticize himi/*j/k]
		 b.	 Briani	 [George’aj		 o-nui/*j/k		 eleştir-me-me-si]-ni
			 Brian	 George-dat		 s/he-acc	 criticize-nom-neg-3sgposs-acc
			 söyle-di
			 tell-pst
In monoclausal sentences as in (7), where there are two potential antecedents, the
English pronoun can neither be bound by the subject nor by the object antecedent
in the local domain. The pronoun him can only take a disjoint reference. However,
in Turkish, the pronoun o can be co-indexed with the dative case-marked indirect
object George, or it can have a disjoint reading. Whether native English speakers
maintain this L1 property despite L2 Turkish influence is one of the questions
examined in this paper.
	 (7)	 a.	 Briani showed Georgej a picture of him*i/*j/k
.	 As noted earlier, embedded clauses in Turkish sentences are nominalised constructions
hence nonfinite. Therefore, embedded clauses in (5b) and (6b) are both nonfinite.
106	 Ayşe Gürel
		 b.	 Briani	 George’aj		 o-nun*i/j/k	 bir resm-i-ni
			 Brian	 George-dat		 s/he-gen	 a picture-3sgposs-acc
			 göster-di
			 show-pst
2.2	 Reflexives
Binding properties of reflexives (and other anaphors) are subject to Principle A of
Binding Theory, according to which an anaphor is bound in its binding domain
by a proper antecedent (Chomsky 1981, 1986).
Accordingly, as illustrated below in (8a), the English reflexive himself must
be bound within the minimal category that contains the reflexive, a potential
binder and a governor. The corresponding Turkish form kendi expresses similar
reflexive relations (8b). However, the form kendisi is not constrained by Binding
Principle A.
	 (8)	 a.	 Georgei likes himselfi/*j
		 b.	 Georgei 		 kendi-nii/*j	 /kendi-si-nii/j	 sev-iyor
			 George		 self-acc		 self-3sg-acc	 love-prg
	 (9)	 a.	 Briani says [Georgej likes himself *i/j/*k]
		 b.	 Briani 	 [George’unj		 kendi-ni*i/j/*k		 /kendi-si-nii/j/k
			 Brian	 George-gen		 self-acc			 self-3sg-acc
			 sev-diğ-i]-ni				 söyl-üyor
			 like-nom-3sgposs-acc	 say-prg
Both the English reflexive himself and the Turkish form kendi are bound by the
subject of their own clause (8a and 8b). In (9a) and (9b), however, they cannot
be bound by the subject of the matrix clause across the subject of the embedded
clause (their binding domain). When the intended antecedent of the reflexive is
outside the local domain in which the reflexive must be bound, the sentence is
ungrammatical. Unlike the reflexives himself and kendi, the form kendisi does not
need a sentence-internal antecedent (Enç 1989). It has been suggested that the
.	 The form kendisi can be used as a pronoun (i) or as a reflexive (ii):
	 (i)	 Kendi-si	 gel-di
		 Self-3sg	 come-pst
		 ‘S/he came’
	 (ii) 	 Elifi 	kendi-si-nii/j 	 beğen-iyor
		 Elif 	self-3sg-acc 	like-prg
		 ‘Elifi likes herselfi/*j’
	 (Psycho)linguistic determinants of L1 attrition	 107
reflexive kendisi is a special pronoun that is not constrained in any way by Binding
Theory (Enç 1989; Gürel 2002).
In nonfinite clauses, the case appears to be similar. While the reflexives him-
self and kendi can only be bound by the local antecedent, the form kendisi has no
such constraint.
(10)		 a.	 Briani told [Georgej not to criticize himself*i/j/*k]
		 b.	 Briani	 [George’aj		 kendi-ni*i/j/*k		 /kendi-si-nii/j/k
			 Brian	 George-dat		 self-acc			 self-3sg-acc
			 eleştir-me-me-si]-ni					 söyle-di
			 criticize-nom-neg-3sgposs-acc		 tell-pst
In monoclausal sentences, where there are two potential local antecedents for the
reflexive, the English sentence is ambiguous as both the subject and the object
can serve as the antecedent for the reflexive (11a). In Turkish, the reflexive kendi
is subject-oriented; it can only be co-indexed with the subject antecedent. How-
ever, the form kendisi leads to an ambiguous interpretation of the sentence. Like
the English reflexive himself, the Turkish form kendisi can take both subject and
object DPs as antecedents. However, kendisi is different from himself in that it also
allows a non-local antecedent.
(11)		 a.	 Briani showed Georgej a picture of himselfi/j/*k
		 b.	 Briani	 [George’aj		 kendii/*j		 /kendi-si-nini/j/k	
			 Brian	 George-dat		 self			 self-3sg-gen
			 resm-i]-ni				 göster-di
			 picture-3sgposs-acc	 show-pst
The differences between English and Turkish pronominals and the set-theoretic
predictions can be summarized as follows: unlike English, Turkish nominalised
embedded clauses and DPs do not constitute binding domains. Thus, different
binding properties of the Turkish pronoun o and the English pronoun s/he in the
subject position are due to the difference in what counts as the binding domain
in two languages. In these configurations, the L2 Turkish, with its more restric-
tive grammar, constitutes a subset of the L1 English. Hence no attrition effects are
expected in these constructions.
In an object position governed by the verb, L1 and L2 pronouns demonstrate
similar binding properties in line with Binding Principle B (see examples (4) and
(5)). Thus, L2 transfer effects are not relevant in these constructions.
In monoclausal sentences with two potential antecedents, the English pro-
noun can only take disjoint reference. However, in Turkish, the object pronoun
o can both be coreferential with the indirect object antecedent and have disjoint
reference. In this configuration, the L2 Turkish grammar therefore constitutes the
108	 Ayşe Gürel
superset grammar with more grammatical options; it is in this context that more
attrition effects are expected since, under attrition, the L1 grammar is expected to
move toward a less restricted L2 grammar.
English does not have a nominative reflexive similar to the Turkish form
kendisi and in Turkish there is also a true reflexive form that corresponds to the
English reflexive in binding features. Thus, the L2 Turkish, having two reflexive
forms (kendi and kendisi) with different binding properties, has broader gram-
matical options than the L1 English. The crucial question is whether or not the L1
English grammar would be expanded on the model of L2 Turkish as predicted by
the set-theoretic language attrition model (Gürel 2002). That is, would there be
any restructuring in the binding properties of the English reflexive form due to
the L2 Turkish? This model predicts finding restructuring in the L1 grammar in
the form of expansion towards the L2. According to this, under the influence of
L2 Turkish, the English reflexive can be attributed less restrictive binding prop-
erties on the model of the L2 form kendisi. If binding properties of kendisi are
mapped onto the L1 reflexive, then in biclausal finite sentences, attriters might
allow non-local antecedents for the reflexive himself/herself.
Recall that in monoclausal sentences, both the English reflexive himself and
the Turkish kendisi have ambiguous readings as both forms can take subject and
object DPs as antecedents. The reflexive kendi, on the other hand, is subject-ori-
ented. Thus, the L2 form kendi is more restrictive than the L1 English reflex-
ive. Therefore, no L2 influence is predicted in this case. However, unconstrained
binding behaviours of the form kendisi might still lead to expansions in the gram-
matical options allowed in the native L2 grammar.
3.	 The study
3.1	 Participants
The L1 English attrition group consisted of fifteen native English speakers (mean
age: 48.33). A questionnaire given to each participant prior to the study was used
to determine their language background. All participants in this study settled in
Turkey at an adult age (between 18–32) and had been living in Turkey for at least
10 years at the time of testing. As in Gürel (2002), a 10-year-stay in an L2 country
was taken as the main inclusionary criterion in this study. The length for which
the participants had been in Turkey ranged from 10 to 35 years (mean length of
stay: 18.6 years).
All of the participants had their first L2 Turkish exposure as adults when they
moved to Turkey. Eight of them had received formal instruction in Turkish, for
	 (Psycho)linguistic determinants of L1 attrition	 109
periods ranging from 2 weeks to 3 years (mean length of formal instruction: 14.25
months). All participants work in English-speaking environments in Turkey. This
is a crucial aspect, since the amount of L1-contact is an important factor in de-
termining the extent of L1 attrition. Five of the participants work as English lan-
guage teachers and four are instructors at an English-medium university; the rest
work for international companies where they mostly use the L1 English. Thus, we
can safely say that the participants all use the L1 extensively at work. Similar to
the L1 Turkish attriters in Gürel’s (2002) study, participants in the present study
have been living in an L2 setting for an extended period of time. However, unlike
the participants in the 2002 study, the degree of L1 contact is much higher in the
present case, perhaps affecting the L2 Turkish influence on their L1 English.
As for L2 contact, participants inevitably had daily contact with L2 Turkish
both socially and at work (mean reported amount of L2 use: 4.36 hrs per day),
and eleven participants have Turkish partners. L2 Turkish contact was reported
to mostly occur in the contexts of listening and speaking. In a language back-
ground questionnaire, two participants rated their overall Turkish proficiency as
near-native, seven rated themselves as advanced and six rated themselves as in-
termediate-level L2 Turkish speakers. No separate proficiency test was conducted
to determine their L2 Turkish proficiency, however, all L2 Turkish speakers who
participated in this study were referred to the researcher as ‘people who have good
command of Turkish’. While a subjective assessment, it was useful in the initial
participant selection phase. This study, however, operated on the assumption that
L2 learners do not have to be near-native L2 speakers to be candidates for L1 at-
trition (cf. Sorace 2000).
Fifteen native English speakers participated in the study as a control group.
This group included thirteen American and two Canadian participants living in
North America. They took part in the study by answering questions for one of the
tests (the written interpretation task). Five of the participants were tested during
a short visit to Turkey and ten participants took part in the study through e-mail
correspondence.
3.2	 Tests
Two tests were used in this study: a written interpretation task and a truth-value
judgment task.
.	 A standardized proficiency test is not yet available for L2 Turkish.
110	 Ayşe Gürel
3.2.1  Test 1: Written interpretation task
The general format of this test was similar to the one used in Gürel (2002) and
Kanno (1997). The test included English sentences with pronouns and reflexives;
participants were asked to select (a) possible antecedent(s) for the pronouns and
reflexives from among the options provided. For example, in a test item given in
(12), participants were expected to select both option (a) and (b), indicating that
both David and Scott can be the antecedent for the reflexive.
(12)		 David sent Scott a picture of himself.
			 Question: Whose picture could this be?
		 (a)	 David’s
		 (b)	 Scott’s
		 (c)	 Some other person’s
There were eight categories of test items, as illustrated below, and each category
contained six items, so the total number of items was 48.
		 a.	 Possessive DPs (pronouns):
			 The soldiersi carried theiri/j boxes
		 b.	 Monoclausal sentences with pronouns:
			 Jamesi sent Henryj a picture of him*i/*j/k
		 c.	 Monoclausal sentences with reflexives:
			 Catherinei gave Dianaj good news about herselfi/j/*k
		 d.	 Biclausal finite sentences with pronouns:
			 Chrisi knows that Harryj hates himi/*j/k
		 e.	 Biclausal nonfinite sentences with pronouns:
			 Nancyi asked Emilyj not to blame heri/*j/k
		 f.	 Biclausal finite sentences with reflexives:
			 Juliai thinks that Susanj admires herself*i/j/*k
		 g.	 Biclausal nonfinite sentences with reflexives:
			 Maryi wants Janej to forgive herself*i/j/*k
		 h.	 Biclausal finite sentences with subject pronouns:
			 Johni said that hei/j lied to the police
3.2.2  Test 2: Truth-value judgement task (Story task)
This test was adapted from Gürel (2002), which was originally based on
Dekydtspotter, Sprouse & Anderson (1997) and White, Bruhn-Garavito, Kawasaki,
Pater & Prévost (1997). In this task, participants were given 48 short Turkish sto-
.	 To eliminate any possible facilitative effect of a particular grammatical structure in the
story in judging the target sentence, the story was not given in the target language (i.e. English)
(for a similar point, see Dekydtspotter , Spronse & Anderson 1997).
	 (Psycho)linguistic determinants of L1 attrition	 111
ries (2 to 6 sentences long) and asked to decide whether a following English sen-
tence would be conceivably “true” or “false” according to the context given in the
story. All of the sentences were grammatical; their appropriateness depended on
the context provided by the stories. The stories were used to make as salient as
possible in the minds of participants a particular interpretation for the pronoun
or the reflexive. The following is one of the test items used in Test 2:
(13)		 Story:
		 Elif bebeği için dadı arıyordu. Gazeteye ilan verdi. Bir gün eve yaşlı bir hanım
geldi. Elif kadını tanımak için sorular sordu.
		 (Elif was looking for a baby-sitter for her baby. She placed an advertisement
in a newspaper. One day an old lady came to her home. Elif asked questions
to get to know the woman.)
		 Target sentence to be judged:
		 Elifi asked the old ladyj about her*i/*j/k
In this monoclausal sentence, there are two potential local antecedents for the
pronoun her and the pronoun could also have disjoint reference. The story above
requires coreferentiality between the pronoun and the indirect object DP the old
lady. However, since the English pronoun cannot be coreferential with either of
these local antecedents, the expected answer is “false”. If participants incorrectly
allowed binding of the pronoun by the object, then they would say “true” for this
sentence. Two other potential interpretations were forced in other stories in the
test; the context in these stories forced binding of the pronoun by the subject an-
tecedent or by someone else in the discourse.
Overall, the test included 48 items and the types of sentences were similar to
those in the first test. Since the story task included stories written in Turkish, the
control group answered only Test 1.
4.	 Results
The results of Test 1 and Test 2 were analyzed separately. In Test 1, the accuracy
scores of the attrition and the control group were compared. As mentioned earli-
er, Test 2 was given only to the attrition group as the test included Turkish stories.
In the analysis of Test 2, accuracy scores obtained in different sentence types were
compared to examine the L2 Turkish influence.
112	 Ayşe Gürel
4.1	 Test 1: Written interpretation task
Recall that in this test, participants were tested on 8 different categories. The per-
centage accuracy scores obtained from these sentence types are given in Table 1.
For example, in the first category, participants were given a sentence such as
The soldiers carried their boxes and were asked to indicate potential antecedents
for the possessive pronoun. They were expected to choose both of the options
given, namely, the soldiers and some other people’s. The percentage scores given in
Table 1 indicate how many times participants correctly indicated that both DPs
are potential antecedents for the pronoun their in English.
Overall results of MANOVA indicated no significant difference between the
attrition and the control group on the combined dependent variables [Wilk’s
Lambda 1.156, p = .370]. In other words, there was no difference between the
performance of the attrition and the control group, contrary to the predictions
made earlier. There was no change or attrition found in native English speakers’
L1 syntactic knowledge of the binding properties of pronouns or reflexives.
In a further analysis, the distribution of the responses was examined. Table 2
below gives this distribution. For example, in the first category, the attrition group
correctly assigned both the bound and disjoint readings for the possessive pro-
noun at a rate of 84.44%. For the same pronoun, they assigned bound-only (i.e.
bound by the subject only) interpretation at a rate of 11.11% and disjoint-only
interpretation at a rate of 4.44%.
.	 The mean differences did not come out significant because of the small sample size and
high standard deviation.
Table 1.  Results of Test 1*
Sentence types Attrition Control
Mean (%) SD Mean (%) SD
Possessive DPs (pronouns) 84.44 34.77   68.87 44.03
Monoclausal sentences with pronouns 65.56 36.98   54.42 40.51
Monoclausal sentences with reflexives 42.22 41.24   41.07 37.66
Biclausal finite sentences with pronouns 82.22 34.20   63.29 46.78
Biclausal nonfinite sentences with pronouns 82.22 34.20   61.04 45.25
Biclausal finite sentences with reflexives 97.78 58.64 100   0.00
Biclausal nonfinite sentences with reflexives 98.89 43.03   96.64 69.47
Biclausal finite sentences with subject pronouns 84.44 35.34   66.67 44.99
* Table 1 presents the mean percentages and the standard deviations. Percentages indicate how many times
the participants assigned correct interpretation for a given pronominal.
	 (Psycho)linguistic determinants of L1 attrition	 113
Attrition Control
Mean (%) Mean (%)
Possessive DPs (pronouns):
Subject antecedent only 11.11 27.78
Disjoint reference only   4.44   3.33
Both subject antecedent & disjoint reference (√)* 84.44 68.89
Monoclausal sentences with pronouns:
Subject antecedent only   2.22 15.56
Object antecedent only   3.33   5.56
Disjoint reference only (√) 65.56 54.44
Both subject antecedent & object antecedent   1.11   0.00
Both subject antecedent & disjoint reference   2.22   3.33
Both object antecedent & disjoint reference 20 15.56
All three options (subject-object-disjoint)   5.56   5.56
Monoclausal sentences with reflexives:
Subject antecedent only 51.11 43.33
Object antecedent only   6.67 15.56
Disjoint reference only   0.00   0.00
Both subject antecedent & object antecedent (√) 42.22 41.11
Both subject antecedent & disjoint reference   0.00   0.00
Both object antecedent & disjoint reference   0.00   0.00
All three options (subject-object-disjoint)   0.00   0.00
Biclausal finite sentences with pronouns:
Matrix subject antecedent only 16.67 33.33
Embedded subject antecedent only   0.00   0.00
Disjoint reference only   0.00   1.11
Both matrix subject & embedded subject antecedent   1.11   0.00
Both matrix subject antecedent & disjoint reference (√) 82.22 63.33
Both embedded subject antecedent & disjoint reference   0.00   2.22
All three options (matrix & embedded subject-disjoint)   0.00   0.00
Biclausal nonfinite sentences with pronouns:
Subject antecedent only 16.67 35.56
Object antecedent only   0.00   1.11
Disjoint reference only   1.11   1.11
Both subject antecedent & object antecedent   0.00   0.00
Both subject antecedent & disjoint reference (√) 82.22 61.11
Both object antecedent & disjoint reference   0.00   1.11
All three options (subject-object-disjoint)   0.00   0.00
Table 2.  Distribution of pronominal interpretation in Test 1
114	 Ayşe Gürel
Let us first look at the pronouns in Table 2 to examine the preferences of the at-
trition group and to see if we can observe any tendency that would suggest L2
Turkish influence.
In the first and the last category (i.e. possessive DP pronouns and biclausal
finite sentences with subject pronouns), the L2 Turkish only allows the disjoint
interpretation for the pronoun, whereas the L1 English pronoun can be bound
by the subject DP or can take disjoint reference. As mentioned earlier, no attri-
tion effect in the L1 grammar with broader grammatical options is expected; as
predicted, there was no increased preference for the disjoint-only reading for the
English pronoun in the attrition group.
In monoclausal sentences with pronouns, an attrition effect was predicted
since the L2 Turkish allows binding of the pronoun with both the object and a
third person in the discourse. As can be seen in Table 2, both groups maintained
the L1 English option. That is, they allowed the disjoint-only interpretation at a
higher rate (65.56% and 54.44%) than other readings. Nevertheless, the attrition
Attrition Control
Mean (%) Mean (%)
Biclausal finite sentences with reflexives:
Matrix subject antecedent only   2.22    0.00
Embedded subject antecedent only (√) 97.78 100
Disjoint reference only   0.00    0.00
Both matrix subject & embedded subject antecedent   0.00    0.00
Both matrix subject antecedent & disjoint reference   0.00    0.00
Both embedded subject antecedent & disjoint reference   0.00    0.00
All three options (matrix & embedded subject-disjoint)   0.00    0.00
Biclausal nonfinite sentences with reflexives:
Subject antecedent only   0.00   3.33
Object antecedent only (√) 98.89 96.67
Disjoint reference only   0.00   0.00
Both subject antecedent & object antecedent   1.11   0.00
Both subject antecedent & disjoint reference   0.00   0.00
Both object antecedent & disjoint reference   0.00   0.00
All three options (subject-object-disjoint)   0.00   0.00
Biclausal finite sentences with subject pronouns:
Subject antecedent only 13.33 32.22
Disjoint reference only   2.22   1.11
Both subject antecedent & disjoint reference (√) 84.44 66.67
*Correct grammatical options in English were indicated by a check mark (√).
Table 2.  (continued)
	 (Psycho)linguistic determinants of L1 attrition	 115
group seemed to allow the L2 Turkish option (i.e. both object antecedent and
disjoint reference) at a higher rate than the control group (20% vs. 15.56%). This
difference, though not statistically significant, might suggest that the possibility of
binding of the pronoun with the indirect object, ungrammatical in the L1 English,
is more readily available to the attrition group as a grammatical option, possibly
due to the L2 Turkish influence.
In biclausal finite and nonfinite sentences with pronouns, no attrition effect is
relevant as L1 and L2 pronouns demonstrate similar binding options.
As for the sentences involving reflexives, in monoclausal sentences with
reflexives, the subject-oriented L2 reflexive kendi was not expected to be trans-
ferred into the L1 grammar. However, we found that the attrition group preferred
coreferentiality between the reflexive and the subject antecedent at a high rate
(51.11%). Since this tendency was also observed in the control group, this effect
is probably not due to the L2 Turkish. Also, in this category, it was clear that the
unrestricted binding properties of the L2 form kendisi were not adopted for the
L1 English form. That is, none of the groups allowed unrestricted binding options
for the English reflexive.
Finally, in biclausal finite and nonfinite sentences with reflexives, the L2 form
kendi and the L1 reflexive behave the same way. Thus, as predicted, no attrition
was found. As for the influence of kendisi, it was clearly seen that, in contrast to
the prediction, the binding options of the L1 reflexive have not been changed on
the model of the L2 form. It is important to recall that the L2 form kendi and the
L1 English reflexive have similar binding properties to a large extent. Since it is
possible that the presence of an L1-like form in the L2 might help maintain the L1
form, these similar properties would prevent changes in the L1 grammar.
4.2	 Test 2: Truth-value judgement task (Story task)
The results of Test 2 are summarized in Table 3 below.
Recall that in this test, binding properties of pronouns and reflexives were
tested within a particular context provided by a story. For example, there were
9 stories involving monoclausal sentences with pronouns (e.g. James sent Henry
a picture of him). In 3 stories, the context forced disjoint interpretation for the
pronoun. As can be seen in Table 3, in these items, participants correctly allowed
the disjoint-only interpretation at a rate of 80%. In the other stories, the context
forced coreferentiality with subject and object antecedents. For example, in the
subject-antecedent context, participants incorrectly allowed subject-binding for
the pronoun hence the low accuracy rate of 46.67%.
116	 Ayşe Gürel
Paired-samples t-tests were conducted to analyze the results in Test 2. In this
analysis, a series of t-tests were conducted among different variables (i.e. sentence
types), comparing the individual accuracy scores obtained in each variable. A
significant difference was found only in two sentence types. In monoclausal sen-
tences with reflexives, the difference between accuracy rates in subject-binding
(M = .9556) and object-binding (M = .6667) of reflexives was significant (T14 =
–3.389, p < .05). Recall that monoclausal sentences with reflexives are potentially
ambiguous; however, in this study, even if the context favours the object anteced-
ent for the reflexive and this is a grammatical option in English, participants do
Table 3.  Results of Test 2
Context** Attrition group
Mean (%)* SD
Possessive DP-pronouns
Subject antecedent (√) 100.00 0.00
Disjoint reference (√) 93.33 25.82
Monoclausal sentences with pronouns
Subject antecedent 46.67 32.85
Object antecedent 55.56 48.25
Disjoint reference (√) 80.00 27.60
Monoclausal sentences with reflexives
Subject antecedent (√) 95.56 17.21
Object antecedent (√) 66.67 37.80
Disjoint reference 73.33 33.81
Biclausal finite sentences with reflexives
Matrix subject antecedent 77.78 34.89
Embedded subject antecedent (√) 88.89 27.22
Disjoint reference 95.56 11.73
Biclausal nonfinite sentences with reflexives
Subject antecedent 86.67 24.56
Object antecedent (√) 84.44 27.79
Disjoint reference 95.56 11.73
Biclausal finite sentences with subject pronouns
Subject antecedent (√) 86.67 27.60
Disjoint reference (√) 62.22 24.77
* Percentages indicate accuracy rates obtained in assigning a correct interpretation for a given pronominal
in a given context.
** Context refers to a particular interpretation forced by the story. Correct grammatical options in English
are indicated by a check mark (√).
	 (Psycho)linguistic determinants of L1 attrition	 117
not seem to consider this option. Since the L2 reflexive kendi only allows the sub-
ject antecedent, the participants’ high preference for subjects as antecedents could
be interpreted as L2 effects, though the data do not provide conclusive evidence.
In addition, in the last category (biclausal finite sentences with subject pro-
nouns), where the embedded subject pronoun can have either a disjoint refer-
ence or be bound by the sentential subject, participants seem to have problems
in recognizing the possibility of disjoint reference in these constructions, hence
a significant difference between the subject antecedent (M = .8667) and disjoint
reference (M = .06222), (T14 = 6.205, p < .05). Lower preference for the disjoint
reference cannot be due to the L2 Turkish as that is the only option allowed in
Turkish.
In sum, the results of Test 1 and Test 2 revealed no evidence for L2 Turkish
influence in the L1 English grammar. A bigger sample size and multiple tasks of
different modalities may have provided more meaningful results.
5.	 Conclusion
The present study was conducted to investigate syntactic attrition in L1 English
in comparison to syntactic attrition in L1 Turkish (Gürel 2002). The ultimate aim
was to test the predictions of the learnability-based linguistic models and the
frequency-based psycholinguistic models of language attrition. The predictions
drawn from the Subset Model of language attrition were not supported in the
present study, as in fact no conclusive evidence for L2-Turkish-induced attrition
was found in the L1 English grammar. Although Gürel’s (2002) study demonstrat-
ed L2 English effects in the L1 grammar of Turkish native speakers living in North
America, the same L2 effects were not found in the L1 grammar of native English
speakers living in Turkey. This difference points to one important factor in the at-
trition phenomenon: the frequency of L1 use. As the Activation Threshold Model
predicts, L1 attrition should only occur when there is little contact with the L1
(but see Schmid, this volume). No matter how frequent the use of L2 is, if it is not
accompanied by infrequent L1 contact, L1 attrition is not likely to occur. These
findings also suggest that linguistic models of L1 attrition should be considered in
association with psycholinguistic models; so long as psycholinguistic conditions
for language attrition are not present, patterns of syntactic attrition predicted by
linguistic models will not be observed.
Although the present study suggests that syntactic attrition in the L1 Eng-
lish may not occur among native English speakers who continue to use their L1
in the Turkish setting, the results should be considered preliminary (due to the
small number of people tested). Furthermore, it has long been acknowledged that
118	 Ayşe Gürel
change or restructuring in the L1 syntax is more difficult than changes in other
aspects of language. Therefore, the present findings which suggest that the group
investigated here has not undergone attrition of their L1 English can only be gen-
eralized for the domain of L1 syntax.
Acknowledgement
I am grateful to Monika Schmid, Barbara Köpke and the anonymous reviewers
for their helpful comments and suggestions on an earlier version of this paper. I
would also like to thank Yavuz Akbulut and Kyle Marquardt for their help in the
statistical analysis and the editorial work of this paper.
References
Berwick, R. C. (1985). The Acquisition of Syntactic Knowledge. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (1981). Lectures in Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, N. (1986). Knowledge of Language. New York, NY: Praeger.
Chomsky, N. (1995). The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. & Lasnik, H. (1995). “Principles and parameters theory”. In N. Chomsky (Ed.),
The Minimalist Program (pp. 13–127). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Dekydtspotter, L., Sprouse, R. & Anderson, B. (1997). “The interpretative interface in L2
acquisition: The process-result distinction in English-French interlanguage grammars”.
Language Acquisition, 6 (4), 297–332.
Enç, M. (1989). “Pronouns, licensing, and binding”. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory,
7, 51–91.
George, L. M. & Kornfilt, J. (1981). “Finiteness and boundedness in Turkish”. In F. W. Henry
(Ed.), Binding and Filtering (pp. 105–127). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Green, D. W. (1986). “Control, activation, and resource: A framework and a model for the
control of speech in bilinguals”. Brain and Language, 27, 210–223.
Gürel, A. (2002). Linguistic Characteristics of Second Language Acquisition and First Language
Attrition: Turkish overt versus null pronouns. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Montreal:
McGill University.
Gürel,A.(2004a).“AttritioninFirstLanguageCompetence:ThecaseofTurkish”.InM.S.Schmid,
B. Köpke, M. Keijzer, & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language Attrition: Interdisciplinary
perspectives on methodological issues (pp. 225–242). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Gürel, A. (2004b). “Selectivity in L2-induced L1 attrition: A psycholinguistic account”. Journal
of Neurolinguistics, 17, 53–78.
Kanno, K. (1997). “The acquisition of null and overt pronominals in Japanese by English
speakers”. Second Language Research, 13 (3), 299–321.
Köpke, B. (2002). “Activation thresholds and non-pathological first language attrition”. In F.
Fabbro (Ed.), Advances in the Neurolinguistics of Bilingualism (pp. 119–142). Udine:
Forum.
	 (Psycho)linguistic determinants of L1 attrition	 119
Larmouth, D. W. (1974). “Differential interference in American Finnish cases”. Language, 50,
356–366.
MacWhinney, B. (1987). “Applying the competition model to bilingualism”. Applied
Psycholinguistics, 8, 315–327.
Manzini, R. M. & Wexler, K. (1987). “Parameters, binding theory, and learnability”. Linguistic
Inquiry, 18 (3), 413–444.
Paradis, M. (1989). “Bilingual and polyglot aphasia”. In F. Boller & J. Grafman (Eds.), Handbook
of neuropsychology (pp. 117–140). Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Paradis, M. (2000). “An integrated neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism (1976–2000)”. LACUS,
27, 5–15.
Polinsky, M. (1997). “American Russian: Language loss meets language acquisition”. In W.
Browne, E. Dornisch, N. Kondrashova, & D. Zec (Eds.), Annual Workshop on Formal
Approaches to Slavic Linguistics (pp. 370–406). The Cornell Meeting, 1995. Ann Arbor,
MI: Michigan Slavic Publications.
Schaufeli, A. (1996). “Word order patterns in contact: Turkish in the Netherlands”. Southwest
Journal of Linguistics, 15 (1–2), 153–169.
Schmid, M. S., Köpke, B. Keijzer, M., & Weilemar, L. (Eds.) (2004). First Language Attrition:
Interdisciplinary perspectives on methodological issues. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Seliger, H. (1989). “Deterioration and creativity in childhood bilingualism”. In K. Hyltenstam &
L. K. Obler (Eds.), Bilingualism Across the Lifespan (pp. 173–184). Cambridge: CUP.
Seliger, H. (1996). “Primary language attrition in the context of bilingualism”. In T. J. Bhatia &
W. C. Ritchie (Eds.), Handbook of Second Language Acquisition (pp. 605–626). New York,
NY: Academic Press.
Seliger, H. W. & Vago, R. M. (Eds.) (1991). First Language Attrition. Cambridge: CUP.
Sorace, A. (2000). “Differential effects of attrition in the L1 syntax of near-native L2 speakers”.
In C. Howell, S. Fish, & T. Keith-Lucas (Eds.), Proceedings of the 24th Boston University
Conference on Language Development (pp. 719–725.). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Tsimpli, I. M., Sorace, A., Heycock, C., & Filiaci, F. (2004). “First language attrition and syntactic
subjects: A study of Greek and Italian near-native speakers of English”. International Journal
of Bilingualism, 8 (3), 257–277.
White, L. (1989). Universal Grammar and Second Language Acquisition. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
White, L. (2000). “Second language acquisition: From initial to final state”. In J. Archibald (Ed.),
Second Language Acquisition and Linguistic Theory (pp. 130–155). Oxford: Blackwell.
White, L., Bruhn-Garavito, J., Kawasaki, T., Pater, J. & Prévost, P. (1997). “The researcher gave
the subject a test about himself: Problems of ambiguity and preference in the investigation
of reflexive binding”. Language Learning, 47 (1), 145–172.
L1 attrition features predicted by
a neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism
Michel Paradis
McGill University & Cognitive Neuroscience Center, UQAM, 
Montréal, Canada
The constructs from A Neurolinguistic Theory of Bilingualism (Paradis 2004)
that have implications for attrition are outlined and predictions are explored:
The activation threshold hypothesis predicts that, all other factors being equal,
language disuse leads to gradual loss; the most frequently used elements of L2
will replace their (less used) L1 counterparts; comprehension of forms will be
retained longer than the ability to produce them. Elements sustained by de-
clarative memory (e.g., vocabulary) are more vulnerable to attrition than those
sustained by procedural memory (i.e., phonology, morphosyntax, lexicon). De-
clarative items are also more susceptible to interference (and hence to attrition
by substitution) than implicit items. Pragmatics and conceptual representations
are also modified by attrition. Motivation impacts the rate of attrition.
Keywords: neurolinguistics; activation threshold; declarative and procedural
memory; motivation
Introduction
Many hypotheses integrated into a neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism (Para-
dis 2004) interact in the process of L1 attrition. In this paper, the constructs in a
neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism that have implications for attrition will be
briefly outlined (i.e., the relevant components of verbal communication, the acti-
vation threshold, the language subsystems, and the three-store hypothesis). Then,
the ensuing predictions will be explored: (1) The activation threshold hypothesis
predicts that, all other factors being equal, (a) language disuse will lead to gradual
language loss; (b) the most frequently used elements of L2 will replace their (less
used) L1 counterparts; (c) comprehension of forms will be retained longer than
the ability to produce them. (2) Elements sustained by declarative memory (e.g.,
122	 Michel Paradis
vocabulary) are more vulnerable to attrition than those sustained by procedural
memory (i.e., phonology, morphosyntax, lexicon). (3) These declarative items are
also more susceptible to interference (and hence to attrition by substitution) than
implicit items. (4) Pragmatics and conceptual representations are modified by at-
trition. (5) Motivation has an impact on the rate of attrition.
1.	 Neurofunctional components of verbal communication
At least four neurofunctional systems are involved in verbal communication,
namely implicit linguistic competence, metalinguistic knowledge, pragmatic ca-
pacity and affect/motivation. Each of these systems is necessary but not sufficient.
The systems are doubly dissociable by pathology. They may receive inputs from
other systems and provide outputs, but these do not alter in any way the internal
structure and modes of processing of each system. For example, pragmatic infor-
mation is used to select from among the available grammatical structures the one
that best fits the required meaning in a particular situation (both at encoding and
decoding), but pragmatics does not change the existing structure of the grammar.
One of the main implications of the theory is that there is no qualitative differ-
ence between types of bilingual speakers with respect to these neurofunctional
systems, only quantitative ones: they all make use of the same systems, albeit to
different extents. These quantitative differences have repercussions for attrition
in that the effect of a particular factor will be proportional to the extent of the
prevalence of one or another system.
Implicit linguistic competence is acquired incidentally, stored implicitly, used
automatically, subserved by procedural memory, and is task-specific. In contrast,
explicit metalinguistic knowledge is learned consciously, stored explicitly, sub-
served by declarative memory, and consciously controlled when used (even if
speeded-up). All explicit knowledge about a language, whether learned through
instruction or from observation, i.e., anything of which one is aware (rules, con-
structions, forms, form-meaning relationships) is represented in declarative
memory.
Neurofunctional pragmatic capacity is the ability to select the linguistic and
paralinguistic features appropriate to suit the context and to produce the required
effect (e.g., humor, sarcasm, indirect speech act, metaphorical meaning), taking
into consideration the assumed knowledge shared with one’s interlocutors and
their inferred mental and affective states.
Motivation is a prerequisite for any act of communication. Without motiva-
tion, individuals would never talk. Patients with dynamic aphasia have no im-
pairment in language per se, but there is damage to the connections between the
	 Implications from a neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism	 123
cerebral areas subserving motivation and those that subserve language – and they
speak only when insistently prompted. On the other hand, individuals with global
aphasia, who are unable to put two words together, will nevertheless forcefully
bluster out a complex expression of dissatisfaction in the face of a sudden vexing
situation. The lack of motivation at the onset of the microgenesis of utterances
produced in a classroom situation (such as asking for an aspirin, not because the
speaker has a headache but because it is what is required according to the instruc-
tions on page 32) may be one reason for the often mediocre results of foreign
language learning. Motivation is known to be the best predictor of success in the
acquisition/learning of an L2. Kecskés and Papp (2000) report that students of
Russian as a foreign language in Hungary at the time of the Soviet occupation had
a significantly poorer command of Russian than those who studied English as a
foreign language had of English, even though they had been exposed to their L2
for a longer time than the students of English had been to theirs, reflecting the
sociopolitical situation of the time – a good example of the effect of counter-mo-
tivation. An even more extreme lack of achievement is reported in French as an
L2 in Montreal in the sixties, though here for sociocultural and socioeconomic
reasons (Paradis 2004).
The implicit linguistic competence for each language is hypothesized to be
represented as a subsystem of the general language neurofunctional system. This
language system (L) is dissociable from other cognitive systems such as music,
arithmetic and face recognition, from which it differs based on the nature of the
material being processed. The various languages (L1, L2, L3), which are also dou-
bly dissociable from one another, are however similar in nature and represent par-
ametric variations of general language principles; therefore, they do not constitute
different systems altogether, but subsystems of the language system. The processes
underlying the implicit competence of each language are more similar to one an-
other than they are to the processes underlying other cognitive systems.
Now, the neurofunctional language system itself is known to be composed of
several modules (e.g., phonology, morphosyntax, lexical semantics). These mod-
ules are independent of each other in that their underlying principles are differ-
ent in nature. Principles of phonology differ in kind from principles of syntax,
for instance. English phonology is more similar to Japanese phonology (different
parameters of the same phonological principles) than either is to syntax (whether
English or Japanese). An individual speaker’s language neurofunctional system
(sustaining implicit linguistic competence), schematically represented as a circle,
is thus divided vertically into as many language subsystems as there are languages
acquired by the speaker, and each such language subsystem is divided horizon-
tally into modules corresponding to the parametrization of each of the modules
of language per se. See Figure 1, where language (L) is represented graphically as
124	 Michel Paradis
a circle, divided into modules (P, S, Lx) by horizontal lines, and into individual
languages (E, J) separated by vertical lines, with their respective modules (EP, ES,
ELx; JP, JS, JLx), representing language-specific parametric variations of the L
modules, P, S, and Lx.
It is further proposed that the language subsystems of an individual are con-
nected to a single conceptual system that contains the representations of con-
ceptual features (the three-store hypothesis). These features are momentarily
grouped together in accordance with the specific lexical semantic constraints of
words in each language and the relevant pragmatic circumstances at the time of
their use, thus bringing a conceptual representation to consciousness. Not all of
the features constituting a concept are activated whenever a word is used – only
those required by the context (H. Damasio, Tranel, Grabowski, Adolpho & A.
Damasio 2004). Hence, whereas, most of the time, some different features are ac-
tivated in addition to the shared features that make two words (quasi) translation
equivalents, in some cases, the very same features may be active when either an
L1 word or its translation equivalent is used, if their differences are irrelevant in
the context. Each subsystem possesses its own lexicon with its own set of semantic
constraints and syntactic properties.
Finally, the cerebral substrate of any mental representation requires a certain
amount of neural impulses in order to reach activation (its activation threshold).
Each time a language item (a word or morphosyntactic construction) is used, its
activation threshold is lowered, making it easier to activate again, but it slowly
Figure 1.  A schematic graphic representation of the language neurofunctional module
L showing two language subsystems, E and J, with their own language-specific modules
(phonology, syntax, lexical semantics). (Source: Paradis 2004)
	 Implications from a neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism	 125
rises when inactive (as evidenced in frequency, recency and priming effects).
Production of an item (i.e., recall, self-activation) is more difficult than compre-
hension of the same item because, among other things, the underlying neural
substrate must generate the excitatory impulse from within, as opposed to being
excited by stimulation from the incoming auditory or visual signal that impinges
on the peripheral sensory organs. This means that comprehension can still be
achieved with a threshold that would be too high for production. Activation of
a particular element (e.g., a word, a syntactic construction) raises the activation
threshold of competing candidates, including translation equivalents.
2.	 Predictions and some supporting evidence
2.1	 The activation threshold
The activation threshold hypothesis predicts that: (1) language disuse gradually
leads to language loss; (2) the most frequently used elements of L2 will tend to re-
place their (less used) L1 counterparts; (3) comprehension will be retained longer
than production because self-activation requires a lower threshold than compre-
hension.
With extensive use of L2, the L1 threshold for certain items is raised, particu-
larly for declarative items, but eventually also for procedures, which leads to dy-
namic interference (i.e., L2 procedures are used to generate L1 sentences). Thus,
over time, attrition first affects words and frozen expressions, then morphosyn-
tax. In a nutshell, attrition is the result of long-term lack of stimulation.
.	 It is a general condition of neurocognitive functions that when they are not being used,
they become more difficult to access over time and eventually atrophy. While this is more
apparent for declarative memories, it is also true of skills subserved by procedural memory:
Concert pianists and professional tennis players cannot skip practice with impunity. It appears
that neurocognitive systems require stimulation to remain in good working condition. Thus,
the neural substrate of a cognitive representation is rebooted every time the trace is activated,
either by impulses triggered by sensory signals impinging on the peripheral nerve sensors, or
deliberately self-activated in cases of willful recall. When the trace is not activated, its resources
are slowly depleted and its activation threshold keeps rising (i.e., it gradually needs a greater
amount of neural impulses to be activated). 											 
One may speculate that a principle of economy is at work: Elements of a system that are not be-
ing used are eventually discarded in favor of those that are. A similar phenomenon is observed
during the pruning of neural connections early in life; likewise, when a function ceases to be
used subsequent to loss of the necessary peripheral mechanisms (such as in acquired blindness
or deafness), the underlying substrates of the lost function are often colonized to subserve an-
other function that is now being used to a greater extent in order to compensate.
126	 Michel Paradis
The activation threshold hypothesis has been explicitly found to be consistent
with attrition data (Gürel 2004; Köpke 2002, 2004). Besides, a number of phenom-
ena reported in attrition studies can be accounted for in terms of activation thresh-
olds. For example, the first sign of language attrition is not the loss of certain items
but an increase in the length of time needed for their retrieval (Hansen 2001);
re-acquiring a language can be dramatically more rapid than acquiring it the first
time (Berman 1979; Slobin, Dasinger, Kyntay & Toupin 1993; Yukawa 1998, 1999);
for recall, a high level of activation is needed, whereas for recognition, a lower
level is sufficient – if the activation drops even further, then the item can no longer
be retrieved (Nelson 1978). In Yukawa’s (1998) study, attrition was the result of a
processing failure to use knowledge that had remained virtually intact.
Comprehension is retained longer than production (Hulsen 2000). Hulsen
(2000) also reports raised levels of L1 inhibition through greater use of L2.
Ammerlaan (1996) reports that the main factor influencing degree of attrition is
the age at which immigrants left their native land. Subsequent contacts with L1
speakers in the country of residence is also reported to have influenced degree of
retention. Similarly, Ramírez (2003) reports an evident correlation between the
years lived in a foreign country and the degree of L1 change. She further reports
that the intense use of L2 in most social contexts (home, work, friends, etc.) re-
sults in changes in the use of oral L1 in informal situations. Ramírez concludes
that permanent contact with people who speak the language is an important fac-
tor in maintaining L1.
Attrition is only one of several sources of evidence consistent with the activa-
tion threshold hypothesis. It is further supported by experimental and clinical
psycholinguistic evidence. For instance, according to Smith (2005), both Dell’s
(1986) spreading activation theory and Coltheart, Curtis, Atkins & Haller’s (1993)
dual route cascaded model of reading out loud subscribe to the activation thresh-
old concept. Juncos-Rabadán, Pereiro & Rodríguez (2002) consider that the con-
cept of activation threshold has great explanatory and heuristic power and has
proven of great value in therapeutic contexts.
2.2	 Subsystems
Behavioral and electrophysiological studies indicate that learning a second lan-
guage late in life has different effects on distinct subsystems within language
(Sanders & Neville 2003). One may therefore predict that modules within the L1
subsystem will display varying degrees of attrition. De Bot and Weltens (1993)
interpret the findings of cross-linguistic experiments (Brown, Sharma & Kirsner
1984; Kerkman 1984; Kirsner, Smith, Lockhart, King & Jain 1984) as providing
	 Implications from a neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism	 127
support for the subset hypothesis. To the extent that L2 competence is acquired, it
forms a subsystem that competes with the L1 subsystem for production.
In a neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism (Paradis 2004), the cross-linguistic
cognates are (quasi) redundantly represented in each subsystem, for at least three
reasons: (1) A particular word may be available to a bilingual aphasic patient, but
not its cognate in the other language (the same argument that rules out the ex-
tended and tripartite systems); (2) lexical meanings (as well as pronunciations –
in spite of their graphic representation) are very rarely identical; and (3) lexical
items and their cognate translation equivalents have different intralinguistic con-
nections and often possess different syntactic features (e.g., the verb ‘telephone’
requires a direct object in English but an indirect object in French; ‘information’
is a mass noun in English, but a count noun in French; etc.).
Dynamic interference (i.e., interference during processing) is made possible
by the fact that each language is a subsystem. The two subsystems are part of
the same neurofunctional system; thus, the interference does not come from an-
other system or another module, but is between items of the same nature within
a single system. (The implicit linguistic competence for the two languages of bi-
linguals is not processed by different brain areas but by different neural circuits
within the same areas.) Interference from one subsystem on the other may occur
when the activation threshold of an item is considerably lower in one subsystem
than its equivalent’s threshold in the other. However, there is greater opportunity
for interference with items stored in declarative memory (items of which we are
conscious – e.g., words, but also any surface forms such as suffixes and prefixes,
etc.) because unlike procedural memory, declarative memory is not modality-
specific and hence is easily susceptible to interference from other sources. Psy-
cholinguists have used neurolinguistic arguments in support of the incorporation
of declarative and procedural components in their models of language processing
(Pienemann, Di Biase, Kawaguchi & Håkansson 2005) and of L2 acquisition and
learning (N. Ellis 2005; R. Ellis 2005).
Because of the modular nature of each language, each component of L1 (pho-
nology, morphology, syntax, lexical semantics) is selectively susceptible to dif-
ferent rates (faster/slower), extent (more/less), and order (first/last) of attrition.
Unlike aphasia, which affects selective modules depending on the site rather than
the severity of the lesion, attrition is more liable (as Jakobson (1971) inaccurately
predicted for aphasia) to follow the reverse of the developmental sequence found
in L1 acquisition: prosody is likely to be attrited last, preceded by other aspects of
phonology, syntax and morphology, with words attrited first. (Even though chil-
dren acquire some words before syntax (i.e., before they start putting two words
together), they continue to increase their vocabulary until young adulthood and,
to a lesser extent, beyond.)
128	 Michel Paradis
The order of word attrition will be a function of the degree of structural
proximity of L2 and the frequency of use of L2 cognates and “false friends.” One
may speculate that, in language pairs that are maximally distant structurally (e.g.,
English and Japanese), all things being equal, attrition might be slower because
one fewer facilitating factor will be involved (i.e., interference from cognates and
false friends) – but so many other factors will still be in play (e.g., motivation/af-
fect, frequency of L1 contacts with friends or through the media, including televi-
sion, etc.) that it is difficult to make strong predictions.
2.3	 Motivation
Motivation has been shown to have a considerable impact on L2 acquisition/learn-
ing (Schumann 1998). For the same reasons, the theory predicts that motivation
has an impact on the rate of attrition. Motivation/affect may play an important
role by influencing the activation threshold. Thus attrition may be accelerated
by a negative emotional attitude toward L1, which will raise the L1 activation
threshold. It may be retarded by a positive emotional attitude toward L1, which
will lower its activation threshold. Indeed, higher literacy and better L2 mainte-
nance are generally considered to be attributable to the learner/attriter’s language
attitudes and motivation (Shewell & Hansen 1999). Pavlenko (2005) and Schmid
(2002, 2004) have shown how emotional investments and disinvestments play a
prominent role in L1 attrition. Opitz (2003) recognizes that a range of social and
attitudinal factors contribute to the possibility of language loss.
2.4	 Pragmatics
Attrition of language-specific pragmatics results in changing the interpretation of
pragmatic cues. In addition, L2 metaphors get translated into L1 instead of using
the L1 metaphor that would be appropriate to the particular circumstance. In the
process of acculturation, one will also eventually change one’s responses to par-
ticular verbal situations. For instance, a French person, unaccustomed to the fre-
quent compliments in American everyday communication, would automatically
respond to the statement “I like your dress” by minimizing the value of the dress,
stating that it was a very cheap buy at some flea market. Eventually, however, pos-
sibly after several years, she will learn to simply say “thank you,” and many years
later may end up automatically replying “merci” to a genuine compliment from
a French speaker. Japanese students who have spent some years at an American
institution will report that they have lost the automatic use of the complex system
	 Implications from a neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism	 129
of politeness markers when, for instance, addressing older Japanese students or
professors.
2.5	 Semantic and conceptual levels
The three-store hypothesis and the activation threshold together predict the at-
trition of concept boundaries so that L1 words no longer activate their original
conceptual meanings, but incorporate some or all conceptual features of their L2
equivalents. Semantic constraints on the use of L1 words become blurred. False
friends from L2 will creep into L1 (e.g., an English speaker living in a French en-
vironment will call a lecture a conference) or a less colloquial calque will be used
(he will tell a friend that his flight was annulled – rather than cancelled).
Most psycholinguists today have adopted some form of the three-store hy-
pothesis in that lexical representations are considered to be connected to a com-
mon conceptual system (Abel 2003; Brauer 1998; Francis 1999; Grainger 1993;
Grosjean 1982, 1998; Hermans, Bongaerts, de Bot & Schreuder 1998; Klosty
Beaujour 1989; Laganaro & Overton Venet 2001; Larsen, Schrauf, Fromholt &
Rubin 2002; Malmkjær 1991; Paivio & Desrochers 1980; Pavlenko 1999, 2002;
Perecman 1984). However, the proposed neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism
insists that there is a lexical semantic representational level, part of each language
subsystem, that is independent of the corresponding conceptual representa-
tion, because aphasia does not necessarily affect the conceptual representations
(Alajouanine & Lhermitte 1964; Gurd & Marshall 1993; Lecours & Joanette 1980;
Marshall 1984). The distinction between the lexical semantics and conceptual lev-
els is beginning to emerge in psycholinguistics (e.g., Francis 2005; de Groot &
Poot 1997; Holowka, Brosseau-Lapré & Petitto 2002; Schriefers 1990) and neurol-
ogy (Damasio et al. 2004), and at least implicitly in various domains of language
research (Haritos & Nelson 2001; Hudon 2004; Koch 2005) and artificial intel-
ligence (Jiang, Zong & Deng 2005; Sona, Avesani & Moskovitch 2005). There is,
unfortunately, still some confusion in the literature regarding the use of the terms
semantic and conceptual. Often the term conceptual refers to the lexical semantic
meaning and semantic refers to the conceptual level (see Francis 2005, for a dis-
cussion of the confusion).
Because the sound-meaning (and graph-meaning) relationships of words are
conscious and hence stored in declarative memory, they are attrited before the
rest of language. Ramírez (2003) found that most examples of changes fell into
the category of semantic enrichment due to the cross-linguistic influence of L2.
In most cases, the native speakers assigned a different meaning to an L1 word on
the basis of similarity with a word in L2.
130	 Michel Paradis
2.6	 Loss or inaccessibility?
Is L1 ever lost? In very young immigrants, possibly, if the language is not yet well-
established at the time of immigration and is never used thereafter (Ventureyra,
Pallier & Yoo 2004). In adult immigrants, probably not, but it eventually becomes
inaccessible because of its overly high activation threshold: individuals have been
reported to regain an attrited language under hypnosis (As 1962; Fromm 1970;
Footnick, Pallier & Prieur 2005; cf. Footnick, this volume) or in altered brain
states such as high fever, temporary insanity and cerebral trauma (Rush 1812).
3.	 Conclusions
From a neuropsychological point of view, three phenomena conspire to bring
about L1 attrition: (1) the characteristics of declarative and procedural memory
systems; (2) the activation threshold; (3) the organization of implicit linguistic
competence into subsystems.
In addition to the various parts of the grammar, L1 pragmatics and the selec-
tion of conceptual features corresponding to the meanings of L1 words may be
affected by attrition.
The phenomenon of attrition, like that of recovery patterns in bilingual apha-
sia, is a very complex one, subject to influences from different factors whose com-
bination results in the facilitation or hindrance of a particular neurofunctional
subsystem (here, L1).
There may be a primary cause (i.e., disuse) modulated by a number of other
factors (e.g., age, attitude, motivation, structural similarity between the languages,
degree of automatization of each, amount of metalinguistic knowledge, etc.) that
increase or decrease the rate of attrition.
References
Abel, B. (2003). “English idioms in the first language and second language lexicon: A dual
representation approach”. Second Language Research, 19, 329–358.
Alajouanine, T. & Lhermitte, F. (1964). “Non-verbal communication in aphasia”. In A. V. S. de
Reuck & M. O’Connor (Eds.), Disorders of Language (pp. 168–182). London: Churchill.
Ammerlaan, A. (1996). “You get a bit wobbly …”: Exploring bilingual lexical retrieval processes
in the context of first language attrition. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Nijmegen:
Katholieke Universiteit Nijmegen.
As, A. (1962). “The recovery of forgotten language knowledge through hypnotic age regression:
A case report”. American Journal of Clinical Hypnosis, 5, 24–29.
	 Implications from a neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism	 131
Berman, R. A. (1979). “The re-emergence of a bilingual: A case study of a Hebrew-English
speaking child”. Working Papers on Bilingualism, 19, 157–180.
Brauer, M. (1998). “Stroop interference in bilinguals: The role of similarity between the
two languages”. In A. F. Healy & L. E. Bourne, Jr. (Eds.), Foreign Language Learning:
Psycholinguistic studies on training and retention (pp. 317–337). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum Associates.
Brown, H., Sharma, N. & Kirsner, K. (1984). “The role of script and phonology in lexical
representation”. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 36A, 491–505.
Coltheart, M., Curtis, B., Atkins, P. & Haller, M. (1993). “Models of reading aloud: Dual route
and parallel distributed processing approaches”. Psychological Review, 100, 589–608.
Damasio, H., Tranel. D., Grabowski, T., Adolpho, R. & Damasio, A. (2004). “Neural systems
behind word and concept retrieval”. Cognition, 92, 179–229.
de Bot, K. & Weltens, B. (1993). “Lexical aspects of language attrition and shift”. In G. Extra & L.
Verhoeven (Eds.), Immigrant Languages in Europe (pp. 308–322). Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters.
de Groot, A. M. B. & Poot, R. (1997). “Word translation at three levels of proficiency in a
second language: The ubiquitous involvement of conceptual memory”. Language Learning,
47, 215–264.
Dell, G. (1986). “A spreading activation theory of retrieval in sentence production”. Psychological
Review, 93, 283–321.
Ellis, N. C. (2005). “At the interface: Dynamic interactions of explicit and implicit language
knowledge”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 27, 305–352.
Ellis, R. (2005). “Measuring implicit and explicit knowledge of a second language – A
psychometric study”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 27, 141–172.
Footnick, R., Pallier, C. & Prieur, N. (2005). “A lost language: Recovery is triggered by hypnosis”.
Paper presented at the Second International Conference on First Language Attrition.
Amsterdam: 17–20 August.
Francis, W. S. (1999). “Cognitive interpretation of language and memory in bilinguals –
Semantic representations”. Psychological Bulletin, 125, 193–222.
Francis, W. S. (2005). “Bilingual semantic and conceptual representation”. In J. F. Kroll & A. M.
B. de Groot (Eds.), Handbook of Bilingualism: Psycholinguistic perspectives (pp. 251–267).
Oxford: OUP.
Fromm, E. (1970). “Age regression with unexpected reappearance of a repressed childhood
language”. International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis, 18, 79–88.
Grainger, J. (1993). “Visual word recognition in bilinguals”. In R. Schreuder & B. Weltens (Eds.),
The Bilingual Lexicon (pp. 11–25). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Grosjean, F. (1982). Life with Two Languages: An introduction to bilingualism. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Grosjean, F. (1998). “Studying bilinguals: Methodological and conceptual issues”. Bilingualism:
Language and Cognition, 1, 131–149.
Gurd, J. M. & Marshall, J. C. (1993). “Aphasia and intelligence”. In G. Blanken, J. Dittmann,
H. Grimm, J. C. Marshall, & K. Wallesch (Eds.), Linguistic Disorders and Pathologies (pp.
310–317). Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Gürel, A. (2004). “Selectivity in L2-induced L1 attrition: A psycholinguistic account”. Journal of
Neurolinguistics, 17, 53–78.
Hansen, L. (2001). “Language attrition: The fate of the start”. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics, 21, 60–73.
132	 Michel Paradis
Haritos, C. & Nelson, K. (2001). “Bilingual memory: The interaction of language and thought”.
Bilingual Research Journal, 25, 417–439.
Hermans, D., Bongaerts, T., de Bot, K. & Schreuder, R. (1998). “Producing words in a foreign
language: Can speakers prevent interference from their first language?” Bilingualism:
Language and Cognition, 1, 213–229.
Holowka, S., Brosseau-Lapré, F. & Petitto, L. A. (2002). “Semantic and conceptual knowledge
underlying bilingual babies’ first signs and words”. Language Learning, 52, 205–262.
Hudon, M. (2004). “Conceptual and lexical compatibility in thesauri used to describe and access
moving image collections”. Canadian Journal of Information and Library Science, 28, 94.
Hulsen, M. (2000). Language Loss and Language Processing: Three generations of Dutch migrants
in New Zealand. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Nijmegen: Katholieke Universiteit
Nijmegen.
Jakobson, R. (1971). Studies in Child Language and Aphasia. New York, NY: Mouton.
Jiang, M.-G., Zong, C.-Q. & Deng, B.-X. (2005). “Self-organizing map analysis of conceptual
and semantic relations for noun”. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 3498, 977–982.
Juncos-Rabadán, O., Pereiro, A. X. & Rodríguez, M. J. (2002). “Treatment of aphasia in bilingual
subjects”. In F. Fabbro (Ed.), Advances in the Neurolinguistics of Bilingualism (pp. 275–298).
Udine: Forum.
Kecskés, I. & Papp, T. (2000). “Metaphorical competence in trilingual language production”.
In J. Cenoz & U. Jessner (Eds.), English in Europe (pp. 99–120). Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters.
Kerkman, H. (1984). “Woordherkenning in twee talen”. In A. Thomassen, L. Noordman & P.
Eling (Eds.), Het Leesprocess (pp. 139–152). Lisse: Swetz & Zeitlinger.
Kirsner, K., Smith, M., Lockhart, R., King, M. & Jain, M. (1984). “The bilingual lexicon:
Language-specific units in an integrated network”. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal
Behavior, 23, 519–539.
Klosty Beaujour, E. (1989). Alien Tongues. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Koch, P. (2005). “Aspects cognitifs d’une typologie lexicale synchronique. Les hiérarchies
conceptuelles en français et dans d’autres langues”. Langue française, 145, 11–37.
Köpke, B. (2002). “Activation thresholds and non-pathological L1 attrition”. In F. Fabbro (Ed.),
Advances in the Neurolinguistics of Bilingualism (pp. 119–142). Udine: Forum.
Köpke, B. (2004). “Neurolinguistic aspects of attrition”. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17, 3–30.
Laganaro, M. & Overton Venet, M. (2001). “Acquired alexia in multilingual aphasia and
computer-assisted treatment in both languages: Issues of generalization and transfer”. Folia
Phoniatrica et Logopaedica, 53, 135–144.
Larsen, S. F., Schrauf, R. W., Fromholt, P. & Rubin, D. C. (2002). “Inner speech and bilingual
autobiographical memory: A Polish-Danish cross-cultural study”. Memory, 10, 45–54.
Lecours, A. R. & Joanette, Y. (1980). “Linguistic and other psychological aspects of paroxysmal
aphasia”. Brain and Language, 10, 1–23.
Marshall, J. C. (1984). “Multiple perspectives on modularity”. Cognition, 17, 209–242.
Malmkjær, K. (1991). The Linguistics Encyclopedia. London: Routledge.
Nelson, T. O. (1978). “Detecting small amounts of information in memory: Savings from
nonrecognized items”. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Learning and memory,
4, 453–468.
Opitz, C. (2003). “L1 attrition and L2 acquisition – The impact of L2 proficiency on L1”. In
L. Sayahi (Ed.), Selected Proceedings of the First Workshop on Spanish Sociolinguistics.
Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
	 Implications from a neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism	 133
Paradis, M. (2004). A Neurolinguistic Theory of Bilingualism. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Paivio, A. & Desrochers, A. (1980). “A dual-coding approach to bilingual memory”. Canadian
Journal of Psychology, 34, 388–399.
Pavlenko, A. (1999). “New approaches to concepts in bilingual memory”. Bilingualism: Language
and Cognition, 2, 209–230.
Pavlenko, A. (2002). “Conceptual change in bilingual memory: A NeoWhorfian approach”. In F.
Fabbro (Ed.), Advances in the Neurolinguistics of Bilingualism (pp. 69–94). Udine: Forum.
Pavlenko, A. (2005). Emotions and Multilingualism. Cambridge: CUP.
Perecman, E. (1984). “Spontaneous translation and language mixing in a polyglot aphasic”.
Brain and Language, 23, 43–53.
Pienemann, M., Di Biase, B., Kawaguchi, S. & Håkansson, G. (2005). “Processing constraints
on L1 transfer”. In J. F. Kroll & A. M. B. de Groot (Eds.), Handbook of Bilingualism:
Psycholinguistic perspectives (pp. 128–153). Oxford: OUP.
Ramírez, D. B. (2003). “L1 regression in Spanish-English bilinguals”. In L. Sayahi (Ed.), Selected
Proceedings of the First Workshop on Spanish Sociolinguistics (pp. 89–95). Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press.
Rush, B. (1812). Medical Inquiries and Observations upon Diseases of the Mind. Philadelphia,PA:
Kimber.
Sanders, L. D. & Neville, H. J. (2003). “An ERP study of continuous speech processing II.
Segmentation, semantics, and syntax in non-native speakers”. Cognitive Brain Research,
15, 214–227.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German Jews
in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S. (2004). “Identity and first language attrition: A historical approach”. Estudios de
Sociolingüística, 5, 41–58.
Schriefers H. (1990). “Lexical and conceptual factors in the naming of relations”. Cognitive
Psychology, 22, 111–142.
Schumann, J. H. (1998). “The neurobiology of affect in language”. Language Learning, 48,
Supplement 1.
Shewell, J. & Hansen, L. (1999). “The role of alphabetic literacy in second language retention:
The case of Korean”. Paper presented at the conference on Bilingualism: Acquisition and
Attrition. Applied Linguistics Association of Korea, Seoul. [Cited in Hansen, L. (2001).
Language attrition: The fate of the start.]
Slobin, D. I., Dasinger, L., Kyntay, A. & Toupin. C. (1993). “Native language reacquisition in
early childhood”. In E. V. Clark (Ed.), Proceedings of the 24th Annual Child Language
Research Forum (pp. 179–196). Stanford: Stanford University.
Smith, D. J. (2005). http://www.smithsrisca.demon.co.uk/ psycholinguistics-glossary.html.
Sona, D., Avesani, P. & Moskovitch, R. (2005). “Helping physicians to organize guidelines
within conceptual hierarchies”. Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence, 3581, 141–145.
Ventureyra, A. G., Pallier, C. & Yoo, H.-Y. (2004). “The loss of first language phonetic perception
in adopted Koreans”. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17, 79–91.
Yukawa, E. (1998). L1 Japanese Attrition and Regaining: Three case studies of two early bilingual
children. Tokyo: Kurosio.
Yukawa, E. (1999). “L1 Japanese attrition and regaining: The age and pre-attrition proficiency
variables”. In P. Robinson (Ed.), Representation and Process: Proceedings of the 3rd Pacific
Second Language Research Forum, Vol. 1 (pp. 321–335). Tokyo: Aoyama University.
The role of L1 use for L1 attrition
Monika S. Schmid
Rijksuniversiteit Groningen, The Netherlands
While the factor ‘language contact’ is often named among the most important
for the development of individual language attrition, empirical validations of
this claim are few and far between. This contribution argues that a bilingual’s
use of the first language comprises very diverse situations which cannot be sub-
sumed under one predictor variable. Grosjean’s (2001) framework of language
modes is invoked as a useful way of structuring the use of the L1 by immigrants.
A statistical investigation of these different types of L1 use on the one hand and
language proficiency data on the other demonstrates that the impact of both
active and passive exposure to the first language on attrition is anything but
straightforward.
Keywords: language mode; language use; activation; inhibition; German
Introduction
One of the basic predictions of psycholinguistic research with respect to L1 attri-
tion is that language loss can be attributed to language disuse (e.g. Paradis, this
volume; Köpke, this volume). According to this prediction, attrition will be most
radical among those individuals who rarely or never speak their L1 in daily life,
while those speakers who use the L1 regularly, for example within their family or
with friends, will to some degree be protected against its deterioration. This as-
sumption is based on the simple fact that rehearsal of information can maintain
accessibility.
There is ample evidence to demonstrate that in bilinguals, the accessibility of
items in either language system depends on what has been called the Activation
Threshold of the item, and that this threshold is a function of frequency (how
often has the item been called upon?) and time (how long ago was it last acti-
vated?) (e.g. Paradis 1993, 2004). Disuse of a language system affects accessibility
of lexical items most immediately, but will eventually also impact on grammatical
136	 Monika S. Schmid
knowledge (Paradis 2004, this volume; Köpke, this volume). In other words, the
less often a bilingual uses one of her languages, the more difficult she will find it
to retrieve the correct lexical and grammatical information from memory under
the time pressure of normal discourse.
With respect to L1 attrition, Paradis (this volume) makes a number of predic-
tions from the point of view of the Activation Threshold Hypothesis (ATH, see
Paradis 2004), among which are the following:
a.	 language disuse will lead to gradual language loss;
b.	 the most frequently used elements of L2 will replace their (less used) L1 coun-
terparts.
Prediction (a) refers to the behaviour of individual speakers, while prediction (b)
hinges on the characteristics of the linguistic systems which interact in the con-
tact situation. Interestingly, most specific applications of the ATH have investi-
gated hypothesis (b) (Gürel 2004; Köpke 2002; Schmitt to appear). The overall
degree to which a speaker goes on using her L1, on the other hand, has largely
gone uninvestigated.
This chapter will present some findings which indicate that the relationship
L1 use/L1 attrition is not a straightforward one, and that not all situations of L1
use impact on attrition in the same way. A classification of different types of L1
use, based on Grosjean’s model of language modes (Grosjean 2001), is proposed,
and it is hypothesized that frequent L1 use in the different modes may impact dif-
ferently on the attrition of an L1.
1.	 The role of L1 contact for attrition
The amount of use which a potential attriter makes of her L1 strikes most re-
searchers intuitively as one of the most important factors in determining the at-
tritional process (e.g. Cook 2005; Paradis, this volume). There is, however, little
direct evidence that the degree to which a language system will attrite is depend-
ent on the amount to which the language is being used in everyday life. Only two
studies report that those subjects who used their L1 on an extremely infrequent
basis showed more attrition over time (de Bot, Gommans & Rossing 1991 and
Köpke 1999). On the other hand, there is also some evidence for a negative cor-
relation, suggesting that the attriters who used their L1 on a daily basis actually
performed worse on some tasks (Jaspaert & Kroon 1989).
When findings are contradictory, more often than not it is the methodology
which is at fault. In the case at hand the discrepancy might be due to an unwar-
	 The role of L1 use for L1 attrition	 137
ranted simplification of a set of relationships and speech situations. “Language use”
refers to a complex pattern of behaviour in everyday interaction, and can therefore
probably not easily be reduced to one dichotomous factor, which is what all of the
studies cited above attempt to do. De Bot et al. (1991) and Köpke (1999) make a
distinction between “more” and “less” use of the L1, while Jaspaert & Kroon (1989)
use the L1 of the subject’s partner as a measuring stick. This latter factor also played
an important role for Schmid (2002) and proved significant for a number of lin-
guistic variables – in this case, however, the correlation was positive, suggesting
that speakers whose partner had a different L1 from themselves made more rather
than fewer errors. A further distinction of self-reported L1 use in a number of
contexts (with parents, partner, siblings, and children) could not account for the
variance among the attrition data found in that study either (Schmid 2002).
The only study to date which attempts to assess the impact of L1 use in a more
detailed framework is Hulsen’s work on three generations of Dutch speakers in
New Zealand (2000). Hulsen investigated L1 attrition within a Social Networks
framework, and found that the amount of L1 contact speakers had, particularly in
their primary network, correlated strongly with speed and accuracy on a naming
task. While this is an important study and an interesting finding, Hulsen does not
distinguish first, second and third generation speakers in her analysis. It would
therefore be premature to generalise her findings to the one group of speakers
which we might call ‘true’ L1 attriters – speakers who completed their L1 acquisi-
tion in a monolingual setting before emigration – as opposed to heritage speakers
who grew up bilingually and whose acquisition of Dutch will probably have been
incomplete to some degree.
2.	 Language modes
The inconsistencies reported above suggest that there are important methodolog-
ical issues to be addressed where the role of L1 use for L1 attrition is concerned.
At the root of the problem may be the simple fact that, among bilinguals, L1 use
does not necessarily equal L1 use. As Grosjean (2001) points out, it is crucial for
investigations of bilingualism to distinguish between language use in the mono-
lingual and bilingual mode (see Fig. 1).
The difference between the monolingual and bilingual modes hinges on
the relative degrees of activation of a bilingual’s linguistic systems, symbolically
represented in this diagram by the colour of the squares: the darker the colour,
the more highly activated the corresponding linguistic system. In the monolin-
gual mode (1), one of the bilingual’s languages is largely deactivated or inhibited
138	 Monika S. Schmid
(Green 1998; Paradis 1993), while the other is highly activated. In the bilingual
mode (3), both languages are highly active, and in this type of situation, language
mixing, codeswitching and interferences are very frequent. (2) represents the in-
termediate mode, where Language B is not switched off, but still far less active
than Language A.
The language mode is dependent on a number of factors in any communica-
tive setting, such as participants, situation, form and content of the message and
function of the language act (Grosjean 2001: 5). Interactions with monolingual
speakers of either of a bilingual’s languages will typically be in the monolingual
mode (unless control of language mode has been impaired, for example due to
a pathological condition) and there will be little codeswitching and interference
from Language B. Informal interactions with other bilinguals, on the other hand,
will often take place in the bilingual mode. If, however, two bilinguals interact
in a more formal context, or if the speaker knows that her interlocutor does not
like to mix languages, codeswitching and interferences will be reduced, although
Language B will still remain active. Such situations, then, will usually take place
in the intermediate mode.
The language mode continuum has, so far, been most often applied to experi-
mental settings, where bilinguals typically perform differently depending on the
language mode within which they complete a given exercise. However, language
modes also obtain outside the experimental context, in daily life. Every instance
of language use by a bilingual is situated somewhere along the language mode
continuum. For potential language attriters, this implies a variety of language
.	 There is strong experimental evidence (e.g. van Hell & Dijstra 2002) that none of a bilin-
gual’s languages can ever be completely switched off, so the square can never become entirely
white (Grosjean 2001).
LANGUAGE A
(base language)
MONOLINGUAL
LANGUAGE
MODE
BILINGUAL
LANGUAGE
MODE
LANGUAGE B
1 2 3
Figure 1.  The language mode continuum (Grosjean 2001: 3, his Fig. 1.1)
	 The role of L1 use for L1 attrition	 139
mode settings: a German-speaking couple, for instance, who emigrated together
and still use German frequently among themselves will probably do so in the bi-
lingual mode, codeswitching frequently. They will also often use the L2 with each
other, for example when non-German speaking friends are present. On the other
hand, when one of them speaks to a friend or relative back in Germany, particu-
larly someone who is unfamiliar with the L2, the conversation will be largely in
the monolingual mode.
On the basis of the language mode continuum, we can therefore distinguish
five types of everyday language use among potential attriters (Fig. 2).
At the extreme ends of this continuum, largely monolingual use of L1 (Type
I) and L2 (Type V) are situated. Type V, the use of the L2 with native speakers of
that language who are unfamiliar with the attriter’s L1, is probably the most com-
mon language use situation in daily life for the average subject of attrition stud-
ies – well-integrated immigrants with a relatively high proficiency in L2. Type I
situations, on the other hand, usually play a quantitatively relatively insignificant
role for most of these speakers, as there will be few monolingual speakers of that
language with whom they have daily contact. This type of language use only ap-
plies to contacts with and in the country of origin – either in distance communi-
cation via telephone, letters and/or email or during visits (both from and to that
country).
The midrange of the continuum contains two situations of bilingual language
use, one where L1 is the base language and one where L2 takes on that role. Infor-
mal language use among bilinguals, such as language use within the family and
among friends, fall into this category. It is not possible to make a classificatory dis-
tinction between the two situational types included here, since the base language
Figure 2.  Types of L1 use among emigrants
140	 Monika S. Schmid
may change from exchange to exchange and therefore can only be determined
if the actual speech situation has been documented. Both are therefore included
under Type III.
Type II and Type IV are then the intermediate situations, where both lan-
guages are active to some degree, but one of them is used predominantly, and
switches and mixing are avoided. Emigrants often report Type IV use – predomi-
nant use of the L2 with other bilinguals – when someone is present who is trying
to learn the L2 (e.g. other, more recent, emigrants; visitors or Au Pairs), or when
both monolinguals and bilinguals participate in the conversation. Type II situa-
tions typically include L1 use for professional purposes, for example by language
teachers (who try to stick to the L1 as far as possible, but sometimes have to take
recourse to the L2 for more complicated explanations), translators (who receive
L2 in the input but have to produce target-like, unmixed L1 in the output) or
foreign language correspondents. This type of L1 use may also include interac-
tions in heritage language clubs, societies or churches. These exchanges are usu-
ally constrained by social pressures to keep the L1 ‘unmixed’, since the L1 and
the desire to maintain it is the common denominator shared by the members of
the club or church (this function will be even stronger if the L1 has a particular
role for the religion). As there may be great ideological variance with respect to
code-mixing between individual societies (the reports I had from the members
of the German and Austrian Vancouver ‘Alpenclub’, for example, point towards a
rather strict policy of non-mixing among its members, while Barbara Köpke (p.c.)
reports a great deal of codeswitching among the members of a Montreal German
language society), it will have to be established on a case-by-case basis whether
such instances of L1 use are to be classified as Type II or Type III.
To summarize, I propose a distinction of the following types of L1 use:
	 Type I: monolingual mode L1 use
–	 distance communication with country of origin (telephone, email, letters)
–	 visits to and from country of origin
	 Type II: intermediate mode L1 use
–	 professional L1 use
–	 L1 use in clubs and societies with an (explicit or tacit) non-mixing policy
	 Type III: bilingual mode L1 or L2 use
–	 L1 use within the family
–	 L1 use with friends, acquaintances, colleagues
.	 Note that predominantly social or informal use of the L1 with other bilingual colleagues
does not fall into this category.
	 The role of L1 use for L1 attrition	 141
	 Type IV: intermediate mode L2 use
–	 L2 use with recent emigrants wishing to acquire L2
–	 L2 use with native speakers who have a rudimentary knowledge of L1
	 Type V: monolingual mode L2 use
–	 L2 use with monolingual speakers
–	 L2 use with bilingual native speakers of other languages
Among the groups of bilingual speakers typically investigated in language attrition
studies (immigrants from cultural background relatively similar to that of the host
country, e.g. Western Europeans in North America or Australia/New Zealand),
Type V is probably the most frequent speech situation by far, as most of these
speakers are well-integrated into the host society and use their L2 both profession-
ally and socially on a daily basis. Type III L1 use will also be relatively frequent for
some speakers (but not for all) as will Type II. On the other hand, Type I and Type
IV will probably not be used on a very frequent basis by most speakers.
How often the L1 is used in these different types of situations in daily life
might impact differently upon L1 attrition, since selection of the language mode
is achieved by two processes: activation and inhibition. These two processes also
determine the activation threshold (AT) of any given linguistic item or language
system (Paradis 2004). The level of activation corresponds to the frequency and
recency with which any particular item (or the overall language system) has been
called upon, so the prediction is that those speakers who make more use of their
L1 (and particularly those who have done so recently) will experience less ac-
cessing difficulties and other attrition phenomena. Inhibition, on the other hand,
in our context refers to the fact that in order to be able to successfully access any
item of linguistic knowledge, a speaker has to inhibit all competitors. Inhibition of
L1 is therefore a process that speakers operating in an L2 environment routinely
have to perform, and by so doing, the activation threshold of L1 items and of the
overall L1 system are raised.
Since the different types of language mode introduced above may impact on
activation levels of L1 and L2 rather differently, they should not be lumped to-
gether under the common factor ‘L1 contact’ in attrition studies. Type I use will
require the inhibition of L2 to some degree. In this type of monolingual L1 use,
effort expended on inhibition will be highest at the beginning of the interaction
or visit, and then decrease as the monolingual mode in L1 has been established.
The same process, mutatis mutandis, goes for activation and inhibition of L2 and
L1, respectively, in Type V situations. The intermediate types, II and IV, on the
other hand, will require constant inhibition of L2 or L1, as external stimuli and
the knowledge that the interlocutors are also bilingual will make it more difficult
to entirely deactivate that system. Lastly, in Type III interactions, little effort will
142	 Monika S. Schmid
have to be expended on the inhibition of either L1 or L2, since the use, mixing and
switching of both is socially acceptable and contextually appropriate here.
From the point of view of the ATH, it can be predicted that frequent use of L1
in the monolingual mode (Type I) may help prevent L1 attrition, while frequent
use of monolingual mode L2 (Type V) may help accelerate it. This latter type of
language use (interaction with monolingual speakers of the L2) is probably the
most frequent for most attriters and used on a daily basis. On the other hand, ex-
perience shows that the quantitative differences with respect to situations where
L1 is the base language are quite dramatic among potential attriters. It is therefore
problematic that the distinction between the different modes of L1 use is not usu-
ally made or acknowledged in L1 attrition studies.
3.	 Predictions
The ATH predicts that disuse of L1 and frequent use of L2 will initially lead to
a higher activation threshold, that is, reduced accessibility, of lexical knowledge
(Paradis, this volume). In other words, the area that will be affected first and most
severely by attrition is lexical access. This will lead to a number of well-document-
ed attrition phenomena which will manifest themselves in the following ways:
–	 impaired performance on lexical naming and/or fluency tasks (slower re-
sponses, reduced accuracy, e.g. Ammerlaan 1996; Hulsen 2000)
–	 a decrease in lexical richness in free speech (higher type-token ratios, e.g. de
Bot & Clyne 1994; Schmid 2005)
–	 an increase in hesitation phenomena in free speech (pauses, filled pauses,
repetitions, self-repair, e.g. Nakuma 1997)
This paper will attempt to assess the impact of the mode of L1 use as predictor
variables on these indicators of attrition.
4.	 Method
4.1	 Subjects
The data for this study were collected from three groups of L1 speakers of Ger-
man, one in an L2 English context (in the area of Greater Vancouver, BC, Canada;
n = 53) one in an L2 Dutch context (in the area commonly referred to as the
“Randstad”, the densely-populated area of the Netherlands between Rotterdam
and Amsterdam; n = 53) and a control group of speakers in Germany (in the
	 The role of L1 use for L1 attrition	 143
Rhineland and the lower Rhine area) who had never lived abroad for an extended
period of time (n = 53).
Contact with the émigrés (henceforth: attriters) was made through adver-
tisements in both German and English/Dutch newspapers, through German
clubs, churches, libraries, schools and TV channels, and through further contacts
suggested by the participants themselves. The control group subjects were ap-
proached through advertisements in newspapers, through clubs and organiza-
tions whose members were assumed to be in the target age group, and through
personal contacts.
We stipulated as criteria for participation for the attriters that they should
have lived in an L2 environment for at least 10 years (one exception was made for
a German speaker in Canada who was very eager to participate, but whose emi-
gration was only 9 years ago). All efforts were made to control factors such as age,
age at emigration, and length of residence (LOR) across groups (see Table 1).
In addition, the groups were controlled for sex (it was not possible to achieve a
50–50 distribution of men and women, the CA and CG groups contained 35 wom-
en and 18 men, the NL group contained 34 women and 19 men) and education.
For education, a variable with four levels was chosen: Level 1 comprised those sub-
jects who attended school until the end of the German Volksschule or Hauptschule,
subjects in level 2 completed the German Realschule or Mittlere Reife, subjects in
level 3 had obtained the Abitur or Fachabitur, and subjects in level 4 had received a
university degree. The distribution of these levels across groups was as in Table 2.
Unfortunately, as is clear from this table, it turned out impossible for practical
reasons to achieve a complete match across groups with respect to this factor.
Table 1.  Age factors across groups*
CA (n = 53) NL (n = 53) CG (n = 53) Total (n = 159)
mean stdev mean stdev mean stdev mean stdev
Age 63.23 10.92 63.36   9.55 60.89 11.60 62.49 10.71
Age at emigration 26.13   7.07 29.08   7.46 – – 27.60   7.42
Length of residence 37.09 12.25 34.28 11.02 – – 35.69 11.74
* CA=German speakers in Canada, NL = German speakers in The Netherlands, CG = control group of
German speakers in Germany. Group size is not always consistent, since some speakers missed some tests
Table 2.  Education (EDU) across groups
CA (n = 53) NL (n = 53) CG (n = 53) Total (n = 159)
Level 1 13   9 13 35
Level 2 22 21 23 66
Level 3   5   6   6 17
Level 4 13 17 11 41
144	 Monika S. Schmid
4.2	 Materials
4.2.1  Independent variables
The aim of this investigation was to assess to what degree frequency of use of the
L1 in everyday life impacts on overall performance in that language, and what
role the language mode in everyday L1 use plays in this respect. Information on
L1 use was elicited by means of a sociolinguistic and personal background inter-
view, based on a catalogue of 78 questions on personal background and lasting
between ½ and 1½ hours. The interview was conducted in German. The question
catalogue contained a number of binary or yes/no questions (such as gender), a
set of ordinal variables (such as education level), a large number of 5-point Likert-
scale preference or frequency indications (such as L1 use in daily life, with family
and friends, cultural affiliation, language preference), and some genuine interval
variables such as age and length of residence in the country of emigration. This in-
terview was recorded and later transcribed orthographically (at the time of writ-
ing, these data are in the process of being analyzed linguistically).
For the purpose of the present analysis, three independent variables pertain-
ing to the frequency of language use were then established:
bilmod		 This variable is an average of a total of 18 Likert-scale questions on
		 the frequency of L1 use with family and friends, i.e. in typically
		 bilingual-mode settings
intmod	 This variable is an average of a total of 4 Likert-scale questions on the
		 frequency of L1 use in clubs, churches and at work, i.e. in typically
		 intermediate-mode settings
monmod	 This variable is an average of a total of 2 Likert-scale questions on the
		 frequency of L1 use with speakers in Germany, i.e. in typically mono-
		 lingual-mode settings
The averages per group for these variables are summarized in Table 3.
4.4.2  Dependent variables
The experimental design consisted of a number of tests intended to elicit an over-
all picture of individual L1 proficiency (for a description of the overall design see
.	 In line with common practice in the social sciences, these Likert-Scales were treated as
interval variables.
.	 The term “family” here refers to partner, children and grandchildren in the country of emi-
gration.
	 The role of L1 use for L1 attrition	 145
Keijzer & Schmid 2005). For the purpose of the present analysis, the results from
two of these tests will be used.
(a) Verbal Fluency (VF)
The first of these consisted of two verbal fluency (VF) tasks (Goodglass & Kaplan
1983). In this task, the subject is invited to produce as many items as she can that
belong to a particular semantic field (e.g. animals) or fulfil a particular phonologi-
cal condition (e.g. start with the letter ‘p’). Following Yağmur (1997) two semantic
stimuli were used: animals on the one hand, and fruit and vegetables on the other,
and a 60-second production period for both. Since it was the purpose of this task
to establish lexical access in the L1, all items which were correct German terms for
objects in those fields were scored, while L2 items and repetitions were omitted
from the count. Items which were German terms, but were used with an incorrect
article or plural allomorph were included in the count.
(b) Charlie Chaplin film retelling task
The second experiment was designed to elicit relatively free speech in a controlled
context. This was done by the Charlie Chaplin film retelling task (Perdue 1993).
In this task, the subject is asked to watch a 10-minute sequence from the silent
Charlie Chaplin movie Modern Times, and retell what happens in her own words
afterwards. These retellings were between 3 and 12 minutes long (max. 2296 to-
kens, min 176 tokens, mean 753 tokens). They were orthographically transcribed
and converted to CHAT-format (for a description of CHAT see http://childes.psy.
cmu.edu/).
.	 The sequence commonly used in this experiment starts ca. 33 minutes into the film, at the
scene where Chaplin (freshly released from prison) applies for work at a shipbuilding company.
It ends ca. 10 minutes later, when Chaplin and Goddard wake up from their daydream outside
a little suburban home, to find a policeman is watching them, and walk off together.
.	 I am grateful for the dedicated work of two student assistants, Anja Fislage and Linda Marie
Schulhof, who were responsible for most of the transcriptions.
Table 3.  L1 contact and use per emigration group
CA (n = 53) NL (n = 53)
Mean Max. Min. Mean Max. Min.
BilModTot 0.28 0.66 0.00 0.28 0.75 0.00
IntModtot 0.29 0.94 0.00 0.35 0.81 0.00
MonModTot 0.55 1.00 0.00 0.63 1.00 0.25
146	 Monika S. Schmid
5.	 Analyses
5.1	 Independent variables
From the raw data described above, the following measures were established per
subject:
1.	 VF: Performance on the two verbal fluency tasks was averaged to one vari-
able, VF: The results are summarized in Table 4.
2.	 Charlie Chaplin film retelling task: With respect to the retellings of the Charlie
Chaplin film sequence, the following measures were established with the help
of the CLAN package (http://childes.psy.cmu.edu/).
	 D: The lexical diversity measure D was established per subject. The results
per group are summarized in Table 5.
	 In addition, a number of fluency measures were standardized per subject and
1,000 words of spoken data. The following phenomena were counted: pauses
(PAUS), filled pauses (FP), repetitions (REP) and self-corrections (RETR).
The results per group are summarized in Table 6.
.	 D (or VOC1) is a measure of lexical diversity that is based on type-token frequencies. Un-
like the traditional TTR, which is highly sensitive to sample size, however, D is robust even if
applied to text samples of varying length (see MacWhinney 2006: 134ff.; McKee, Malvern &
Richards 2000).
Table 5.  Lexical diversity (as measured by D) per group
D
CA NL CG
n = 52 n = 49 n = 53
Mean   70.45   63.93   75.35
Stdev   17.12   15.67   17.90
Max 135.23 111.15 133.03
Min   41.21   34.70   44.76
Table 4.  Scores on the verbal fluency (VF) tasks per group*
VF 1 VF 2 VF total
(Animals) (Fruit & Vegetables)
CA NL CG CA NL CG CA NL CG
n = 51 n = 50 n = 53 n = 53 n = 53 n = 51 n = 53 n = 53 n = 53
Mean 20.98 22.84 27.34 19.72 19.06 22.59 20.44 20.88 24.92
Stdev   5.69   6.00   5.55   5.10   4.58   5.72   4.59   4.81   4.67
Max 38 36 46 29 32 38 33.5 31 37
Min 10 11 11   9   8   9 10.5 10 15.5
	 The role of L1 use for L1 attrition	 147
(a) One-way ANOVA
To assess whether there were discernible signs of language attrition among the
experimental groups, scores on the 6 dependent variables were first compared
across the three groups. A one-way ANOVA established highly significant differ-
ences on all of the variables described above (see Table 7).
In other words, the three groups did perform differently on all of the meas-
ures. For all variables except filled pauses, a Tukey Post Hoc procedure established
that the significance was due to a difference between both attriting groups on the
one hand and the control group on the other (with respect to filled pauses, the
CA and CG groups behaved similarly), filled pauses were therefore dropped from
the subsequent analysis. The group effects were established to be stable across age
and education by means of a univariate analysis of variance (ANCOVA, see Ap-
pendix, Table 2).
5.2	 Predictor variables
The ANOVAs reported in the previous section established that the attriting
groups did indeed perform differently on the linguistic measures than the control
.	 The degrees of freedom vary somewhat for individual measures, since not all participants
were able to complete all tests.
Table 6.  Fluency phenomena per group
PAUS/TOK FP/TOK REP/TOK RETR/TOK
CA NL CG CA NL CG CA NL CG CA NL CG
n = 52 n = 49 n = 53 n = 52 n = 49 n = 53 n = 52 n = 49 n = 53 n = 52 n = 49 n = 53
Mean 14.79 14.82   6.30   35.01   52.75   34.44 12.65 10.04   5.48 15.80 15.54 11.20
Stdev 14.35 14.27 10.05   26.16   35.05   24.66 11.38   6.70   5.06   8.13   9.34   6.77
Max 81.84 58.17 45.89 134.54 134.70 103.13 56.15 34.07 23.43 41.70 52.11 37.67
Min   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00
Table 7.  Dependent variables across groups
df8 F*
VF (2, 149) 14.124***
D (2, 152)   5.873**
PAUS/TOK (2, 152)   7.478**
FP/TOK (2, 152)   6.607**
REPTOK (2, 152) 10.371***
RETRTOK (2, 152)   5.304**
* (One-way ANOVA, ** = p < .01, *** = p < 0.001)
148	 Monika S. Schmid
group: there is evidence for attrition in the sample at hand. However, there is also
considerable interpersonal variability within the attriting groups: some speakers
perform much better than others (see the overview above, Tables 4–6). The pre-
dictions made above were that individual performance would be considerably
influenced by the amount to which the L1 is used in daily life, and that the impact
of habitual L1 use in different language modes might play different roles in facili-
tating language maintenance.
In order to establish the impact of these predictor variables, a linear regres-
sion was carried out on the data from the two attriting groups (n = 106). The
predictor variables were entered in three blocks: the first block contained a single
predictor variable which has the potential to influence performance in any sample
and is therefore not per se attrition linked, namely age at the time of data collec-
tion. In the second block, two variables were entered which have previously been
shown to play a role in language attrition, namely length of residence (LOR) and
education (EDU). The third block contained the variables which pertain to our
research question: L1 use in the bilingual mode (BILMOD), in the intermediate
mode (INTMOD) and in the monolingual mode (MONMOD). The results from
the linear regression are summarized in Table 8.
From these results it is evident that the age of the speaker does not impact on
performance in free speech. It is only where the VF is concerned that there is a
slight interaction (this finding is unsurprising, since elderly speakers have often
been found to perform more weakly on fluency tasks). EDU and LOR also appear
not to interact with performance, the only measure where there is a significant
interaction with LOR is RETR: those speakers who have a longer emigration span
Table 8.  Linear regression of linguistic and extralinguistic measures
VF D PAUSE REP RETR
R2 chg ß R2 chg ß R2 chg ß R2 chg ß R2 chg ß
.038 .016 .005 .000 .001
AGE –.194* –.128   .073 –.002   .031
.036 .083 .014 .037 .056
LOR –.168 –.316 –.192   .308   .396*
EDU   .157   .199   .014 –.023   .033
.052 .008 .046 .034 .004
BilMod –.010   .045 –.048   .095   .032
IntMod   .170 –.067 –.025   .171 –.005
MonMod   .127 –.061 –.194 –.082 –.069
  R2 =.125 R2 = .108 R2 = .065 R2 = .071 R2 = .061
F (6, 99) = 2.358* F (6, 95) = 1.912 F (6, 94) = 1.096 F (6, 94) = 1.198 F (6, 94) = 1.014
* = p < .05
	 The role of L1 use for L1 attrition	 149
self-correct slightly more often than speakers at the lower end of the LOR spec-
trum.
Most astonishing, however, is the fact that there is absolutely no interaction
between any of the lexical access, lexical diversity and fluency measures used here
on the one hand and frequency of L1 use in daily life in any language mode.
In order to assess whether any one language use variable might, after all,
have an effect on the performance which in the above tests was masked in the
cumulative variables, several more linear regressions were performed. Blocks 1
and 2 were left unchanged (and will not be reported here). The first analysis en-
tered two variables in block 3: L1 use within the family (i.e. with partner, chil-
dren and grandchildren, BILMOD1) and with friends (BILMOD2). The second
set of analyses investigated language use in the interactive mode in more detail:
INTMOD1 comprises L1 use in German clubs, churches etc., while INTMOD2
represents the use of the L1 for professional purposes. Finally, the third set of
analyses distinguishes L1 use in the monolingual mode in distance communica-
tion (MONMOD1) and during visits to Germany (MONMOD2). The results are
summarized in Table 9.
Table 9.  Linear regression of linguistic measures and language modes
VF D PAUSE REP RETR
R2 chg ß R2 chg ß R2 chg ß R2 chg ß R2 chg ß
.020 .040 .015 .025 .000
BilMod1   .175   .189 –.129 –042   .021
BilMod2 –.086 –.209 –.019   .175 –.021
.074* .013 .043 .035 .048
IntMod1   .037 –.115   .049   .194 –.152*
IntMod2   .275**   .021 –.204*   .030   .161*
.024 .032 .048 .009 .004
MonMod1   .132   .054 –.199   .063 –.029
MonMod2   .099 –.181 –.100 –.078 –.059
* = p < .05, ** = p < .01
Again, the results are meagre. Subjects who regularly use their L1 for professional
purposes achieve a slightly higher VF score and use slightly less pauses in free
speech. None of the other measures has any impact.
150	 Monika S. Schmid
6.	 Discussion
Considering how widely accepted the dictum is that L1 use prevents L1 attrition,
the results presented above are quite startling. While the initial analyses clearly
showed that the attriters differ from the control group speakers, there is little or
no correlation with the self-reports on frequency of L1 use. In other words, while
there clearly is an attrition effect, the amount of use of the L1 in daily life does not
seem to have any predictive power for this effect.
In other areas of bilingual investigation, the impact of frequency of activation
on accessibility has clearly been established. The findings from this study, however,
suggest the possibility that frequency and recency of activation play a less promi-
nent role in L1 attrition than they do in other bilingual or multilingual contexts.
This suggests a rather intriguing possibility: it is probably safe to claim that there
are no other areas of abstract knowledge that are rehearsed as extensively as a
linguistic system that is acquired in a monolingual setting until adulthood. It may
thus be possible that there is a kind of saturation point of rehearsal. Such a proc-
ess of stabilization of knowledge through massive rehearsal has been suggested as
one possible explanation for the so-called Critical Period, as an alternative to bio-
logically-based brain plasticity models (Pallier, this volume). I would suggest the
possibility that once this point has been reached, frequent activation is no longer
necessary to maintain accessibility, and that in such a case, inhibition becomes
the process which impacts upon the activation threshold. In other words, attri-
tion might depend less on the mere frequency to which the L1 is continued to be
spoken than had previously been assumed, since quality of contact might be more
important than quantity, and more and more to the fact that monolingual mode
use of the L2 demands that the L1 be inhibited (see also Köpke, this volume).
In this context it is interesting to see that, meagre though they are, those pre-
dictors that do have a significant impact on lexical access and diversity all belong
to L1 use in the intermediate mode. It should therefore also be considered that
virtually any experimental setting investigating L1 attrition belongs to that same
type of interaction. The participants in the investigation will be aware that the in-
vestigator is proficient in their L2, and furthermore the setting is usually the sub-
ject’s country of residence, so that L2 can be considered quite active and visible.
On the other hand, the relative formality of the situation (a scientific experiment)
and the prestige of the investigator (an academic, a scientist) will in all probability
signal to the subject that codeswitching is less appropriate in this situation than it
would be in an informal interaction with friends. As was pointed out above, this
is probably the type of situation in which inhibition of L2 is most difficult.
It is therefore possible that the results presented above are to some degree
the outcome of more or less ‘practice’ with L1 use and L2 inhibition in this kind
	 The role of L1 use for L1 attrition	 151
of situation. Subjects who routinely use their L1 in this type of interaction may
find it easier to inhibit their L2, and this might account for the better results and
easier access to L1 which these subjects have shown on some of the dependent
variables.
If such were to be the case, then the impact of both L1 and L2 use in the situ-
ations detailed above for other types of linguistic knowledge should have to be
further looked into. The present study has confined itself to issues of lexical ac-
cessibility. Further studies should investigate to what degree grammatical knowl-
edge (e.g. with respect to inherent and contextual inflection, such as gender and
plural information across the NP, or information on tense inflection of words) is
affected.
Most of all, however, the findings from this investigation suggest that it is
relatively meaningless to study the attrition and use of only one of a bilingual’s
languages in isolation, and exclude the development and use of the other. The
results above suggest a delicate balance of the two language systems and their acti-
vation, inhibition, and accessibility. To what degree actual underlying knowledge
is affected by this state of balance, which is probably in continual shift across the
lifespan, and almost certainly affected by far more parameters than this study has
thought to include, is, and remains, a mystery.
Acknowledgements
I am grateful to Marianne Gullberg, Merel Keijzer, Barbara Köpke, Chris McCully
as well as two anonymous reviewers for their helpful and valuable comments on
earlier versions of this paper. With respect to the statistical analysis, I would like
to thank Elise Dusseldorp for her insights and advice. Any remaining mistakes
and oversights are mine.
References
Ammerlaan, T. (1996). “You get a bit wobbly...” – Exploring bilingual lexical retrieval processes
in the context of first language attrition. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Nijmegen:
Katholieke Universiteit Nijmegen.
Cook, V. (2005). “The changing L1 in the L2 user’s mind”. Paper presented at the 2nd
International Conference on First Language Attrition, Amsterdam: 18 August 2005.
de Bot, K., Gommans, P. & Rossing, C. (1991). “L1 loss in an L2 environment: Dutch immigrants
in France”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 87–98).
Cambridge: CUP.
152	 Monika S. Schmid
de Bot, K. & Clyne, M. (1994). “A 16-year longitudinal study of language attrition in Dutch
immigrants in Australia”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 15 (1),
17–28.
Goodglass, H. & Kaplan, E. (1983). The Assessment of Aphasia and Related Disorders.
Philadelphia, PA: Lea & Febiger.
Green, D. (1998). “Mental control of the bilingual lexico-semantic system”. Bilingualism:
Language and Cognition, 1, 67–81.
Grosjean, F. (2001). “The bilingual’s language modes”. In J. Nicol (Ed.), One Mind, Two
Languages: Bilingual language processing (pp. 1–22). Oxford: Blackwell.
Gürel, A. (2004). “Selectivity in L2-induced L1 attrition: A psycholinguistic account”. Journal of
Neurolinguistics, 17 (1), 53–78.
Hulsen, M. (2000). Language Loss and Language Processing: Three generations of Dutch migrants
in New Zealand. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Nijmegen: Katholieke Universiteit
Nijmegen.
Jaspaert, K. & Kroon, S. (1989). “Social determinants of language loss”. Review of Applied
Linguistics (I.T.L.), 83/84, 75–98.
Keijzer, M. C. J. & Schmid, M. S. (2005). “Building language attrition research”. Toegepaste
Taalwetenschap in Artikelen, 73, 201–207.
Köpke, B. (1999). L’ attrition de la première langue chez le bilingue tardif : Implications pour
l’ étude psycholinguistique du bilinguisme. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Toulouse:
Université de Toulouse-Le Mirail.
Köpke, B. (2002). “Activation thresholds and non-pathological L1 attrition”. In F. Fabbro (Ed.),
Advances in the Neurolinguistics of Bilingualism (pp. 119–142). Udine: Forum.
MacWhinney, B. (2006). The CHILDES Project. Tools for analyzing talk – Electronic edition.
Volume 2: Transcription format and programs. Part 2: The CLAN Programs. http://childes.
psy.cmu.edu/manuals/CLAN.pdf.
McKee, G., Malvern, D. & Richards, B. (2000). “Measuring vocabulary diversity using dedicated
software”. Literary and Linguistic Computing, 15 (3), 323–337.
Nakuma, C. (1997). “A method for measuring the attrition of communicative competence: A
pilot study with Spanish L3 subjects”. Applied Psycholinguistics (APsy), 18 (2), 219–235.
Paradis, M. (1993). “Linguistic, psycholinguistic, and neurolinguistic aspect of ‘Interference’
in bilingual speakers: The Activation Threshold Hypothesis” International Journal of
Psycholinguistics, 9 (2), 133–145.
Paradis, M. (2004). A Neurolinguistic Theory of Bilingualism. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Perdue, C. (1993). Adult Language Acquisition: Cross-linguistic perspectives. Cambridge: CUP.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German Jews
in Anglophone Countries. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S. (2005). “First language attrition: The methodology revised.” International Journal
of Bilingualism, 8 (3), 239–255.
Schmitt, E. (to apear). “When boundarieas are crossed: Evaluating language attrition data from
two perspectives”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition (special issue L1 attrition, 2009).
van Hell, J. & Dijkstra, T. (2002). “Foreign language knowledge can influence native language
performance in exclusively native contexts”. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 9 (4), 780–
789.
Yağmur, K. (1997). First language Attrition Among Turkish Speakers in Sydney. Tilburg: Tilburg
University Press.
	 The role of L1 use for L1 attrition	 153
Appendix
Table 1.  ANCOVA dependent variables
Variable Group Age Education R2
VF1 .000 .095 .022 .244
VF2 .006 .012 .706 .121
D .002 .178 .026 .129
PAUS/TOK .010 .678 .511 .067
RETRTOK .009 .297 .606 .080
REPTOK .000 .952 .629 .103
Critical periods in language acquisition
and language attrition
Christophe Pallier
Unité de Neuroimagerie Cognitive, INSERM U562, SHFJ & IFR 49, 
Orsay, France
This paper reviews some of the predictions and assumptions made by different
versions of the Critical Period Hypothesis which assumes that language acquisi-
tion will in principle be more successful in younger subjects. Findings from in-
vestigations of early vs. delayed acquisition of both a first and a second language
which support this claim are presented. The question is then addressed whether
the overall difference in ultimate attainment is a consequence of a loss of neural
plasticity, or of the stabilizing of neural connections through the language learn-
ing process itself. The findings from a study of the L1 attrition of Korean adop-
tees in France are presented in support of the latter explanation.
Keywords: critical period; adoptees; neuroimaging; Korean
The issue of the “critical period hypothesis for language acquisition” is the focus of
a vast literature (see, among others, Birdsong 1999a; Doupe & Kuhl 1999; Harley
& Wang 1997; Lenneberg 1967; Long 1990; Newport, Bavelier & Neville 2001;
Singleton & Lengyel 1995). It is important to stress at the outset that the expres-
sion “Critical Period Hypothesis” (CPH) is used with two different meanings. The
first meaning of the CPH corresponds to an empirical hypothesis according to
which humans are more efficient at language learning in the first years of life. In
other words, the CPH states that age of acquisition is an important predictor of
ultimate proficiency: the older one starts to learn a language, the smaller the odds
of reaching native-like proficiency.
The expression “critical period hypothesis” is also sometimes used to refer
to the concept that an age-related decline in neural plasticity is the cause of in-
creasing difficulties in language learning (Penfield & Roberts 1959). According
to this second meaning, the CPH is a potential explanation of age effects on lan-
guage acquisition. The two meanings must be distinguished because there may
156	 Christophe Pallier
be a critical period according to the first meaning, that is, a detrimental effect of
age of acquisition on ultimate proficiency in a language, even if the explanation
in terms of loss of neural plasticity is wrong. In other words, an adverse effect of
age of acquisition (AoA) may have other causes than irreversible neural changes
(Birdsong 1999b lists some alternative explanations).
Another point is worth emphasizing. In the framework of the Critical Period
Hypothesis (with the second meaning), it is often assumed that the putative loss
of plasticity is due to maturational factors. Yet, it could also be the outcome of lan-
guage acquisition itself, as suggested by the following quote from Wilder Penfield,
one of the earliest advocates of the CPH:
Before the child begins to speak and to perceive, the uncommitted cortex is a
blank slate on which nothing has been written. In the ensuing years much is
written, and the writing is normally never erased. After the age of ten or twelve,
the general functional connexions have been established and fixed for the speech
cortex.  (Penfield 1965: 792, cited by Dechert 1995)
Another variant is defended by Steve Pinker:
Language acquisition circuitry is not needed once it has been used. It should be
dismantled if keeping it around incurs any cost [...] Greedy neural tissue lying
around beyond its point of usefulness is a good candidate for the recycling bin.
 (Pinker 1994: 294–295)
The common theme is that once the child has learned the language(s) spoken
around him, the neural modifications are irreversible. Before assessing the merits
of competing theories, it has to be considered what the empirical evidence for a
critical period with the first meaning is. Can language be acquired at any age or
are the first years of life indeed critical?
Studies of critical periods in animals involve depriving the animals from
some relevant stimulation during a given time window. For obvious reasons, this
experimental approach cannot be used with humans: it would not be ethically
acceptable to deny children exposure to language. Nevertheless, a few observa-
tions of abandoned children suggest that their language skills remained severely
limited even after language instruction (e.g. Curtiss 1977; Itard 1964). Another
source of information comes from studies of groups of congenitally deaf people
who learned sign language as an L1 at different ages (Mayberry & Eichen 1991;
Newport 1990). These studies show that those who were exposed to sign language
in their very first years of life control it better than those who learned it in mid-
childhood; the latter, in turn, perform better than those who were first exposed to
sign language in their teens or later.
	 Critical periods, language acquisition and attrition	 157
While it is sometimes proposed that neural changes critical for language ac-
quisition occur around puberty, it seems that they can take place much earlier.
Studies of auditory and language development in deaf children who receive co-
chlear implants – an auditory prosthesis that stimulates the auditory nerve in
order to transmit acoustic information to the central auditory system – reveal that
beneficial effects of earlier implementation can be observed in children when they
are as young as 1 to 3 years of age (McConkey Robbins, Burton Koch, Osberger,
Zimmerman-Philips & Kishon-Rabin 2004; Tomblin, Barker, Spencer, Zhang &
Gantz 2005).
Are endogenous maturational factors the only cause of the age effect on L1
acquisition? There is evidence against this hypothesis. The fact that the deaf chil-
dren who did not learn L1 in infancy were deprived from normal linguistic input
in their first years of life plays a major role. This has been clearly established by
Mayberry, Lock & Kazmi (2001) who compared two groups of deaf adults who
had learned American Sign Language (ASL) relatively late, between 9 and 15
years of age. ASL was the L1 for the participants of the first group, who were con-
genitally deaf. Participants in the second group were born with normal hearing
and had started to acquire English before they became deaf. Therefore, ASL was
their L2 (note that the grammar of ASL differs markedly from English grammar
(Klima & Bellugi 1979)). Mayberry et al. found that the second group largely out-
performed the first in ASL. This result shows that experience plays a role because
if only maturational factors were at play then the proficiency in ASL should only
depend on age of acquisition of ASL and both groups should perform similarly.
Moreover, the fact that those who learned an L1 early in life performed better
than those who were deprived from any input contradicts Penfield’s idea that ex-
posure to the L1 “fixes” neural connections. On the contrary, learning and using a
language in the first years of life maintains the capacity to acquire a new language.
This observation corroborates the “exercise hypothesis” according to which the
language learning capacity decreases when it is not used (Bever 1981).
The studies on the effect of age on the acquisition of an L1 demonstrate that
deprivation has rapid detrimental effects on the capacity to learn a language. As
deprivation is the usual test applied to assess critical periods in animals, it ap-
pears undeniable that there is a critical period for L1 acquisition in humans. The
brain must be exposed to language to develop ‘normally’. One possible explana-
tion is that in the absence of linguistic stimulation, the brain areas that normally
subserve language processing may be recruited for other functions. This inter-
pretation is supported by data from Lee, Lee, Oh, Kim, Kim, Chung, Lee & Kim
(2001) showing that the benefits of cochlear implantation are inversely related
to the amount of metabolism in the temporal lobes. In other words, deaf people
who have an abnormally low metabolism in the temporal region profit more from
158	 Christophe Pallier
implants than the deaf people who have higher metabolism, presumably because
in the latter case, these areas are recruited for extra-linguistic functions. However,
more data is needed to confirm this interpretation.
Considering the detrimental effect of delays in learning an L1 as the result
of deprivation is a hypothesis remote from the ideas expressed in Penfield’s and
Pinker’s quotations above. Indeed, they propose that it becomes more difficult to
learn a language with age, either because learning the L1 has “fixed” the neural
connections (Penfield) or because the language learning systems are disposed of
when the L1 is acquired (Pinker). To accommodate the effects described above,
it would at least be necessary to modify Pinker’s proposal by adding that the lan-
guage learning system can also disappear when it is not stimulated, that is, in the
absence of linguistic input.
How does the CPH fare in the more common situation where people have
not been deprived of language exposure in early childhood, but have learned an
L2 later? The effect of age of acquisition of an L2 is the focus of a huge literature
which cannot be reviewed here (see Birdsong 1999a; Singleton & Lengyel 1995;
Strange 1995). In brief, the effect of age of acquisition (AoA) is indisputable: the
earlier an L2 is learned, the higher the likelihood of becoming a proficient speaker
in L2 (Singleton 1995). For example, AoA has a clear effect on foreign accent in
speech production (Flege, Munro & MacKay 1995; Oyama 1976; see Figure 1).
Even if other factors like duration of exposure and amount of use of an L2 also
influence its final level of proficiency, age of acquisition seems to be the strongest
predictor of ultimate achievement.
Figure 1.  Average foreign accent ratings for 240 native speakers of Italian who arrived in
English-speaking Canada between the age of 2 and 23 (filled circles) and 24 English con-
trols (squares). (Data are from Flege 1999)
	 Critical periods, language acquisition and attrition	 159
Having said that proficiency decreases with age of acquisition, two points are
still worth mentioning. First, this affirmation is a statistical claim over relatively
large samples of subjects. It does not imply that a given person should not try to
learn an L2 because he or she is already too old. There is considerable inter-indi-
vidual variability in L2 attainment and it may be possible that some individuals
manage to reach native-like performance even when they have learned their L2
well after childhood (see Birdsong 1999b; Bongaerts 1999; but also Hyltenstam &
Abrahamsson 2003).
Second, the shape of the curve relating age of acquisition and proficiency does
not conform to the notion that critical changes occur around puberty. For L1 ac-
quisition, the effects of delay in age of acquisition on L2 can occur very early. For
instance, Weber-Fox & Neville (1996) described Chinese-English bilinguals who
were immersed in English before 6 years of age, yet perform significantly worse
than native English speakers on some grammatical tests. Moreover, while some
versions of the CPH predict a discontinuity around puberty, plots of proficiency
in an L2 as a function of age of acquisition display a smooth, gradual decline start-
ing from early childhood and extending throughout life (Birdsong & Molis 2001;
Flege et al. 1995; Hakuta, Bialystok & Wiley 2003; see Figure 2). If the effect of age
of acquisition is due to a loss of neural plasticity, then the only legitimate conclu-
sion appears to be that the underlying neural changes are quite continuous and
are not restricted to a limited time window.
.	 Of course, if one finds individuals who obtain native-like scores on a range of linguistic
or psycholinguistics tests, this does not imply that they perform like monolinguals in every
respect. Thus, it is impossible to provide definite proof that a given bilingual subject has reached
native-like proficiency in his L2.
Figure 2.  Self-reported English proficiency for native Chinese immigrants as a function of
age of arrival, separated by educational attainment. Data reported in Hakuta et al. (2003)
160	 Christophe Pallier
Do delays in age of acquisition have similar effects for L1 and L2 acquisi-
tion? This is an important question because the answer could indicate whether
the same mechanism is at work in both cases. To my knowledge, data on the effect
of age on L1 acquisition are too scarce to know the precise shape of the age effect.
Yet, the study by Mayberry et al. (2001) suggests that the effect of delay on L1 ac-
quisition is much greater than for L2 acquisition. That is, the effect of deprivation
on language learning seems much more devastating than the effect of having been
exposed to an L1. Therefore, I believe it is likely that the effect of age of acquisition
for an L2 is due to a different mechanism.
One possible explanation appeals to maturational factors that engender a
progressive “loss of neural plasticity” in the brain (whether or not such a phe-
nomenon would be specific to language networks is debatable). Another type of
explanation postulates that it is the process of learning the L1 itself that stabilises
neural connections. The more advanced the learning of the L1, the less the lan-
guage networks can be modified by exposure to L2. Note that the two hypotheses
are not incompatible: both mechanisms could be at play during development. For
example, the proactive interference mechanism could be responsible for the slope
of the age function observed in the first ten years of life, while the maturational
constraints could play a role in the older age range.
As an instance of interference of L1 on L2 acquisition, consider the Spanish-
Catalan bilinguals described in Pallier, Bosch & Sebastian-Gallés (1997). Despite
extensive exposure to Catalan from the age of 4 to 6, the native Spanish speakers
do not perform like Catalan native speakers on the phonemic contrast between
open versus close /e/. A likely explanation is that this phonemic contrast involves
speech sounds which are assimilated onto a single phonemic category in Spanish
(this situation is called single category assimilation by Best (1995) or perceptual
equivalence by Flege, Takagi & Mann 1995). Thus, speakers of Spanish as an L1
hear Catalan through the filter of the Spanish phonetic system, an example of
interference from L1 onto L2.
Disentangling maturational and interference accounts is not an easy task. Yet,
it seems to us that while the maturational hypothesis entails the irreversibility of
changes, interference theories need not make this prediction. That is, contrary
to Penfield’s assertion, the modifications engendered by the learning processes
.	 In the title of the paper (Pallier, Bosch & Sebastian-Gallés 1997) we used the expression
“lack of behavioral plasticity” to describe this failure to acquire a new phonemic contrast. This
is because we deemed it unlikely that this limitation was due to a lack of neural plasticity in the
auditory cortex of the Spanish children. In the conclusion of the paper, we questioned whether
such an effect was irreversible or not.
	 Critical periods, language acquisition and attrition	 161
could be reversible. This leads to the interesting prediction that the acquisition of
an L2 might be facilitated if L1 ceased to be used.
What happens when someone learns an L2 after having stopped using L1? In-
ternational adoption provides an opportunity to address this question. A few years
ago we contacted organisations in charge of adoption in France and recruited a
small sample of young adults who had been adopted by French-speaking families
in their childhood. They were all born in Korea and came to France when they
were between 3 and 10 years old. All of them claim to have completely forgotten
Korean (though some had memories from their life in Korea.) This is seemingly a
very general phenomenon among internationally adopted children (Maury 1995,
1999). French had become the main language of our group of adoptees and they
speak it fluently without any detectable accent. We will briefly review here some
of the experiments performed on those participants (for more details, see Pallier,
Dehaene, Poline, LeBihan, Argenti, Dupoux & Mehler 2003; Sangrigoli, Pallier,
Argenti, Ventureyra & de Schonen 2005; Ventureyra 2005; Ventureyra & Pallier
2004; Ventureyra, Pallier & Yoo 2004).
Our first three behavioural experiments were designed to assess the adop-
tees’ residual knowledge of the Korean language. Their performances were com-
pared with that of a control group of native-French speakers who had never been
exposed to Korean, nor to any other Asian language (Pallier et al. 2003). The
Korean sentence identification experiment involved recognising sentences in Ko-
rean among recordings in different languages. In the word recognition experi-
ment, participants heard two Korean words and had to select the one which was
the translation of a given French word. Lastly, in the speech segment detection
experiment, the task was to decide if specific speech fragments were present in
sentences in various languages, including Korean. The results show similar pat-
terns of performance for the adoptees and for the control group of native French
speakers (see Figure 3), providing a first validation of the adoptees’ claim that they
had forgotten their L1.
While the participants performed the speech segment detection task, their
brain activity was monitored using functional magnetic resonance imaging
(fMRI), a technique that allows to detect changes in patterns of brain activity
when the participants process the stimuli. The individual analyses of fMRI data
showed no detectable difference in brain activity when comparing the cerebral
responses to Korean sentences versus Japanese or Polish sentences, two languages
to which the adoptees had never been exposed. Thus, brain imaging data and be-
havioural data converge on the conclusion that years of exposure to a language in
childhood are not sufficient to maintain a solid knowledge of this language.
This result can be interpreted in two different ways. First, the Korean lan-
guage may have been “erased” from the brain of the adoptees. This would con-
162	 Christophe Pallier
stitute strong evidence against versions of the CPH that state that some “neural
connections” become fixed in the early years of life, as a result of learning and/
or because of maturational factors. Such theories predict that the adoptees (at
least those who arrived at older ages) should have displayed some sensitivity to
Korean. The metaphor of the imprinted clay tablet used by Penfield therefore has
to be rejected. It must be noted, however, that as the adoptees from our studies
arrived in France before the age of ten, we cannot exclude the possibility that ir-
reversible changes occur after 10 years of age.
A second possible interpretation is that the paradigms used by Pallier et al.
(2003) lacked sensitivity and that further testing might uncover effects of the early
exposure to Korean. With Valerie Ventureyra, we ran a series of behavioural ex-
periments to test more thoroughly the remnants of Korean in a larger group of
twenty adoptees. In brief, we found virtually no significant difference between the
adoptees and native French speakers. For example, the adoptees did not perceive
the differences between Korean plain, tense and aspirated stop consonants better
than French participants (Ventureyra et al. 2005). The only difference between
the adoptees and native French speakers came about in an experiment assessing
.	 It would be desirable to know what happens when someone switches to a new language at
an age above 10. Studies of language attrition in adults seem to indicate that they show much
less attrition than children. Thus, it is possible that plots of language attrition as a function of
age show a non-linearity around puberty.
Figure 3.  Results on three behavioural tasks showing similar levels of performance of
Korean adoptees and a control group of French native speakers
	 Critical periods, language acquisition and attrition	 163
the recognition of the Korean number series: while the adoptees gave the highest
scores to Korean recordings (but did not recognise them formally), the control
participants who had never been exposed to Korean gave the highest scores to
Thaï and Chinese (Ventureyra & Pallier 2004). As these were the only tone lan-
guages included in the recordings, this may reflect an implicit knowledge of adop-
tees that Korean is not a tone language.
One important question is whether the adoptees could relearn their native
language faster or better than people who have never been exposed to Korean. If
the adoptees showed such an advantage, this would provide evidence for remnant
traces of early exposure to Korean. From an anecdotal point of view, the adoptees
who visited Korea for short stays (from a few days to a few months) did not mi-
raculously recover the ability to speak or comprehend the language, and nor did
the few who took Korean courses.
Some researchers have reported benefits of exposure to a language in infancy
or childhood when relearning it (Au, Knightly, Jun & Oh 2002; Oh, Jun, Knightly
& Au 2003; Tees & Werker 1984). For example, Oh et al. (2003) evaluated the per-
ception and production of Korean consonants by three groups enrolled in Korean
language classes: one group had spoken Korean regularly for a few years during
childhood, another group had heard Korean regularly during childhood but had
spoken it minimally, and a last group consisted of novice learners. The first two
groups performed better than the novice learners, demonstrating long-term ben-
efits of early childhood experience with Korean. In these studies, however, the
participants were not completely severed from the language of interest. In the
study by Oh et al. (2003), for example, the participants had been continuously ex-
posed to Korean for four hours a week on average. Therefore, their situation was
quite different from that of adoptees who had not been exposed at all to Korean
since adoption. Whether or not the adoptees would relearn their L1 faster than
novice learners remains an open question.
Let us now consider the L2 learned by the adoptees. Data from brain activa-
tions comparing the activations elicited by French and foreign languages show
similar patterns in the adoptees and the control group of native French speakers
(Pallier et al. 2003). Thus, the processing of French recruits the same brain areas
.	 A phonetic training experiment, described in Ventureyra’s thesis, was set up. Unfortunately,
most participants did not complete it, probably because the starting level of difficulty was too
high. This study is therefore not conclusive. Ideally, the participants in a retraining experiment
should be adoptees who enrolled in Korean language classes and have a high degree of motiva-
tion. At the 2nd International Conference on First Language Attrition held in 2005 in Amster-
dam, Kenneth Hyltenstam mentioned results obtained by Hyeon-Sook Park at the University
of Stockholm suggesting that after a few months of courses, Korean adoptees perceived Korean
consonants better than novice learners.
164	 Christophe Pallier
in both groups. Note however that this is a comparison between groups and that
there is non-negligible interindividual variability. Therefore it cannot be deter-
mined if the brain areas used by the adoptees to process French are precisely the
same that they used for processing Korean in their childhood (Kim, Relkin, Lee &
Hirsch 1997). Only a longitudinal study, where children could be scanned before
and after adoption, would settle this question.
A most important question regards the level of proficiency attained in French
by the adoptees. Pallier et al. (2003) did not provide any formal assessment of
this. We remarked informally that the adoptees spoke French fluently without
any noticeable accent. Yet, more stringent tests might reveal limitations in their
control of French (Cutler, Mehler, Norris & Segui 1989). Two further experiments
are relevant. The first assessed the sensitivity to phonotactic rules that differ be-
tween French and Korean. Korean speakers report hearing a vowel within certain
types of illegal consonant clusters, a phenomenon known as vowel epenthesis
(Dupoux, Kakehi, Hirose, Pallier & Mehler 1999). Korean participants who have
been speaking French for a few years still experience this illusion. When we tested
adoptees, however, we found that they perceived consonant clusters in the same
way as native French speakers do. Their speech perception system has become
tuned to French phonotactic properties.
The second experiment dealt with lexical gender, a feature which is particu-
larly difficult to acquire for native speakers of Korean who learn French as an
L2. The participants listened to French sentences, some of which contained ei-
ther gender agreement mistakes or semantic anomalies. The participants were
instructed to press a button as soon as they detected any type of anomaly in a
sentence, allowing measurement of both error rates and reaction times. Beside a
group of adoptees and a group of native French participants, the experiment also
included a third group of native Koreans, speakers of French as an L2 who had
been living in France for a few years. The results showed that, as expected, this
last group had great difficulties in detecting gender agreement mistakes. By con-
trast, the adoptees’ performance was similar to that of native speakers of French.
This was the case even for the participants who arrived in France when they were
around 8 to 10 years of age (and in none of the experiments did the age of adop-
tion correlate with the participants’ scores.)
These experiments demonstrate that the adoptees had mastered the phono-
tactics of French and its lexical gender system. Of course, one cannot exclude the
possibility that more demanding tasks might eventually reveal deficiencies in the
adoptees’ control of French.
The set of data obtained in these series of experiments, as well as Mayberry
et al.’s results on post-lingually deaf who learned ASL after 9 years of age, argue
against irreversible modifications occurring in the first ten years of life, either be-
	 Critical periods, language acquisition and attrition	 165
cause of maturational constraints or as a by-product of learning the L1. Provided
one is exposed to a language in the first years of life, the language systems prob-
ably remain highly plastic until at least 10 years of age.
If so, one may ask why an L2 acquired in the first 10 years of life is not nec-
essarily perfectly mastered? Our experiments on adoptees were inspired by the
interference hypothesis according to which L2 acquisition is hampered by L1. To
definitely prove this hypothesis, however, it would be necessary to compare the
adoptees with immigrants having a similar background, and who have learned L2
while continuing to use their L1. If the interference account is correct, then the
adoptees should have a better proficiency in the L2 than the immigrants. We hope
that such a study can be conducted in the future.
Finally, it is interesting to know what happens when someone switches to
a new language at an age above 10. In fact, studies of language attrition suggest
that adults show much less attrition than children (Ammerlaan 1996; Pelc 2001
reviewed by Köpke & Schmid 2004). Thus, language attrition, contrary to L2 ac-
quisition, may show a discontinuity around puberty.
References
Ammerlaan, T. (1996). “You get a bit wobbly...” – Exploring bilingual lexical retrieval processes
in the context of first language attrition. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Nijmegen:
Katholieke Universiteit Nijmegen.
Au, T. K., Knightly, L. M., Jun, S.-A. & Oh, J. S. (2002). “Overhearing a language during
childhood”. Psychological Science, 13 (3), 238–243.
Best, C. (1995). “A direct realist view of cross-language speech perception”. In W. Strange (Ed.),
Speech Perception and Linguistic Experience: Theoretical and methodological issues (pp.
171–204). Baltimore, MD: York Press.
Bever, T. (1981). “Normal acquisition processes explain the critical period for language
learning”. In K. Diller (Ed.), Individual Differences in Language Learning Aptitude (pp.
176–198). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Birdsong, D. (Ed.) (1999a). Second Language Acquisition and the Critical Period Hypothesis.
Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Birdsong, D. (1999b). “Whys and why nots of the critical period hypothesis for second language
acquisition”. In D. Birdsong (Ed.), Second Language Acquisition and the Critical Period
Hypothesis (pp. 1–22). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Birdsong, D. & Molis, M. (2001). “On the evidence for maturational constraints in second-
language acquisition”. Journal of Memory and Language, 44, 235–249.
Bongaerts, T. (1999). “Ultimate attainment in second language pronunciation: The case of
very advanced late second language learners”. In D. Birdsong (Ed.), Second Language
Acquisition and the Critical Period Hypothesis (pp. 133–159). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum Associates.
166	 Christophe Pallier
Curtiss, S. (1977). Genie: A psycholinguistic study of a modern day ‘wild child’. New York, NY:
Academic Press.
Cutler, A., Mehler, J., Norris, D. & Segui, J. (1989). “Limits on bilingualism”. Nature, 340, 229–
230.
Dechert, H. W. (1995). “Some critical remarks concerning Penfield’s theory of second language
acquisition”. In D. Singleton & Z. Lengyel (Eds.), The Age Factor in Second Language
Acquisition (pp. 67–94). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Doupe, A. J. & Kuhl, P. K. (1999). “Birdsong and human speech: Common themes and
mechanisms”. Annual Review of Neuroscience, 22, 567–631.
Dupoux, E., Kakehi, K., Hirose, Y., Pallier, C. & Mehler, J. (1999). “Epenthetic vowels in
Japanese: A perceptual illusion?” Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception
and Performance, 25, 1568–1578.
Flege, J. E. (1999). Age of learning and L2 speech. In D. Birdsong (Ed.), Second Language
Acquisition and the Critical Period Hypothesis (pp. 101–131). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.
Flege, J. E., Munro, M. J. & MacKay, I. R. A. (1995). “Factors affecting strength of perceived
foreign accent in a second language”. Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 97, 3125–
3134.
Hakuta, K., Bialystok, E. & Wiley, E. (2003). “Critical evidence: A test of the critical-period
hypothesis for second language acquisition”. Psychological Science, 14, 31–38.
Harley, B. & Wang, W. (1997). “The critical period hypothesis: Where are we now?”. In A. M.
B. de Groot & J. F. Kroll (Eds.), Tutorials in Bilingualism: Psycholinguistic perspectives (pp.
19–51). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Hyltenstam, K. & Abrahamsson, N. (2003). “Maturational constraints in SLA”. In C. J. Doughty
& M.H. Long (Eds.), Handbook of Second Language Acquisition (pp. 539–588). Oxford:
Blackwell.
Itard, J. (1964). “Mémoire et rapport sur Victor de l’Aveyron”. In L. Malson (Ed.), Les enfants
sauvages: Mythes et réalité (pp. 119–246). Paris: Union Général d’éditions 10/18.
Kim, K. H. S., Relkin, N. R., Lee, K.-M. & Hirsch, J. (1997). “Distinct cortical areas associated
with native and second languages”. Nature, 388, 171–174.
Klima, E. & Bellugi, U. (1979). The Signs of Language. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press.
Köpke, B. & Schmid, M. S. (2004). “Language attrition: The next phase”. In M. S. Schmid,
B. Köpke, M. Keijzer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language Attrition: Interdisciplinary
perspectives on methodological issues (pp. 1–46). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Lee, D. S., Lee, J. S., Oh, S. H., Kim, S.-K., Kim, J.-W., Chung, J.-K., Lee, M. C. & Kim, C. S.
(2001). “Cross-modal plasticity and cochlear implants”. Nature, 409, 149–150.
Lenneberg, E. H. (1967). Biological Foundations of Language. New York, NY: Wiley.
Long, M. (1990). “Maturational constraints on language development”. Studies in Second
Language Acquisition, 12, 251–285.
Maury, F. (1995). Les mécanismes intrapsychiques de l’adoption internationale et interraciale.
L’ adoption des enfants coréens en France. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Paris:
Université de Paris VIII.
Maury, F. (1999). L’ adoption interraciale. Paris: L’Harmattan.
Mayberry, R. I. & Eichen, E. B. (1991). “The long-lasting advantage of learning sign language in
childhood: Another look at the critical period for language acquisition”. Journal of Memory
and Language, 30, 486–512.
	 Critical periods, language acquisition and attrition	 167
Mayberry, R. I., Lock, E. & Kazmi, H. (2001). “Linguistic ability and early language exposure”.
Nature, 417, 38.
McConkey Robbins, A., Burton Koch, D., Osberger, M. J., Zimmerman-Philips, S. & Kishon-
Rabin, L. (2004). “Effect of age at cochlear implantation on auditory skill development in
infants and toddlers”. Archives of Otolaryngology Head & Neck Surgery, 130, 570–574.
Newport, E. L. (1990). “Maturational constraints on language learning”. Cognitive Science, 14,
11–28.
Newport, E. L., Bavelier, D. & Neville, H. J. (2001). “Critical thinking about critical periods:
Perspectives on a critical period for language acquisition”. In E. Dupoux (Ed.), Language,
Brain and Cognitive Development (pp. 481–502). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Oh, J. S., Jun, S.-A., Knightly, L. M. & Au, T. K.-f. (2003). “Holding on to childhood language
memory”. Cognition, 86, B53–B64.
Oyama, S. (1976). “A sensitive period for the acquisition of a nonnative phonological system”.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 5, 261–283.
Pallier, C., Bosch, L. & Sebastian-Gallés, N. (1997). “A limit on behavioral plasticity in speech
perception”. Cognition, 64, B9–B17.
Pallier, C., Dehaene, S., Poline, J.-B., LeBihan, D., Argenti, A.-M., Dupoux, E. & Mehler, J.
(2003). “Brain imaging of language plasticity in adopted adults: Can a second language
replace the first?” Cerebral Cortex, 13, 155–161.
Pelc, L. (2001). L1 Lexical, Morphological and Morphosyntactic Attrition in Greek-English
Bilinguals. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, New York, NY: City University of New
York.
Penfield, W. (1965). “Conditioning the uncommitted cortex for language learning”. Brain, 88,
787–798.
Penfield, W. & Roberts, L. (1959). Speech and Brain Mechanisms. Princeton, NJ: Princeton
University Press.
Pinker, S. (1994). The Language Instinct. New York, NY: W. Morrow and Co.
Sangrigoli, S., Pallier, C., Argenti, A.-M., Ventureyra, V. & de Schonen, S. (2005). “Reversibility
of the other-race effect in face recognition during childhood”. Psychological Science, 16,
440–444.
Singleton, D. (1995). “A critical look at the critical period hypothesis in second language
acquisition research”. In D. Singleton & Z. Lengyel (Eds.), The Age Factor in Second
Language Acquisition: A critical look at the critical period hypothesis (pp. 1–29). Clevedon:
Multilingual Matters.
Singleton, D. & Lengyel, Z. (Eds.) (1995). The Age Factor in Second Language Acquisition: A
critical look at the critical period hypothesis. Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Strange, W. (Ed.) (1995). Speech Perception and Linguistic Experience: Theoretical and
methodological issues. Baltimore, MD: York Press.
Tees, R. C. & Werker, J. F. (1984). “Perceptual flexibility: Maintenance or recovery of the ability
to discriminate non-native speech sounds”. Canadian Journal of Psychology, 38, 579–590.
Tomblin, J., Barker, B., Spencer, L., Zhang, X. & Gantz, B. (2005). “The effect of age at cochlear
implants initial stimulation on expressive language growth in infants and toddlers”. Journal
of Speech, Language and Hearing Research, 48, 853–867.
Ventureyra,V.(2005).Alarecherchedelalangueperdue:Étudepsycholinguistiquedel’attritionde
la première langue chez des Coréens adoptés en France. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation,
Paris: Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales.
168	 Christophe Pallier
Ventureyra, V. & Pallier, C. (2004). “In search of the lost language: The case of adopted Koreans
in France”. In M. S. Schmid, B. Köpke, M. Keijzer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language
Attrition: Interdisciplinary perspectives on methodological issues (pp. 207–221). Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Ventureyra, V., Pallier, C. & Yoo, H.-Y. (2004). “The loss of first language phonetic perception
in adopted Koreans”. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17, 79–91.
Weber-Fox,C.M.&Neville,H.J.(1996).“Maturationalconstraintsonfunctionalspecializations
for language processing: ERP and behavioral evidence in bilingual speakers”. Journal of
Cognitive Neuroscience, 8, 231–256.
A hidden language
Recovery of a ‘lost’ language is triggered by hypnosis
Rosalie Footnick
Unité de Neuroimagerie Cognitive (CEA INSERM U562), Orsay, France
Our case study confirms two previous studies demonstrating that a ‘lost’ lan-
guage can be recovered by hypnosis. These results point to the existence of an-
other type of attrition. Here a distinction is made between this type of attrition
of a ‘hidden language’ (HL), that is, one that has not been forgotten but rather
has become inaccessible to the speaker, and the traditionally studied attrition
of a ‘forgotten language’ (FL). A conflict hypothesis is proposed to explain HL
attrition. An attempt is made to show how these two types of attrition could be
distinguished and to explain why brain imagery analyses are important for this
distinction.
Keywords: hypnosis; neuroimaging; language forgetting; accessibility; Ewe
Introduction
Investigations into language attrition can encounter at least three different types
of language loss, and for each type, loss can be either partial or total. The first type
of language loss results in a language system that can be called Type AL (abnormal
language), because the speech produced is clearly abnormal. This type is patho-
logical in origin as a direct result of physiological damage to the brain or other
parts of the speech system. This type of language loss is very well documented by
the extensive literature on aphasia, agnosia, agrammatism, etc. (e.g. Caplan 1992;
de Bleser 2003). A second type of attrited language system, non-pathological in
nature, can be designated as Type FL for a forgotten language. This type occurs
when a speaker has acquired a native language which, either through lack of use
together with the use of another one, or through interference when two or more
.	 Attrition can also affect a second or foreign language, but here we are concerned with L1
attrition.
170	 Rosalie Footnick
languages are in constant use, is in a process of forgetting or restructuring. And
thirdly, we argue, it is also possible that a language only appears to be forgotten.
This last type will be referred to here as HL – a hidden language.
Knowledge of a language can attrite partially (e.g. Cook 2003; Lambert &
Freed 1982; Schmid 2002; Schmid, Köpke, Keijzer & Weilemar 2004; Seliger &
Vago 1991) or totally (Pallier, Dehaene, Poline, LeBihan, Argenti, Dupoux &
Mehler 2003; Ventureyra, Pallier & Yoo 2004). An example of total language at-
trition, which seems to be due to forgetting, is described by Pallier et al. (2003)
and Ventureyra et al. (2004) in studies on Korean adoptees (mean age 26.6) who
no longer had any contact with their native Korean after their arrival in French
families between the ages of 3 and 10. A functional magnetic resonance imaging
(fMRI) study showed no specific brain activity when the adopted Korean par-
ticipants were listening to Korean sentences as opposed to sentences in unknown
languages, such as Japanese or Polish.
Pallier (this volume) suggests that there is empirical evidence that could put
into question the notion (Penfield 1965) that the acquisition of an L1 will always
leave long-lasting traces in the brain, since their Korean adoptees appear to have
entirely lost their L1. However, Pallier allows the possibility that there may be
traces of the adoptees’ early exposure to Korean which their paradigm was not
able to uncover. Thus, the question remains – is it possible that an L1 cannot
be erased from memory, but rather only becomes more and more inaccessible
(Sharwood Smith & van Buren 1991)?
If it could be demonstrated that in certain cases an L1 seems to be erased
from memory but, in fact, is only inaccessible to the speaker, this would be a case
of the third type of attrition proposed above, that which results in a hidden lan-
guage (HL). Contrary to the first type of language loss, which is attrition resulting
in a forgetting process, an HL exists when a language has been acquired as a na-
tive (or a second) language and, at some later date, becomes largely inaccessible to
the speaker, rather than just being restructured or partly forgotten. It is proposed
that when the inaccessible language is an HL, the memory traces are still stored in
the brain but blocked from accessibility by some unknown mechanism.
There are two previous studies (As 1962; Fromm 1970) which report the
recovery of a lost language through the use of hypnosis, giving support to the
suggestion that such a mechanism is possible. The present study represents an
attempt to replicate and confirm these findings. Since hypnosis is not usually con-
sidered an acceptable tool, and since the ‘loss’ of the L1 can only be established
on the basis of the participant’s self-report, the initial intention was to obtain ob-
jective data to document the difference between the ‘during hypnosis’ and ‘out of
hypnosis’ conditions. Such data were to be provided by the monitoring of brain
activity before, during and after hypnosis by means of fMRI.
	 Recovery of a hidden language through hypnosis	 171
Unfortunately, it became clear during the experiment that this second step
would not be possible, due to our participant’s surprising level of recovery of his
lost language, Mina, after several sessions of hypnosis (Sections 3.2 and 3.3). This
process, however, cannot be taken to indicate that every forgotten language is also
an HL. The conditions between the participant for the present study (CK) and, for
example, the Korean adoptees were different: CK had had passive exposure to his
lost language for a few hours almost every week for 15 years; whereas the adoptees
had had no exposure to Korean. Furthermore, the separation between the use of
one language and acquisition of the other was less clear-cut in the present case,
since CK continued to speak his L1 (French) during the three years in which he
was acquiring his L2 (Mina), whereas the adoptees never spoke Korean after leav-
ing Korea.
The present paper will propose a ‘conflict’ hypothesis as a possible explana-
tion of the attrition process which results in an HL. Briefly, it is proposed that after
acquiring the HL, the speaker had a conflict with regard to producing it, and this
resulted in that language becoming inaccessible to him. This hypothesis will be
described in the following terms: (1) a conflict can cause information to become
inaccessible in a manner that is not ‘normal’ forgetting; (2) hypnosis can decrease
conflict, and (3) a decrease in conflict can allow blocked information to become
accessible to the speaker. Previous neuroimaging studies will be presented to sup-
port each of these three ideas.
1.	 Past studies of attrition resulting in an HL
1.1	 As (1962)
As (1962) conducted an experiment to determine if a ‘lost’ language could be re-
covered through the use of hypnosis, specifically using age-regression. The age-
regression technique is used in hypnosis to enable the participant to concentrate
completely on a particular past age period specifically in order to enable him/her
to describe images and events that happened during that period very vividly. How-
ever, the concern is not the entire age period, but the vividness of the description
of specific events during that age period. Whether or not this method gives com-
pletely accurate access to childhood memories is controversial (Kihlstrom 2003).
The participant was an 18-year-old American who had immigrated to the
United States from Sweden at the age of 5. At the time of the experiment he said
that he could not recall his native language. He was born to Swedish parents liv-
ing in Finland. They divorced and he moved to the States with his mother, who
172	 Rosalie Footnick
remarried when he was almost 7, and told him that they were not to converse in
Swedish, since the new stepfather only spoke English.
A distribution of scores for the participant’s knowledge of Swedish before and
during hypnosis was made, using 56 questions asked orally in Swedish (e.g., How
old are you? Do you have a brother? Can you point to your head?). Under hyp-
nosis with age-regression, the participant was able to answer significantly more
questions correctly. The author described definite progress, according to the tests
he gave, in the participant’s ability to understand and speak Swedish during hyp-
nosis after four sessions.
1.2	 Fromm (1970)
Fromm (1970) came across the recovery of a ‘lost’ language accidentally. The au-
thor was asked to watch a hypnotic training session, in order to give a young
therapist feedback. The participant was a 26-year-old Japanese-American student,
who said he did not know Japanese. Fromm had just returned from Japan where
she had learned a few sentences of that language. During the hypnosis, when the
participant was age-regressed to 7 years old, Fromm used her limited repertoire
of Japanese which the participant was unable to understand. Some months later,
Fromm used the same participant to demonstrate hypnosis and age-regression.
This time the participant was age-regressed to 3 years old and, without provoca-
tion, the participant spoke rapid Japanese which lasted 10 minutes. Out of hypno-
sis, he could not speak Japanese and he had spontaneous posthypnotic amnesia.
A taped session confirmed that the participant was able to speak Japanese
fluently when age-regressed to 3 years old. When the participant listened to the
recording out of hypnosis, he was only able to understand a few isolated words.
A translation of the tape revealed that from 1 to 4 years old the participant had
been put into a relocation camp with his family during World War II where he
had spoken Japanese.
2.	 Pilot study of an HL
A pilot study was conducted in collaboration with C. Pallier and N. Prieur to seek
confirmation of the results of As and of Fromm. If the reactivation of an HL un-
der hypnosis could be confirmed, it was intended to add fMRI data which would
.	 Americans of Japanese descent in California had been put into these camps during the
war.
	 Recovery of a hidden language through hypnosis	 173
show the brain activity associated with the ‘lost’ language before, during and after
hypnosis.
The 21-year-old participant for this pilot study, CK, was a university student
in Paris. He was born in Paris to Togolese parents who only spoke French in the
home. At the age of 2½ years, he, his mother and his older brother went to live
with his grandmother in Togo, where they stayed for 3 ½ years and then returned
to Paris. During that time, he acquired and spoke fluent Mina (a simplified spoken
local variant of Ewe) with his grandmother – whom he adored – and with his play-
mates. Upon his return to Paris, CK’s mother was told by the head of the primary
school that speaking Mina in the home would hinder CK’s scholastic achievement.
CK’s mother related this to him and told him not to use Mina any more.
At the time that the author interviewed CK, he said that he was unable to
understand or speak Mina which he had not spoken since he was 6 years old. CK
could only understand and produce about 30 isolated words all of which con-
cerned food, school or childhood games, such as, ‘grandmother’, ‘brother’, ‘milk’,
‘to play’, etc. This loss of Mina had taken place in spite of the fact that CK was
present at family gatherings where Mina was spoken almost every Sunday. He
said he was never able to participate in any of those conversations.
The therapist Nicole Prieur (NP), who uses hypnosis for therapeutic reasons,
decided to use the age-regression technique during hypnosis with CK, since he
had habitually used Mina between 3 and 6 years of age. A preliminary session
established that CK was a highly hypnotizable participant. In that session, CK was
tested to see what he could understand and produce in Mina out of hypnosis. The
participant served as his own control, since his ability to understand and speak
Mina out of hypnosis was compared to when he was under hypnosis. A transla-
tor (AW) was present to ask CK questions in Mina. AW communicated with the
therapist in written French for guidance for the questions. During each session,
CK was put under hypnosis for one hour and all sessions were taped. The number
of sessions was to be guided by CK’s ability to understand and to produce Mina
during hypnosis. About one month elapsed between the sessions for translation
and analysis of data. There were six sessions.
.	 The participant gave written informed consent. Our participant was not an adoptee. For
ethical reasons, it is complicated to do the type of experiment that we were setting up with an
adoptee.
174	 Rosalie Footnick
Due to the work on priming and hypnosis, NP gave CK an exact posthyp-
notic suggestion just before ending each session – “Forget everything that has
taken place during hypnosis, nothing, not a single word, will remain in your
mind”. This was to avoid priming effects, since it was undesirable that CK should
recover his Mina out of hypnosis before the planned fMRI part of the experiment,
which could only take place when it was clear that he could recover Mina under
hypnosis. It was agreed with CK that he would not know anything about the ses-
sions until the experimenters chose to give that information.
2.1	 Experiment and results
The sessions, with CK under hypnosis and age-regressed to 4 or 5 years old, con-
sisted of a free conversation and sometimes included a questionnaire. These parts
were designed to observe CK’s ability: (1) to participate in free spontaneous con-
versation in Mina with the translator during hypnosis and (2) to answer a series
of prearranged questions asked by the translator in Mina before, during and after
hypnosis. During hypnosis, the beginning of the free conversation always took
place with the therapist in French. CK, age-regressed, was asked to describe a
scene of his life in Togo that he could remember from that age period. CK would
recall these scenes in French and say what he thought the people in the scenes
were saying. Then, while continuing to describe these scenes, CK was asked to
talk with the translator in Mina about them.
For Session 1, twenty prearranged questions (appropriate for a 5-year-old)
were read out by the translator in Mina three times: once before, once during and
.	 Priming is an increase in the ability to identify or produce an item (e.g., a word, a number,
etc.) as a result of previous exposure to that item. There are two main types of priming, one type
occurs when the participant is not conscious of the effect (subliminal exposure) and the other
occurs with the participant conscious of the previous exposure (Posner 1978).
.	 Kihlstrom’s original study (1980) showed that a posthypnotic suggestion given to partici-
pants – to forget everything that took place under hypnosis – resulted in priming in a test for
implicit memory and no priming in a test for explicit memory. In the declarative (explicit and
conscious) memory system is knowledge of facts (semantic knowledge) and events (episodic
knowledge). In the procedural (implicit and non-conscious) memory system is knowledge
which is expressed through performance in habits and skills, and simple forms of conditioning.
Bike riding and native language are considered to be examples of implicit memory (Squire 1987
& Tulving 1972).
.	 A posthypnotic suggestion is an idea given to the hypnotized person which is to be carried
out after the person is no longer under hypnosis. Sometimes the therapist gives a cue for carry-
ing out the suggestion after hypnosis and another cue for ending the suggestion.
	 Recovery of a hidden language through hypnosis	 175
once after hypnosis (Can you point to your arms? What games do you like to play?
Do you have a brother? What kind of food do you like?).
Example out of hypnosis in Session 1:
	 (1)	 Translator in Mina: “Do you have a brother?”
		 CK: “Je comprends ‘frère’ mais je ne comprends pas le sens de la phrase. Si
je dois répondre par ‘oui’ ou ‘non’, j’imagine que je dirais ‘oui’ à une question
concernant mon frère.” (‘I understand ‘brother’ but not the meaning of the
sentence. If I had to answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’, I guess I would say ‘yes’ to a question
concerning my brother.’)
Example under hypnosis in Session 1 with CK age-regressed to 4 years old:
	 (2)	 Translator in Mina: “Do you have a brother?”
		 CK: “Oui” (‘Yes’)
CK could understand several isolated words but not complete sentences. Several
of the words in Mina that CK knew were deliberately used in the questionnaire to
help him to begin to speak Mina, but it became evident that CK could sometimes
guess the global meaning of the sentence from knowing one or two words. In ad-
dition, the fact that it was possible to answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to several of the questions
made the results unclear as Example (2) above shows.
CK’s answers were divided into three categories: Category 1 refers to respons-
es which indicate that he did not understand the question, or which consist of
oui (‘yes’) or non (‘no’). Category 2 contains those responses which indicate that
a few words of the question, or the question’s global meaning were understood.
Category 3 responses show that CK understood the question completely. Table 1
shows that there is no difference before, during and after hypnosis with respect
to the distributions of responses between the three conditions in the first session
(numbers are given in percentage of total number of responses).
In Session 2, for the first 28 minutes after the beginning of hypnosis, the ther-
apist and translator were trying to coax CK, age-regressed to four years old, into
answering questions in Mina concerning the scene he was describing about his
life in Togo. CK produced a word here and there in Mina during this time. Then,
for the first time, CK said a few complete simple sentences in Mina and without
any accent or errors in grammar.
Table 1.  Percentage of CK’s responses for each category in Session 1
Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Total %
Before hypnosis (n = 20) 30 60 10 100
During hypnosis (n = 20) 25 65 10 100
After hypnosis (n = 20) 25 65 10 100
176	 Rosalie Footnick
An example during hypnosis of an interaction totally in Mina in Session 2:
	 (3)	 Translator: “What is your grandmother doing?”
		 CK: “She is preparing a sauce.”
		 Translator: “What dish is she preparing?”
		 CK: “Smoked chicken and gombo”
		 Translator: “What else is she putting into the sauce?”
		 CK: “She’s putting in some salt.”
Table 2 shows that in Session 3 during hypnosis, CK understood less than in Ses-
sion 2. Example (4) below appears to indicate that CK was blocking or refusing
to answer the translator in Mina, because it became clear that he was capable of
answering. This interaction occurred when CK was describing a scene (under
hypnosis and age-regressed) that he said he had seen happening in Togo. There
were three interactions of this type in Session 3.
	 (4)	 Translator in Mina: “Can you tell me what is happening in the street in
Mina?”
		 CK in French: “Non.” (‘No’)
		 Translator: “Qu’est que les adultes dans la rue sont en train de dire en mina?”
(‘What are the adults in the street saying in Mina?’)
		 CK in French: “Rien” (‘Nothing’)
		 Therapist (in a tone of voice which is gently pushing CK to respond): “Qu’est
que les adultes disent en mina?” (‘What are the adults saying in Mina?)
		 CK in Mina: “Don’t play ball in the street.”
.	 Before and after hypnosis CK was unable to understand any complete sentence or to pro-
duce a complete sentence in Mina in all sessions.
Table 2.  Percentage of responses for each category in Sessions 2, 3, 4 and 5 
during hypnosis7
Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Total %
CK answers
in French
CK answers
in Mina
Session 2 (n=64) 57.8 6.2   4.7 31.2   99.9
Session 3 (n=81) 80.2 0   3.7   8.6   92.5*
Session 4 (n=58)   8.6 0 77.6 13.8 100
Session 5 (n=79) 27.8 0   0 72.1   99.9
*In this session, 7.4% of CK’s responses were sounds that were incomprehensible and when he was asked
to be more precise, he would just make another sound. Thus these responses could not fit into any category
and were not counted in the results.
	 Recovery of a hidden language through hypnosis	 177
In Session 4 two new elements were introduced. This was done because there had
been a decrease in CK’s understanding in Session 3 compared to Session 2. First,
NP put CK into a deeper hypnosis, and second, she suggested to CK, when under
hypnosis and age-regressed, that he was not speaking Mina himself, but rather
just mouthing what the other people in the scene he was describing were saying.
An example of this with CK under hypnosis in Session 4:
	 (5)	 Therapist: “Qu’est-ce qu’elles disent, simplement répète ce qu’elles sont en
train de dire.” (‘What are the girls saying, just repeat what they say.’)
		 CK: “Il a pris l’argent avec lui.” (‘He took the money with him.’)
		 Therapist: “Mais maintenant je veux l’entendre des bouches des filles, ce n’est
pas vous qui me le racontez, laissez votre bouche dire leurs mots.” (‘But now I
want to hear it from the girls, you are not telling me, let your mouth say their
words.’)
		 CK: “J’essaye, mais je n’y arrive pas.” (‘I am trying to, but I can’t seem to.’)
		 Therapist: “Ce n’ est pas vous qui dites quelque chose, ce sont les filles qui sont
en train de parler ensemble.” (‘You are not saying anything, it is the girls who
are talking to each other.’)
		 CK in Mina: “He took the money with him.”
The results in Table 2 show that in Session 4 CK answered the therapist in French
when asked questions in Mina by the translator, instead of answering the transla-
tor in Mina. However, CK did produce 12 complete sentences in Mina, all gram-
matically correct.
In Session 5, since it was now clear that CK could understand and speak some
Mina, two new elements were added. A forced-choice questionnaire was given
during and then again after hypnosis. The second element was that the therapist
told CK after he was under hypnosis and age-regressed that he was able to speak
Mina. After 6 minutes into the hypnotic state and after the therapist had told
CK that he could speak Mina; he then conversed with the translator in Mina for
38 minutes. Then, suddenly, CK stopped, said in Mina that he was tired and his
grandmother was putting him to bed.
The difference should be noted between Sessions 4 and 5: in Session 4, CK
answered the therapist (77% of the total number of possible responses) in French
when she asked him to answer the translator’s questions which were said in Mina,
but in Session 5, he answered the translator (72% of the total number of possible
responses) directly in Mina.
The results of the forced-choice questionnaire (40 items appropriate for a 4-
year-old) with three possible answers were not significantly different during and
after hypnosis. It was concluded that it was too easy to guess at the correct answer
(global meaning) from knowledge of one word in the sentence. The problem in
178	 Rosalie Footnick
creating forced-choice questions for a 4-year-old is that negativity (other than just
the word ‘No’) and active/passive voice have not yet been mastered in L1 acqui-
sition by this age. Thus all the questions had to be stated in the affirmative with
active voice. These simple questions allowed for too much guessing. It was impos-
sible to ask questions such as ‘Don’t you go to school on Sunday?’ ‘Was the lion
eaten by the mouse?’ It is also possible that there was in fact a priming effect.
At the end of Session 5, CK, out of hypnosis, heard the recording of the 12 com-
plete sentences that he had produced in Mina during Session 4. CK was unaware
until this time that he was able to understand and speak Mina. CK’s comments
while listening to himself on tape speaking Mina with the translator were record-
ed. His comments made it clear that he was astounded to hear himself speaking in
Mina in full sentences. He was asked to translate these 12 sentences into French.
However, he was only able to understand isolated words but not the meaning of
any sentence, as illustrated by examples (6) and (7) below. This result was identical
to that of the participant in the Fromm (1970) study who heard himself on tape
speaking Japanese that he had produced under hypnosis (Section 2.2).
Examples from when the tape was played back to CK in Session 5:
	 (6)	 CK in Mina on the tape: “He took the money with him.”
		 CK’s comment in French after hearing his sentence: “Je ne peux pas traduire
la phrase, je ne comprends que le mot ‘argent’ mais je ne comprends pas le
sens de la phrase.” (‘I can’t translate the sentence, I only understand the word
‘money’ but not the meaning of the sentence.’)
	 (7)	 CK in Mina on the tape: “That man was terribly afraid.”
		 CK’s comment in French after hearing his sentence: “Je comprends ‘peur’ mais
je ne comprends pas le sens de la phrase.” (‘I understand ‘afraid’, but not the
meaning of the sentence.’)
The results from Session 5 (see Table 2) indicated that CK could understand and
speak more Mina under hypnosis than he was capable of out of hypnosis. In Ses-
sion 6, CK was tested to see what amount of Mina he could now produce without
hypnosis. The translator had a typescript of Session 5 and asked CK appropriate
questions in Mina to try to reproduce the conversation that had taken place in
Session 5. This was done twice in order to separate listening comprehension from
oral production abilities: the first time, CK was asked to answer only in Mina, and
the second time, he was asked to translate what AW said into French. Lastly, the
same forced choice questionnaire given in Session 5 was repeated (see Table 3).
Table 3 indicates that CK was more capable of answering in Mina during hyp-
nosis in Session 5 than out of hypnosis in Session 6, but that by Session 6, CK had
recovered some ability to understand and to produce Mina out of hypnosis.
	 Recovery of a hidden language through hypnosis	 179
In Session 6 out of hypnosis, CK seems not to be able to understand many ques-
tions (55% of the questions asked) when he was asked to respond only in Mina.
However, that number decreased to 21% when he was asked to translate the ques-
tions into French. Thus, it was considered, given that CK could respond to 32% of
the questions in Mina out of hypnosis and could understand more Mina than he
could produce, that the difference in his ability to understand Mina under hypno-
sis and out of hypnosis was no longer great enough to be able to obtain data for a
neuroimaging study.
This decision was based on three observations. Firstly, although there was a
difference between CK’s answers in Mina under hypnosis in Session 5 and his an-
swers in Mina out of hypnosis in Session 6, it was clear from his ability to translate
the questions into French that he had understood much more than he could say in
Mina out of hypnosis. Secondly, during Session 6 out of hypnosis, CK was able to
answer the forced choice questions as well as he did when he was under hypno-
sis in Session 5, showing that he had increased comprehension in Mina. Thirdly,
given that Session 5 could have had priming effects on Session 6, a last test was
given before finishing Session 6. The translator was asked to talk with CK in Mina
about CK’s life today (a totally different style of speech and vocabulary than the
scenes in Togo). Although there was a lack of vocabulary, CK was nonetheless
able to converse on this subject for six minutes in Mina.
The only factor that might have influenced CK’s recovery of Mina out of hyp-
nosis was that at the end of Session 5 CK heard the tape of himself speaking Mina
during Session 4. Even though he could not understand himself, he was clearly
visibly surprised and pleased to hear himself speaking Mina. Perhaps knowing
that he could understand and speak Mina decreased his conflict which allowed
him access to the HL when he was not under hypnosis.
Table 3.  Percentage of responses per category in Session 5 compared to Session 6
Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Total %
Session 5 (n = 79)  
During Hypnosis 27.8   0 72.1   99.9
CK answers in Mina
Session 6 (n = 79)
Out of Hypnosis 55.7 11.4 32.9 100
CK answers in Mina
Session 6 (n = 79)
Out of Hypnosis 21.5 35.4 43.0   99.9
CK answers in French
180	 Rosalie Footnick
2.2	 Conclusions of the pilot study
There were three conclusions from this experiment.
1.	 This case study confirmed the two previous ones in that a ‘lost’ language can
be recovered under hypnosis, which shows that there is attrition resulting in
an HL.
2.	 In spite of precautions taken with a posthypnotic suggestion to forget every-
thing that happened under hypnosis, an unexpected recovery of Mina out of
hypnosis did take place.
3.	 Due to CK’s recovery of the comprehension of Mina out of hypnosis, it was
considered likely that no significant differences with CK listening to Mina be-
fore, during and after hypnosis would be perceivable in neuroimaging data.
The results of this study indicate that it is possible for memory traces of a lost
language to remain in the brain although that language can be inaccessible to the
speaker. Perhaps for the neural connections to still remain in the brain, a neces-
sary condition is that there is some passive exposure to the HL during the time
when that language is not spoken, which was the case for our participant.
3.	 Preliminary directions for HL research
If the neural traces for the language no longer functionally existed, which pre-
sumably happens when a language is completely forgotten, then the results of the
three studies (our pilot study; As 1962; Fromm 1970) on HL recovery would not
have been possible. Because this type of recovery is global, as opposed to partial,
and the recovered language is grammatically correct, it might be preferable for
HL research not to attempt to describe the attrited language as is done for an FL,
but rather to explain the mechanisms that might produce an HL. What type of
process might cause the loss of the language resulting in an HL and what mecha-
nism could allow this global type of recovery? How can an HL be distinguished
from an FL?
A preliminary hypothesis to answer these questions will be proposed based
on the assumption that some sort of conflict has caused the HL to become inac-
cessible. This ‘conflict’ hypothesis will be put forth linking ideas concerning con-
flict, brain activity and hypnosis.
	 Recovery of a hidden language through hypnosis	 181
3.1	 Explaining an HL
All three studies on HL attrition could be interpreted in the following way: the
participants had had an involuntary conflictual situation associated with speaking
the HL when they were young after they had acquired the language. This conflict
might have resulted in the language becoming inaccessible. In the As (1962) study,
speaking Swedish linked the participant to his mother but would have excluded
his stepfather, thus his mother made the request for them not to speak Swedish.
For the Fromm (1970) study, speaking Japanese in the family would have been
natural, of course, but would have reminded the participant and his parents of the
painful time during the war in the relocation camp, and thus it was not spoken. In
our pilot study, after the participant returned to Paris, he was told by his mother
not to speak Mina, since that could cause him not to do well in school.
If an individual has blocked a language and it has thus become inaccessible,
then during hypnosis there could be increased or decreased conflict with respect
to that language depending on the hypnotic suggestions being given. For exam-
ple, in Session 4, when the therapist repeatedly asks CK to try to answer in Mina
during the hypnosis, this seems to create ‘conscious’ conflict. CK answers (5) “I
am trying to [speak in Mina], but I can’t seem to.” However, in Session 5 when
NP tells CK during hypnosis that he is able to understand and to speak Mina, this
seems to have ‘allowed’ him to do so without the conflict, as he then conversed
non-stop in Mina for 38 minutes.
Assuming there was conflict involved in the use of the HL when CK returned
from Togo, then the suggestion here is that when the conflict arose there was ‘ac-
tive’ forgetting. Neuroimaging studies have shown that a conflict can cause infor-
mation to become inaccessible in a manner that is not ‘normal’ forgetting. Experi-
ments were done on the neural underpinnings which control unwanted memories
using a retrieval practice paradigm (Anderson & Green 2001; Levy & Anderson
2002). In this paradigm, a habitual response (one that has been previously learned
and practiced) has to be overridden (or inhibited) to a target word, the stimulus.
To override a response means to actively stop the memory retrieval process for
that response. These authors showed that by actively blocking a memory, which is
called ‘active’ forgetting, it became more difficult at a later time to recover it.
In another experiment (Anderson, Ochsner, Kuhl, Cooper, Robertson,
Gabrieli, Glover & Gabrieli 2004), participants formed an association between a
target word and a response word before fMRI scanning. During scanning their
task was to actively prevent the associated response from coming into memory
when the target word was presented. During the suppression of the memory, the
dorsolateral and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex (ACC)
and motor areas increased activation. However, the suppression reduced activa-
182	 Rosalie Footnick
tion in the hippocampus which is known to be important for successful memory
formation relative to recollection (Squire 1987; Squire & Zola 1993). This would
indicate that the memory will be more difficult to retrieve later.
Anderson et al. (2004) compared this activation against simple (normal)
forgetting and found the patterns of activation to be different. It is well docu-
mented that the ACC plays a role in conflict monitoring and attention (Botvinick,
Braver, Barch, Carter & Cohen 2001; Botvinick, Cohen & Carter 2004; Botvinick,
Nystrom, Fissell, Carter & Cohen 1999; Bush, Luu & Posner 2000; Posner &
DiGirolamo 1998; Posner, Petersen, Fox & Raichle 1988), thus the authors pos-
tulate that the ACC activation signals a conflict, which was that the associated
response is summoned by the target word and needs to have an override response,
in order for the associated response to be inhibited. The prefrontal cortex is acti-
vated by the signals of the ACC and is known to be involved in stopping prepo-
tent motor responses, that is, inhibiting a motor response (for example, linked to
speech) that is about to happen. Thus, the associated response (the response word
which has been associated with the stimulus word) is consciously being blocked
and this leads to active forgetting which makes the associated response much
more difficult to retrieve.
If there is conflict and active forgetting of the HL, then how could conflict
be reduced so as to eliminate the override response which makes the HL inac-
cessible? There is some research on conflict and ACC activation, as well as on
the reduction of conflict by hypnosis. The Stroop task is classically used to study
conflict (Stroop 1935). The participants, who have to be experienced readers, are
asked to name the ink colour of a word, the meaning of which is a colour, e.g., the
word green displayed in red ink. Reading the word and incorporating its meaning
is automatic and leads to the behavioural Stroop Interference Effect (SIE), that is,
an involuntary conflict when the meaning of the word and the colour of the ink of
the word are incongruent. When the ink colour and the meaning of the word are
congruent, the participant responds faster and with fewer errors.
Several neuroimaging studies have shown that ACC activation covaries with
the levels of response (reaction time and errors) due to conflict, such as that found
in the Stroop task (Botvinick et al. 1999, 2001, 2004; Carter, MacDonald, Botvin-
ick, Ross, Stenger & Noll 2000; Casey, Thomas, Welsh, Badgaiyan, Eccard, Jen-
nings & Crone 2000; MacDonald, Cohen, Stenger & Carter 2000; Ullsperger & von
Cramon 2001). The levels of the behavioural interference effects, indicating con-
flict for the participants, have been shown to increase or decrease in correlation
with the increase or decrease of ACC activity (Botvinick et al. 1999; Carter et al.
2000; Casey et al. 2000; Kerns, Cohen, MacDonald, Cho, Stenger & Carter 2004).
Hypnosis is often not considered to be a real phenomenon. However, its use
has been established for example with respect to the control of pain and the de-
	 Recovery of a hidden language through hypnosis	 183
crease of conflict. It has been well documented that hypnosis can decrease both
the sensation of pain itself and the unpleasantness of the noxious stimuli (the sub-
jective experience of physical pain), both of which are correlated with a decrease in
ACC activity (e.g. Crawford, Gur, Skolnick & Benson 1993; Faymonville, Laureys,
Degueldre, DeFliore, Luxen, Franck, Lamy & Maquet 2000; Raij, Numminen,
Navanen, Hiltunen & Hari 2005; Rainville, Duncan, Price, Carrier & Bushnell
1997). Thus in many hospitals, patients are conscious when they undergo sur-
gery with local anaesthetics combined with light sedation and hypnosis, instead
of general anaesthetics.
Recent neuroimaging research has shown that in highly hypnotizable partici-
pants a specific posthypnotic suggestion, to perceive written words as nonsense
strings during the Stroop colour task, was able to reduce the involuntary conflict
(Raz, Shapiro, Fan & Posner 2002) and that with the same posthypnotic sugges-
tion the decrease in the involuntary conflict was associated with decreased ACC
activation, as well as decreased activity in visual areas as compared to controls
(Raz, Fan & Posner 2005). Since hypnosis can reduce conflict, with the reduction
corresponding with ACC activity, it is possible that in the three case studies, hyp-
nosis reduced the conflict associated with the HL which allowed its recovery.
To recapitulate: if the idea of a conflict provoking an HL is assumed, then an
explanation of the mechanism provoking an HL and its recovery is possible by
linking the above ideas on conflict, hypnosis and brain activity to an HL. First, it
is hypothesized that the conflict causes the HL to be continuously associated with
‘active’ forgetting and this results in inaccessibility of the HL. Second, since re-
duced conflict (and reduced pain) has been shown to be correlated with reduced
ACC activation, and hypnosis has been shown to reduce conflict (and reduce
pain) which is correlated with reduced ACC activation, it is hypothesized that
through hypnosis the conflict linked to the HL is reduced allowing the speaker to
access the HL. This proposition could be tested by means of neuroimaging studies
which could link HL recovery, conflict and ACC activation.
3.2	 Possible studies
Such neuroimaging studies could be set up to monitor brain activity while the
participants are being scanned as they hear the HL before, during and after hyp-
nosis. The prediction is that this type of study would show an increase in ACC
.	 For example, in France, Belgium, Germany, Finland and the USA (Büchel, Bornhövd,
Quante, Glauche, Bromm & Weiller 2002; Crawford et al. 1993; Faymonville et al. 2000; Petrovic,
Petersson, Ghatan, Stone-Elander & Ingvar 2000; Ploghaus, Becerra, Borras & Borsook 2003).
184	 Rosalie Footnick
activity before and after hypnosis and a decrease in ACC during hypnosis which
would be correlated with the recovery of the HL. Presumably, there would also be
a difference in activity in the language area correlated with the recovery of the HL;
whereas there would be no activity in that area before and after hypnosis when the
HL was inaccessible to the speaker.
These types of studies would also allow the differentiation between an FL and
an HL. If the lost language is an FL, then during hypnosis there will be no global
recovery of the language and no decrease in ACC activity. A partially attrited
FL will be correlated with activity in the language area unless the FL has been
completely forgotten in which case there will be no activity in the language area.
Thus, what appears to be a completely attrited FL from linguistic as well as neu-
roimaging data could be an HL. This could only be revealed by inducing hypnosis
while scanning the person who has lost the language. Would the Korean adoptees
show no brain activity specific to hearing Korean as opposed to other unknown
languages before hypnosis and then show a specific activity in the language area
during hypnosis if Korean were to be recovered? If during hypnosis there were to
be no recovery, it might show that passive exposure to a lost language is a neces-
sary condition for it to have long-lasting neural traces, although it remains inac-
cessible to the speaker.
It is proposed that losing an FL is a slow process with parts of the language
disappearing individually in a systematic way over a long time due to a normal
forgetting process, while the loss of an HL is a rapid process in which the entire
language, except for a few isolated words, disappears over a short time, due to
psychological events involving conflict concerning the use of the HL. This conflict
causes the speaker to block access to the language through active forgetting. The
HL is inaccessible to the speaker, but the language still exists in the brain. If it is
recovered, there is no grammatical loss of that language, it is fluent and spoken
without any accent. An FL is either partly inaccessible due to a gradual grammati-
cal and lexical loss or it is totally forgotten with no neural trace of the language
in the brain. Here the attempt has been to show (1) how language memory traces
could be blocked from consciousness and (2) how this ‘lost’ language could be re-
trieved back into consciousness. Clearly the ‘conflict’ hypothesis is based on only
three studies and needs to be verified.
Acknowledgement
I thank Christophe Pallier for very useful comments on a first version on this
text.
	 Recovery of a hidden language through hypnosis	 185
References
Anderson, M. C. & Green, C. (2001). “Suppressing unwanted memories by executive control”.
Nature, 410, 366–369.
Anderson, M. C., Ochsner, K. N., Kuhl, B., Cooper, J. Robertson, E., Gabrieli, S. W., Glover, G.
H. & Gabrieli, J. D. E. (2004). “Neural systems underlying the suppression of unwanted
memories”. Science, 303, 232–235.
As, A. (1962). “The recovery of forgotten language knowledge through hypnotic age regression:
A case report”. The American Journal of Clinical Hypnosis, 5, 24–29.
Botvinick, M. M., Nystrom, L. E., Fissell, K., Carter, C. S. & Cohen, J. D. (1999). “Conflict
monitoring versus selection-for-action in anterior cingulate cortex”. Nature, 402, 179–
181.
Botvinick, M. M., Braver, T. S., Barch, D. M., Carter, C. S. & Cohen, J. D. (2001). “Conflict
monitoring and cognitive control”. Psychological Review, 108 (3), 624–652.
Botvinick, M. M., Cohen, J. D. & Carter, C. S. (2004). “Conflict monitoring and anterior
cingluate cortex: An update”. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 8 (12), 539–546.
Büchel, C., Bornhövd, K., Quante, M. Glauche, V., Bromm, B. & Weiller, C. (2002). “Dissociable
neural responses related to pain intensity, stimulus intensity and stimulus awareness
within the anterior cingulate cortex: A parametric single-trial laser functional magnetic
resonance imaging study”. The Journal of Neuroscience, 22 (3), 970–976.
Bush, G., Luu, P. & Posner, M. I. (2000). “Cognitive and emotional influences in anterior
cingulate cortex”. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 4 (6), 215–222.
Caplan, D. (1992). Language: Structure, processing and disorders. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Carter, C. S., MacDonald, A. M., Botvinick, M., Ross, L. L., Stenger, V. S. & Noll, D. (2000).
“Parsing executive processes: Strategic vs. evaluative functions of the anterior cingulate
cortex”. Proceedings of the National Academy of Science, USA, 97, 1944–1948.
Casey, B. J., Thomas, K. M., Welsh, T. F., Badgaiyan, R. D., Eccard, C. H., Jennings, J. R. & Crone,
E. A. (2000). “Dissociation of response conflict, attentional selection, and expectancy with
functional magnetic resonance imaging”. Proceedings of the National Academy of Science,
USA, 97, 8728–8733.
Cook, V. (Ed.) (2003). Effects of the Second Language on the First. Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters.
Crawford, H. J., Gur, R. C., Skolnick, B. & Benson, D. M. (1993). “Effects of hypnosis on regional
cerebral blood flow during ischemic pain with and without suggested hypnotic analgesia”.
International Journal of Psychophysiology, 15, 181–195.
de Bleser, R. (Ed.) (2003). The Science of Aphasia: From therapy to theory. Oxford: Pergamon.
Faymonville, M. E., Laureys, S., Degueldre, C., DeFliore, G., Luxen, A., Franck, G., Lamy,
M. & Maquet, P. (2000). “Neural mechanisms of antinociceptive effects of hypnosis”.
Anesthesiology, 92, 1257–1267.
Fromm, E. (1970). “Age regression with unexpected reappearance of a repressed childhood
language”. The International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis, 18, 79–88.
Kerns, J. G., Cohen, J. D., MacDonald III, A. W., Cho, R. Y., Stenger, A. & Carter, C. S. (2004).
“Anterior cingulate conflict monitoring and adjustments in control”. Science, 303, 1023–
1026.
Kihlstrom, J. F. (1980). “Posthypnotic amnesia for recently learned material: Interactions with
‘episodic’ and ‘semantic’ memory”. Cognitive Psychology, 12, 227–251.
186	 Rosalie Footnick
Kihlstrom, J. F. (2003). “Hypnosis and memory”. In J. F. Byrne (Ed.), Learning and Memory, 2nd
ed. (pp. 240–242). Farmington Hills, MI: Macmillan.
Lambert, R. D. & Freed, B. F. (Eds.) (1982). The Loss of Language Skills. Rowley, MA: Newbury
House.
Levy B. J. & Anderson, M. C. (2002). “Inhibitory processes and the control of memory retrieval”.
Trends in Cognitive Science, 6 (7), 299–305.
MacDonald III, A. W. Cohen, J. D., Stenger, V. A. & Carter, C. S. (2000). “Dissociating the role
of the dorsolateral prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortex in cognitive control”. Science,
288, 1835–1838.
Pallier, C., Dehaene, S., Poline, J.-B., LeBihan, D., Argenti, A.-M., Dupoux, E. & Mehler, J.
(2003). “Brain imaging of language plasticity in adopted adults: Can a second language
replace the first?” Cerebral Cortex, 13, 155–161.
Penfield, W. (1965). “Conditioning the uncommitted cortex for language learning”. Brain, 88,
787–798.
Petrovic P., Petersson K. M., Ghatan P. H., Stone-Elander S. & Ingvar M. (2000). “Pain-related
cerebral activation is altered by a distracting cognitive task”. Pain, 85, 19–30.
Ploghaus, A., Becerra, L., Borras, C. & Borsook, D. (2003). “Neural circuitry underlying pain
modulation: Expectation, hypnosis, placebo”. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 7 (5), 197–200.
Posner, M. I. (1978). Chronometric Explorations of Mind. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates.
Posner, M. I., Petersen, S. E., Fox, P. T. & Raichle, M.E. (1988). “Localization of cognitive
operations in the human brain”. Science, 240, 1627–1631.
Posner, M. I. & DiGirolamo, G. J. (1998). “Executive attention: Conflict, target detection and
cognitive control”. In R. Parasuraman (Ed.), The Attentive Brain (pp. 401–23). Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Raij, T. T., Numminen, J., Navanen, S. Hiltunen, J. & Hari, R. (2005). “Brain correlates of
subjective reality of physically and psychologically induced pain”. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Science, USA, 102, 2147–2151.
Rainville, P., Duncan, G. H., Price, D. D., Carrier, B. & Bushnell, M. C. (1997). “Pain affect
encoded in human anterior cingulate but not somatosensory cortex”. Science, 277, 968–
971.
Raz, A., Shapiro, T., Fan, J. & Posner, M. I. (2002). “Hypnotic suggestion and modulation of
Stroop interference”. Archives of General Psychiatry, 59, 1155–1161.
Raz, A., Fan, J. & Posner, M. I. (2005). “Hypnotic suggestion reduces conflict in the human
brain”. Proceedings of the National Academy of Science, USA, 102, 9978–9983.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use, and Maintenance: The case of German Jews
in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S., Köpke, B., Keijzer, M. & Weilemar, L. (Eds.) (2004). First Language Attrition:
Interdisciplinary perspectives on methodological issues. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Seliger, H. W. & Vago, R. M. (Eds.) (1991). First Language Attrition. Cambridge: CUP.
Sharwood Smith, M. A. & van Buren, P. (1991). “First language attrition and the parameter
setting model”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 17–30).
Cambridge: CUP.
Squire, L. (1987). Memory and the Brain. New York, NY: OUP.
Squire, L. & Zola, S. M. (1993). “Episodic memory, semantic memory and amnesia”.
Hippocampus, 8, 205–211.
	 Recovery of a hidden language through hypnosis	 187
Stroop, J. R. (1935). “Studies of interference in serial verbal reactions”. Journal of Experimental
Psychology, 18, 643–662.
Tulving, E. (1972). “Episodic and semantic memory”. In E. Tulving, W. Donaldson & G. H.
Bower (Eds.), Organization of Memory (pp. 381–403). New York, NY: Academic Press.
Ullsperger, M. & von Cramon, D. Y. (2001). “Subprocesses of performance monitoring: A
dissociation of error processing and response competition revealed by event-related fMRIs
and ERPs”. NeuroImage, 14, 1387–1401.
Ventureyra, V., Pallier, C. & Yoo, H.-Y. (2004). “The loss of first language phonetic perception
in adopted Koreans”. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17, 79–91.
Identity, immigration and first
language attrition
Petra Prescher
Rijksuniversiteit Groningen, The Netherlands
Long term bilingual immigrants often report that they perceive first language
attrition after years of living in a second language surrounding. This paper fo-
cuses on the individual’s own perception concerning first language attrition and
identity. It deals with questions such as: To what extent does living in another
country and speaking another language influence one’s mother tongue? If indi-
viduals experience first language attrition, do they really ‘suffer’ from it? Is there
any objective evidence for their supposed decline of language skills? Data from
a study of attrition in German migrants in the Netherlands will be discussed,
showing the close relation between language (decline) and identity as a result of
interacting factors over the lifespan.
Keywords: identity theories; autobiographical narratives; sociopsychological
approach
Introduction
In his novel The Unbearable Lightness of Being, the Czech-French émigré writ-
er Milan Kundera describes emigration as “walking a tightrope high above the
ground without the net afforded a person by the country where he has his family,
colleagues, and friends, and where he can easily say what he has to say in a lan-
guage he has known from childhood” (Kundera 1984: 71). When the 53-year old
Kundera wrote these lines in 1982 in his mother tongue Czech, he had been living
in France for seven years. Apparently, he experienced emigration as a balancing
act, feeling detached and out of place. As an immigrant, according to Kundera,
one persistently tries to maintain the equilibrium between the life before and
the life after migration, between two cultures, a familiar past and an unfamiliar
present and, last but not least, between two languages of which the language of
childhood seemingly still transmits the feeling of easiness and comfortable safety.
190	 Petra Prescher
It is not surprising that émigré writers such as Kundera reflect in their novels on
migration-connected loss and longing and on the impact this has on the mother
tongue as, for writers, language is the medium par excellence to express them-
selves. It is the indispensable tool, the artifact in the Vygotskyan sense, through
which they interact with their environment. Other émigré writers who describe
the experiences and struggles of the late bilingual migrant include Joseph Conrad
(1946), Vladimir Nabokov (1967), Joseph Brodsky (1988), Agota Kristof (1995)
and Amin Maalouf (2000). In her bestseller Lost in Translation: A Life in a New
Language (1989), the Polish-American author Eva Hoffman told the story of her
own long and difficult process of becoming bicultural and bilingual. The acquisi-
tion of an L2 and the adoption of a new culture in her case apparently coincided
with the attrition of the L1 and a kind of release from the original culture and
selfhood. To her, the easiness of the mother tongue, which Kundera so longed for,
seemed to be treacherous, a temporary state, since it became threatened. Moreo-
ver, L1 seemed to have an impact on identity.
This raises interesting questions: if, following Vygotsky, we take language to
be the “tool of tools” among the artifacts through which human beings mediate
their actions in order to interact with their environment, to facilitate, shape and
transform mental processes (Cole & Wertsch 2002), and to give sense to their
lives – what consequences, then, has the notion of L1 attrition for the individual’s
self? To what extent does living in another country and speaking another lan-
guage influence one’s mother tongue and identity? How does it feel to be involved
in language changing? Do individuals really experience L1 attrition and if so, do
they really ‘suffer’ from it? Is there any objective evidence for their perceived L1
attrition?
The present chapter presents aspects of a larger ongoing study on L1 attrition
and identity, in particular on the individual’s own perception concerning bilin-
gual and bicultural identity in relation to L1 attrition. Its predominant focus is the
“in-between position” (Walter 2003) of adult immigrants, their sense of belonging
or not-belonging and their attempts (or failure) to re-create their self in an L2-
environment. The study is based on first person accounts of German long-term
immigrants in the Netherlands.
1.	 Theoretical framework
1.1	 L1 attrition
The study of L1 attrition has become a challenging subfield of applied linguistics.
While (second) language acquisition has long been a subject of considerable sci-
	 Identity, immigration and first language attrition	 191
entific interest from various disciplines, language forgetting has been studied sys-
tematically for only about two decades, mostly by applied linguists (see Ecke 2004
for a detailed overview). Progress has been made in the area of theoretical inter-
pretation and evaluation of the phenomena related to language attrition. How-
ever, only a limited number of studies have investigated (first) language attrition
with reference to psychological and philosophical phenomena such as self and
identity (e.g. Kouritzin 1999; Mills 2004; Pavlenko & Blackledge 2004; Schmid
2002), whereas psychological, philosophical and sociological studies about iden-
tity have paid little or no attention to the relationship between identity and the
forgetting of the mother tongue (e.g. Boym 2001; Bruner 2003; Elovitz & Kahn
1997; Holstein & Gubrium 2000; King 2000; McAdams 2003; Neisser & Libby
2000; Nelson 2003). Questions concerning the sociopsychological consequences
of language forgetting, such as whether or not it affects the individual’s identity,
have been the focus of writers and philosophers (Hoffman 1989; Kristeva 2000)
perhaps rather than of researchers.
1.2	 Identity
Identity is a keyword in many contemporary debates on societal issues: “People
use it to make sense of themselves, of their activities, of what they share with oth-
ers and how they differ from them.” (Misztal 2003: 132). Even though research
on identity has a tradition which reaches back to ancient times, in the past few
decades various identity-concepts have been taken up more broadly, especially
within philosophy, and (social) psychology.
In psychology, identity is one of the central and most frequently studied top-
ics of investigation. Much research has been done on ethnic, cultural, national,
personal, social, and gender-identity as well as on, for instance, identity and emo-
tions. Several theories on identity and identity formation have been developed,
and some of them have become classic, such as the theory of personality of the
psychoanalyst Erikson (1963, 1968a, 1968b) who describes eight psychosocial de-
velopmental stages from infancy to late adulthood, and the social identity theory
(SIT) of Tajfel and Turner, later reformulated as self-categorization theory (SCT)
(Oakes, Haslam & Turner 1994; Tajfel & Turner 1979, 1986) which is based on the
assumption that there are three levels of category abstraction which can be used
to classify the self: personal identity (the self as an individual), social identity (the
.	 Identity research cannot be detached from research on the self which is a widely and con-
troversially discussed concept within psychology. In recent years, there has been an explosive
revival of research on the self (for an overview see Hogg & Vaughan 2005).
192	 Petra Prescher
self as a group member) and interspecies (the self as a human being). In the last
two decades, more attention has been paid to identity as a complex, dynamic and
unpredictable process and to the individual’s interaction with his environment
during the process of identity formation. Psychological dynamic models empha-
size the interconnectedness, characteristic patterns and self-organizing proper-
ties of complex systems (van Geert 1991, 2000; Haviland-Jones & Kalbaugh 2000;
Lewis 1997). From a dynamic systems perspective, Haviland-Jones & Kalbaugh
describe identity as a “result of (inter)subjective memories, present events, and
emotional resonances that change over time and constantly provide new configu-
rations as well as periodic repetitions” (p. 301). A special role in both changing
and stabilizing the larger identity system is attributed to emotional events such as
motivational systems which may be small at the origin, i.e. the initial state, but can
attract more and more resonating elements over time and may have (unexpected)
dramatic effects (Haviland-Jones & Kalbaugh 2000). In this respect, a life experi-
ence such as migration, connected with the notion of L1 attrition, can be seen as
an emotional event that can have a considerable impact on the individual’s life
and may result in an alteration of the existing identity system.
1.2.1  Transcultural identity
In the late 1990s, Yoshizawa Meaders (1997), a Japanese psychiatrist in New York,
developed a theory on identity formation by migrants. Working with mainly im-
migrant clients and analyzing their personal narratives, she observed recurring
patterns. Her observations resulted in a theory on transcultural identity building
which contends that transcultural identity formation occurs in three ‘phases of
adjustment’ during the process of immigration. The first phase, the immersion
phase, is described as the most dynamic and difficult one during which losses are
acutely felt. Language is perceived as the most difficult challenge of this period,
since language is vitally important in communication, and in defining identity
in relationship to others. In the second phase, the phase of bicultural identity,
the conscious recognition of aspects of identity is reflected as rooted in both the
original and the adopted cultures. In the third, transcultural phase, finally, the
migrant has developed his or her ‘transcultural self’ – biculturalism (includ-
ing bilingualism) is no longer experienced as a conflict. In addition, Yoshizawa
Meaders distinguished three groups of immigrants. Migrants of the first group
adjust quickly but superficially to the new environment and culture. Their adjust-
ment, therefore, can be fragile and may contain problematic undercurrents which
can lead to disappointment, disillusionment, anger, and depression and in some
cases even to a disintegration of the self. Immigrants of the second group are
just the opposite: they are described as unwilling and unable to make necessary
changes, to be open or exploratory. They tend to hold on to their original culture,
	 Identity, immigration and first language attrition	 193
language and identity. If chronic, this behavior may result in a further retreat into
rigidity with minimum adjustment and, finally, into isolation. Migrants of the
third group try to take the middle course: while making themselves respectful
and open to the new environment, they nevertheless try to retain their own cul-
tural identity and, by doing so, make the most lasting and flexible adaptation.
Cross-cultural psychologists have described ‘personality shifts’ in bilinguals in
the culture framing hypothesis (Hong, Morris, Chiu, Benet-Martinez 2000) which
holds that bilinguals are “bi-culturals who have acquired two internalized cul-
tures with personalities consistent with the two cultural systems” (Smith, Bond &
Kağitçibasi 2006: 142). Several researchers suppose that language shifts can gener-
ate correspondent personality shifts in either direction (e.g. Harzing & Maznevski
2002; Hong et al. 2000; Ramirez-Esparza, Gosling, Pennebaker & Benet-Martinez
2006). Ward, Bochner & Furnham (2001) distinguished three categories of reac-
tions of members of one cultural group to members of another: ‘psychological
adaptation’ which means affective reactions such as pleasure or anxiety, ‘socio-
cultural adaptation’, i.e. the process of culture learning, and ‘acculturation’, or the
process of identification with or separation from the local community. Despite
the huge number of publications on self and identity, the role of language in psy-
chological research on identity formation seems to be limited. Although the im-
portance of language for social life and the transmission of cultural knowledge
is broadly acknowledged and language is seen as a “primary means to gain ac-
cess to the contents of other minds” (Krauss & Chiu, quoted in Bavelas 2005),
in social psychological research language usually plays a role only as a means
by which participants’ responses are elicited and in which they respond. How-
ever, cross-cultural psychologists acknowledge that language does more: language
can be used to define one’s identity in relation to others, whereas language profi-
ciency determines power relations and influences the degree of mutual sympathy.
Language, nevertheless, is just one element of a larger set of cross-cultural skills
(Smith et al. 2006). But in the process of socialization which is also the process
of individualization, language plays a role which should not be underestimated.
It provides a means to encode and access memories (Bauer & Wewerka 1997), a
narrative framework for organizing memory (Reese, Haden & Fivush 1993) and
therefore a modality for restoring and revaluating a memory that otherwise might
be forgotten (Neisser & Libby 2000).
From this perspective, language can be seen as an inseparable part of our
identity since we use it to construct, tell and retell our life-stories. With respect
to bilinguals, studies on bilingual autobiographical memory, emotions and self-
concept have demonstrated that bilinguals tend to connect certain memories
and emotions to one of their languages (language-dependent memory hypoth-
esis) (e.g. Marian & Neisser 2000; Marian & Kaushanskaya 2004; Pavlenko 2002;
194	 Petra Prescher
Panayiotou 2004; Schrauf & Rubin 1998, 2003). Different languages elicit differ-
ent associations: what seems to be the same cue appears to be a different one in
different languages. Marian & Kaushanskaya suggest, furthermore, that bilinguals
use different self-concepts and/or self-presentations depending on the language
spoken at any given time. Yet it remains unclear if and to what extent these diverse
self-concepts built on different languages affect identity, and how this phenom-
enon is perceived. Do people undergo ‘cross-cultural accommodation’ and how
do they make sense of their special position?
With respect to late bilinguals and immigrants, a further set of questions can
be asked: how does it feel to use one’s L2 as a dominant language for an extended
period of time? Are long-term migrants aware of L1 attrition and does it affect
their perception of their identity? How do people fit in their cross-cultural experi-
ences with their personal life-stories, how do they make sense of their world? The
present study is an attempt to find an answer to such questions.
2.	 Personal narratives of long-term late bilingual migrants on identity
	 and L1 attrition
Identity is widely seen as a cognitive construct, a life-story which is built on mem-
ories (McAdams 2003; Squire & Kandel 2000). These memories can be based on
personal as well as transmitted experiences, that is, memories and knowledge of
others (e.g. Sacks 2005). Language works as the glue that binds memories in the
autobiographical storyline, by and through which people try to give meaning to
experiences and important events. It is widely acknowledged that this narrative
process is a more or less creative one – although narrated life stories are based on
autobiographical facts, they often go beyond the facts as people, depending on the
situation, selectively take aspects of their experience and imaginatively construct
narratives that integrate their life and make sense to them and to others (King
2000; McAdams 2003; Neisser & Libby 2000; Nelson 2003; Polkinghorne 1988;
Squire & Kandel 2000). Remembering is inherently dynamic, determined by
the individuals’ attitudes or values at the time. It is anything but permanent and
fixed (Edelman 1989; Sacks 1996). Nevertheless, narratives, e.g. the first person
accounts elicited in the case of this study, complement abstract and generalized
statistical data by animating them and making them concrete. Little stories make
the difference; they are indispensable to understand the larger whole.
.	 Cross-cultural accommodation refers to a kind of personality shift depending on the given
language (Bond & Yang 1982; Harzing & Maznevski 2002).
	 Identity, immigration and first language attrition	 195
To learn more about the individual’s own feelings in these respects, the present
investigation used a deductive approach which combines qualitative and quantita-
tive methods of data collection. This heuristic research method allows flexibility
and provides space for reinterpretation of the collected data. However the most
important data and the main starting point for the present investigation are peo-
ple’s own statements and interpretations. Although narratives contain imaginative
elements, narrative knowledge remains an important source for understanding
complex processes of alteration concerning human beings and their lives.
2.1	 Interviews
The participants in this project were ten male and ten female German long-term
immigrants in the Netherlands who left Germany as adults (i.e. after the age of
18) and who had been living in a Dutch-speaking environment for a minimum
of 10 years. The participants were selected by snowball sampling, a technique of-
ten employed in qualitative research (Coolican 2004). All participants grew up
monolinguals and became Dutch-German bilingual during their residence in the
Netherlands. If the selected participants had partners, these were Dutch.
The narratives were elicited through semi-structured in-depth interviews in
the L1. In order to elicit memories and at the same time encourage a natural
and uninhibited oral production, both loose and structured interview-techniques
were used, which stimulate targeted as well as open recall. To trigger targeted
recall, the participants were asked to remember a particular past event, such as
the day of immigration. For open recall, the cue-word method was applied, which
means that the participants simply reported whatever memory a particular cue,
such as Freundschaft (friendship) or Sprache (language) brought to mind. The
advantage of this approach – which is often applied in psychological research and
has been extensively described by Neisser & Libby (2000) – is that the participants
may choose the events themselves, only slightly manipulated by the researcher. In
general, a relatively natural conversation was attempted, sometimes adapting the
interview questions to the context, in order to get richer, fuller, more genuine and
more realistic information.
.	 The study is based on a corpus of spoken data of 20 autobiographical narratives of Ger-
man immigrants in the Netherlands. The obtained corpus is complemented by a sociolinguis-
tic questionnaire, Can-Do-Scales (Dutch and German), a Dutch C-test and a German C-test.
The sociolinguistic questionnaire and the language tests (C-test and Can-Do test) are part of
the Language Attrition Test Battery which was developed and put together by the team of the
Language Attrition Research Project (see Schmid, Köpke, Keizer & Weilemar 2004).
196	 Petra Prescher
Each interview took approximately two hours. The atmosphere during the
interviews was open and comfortable. All participants were willing and very in-
terested and became more and more relaxed as the interview proceeded. Only
one person was reluctant to speak about personal experiences, feelings and emo-
tions. In most cases, the interviewees seemed to be very free in telling their sto-
ries of migration and language attrition and obviously felt the need to talk about
them. One informant said: “Endlich wird das mal untersucht.” (‘It is high time
that this was investigated.’ BE, m, 42). So far, 16 of the 20 interviews have been
transcribed.
3.	 Some first results
3.1	 Perception of L1 attrition
Reviewing the accounts of German long-term immigrants, and following
Yoshizawa Meaders’ model, two main groups can be distinguished: one group of
migrants who wanted to assimilate as quickly as possible, rejecting their linguis-
tic and cultural origin; and a second group who tried to maintain their original
culture and identity but were more or less open to the Dutch environment. None
of the informants belonged to the third category (no attempt to adapt to the new
circumstances). This confirms general impressions on the assimilation of Ger-
man migrants in the Netherlands. The linguistic and cultural differences between
Germany and the Netherlands are generally not perceived as serious enough to
lead to isolation or separation. The fragment below illustrates the struggle of a
woman from the first group who adjusted very quickly, rejecting her L1 and even
experiencing a kind of “personality loss”:
	 (1)	 Ich hab mich so schnell angepasst, ich wollte sofort dazu gehören hier und
wollte sofort alles richtig machen. Ich glaube, dass da schon ‘n gewisser
Persönlichkeitsverlust da war. Ich hab überhaupt kein Deutsch mehr gesprochen,
nur noch Niederländisch. Weil es – ja, irgendwie konnte ich mich in dieser
Sprache gleich sehr gut ausdrücken und es hatte was Befreiendes für mich. Ich
hab, ich glaube in den ersten Jahren hab ich mich zu schnell auf die andere Seite
geschlagen. Das hat sich später dann gerächt und ich bin dann auch, ich war
auch bei der Studentenpsychologin und die hat zu mir gesagt, du musst deine
deutsche Hälfte mal abholen, in Deutschland. Also ich hab in zwei Identitäten
gedacht. Das hab ich dann gemerkt, wenn ich *zu nach Hause gefahren bin zu
meinen Eltern zum Beispiel, dass ich mich in Konflikten – konnte ich mich ganz
schlecht äußern. Und hier dann war’s kein Problem. (LV, f, 46, 27 years in NL)
	 Identity, immigration and first language attrition	 197
		 ‘I adapted so quickly, I immediately wanted to be one of them and wanted
to do everything right. I think I suffered from a kind of loss of personality.
I absolutely didn’t speak German anymore, only Dutch. Because – yes, in
some way I could express myself very well in this language; in some way I felt
liberated. I think in the first years I switched to the other side too fast. Later
on I came to regret it. I went to the psychologist and she told me, pick up your
German half in Germany. Thus, I thought in two identities. I realized that
when I went home to my parents, for instance, I could hardly express myself
in conflict situations. But here it wasn’t a problem.’
In the interviews, participants often reflect on their linguistic and cultural in-
between position. Without any exception, all informants report a decline in their
L1 skills. The subjects mostly perceive attrition on the phonological, lexical and
morphological/syntactical level:
	 (2)	 Also wenn ich in Deutschland gerade ankomm, dann sagen meine Freunde und
meine meine Eltern und so dann, sagen schon, dass ich einen holländischen
Akzent habe in meinem Deutsch. Manche Sachen kann ich viel einfacher und
schneller auf holländisch sagen als dass ich sie auf deutsch – dann muss ich
wieder puzzeln, wie ging’s nun wieder? Und die Grammatik, die dann etwas
unterschiedlich ist, die macht’s dann halt, dass es irgendwie nicht ganz passt.
Der Satz geht irgendwie in die falsche Richtung. (GJK, m, 33, 11 years in NL)
		 ‘Thus, when I’ve just arrived in Germany, my friends and my my parents tell
me that I have a Dutch accent in my German. Some things I can say easier
and more quickly in Dutch than in German – then I have to puzzle, how to
do this again? And the differences in grammar, sometimes they cause slight
problems. The sentence goes in the wrong direction.’
	 (3)	 Also ich weiß, dass ich manchmal ‘n Wort suchen muss. Und dass ich manchmal
auch drüber nachdenken muss, so grammatikalische Geschichten. War das jetzt
so oder war das so? Also, im Schreiben hab ich mehr *Problemen. (JvD, f, 45, 21
years in NL)
		 ‘So I know that I have to search for a word, sometimes. Sometimes I have to
think about grammar. This way or that way? Writing is more difficult.’
	 (4)	 Man hört’s schon, mein mein Deutsch, dass ich auf jeden Fall aus’m Ausland
komme. *Maar ich denk mir mein Deutsch ist in dem Sinne abscheulicher als
als *dass mein Niederländisch. In Kassel, wo ich ja herkomme, bin ich als als
Ausländer ausgeschimpft. (LE, m, 33, 12 years in NL)
		 ‘You can hear it, my my German, that, anyhow, I come from abroad. *Maar
[‘but’] I think my German is in that sense much more horrible than *that my
Dutch. In Kassel, where I come from, they scolded me for being a foreigner.’
198	 Petra Prescher
Even though all participants report a decline in their L1 skills, they do not per-
ceive it as a definitive loss, albeit they suspect partial loss:
	 (5)	 A: Ich hab irgendwie die Befürchtung, dass es [das Deutsch] eh nicht mehr so
selbstverständlich vorhanden ist wie früher.  
		 Q: Bedauerst du das?
		 A: Ja schon.
		 Q: Warum?  
		 A: Weil es einmal so war und und ja, weil es dann eh dann praktisch verloren
gegangen is, weil da etwas verloren gegangen ist. (CW, f, 51, 25 years in NL)
		 A: ‘Somehow, I am afraid that it [German] isn’t at my disposal as naturally as
before.’
		 Q: ‘Do you regret that?’
		 A: ‘Yes.’
		 Q: ‘Why?’
		 A: ‘Because once I had it and and, yes, because it is gone, because something
was lost there.’
However, while the L2 has become the most prominent one in everyday life, the
mother tongue seems to remain the most familiar language:
	 (6)	 Wenn ich müde bin, dann geht’s [das Niederländisch] schlechter oder ich vergess
Worte. Wenn ich richtig müde bin, dann merk ich, dass meine Muttersprache
doch Deutsch ist. Da kommen auch deutsche Sätze dann plötzlich raus! (JvD,
45, 21 years in NL)
		 ‘If I am tired, it [Dutch] becomes worse or I forget words. When I am really
tired, I do notice that German is my native language, after all. Then sentences
suddenly come out in German!’
It is remarkable that a decline in L1 skills is reported in every single interview.
The majority of participants want to preserve the L1 skills and therefore make a
conscious effort to retain apparently forgotten words, phrases and language rules.
After observing indications of attrition in their L1 skills, people try to speak more
German (to their children), to visit Germany more frequently, to read more Ger-
man books and newspapers, to watch German TV, etc.
3.2	 Reflections on identity
One of the questions that arise in relation to L1 attrition is if and to what extent
living in another country and speaking another language influences one’s self-
hood. Some participants describe their linguistic and cultural position as “in-be-
tween”, “living in a no-man’s-land”, feeling forlorn:
	 Identity, immigration and first language attrition	 199
	 (7)	 [Aber das Leben in den Niederlanden] das hat ‘ne ganz bestimmte Einsamkeit
mit sich gebracht. Ab und zu. Weil man halt, *was ich selber hatte, du kommst
halt einfach in’n Niemandsland *zurecht. Und das Niemandsland ist dann
halt, dass du selber nicht mehr weißt, wo du eigentlich herkommst, was du tust
und äh, ja, welche Sprache du eigentlich sprichst. Welche Sprache dich – na ja,
deine Gefühle ausdrücken, auszudrücken, und das wird dann halt ab und zu
schwierig. (LE, m, 33, 12 years in NL)
		 ‘[But living in the Netherlands] has brought with it a certain loneliness. At
times. Because, what I myself experienced, you just arrive in no-man’s land.
You are in a no-man’s land because you don’t know where you are anymore
what you are doing and, yes, which language you are actually speaking. Which
language you – well, to express your feelings can be difficult, sometimes.’
	 (8)	 Wenn ich in Deutschland bin, sagen die, denken die eher, dass ich Holländer bin
*dan dass ich Deutscher bin (GJK, m, 33, 11 years in NL)
		 ‘When I am in Germany, they say, they rather think that I am Dutch *dan
[‘than’] that I am German.’
There were differing answers to the question on whether speakers now felt for-
eigners in Germany. However, a majority does no longer feel at home in their
country of origin:
	 (9)	 Q: Fühlst du dich in Deutschland als Fremde?
		 A: Ich fühl mich da auch nicht mehr zu Hause, nee, da müsste ich ja lügen. Dazu
lebe ich zu lange hier. Ich lebe inzwischen länger hier in den Niederlanden als
in Deutschland. Sehr viel Dinge, die die sind auch fremd geworden, Probleme,
die die Menschen da haben, da hat man natürlich nichts mit zu tun.
		 Q: Und bedauerst du das?  
		 A: Ja. (UH, f, 51, 29 years in NL)
		 Q: ‘Do you feel like a foreigner in Germany?’
		 A: ‘I don’t feel at home there anymore, no, to be honest. I’ve lived here too
long. I’ve lived in the Netherlands longer than in Germany. Many things have
become unfamiliar to me. I cannot relate to problems that people have, of
course.’
		 Q: ‘Do you regret that?’  
		 A: ‘Yes.’
On the other hand, the personal narratives show the obvious desire of the im-
migrants to integrate languages, cultures, lives, i.e. the life before and the life after
emigration into one self. One speaker attempted to integrate her supposed two
identities by means of psychotherapy:
200	 Petra Prescher
(10)		 Dann hab ich ‘ne Gruppentherapie gemacht und also auf Niederländisch, hab
ich meine ganze Jugend ungefähr durchgespielt. Also das, *he, also ich hab selber
Rollen gespielt, ich habe auch Personen Figuren aus meiner Kindheit spielen
lassen und damit gesprochen, Probleme besprochen, die ich hatte, die dann
natürlich völlig deutsch waren und die hab ich dann auf Niederländisch, hab
ich die dann noch mal wiederholt, sagen wir mal. Durch die Therapie ist das
wieder zusammengekommen. Ich glaube, bis zu dem Moment war das schon
‘n bisschen gespalten. Aber ich fühle mich nicht als Ganzes niederländisch. Das
ist nicht so. Ich fühle mich mehr als Ganzes an sich und da drin ist deutsch und
niederländisch.” (SH, f, 49, 25 years in NL)
		 ‘And then, during group therapy, I re-enacted my whole youth in Dutch.
And, *he, I played some of the roles myself, and some of my childhood
contacts were played by other persons and I talked to them, and I discussed
the problems I had, which were very German, of course, and then I repeated
them in Dutch, I repeated them, as it were. And through the therapy it came
together, again. Up to that moment, I think, I was somewhat split. But I don’t
feel wholly Dutch. No. I feel more as an integrated whole, and within this
whole there is German and Dutch.’
One participant, a musician, first regards language as essential for consciousness
and mind. But although language seems to be strongly connected with the mind
(‘Geist’), he wonders whether different languages (and cultures) bring forth dif-
ferent minds. If so, according to him, there must be something which unifies both
minds, and that something is not language but art and music. When writing a
composition, he uses elements of both systems and so creates a synthesis which
brings together the possible two minds:
(11)		 Aber wenn man zwei Sprachen, Kulturen lebt, dann auch zwei Geister? Weiß
ik nicht. Wer hält diese beiden Selbste zusammen? Da muss ja was sein, was
diese zusammenhält. Sonst kannste ja nicht mehr differenzieren. Wenn ich
jetzt was komponier, dann hat sich dit hier so nicht geändert. Also jetzt in dem
Kunstwerk. Man nimmt zwar Aspekte jetzt von der einen Seite noch mit und
von der anderen, ich meine jetzt Einflüsse, das schon, aber es wird dann wieder
das Eine. Irgendwie Kunst wäre ja dann das Eine und das ist vielleicht das, was
beides dann zusammenhält, zusammenbringt. (KG, m, 50, 20 years in NL)
		 ‘But if you live two languages, cultures, does that mean two minds, too? Don’t
know. Who holds those two selves together? There has to be something, hasn’t
there? Otherwise you are not able to differentiate. If I write a composition,
nowadays, nothing has changed. I mean, within the artifact. Sure, you take
aspects from both sides, I mean, influences, but in the end, it becomes the
One. Somehow or other, art may be that which holds them together, brings
them together.’
	 Identity, immigration and first language attrition	 201
4.	 Considerations
The scope of the present study and the examples presented above do not lend
themselves to massive generalizations. Qualitative research emphasizes meanings,
experiences, descriptions and therefore, in the present case, first person accounts.
In the narratives on their immigrant experiences, participants describe their own
intraindividual variability, i.e. stability and instability across time and different
conditions, during the process of acculturation. This process is characterized by
diversity, unpredictability, and non-linearity. Identity and language development
across the lifespan appear to be comparable dynamic systems with similar charac-
teristics: open, unstable, fluid, unpredictable, fluctuating, multidimensional, and
interconnected. The accounts of the German migrants in the Netherlands seem to
illustrate this assumption. The narratives also seem to support Yoshizawa Mead-
ers’ hypothesis of transcultural identity building; after initial quick assimilation
during the first years after emigration (“I wanted to adapt so quickly, it was almost
a kind of loss of my personality”, LV), immigrants in the ‘phase of bicultural iden-
tity’ tend to struggle with their languages (“I didn’t know anymore what my real
language was”, CB) and their self (“I don’t know which identity I have anymore”,
LE). However, the longer the duration of immigration, the more subjects try to
reflect on or to return to their original identity and language. Most of them try to
preserve their L1 skills as an essential part of their identity. Interestingly enough,
there is apparently no difference in this respect between the two groups of Ger-
man immigrants distinguished above: the one which tried to adjust quickly but
superficially and the one which preferred gradual but flexible adaptation. Across
time, long-term migrants of both groups become more confident about their ori-
gin, culture and mother tongue and are more critical about the culture, language
and mentality of the guest country. The longer the duration of immigration, the
stronger the attempt to return to the original identity and language. Moreover, the
more participants try to assimilate in Dutch society, the more problems they per-
ceive concerning their identity: wanting to integrate completely, at the end of the
day they have to accept they will remain different, resulting in a disinclination to
adapt any further. In the end, immigrants are used to being different; they accept
their “nationlessness”, their imperfect languages, they have created their “home”
in their own transcultural selves.
References
Bauer, E. & Wewerka, S. (1997). “Saying is revealing: Verbal expression of event memory in
the transition from infancy to early childhood”. In P. van den Broek, P. Bauer & T. Bourg
202	 Petra Prescher
(Eds.), Developmental Spans in Event Comprehension and Representation: Bridging fictional
and actual events (pp. 139–168). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Bavelas, J. B. (2005). “The two solitudes: Reconciling social psychology and language and
social interaction”. In K. L. Fitch & R. E. Sanders (Eds.), Handbook of Language and Social
Interaction (pp. 179–199). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Bond, M. H. & Yang, K. S. (1982). “Ethnic affirmation versus cross-cultural accommodation:
The variable impact of questionnaire language on Chinese Bilinguals in Hong Kong”.
Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, 13, 169–185.
Boym, S. (2001). The Future of Nostalgia. New York, NY: Basic Books.
Brodsky, J. (1988). “The condition we call exile”. In The New York Review of Books, 34 (21&22),
http://www.nybooks.com/articles/4548, Retrieved 05-02-20, 12:09.
Bruner, J. (2003), “Self-Making Narratives”. In R. Fivush & C. A. Haden (Eds.), Autobiographical
Memory and the Constructions of a Narrative Self (pp. 209–225). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum Associates.
Cole, M. & Wertsch, J. V. (2002). “Beyond the individual-social antimony in discussions of
Piaget and Vygotsky”. Math Forum Internet Library.
Conrad, J. (1946). A Personal Record: The works of Joseph Conrad. London: Dent Uniform
Edition.
Coolican, H. (2004). Research Methods and Statistics in Psychology. London: Hodder Arnold.
Ecke, P. (2004). “Language attrition and theories of forgetting: A cross-disciplinary review”.
International Journal of Bilingualism, 8 (3), 321–354.
Edelman, G. M. (1989). The Remembered Present. New York, NY: Basic Books.
Elovitz, P. H. & Kahn, Ch. (Ed.) (1997). Immigrant Experiences: Personal narratives and
psychological analysis. Madison, WI: Fairleigh Dickinson University Press.
Erikson, E. (1963). Childhood and Society. New York, NY: Norton.
Erikson, E. (1968a). Identity: Youth and crises. New York, NY: Norton.
Erikson, E. (1968b). Life History and the Historical Moment. New York, NY: Norton.
Harzing, A.W. & Maznevski, M. (2002). “The interaction between language and culture: A test
of the cultural accommodation hypothesis in seven countries”. Language and Intercultural
Communication, 2, 120–139.
Haviland-Jones, J. M. & Kalbaugh, P. (2000). “Emotion and identity”. In M. Lewis & J. M.
Haviland-Jones (Eds.), Handbook of Emotions (pp. 293–306). New York, NY: The Guilford
Press.
Hoffman, E. (1989). Lost in Translation. London: Vintage.
Hogg, M. A. & Vaughan, G. M. (2005). Social Psychology. Harlow: Pearson.
Holstein, J. A. & Gubrium, J. B. (2000). The Self We Live By: Narrative identity in a postmodern
world. New York, NY: OUP.
Hong, Y. Y., Morris, M. W., Chiu, C. U. & Benet-Martinez, V. (2000). “Multicultural minds:
A dynamic constructivist approach to culture and cognition”. American Psychologist, 55,
709–720.
King, N. (2000). Memory, Identity, Narrative. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Kouritzin, S. (1999). Face(t)s of First Language Loss. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates.
Kristeva, J. (2000). Crisis of the European Subject. New York, NY: Other Press.
Kristof, A. (1995). Hier. Paris: Edition du Seuil.
Kundera, M. (1984). The Unbearable Lightness of Being. London: Faber and Faber.
	 Identity, immigration and first language attrition	 203
Lewis, M. (1997). Altering Fate: Why the past does not predict the future. New York, NY: The
Guilford Press.
Maalouf, A. (2000). In the Name of Identity: Violence and the need to belong. New York, NY:
Arcade Publishing.
Marian, V. & Kaushanskaya, M. (2004). “Self-construal and emotion in bicultural bilinguals”.
Journal of Memory and Language, 51, 190–201.
Marian, V. & Neisser, U. (2000). “Language-dependent recall of autobiographical memories”.
Journal of Experimental Psychology, 129 (3), 361–368.
McAdams, D. P. (2003). “Identity and the Life Story”. In R. Fivush & C. A. Haden (Eds.),
Autobiographical Memory, Narrative and Self (pp. 187–207). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum Associates.
Mills, J. (2004). “Mothers and Mother Tongue: Self-construction by mothers of Pakistani
heritage”. In A. Pavlenko & A. Blackledge (Eds.), Negotiation of Identities in Multilingual
Contexts (pp. 161–192). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Misztal, B. A. (2003). Theories of Social Remembering. Philadelphia, PA: Open University
Press.
Nabokov, V. V. (1967). Speak, Memory: An autobiography revisited. London: Weidenfeld and
Nicolson.
Neisser, U. & Libby, L. K. (2000). “Remembering life experiences”. In E. Tulving & F. I. M. Craig
(Eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Memories (pp. 315–332). New York, NY: OUP.
Nelson, K. (2003). “Narrative and self, myth and memory”. In R. Fivush & C. A. Haden (Eds.),
Autobiographical Memory, Narrative and Self (pp. 3–28). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates.
Oakes, P. J., Haslam, S. A. & Turner, J. C. (1994). Stereotyping and Social Reality. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Panayiotou,A. (2004). “Bilingual emotions:Theuntranslatableself”. Estudios de Sociolingüística,
5 (1), 1–19.
Pavlenko, A. (2002). “Bilingualism and emotions”. Multilingua, 21, 45–78.
Pavlenko, A. & Blackledge, A. (Eds.) (2004). Negotiation of Identities in Multilingual Contexts.
Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Polkinghorne, D. E. (1988). Narrative Knowing and the Human Sciences. Albany, NY: State
University of New York Press.
Ramirez-Esparza, N., Gosling, S., Pennebaker, J. & Benet-Martínez, V. (2006). “Do bilinguals
have two personalities? A special case of cultural frame-switching”. Journal of Research in
Personality, 40, 99–170.
Reese, E., Haden C. & Fivush, R. (1993). “Mother-child conversations about the past:
Relationships of style and memory over time”. Cognitive Development, 8, 403–430.
Sacks, O. (1996). “Gowers’s Memory”. Neurology, 46, 1467–1469.
Sacks, O. (2005). “On Memory”. In The Threepenny Review, Winter 2005, http://www.
threepennyreview.com/samples/sacks_w05.html, Retrieved 07-02-19, 18:59.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German Jews
in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S., Köpke, B., Keijzer, M. & Weilemar, L. (Eds.) (2004). First Language Attrition:
Interdisciplinary perspectives on methodological issues. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schrauf, R. W. & Rubin, D. C. (1998). “Bilingual autobiographical memory in older adult
immigrants: A test of cognitive explanations of the reminiscence bump and the linguistic
encoding of memories”. Journal of Memory and Language, 39, 1–21.
204	 Petra Prescher
Schrauf, R. W. & Rubin, D. C. (2003). “On the bilingual’s two sets of memories”. In R. Fivush &
C. A. Haden (Eds.), Autobiographical Memory, Narrative and Self (pp. 121–145). Mahwah,
NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Smith, P. B., Bond, M. H. & Kağıtçıbası, Ç. (2006). Understandig Social Psychology Across
Cultures: Living and working in a changing world, London: Sage Publications.
Squire, L. R. & Kandel, E. R. (2000). Memory: From mind to molecules. New York, NY: Scientific
American Library.
Tajfel, H. & Turner, J. C. (1986). “The social identity theory of inter-group behavior”. In S.
Worchel & L. W. Austin (Eds.), Psychology of Intergroup Relations. Chigago, IL: Nelson-
Hall.
Tajfel, H. & Turner, J. C. (1979). “An integrative theory of intergroup conflict”. In W. G. Austin
& S. Worchel (Eds.), The Social Psychology of Intergroup Relations (pp. 33–47). Monterey,
CA: Brooks/Cole.
van Geert, P. (1991). “A dynamic system model of cognitive and language growth”. Psychological
Review, 98, 3–5.
van Geert, P. (2000). “The dynamics of developmental mechanisms from Piaget and Vygotsky
to Dynamic Systems Models”. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 9, 64–68.
Vygotsky, L. (1978). Mind in Society. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Walter, R. (2003). Narrative Identities: (Inter)cultural in-betweeness in the Americas. New York,
NY: Peter Lang.
Ward, C., Bochner, S. & Furnham, A. (2001). The Psychology of Culture Shock. East Sussex:
Routledge.
Yoshizawa Meaders, N. (1997). “The transcultural self”. In P. H. Elovitz & C. Kahn (Eds.),
Immigrant Experiences: Personal narrative and psychological analysis (pp. 47–59). Madison,
WI: Fairleigh Dickinson University Press.
Language attrition and ideology
Two groups of immigrants in Israel
Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
Alon College, Israel / Rijksuniversiteit Groningen, The Netherlands
There is a great body of research on the role of attitudes, motivation and emo-
tions for the development of bilingualism, providing compelling evidence
that these factors are among the most important for predicting success in the
ultimate attainment of second and foreign language learners. Attempts have
also been made to establish a similar link between these emotive factors and
language attrition. Overall, findings from such investigations have been incon-
clusive and unsatisfactory. It has been hypothesized that this may in part be due
to the fact that there was not enough diversity between the subjects investigated,
and that clearer findings might be achieved through investigations which con-
trast different immigrant populations. The present study presents a comparison
of two groups of immigrants in Israel.
Keywords: attitude and motivation; identity; integration; Hebrew; French;
Russian
1.	 Theories of language attitudes
Investigations on the role of language external influences on the development of
bilingualism typically focus on different sets of factors. On the one hand there
are the ‘classical’ sociolinguistic variables: personal background factors which are
relatively easy to quantify in a sociological or socioeconomic framework, such as
age, gender, socioeconomic background, education and so on. Far more problem-
atic for any linguistic investigation, but particularly in the context of bilingualism,
are more subjective factors, such as attitude, motivation and emotion. While it is
generally accepted that these are important predictor variables for individual and
societal bilingualism, it has proven hard to establish practical approaches able to
cope with these elusive factors in a quantitative manner.
206	 Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
Attempts to account for the role of attitudinal factors in bilingual situations
are typically situated in one of the following approaches: socioeducational, so-
ciopsychological or neurobiological.
1.1	 The socioeducational approach
One of the earliest and most widely used approaches to measure the influence of
attitude and motivation is the socioeducational model, which links attainment in
(instructed) L2 acquisition to attitudes towards the language and its speakers, to
the learning situation, and towards integration. This model is most closely associ-
ated with the work of Robert Gardner and his colleagues, and was first proposed
in 1959 by Gardner & Lambert. Considerable work has since gone into develop-
ing generally accepted, quantitative applications of this model, the most widely
used of which is the so-called Attitude/Motivation Test Battery (Gardner 1985).
The model proposed here distinguishes three groups of factors, motivation,
integrativeness and attitudes toward the learning situation (Masgoret & Gardner
2003: 124). The test battery constructed on the basis of this model comprises 63
Likert-Scale items which fall into these categories, plus optionally a number of
additional questions to measure factors such as motivational intensity (Gardner
1985). This Attitude/Motivation Test Battery (AMTB) has been applied in a large
number of investigations, chiefly on instructed L2 learning, and consistently
achieved high correlations with attainment by individual learners.
These ideas find another application in the ‘affective filter’ in Krashen’s moni-
tor model (Krashen 1981). Krashen argues that, where the learner has a positive
attitude, high motivation, low anxiety etc., linguistic input can be assimilated and
converted into knowledge. If, on the other hand, these factors are lacking, an ‘af-
fective filter’ will prevent the input from becoming intake.
Problems that have been pointed out with respect to the AMTB (and the af-
fective filter) mainly pertain to its explanatory power: while the predictor factor
groups measured here appear to be valid and important ones for success in lan-
guage learning, they have been shown to be extremely difficult to weigh against
each other, and it remains to be established “just which of these variables, in what
combinations, and to what degree, are supposed to affect learning, and why?”
(Long 1990: 275). Furthermore, the impact of individual factors may be differ-
ent according to the context: while an integrative vs. instrumental motivation
generally influences the outcome of the learning situation positively, there may
also be learning environments where an instrumental attitude is better (Pavlenko
2005: 32). It does appear that, while the overall power of the AMTB has been
well-established, the role of individual factor groups needs to be looked at more
	 Language attrition and ideology	 207
closely. It may also be beneficial to broaden further investigations to include other
environmental factors of the learning situation, and not to confine the perspective
to correlations between the AMTB on the one hand and measures of proficiency
and achievement on the other.
1.2	 The sociopsychological approach
For sociopsychological investigations on the role of attitudes and emotions for
bilingual development, factors such as individual proficiency, success in language
learning, and ultimate attainment play a less central role. The focus is on the indi-
vidual speaker’s language systems and the development and portrayal of identity
and identities. This line of investigation is based on the recognition of the fact that
language is one of the most important factors of identity and identification: peo-
ple speak like the people they want to be like, and use the way they talk to signal
aspects of their own personalities (Edwards 1999).
A great deal of research has been conducted on migrant multilingualism on
the one hand and identity and emotions on the other, based in particular on theo-
ries such as Le Page & Tabouret-Keller’s Acts of Identity (1985). Such work typically
investigates uninstructed (immersed) language learners and the use they make of
their various languages to express (or hide) emotions and to attain the personality
they deem most desirable (for a comprehensive review see Pavlenko 2005).
A further area of investigation in this context is the influence of sociode-
mographic and other group issues on language learning and language retention.
Within the theory of Ethnolinguistic Vitality, it has been postulated that factors
such as group size and prestige, institutional support, endogamy/exogamy and so
on can be among the most critical predictor variables within the context of mi-
nority language loss and maintenance (e.g. Giles, Bourhis & Taylor 1977).
This latter area of investigation indicates a further problem with studies of
the impact of attitude on language learning and maintenance among migrants:
while attitudes may vary individually across one community of immigrants, they
will also to some degree be consistent across the group. More importantly, while
groups consider themselves as stratified, they are often viewed as homogenous
from the outside (Breakwell 1983: 191). Thus, while an individual might have per-
ceived herself as belonging to a social class with a certain social prestige while still
in the country of her origin, after emigration she may find attitudes towards her
influenced by stereotyped notions associated with ‘immigrants’ or ‘immigrants of
a certain ethnolinguistic background’.
It is therefore important that studies of the impact of language attitude for
multilingual development attempt to make a systematic comparison of groups
208	 Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
of different linguistic and ethnic backgrounds, or compare the same groups in
different settings. To ensure comparability, both L1 and L2 of the groups under
investigation should be identical or as similar as possible (e.g. Turks in Australia
and Turks in the United States) in order to assess the impact of varying attitudes,
prestige, and institutional support on the development of interlanguage.
1.3	 The neurobiological approach
More recently, it has been pointed out that, instead of casting phenomena wit-
nessed in second language acquisition (SLA) in abstract terms of rules, principles
and strategies, the field might benefit from a view that takes into account the neu-
rocognitive substrate (Schuman 1994). In other words, it is argued here that SLA
investigations might profitably adopt an approach that assumes that “brain causes
behavior” (Schuman 1994: 231).
Schuman argues that the ‘affective filter’ proposed in Krashen’s model (the
idea that certain attitudes on the part of the language learner facilitate the ‘taking
in’ of information, see above 1.1) could be recast from a neural perspective. Two
brain structures are relevant in this context: the amygdala and the orbitofrontal
cortex. Both appear to play a role in stimulus appraisal: the amygdala has a cru-
cial role in assessing the emotional significance of stimuli, while the orbitofron-
tal cortex helps monitor their reward potential (Schuman 1994: 233). Both these
brain structures are linked to the emotional memory system, which, according to
Schuman, could constitute an alternative explanation to the affective filter. Affect
and cognition, in this view, are “distinguishable but inseparable parts of a mutu-
ally interacting system” (Schuman 1994: 240).
2.	 Attitudes and language attrition
As motivation has a demonstrated impact on the development of one of a bilin-
guals’ language systems, language attrition research has long been fascinated with
the idea that the converse might also be true: if wanting to learn something (or
wanting to be part of a community of speakers) can help with acquisition, can
wanting to forget something (or wanting to no longer be part of a speech commu-
nity) help forget it? The psychological process of suppressing unwanted or trau-
matic memories is well-known, but can it also apply with respect to a linguistic
system, that is, knowledge that is represented in quite a different way?
One of the first larger studies that attempted to investigate this phenomenon
was Waas’ investigation on the L1 attrition of German in Australia (Waas 1996),
	 Language attrition and ideology	 209
which applied a two-way classification of identity along two criteria: residential
status (‘permanent resident’ vs. ‘naturalized citizen’) and ‘ethnic affiliation’, meas-
ured by systematic exposure to German in daily life. This classification did not
yield significant results when correlated with performance on a linguistic test.
A more rigorous framework of ethnic identity is applied in Yağmur (1997) and
Hulsen (2000) who apply the theory of Ethnolinguistic Vitality Theory, as de-
veloped among others by Giles, Bourhis & Taylor (1977) in their respective in-
vestigations of Turkish in Australia and Dutch in New Zealand. Here, too, no
significant impact of the predictor variables of Subjective Ethnolinguistic Vitality
could be established.
The findings from these three studies seem to underscore that socio- and eth-
nolinguistic frameworks that rely on subjects’ self reports about their use of and
attitude towards their L1 seem to be inadequate tools for the prediction of the lin-
guistic aspects of language attrition: subjective evaluation at the current point in
time cannot establish a link between attrition and concepts such as identity. This
may conceivably be down to the fact that people’s identity, affiliation and self-con-
cept does not remain stable across the lifespan (Breakwell 1986: 18). Obviously, if a
connection between attitudes or identities and attrition is to be found, it would have
to be looked for in the moment of emigration, i.e. at the possible onset of attrition.
This point was recognized in Schmid’s investigation of language attrition
among German Jews who had emigrated from Germany during the Nazi regime
(Schmid 2002). Based on a historical classification of progressive radicalization
of persecution during those years, this study investigates the impact of the period
during which emigration had taken place, hypothesizing that longer exposure to
increasingly traumatic events would lead to a greater wish among the refugees
for disassociation from Germany and the German language. This classification
proved to be highly relevant in explaining the outcomes of the linguistic investi-
gation.
The latter study illustrates a point that was made above: attitudes, in particu-
lar language attitudes, are usually consistent to some degree across a particular
community of migrants. In order to shed more light on the impact of motivation
and emotion for individual language attrition, it is therefore necessary to compare
groups of migrants for whom the context of migration or the migrational setting
can be clearly differentiated.
3.	 Multilingualism in Israel
The linguistic situation of Israel is unique in many ways. Firstly, as is often pointed
out, the process of reactivating a dead language (ancient Hebrew) by its adoption
210	 Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
and establishment as the national and community language is the only known
successful example of this kind of language engineering and policy. This revival
of the language of the Jewish Bible as a living national language is a particularly
striking illustration of the close link between language and identity, since it was,
from its very beginning, motivated by ideological drives and the desire to concre-
tize a new Jewish and national identity (Myhill 2004). One may see in this Hebrew
revival what Castells (1999: 21) calls a national identity project set in motion by
individuals through personal and collective events, and it can been argued that
modern Hebrew forms “an invisible national border and institutes links between
private and public life as well as between past and present” (ibid: 71). The ideol-
ogy of Hebrew revival was reinforced by assumptions which are common in many
Western societies today: immigrants will only truly be able to integrate linguisti-
cally if they acquire the legitimate language of the society and weaken their com-
mitment to their L1 (Kheimets & Epstein 2001; Remennick 2003: 431). In the case
of Israel, however, this myth was further reinforced by the desire to bring up a first
generation of native speakers of Hebrew (E. Ben-Rafael 1994: 63–65).
In view of these strong ideological underpinnings of the Hebrew revitaliza-
tion endeavour, it is striking that Israel has come to formulate a more flexible
approach over time by its adoption of a policy of greater tolerance of societal
multilingualism. This is a relatively recent development: initially new migrants
were strongly encouraged to learn and adopt the national language as a marker of
their new Israeli identity, and to discontinue at least public use of their heritage
languages (Spolsky 1999: 168). However, in September 1996 a new policy became
effective, providing for mother tongue teaching and reinforcing second/foreign
language education (Spolsky & Shohamy 1996), and giving, in principle, “full for-
mal recognition to the values of Arabic and of immigrant and community and
heritage languages, and the importance of international languages to build na-
tional capacity” (Spolsky 1999: 170). This policy marked a developmental process
characterized by the strengthening of cultural pluralism, the growing influence
of globalization and English in daily life and, most importantly, the recent strong
influx of immigrants from the former Soviet Union (Deutch 2005: 282) who today
make up 20% of Israel’s Jewish population (E. Ben-Rafael, Lyubansky, Glöckner,
Harris, Israel, Jasper & Shoeps 2006: 25–30; Remennick 2003: 432).
4.	 The study
The present study addresses the issue of L1 attrition among two communities of
migrants in Israel. Based on the reflections and considerations outlined above,
the question is asked to what extent the different prevailing language policies and
	 Language attrition and ideology	 211
ideologies at different points in time find their reflection in the ideologies, atti-
tudes, and processes of language attrition of two different groups of immigrants
in Israel. The first group comprises 15 ideologically-motivated French-speaking
immigrants who see their immigration to Israel as a major life accomplishment.
These participants expressed this idealistic attitude by joining a collective vil-
lage (kibbutz) in the late 1950s and early 1960s, at a time when the official Israeli
language policy was strongly monolinguistic and encouraged all newcomers to
quickly acquire Hebrew and use it in all spheres of social and private life.
The second group consists of 15 Russian immigrants who came to Israel in
the late 1980s and early 1990s. The motivation of immigrants in this period, par-
ticularly those from Eastern Europe, was less ideological and more primarily mo-
tivated by practical and pragmatic considerations – improving their standard of
living, escaping the threat of anti-Semitism, looking for new life opportunities,
and providing a better future for their children (E. Ben-Rafael, Olshtain & Geijst
1996; E. Ben-Rafael & Peres 2005; E. Ben-Rafael et al. 2006). These immigrants
settled individually in urban areas rather than in kibbutzim; and during a period
when language policy was much more tolerant than it had been in the past. This
change found its reflection in language attitudes: while Russian immigrants of ear-
lier decades shared a wish to make the transition to Hebrew as quickly as possible,
and even experienced their Russian accent as a “stigma” (Remennick 2003: 441),
the large influx of new Russians in the 1990s effected a kind of language shift
among Israel’s Russian population. The Russian language and culture became an
important factor for these speakers (Remennick 2003: 443). The speakers in the
sample under investigation here form no exception: while willing to acquire He-
brew, they were typically very keen to keep Russian as a vernacular and cultural
language and to transmit it to their children (Rozenbaum-Tamari 2004; Laufer
2003).
4.1	 Participants
4.1.1  The Francophone sample
The Francophone sample (n = 15) comprises 10 men and 5 women, aged between
55 and 75 (mean: 67, 81), inhabitants of a kibbutz in Galilee which will be re-
ferred to as Klila for the purpose of this paper. At the time of the data collection
in 2005, the participants had been living in Klila for about 45 years (from 34 to 54
years, mean: 45, 66). All participants had immigrated from the mid-1950s to the
early 1960s, when they were between 18 and 20 years old and had completed high
school education. Their countries of origin were France (n = 6), Belgium (n = 3),
Morocco (n = 2), Algeria (n = 3) and Tunisia (n = 1). The decision to join the kib-
212	 Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
butz was taken on the basis of ideological convictions, including an eagerness to
adopt Hebrew for private and public purposes alike. This attitude was sustained
by the strict provision of the kibbutz veteran population – in accordance with
Israel’s central language policy – that any newcomer should acquire and use the
new national language exclusively.
4.1.2  The Russian sample
The Russian sample (n = 15) comprises 8 men and 7 women, aged between 30
and 50 (mean: 39, 46) who had settled individually in urban areas in Israel. At
the time of the data collection in 2004/5 they had been living in Israel for 10 to
15 years (mean: 14, 06). Their immigration in the 1990s found a setting that had,
ever since the late 1970s, recognized linguistic pluralism as a socially legitimate
fact and had become much more open-minded toward cultural diversity than in
the past. The immigrants themselves were mostly motivated by utilitarian drives
and aspired to remain as close as possible to their Russian culture and language.
The immigrants, who form a highly educated group, had mostly completed their
professional training in the Former Soviet Union.
4.2	 Method
Data collection was conducted by means of a semi-structured interview, based
mainly on open-ended questions about past events, motives for immigration,
linguistic problems encountered, and current attitudes towards French/Russian
and Hebrew. The interviews, which were tape recorded, were conducted by native
speakers of the immigrants’ L1 who were members of the respective communi-
ties. In the case of the French migrants, the interviews took approximately 60 to
80 minutes, while the Russian interviews were somewhat shorter (25 to 35 min-
utes). The spoken data were subsequently transcribed orthographically and ana-
lysed in order to identify instances of codeswitching and characterize language
attitudes and motivations of immigration.
.	 The interviews of the French sample were conducted by co-author Miriam Ben-Rafael and
the interviews of the Russian sample by Moshe Koningstein, a professional sociologist who im-
migrated to Israel from Moscow in 1990. He was also in charge of the translation of the inter-
views in English. The authors of this article wish to thank Moshe Koningstein for his valuable
contribution.
	 Language attrition and ideology	 213
4.3	 Attitudes
4.3.1  The Francophone sample
The participants in the Francophone sample consistently ascribed their emigra-
tion to Israel to ideological and political motivations. Many of them mentioned
the Shoa, as well as their individual socialist and communist aspirations. The de-
cision to settle in a kibbutz seemed fitting in this context (see ex. (1)–(6) below).
	 (1)	 le sionisme et le socialisme # j’étais imprégné de tout de cet idéal [...] le kibouts
pour moi était une réponse # venir en Israel pour moi c’était venir au kibouts
(Yair, Morroco)
		 ‘Zionism and socialism # I was impregnated with these ideals [...] the kibbutz
for me was the answer # to come to Israel for me meant going to the kibbutz.’
	 (2)	 je venais d’une famille assimilée # mais la shoa m’a beaucoup touché et quand
on parlait de kibouts d’égalité et tout ça c’étaient des choses qui étaient près de
mon coeur (Yaakov, Algeria)
		 ‘I came from an assimilated family # but the Shoa has affected me a lot and
when one spoke about the kibbutz, equality, and all that were mentioned, it
touched my heart.’
	 (3)	 à l’époque, je pense j’ai été poussée par l’idéologie c’est-à-dire le sionisme
socialisme # on est venu au kibouts # je pense que c’était aussi par rapport à la
guerre et l’antisémitisme aussi # nous à la maison on parlait beaucoup de ça
# c’est-à-dire maman a été très marquée # par la guerre l’antisémitisme et # je
pense que c’est en fait les éléments essentiels (Drora, Paris)
		 ‘At that time I think I was urged by ideology i.e. Zionism socialism # we came
to the kibbutz # I think also because of the war and the anti-Semitism # at
home we spoke a lot about it # my mother has been very much affected # by
the war, the anti-Semitism and # I think these are the essential reasons.’
While the process of immigration and integration into society and work life went
relatively smoothly for most participants ((4) through (6)), acquisition of Hebrew
initially was problematic for many. Most participants acquired the new language
by immersion, since it was the accepted norm in the kibbutz to use Hebrew ex-
clusively.
	 (4)	 j’ai pas de souvenir d’avoir souffert ou de m’être sentie mal à l’aise [...] j’ai travaillé
au gan et au khadar okhèl [...] j’ai travaillé dans les baté jeladim macheu kazè
# [...] on habitait au bet margoa # enfin on avait une chambre [...] on allait
manger au khadar okhèl ensemble, on allait ensemble au moadon (Sara)
.	 The symbol # indicates a pause.
214	 Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
		 ‘I don’t remember suffering or feeling bad [...] I worked in the kindergarten,
in the dining room, in the children’s homes, # something like that, we lived
in the rest house of the kibbutz # okay, we just had a room [...] we used to go
together to the dining room, to the club.’
	 (5)	 lo zokhér che-haju li beajot, gaaguim non # ça s’est bien passé (Tsviko,
Algeria)
		 ‘I don’t remember having problems or feeling nostalgia no # everything was
all right’
	 (6)	 le fait de travailler en tant que metapèlèt m’a beaucoup appris # les enfants me
disaient al tagidi kakha tagidi kakha (Sara)
		 ‘The fact I worked with children as an educator helped me a lot # the children
used to tell me don’t say it like that say it like this.’
The general view was that kibbutz reality had changed dramatically over the years,
giving more importance to individual life and economic privatisation. However,
the acquisition of Hebrew, its exclusive use in daily life, together with the re-
nouncement of the immigrants’ L1 has remained an ideological aspiration of the
community.
	 (7)	 bati kdé lehitnaték mi ha tsarfatit [...] kdé lijot chutafa letkhijat hasafa haivrit
(Margalit)
		 ‘I came in order to get rid of my French [...] in order to participate in the
revival of Hebrew.’
	 (8)	 on voulait parler hébreu on voulait devenir de vrais israéliens (Drora)
		 ‘We wanted to speak Hebrew, we wanted to become real Israelis.’
Hebrew has become the prevalent language in daily life and family interaction,
even for couples who are both Francophone. The aspiration to bring up a gen-
eration of native speakers of Hebrew also lead to parents not passing on their
L1 to their children. Even terms of affection were and generally still are Hebrew
ones – khamudi (‘sweet’), pachoch (‘little bird’), ahuvati (‘my love’), although a
very limited number of French terms, such as poulette (‘little chick’) or chouchou
(‘darling’) appear sometimes.
All respondents feel that their L1 proficiency is diminished as a result of the
predominance of Hebrew in daily life, and the geographical distance between them
and the Francophone countries of origin, which gives them little opportunity to
use French. Several speakers indicate that they are aware of mixing French and
Hebrew, and during the interview try to discipline their language use. Many ex-
press a feeling of loss, of the inability to retrieve French lexical items, and express a
sense of linguistic impoverishment and lack of confidence, which frequently makes
	 Language attrition and ideology	 215
them feel ill at ease when speaking French with “real Francophones”. In such situa-
tions particularly, many speakers perceive their language attrition to be dramatic.
	 (9)	 je m’exprime plus en hébreu qu’en français et à la maison et au travail # donc
c’est sûr quand on parle pas une langue et tout # finalement tu perds # j’ai pas
oublié mais y a des mots qui me manquent parce que je les utilise pas souvent
(Yaakov)
		 ‘I speak more Hebrew than French at home and at work # so naturally when
you don’t use a language and so on # at the end you lose # I haven’t forgotten
it all, but there are words I’m missing because I don’t use them frequently.’
(10)		 quand ma belle-soeur et mon frère viennent en visite au début de leur séjour on
se sent perdu # en huit ou dix jours en pratiquant on se remet un peu à flot # au
début on se sent invalide du point de vue de la langue # je cherche mes mots et
j’ai du mal à me mettre au diapason (Sara)
		 ‘When my sister-in-law and brother come and visit us, at the beginning of
their visit we just feel lost # after eight or ten days of practice it gets better #
at the beginning we feel handicapped from a linguistic point of view # I look
for my words and it’s hard to get in tune.’
Similar to the sentiments expressed in (10) above, a number of respondents have
the feeling of a gradual ‘recovery process’ after some time of continued exposure.
Some also indicate that they now have more opportunities to use French, as the
amount of time at their disposal has substantially increased since their children
left home or they themselves retired from work. They enjoy reading French books
or browsing French Internet sites. Sara even asks herself if her adoption of the
Hebrew language and culture really was as fundamental as she had previously
thought (11).
(11)		 ça montre peut-être qu’on est pas vraiment intégré ni dans la langue ni dans la
culture ça pose un siman cheéla, # si disons après 40 ans on a plus de plaisir à
lire en français parce que c’est plus facile (Sara)
		 ‘Perhaps this means that we are not really integrated, neither linguistically
nor culturally. It raises a question # if after 40 years we still enjoy reading in
French more, because it’s easier.’
To the final question, “If you had to do it all over, would you follow the same path
in Israel and in the kibbutz?”, the interviewees unanimously answered positively
(12); some even started singing Edith Piaf’s popular song – “rien, rien de rien, je
ne regrette rien!” (‘Nothing, nothing, I regret nothing.’)
216	 Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
(12)		 si c’était à refaire je le referais [...] les règles du jeu ont changé # mais je ne
regrette absolument pas [...] c’est une expérience intéressante et je suis content
de l’avoir fait (Tsviko)
		 ‘If I had to do it again I would do it [...] the rules of the game have changed
# but I absolutely don’t regret it [...] it is an interesting experience and I am
pleased to have done it.’
Interestingly, however, almost all respondents question their policy of Hebrew
monolingualism in retrospect – possibly in response to the changing of political
strategies and prevailing attitudes towards multilingualism. They still endorse the
imperative of speaking Hebrew to assert their collective identity, but regret not
having given their children the chance to become bilingual (13)–(15).
(13)		 la réalité d’alors s’est imposée # on pouvait pas tellement gérer les choses
différemment # au niveau de l’ identité # du sentiment d’appartenance (Drora)
		 ‘The reality was such that we couldn’t act differently # it was a question of
identity # the feeling of belonging.’
(14)		 si c’était à refaire je parlerais en français à mes enfants # je ferais un drôle d’effort
pour qu’ ils acquièrent la langue [...] on voulait une langue nationale et pour ça
on était prêts à ne plus parler dans la langue maternelle (Yaakov)
		 ‘If I had to do it all over I would have spoken French with my kids # I
would have made efforts to let them acquire the language [...] we wanted a
national language and for that we were prepared to no longer use our mother
tongue.’
(15)		 ani mitstaèrèt ki ani roa èt ha-kmija chèl ha-jeladim ve chèl ha-nekhadim chéli
ledabér (Margalit)
		 ‘I regret it because I see my children’s and my grand-children’s eagerness to
speak French.’
4.3.2  The Russian sample
Unlike the Francophones, the Russian-speaking immigrants invoke reasons for
their decision to emigrate to Israel which are predominantly instrumental and
pragmatic (16).
(16)		 esli chelovek s vysshim obrazovaniem, kvalifitsirovannyi spetsialist, ne mozhet
prokormit’ svoju semju, obespechit’ ei dostoinyj uroven’ zhizni, on estestvenno
ishchet vykhod iz polozhenia (Oleg)
		 ‘If a person with higher education, a qualified professional, cannot feed his
family, ensure them a decent living standard, it’s understandable that he will
look for a way out.’
	 Language attrition and ideology	 217
Unlike the Francophones, who never looked back once they had settled in the
kibbutz, many report that their initial time in Israel had been fraught with dif-
ficulties and homesickness, and feelings of culture shock (17).
(17)		 samoe trudnoe – eto privyknut’ k novoj strane srede, klimatu, jazyku, vse
bylo chuzhim. Ja skuchala po Kievu s ego parkami i dozhdem, po Dnepru, ja
skuchala po svoim druzjam # po vsemu k chemu ja privykla (Mariana)
		 ‘The most difficult thing – was to get used to the new country, environment,
climate, language, everything was foreign. I missed Kiev with its parks and
rain, Dnepr [local river], I missed my friends # everything I was used to.’
Anna, who came from Moscow to Rehovot in 1989 at the age of 17, thought at the
time that she had arrived in a khor, literally a “hole”, a deserted spot. For several
respondents the worst problems were the language issue and finding a job. They
often explained they could not find work because they did not speak Hebrew,
adding that from the moment they began to master the language it was also easier
to find employment:
(18)		 samoe trudnoe – eto otsutstvie jazyka i problemy s rabotoj # my ved’ byli bez
jazyka, bez raboty, ne znali elementarnykh veshchej, bank, kupat holim i tak
dalee (Alex)
		 ‘The most difficult – was the absence of the language and job problems # we
had no language, no job, didn’t know the simplest things, [such as] bank,
health insurance, and so on.’
(19)		 s rabotoj zdes’ ochen’ ploho, trudno ustroit’sia na rabotu, no eto v jazyk i
upiraetsia v printsipe – tol’ko jazyk, esli by govorili normal’no problem by
nikakih ne bylo, to est’ problemy konechno est’ – finansovye, no uzhe ne
chuvstvuesh sebia polnym idiotom (Vladimir)
		 ‘It’s not easy with jobs here, difficult to get a job, but it’s mainly because of
the language – only language, if we spoke normally we would not have any
problems, that is we would have problems, of course, financial, but you
wouldn’t feel like such a complete idiot.’
While the general attitude towards Israel is consistently positive, becoming part
of the community is not as important to the Russian participants as it was for the
Francophones. Integration takes second place to individual success. Some remain
quite pessimistic and still have ambiguous attitudes towards their new country. 17
years after his emigration, for example, Eugene still misses “the thick woods, the
rivers, and the waterfalls” of his former home. Yet, strangely enough, when he is
asked if it was worth coming to Israel, the answer is ‘yes’:
218	 Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
(20)		 ja ne mogu otvetit’ na etot vopros, potomu chto v etot moment ja pochuvstvoval
chto ja prosto shaiach # chto eto moja strana, moja zemlia, moj narod
(Eugene)
		 ‘I cannot answer this question, because at that moment I felt that I am simply
shaiach # that this is my country, my land, my people.’
All interviewees are proficient speakers of Hebrew, but all the same Russian re-
mains important; it is the language of the community and of the family, where it
is essential to maintain it and pass it on to the next generation (21). Despite these
ambitions, however, many speakers report a great deal of codeswitching, particu-
larly when speaking of typically Israeli topics (22).
(21)		 doma na russkom, hotia rebenok postoianno pytaets’a govorit’ na ivrit, my
staraemsia chtoby evo russkij jazyk byl po vozmozhnosti chistym, chtoby
sohranit’ jazyk (Alexei)
		 ‘At home [we speak] Russian, though the kid always tries to speak Hebrew,
but we try to keep his Russian pure as much as possible, to maintain the
language.’
(22)		 estestvenno v moem slovare mnogo ivritskih slov: ni odin russkij ne skazhet
“Institut natsional’nogo strachovania” ili “ipotechnaia ssuda”; oni govoriat
“bituach leumi” “mashkanta” (Lena)
		 ‘It’s natural in my vocabulary there are many Hebrew words: no Russian
would say “Institute of national insurance” or “mortgage loan”; they say:
“bitukh leumi, mashkanta”.
Many Russian-speaking respondents demonstrate a pragmatic attitude towards
their languages, as illustrated by the example of Lena, who came to Israel in 1992.
Her language use is situationally based: she codeswitches into Hebrew if she has
to, although at home she always speaks Russian with her mother and her daugh-
ter, and this is also the language that she uses outside Israel when travelling. In
Israel, she speaks both Russian and Hebrew. As a rule, the Russian interviewees
agree that Russian must be retained; it is their mother tongue and their culture,
and they want to preserve both and pass them on to their children.
Russian respondents also differ from the Francophones when it comes to
the question if, given the chance, they would emigrate to Israel again. Several
respondents indicate that they would have preferred to emigrate elsewhere if they
had had the opportunity. Oleg, for instance, 12 years after his immigration, is
preparing to move again to Australia:
(23)		 ja ne sionist, hotia mozhno skazat’ chto ja patriot Izrailia, ja v razgovorah nikogda
ne polivaiu Izrail’ griazju i ne terpliu eto v svoem prisutstvii – ni zdes’ ni tem bolee
za granitsej, no posviashchat’ svoju zhizn’ bor’be za svetloe budushchee Izrailia ja
	 Language attrition and ideology	 219
ne gotov, zhizn’ tolko odna i ja hochu blagopoluchnoj, bezopasnoj i obespechennoj
zhizni dlia svoej sem’i detej, dlia menia eto glavnoe slikha (Oleg)
		 ‘I’m not a Zionist, though one can say I am an Israeli patriot, in conversations
I never pour dirt on Israel nor allow it in my presence – neither here nor
abroad, but I am not ready to dedicate my life to the fight for the bright future
of Israel [an ironic use of a common Soviet expression], I only live once and I
want a prosperous, safe and secure life for my family and children, that’s most
important for me, excuse me.’
The previous examples and quotations illustrate a clear distinction between the
two samples: while for the Francophones, the motivation to acquire Hebrew was
strongly integrational, the Russian speakers mainly acquired it from an instru-
mental motivation. On the basis of the theories on language attitudes and SLA, it
could therefore be predicted that the Francophone sample will be more success-
ful in their ultimate attainment in Hebrew. However, the objective of the present
study is to investigate the impact the different perspectives on language and iden-
tity have for the attrition or maintenance of the speakers’ L1, the hypothesis being
that the L1 of the Francophone sample will show more instances of interferences
and language mixing than that of the Russian sample.
5.	 Borrowing and codeswitching
For the purpose of the present investigation, all instances of borrowing and codes-
witching in a stretch of 1,000 words from the participants’ free data were analyzed
and classified into two categories: single-item codeswitching (SIC) and multiple-
word sequences in Hebrew (MWS). The results are shown in Figure 1 (for an
overview of SIC and MWS per speaker see Appendix, Table 1).
The difference in the use of single item codeswitching between the two groups
was highly significant (t(28) = 3.011, p < .01, two-tailed). The difference in the
use of multi-word sequences between the two groups was marginally significant
(t(28) = 1.802, p = .082).
There is therefore a clear tendency for the Francophone sample to use more
Hebrew, both single elements and phrases, in their L1 than the Russian speakers
do. This finding is in accordance with our prediction that the more ideological
and integrative attitude towards Hebrew of the French speakers would lead to
more language mixing, and possibly also to a higher degree of L1 attrition, than
the pragmatic and instrumental attitude of the Russian speakers.
220	 Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
6.	 Discussion
As was illustrated above, the Francophone sample had more instances of bor-
rowing and code-mixing in their L1 than the Russian sample in a stretch of 1,000
words per speaker. A qualitative investigation of the entire interviews shows that
the semantic areas in which borrowings occur are quite similar across the two
groups, with the exception that the Francophone speakers frequently use Hebrew
expressions to refer to particularities of kibbutz life (24) and their pre-kibbutz
training (25).
(24)		 khavérim			 kibbutz members
		 aséfot				 assemblies
		 vaadot				 commissions
		 markolit				 grocery
		 chkhuna				 newcomers’ quarter
		 arvut adadit			 community help
		 hitnatkut			 disengagement
(25)		 garin				 group
		 chaliakh				 emissary
		 tnua				 youth movement
While the Russian group also uses Hebrew terms when describing their immigra-
tion experience, these are more general (26).
(26)		 olim				 immigrants
		 alja					 immigration
		 sokhnut				 immigration agency
0,00
5,00
10,00
15,00
20,00
25,00
SIC 20,80 11,27
MWS 3,73 1,00
Francophone Russian
*SIC= single-item codeswitching;  MWS=Multi-word sequence
Figure 1.  Mean scores for SIC and MWS per 1,000 words*
	 Language attrition and ideology	 221
		 ulpan				 Hebrew course
		 ulpan alèf			 H. c. number one
		 ulpan bét			 H. c. number two
		 khinukh mejukhad	 special education
		 mekhina			 preparatory courses
Terms that refer to (public) institutions are used by both the Francophone (27)
and the Russian (28) sample, as are work-related expressions ((29) and (30) re-
spectively).
(27)		 khaver knèsèt		 parliament member
		 avoda				 Labour party
		 kupat kholim		 health insurance
		 bituakh machlim		 complementary insurance
(28)		 machkanta			 loan
		 arnona				 payment by instalments
		 bituakh léumi		 insurance
(29	)	 pardes				 orangery
		 falkha				 extensive agriculture
		 mifalim				 factories
		 adachot				 lenses
		 metalizatsja			 metallization
(30)		 pkida				 secretary
		 roé khèchbon		 accountant
		 ganènèt				 kindergarten teacher
		 ozèrèt bajit			 helper
		 tafkid				 role
		 akharaj				 responsible
		 atsmai				 independent entrepreneur
In all of these areas, codeswitching is probably an indication of the fact that these
terms are so intimately linked to the reality of life in Israel that French items would
not fully convey what the speakers wished to express. Interestingly, however, both
groups also use both single-item and multiple-word codeswitchings when de-
scribing their emotions (31 contains examples from the Russian sample).
(31)		 tsarot				 worries
		 mesubakh			 complicated
		 jafe meod			 very nice
		 chalem im atsmi		 I feel good about it
		 guch zar				 outsider
222	 Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
		 le-mazalenu			 by good luck
		 ma che yech			 it’s what it is
		 al tagidi jije be-seder,	don’t say it will be ok, it’s never ok
		 af paam lo be-seder
In the French group, there were indications that codeswitchings in this particular
area were often due to the fact that the corresponding French items were either
inaccessible (32) or felt to be not entirely appropriate to the feeling the speaker
wished to convey (33).
(32)		 c’est plus jail # comment on dit ça? (Ben)
		 ‘It’s more efficient # how do you say that?’
(33)		 j’ai été memurmèrèt # je saurais pas le dire en français (Sara)
		 ‘I have been disappointed # I wouldn’t know how to say that in French.’
It therefore appears that, while both groups use codeswitching into Hebrew for
more or less the same purposes, the Francophone speakers do so more often than
the Russian speakers. This impression is confirmed by the fact that, over the en-
tire interviews, the Francophone speakers use a much higher proportion of MWS
than SIC: while in the French sample, one MWS occurs for every 3.37 SICs, in the
Russian sample that proportion is 11.57 (see Appendix, Table 2). In other words,
while for the Russian speakers, Hebrew influence on their L1 asserts itself mainly
through the borrowing of isolated lexical items, the Francophone speakers seem
to have a higher degree of integration of their linguistic systems when speaking
the L1, and language-mixing also extends to grammatical items.
6.	 Conclusion
The present paper has attempted to compare two groups of immigrants in Israel
with respect to their attitudes towards Israeli society and the Hebrew language on
the one hand and their use of their L1 on the other.
The first group consisted of 15 Francophone kibbutzniks who emigrated to
Israel in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Overall, their decision to emigrate was
ideologically motivated. The society and environment they found, at that time,
adhered to a strictly monolingual policy. The Hebrew language was considered
an embodiment of the Israel state, and it was the goal of the immigrant genera-
tion to contribute to the revival of that language by bringing up a generation of
monolingual native speakers. More than that, however, acquiring Hebrew was, for
the immigrant, not only a marker but an embodiment of identity. It is likely that
the integrative motivation to acquire the language of the country was stronger
	 Language attrition and ideology	 223
for ideologically motivated immigrants to Israel in this period than for any other
group of migrants over the past century.
The second group comprised 15 Russian immigrants who settled in urban
areas in the 1990s. For these participants, the motivation to emigrate had been
taken less on ideological and more on pragmatic grounds: they came to Israel not
to build a new nation, but to find a better (and safer) home for themselves and
their families. While the Hebrew language, to them, represented an important
tool for economical reasons, they did not experience the same burning need to
become native-like and to raise their children as the first generation of native
speakers. On the contrary, the desire to pass on their L1 to their own children was
prevalent across this group.
The linguistic investigation analyzed the most clearly visible indications of
L2 interference in the free spoken L1 data from these two groups: borrowings
and codeswitchings. The quantitative analysis established clear differences in the
amount of these phenomena: the Francophone sample used significantly more
Hebrew elements in their discourse than did the Russian one, and in the discourse
from the Francophone speakers, the two linguistic systems were integrated to a
higher degree than was the case for the Russians, who used mainly isolated, bor-
rowed Hebrew words.
These findings do point towards a link between language attitudes on the one
hand and language attrition on the other. More detailed investigations of these
and other groups, encompassing more linguistic phenomena and relying on dif-
ferent types of data, will, however, need to be conducted to substantiate this tenta-
tive finding.
References
Ben-Rafael E. & Peres, Y. (2005). Is Israel One? Religion, nationalism and multiculturalism
confounded. Boston/Leiden: Brill Academic Publishers.
Ben-Rafael E., Lyubansky, M., Glöckner, O., Harris, P., Israel, Y., Jasper, W. & Shoeps, J. (2006).
Building a Diaspora – Russian Jews in Israel, Germany and the USA. Boston/Leiden: Brill
Academic Publishers.
Ben-Rafael, E., Olshtain, E. & Geijst, I. (1996). “Identity and Language: The social insertion of
Soviet Jews in Israel”. In N. Lewin-Epstein, Y. Ro’i & P. Ritterband (Eds.), Russian Jews on
Three Continents (pp. 364–388). London: Frank Cass.
Ben-Rafael, E. (1994). Language, Identity and Social Division: The case of Israel. Oxford: OUP.
Ben-Rafael, M. (2001). Contact de langues: Le français parlé des francophones israéliens.
Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Tel Aviv: Tel-Aviv University.
Breakwell, G. M. (1983). “Identities and conflicts”. In G. M. Breakwell (Ed.), Threatened Identities
(pp. 189–213). New York, NY: Wiley.
Breakwell, G. M. (1986). Coping with Threatened Identities. London/New York: Methuen.
224	 Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
Castells, M. (1999). Le pouvoir de l’identité. Paris: Fayard.
Deutch, Y. (2005). “Language law in Israel”. Language Policy, 4, 261–285.
Edwards, J. (1999). “Refining our understanding of language attitudes”. Journal of Language and
Social Psychology, 18 (1), 101–110.
Gardner, R. C. (1985). Social Psychology and Second Language Learning: The role of attitudes
and motivation. London: Edward Arnold.
Gardner, R. C. & Lambert, W. E. (1959). “Motivational variables in second language acquisition”.
Canadian Journal of Psychology, 13, 266–272.
Giles, H., Bourhis, R. & Taylor, D. (1977). “Towards a theory of language in ethnic group
relations”. In H. Giles (Ed.), Language, Ethnicity and Intergroup Relations (pp. 307–348).
London: Academic Press.
Hulsen, M. (2000). Language Loss and Language Processing: Three generations of Dutch
immigrants in New Zealand. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Nijmegen: Katholieke
Universiteit Nijmegen.
Kheimets, N. G. & Epstein, A. D. (2001). “English as a central component of success in the
professional and social integration of scientists from the former Soviet Union in Israel”.
Language in Society, 30, 187–215.
Krashen, S. (1981). Second Language Acquisition and Second Language Learning. Oxford:
Pergamon.
Laufer, B. (2003). “The influence of L2 on L1 collocational knowledge and lexical diversity”. In V.
Cook (Ed.), Effects of the Second Language on the First (pp. 19–31). Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters.
Le Page, R. B. & Tabouret-Keller, A. (1985). Acts of Identity: Creole-based approaches to language
and ethnicity. Cambridge: CUP.
Long, M. H. (1990). “Maturational constraints on language development”. Studies in Second
Language Acquisition, 12, 251–285.
Masgoret, A.-M. & Gardner, R. C. (2003). “Attitudes, motivation, and second language learning:
A meta-analysis of studies conducted by Gardner and associates”. Language Learning, 53
(1), 123–163.
Myhill, J. (2004). Languages in Jewish Society: Towards a new understanding. Clevedon:
Multilingual Matters.
Pavlenko, A. (2005). Emotions and Multilingualism. Cambridge: CUP.
Remennick, L. (2003). “From Russian to Hebrew via HebRush: Intergenerational patterns
of language use among former Soviet immigrants in Israel”. Journal of Multilingual and
Multicultural Development, 24 (5), 431–453.
Rozenbaum-Tamari, J. (2004). The olim of the former Soviet Union – Alija, motivations and
roles in front of the Israel society. Jerusalem: Ministry of absorption and integration (in
Hebrew).
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German Jews
in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schuman, J. (1994). “Where is cognition? Emotion and cognition in second language
acquisition”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 16, 231–242.
Spolsky, B. & Shohamy, E. (1996). “National profiles of languages in education: Israel. Language
Policy”. http://www.biu.ac.il/HU/lprc/lprcprof.htm.
Spolsky, B. (1999). “Language in Israel: Policy, practice, and ideology”. In J. E. Alatis & A. H.
Tan (Eds.), Georgetown University Round Table on Languages and Linguistics 1999 (pp.
164–174). Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
	 Language attrition and ideology	 225
Waas, M. (1996). Language Attrition Downunder. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Yağmur, K. (1997). First Language Attrition Among Turkish Speakers in Sydney. Tilburg: Tilburg
University Press.
Appendix
Table 1.  Single-item codeswitching (SIC) and multi-word sequences (MWS) per speaker
in a stretch of 1,000 words
Francophone SIC MWS Russian SIC MWS
Ben 10   0 Alex 10 0
Shula 43   2 Alexei 11 0
Drora 14   0 Alik   9 1
Eli 33   1 Anna   1 0
Jenny 22 18 Ellen   7 0
Yoel 25   0 Eugene 22 4
Margalit 16 12 Harry   9 0
Moshe 14   0 Ilia 10 0
Nathan 16   0 Irena 28 6
Sara 38   3 Lena   7 2
Tsviko 21 12 Marianna   9 0
Yair 12   3 Mira 10 1
Yaakov 15   0 Natasha 19 0
Isra 24   2 Oleg   9 1
Yoav   9   3 Vladimir   8 0
Mean 20.80   3.73 11.27 1.00
St.dev. 10.26   5.60   6.72 1.77
226	 Miriam Ben-Rafael and Monika S. Schmid
Table 2.  Single-item codeswitching (SIC) and multi-word sequences (MWS) per speaker
in entire interview
Francophone SIC MWS Proportion
SIC/MWS
Russian SIC MWS Proportion
SIC/MWS
Ben   39   32   1.57 Alex   10 –
Shula 173   49   0.36 Alexei   27 –
Drora   31    2 30.00 Alik   22   1 22.00
Eli 128   14 15.50 Anna    3 –
Jenny   22   14   2.13 Ellen   18 –
Yoel   49    0 – Eugene   42   8   5.25
Margalit   30   83   1.22 Harry   12 –
Moshe   35    0 11.50 Ilia    9 –
Nathan   60    3 15.33 Irena   78 12   6.50
Sara   61   18   6.00 Lena   17   4   4.25
Tsviko   32   15 – Marianna   13 –
Yair   46    4 20.00 Mira   12   2   6.00
Yaakov   30    1   3.39 Natasha   19 –
Isra   46    3   9.14 Oleg   19   1 19.00
Yoav   48    8   3.53 Vladimir   23 –
Total 830 246   3.37 Total 324 28 11.57
Stimulated recall methodology in language
attrition research
Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
California State University, Channel Islands, USA
The present study explores the value of the Stimulated Recall Protocol for inves-
tigations of first language attrition. On the basis of a study of Spanish heritage
speakers in the United States it is argued that this method allows a more direct
way of tapping into compensatory strategies which speakers apply in situations
of communicative breakdown. Insights which speakers provide upon being con-
fronted with their own narratives can provide evidence for changes in the proc-
ess of regulation which are experienced by attriters, who, faced with the task of
engaging in a communicative activity, are forced to retreat to previous stages in
this developmental process.
Keywords: communicative strategies; stimulated recall protocol; regulation of
communicative process; sociocultural theory; heritage speakers; Spanish
Introduction
Recent investigations on language attrition are offering new perspectives, method-
ologies, and findings to a field very much in need of answers (see Schmid, Köpke,
Keijzer & Weilemar 2004, for a collection of the latest line of research on language
attrition). The present study adheres to this trend of investigation by proposing a
methodology that, although extensively used in psychology, education, and lan-
guage acquisition studies, has never been explored in language attrition research.
This methodology, known as stimulated recall protocol (SRP), “is used to explore
[speakers’] thought processes (or strategies) at the time of an activity or task. This
is achieved by asking [speakers] to report those thoughts after they have com-
pleted a task or activity” (Gass & Mackey 2000: xi). The objective of the present
article is to analyze the value of using this methodology in language attrition re-
search. Specifically, it focuses on the use of compensatory strategies by a group of
attriting speakers of Spanish during an oral narration task. The following section
228	 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
will provide an in-depth analysis of the role of compensatory strategies in previ-
ous language attrition studies. Then, a detailed description of stimulated recall
methodology will follow.
1.	 Compensatory strategies in language attrition research
When faced with a communicative breakdown, as is frequently the case with
language attriters, speakers develop compensatory strategies aimed at resolving
the problem. Communicative or compensatory strategies have been extensively
studied in the field of applied linguistics (Bialystok 1990; Faerch & Kasper 1984;
Kasper & Kellerman 1997; Kellerman 1991; Poulisse 1990, 1996, 1999; Tarone
1977, 1983). A number of authors have focused on the analysis of particular strat-
egies. Thus, for instance, Kenny (1996), Nakuma (1997), Christenfeld (1994),
Levin, Silverman & Ford (1967), and Taylor (1969) studied the analysis of pauses
(filled or silent); Tomiyama (1999) focused on speech rate and repetitions; Russel
(1999) on discourse fillers; Channel, Sinclair and Carter (1994) on vague lan-
guage; Levelt (1989) on self-corrections; Cohen (1986, 1989), and Olshtain and
Barzilay (1991) on lexical retrieval strategies; Andersen (1982) on literal transla-
tions; and Waas and Ryan (1993) on the use of onomatopoeia.
In 1985, Lantolf and Frawley created a functional typology of compensatory
strategies based on the idea of regulation. For these authors, communication, on
a psychological level, is not regarded as the transfer of information. Instead, com-
munication is considered “as an attempt by speakers to regulate themselves as
individuals when verbalizing” (Lantolf & Frawley 1985: 146). Maintaining self-
regulation is the ultimate goal for the speaker engaged in communicative activ-
ity. At first, the language learner, whether an L1 or L2 learner, is controlled by
the language that the language community uses for social interaction (that is, in
sociocultural terms, the novice is object-regulated by the language). In the proc-
ess of gaining control over the language, learners may rely on the help of others
(becoming other-regulated) until they become more knowledgeable and inde-
pendent users of the language (achieving self-regulation). Thus, acquiring a lan-
.	 It can also be argued that achieving other-regulation becomes fundamental in the com-
municative activity, not in the sense of trying to control someone but rather of allowing the
other person to understand the speaker’s perspective and personal sense about the object of
conversation.
	 Stimulated recall methodology	 229
guage is about moving from object- and other-regulation to self-regulation. In
this process, language comes under voluntary control of the speaker.
This developmental sequence of regulation is not categorical and does not
have an end point of permanent self-regulation at all times. The speaker can lose
self-regulation at any time depending on the circumstances of the communicative
activity. When this happens, “the speaker can reaccess an earlier communicative
strategy (i.e., object-regulation, and other-regulation) in order to solve the task
of communication, that is, gain self-regulation” (Lantolf & Frawley 1984: 427). In
other words, “any speaker has continuous access to all forms of order [i.e., control,
regulation] by means of verbalization” and “this availability of ordering strategies
is never lost” (ibid.: 427).
From this perspective, “language attrition entails the loss of the once attained
level of self-regulation of a language in a particular activity and the momentary
return to a previous stage of object- and/or other-regulation” (Jiménez Jiménez
2004: 67). That is to say, the speaker, engaged in a communicative activity, needs
to reaccess previous levels of development (other- and object-regulation) more
frequently than at a previous point in time when the individual was able to main-
tain a higher degree of self-regulation for the same activity.
A communicative breakdown can have many causes, most likely the novelty
of a task, a problem with the language of communication, or a conceptual mis-
understanding in the course of the communicative activity. Based on the notion
of regulation and on the idea that speakers tend to maintain linguistically-based
self-regulation at all times, speakers develop strategies that help them continue
performing the task at hand. The next sections categorize these strategies depend-
ing on their main regulatory function. Even though strategies have been associ-
ated with a certain category (self-, other-, or object-regulation), it is important to
note here that strategies do not pertain exclusively to one of these categories. In-
stead, strategies are considered fluid entities which can serve different regulatory
functions depending on all the concomitant factors that are involved in a certain
communicative activity.
1.1	 Self-regulatory strategies
According to Lantolf and Frawley’s functional typology of compensatory strate-
gies, self-regulation obtains when choice of strategy is determined by the attempt
.	 And as Vygotsky argued (1962), this move is optimally achieved in school, because here
the learner can attain conceptual (theoretical) understanding of the language and how it can be
manipulated for communicative purposes.
230	 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
to maintain self communicative activity (Lantolf & Frawley 1985: 153). The use of
self-regulatory strategies performs different functions, such as: to buy processing
time (with the use of filled and unfilled pauses, and discourse fillers), to focus
attention on what is coming next (with self-repetitions), to monitor the uttered
speech (self-corrections, self-recasts), to retrieve desired information (self-re-
trieval), and to guide and plan the course of action (with metacomments). Strat-
egies are manifestations of these higher cognitive functions at work, and they
represent attempts by the individual to maintain self-regulation during the com-
municative activity.
1.2	 Object-regulatory strategies
According to Lantolf and Frawley (1985), object-regulation manifests itself  “when
interlanguage as object regulates choice of strategy” (p. 153). When this is the case,
the speaker has two options. On the one hand, the speaker can completely avoid
the topic, in which case s/he has become object-regulated by his/her lack of con-
trol over either the language or the task. On the other hand, the speaker can com-
pensate for his/her own inability to supply the desired outcome by creating an in-
termediary solution that partially fulfills the communicative requirements and, at
the same time, camouflages the speaker’s inability to supply the desired form. The
compensatory strategies identified as having a primarily object-regulatory func-
tion are circumlocutions, approximations and all-purpose words, word-coinage,
literal translations, onomatopoeia, and codeswitching. Message abandonment is
considered the most extreme form of object-regulation since it shows a shift from
the individual having control over the task/language to the task/language having
control over the individual.
1.3	 Other-regulatory strategies
During speech activity self-regulation cannot always be maintained and object-
regulatory strategies are not always available. When this happens, the speaker can
rely on the help of the interlocutor. Other-regulation occurs “when presence of
other(s) in communicative acts regulates choice of strategy” (Lantolf & Frawley
1985: 153) or when the speaker relies on the help of the interlocutor to solve a
given communicative problem. In order to be able to employ other-regulatory
strategies, the rules of the activity in which speakers are engaged have to allow
cooperative communication. In some situations, appeal to the interlocutor is not
readily attainable, such as in testing situations, in which case the speaker is obliged
to use other types of strategies to overcome the communicative breakdown.
	 Stimulated recall methodology	 231
Based on these theoretical grounds, the present chapter considers compensa-
tory strategies as manifestations of the internal processes of a speaker engaged in the
task of solving a communicative problem. Some strategies can be recognized indi-
rectly in the speech. This is the case of circumlocutions, in which the researcher
can determine that the speaker is struggling to convey the message around the
problem of finding the appropriate word or expression. However, in most cases,
compensatory strategies are very difficult to identify if the analysis of the data is
confined to microlinguistic aspects. For instance, in order to avoid a linguistic
problem, speakers can choose to use approximations and vague language, pro-
ducing linguistically correct propositions. These avoidance strategies, and others,
are not reflected in speech and remain hidden within the speaker (Schmid 2004).
Thus, if we want to assess the use of avoidance strategies by a certain speaker,
there is no other way but to ask the speaker him/herself about the cognitive proc-
esses that take place inside his/her head while in the task of language formation.
2.	 Stimulated recall methodology
The study of thought processes in second language research has been approached
from very different angles using a wide range of introspective methods (e.g. Co-
hen 1996, 1998; Faerch & Kasper 1987). Of all these, thinking aloud protocols,
where subjects are instructed to verbalize their thoughts while they are engaged
in a difficult task (Ericsson & Simon 1993), have been most frequently used in lin-
guistic studies. Participants are asked to say whatever they are looking at, think-
ing, doing, and feeling as they go about their task. This way, the researcher gains
insight into the process involved in solving the task. Although this experimental
SELF-REGULATION OBJECT-REGULATION OTHER-REGULATION
      ↓ ↓ ↓
Filled pauses
Unfilled pauses
Segmental lengthening
Slower speech rate
Discourse fillers
Self-repetitions
Self-recasts
Self-corrections
Self-retrieval
Private Speech
Circumlocutions
Approximations
Word-coinage
Literal translations
Codeswitching
Codemixing
Onomatopoeia
Message abandonment
Repetition requests
Clarification requests
Confirmation requests
Expressions of non- or
misunderstanding
↔ ↔
Figure 1.  A taxonomy of communicative strategies in relation to their main regulatory
function
232	 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
strategy is extensively used, many believe that the externalization of the thought
process while doing the activity may change the thought process itself.
Kellerman (1974) started applying an early version of this method in order to
understand how second languages are learned. He recognized the importance of
receiving feedback from the participant, stating that “by bringing the learner into
the analysis of his text […], we are making available data that are useful in the
refinement of techniques of analysis of language produced by learners beyond the
point permitted by the application of experiential insights alone” (p. 97).
The proposed methodology in this chapter shares with thinking aloud pro-
tocols the fact that participants are asked to externalize their thoughts, with the
exception that this is done immediately after the communicative activity has been
completed. In order to help participants remember their thought processes, some
tangible visual or aural reminder (in the form of a video or audio of the subject
while performing the task) is presented. It is assumed that this reminder of the
“event will stimulate recall of the mental processes in operation during the event
itself” (Gass & Mackey 2000: 17). This method is superior to a simple post hoc
interview in that the participant does not need to heavily rely on memory without
any prompts. It also has an advantage over thinking aloud protocols because the
participant does not need to go through a process of training in order to be able
to perform a task and talk about it simultaneously. This methodology seeks to un-
cover cognitive processes that are not evident through simple observation. Stimu-
lated recall methodology is useful because it can help determine how knowledge
is organized and how cognitive processes, such as retrieval, search or decision
making, are being employed (Gass & Mackey 2000: 21).
This study seeks to assess the utility of using this methodology in language
attrition research. It is hypothesized that stimulated recall will unveil important
cognitive processes of attriting speakers, especially as regards their use of com-
pensatory strategies when faced with a communicative problem. More specific
information about how this methodology was employed in the framework of this
study is presented below.
3.	 Methodology
3.1	 Participants
In a globalizing world where migration is steadily increasing, more and more peo-
ple are putting down roots in other countries. As a consequence, the number of
heritage speakers is multiplying. A “heritage speaker” is defined here as someone
who is born and raised in a household where a language other than the one main-
	 Stimulated recall methodology	 233
ly used in the wider community is spoken (Valdés 2000). Some heritage speakers
merely understand the heritage language, while others can communicate fluently
in it. Regardless of where they stand in this continuum, for these speakers the
heritage language is normally casual (i.e., they use this language to communicate
with family and friends) and is largely influenced by the mainstream language
(normally their stronger language). This is language attrition at the inter-genera-
tional level (also referred to as language shift), and this linguistic erosion becomes
more accentuated each generation down.
In general terms, heritage speakers usually have an incomplete acquisition of
the heritage language. Therefore, when communicating in this language, especial-
ly in more formal contexts, they encounter communicative problems similar to
the ones faced by language attriters. Correspondingly, they also make a wider use
of communicative strategies in order to compensate for the linguistic difficulties.
Since the focus of this chapter is to scrutinize the use of compensatory strategies
by speakers who encounter frequent communicative problems (like language at-
triters and heritage speakers), and not to analyze the language itself that is pro-
duced by these very distinct groups, this study used a group of heritage speakers
as participants.
A total of ten heritage Spanish speakers participated in this study. All of them
were students at a small public university in Southern California. They were born
and raised in the United States from Mexico-born parents. They were not only the
first generation in their lineage to be born to American citizenship, but also the
first generation of their families to attend higher education. Participants’ literacy,
comprehension, and conversation skills in Spanish varied considerably. However,
for the purpose of this article, language proficiency is not considered a deter-
mining factor since the main objective is to assess compensatory strategies in
language attrition using stimulated recall methodology. The following paragraphs
will describe in detail the different phases involved in this methodology as used
in this study.
3.2	 Phase 1: Information recall
This study employed a data elicitation protocol based on the recall of a video-
clip. Free oral recall has proven to be one of the most practical and productive
means to assess a wide range of diverse linguistic aspects simultaneously, such as
vocabulary development (Cohen 1989; Olshtain & Barzilay 1991; Russell 1999;
Yoshitomi 1999), syntactic complexity (Yoshitomi 1999), verbal morphology
(Reetz-Kurashige 1999), phonology (Tomiyama 1999; Yoshitomi 1999), and com-
municative competence (Nakuma 1997), as well as error analysis (de Bot & Clyne
234	 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
1994; Yoshitomi 1999). For the present study, students had to retell, orally in
Spanish (their heritage and weakest language), the story enacted in a five-minute
clip of the well-known U.S. TV sitcom, Friends, played in English (their dominant
language). For the reader’s reference, a transcript of the clip is included in the Ap-
pendix. Immediately after watching the clip, students had to retell the story in the
form of a monologue.
Monologues are considered here a type of communicative activity, as there is
information that is transmitted to a recipient. In fact, based on Vygotsky (1962)
and Sokolov (1972), Lantolf and Frawley (1984) claim that “monologue is the high-
est or most complex form of speech not dialogue” because it can be argued that “a
speaker has fully acquired a language when s/he can engage in collective mono-
logue, not in dialogue, since monologue entails the speaker as a fully self-regu-
lated speaker” (p. 426–7). However, as mentioned above, this “fully self-regulated
speaker” is an ideal representation rather than a real one, as the speaker relies on
other types of speech (other- or object-regulated) when the circumstances require
it. It could also be argued that constructing a monologue involves “an ‘I’ that makes
choices on what to talk about and a ‘Me’ that interprets and critiques these choices”
(Vocate 1994: 12). This conception of monologue as an internal dialogue between
an ‘I’ and a ‘Me’ can be corroborated in the examples shown below, as students
were able to recall what they were thinking (e.g., hesitations, retrieval difficulties,
self-corrections, etc.) during the process of creating a monologue.
Participants’ oral production was digitally audio- and video-recorded (with a
microphone and a webcam connected to a computer) for later data transcription
and analysis. Instructions for the task were given in the target language, that is,
Spanish. The language mode was quite informal to make students feel as comfort-
able as possible in the lab environment. Students did not have any time limit dur-
ing the oral retelling of the clip. Participants produced narrations that averaged 2
minutes and 45 seconds, containing a mean of 339 words each.
3.3	 Phase 2: Transcription and preliminary analysis
Once students finished narrating the story, they were given a comprehensive lan-
guage survey questionnaire to fill out, which took on average 25 minutes to com-
plete. During this time, the main researcher transcribed the oral narration and
conducted a preliminary analysis of the text. To expedite the transcription proc-
ess, the audio and video data were recorded directly to the researcher’s compu-
ter, and then immediately transcribed using a specialized transcription software
(WAVpedal 4.0), a foot control pedal attached to the computer, and headsets.
	 Stimulated recall methodology	 235
This type of free oral retelling lends itself well to a number of different lin-
guistic analyses. However, for the purpose of this study, the analysis focussed on
the use of compensatory strategies. Creating a coherent story in your weakest
language is, to say the least, a challenging task. Students engaged in this activity
needed to rely on the use of compensatory strategies in order to help them convey
the storyline enacted in the video-clip. The researcher examined the texts, identi-
fying and tagging the compensatory strategies as described previously.
3.4	 Phase 3: Stimulated recall
Once the researcher and the participants finished their respective tasks, they both
came together and talked about the participant’s view of her/his own perform-
ance. In order to facilitate the task, the researcher showed the video-clip of the
participant narrating the story together with the transcription of the retelling.
The researcher used the tagged (i.e., analyzed) version of the transcription but, to
avoid bias, did not show it to the participant. Following the guidelines described
by Gass and Mackey (2000), participants were instructed to stop the video when
they wanted to comment on their narration. The researcher was also allowed to
stop the video and ask questions about the narration. This was done for every
compensatory strategy identified in the preliminary analysis, especially in cases
where the preliminary analysis was ambiguous. This recall session was also audio-
and video-recorded for later analysis. The use of this immediate recall protocol
proved to be an excellent instrument to assess avoidance strategies and at the
same time to fine-tune the analysis previously conducted by the researcher.
4.	 Results
Most compensatory strategies were easily recognizable during the preliminary
analysis of the oral texts. In fact, in 90% of the cases the researcher’s analysis of
regulatory strategies was corroborated by the participants. In other words, these
strategies can clearly be identified and quantified with a high degree of reliabil-
ity. However, the use of stimulated recall protocol (SRP) offered a deeper un-
derstanding of the participants’ thinking process in their use of these strategies.
For instance, while the researcher can clearly analyze a participant’s use of pauses
(length, frequency, speech rate, etc.), he or she cannot know for sure what the
speaker is thinking in that moment. The speaker could have encountered a lin-
guistic problem that s/he is trying to solve, or maybe the speaker has just momen-
tarily forgotten the story and is trying to retrieve it from memory. SRP allows a
236	 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
qualitative analysis of the data that proves to offer invaluable information about
the process of language formation.
Compensatory strategies are used by all of us, from the novice learner to the
emeritus scholar. When the communicative task at hand becomes challenging,
speakers access previous stages of other- and object-regulation, making use of
strategies to continue the task. The examples provided in this section, uttered
by first-generation heritage speakers of Spanish with an incomplete or attriting
knowledge of this language, are comparable to the ones found in previous attri-
tion studies. It is theorized that this methodology is also valid for different typolo-
gies of attriting speakers and the findings derived from this set of data can also be
applicable to language attrition research. For this reason, the examples provided
in this section will be discussed as they relate to language attrition.
SRP was particularly useful for identifying avoidance strategies, for instance,
the use of vague language and approximations, when the speaker uses a vocabulary
item or structure which the speaker knows is imprecise or incorrect, but which
shares enough semantic features with the desired item to satisfy the speaker’s
communicative need (Tarone 1983). It is important to note here that a traditional
linguistic analysis would not reveal any trace of attrition since speakers produced
grammatically accurate sentences. SRP provides a deeper level of understanding
of the attrition process.
(1.1)	 Narration:		 No quiere trabajar allí y se le olvidó le- um leer su currículum
				 vitae…
		 Translation:		 She doesn’t want to work there and she forgot to re- um read
				 her resume…
		 Recall:			 The speaker used “to read” when she wanted to say “to edit”
				 but she could not remember the word
(1.2)	 Narration:		 … le estaban ayudando a… a…poner los el currículum en en
				 el sobre
		 Translation:		 … they were helping her … putting the resumes in in the
				 envelope
		 Recall:			 Empacar meaning “to pack” came to the speaker’s mind, but
				 she knew that it was not the right word so she used a more
				 generic word
.	 For a better understanding of the context that triggered the examples shown in this section,
the Appendix contains the transcript of the video-clip that participants had to narrate. The
examples shown here are excerpts of participants’ narrations of the story shown in the video-
clip.
	 Stimulated recall methodology	 237
(1.3)	 Narration:		 Los dos jóvenes están sentados en el café hablando sobre
				 muchachas
		 Translation:		 The two young guys are sitting in the café talking about
				 girls
		 Recall:			 During the stimulated recall session, the speaker clarified
				 that he really wanted to say “on the sofa” but he did not
						 know how to say it in Spanish, which would be en el sofá
Another avoidance strategy is to recast or rephrase an idea in such a way that
the speaker is able to produce a grammatically correct form. The end result is a
completely accurate linguistic utterance, but the cognitive path followed would
remain invisible without this methodology.
(2.1)	 Narration:		 … y entonces pues nin- ninguna lo ninguna carta está uh uh
						 bien para ella…
		 Translation:		 … and then so any any any letter was uh uh good for her
		 Recall:			 What the speaker meant to say was that she was not accepted
				 anywhere
(2.2)	 Narration:		 … Ross dice que quiere a alguien que um que lo haga sentir
				 algo
		 Translation:		 …Ross says that he wants someone who um who makes him
				 feel something
		 Recall:			 The speaker wanted to say “to stir something in him” but she
				 found she did not know how to express this idea
Pavlenko (2004) noted that when the speaker code-mixes and uses a lexical bor-
rowing from the non-attriting language, we have to examine the reasons for which
that particular lexical item has been borrowed. She argues that if the speaker has
never learned/used that lexical item in the attriting language, the use of a borrow-
ing should not be considered a sign of language attrition. SRP provides a way to
identify these vocabulary items and structures never learned in the attriting lan-
guage.
(3.1)	 Narration:		 … de allí hay un una… pausa en el en en la narración en el
				 video
		 Translation:		 and from there there is a a… pause in the in in the narration
				 of the video
		 Recall:			 In the interview the speaker said that she wanted to say
				 “the credits” but she had never learned that word in Spanish,
				 which turns out to be a cognate, namely créditos
(3.2)	 Narration:		 y están echando resumes o ¿cómo se dice? Em… ¡Ay! ¡Bueno!
				 Resumes
238	 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
		 Translation:		 and they are sending resumes or how do you say that? Em…
				 Oh! Well! Resumes
		 Recall:			 In this case the speaker knew that he had learned the
				 Spanish word for “resume” (which is curriculum) but he
				 could not recall it in that moment. When he was told the
				 word, he recognized it
Another manifestation of attrition is the use of circumlocutions, when the speak-
er describes the characteristics or elements of the objects or action instead of us-
ing the appropriate target language item or structure (Tarone 1983). Although
sometimes circumlocutions can be easily recognized, some other times are not
so clear.
(4.1)	 Narration:		 Ross se da cuenta que ha escrito algo mal
		 Translation:		 Ross realizes that she has written something wrong
		 Recall:			 The speaker did not know how to say “typo”. An option in
				 Spanish for this word could be una errata
(4.2)	 Narration:		 … en cuanto se le arrima la mesera otra vez empieza a como
				 como muy muy este… um… como que está toda- que sí
				 todavía la quiere ¿verdad?
		 Translation:		 … as soon as the waitress comes close again he starts like like
				 very very um… um… it’s like he is still like he still loves her,
				 right?
		 Recall:			 What she really wanted to say is that he had “puppy eyes”. In
				 Spanish hacer ojitos could be said
(4.3)	 Narration:		 … mientras que las amigas están uh ab- ab- abriendo las
				 cartas y leyendo lo que dicen uh no encuentran ninguna que
				 que le dé buenas noticias todas que oh gracias por mandar la
				 carta pero no ocupamos su ayuda
		 Translation:		 … while her friends are uh op- op- opening the letters and
				 reading what they say uh they don´t find any that that give
				 her good news all of them say oh thank you for sending the
				 letter but we don´t need your help
		 Recall:			 The speaker later said that he wanted to say that all of the
				 letters “rejected” her. To “reject” is rechazar in Spanish
SRP also helps to identify omitted content in the narration, i.e., when the speaker
omits some information from the story because s/he did not know how to say it
or felt that it would be complicated to explain. This avoidance strategy is almost
impossible to assess with a traditional linguistic analysis, since it cannot account
for what is not there.
	 Stimulated recall methodology	 239
(5.1)	 Narration:		 ... y entonces pues nin- ninguna lo ninguna carta está uh uh
				 bien para ella…
		 Translation:		 … and then so any any any letter is uh uh good for her…
		 Recall:			 The participant wanted to say that the character was not
				 accepted anywhere, which was partially expressed in her
				 utterance but she also wanted to add that all the companies
				 found something negative in her resume
(5.2)	 Recall:			 One of the speakers commented that she left out all the
				 information about the scene of the paper cut because she did
				 not know how to say it
The stimulated recall protocol also provided a better understanding of the reasons
for which the speaker uses self-corrections. The use of these strategies implies that
the speaker is closely monitoring speech production and correcting for ambiguity
and to clarify potential misunderstanding.
(6.1)	 Narration:		 … y traen consigo un unos um ¿cómo se llama? Un correo,
				 correspondencia…
		 Translation:		 …and they bring with them a some um how do you say that?
				 a mail, correspondence
		 Recall:			 The speaker thought that correo was not correct because she
				 had that word associated with “post office” and not with
				 “mail” and that is why she used a clarifying word afterwards.
				 In Spanish, correo can mean both “post office” and “mail”.
				 However, like in English, the word correo can not be
				 preceded by the undetermined article.
Another example of the usefulness of SRP is that it allows the researcher to distin-
guish slips-of-the-tongue from improper use of the language. Based on Dell’s (1986)
definition of slip of the tongue (“an unintended, nonhabitual deviation from a
speech plan”) (p. 284), Poulisse (1999) identifies two criteria: (1) that there must
be an error and (2) that the speaker must be able to repair the error (p. 91). SRP al-
lows asking speakers to correct these errors. If unable to do this, we can conclude
that it was not a slip of the tongue.
(7.1)	 Narration:		 Este video es sobre la seria de Friends en la televisión
		 Translation:		 This video is about the series of Friends on television
		 Recall:			 When asked, the speaker was not sure about the word. In
				 Spanish you can use the word serie
(7.2)	 Narration:		 … y le pregunta que si los había leído antes de um emprimirlos
				 para mandarlos
240	 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
		 Translation:		 … and he asks if she had read them before um printing them
				 to send them
		 Recall:			 The researcher asked the speaker to say the word again and
				 she again said *emprimirlos when the right form is
				 imprimirlos
This research methodology also allows clarifying many of the uncertainties that
arise in the preliminary analysis. The researcher can ask direct questions (e.g.,
how do you say this?) to confirm whether the speaker really knows some particu-
lar linguistic element or not.
(8.1)	 Narration:		 … están hablando sobre poker (English pronunciation)
		 Translation:		 … and they are talking about poker
		 Recall:			 The speaker was not sure how to say poker in Spanish
				 (pronounced as /´poker/ or /´poka:/) so she decided to use
				 the English pronunciation (/´p6~k6r/). This comment
				 clarified the analysis since the word poker is a borrowing
				 from English but it was evident then that the speaker was
				 thinking of the English word at that time
Sometimes speakers are unsure about some linguistic element, and they make a
guess and eventually produce an utterance that is grammatically correct. A tra-
ditional linguistic analysis would not be able to recognize this uncertainty while
SRP can.
(9.1)	 Narration:		 Entonces de ahí se va a otra escena
		 Translation:		 Then from there it goes to a different scene
		 Recall:			 The speaker did not know the word for ‘scene’, so he made
				 it up thinking it could be a cognate. In this case he was
				 successful. This methodology was able to identify this
				 hesitation
Another advantage of using this methodology is that at times, when participants
hear themselves, they make corrections to their stories (10.1). SRP offers the op-
portunity for participants to self-reflect on their own language production, giving
them a second chance to refine their narration (10.2). This methodology reminds
us of the difference between on-line performance and linguistic competence. In
a simple linguistic analysis we could consider improper use of the language as a
sign of attrition while, if given the opportunity to reflect on their own linguistic
production, speakers could make the necessary corrections.
	 Stimulated recall methodology	 241
(10.1)	Narration:		 … dos amigas de Rachel um entran a la restaurante
		 Translation:		 … two friends of Rachel um come into the (fem.)
				 restaurant
		 Recall:			 The article should agree in gender with its noun (restaurant)
				 in the masculine form. The speaker recognized the mistake
				 and corrected it during the recall session
(10.2)	Narration:		 Y ella quiere saber si ha recibido respuestas de los trabajos que
				 pidió
		 Translation:		 And she wants to know if she has received answers for the
				 jobs that she asked for
		 Recall:			 During the recall session, this speaker said solicitó (to apply),
				 which is a more precise term for the idea that she was
				 expressing
There are other advantages of using this methodology. In many cases, participants
made comments that the researcher did not expect or did not think of. Obviously,
although many mental processes can be traced by looking at the speaker’s linguis-
tic production, there are many others that remain undetectable. In addition, after
the recall exercise, the researcher can ask participants general questions about
the task. This open discussion gives speakers the opportunity to make comments
about the experience that they consider necessary for the researcher to know. In
this study, some participants talked about their perception of their own ability to
speak the attriting language in relation to their strongest one. Some of them men-
tioned that they were nervous or tired, or that they in general have a bad memory.
Another speaker said that the task was more difficult for him because he did not
know the show and he was not familiar with the characters, the setting, etc.
As we see in the examples above, the use of stimulated recall protocol in lan-
guage attrition research provides numerous advantages. However, the use of this
methodology also provides some challenges that the researcher should consider.
Some may argue issues of validity and reliability, since this methodology relies
on the speakers’ retrospective (hence, subjective) reports of their thought proc-
ess during the task. Also, it should be noted here that this methodology does not
address automatic cognitive processes, which are not accessible to consciousness,
as it only informs us about controlled, strategic processing. Nevertheless, the pos-
sibility to obtain information about strategic cognitive activity is valuable enough
in the framework of this study since the goal is to assess the strategies consciously
used by speakers to compensate for their incomplete/attriting knowledge of the
language.
One important factor to be considered when using this methodology is that
recall should be carried out as soon as possible after the actual event, in order to
242	 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
avoid interference or contamination during the period between the event and the
recall. These “verbal reports, elicited with care and interpreted with full under-
standing of the circumstances under which they were obtained, are a valuable and
thoroughly reliable sort of information about cognitive processes” (Ericsson &
Simon 1980: 247). In fact, participants in this study were able to make comments
on their own narrations, offer explanations for their linguistic choices, make cor-
rections, identify the elements that they were doubtful about, and talk about their
previous linguistic knowledge in relation to the task at hand. In other words, this
methodology provided critical information about the cognitive processes of lan-
guage formation by attriting speakers. That which is hidden became visible before
the eyes of the researcher. This is particularly important in attrition studies since
this phenomenon is all about invisibility. It is not only about what is said, but is
also about what is not said. And that which is not said only resides in the head of
the speaker. There is no other way to bring that information to light but by asking
the speaker directly.
5.	 Discussion
Despite the numerous efforts dedicated to the study of language attrition in the
last two decades, language attrition remains one of the most enigmatic areas in
the field of linguistics. Traditionally, the language attrition literature has prima-
rily investigated those linguistic elements that are more vulnerable to attrition in
relation to those that are maintained for a longer period of time, while not much
attention has been paid to the cognitive processes that the speaker engages in be-
fore, during, and after the production of these linguistic elements. This research
emphasizes the intrinsic relationship between the linguistic and the cognitive
lines of development.
One of the most fundamental notions of Sociocultural Theory is that “socio-
cultural and mental activity are bound together in a dependent, symbolically me-
diated, relationship” (Lantolf & Pavlenko 1995: 109), language being the main tool
that mediates this interaction. Through interaction with the community, social
speech moves towards egocentric speech, and, in this process, the individual in-
corporates the higher mental functions that are present in the community into his/
her own cognitive system. These higher mental functions, which include problem
solving, voluntary attention, and the planning, executing, and monitoring of the
course of action, are social in origin and have been internalized during speaking
activity. Egocentric speech moves underground and becomes silent, representing
the essence of conscious mental activity, that is, inner speech. The internalization
of higher forms of mental activity allows the speaker to gain self-regulation in the
	 Stimulated recall methodology	 243
different activities s/he engages in. However, when the activity becomes difficult,
speakers can reaccess previous stages of development in the attempt to regain con-
trol (or self-regulation) over the task. In order to do this, speakers can vocalize
their inner speech externally so it becomes visible, material, and at the same time,
malleable. This form of speech has been labeled in the theory as private speech and
it “represents the externalization of what otherwise would remain as covert mental
processes (e.g., planning, remembering, learning, etc.) and emerges in the face of
difficult tasks” (Appel & Lantolf 1994: 439).
Thus, speakers who encounter some difficulty in the course of a certain activ-
ity may rely on private speech to solve the problem. In this case, speakers’ internal
thinking activity surfaces externally and verbally in an attempt to gain control
over their thinking process. In this view, thinking does not always precede speak-
ing. Instead, thinking may also coincide with or even follow speaking. This is
manifested in the use of the compensatory strategies employed by the participants
in this study in order to gain control over the diverse communicative problems
they were facing during the completion of the narration task.
In their narrations, students used the language not only to recall the stories
conveyed in the video-clip but also to focus on certain aspects of their linguistic
production, to solve communicative problems, and to plan, execute and moni-
tor their speech. For instance, self-repetitions can function as a regulatory device
to focus on what is coming next. Pauses, segmental lengthening, and a slower
speech rate are symptoms of the internal planning of subsequent linguistic pro-
duction. Self-corrections and self-rephrasing are manifestations of the continu-
ous monitoring of students’ production, while circumlocutions, approximations,
codeswitching, literal translations, word-coinages, etc. are linguistic materializa-
tions of communicative-motivated problem solving processes. In other words,
(self- and object-) regulatory strategies are considered forms of private speech as
they represent external manifestations of internal thinking processes. In addition,
other-regulatory strategies could also be regarded as manifestations of private
speech in this context since dialogic forms of speech were not expected and most
of the students’ attempts to initiate a dialogue can be interpreted as addressed to
themselves. This idea is supported in Appel and Lantolf’s (1994) study on how
speaking mediates cognitive activity in L1 and advanced L2 speakers of English
in the activity of reading and recalling narrative and expository texts. The authors
conclude that “not only can planning occur simultaneously with speech, but that
the very activity of speaking can, in fact, be planning, or more precisely, thinking,
externalized as self-directed private speech, the goal of which is planning what
to say about a particular topic” (p. 440). This view is corroborated in the present
study as evidenced in students’ use of regulatory strategies as a means for think-
ing about their own linguistic production. This finding points to the importance
244	 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
of conducting studies on language attrition that take into account both levels of
development (linguistic and cognitive), since they form an inseparable unity, the
two sides of the same coin.
References
Andersen, R. W. (1982). “Determining the linguistic attributes of language attrition”. In R.
D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 83–118). Rowley, MA:
Newbury House.
Appel, G. & Lantolf, J. P. (1994). “Speaking as mediation: A study of L1 and L2 text recall tasks”.
The Modern Language Journal, 78 (4), 437–452.
Bialystok, E. (1990). Communication Strategies. Oxford: Blackwell.
Channel, J., Sinclair, J. & Carter, R. (1994). Vague Language (Describing English Language).
Oxford: OUP.
Christenfeld, N. (1994). “Options and ums”. Journal of Language and Social Psychology, 13,
192–199.
Cohen, A. D. (1986). “Forgetting foreign-language vocabulary”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot & T.
van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 143–158). Dordrecht: Foris.
Cohen, A. D. (1989). “Attrition in the productive lexicon of two Portuguese third language
speakers”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 11, 135–149.
Cohen, A. D. (1996). “Verbal reports as a source of insights into second language learner
strategies”. Applied Language Learning, 7, 5–24.
Cohen, A. D. (1998). Strategies in Learning and Using a Second Language. London: Longman.
de Bot, K. & Clyne, M. (1994). “A 16-year longitudinal study of language attrition in Dutch
immigrants in Australia”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 15 (1),
17–28.
Dell, G. S. (1986). “A spreading activation theory of retrieval in sentence production”.
Psychological Review, 93, 283–321.
Ericsson, K. A. & Simon, H. A. (1980). “Verbal reports as data”. Psychological Review, 87, 215–
251.
Ericsson, K. A. & Simon, H. A. (1993). Protocol Analysis: Verbal reports as data. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Faerch, C. & Kasper, G. (1984). “Two ways of defining communication strategies”. Language
Learning, 34, 45–63.
Faerch, C. & Kasper, G. (1987). “From product to process – Introspective methods in second
language research”. In C. Faerch & G. Kasper (Eds.), Introspection in Second Language
Research (pp. 251–266). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Gass, S. M. & Mackey, A. (2000). Stimulated Recall Methodology in Second Language Research.
Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Jiménez Jiménez, A. F. (2004). “A sociocultural approach to language attrition”. In M. S. Schmid,
B. Köpke, M. Keijzer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language Attrition: Interdisciplinary
perspectives on methodological issues (pp. 61–80). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kasper, G. & Kellerman, E. (1997). Communication Strategies. Harlow: Longman.
	 Stimulated recall methodology	 245
Kellerman, E. (1974). “Elicitation, lateralization and error analysis”. York Papers in Linguistics 4.
Reprinted in Interlanguage Studies Bulletin 1, 79–114, 1976.
Kellerman, E. (1991). “Compensatory strategies in second language research: A critique, a
revision, and some (non-) implications for the classroom”. In R. Phillipson, E. Kellerman,
L. Selinker, M. Sharwood Smith & M. Swain (Eds.), Foreign/Second Language Pedagogy
Research: A commemorative volume for Claus Faerch (pp. 142–161). Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters.
Kenny, K. D. (1996). Language Loss and the Crisis of Cognition. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Lantolf, J. P. & Frawley, W. (1984). “Second language performance and Vygotskyan
psycholinguistics: Implications for L2 instruction”. In A. Manning, P. Martin & K. McCalla
(Eds.), The Eleventh LACUS Forum, 1983, (pp. 425–440). Columbia, SC: Hornbeam
Press.
Lantolf, J. P. & Frawley, W. (1985). “On communication strategies: A functional perspective”.
Rassegna Italiana di Linguistica Applicata, 17, 143–157.
Lantolf, J. P. & Pavlenko, A. (1995). “Sociocultural theory and second language acquisition”.
Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 15, 108–124.
Levelt, W. J. M. (1989). Speaking: From intention to articulation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Levin, H., Silverman, I. & Ford, B. (1967). “Hesitations in children’s speech during explanation
and description”. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 6, 560–564.
Nakuma, C. (1997). “A method for measuring the attrition of communicative competence: A
pilot study with Spanish L3 subjects”. Applied Psycholinguistics, 18, 219–235.
Olshtain, E. & Barzilay, M. (1991). “Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition”. In
H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 139–150). Cambridge:
CUP.
Pavlenko, A. (2004). “L2 influence and L1 attrition in adult bilingualism”. In M. S. Schmid,
B. Köpke, M. Keijzer & L. Weilemar (Eds.), First Language Attrition: Interdisciplinary
perspectives on methodological Issues (pp. 47–60). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Poulisse, N. (1990). The Use of Compensatory Strategies by Dutch Learners of English. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Poulisse, N. (1996). “Strategies”. In P. Jordens & J. Lalleman (Eds.), Investigating Second Language
Acquisition (pp. 135–166). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Poulisse, N. (1999). Slips of the Tongue: Speech errors in first and second language production.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Reetz-Kurashige, A. (1999). “Japanese returnees’ retention of English-speaking skills: Changes
in verb usage over time”. In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts
(pp. 21–58). New York, NY: OUP.
Russell, R. A. (1999). “Lexical maintenance and attrition in Japanese as a second language”. In
L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts (pp. 114–141). New York,
NY: OUP.
Schmid, M. S., Köpke, B., Keijzer, M. & Weilemar, L. (Eds.) (2004.). First Language Attrition:
Interdisciplinary perspectives on methodological issues. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S. (2004). “First language attrition: The methodology revised”. International Journal
of Bilingualism, 8 (3), 239–255.
Sokolov, A. N. (1972). Inner Speech and Thought. New York, NY: Plenum.
Tarone, E. (1983). “Some thoughts on the notion of communication strategy”. In C. Faerch & G.
Kasper (Eds.), Strategies in Interlanguage Communication. New York, NY: Longman.
246	 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
Taylor, I. (1969). “Content and structure in sentence production”. Journal of Verbal Learning
and Verbal Behavior, 8, 170–175.
Tomiyama, M. (1999). “The first stage of second language attrition: A case study of a Japanese
returnee”. In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts (pp. 59–79).
New York, NY: OUP.
Valdés, G. (2000). Introduction. Spanish for native speakers, Volume 1. AATSP Professional
Development Series Handbook for Teachers K-16. New York, NY: Harcourt College
Publishers.
Vocate, D. R. (1994). Intrapersonal Communication. Different voices, Different minds. Hillsdale,
NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Vygotsky, L. S. (1962). Thought and Language. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Waas, M. & Ryan, A. (1993). “Onomatopoeia in language attrition”. Linguistische Berichte, 148,
477–482.
Yoshitomi, A. (1999). “On the loss of English as a second language by Japanese returnee
children”. In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts (pp. 80–111).
New York, NY: OUP.
Appendix
Video-clip transcript
(The group of friends is helping Rachel mail out resumes while whistling the theme from The
Bridge on the River Kwai.)
Ross: Uh, Rach, we’re running low on resumes over here.
Monica: Do you really want a job with Popular Mechanics?
Chandler: Well, if you’re gonna work for mechanics, those are the ones to work for.
Rachel: Hey, look, you guys, I’m going for anything here, OK? I cannot be a waitress anymore,
I mean it. I’m sick of the lousy tips, I’m sick of being called ‘Excuse me...’
Phoebe: Oh! Paper cut! Paper cut!
Joey: Here, here.
Phoebe: Grapefruit juice! Grapefruit juice!
Rachel: Okay, guys, we’re almost done. We only got 20 more to go.
Ross: Rach, did you proofread these?
Rachel: Uh... yeah, why?
Ross: Uh, nothing, I’m sure they’ll be impressed with your excellent compuper skills.
Rachel: (upset) Oh my Goood! Oh, do you think it’s on all of them?
Joey: Oh no, I’m sure the Xerox machine caught a few.
Opening Credits
[Scene: Central Park, Ross and Chandler are sitting at a table. Rachel is working. Monica and
Phoebe enter.]
Chandler: You know? I know they call this a love seat but I’m not really feeling anything special
towards you.
	 Stimulated recall methodology	 247
(Ross hits Chandler with the paper)
Monica: Hey, guys.
Chandler and Ross: Hey.
Rachel: Hey... hi, ladies... uh, can I get you anything? (to Monica, quietly) : Did you bring the
mail?
Monica: Lots of responses.
Rachel: (to Monica) : Really? (out loud) : Sure, we have scones left! (to Monica) : OK, read
them to me.
Phoebe: (reading) : Dear Ms. Green, thank you for your inquiry, however... oh...
Rachel: (out loud) : We have apple cinnamon...
Monica: (reading) : OK... Dear Ms. Green... yeah... yeah... yeah... No.
Phoebe: Wow!
Rachel: What?
Phoebe: (reading) : Your Visa bill is huge!
Rachel: (grabs the bill) Give me that!
(Camera cuts to Chandler and Ross at table.)
Chandler: You know, I can’t believe you. Linda is so great! Why won’t you go out with her
again?
Ross: I don’t know.
Chandler: Is this still about her whole ‘The Flintstones could’ve really happened’ thing?
Ross: No, it’s not just that. It’s just – I want someone who... who does something for me, y’know?
Who gets my heart pounding, who... who makes me, uh... (begins to stare lovingly at Rachel)
Chandler: ...little playthings with yarn?
Ross: What?
Chandler: Could you want her more?
Ross: Who?
Chandler: (sarcastically) Dee, the sarcastic sister from Whats Happening.
Ross: Look, I am totally, totally over her, OK, I just... (Rachel comes over, Ross lays head on
table) : Hiiii!
Rachel: Hi! How are you?
Ross: We’re fine, we’re fine.
Rachel: OK. (walks away)
(Ross keeps staring at her, head on table. Chandler smacks him with a newspaper. Joey enters,
Ross and Chandler laugh at him.)
Joey: Shut up!
Chandler: We’re not – we’re not saying anything.
Phoebe: What?
Ross: Uhhhh... Joey cried last night.
Joey: Thank you.
Chandler: (to the girls) We were playing poker, alright...
Joey: There was chocolate on the three. It looked like an eight, alright?
Ross: Oh, guys, you should’ve seen him. ‘Read ’em and weep.’
248	 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
Chandler: And then he did.
Rachel: Well, now, how come you guys have never played poker with us?
Phoebe: Yeah, what is that? Like, some kind of guy thing? Like, some kind of sexist guy thing?
Like it’s poker, so only guys can play?
Ross: No, women are welcome to play.
Phoebe: Oh, OK, so then what is it? Some kind of... you know, like, like... some kind of, y’know,
like... alright, what is it?
Chandler: There just don’t happen to be any women in our games.
Joey: Yeah, we just don’t happen to know any women that know how to play poker.
Girls: Oh, yeah, right.
Monica: Oh, please, that is such a lame excuse!
Rachel: Really.
Monica: I mean, that’s a typical guy response.
Ross: Excuse me, do any of you know how to play?
Girls: No.
Rachel: But you could teach us.
Guys: No.
Bellugi  157
Ben-Rafael, E. 210, 211
Ben-Rafael, M. 6, 18, 25, 37,
205, 212
Benet-Martinez  193
Benson  183
Berg  12
Berman  126
Bernicot 54
Berwick  101
Best  160
Bever  86, 157
Bialystok  19, 159, 228
Birdsong  11, 55, 155, 156, 158,
159
Blackledge  191
Bochner  193
Bond  193, 194
Bongaerts  129, 159
Bornhövd  183
Borras  183
Borsook  183
Bosch  160
Botvinick  182
Boujon  12
Bourhis 29, 207, 209
Boyd  84
Boym  191
Braet 57
Brauer  129
Braver  182
Breakwell 207, 209
Brebion 57
Brighton 61
Brodsky  190
Bromm  183
Brosseau-Lapré  129
A
Abel  129
Abrahamsson  11, 20, 30, 159
Adolpho  124
Alajouanine  129
Altenberg  18, 21
Ammerlaan  16, 18, 21, 63, 126,
142
Andersen 228
Anderson, B.   110
Anderson, M. C.   19, 181, 182
Anderson, R. T.  84, 96
Andersson  84, 96
Appel 243
Argenti  15, 161, 170
Armon Lotem  84
Aronoff  18
As  17, 130, 170, 171
Atkins  126
Au  163
Avesani  129
Avila 3
B
Baddeley  16, 19
Badgaiyan  182
Bahrick  17, 65
Baltes 53, 55, 57
Barch  182
Barker  157
Barzilay  18, 84, 228, 233
Bates 3, 84
Bauer  193
Bavelas  193
Bavelier  155
Becerra  183
Belletti  88
Brown  126
Bruhn-Garavito  110
Bruner  191
Büchel  183
Burton Koch  157
Burzio  88
Bush  182
Bushnell  183
C
Canagarajah  84
Caplan  169
Cardinaletti  87
Carpenter  18
Carrier  183
Carroll 20
Carter, C. S  182
Carter, R 228
Casey  182, 185
Castells 210
Channel 227, 228
Chengappa  13, 17
Chiu  193
Cho  182
Chomsky 22, 43, 85, 101, 102,
106
Christenfeld 228
Chung  157
Clahsen  86
Clyne 59, 65, 71, 142, 233
Cohen, A. D.  228, 231, 233
Cohen, J. D.  182
Cole  190
Collette  16, 19
Coltheart  126
Conrad  190
Cook  1, 3, 4, 20, 136, 170
Name index
250	 Name index
Coolican  195
Cooper  181
Crawford  183
Crone  182
Crosson  14
Cummins 41
Curtis  126
Curtiss  156
Cutler 3, 164
D
D’Andrea 63
Damasio, A.  124, 129
Damasio, H.  124, 129
Daneman  18
Dasinger  126
de Bleser  169
de Bode  15
de Bot  9, 10, 15, 16, 23, 30, 53,
56, 58, 59, 63, 71, 129, 136,
142, 233
Dechert  156
DeFliore  183
de Groot  129
Degueldre  183
Dehaene  15, 161, 170
Dekydtspotter  110
Dell  11, 126, 239
Demetriou 54, 58
Deng  129
de Schonen  161
Desrochers  129
Deutch 210
Di Biase  127
DiGirolamo  182
Dijkstra 3, 11, 48
Doise 54
Dorian 71, 72
Doupe  155
Dressler  10
Duncan  183
Duong Phan 60
Dupoux  15, 161, 164, 170
Dussias  19
E
Eccard  182
Ecke  17, 191
Edelman  194
Edwards 207
Eichen  156
Ellis, R.  127
Ellis, N.  10, 127
Elman  11
Elovitz  191
Enç  106, 107
Epstein 210
Ericsson 231, 242
Erikson  191
Escudero 41
F
Fabbro  12, 14, 97
Faerch 228, 231
Fan  183
Faymonville  183
Felser  86
Filiaci  83, 98, 99
Fissell  182
Fivush  193
Flege 3, 11, 158–160
Fodor 22
Footnick 6, 17, 130, 169
Ford 228
Fox  182
Francis, N.  11, 28
Francis, W. S.  129
Franck  183
Frawley 228–230, 234
Freed  170
French 48
Friedman 57
Fromholt  129
Fromm  17, 130, 170, 172, 178,
180, 181
Furnham  193
G
Gabrieli, J. D. E.  181
Gabrieli, S. W.  181
Gantz  157
Gardner 25, 29, 206
Garrett 22
Gass 227, 232, 235
Geijst 211
Genesee  89
George  102
Ghatan  183
Giles 29, 207, 209
Glauche  183
Glöckner 210
Glover  181
Goles 60
Gommans 59, 136
Goodglass  145
Gosling  193
Grabois  15
Grabowski  124
Grainger  11, 129
Green, C.  181
Green, D. W.  12–14, 19, 24, 49,
104, 138
Gregg 41
Grosjean 4, 11, 19, 25, 48, 49,
129, 135–138
Gross, R.  86
Gross, S.  18, 71
Gubrium  191
Gur  183
Gurd  129
Gürel 5, 10, 12, 84, 99–104,
107–110, 117, 126, 136
H
Haden  193
Håkansson  18, 84, 127
Hakuta 63, 159
Haller  126
Hansen 65, 126, 128
Harden 56
Hari  183
Haritos  129
Harley  155
Harrington  86
Harris 6, 210
Harzing  193, 194
Haslam  191
Haviland-Jones  192
Hedgcock 65
Heilman  14
Herdina 58
Hermans  129
Hernández  84
Heycock  83, 98, 99
Hiltunen  183
Hirose  164
Hirsch  164
	 Name index	 251
Hirschfeld 23, 24
Hlavac 71
Hoffman  190, 191
Hogg  191
Holowka  129
Holstein  191
Hong  193
Hudon  129
Hulsen  18, 21, 63, 126, 137, 142,
209
Humphreys  14
Hyltenstam  11, 20, 30, 159, 163
I
Ijalba  12, 17, 18
Ingvar  183
Irigaray 55
Israel 210
Isurin  15, 84
Itard  156
J
Jackendoff 39, 44–46, 48–50
Jacquet 48
Jain  126
Jake 70, 76
Jakobson  9, 127
Jaspaert  136, 137
Jasper 210
Jennings  182
Jessner 58
Jiang  129
Jiménez Jiménez 6, 227, 229
Joanette  129
Johnson  11
Juffs  86
Jun  163
Juncos-Rabadán  126
Jusczyk 44
Just  18
K
Kağitçibasi  193
Kahn  191
Kakehi  164
Kalbaugh  192
Kaltsa  83, 84, 92, 96
Kandel  194
Kanno  110
Kaplan  145
Kasper 228, 231
Kaufman  18, 28
Kaushanskaya  193, 194
Kawaguchi  127
Kawasaki  110
Kazmi  157
Kecskés  123
Keijzer  10, 99, 145, 151, 170, 227
Kellerman 228, 232
Kemper 56
Kennaley 56
Kenny 228
Kerkman  126
Kerns  182
Kheimets 210
Kihlstrom  171, 174
Kim, C. S.  157
Kim, J.-W.  157
Kim, K. H. S.  164
Kim, S.-K.  157
King, M.  126
King, N.  191, 194
Kirby 61
Kirsner  126
Kishon-Rabin  157
Klein 55
Klima  157
Klosty Beaujour  129
Knightly  163
Koch  129, 157
Kohnert  84
Köpke  1, 2, 5, 9–13, 18–21,
23–25, 29, 42, 55, 65, 84, 99,
104, 118, 126, 135–137, 140, 150,
151, 165, 170, 227
Kornfilt  102
Kouritzin  191
Krashen 20, 206, 208
Kristeva  191
Kristof  190
Kroon  136, 137
Kuhl, B.  181
Kuhl, P. K.  155
Kundera  189, 190
Kyntay  126
L
Laganaro  129
Lambert, R. D.  170, 206
Lambert, W. E. 25, 29
Lamendella  14
Lamy  183
Lantolf 228–230, 234, 242, 243
Larmouth  99
Larsen  129
Larsen-Freeman 58
Lasnik  101, 102
Laufer 211
Laureys  183
LeBihan  15, 161, 170
Lecours  129
Lee, D. S.  157
Lee, J. S.  157
Lee, K.-M.  164
Lee, M. C.  157
Lengyel  155, 158
Lenneberg  11, 155
LePage 207
Levelt 228
Levin 228
Levine  18
Levy  181
Lewis  192
Lhermitte  129
Libby  191, 193–195
Lipski  84
Liu  11
Lock  157
Lockhart  126
Long  155, 206
Lorenzo-Dus 20
Lowie 58
Luria  11
Luu  182
Luxen  183
Lyubansky 210
M
Maalouf  190
MacDonald, A. W.  182
MacDonald, A. M.  182
MacDonald, C. A. 79
MacKay  158
Mackey 227, 232, 235
MacLeod  16
MacWhinney  104, 146
Magnusson 54
252	 Name index
Major 4, 21
Makoni 56
Malmkjær  129
Malvern  146
Manzini  101
Maquet  183
Marian  193, 194
Marinis  86
Marshall  129
Masgoret 206
Maury  161
Mayberry  156, 157, 160, 164
Maznevski  193, 194
McAdams  191, 194
McCarthy  18
McClelland  11
McConkey Robbins  157
McKee  146
Meara 20, 60, 62–65
Mehler 3, 15, 161, 164, 170
Meuter  14
Mills  191
Milroy 29
Milton 20
Misztal  191
Miyake 46, 51
Molis  159
Montrul  10, 25, 84
Morris  193
Morvan 60
Moskovitch  129
Munro  158
Myers-Scotton 5, 69, 70, 72, 76
Myhill 210
N
Nabokov  190
Nakuma  142, 228, 233
Navanen  183
Neisser 65, 191, 193, 194, 195
Nelson  126, 129, 191, 194
Nespoulous  10, 31
Nesselroade 53
Neville  126, 155, 159
Newport  11, 155, 156
Nicoladis  15
Noll  182
Norman  13, 19
Norris 3, 164
Novack  14
Numminen  183
Nystrom  182
O
Oakes  191
Obler  13, 17
Ochsner  181
Oh, J. S.  163
Oh, S. H.  157
Olshtain  18, 21, 84, 211, 228, 233
Opitz 20, 128
Osberger  157
Overton Venet  129
Oyama  158
P
Paivio  129
Pallier 6, 10, 11, 15, 55, 130, 150,
155, 160–164, 170, 172, 185
Panayiotou  194
Paoli  85
Papadopoulou  86, 92
Papp  123
Paradis 5, 10–12, 14, 16–18, 21,
46, 48, 56, 104, 121, 123, 124,
127, 135, 136, 138, 141, 142
Pater  110
Pavlenko  14, 15, 18, 26, 84, 128,
129, 191, 193, 206, 207, 237, 242
Pelc  165
Penfield 6, 11, 155–158, 160,
162, 170
Pennebaker  193
Perdue  145
Perecman  129
Pereiro  126
Peres 211
Perner 54
Petersen  182
Petersson  183
Petitto  129
Petrovic  183
Phelps 65
Philippaki-Warburton  87
Pienemann  127
Pinker 42, 156, 158
Pinto  88
Platzack  86
Ploghaus  183
Poline  15, 161, 170
Polinsky  99
Polkinghorne  194
Poncelet  16
Poot  129
Posner  174, 182, 183
Poulisse 228, 239
Pratt 56
Prévost  110
Price  183
Prieur  130, 172, 173
Prince 42
Py 25, 30
Q
Quante  183
R
Radvansky 57
Raichle  182
Raij  183
Rainville  183
Ramírez  126, 129
Ramirez-Esparza  193
Raz  183,
Reese, E.  193
Reese, H. W. 53
Reetz-Kurashige 233
Relkin  164
Remennick 210, 211
Richards  146
Rieussec  10
Rizzi  86, 87
Roberts  11, 86, 155
Robertson  181
Rodríguez  126
Ross  182
Rossing 59, 136
Rozenbaum-Tamari 211
Rubin  129, 194
Rumelhart  11
Rush  130
Russell 233
Ryan, A. 228
Ryan, E. B. 56
S
Sacks  194
	 Name index	 253
Spencer  157
Sperber 23, 24
Spolsky 210
Sprouse 43, 110
Squire  174, 182, 194
Stoessel  16, 63
Stone-Elander  183
Strange  158
Stenger  182
Stroop  182, 183
Swain 23
T
Ta’ir  14
Tabouret-Keller 207
Tajfel  191
Tarone 228, 236, 238
Taylor, D.M. 29, 207, 209
Taylor, I. 228
Tees  163
Thomas  182
Tomblin  157
Tomiyama 228, 233
Toupin  126
Tranel  124
Trenerry  14
Truscott 39, 42, 43
Tsimpli 5, 22, 83, 86, 87, 89, 92,
95, 96, 100, 101
Tulving  174
Turian  18
Turner  191
U
Ullman  16–18
Ullsperger  182
V
Vago  18, 21, 170
Valdés 233
van Buren  10, 20, 22, 23, 24,
44, 170
van der Linden  16, 19
van Geert 58, 192
van Hell 3, 138
van Heuven 48
van Lieshout 54
Vaughan  191
Ventureyra  11, 15, 130, 161–163,
170
Verhofstadt-Denève 57
Verspoor 58
Vocate 234
von Cramon  182
Vygotsky  190, 229, 234
W
Waas 65, 84, 208, 228
Walter  190
Wang  155
Ward  193
Warrington  18
Weber-Fox  159
Weilemar  99, 170, 227
Weiller  183
Weinert 54
Welsh  182
Weltens  10, 63, 126
Werker  163
Wertman  14
Wertsch  190
Wewerka  193
Wexler  101
White  89, 100, 101, 110
Wiley  159
Y
Yağmur  18, 145, 209
Yang  194
Yeni-Komshian  11
Yoo  11, 130, 161, 170
Yoshitomi 233, 234
Yoshizawa Meaders  192, 196,
201
Yukawa  126
Z
Zhang  157
Zimmerman-Philips  157
Zobl  10
Zola  182
Zong  129
Sanders, L.  82
Sanders, L. D.  126
Sangrigoli  161
Sanz  86
Satterfield  84
Schade  12
Schaufeli  99
Schmid  1, 2, 5, 10, 11, 13, 15, 19,
20, 23, 25, 29, 31–34, 42, 61, 65,
71, 72, 84, 99, 117, 118, 128, 135,
137, 142, 145, 165, 170, 191, 195,
205, 209, 227, 231
Schmitt, E.  18, 136
Schmitt, N. 60
Schrauf  129, 194
Schreuder 33, 129
Schriefers  129
Schumann  14, 25, 128
Schwartz 43
Sebastian-Gallés  160
Segui 3, 164
Seliger  18, 99, 100, 170
Serratrice  85
Shah 46
Shallice  13, 19
Shapiro  183
Sharma  126
Sharwood Smith 5, 10, 19, 20,
22–24, 39, 41–44, 170
Shewell  128
Shoeps 210
Shohamy 210
Shumovich 56
Silva-Corvalan 25
Silverman 228
Simon 231, 242
Sinclair 228
Singleton  155, 158
Slobin  126
Smith, D. J.  126
Smith, K. 61
Smith, M.  126
Smith, P. B.  193
Soesman 59
Sokolov 234
Sona  129
Sorace  83, 85, 86, 95, 100, 101,
109
Speedie  14
B
Behaviourism 41
Biculturalism  192
Bilinguals
early bilinguals 6, 18, 84
late bilinguals  18, 194
Bilingual Interactive Activation
Model (BIA)  48–51
Binding  12, 17, 84, 99–108, 111,
112, 114–116, 118, 119
Borrowing 219, 220, 222, 237,
240
Brain imaging  18, 161
Brain plasticity  11, 20, 28, 150
C
Case, case-marking 70–72, 74,
84, 87, 92–96, 101–103, 105,
107–108
Central executive  16, 19
Cerebral substrate  124
Chaos theory 5
Children  15, 26–30, 55, 92, 127,
137, 144, 149, 156, 157, 160–162,
164, 165, 198, 211, 214–216, 218,
219, 223
Chinese  159, 163
Circumlocutions 230, 231,
238, 243
Clausal frame 75
Cochlear implants  157, 166, 167
Codeswitching  13, 25, 26, 28,
69, 70, 75, 77, 79–82, 138–140,
150, 212, 218, 219, 221, 222, 225,
226, 230, 243
Competence 3, 9, 11, 19, 22,
24–28, 30, 33, 35, 50, 83, 84,
4-M model 5, 70, 78
early system morphemes 70
late system morphemes 78
A
Access 2, 6, 11, 13, 19–21, 24, 48,
49, 62, 74, 82, 84, 125, 132, 141,
142, 145, 149–151, 171, 179, 183,
184, 193, 229, 236
Activation  9, 11–13, 15, 21, 23,
24, 27, 29, 32, 33, 35, 42, 43, 45,
46, 48–51, 63, 99, 104, 118, 121,
124–131, 135, 137, 141
Adoptees 6, 155, 161–165, 170,
171, 184
Afrikaans 72
Age  11, 15, 18, 20, 21, 26–29, 31,
44, 53–55, 57, 58, 66, 72, 76,
78, 79, 84, 108, 126, 130, 134,
143, 144, 147, 148, 155–160, 162,
164, 165, 167, 170–178, 185, 195,
205, 217
Age-regression  171–173
Aging 55–57, 66
Agrammatism  169
Ambiguous sentences  96
Aphasia  10–13, 17, 18, 34, 119,
122, 123, 127, 129, 130, 132, 169
Aptitude  9, 19, 20, 22, 31, 32,
59, 61, 67
Arabic 210
Aspect  16, 20, 21, 23, 26, 97, 109
Attitude(s)  5, 6, 9, 13, 25, 26,
28, 29, 128, 130, 194, 205–209,
211, 212, 216–219, 222–224
Attractor state(s) 60, 61, 63
Automaticity  86
86, 87, 89, 94, 95, 103, 122, 123,
127, 130, 132, 152, 233, 240, 245
Competition  12, 18, 19, 47, 49,
80, 104, 119, 187
Comprehension  17, 18, 33, 34,
45, 66, 86, 121, 125, 178–180,
233
Connectionism 41, 46, 51
Contact(s) 5, 12, 13, 20, 23–25,
28–30, 32–34, 36, 58, 59, 61,
65, 69, 82, 85, 95, 101, 109, 117,
119, 126, 128, 135, 136, 139, 141,
145, 150, 170
Content morphemes 70, 71, 75
Control mechanism(s)  9, 19
Convergence 59, 76, 79, 97
Critical period (see also sensitive
period)  10, 55, 155–157,
165–167
Crosslinguistic influence  85
D
Dutch 6, 34, 59, 63, 66–68, 71,
82, 132, 137, 142, 143, 151, 152,
195–201, 209, 224, 244, 245
Dynamic system(s)  17, 53, 58,
59, 61, 62, 63, 68, 192, 201, 204
Dynamic Systems Theory
(DST) 53, 58, 62, 66, 67
E
Education level 20, 81, 144
Elderly 54–57, 148
Electrophysiological
studies  126
Emotion(s) 6, 14, 49, 191, 193,
196, 203, 205, 207, 209, 221
Emotional implication  9, 15
Subject index
256	 Subject index
English 5, 6, 12, 33–36, 49, 69,
70–85, 87, 89, 96–119, 123,
127–133, 142, 143, 157–159, 167,
172, 210, 212, 224, 234, 239,
240, 243–246
Ethnolinguistic Vitality 29,
207, 209
Ewe 6, 169, 173
Explicit knowledge  122, 131
F
Feelings  195, 196, 199, 217
Film retelling  145, 146
Finnish  96, 119
fMRI  161, 170, 172, 174, 181
Forgetting  16, 17, 19, 31, 33–35,
67, 96, 99, 100, 169–171, 181,
182–184, 191, 202
Fossilization 60
Free speech  142, 145, 148, 149
French 6, 32, 49–51, 55, 69, 118,
123, 127–129, 161–164, 170, 171,
173, 174, 176–179, 189, 211, 212,
214–216, 219, 221, 222
G
Garden path sentences  97
German 6, 36, 59, 63, 68, 71,
82, 84, 92–94, 98, 133, 135, 139,
140, 142–145, 149, 152, 186,
189, 190, 195–201, 203, 208,
209, 224
Grammaticality 20, 21, 31, 83,
86, 92, 94, 95
Grammaticality
judgement(s) 20, 21, 31
Greek 5, 83, 84, 87–89, 92–95,
97, 98, 101, 119, 167
H
Hebrew 6, 25, 34, 35, 131, 205,
209–224
Heritage speakers  84, 137, 227,
232, 233, 236
Hypnosis 6, 17, 130, 131,
169–186
I
Identity 6, 26, 75, 189–194, 196,
198, 201, 202, 204, 205, 207,
209, 210, 216, 219, 222
Implicit knowledge  163
Incomplete learning  83
Inhibition  9, 11–13, 15, 19, 23,
28, 29, 32, 33, 49, 104, 126, 135,
141, 142, 150, 151
Inner speech 242, 243
Input(s) 20, 23–25, 29, 30,
44–48, 50, 56, 60–62, 86,
94–96, 122, 140, 157, 158, 206
Instruction(s) 79, 108, 109, 122,
123, 156, 245
Interface, interface phenomena
(see also minimalism) 23, 	
	32, 45, 49, 84–88, 94–96, 	
	 98, 101, 118, 131
morpho-phonological
	 interface  86
syntax-discourse
	 interface  86, 87, 94, 96
Interference(s) 2–4, 12, 13,
17–19, 21, 31, 36, 86, 94, 95, 97,
99, 103, 119, 121, 122, 125, 127,
128, 131, 132, 138, 160, 165, 169,
182, 186, 187, 219, 223, 242
Interlanguage 36, 118, 208, 230
Interpretability, interpretable
features  83, 85, 86
Italian 5, 83, 85, 87, 96–98, 101,
119, 158
J
Japanese  118, 123, 128, 129, 133,
134, 161, 166, 170, 172, 178, 181,
192, 245, 246
K
Korean 6, 133, 155, 161–164, 170,
171, 184
L
L2 influence 2, 4, 36, 84, 104,
108, 245
Language Acquisition Device
(LAD) 43, 50
Language change 41
Language contact 5, 34, 85, 95,
101, 135
Language mode(s) 6, 13, 19, 48,
49, 51, 135, 136, 138, 139, 141,
144, 148, 149, 152, 234
Language shift 32, 67, 69, 74,
79, 211, 233
Language use 5, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15,
23, 25, 27, 28, 48, 56, 72, 81, 95,
135, 137–139, 142, 144, 149, 214,
218, 224
Length of residence (LOR)  143,
144, 148, 149
Lexical borrowing 237
Lexical networks 62
Lexical retrieval 21, 31, 36, 84,
130, 151, 165, 228
Lifespan perspective 53, 54
Limbic system  14, 15
Linguistic knowledge  16, 40,
50, 83, 141, 151, 242
Literacy  9, 20–22, 26–28, 128,
133, 233
Logical Form (LF)  85, 86
M
Maturation  1, 6
Memory 6, 9, 11, 15–18, 20–22, 	
	27, 28, 31, 32, 34–36, 45–50, 	
	54, 56, 57, 59, 66, 67, 97, 121, 	
	 122, 125, 127, 129–133, 136, 	
	 167, 170, 174, 180–182, 184, 	
	 186, 187, 193, 195, 201, 203, 	
	204, 208, 232, 235, 241
declarative memory  15–18,
27, 121, 122, 127, 129
episodic memory 35, 49, 50
explicit memory 36, 174
implicit memory  174
procedural memory  17, 18,
27, 121, 122, 125, 127, 130
working memory (WM)  16,
18, 19, 31, 32, 34, 46, 47, 54,
56, 57
Mental grammar 41
Mental lexicon 41, 48, 63, 70
Metalinguistic 21, 28, 43, 51,
122, 130
Metalinguistic ability 43
	 Subject index	 257
Migrants 6, 25, 33, 34, 55, 59,
67, 71, 72, 132, 152, 189, 192,
194, 196, 201, 207, 209, 210,
212, 223
Mina  171, 173–181
Minimalism, minimalist
program (see also
interface)  83, 85
Minority language 58, 207
Modularity 37, 39, 42, 132
MOGUL 5, 39, 42–46, 48–50
Motivation 6, 15, 20, 25–29, 	
	58–60, 72, 87, 121–123, 128, 	
	 130, 163, 205, 206, 208, 	
	209, 211, 219, 222–224
instrumental motivation 6,
25, 26, 206, 219
integrative motivation 222
Multicompetence 4, 20, 32
N
Null pronoun(s)  33, 118, 103
Null subject(s)  84–88, 101, 103
Null subject languages  86–88
O
Object-regulated, object-
regulation 228–230, 234,
236
Online processing  16, 21, 30,
86, 94
Online tasks  86
Optionality 22, 86, 96
Other-regulated, other-
regulation 228, 229
Overt pronoun(s)  102, 103
Overt subject(s)  84, 86, 87, 101
P
Parsing 33, 86
Performance 7, 17, 19, 22, 24,
25, 28, 30, 33, 40, 44, 45, 47,
51, 57, 61, 83, 86, 94–96, 112,
142, 144, 148, 149, 152, 159,
161, 162, 164, 174, 187, 209, 235,
240, 245
Phonetic Form (PF)  85, 86,
87, 94
Phonetic perception 37, 133,
168, 187
Phonology 27, 32, 41, 121–124,
127, 131, 233
Phonotactics  164
Plasticity  9, 11, 15, 20, 27–29,
36, 150, 155, 156, 159, 160, 166,
167, 186
Plural 77, 145, 151
Polyglot aphasia  11–13, 17, 18,
119
Portuguese 69, 244
Pragmatics  14, 49, 98, 122,
128, 130
Prestige 69, 74, 150, 207, 208
Pro-drop  97
Production task  89, 92
Proficiency  1, 17, 18, 20, 29–31,
67, 72, 74, 109, 131, 133–135,
139, 144, 155–159, 164, 165, 193,
207, 214, 233
Pronominals  101, 107, 118
Puberty 55, 157, 159, 162, 165
R
Recall  80, 115, 125, 126, 171, 174,
195, 203, 227, 228, 231–235,
237–239, 241–244
Recast(s) 208, 230, 231, 237
Reduction  1, 54, 56, 58, 62, 72,
182, 183
Reflexives  99, 100, 104, 106,
107, 110, 112–116
Regression  9, 17, 31, 33, 34,
67, 72, 130, 131, 133, 148, 149,
171–173, 185, 186
Regulation  14, 35, 227–230,
236, 242, 243
Relative clause  97
Repetitions  142, 145, 146, 192,
228, 230, 231, 243
Restructuring 4, 25, 28, 30, 99,
100, 103, 108, 118, 170
Retraining  163
Russian 6, 25, 26, 36, 119, 123,
205, 211, 212, 216–226
S
Selective, selectivity 48, 49,
83–86, 99–101, 104, 127
Self-corrections  146, 228, 230,
234, 239
Self-regulated, self-
regulation 228–230, 234,
242, 243
Sensitive period (see also critical
period)  167
Sentence generation 21
Shift 5, 10, 32, 55, 67, 69, 70, 72,
74, 75, 77, 79, 81, 86, 87, 131,
151, 194, 211, 230, 233
Simplification 49, 71, 137
Skills  17, 18, 21, 23, 26, 55–57, 	
	65, 125, 156, 174, 189, 193, 	
	 197, 198, 201, 233, 245, 246
comprehension skills  18
conversation skills 233
cross-cultural skills 
language skills 56, 57, 65,
156, 191
linguistic skills 56, 57
literacy (reading, writing)
skills 26, 55
productive skills, production
skills 23
oral skills 55
receptive skills 23
Slips-of-the-tongue 239
Social Networks 35, 58, 137
Social Network Theory 29
Sociocultural Theory 6, 37,
227, 242
Spanish 6, 17, 20, 25, 33, 36, 65,
66, 84, 97, 133, 152, 160, 227,
233, 234, 236–240, 245, 246
Specific language
impairment  18
Spontaneous speech 21
Strategies
avoidance strategy/strategies  
231, 235, 236, 238
compensatory strategy/
	 strategies 227–233, 235,
243
object-regulatory strategies   
230
258	 Subject index
other-regulatory strategies  
230, 243
self-regulatory strategies  
230
Subcortical structures  14
Subset Model  104, 117
Subsystems 41, 54, 59, 121, 123,
124, 126, 127, 130
Swedish 20, 84, 92–94, 171,
172, 181
Syntactic interference  97
T
Task dependency  9, 21, 22
Tense 76, 97, 151, 162
Transfer  1, 2, 84, 100, 101, 103,
107, 132, 133, 228
Translation equivalents  124,
125, 127
Trauma, traumatic experiences   
15, 130
Turkish 5, 12, 33, 37, 84, 99–111,
114, 115, 117–119, 152, 209, 225
U
Ultimate attainment 31, 43, 44,
98, 155, 205, 207, 219
Ungrammaticality  94
Universal grammar (UG) 2,
42, 44, 46, 61, 85
V
Verbal fluency  145, 146
W
Word recognition 50, 131, 161
X
Xhosa 5, 69, 70, 72, 75–81
In the series Studies in Bilingualism (SiBil) the following titles have been published thus far or
are scheduled for publication:
35	 Rocca, Sonia: Child Second Language Acquisition.  Expected October 2007
34	 Koven, Michèle: Selves in Two Languages. Bilinguals' verbal enactments of identity in French and
Portuguese. ix, 329 pp. Expected September 2007
33	 Köpke, Barbara, Monika S. Schmid, Merel Keijzer and Susan Dostert (eds.): Language Attrition.
Theoretical perspectives. 2007. vii, 258 pp.
32	 Kondo-Brown, Kimi (ed.): Heritage Language Development. Focus on East Asian Immigrants. 2006.
x, 282 pp.
31	 Baptista, Barbara O. and Michael Alan Watkins (eds.): English with a Latin Beat. Studies in
Portuguese/Spanish – English Interphonology. 2006. vi, 214 pp.
30	 Pienemann, Manfred (ed.): Cross-Linguistic Aspects of Processability Theory. 2005. xiv, 303 pp.
29	 Ayoun, Dalila and M. Rafael Salaberry (eds.): Tense and Aspect in Romance Languages. Theoretical
and applied perspectives. 2005. x, 318 pp.
28	 Schmid, Monika S., Barbara Köpke, Merel Keijzer and Lina Weilemar (eds.): First Language
Attrition. Interdisciplinary perspectives on methodological issues. 2004. x, 378 pp.
27	 Callahan, Laura: Spanish/English Codeswitching in a Written Corpus. 2004. viii, 183 pp.
26	 Dimroth, Christine and Marianne Starren (eds.): Information Structure and the Dynamics of
Language Acquisition. 2003. vi, 361 pp.
25	 Piller, Ingrid: Bilingual Couples Talk. The discursive construction of hybridity. 2002. xii, 315 pp.
24	 Schmid, Monika S.: First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance. The case of German Jews in
anglophone countries. 2002. xiv, 259 pp. (incl. CD-rom).
23	 Verhoeven, Ludo and Sven Strömqvist (eds.): Narrative Development in a Multilingual Context.
2001. viii, 431 pp.
22	 Salaberry, M. Rafael: The Development of Past Tense Morphology in L2 Spanish. 2001. xii, 211 pp.
21	 Döpke, Susanne (ed.): Cross-Linguistic Structures in Simultaneous Bilingualism. 2001. x, 258 pp.
20	 Poulisse, Nanda: Slips of the Tongue. Speech errors in first and second language production. 1999.
xvi, 257 pp.
19	 Amara, Muhammad Hasan: Politics and Sociolinguistic Reflexes. Palestinian border villages. 1999.
xx, 261 pp.
18	 Paradis, Michel: A Neurolinguistic Theory of Bilingualism. 2004. viii, 299 pp.
17	 Ellis, Rod: Learning a Second Language through Interaction. 1999. x, 285 pp.
16	 Huebner, Thom and Kathryn A. Davis (eds.): Sociopolitical Perspectives on Language Policy and
Planning in the USA.With the assistance of Joseph Lo Bianco. 1999. xvi, 365 pp.
15	 Pienemann, Manfred: Language Processing and Second Language Development. Processability theory.
1998. xviii, 367 pp.
14	 Young, Richard and Agnes Weiyun He (eds.): Talking and Testing. Discourse approaches to the
assessment of oral proficiency. 1998. x, 395 pp.
13	 Holloway, Charles E.: Dialect Death. The case of Brule Spanish. 1997. x, 220 pp.
12	 Halmari, Helena: Government and Codeswitching. Explaining American Finnish. 1997. xvi, 276 pp.
11	 Becker, Angelika and Mary Carroll: The Acquisition of Spatial Relations in a Second Language. In
cooperation with Jorge Giacobbe, Clive Perdue and Rémi Porquiez. 1997. xii, 212 pp.
10	 Bayley, Robert and Dennis R. Preston (eds.): Second Language Acquisition and Linguistic Variation.
1996. xix, 317 pp.
9	 Freed, Barbara F. (ed.): Second Language Acquisition in a Study Abroad Context. 1995. xiv, 345 pp.
8	 Davis, Kathryn A.: Language Planning in Multilingual Contexts. Policies, communities, and schools in
Luxembourg. 1994. xix, 220 pp.
7	 Dietrich, Rainer, Wolfgang Klein and Colette Noyau: The Acquisition of Temporality in a Second
Language. In cooperation with Josée Coenen, Beatriz Dorriots, Korrie van Helvert, Henriette Hendriks,
Et-Tayeb Houdaïfa, Clive Perdue, Sören Sjöström, Marie-Thérèse Vasseur and Kaarlo Voionmaa. 1995.
xii, 288 pp.
6	 Schreuder, Robert and Bert Weltens (eds.): The Bilingual Lexicon. 1993. viii, 307 pp.
5	 Klein, Wolfgang and Clive Perdue: Utterance Structure. Developing grammars again. In cooperation
with Mary Carroll, Josée Coenen, José Deulofeu, Thom Huebner and Anne Trévise. 1992. xvi, 354 pp.
4	 Paulston, Christina Bratt: Linguistic Minorities in Multilingual Settings. Implications for language
policies. 1994. xi, 136 pp.
3	 Döpke, Susanne: One Parent – One Language. An interactional approach. 1992. xviii, 213 pp.
2	 Bot, Kees de, Ralph B. Ginsberg and Claire Kramsch (eds.): Foreign Language Research in Cross-
Cultural Perspective. 1991. xii, 275 pp.
1	 Fase, Willem, Koen Jaspaert and Sjaak Kroon (eds.): Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages.
1992. xii, 403 pp.
