Table
1.6
(continued)
Projects
Directors
Rationales
Time
line
Institutions
Models
Phase
3:
Mar.
2003-
15
multi-leveled
primary
schools
in
Nanshan
District,
Shenzhen,
China;
Up
to
19
participant
primary
schools
in
Nanshan
District
by
Mar.
2004;
Phase
4:
Commencement
time
untold
More
than
110
primary
schools
in
Guangzhou,
Shenzhen,
Zhongshan,
Beijing,
Dalian,
Xiamen,
Baoding,
Foshan.
Jun.,2004
Fengning
county,
Hebei
Province
(under-developed
rural
area)
Bilingual
Education
and
Integrated
English
Program
(Feng,
2002,
2012)
Zengjun
Feng
(South
China
Normal
University,
Guangdong)
Localization
of
Bilingual
Education
in
Chinese
context
Commencement
time
unavailable,
up
to
12
years
by
Dec.,
2011
A
total
of
approximately
20
primary
schools
and
kindergartens
in
Guangdong
and
Anhui
Provinces,
China
School-based,
with
outside
researchers
and
support
from
local
administrators
12 1 Introduction
Nevertheless, one cannot ignore that there is still a gap to be ﬁlled with respect to
theoretical and methodological issues concerning university-school collaborative
projects in China. A close look at the projects listed in Table 1.6 reveals several
inherent limitations.
First, the innovation projects lack sufﬁcient justiﬁcations for their rationales, and
there is an apparent lack of low-inference accounts of how the projects have been
implemented. Though accessible publications relating to the projects unanimously
report their ultimate success, hardly any validated schemes have been adopted to
evaluate program effectiveness, in terms of learners’ learning outcomes. Therefore,
it is hard to say whether these projects, among the numerous innovative projects in
different parts of China, have been as overwhelmingly successful as reported,
within a relatively short period.
Moreover, the reported outcomes are too optimistic to ﬁt into the S-shaped diffusion
curve widely used to describe how changes take place in educational innovation,
indicating “it always takes longer to implement than expected” (Rogers, 1983; Markee,
1997, p. 58). Therefore, the author has reservations about the projects’ reported ‘suc-
cessful’ outcomes, and the ensuing expeditious dissemination of innovative principles.
Last, though the word ‘experiment’ is quite frequently used in the Chinese
context to refer to beneﬁcial educational innovations, one needs to be cautious
about selecting ‘experiment’ as a research method in empirical studies involving
these innovative projects. Obviously, the complexity of the research context,
combined with the lengthy timespan of the project, makes it virtually impossible to
conduct an experimental or quasi-experimental study in which dependent and
independent variables are strictly manipulated. Moreover, the long duration of some
projects is likely to jeopardize ethical norms of scientiﬁc research, as participants
might be continuously exposed to treatment with pedagogies that are potentially
harmful (Wen, 2011).
Reflecting on the limitations of innovation projects in the Chinese EFL context, it is
necessary to conduct a study with a grounded rationale and rigorous research design, to
investigate how EFL curriculum innovation is initiated and implemented in a speciﬁc
Chinese educational setting. The present study strives to ﬁll in the research gap by
presenting a trustworthy account of the Danyang Project, documenting its both
achievements and the situations that could constrain its implementation.
1.5 An Overview of the Danyang Project and Its Teacher
Education Program
1.5.1 History
The Danyang Project was initiated in the spring of 2009. It was jointly conducted
by Shanghai International Studies University (SISU), a leading Chinese university
with prestigious foreign language and applied linguistics programs, and Huanan
1.4 Research on University-School Collaboration Project 13
Experimental School (HES), Danyang, Jiangsu Province, a nine-year school con-
sisting of a six-year primary sector and a three-year junior secondary sector. Since
its establishment in 2004, HES has grown rapidly and gained much popularity
among local parents, because of students’ outstanding academic performance.
Prof. Dingfang Shu from SISU, the initiator of the DP, once said, “it has long
been my dream to conduct a longitudinal study on English teaching reform at a
secondary school” (Shu et al., 2012a: p. I); the opportunity to do so arose when Mr.
Zhang, the principal of HES, met with Prof. Shu, in early 2009. During that
meeting, Mr. Zhang expressed concerns about the current situation and entrenched
problems in basic education in China. Prof. Shu sympathized with him, and they
decided to embark on the Danyang Project.
Mr. Zhang is a special-grade math teacher2
with more than 30 years’ teaching
and school management experiences. As the principal of HES, Mr. Zhang is a
powerful and determined leader, with tremendous charisma and energy. Though not
an English teacher, he is quite interested in and concerned about issues relating to
English learning and teaching. Since the outset of the DP, Mr. Zhang had been
enthusiastically supportive of it, ﬁrmly believing experts and researchers from SISU
would bring greater academic success to HES, and further enhance its reputation.
Mr. Zhang’s cordiality is evident, as HES offered SISU researchers accommodation
and in-city transportation, in addition to a spacious ofﬁce where researchers could
work and hold small-scale sessions of the teacher education program. In addition,
when working at HES, researchers had free access to such resources as the library,
the lecture hall, conference rooms, and IT labs.
Having the principal’s support is an essential prerequisite for launching a
university-school collaborative innovation. Shortly after several informal meetings
between the principal and Prof. Shu, university researchers began their pre-project
investigation, in April 2009. In August of that year, both parties signed an ofﬁcial
contract of collaboration, signaling the formal commencement of the project (Shu
2012a, b). Also in 2009, Prof. Shu started to supervise three new PhD students at
SISU—An, Wang, and Geng. The three PhD students were interested in curriculum
innovation, and their research proposals were incorporated into the DP agenda;
thus, they automatically became the project’s ﬁrst group of co-investigators.
Meanwhile, at HES, Mr. Wang (a deputy principal and special-grade math teacher)
was given responsibility over the project, and two head teachers of English teaching
research groups (TRGs), Ms. Yin and Ms. Huang, were called upon to facilitate
managing the DP.
As the above description shows, it is quite clear that the DP had a top-down
character from the very beginning. At the outset of the DP, the innovative cur-
riculum was implemented radically through intensive teacher training sessions, in
which researchers demonstrated lesson plans and instructional materials the
teachers were then required to follow and use. Despite its initial difﬁculties, the
2
Special-grade teacher (Teji Jiaoshi) is the title of the highest professional level for teachers in
basic education in China.
14 1 Introduction
project had some achievements towards the end of the top-down stage, as learners
and teachers won prestigious awards in numerous province- and nation-wide
contests.
Despite the initial beneﬁcial effects of the top-down approach, DP was in a dilemma
two years later, as there was strong resistance against its innovative principles and, even
worse, the distortions of those innovative practices carried out by project teachers. The
issue of teacher resistance will be discussed in detail in Chaps. 4 and 5. Nevertheless,
from the end of 2011, the DP gradually shifted to a bottom-up approach, which was
more lenient in planning and practice, taking into consideration the situations that
restricted the implementation of new teaching practices. At this stage, more teachers’
voices were attended to, and a supportive model was adopted in its teacher education
program, one in which teachers’ needs and enquiries were regarded as major issues that
informed teacher learning activities.
In December 2010, the project team won a national education award issued by
MOE. In September 2011,3
after running for over two years without external
funding, the Danyang Project was approved as an Innovative Project, and spon-
sored by the Shanghai Municipal Education Committee (hereafter SHMEC), with
funding totaling RMB 60,000. In April 2014, the project team won a
municipal-level education award issued by SHMEC.
At the time of writing, DP has been underway for nearly ﬁve years. In the
beginning of 2014, the project was temporarily halted because it was short of hands.
It is not surprising, in retrospect, that a friendly and constructive partnership was
formed between SISU and HES through years of cooperation. Despite all the
hardships both parties experienced during the collaboration, they both agree the
beneﬁts of the project outweighed the drawbacks.
Acknowledging the transformative effects of the DP on the development of PhD
students, Shu (2013) proposed an integrative model of educating PhD students
using the off-campus base of the innovative research project. He argued that par-
ticipating in the innovative project was beneﬁcial for PhD students in terms of
bridging the gap between theory and practice, as it allowed them to get out of the
library and apply what they had learned in real language classrooms. By doing so,
Shu claimed, PhD students would be more likely to relate their doctoral research
with practical needs in the ﬁeld. On HES’ side, after several years’ of continual
contact, the people there were quite friendly to university researchers, treating them
as external colleagues. HES staff espoused the idea that the secondary school and
the university mutually beneﬁt from the collaborative research project.
The present study covers the timeline from May 2009 to January 2014.
3
Project code: 12ZS061, retrieved from http://kyc.shisu.edu.cn/s/22/t/2/1a/c4/info6852.htm.
1.5 An Overview of the Danyang Project and Its Teacher Education Program 15
1.5.2 Aims
At the outset of the DP, its overarching aim (as stated both by SISU and HES) was
to improve the effectiveness of foreign language learning, which was also the goal
for educational innovation projects in general. Pertaining to this common core goal
were a series of peripheral objectives, including fostering learner autonomy,
facilitating the project teachers’ professional development, enhancing the academic
prestige of HES, etc.
Despite their congruous recognition of DP’s core and peripheral objectives, SISU
and HES adopted different perspectives in pursuit thereof. SISU, as a research-oriented
university, maintained a researcher’s stance, regarding the DP as a research project
seeking effective and feasible remedies for deeply-rooted problems with FLT in China
(An, 2012a, 2012b; Geng, 2012a, 2012b; Shu, 2012a, 2012b; Wang, 2012a, 2012b;
Yuan, 2012, 2013). On the other hand, HES took a practitioner’s perspective, expecting
that researchers, or ‘experts’ in their words, were academically and professionally
competent to equip them with expertise to foster effective teaching, which in turn
would result in students’ success in English learning.
1.5.3 Principles of the Innovative Curriculum
Two main principles, literally expressed as “intensive teaching and autonomous
learning” (jizhong jiaoxue, zizhu xuexi), were explicitly stated as the DP’s guide-
lines—given the reality of the venue, concisely-phrased rhetoric was deemed more
conducive to the acceptance of innovative ideas than academic terminologies.
However, this short phrase could scarcely contain the full principles underlying
curriculum in the DP, which included:
(1) A balanced curriculum can be built to develop learners’ explicit linguistic
knowledge and communicative competence. Learning can be achieved through
exposing learners to sufﬁcient and suitable language input and using the target
language.
(2) The effectiveness of an innovation project is evaluated by learners’ learning
outcomes, including their linguistic competence and socio-affective factors that
mediate their language learning.
(3) Learner autonomy can be fostered in and outside classrooms at secondary
schools.
(4) Curriculum innovation provides language teachers with an optimal space for
professional development. School-based teacher education programs are a
beneﬁcial and effective complement to traditional off-site teacher training
courses.
(5) The experimental school, as well as the project teachers, plays a seminal role in
assimilating and disseminating innovative ideology and practices.
16 1 Introduction
1.5.4 Components
DP was comprised of relatively independent but interrelating sub-projects, with
individual researchers taking primary responsibility for their own sub-projects,
which were also the focus of their doctoral theses. Meanwhile, there were regular
team meetings in which researchers consulted with each other to formulate research
proposals, construct teacher education plans, and sort out emerging problems.
Table 1.7, summarizes the sub-projects encompassed in the DP.
As shown in Table 1.7, the Danyang Project’s components covered the key
elements of learner needs analysis, course design, material development, classroom
instruction, assessment, and teacher development in a foreign language curriculum
(Richards, 2001). One could argue there was not much newness revealed in this
innovative curriculum; however, as Ellis (1997) reminded us, innovation can be
conceived of in two different ways—i.e., as “absolute innovation” or as “perceived
innovation”—with the DP falling into the latter category, because “the change is
perceived as innovatory by the practitioners who adopt it” (Ellis, 1997, p. 27).
Overall, DP intended to implement theoretically sound innovative principles,
and did not exclude the possibility that absolute innovation could be generated in
the process. A typical example was needs analysis, which was by no means
innovative, in terms of its theoretical background and development in the ﬁeld, but
was almost completely new to the teachers and students at HES. Other innovative
artifacts, as shown in Table 1.7, included Language Achievement Performance
(LAP hereafter) classes, school-based textbooks, ELP-based assessment (assess-
ment based on English learning portfolio), and a multi-interactive teacher education
model.
As discussed earlier in this chapter, stakeholders involved in the DP unani-
mously aimed to carry it forward in a sustainable way, by keeping it a system open
Table 1.7 Researchers and their sub-projects in the DP
Researchers Timeline Sub-projects (Titles of Doctoral Theses)
An, L. April 2009–
December 2011
The Role of Textbooks in Modifying Teacher Beliefs and
Practices: A Project-based Study in Middle Schools in
China (An, 2012)
Geng, F. April 2009–
December 2011
Developing Learner Autonomy and Language Speaking
Proﬁciency through LAP Class—A Project-based
Research at a Secondary School in China (Geng, 2012)
Wang, B. April 2009–
January 2013
Fostering Learner Autonomy via ELP-Based Assessment
in the Chinese Context (Wang, 2012)
Yuan, Y. April 2010–
January 2013
Multi-interactive Model of School-based English Teacher
Education: Theory and Practice (written in Chinese)
(Yuan, 2013)
Zhu, Y. April 2011–
January 2014
An Ethnographic Study on Foreign Language Teacher
Cognition and Classroom Practice within Curriculum
Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School (Zhu, 2014)
1.5 An Overview of the Danyang Project and Its Teacher Education Program 17
to new sub-projects. To ensure the ethical appropriateness and technical feasibility
of newly-developed sub-projects, all research proposals underwent rigorous group
review before being introduced to HES.
1.5.5 Project Participants
So far, a total of 10 university researchers have participated in the DP, ﬁve of whom
have based their doctoral studies (An, 2012; Geng, 2012; Wang, 2012; Yuan, 2013;
Zhu, 2014) on it. Researcher participants involved in the project comprised of PhD
students and post-doctoral fellows under the supervision of Prof. Shu, the initiator
of the DP. The length of involvement of researcher participants in the project varied
individually, mainly depending on how closely their PhD studies were associated
with the DP. Most researchers went into the ﬁeld after gaining background
knowledge about the DP through reading and scrutinizing project documents, and
would be oriented to the environment by the experienced researchers. When a
sub-project for which one researcher was responsible came to an end, she would
withdraw to focus on writing her doctoral thesis; however, most such withdrawn
researchers remained in contact with project teachers and researchers in the ﬁeld,
through on-line communication.
A predominant criterion for selecting project teachers (hereafter PTs), as Shu has
stated, was whether they “acknowledge the rationale of the DP and show willingness to
spend extra time participating in its teacher education program. Above all, they ought to
be interested in innovating their teaching and research” (2012b, p. 3). Due to its
“top-down approach” (Wang, 2012b, p. 70), participation in the ﬁrst stage of the DP
was effectively an obligatory work list item for project teachers. However, the situation
began to change in August 2012, with the graduation of the ﬁrst group of students from
project classes; teachers who had ﬁnished three years’ teaching in project classes could
now decide whether to stay or leave, and more new teachers were nominated to
participate in the DP. Taking the ﬁrst duo of PTs as an example, one (Alex) decided to
withdraw, whereas the other (Judy) chose to stay in the DP; at the same time, three new
participants joined in. Table 1.8 shows the demographic background of the project
teachers; all the names in the table are pseudonyms.
1.5.6 The Teacher Education Program of the DP
At the very beginning of the DP, a school-based teacher education program was
launched to help project teacher implement innovation principles and deal with
emerging problems. At the top-down stage of the DP, the teacher education pro-
gram was situated in a positivistic paradigm, in which learning was deﬁned as an
internal cognitive process, isolated from the social context in which it was situated
(Lenneberg, 1967). In the positivistic perspective, teachers could learn about the
18 1 Introduction
content and teaching practices transmitted to them, and develop pedagogical
expertise during their early years of teaching (Johnson, 2009). Thus, the major
components encompassed in the teacher education program were seminars and
unfocussed classroom observation. Before organizing the seminars, teacher edu-
cators normally spent a large amount of time preparing documents to inform PTs on
such issues as what to teach and how to teach. Usually, the seminars were
educator-dominated, with PTs taking notes while the researcher presented prepared
contents (Table 1.9).
At the top-down stage, classroom observation was unfocussed; that is, a global
observation scheme was used, and no speciﬁc aspects of teaching were attended to.
Observation was conducted to evaluate whether PTs’ practices reflected what they
had learned in teacher training seminars. Apart from seminars and classroom
observation, the PTs were required to construct teaching proﬁles enclosing docu-
ments such as professional background form, teaching journals, teaching evaluation
form, teaching videos, certiﬁcates of merit, etc. In this phase, PTs were required to
Table 1.8 The demographic information of teacher participants in the DP (September 2014)
Timeline Teacher Gender Age Number of students
August 2009–June 2012 Judy Female 31 50
Alex Male 40 52
August 2010–June 2013 Frank Male 32 54
Marian Female 40 55
August 2011–June 2014 Julia Female 33 105
Grace Female 33 57
August 2012–present Judy Female 31 106
Rosa Female 30 57
Helen Female 31 57
Flora Female 31 104
Table 1.9 The teacher education program at the top-down stage
Strategy Procedure
Seminar (1) Teacher educators prepared theoretical principles,
demonstrative lesson planning and recommended instructional
materials to be presented in seminars
(2) Teacher educators and PTs met for seminars in which PTs
listened attentively and took notes
(3) PTs raised questions for discussion
Unfocussed classroom
observation
(1) Teacher educators developed a global observation scheme (see
Appendix 1) in consultation with project teachers
(2) Teacher educators observed project teachers’ classrooms using
the scheme. They also took notes on prominent issues relating to
the class they had observed
(3) After observation, teacher educators provided feedback for
improving teaching
1.5 An Overview of the Danyang Project and Its Teacher Education Program 19
write daily teaching journals, which were sent to teacher educators via email,
generating weekly replies containing very detailed comments on salient issues
revealed therein the journals. Each teacher’s journals were separately reviewed by
at least two teacher educators.
On entering its bottom-up stage, the teacher education program gradually shifted
to an interpretative epistemological perspective, informed by the recognition of
teacher learning as socially-negotiated process (Stenhouse, 1975). With an adoption
of a socio-cultural paradigm, the teacher education program began to perceive PTs
as “users and creators of legitimate forms of knowledge who make decisions about
how best to teach their L2 students within complex socially, culturally, and his-
torically situated contexts” (Johnson, 2006, p. 239). Through the lens of interpre-
tative epistemology, teacher education was perceived as the exploration of the
complexities of teachers’ mental lives (Freeman, 2002), and of the context in which
they make sense of their work. That is to say, PTs were regarded as active agents
who could construct personalized teaching theories, rather than passive recipients of
the knowledge and ideas to which they were exposed (Zhuang & Huang, 2014).
In this phase, the teacher education program adopted a teacher-centered
approach that valued PTs’ prior experience as language learners and teachers,
acknowledged the complexity of the context in which teachers’ work was situated,
and perceived teacher development as the individualized theorization of teaching
praxis through interpersonal and intrapersonal interaction. The major strategies
employed in teacher education programs were exploratory action research and
focused classroom observation, which were designed in response to PTs’ enquiries,
and implemented to facilitate and scaffold teacher learning. Major procedures of
exploratory action research and focused classroom observation are documented in
Table 1.10.
Along with these two major strategies employed in teacher education program
was a supportive framework offering on-going and timely assistance to project
teachers. At the bottom-up stage, it was no longer the PTs’ obligation to write
teacher journals and develop teacher proﬁles; instead, they were encouraged to
write reflectively on teaching scenarios of critical meaning, rather than keep an
account of mundane matters in their daily routine. Consequently, there was an
apparent decrease in the number of teaching journals submitted at this stage;
nevertheless, each journal was still reviewed by at least two teacher educators, and
timely and meticulous feedback supplied. In addition, the PTs’ inquiries were
promptly responded to with constructive advice or accessible resources.
On average, teacher educators visited HES once every two weeks, staying for
roughly three days each time. Apart from regular work in teacher education pro-
grams, they also took advantage of their time in the ﬁeld to communicate with
principals, head teachers of TRGs, and non-project teachers, as well as to partici-
pate in such school-based teacher-development activities as teaching contests and
public lesson observations. They frequently contacted students in project classes,
through both informal exchanges and formal interviews. As time passed, teacher
educators gradually built rapport with people at HES. In her studies, Yuan (2012,
2013) documented in detail how this took place, despite the myriad hardships
20 1 Introduction
teacher educators had to overcome at the beginning of the project. Only through
intensive contact with local people can an ethnographic study gather sufﬁcient
information about socio-political realities in the ﬁeld. Such regular but detached
contacts in the ﬁeld enabled researchers to observe the school and teachers, while
mitigating the observer’s paradox (Labov, 1972).
1.6 Summary
This chapter has situated the study in a historical and socio-political background, by
outlining secondary English curriculum innovation and the foreign language tea-
cher education system in China. Based on an introductory discussion of
university-school collaborative projects, the rationale on which the Danyang Project
was initiated was elucidated. Then, the chapter briefly introduced the Danyang
Project and its teacher education program, including its history, aims, curriculum
principles, components, and project participants, as well as the distinct teacher
education approaches adopted at two major stages of the project.
Table 1.10 The teacher education program at the bottom-up stage
Strategy Procedure
Exploratory action
research
(1) PTs raised questions relating to teaching and learners
(2) Teacher educators helped PTs to formulate operationalized
research questions and assisted the teachers to prepare exploratory
action research proposals by referring to relevant literature, sharing
personal research experiences, providing feedback to research
proposals, etc.
(3) PTs negotiated with teacher educators on issues emerging in the
process of action research
(4) PTs completed the action research and submitted the action
research reports, on which teacher educators gave constructive
feedback
Focused classroom
observation
(1) PTs raised questions relating to speciﬁc aspects in his or her
classroom instruction
(2) Teacher educators constructed tailored observation schemes
focusing on aspects that a teacher expected to be attended to (see for
example in Appendix 2 an observation scheme devised to observe
participatory structure of classroom interaction). And PTs were
informed of the rationales behind the scheme and were trained to use
it to observe speciﬁc aspects in classroom instruction
(3) Information was collected through focused classroom instruction
to provide feedback on speciﬁc aspects of the teachers’ teaching for
teacher reflection
(4) Around one month later, the aspects of instruction that had been
observed and reflected upon were observed again following the same
procedure
1.5 An Overview of the Danyang Project and Its Teacher Education Program 21
Chapter 2
Theoretical Framework of the Study
This chapter is composed of three sections. The ﬁrst presents the theoretical
underpinnings that have informed teacher educators and practitioners of the
Danyang Project in pursuit of effective FLT classroom instruction. This is followed
by the second section, reviewing the literature to date on curriculum innovations.
The ﬁnal section provides a synthesis of the mainstream theories concerning lan-
guage teacher cognition and practices.
2.1 Effective Teaching in FLT Classrooms: Theory
and Research
2.1.1 Effective Teaching in FLT Classrooms
The early history of research in second language acquisition and foreign language
teaching is infused with studies exploring, verifying, and comparing pedagogies in
pursuit of effective teaching methods and techniques ( Hedge 2000; Richards &
Rodgers 1986, 2001; Ur, 1996). Method-oriented studies made strides in pursuing
effective teaching methods in speciﬁc aspects of language teaching, including
reading, listening, writing, and grammar, or in adopting a broader view by con-
sidering the ecological teaching context in which learner, teacher, material, and
syllabus factors play mediating roles. One prominent commonality of these studies
lies in their research purpose of prescriptively offering effective teaching methods
for language teachers to follow.
Though it may sound plausible to give teacher education program teachers or
trainees hand-on toolkits, it might be potentially haphazard for them to follow a
prescribed teaching agenda without understanding or believing in the underlying
theoretical principles. Thus, the construct of ‘method’ should be addressed, before
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0_2
23
what it means to be ‘effective’ is examined. Richards, Platt, and Platt (1992) deﬁned
‘method’ as:
A way of teaching language which is based on systematic principles and procedures, i.e.,
which is an application of view of how a language is beset taught and learned (Platt & Platt,
1992, p. 228).
Ellis (2012) deﬁned ‘method’ as:
A pedagogic construct enshrined in a set of principles and techniques that specify how
speciﬁc acts of teaching are to be performed (Ellis, 2012, p. 52).
The above deﬁnitions, though systematic and speciﬁc, are not flawless, as they
are built on a relatively isolated domain of teaching beliefs and conceptions. In his
seminal work, Language Teaching Analysis, Mackey (1965) speculated that
method “means so little and so much” (Mackey, 1965, p. 139). Along with the
endeavor to seek deﬁnite and operational tips for guiding teachers’ practice, there
have always been voices reacting against the conﬁnement of methods in language
teaching. Two major approaches are eclecticism and principled teaching.
Eclecticism suggests that teachers develop their own ‘method’ in teaching. For
example, Harmer (2001, 2007) recognized the difﬁculty of choosing the optimal
approach for a speciﬁc teaching situation, and proposed “pragmatic eclecticism”
(Harmer, 2001, p. 97) by suggesting alternative models to PPP as coherent
frameworks for its operation. He further observed that such learner factors as age
and character, combined with a teacher’s own beliefs and preferences, were likely
to influence his or her pedagogical decisions. Eclecticism, irrespective of its
avoidance of dogmatic adherence to any one enclosed method, is of limited use; as
Stern criticized, “eclecticism is still based on the notion of a conceptual distinc-
tiveness of the different methods” (1983, p. 428). Widdowson (1990) also observed
that, “if by eclecticism is meant the random and expedient use of whatever tech-
nique comes mostly readily to hand, then it has no merit whatever” (1990, p. 50).
Thus, despite its important ability to shift teachers from being passive recipients in
transmission-based teacher development models, to constructive actors forming
their own methods through intuitive, contextualized decisions, eclecticism has been
criticized for being too vague to follow, mainly due to its underlying conception of
clear boundaries between methods.
Other approaches opposed to the notion of ‘method’ that could be included in
this broad category include the post-method approach and principled teaching,
which share a common discontent with the construct of ‘method.’
2.1.2 Post-method Approach
This subsection does not exclusively examine “post-method pedagogy”
(Kumaravadivelu, 1994, 2001, 2003, 2006); instead, it attempts to depict broadly
the era characterized by the notion of informed, enlightened, and dynamic teaching,
24 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
including such widely-recognized and -accepted concepts as communicative lan-
guage teaching (CLT) (Breen & Candlin, 1980; Littlewood, 1981; Savignon, 2002;
Yalden, 1981; among others) and task-based language teaching (TBLT), which
shows strong characteristics of CLT (Ellis, 2003, 2009, 2012).
Kumaravadivelu (2001, 2003, 2006) conceptualized post-method pedagogy as a
three-dimensional system, consisting of three fundamental parameters—particu-
larity, practicality, and possibility. In addition, a macrostrategic framework is for-
mulated with macro and micro strategies. The macrostrategies are listed here:
(1) Maximize learning opportunities;
(2) Facilitate negotiated interaction;
(3) Minimize perceptual mismatches;
(4) Activate intuitive heuristics;
(5) Foster language awareness;
(6) Contextualize linguistic input;
(7) Integrate language skills;
(8) Promote learner autonomy;
(9) Ensure social relevance; and
(10) Raise cultural consciousness.
(Kumaravadivelu, 2006, p. 201)
The framework formulates a general guideline for teachers to implement in their
own speciﬁc teaching contexts. Neither communicative language teaching
(CLT) nor task-based language teaching (TBLT) are considered methods, only
approaches derived from theoretical, empirical, and experiential knowledge from
L2 teaching and learning. CLT and TBLT both formulate broad principles for
language teachers and acknowledge various meaning-oriented classroom practices,
which are departures from traditional methods of language teaching. Brown noted
seven inter-related characteristics of CLT:
(1) Overall goals. CLT suggests a focus of all the components of communicative
competence.
(2) Relationship of form and function. Language techniques are designed to engage learners in
the pragmatic, authentic, functional use of language for meaningful purposes.
(3) Fluency and accuracy. A focus on students’ “flow” if comprehension and production
and a focus on the formal accuracy of production are complementary principles
underlying communicative techniques.
(4) Focus on real-world contexts. Students in a communicative class ultimately must use
the language, productively and receptively, in unrehearsed contexts outside the
classroom.
(5) Autonomy and strategic involvement. Students are given opportunities to focus on
their own learning process through raising their awareness of their own styles of
learning and through the development of appropriate strategies for production and
comprehension.
(6) Teacher roles. The role of the teacher is that of facilitator and guide, not an all-knowing
font of knowledge.
(7) Student roles. Students in a CLT class are active participants in their own learning
process.
(Brown, 2007, p. 46–47)
2.1 Effective Teaching in FLT Classrooms: Theory and Research 25
Ellis (2009) summarized ﬁve characteristics of the main approaches of TBLT, as
follows:
(1) the provision of opportunities for natural language use;
(2) learner-centeredness;
(3) focus-on-form;
(4) the kind of task; and
(5) the rejection of traditional approaches to language teaching.
(Ellis, 2009, pp. 224–225)
2.1.3 Teaching by Principles
Brown (2001, 2007) noted language teachers’ choices should be based on grounded
principles—that is, what we know for certain about second language acquisition and
teaching, despite the unknown mysteries in the ﬁeld. He maintained that teachers are
morelikelytoundertake“enlightened”teachingwhenassociatingteachingdecisionsand
practice with principles derived from research. In this way, teaching is a more conﬁdent
process, as teachers are aware of the rationales for employing a classroom technique, and
knowhowtoevaluateitsutilityafterusingit(2001,p.15;2007,p.63).Inthe3rd
editionof
his book, Teaching by Principles, Brown (2007) enumerated 12 principles for learner
autonomy and willingness to communicate, including two items changed from his pre-
vious set of principles (Brown, 2001), as synthesized in Table 2.1.
2.1.4 Principles of Effective Teaching
Based on research ﬁndings to date, Ellis (2005) formulated the following 10
widely-quoted principles for language instruction on second language acquisition
and language teaching:
Principle 1. Instruction needs to ensure that learners develop both a rich repertoire of
formulaic expressions and a rule-based competence.
Principle 2. Instruction needs to ensure that learner focus predominantly on meaning.
Principle 3. Instruction needs to ensure that learners also focus on form.
Principle 4. Instruction needs to be predominantly directed at developing implicit knowl-
edge of the L2 while not neglecting explicit knowledge.
Principle 5. Instruction needs to consider the learner’s ‘built-in syllabus.’
Principle 6. Successful instructed language learning requires extensive L2 input.
Principle 7. Successful instructed language learning also requires opportunities for output.
Principle 8. The opportunity to interact in the L2 is central to developing L2 proﬁciency.
Principle 9. Instruction needs to take account of individual differences in learners.
Principle 10. In assessing learners’ L2 proﬁciency it is important to examine free as well as
controlled production.
(Ellis, 2005, pp. 210–221)
26 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
Table 2.1 Principles of language learning and teaching (Based on Brown, 2007, pp. 62–81)
Category Principles Statements of the principles
Cognitive
principles
1. Automaticity Efﬁcient second language learning involves a timely
movement of the control of a few language forms into
the automatic, fluent processing of a relatively
unlimited number of language forms. Overanalyzing
language, thinking too much about its forms, and
consciously lingering on rules of language all tend to
impede this graduation to automaticity
2. Meaningful
learning
The process of making meaningful associations
between existing knowledge/experience and new
material will lead toward better long-term retention
than rote learning of material in isolated pieces
3. The anticipation
of reward
Human beings are universally driven to act, or
“behave,” by the anticipation of some sort of reward—
tangible or intangible, short-term or long-term—that
will ensue as a result of the behavior
4. Intrinsic
motivation
The most powerful rewards are those that are
intrinsically motivated within the learner. Because the
behavior stems from needs, wants, or desires within
oneself, the behavior itself is self-rewarding; therefore,
not externally administered reward is necessary
5. Strategic
investment
Successful mastery of the second language will be due
to a large extent to a learner’s own personal
“investment” of time, effort, and attention to the second
language in the form of an individualized battery of
strategies for comprehending and producing the
language
6. Autonomy Successful mastery of a foreign language will depend
to a great extent on learners’ autonomous ability both
to take initiative in the classroom and to continue their
journey to success beyond the classroom and the
teacher.
Socioaffective
principles
7. Language ego As human beings learn to use a second language, they
also develop a new mode of thinking, feeling, and
acting—a second identity. The new “language ego,”
intertwined with the second language, can easily create
within the learner a sense of fragility, a defensiveness,
and a raising of inhibitions
8. Willingness to
communicate
Successful language learners generally believe in
themselves and in their capacity to accomplish
communicative tasks, and are therefore willing risk
takers in their attempts to produce and interpret
language that is a bit beyond their absolute certainty.
Their willingness to communicate results in the
generation of both output (from the learner) and input
(to the learner)
(continued)
2.1 Effective Teaching in FLT Classrooms: Theory and Research 27
Later, McIntyre et al. (2009) proposed a six-principle model of effective lan-
guage teaching for diversiﬁed language learners. Grounded in the Vygotskian
teaching-learning framework, the principles include: Joint productive activity;
Language learning across the curriculum; Contextualization; Rigorous curriculum;
Instructional conversation; and Family involvement. The last principle is “a way to
help students connect their prior experience and knowledge with academic content”
(McIntyre et al., 2009, p. x).
More recently, Richards and Bohlke (2011) proposed the following eight prin-
ciples for effective language classroom instruction:
(1) Your lesson reflects high professional standards.
(2) Your lesson reflects sound principles of language teaching.
(3) Your lesson addresses meaningful learning outcomes.
(4) Your lesson provides opportunities for your learners to take part in extended practice
with using language in a meaningful way.
(5) Your lesson is effectively managed.
Table 2.1 (continued)
Category Principles Statements of the principles
9. The
language-culture
connection
Whenever you teach a language, you also teach a
complex system of cultural customs, values, and ways
of thinking, feeling, and acting.
Especially in second (as opposed to foreign)
language-learning contexts, the success with which
learners adapt to a new cultural milieu will affect their
language acquisition success, and vice versa, in some
possibly signiﬁcant ways
Linguistic
principles
10. The native
language effect
The native language of learners exerts a strong
influence on the acquisition of the target language
system. While that native system will exercise both
facilitating and interfering effects on the production and
comprehension of the new language, the interfering
effects are likely to be the most salient
11. Interlanguage Second language learners tend to go through a
systematic or quasi-systematic developmental process
as they progress to full competence in the target
language. Successful interlanguage development is
partially a result of utilizing feedback from others
12. Communicative
competence
Given that communicative competence is the goal of a
language classroom, instruction needs to point toward
all its components: organizational, strategic, and
psychomotor. Communicative goals are best achieved
by giving due attention to language use and not just
usage, to fluency and not just accuracy, to authentic
language and context, and to students’ eventual need to
apply classroom learning to previously unrehearsed
contexts in the real world.
28 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
(6) Your lesson is a coherent sequence of learning activities that link together to form a
whole.
(7) Your lesson creates a motivation to learn and provides opportunities for success.
(8) The lesson reflects your personal philosophy of teaching.
(Richards & Bohlke, 2011, pp. 1–14)
To summarize, these above sets of principles draw on research ﬁndings in
education, second language acquisition, and language teaching to extract factors
that could be manipulated to improve the effectiveness of language classroom
instruction, including curriculum issues, classroom climate, teachers’ pedagogical
expertise, learners’ individual attributes, etc. Informative as these principles are,
they arguably have limited implications for improving FLT instruction effectiveness
in Chinese classrooms, given the idiosyncratic attributes of Chinese learners and
teachers, and the realities of Chinese educational settings. Hence, it is necessary to
associate general principals with context-speciﬁc factors in Chinese classrooms.
2.1.5 Studies on Effective Language Teaching in China
Recognizing the contributions made by mainstream studies on effective language
teaching worldwide, studies in Chinese contexts attend more to the peculiarities of
FLT classrooms in China. In pursuit of systematic principles for effective foreign
language classroom teaching in Chinese contexts, as well as their implications for
informing teacher development, SFLEP1
has been hosting the National College
English Teaching Contests since 2010, and has made continual efforts addressing
this essential issue (Shu, 2010, 2011, 2012c, 2013b; Yang, 2011; Wang & An,
2012; Zhu, 2013). Commenting on a selected contestant’s teaching scenario in the
1st
SFLEP Cup National College English Teaching Contest, Yang noted:
[This teacher] has a quite good command of English, with satisfactory accuracy, native-like
pronunciation, and intonation. He has well maintained the balance between input and
output in lesson planning. In addition, he has acquired a solid foundation of linguistics and
applied linguistics, and has capacity of classroom organizations as well. Apparently, this
teaching scenario is an illustrative example of effective foreign language teaching.
(Yang, 2011, p. 15)
Also, reflecting on some problems in the national teaching contest mentioned
above, Shu pointed out that “organization, content and effect” were three essential
indicators for evaluating foreign language classroom instruction (Shu, 2010, p. 30),
emphasizing that “the key issue is effect, more speciﬁcally, to what extent have the
pedagogical objectives been fulﬁlled” (ibid).
1
SFLEP, Shanghai Foreign Language Education Press, is one of the leading publishing houses
specializing in foreign language education in China.
2.1 Effective Teaching in FLT Classrooms: Theory and Research 29
Zhu’s (2013) study, in pursuit of a theoretical framework against which to
evaluate an outstanding classroom teaching episode in the 3rd
SFLEP National
Foreign Language Teaching Contest, proposes a framework containing seven
essential factors contributing to the effectiveness of foreign language classroom
teaching:
(1) appropriate teaching objectives;
(2) feasible lesson planning;
(3) various teaching materials;
(4) adaptive teaching skills;
(5) harmonious classroom climate;
(6) effective classroom assessment;
(7) in-depth reflection on teaching
(Zhu, 2013, p. 50)
The studies to date have formed a large bulk of research exploring the principles
contributing to the effectiveness of FLT classroom instruction in China, and have
been recognized as a substantive move towards “developing a set of FLT theories
with Chinese characteristics” (Shu, 2005, p. 2). Nevertheless, most of these studies
are notably general in nature, drawing primarily on arguments rather than empirical
research ﬁndings, thus generating disappointingly few implications for classroom
practitioners. Therefore, formulating a micro-framework for effective classroom
instruction in Chinese FLT contexts would ﬁll an existing research gap, and was a
substantial goal of the author in the Danyang Project.
2.2 The Rationale for the Framework of Effective
Teaching that Informs the DP
Overall, the construct of teaching effectiveness could be formulated using either a
theory-laden or data-driven approach. As the latter normally draws on longitudinal
process-product research, which is beyond the scope of this study, the present study
adopted a theory-laden approach, by examining and synthesizing extant research on
aspects of L2 classroom instruction. As noted by Ellis (2012), “at one level,
‘teaching’ is discourse” (p. 75), to unfold the complexity of classroom instruction,
this study takes a discourse perspective to view classroom instruction.
Classroom discourse is “the type of language used in classroom situations”
(Richards et al., 2000, pp. 64–65). It has idiosyncratic forms and functions, in
comparison with languages used in interactions in other situations. To some extent,
the quality of classroom discourse is a decisive indicator of teaching effectiveness;
however, it has been universally recognized that classroom interaction per se is a
highly complex process (Walsh, 2011), as evidenced by the proliferation of
classroom-based research in the ﬁeld, and the on-going controversies over certain
critical issues. Despite existing ambiguities that motivate classroom-based research,
this study draws on what has been found so far based on empirical evidence to
30 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
guide, calibrate, and evaluate PTs’ classroom behaviors, to construct a theoretical
framework to bolster the DP teacher training program. The purpose of this effective
teaching framework is two-fold—to provide a set of objectives for teacher training
programs, and to establish criteria for observing and evaluating concrete changes in
PTs’ teaching behaviors. As student’s contributions are an indispensable part of
classroom discourse, this framework also encompasses aspects pertaining to learner
behaviors.
2.2.1 Socio-Cultural Theory of Language Learning
In the realm of second language acquisition research, there have long existed two
mainstream theoretical perspectives (interactionist-cognitive and socio-cultural) on
the fundamental questions of what is language learning, and how learning takes
place. According to socio-cultural theory, language learning is both an interpsy-
chological and intrapsychological process (Vygotsky, 1981) taking place through
the mediation of social interaction. From a socio-cultural perspective, language
learning is perceived as a process rather than a product, and, more speciﬁcally, a
process of development rather than acquisition; “development does not proceed as
the unfolding of inborn capacities, but as the transformation of innate capacities
once they intertwine with socio-culturally constructed mediation means” (Lantolf &
Pavlenko, 1995, p. 109). Hence successful language learning involves a develop-
mental process of shifting from ‘other-regulated’ activity to ‘self-regulated’ activity
(see Table 2.2). In this sense, socio-cultural theory has blurred the distinction
between “language learning and language using” (Lantolf & Pavlenko, 1995,
p. 116). As Sfard (1998) put it, there is not a clear boundary between ‘acquisition’
and ‘participation’.
An important construct in socio-cultural theory of language learning is the zone
of proximal development (ZPD), which is deﬁned by Vygotsky as:
Table 2.2 Types of ‘development’ in sociocultural theory (Ellis, 2012, p. 239)
1 The learner is unable to produce a speciﬁc target form even with assistance.
2 The learner demonstrates that with substantial assistance he/she can use a speciﬁc
linguistic feature (x), which previously he/she could not use
3 The learner demonstrates that subsequently he/she can use x in the same or similar context
but now requires less assistance than on the previous occasion
4 The learner subsequently demonstrates that he/she can now use x in the same or very
similar context in which he/she had used it previously without any assistance
5 The learner is now able to employ x on different occasions in new contexts and with
different interlocutors without any assistance (i.e., ‘transfer of learning’ has taken place)
2.2 The Rationale for the Framework of Effective Teaching that Informs the DP 31
…the distance between the actual development level as determined by independent prob-
lem solving and the level of potential development as determined through problem-solving
under adult guidance or in collaboration with more capable peers.
(Vygotsky, 1978, p. 86)
This deﬁnition was later ﬁne-tuned by Ohta (2001, p. 9) to better suit FLT contexts:
For the L2 learner, the ZPD is the distance between the actual developmental level as
determined by individual linguistic production, and the level of potential development as
determined through language produced collaboratively with a peer or teacher.
(Ohta, 2001, p. 9)
It is evident from both deﬁnitions above that learning involving ZPD entails
learners’ participation in collaborative activities with others (teacher, peers, tutor,
etc.). An essential question herein is how a socio-cultural viewpoint on language
learning informs FLT classroom instruction; accordingly, the present study exam-
ines operational aspects of classroom instruction that have been informed by
socio-cultural theory.
2.3 Deﬁning Terms of Discourse Units
The present framework is largely informed by the ﬁndings of a series of seminal
studies on classroom discourse (for example, Sinclair and Coulthard, 1975; Spada
& Fröhlich, 1995; Nassaji & Wells, 2000; Wells, 1996). Before elaborating on the
framework, it is necessary to deﬁne a hierarchy of discourse units. In this study, the
smallest component of discourse is move, which is “the minimal contribution a
speaker can make to an exchange” (Ellis 2012, p. 87). Exchanges, which combine
“reciprocally-related moves” (Wells, 1996, p. 78), in turn comprise a sequence. An
exchange consists of obligatory initiation move and response move, and probably a
follow-up move, constituting the IR(F) pattern (Sinclair & Coulthard, 1975) or
‘triadic dialogue’ (Lemke, 1990).
According to Wells (1996), there are two types of exchanges: nuclear exchanges
and bound exchanges. Nuclear exchanges independently contribute “new content to
the discourse” (ibid, p. 78), while bound exchanges, as the name suggests, are afﬁl-
iated with nuclear exchanges in some way. Bound exchanges in turn are classiﬁed into
three categories. The ﬁrst is preparatory exchange, which signals the beginning of a
new sequence, such as the bid-nomination exchanges in classroom discourse. The
second category is dependent exchange, which deals with certain aspect of nuclear
changes by means of exempliﬁcation, expansion, and justiﬁcation. The third is em-
bedded exchange, which deals with problems in the on-going exchange.
The unit at the next higher level to exchange is sequence, which comprises at
least one obligatory nuclear exchange and optional bound exchanges. The largest
unit for analyzing classroom discourse is episode, which “consists of all the talk
32 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
produced in carrying out a single activity, or one of its constituent tasks” (Wells,
2000, p. 383). The constituent structure of moves, exchanges, sequences, and
episode is illustrated in Fig. 2.1.
2.3.1 The Framework
(1) Instructional Objectives and Activities
In his pioneering schemata of activity theory (see Fig. 2.2), Engeströme (1999,
2001) noted the “object” predicts the orientation of a certain activity, and springs
from the motive for a consequence (Lantolf & Thorne, 2013). In this model, the
object means the “raw material” or “problem space” at which the activity is tar-
geted, and which is transformed into “outcomes” through mediating tools
(Engeströme, 1993, p. 67). In his later publication, Engeströme maintained that,
“the object gains motivating force that gives shape and direction to activity…
determines the horizon of possible action” (Engeströme, 1999). To apply this model
into FLT classroom instruction, we could say the object is the “problem space,” or
instructional objectives that cater to the needs of learners and gains motivating force
to give shape and direction to classroom activities.
Three criteria are proposed to address issue relating to instructional objectives
and activities, given the signiﬁcance thereof. First, there should be clear goals set to
develop learners’ linguistic, affective, and social competence in classroom
instruction, no matter implicitly or explicitly stated. Second, the time allotment for
different teaching and learning activities should align with instructional objectives.
Episode (Activity)
Sequence 1 (Sequence n)
…
Nuclear Ex.
(Preparatory Ex.) (Dependent Ex.) (Embedded Ex.)
Initiate Respond (Follow-up)
Fig. 2.1 The organization of spoken discourse (Wells, 1996, p. 79)
2.3 Deﬁning Terms of Discourse Units 33
Third, the sequence of the transition between activities should basically follow a
protocol progressing from other-regulated learning towards self-regulated learning.
(2) The Choice of instructional materials
The term “instructional materials” in this study does not exclusively refer to
mandated textbooks for Chinese basic education, which are normally prescribed by
central or local educational administrations, but to “anything which is used to help
language learners to learn” (Tomlinson, 2011, p. viii), including mandated materials
and materials adapted from available resources. In the speciﬁc constitutional setting
of this study, mandated instructional materials contain a set of textbooks and
supplementary materials (jiaofu ziliao), including PPTs, worksheets, exercise
worksheets, etc., collaboratively developed by teachers working in the same TRG.
Per socio-cultural theory, there is an indirect relationship between humans and
the world, such that “human thinking is mediated by culturally organized and
transmitted symbolic meaning” (Lantolf, 2012, p. 57). Physical and symbolic tools
mediate human learning (Vygotsky, 1978), and instructional materials play an
important mediating role in FLT classrooms, to regulate learners’ language
development. In other words, instructional materials are cultural tools facilitating
learning in transforming and reconstructing the resources and practices to which
learners are exposed, rather than merely vehicles or conduits for linguistic
knowledge.
This redeﬁned role of instructional materials challenges language teachers to
rectify their traditional recognition of textbooks as authoritative teaching guides that
prescribe what and how to teach. As claimed by Tomlinson (2008), many current
ELT materials tend to have divergent influence on language acquisition and
Mediational means:
Symbolic and material artifacts
Subject, Subject
collective Object Outcome
Community Rules Division of labor
Fig. 2.2 The activity system (based on Engeströme, 1999, 2001)
34 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
development. Thus, in most pedagogical settings, it is up to language teachers to
choose, evaluate, and adapt instructional materials. Overall, the objective of
material adaptation is to “maximize the appropriacy of teaching materials in con-
text” (McDonough et al., 2013, p. 67). It takes considerable expertise and capability
to accommodate instructional materials to the realities in FLT classrooms; for
example, teachers undertake “predictive and retrospective evaluation” (Ellis, 1997,
p. 36) of textbooks to make pedagogical decisions, and must test the “suitability and
effectiveness” of teaching materials in their teaching practices (Ellis, 2010, p. 52).
Grounded on the rationale elaborated so far, how FLT teachers use instructional
materials is considered a prominent indicator of teachers’ professional develop-
ment. An array of teacher training sessions was incorporated in the DP to facilitate
PTs’ learning to effectively choose, adapt, and use instructional materials.
(3) Teacher talk
Teacher talk is deﬁned as “that variety of language sometimes used by teachers
when they are in the process of teaching” (Richards et al., 2000, p. 471). As Ellis
(2012) has put it, “teacher talk is the deﬁning feature of many classrooms” (p. 119).
Early studies (for example, Thornbury, 1996; Walsh, 2002) sought general features
of teacher talk likely to effect language learning, and applied their ﬁndings to
teacher training. However, in the socio-cultural perspective, there are hardly any
general characteristics of teacher talk that are universally effective, regardless of
contextual factors. How much and what a teacher speaks does has no implications
for teaching effectiveness, without considering the micro-contextual realities in
language classrooms, such as instructional objectives and learner factors.
In this part teacher talk is addressed in a focused sense; how it combines
reciprocally with learner talk will be discussed later, within the discussion of dis-
course structure. This study addresses the quantity and quality, respectively, of
teacher talk by examining the duration and length of teacher talk, teacher’s
speaking speed, and two types of teacher questions. This study investigates to what
extent quantity of teacher talk contributes to classroom discourse at different stages
of curriculum innovation.
A widely-adopted taxonomy to describe teacher questions is the distinction
between display questions and referential questions (Long & Sato, 1983). A display
question is about “whether the addressee has knowledge of a particular fact or can
use a particular linguistic item correctly” (Ellis, 1994, p. 700), while a referential
question is “genuinely information seeking” (ibid, p. 721). It is a theoretical pre-
supposition in this study that, while teachers’ open-ended referential questions
provide more space for communication in language classrooms, close-ended dis-
play questions to which the teacher knows the answers are a necessary component
of classroom talk. Brock (1986) found learner responses to referential questions
were signiﬁcantly longer and more syntactically complex than were their responses
to display questions. The application of this widely accepted notion has been
implemented in teacher training programs as well (Cullen, 1997; Thornbury, 1995
). However, Wu (1993), in a study of ESL students in Hong Kong, found learners’
2.3 Deﬁning Terms of Discourse Units 35
responses were restrictive rather than elaborate, regardless of question type, while
Long and Crookes (1992) found display questions elicited more student turns; thus,
caution should be exercised not to overemphasize the superiority of referential
questions over display questions. The display question also plays an indispensable
role in classroom discourse; as Lee (2006) suggested, they “are central resources
whereby language teachers and students organize their lessons and produce lan-
guage pedagogy” (p. 691).
A synthesis of the research to date on referential and display questions equips
this study with an integrative stance on the use of different question types, justiﬁed
by the “goals and agenda of the educational institution” (Ho, 2005, p. 297).
(4) Learner talk
In the present study, learner talk is deﬁned as the utterances contributed by learners
to classroom discourse. The language a learner uses in classrooms is reciprocally
interrelated to teacher talk, and this sub-section mainly addresses how the quantity
and quality of learner talk shapes the overall landscape of classroom discourse.
Learners’ contributions were examined in terms of time and length to reveal learner
participation in classroom discourse. However, quantity of learner talk alone pro-
vides only an elaborate description, thus the average length per move was also
examined to describe its general feature.
Another aspect of learner talk addressed here is its restrictiveness—i.e., how
much of what students is partially or fully repeating what they are exposed to in
classroom instruction. As with the different types of teacher questions, the taxon-
omy of learner talk here does not indicate a rigid bisection between restricted and
unrestricted learner talk, but an ecologically sound distribution of two types of
learner talk to conduce effective language learning. Restricted learner talk, which is
omnipresent in traditional classrooms featuring drill practice, has a facilitative
impact on language learning (for example, Roebuck & Wagner, 2004;
Shrestha,2013; Skehan, 1998). However, in her study, Duff (2000) illustrated drill
practice activities can also become burdensome to learners. From a socio-cultural
perspective, “repetition is seen as a valuable tool for achieving self-regulation”
(Ellis, 2012, p. 177).
Unrestricted learner talk, which is more likely to involve learners’ free pro-
duction, is more likely to resemble authentic interaction, and is conductive to
language learning according to the basic tenets of communicative language learn-
ing. It is through free production that learners participate in classroom interaction in
which language development is achieved from other-regulated to self-regulated
learning.
(5) Participatory organization
Participatory organization refers to “the way in which students are organized”
(Spada & Fröhlich, 1995, p. 15). In this study, participatory organization is oper-
ationalized as different combinations of interlocutors in classroom interaction. So
far, an abundance of research has informed the present study with empirical
36 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
evidence of the mediating role played by student-centered interaction in language
learning. From a socio-cultural perspective, Donato’s (1994) study supported that
“learners can provide guided support to their peers during collaborative L2 inter-
actions in ways analogous to expert scaffolding” (Donato, 1994, p. 51). Studies also
found learner-centered classroom discourse provides more opportunities for nego-
tiation, in comparison with teacher-centered discourse (Antón, 1999). Also,
peer-peer collaborative dialogue mediates second language learning; it is essential
to inform learners of the justiﬁcation of peer mediated learning (Swain et al., 2002),
and learners are involved in peer assistance through co-construction and prompting
(Foster & Ohta, 2005).
This study examines participatory organization in language classrooms by
broadly classifying it into two types—teacher-student interaction and
student-student interaction. The former is further divided into sub-categories
according to how learners participate in interaction with the teacher; speciﬁcally,
whether a learner speaks in a monologue, spontaneously responds to the teacher
with other peers, or speaks in chorus with other students.
(6) Focus on meaning versus forms
Traditional language teaching based on structural syllabi has targeted building
linguistic competence by emphasizing grammatical rules, or “focus on forms”
(Long, 1991). In focus-on-forms instruction, the target language is treated as an
object to be learned, rather than a tool for communication, and language learning as
habit formation (Skinner, 1957). When teaching is directed at linguistic forms,
activities involving drill repetition and memorization are abundant in language
classrooms. Though the linguistic resources learners develop through
focus-on-forms instruction play a role in learner’s interlanguage development,
linguistic competence cannot be fully developed without providing learners
opportunities to focus on meaning (Ellis, 2005). However, activities targeted at
meaningful communication should not exclude attention to linguistic forms.
According to Schmidt’s Noticing Hypothesis (1990, 1993), second language
learning involves learners’ conscious mental processes. Focus-on-form instruction
targeting mapping meaning and form is also supported by Long’s (1985, 1996)
interaction hypothesis, which argues that negotiated interaction facilitates language
development. Thus, focus-on-form pedagogy informs the basic tenet of curriculum
innovation in the DP—that is, the primary focus of classroom instruction is on
meaning and attention should also be given to linguistic forms (Ellis, 2005).
When dealing with micro-analyses of classroom interaction in this study,
‘meaning-focused’ exchanges refer to the reciprocal moves in which information
transaction occurs, while ‘form-focused’ exchanges mainly deal with linguistic
features of the target language, including grammatical, phonological, or lexical
forms. ‘Meaning and form’ exchanges comprise those speech acts combining
information transaction and elaboration of a linguistic aspect.
2.3 Deﬁning Terms of Discourse Units 37
(7) Discourse structures
IRF exchange, or the ‘triadic dialogue’ as referred by Lemke (1990), is a three-part
exchange structure that is ubiquitous and dominant in all classrooms (Ellis, 2012).
As its name suggests, the IRF exchange pattern consists of a teacher-initiation
move, a student-response move, and a follow-up move by the teacher. van Lier
(1994) listed eight main characteristics of the IRF exchange:
(1) It is three turn long.
(2) The ﬁrst and the third turn are produced by the teacher, and the second one by the
student.
(3) The exchange is started and ended by the teacher.
(4) The student’s turn is sandwiched between two teacher’s turns, and is often brief and
elliptical in nature.
(5) The ﬁrst teacher’s turn is designed to elicit some kind of verbal response from a
student. The teacher often already knows the answer (is ‘primary knower’).
(6) The second teacher’s turn (the third turn in the exchange) is some kind of comment on
the second turn, or on the ‘ﬁt’ between the second and the ﬁrst.
(7) It is often clear from the third turn whether or not the teacher was interested in the
massage contained in the response, or merely in the form of the answer, or in seeing if
the student knew the answer or not.
(8) If the exchange is part of a series, as is often the case, there is behind the series a plan
and a direction determined by the teacher. The teacher ‘leads’ the students.
(van Lier 1994: 73)
While the ubiquity of triadic dialogues or IRF patterns in classroom discourse is
widely acknowledged (Lemke, 1990; Waring, 2009; Wells, 1993), how IRF
exchanges induce opportunities for language learning remains controversial.
Studies (Kasper 2001; Lerner 1995) have reported the IRF pattern has limited
effects on learning, given the limited space it provides for learner participation and
negotiation. However, other researchers (for example, Gourlay, 2005; Nassaji &
Wells, 2000; Seedhouse, 1996; Waring, 2009) hold different views, in support of
the facilitative contribution of IRF exchanges. Ellis (2012) maintained that “IRF is
not a monolithic structure, but, in fact, highly varied” (p. 91). His view is in line
with what van Lier’s (2000) proposed ‘IRF continuum’ (p. 94), in which he argued
that it is the depth of processing involved that determines its contribution to
learning. According to van Lier, the continuum ranges from ‘recitation’ at the
bottom, to ‘display’ and ‘recognition’ in the middle, and ‘precision’ at the top.
Motivated by a communicative approach for language learning, the DP adopted
an integrative perspective to examine IRF patterns as an indicator of communica-
tiveness in FLT classes. In addition, the initiation and response moves were
regarded as operational domains teacher education programs could target to
enhance PTs’ professional expertise. Traditional classrooms are infused with an
enclosed form of IRF, in which the response moves are restricted in form and
normally induce classroom interaction that is not oriented towards the exchange of
meaning. In this study, teachers’ making interactive decisions to deploy initiation
and follow-up moves to accommodate learners’ level of cognitive processing and
provide opportunities for free production with exempliﬁcation, expansion, and
38 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
veriﬁcation, is perceived a sign of development (Cullen, 2002). As the constituent
structure illustrated in Fig. 2.1 reveals, the IRF pattern’s contribution to language
learning depends largely on whether and how the teacher manipulates the initiation
move and follow-up move in the nuclear exchange to create one or more subse-
quent dependent exchanges in which extended learner production is elicited, as
illustrated in the following two episodes, selected from two classroom discourses
the research observed:
Episode 2.1
(1) T: (Pointing to a picture on PPT a slide) What does this man do? I Nuclear exchange
(2) S: He is a singer. R
(3) T: Right. Sit down, please. F
Episode 2.2
(1) T: (Pointing to a picture on a PPT slide) What does this man do? I Nuclear exchange
(2) S: He is a singer. R
(3) T: Right. F
(4) T: Why do you think he is a singer? I Dependent exchange
(5) S: Because he performs on the stage with fancy costume. R
(6) T: Yes, you’re very clever. F
In the two episodes shown above, the same question asked by the teacher
constituted the initiation move in the nuclear exchange. Obviously, the teacher was
the primary knower when asking this question. What distinguishes these two
excerpts is the third move. As Episode 2.1 shows, the teacher put an end to
communication by giving an evaluative comment on the student’s response,
whereas in the same move of Episode 2.2, the teacher added another question, to
which she was the secondary knower and let the student justify his answer to the
ﬁrst question; this question generated a subsequent dependent exchange in which
space was created for language learning to take place.
Another prominent aspect of IRF research focuses on the initiator to examine
teacher-led or student-initiated IRF exchanges. Ernst (1994) put forward the talking
circle as a communicative activity to generate opportunities for student-led talk. In
Johnson’s study (1995), she provided examples of student-initiated talk that
assimilates adult-child interaction in authentic out-of-class interactions, and is
conducive to L1 learning. Ellis (2012) also pointed out “task-based teaching affords
opportunities for student-initiated discourse” (p. 92). It can be found from relevant
studies that student-initiated talk is more likely to take place when traditional
teacher-fronted classrooms are converted into student-centered ones, or in activities
featuring communicativeness. In the present study, providing opportunities for
student-initiated exchanges was perceived as an indicator of teachers’ departure
from traditional pedagogy.
2.3 Deﬁning Terms of Discourse Units 39
To sum up, the framework for effective language teaching that informs the DP
highlights building a vibrant classroom community where the teacher makes
numerous interactive decisions and maneuvers, to co-construct interaction with
learners that contributes to the achievement of instructional goals. As can be shown in
the principles above, the notion of effective teaching in the Danyang Project indicates
a strong inclination to depart from traditional teacher-fronted teaching pedagogy,
which is based on structural syllabus, focuses predominantly on language forms, and
draws largely on grammar-translation or PPP methods. Nevertheless, formulation of
these principles and framework alone does not guarantee successful implementation,
and involves changing teachers’ cognitions and practices to implement innovative
pedagogy (see for example, Carless, 2003; Fullan, 2001; Kırkgöz, 2008).
2.4 Curriculum Innovation: Theory and Research
2.4.1 Deﬁning Curriculum Innovation
Curriculum innovation is deﬁned in various ways, several of which are summarized in
Table 2.3, that reveal some general characteristics of curriculum innovations. First,
curriculum innovationis targetedat enhancing students’ learningand development, and
is often managed in a planned manner. Second, curriculum innovation is enacted
through the development and implementation of educational products (i.e., instruc-
tional materials, methodological skills, etc.) that reflect new values and ideology. Third,
curriculum involves possible changes in stakeholders’ beliefs and behaviors. Fourth,
Table 2.3 A summary of deﬁnitions of curriculum innovation
Researcher Deﬁnition
Rogers (1983, p. 11) “…the documented infusion of new content or methodology to a course of
study to improve or enhance student learning. Curriculum innovation is
deﬁned as broad initiatives, and not the nuances or idiosyncratic shifts that
occur from teacher to teacher or classroom to classroom.”
Markee (1997, p. 46) “Curriculum innovation is a managed process of development whose
principal products are teaching (and/or testing) materials, methodological
skills, and pedagogical values that are perceived as new by potential
adopters.”
Fullan (2001, p. 25) (1) the possible use of new or revised materials (instructional resources such
as curriculum materials or technologies), (2) the possible use of new
teaching approaches (i.e., new teaching strategies or activities), and (3) the
possible alteration of beliefs (e.g., pedagogical assumptions and theories
underlying particular new policies or programs).”
Marsh (2009, p. 114) “A working deﬁnition of innovation is the planned application of ends or
means, new or different from those which exist currently in classroom,
school or system, and intended to improve effectiveness for the
stakeholders.”
40 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
curriculum innovation is enacted within a multi-dimensional socio-cultural system
encompassing learners, teachers, school administrators, parents, etc.
To a certain extent, it can be argued that the history of foreign language teaching
has been spurred by curriculum innovations. From audiolingualism, which stresses
habit formation, to the Natural Approach, which features communication in
classrooms and meaning-focused teaching, to the communicative approach and
task-based language teaching, which emphasize meaning-oriented communication,
while still attending to linguistic forms.
Markee (1997) distinguished between “primary innovation,” which consists of
the core dimensions of educational change, and “secondary innovations,” which are
the organization developments underpinning the primary innovation. He maintained
that “the function of secondary innovations is restricted to enabling primary
innovations” (1997, p. 53).
According to Ellis (1997), there are two types of innovation—“absolute inno-
vation” and “perceived innovation.” The former contains completely new proposals
yet to be testiﬁed in practice, while the latter refers to ideas or practices that are new
to the speciﬁc practitioners (pp. 26–27). Drawing on the scarcity of innovatory
pedagogical proposals generated in SLA, Ellis suggested most innovations in this
ﬁeld fall into the second category.
Applying what has been discussed so far to the Danyang Project, it could be
found that its underlying notions and implementation process conform to the
characteristics of curriculum innovation in general. Apart from those common
features, the DP is a perceived innovation implemented in a longitudinal and
intensive manner.
2.4.2 Influencing Factors of Implementing Curriculum
Innovation
Disappointing or even frustrating as it may sound, numerous studies worldwide
have reported that large scale curriculum innovations are seldom implemented in
teaching practice in the manner their developers or policy makers expected (for
example, Zheng, 2005; Zheng & Davison, 2008; China; Carless, 2001, 2003, 2004;
Hong Kong; Li, 1998; South Korea; Curdt-Christiansen & Silver, 2012, 2013;
Singapore; Oraﬁ & Borg, 2009; Libya; Tomlinson, 1990; Indonesia). What factors
influence the implementation and effectiveness of curriculum innovation? Table 2.4
synthesizes empirical ﬁndings addressing this question.
Apart from the influencing factors listed in Table 2.3, Ellis (1997) synthesized
four components that could contribute to the implementing effect of curriculum
innovation: (1) socio-cultural context; (2) practitioners’ personal traits and exper-
tise; (3) how the method is implemented; and, (4) the attributes of innovation.
In a similar but more elaborated way, Markee (1997) suggested the following
general principles to implement a curriculum innovation:
2.4 Curriculum Innovation: Theory and Research 41
Principle 1. Curricular innovation is a complex phenomenon.
Principle 2. The principal job of change agents is to effect desired changes.
Principle 3. Good communication among project participants is a key to successful cur-
ricular innovation.
Principle 4. The successful implementation of educational innovations is based on a
strategic approach to managing change.
Principle 5. Innovation is an inherently messy, unpredictable business.
Principle 6. It always takes longer to effect change than originally anticipated.
Principle 7. There is a high likelihood that change agents’ proposals will be misunderstood.
Principle 8. It is important for implementers to have a stake in the innovations they are
expected to implement.
Principle 9. It is important for change agents to work through opinion leaders, who can
influence their peers.
(Markee, 1997, pp. 172–179)
Drawing on research ﬁndings from a large number of empirical studies,
Underwood (2012) reviewed factors reported to have hindering effects on mandated
curriculum innovation, including “difﬁcult classroom conditions, the absence of
training, an unsupportive school environment, insufﬁcient resources, and mis-
matched, high-stakes assessment” (pp. 911–912). Fullan (2001) listed nine factors,
divided into three categories—characteristics of change, local characteristics, and
external factors—that influence the implementation of an innovation project (see
Fig. 2.3).
Table 2.4 A synthesis of factors influencing innovation from empirical studies
Studies Settings Factors influencing innovation
Carless (2003) Primary schools in
Hong Kong
Teacher beliefs, teacher understandings, the
syllabus time available, the textbook and the
topic; preparation and the available
resources; the language proﬁciency of the
students (2003, p. 485)
Li (1998) Secondary schools
in South Korea
Difﬁculties caused by the teacher, the
students, and the educational system
Curdt-Christiansen
and Silver (2012,
2013)
Primary schools in
Singapore
Centralized educational structures,
examination-oriented systems, and societal
cultural frameworks (2013, p. 246)
Oraﬁ and Borg
(2009)
Secondary schools
in Libya
Teacher training, established practices,
assessment, teachers’ perceptions of
students’ abilities
Tomlinson 1990 Indonesian junior
and senior high
schools
The attitudes and personality of the teacher;
rapport between students and teacher; locally
appropriate version of the communicative
approach (Tomlinson, 1990, p. 36)
Zheng (2005), Zheng
and Davison (2008)
A Chinese
secondary school
External factors, internal factors and situated
forces
42 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
Both theoretical and empirical studies add our understandings of the components
influencing the implementation of curriculum innovation, which roughly fall into
three categories. The ﬁrst is perception—that is, how stakeholders perceive or
believe about the change and its potential effects. The second is contextual con-
dition—speciﬁcally, the policy that guarantees ﬁnancial and intellectual resources
are provided to support the innovation. The last is implemental realities –in other
words, how the process of enactment is organized and coordinated, how stake-
holders involved interact with each other, and how opinion leaders in the com-
munity influence the trajectory of change. These components have also been
referred to as “the subjective reality of curriculum implementation” (Underwood,
2012, p. 911).
These components are interrelated, and work dynamically to influence what is
happening in educational settings. As Markee (1997) noted, “curricular innovation
is a complex and multidimensional phenomenon” (p. 39). Other researchers have
offered congruent views (for example, Carless, 2003; Kırkgöz, 2008; Oraﬁ & Borg,
2009) stating that, among all change agents involved in educational change, teacher
factors (e.g., teacher belief, perception, attitude, thinking, decision-making,
knowledge, and practices) play a pivotal role. As stated by Oraﬁ & Borg (2009),
“the uptake of an educational innovation can be limited when it is not congruent
with and does not take into consideration the cognitive and contextual realities of
teacher’s work” (p. 243).
Fig. 2.3 Interactive factors affecting implementation (Fullan, 2001, p. 47)
2.4 Curriculum Innovation: Theory and Research 43
2.5 Teacher Cognition: Theory and Research
2.5.1 Deﬁning Teacher Cognition
The last three decades have witnessed the development of research on teacher cog-
nition. While signaling the robustness of the domain of enquiry, the proliferation of
terminologies in these studies has also admittedly led to “deﬁnitional confusion”
(Clandinin and Connelly, 1987; Eisenhart et al., 1988; Woods, 2011). For the sake of
simplicity and conformity, the present study adopts the umbrella term ‘teacher cog-
nition,’ deﬁned by Borg (2006) as “the complex, practically-oriented, personalized,
and context-sensitive networks of knowledge, thoughts and beliefs that language
teachers draw on in their work” (2006, p. 272). In his later publication, Borg (2012)
proposed three core constructs of language teacher cognition—how teachers “think,
know, and believe” (2012, p. 11). This deﬁnition of teacher cognition aligns with
Ellis’s (2004) deﬁnition of teacher beliefs as “statements teachers made about their
ideas, thoughts, and knowledge that are expressed as evaluations of what ‘should be
done’, ‘should be the case’, and ‘is preferable’” (2004, p. 244).
2.5.2 Teacher Cognition and Teaching Practices:
Consistency or Inconsistency
In recent years, teacher cognition has attracted considerable research interest. In the
ﬁeld of language teacher education, the bulk of research has explored the corre-
spondence between teacher cognition and teaching practices, addressing the
recurrent question of whether these two conceptual areas exist in consistent jux-
taposition in language teachers’ career life (Basturkmen, 2012).
There is a consensus that a teacher’s belief system plays an essential role in a his
or her teaching practice, by informing, motivating, guiding, or shaping his or her
decision-making process and pedagogical behaviors (Borg, 2003, 2011; Burns,
1992; Fang 1996; Johnson, 1992). A proliferation of research since the beginning of
the 1990s has yielded ﬁndings that have range from being very inconsistent, to
being highly consistent. For instance, Johnson (1992) investigated how three ESL
teachers’ theoretical beliefs corresponded with their pedagogical practice, and
found there was consistency between literacy instruction and those teachers’ the-
oretical orientation. Similar results were found in other studies (see, for example,
Allen, 2002; Kern, 1995; Richardson et al., 1991). However, not surprisingly,
inconsistency between language teachers’ beliefs and teaching practices was
reported by researchers (Kumaravadivelu, 1993; Phipps & Borg, 2009; Roehler &
Duff, 1991). Despite the controversy over whether and how language teachers’
belief systems affects their pedagogical practice, it is nearly certain the two are
interactively and dialogically related, rather than mutually exclusive (Borg, 2003;
Fang, 1996).
44 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
2.5.3 Factors Contributing to the Interplay between
Teacher Cognition and Teaching Practices
A vital point here, however, is what accounts for the consistency or inconsistency
between teachers’ practices and their stated cognition. A synthesis of relevant
literature sheds light on how personal, educational, and contextual factors influence
how teachers’ cognition and practices intertwine and interact.
In respect to the personal dimension, mainstream studies support the claim that
individual teachers’ prior learning experience, or “apprenticeship of observation” as
lexicalized by Lortie (1975), largely influences their cognition (Freeman, 1993;
Holt Reynolds, 1992; Nespor, 1987). In his oft-cited review article, Borg (2003)
found teachers’ preliminary ideas about language teaching were largely governed
by their own experiences as language learners, and changes in trainee teachers’
behaviors did not necessarily result in changes in their cognition. Other studies (see,
for example, Johnson, 1994; Numrich, 1996; Woods, 1996) also reported how
teachers’ prior experience shaped their cognition and pedagogical decisions. In
sum, the formation and transformation of teachers’ cognition or practice is influ-
enced by their prior learning experience, i.e., how they were taught by their teachers
and how they learned as language learners. However, the bulk of research so far has
provided little evidence to justify how teachers’ prior working experience informs,
influences, or interacts with their cognition and teaching practices.
Another central issue is whether, or to what extent, teacher education affects the
relationship of between teacher cognition and teaching practice. Research, however,
offers conflicting perspectives on the effectiveness of teacher education programs,
both pre- and in-service, in changing teachers’ cognitions. For instance, Kagan’s
(1992) widely-referenced review suggests no signiﬁcant relationship between tea-
cher education and teacher cognition; however, this claim could be regarded as
premature, as subsequent studies found evidence of cognitive and behavior change
in trainees (see, for example, Freeman, 1993; Peacock, 2001; Richards et al., 1996).
The lack of consensus on such core issues as what counts as evidence of cognition,
and how to measure its change highlights the themes to be investigated: the
uniqueness of individual development, as opposed to a monolithic developmental
pathway; the distinction and interaction between teachers’ cognitive change and
behavioral change; and, the mechanisms underpinning the process of change (Borg,
2003).
In addition to the personal and educational dimensions discussed above, the role
of context in the agreement or conflict between teachers’ cognition and practice has
also been documented by a large body of literature. Contextual factors include the
complexity and dynamics inside classrooms (Johnson, 1992a; Nunan, 1992), the
students (Bailey 1996; Graden 1996), the school (Crookes & Arakaki, 1999;
Richards & Pennington, 1998; Spada & Massey, 1992), and the social realities in
the community and society (Burns, 1996). Dominant research has drawn on
2.5 Teacher Cognition: Theory and Research 45
contextual factors as constraints explaining teachers’ compromised or deviant
practices, in relation to their stated beliefs. Nevertheless, the literature expresses
reservations about this supposed causal relationship, and a longitudinal study is
needed to investigate whether and how changes in context lead to teachers’ cog-
nitive and behavioral changes.
Personal history and specific
experience of classrooms which
define preconceptions of
education (i.e. teachers, teaching)
May impact on existing
cognitions though, especially
when unacknowledged, these
may limit its impact
Schooling Professional Coursework
LANGUAGE
TEACHER
COGNITION
Beliefs, knowledge,
theories, attitudes,
assumptions,
conceptions, principles,
thinking, decision-
making
About teaching,
teachers, learners,
learning, subject matter,
curricula, materials,
activities, self,
colleagues, assessment,
context
Classroom Practice
including practice teaching
Contextual Factors
Around and inside the classroom,
context mediates cognitions and
practice. May lead to changes in
cognitions or create tension between
cognitions and classroom practices.
Defined by the interaction of cognitions
and contextual factors. In turn,
classroom experience influences
cognitions unconsciously and/ or
through conscious reflection.
Fig. 2.4 Elements and processes in language teacher cognition (Borg, 2006, p. 283)
46 2 Theoretical Framework of the Study
Borg’s breakthrough work on language teacher recognition formulates a
framework (illustrated in Fig. 2.4) for teacher cognition in which personal,
context-speciﬁc, and social dimensions of language teachers are addressed. This
largely overcomes the drawbacks of such earlier models as Belief, Assumptions,
and Knowledge (BAK) (Woods, 1996) and Teacher Perspectives Inventory
(TPI) (Pratt et al., 1998), both of which drew on teachers’ individual and personal
cognition.Figure 2.3 indicates the factors influencing language teacher cognition
are schooling, professional coursework, and classroom practice, among which
schooling is the only factor that has unidirectional effects; schooling also influences
professional coursework in a unidirectional way. The ﬁgure shows mutual inter-
action between professional work and classroom practices, and language teacher
cognition. This suggests that, although professional training does shape language
teacher cognition, programs that do not consider trainees’ prior learning experience,
or that ignore their formed beliefs are likely to be unsuccessful. Borg’s framework
suggests classroom practices’ relationship with language teachers’ cognition is
bidirectional and nonlinear, and that both are mediated by contextual factors outside
and inside the classroom.
To summarize, most research supports the claim that language teachers’ class-
room practices are underpinned by their cognition; however, there is a paucity of
studies documenting how changes in teachers’ cognition and classroom practices
take place and interact within curriculum innovation, and how they interact and
interrelate with each other. These issues are of pivotal importance to language
teachers and teacher educators, as it is a routine professional practice to deal with
changes in language teachers’ career life. These issues and the research gap they
manifest have motivated the present study.
2.6 Summary
This chapter has reviewed extant studies of effective language classroom instruc-
tion, and formulated an operational framework by which to observe and examine
whether and how changes took place in teachers’ teaching behaviors in the
DP. Given that the DP was a school-based curriculum innovation project, designed
in alignment with the national foreign language curriculum innovation in Chinese
basic education, curriculum innovation and the factors influencing its implemen-
tation are also reviewed. The third part of this chapter examined the relationships
between two fundamental constructs in this study—teacher cognition and teaching
practices—and justiﬁed the need to address these issues through longitudinal study.
2.5 Teacher Cognition: Theory and Research 47
Chapter 3
Research Design
This chapter elucidates the research design of this study. It begins by formulating
the research questions and locating the study in an appropriate research paradigm.
The research informants and settings are then introduced, before focusing on the
ﬁve stages of the study. The subsequent subsections address the methods utilized
for data collection, and describe how different types of data were analyzed.
3.1 Research Questions
The present study is motivated by the following research questions:
(1) What changes took place in the Danyang teacher’s cognition?
(2) What changes took place in his/her classroom practices?
(3) What relationship is there between the changes in the teacher’s cognition and
changes in his/her classroom practices?
(4) What factors influenced the teacher’s implementation of the Danyang Project?
3.2 Research Paradigm
3.2.1 Why an Ethnography?
As stated by Larsen-Freeman and Long (1991),
…what is important for researchers is not the choice of a priori paradigms or even
methodologies, but rather to be clear on what the purpose of the study is and to match that
purpose with the attributes most likely to accomplish it.
(Larsen-Freeman & Long, 1991, p. 14)
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0_3
49
The present study documents the emergent process through which changes, if
there are any, took place over time in language teachers’ cognition and, in turn,
their teaching practices. It also addresses the dialectic and complex relationship
between teachers’ cognition and practices, and the intermediating factors that
contribute to or inhibit the implementation of curriculum innovation. Due to the
complex and non-linear nature of classroom research, psychometric research was
deemed inadequate to “produce the deﬁnitive answers that some researchers
expect” (Ellis, 1990a, p. 67). Given the broad, longitudinal, and dynamic attributes
of this study, there was no more appropriate way to seek answers to the research
questions than stepping into the venue under study and becoming part of it.
The present study is “descriptive” (Ellis, 2012, p. 41) in nature. It adopted an
ethnographic approach, as its intent was to collect data as a detailed account of
“people’s behavior in naturally occurring, ongoing settings, with a focus on the
cultural interpretation of behavior” (Watson-Gegeo, 1988, p. 576). This study
spanned more than four years, depicting the trajectory of change over a long period,
and is thus a longitudinal study in its design. It shares the three major characteristics
of a typical ethnographic study identiﬁed by Nunan and Bailey (2010): involving
longitudinal enquiry; being comprehensive; and viewing people’s behavior in
cultural terms.
Being descriptive, and ethnographic in particular, does not indicate this study
exclusively collected and analyzed qualitative data. The author does not regard
qualitative and quantitative data as two dichotomous entities, with a clear-cut
boundary between text and numbers; rather, she accepts the conviction that
ethnographic data are the textual or numerical forms into which ﬁrst-hand experi-
ences of the social world are converted (Dörnyei, 2007; Ellis and Barkhuizen, 2005;
Richards, 2003). Overall, this study adopted a naturalistic epistemology, with the
basic ideology that reality is socially constructed; it also embraced some deﬁning
characteristics pertaining to the descriptive research tradition, as summarized by
Ellis (2012):
(1) It provides a detailed account of a speciﬁc instructional setting with an emic
perspective.
(2) It investigates one or two cases in depth and does not seek to generalize beyond them.
(3) The researcher “enters into the community and become immersed in its culture”
(Dörnyei, 2007, p. 130), and the study is carried out without any intervening.
(4) The observed phenomenon is understood in speciﬁc cultural and social contexts.
(5) It adopts the principles of the grounded theory (Glaser & Strauss, 2008), that is to say,
a research-then-theory approach. Data are analyzed inductively to build a theory.
(6) The quality of this study relies on its trustworthiness, which demonstrates the research
ﬁndings conforms to the data collected and reveal the stances of different participants.
(Ellis, 2012, p. 42)
50 3 Research Design
3.2.2 From Emic Investigation to Etic Analysis
The distinction between emic and etic perspectives stems from Pike’s (1964)
division between phonemic and phonetic attributes of speech sounds. Emic, as
stated by Watson-Gegeo, “refers to culturally based perspectives, interpretations,
and categories used by members of the group under study to conceptualize and
encode knowledge and to guide their own behavior” (1988, p. 580). Conversely,
etic is not culturally speciﬁc, and is “based on the use of frameworks, concepts, and
categories from the analytic language of the social sciences” (Watson-Gegeo, ibid).
This study adopted an emic perspective to collect ﬁrsthand ﬁeld data, and thus
built a data bank with rich and authentic accounts of the ethnographer’s experience.
In doing so, context-speciﬁc language—i.e., the terms used by people in the setting
—were used in its data collection process. For example, in the setting under
investigation, teachers tended to use the phrase “phonological appearance” (yuyin
mianmao) to refer to learners’ pronunciation and intonation. When the researcher
came to the ﬁeld, she had to map academic terminologies with their corresponding
institutional semantics, acquire the context-speciﬁc language, and use it in com-
munication with people in the setting. Similarly, all the data were noted down or
transcribed verbatim to faithfully record people’s behaviors and their articulated
beliefs.
When analyzing data and reporting research ﬁndings, however, the etic per-
spective was adopted, primarily out of the consideration for the study’s compara-
bility and dissemination in the academic community. Taking an outsider’s stance is
conducive to terminological consistency. Thus, in this study, both emic and etic
perspectives are parallel and serve distinct purposes.
3.2.3 Status of the Researcher and Research Ethics
As the ethnographer was an insider in the research venue, the study’s trustwor-
thiness and objectivity are likely to be questioned. However, there is no denying
that one of the unique strengths of ethnography is its ability to “illuminate locally
relevant understandings and ways of operation” (Murchison, 2010, p. 13) about the
complexity of human lives. “Being there” (Bradburd, 1998; Watson, 1999) was the
only way to achieve the study’s purposes.
As is the convention when conducting an ethnographic study, the researcher’s
role and intention were disclosed to the informants, and the tangible beneﬁts and
possible risks they might experience by participating were explained. To protect
human informants from unnecessary negative outcomes, only teachers who had
volunteered and given their informed consent were associated with this project;
moreover, they could withdraw at any stage. In return for the help they got from the
3.2 Research Paradigm 51
project school and those teacher participants, researchers did volunteer work to
contribute to the development of both the school and individual teachers
(Shu, 2013), such as providing the entire package of teacher education program
embedded in the DP, free of charge. Also, the initiator enlisted his personal resource
to help the project school start an exchange program with a renowned secondary
school in Heidelberg, Germany. This kind of mutually beneﬁcial collaboration was
a prerequisite for the sustainable implementation of this longitudinal project.
3.2.4 Quality Control of This Study
Ethnography, like other qualitative research methods, has been criticized as not
being adequately rigorous or scientiﬁc. This is understandable, as most researchers
are accustomed to experimental studies, and do not feel safe or comfortable unless
research ﬁndings can be supported by statistical analysis. This uncertainty is
characterized by Nunan and Bailey (2010) as “persistent tension”:
However, a tension between ethnography and the experimental method persists. This
tension reflects the fact that the two traditions are underpinned by different beliefs about
what counts as evidence, how that evidence should be interpreted, and what the role of the
researcher is within the research process. In short, these two research cultures reflect two
different ways of looking at the world.
(Nunan & Bailey, 2010, p. 188)
To counterbalance the possible criticism the ethnography might be subject to,
this study ensured its transparency and trustworthiness by adhering to three prin-
ciples—working in a team; using both an internal supervisor and external guidance;
and employing data triangulation.
(1) Work in a team
As introduced in Chap. 1, this study is part of the Danyang Project, which involved
a group of researchers doing substituent studies therein. All researchers involved
shared the responsibility for and made contributions to building a data bank for the
whole project. It was a regular working procedure to send preliminary drafts of
project documents (e.g., ﬁeld notes, reviewed teaching journal, project agenda,
periodic project report, etc.) for group review. Normally, fellow researchers offered
meticulous and helpful comments in response to any enquiry (see Appendix 6 for a
selected excerpt of a project agenda under group review). The comments were often
centered on such aspects as rationales, theoretical soundness, empirical feasibility,
appropriateness of materials, etc.
(2) Internal supervisor and external consultants
Throughout the years of implementing the Danyang Project, there were regular
meetings between the researcher and her supervisor and co-researchers to discuss its
52 3 Research Design
updates and emerging problems. The meetings were generally based on information
collected through ﬁeld work by research team members. As the supervisor was the
initiator and leading researcher of the DP, he visited the school under study on a
regular basis, which helped to raise the trustworthiness of the data collection pro-
cedure in the present study. Apart from the internal supervision, the DP also
involved a group of external consultants, who made occasional visits to the research
venue and offered the researcher helpful advice on its design and implementation.
(3) Triangulation
The present study incorporated triangulation as a quality control strategy to ensure
its validity. By so doing, the researcher could check data from one source against
those from another; reaching the same conclusion increased conﬁdence
(Hammersley & Atkinson, 1983; Nunan & Bailey, 2010; van Lier, 1988), while
inconsistencies revealed deeper meanings of the data (Patton, 2002). Four types of
triangulation are generally used in qualitative research—data triangulation, theory
triangulation, researcher triangulation, and methods triangulation (Denzin, 1978).
The triangulation resources used in this study are documented in Table 3.1.
3.3 The Study
3.3.1 Research Informants
As mentioned in Chap. 1, a total of 10 project teachers (PTs) at HES have par-
ticipated in the Danyang Project, with new PTs joining in at the beginning of each
Table 3.1 Types of triangulation in the study
Types of
triangulation
How data were collected
Data triangulation ∙ Project teacher participants
∙ Non-project teacher participants
∙ Peripheral teachers in the setting
∙ Principals of the school
Methods
triangulation
∙ Field notes: detailed and thick account of what’s been observed during
every visit to the school
∙ Classroom observation (with observation schemes, video- and
audio-recorder)
∙ Interviews (formal and informal)
∙ Teaching journals, action research reports, etc
Theory
triangulation
∙ Second language acquisition
∙ Effective language teaching
∙ Theory of educational change
∙ Teacher cognition and practices
Researcher
triangulation
∙ A total of six researchers contributed to the project in collaboration
3.2 Research Paradigm 53
new academic year, from 2009 to 2012. In September 2012, one project teacher
withdrew from the project due to her resignation. The demographic information for
the participating PTs is documented in Table 1.8, in Chap. 1. This study is
embedded in the DP, and covers its timeline from May 2009 to January 2014.
Among the 10 teachers under investigation, two (given the pseudonyms Frank
and Marian) completed a complete round of teaching from Level 7 to Level 9
during this study. A close look at the two teachers’ CVs and professional docu-
ments shows Marian’s demographic background (i.e., age, gender, educational
background, work experience) was quite representative of the teachers at HES,
while her professional capacity (based on her CV) placed her near the middle of the
teaching staff of HES. Due to Marian’s typicality, she was selected as the focal
informant for the present study.
Selecting Marian as the focal informant was “purposive rather than random”
(Ellis & Barkhuizen, 2005, p. 260), and was partly due to her having participated
in the project for the entire duration (from Level 7 to Level 9) of junior secondary
schooling. The other major reason was that Marian’s professional proﬁle showed
she was at a fairly average professional level before joining in the project, which
made it possible to ensure her typicality among the group of 10 project teachers.
Born in 1974, Marian was 35 years old when she joined the DP. She started her
teaching career in 1996, after ﬁnishing a three-year pre-service teacher education
diploma program. By the time she participated in the DP, she had been teaching
English for fourteen years, including three years at HES (Huanan Experimental
School) and eleven years at a county-level secondary school. She received her
Bachelor of English Education from 2001 to 2004, through a correspondence
program offered by a provincial teacher college. For Marian, the Danyang Project
was the ﬁrst and longest formal school-based in-service teacher education program
in which she had participated.
In this study, selecting Marian as a core informant and other PTs as peripheral
informants was not a preemptive decision. Rather, as the researcher’s role in the
research venue was two-fold (i.e., as researcher and teacher educator), it was neither
ecologically possible nor ethically appropriate to focus exclusively on one teacher
for four years’ visits. The behaviors, emotions, voices, and interactions of other PTs
were observed and accounted in detail, to form a data pool providing rich infor-
mation and insights about the cultural and socio-political background of the
research venue.
Apart from project teachers, people who were directly and indirectly associated
with the project were also included in this study. For instance, Marian’s students
and the principals who took charge of the project were formally and informally
interviewed, in addition to constant formal and informal exchanges with the director
of English teaching division and the class adviser (ban zhuren) of the class taught
by Marian. In addition, other university researchers were indispensable informants
who interacted with local people, and collaboratively constructed the overall picture
of this study.
54 3 Research Design
The interrelated network containing focal and peripheral informants is illustrated
in Fig. 3.1, below. The solid lines with bi-directional arrows indicate direct and
dialogic connections between people; the dotted lines indicate indirect connections.
For example, the solid line with bi-directional arrows connecting Marian and
researchers is a signal of their close collaboration, while the dotted line linking
Marian and the principals signiﬁes she did not contact principals regularly in the
setting. As Murchison (2010) stated, “[i]n interpersonal relationships and the
interactions that they influence or give rise to, ethnographers have the opportunity
to study culture and society in action” (p. 145). This diagram is informative in that it
(Principals) (Director of the English
Teaching Division)
(Marian)
(Researchers)
(Students)
(Colleagues in the
Community of Practice)
(Colleagues at
School)
Fig. 3.1 The network of focal and peripheral participants
3.3 The Study 55
displays the complexity of interpersonal relationships in which a project teacher
was involved in the curriculum innovation project, and also sheds light on the
complexity of the research venue.
3.3.2 Research Setting
The venue under investigation, as documented in Chap. 1, was an ordinary public
school (containing a six-year primary sector and a three-year junior secondary
sector) in Danyang, a city of approximately 960,400 covering an area of 1059
square kilometers1
in Jiangsu Province. The school, the Hunan Experimental
School (HES), was founded in 2004, and is quite popular in the area due to its
good academic reputation. At the end of 2013, there were a total of 48 English
teachers at HES—36 teaching junior secondary classes and 12 teaching primary
classes.
The junior secondary sector of HES contained three levels of students (Level
7–9), with 18 classes in each level. The number of students in each class ranged
from 55 to 60. Most English teachers taught two classes, with the overall
teaching hours per week being seven for Level 7, six for Level 8, and six for
Level 9 (each teaching ‘hour’ lasted 40 min). Apart from regular classroom
teaching, English teachers also served as administrators, class advisors, deputy
class advisors, youth league committee members, etc. Usually, teachers who
taught the same group of students were assigned into the same ofﬁce, which was
often close to their students’ classrooms.
English teachers who taught the same level of students were all under the
academic guidance of the same teaching research group (TRG) (literally, a grade
lesson-planning group (nianji beike zu) consisting of a group leader, two or three
core group members, and several ordinary group members. The group leader and
core group members were called backbone teachers (gugan jiaoshi), and were paid
for their work in the TRG. The director of the English Teaching Division oversaw
three grade-level TRGs. The organizational structure of TRGs is illustrated in
Fig. 3.2.
At HES, English teachers received promotions based on their professional merits
in teaching and research, in addition to completing a compulsory amount of
teaching hours. How teachers performed in teaching public lessons or teaching
contests was documented as proof of good teaching, and participation in research
projects and publications was taken as a research achievement. In general, a sec-
ondary school teacher began his or her teaching career as secondary Grade 2 teacher
(erji jiaoshi), and then moved up to become a Grade 1 teacher (yiji jiaoshi), a
superior grade teacher (gaoji jiaoshi), and, eventually, a special grade teacher (teji
jiaoshi).
1
http://baike.baidu.com/subview/56498/10828180.htm?fr=aladdin.
56 3 Research Design
3.3.3 Five Stages of the Study
As this study addressed educational change, the project was divided into ﬁve stages,
which were then examined and compared to investigate how changes occurred to
the focal informant over the innovation project. Table 3.2, illustrates the basic
features of each stage.
3.3.3.1 The Pre-project Stage (May 2009–Aug. 2009)
During four months before the Danyang Project was launched, university
researchers paid several visits to HES to carry out preliminary investigation on the
teachers, learners, and the institutional context, before an ofﬁcial partnership con-
tract was signed. Essential components of the work list at this stage were the
selection of PTs and the provision of a package of initial teacher training courses.
The teacher applicants visited SISU to take an intensive teacher training course,
consisting of modules on task-based language teaching, syllabus design, material
development, and formative assessment. This program for the ﬁrst time exposed the
project teachers to innovative principles that required them to relinquish traditional
practices they had long been used to, including, for example, the
grammar-translation teaching method and using mandated textbooks.
3.3.3.2 The Top-Down Stage (Sep. 2009–Dec. 2011)
The top-down stage of the Danyang Project featured a radical approach to enacting
innovative principles that was a complete departure from the traditional
teacher-fronted pedagogy. Three major measures were taken to implement the new,
Director of English Teaching Division
TRG, Level 7
Group Leader
Core Members
Ordinary Members
TRG, Level 8
Group Leader
Core Members
Ordinary Members
TRG, Level 9
Group Leader
Ordinary Members
Core Members
Fig. 3.2 The organizational structure of TRGs (teaching research group) at HES
3.3 The Study 57
school-based curriculum over a 27-month period. The ﬁrst, which was practically
the focus of the DP at the time, involved developing new textbooks and putting
them into use. To make the textbooks a cognitive tool for garnering teacher par-
ticipation and teacher learning, relevant modeling lesson planning and seminars
were provided, to make explicit to PTs the steps they were to follow in their
teaching. At this stage, teachers were regarded as recipients of new knowledge and
innovative practices. Accordingly, the work done by teacher educators was in a
transmissive, even spoon-feeding manner.
Marian participated in the DP’s teacher education program for one year, before
she began teaching a project class in September 2011. The top-down stage covered
most of her students’ study at Level 7 and the ﬁrst semester of Level 8.2
3.3.3.3 The Bottom-Up Stage (Jan. 2012–Mar. 2013)
The bottom-up stage, informed by the goals and constraints confronted in the
previous phase, was intended to instill innovative ideas into teachers’ cognition
regarding the historical, cultural, and institutional context in which teachers lived,
learned, and changed. This stage, as its name suggests, drew more on teacher
educators’ role as the “guide on the side,” instead of the “sage on the stage.”
Spanning 14 months from January 2012 to August 2013, the bottom-up stage
featured teacher educators’ facilitative role, and PTs were encouraged to reconstruct
teaching practices grounded on innovative rationale. To this end, the teacher edu-
cation program was gradually diverted to a teacher-directed approach, which
mainly covered two modules: classroom-based exploratory action research, and
focused classroom observation.
Table 3.2 Five stages of the study
Stage 1 The pre-project stage May 2009–Aug. 2009 This is the phase prior to Marian’s
participation in the DP
Stage 2 The top-down stage Sep. 2009–Dec. 2011 A radical top-down approach
was adopted
Stage 3 The bottom-up stage Jan. 2012–Mar. 2013 DP was converted into a lenient
bottom-up approach
Stage 4 The exam stage Apr. 2013–Jun. 2013 Students in project classes crammed
for the senior high school entrance
examination (zhongkao)
Stage 5 The post-project stage Jul. 2013–Jan. 2014 Marian left HES and volunteered
to teach at a rural school
2
Level 7 to Level 9 are in consistent with learners’ required levels of proﬁciency in the national
course standard, which are supposed to be achieved through their study in Year 1 to Year 3
respectively at junior secondary schools.
58 3 Research Design
During the bottom-up stage of the DP, Marian’s students moved from the second
semester of Level 8 to the ﬁrst semester of Level 9. Level 9 is the last stage of junior
secondary schooling in China, during which students are supposed to take the
zhongkao, the senior high school entrance examination, which is of decisive impor-
tance to test-takers and their families. To ensure ample time for exam preparation, the
school-based teaching syllabus allocated one month in the second semester of Level 9
to teaching new contents, and three months to exam preparation.
3.3.3.4 The Exam Stage (Apr. 2013–Jun. 2013)
The exam stage per se was purposely set aside for exam preparation. The Level 9
students in project classes were in the last stage of their junior secondary school
education. Despite its relatively short duration in comparison with the other four
segments, the exam stage provided rich and informative information on how teacher
cognition and practices constructed within curriculum innovation collided with the
prevailing exam culture.
3.3.3.5 The Post-project Stage (Jul. 2013–Jan. 2014)
After her students graduated from HES, Marian joined in a one-year volunteer
teaching program, initiated by the local education bureau, to teach at a rural school,
which was around 40 min’ drive away from HES. This school, called Yanling for its
location, was (by chance) the junior high school where Marian studied when she was
young. Yanling School (hereafter YS) had a much smaller population of students and
faculty than HES, and included a total of ﬁve classes: two classes at Level 7 and Level
8 respectively, and one class at Level 9. The class size was notably smaller than that of
HES, with the number of students in each class ranging from 20 to 25. There was a
total of 5 English teachers at YS including Marian. She taught a Level 7 class
consisting of 22 students.
Now that Marian had entered a new educational setting and was exposed to very
limited influence from the Danyang Project, how she conceptualized and carried out
language teaching arguably supports whether the DP had sustainable effects on
teachers’ cognition and practices.
3.3 The Study 59
3.3.4 Research Methods
3.3.4.1 Field Notes
The ﬁeld notes constituted a large part of qualitative and longitudinal data reported
in this study. The ethnographic ﬁeld notes taken during the author’s visits to the
research venue were 121,533 Chinese words in length, and accounted for 127
anecdotal events from August 2011 to December 2013.3
To avoid the ambiguity
that could be caused by using a second language, all ﬁeld notes were written in
Chinese, which was both the informants’ and the researchers’ ﬁrst language and the
working language in the research venue. To maintain a detached stance, the ﬁeld
notes were written in the third person, using a narrative style.
Given the transient nature of ethnographic data, the researcher made every effort
to write down what was observed at her earliest convenience, while avoiding the
intrusiveness of note-taking in from of informants. She employed the following
strategies (LeCompte & Goetz, 1982; LeCompte & Schensul, 1999; Murchison,
2010; Richards, 2003) when keeping ethnographic ﬁeld notes:
(1) Be timely. Due to the fleeting feature of ethnographic data and the illusive trait
of human memory, the ﬁeld notes were taken as soon as an opportunity was
found to do so. When permitted, she used a laptop to write down ﬁeld notes
while the observation was in process. In most cases, she did note-taking during
her lunch break or on the train back to Shanghai. All the ﬁeld notes were taken
within 24 h after observation.
(2) Researcher on site. As mentioned before, this study is part of a larger collab-
orative project involving other researchers who had co-constructed a communal
database for the project. Of the total 108 ﬁeld note entries entered in the
database from May 2009 to December 2012, only those taken by the author
were used in this study.
(3) Intra-group review. The ﬁeld notes were sent to fellow researchers and the
supervisor in the project group immediately after the ﬁrst drafting, after which
feedback was received regarding project updates and seeking clariﬁcation of
details in the notes; revisions were then done as needed.
(4) Detailed and low-inference description. To avoid vagueness or ambiguity in
data coding and analysis, the ethnographer faithfully recorded what she
observed in rich detail, with low-inference descriptions. Below are two extracts.
3
The ﬁeld notes reported here come from a much larger database contributed by the whole research
team of the Danyang Project. It is out of research ethical concern that only those ﬁeld notes written
by the researcher were included in the present study.
60 3 Research Design
Extract 1:
Instead of writing: Julia did not show up in the meeting this morning
It should be
described as:
Julia did not show up in the meeting which was held from 9:00–9:40 in
PhD Students’ Ofﬁce this morning. Frank told Yan that she was out of
school with her students for spring outing. However, Julia did not ask
for leave in advance
Extract 2:
Instead of writing: Julia is a quick learner to use educational technology in teaching
It should be
described as:
Yan recommended Julia to use a popular movie-making software
program named Movie Maker. After two weeks, when visiting Julia’s
class, Yan found Julia made a fabulous movie clip and embedded it in
her PPT. In the post-observation meeting, Julia told Yan she had
downloaded the software program and learned how to use it all by
herself
(5) Consistency of wording and formats. This strategy was employed for the same
reasons as the previous one. Speciﬁc key words and note-taking formats were
formulated and implemented throughout the study. For example, all informants
were addressed by their full names, instead of using a “surname + title” format.
The observed events and phenomena during a visit were recorded in chrono-
logical order, with information provided concerning the time, place, and par-
ticipants. Moreover, all the word ﬁles were saved using a “year/month/
date + DP ﬁeld notes + note taker’s name” ﬁle name format.
(6) Cross-reference links. As devices were used to facilitate observation in this
study, some parts of ﬁeld notes were associated with videos, audios, or photos.
Also, second-hand documents, such as the material used for teacher training,
teachers’ action research reports, and students’ journals, were also collected.
These ﬁles were either attached as appendices or inserted as super-links in the
ﬁeld notes for cross-reference.
3.3.4.2 Interviews
Two types of interviews—informal/ethnographic interviews and formal in-depth
interviews—were conducted in this study, for distinct research purposes. The for-
mer, which were conducted constantly between the researcher and informants
throughout their ongoing and longitudinal interactions in this study, are a natural
and indispensable constituent of ethnography. As Spradley (1979) described,
informal interviews are “a series of friendly conversations” (p. 58), and were
conducted in an unplanned, casual manner, and were not audio-recorded, in this
study. Given the unobtrusive nature and relaxed atmosphere of informal interviews,
3.3 The Study 61
informants are more likely to speak without disguise or artiﬁce. In this study,
informal interview turned out to be an effective technique for eliciting an infor-
mant’s opinions, attitudes, and beliefs towards an issue he or she was asked about.
Data collected through informal interviews were then incorporated into ﬁeld notes,
in a narrative genre.
While the somewhat fragmentary and discursive information elicited through
informal interviews was used to construct cultural and socio-political background
knowledge about the ﬁeld under study, formal in-depth interviews systematically
elicited informants’ opinions through focused questions at critical points of each
stage of the DP. Table 3.3, summarizes the formal in-depth interviews reported in
this study. Interviews 1 to 5 were conducted face-to-face with the focal informant in
the researcher’s ofﬁce at HES, while interview 6 was conducted by telephone. As is
normally done in qualitative data analysis (Borg, 2011; Newby, 2010), the formal
in-depth interviews were scheduled cyclically; the interview schedules were
informed by an analysis of the informants’ responses to previous interviews.
All the interviews conducted in this study were semi-structured. Speciﬁcally, a
pre-set agenda was designed as points of departure for the interviews, which were
not constrained by them (Nunan & Bailey, 2010, p. 313). Most of the questions
constructed for these interviews were open-ended. Furthermore, the researcher kept
in mind those elements of interview evaluation suggested by Richards (2003, p. 59)
when conducting interviews.
3.3.4.3 Teaching Journals
Richards and Lockhart deﬁned the teaching journal as “a teacher’s or a student
teacher’s written response to teaching events” (1996, p. 7), noting that it serves two
purposes: recording events and ideas for reflection afterwards, and facilitating the
exploratory process of writing itself. Keeping a teaching journal is as means of
fostering reflective teaching for teachers, and a source of data for researchers to
conduct diary research (e.g., Bailey, 1990; Bartlett, 1990; Boyd & Boyd, 2005; Ho
& Richards, 1993; Yuan, 2013).
In the DP, teacher participants wrote teaching journals daily at the early stage of
the project, and researchers provided feedback to their teaching journals via emails
Table 3.3 Formal in-depth interviews conducted at the ﬁve research stages
Interview 1 The pre-project stage Semi-structured 2009.05 63 min
Interview 2 The top-down stage Semi-structured 2011.12 47 min
Interview 3,4 The bottom-up stage Semi-structured 2012.06 53 min
2012.12 48 min
Interview 5 The exam stage Semi-structured 2013.01 42 min
Interview 6 The post-project stage Semi-structured 2014.01 77 min
62 3 Research Design
on a weekly basis. Teaching journals and the feedback also reinforced
teacher-researcher connections during the early period of the project; nevertheless,
towards the end of the early stage, teachers became increasingly reluctant to keep
teaching journals, which was problematic for researchers. Succumbing to teachers’
resistance, researchers then suggested PTs instead write reflectively about salient
anecdotes from their teaching.
Teaching journal played dual roles in this study—one as a written record of
teachers’ behavior and beliefs, the other as a cultural artifact capturing the changes
in the research setting.
3.3.4.4 Classroom Observations
Classroom observation is an essential method utilized by researchers to investigate
teachers’ classroom behaviors. In this study, the value of “gathering data during
actual language lesson…by watching, listening, and recording” (Nunan & Bailey,
2010, p. 258) was twofold: collecting evidence for school-based teacher training,
and keeping strong records as research data. Regarding the ethnographer’s insider’s
perspective, participant observations were conducted. Being a participant meant
there were communications between the researcher and the project teachers before
or after their lessons were observed.
Given the obtrusiveness of video cameras and logistical considerations, class-
room observations were primarily manually recorded at the early stage of the DP. In
most cases, the researcher used ﬁeld notes to collect information during observa-
tion. Occasionally, opportunities arose to video-record the observed lessons, and a
few video recordings were thereby obtained. Nevertheless, by the later stage of the
project, teachers had gradually got used to video cameras, and IT teachers4
assisted
the researcher by taking care of the camera during observation. Therefore, class-
room observations at the later stage were both manually and technically conducted.
Overall, two observation approaches were employed at two separate stages of
the DP—unfocused and focused observations (see Chap. 1 for details). Unfocused
classroom observation was conducted at the early stage, when the researcher had no
prior knowledge about the lesson before entering the classroom. The researcher
adopted a holistic approach towards the observed lessons, jotting down ﬁeld notes
while observing and provided feedback (mostly negative and corrective) on any
salient problems identiﬁed during observation.
As its name suggests, focused observation (Shen & Cui 2008; Shen et al., 2007;
Zhou & Cui, 2008), was concentrated on a few points put forward by project
teachers. It was conducted at the bottom-up stage of the DP. Focused observation
comprised three steps: the pre-observation conference; observation; and the
post-observation conference. In the ﬁrst step, the teachers participating in the
4
Special thanks go to Miss Yinfeng Hong and Miss Yufei Zhang at HES for helping with
video-recording the observed lessons in this study.
3.3 The Study 63
project got together for a meeting, which normally followed the following agenda:
(1) the observee briefly introduced his or her lesson planning; (2) the observee
proposed one or two aspects of teaching as the focuses of observation; (3) the
observers discussed and chose one aspect, or initiated a new aspect as the focus of
observation; and, (4) observation schemes were constructed jointly by the
researcher and PTs for collecting information during observation. In the second
step, observers sat in the back of the classroom and observed the class, which was
also video-recorded. As soon as the class ended, the researcher distributed ques-
tionnaires to collect students’ feedback. In the third step, the observee and observers
got together for a post-observation meeting, which also roughly followed a settled
procedure: (1) the observee briefly and reflectively reported the implementation of
his or her lesson planning; (2) the observers provided feedback on a certain aspect
of teaching, based on the information they had gathered using the observation
scheme; and, (3) teachers were encouraged to reflect on any salient teaching sce-
narios that impressed them in the second step, and put forward an alternate solution
thereto (i.e., say what they would have done if they had been in the same situation).
Classroom observations were adopted both as a means of in-service teacher
training, and to collect research data, and thus were participatory in nature; in other
words, observers did not keep a detached stance, but negotiated with teachers on
issues emerging from the lessons observed and provided feedback to facilitate PTs’
improved teaching.
An essential issue in classroom observation is to ensure its validity; thus,
strategies were employed to ensure the truthfulness of the information collected
when observing lessons. Despite the distinct approaches adopted at the two stages
of the project, one principle followed consistently was to avoid rehearsed lessons;
teachers were never informed more than one day in advance of any of the lessons
observed in the project. Of the 34 lessons observed by the researcher, 21 were
video-recorded, including six lessons taught by Marian, as documented in
Table 3.4.
Of all the video-recorded lessons taught by Marian, one representative lesson
from each research stage was selected for further analysis, guided by two criteria.
One was the consistency of teaching content, i.e., that the lessons dealt with the
same language modality. The other consideration was that the lessons were rep-
resentative of Marian’s teaching style at respective research stages. This was
achieved by two researchers comparing the selected lessons with other observed
lessons taught by Marian at the stage, and reaching consensus on their typicality.
Also, Marian’s colleagues and the head of the TRG were consulted to ensure the
typicality of the selected lessons. These lessons are listed in Table 3.5.
To collect data for triangulation purposes, several non-PTs’ lessons at the
late-project stage were observed and video-recorded (see Chap. 6). Among these
lessons, one lesson teaching the same content was selected to compare with the one
taught by Marian at the same stage, to elucidate the differences and similarities
between project and non-project teachers’ teaching practices after the
64 3 Research Design
implementation of the DP. The comparison between these two lessons will be
elaborated on in Chap. 6.
To summarize, this longitudinal study addressed questions about the changes in
language teachers’ cognition and teaching practices over four years, in ﬁve stages.
The ﬁrst provided background information prior to the curriculum innovation
project. Stage 2 and Stage 3 were the two major phases constituting the innovation
project. Stage 4, the exam stage, provided rich data about the influence of
high-stakes standardized tests on curriculum innovation. The last stage, the epi-
logue of the whole project, revealed what happened to one of the PTs when that
Table 3.4 A list of video-recorded lessons
Video code Teachers Teaching content Class Length of videos (m.
s)
20111111JYQ Julia Listening and speaking 7–14 34.40
20111111WYP Grace Grammar 7–13 39.22
20111111CHJ Frank Reading 8–15 44.19
20111111LMD Marian Language achievement performance 8–16 38.14
20120320ZWJ Judy Revision 9–15 41.27
20120321CHJ Frank Listening and speaking 8–15 41.35
20120507LMD Marian Reading 8–16 40.20
20120926CHJ Frank Listening and speaking 9–16 43.14
20121011LMD Marian Listening and speaking 9–15 29.09
20121108JYQ Julia Writing 8–14 41.10
20121128CHJ Frank Listening and speaking 9–16 51.19
20130109JYQ Julia Listening and speaking 8–13 42.30
20130307CHJ Frank Listening and speaking 9–15 41.23
20130307LMD Marian Listening and speaking 9–16 57.10
20130516JYQ Julia Grammar 8–14 39.35
20130530ZWJ Judy Listening and speaking 7–18 40.56
20130530ZHF Helen Reading 7–16 42.50
20130530LMD Marian Revision 9–16 54.41
20131008LMD Marian Listening and speaking 7–1 41.56
20130516JCF Jenny
(NPT)
Reading 8–18 40.35
20130307WJB Jane (NPT) Listening and speaking 9–6 40.06
Table 3.5 A list of selected lessons taught by Marian at the ﬁve stages of the DP
Lesson 1 The pre-project stage Listening and speaking 11.08
Lesson 2 The top-down stage Listening and speaking
(Language achievement performance)
38.14
Lesson 3 The bottom-up stage Listening and speaking 57.10
Lesson 4 The exam stage Exam preparation 54.41
Lesson 5 The post-project stage Listening and speaking 41.56
3.3 The Study 65
teacher moved to a new educational setting, after the innovation project. Table 3.6
summarizes the research methods used throughout these ﬁve stages.
3.4 Transcribing, Coding, and Analyzing Qualitative Data
3.4.1 Transcribing Qualitative Data
All the audio-taped interviews were transcribed verbatim, and double-checked by
the researcher and two research assistants.5
The interview transcripts were then sent
back to the informant for member checking (Brown & Rogers, 2003, p. 245);
statements Marian was reluctant to have included in the study were excluded, and
other wordings were revised according to her suggestions.
3.4.2 Coding and Analyzing Qualitative Data
Following generally acknowledged procedures for working with qualitative data
(Dörnyei, 2007; Ellis & Barkhuizen, 2005; LeCompte & Schensul, 1999; Miles &
Huberman, 1994; Murchison, 2010; Nunan & Bailey, 2010; Richards, 2003), the
researcher went deep into the data by using inductive coding to look for patterns
and identify categories and themes therein. In other words, instead of writing “with
the data,” this study wrote “from the data,” which involved iteratively reading
ethnographic records and analyzing data in its entirety (Murchison, 2010). As stated
by Ellis and Barkhuizen (2005), “[the] ‘overall picture’ is the aim of any study: to
answer the research questions and to reach conclusion” (p. 271). In this study,
Table 3.6 A summary of research methods at the ﬁve stages of the DP
Methods Pre-project
stage
Top-down
stage
Bottom-up
stage
Exam
stage
Post-project
stage
Field notes ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Formal in-depth
interview
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Teaching journal ✓ ✓ ✓ – –
classroom
observationa
✓(NP) ✓ (P) ✓ (P) ✓ (P) ✓(NP)
a
NP stands for non-participant classroom observation; P stands for participant classroom
observation
5
Many thanks to Miss Xinlu Gu and Miss Hui Shi from Shanghai Normal University for assisting
with transcribing and double checking the transcripts.
66 3 Research Design
methods utilized to analyze qualitative data were largely informed by Ellis and
Barkhuizen (2005) and Dörnyei (2007), according to the following procedure:
(1) Choosing a sample of texts and reducing the original data
The sampling decision was made after thoroughly and recursively scrutinizing the
entirety of data gathered throughout this ethnographic study. Among the 10
teachers who participated in the DP, Marian that was selected as the focal infor-
mant, partly due to the appropriate typicality she demonstrated in her professional
proﬁle, and partly because, of the huge body of data collected over the four years,
those involving Marian were most the coherent and the most integral.
Firstly, Marian’s participation in the DP covered the whole junior secondary
stage, from Level 7 to Level 9. Secondly, the ﬁve audio- and video-recordings
collected by observing non-PTs’ classes included one lesson taught on the same
day, using almost the same teaching materials, by a teacher with quite similar
demographic and professional background with Marian. What is more, Marian was
one two teachers who volunteered to teach at rural schools after completing the
teacher education program in the DP; it was of particular interest to see whether the
change in her cognition and teaching practices had been developed in a sustainable
way when she was positioned in a new educational setting. The sampling decision
was made in consultation with the DP supervisors, two fellow researchers and two
external project consultants.
Following the sampling decision, data reduction was conducted by extracting
data about Marian from the larger database. It was a manageable step dealing with
interview transcription, teaching journals, and observation data, as those ﬁles fol-
lowed a “time + teacher’s name + data type” naming format. However, when
handling ethnographic ﬁeld notes, considerable discretion was used to excerpt those
ethnographic scenarios about Marian from the longer holistic narrative. A principle
followed was to extract contextualized descriptions and accounts of events directly
or indirectly involving Marian.
(2) Open coding
Qualitative data were coded inductively at the initial coding stage. To formulate
a codebook, a set of interview data (around 18,000 Chinese characters—approxi-
mately 10% of the total data) were inductively coded, and all emergent codes noted
by the researcher. Then, the coded ﬁle and the list of codes were sent to a research
assistant6
for a second round of coding, in which close attention was paid to
checking high-inference data and clarifying ambiguous codes. The researcher and
the assistant then met to discuss incongruences, and reach a consensus on all codes
and their denotations in the original text. Both coders accepted that the initial
codebook was open to revision and expansion due to new codes emerging in
6
Sincere thanks go to Miss Jingwen Wu from the University of Auckland for assisting with coding
the data.
3.4 Transcribing, Coding, and Analyzing Qualitative Data 67
subsequent coding, which was a discursive, cumbersome, and (of course), essential
step in the study.
A decision was made to use Excel as the coding tool, after trying it out and
carefully comparing it with both traditional paper-based colored coding and the
computer software program NVivo (v. 10). Excel was selected primarily due to its
user-friendly functions for storing, sorting, and retrieving data, in addition to the
practical concern that Excel was accessible to both coders.
Approximately 10% of the qualitative data were coded by two coders separately.
Given the limited resources the researcher had access to, two rounds of coding were
conducted with the rest of qualitative data in this study by the researcher alone, with
a two-week interval in between.
Inductive coding of qualitative data in this study generated 137 codes in total,
which fell into 11 categories, or coded themes, as listed, below (see Appendix 3 for
the codebook for coding qualitative data).
(1) teacher’s pressure
(2) easy learning
(3) beliefs about language learning
(4) constraints on curriculum innovation
(5) teacher’s professional background
(6) textbook
(7) teacher’s beliefs about language teaching
(8) colleague interaction
(9) community of practice and learning
(10) classroom observation
(11) teacher development.
(3) Pattern coding (axial coding)
The next stage of qualitative data analysis was to seek relationships or links “be-
tween and within categories” (Ellis & Barkhuizen, 2005, p. 268). This step was
pivotal to the whole study, for it was during this stage that the analysis and
interpretation of data moved to a conceptual level, and thus contributed to theory
building. Patterns were discovered by referring to several widely-acknowledged
codes of practice in the ﬁeld, as listed below (Dörnyei, 2007; Ellis & Barkhuizen,
2005; LeCompte & Schensul, 1999).
(1) the occurrence frequency of themes;
(2) the existence of patterns alerted by the informant;
(3) similarity between themes;
(4) the researcher’s experience;
(5) in consultation with relevant literature.
The signiﬁcant of axial coding is evident in the pivotal role it has played in
theory building (Miles & Huberman, 1994). However, the very process of axial
coding involves the human brain as an instrument, which admittedly makes its
so-called ‘soft data’ vulnerable to criticism (Richards, 2003). To counteract possible
68 3 Research Design
researcher bias, in addition to the procedure listed above, the axial coding in this
study also involved consultations between the researcher and an external research
assistant, who had very little prior knowledge about the project and who read
through all the original transcripts and the opening coding before meeting with the
researcher to negotiate the patterns she had found. This process resulted in the
emergence of nine patterns listed:
(1) Language meaning versus form;
(2) Learner participation and learner autonomy;
(3) Providing corrective feedback;
(4) Using textbooks;
(5) Teacher’s prior learning and work experience;
(6) In-service teacher training program;
(7) Social context;
(8) Institutional context;
(9) Teacher’s attitudes towards the innovation project.
3.4.3 Transcribing, Coding, and Analyzing Classroom
Observation Data
(1) Transcribing and annotating audio-taped lessons
The computer program software ELAN (v.4.6.1)7
was used to transcribe and
annotate classroom observation videos (Pan, 2011; Zhu, 2013). ELAN was selected
because it enables researchers to transcribe a video ﬁle, and at the same time record
the pertaining time data (i.e., the beginning time, end time and time duration of
talks, pauses, teaching episodes and teaching activities) of the video-recorded les-
sons. In addition, it also allows researchers to do transcribing within a
pre-constructed framework, called ‘tiers’ in ELAN. For example, as this study
adopted a broad analytical framework to examine different aspects of classroom
discourse, before doing the transcribing, various tiers were attached with codes
denoting different interlocutors’ organizations; utterances were then transcribed into
the corresponding tiers.
A screenshot of ELAN, below (Fig. 3.3), displays how it works. The left part at
the bottom is a column of ‘tiers.’ The left part on the top is a video viewer, which
plays the lesson video being transcribed and annotated. The block on the right side
of the tiers column is a timeline viewer. In this area, an enclosed cell automatically
appears when a transcriber stops the time indicator, and the transcriber can type in
the transcripts or annotations. Concurrently, what has been transcribed in each tier
7
ELAN, developed by the Language Archive (TLA), is a professional software program for
creating complex annotations on video and audio resources. The version used in this study was
downloaded and used free of charge from TLA’s website: http://tla.mpi.nl/tools/tla-tools/elan/.
3.4 Transcribing, Coding, and Analyzing Qualitative Data 69
is displayed in the grid viewer on the right top, where the beginning time, end time,
duration, and utterance of each move is automatically generated.
After transcribing a 43-minute-long video-recorded lesson for pilot analysis, a
preliminary protocol of tiers was ﬁne tuned to a system containing eight tiers:
teacher talk (TT), all students talk (AST), some students talk (SST), paired students
talk (PST), individual students talk (IST), video input (VI), audio input (AI) and
silence (Silence). Also, the time format, originally set as ‘minutes:seconds’ (ms:ss),
was changed into ‘seconds:milliseconds’ (ss:ms), for the sake of convenience in
subsequent calculations.
In this study, a broad transcribing scheme was adopted in which teacher and
student utterances were transcribed verbatim. Unintelligible parts resulting from
classroom activities were annotated in angle brackets, for example, <SS work in
pairs>. Incomprehensible or inaudible words were denoted with asterisks ‘***’ and
nonverbal behaviors were annotated in parentheses—for example, (A student
comes to the front of classroom). The names of students were anonymized, due to
ethical concerns. When annotation and transcription were completed, the data in the
grid viewer of ELAN were output into an excel ﬁle, in which the columns displayed
interlocutor, beginning time, end time, duration, and utterance of each move, as
shown in Table 3.7.
In the original excel ﬁle, as shown in Table 3.7, the data were arrayed in the
sequence of interlocutors. In the next step, the data were sorted in ascending order
by the beginning time, thus unfolding the classroom interaction in its authentic time
sequence, as displayed in Table 3.8.
The transcribing and annotating of audio ﬁles was laborious and
time-consuming, with the time spent on each audio-recorded lesson ranging from
10 to 23 h. The transcribed ﬁles were much larger than expected, ranging from 601
to 1015 moves per lesson. After the time-sequenced classroom discourse data ﬁles
were generated, they were sent, with the original audio ﬁles, to a research assistant
for rigorous double-checking; ambiguous parts were negotiated until congruity was
achieved. Next, as was done with the interview data, transcripts of the observed
Fig. 3.3 A screenshot of ELAN
70 3 Research Design
lessons were sent back to the informant for member checking, and alterations made
accordingly.
(2) Coding classroom discourse data
A draft coding scheme was constructed relating to seven aspects of classroom
discourse within the framework of effective teaching principles that informed the
DP, as detailed in Chap. 2. A preliminary trial coding was done on a 43-minute long
lesson by the researcher and one research assistant separately, after which they met
to check and negotiate their coding. As a result, the draft coding scheme was
ﬁne-tuned, with high-inference codes being replaced by low-inference ones, and
ambiguous denotations addressed and clariﬁed. Table 3.9, below, provides a
Table 3.7 A sample of original transcript and annotation of observed lessons
Interlocutor Beginning
time
End time Duration Utterance
TT 1.22 1.908 0.688 Sit down, please
TT 4.009 9.844 5.835 Ok. So, these days we have learned
something about great people, right?
… … … … …
TT 3427.71 3430.088 2.378 So much for today
AST 0 1.22 1.22 Good morning, Miss Li
AST 1.899 4.009 2.11 Bailey
… … … … …
AST 157.054 158.384 1.33 <SS speak freely.>
SST 168.392 170.383 1.991 <SS speak freely.>
SST 176.618 177.306 0.688 Columbus
… … … … …
SST 3308.766 3316.714 7.948 <SS talk freely.>
PST 2384.871 2520.543 135.672 <SS talk in pairs freely.>
… … … … …
IST 47.356 51.173 3.817 He is a football player
IST 65.55 69.541 3.991 He *** in the World Cup
… … … … …
IST 3357.832 3358.191 0.359 Yes
AI 961.56 1003.48 41.92 Marie Curie is a famous woman born
in 1867. She became one of the
greatest scientists in history with 2
Nobel prizes. Let’s take a brief look
…
… … … … …
Silence 15.608 17.104 1.496 (Pause.)
Silence 56.338 60.751 4.413 <The student is thinking.>
… … … … …
Silence 3359.728 3363.907 4.179 (Wait time.)
3.4 Transcribing, Coding, and Analyzing Qualitative Data 71
description of the coding scheme for classroom observation data (see Appendix 4
for a coded classroom transcript).
(3) Quantifying coded classroom discourse data
The inductive coding of classroom observation data made it possible to quantify
those indicators under investigation, to examine whether and how changes took
place in classroom instruction within the curriculum innovation. The following
techniques were adopted to compress classroom discourse into quantifying data:
(1) Frequency: calculated by counting the codes allocated to relevant cases.
(2) Percentage: calculated by dividing the frequency of a speciﬁc code by the
total cases of codes in a category.
(3) Length: the number of words in a certain category, e.g., teacher talk.
(4) Average length per move: calculated by dividing the overall length of a dis-
course category by the total number of moves in the utterances.
(5) Speaking speed: calculated by dividing the total number of words of a dis-
course category by the overall time spent in completing the discourse
category.
Caution should also be exercised when interpreting data in numerical forms, as
those forms may undermine the richness of qualitative data by de-contextualizing
the interactions in classroom dynamics. Thus, typical sequences in lessons were
analyzed within a multi-faceted framework encompassing such factors as peda-
gogical objectives, instructional materials, teacher talk, student talk, participatory
organization, and discourse structure.
Table 3.8 A sample of time sequenced transcript of classroom observation
Interlocutor Beginning
time
End
time
Duration Utterance
AST 0 1.22 1.22 Good morning. Miss Li
TT 1.22 4.009 0.688 Sit down, please
TT 4.009 9.844 5.835 Ok. So, these days we have learned
something about great people, right?
TT 9.853 15.605 5.752 And we’ve learned some of them.
Here I have some famous people
Silence 15.608 17.104 1.496 <Pause.>
TT 17.118 19.687 2.569 So, would you like to guess them?
… … … … …
TT 3428 3430 2.378 So much for today
72 3 Research Design
3.5 Summary
This chapter started by introducing the four research questions that motivated the
present study. It then situated this study in a naturalistic paradigm by justifying the
suitability of ethnography for answering the research questions. Subsequent sub-
sections introduced the research informants, research setting, and ﬁve stages of the
study, before the research methods were delineated and the data analysis procedure
elaborated.
Table 3.9 The coding scheme of the classroom discourse
Category Codes Denotation
Activity A + numerical sequence,
e.g., A1, A2, etc.
A pedagogical activity
A brief description of the activity,
e.g., ‘Students play a jigsaw puzzle
in groups.’
Describe what the teacher and
students do in this activity
Sequence S + numerical sequence, e.g., S1,
S1, S3
A complete sequence
Exchange m/f/m&f Meaning-oriented exchanges/
form-oriented exchanges/exchanges
combining meaning and forms
Pre./Nuc./Dep./Emb. Preparatory exchanges/nuclear
exchanges/dependent exchanges/
embedded exchanges
T/S Teacher-initiated exchanges/
student-initiated exchanges
Combinations of initials indicating
interlocutors, e.g., T-AS (the
teacher and all students)
The participatory organization of
classroom interaction
IR/IRF Exchanges with initiation-response
pattern/initiation-response-follow-up
pattern
Teacher
questions
DQ/RQ Display question/referential question
Learner talk RL/UL Restricted learner talk/unrestricted
learner talk
Move I/R/F Initiation/response/follow-up
Instructional
materials
MM/MMTA/TDM/SPM Mandated materials/mandated
material with teacher’s adaptations/
teacher-developed material/
students-provided material
3.5 Summary 73
Chapter 4
Changes of Teacher Cognition within
Curriculum Innovation
This chapter depicts how changes took place in the focal informant’s cognition over
four years’ participation in the Danyang Project. It draws primarily on the analysis
of qualitative data collected through ﬁeld notes, interviews, and teaching journals,
as documented in Chap. 3. In alignment with the ﬁve stages in this study, this
chapter investigates whether and how changes took place in teacher cognition
within each phase, when distinct approaches were adopted to implement curriculum
innovation. Furthermore, to support the likelihood and sustainability of change in
teacher cognition at the post-innovation stage, this chapter also examines the project
teacher’s mental life after she moved to a new educational setting.
The inductive analysis of the qualitative data led the researcher to two broad
thematic emphases, which functioned as operational lenses to observe the changes
in teacher’s cognition. Overall, these thematic categories aligned with the broad
families of issues proposed by previous research (Borg, 2003; Freeman, 2002)—
that is, how the teacher perceived the nature of language teaching, and how she
responded to educational change. To be more speciﬁc, aspects relating to the nature
of language teaching include: (1) meaning versus forms; (2) learner participation
and learner autonomy; (3) providing corrective feedback; and, (4) using textbooks.
Responding to the call by Borg to examine “the content, structure, and development
processes” (2003, p. 91) involved in the process of cognitive change, this chapter’s
elaborations on the thematic categories formulated by recursive analysis and syn-
thesis of qualitative data are supported with illustrative narrative accounts.
A chronological order was followed to report the results over the ﬁve stages of the
Danyang Project.
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0_4
75
4.1 The Nature of Language Teaching
4.1.1 Meaning versus Forms
As Ellis put it, classroom instruction “needs to ensure that learners focus pre-
dominantly on meaning” (Ellis, 2005, p. 211). Regarding the two senses of
meaning—i.e., semantic meaning and pragmatic meaning—it is arguably the
latter that “is crucial to language learning” (Ellis, ibid); thus, the target language
is treated as a tool for meaning-oriented communication. In this sense, how
teachers conceptualize the relationship between and the roles played by meaning
and forms in language teaching arguably reveals to what extent teacher cognition
concurs with innovative principles.
4.1.1.1 The Pre-project Stage
Two major issues regarding the nature of language teaching in foreign language
classrooms addressed herein are ‘what to teach’ and ‘how to teach.’ An in-depth
interview with Marian before the innovative project was launched revealed an
ambivalent belief in her cognition. While expecting and embracing the notion of
building communicative competence in language learners, she reiterated the
indispensable role played by the accumulation of discrete linguistic forms in lan-
guage teaching. The conflicting coexistence of dichotomous beliefs was also
revealed by the repetition of pairs of contradictory key words, such as “reciting for
dictation” versus “telling stories,” when Marian spoke about the teaching strategies
she adopted.
As the exam is approaching, I’ve been repeatedly teaching some confusable phrases con-
taining the word “use,” such as “used to” and “be used to doing,” just in case the students
mixed them up. (I09: 31)1
When my students were at Level 7, I devised for them a mini-talk activity in English class,
in which they gave a small talk to the whole class every morning one by one, following the
order of ID numbers. Their talks were the extension of the topic taught in that week, such as
My Best Friend, Introducing Myself, My Family, My Favorite Activity, etc. After all, they
talked about various topics and in general performed very well. (I09: 68)
The dichotomy between meaning and form in language teaching, with the for-
mer at a subordinate position was further revealed by a metaphor Marian used to
illustrate how she perceived the role of forms or grammatical rules in language
teaching.
1
Data cited in this chapter carry the following codes: I = interview; FN = ﬁeld notes;
TJ = teaching journal; the subsequent number indicates the time when the data were collected; the
number after colon indicates the sequential number of the entry in original ﬁle. e.g. I09: 31 = entry
No. 31 in the interview conducted in 2009.
76 4 Changes of Teacher Cognition within Curriculum Innovation
So far, a belief I’ve been holding and kept telling my students is that learning a foreign
language is just like building a house, of which the basic structure is constructed of steel
and concrete. Grammatical rules function as the supporting fundamentals in learning
English. (I09: 41)
4.1.1.2 The Top-Down Stage
Compared with the ambivalent perceptions of the nature of language teaching at the
pre-project stage, evidence was found revealing the changes in Marian’s cognition
at the top-down stage of the DP. One apparent change was that more importance
was attached to the meaning of language in teaching, as Marian began to depart
from traditional teaching strategies underpinned by structuralism. Reflecting on the
way she taught vocabulary, Marian observed:
In the past, the only strategy I used to teach new vocabulary was to ask students to read them
loudly in chorus following my demonstration. The students read those words repeatedly, and
then recited them. Now I seldom deprive a word of its contextual meaning in teaching. I no
longer teach discrete vocabulary explicitly or ask students to read after me. Occasionally, of
course, I would write down one or two words on the blackboard with corresponding phonetic
symbols. However, I ask students to learn pronunciation by themselves…. Also, I let them
infer the meanings of new words from contextual clues. (I11: 2)
However, the sign of departure from teaching pedagogy emphasizing linguistic
forms was not a strong one, because it was also found Marian held a deeply-rooted
belief favoring the effectiveness of traditional grammar teaching, which normally
focuses on pre-set target structure(s). Though this attitude was not revealed in the
formal interview, it was shown unintentionally in Marian’s reflective account of her
teaching. For instance, when she recalled a grammar lesson, she wrote in her
teaching journal:
[In my class, today] it went smoothly when we practiced patterned drills, for students could
practice the structure they’ve just learned…Because not all students brought their photos
today, I allowed those who had photos to move around and ask their classmates questions
about their photos. Frankly speaking, I think this activity was not successful, for some
students went too far to ask questions that did not contain the target structure. For example,
some questions were about age. Those questions were not to the point. (TJ: Sep. 2, 2010)
4.1.1.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
Marian expressed her preference for cooperative meaning-focused teaching at the
bottom-up stage, with more signs indicating her uptake of innovative principles.
Moreover, she tended to show more initiative and self-maintenance in recon-
structing her teaching practices, grounded on innovative rationale. However, she
did not show full departure from traditional form-focused pedagogy, which was
deeply-entrenched in her cognition as the fundamental core of language teaching.
To a certain extent, she saw meaning-focused activities and tasks as serving
4.1 The Nature of Language Teaching 77
entertaining and motivating purposes, rather than playing a decisive role in lan-
guage learning, as the following anecdote illustrates.
Yan found it a widely-used strategy for the PTs to embed a competition activity in their
lesson planning. That is, students were divided into groups to answer the questions asked
by the teacher to check their comprehension on given reading or listening materials. When
observing Marian’s lesson today, Yan found she did the competition activity again. And
this time the purpose was obviously not for comprehension check, for there was a precedent
question and answer session that served the purpose. Since the lesson observed was claimed
to practice listening and speaking skills, Marian said in the post-observation group meeting
that she designed the competition step just to double-check learner’s comprehension. Yan
observed that this double-checking was somewhat redundant given the teaching objectives
of this lesson. She also pointed out that teachers tended to use eye-catching fanfare
activities in public lessons or teaching contests without examining the effectiveness of those
activities. She suggested due caution should be exercised in the project classes. (FN: Mar.
7, 2013)
4.1.1.4 The Exam Stage
While Marian had raised her awareness of and willingness to adopt principles of
meaning-focused language teaching, at both the top-down and bottom-up stages,
there was an apparent shift of focus from meaning to form(s), at the exam stage. The
subordination of the communicative approach to the mainstream traditional,
teacher-fronted pedagogy intensiﬁed as the high-stakes exams approached, as
evidenced Marian’s comments after observing one of her mentor teacher’s lessons.
No wonder she is an experienced teacher and our head teacher. She teaches in such a solid
style. She presents the language points so clearly. What is more, she makes full use of time
and thus teaches so efﬁciently. Her students can get all the reciting work done in class. Her
students have good memories…. Looking back on what I did before, I left my students
homework to do reciting after class for the sake of saving in-class time. I could probably be
wrong. (I12: 12)
However, when Marian commented on her colleagues’ teaching in
post-observation meetings, her attitude was much more deviant from traditional
form-focused teaching, particularly when the class she observed was not at Level 9;
for example, in one post-observation meeting, the researchers and PTs argued about
the last activity in the lesson, which was supposed to improve students’ listening
and speaking skills on the topic, My Pets. The Level-7 class was taught by Judy,
another project teacher. When she planned the lesson, Judy asked her students to
list some tips about taking good care of pets. Marian argued that an activity
designed in this way was not communicative. She said,
Why not provide more contextualized information, thus the activity would be more like
what we do in real life. Say, we could describe some scenarios in which someone is taking
care of pets inappropriately, and ask students to spot where the problems are. (FN: May 30,
2013)
78 4 Changes of Teacher Cognition within Curriculum Innovation
4.1.1.5 The Post-project Stage
Following giving increased weight to language forms towards the end of the
bottom-up stage and, of course, during the exam stage, Marian went back to per-
ceiving the coexistence of meaning and form in classroom instruction, with the
latter being the priority. While Marian restated the subordination of accuracy to
fluency in authentic communication, she still thought teaching for test scores more
important than teaching for communicative competence. However, at this stage,
Marian tended not to perceive meaning and form as mutually exclusive, and was
more assertive about the effectiveness of meaning-focused teaching pedagogy for
learners’ acquisition of linguistic forms.
The ﬁrst month I came here I suffered a lot from the exam pressure. I had no idea of the
students’ learning background and thought it was shameful if the class I taught performed
worse than other classes…In that month, I printed out the vocabulary list of primary
English and asked my students to recite it. Some students were really not good in English;
thus, I gave them extra tutoring lessons when they were supposed to attend the PE course.
(I14: 49–54)
I’ve compared my students’ test scores with those of the HES students taught with tradi-
tional pedagogy. I found my students did not perform worse than they did, not to say my
students’ learning background was much poorer than theirs in general. (I14: 58)
4.1.2 Learner Participation and Learner Autonomy
From a socio-cultural perspective, language learning takes place in social interac-
tion; thus, effective classroom instruction should provide learners with opportunities
to participate in collaborative activities with others, and foster learners’ autonomy
to attend to linguistic production and learning strategies that are conducive to
language learning. In this sense, learners’ are participants who actively construct
classroom interaction, rather than recipients who passively master speciﬁc learning
objectives.
4.1.2.1 The Pre-project Stage
Marian’s preferences for teaching linguistic forms in language teaching was evident
when she described learners’ role as recipients of linguistic knowledge, instead of
language users in communication. An illustrative teaching scenario was narrated by
Marian when she tried to differentiate “afford” and “affect,” by associating the
pronunciation of the letter “d” in “afford” with a Chinese character. Arguably,
despite the possible effects this teaching strategy (or trick) could bring about in
memorizing words deprived of their contextualized pragmatic meanings, resorting
to mnemonics is by no means an effective way to improve learners’ capacity to use
words in authentic communication.
4.1 The Nature of Language Teaching 79
However, as to Marian’s cognition, it was found that perceiving learners’ roles
as passive recipients did not exist exclusively with expecting learners to foster
autonomy in language learning. She explicitly stated the divergent attitudes, and
attributed them to the variance in learner autonomy among students.
If I conduct self-directed learning in my classroom, the good students would ﬁnd no
difﬁculty getting accustomed to the new mode of learning, whereas the poor students,
particularly the extremely poor ones, would get lost. Those students do not know how to
study at all. If you advise that they should consult the dictionary to learn more about the
vocabulary we’ve learned today, make sentences with those words, or construct a story by
using some of them, they would probably ignore the task, or even worse, some of them
might even plagiarize others’ homework. (I09: 50)
4.1.2.2 The Top-Down Stage
While Marian expressed her willingness to enhance learner participation and foster
learner autonomy at the pre-project stage, she now came up with a feasible peda-
gogical mechanism to involve students in self-directed learning. Marian held the
belief that the teacher’s role should be transformed from dictating to facilitating, as
evidenced by a “little teacher” strategy she employed in grammar teaching.
I used to teach grammar by explicitly presenting the rules and asking students to take notes.
Now, I hand this over to the students. Let them act as little teachers in class. I give my
students homework to preview what is going to be learned, with some key points high-
lighted. Then the students learn by themselves and present what they’ve achieved in a
subsequent lesson. In this way, autonomous learning and cooperative learning are carried
out, and both the presenters and the audience beneﬁt from this activity through a deep
learning process. I also provide complementary instruction while or after the little teacher
teaches his or her parts in the lessons. (I11: 3)
Apart from fostering learner autonomy in learning the content included in the
mandated textbooks, Marian also adopted the DP’s innovative principles by ten-
tatively starting to teach a newly-designed course entitled Language Achievement
Performance (shortened as LAP). This course was completely new to the teachers
and their students, and encouraged learners to present (in groups or individually)
what they learned outside their classrooms. Since there were no settled rules about
what should be presented or how presentations should be delivered, students were
given much freedom and the flexibility to put on performances, ranging from telling
stories to acting out mini-dramas. Despite being supportive of this new course,
Marian was by no means dauntless, saying she felt sometimes panic and frustration,
because she was worried that the students’ language production would be beyond
her capacity, and that the linguistic content in the LAP course might be incom-
patible with the exams (I14: 67).
80 4 Changes of Teacher Cognition within Curriculum Innovation
4.1.2.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
Marian showed a tendency to reconcile innovative principles with classroom
practicalities at the bottom-up stage, despite her strong intention to collaborate with
her colleagues on shared work plans to promote learner autonomy and disseminate
the practices that had proved rewarding in her teaching experience.
For example, due to her conflicting beliefs about the LAP course’s beneﬁts in
improving learners’ proﬁciency in general, and its potential to reduce learners’
performance on standardized exams, Marian compromised by reducing the amount
of time allocated to LAP course (FN: Aug. 30, 2012). Towards the end of the third
phase of this study, the LAP course was reduced to a sporadic ﬁve-minute pre-
sentation session in regular classes.
During constant meetings with teacher educators and fellow project teachers,
Marian and Frank initiated an extensive reading activity to promote self-directed
extensive reading. They jointly worked out a booklist and a speciﬁc work plan to let
students know what to read, the agenda to follow, and how their reading would be
assessed (FN: Feb. 16, 2012; FN: May 4, 2012). Once they found students had
beneﬁted from this activity (Marian’s and Frank’s classes outperformed non-project
classes in an end-of-semester reading contest), they showed great willingness to
cascade the successful experience to their peers in the TRG (FN: Aug. 30, 2012).
4.1.2.4 The Exam Stage
At the exam stage, Marian perceived autonomous learning as learning something
not encompassed in textbooks, and thus thought her students hardly had any time to
learn autonomously during the weekdays. For instance, her enthusiasm towards the
extensive reading activity, a distinctive activity in project classes, dissipated due to
the pressure of exams.
The students had given up doing extensive reading, except reading for participating in a
reading competition. There is going to be a province-wide reading contest in two or three
months. The TRG has registered for it on behalf of all the students. There is a list of
recommended readings. But I guess they are too busy to read them. (I13: 34)
However, both Marian and Frank were enthusiastic about sharing with their
colleagues their positive experiences with and resources for promoting learner
autonomy. Shortly after her students took the high school entrance examination,
Marian wrote an article entitled LAP Course: An Effective Way to Foster Younger
Learners’ Autonomy in Language Teaching, in which she detailed the rationale and
speciﬁcations for the LAP course and its teaching (FN: Jul. 11, 2013).
4.1 The Nature of Language Teaching 81
4.1.2.5 The Post-project Stage
Once she began teaching at the new school, Marian’s passion to promote learner
participation and learner autonomy was rekindled. At this stage, her enthusiasm and
expertise were manifested both in-class and out-of-class, and in both
teacher-initiated and institution-assigned activities. Marian held the belief that it
was her responsibility to help those poor rural students, and saw her teaching career
at YS as a mission of dissemination—that is, she felt she ought to pass on what she
had learned to her colleagues in the new educational setting.
Here I can transfer what we’ve done in the DP to my teaching practices at YS…and work
out a mechanism to motivate my students and enhance their involvement in classroom
interaction. For example, I keep attending to learners’ needs and encouraging them to
provide feedback to my teaching. (I14: 17)
4.1.3 Providing Corrective Feedback
Corrective feedback is an important type of teacher talk in response to learners’
linguistic production that deviates from the target output, and is an essential part of
classroom interaction (Gass et al., 2012). While meta-analytical studies support of
the overall positive effect of corrective feedback on language development (Li,
2010; Mackey & Goo, 2007; Russell & Spada, 2006), there is also a general
consensus that teachers’ choice of different types of corrective feedback should be
based on classroom realities and individual learners’ affective and cognitive styles
(see for example, Ellis, 2009; Yoshida, 2010). However, as Ellis suggested,
“teachers should be prepared to vary who, when, and how they correct in accor-
dance with the cognitive and affective needs of the individual learner” (Ellis, 2009,
p. 14), therefore teachers’ cognition about providing corrective feedback depends
on their theory of language teaching and learning.
4.1.3.1 The Pre-project Stage
At the very beginning, Marian was bewildered as to whether and how corrective
feedback should be provided in relation to erroneous production by her students.
One issue confounding her was whether errors should be treated; while she rec-
ognized insigniﬁcant errors might not impair the flow of meaning in real com-
munication, she was frustrated when “some students did it all correctly in writing,
but made mistakes here and there when they speak it out” (I09: 119). Yet, central to
Marian’s reflective account about how she provided corrective feedback was the
priority she gave to accuracy in learner’s production—that is, all errors identiﬁed
should be corrected. With respect to how corrective feedback was provided, Marian
primarily drew on explicit correction and peer correction; however, she realized
82 4 Changes of Teacher Cognition within Curriculum Innovation
what she did in teaching was not consistent with how interlocutors behave in real
communication.
In fact, I should admit I’ve perceived it in a wrong way. When we communicate with
foreigners, they understand what I mean all the same despite the mistakes I make. The same
is the case when we communicate in our ﬁrst language. The mistakes won’t affect com-
munication. It is to this point that I feel bewildered. When my students give presentations in
class, I listen to them carefully and note down all the errors I detect, the grammatical errors,
the vocabulary errors, all of them. Then I ask the audience students to point out and correct
those errors…. (I09: 120–121)
4.1.3.2 The Top-Down Stage
Regarding providing corrective feedback, changes were found as to whether and
how errors were treated in the top-down stage. Marian no longer regarded errors as
a monolithic entities, and began to speculate about dealing with students’ errors
differently. The ﬁeld notes recount Marian’s enquiries about the guiding principles
for dealing with treatable and untreatable errors (FN: Nov. 10, 2011), and she began
to correct erroneous parts of learners’ production implicitly. A reflective episode
about how she treated students’ written corrective feedback exempliﬁes the ﬁnding:
I gave my students a writing assignment after ﬁnishing Unit 1. I did the ﬁrst marking by
underlining and correcting all the errors I detected. Then I handed the compositions back to
students for the second writing. When I began to do the subsequent marking, I had a sense
that I should ask students to correct the errors by themselves. This time I underlined the
errors without correcting them and required some students to do the correction in front of
me. They could do it. (I11: 54)
While she tried to change the ways she used to correct learners’ errors, Marian
still found it challenging to decide when, how, and what to correct, particularly with
errors in learners’ free oral production. As a tradeoff, she either controlled learners’
output or found more correctors in class.
Marian asked her students to recite a passage and correct their errors…When students gave
presentations, Marian encouraged the audience to spot and correct the errors. She created a
Woodpecker award for the students who did well in correcting classmates’ errors. (FN:
Aug. 21, 2011)
4.1.3.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
At this stage, Marian became hesitant about providing corrective feedback on
learners’ errors. In one of her public lessons, she did not correct any errors in
learner production; in the subsequent reflective discussion with the researcher,
Marian said she “was not sure whether she should correct learners’ errors or not”
(FN: March 3–7, 2012). Moreover, Marian tended to initiate pre-emptive error
correction before the students gave task performances in class—that is, she would
4.1 The Nature of Language Teaching 83
meet with those students before they gave presentations, to make sure they got
“everything correct before they stepped onto the stage” (TJ: Mar. 7, 2012). She
perceived learners’ errors as undesirable and to be eliminated, as she thought such
utterances were indicative of low quality language production and not conducive to
learning.
With respect to written corrective feedback, Marian increasingly resorted to
learners’ self-correction, and was keen on using pedagogical incentives to prevent
learners from getting bored in the process. An exemplar teaching practice was that
Marian formulated a writing activity consisting of three procedures: the students did
a writing assignment, the teacher revised their writing homework, and students
revised their writing based on the feedback from the teacher and designed a poster
to present their writings, which would be hung up on the classroom walls. (FN: Feb.
16, 2012; TJ: Feb. 28, 2012)
4.1.3.4 The Exam Stage
In general, corrective feedback was provided in an explicit and mechanic manner at
this stage. The majority of interaction between Marian and her students was about
the incorrect answers the latter gave on a marked test paper; Marian provided
standardized correction forms, which were quite rigid in that little or no variance
from the provided answers was permitted. In most cases, only those forms con-
tained in the mandated textbooks were accepted as the “right” answers. To con-
solidate what had been corrected, all Marian’s students kept an error correction
notebook in which they took down their erroneous exercise items for later review.
Marian thought this way of providing corrective feedback was effective in
improving students’ exam performance.
However, when Marian commented on one of her colleague’s teaching, she said
the feedback provided “was too rigid,” asserting that “corrective feedback should
have been given in a more flexible way.” (FN: Mar. 21, 2013)
4.1.3.5 The Post-project Stage
In the last stage, Marian gradually grew more interested in published
classroom-based studies on corrective feedback. She read a few research articles on
corrective feedback, and came to the researcher with several questions. When the
researcher carried out a quasi-experimental study on immediate and delayed
feedback at HES, Marian observed the whole process, and was curious about the
ﬁndings. At this stage, her cognition included a sophisticated scheme about whether
and how to provide corrective feedback to learners’ errors. In retrospect, Marian
said she was aware of the change that took place in how she perceived learners’
errors should be corrected.
84 4 Changes of Teacher Cognition within Curriculum Innovation
In the past, I was so impatient as to repeat my questions without giving students any wait
time, or would explicitly tell students the correct answers. I was worried that I did not have
enough time to cover the contents I prepared to teach. Now when a student uttered a correct
answer to my question, I would respond with “good” or “very good.” If they gave an
incorrect answer, I would repeat a part of or the whole sentence, or responded with a hint
indicating something was erroneous in his or her answer…If the speaker was a very poor
student, I would leave more wait time for him or her. (I14: 85–87)
Another change found in Marian’s cognition regarding providing corrective
feedback was that she drew more on peer correction to deal with learners’ written
errors. This aligned with her belief that learner autonomy should be fostered and
instilled in language teaching. As to the three-step writing task she conducted in the
bottom-up stage, Marian now substituted a peer-correction step for the
self-correction one. The same inclination was revealed when she reported a
newly-constructed assessment task that turned out to work well in her class.
The homework I gave to my students for the last weekend was to design a test paper…
Yesterday, I asked them to exchange their test papers with their desk mates, work out the
exercises and negotiate with their desk mates to check their answers. If there were questions
they could not solve, they would ask me for help. Wow, I was so busy answering their
questions yesterday…but I was very happy. (I14: 69)
4.1.4 Using Textbooks
As stated in Sect. 2.1.5, how textbooks were used was regarded as an indicator of
PTs’ cognition relating to the nature of language teaching. A major objective in the
teacher education program of the DP was to cultivate in PTs the conﬁdence and
competence to adapt, abridge, supplement, or substitute the contents in mandated
textbooks to better suit teaching objectives. Thus, it was an essential component of
the teacher education program to develop PTs’ knowledge for and expertise in
designing tasks.
4.1.4.1 The Pre-project Stage
Marian virtually had no awareness of how to examine critically the value and
effectiveness of the mandated textbooks before she participated in the DP. The
textbooks provided a comprehensive repertoire of linguistic forms prescribed in the
national course standard, and (given their authoritative status in the educational
setting) were closely associated with almost all types of achievement exams in basic
education. It was not surprising the mandated textbooks were practically a hidden
syllabus, and the basis of teaching for Marian at the time. Notwithstanding her
obvious reliance on the mandated textbooks and lack of conﬁdence in adapting their
content, Marian said she occasionally adjusted the sequence and time allotment of
some sections in a unit.
4.1 The Nature of Language Teaching 85
The reading section was positioned before the grammar section in the mandated textbook.
But when I was teaching the unit containing passive voice, I rearranged the order and put
grammar ahead of reading, because the target structure (passive voice) was too difﬁcult for
the students. Teaching grammar ﬁrst would help them understand the reading passage
better….I normally spend more time than required in the reading section, for it is the core of
the whole unit, just like what the intensive reading section was in my English course when I
was in college. As to the other sections, such as integrated skills and the main task,
probably I won’t spend as much time as required. (I09: 75)
4.1.4.2 The Top-Down Stage
At the top-down stage of the DP, a series of school-based textbooks developed by
researchers were recommended to be used in project classes, as a substitute for a set
of provincially-mandated textbooks. Underpinned by the principles of the Danyang
Project and the innovative principles of the National Curriculum, the newly com-
plied textbooks featured authentic language input and task-based language teaching.
Despite the assumed superiority of the new textbooks, however, Marian lacked the
conﬁdence to completely abandon the provincially-mandated textbooks; a similar
difﬁdence was found with other project teachers. After using the new textbooks
exclusively for one academic year, Marian gradually adopted an eclectic strategy of
using the mandated textbooks as core teaching materials, and the experimental
textbooks as subsidiary instructional materials.
Deciding what to use, of course, by no means captured the whole picture of her
perceptions concerning the textbooks. If we go deeper to examine what she per-
ceived as the optimal way to use textbooks, it can be seen that, by the second stage,
Marian had gained some conﬁdence in adapting the mandated textbooks. For
example, when talking about her lesson planning for a teaching contest, Marian said
she planned to adapt the lead-in section in the mandated textbooks into an activity
entitled ‘watch, listen and say,’ which was quite like a corresponding section in the
experimental textbooks. In this way, Marian showed her willingness to transplant
innovative elements into her teaching practices, irrespective of the vehicle of the
instructional content. (I11: 40)
4.1.4.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
While in the second stage, Marian thought it desirable to adapt the mandated
textbooks by incorporating them it a relevant part of the experimental textbooks. In
the bottom-up stage of the DP, she began to develop instructional materials by
adapting existing materials and constructing new tasks to suit her teaching objec-
tives. An illustrative example, below, shows how she raised her awareness and
gradually learned to design a dictogloss task, over two teacher training sessions.
In a pre-observation group meeting, Marian was reporting her lesson planning. Yan found a
task Marian had designed was not compatible with her teaching objectives. Thus, Yan
86 4 Changes of Teacher Cognition within Curriculum Innovation
suggested that she change it into a dictogloss task. Having no idea about what a dictogloss
was, Marian was curious about this new stuff and asked Yan to elaborate on the speciﬁ-
cations to design and the procedures to implement a dictogloss task. However, Marian did
not change her lesson planning by using a dictogloss that day. (FN: Mar. 7, 2013)
In a post-observation group meeting, Yan and several PTs were providing feedback to a
lesson taught by Judy. Reflecting on her teaching, Judy said she thought a certain activity in
her teaching was not good enough. Hearing Judy’s complaint, Marian advised her to use a
dictogloss task next time. (FN: May. 30, 2013)
4.1.4.4 The Exam Stage
The experimental textbooks were completely cast out by Marian and her colleagues
in this stage in favor of the mandated textbooks, supplemented with worksheets
synthesizing key points likely to appear in the exam. Marian considered it of no use
to add supplementary materials not directly associated with the exam. In one
meeting with the researcher, Marian told her,
The assignment is a 16k size worksheet in which all exercises are relating to the exam. The
worksheet is designed by the TRG and it is impossible to us to give students extra
homework. (FN: Mar. 7, 2013)
Marian was curious about how instructional materials were used by her col-
leagues when she observed their classrooms at this stage. During a focused class-
room observation, she chose to use an observation scheme and noted down whether
and how the teacher adapted the mandated textbooks. In the post-observation
meeting, Marian asked how to develop extended activities based on materials in the
mandated textbooks. (FN: Mar. 21)
4.1.4.5 The Post-project Stage
Marian’s passion for and expertise in adapting the mandated textbooks were sus-
tained and consolidated by independently making pedagogical decisions of adding,
abridging, or rearranging their components. She largely relied on herself to collect
extended teaching and learning materials to supplement the mandated textbook,
occasionally turning to the researchers for help. Meanwhile, Marian also reflec-
tively drew on her prior teaching practices to reconstruct tasks. For example, she
told the researcher she had made a video and used it to conduct an activity in a
public lesson, several years before the DP was launched. At that time, she had no
idea what a task really was; she did it just to liven up the classroom. Now that she
teaching the same content to her students at YS, she redesigned the activity to make
4.1 The Nature of Language Teaching 87
it more like a task; this time, she was sure she was using a task, and could state the
rationale for using it as “providing students with authentic communicative context
in which the target structure is used.” (I14: 77)
I felt I should use a task to teach the singular and plural nouns, so I searched in the bulk of
teaching materials I had used before. Then I found a video I had made with the foreign
teacher a couple of years ago. The story was that he was shopping for a Christmas party.
The students watched this video clip and retold the stuff he had bought in the grocery store.
(I14: 74)
4.2 Attitudes Towards the Innovation Project
4.2.1 The Pre-project Stage
Marian was optimistic the innovation program would change deeply-entrenched,
exam-oriented educational concepts and practices into a brand-new model of “easy
teaching and happy learning” (I09: 3). She explicitly stated,
Perhaps due to the current educational mechanism, the exam-oriented teaching frustrates
me with unbearable workload. Working nonstop every day with lesson planning, teaching,
checking assignments, etc., there seems to be endless work to do. (I09: 1–2)
To sum up, Marian was supportive of the innovation project at the very
beginning, irrespective of the conception that the changes it entailed would cause a
huge workload for her. With limited information about the speciﬁcations of the
project, she intuitively made an assessment that the project was a remedy for some
long-standing problems in English language classrooms. In general, she was opti-
mistic about the outcome of the project, if “the collaboration is good.” (I09: 142)
4.2.2 The Top-Down Stage
Starting with a supportive attitude towards and an optimistic vision of the inno-
vation project, towards the end of the top-down stage of the DP, Marian’s beliefs
were characterized by an interactive, dynamic, and dialogic relationship with
speciﬁc components thereof. She ﬁguratively regarded her learning experience
within the project as a “third leg” to walk with, indicating it provided her with new
space for professional development. The aspects Marian perceived as conducive to
her changes in cognition included:
(1) Regular meetings with the other fellow PTs to discuss issues about teaching.
We talked about our students and classes, things like what is going on with them, and how
to deal with new problems. Mostly we discussed our lesson planning and useful teaching
strategies and tried to keep up with a common tempo within the same TRG. All in all, we
enjoy talking about the teaching stuff. (I11: 55)
88 4 Changes of Teacher Cognition within Curriculum Innovation
(2) Seminars organized by researchers, covering topics ranging from task-based
language teaching to classroom-based research.
I quite like a talk given by Yan last time. The seminars taught by PhD students give us
theoretical and practical guidance. But it would be better if the gap between theory and
practice could be bridged, for we are at the forefront of teaching most of the time. (I11: 70)
(3) Instant on-line or face-to-face support from teacher educators; e.g., providing
resources and suggestions for improving teaching, offering feedback on lesson
planning, reviewing research proposals and articles, etc.
It is so good that you always respond promptly to my inquiries via emails and QQ chats.
You also give me a lot of help by reviewing my articles and giving me valuable sugges-
tions. (I11: 78)
(4) Target language input from teacher educators, and the materials they provided,
which helped Marian improve her pronunciation.
For long I’ve been thinking my pronunciation is not good enough. Not really good. But
during this period, I listened attentively to your pronunciation and the listening materials in
the experimental textbooks as well. I like the listening materials very much, and imitated it
spontaneously or intentionally sometimes. It gradually helped me improve [my pronunci-
ation]. (I11: 90)
My mentor teacher said my pronunciation had improved a lot after she observed my lesson
last time. (I11: 91)
And I was assigned the task to make audio recordings for school-wide listening tests
administered by the TRG. Ha-ha, I did not realize I was that good. (I11: 92)
(5) Increased awareness of reading academic books and journal articles on second
language research.
As a matter of fact, I had no clear idea about those academic books and journals shelved in
the school library before. It was until you told us that I got to know Foreign Language
Teaching in Primary and Secondary Schools2
is an influential and useful journal. (I11: 120)
Despite the DP’s advantageous effects on teacher learning and the consequent
changes in cognition, Marian expected researchers would do more to bridge the gap
between theory and practice, and relate the teacher education program more closely
with context-speciﬁc realities.
I hope you could come here more frequently, to get us together, to know more about what is
going on with us,…to cater to our practical needs, and then we can get improved. (I11: 71)
2
Foreign Language Teaching in Primary and Secondary Schools, published by Beijing Normal
University, is one of the leading academic journals specializing in language teaching and research
in basic education in China.
4.2 Attitudes Towards the Innovation Project 89
4.2.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
In addition to the components listed in Sect. 4.2.2 perceived to be beneﬁcial to her
professional development, Marian’s perceptions of the innovation project and the
teacher educators during the bottom-up stage can be summarized as follows.
(1) The teacher training program aroused in Marian’s awareness of conducting
classroom-based exploratory research for improving teaching and learning. She
was scaffolded by relevant methods and resources provided by teacher edu-
cators, and beneﬁted from modeling studies conducted by some teacher
educators.
I have been sort of irritated by some students who got more and more reluctant to speak in
my class. Though I have repeatedly reminded them to speak out, they were still very quiet.
The PhD students suggested that conducting action research might help me solve this
problem. And I read a book they recommended about how to carry out action research in
language classrooms. Thus, I got started. This is the ﬁrst time I did action research in my
classroom. (TJ: Mar. 18, 2012)
Marian told Yan she would like to conduct a study to address a problem with which she felt
annoyed. It was about how to improve learner participation in classroom interaction. Yan
had a meeting with her to formulate a preliminary research agenda. Through their dis-
cussion Yan found Marian had learned some fundamental principles of conducing action
research. What is more, she was willing to accept the suggestions given by Yan. At the end
of the meeting, Yan promised she would facilitate Marian with her study by offering
suggestions and necessary resources. (FN: Mar. 7, 2012)
(2) Marian demonstrated more inclination to reference academic publications when
preparing for and carrying out her research.
I read English Teachers’ Action Research: From theory to practice (Wang, 2012) last
summer. And I also read some other books on how to improve teaching…I should do more
reading in the future and get my teaching practices informed by theories in those books.
(TJ: Feb. 16, 2012)
I subscribed Foreign Language Teaching in Primary and Secondary Schools last year.
Those articles in it were quite useful. Sometimes I selectively read some articles before
sleep. (I13: 40)
(3) Marian agreed that conducting focused classroom observations was conducive
to directing observers’ and observees’ attention to speciﬁc aspect(s) of class-
room teaching practices, and evoked their search for solutions for detected
problems.
We’ve never done the focused classroom observation before. In fact, who would tell us
how to improve a speciﬁc aspect like, for example, how to use and adapt the textbooks and
how to provide corrective feedback? Indeed, we did it in a rather vague and holistic manner
before. (I14: 101)
(4) Marian became critical of the principles and practices suggested by teacher
educators with whom she was occasionally involved in academic disputes at
this stage. However, the disputes turned out to be constructive, as she was
90 4 Changes of Teacher Cognition within Curriculum Innovation
either convinced of the rationales provided by the latter, or was frankly told
there was no universal agreement because the issue under dispute was
under-investigated.
I wonder if it could be better if we revised the classroom observation scheme we’ve used.
Sometimes I found the boundaries between those categories are quite blurring. I felt per-
plexed when I took observation notes with the scheme. (I13: 10)
(5) Marian was developing a willingness to diffuse innovative principles and
practices within her institutional context. However, she had no aspiration of
becoming an opinion leader. The head of the TRG played a decisive role in
collecting rewarding practices from PTs and disseminating them among
non-project teachers.
The head of the TRG attended the group meeting today. She inquired at length about how
Marian and Frank conducted the extensive reading activity last semester, and she decided
later to cascade the good practice down to non-project classes. (FN: Aug. 30, 2012)
4.2.4 The Exam Stage
Over the exam preparation period, which lasted around one semester, Marian had
little or no intention of enacting innovative principles in her teaching. In conformity
with the teaching syllabus designed by the TRG, she believed and adopted the
so-called “exercise-stuffed teaching method,” bombarding her students with
numerous model tests papers recommended by the TRG. The same was true of
Frank. Before they took the senior high school entrance exam, the students sat two
city-wide mock tests that were administered to help schools, teachers, and parents
collect data to inform the ensuing teaching for exams.
Within this short time span, Marian was obsessed with exams and students’
academic performance. Most contacts she initiated with the researchers were to ﬁnd
answers to confusing grammatical exercises, or to report how her students had done
on a certain exam. Marian did not withdraw from the DP at this stage; instead, she
still participated in the project quite actively by observing her peers’ lessons and
attending group meetings. What is distinct about her teaching practices at the time is
that the feedback she gave her colleagues who were teaching Level 7 and Level 8
was still quite communicative-oriented and consistent with innovative principles.
4.2.5 The Post-project Stage
At the last stage of this study, the researcher went abroad for a long-term academic
visit, and therefore had very limited contact with the project teachers. Despite the
absence of teacher educators on site, Marian managed to keep regular
4.2 Attitudes Towards the Innovation Project 91
communication with them via instant messaging tools, letting them know what was
going on in her life and asking questions occasionally. In retrospect, Marian was
nostalgic for the days of the DP. She stated the role researchers had played in her
professional life at the time as academic guides, craft facilitators, and resource
providers. Moreover, she also held that university researchers were novice practi-
tioners, in the sense that they had learned much context-speciﬁc culture and
practices in basic education.
(1) Academic guide: the innovative principles
Marian repeatedly said in the interview that she had learned quite a lot “advanced”
ideas from the researchers that had played a guiding role in her decision-making and
practices. However, it was beyond her capacity to summarize those principles, and
instead named a few discrete points, such as mapping form and meaning, fostering
learner autonomy, training learners to use learning strategies, and improving the
quality of teacher’ feedback. However, it is worth pointing out that Marian felt the
innovative principles were a bit intangible for her and her colleagues at the very
beginning of the DP, and that they were on the horns of a dilemma at the time.
(2) Craft facilitator: the innovative practices
Marian said she had accumulated a large repertoire of pedagogical strategies
through her learning in the DP. She thought the learning took place as teacher
educators scaffolded her by proposing, modeling, observing, and commenting on
her teaching practices. She found the guidance provided by teacher educators was
principled, consistent, and systematic, unlike the help she obtained through
attending the TRG meetings, which was largely governed by “old doctrines.”
My mentor teachers in the TRG gave me feedback after observing my teaching. But they
just commented on those trivial and superﬁcial points, and sometimes showed me how to
follow a collectively prepared teaching plan when I was preparing for a teaching contest.
I think something in it was out of date and within the old framework. In the DP, I found I
came out of the boundary. The PhD students helped me jump out and move to a higher
level. (I14: 101)
(3) Resource provider: to preserve and to expand
In Marian’s eyes, university researchers were her “teaching resource database” or
her “treasure trunk,” and enriched her teaching career by providing individually
tailored resources. The bulk of teacher training materials to which PTs had free
access was left by teacher educators to help preserve innovative principles, and
ensure sustained teacher learning. What is more, the on-line provision of new
resources was conducive to consolidating learning.
Last time when I was helping my students preparing for the speech contest, I searched from
a document entitled Modeling English Pronunciation in our resource bank. I used it before
and know it was good. But this time I needed an mp3 ﬁle attached to it, which would be
helpful for the students to imitate the speaker’s pronunciation and intonation. I contacted
An Lin for help. She was so efﬁcient that she sent me the ﬁle in a few minutes. (I14: 104)
92 4 Changes of Teacher Cognition within Curriculum Innovation
4.3 Summary
Drawing on qualitative data from in-depth interviews, ﬁeld notes, and teaching
journals, the analysis presented in this chapter has provided evidence of how
changes took place in teacher cognition over the ﬁve stages of this study, to answer
the ﬁrst research question: What changes took place in the Danyang teacher’s
cognition?
The change in teacher cognition was a dialogic, interactional, non-linear, and
longitudinal process. Teacher learning took place at two levels: explicit cognition
and implicit cognition. The teacher’s explicit cognition was converted into implicit
cognition when what she had learned in the teacher education program became
automated. Such automatization was likely catalyzed by reflective practices, par-
ticularly rewarding experiences in her and her colleagues’ community of practice.
The following is a brief synthesis of the major ﬁndings in this chapter:
(1) Changes occurred in Marian’s cognition over the ﬁve stages of her participation
in the Danyang Project, with distinctive features of change in each stage. The
idiosyncrasies of teacher cognition at each stage were influenced by personal,
institutional, and socio-political factors.
(2) At the top-down stage, Marian’s cognition about innovative principles tended
to be explicit. There was an emerging awareness of assimilating innovative
ideology, whereas her beliefs about traditional pedagogy were intrinsically
deeply-rooted and resistant to change, which hindered her explicit cognition
from becoming implicit cognition.
(3) At the bottom-up stage, the transformation from explicit cognition to implicit
cognition began to take place, catalyzed by Marian’s and her colleagues’
personally rewarding experience pertaining to the Danyang Project. Her
reflective practices of trying out innovative principles and gradually incorpo-
rating them into her belief system was essential to the conversion from explicit
cognition to implicit cognition.
(4) Ethical and ideological factors played dominant roles in Marian’s cognitive
world. The standardized exam, with its immense influence on students’ life,
activated the ethical components in Marian’s cognition system, and in turn
inhibited her from up-taking innovative principles.
(5) At the post-project stage, automaticity took place, as Marian spontaneously
drew on innovative principles without the scaffolding of teacher educators. It
was found that the implicit cognition could be latently developed.
4.3 Summary 93
Chapter 5
Changes of Teacher and Student
Behaviors in Project Classrooms
One way to evaluate the effectiveness of curriculum innovation is to examine
whether any changes took place in classrooms over the period when the innovative
approach was implemented. Within the framework proposed in Chap. 2, this
chapter examines whether and how changes took place in Marian’s classrooms
because of the curriculum innovation. Five representative lessons were selected and
inductively analyzed to describe the differences and similarities between Marian’s
teaching practices at the ﬁve stages of curriculum innovation. As teacher and stu-
dent behaviors are inseparable, how students acted and interacted with peers and the
teacher is also described. Table 5.1 documents the background information of these
ﬁve lessons. As elaborated in Chap. 3, the stated teaching objectives of the ﬁve
lessons were the same. Excerpt for the last lesson, which was offered by Marian at
the rural school, the students who learned the other four lessons were the same
group (with one student dropped out at the exam stage).
In alignment with the theoretical framework of this study, seven aspects crucial
to the effectiveness of language teaching are examined: (1) time allotment to dif-
ferent activities of a lesson; (2) choice of instructional materials; (3) teacher talk—
quantity/types of questions asked; (4) student talk—amount/average length per
move; (5) participatory organization; (6) focus on meaning verses form; and,
(7) discourse structures, including IRF and student-initiated exchanges.
5.1 The Pre-project Stage (May 2009–August 2009)
When Marian applied for the teacher education program of the Danyang Project in
early 2009, she video-recorded an 11-minute segment of her teaching, and enclosed
it with the application documents she submitted to university researchers. In this
study, this video was used as baseline data on Marian’s teaching behaviors before
the Danyang Project was launched. Though the video footage accessible to the
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0_5
95
researcher documented only part of a lesson, it shed light on how Marian instructed
and interacted with her students at the pre-project stage.
5.1.1 Time Allotment to Different Activities of a Lesson
Table 5.2, shows the time allotment for different activities in Marian’s lesson before
she participated in the Danyang Project. In this teaching episode, the activity that
occupies the largest time segment is role-play; however, one would have reserva-
tions about calling this activity a task, since what students did was to imitate and
recite mechanically dialogue that was presented as listening material, with virtually
no information or opinion gap on which communication could be built (Ellis, 2003,
2012). Thus, this activity was by no means communicative, despite it appearing to
be learner-centered.
The other activity to which Marian allocated a notably large proportion of time
was the third one: students reading a dialogue that was delivered as listening input
Table 5.1 The ﬁve lessons under investigation
Lesson Stage Stated teaching objectives Duration
(m.s)
Level
of
students
Number
of
students
Lesson 1 Pre-project stage Listening and speaking 11.08 Level 7 55
Lesson 2 Top-down stage Listening and speaking
(Language achievement
performance)
38.14 Level 8 55
Lesson 3 Bottom-up stage Listening and speaking 57.10 Level 9 55
Lesson 4 Exam stage Exam preparation 45.05 Level 9 54
Lesson 5 Post-project stage Listening and speaking 41.56 Level 7 22
Table 5.2 The time allotment to different activities at the pre-project stage
Activity description Time allotment
Duration
(s.ms)
Percentage
(%)
1. Lead-in. 99.73 15.78
2. Students listened to a dialogue and answered one question. 60.52 9.57
3. Students read the dialogue in the textbook and answered some
questions. Marian taught the pronunciations of selected words.
198.97 31.48
4. Role-play: students rehearsed the dialogue that was taught in A2
and A3 in pairs. And two pairs of students did the role-play.
221.14 34.99
5. Explicit instruction of two phrases. 51.73 8.18
Total 632.09 100.00
96 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
in the preceding session, and then answering questions to check their compre-
hension of the dialogue. By reading the dialogue in the textbook, the aural language
input was reinforced in a visual form. Embedded in the question and answer session
were Marian’s occasional instructions to consolidate students’ pronunciation. This
activity, one could argue, was also form-oriented.
Though there is no universal criterion for time allocation for form-focused
activities in the evaluation of a language class’s communicativeness, it was found
that none of the activities in this teaching episode was communicative-oriented.
Thus, it can be observed that, before she joined the teacher education program in
the Danyang Project, Marian taught in a non-communicative manner, as evidenced
by her activity design and the proportion of time allocated to form-oriented
activities.
5.1.2 Choice of Instructional Materials
Marian’s teaching decisions were highly reliant on the mandated textbook before
she participated in the Danyang Project. There were hardly any adaptations to the
mandated textbook in her teaching. In the fourth step shown in Table 5.2 Marian
designed a role play activity that was strictly based on the language material pre-
scribed by the textbook. To a certain extent, Marian’s teaching practices were
governed and directed by the mandated textbook, which almost dominated her
teaching decisions, in terms of the input to which her learners were exposed.
5.1.3 Teacher Talk
As Table 5.3 shows, teacher talk accounted for 51.52% of the teaching episode, and
the percentage of words uttered by the teacher was 66% of its length. At this stage,
Marian’s speaking speed was around 103.2 words per minute and she spoke 5.32
words per move on average. During the 11-minute lesson, Marian asked 16
questions, of which four were referential questions and 12 were display questions,
with the latter making up a dominant percentage (75%).
Table 5.3 Teacher talk at the
pre-project stage
Time proportion 51.52%
Length proportion 66.00%
Average length/move (words/move) 5.32
Speaking speed (words/second) 1.72
Types of questions asked Display questions 16 (75.00%)
Referential questions 4 (25.00%)
5.1 The Pre-project Stage (May 2009–August 2009) 97
5.1.4 Learner Talk
As demonstrated in Table 5.4 learner talk accounted for 45.67% of the teaching
episode, with 24.37% of the learner talk being students’ choral responses to the
teacher’s questions. On average, learner talk constituted 28.41% of the whole
classroom talk. When individual students spoke, the average length was 5.55 words
per move, and most of the utterances (76.67%) were restricted—i.e., students were
seldom given the opportunity to speak freely in Marian’s class at this stage.
5.1.5 Participatory Organization
Table 5.5 lists the frequency and percentage of different participatory structures, in
descending order. The three most salient participatory organization patterns were
constructed by the teacher and all students, the teacher and individual students, and
the teacher and some students, respectively. Among these three types of partici-
patory patterns, the interaction between the teacher and individual students
accounted for the smallest percentage.
5.1.6 Focus on Meaning versus Form
Table 5.6 displays the frequency and percentage of exchange types, in terms of
their focus on either meaning or form. Form-focused exchanges outnumbered
Table 5.4 Learner talk at the pre-project stage
Time proportion 45.67%
Length proportion 28.41%
Types of learner talk Restricted 39 (86.67%)
Unrestricted 6 (13.33%)
Average length/move of individual learner talk (words/move) 5.55
Table 5.5 Participatory organization at the pre-project stage
Participatory organization pattern Frequency Percentage (%)
T-AS 12 31.58
T-IS 11 28.95
T-SS 10 26.32
Total exchanges 38 100.00
(T—teacher; AS—all students; IS—individual student; SS—some students)
98 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
meaning-focused ones, and constituted nearly half (42.11%) of all the exchanges in
this teaching episode.
5.1.7 Discourse Structures
As shown in Table 5.7 the IR pattern far outnumbered the IRF pattern in this
teaching episode, accounting for 68.42% of the total discourse patterns. Also,
teacher-initiated exchanges accounted for 84.21% of all discourse patterns,
revealing that the teaching episode examined was teacher-fronted.
5.1.8 Analyzing a Selected Episode
Episode 5–1 was selected from the teaching transcript of this stage to exemplify the
attributes of Marian’s classroom instruction before she participated in the Danyang
Project. This teaching episode took place after Marian required her students to read
a dialogue from the textbook. The episode consisted of two sequences, with moves
1 to 10 constituting the ﬁrst sequence, and moves 11–19 constituting the second. In
each sequence, there was a preparatory exchange in which Marian initiated a
question and students bid to answer it. Then followed a nuclear exchange, in which
the nominated student answered the question and Marian gave evaluative feedback.
Following this nuclear exchange, were two successive dependent exchanges aiming
at consolidating the linguistic forms Marian deemed important. Students were quite
sensitive in identifying their teacher’s intention to request repetition, and were
highly willing to do so (they repeated each phase twice).
Table 5.6 Meaning- and
form- oriented exchanges at
the pre-project stage
Meaning versus form Frequency Percentage (%)
Meaning-focused 14 36.84
Form-focused 16 42.11
Meaning + Form 8 21.05
Total exchanges 38 100.00
Table 5.7 Discourse patterns
at the pre-project stage
Discourse patterns Frequency Percentage (%)
IR 26 68.42
IRF 12 31.58
Teacher-initiated exchanges 32 84.21
Student-initiated exchanges 6 15.79
Total exchanges 38 100.00
5.1 The Pre-project Stage (May 2009–August 2009) 99
From this episode shows classroom instruction at this stage of Marian’s pro-
fessional life was largely dominated, organized, and led by the teacher. Learners
played a subsidiary role and contributed to classroom discourse in a controlled and
limited way. There was an apparent focus on form-focused teaching, and a tacit
agreement between the teacher and students to learn linguistic forms by
memorization.
Episode 5–1
1 T <Clap hands. > Ok, be quiet Preparatory
exchange
So, what does Hobo ask Eddie to do?
<pause>
What does Hobo ask Eddie to do?
<pause>
Ok, put up your hands.
2 SS <Some students raise hands.>
3 T S’s name. Nuclear
exchange
4 IS He asks Eddie to support…him.
5 T Very good. Sit down, please.
6 T Now, read after me. Support. Dependent
exchange
7 AS Support. Support.
8 T S-u-p-p-o-r-t, support. Dependent
exchange
9 AS S-u-p-p-o-r-t, support.
10 AS Support him. Support him.
11 T Next one, what does Eddie think about the charity? Preparatory
exchange
What does Eddie think about the charity?
12 SS <Some students raise hands.>
13 T <point to a student.> Nuclear
exchange
14 IS He thinks it is meaningful to support the charity.
15 T Very good.
16 T Now, together. It is meaningful to do sth. Dependent
exchange
17 AS It’s meaningful to do sth. It’s meaningful to do sth.
18 T It’s meaningful to support charities. Dependent
exchange
19 AS It’s meaningful to support charities. It’s meaningful to
support charities.
In sum, analysis of the transcribed video-recording of the teaching episode at the
pre-project stage reveals that Marian’s teaching practices tended to be teacher-fronted,
form-oriented, and non-communicative before she participated in the curriculum
innovation. Speciﬁcally, her pedagogical activity designs and the time allocated to each
activity indicated she was in favor of traditional teacher-fronted, form-oriented peda-
gogy, strictly based on the mandated textbook. In addition, Marian spoke more than her
students did, and asked more display questions, which are more likely to lead to
restricted students’ responses. She interacted more with all or some of her students than
100 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
she did with individual students. Most interactions in her class at this stage were
form-oriented and followed the IR sequence. Student-initiated exchanges constituted a
very limited proportion in her classroom instruction.
5.2 The Top-Down Stage
(September 2009–December 2011)
The top-down stage of the Danyang Project featured a series of innovative courses
designed in alignment with innovative principles. The Language Achievement
Performance (LAP) course, as the name suggests, was a complete departure from
regular courses, in the sense that students were required to present what they
achieved through out-of-class language learning. Normally, the teacher gave stu-
dents a theme for their presentation one or two weeks in advance, and students
prepared to perform in class by drawing on learning resources other than regular
classroom instruction. The teacher acted as organizer and facilitator when teaching
this new course. At this stage, LAP courses were offered monthly, with each lesson
lasting around 80 min.
5.2.1 Time Allotment to Different Activities of a Lesson
As the teaching procedure displayed in Table 5.8 suggests, the LAP class examined
here consisted of a string of student performances on the theme of famous people.
The performances varied in form from monologues to mini-plays, and were obvious
student-centered. The allocation of time was decided by the students rather than by
the teacher, and the activities were primarily meaning-oriented. Those activities
Table 5.8 Time allotment to different activities of a lesson at the top-down stage
Activity description Time allotment
Duration
(s.ms)
Percentage
(%)
1. Introduction. 101.44 4.36
2. A group of students performed a short play written by a famous
Chinese writer named Lu Xun.
441.90 19.01
3. A group of students presented the biography of Lang Lang, a
famous Chinese pianist.
358.65 15.43
4. One student presented the life story of Steve Jobs. 295.22 12.70
5. A student recited a famous poem written by Li Bai and two
students acted out a story about the poet in his childhood.
594.86 25.59
6. Three students acted out a story of Napoleon. 373.54 16.07
7. The teacher gave comments on students’ performance. 158.70 6.83
5.1 The Pre-project Stage (May 2009–August 2009) 101
dominated by the teacher (i.e., Activities 1 and 7) occupied a relatively smaller
proportion of time than did students-led activities. Thus, it could be argued that the
LAP class was student-centered in terms of time allotment and activity
arrangement.
5.2.2 Choice of Instructional Materials
As mentioned in the previous sub-section, the instructional materials were col-
lected, adapted, and presented by students via accessible resources. The rationale
for self-directed learning material development is that it exposes learners to
unlimited language input, and is thus conducive to fostering learner autonomy.
Table 5.8 also shows the rich selection of learning materials collected by learners;
what it does not show, is that these materials were presented on PPT slides, which
supplied visual and audio input to classroom instruction at the same time.
5.2.3 Teacher Talk
It can be observed from Table 5.9 that, at this stage, the percentage of teacher talk
largely declined, compared to the lesson at the pre-project stage. The average length
of move Marian uttered when teaching the LAP class was higher than in her
pre-project class (7.15 > 5.32). She also spoke slightly faster (2.11 > 1.72), and
utilized many more referential questions than display questions (42.86% > 25.00%).
5.2.4 Learner Talk
The decrease in the amount and proportion of teacher talk led to an increase in
learner talk, as shown in Table 5.10. Learner talk accounted for 79.19% of the
Table 5.9 Teacher talk at the top-down stage
The top-down
stage
The pre-project
stage
Time proportion 16.34% 51.52%
Length proportion 20.81% 66.00%
Average length/move (words/move) 7.15 5.32
Speaking speed (words/second) 2.11 1.72
Types of questions asked Display questions 8 (57.14%) 16 (75.00%)
Referential questions 6 (42.86%) 4 (25.00%)
102 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
whole classroom talk, an obvious increase from the pre-project stage (45.67%). The
increase was in accordance with the rising length proportion of learner talk
(79.19% > 28.41%), and the notably larger percentage accounted for by individual
learner talk (76.91% > 8.13%). As the amount and duration of learner talk
increased, the percentage of unrestricted learner production also became higher
(55.62% > 13.33%), as did the average length of individual learner talk
(9.33 > 5.55).
5.2.5 Participatory Organization
Table 5.11 illustrates the participatory organization pattern in Marian’s lesson at the
top-down stage, in comparison with the preceding stage. The most prominent types
of participatory organization patterns at this stage were those involving students,
whereas all the salient participatory organization patterns at the pre-project stage
involved the teacher. As the LAP course was student-centered in nature, the per-
centage of student-student interaction accounted for 68.66% of classroom talk,
virtually dominating the class. Of the two salient types of student-student interac-
tion, the percentage of exchanges uttered between individual learners was the
highest, featuring exuberant one-to-one interaction.
Table 5.10 Learner talk at the top-down stage
Top-down stage Pre-project stage
Time proportion 79.19% 45.67%
Length proportion 79.19% 28.41%
Types of learner talk Restricted 142 (44.38%) 39 (86.67%)
Unrestricted 178 (55.62%) 6 (13.33%)
Average length/move of individual
learner talk (words/move)
9.33 5.55
Table 5.11 Participatory organization at the top-down stage
The top-down stage The pre-project stage
Participatory
organization
pattern
Frequency Percentage
(%)
Participatory
organization
pattern
Frequency Percentage
(%)
IS-IS 52 38.81 T-AS 12 31.58
IS-AS 40 29.85 T-IS 11 28.95
T-AS 20 14.93 T-SS 10 26.32
Total exchanges 134 100.00 Total exchanges 38 100.00
(T—teacher; AS—all students; IS—individual student)
5.2 The Top-Down Stage (September 2009–December 2011) 103
5.2.6 Focus on Meaning versus Form
In can be observed from Table 5.12 that the percentage of meaning-focused
exchanges in Marian’s instruction at the top-down stage nearly doubled that at the
pre-project stage (77.61% > 36.84%), and that the percentage of form-focused
exchanges largely declined (8.96% < 42.11%). Also, a declining trend was found
for exchanges combining meaning and form (13.43% < 21.05%). The statistics
regarding meaning-focused exchanges provide empirical evidence for the com-
municativeness of LAP courses, as students were engaged in classroom interaction
that simulated communication in authentic contexts.
5.2.7 Discourse Structures
Table 5.13 shows that the percentage of IRF pattern grew moderately at this stage
(44.78% > 31.58%), and that there were far more student-initiated exchanges at the
top-down stage (77.61% > 15.79%). As the LAP course was designed to generate
learner engagement and learners’ target language production, that objective was
achieved.
Table 5.12 Meaning- and form-focused exchanges at the top-down stage
Meaning versus form The top-down stage The pre-project stage
Frequency Percentage (%) Frequency Percentage (%)
Meaning-focused 104 77.61 14 36.84
Form-focused 12 8.96 16 42.11
Meaning + Form 18 13.43 8 21.05
Total exchanges 134 100.00 38 100.00
Table 5.13 Discourse structures at the top-down stage
Discourse patterns The top-down stage The pre-project stage
Frequency Percentage (%) Frequency Percentage (%)
IR 74 55.22 26 68.42
IRF 60 44.78 12 31.58
Teacher-initiated exchanges 30 22.39 32 84.21
Student-initiated exchanges 104 77.61 6 15.79
Total exchanges 134 100.00 38 100.00
104 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
5.2.8 Analyzing Selected Episodes
Episode 5–2 from the LAP class clearly shows the instructional activities and
interaction featuring classroom instruction at the top-down stage of the Danyang
Project. The teaching episode started with an activity in which a group of students
acted out a story written by Lu Xun, a famous Chinese writer. The ﬁrst sequence of
this episode consisted of moves 1–15, with a presenter teaching new vocabulary to
his classmates. Then, in the second sequence (moves 16–17) the presenter raised
two questions, to which the answers were to be found through watching the
upcoming performance. From move 18, the presenter began to introduce back-
ground information of Lu Xun, halting intentionally to interact with his classmates
by checking comprehension, offering clariﬁcation (moves 20–21), and asking
questions (moves 26–30 and moves 31–33).
A prominent feature of this episode was that it involved no teacher participation. In
addition, this episode reveals another attribute of the LAP course—that is, it is up to the
students to decide what to learn and how to learn, which is a departure from traditional
teaching pedagogy, which emphasizes teacher’s authority and covering textbooks.
Notwithstanding the notable shift, Episode 5–2 also indicates learners were not
fully ready to take an active part in an LAP course. Despite students’ observably
enhanced participation in this episode, a closer examination shows that the fronted
‘teacher’ was still there, as the student presenter was imitating his teacher by
presenting knowledge, asking questions, and eliciting and evaluating answers,
particularly when it comes to vocabulary repetition (e.g., moves 5–6).
Episode 5–2
1 IS1 Hello, everyone. Today, I will introduce a famous people to
you.
Preparatory
exchange
His name is Lu Xun. Lu Xun.
2 AS <Listen attentively.>
3 IS1 Err, ﬁrst, I will show you some new words. Nuclear
exchange
Please read after me.
4 AS (silence)
5 IS1 Essay. Dependent
exchange
6 AS Essay, essay.
7 IS1 Translation works. Dependent
exchange
8 AS Translation works, translation works.
9 IS1 Moustache. Dependent
exchange
10 AS Moustache, moustache.
11 IS1 Politician. Dependent
exchange
12 AS Politician, politician.
13 IS1 Crowd. Dependent
exchange
14 AS Crowd, crowd.
(continued)
5.2 The Top-Down Stage (September 2009–December 2011) 105
(continued)
15 Silence <pause>
16 IS1 Now, there are some questions for you. Nuclear
exchange
You can ﬁnd the answer in our show.
The ﬁrst one, what was Lu Xun’s moustache like?
Why was Kong Yiji’s leg broken?
17 AS (Silence) <The teacher prepares PPT.>
18 IS1 Now, let’s begin. Nuclear
exchange
Lu Xun was born in Shaoxing, Zhejiang.
He was famous for, he was famous for his pen name.
His moustache is just like one in Chinese.
19 AS <Listen attentively.>
20 IS1 Can you ﬁnd that? Embedded
exchange
21 SS Yes.
22 IS1 His works included essays, translation works and short
stories.
Nuclear
exchange
23 AS (Silence) <prepare PPT.>
24 IS1 Do you know some works in our Chinese books? We have
learned some.
Preparatory
exchange
25 AS (Silence) (wait time)
26 IS1 S’s name Nuclear
exchange
27 IS2 *** ?
28 IS1 Yes, you did well.
29 IS1 (pause)
30 IS1 Very well.
31 IS1 S’s name. Nuclear
exchange
32 IS3 《从百草园到三味书屋》。
33 IS1 Yes, thank you.
34 IS1 (pause) Nuclear
exchange
35 IS1 Lu Xun was not only a writer, but also a politician.
Today, two of my partners will act a short story about his
novel.
36 IS1 (Pause) Let’s begin.
37 AS (Silence) <The presenter prepares PPT.>
Episode 5–3 sheds light on the transformation of Marian’s role in the LAP course;
this episode is the concluding part of the same activity illustrated in Episode 5–2.
After students ﬁnished performing the story, Marian joined them to provide cor-
rective feedback on some errors in the learner production. The corrective strategies
she used were mainly indirect; for instance, she tended to invite another student or
the rest of the class to judge and identify the erroneous part of the learner production
before providing the correct form (for example, moves 8–12). After dealing with
linguistic errors, Marian moved on to make comments on the content of students’
performance, entailing two meaning-focused exchanges (moves 19–25). This
106 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
indicated changes in Marian’s teaching practices towards the communicativeness
underpinning the innovative principles of the Danyang Project.
However, we could also ﬁnd from this episode that Marian’s English language
proﬁciency frequently impeded her from expressing herself in a fluent and accurate
manner. There were linguistic and pragmatic errors that made the teacher talk
awkward.
Episode 5–3
1 T Now, wait a moment. I would say something. Just now, Peter’s
group acted very well, right?
Preparatory
exchange
2 AS Yes.
3 T I think so. But actually, they made some small mistakes. Preparatory
exchange
Can you ﬁnd them? Ok, who notice it?
*** If you know, please put up your hands. Don’t be nervous.
4 SS <Some students raise their hands.>
5 T Ok, just relax yourselves. Amy. Nuclear
exchange
6 IS I think Peter. He should say anything, but he …
7 T Not everything, right? Yes, very good.
8 T And Steve just now said, “I won’t give you everything.” Is he
right?
Nuclear
exchange
9 SS No.
10 T No, you should say, I won’t give you… anything. Dependent
exchange
11 SS Anything.
12 T Right.
13 T And Steve made another small mistake.
“That is a famous people.” Is it right?
Nuclear
exchange
14 SS No. Famous people.
15 T Yes, good, very good.
16 T And I want to ask one student.
Em, Nick. Stand up.
Do you like be a man like Kong Yiji?
Nuclear
exchange
17 IS Oh, no.
18 SS (laughter)
19 T Ok, and what do we learn from him? Dependent
exchange
20 IS Don’t. Don’t steal others’ things.
21 Silence (pause)
22 T Anything else? Dependent
exchange
23 IS And be an honest man.
24 T Ok, very good, thank you.
We shouldn’t steal others’ things. Right?
We should work hard, and depend on ourselves, right? And
should we, we should be honest.
25 T Very good. Ok, go on.
5.2 The Top-Down Stage (September 2009–December 2011) 107
To conclude, when Marian was teaching at the top-down stage of the Danyang
Project, she shifted from the traditional to the communicative way of teaching, by
giving up her role as the conduit of linguistic knowledge. The transformation of her
role entailed a change in classroom activities, and involved more learner partici-
pation in and contribution to classroom talk. At this stage, Marian spoke faster and
produced longer utterances per move, but contributed fewer utterances.
Correspondingly, the students spoke more, produced more unrestricted utterances,
and initiated more interactions. Moreover, there were more meaning-oriented
exchanges in the LAP course.
However, caution should be exercised in claiming that teaching a new course
grounded in innovative principles indicates teaching behaviors are more effective,
which depends on the teacher’s expertise in implementing the innovative principles
as expected. Learning to teach this new course, Marian asserted, was a challenging
and stressful experience, and she sometimes found it beyond her competence to
deal with students’ unpredictable production in classroom interactions. As such,
Marian’s feedback to student talk was rather mechanical and unsystematic; after the
ﬁrst student’s performance, she pointed out some grammatical errors and gave
corrective feedback implicitly, but did not provide feedback on learners’ language
after the other groups performed.
5.3 The Bottom-Up Stage (January 2012–March 2013)
Towards the end of the top-down stage, the Danyang Project was caught in a
dilemma, as there emerged a strong resistance to the experimental textbooks and the
innovative courses. This resistance intensiﬁed when PTs found their students’
scores in traditional standardized tests were not advantageous, compared with
students in non-project classes. To address the resulting anxiety, doubt, and even
criticism, a compromise was made to convert the Danyang Project from a top-down
to a bottom-up approach, and tacit consent was given to teachers’ intent to resort
back to mandated textbook and traditional courses. Despite the hardships in
implementing curriculum innovation, however, the teacher education program still
facilitated PTs’ adoption of innovative principles, regardless of their textbook and
course selections. The lesson analyzed in this section is one of the regular lessons
Marian taught at this stage.
5.3.1 Time Allotment to Different Activities of a Lesson
Table 5.14 provides an overview of a regular lesson taught by Marian at the
bottom-up stage. This is a listening and speaking lesson, using the mandated
textbook. The table shows Marian followed a teaching agenda consisting of 15
activities, which can be further segmented into two main parts. The ﬁrst part,
108 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
comprising the ﬁrst 12 activities in Table 5.14 contained a succession of peda-
gogical steps centered on listening exercises from the textbook. These steps were
generally comprehension-based, and the teacher played a major role in presenting
new knowledge and controlling the teaching procedure. The part followed a tra-
ditional model of presenting, practicing, and consolidating linguistic knowledge.
The second part, which consisted of pair work (Activity 13) and a debate (Activity
14), was more production-based. In these two activities, students were required to
engage in tasks designed by Marian.
As to the time allotted to the two parts, the second part, or the more commu-
nicative one, comprised around 1/3 of the overall time of this class. Given a notable
decline in the amount of classroom time allocated to communicative tasks, the
newness of classroom instruction did not completely fade out with Marian’s
resistance to some components of the curriculum innovation.
Table 5.14 Time allotment to different activities at the bottom-up stage
Activities Time allotment
Duration
(s.ms)
Percentage
(%)
1. Greeting and opening remarks. 1.91 0.06
2. Led in and warmed up. 222.96 6.44
3. The teacher presented the topic and taught the pronunciation of
some new words.
204.25 5.90
4. Students read a passage about Marie Curie freely and answered
questions.
172.11 4.97
5. Students read the text again and worked out a gap-ﬁlling
exercise in textbook.
320.40 9.25
6. Students listened to a passage and worked out part of the second
gap-ﬁlling exercise.
474.32 13.69
7. Students worked out the rest part of the gap-ﬁlling exercise in
textbook.
353.44 10.20
8. The teacher taught the pronunciations of new words again and
students read the passage aloud freely.
86.96 2.51
9. Q&A competition. 150.70 4.35
10. Students listened to a dialogue and answered some questions. 124.72 3.60
11. Students read the dialogue synchronously following the tape. 93.01 2.69
12. Students read the dialogue aloud freely. 98.72 2.85
13. Pair work: students made their own dialogues by using
sentence structures in samples given by the teacher.
509.95 14.72
14. Debate. 648.72 18.73
15. Concluding remarks. 2.38 0.07
Total 3464.54 100.00
5.3 The Bottom-Up Stage (January 2012–March 2013) 109
5.3.2 Choice of Instructional Materials
Table 5.15 synthesizes how Marian used the mandated textbook at the bottom-up
stage. Among the 13 activities involving instructional materials, 10 were based
exclusively upon the mandated textbook, two were involved her adaptations of the
mandated textbook, and one was based on teacher-designed instructional materials.
One could conclude that, at the bottom-up stage, there was a return to the mandated
textbook, and that this was likely the case in Marian’s practices in the
comprehension-based teaching. Despite a heavy reliance on the mandated textbook,
there was evidence of Marian’s conﬁdence and expertise in adapting and designing
teaching materials, which she primarily did in conducting production-based
teaching.
5.3.3 Teacher Talk
Table 5.16 illustrates how changes took place in various aspects of teacher talk at
the bottom-up stage. An obvious increase can be found in the percentages of both
time and length of teacher talk, compared to the previous stage. The increasing
proportion of teacher talk, in terms of both quantity and duration, indicates Marian
reverted to teacher-fronted teaching pedagogy at this stage. There was a slight
increase in the average length per move in teacher talk from 7.15 words to 7.72
Table 5.15 Choice of instructional materials at the bottom-up stage
Activities Materials
A1 N/A
A2 Mandated textbook with teacher’s adaptations
A3–A12 Mandated textbook
A13 Mandated textbook with teacher’s adaptations
A14 A task designed by the teacher
A15 N/A
Table 5.16 Teacher talk at the bottom-up stage
The bottom-up stage The top-down stage
Time proportion 40.67% 16.34%
Length proportion 58.43% 20.81%
Average length/move (words/move) 7.72 7.15
Speaking speed (words/second) 1.88 2.11
Types of questions asked Display questions 51 (73.91%) 8 (57.14%)
Referential questions 18 (26.09%) 6 (42.86%)
110 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
words; however, Marian spoke somewhat more slowly at this stage (1.88 < 2.11),
and the percentage of referential questions declined from 42.86% to 26.09%.
5.3.4 Learner Talk
As shown in Table 5.17, both the time taken up by and length of learner talk
decreased at the bottom-up stage, illustrating Marian’s reversion to traditional
teacher-fronted pedagogy; this can also be seen in the slight decrease in learners’
unrestricted oral production, from 55.62% to 41.57%. What is more, students
tended to give shorter utterances on average, compared with the previous stage.
5.3.5 Participatory Organization
Table 5.18 compares the three most frequent participatory organization patterns at
the bottom-up and top-down stages, respectively. At the bottom-up stage, all par-
ticipatory organization patterns listed involved the teacher, revealing a regressions
toward the teacher’s role as dominator of the class.
(T—teacher; AS—all students; IS—individual student; SS—some students)
Table 5.17 Learner talk at the bottom-up stage
The bottom-up stage The top-down stage
Time proportion 39.76% 79.19%
Length proportion 24.90% 79.19%
Types of learner talk Restricted 97 (58.43%) 142 (44.38%)
Unrestricted 69 (41.57%) 178 (55.62%)
Average length/move of individual
learner talk (words/move)
6.43 9.33
Table 5.18 Participatory organization at the bottom-up stage
The bottom-up stage The top-down stage
Participatory
organization
pattern
Frequency Percentage
(%)
Participatory
organization
pattern
Frequency Percentage
(%)
T-AS 78 40.41 IS-IS 52 38.81
T-IS 78 40.41 IS-AS 40 29.85
T-SS 23 11.92 T-AS 20 14.93
Total exchanges 193 100.00 Total exchanges 134 100.00
5.3 The Bottom-Up Stage (January 2012–March 2013) 111
5.3.6 Focus on Meaning versus Form
Table 5.19 illustrates the considerable decrease of the percentage of
meaning-focused exchanges, and of those exchanges combining meaning and form
at the bottom-up stage; meanwhile, the percentage of form-focused exchanges
notably increased from 8.96% to 40.93%. This change reveals that Marian had
partially given up on implicit, meaning-focused teaching, and drew more on explicit
form-focused teaching at this stage.
5.3.7 Discourse Structures
As shown in Table 5.20 the percentage of IRF patterns slightly decreased from
44.78 to 40.41% at the bottom-up stage. More than 90% of the exchanges are
initiated by the teacher at this stage, providing more evidence Marian’s teaching at
this stage was teacher-fronted.
5.3.8 Analyzing Selected Episodes
Episode 5–4 was selected from the lead-in activity of this lesson. In attempting to
activate students’ background knowledge relating to the topic, Famous People,
Marian had prepared some PPT slides with pictures of celebrities. She intentionally
covered a part of each picture, and let her students ﬁgure out who the person in the
Table 5.19 Meaning- and form- focused exchanges at the bottom-up stage
Meaning versus form The bottom-up stage The top-down stage
Frequency Percentage (%) Frequency Percentage (%)
Meaning-focused 103 53.37 104 77.61
Form-focused 79 40.93 12 8.96
Meaning + Form 11 5.70 18 13.43
Total exchanges 193 100.00 134 100.00
Table 5.20 Discourse structures at the bottom-up stage
Discourse patterns The bottom-up stage The top-down stage
Frequency Percentage (%) Frequency Percentage (%)
IR 115 59.59 74 55.22
IRF 78 40.41 60 44.78
Teacher-initiated exchanges 178 92.23 30 22.39
Student-initiated exchanges 15 7.77 104 77.61
Total exchanges 193 100.00 134 100.00
112 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
picture was. In this episode, the teacher asked a question (move 3) that was
responded to by all the students in class; though the answer was obviously correct,
it did not result in a closure of interaction. Instead of moving on to the next picture,
Marian asked how the student got his answer (move 6), then urged the student to
tell more about the football star, entailing four meaning-focused dependent
exchanges (moves 12–21).
Compared with the lesson at top-down stage, this lesson was apparently
teacher-led. However, there was an obvious change in the quality of teacher talk.
First, Marian was more adroit at accommodating her questions to contextual and
personal realities in the classroom. As her intent in devising this activity was not to
seek answers, but to elicit more learner production on the topic, she manipulated her
questioning strategies to achieve her instructional objective, and adjusted her
questions in accordance with students’ responses. The ﬁrst question (move 3) she
asked was an easy one, but was followed by two questions that were slightly more
challenging (move 6 and move 12). When she asked an even more demanding
question (move 17), she realized from the student’s reticence that it was beyond his
capacity to articulate, and so transformed it into an easier one (move 19).
Episode 5–4
1 T Ok. So, these days we have learned something about great people, right?
And we’ve learned some of them. Here I have some famous people.
(Silence) <Pause>
So, would you like to guess them?
Preparatory
exchange
2 AS Yes.
3 T Ok. First, who is he? Nuclear
exchange
4 AS (Noise) <Some students speak freely.>
5 T *** Yeah, yeah, yeah.
6 T How do you know? Dependent
exchange
7 AS (Noise) <Some students speak freely.>
8 T Oh. Yeah.
Sweater. He wears sweater.
9 T Right? Embedded
exchange
10 SS Yes.
11 T Very good. He is Bailey. He is Bailey.
12 T And what does he do? What does he do? Dependent
exchange
13 AS (Noise) <Some students speak freely.>
14 T James. Dependent
exchange
15 IS He is a football player.
16 T Ah, very good.
17 T And anything else? Can you describe him? Dependent
exchange
18 IS (Silence) <The student is thinking.>
19 T Did he do anything grea…do anything great? Dependent
exchange
20 IS He *** in the World Cup.
21 T Ah, very good. Thank you. Sit down, please.
5.3 The Bottom-Up Stage (January 2012–March 2013) 113
In a nutshell, Marian reached a compromise between the innovative principles
and contextual realities in her teaching practices at the bottom-up stage of the
curriculum innovation. She resumed her role as the center of classroom instruction,
and played a dominant role in classroom talk, and returned to explicit form-focused
teaching. Changes in her behaviors resulted in learners’ decreased engagement in
classroom instruction.
However, despite the obvious reversal in the organizational pattern of instruc-
tion, there was substantial progress in Marian’s teaching expertise, as evidenced
both quantitatively and qualitatively by her: (1) producing longer utterances;
(2) willingness and capacity to adapt mandated textbook and design new task; and,
(3) being more sensitive to learners’ cognitive variances in classroom interaction,
and adapting her questioning strategies accordingly.
5.4 The Exam Stage (April 2013–June 2013)
An exam preparation lesson taught by Marian was audio-recorded as the senior high
school entrance examination was approaching. As numerous mock exams occupied
students’ school time at this stage, their English classes were largely given over to
either mock exam administration or post-test feedback. The lesson analyzed in this
sub-section was given after Marian had scored her students’ mock tests and planned
to give feedback on their performance. Given the apparent disparity in pedagogical
objectives between this lesson and the others in this chapter, it is presumably
non-equivalent to examine the quantitative differences or similarities between them;
thus, a brief qualitative description of this exam-preparation lesson is given to
provide a glimpse of Marian’s classroom practices in this special period of the
Danyang Project.
5.4.1 Different Activities of a Lesson
When teaching this lesson, Marian started by announcing student’s scores on the
mock exams, and commenting on those students who had made salient progress or
who had performed unsatisfactorily. Then, section by section, she gave students the
right answers to the test items, asked students to correct their errors, and sporadi-
cally selected students to justify how they got the right answers. The writing section
was dealt with somewhat differently; a student who had performed well in the
writing section was called on to read her composition.
114 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
5.4.2 Choice of Instructional Materials
In this lesson, the only instructional material used was the test paper, to which there
was no adaptation made by the teacher. As mentioned earlier in this thesis, in
standardized tests of this kind, the answers supposed to be “correct” are always
those linguistic points found in the mandated textbook. If a student by chance
supplies answers that are correct, but outside of the scope of their textbooks, he or
she is likely to be penalized for not giving the “exactly correct” answer. Thus, a safe
strategy to take is to rely exclusively on the mandated textbook when cramming for
the senior high school examination. Consider the following test item:
My father _____ in the park every morning last year. (jog)
Students were supposed to ﬁll in the blank with the simple past tense of the verb
in the bracket; thus, “jogged” was considered to be the correct answer. However,
some students in the project class had learned the phrase “used to do,” which was
also a suitable alternative answer to this test item; they were not given credit for
using this construction (i.e., “used to jog”), because it did not appear in the man-
dated textbook.
5.4.3 Teacher Talk
Teacher talk accounted for the preponderance of discourse in this exam preparation
class. Moreover, Marian almost entirely used L1, except when reading test items in
L2.
5.4.4 Learner Talk
Students also talked primarily in L1. They mostly talked when asked to translate
one or two sentences in a test paper, elucidate a grammar rule they drew on to work
out a test item, or justify a strategy they had used. There was much less student
engagement in classroom talk at this stage.
5.4.5 Participatory Organization
Classroom interaction occurred mainly between the teacher and the whole class,
and between the teacher and individual students. Apart from the writing section,
there was hardly any student-student interaction in this exam-preparation class.
5.4 The Exam Stage (April 2013–June 2013) 115
5.4.6 Focus on Meaning versus Form
This lesson was predominantly form-oriented, and there was very little meaningful
information exchanged as would have happened in communicative tasks, such as
information or opinion gap. Per the pedagogical purpose of this class, the
instruction was aimed at improving accuracy in linguistic forms on the achievement
test.
5.4.7 Discourse Structures
As can be seen, the exam preparation lesson was predominantly teacher-fronted, as
Marian initiated almost all the exchanges of classroom discourse.
5.4.8 Analyzing a Selected Episode
Episode 5–5 might evoke in most Chinese EFL learners memories of the exam
cramming classes that dominated the months before high-stakes examinations. In this
class, the teacher was dealing with problematic items on the test. Here Marian was
addressing a multiple-choice question on subject-verb agreement. Metalanguage and
learner’s L1 were primarily used, and the negotiation focused on solving a grammatical
problem. The constituent structure of classroom discourse was much simpler, as there
were no dependent exchanges attaching to the nuclear exchange.
Episode 5–5
1 T 好, 继续。还有14题, 是吧? Preparatory
exchange
2 SS 11。
3 T 哦,11题。The half of the class ____ down most of the work; the
rest of the work ____ rather difﬁcult. 好, 这一题, Amy, 你来
讲。
Nuclear
exchange
4 IS 那个…class 是指那个…嗯…学生, 学生是可数的, 所以“一半
学生”, 后面的谓语动词应该用复数, 所以先把B和D排除掉,
然后后面 work 是不可数的, 所以谓语动词要用单数, 所以选
A.
5 T Ok. Sit down, please. 答案选择A。Class, 我们讲,它是一个集
体名词对吧?它可以作单数, 指班级, 如果强调的是班级成员,
班级里的学生, 那谓语动词就是复数啦。“half of the class”
指 “班级里的半数的学生” 已经完成了大部分的功课,所以用
have, 用复数形式, 而后面的“the rest of the work,” work是不
可数名词, “剩余的部分工作”, the rest代替的是工作, 不可数,
所以用单数, 答案选择A。接下来, 我们看14题。……
116 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
In sum, the exam stage was a special phase in the Danyang Project. As the
upcoming exam was predictably form-oriented and stressed accuracy in learners’
production, teacher and student behaviors at his stage reverted to traditional
approaches.
5.5 The Post-project Stage (July 2013–January 2014)
At the post-project stage, Marian left the teacher education program of the Danyang
Project, and moved to a new educational setting in which there were few exigent
requirements for teachers to initiate or implement curriculum innovation. Now that
she was in a new school, it was up to Marian to make pedagogical decisions. The
lesson analyzed here, one of the regular lessons she gave to Level 7 students at the
rural school, was audio-recorded by Marian herself. To ensure comparability
between lessons, this lesson was selected because its teaching objectives (listening
and speaking) were equivalent to those of the other lessons in this chapter.
5.5.1 Time Allotments to Different Activities of a Lesson
Table 5.21 shows a list of activities Marian carried out in this lesson. Surprisingly,
there was a revival of innovative principles, or communicativeness, as most
activities featured students’ contributions, engagement, and meaning-oriented
interaction. Activity 9, for example, was a guessing game like what young learners
at this age played in their daily life, and complied with the basic principles of
task-based language teaching.
The succession of activities recounted below show that Marian tended to draw
on iconic episodes from her prior teaching experience, and incorporate them into
her current teaching practices. Activity 2, for instance, was an exact reproduction of
a typical presentation activity from the LAP course. The presenter was given the
topic in advance, and there was a task planning process in which the learner drew
on accessible linguistic and cognitive resources, before coming to the stage and
giving the presentation, followed by feedback from her teacher and peers. Also,
Activity 8 simulated the second activity of the lesson analyzed at the bottom-up
stage – a guessing-game task with partially-covered PPT slides creating an infor-
mation gap.
5.4 The Exam Stage (April 2013–June 2013) 117
5.5.2 Choice of Instructional Materials
Regarding the choice of instructional materials, Table 5.22 shows Marian’s reliance
on the mandated textbook was replaced by her conﬁdence and expertise in adapting
it to suit the teaching objectives of the lesson, and the speciﬁc requirements of each
Table 5.21 Time allotment to different activities at the post-project stage
Activities Time allotment
Duration
(s.ms)
Percentage
(%)
1. Greetings. 16.98 0.68
2. A student gave a presentation to introduce herself. 143.39 5.71
3. Lead-in. The teacher showed some pictures of sport stars on
PPT slides, asked the students some questions and teaches several
useful phrases.
225.46 8.98
4. Students worked out an exercise in the textbook and then the
teacher checked their answers.
100.37 4.00
5. The teacher asked some students about their favorite sports.
Next students worked in pairs to practice the dialogue. Then
students were asked to perform the dialogue in groups.
197.17 7.85
6. The teacher asked the students to listen to a conversation and
completed an exercise in the textbook. Then the teacher checked
students’ answers, asked them to read the conversation and invited
some students to present the conversation in pairs.
278.00 11.07
7. The teacher demonstrated a conversation with one student,
asked students to construct their own conversations in pairs and
then called some pairs of students to present their conversations.
232.41 9.26
8. The teacher played a guessing game with the students. She
showed on PPT slides some pictures about playing sports, with
parts of the pictures intentionally covered and asked the students to
guess what sport was being played.
268.29 10.69
9. The teacher organized a guessing game in which one student
mimed to play a certain sport, another student who stood with his
or her back towards the performer guessed the sport by asking
some questions to the rest of the class.
461.92 18.40
10. The teacher presented two questions on a PPT slide. She asked
the students to ﬁnd the answers after listening to a dialogue. Then
she taught some grammatical points in the dialogue, asked the
student to read and acted it out in pairs before some students were
called on to perform the dialogue.
310.04 12.35
11. The teacher initiated a free discussion with the student on the
issue “the meaning of playing sports” and then presented some
proverbs about playing sports.
208.08 8.29
12. The teacher gave a brief review of what’s been learned in this
class by asking the students to work out a blank-ﬁlling exercise,
and then she assigned the homework.
68.05 2.71
Total 2510.16 100.00
118 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
activity. Activity 3, for example, was designed as a warm-up activity to activate
learners’ background knowledge about the topic. Marian collected pictures of some
popular athletes to supplement relevant content in the mandated textbook; in so
doing, she overcame the drawbacks of the textbook, by adding updated information
that was presumably more appealing to learners.
5.5.3 Teacher Talk
As shown in Table 5.23, teacher talk accounted for a larger percentage of classroom
talk, in terms of both time and length. The average length per move in Marian’s
utterances slightly decreased (from 7.72 to 5.12 words), but her speaking speed
increased from 1.88 to 2.19 words per second, indicating she spoke shorter sen-
tences at a higher speed. The percentage of referential questions greatly increased at
this stage.
5.5.4 Learner Talk
Learner talk comprised a lower time percentage and a higher length percentage at
the post-project stage than at the bottom-up stage, as illustrated in Table 5.24. What
is more, the amount and percentage of unrestricted moves in students’ utterances
increased to a large degree. The average length of individual learner talk decreased
from 6.43 to 4.45 words per move.
Table 5.22 Choice of
instructional materials at the
post-project stage
Activities Materials
A1 N/A
A2 Student-provided materials
A3 Teacher-designed materials
A4 Mandated textbook with teacher’s adaptations
A5 Teacher-designed materials
A6 The mandated textbook with teacher’s adaptation
A7 Teacher-designed materials
A8 Teacher-designed materials
A9 Teacher-designed materials
A10 The mandated textbook with teacher’s adaptation
A11 Teacher-designed materials
A12 Teacher-designed materials
5.5 The Post-project Stage (July 2013–January 2014) 119
5.5.5 Participatory Organization
Table 5.25 lists participatory organization patterns that accounted for more than
10% of classroom talk in Marian’s class. As shown, the percentages of interaction
between the teacher and all students, and between the teacher and individual stu-
dents declined; the percentage of interaction between the teacher and some students
remained almost unchanged; and there was an observable increase in the amount of
student-student interaction.
Table 5.23 Teacher talk at the post-project stage
The post-project stage The bottom-up stage
Time proportion 48.67% 40.67%
Length proportion 70.89% 58.43%
Average length/move (words/move) 5.12 7.72
Speaking speed (words/second) 2.19 1.88
Types of questions asked Display questions 41 (51.25%) 51 (73.91%)
Referential questions 39 (48.75%) 18 (26.09%)
Table 5.24 Learner talk at the bottom-up stage
The post-project stage The bottom-up stage
Time proportion 33.42% 39.76%
Length proportion 27.63% 24.90%
Types of learner talk Restricted 116 (43.12%) 97 (58.43%)
Unrestricted 153 (56.88%) 69 (41.57%)
Average length/move of individual
learner talk (words/move)
4.45 6.43
Table 5.25 Participatory organization at the bottom-up stage
The post-project stage The bottom-up stage
Participatory
organization
pattern
Frequency Percentage
(%)
Participatory
organization
pattern
Frequency Percentage
(%)
T-AS 96 35.96 T-AS 78 40.41
T-IS 72 26.97 T-IS 78 40.41
T-SS 32 11.99 T-SS 23 11.92
IS-IS 28 10.49 – – –
Total
exchanges
267 100.00 Total
exchanges
193 100.00
(T—teacher; AS—all students; IS—individual student; SS—some students)
120 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
5.5.6 Focus on Meaning versus Form
The lesson was more meaning-oriented at the post-project stage, as the percentages
of meaning-focused exchanges and those changes combining meaning and form
both increased (see Table 5.26). Only a small proportion of classroom talk focused
on linguistic forms, which was a large decrease from the preceding stage.
5.5.7 Discourse Structures
In comparison with the bottom-up stage, the percentage of IR discourse pattern
greatly increased in this lesson, as shown in Table 5.27. At the post-project stage,
the number of classroom interactions in an IR pattern nearly doubled from that seen
at the bottom-up stage, and its percentage increased from 59.59% to 80.52%. The
apparent increase could be attributed to the fact that students mostly supplied
correct answers in response to Marian’s questions, and she responded to their
answers with positive non-verbal feedback such as eye contact, gesture, nods, etc.
Similarly, student-initiated exchanges also increased notably in terms of both
quantity and percentage, indicating more student engagement in classroom
interaction.
Table 5.26 Meaning- and form-focused exchanges at the bottom-up stage
Meaning versus form The post-project stage The bottom-up stage
Frequency Percentage (%) Frequency Percentage (%)
Meaning-focused 177 66.29 103 53.37
Form-focused 48 17.98 79 40.93
Meaning + Form 42 15.73 11 5.70
Total exchanges 267 100.00 193 100.00
Table 5.27 Discourse structures at the bottom-up stage
Discourse patterns The post-project stage The bottom-up stage
Frequency Percentage (%) Frequency Percentage (%)
IR 215 80.52 115 59.59
IRF 52 19.48 78 40.41
Teacher-initiated exchanges 213 79.78 178 92.23
Student-initiated exchanges 54 20.22 15 7.77
Total exchanges 267 100.00 193 100.00
5.5 The Post-project Stage (July 2013–January 2014) 121
5.5.8 Analyzing a Selected Episode
Episode 5–6 was selected from the ﬁrst activity of this class. Here, a girl had
ﬁnished giving a presentation entitled Introducing Myself, which was responded to
with applause (moves 1–2). When the presenter was about to return to her seat,
Marian stopped her, and reminded her to ask the audience some questions (moves
3–5), after which the presenter initiated two questions (moves 6 and 15). What
makes the question-related exchanges interesting, is the role played by the teacher;
she was neither an internal organizer (as in the ﬁrst stage) nor an external spectator
(as in the top-down stage) of classroom interaction, but she played a facilitative role
by monitoring, prompting, and scaffolding to keep the flow of interaction moving
and correct learners’ errors. This shows a fusion of her and her students’ roles in
classroom interaction.
In addition, this episode shows Marian was more skilled in making interactive
decisions at the appropriate time to give corrective feedback. In move 6, when the
presenter was asked to elicit questions, she made two errors, which were not
corrected by Marian. However, one error was corrected with a recast by another
student, when she provided an answer (move 9). Moreover, Marian adopted an
implicit strategy to correct students’ errors in moves 18–20. When the student made
an error in move 17, she repeated the erroneous part with a short pause indicating
there was an error; this prompt was succeeded by the correction (move 19) uttered
by all the students. Marian did not provide corrective feedback in a monolithic
manner, and tended to involve other students in error correction.
Episode 5–6
1 T Ok, thank you. <Clap hands.> Dependent exchange
2 AS <Clap hands.>
3 T Stop here. Stop here. Preparatory exchange
Do you have any questions to ask them?
4 IS Yes.
5 T Yes.
6 IS What my hobby? What are my hobby? Nuclear exchange
(silence)
7 T Yes? Yes?
8 IS Tom.
9 IS Your hobbies are swimming and reading.
10 IS Em, no… ***
(silence)
11 T Some others. dependent exchange
(silence)
Linda. Ok. Say.
(continued)
122 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
To sum up, Marian’s teaching practices switched back to a communicative
manner when she went to a new educational setting. Overall, most classroom time
was allocated to meaning-focused interaction, and Marian manipulated her teaching
with more conﬁdence and craft. Marian’s re-adoption of the innovative principles
entailed changes in students’ classroom behaviors, as evidenced by increased
learner participation in and initiation of classroom interactions.
5.6 A Synthesis of Quantiﬁed Changes
An overview of the teacher’s behaviors in classroom instruction, as well as the
observable verbal behaviors of her students throughout the ﬁve phases of this study,
sheds light on our exploration of Marian’s changes in teaching practices. The
variance of behaviors, both qualitatively and quantitatively, underpins our recog-
nition of the concrete evidence of changes taking place within the school-based
curriculum innovation. This sub-section synthesizes the overall picture by tenta-
tively sketching the changing trajectory of the investigated dimensions previously
quantiﬁed.
5.6.1 Teacher Talk
Figure 5.1 describes how percentages of teacher talk changed from the pre-project
stage to the post-project stage, in terms of time and length. There was a downward
trend in these two indicators at the top-down stage; however, the statistics moved
(continued)
IS Listen to music and the chess.
13 IS Yes.
(Silence)
14 T Yes, ok, so any questions? Nuclear exchange
15 IS Em. How many people are my family?
(silence)
16 IS Ivy.
17 IS Your grandparents, parents, sister and your...
18 T Yes, and your… Embedded exchange
And…
19 AS you.
20 T Yes, ok. Thank you. Very good.
21 AS <Clap hands.> Dependent exchange
22 T Very good.
5.5 The Post-project Stage (July 2013–January 2014) 123
upward continually at the two subsequent stages. At the end of the study, the
percentages rose to values that differed insigniﬁcantly from those at the pre-project
stage. These two indicators may vary in accordance with the intensity of innovative
measures over the whole process.
While Fig. 5.1 addresses concerns about changes in the quantity of teacher talk,
viz. how much Marian’s utterances contributed to the whole classroom talk,
Fig. 5.2 depicts how she talked over four stages of this study. There was a slight
fluctuation in speaking speed over time, and the average length of move, which is
more related to teacher talk complexity, increased steadily from the ﬁrst to the third
stages, before dropping to a value lower. While the average length of move in
learner talk tended to vary in alignment with learners’ levels of proﬁciency, the
teacher’s speaking speed was likely to vary with the communicativeness of the
lesson.
The percentage of teacher-posed referential questions rose remarkably at the
top-down stage, and then plummeted back to the starting point at the bottom-up
stage, as shown in Fig. 5.3. After that, the value increased notably, surpassing that
of the second stage. It could be found that the percentage of referential questions
tended to correlate positively with the extent of communicativeness of class.
5.6.2 Learner Talk
Figure 5.4 shows how learner talk changed over time, in terms of its percentages of
time and length. The values of these two indicators peaked at the top-down stage,
and decreased sharply at the bottom-up stage, before levelling? off towards the end
Fig. 5.1 The change of the quantity of teacher talk
124 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
of the study. Thus, we could say these two indicators depended on the intensity of
the innovation project, rather than on the communicativeness of the class.
As shown in Fig. 5.5 there was an uprising trend in the percentage of learners’
unrestricted talk over the innovative project, with a slight dip at the third stage. It
could be speculated that the changes could be attributed more to Marian’s teaching
capacity and the communicativeness of the lesson, than to the innovativeness of the
teaching initiative.
Fig. 5.2 The change of the length and speaking speed of teacher talk
Fig. 5.3 The change of the percentage of referential questions
5.6 A Synthesis of Quantiﬁed Changes 125
Over the four phases under investigation, the average length per move of learner
talk peaked at the top-down stage, and then decreased steadily until the end of the
study (see Fig. 5.6). Given learners were deeply involved in well-planned perfor-
mances at the second stage, it is not surprising they uttered longer phrases. Thus, it
is likely the complexity of learner talk was more correlated with the design of task
and learners’ level of proﬁciency.
Fig. 5.4 The change of the quantity of learner talk
Fig. 5.5 The change of the quantity of unrestricted learner talk
126 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
5.6.3 Participatory Organization
As can be seen in Fig. 5.7 the percentage of student-initiated exchanges rocketed to
its peak value at the top-down stage, and then dropped to around the same value as
the percentage of the pre-project stage. Towards the end of the study, it bounced
back to 25.08%, which was much higher than the value at the pre-project stage.
Thus, it could be argued that the percentage of student-student interaction likely
changed in accordance with the communicativeness of the class (Fig. 5.8).
5.6.4 Focus on Meaning versus Form
The percentage of form-focused exchanges was 42.11% at the pre-project stage, and
decreased dramatically at the top-down stage, when innovative principles were
enacted in a radical manner. As the project entered the bottom-up stage, the pro-
portion of form-focused exchanges rose again, to 40.93%. In the last lesson planned
independently by Marian, the percentage dropped to 17.98%. Thus, it is likely the
percentage of form-focused exchanges varied with the communicativeness of the
class.
Fig. 5.6 The change of the average length per move of learner talk
5.6 A Synthesis of Quantiﬁed Changes 127
5.6.5 Discourse Structures
Figure 5.9 shows that the percentage of IRF discourse patterns did not vary greatly
from the top-down to the bottom-up stage. However, in the last lesson examined,
the ﬁgure dropped to 17.98%, which was much lower than the percentage in
Marian’s pre-project lesson. As was analyzed earlier in this chapter, the large
Fig. 5.7 The change of the student-student interaction
Fig. 5.8 The change of the form-focused exchanges
128 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
decrease might have been caused by Marian’s providing more non-verbal feedback
to students’ responses.
The fluctuating line in Fig. 5.10 indicates the percentage of moves initiated by
learners. The ﬁgure reached its highest point at the top-down stage, and slightly
recovered at the end of the project, after a dramatic decrease at the bottom-up stage.
Thus, it could be found that student-initiated exchanges are likely to change in
relation to the communicativeness of the class.
Fig. 5.9 The change of the IRF discourse patterns
Fig. 5.10 The change of the student-initiated exchanges
5.6 A Synthesis of Quantiﬁed Changes 129
5.7 Summary
A synthesis of the path tracking the changes in Marian’s and her students’ class-
room behaviors reveals four prominent patterns:
(1) At the top-down stage, curriculum innovation had prominent effects on almost
all aspects of classroom behavior.
(2) The bottom-up stage witnessed reduced implementation of innovation, evi-
denced by the backward changes in all indicators, except the average length per
move in teacher talk. Nevertheless, this phase was a silent period in which the
innovation principles were internalized, rather than a passive retreat by a tea-
cher resistant to change.
(3) The post-project stage provides evidence of the sustained effect of the Danyang
Project, as evidenced by the reviving trends in most aspects of classroom
behaviors.
(4) Among the ten indicators under investigation, four did not vary in accordance
with the intensity of innovation, including the quantity of teacher talk, the
length and speaking speed of teacher talk, average length per move of learner
talk, and IRF discourse patterns. Therefore, it could be argued that Marian’s
and her students’ classroom behaviors were not exclusively influenced by the
implementation of innovative principles; rather, they were also affected by
other factors, including the attributes of tasks, the levels of learners’ proﬁ-
ciency, the teacher’s expertise to make interactive pedagogical decisions, etc.
130 5 Changes of Teacher and Student Behaviors …
Chapter 6
Teacher Cognition and Practices: Project
versus Non-project and Consistency
versus Inconsistency
To triangulate what has been found so far, this chapter compares the cognition and
practices of Marian and Jane (a non-project teacher) towards the end of the
DP. While examining the differences in Marian’s teaching practices over the ﬁve
stages within curriculum innovation reveals the path of change over the time she
participated in the innovative project, it might be argued that those changes
observed in Chap. 5 might not be exclusively attributable to the implementation of
the DP. The argument is plausible, given that this school-based innovation project
was not an insular context in which PTs lived, learned, and interacted. Thus, there is
an obvious necessity to compare teacher cognition, as well as teacher and student
behaviors in project and non-project classrooms, to triangulate evidence to justify
the influence of the DP on the project teacher’s cognition and teaching practices.
In this chapter, a selected dyad of lessons taught by the project teacher (PT) and
a non-project teacher (NPT) towards the end of the Danyang Project are compar-
atively analyzed. In-depth post-observation interviews were conducted to examine
the similarities in and distinctions between the two teachers’ cognition on different
aspects of classroom instruction. To map teachers’ cognition with their teaching
practices, the analysis of classroom observation data are followed by interview data.
In addition, this chapter also examines the relationship between project teacher’s
cognition and classroom practices, by juxtaposing what has been found so far about
the changes in these two entities.
6.1 Background and Sampling of Project and Non-Project
Teachers and Classrooms
6.1.1 Background
In the spring semester of 2013, the TRG (Teaching Research Group) of HES school
organized an activity in which teachers gave public lessons for peer observation within
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0_6
131
the group. In this activity, as its name “same lesson, different planning” (tongke yigou)
suggested, the same content was assigned to teachers, while allowing them to do their
own separate lesson planning. Marian and other project teachers, with their colleagues
in the TRG, participated in the activity as both observees and observers. The TRG
provided teachers in the group guiding lesson and planning materials, including rec-
ommended teaching agenda, PPTs, worksheets containing key language points, and
exercises. The teachers who participated as observers used a classroom observation
scheme (see Appendix 11) formulated by the school’s Ofﬁce of Academic Affairs
(Jiaowu Chu). As the observation form was originally designed to be used by teachers
of all subjects, it was global and unfocussed—that is, no speciﬁc aspects of classroom
instruction were addressed. Post-observation feedback, normally provided by the head
of the TRG, was directed at any salient scenarios that interested the observers.
As the researcher had built a rather harmonious rapport with people in the setting, she
was invited to join in the activity during her visits to the school. Her request to
video-record some lessons and conduct post-observation interviews with the involved
teachers was supported. By maximizing available logistical resources, a total of seven
lessons were video-recorded by the end of the semester. The teachers who gave the public
lessons were only informed one day in advance, to ensure the authenticity of the observed
lessons, by largely excluding the possibility the lessons were rehearsed. Of the recorded
lessons, two were selected for analysis, based on the comparability of the teachers’
demographic and professional background, and the equivalence of the contents taught.
6.1.2 Sampling of Project and Non-Project Teachers
and Classrooms
Marian’s demographic and professional background led the researcher to select
Jane as a representative non-project teacher. Jane was also born in 1974, and was
thus the same age as Marian. She graduated from the same provincial teachers’
college where Marian had studied with an education diploma before she started
teaching in 1996. Jane’s ﬁrst teaching position was also at a county-level secondary
school, where she had worked for twelve years, during which period she received
her Bachelor of English through attending a correspondence program (from 1997 to
2001). Since 2006, Jane had been working at Huanan Experimental School.
Thus, both Marian and Jane were female, of the same age, and had similar education
experiences. When their lessons were observed and recorded, Marian had been
teaching for twenty years and Jane, nineteen. Both teachers came to teach at HES in
2006, taught the same level of students, and worked in the same the TRG. A major
difference between these two teachers was that Marian had been participating in the
Danyang Project for nearly four years at the time. Table 6.1, documents the back-
ground information of the lessons taught by Marian and Jane, respectively.
Consistent with the framework within which the analysis was conducted in
Chap. 5, observable student and teacher behaviors in these two lessons were
132 6 Teacher Cognition and Practices: Project versus Non-project …
inductively analyzed and compared to examine similarities and differences, in seven
aspects: (1) time allotment to different activities of a lesson; (2) choice of
instructional materials; (3) teacher talk—quantity/types of questions asked;
(4) student talk—amount/average length per move; (5) participatory organization;
(6) focus on meaning versus form; and, (7) discourse structures, including IRF and
student-initiated exchanges.
As shown in Table 6.1, the total amount of teaching time for these two lessons
was different. Given the epistemological underpinning of this study, it was spec-
ulated that artiﬁcially truncating the longer lesson would impair its entirety and
natural attributes; thus, the unit of comparison in the quantitative data analysis was
percentage, to ensure equivalence of comparison.
6.2 Comparing a Dyad of Classrooms
6.2.1 Time Allotments to Different Activities of a Lesson
Time allotments were examined in this study as indicators signaling how activities
carried out in a lesson contributed to the achievement of instructional goals.
Table 6.2 displays the teaching activities and their time allotments in both lessons.
This table shows that Marian and Jane roughly followed a sequence of ‘presenting
topic—explicit instruction—practice—performance,’ with some cyclic steps in
between to reinforce what was taught. This major similarity could be explained by
the fact that both teachers had access to and largely relied on guiding materials
provided by the TRG while doing their lesson planning.
However, one recognizable distinction existed in the penultimate activities in
this pair of lessons—i.e., Activity 14 in Marian’s, and Activity 15 in Jane’s lessons.
In Jane’s lesson, she spent 7.45% of total time (Activity 15) summarizing important
language forms, while requiring students to underline those words and phrases in
their textbooks for rote learning. However, at the equivalent stage in Marian’s
lesson, there was a debate task (Activity 14) in which students were assigned into
two groups arguing on an issue related to the topic they had just learned. This task
accounted for 18.73% of the total time. In a sense, this part was a departure from
traditional pedagogy, as enacting a debate task is communicative, rather than
explicit, instruction of discrete language forms.
Table 6.1 Background information of Marian’s and Jane’s lessons
Teacher Lesson
Target language skills Date Duration
(m. s)
Number of students
Marian (PT) Listening and speaking Mar. 07, 2013 57.10 55
Jane (NPT) Listening and speaking Mar. 07, 2013 40.06 54
6.1 Background and Sampling of Project and Non-Project Teachers … 133
Table 6.2 Time allotment to different activities in the two lessons
Marian (PT) Jane (NPT)
Activities/Episodes Time allotment Activities/Episode Time allotment
Duration
(s.ms)
Percentage Duration
(s.ms)
Percentage
(1) Greeting and
opening remarks.
1.91 0.06% (1) Greeting and
opening remarks.
5.91 0.25%
(2) Lead-in and
warm-up.
222.96 6.44% (2) Lead-in and
warm-up.
57.01 2.36%
(3) The teacher
presented the topic
and taught the
pronunciations of
some new words.
204.25 5.90% (3) The teacher
presented the topic
and taught the
pronunciations of
some new words.
252.51 10.47%
(4) Students read a
passage about Marie
Curie freely and
answered some
questions.
172.11 4.97% (4) Students read the
passage about Marie
Curie in chorus and
the teacher taught the
pronunciations of
new words again.
62.80 2.60%
(5) Students read the
text again and
worked out a
gap-ﬁlling exercise
in textbook.
320.40 9.25% (5) Students read the
passage freely,
worked out a
gap-ﬁlling exercise
and then the teacher
checked the answers.
206.37 8.56%
(6) Students listened
to a passage and
worked out part of
the second
gap-ﬁlling exercise.
474.32 13.69% (6) Students listened
to a passage twice
and ﬁlled in the rest
of the gaps of the
exercise
444.59 18.43%
(7) Students worked
out the rest part of
the gap-ﬁlling
exercise in the
textbook.
353.44 10.20% (7) Students read a
text in the textbook,
worked out the
second gap-ﬁlling
exercise, and then the
teacher checked the
answers.
213.81 8.87%
(8) Students learned
the pronunciation of
new words again and
students read the
passage aloud freely.
86.96 2.51% (8) Students read the
passage with ﬁlled
gaps aloud freely.
69.48 2.88%
(9) Q&A
competition.
150.70 4.35% (9) Q&A
competition.
156.47 6.49%
(10) Students
listened to a dialogue
and answered some
questions.
124.72 3.60% (10) Students
listened to a dialogue
and answered some
questions.
126.48 5.24%
(continued)
134 6 Teacher Cognition and Practices: Project versus Non-project …
The following section further examines this part in the lesson planning guide
offered by the TRG. Teachers were advised to prepare and present a news report at
the end of the class, in which students were required to read a passage about some
famous people in Chinese (learners’ L1), construct a related news report, and
present it to the whole class. From the alignment of activities in both lessons,
neither teacher followed the guiding agenda at this stage. To probe into their
decision-making processes, post-observation interviews were conducted with
Marian and Jane, respectively. When asked, immediately after ﬁnishing teaching, to
reflect on this activity, Jane thought it an indispensable step that highlighted
important lexical and grammatical items. However, Marian told the researcher she
had been quite skeptical about the communicativeness of this news report task, and
expressed her concern that it could be transformed into an interpretation exercise, as
students had access to the Chinese text while giving their oral presentation. As she
Table 6.2 (continued)
Marian (PT) Jane (NPT)
Activities/Episodes Time allotment Activities/Episode Time allotment
Duration
(s.ms)
Percentage Duration
(s.ms)
Percentage
(11) Students read
the dialogue
synchronously
following the tape.
93.01 2.69% (11) Students read
the dialogue
following the tape
sentence by sentence
105.08 4.36%
(12) Students read
the dialogue aloud
freely.
98.72 2.85% (12) Students were
divided into 2 groups
and each group read
one role’s part in the
dialogue in chorus
56.86 2.36%
(13) Pair work:
students made their
own dialogues by
using sentence
structures in samples
given by the teacher.
509.95 14.72% (13) Students read
the dialogue in pairs
freely
141.67 5.87%
(14) Student
performed a debate
task.
648.72 18.73% (14) Students made
their own dialogues
following the pattern
330.70 13.71%
(15) Concluding
remarks.
2.38 00.07% (15) The teacher
pointed out some
important language
points and students
underlined them in
the textbook
179.70 7.45%
(16) Concluding
remarks
2.40 0.10%
Total 3464.54 100.00% Total 2411.84 100.00%
6.2 Comparing a Dyad of Classrooms 135
had experience in successfully conducting a debate task, she decided to do it again,
as a substitute for the mandated news report task.
A second major difference emerged when the overall time proportion of activ-
ities, in terms of different modalities, was counted. As both Marian and Jane
claimed the target language skills of their lessons to be “listening and speaking,” it
was interesting that, in Jane’s class, only 13.71% of the time (Activity 14) was
focused on speaking; in addition, the ‘speaking’ was simply practicing patterned
drills presented by the teacher on PPT slides. Apart from this activity, the only other
chances for students in Jane’s class to speak English involved either chorusing the
teacher’s or the audio input, or reading a given text aloud. In the post-observation
interview, when asked to elaborate on her conception of speaking skills, Jane’s
response indicated a strong inclination to restricted oral production, with a strong
emphasis on accuracy; she was rather frank in admitting that she kept examinations
in mind while preparing her lessons and making interactive decisions during
teaching.
In Marian’s lesson, however, two activities (Activities 13 and 14) involving
developing students’ speaking skills consumed more than one-third of class time.
What is more, there was a transition from focused to unfocused language pro-
duction in these two activities. In the post-observation interview with Marian, when
talking about designing tasks to elicit oral production, she used phrases like “ex-
press meaning,” “get meaning across” quite a few times, and no phrases related to
“forms” or “exams.”
As to listening, Activities 6 and 10 were organized by both teachers to develop
students’ listening skills, and no signiﬁcant difference could be found in their respective
time allotments. In Marian’s lesson, the overall time spent in Activities 6 and 10 was
599.04 s, which accounted for 17.29% of the overall time. In Jane’s lesson, the time
span of these two activities was 571.07 s, accounting for 23.68% of the time.
Nevertheless, a closer look at what happened in these two listening-focused activities
unveiled a notable difference at the pre-listening stage, in which Marian conducted
listening strategy training, whereas Jane did not. In the post-observation interview,
when asked to reflect on the activities involving listening practice in their lessons,
Jane’s response indicated little knowledge or awareness about strategy training. In
contrast, Marian explicitly stated why and how she trained her students to read the text
seeded with blanks, and then predict what could probably be heard before students
were exposed to the listening material.
6.2.2 Choice of Instructional Materials
Table 6.3, shows how Marian and Jane used instructional materials in distinct
ways. In Activity 2, Activity 13, and Activity 14, Marian made adaptations to the
mandated textbooks. Speciﬁcally, when undertaking Activity 2, both teachers
roughly followed the TRG’s teaching guide, in which some pictures of famous
136 6 Teacher Cognition and Practices: Project versus Non-project …
people were used to introduce the topic of the lesson with a guessing game. While
Jane strictly stuck to the provided material design, Marian adapted the PPT by
adding extra pictures, and intentionally covering certain parts of the pictures she
used, to make the task “more challenging” by enlarging the information gap
(Table 6.4).
In Activity 13, students were required to work in pairs and construct dialogues,
using two structures they had learned in earlier sessions of the lesson. This activity
was designed by the TRG in a very restricted way, as the target dialogue with some
blanks was presented on a PPT slide. Also in the slide were several pictures of
famous people; students were required to choose one, and use background infor-
mation about that person to make a dialogue. The six famous people in the man-
dated PPT slide included Bill Gates, Yang Chen-Ning, Deng Xiaoping, Mother
Teresa, Yang Liwei and Yao Ming. Extract 6.1, is the dialogue recommended in the
TRG’s teaching guide.
Extract 6.1
1 A: Who do you think is the greatest person that has ever lived?
2 B: __________. I admire him/her the most.
3 A: What did _____ do?
4 B: He’s/She’s ________.
5 A: Why do you admire him/her?
6 B: Because_______.
When organizing this activity, Jane strictly followed the teaching guide; when
Marian’s lesson adapted this part of the teaching materials into the following dia-
logue (shown in Extract 6.2). What is more, Marian also telescoped the given
materials by reducing the number of pictures in the slide from six to three.
Table 6.3 Choices of instructional materials in the two lessons
Marian (PT) Jane (NPT)
Activities Materials Activities Materials
A2 Mandated textbook with teacher’s revision A2–A15 Mandated textbook
A3–A12 Mandated textbook
A13 Mandated textbook with teacher’s revision
A14 Teacher designed a task
Table 6.4 Teacher talk in the two lessons
Marian (PT) Jane (NPT)
Time proportion 40.47% 36.13%
Length proportion 58.43% 48.02%
Average length/move (words/move) 7.72 5.19
Speaking speed (words/second) 1.88 1.72
Types of questions asked Display questions 51 (73.91%) 22 (100.00%)
Referential questions 18 (26.09%) 0 (0.00%)
6.2 Comparing a Dyad of Classrooms 137
Extract 6.2
1 A: Who do you think is the greatest person that_____?
2 B: I admire _____ the most.
3 A: What did he do?
4 B: He is _______.
5 A: Why do you admire _____?
6 B: Because ______.
7 A: What do you want to be in the future?
8 B: I want to be a ______ like ______.
9 A: What will you do to realize your dream?
10 B: I will ________.
As can be seen from the adapted conversation, Marian added four moves (7–10)
to the suggested materials in her teaching planning. As the famous people displayed
on the PPT slide were well-known to most students, there was no meaningful
information gap in the original dialogue. In the post-observation interview, Marian
expressed her concern that the activity guide might have been too unchallenging for
the students; thus, she adapted it to suit students’ cognitive and linguistic compe-
tence better. The moves she had added were likely to elicit unpredictable infor-
mation, and thus involve students in negotiation of meaning. Nevertheless, in the
post-observation interview with Jane, she expressed no awareness of changing the
activity design recommended by the TRG.
6.2.3 Teacher Talk
The differences in teacher talk in Marian’s and Jane’s lessons are illustrated in
Table 5.4. Teacher talk accounted for a larger proportion of time in Marian’s lesson
than in Jane’s (40.47% > 36.13%). As to the overall length of teacher talk, the
percentage of Marian’s talk exceeded that of Jane’s (58.43% > 48.02%). Moreover,
Marian uttered relatively longer clauses than Jane, as her average length per move
was longer (7.72 > 5.19), and she spoke at a slightly higher speed (1.88 > 1.72).
Marian asked a large percentage (26.09%) of referential questions in her class,
whereas no referential questions were found in Jane’s. In the post-observation
interview, when asked how to address the claimed teaching objectives of the les-
sons just taught, Marian stressed learner participation, while Jane emphasized
accuracy, as it indicated students were “grasping the content in the textbook.”
6.2.4 Learner Talk
Table 6.5 shows Marian’s and Jane’s lessons did not differ much in learner talk in
terms of the percentages of time and length. However, a major distinction was
found in the percentage of unrestricted learner talk, which accounted for 41.57% of
138 6 Teacher Cognition and Practices: Project versus Non-project …
classroom talk in Marian’s class, was much higher than that in the lesson taught by
Jane. Learners in Jane’s class tended to utter longer clauses, probably because most
their moves were repetitions of sentences spoken by the teacher or the audio tape,
entailing longer learner production.
6.2.5 Participatory Organization
Table 6.6, lists the frequencies of the major participatory organization patterns and
their percentages in Marian’s and Jane’s lessons. The data are arrayed in descending
order. One major similarity was that the dominant participatory organization pat-
terns in both teachers’ lessons were teacher-student interaction, with interaction
between the teacher and all students comprising large percentages of both lessons.
Despite this primary similarity, two main differences were explicit between the two
lessons. In Marian’s lesson, there were fewer cases of interaction between the
teacher and all students, and more cases of interaction between the teacher and
individual students, and between the teacher and some students. As to
student-student interaction, the percentage was also higher in Marian’s class.
In the post-observation interview, when asked about their attitude towards
classroom interaction and learner engagement in teaching, Marian expressed a
Table 6.5 Learner talk in the two lessons
Marian (PT) Jane (NPT)
Time proportion 39.76% 40.53%
Length proportion 24.90% 30.64%
Types of learner talk Restricted 97 (58.43%) 120 (90.91%)
Unrestricted 69 (41.57%) 12 (9.09%)
Average length/move of individual learner
talk (words/move)
6.43 8.39
Table 6.6 Frequencies of participatory organization patterns in the two lessons
Marian (PT) Jane (NPT)
Participatory
organization
pattern
Frequency Percentage Participatory
organization
pattern
Frequency Percentage
T-AS 78 40.41% T-AS 65 48.51%
T-IS 78 40.41% T-IS 36 26.87%
T-SS 23 11.92% T-SS 12 8.96%
S-S 15 7.77% S-S 3 2.24%
Total
exchanges
193 100.0% Total
exchanges
134 100.00%
(T—teacher; S—student; AS—all students; IS—individual student; SS—some students)
6.2 Comparing a Dyad of Classrooms 139
positive conception of students’ participation in classroom instruction, whereas
Jane valued the teacher’s role as a conduit of knowledge.
6.2.6 Focus on Meaning versus Form
To examine the communicativeness of the two lessons, exchanges were inductively
coded. The data fell into three categories: meaning-focused exchanges;
form-focused exchanges; and meaning + form exchanges. Table 6.7 displays the
frequency and percentage of the three types of exchanges in both teachers’ lessons.
The frequency and percentage of meaning-focused exchanges in Marian’s lesson far
outnumbered those in Jane’s, indicating Marian’s lesson was more communicative
and meaning-oriented. By comparison, Jane’s lesson, which largely drew on lin-
guistic forms, was quite traditional.
In the post-observation interview, the researcher asked each of the two teachers
to reflect on a selected instructional step that dealt with a gap-ﬁlling exercise in the
mandated textbook, requiring students to listen to a short passage and ﬁll in the
blanks. In the textbook, this exercise was the second of two exercises based on the
same listening material; the ﬁrst was designed to check learners’ comprehension.
The arrangement of these two exercises was arguably problematic, for it repeatedly
emphasized improving listening skills, while giving little attention to speaking
practice. When teaching this part, Jane gave students some time to ﬁll in the blanks,
and then checked their answers one by one.
Reflecting on this teaching scenario, Jane said she did “exactly what the text-
book writer required us to do,” and she did it following the lesson plan jointly
prepared by all the teachers in the TRG. She also told the researcher that “limited
time was allocated to this activity because there was a haste to cover the content in
the mandated textbook.” Thus, Jane’s decision was largely influenced or even
governed by ‘authoritative’ factors, viz. the textbook and the TRG, in this setting.
When a teacher’s aim is to follow a pre-planned teaching agenda or mandated
textbook without fully understanding and accepting its rationale, it is unlikely that
he or she can teach for the purpose of fostering effective learning.
Marian did some adaptations, by adding a retelling task to this exercise—that is,
asking students to ﬁll in the blanks according to what they had heard, and then
formulate a presentation retelling the passage. However, this was not satisfactorily
done, for most students read the passage, rather than retelling it. In the
post-observation interview, when asked to reflect on this instructional step, Marian
thought her instruction could be improved by re-designing the task to “give students
more chances to speak instead of reading.” She also proposed changing the
blank-ﬁlling exercise into a dictogloss task, as introduced by teacher educator in an
earlier seminar. Given the observed self-criticism and reflection, it was found that
Marian had moved away from passively following the mandated textbook or rec-
ommended teaching agenda, and was gradually formulating her personalized theory
140 6 Teacher Cognition and Practices: Project versus Non-project …
of teaching, by undergoing a spiral upgrading process of testing, reflecting on,
criticizing, and re-testing teaching theory.
6.2.7 Discourse Structures
Table 6.8, shows how classroom discourse structure differed between the two
lessons. The percentage of IRF in Marian’s lesson slightly outnumbered that in
Jane’s lesson, as did the percentage of student-initiated exchanges. Given the total
number of exchanges in Marian’s lesson was notably higher, the amount of IRF and
student-initiated exchanges was much larger. The quantitative distinction indicated
that Marian, the project teacher, was more likely to provide feedback to learners’
responses and create opportunities for learners to initiate classroom talk.
Taking a close look at the distribution of student-initiated exchanges in each
activity, shows most student-initiated exchanges existed in activities in which
students were performing tasks (Activities 13 and 14, shown in Table 6.9), as
“task-based teaching affords opportunities for student-initiated discourse” (Ellis,
2012, p. 92).
In the post-observation interview, when asked about their attitudes towards tasks
in language teaching, Jane thought she would consider designing “one or two
interesting activities” if she had “enough time”; otherwise, she would rather “make
full use of classroom time to consolidate linguistic forms.” In contrast, Marian
thought the task was an effective way to liven up a lesson, motivate learners, and
enhance learner engagement; however, she did not show any preference between
Table 6.7 Meaning- and form-focused exchanges in the two lessons
Meaning versus form Marian (PT) Jane (NPT)
Frequency Percentage Frequency Percentage
Meaning-focused 102 52.85% 28 20.90%
Form-focused 80 41.45% 90 67.16%
Meaning + Form 11 5.70% 16 11.94%
Total exchanges 193 100.00% 134 100.00%
Table 6.8 Discourse structures in the two lessons
Discourse patterns Marian (PT) Jane (NPT)
Frequency Percentage Frequency Percentage
IR 115 59.59% 86 64.18%
IRF 78 40.41% 48 35.82%
Teacher-initiated exchanges 178 92.23% 129 96.27%
Student-initiated exchanges 15 7.77% 5 3.73%
Total exchanges 193 100.00% 134 100.00%
6.2 Comparing a Dyad of Classrooms 141
task-based teaching and traditional explicit instruction. Regarding the two teachers’
cognition about task-based teaching, Marian could be arguably positioned closer to
the communicative end.
6.2.8 Analyzing Selected Episodes
Episodes 6.1 and 6.2, were selected from Marian’s and Jane’s lesson, respectively.
The ﬁrst episode documents part of the interaction in the lead-in activity, which was
designed to activate learners’ background knowledge relating to the topic. As
analyzed in Sect. 5.5.8 of Chap. 5, the constituent structure of Marian’s classroom
discourse was more complex, containing more bound exchanges. Here, Marian was
pointing to a picture on a PPT slide and asking a student named Celina (pseudo-
nym) to guess who the person in it was (move 1). While the ﬁrst answer given by
Celina (move 2) was incorrect, Marian did not judge its correctness explicitly;
instead, she hinted the probable error in Celina’s answer with hesitation (Err…) and
a rhetoric question (Really?), which prompted the learner to rethink her answer and
come up with another (move 4). Again, Marian did not make judgment of the
answer, and instead handed the task to the whole class (move 5), entailing the
engagement of more students. What is more, the right answer alone did not draw
this episode to an end; moves 8–10 constituted a dependent exchange entailing
extended, meaning-focused, and unrestricted learner production.
In contrast, Episode 6.2, selected from Jane’s lesson, took on a much simpler,
enclosed pattern. Here, Jane was checking students’ answers to a listening com-
prehension exercise. This episode consisted of an array of sequences, but contained
only one IRF nuclear exchange. The follow-up moves in these exchanges were
rather mechanical and rigid, regardless of learners’ response. Her moves following
learners’ responses normally contained full or partial repetition of the student’s
answer, evaluative feedback, and acknowledgement. There was no justiﬁcation,
clariﬁcation, or exempliﬁcation to involve learners in negotiation of form or
meaning.
In comparison, the constituent structures of the two lessons differed largely
between the two teachers’ lessons. Bound exchanges (dependent exchanges and
Table 6.9 Student-initiated
exchanges in PT’s lesson
Activity Initiator Frequency Total exchanges
A13 PS 2 13
A14 IS 7 26
AS 1
SS 1
(PS—paired student; IS—individual student; AS—all students;
SS—some students)
142 6 Teacher Cognition and Practices: Project versus Non-project …
embedded exchanges) in the episode taught by Marian outnumbered those in the
one taught by Jane. It was in the bound exchanges that negotiation of meaning
occurred, which, in turn, was likely to entail language learning.
Episode 6.1 (PT)
1 T Ok. Next one. Next one. Nuclear exchange
Who is he? Who is he? Or who is she?
Celina, try to guess.
2 IS *** (inaudible)
3 T Err…Really? Embedded exchange
4 IS (Silence) <The student is thinking.>
Elvis Presley.
5 T Elvis Presley. Embedded exchange
Let’s see. Yes or no?
6 AS Yes.
7 T Yes. Very good.
8 T So, can you describe him? Dependent exchange
9 IS He is a singer. He is the king of rock and roll.
10 T Good.
He is the king of rock and roll.
Episode 6.2 (NPT)
1 T Peter, please.
(Silence)
Nuclear exchange
2 IS Columbus discovered the American people.
3 T Columbus discovered the America.
Thanks. Please.
4 T (Silence)
Ok. Now, next one.
5 IS *** Nuclear exchange
<S answers the question not very fluently.>
6 T Penny.
Thank you. Good.
7 T Amy. Please. Nuclear exchange
8 IS Bruce Lee made a ***
9 T Err, Bruce Lee.
Thank you. Sit down.
10 T Next one. <Point to a student.> Nuclear exchange
11 IS Maria Currie discovered the radium.
12 T En. Maria Currie.
Thank you. Very good.
6.2 Comparing a Dyad of Classrooms 143
6.3 Summary of Similarities and Differences in PT’s
Lesson and NPT’s Lesson
To conclude, the major similarities in the two teachers’ lessons are as follows. First,
the lessons delivered by both teachers roughly followed a PPP procedure, as rec-
ommended by the TRG. Second, both the project teacher and the non-project
teacher primarily relied on mandated textbooks. Third, no signiﬁcant disparity was
found in teacher talk in either lesson, in terms of time duration and percentage of
moves. Fourth, the most frequent participatory patterns in both lessons were
exchanges between the teacher and all students, the teacher and individual students,
and the teacher and some students. Fifth, IRF patterns dominated classroom dis-
course in both lessons, and more than half of the exchanges in each lesson took an
IR pattern. Sixth, student-initiated exchanges accounted for a minor proportion of
classroom discourse in both teachers’ lessons.
Despite these resemblances, there were also evident distinctions between the
lessons. First, there was more congruence between the time proportion to different
activities or tasks and the stated instructional objectives in Marian’s lesson. Second,
the way Marian adapted the mandated teaching materials and tasks, combined with
the beliefs underpinning her teaching behaviors, revealed she was more autono-
mous in making pedagogical decisions. Third, judging from its overall length and
average length per move, teacher talk was more complex in Marian’s lesson than in
Jane’s. Fourth, there was more paired and individual student talk in Marian’s
lesson, resulting from more pair and group work her class. Fifth, the participatory
organization patterns in Marian’s lesson had greater variations; there were more
types of participatory organization patterns involving her in her lesson, indicating a
better integration between the teacher and students. Sixth, Marian’s lesson was
more communicative-oriented, because the frequency and percentage of
meaning-focused exchanges therein far outnumbered those in Jane’s lesson.
Seventh, the constituent structure of Marian’s lesson was comparatively more
elaborate, with more types of exchanges and a larger average number of exchanges
per sequence. There were also noticeably more IRF exchanges in her lesson, and
she was more adept at manipulating the feedback move to cater to contextual
realities and individual learners’ cognitive and socio-cultural attributes.
6.4 Summary of Similarities and Differences in PT’s
Cognition and NPT’s Cognition
Comparing Marian’s and Jane’s cognition shows a rough consistency in their
cognition and teaching behaviors. Both teachers’ cognitions on the nature of lan-
guage and language teaching were largely influenced by their education background
and prior work experience. Their beliefs about foreign language teaching were
basically traditional and structure-oriented, stressing grasping discrete linguistic
144 6 Teacher Cognition and Practices: Project versus Non-project …
components. Moreover, the contingent environment they were exposed to, partic-
ularly the interaction with the TRG and other colleagues at school, exerted direct
influence on the decisions they made in classroom instruction.
Despite these similarities, differences were also found in Marian’s and Jane’s
cognitions. In comparison with Jane, Marian espoused communicative teaching
more and manifested more autonomy in designing and using instructional materials.
She valued the task and classroom interaction it brought forth, regarding it as an
effective way to facilitate language learning. Though still influenced by traditional
recognition about language teaching, Marian was more communicative-oriented
than her counterparts in non-project classes.
6.5 Relationship between Teacher Cognition
and Classroom Practices: Consistency versus
Inconsistency
So far, trajectories of changes over the innovation project have been delineated
regarding Marian’s cognition and classroom practices, in comparison with a
non-project teacher with similar demographic and professional background, to
gather triangulated evidence. Now, we can answer the third research question: What
relationship is there between the changes in the teacher’s cognition and changes in
his/her classroom practices?
6.5.1 The Pre-project Stage
Before Marian participated into the Danyang Project, her cognition was consistent
with her classroom practices. She had a limited understanding of FLT theory and
innovative principles, and what she perceived to be right with teaching was largely
based on intuition that emerged from her learning and teaching experience. Her
classroom behavior was traditional, remaining intact before the project was
initiated.
6.5.2 The Top-Down Stage
However, at the top-down stage, divergent themes were found relating to Marian’s
cognition. That is, though she willingly accepted the innovative principles and tried
out the new pedagogy in classroom instruction, she still embraced the effectiveness
of a traditional grammar-focused and teacher-fronted teaching approach. Marian’s
6.4 Summary of Similarities and Differences … 145
classroom practices showed a strong tendency toward communicative,
student-centered, meaning-oriented classroom instruction. Thus, Marian’s cognition
did not completely conform to her teaching practices, at the top-down stage.
6.5.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
When the Danyang Project moved to the bottom-up stage, Marian’s cognition
favored an eclectic approach combining communicative teaching with classroom
realities, as did her practices. Therefore, Marian’s cognition was consistent with her
practices at the third stage.
6.5.4 The Exam Stage
When Marian and her colleagues were preparing for the high-stakes exam, she
ﬁrmly believed that exam scores were the “lifeline” for her students, and her
teaching practices were exam-oriented. However, when Marian was involved in
work concerning teaching and learning at Level 7 and Level 8, her stated beliefs
were congruent with the innovation project. Thus, the relationship between
Marian’s cognition and classroom practices was inconsistent at this stage.
6.5.5 The Post-project Stage
At the post-project stage, though her cognition was still influenced by traditional
pedagogy and the exam culture, Marian was supportive of the innovative principles,
and thought communicative language teaching was effective for improving learn-
ers’ communicative competence. She incorporated in her teaching such commu-
nicative elements as tasks and games, and initiated activities to promote learner
autonomy at the rural school. Hence Marian’s cognition at the post-project stage
was compatible with her teaching practices.
6.5.6 Summary
To conclude, consistency between teacher cognition and classroom practices was
found at the pre-project, bottom-up, and post-project stages. However, at the
top-down and exam stages of the Danyang Project, the changes in Marian’s cog-
nition did not conform to the changes in her classroom practices.
146 6 Teacher Cognition and Practices: Project versus Non-project …
Chapter 7
Factors Influencing the Implementation
of the Danyang Project
In the present study, inductive analysis of qualitative data relating to the factors
influencing the implementation of the Danyang Project identiﬁed ﬁve themes:
(1) the teacher’s prior experience; (2) in-service teacher training programs; (3) the
social context; (4) the institutional context; and (5) attributes of the innovation
project.
7.1 Prior Experience
Marian was born into a farming family in a small county in Danyang, which she
had never left for long. As mentioned in Chap. 3, Marian was 35 years old when
she joined the Danyang Project, by which time she had been teaching for 13 years,
including three years at HES. Amiable, companionable, and warm-hearted, Marian
was very popular with her colleagues at school. Marian’s husband was a doctor at a
local hospital. Her son and only child was also at HES when the DP was launched,
but was not assigned to a project class, all of which were randomly selected.
Marian received her Bachelor of English Education in 2004 through a four-year
correspondence degree program held by a provincial teachers’ college. For Marian,
the Danyang Project was the ﬁrst and longest school-based in-service teacher
education program she had joined in her career. When Marian entered in the
Danyang Project in 2009, her professional level was at Grade-1; in 2010, she was
promoted to be a high-grade teacher.1
1
The professional levels (Zhicheng) for secondary teachers in China range upward from Grade-3,
Grade-2, Grade 1, High-grade, to Special-grade. The prestige of a special-grade secondary teacher,
which is categorized into the senior professional level (Gaoji Zhicheng), is equivalent to that of an
associate professor at tertiary schools in China.
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0_7
147
7.1.1 Prior Learning Experience
Marian began to learn English in her ﬁrst year of junior high school. She thought
her learning experience during her secondary education was quite successful, as she
performed exceptionally well on exams. “My teacher thought highly of me, for I got
100 or 99 out of 100 points in almost all the exams,” she proudly noted, “and I often
told the feat to my students.” As the classroom instruction to which she was
exposed at the time was dominantly teacher-fronted, Marian said what she did in
her English class was to follow her teacher attentively and take notes. “I was a fast
note-taker,” she said, “and after class I relied on my notes to review what I’d
learned.” Apart from note-taking, Marian also said she was conﬁdent of her pro-
nunciation, for she had devised an innovative strategy to learn phonetics.
I imitated my teacher when I began to learn English. However, what challenged me was
that the phonetic symbols were not taught at that time. I found a way out by annotating the
words with Chinese phonetic alphabet. It worked well for me. (I09: 33)
Recalling her learning experience at senior high school, Marian said she bene-
ﬁted from self-directed learning by using two reference books to expand what she
learned inside the classroom.
Two books were my Bibles in English learning when I was at senior high school. One was
entitled Contextualized Communication in English. I bought it. The other was a grammar
book written by Zhang Daozhen,2
which was borrowed from my teacher. I used the ﬁrst
book as reference when I reviewed the notes I took in class, and I learned the grammar book
quite intensively by underlining those parts I did not understand and inquiring about those
questions with my teacher. I always remember that grammar book, with a yellow cover.
I read it too often, and several pages had been torn out. (I09: 55)
In retrospect of her college time, Marian talked about two teachers who influ-
enced her greatly—Mr. Sun and Mr. Yi. To Marian, the intensive reading course
taught by Mr. Sun was quite impressive; she recalled that “the instruction was
basically teacher-fronted and Mr. Sun meticulously analyzed the passage sentence
by sentence” (I09:44). In Mr. Yi’s course, however, students were encouraged to
learn autonomously; “There is an obvious contrast between these two teachers.”
Marian said.
More often than not, Mr. Yi told us to learn by ourselves, and suggested that we use a
dictionary, go to the library, and discuss with classmates. We studied the vocabulary and
most of the content in the textbook through self-directed learning. (I09: 44–45)
To sum up, as a language learner, Marian was exposed to a traditional language
teaching context, featuring teacher-fronted, form-focused instruction. There was a
depletion of target language input outside the classroom. Along with the pedagogy
2
Professor Daozhen Zhang (1926–2009) was a distinguished Chinese scholar specializing in
English grammar, translation and FLT curriculum innovation. One of his books A Practical
English Grammar was widely published and highly valued by Chinese EFL learners, teachers and
researchers over decades.
148 7 Factors Influencing the Implementation …
her teachers adopted, Marian developed her own learning strategies, including
note-taking, reviewing, and reciting, which were later consolidated due to the
self-efﬁcacy Marian thought they brought about in her study. In senior high school,
Marian began to do some self-directed learning by consulting reference books, with
her teacher’s guidance when necessary. Marian beneﬁted from both teacher–and
self-directed modes of learning; hence, in college, she embraced the contrastive
teaching styles of her two favorite teachers.
7.1.2 Prior Work Experience
Marian experienced a one-month internship teaching at a public school in
Zhenjiang, a city at a higher administrative level than Danyang, before she got her
ﬁrst job at a rural school. Her tutor, Ms. Dai, was “quite good at motivating students
and creating a lively climate while teaching.” In apparent admiration for her tutor
teacher, Marian said it was “[no] wonder she had a teaching position in Zhenjiang.
Her teaching skills deserved the reputation of that city.” (I09: 84)
Marian had been teaching at a rural secondary school for around 10 years before
she was transferred to HES, what she called an “idling” decade in her career. While
she used to be praised by her colleagues after teaching public lessons at the rural
school, she was astonished by her new colleagues’ teaching expertise when she ﬁrst
came to observe their lessons at HES. Her life at the rural school, she realized, had
been leisurely and pressure-free.
At that time, I taught by strictly following the prescribed items in a guiding syllabus. The
students there were underachieved, without much aspiration for success in learning, and
there was not much pressure from their parents or the society, either. (I09: 63, 65).
To conclude, Marian’s tutor teacher during her internship was the role model
after whom she patterned her teaching. However, she did not ﬁnd her 10 years’
teaching experience at the rural school beneﬁcial to her professional development
when she left that school for a new educational setting.
7.2 In-Service Teacher Training Program
When she was teaching at the rural school, Marian was eager for in-service teacher
training programs, and her desire for self-development was evident when she sat,
but failed a graduate enrolment examination in 2004.
The local education bureau provided some overseas teacher training programs to Australia
and England years ago. But it was practically very difﬁcult for rural teachers to get the
opportunities. As a matter of fact, we had long been waiting for a chance to get in-service
training. (I09: 126)
7.1 Prior Experience 149
It was a pity that I lost the chance (to pursue graduate study) that year. However, I would be
hesitant if I were given such an opportunity now. I am 36 years old. And the time span of a
graduate program would be too much for me due to my heavy workload at the moment.
(I09: 128–129)
The dilemma Marian was facing sprang from the collision between her desire for
further education, and the lack of in-service teacher training programs that ﬁt her
professional and constitutional realities. Though there were chances for Marian and
her colleagues to attend conferences, seminars, or workshops held by the local
education bureau, local schools, or other external organizers, the beneﬁts she might
get were limited, as most of the training sessions had large numbers of participants,
and were expert-fronted in nature. It was barely possible for individual teachers to
communicate with invited experts or other attendees about speciﬁc issues relating to
classroom instruction. To some extent, Marian regarded the training sessions out-
side school as opportunities to “get some time off” and “see famous experts in
person.” Four PTs had an opportunity to attend a TESOL conference held in Beijing
in July 2011; the author recalled in her notes:
For most of the project teachers, it was the ﬁrst time for them to attend an academic
conference in Beijing. Some of them felt much content for getting the school-sponsored
chance. And two teachers even brought their family members with them to Beijing. During
the TESOL conference at Beijing Normal University, I chatted with some PTs after a few
presenters gave their talks. However, I found what interested them most were those
superﬁcial aspects of presentations. (FN: Jul. 18, 2011)
In sum, Marian and her colleagues embraced in-service teacher training pro-
grams in general, even though the effectiveness of these programs was unknown.
7.3 Social Context
Two recurrent themes emerged from data analysis relating to social contextual
factors affecting the implementation of the Danyang Project—standardized tests,
and parents’ expectations of their children’s academic performance.
7.3.1 Standardized Tests
7.3.1.1 The Pre-project Stage
Standardized tests were frequently administered at HES before the Danyang Project
was launched, infusing the whole school with a stressful atmosphere.
The education here is exam-oriented. In general, there is one informal test for the students
every two weeks, one grade-wide formal test every month, one city-wide mid-term exam,
and one city-wide ﬁnal exam. The formal tests resemble the senior high school entrance
exam. And all the classes at the same level are ranked by the mean scores. (FN: Jun. 25,
2009)
150 7 Factors Influencing the Implementation …
Before participating in the Danyang Project, Marian quite overtly stated her
concerns about the possible negative impact of the innovative project on students’
performance on standardized tests. Being assured of the high points normally
brought about by a well-enacted test preparation procedure at HES, she was quite
doubtful about the impact of the forthcoming changes in pedagogy on students’
exam scores.
They (the students) must get high scores so that they could be enrolled by a key senior high
school, right? In fact, the exam-oriented teaching turns out to be quite effective at present.
The students won’t fail in English exams. What if they are assigned to the project class but
fail in the senior high school entrance exam? I feel quite uneasy thinking about this. (I09:
157)
7.3.1.2 The Top-Down Stage
At this stage of the Danyang Project, Marian and Frank had the freedom to evaluate
students’ learning outcome with exams developed exclusively for students in
project classes. The students could be exempted from taking the school–or
city-wide standardized exams when they were at Levels 7 or 8; however, the exams
for project students did not resemble the standardized tests, and formative assess-
ment measures, including learning portfolios and student learning journals were
implemented to associate teaching more closely with the process of learning.
…I think it feasible for the students to make a weekly plan, for I can know whether they
carry out their plans or not [in a short time]. Once the students have learned how to make
and carry out a week plan, I will show them how to make a monthly plan, and then an
annual plan. (TJ: Sep. 6, 2010)
I ﬁnished reading students’ learning journals today…. Quite a few students wrote in their
journals that they found it challenging to differentiate confusable syllables when they did
the listening exercises…. They hope they could learn more about phonetic alphabets. (TJ:
Sep. 16, 2010)
Nevertheless, towards the end of the top-down stage, Marian and Frank grad-
ually began to worry about their students’ performance on standardized tests. As
they could not compare their students’ learning outcomes with those of students in
the non-project classes, they were uncertain about the effectiveness of the Danyang
Project. In a meeting with researchers, Marian expressed her concern about this
issue.
Marian said the items contained in the senior high school entrance examination were about
the small details in the mandated textbook. For example, one of the items in the test of this
year was about the phrase “leave sth. off/on.” But this phrase does not appear in the
experimental textbooks and tests. If our students were given this test paper, they would
probably lose some points in this item. (FN: Aug. 21, 2011)
7.3 Social Context 151
7.3.1.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
When the ﬁrst group of students in project classes moved to Grade 9, they took the
standardized test for the ﬁrst time. However, they did not outperform their coun-
terparts in non-project classes. The results were astonishing to almost all the people
involved in the project, for they had long been expecting signiﬁcantly higher scores
from the project classes. Many people immediately became dubious about the
project, and some non-PTs even criticized the PTs and researchers. Though
Marian’s class was at the Grade 8 level, she was not free from criticism. Marian told
the researcher that she was bombarded with questions like, “What is the use of the
innovation?” and “Why bother?” (FN: Sep. 22, 2011):
During her visit, Yan got to know that students had ﬁnished the mid-term exam and she
wanted to have a look at the scores of all the project and non-project classes. She went to an
ofﬁce and asked a teacher in a low voice where she could get the data. Suddenly, a teacher
in the other corner of the ofﬁce asked her in a sarcastic tone, “You are the PhD student,
aren’t you? You wanna know the scores? Aha, do you plan to do some research on this?”
(FN: Sep. 23, 2011)
Marian’s and Frank’s students were at Level 8 at the time. Now that these two
teachers were alert to the ‘failure’ they would probably experience in one year, they
decided to ‘work hard and catch up with their peers.’ Then, when their students
were at Level 9, their performance was better than that of the ﬁrst group of project
students.
Mr. Wang told Yan that Frank’s class was ranked 4 and Marian’s class was ranked 14
among 18 classes of the grade. He said these two classes performed satisfactorily in the
mid-term exam. (FN: Nov. 28, 2012)
7.3.1.4 The Exam Stage
At this stage, zhongkao, the senior high school entrance examination was the hot
topic in Marian’s life and in the whole school. The only purpose of teaching was to
improve students’ overall scores; thus, English teachers frequently met with
teachers of other subjects, regarding how to collaborate to explore students’ ‘un-
explored potential’:
The TRG of Level 9 organized meetings regularly to ﬁnd out those promising students,
whose scores in the mock test should be above a pre-set benchmark. Only those students
who got high overall scores could be selected into the list. Though students in Marian’s and
Frank’s classes performed well in English, most of their overall scores were not good
enough. Consequently, the students who were selected were not the best performers in the
English test. There were only 19 days left before the test. Frank was quite anxious to help
them improve their English. (FN: May 30, 2013)
152 7 Factors Influencing the Implementation …
7.3.1.5 The Post-project Stage
When Marian began teaching at the rural school, she felt stressed, due to the
uncertainty about her students’ performance on tests. She said quite frankly that one
of her objectives at the new setting was to “be the ﬁrst one.” Only when students’
test scores were good enough would she be brave enough to “do other things.”
At the beginning, I had no idea about the students’ English proﬁciency. I did not know how
poor they could be. The only idea in my mind at that time was to improve their test
performance, to be the ﬁrst one. I must be ahead of my colleagues here, otherwise it was too
humiliating to face my old friends there. (I14: 49)
In sum, the standardized test played an essential role in Marian’s life throughout
all the ﬁve stages of the Danyang Project, even though, in the formulated blueprint,
students’ test performance was not a decisive factor indicating the effectiveness of
the project. However, scores spoke much louder than achievements that were
invisible or unaccountable.
7.3.2 Parents
7.3.2.1 The Pre-project Stage
Parents were a salient factor influencing the changes in Marian’s cognition. She
thought parents selected HES because of its good academic reputation, and that
they had high expectations to which a teacher should aspire. This tacit commitment
was fueled with self-blame when she talked about the possible failure her students
might experience in high-stakes examinations by participating in the innovative
project. She said, “In that case, the parents would blame us. They would blame the
school administrators as well” (I09: 156).
7.3.2.2 The Top-Down Stage
At the second stage, Marian’s perceptions began to change, and she began to
perceive parents as collaborators in her teaching practices. She built connections
with parents through sending out letters, meeting with individual parents, and
organizing parent conferences. At this stage, the major role played by parents was
to assist her by overseeing students’ language learning at home. Marian offered a
detailed account about how this collaboration was conducted.
I listed items of the stuff that must be recited in a form and suggested the parents hang it up
in their children’s rooms. If their children ﬁnish reciting one item, there will be a tick in the
form. I am not sure whether the parents would follow my advice or not, but some of them
are very cooperative. (I11: 33)
7.3 Social Context 153
7.3.2.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
Marian continued to interact with her students’ parents at the bottom-up stage, and
gradually built up a mechanism of regular communication with them. She sent
letters to parents reporting on updates of teaching and learning in her class every
Friday, and received parents’ feedback on the following Monday. At this stage, the
collaboration between Marian and parents deepened, as the latter took initiative to
negotiate with Marian by sending her long letters, which, in Marian’s words, was “a
big surprise”:
Peter’s mom sent me a long letter yesterday. Her son suffers from ADD (Attention Deﬁcit
Disorder). What a poor mom. She is doing whatever she can to help her son. She took a
detailed account of Peter’s daily routine in her letter. Just let me know and care more about
her son. I replied her letter by adding some feedback and advice in it. Hope what I’ve done
would be helpful to Peter and his mom. (TJ: Feb. 20, 2012)
7.3.2.4 The Exam Stage
No major changes were found in the mechanisms by which Marian worked with
parents, although there were more parents-initiated contacts with her, particularly
when parents were informed of exam results.
7.3.2.5 The Post-project Stage
As a larger proportion of students Marian taught at the rural school were
“left-behind” children, it was difﬁcult to keep in contact with their parents.3
Compared with the parents in cities, who greatly valued education and were willing
to interact with teachers to catch up with their children’s performances at school,
the parents in rural areas were much less educated and less cooperative. What is
worse, quite a few students now in Marian’s class were from so-called problematic
families—i.e., families suffering from marital conflicts or disastrous losses. The
teacher-parent liaison Marian used to work with did not exist in her new school, and
Marian sometimes played parental roles for her students. During her visit to the
rural school, the researcher noticed Marian had prepared some blouses and dresses
for two female students in her class. Marian told the researcher one student’s story:
She is a poor girl. Her mother was from Sichuan Province,4
and her father was local people.
Unfortunately, her father died when she was very young. Shortly after her father’s death,
her mother remarried and left her with her aunt. Now she lives with her aunt’s family. Such
3
In rural areas in China, there are millions of children left behind by their parents who went to
cities as emigrant workers. These children are under the care of their relatives, mostly grandparents
with little or no education and limited income, family friends, or having to take care of themselves.
4
Sichuan Province is located in Southwest China.
154 7 Factors Influencing the Implementation …
a poor girl, but she is very diligent and interested in learning English. She is good at
speaking. You’ve seen her performance in the Speech Contest, right? That’s why I organize
this activity. These poor kids, I want to help them. I brought these clothes for them to put on
for public speaking. (FN: December 25, 2013)
In conclusion, parents were pivotal factors influencing Marian’s making over the
ﬁve stages of the Danyang Project. As in many other Asian countries influenced by
Confucian culture, beliefs that valued education, teachers, and exams were deeply
ingrained among Chinese parents. Parents’ beliefs indirectly influenced the
implementation of the Danyang Project through the interactive and dialogic rela-
tionship among parents, students, and teachers.
7.4 Institutional Context
7.4.1 Learners
7.4.1.1 The Pre-project Stage
Marian’s students began to learn English much earlier than their teacher had as a
language learner. She expressed concern about the earlier starting time, as “stu-
dents’ native language is not fully developed, and the early start causes some
problems in secondary classrooms, one of which is the diversiﬁcation of students’
language proﬁciency and motivation” (I09: 21–26). With respect to the early start
issue, Marian also said the English proﬁciency level of her students was much
higher than before; “The textbooks I use to teach now are much more difﬁcult than
what I used when I was a student” (I09: 27).
7.4.1.2 The Top-Down Stage
Marian’s concern about learners’ diversiﬁcation caused by an early start age of
English learning at the ﬁrst stage was consistent with her complex perceptions
towards outstanding and under-achieved students. After the innovation project had
been enacted for over one year, a proportion of students in her class made
observable progress in their language proﬁciency and learning strategies as well.
Therefore, Marian was from time to time bombarded with unexpected challenging
questions raised by those students. She conﬁded feeling anxious when confronted
with good students’ questions.
The good students are making progress in learning so rapidly. Sometimes I even have a
sense that they outperform me. Yes, there is no doubt. I feel some students are better than
me. (I11: 14)
7.3 Social Context 155
I ﬁnd those students improve more rapidly than I expect. I think I am not competent enough
[to teach them]. I must learn more and develop my expertise. Otherwise I won’t be qualiﬁed
to teach them. (I11: 49–50)
Along with the pressure and, in turn, awareness of self-development caused by
challenging good students came Marian’s unceasing concern about the
under-motivated and under-achieving students in her class. She thought those
students’ lack of conﬁdence and motivation was caused by their relatively weak
command of fundamentals in their prior learning experience, and regarded it her
responsibility to help them out. However, she had no clear idea what strategies were
effective for doing so.
This group of students deserves our concern and care. What can I do to motivate them? If I
help them consolidate the fundamentals of their linguistic knowledge, they could probably
perform better in future exams. Otherwise they might become less and less interested in
learning due to their low scores. (I11: 15)
7.4.1.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
Different from the stress caused both by outstanding and under-achieved students in
the previous stage, Marian held more sophisticated beliefs and knowledge about
students’ academic performance at the bottom-up stage. With on-going training and
reflective practices, she was more curious to probe into the cognitive and affective
factors contributing to learners’ classroom behaviors. She came to realize she
should conduct classroom-based exploratory research to address learners’ individ-
ualized needs and attributes, which would in turn inform her teaching practices.
What is more, she found the teacher education program of the DP facilitative to her
research.
Now I ﬁnd to improve teaching skills alone is not enough to result in effective teaching. The
more important thing is that we should know students’ real needs and work out a feasible
work plan that caters to their needs. Perhaps I can collect some useful data by conducting a
questionnaire survey. But I don’t know how to design those questions. I’d like to ask those
PhD students for help. (TJ: Feb. 16, 2012)
7.4.1.4 The Exam Stage
At the exam stage, Marian’s knowledge about her students was largely derived
from how they performed on exams. She frankly said she had to care more about
those good students, because they were more likely to be admitted by a key senior
high school in the city; HES evaluated a teacher’s teaching by counting the number
of students who got offers from that school. That’s why it was a common decision
made by most teachers to give up on under-achieved or (in their words) “hopeless”
students at this stage.
156 7 Factors Influencing the Implementation …
7.4.1.5 The Post-project Stage
When Marian went to teach at YS, her pedagogical decisions tended to be more
student-oriented, as she incorporated learner factors as vital components in her
schema of language teaching. She still identiﬁed the gap between outstanding and
underachieved students, but could manage the pressure it entailed by analyzing
individual learner difference and formulating feasible work plans. At the very
beginning of the semester she stayed at YS, she contacted the researcher and asked
how to design a students’ needs analysis questionnaire, and she also asked the
researcher for a teaching feedback form to collect students’ evaluative responses to
her teaching.
Marian’s concern for students was further evidenced by her belief that language
education should empower students to learn sustainably. She thought she did it as
some students she taught before in the project class made phone calls to her and told
her what was happening to them after they entered senior high schools.
Those students told me they were in advantageous positions in their classes now. They said
it was quite easy for them to understand their teachers as the instruction was conducted
primarily in English. (I14: 96)
In a word, learner factors exerted great influence on Marian’s cognition and
practices within the curriculum innovation. To her students, Marian was a caring
teacher who was concerned about the full development of students over the ﬁve
stages of the project. The emerging problems relating to students, i.e., the polar-
ization between students, and the extremely good/poor students, motivated Marian
to learn more. Her interaction with the students gave impetus to Marian’s profes-
sional development.
7.4.2 Peers
7.4.2.1 The Pre-project Stage
A salient theme emerging from the interview data reveals how teacher learning took
place within the domain of the TRG (teaching research group). Marian admitted she
was astonished by the superb teaching skills of her colleagues when she ﬁrst came
to HES. She said, “I found I was lagging far behind my colleague here. Their
teaching expertise was fabulous, really excellent” (I09: 87–89). What impressed
Marian even more was how her mentor teacher in the TRG provided feedback after
observing her class, emphasizing the necessity to improve the transitional language
she used in teaching.
She told me that the language I used to link one pedagogical step with another was too
plain. She said I should make efforts to improve the transitional language, and in turn enrich
the lesson I am teaching. (I09: 91)
7.4 Institutional Context 157
In retrospect, this sort of evaluative feedback, combined with a monthly routine
of peer classroom observation at HES, provided Marian with a lot of opportunities
to learn from peers and improve her teaching skills.
7.4.2.2 The Top-Down Stage
Distinct from Marian’s overt admiration for her colleagues’ teaching when she ﬁrst
came to teach at HES, she had adopted a reflectively critical perspective of it
towards the end of the second phase. To put it speciﬁcally, there were two layers of
thinking in her mental life after observing a peer’s lesson. One was the imaginary
teaching scenario, that is, she envisioned in her mind the pedagogical decision she
would make to re-teach a particular episode she had observed. The other was the
tacit comment, which involved providing feedback to the lesson she had observed
silently. Marian thought this mental process related more with scrutinizing those
concrete aspects in teaching than forming a vague impression on the lesson as a
whole. The possible reasons why she remained tacit at this stage could be the
presence of her mentor teachers in the TRG, who were the opinion leader in the
institutional context.
In the past, classroom observations were conducted just for the sake of observing. I knew a
lesson I observed was good, but could not tell the exact factors contributing to its goodness.
It was after the mentor teachers gave their feedback that I realized where the points were…
Now I speak to myself privately about the good points and drawbacks of a lesson I
observed. Of course, my comments are not comparable with those provided by the mentor
teachers in the TRG. They are the experts, really giving comments that strike home. I need
to learn from them. (I11: 60)
7.4.2.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
A prominent change found at the bottom-up stage of the DP was that Marian gained
more conﬁdence to comment on her colleagues’ lessons. She could reconstruct with
reference to, provide alternative decision to or even criticize a speciﬁc teaching
scenario she had observed with well-grounded reasons. She made comments on her
colleagues’ lessons reflectively and on concrete aspects, tacitly and overtly com-
paring similar parts taught by her and her colleagues with different lesson planning.
She could judge whether the lessons she’d observed were innovative or not.
I observed Helen’s and Frank’s lessons these days. And I taught the same lesson this week.
In comparison with Helen, I did more speaking and Frank did more listening. All in all,
however, the lessons we taught were deviant from innovative principles. (TJ: Mar. 9, 2012)
The same conﬁdence was also observed as Marian and her fellow PTs dis-
seminated effective innovative practices within the TRG, which was documented
earlier in this sub-section.
158 7 Factors Influencing the Implementation …
Meanwhile, Marian was still strongly conscious of the comments on her teaching
from her mentor teachers when she ﬁrst came to HES. To deal with the problems
concerned, she observed her mentor teachers’ lessons two or three times every
week, and raised the issue to teacher educators and other PTs to explore and seek
for therapy to solve the problem.
She told me I should pay attention to the transitional language I used in teaching, so I have
always been concerned about this problem for these years. I found my teacher talk had
improved because I observed a lot of my mentor teacher’s lessons and she also gave me a
lot of feedback on my teaching. (I13:28–29)
In the speaking activity Marian conducted today, some students were quite reluctant to
speak. She had no idea how to deal with their reticence. Yan told her if she had provided
them with some useful word clues for reference, students might have something to scaffold
their task performance. (FN: Mar. 7, 2012)
7.4.2.4 The Exam Stage
Despite a general tendency in the TRG to make pedagogical decisions highly
influenced by and associated with exams, Marian was rather a maverick than a
follower to the collectively designed lesson planning, in which the preemptive
forms to focus on were closely linked to the so-called ‘test points.’ She expressed a
slight resentment when telling about a conflict with her colleagues.
They don’t think I should include the phrase ‘have a great influence on sth.’ into the list of
language points with ‘have an effect on.’ They think the phrase won’t be included in the
test, so there is no need to teach it at all. Moreover, they said presenting two phrases might
be confusing to some students. But why, students do come across that phrase when doing
reading. (I12: 23–26)
Not surprisingly, the peer relationship at this stage was infused with a spirit of
competition. Though the difference of mean scores among classes was normally
around 2 or 3 points, teachers who taught Level 9 students at HES were extremely
sensitive about the ranking of their classes in the exam performance list issued by
the Ofﬁce of Teaching Affairs (jiao wuchu). Marian and Frank, because they taught
project classes, suffered extra pressure, for their peers took it for granted that their
classes would outperform those non-project classes on exams.
Another feature of peer interaction at this stage was found among those teachers
who taught different subjects to the same class. Because the students were admitted
based on the overall scores they got by summing up the scores of ﬁve subjects,
those teachers tended to negotiate with each other, analyze an individual student’
situation and ﬁnd one or two subjects that were considered most possible to get
improved. Once the decision was made, there was a tacit agreement that teachers
who did not teach the “promising” subjects would leave time for the student to
work on those hopeful subjects.
7.4 Institutional Context 159
7.4.2.5 The Post-project Stage
On entering her new educational setting, Marian soon became the opinion leader
who embraced, demonstrated, and propagated the ideas and practices of the
DP. There were no the TRG or regular teaching research activities of any form at
Yanling School. Despite the institutional constraints, Marian interacted quite fre-
quently with the teacher who taught the same level of students as her on issues
relating to teaching and students, to, as Marian saw it, “guide and help her.” She
thought working in the same ofﬁce with other English teachers provided her with
more flexibility to interact at their convenience (I14:15–16). Apart from daily
informal contacts with her colleagues, Marian also taught public lessons and had
meetings with them after class. Moreover, she voluntarily called on her colleagues
to organize extracurricular activities relating to English learning, such as a
school-wide phonetic symbol contest and an English speech contest (I14: 13).
Meanwhile, Marian kept in close contact with her colleagues at HES, especially
Frank, who was teaching the same level of students Marian taught at YS. Her
frequent contact with HES sprang out of three considerations. First, she thought it
was necessary to keep observing her colleagues’ lessons, otherwise she would fall
behind. Second, she went back to help with subsequent research projects carried out
by researchers. Third, she constantly exchanged opinions and information about
teaching and students with Frank, and compared their students’ performances at
exams.
With respect to her mentor teachers at HES, Marian began to challenge them,
and thought their ideas were sometimes “old-fashioned.” She thought that, although
her mentor teachers were experienced, they needed to learn more, as she had by
participating in the DP.
Most of the PhD students are younger than me. However, you are much more knowl-
edgeable. I feel lucky to have the chance to learn from you. My mentor teachers, experi-
enced as they are, still lack the knowledge and expertise that I learned in the project. Some
of their ideas are rather old-fashioned doctrines. (I14: 99)
In a nutshell, peers were essential componential factors in the context in which
Marian implemented the innovation project. Over the ﬁve stages of the project,
Marian had not lived in a capsule isolated from her ordinary life; thus, the
implementation of innovative principles was intertwined with the interactions and
tension between Marian and her colleagues.
7.4.3 Leaders
7.4.3.1 The Pre-project Stage
As introduced in Chap. 1, Mr. Zhang, the principal of HES, was one of the initiators
of the Danyang Project, and a deputy principal, Mr. Wang, was nominated to take
160 7 Factors Influencing the Implementation …
charge of the project. Before the Danyang Project was initiated, the principals of
HES were supportive of the prospective cooperation and enlisted logistical and
political resources to make it possible. They made meticulous preparations for visits
by Prof. Shu and the PhD students, and ofﬁcials from the local education bureau
were invited to attend meetings held for the preliminary negotiation on the project.
The director general of the local Education Bureau met with the researchers in person. Two
principals, Mr. Zhang and Mr. Wang, the director of the Ofﬁce of Academic Affairs, the
head teacher of English the TRG, and 6 English teachers attended the meeting today. They
discussed with Prof. Shu and the PhD students in detail speciﬁc issues relating to the
forthcoming project. Items included in the meeting agenda today are: project funding,…
teacher training,…curriculum development,…selecting project classes,…project evalua-
tion,… and the name of the project. (FN: May 25, 2009)
7.4.3.2 The Top-Down Stage
With the principals’ support, the difﬁcult times at the very beginning of the project
became much easier. Apart from logistical support, the principles also communi-
cated with researchers on the speciﬁcations for teaching and learning in project
classes. The head of English attended almost all events concerning the project, and
actively communicated with PhD students on relevant issues, encouraged the
project teachers, and overtly expressed her opinions about the beneﬁts and possible
drawbacks of the project. Though both Mr. Zhang and Mr. Wang were math
teachers, they seemed to have no difﬁculty understanding the principles of
innovation.
…Beilei bought some books for PTs before she went to Danyang…. Mr. Wang said the
school would reimburse PhD students for any expenses incurred. And he also said if the
PhD students recommended a booklist for project teachers, the school would buy those
books…. Getting to know that there would be learner portfolios for students in the project
classes, Mr. Wang brought three folders of different sizes for PhD students to choose
from….An ofﬁce was allocated for the project, where researchers could work, store doc-
uments, and hold meetings…. Mr. Wang said a computer and a printer would be installed,
and the walls would be decorated soon. (FN: Sep. 4, 2009)
During the meeting,…. Mr. Zhang said he expected teachers would learn more about FLT
theory and improve teaching skills through participating in this project. He cited some
exemplar excerpts from two PTs’ teaching journals to demonstrate how they beneﬁted from
the project…. (FN: Jan. 12, 2010)
7.4.3.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
At the bottom-up stage, with the unexpected failure of the ﬁrst two project classes
in a city-level exam, things became extremely difﬁcult for people involved in the
Danyang Project. As school leaders, the principals had to deal with criticism from
parents and non-project teachers. Although it had been almost two years since the
7.4 Institutional Context 161
project was launched, people at HES valued exams greatly. Thus, the failure put
signiﬁcant pressure on Mr. Zhang and Mr. Wang, who had taken primary
responsibility for the implementation of the project. Despite all the tacit and explicit
doubts and criticism in the setting, the researchers were blamed by principals or the
TRG head.
The students did not perform well in the listening and speaking sub-test5
of the senior high
school entrance examination. At the news, Yan felt guilty and she went to talk to Mr. Zhang
at his ofﬁce…. However, Mr. Zhang said there was nothing wrong with the project and the
researchers. Then there was a long silence. Yan got more guilt-ridden about the school.
(FN: May 4, 2012)
7.4.3.4 The Exam Stage
About one year later, when Marian’s and Frank’s classes were at the last phase of
the exam stage, the principals were much more relaxed than at the same time last
year, partly due to the consistent good performance of the students in project classes
in previous mock tests, and partly due to their changed expectations of the effect of
the innovation project on students’ scores. They became more liberal about stu-
dents’ academic achievements, in terms of their communicative competence,
motivation, autonomy, etc. However, they were concerned about the sustainable,
delayed effect of the innovation project on students.
Mr. Wang told Yan he did a preliminary survey on students who had graduated from HES
and was admitted by the key senior high school. Among 15 students who had recently won
awards in an English competition, 13 were from HES. (FN: Nov. 28, 2012)
7.4.3.5 The Post-project Stage
At this stage, the researcher left HES for an overseas academic visit. While she was
away, she communicated with the principals and the head of the TRG through
Skype calls. During this period, Mr. Wang told the researcher about the updates at
the school, and invited her to come back to HES when she had time. The head of
the TRG also contacted her several times, consulting with her about issues relating
to teaching and learning. When the researcher visited HES after coming back to
China, she was received with the same hospitality and warmth as before the project
was initiated.
Mr. Wang said the school was developing rapidly and they had just got the permission from
the local education bureau to enlarge the campus. In addition, they decided to build two
5
In Danyang, the English senior high school entrance examination consists of two sub-tests: a
computer-based sub-test of listening and speaking, which is in March, and a paper-and-pencil
sub-test of grammar, reading and writing, which is in June.
162 7 Factors Influencing the Implementation …
e-learning labs for English learning. He said there was no problem with funding or tech-
nology, what they needed were innovative ideas, thus the input from PhD students would
be great. (FN: Nov. 26, 2013)
To conclude, principals’ support was an essential factor in guaranteeing the
sustainable development of the Danyang Project.
7.4.4 School Timetable
Another theme relating to the institutional context was the hectic and inflexible
academic schedule at HES and the rural school.
7.4.4.1 The Ordinary Timetable
Students were almost fully occupied with courses and routine activities from 7:50 to
20:30 at HES. With a prescriptive quota of lessons assigned to different subjects,
there were constant conflicts among teachers as they competed to squeeze teaching
into students’ spare time, not to mention any free time left for students at their
disposition.
Teachers at HES started working normally at 7:50 in the morning, or even earlier
for those teachers who attended to students while they did morning reading. While
most teachers ﬁnished working at 17:10, those who accompanied students when
they did self-study in the evening would not leave school until 20:50. Besides their
regular workload, teachers were called on to take on extra work when there was an
emergency. In her teaching journal, Marian wrote,
This morning, one of my colleagues got injured in an accident. The principal called on me
to take over her class. (TJ: Oct. 19, 2010)
Frank had to attend a training course outside school today, and I took over his class. I taught
three classes in the morning. When I was in the third class, I was too tired to teach. (TJ: Oct.
23, 2010)
7.4.4.2 The Timetable for Exam-Preparation
Due to the approaching exam, students’ daily routines got extremely busy, and they
were rarely available for out-class self-directed learning, as teachers of various
subjects were ﬁghting to squeeze exam-oriented homework into their spare time.
Marian regretted the situation, as she had to compromise to ensure that her students
could succeed on the upcoming competitive exam.
Let me tell you, there are three segments of time for student to learn autonomously every
evening. The ﬁrst one, from 17:40–18:55, is allocated to studying physics and chemistry.
The second one, from 19:00–19:55, is for studying math. The third one, from 20:05–21:05,
is for studying Chinese and English. I only have half an hour at my disposal. (I13: 32)
7.4 Institutional Context 163
7.4.4.3 The Timetable at the Rural School
Students’ academic schedule was no less busy at the rural school. When Marian
taught there, she normally got up at 6:00 in the morning, and left school at 5:00 in
the afternoon; when she accompanied her students to evening class, she would not
come back home until 10:00 at night (Table 7.1).
“It was frightening,” Marian told Yan her experience on a winter night, “I left for home
after I ﬁnished the evening class. When I was driving, the smog got so heavy that I could
not even see the pavement markings. It was so dark, so frightening….” (FN: December 25,
2013)
To conclude, the school timetables vividly demonstrate how intensely busy
students and teachers were at both HES and YS. It seemed as if there were a strong
fortress in which teachers and students mechanically followed their routine, one so
strong that the strength of a few external researchers was tenuous.
7.5 The Attributes of the Innovation Project
7.5.1 The Pre-project Stage
Most of the researchers involved in the Danyang Project had very limited knowl-
edge of secondary education before they stepped into the ﬁeld. Many had ﬁve to
12 years’ teaching experience in colleges and universities, and some of them had
three to eight years’ research experience in the second language acquisition and
foreign language teaching ﬁeld. The PhD students were determined, diligent,
tenacious, and cooperative with each other. None had ever been in Danyang before
the project was initiated. At this stage, they visited HES to gather the preliminary
information about the school, the teachers. and the students, and had frequent
meetings to discuss about the project plan. Though there was consensus among
researchers to involve PTs in the decision-making process, the project at this stage
was still researcher-directed.
Table 7.1 Students’
timetables at YS and HES
YS HES
Get up 5:50 a.m. 6:30 a.m.
Morning reading 6:30–7:10 a.m. 7:00–7:40 a.m.
Morning lessons 7:50–11:30 a.m. 7:50–11:30 a.m.
Afternoon lessons 13:00–17:10 p.m. 13:45–17:10 p.m.
Evening lessons 18:30–20:50 p.m. 18:30–20:10 p.m.
(I14: 24)
164 7 Factors Influencing the Implementation …
In an on-line meeting via QQ chat, Fei said we should invite the PTs to join us (discussing
about the plan). She said it was the teachers that should be the center of this project. Prof.
Shu agreed, saying this was a good idea….and the role of researchers was somewhat that of
a guide or an advisor. (FN: Jul. 31, 2009)
7.5.2 The Top-Down Stage
Contrary to the university researchers’ intentions to cultivate the initiative of PTs
and enhance their engagement, the primary approach adopted to implement the
Danyang Project at this stage was, as its name suggests, by imposing top-down
model, with university researchers taking a directing and caring role in their
interaction with the project teachers. The decision-making process for essential
components of the project had quite limited input from the teachers, for it was
virtually unrealistic to incorporate many teachers’ ideas, when there was such a
distance between those ideas and the innovative principles. Normally, the
researchers taught PTs how to teach innovatively by presenting a prepared proposal
with meticulous exempliﬁcation and clariﬁcation. Accordingly, PTs played a pas-
sive role as recipients of new knowledge in the learning process. In her ﬁeld notes,
an invited teacher educator, Pei Chen6
wrote,
I gave a teacher training session on the topic Classroom Practices of Task-based Language
Teaching this afternoon. Around 30 teachers from the primary sector and the secondary
sector came to my talk. There were three parts in my talk: theoretical underpinnings of
TBLT, classroom practices of TBLT, and my comments on 4 lessons I observed this
morning. For 2 and a half hours, those teachers listened to me very attentively and they also
interacted with me sporadically…. However, I found almost none of them knew any
theoretical basics of FLT, and terms such as communicative language teaching, PPP, etc.,
were completely new to those teachers…. Thus, I had to lower the level of difﬁculty of my
lecture. (FN: Nov. 9, 2009)
Towards the end of the top-down stage, due to the incompatibility of the
innovation project’s principles and practices with local realities, there was a
somewhat intense resistance among project teachers. The resistance grew even
more intensive when the ﬁrst group of project students did not perform as well as
expected on the senior high school entrance exam. The resistance was evident when
the researcher’s comments on a project teacher, Alex’s, lesson were politely
rejected after a classroom observation.
“Yes, probably you are right.” Alex said, “But do you still remember how we were taught
when we were at secondary school? What if I continue to teach in this [innovative] way,
and my students get failed in the exam?” (FN: Sep. 29, 2011)
6
Pei Chen, then a postdoctoral fellow at Shanghai International Studies University, participated in
the Danyang Project during its early stage.
7.5 The Attributes of the Innovation Project 165
7.5.3 The Bottom-Up Stage
Realizing the negative effects a top-down approach might have on implementing
the innovation project, and a recognition among university researchers that, with
over one year’s exposure to the teacher education program of the Danyang Project,
teachers had gained substantial knowledge on the basics of FLT theory and prac-
tice, a decision was made to gradually convert the top-down approach to a
bottom-up one. What teacher educators were supposed to do at this stage was to
counsel, to facilitate, and to support. PTs’ autonomy and initiative were considered
of pivotal importance to implementing the project. PTs were encouraged to
ﬁne-tune the innovative principles to suit the realities of their classrooms, and to
conduct classroom-based action research. In addition, a group leader, Frank, was
selected to coordinate work and organize learning sessions for the project teachers.
In a meeting with the PTs and principals in Danyang, Prof. Shu said:
…Actually, we know about [your resistance]. These days my PhD students and I have been
reflecting on the implementation of this project so far. We also read some articles written by
practitioners from other countries. We’ve begun to think, if the innovation is top-down in
nature, there won’t be a strong possibility of implementing it successfully. The changes are
not likely to take place, if they are driven by external factors rather than internal motives.
(FN: Feb. 16, 2012)
7.5.4 The Exam Stage
At the exam stage, the project was still bottom-up, and a compromise was made to
keep a balance between teachers’ practical needs and the objectives of the project—
i.e., teachers’ needs and voices were attended to, even though there was an obvious
conflict with the innovative principles. Apart from the regular teacher education
program, university researchers also offered Marian and Frank guidance and
resources to help students cram for the exam.
During her visit, Yan got to know that the students in Marian’s class performed relatively
worse than those in Frank’s class. And Marian was a bit concerned about the scores of the
blank-ﬁlling items. Yan suggested that Marian carefully analyze students’ error types and
focus on those types of errors that were more likely to appear. (FN: May 16, 2013)
7.5.5 The Post-project Stage
At the post-project stage, the university researchers withdrew from the project,
seldom going to HES to hold seminars or workshops, or to observe classrooms.
There was very limited external intervention in teaching and learning at either HES
166 7 Factors Influencing the Implementation …
or YS. However, university researchers kept in contact with people in Danyang,
mutually helping each other to do things relating to teaching and research.
Yan conducted a classroom-based experimental study at HES. Marian and Frank actively
helped her organize participants; video–and audio–record her teaching and mark some of
the tests. …Yan promised to visit the rural school where Marian was teaching. She accepted
the invitation to be the judge for an oral English competition organized by Marian. (FN:
December 25, 2013)
To sum up, the implementation approaches of the Danyang Project changed
from a drastic and purist top-down model at the pre-project stage, to a lenient and
more eclectic bottom-up model, at the bottom-up stage and the exam stage, after
which the intensity of innovation gradually faded as the project moved to the
post-project stage.
7.6 Summary
In a nutshell, how Marian implemented the Danyang Project was influenced by
manifold factors relating to her personal experience and the complexity of the
interpersonal relationship where she lived, worked, and learned. As is shown in
Fig. 7.1, these factors could be further categorized into two types—intrapersonal
factors and interpersonal factors. Intrapersonal factors (indicated by the blue cells,
below) impacted the cognitive and affective processed influencing Marian’s
response to the educational intervention. Interpersonal factors (indicated by the
Interpersonal
Factors
Standardize
d Tests
Parent
s
Learners
Leaders
School
Timetable
Marian Implemented Curriculum
Innovations in the Danyang Project
Intrapersonal
Factors
Prior
Learning
Experience
Prior Work
Experience
Attributes
of DP
In-service
Education
Fig. 7.1 Factors influencing the implementation of the danyang project
7.5 The Attributes of the Innovation Project 167
beige cells in the ﬁgure) refer to the external variables mediating teacher learning
while she implemented the innovation project. There was no clear-cut boundary
between these two types of influencing factors, as some factors pertained to both
intrapersonal and interpersonal categories. These two types of factors were
dynamically interactive and intertwined, exerting positive or negative impacts on
the implementation of the innovation project.
168 7 Factors Influencing the Implementation …
Chapter 8
Conclusion
This chapter draws the whole study to an end by offering a synthesis of the answers
found to the four research questions, discussing the research ﬁndings with reference
to previous studies, and proposing a tentative exploratory model for foreign lan-
guage teacher cognition and practices, followed by two sub-sections evaluating the
effectiveness of the classroom teaching in the Danyang Project and the factors
conducive to the uptake of innovation. The subsequent part dwells on the impli-
cations of this study, before its limitations are discussed, and suggestions provided
for future studies.
8.1 Results
8.1.1 Research Question 1
8.1.1.1 What Changes Took Place in the Danyang Teacher’s
Cognition?
Depicting Marian’s changes in cognition over the ﬁve stages, triangulated through
comparisons between Marian and a non-project counterpart, it was found the
project teacher’s cognition changed in accordance with the goals of the innovative
project, but the trajectory of that change was much more tangled and complicated
than what was initially expected. Here is a summary of the changed aspects of
Marian’s cognition.
(1) Meaning versus form
At the outset of the DP, Marian held the belief that there was a dichotomy between
language meaning and form, with the latter playing the dominant role in language
learning and teaching. This ambivalence gradually changed to an attitude favoring
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0_8
169
meaning, at the top-down stage. When the innovation project proceeded to the
bottom-up phase, Marian reverted to an apparent inclination to traditional teaching
approach, thus subordinating communicative, meaning-oriented teaching. At the
exam preparation phase, form-oriented teaching was of paramount importance to
Marian; however, when Marian went to a new educational setting, she showed a
belief in integrating meaning and form, and in maintaining the fundamental role that
communicative activities or tasks play in enhancing learners’ communicative
capacity in the target language.
(2) Learner participation and learner autonomy
Before the DP was launched, Marian perceived learners as passive recipients of
linguistic knowledge, in alignment with her belief in the predominance of linguistic
form over meaning. Meanwhile, she was in favor of self-directed language learning,
despite her obvious doubts about learners’ capacity to learn autonomously. At the
top-down stage of the DP, Marian was supportive of the rationale of fostering
learner participation and learner autonomy in language teaching, and was conﬁdent
of her expertise in facilitating, and learners’ capacity to conduct self-directed
learning. However, she was dubious about the effectiveness of the teaching method
she adopted regarding the foreseeable evaluation with standardized tests. When the
DP moved to the bottom-up stage, Marian was even more convinced of her
expertise to enhance learner participation and conduct self-directed learning.
However, she was still haunted by the conflict between innovative ways of teaching
and standardized tests. At the exam preparation stage, Marian’s enthusiasm for
autonomous learning was almost completely abandoned in favor of exam-oriented,
spoon-fed teaching. Nevertheless, when Marian began to teach a new group of
students at YS, she explicitly espoused learner participation and self-directed
learning.
(3) Providing corrective feedback
At the very beginning of the DP, Marian was quite concerned about the accuracy of
both learners’ written and oral language production, and held a rather ﬁrm belief
that all errors should be corrected. Through the teacher training program at the
top-down stage of the DP, Marian came to realize that learners’ errors were
inevitable and informative, and ought to be treated with different strategies; she
came to favor correcting learners in an implicit way at this stage. When the DP
moved to the bottom-up stage, Marian was once again uncertain about whether and
how corrective feedback should be provided, and adopted some innovative
strategies to correct learners’ errors, particularly a preemptive way of preventing
errors in learners’ oral productions, and a learner-directed way to correct errors in
learners’ written production. At the exam preparation stage, Marian reverted to
emphasizing accuracy, and asserted that all errors should be corrected. Then again,
when Marian went to teach in a new educational setting, she gradually developed a
sophisticated scheme for providing correct feedback by adopting strategies (implicit
vs. explicit; teacher-correct vs. peer-correct, etc.) that were appropriate to individual
170 8 Conclusion
learners’ cognitive and affective differences, as well as the context-speciﬁc realities
in her classroom.
(4) Using textbooks
At the preliminary stage of the DP, Marian was heavily reliant on the mandated
textbook, and did not question its effectiveness for achieving educational goals,
despite occasionally rearranging the positions of different sections therein. To a
certain extent, Marian perceived ‘teaching’ as ‘covering the textbook.’ At the
top-down stage of the DP, there was a tension in Marian’s mental world between
the quality of experimental textbooks, and their possible negative influence on
learners’ performance in standardized tests. This tension led to Marian’s eclectic
approach of incorporating the underlying principles of experimental textbooks into
the mandated textbooks. At the bottom-up stage, although Marian almost exclu-
sively resorted to the mandated textbooks in teaching, she was much more conﬁdent
about adapting and developing instructional materials. Again, at the exam prepa-
ration phase, Marian adopted a safe strategy by relying on the mandated materials.
The post-project stage also witnessed the revival of Marian’s willingness to adapt
the mandated textbooks and construct new materials to suit her teaching purposes.
(5) Attitudes towards innovative project
The DP was the ﬁrst time Marian had joined a school-based innovation project by
collaborating with university researchers. At the very beginning, Marian was
optimistic about the project’s prospects, anticipating that the university experts
would provide a package of solutions to deeply-entrenched problems in secondary
FLT classrooms. At the top-down stage, Marian viewed the university researchers
as nice, knowledgeable teacher educators who caringly prepared theoretical and
practical guides, as a set of dos and don’ts for the project teachers. Despite the
beneﬁcial development Marian thought she had gained from researchers, she also
hinted that the ‘guidance’ she received from the teacher education program was not
relevant to the realities of her classroom. At the bottom-up stage of the DP, Marian
was still quite supportive of the DP, but became critical about the opinions and
suggestions given by researchers. She took more initiative to raise questions and
seek answers by referring to accessible resources. At the post-project stage, Marian
saw the university researchers as her colleagues and collaborators, and believed the
interaction between them was mutually beneﬁcial.
8.1.2 Research Question 2
8.1.2.1 What Changes Took Place in His/Her Classroom Practices?
This question is of decisive importance to the whole project, for it is assumed only
when changes are found in teachers’ classroom practice could we claim the
8.1 Results 171
innovation project was beneﬁcial to its participants—the learners, in this case.
Chapter 5 addressed this question through inductively analyzing data concerning
seven aspects of classroom instruction over our stages (exam-preparation lesson was
excluded for its obvious incomparability) of the project. The ﬁndings were triangu-
lated by comparing typical lessons taught by Marian and Jane (see Chap. 6). The
following is a synthesis of the changes in Marian’s classroom teaching behavior.
(1) Time allotment to different activities of a lesson
Before she participated in the DP, the activities in Marian’s classroom followed the
typical PPP (presentation, practice, and production) model, with linguistic forms
being much emphasized. What is more, Marian was not familiar with using tasks in
classroom instruction. At the top-down stage, the organization of classroom activ-
ities dramatically changed as Marian was trained to teach the LAP course, which was
task-based. When it came to the bottom-up stage, Marian reverted to a combination
of traditional PPP teaching and tasks designed to consolidate pedagogical content—
i.e., task-supported teaching. At the exam preparation stage, the activities were
exclusively based on covering items in moot test papers; however, at the post-project
stage, the activities in Marian’s lesson were much more communicative, incorpo-
rating aspects of more communicative teaching from the early stage.
In comparison with Jane, it was found Marian’s lesson were more commu-
nicative, and more congruent with the stated teaching objectives and time allotted
for different activities. Nevertheless, traditional teacher-centered activities still
constituted a large part of Marian’s classroom teaching.
(2) Choice of instructional materials
At the outset of the DP, Marian was highly reliant on the mandated textbooks, and
exclusively based her teaching plan on covering their contents. By contrast, at the
top-down stage, the mandated textbooks were abandoned and learners were
involved in developing instructional materials. At the bottom-up stage, however,
Marian returned to the mandated textbooks, which she adapted and supplemented
when necessary. The exam stage was ﬁlled with mandated materials—speciﬁcally,
exam preparation materials. At the post-project stage, Marian largely drew on
materials designed by herself, combining student-provided materials and adapting
the mandated materials.
Also, compared with Jane’s lesson, Marian showed more knowledge and
expertise to adapt and develop instructional materials, and was more conﬁdent in
involving students in material development. However, the changes she made to the
mandated textbook were additional, rather than substitutional; in other words, the
mandated textbook was still seen as authoritative, regardless of its identiﬁed defects.
(3) Teacher talk
At the very beginning of the DP, teacher talk accounted for over half of the discourse
in Marian’s classroom, in terms of its overall length and time. A dramatic change took
172 8 Conclusion
place at the top-down stage, as teacher talk decreased greatly. At the bottom-up stage,
however, teacher talk went back to levels only slightly lower than those at the ﬁrst
stage, before increasing continuously and reaching almost the same levels as in the
pre-project stage. Compared with NPTs, both the time and length of teacher talk were
higher in Marian’s classroom.
The complexity of teacher talk, measured by average length per move, varies in
alignment with the learners’ proﬁciency level. As her students moved from Level 7 to
Level 9, Marian’s teacher talk tended to become increasingly complex, and greatly
decreased when she began to teach a new group of Level 7 students at YS. Her
speaking speed, however, varied with the communicativeness of the lesson she
taught. She tended to speak faster when the lesson was more communicative-oriented
and at a lower speed when teaching in a traditional teacher-fronted manner. The same
trend was found regarding the percentage of referential questions in Marian’s class-
rooms—i.e., the more communicative the lesson tended to be, the more referential
questions were asked.
By comparison, the average length per move was higher in Marian’s classroom
than in her NPT counterpart’s, she spoke slightly faster, and the proportion of
referential questions in her lesson was much higher.
(4) Student talk
Accordingly, the time and length of learner talk in Marian’s classrooms varied
according to the stages of the innovation project. Nevertheless, the complexity of
learner talk tended to correlate jointly with the task design and the learner’s pro-
ﬁciency level. In learner talk, the average length per move was influenced by task
implementation and learners’ proﬁciency level. Moreover, there was a general
increase in the percentage of unrestricted moves in learner talk, with a slight dip
from the top-down to the bottom-up stage. It seems neither the communicativeness
of a lesson nor the intensity of the innovation project had a direct and sustained
impact on this aspect of classroom teaching; rather, it was likely correlated with the
teacher’s increased awareness and capacity to enhance beneﬁcial learner engage-
ment in classroom discourse.
(5) Participatory organization
Student-student interaction comprised a very small part of classroom interaction at
the pre-project stage. The percentage largely increased at the top-down stage, and
dropped to almost the same level as in the pre-project stage, towards the end of the
bottom-up stage. At the post-project stage, the percentage of student-student
interactions moderately increased.
Compared with NPTs, the project teacher was more skillful in organizing
classroom interaction, using a variety of participatory structures.
8.1 Results 173
(6) Focus on meaning versus form
At the outset of the DP, form-focused exchanges accounted for nearly half of all
exchanges. This percentage decreased greatly at the top-down stage, then rose to
almost the same level as the pre-project stage at the bottom-up stage. At the
post-project stage, the percentage of form-focused exchanges decreased to about
half of the level seen in the pre-project stage.
Compared with NPTs, the percentage of form-focused exchanges in Marian’s
classroom discourse was much lower.
(7) Discourse structure
Throughout the four stages of the DP, the percentage of IRF patterns reached a peak
at the top-down stage, and then slightly dropped at the bottom-up stage.
Approaching the post-project stage, the ﬁgure decreased to much lower than the
pre-project stage.
The percentage of student-initiated exchanges reached its highest point at the
top-down stage, and then dropped to its lowest level before rebounding to a level
higher than that at the pre-project stage.
To summarize, changes in the project teacher’s teaching practices roughly took
on an ‘N’ shape, as illustrated in Fig. 8.1; i.e., the newness of the teacher and her
students’ teaching behaviors reached a dramatically high level when the innovation
project was at its height; then, when the innovation project faded out, the classroom
instruction went back to being traditional. However, the new teaching behaviors
revived in the project classrooms at the post-project stage.
Fig. 8.1 The trajectory of change in teaching practices
174 8 Conclusion
8.1.3 Research Question 3
8.1.3.1 What Relationship Is There between? the Changes
in the Teacher’s Cognition and Changes in His/Her Classroom
Practices?
In this study, consistency between teacher cognition and classroom practices was
found at the pre-project, bottom-up, and post-project stages. At the top-down and
exam stages of the DP, changes in the teacher’s cognition did not conform to the
changes in her classroom practice; thus, it is hypothesized that the stresses that
caused tensions between teacher’s mental world and outside realities were likely to
be salient factors in explaining the consistency and inconsistency at different stages.
To be more speciﬁc, at the top-down stage, the tension sprang from the gap between
the pressure on PTs to implement innovation project, and teachers’
under-developed capacity to understand and accept the innovative principles. At the
exam stage, however, the tension stemmed from an overwhelming pressure caused
by all stake holders in the exam, stressing accuracy in learners’ written production,
and recognition of the effectiveness of communicative teaching in improving flu-
ency, accuracy, and complexity in learners’ oral production.
8.1.4 Research Question 4
8.1.4.1 What Factors Influenced the Teacher’s Implementation
of the Danyang Project?
The present study shows that teachers’ implementation of curriculum innovation is
influenced by intra- and inter-personal factors. Intra-personal factors refer to the
cognitive and affective process that influence teachers’ responses to educational
intervention when learning, trying out, and reflecting on its impact on learning.
Inter-personal factors refer to the external variables mediating teacher learning. In
the Danyang project, intra-personal factors contained teachers’ prior experience and
knowledge, attitude and motivation, teaching style and personality, etc.—in short,
the intrinsic and idiosyncratic attributes of an individual teacher. Inter-personal
factors included the on-going in-service teacher learning program, the community
of learning and practice, education management mechanism, and other
socio-political issues.
8.1 Results 175
8.2 Discussion
8.2.1 An Exploratory Model of Foreign Language Teacher
Cognition and Practices
Based on an overview of the whole process, it can be argued that the changes in the
project teacher’s cognition and practices were gradual, non-linear, fluctuating, and
sometimes regressive. Borg (2011) reminded researchers to properly operationalize
‘impact’ before concluding whether a teacher education program influences on
teacher cognition. To that end, the author adopted a broad interpretation of ‘impact’
that “encompasses a range of developmental processes” (Borg, 2011, p. 178). In
this study, it was found that the teacher’s cognitions were considerably influenced
by her educational background and prior work experience. Teacher cognition was
also signiﬁcantly impacted by the institutional context in which she interacted with
learners, colleagues, and leaders. In addition, the mechanism under which the
innovation project was enacted had an obvious effect on PTs’ attitudes towards the
project, and the principles it attempted to implement. Moreover, socio-political
factors containing the washback effect of standardized tests (Hughes, 1989; Taylor,
2005), the parents, the community, etc., impacted on the change of teacher
cognition.
Argyris and Schön (1974) termed different types of teacher beliefs as espoused
theories and theory-in-use. Basturkmen (2012) deﬁned explicit beliefs as “those
which a person can readily articulate” (p. 283), and implicit beliefs as “those which
are held unconsciously and can only be inferred from actions” (ibid). Compared
with inexperienced teachers, Mitchell (2005) and Feryok (2004) reported, experi-
enced teachers’ beliefs more consistently corresponded with their teaching behav-
iors. Notwithstanding the ample evidence supporting the existence of two types of
teacher cognitions in language teachers’ mental lives, there was, however, a limited
amount of studies on the interactive relationships between curriculum innovation,
teacher learning, teacher practices, and the two types of cognition. The present
study proposes a tentative exploratory model (Fig. 8.1) showing these two
dimensions of language teacher cognitions and the mechanism through which
internal and external factors play mediating roles. This model might be viewed as
speculative, due to the small sample size of this study, yet it is still informative and
enlightening to practitioners, teacher educators, and researchers.
This study found two types of teacher cognition: explicit cognition and implicit
cognition. As shown in Fig. 8.2, explicit cognition can be built through teacher
training, and is related to conscious pedagogical decision making, but is likely to be
transient and vulnerable, due to external intervention. In contrast, implicit cognition
is what the teacher holds as internalized beliefs and acquired knowledge through
reflective practice. It pertains to the teacher’s unconscious and automatic peda-
gogical decision making. Implicit cognition tends to be stable, deeply-entrenched,
and resistant to external intervention.
176 8 Conclusion
Drawing on the ﬁndings of this study, it is hypothesized that there is an interface
between teacher’s implicit and explicit cognition—that is, teacher’s explicit cog-
nition can be converted into implicit cognition through reflective practices, par-
ticularly the practice experienced by individual teachers working collaboratively in
a community of learning and practice. In the present study, the interaction between
implicit and explicit cognition was found to be bi-directional, such that there can be
a conversion from explicit to implicit cognition, and vice versa. It is also hypoth-
esized that explicit cognition and implicit cognition exist in juxtaposition in
teachers’ minds, and are accessed in accordance with the contextual realities that
impact teachers’ pedagogical decisions. For example, at the exam preparation stage,
Marian primarily drew on her explicit cognition (favoring accuracy of linguistic
forms) in regular teaching, whereas she used much more implicit cognition
(communicative-oriented) when critiquing her colleagues’ lessons, which were not
taught for exam preparation.
Explicit Cognition
Explicit Cognition
Early Personal
Early Personal
Classroom
Classroom-
-related
related
Experience
Experience
Implicit Cognition
Implicit Cognition
Contextual Constraints
Contextual Constraints
Pre
Pre-
-service and
service and In
In-
-
service Teacher
service Teacher
Training Coursework
Training Coursework
Rewarding and Reflective
Rewarding and Reflective
Classroom Practices
Classroom Practices
Planned Practices
Planned Practices Incidental Practices
Incidental Practices
(Community of Professional Learning and Practices)
(Community of Professional Learning and Practices)
Fig. 8.2 An exploratory model of foreign language teacher cognition and practices
8.2 Discussion 177
8.2.2 Effectiveness of the Classroom Teaching
in the Danyang Project
Given the theory-laden approach this study has adopted to evaluate the effective-
ness of classroom teaching, the framework formulated in Sect. 2.1.2.3 is referred to
here, to construct an evaluative review of the classroom teaching in the DP. As this
study shows, the trajectory of teaching practices in project classrooms is a fluctu-
ating upward process; thus, only established teaching behaviors are drawn on as
evidence in support of the effectiveness of classroom teaching in the innovation
project.
Generally, towards the end of the DP, while she still found it hard to break the
routines she had been living with for so long, the focal project teacher began to
deviate from traditional teaching with regarding to these salient aspects:
(1) There was a much clearer recognition of teaching objectives, and activities
were designed and arranged to achieve the teaching purpose;
(2) Instructional materials were rather the means to facilitate teaching, rather than
its ends—i.e., teaching no longer consisted of simply covering textbooks;
(3) It was the quality rather than the quantity of teacher talk that counted, and a
major function of teacher talk was to provide learning opportunities;
(4) Student talk contributed to the effectiveness of teaching, as a manifestation of
both the process (interaction) and product (output) of learning;
(5) The participatory organization was a reasonable mixture of teacher-student
and student-student interaction, with the latter constituting proper proportion;
(6) Classroom interaction was predominantly meaning-oriented, although atten-
tion was still directed at linguistic forms;
(7) As to the IRF pattern in classroom discourse, it was in their follow-up moves
that students’ responses was evaluated, and suitable feedback given to facil-
itate learning by requesting expansion, clariﬁcation, justiﬁcation, and
exempliﬁcation.
8.2.3 Factors Conducive to the Uptake of Innovation
Based on the research ﬁndings, intrapersonal and interpersonal factors are con-
ducive to teachers’ uptake of an innovation project. The following principles are of
vital importance to the implementation of educational change, and are proposed for
planning, conducting, and managing an innovation project:
(1) There should be an on-going, in-service teacher education program that caters
to the speciﬁc needs of project teachers. The program ought to be supportive,
sustainable, and adaptive to contingencies in the target context.
178 8 Conclusion
(2) There should be a community of learning and practice in which teachers and
researchers interact through identifying and investigating unexplored areas in
learning and teaching, and by connecting theory with practice.
(3) There should be a pressure-free education management mechanism that
respects, supports, and fosters teacher autonomy. External and prescriptive
teacher training courses are by no means the only way; school-based in-service
teacher learning has the potential to become an effective and legitimate
alternative approach to promoting language teachers’ professional develop-
ment. Thus, sufﬁcient ﬁnancial and intellectual support should be allocated to
promote self-directed teacher learning.
(4) There should be a socio-political climate that favors whole-person learner
development, and that mitigates the negative impact of standardized language
tests on learning.
(5) There should be local opinion leaders who are personally influential in the
setting, and who have the capacity to allocate resources at the school level.
Support from opinion leaders is of vital importance to the implementation of
an innovation project.
(6) There should be acceptance of and readiness for failure. Educational change is
destined to be an arduous long journey, full of bumps and falls. Success could
come much later than expected.
8.3 Implications
The present study attempts to ﬁll the identiﬁed research gap by sketching the lines
of changes of teacher cognition and teaching practice within an EFL innovation
project running deeply and continually in Chinese secondary classrooms. As there
is a paucity of accessible studies that cover such an extended time span, and that
investigate the dynamics of classroom instruction despite all their complexities, this
study contributes to the ﬁeld with implications in the following aspects.
(1) Educational innovation is not always as successful as expected. It is an
arduous and long journey that may not end at the planned destination.
However, the amount of time, energy, and resources stake-holders invest in it
is still likely to predict its success.
(2) An on-going, in-depth, school-tailored teacher education program is an
essential prerequisite for the implementation of innovation project. The pro-
gram ought to be teacher-centered—that is, it should be designed to cater to
teachers’ contingent needs in speciﬁc educational contexts. The role of teacher
educator is not that of knowledge provider, but that of a guide, facilitator, and
collaborator.
(3) Explicitly stating innovation principles and appropriate teacher training by
presenting, exemplifying, and demonstrating teaching practice at the initial
stage of an innovation project is necessary, as it contributes to developing PTs’
8.2 Discussion 179
explicit cognition. Nevertheless, a mechanism that encourages and supports
self-directed teacher learning is more important to facilitate sustainable teacher
professional development. It is through reflection on personal and peers
experience that explicit cognition is converted into implicit cognition, and then
related to established teaching practices.
(4) The stagnant phase in curriculum innovation does not necessarily indicate
failure; rather, it might be a critical period in which the teacher’s
psycho-cognitive and socio-affective processing is involved in absorbing and
decoding teacher learning and, in turn, changes in teaching practices.
(5) University-school collaboration is by no means a realm in which knowledge,
ideology, and practices are ‘taught’ by university researchers to school
teachers. Rather, both parts are collaborators with equivalent resources to
contribute, and their interaction is a process of exploration by jointly con-
structing new knowledge, ideologies, and practices.
(6) When evaluating whether an innovation project is successful, a valid method
to adopt is to observe whether there are beneﬁcial and veriﬁable changes in
PTs’ cognition and teaching practices. Moreover, one needs to be mindful, as
external pressure might lead to inconsistencies between what a teacher states,
and what he or she does.
(7) The adoption of an innovation takes much longer than has been speculated.
Four years is regarded as a long period for a doctoral study; however, it is still
a short period for the adoption of an educational change. As illustrated by the
by Rogers’ (1983) widely-quoted S-shape curve (see in Fig. 8.3), the shaded
area marks “the heart of the diffusion process” (Rogers, 2003, p. 274)—that is,
Percentage
of
Adopters
Time
Cumulative S-shaped
curve
Bell-shaped
frequency curve
Fig. 8.3 The S-shape curve of adoption (based on Rogers, 1983, p. 243)
180 8 Conclusion
from about 10 to 20% adoption of the diffusion curve. According to Rogers,
diffusion begins to accelerate after that point, and becomes impossible to
stop. Regarding the Danyang Project, the number of PTs who completely
accepted the innovative principles and who translated innovative cognition
into teaching behavior is still very limited, as we were still at the initial stage
of diffusion, even after over four years’ implementation of the project.
8.4 Limitations
One major limitation in this study relates to the criticism of ethnographic studies in
general—that is, it seems to be too grand and unmanageable to reach speciﬁc and
convincing conclusions. Though ethnography has its intrinsic limitations, as do
other research methods, it is a powerful tool for seeking answers to meaningful
questions hidden behind the intricacies of human society (Dörnyei, 2007).
Another limitation, based on the scope of this study, concerns the number of
focal participants. Among 10 teacher participants who had been the DP members
for the past four years, only one teacher was selected to be reported on in this
dissertation. Despite her typicality and representativeness, the author does not
propose the changes that occurred to Marian must also happen to other teachers or
in other educational settings. The route travelled by Marian is unique, integrating
personal endeavors and external inputs to which she had been exposed. As with
other qualitative studies rooted in the naturalistic paradigm, this study features an
in-depth investigation of individual experience to illuminate and enlighten, rather
than to inform readers with deﬁnite rules for generalization. Admittedly, more
interesting ﬁndings would have been possible if more than one focal participant had
been selected; however, this study can serve as a reliable reference informing
ensuing research.
The third limitation of this thesis concerns the relationship between research and
teaching. Research in SLA and language teaching to date still leaves numerous
unexplored areas. While these unsolved questions continually give impetus to the
development of this ﬁeld, the researcher of this study, along with her fellow
researchers involved in the Danyang Project, constantly ﬁnd it difﬁcult to give
deﬁnite and satisfactory answers in response to PTs’ enquiries. How corrective
feedback should be provided, for example, is a question that has invoked a large
body of research yielding somewhat controversial ﬁndings. As there is always a gap
between research and classroom practices, the researcher regards unanswered
questions as triggers informing future research.
8.3 Implications 181
8.5 Suggestions for Future Studies
Due to the limitations of the present study, it is suggested that future studies address
questions concerning the constancy and inconsistency between teacher cognition
and practices, using a more easily-manipulated method. It would be worthwhile to
select one aspect of classroom instruction and involve teachers in immediate
reflection thereon. In that case, more restricted methods, such as stimulated recall,
could be employed to elicit teachers’ belief, knowledge and attitudes about speciﬁc
aspects of their teaching. The ﬁndings from a normative study would be a quite
informative complement to both the present study and the ﬁeld as a whole. As
depicted in this study, despite all the ups and downs she experienced in the
Danyang Project, Marian, when alone in a new educational setting, started a new
professional journey full of fascinating uncertainties; similarly, studies relating to
the ﬁeld are always intriguing endeavors for more researchers to conduct.
182 8 Conclusion
Appendix A
The English classroom teaching evaluation form used for unfocussed classroom
observation
English Classroom Teaching Evaluation Form
(Translated from Shu et al., 2012, pp. 412–414)
School Teacher’s name Date
Teaching contents Grade
Evaluation scheme 5 4 3
Teacher’s teaching behaviors Teaching principles 1. Develop learners’
capacity to use target
language and emphasize
using language in
contextualized
situations;
2. Help learners form
beneﬁcial learning habits
and train effective
learning strategies;
3. Give respect, care and
love to all students
Organizing classroom activities 1. The pedagogical
objectives are clear
2. The teacher’s
presentation and
instruction is explicit
3. There is a clear and
reasonable division of
teaching steps and
natural transition in
between
4. There is a variation of
instructional activities
that are in accordance
with pedagogical
objectives
(continued)
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0
183
(continued)
School Teacher’s name Date
5. The teacher exhibits
good questioning
strategies that can
promote learner
engagement in
classroom interaction
6. The teacher can
accommodate the
content and tempo of
teaching to learners’
performance
Using teaching resources 1. The teacher can select
suitable instructional
materials and
appropriately make
necessary adaptations
2. The teacher can use
multi-media equipment
to facilitate teaching
Achieving pedagogical objectives 1. The teacher can
arrange teaching steps in
a logical way and
highlight the key points
2. The teacher can attain
the pre-set pedagogical
objectives
Teacher’s presenting skills 1. teach with passion;
2. good pronunciation
and clear articulation;
3. speak target language
accurately and fluently;
4. communicate with
learners and understand
their needs;
Students’ learning behaviors Students’ performance 1. Students show interest
in learning and actively
participate in classroom
activities
2. Students can
understand and follow
the teacher’s instruction
to do classroom activities
as expected
3. Students can speak
loudly in English and
avoid using their L1
184 Appendix A
Appendix B
A classroom observation scheme used for focused classroom observation
Classroom observation scheme for participatory structure
Date: Class: Teacher: Observer: Teaching content:
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
6 Zhu Y.
M1
Yan X.
M4
Wei Y.
M3
Wu Y.
M2
5 Zhang
M. F3
Zhang
C. M3
Liu Y.
F2
Wu H.
M2
Zhu S.
F3
Leng F.
M4
Li S.
M3
4 Xu W.
M3
Wu Q.
F4
Zhou D.
F2
Yu T.
M4
Zhang
Y. F3
Sun H.
M3
Xu C.
F3
Lu
J. M3
Mao Y.
F3
3 Tang
J. M4
Zhang
N. F4
Wu Y.
F5
Xu Y.
M3
Gong
Y.
F2
Li C.
M2
He
Jiao F4
Cao R.
M2
Gong
N. F4
2 Sun H.
M3
Chen N.
F4
Ma Y.
F5
Zhu X.
M5
Xu Y.
F4
Jiang
K. M3
He Jia
F4
Cai S.
M2
Zhuge
Q. F5
1 Cheng
Z. M4
Wang
Y. F2
Fan W.
F4
Jiang
C. M4
Zhou Y.
F4
Sun X.
M5
Zhu
J. F4
Tian X.
M3
Zhu C.
F3
Teacher’s Desk
Note: This observation scheme was constructed in consultation with the teacher observee before he taught the
class. The layout of this scheme was a miniature classroom map in which one cell stood for one learner. In each
cell, there was a student’s name, his or her gender (M/F) and proﬁciency level estimated by teacher (1-5 ranging
from the lowest to the highest). When using this scheme, observers could draw lines with arrows to signal
patterns of teacher-student and student-student interaction
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0
185
Appendix C
Codebook for Coding Qualitative Data
1. [Pre] teacher’s pressure
(1) <EM> exam
(2) <WL> workload
(3) <SC> society and community
(4) <Par> parents
(5) <GSS> good students
(6) <USS> under-developed students
2. [EL] easy learning
(1) <EEL> expectation of easy learning
(2) <TEL> teaching for purpose of easy learning
3. [BLL] beliefs about language learning
(1) <L1&L2> L1 acquisition and L2 learning
(2) <Mot> motivation
(3) <LC> language communication
(4) <LLB> learner’s prior learning background
(5) <RL> rote learning
(6) <AI> audio recordings input
(7) <LLA> learner’s language aptitude
(8) <GRM> grammar
(9) <LS> learning strategy
(10) <Voc> vocabulary
(11) <PN> phonology
(12) <LA> learner autonomy
(13) <LAF> learner affective factors
(14) <WLE> why learn English
(15) <FS> Forms
(16) <F&A> fluency & accuracy
(17) <ER> extended reading
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0
187
(18) <LJ> learning journal
(19) <OC> organized classroom
(20) <LO> learner output
4. [CCI] constraints on curriculum innovation
(1) <LLP> learner’s language proﬁciency
(2) <TLP> teacher’s language proﬁciency
(3) <LW> learner’s workload
(4) <LBS> leaner’s busy schedule
(5) <TAF> teacher’s age factor
(6) <BH> bad health
(7) <TTK> teacher’s theoretical knowledge
5. [TPB] teacher’s professional background
(1) <BT> begin time
(2) <TT> teacher’s teacher
(3) <Conf>conﬁdence
(4) <TLS> teacher’s learning strategy
(5) <TSL> teacher’s success in learning
(6) <PTE> pre-service teacher education
(7) <TWE> teacher’s work experience
(8) <TLE> teacher’s learning experience
6. [TB] textbook
(1) <FT> follow textbook
(2) <AT> adapt textbook
(3) <STM> supplement teaching materials
(4) <DT> design task
(5) <DTB> difﬁcult text book
(6) <ETB> experimental textbook
(7) <MTB> mandated textbook
(8) <MTM> mandated teaching materials
(9) <TM> teaching materials
7. [BLT] teacher’s beliefs about language teaching
(1) <GTT> grammar-translation teaching
(2) <TFT> teacher-fronted teaching
(3) <CLP> classroom presentation
(4) <TL> teaching listening
(5) <TR> teaching reading
(6) <ST> story telling
(7) <Comp> competition
(8) <ES> emotional scaffolding and inspiration
(9) <TS> teaching speaking
(10) <TW> teaching writing
188 Appendix C
(11) <NA> needs analysis
(12) <EA> extra-curricular activity
(13) <CA> classroom activity
(14) <TP> teaching pedagogy
(15) <TRL> teaching by rote learning
(16) <NC> national curriculum
(17) <TPI> teacher-parents interaction
(18) <TLR> teacher and learner’s roles in classroom
(19) <SFB> student’s feedback
(20) <CF> corrective feedback
(21) <KC> knowledge of culture
(22) <LP> lesson planning
(23) <CLI> contextualized language input
(24) <LES> Listening to English songs
(26) <IT> improve teaching
(27) <TDAL> teacher-directed autonomous learning
(28) <IA> innovative assessment
(29) <GS> goal setting
(30) <WM> watch movie
(31) <TBLT> task-based language teaching
(32) <M&F> meaning & form
(33) <DI> deductive instruction
(34) <II> inductive instruction
(35) <LLD> learner’s long-term development
8. [CI] colleague interaction
(1) <CE> colleague encouragement
(2) <CP> colleague pressure
(3) <CL> colleague learning
(4) <CN> colleague negotiation
9. [CPL] community of practice and learning
(1) <HES> Huanan Experimental School
(2) <TRG> Teaching Research Group
(3) <PHD> PhD students
(3) <EXP> experts
(4) <COS> colleagues outside school
(5) <CIS> colleagues inside school
(6) <CIP> colleagues in innovation project
(7) <CAD> class advisor
(8) <WA> win awards
(9) <TTS> teacher’s team spirit
(10) <RS> rural school
(11) <IR> institutional regulation
Appendix C 189
10. [CO] classroom observation
(1) <CD> classroom discourse
(2) <COF> classroom observation feedback
(3) <PCO> peer classroom observation
(4) <PGCO> project group classroom observation
(5) <PL> public lesson
(6) <POM> pre-observation meeting
(7) <OS> classroom observation scheme
(8) <NT> note taking
(9) <GO> global observation
(10) <FO> focused observation
(11) <TA> time allotment
11. [TD] teacher development
(1) <WI> awareness to improve
(2) <TRT> teacher training
(3) <GA> going abroad
(4) <MD> master degree
(5) <TRC> teacher-researcher collaboration
(6) <TRP> teacher’s research project
(7) <TPL> teacher’s professional level
(8) <IP> innovation project
(9) <ESC> explicit statement of change
(10) <RB> read books for teacher development
(11) <LTT> language teaching theory
(12) <VBT> value of being a teacher
(13) <TJ> teaching journal
(14) <RP> reflective practice
(15) <Ref> reflection
(16) <TN> teacher’s needs
(17) <Pub> publication
(18) <EP> exchange program
(19) <LL> lifetime learning
(20) <CT> charisma of teacher
(21) <BC> being critical
(22) <TTL> teacher training lectures
(23) <DIP> difﬁculty confronted in innovation project
(24) <SF> sense of fulﬁllmen
190 Appendix C
Appendix D
A coded classroom transcript1
1
Due to the limit of space, columns containing the beginning time, the end time and the types of
exchanges (Preparatory Ex./ Nuclear Ex./ Embedded Ex./Dependent Ex.) were omitted in this
appendix.
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0
191
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
A1:
Greetings
N/A
0.85
TT
Hi
class
m
T-AS
T
IRF
1.56
AST
Good
morning,
Miss
Li
RL
0.75
TT
Sit
down,
please
1.34
Silence
<Students
sit
down.>
m
T-AS
T
IRF
5.73
TT
Today,
so
many
students
have
come
to
our
classroom,
so
let's
welcome
them
2.65
AST
<Clap
hands.>
2.64
TT
<Clap
hands.>
1.46
TT
Thank
you.
Thank
you
A2:
A
student
gave
a
presentation
to
introduce
herself.
SPM
4.44
TT
And
today,
it
is
our
demo
time
now
m
T-IS
T
IR
3.61
TT
Er…who
is
the
next
one?
0.82
TT
No.
7
0.65
Silence
(Wait
time)
1.65
TT
S's
name.
Yes,
please
come
here
5.01
Silence
<The
presenter
goes
to
the
front.>
(continued)
192 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
1.35
TT
Listen
to
her
carefully
m
T-AS
T
IR
1.15
Silence
(silence)
4.85
IST
Hello,
everyone.
Now
let's
introduce
my
friend,
S's
name
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
2.38
IST
She
is
13
years
old
UL
1.37
IST
She
is
***
UL
3.72
IST
She
is
a
new
student
in
Yan
Ling
Middle
School
UL
2.25
IST
She
is
tall
UL
1.29
IST
Her
hair
is
long
UL
1.41
IST
And
she
wear
glasses
UL
2.61
IST
She
had
many
hobby
UL
4.17
IST
reading,
swimming,
listening
to
music
and
playing
chess
UL
3.06
IST
She
is
good
at
playing
chess
and
swimming
UL
6.47
IST
She
has
a
big
family:
her
grandparents,
her
parents,
her
sister
and
she
UL
4.68
IST
She
is,
she
want
to
be
an
English
teacher
when
she
grow
up
UL
1.94
IST
This
is
her.
Thank
you
UL
0.92
Silence
(silence)
0.93
TT
Ok,
thank
you
m
T-IS-AS
T
IR
1.08
TT
<Clap
hands>
1.08
AST
<Clap
hands.>
1.55
TT
Stop
here.
Stop
here
m
T-IS
T
IRF
(continued)
Appendix D 193
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
2.65
TT
Do
you
have
any
questions
to
ask
them?
RQ
0.68
IST
Yes
RLL
0.57
TT
Yes
3.49
IST
What
my
hobby?
What
are
my
hobby?
m
IS-T-IS
S
IR
ULL
2.65
Silence
(wait
time)
0.95
TT
Yes?
0.86
TT
Yes?
0.91
IST
S's
name
3.19
IST
Your
hobbies
are
swimming
and
reading
ULL
3.27
IST
Em,
no…
***
1.46
Silence
(pause)
1.13
TT
Some
others
m
IS-T-IS
T
IRF
1.06
Silence
(wait
time)
1.03
TT
S's
name.
Ok.
Say
2.59
IST
Listen
to
music
and
the
chess
ULL
0.85
IST
Yes
1.12
Silence
(Silence)
m
T-IS
T
IR
2.47
TT
Yes,
ok,
so
any
questions?
RQ
2.81
IST
Em.
How
many
people
are
my
family?
ULL
1.94
Silence
(wait
time)
0.55
IST
S's
name
m
IS-IS
S
IRF
RLL
6.73
IST
Your
grandparents,
parents,
sister
and
your
ULL
1.86
TT
Yes,
and
your…
0.43
TT
And…
m
T-AS
T
IRF
1.06
AST
you
RLL
(continued)
194 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
2.88
TT
Yes,
ok.
Thank
you.
Very
good
2.29
AST
<Clap
hands.>
0.735
TT
Very
good
3.85
TT
And
now,
we
will
give
her
some
points
m
T-AS
T
IR
3.78
TT
Here,
clearly?
Is,
does
she
speak
clearly?
DQ
1.34
AST
Yes
RLL
1.17
TT
And
correctly?
m
T-AS
T
IR
DQ
1.27
AST
Yes
RLL
1.05
TT
And
loudly?
m
T-AS
T
IR
DQ
0.84
AST
Yes
RLL
1.37
TT
And
fluently?
m
T-AS
T
IR
DQ
1.15
AST
Yes
RLL
2.66
TT
So
how
many
point
can
she
get?
m
T-AS
T
IRF
RQ
1.17
AST
Ten
RLL
1.77
TT
Yes,
ten.
Very
good
2.9
TT
Ok,
so,
let's
give
her
claps
again
m
T-AS
T
IR
2.41
AST
<Clap
hands.>
A3.
Lead-in.
The
teacher
showed
some
pictures
of
sport
stars
on
PPT
slides,
asked
the
students
some
questions
and
teaches
TDM
8
TT
Ok,
just
now,
S's
name
tells
us
she
is
good
at
swimming,
right?
m
T-AS
T
IR
DQ
2.2
TT
She
is
good
at
swimming,
right?
1.22
AST
Yes
RLL
5.37
TT
And
do
you
know
what
is
Lin
Dan
good
at?
m
T-SS
T
IRF
RQ
0.83
Silence
(wait
time)
(continued)
Appendix D 195
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
several
useful
phrases
2.82
TT
What
sport
is
Lin
Dan
good
at?
1.16
TT
Do
you
know
him?
DQ
0.71
Silence
(wait
time)
1.26
TT
Do
you
know
Lin
Dan?
0.81
Silence
(wait
time)
0.67
SST
Yes
RLL
0.62
TT
Yes
3.49
TT
So
he
is
good
at…what?
m
T-IS
T
IRF
RQ
1.69
Silence
(wait
time)
0.72
TT
Yes
2.09
TT
What?
What
is
he
good
at?
2.24
Silence
(wait
time)
0.84
TT
S's
name.
You
0.84
TT
Have
a
try
2.21
IST
He
is
good
at
tennis
ULL
3.5
TT
He
is
good
at
tennis.
Tennis,
right?
DQ
2.37
TT
No,
he
is
good
at
badminton
1.97
TT
Ok,
sit
down,
please.
Thank
you
1.19
TT
Read
after
me.
Badminton
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.2
AST
Badminton
RLL
0.89
TT
Twice
f
T-AS
T
IR
2.37
AST
Badminton,
badminton
RLL
2.64
TT
Yes,
so.
Do
you
know,
what's
the
meaning?
The
badminton
m
T-SS
T
IRF
DQ
0.89
Silence
(Silence)
1.28
SST
羽毛球。
RLL
(continued)
196 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
0.85
TT
Yes.
Very
good
3.18
TT
Next
one,
what
sport
is
Li
Na
good
at?
m
T-IS
T
IR
RQ
0.81
Silence
(wait
time)
2.33
TT
Try
to
put
up
your
hands
1.1
TT
Very
good.
You
1.69
IST
She
is
good
at
tennis
UL
1.82
TT
Yes,
do
you
think
so?
m
T-AS
T
IR
DQ
1.07
AST
Yes
RL
1.75
TT
Ok?
Now
read
after
me.
Tennis
f
T-AS
T
IR
0.84
AST
Tennis
RL
1.26
TT
Tennis,
twice
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.33
AST
Tennis,
tennis
RL
0.97
TT
Here,
tennis
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.55
AST
Tennis,
tennis
RL
0.52
TT
/e/
f
T-AS
T
IR
0.97
AST
/e/
RL
0.6
TT
/e/
f
T-AS
T
IR
0.77
AST
/e/
RL
0.76
TT
/e/
f
T-AS
T
IR
0.8
AST
/e/
RL
0.39
TT
/e/
f
T-AS
T
IR
0.6
AST
/e/
RL
1.27
TT
Yes,
again.
/e/
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.28
AST
/e/,
/e/
RL
0.74
TT
/i/
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.23
AST
/i/,
/i/
RL
0.57
TT
tennis
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.47
AST
tennis,
tennis
RL
(continued)
Appendix D 197
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
1.48
TT
Again,
tennis
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.57
AST
Tennis,
tennis
RL
0.49
TT
Good
m
T-IS
T
IRF
3.36
TT
Next
one.
What
sport
are
they
good
at?
RQ
1.25
Silence
(wait
time)
0.48
TT
You
1.25
IST
football
RL
1.33
TT
Ok,
football
2.02
TT
Ok,
football
or
volleyball?
f
T-IS
T
IR
DQ
2.28
TT
Ok,
the
full
sentence,
you
should
say…
1.09
TT
Again
1.36
IST
at
volleyball
RL
1.89
TT
They
are…again
f
T-IS
T
IR
1.5
IST
They
are
volleyball
UL
1.29
TT
They
are
volleyball?
f
T-IS-AS
T
IRF
DQ
0.91
AST
<laughter>
0.5
TT
Ok
1.68
IST
They
are
playing
volleyball
UL
0.82
TT
Ok,
thank
you
1.645
TT
You,
stand
up.
Again
f
T-IS
T
IR
2.31
IST
They
are
playing
volleyball
UL
1.13
TT
They
are…
f
T-IS
T
IR
1.19
TT
They
are…
1.37
IST
playing
volleyball
RL
2.72
TT
playing
volleyball.
They
are
good…at
f
T-IS
T
IRF
0.77
TT
Again
(continued)
198 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
3.31
IST
They
are
good
at
playing
volleyball
UL
1.3
TT
Thank
you.
Very
good
4.21
TT
Next
one.
Here,
volleyball.
Read
after
me
f
T-AS
T
IR
3.15
AST
Volleyball.
Volleyball
RL
0.92
TT
Volleyball
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.98
AST
Volleyball,
volleyball
RL
0.62
TT
/o/
f
T-AS
T
IR
0.59
AST
/o/
RL
0.59
TT
/o/
f
T-AS
T
IR
0.53
AST
/o/
RL
0.48
TT
/i/
f
T-AS
T
IR
0.47
AST
/i/
RL
0.46
TT
/i/
f
T-AS
T
IR
0.53
AST
/i/
RL
0.64
TT
volleyball
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.16
AST
volleyball,
volleyball
RL
1.37
TT
Yeah,
very
good
m
T-IS
T
IR
4.64
TT
Next
one.
What
sport
is
Yi
Jianlian
good
at?
RQ
2.48
Silence
<Many
students
raise
their
hands.>
0.96
TT
Anybody?
You
2.72
IST
He
is
good
at
playing
basketball
UL
1.21
TT
Do
you
think
so?
m
T-IS-AS
T
IRF
DQ
1.13
AST
Yes
RL
2.15
TT
Yes.
Very
clever
answer
1.59
Silence
<prepare
PPT>
1.18
TT
Ok,
next
one
m
T-IS
T
IR
(continued)
Appendix D 199
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
3.54
TT
What
sport
is
Li
Xiaoxia
good
at?
RQ
0.9
Silence
<Many
students
raise
hands.>
0.46
TT
S's
name
3.5
IST
She
is
good
at
play,
play
table
tennis
UL
3.89
TT
She
is
good
at
playing
table
tennis
m
T-IS
T
IRF
1.31
Silence
(pause)
0.94
TT
Right?
1.87
TT
Think
the
***
2.32
TT
She
is
good
at
play…
1.73
IST
Playing
table
tennis
UL
1.99
TT
Yeah,
thank
you.
You
are
right
1.14
Silence
(pause)
2.98
TT
She
is
good
at
playing
table
tennis
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.6
TT
Ok,
together,
table
tennis
1.06
AST
Table
tennis
RL
1
TT
Again
f
T-AS
T
IRF
2.31
AST
Table
tennis.
Table
tennis
RL
1.05
TT
Good
3.23
TT
And
what
sport
is
Sun
Yang
good
at?
m
T-IS
T
IR
RQ
1.22
Silence
(pause)
0.75
TT
Sun
Yang
1.61
Silence
<Many
students
raise
their
hands.>
0.8
TT
S's
name
(continued)
200 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
3.48
IST
Sun
Yang
is
good
at
swimming
UL
1.74
Silence
(silence)
m
T-SS
T
IR
1.44
TT
Do
you
agree
with
him?
DQ
0.81
SST
Yes
RL
0.86
TT
Yes
or
no?
m
T-AS
T
IRF
0.77
AST
Yes
RL
1.73
TT
Very
good.
Thank
you
1.07
TT
Very
good
answer
0.4
Silence
(pause)
3.29
TT
Ok,
he
is
good
at
swimming
m
T-AS
T
IR
A4:
Students
worked
out
an
exercise
in
the
textbook
and
then
the
teacher
checked
their
answers
MMTA
5.07
TT
And
what
are
the
students
good
at?
RQ
4.07
TT
Now,
you
can
open
your
books.
Turn
to
page
19
6.04
TT
Page
***.
Finish
exercise
1,
part
A
31.16
Silence
<Students
work
on
the
exercise.
The
teacher
walks
among
the
students.>
1.4
TT
So,
have
you
ﬁnished?
m
T-SS
T
IR
2.7
Silence
(wait
time)
2
TT
Yes
or
no?
Have
you
ﬁnished?
1.49
SST
Yes
RL
2.57
TT
Ok,
yes,
the
ﬁrst
one,
you
m
T-IS
T
IR
2.9
Silence
<The
student
stands
up.>
2.05
TT
The
whole
sentence.
Read
m&f
T-IS
T
IR
1.55
Silence
(wait
time)
1.05
IST
We
are
playing
volleyball
UL
(continued)
Appendix D 201
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
1.26
TT
We
are
playing…
m&f
T-IS
T
IRF
0.79
Silence
(wait
time)
2.17
TT
Look
at
the
sentence
carefully
2.05
TT
We
like…
1.83
IST
playing
foot,
volleyball
UL
1.97
TT
Yes,
volleyball.
Thank
you
0.94
TT
Go
on.
Next
one
m&f
T-IS
T
IR
1.54
Silence
(wait
time)
2.59
IST
I'm
good
at
playing
table
tennis
UL
0.83
TT
Yes
1.92
TT
And
next
one,
go
on
m&f
T-IS
T
IR
1.7
IST
We
are
playing
football
UL
3.6
TT
Yes.
That
is
Simon,
right?
Simon
likes
playing
football
2.22
IST
I
enjoy
swimming
m&f
T-IS-SS
S
IRF
UL
0.8
TT
Right?
DQ
0.5
SST
Yes
RL
1.1
TT
Yes.
Ok
4.02
TT
Anybody
who
get
all
the
answer
correctly,
please
put
up
your
hands
m
T-IS
T
IR
0.6
TT
Let's
see
1.36
Silence
<Many
students
raise
their
hands.>
2.53
TT
Yes,
thank
you,
very
good
A5:
The
teacher
asked
TDM
6.16
TT
And,
now.
S's
name.
S'a
name
5.38
TT
What
sport
are
you
good
at?
RQ
(continued)
202 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
some
students
about
their
favourite
sports.
Next
students
worked
in
pairs
to
practice
the
dialogue.
Then
students
were
asked
to
perform
the
dialogue
in
groups
1.89
IST
I'm
good
at…
UL
3.6
Silence
(silence)
1.43
TT
What
sport
are
you
good
at?
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.21
Silence
(wait
time)
3.25
IST
I
good
at
tabl…playing
table
tennis
UL
0.89
TT
I
good
at
m
T-IS
T
IRF
1.17
TT
I
good
at
0.94
Silence
(wait
time)
3.13
IST
I
am
good
at
playing
table
tennis
UL
1.03
TT
Yeah,
very
good
2.24
TT
Next
one,
what's
your
favorite
sport?
m
T-IS
T
IRF
RQ
3
IST
I'm
good
at
playing
basketball
UL
1.16
TT
Ok,
thank
you
0.69
Silence
(pause)
4.72
TT
Next
one,
what
sport
do
you
like
best?
m
T-IS
T
IR
RQ
3.52
IST
I
like
playing
volleyball
UL
3.13
TT
You
like
playing
volleyball…
best,
right?
m
T-IS
T
IRF
1.59
TT
Ok,
thank
you,
sit
down,
please
1.66
TT
And,
you
1.09
Silence
<The
student
stands
up.>
2.52
TT
What
is
your
favorite
sport?
RQ
3.63
IST
My
favorite
sport
is…table
tennis
UL
1.43
TT
Yes,
very
good
answer
(continued)
Appendix D 203
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
5.16
TT
Please
work
in
pairs.
One
ask,
one
answer
m
T-AS
T
IR
1.92
TT
What
is
your
favorite
sport
8.19
TT
Then
answer
I
love,
I
enjoy,
or
I…I
like.
Or
my
favorite
sport
is…
1.24
TT
Ok,
can
you
understand
me?
2.38
TT
Yes,
now,
work
in
pairs.
Be
quick
25.25
PST
<Students
work
in
pairs
and
practice
the
dialogue.>
1.69
TT
Ok,
have
you
ﬁnished?
T-AS
T
IR
8.37
TT
Ok,
now,
I
will
ask
you
to
do
the
dialogue
in
teams
m
3.6
TT
Clear?
In
teams.
That
is
a
team,
team,
team
4
TT
Ok.
Now
one
ask,
one
answer.
And
then
you
ask,
and
you
answer
2.26
TT
Ok,
have
you
understood
me?
1.4
TT
Now,
let's
have
a
try
3.12
TT
Oh,
yes.
This
group.
Stand
up
m
T-SS
T
IR
1.63
Silence
<A
column
of
students
stand
up.>
2.63
TT
Please
turn
back,
ask
her
2.5
Silence
(Silence)
1.8
IST
What
is
your…
m
IS-T-IS
S
IR
UL
1.56
Silence
<The
student
struggles.>
0.21
TT
favorite
2.15
IST
favorite
sport?
UL
(continued)
204 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
6.77
Silence
(Silence)
1.99
IST
I
like
playing
volleyball
UL
2.74
IST
What
is
your
favorite
sport?
m
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1.98
IST
My
favorite
sport
is
running
UL
1.62
IST
What
is
your
favorite
sport?
m
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
2.74
IST
My
favorite
sport
is
running
UL
1.74
IST
What
is
your
favorite
sport?
m
IS-T-IS
S
IR
UL
1.56
IST
I
like
***
UL
2.64
TT
Ok,
ok,
now,
thank
you
1.47
Silence
(pause)
1.13
TT
Thank
you,
sit
down,
please
3.44
TT
Another
group.
This
one.
Stand
up
m
T-SS
T
IR
2.16
IST
What
is
your
favorite
sport?
m
IS-IS
S
IR
3.3
IST
I
like,
I
like
playing
table
tennis
best
UL
2.72
IST
What
is
your
favorite
sport?
m
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
2.9
IST
My
favorite
sport
is
***
UL
2.04
IST
What
is
your
favorite
sport?
m
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
2.59
IST
My
favorite
sport
is
running
UL
2.18
IST
What
is
your
favorite
sport?
m
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
0.91
IST
My
favorite
is
running
UL
1.4
IST
What
is
your
favorite
sport?
m
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
2.69
IST
My
favorite
sport
is
running
UL
2.94
TT
Ok,
thank
you.
Very
good.
Very
good.
Thank
you
m
T-SS
T
IR
(continued)
Appendix D 205
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
A6:
The
teacher
asked
the
students
to
listen
to
a
conversation
and
completed
an
exercise
in
the
textbook.
Then
the
teacher
checked
students’
answers,
asked
them
to
read
the
conversation
and
invited
some
students
to
present
the
conversation
in
pairs.
MMTA
4.27
TT
Now,
Simon
and
Amy
are
also
talking
about
sports
m
T-AS
T
IR
7.55
TT
Now,
please
listen
careful
and
ﬁnish
the
short
passage
2.09
TT
Ok,
so,
are
you
ready?
0.69
Silence
(pause)
1.08
TT
Listen
carefully
2.61
Silence
<prepare
audio
recording>
m
AI-AS-T
T
IR
3.95
AI
I
went
to
swim.
What
is
your
favorite
sport,
Simon?
4.72
AI
I
want
to
play
football.
Do
you
often
play
football?
3.62
AI
Yes,
I
often
play
football
after
school
1.1
AI
What
about
you?
2.83
AI
I
go
swimming
every
week
1.71
Silence
<Many
students
raise
hands.>
2.48
TT
If
you
get
the
answer,
put
up
your
hands.
Very
good
m&f
T-IS
T
IRF
1.75
TT
The
ﬁrst
one.
You
2.46
Silence
<The
student
stands
up.>
1.12
IST
Eddie
like
swimming
UL
1.42
TT
Swimming,
good
2.29
TT
Next
one.
You
m&f
T-IS
T
IRF
2.65
IST
Simon
likes
playing
football
UL
0.98
TT
Very
good
2.56
TT
Next
one.
You.
S's
name
m&f
T-IS
T
IRF
2.79
IST
He
often
plays
it
after
school
UL
1.9
TT
Yes,
very
good.
Thank
you
(continued)
206 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
3.96
TT
The
last
one.
The
last
one.
Ok.
S's
name
m&f
T-IS
T
IRF
3.1
IST
Amy
goes
swimming
every
week
UL
1.44
TT
Every
week.
Do
you
think
so?
DQ
1.68
Silence
(wait
time)
m&f
T-IS-AS
T
IRF
1.68
TT
Every
week.
Yes
or
no?
DQ
1
AST
Yes
RL
1.6
TT
Yes,
ok.
Thank
you
1.47
TT
It's
very
good
answer
1.26
TT
Let's
read
together
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.39
TT
Amy
likes
swimming.
Begin
12.35
AST
Amy
likes
swimming.
Simon
likes
playing
football.
He
often
plays
it
after
school.
Amy
goes
swimming
every
weekend
UL
4.92
TT
Now,
open
your
books.
Turn
to
page
19,
turn
to
page
19
m&f
T-AS
T
IR
11.69
TT
Please
read
the
dialogue
by
yourself,
try
remember
them.
Then
I
will
ask
you
act
out
the
dialogue
in
front
of…
blackboard.
Ok?
2.68
TT
One
is
Amy.
One
is
Simon
1.92
TT
I'll
give
you
two
minutes.
Be
quick
58.37
PST
<Students
work
in
pairs.>
2.8
TT
Ok,
stop.
Stop
m
T-AS
T
IR
0.91
Silence
(pause)
(continued)
Appendix D 207
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
1.6
TT
Now,
which
pair?
m
T-SS
T
IR
1.51
TT
Any
volunteers?
6.16
TT
Yes,
em,
S's
name
and
your
partner
1.17
TT
Please
come
here
3.6
Silence
<Two
student
walk
to
the
front.>
0.56
PST
I'm
Simon
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1.06
PST
I'm
Amy
UL
10.54
PST
What,
what,
what's
your…I
like
swimming.
What's
your
favorite
sport?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1.77
PST
I
like
playing
football
UL
2.12
PST
Do
you
often
play
football?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
3.8
PST
Yes,
I
often
play
football
after
school
UL
1.79
PST
What
about
you?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1.65
PST
I
go
swimming
every
weekend
UL
2.35
TT
Every
weekend?
Or
every
week?
m&f
T-AS
T
IR
1.48
AST
Every
week
UL
3.88
TT
Ok,
let's
***.
Thank
you.
Go
back
to
your
seats
m
T-AS
T
IR
2.02
AST
<Clap
hands.>
1.29
Silence
(pause)
5.33
TT
So
do
anybody
has
better,
has
better
dialogues?
m
T-SS
T
IR
1.16
Silence
(wait
time)
1.2
TT
Yes,
you
1.19
TT
And
your
partner
(continued)
208 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
6.2
Silence
<Two
students
walk
to
the
front.>
1.13
PST
I'm
Simon
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1.54
PST
I'm
Amy
UL
1.21
Silence
(pause)
3.43
PST
I
like
swimming.
What's
your
favorite
sport,
Simon?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1.9
PST
I
like
playing
football
UL
1.89
PST
Do
you
often
play
football?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
2.91
PST
I
often
play
football
after
school.
What
about
you?
UL
2.25
PST
I
go
swimming
every
week
UL
1.63
TT
Ok,
thank
you
m
T-AS
T
IR
2.03
AST
<Clap
hands.>
2.55
TT
So
do
you
think
which
pair
is
better?
m
T-SS
T
IR
DQ
1.56
SST
Yes,
yes
RL
2.39
TT
Do
you
think
which
group
is
better?
m
T-SS
T
IRF
0.91
Silence
(wait
time)
1.39
TT
They
or
they?
1.58
SST
They,
they
RL
2.36
TT
Yes,
they
are
better.
Right?
DQ
2.08
TT
So,
they
are,
they
are
better
5.81
TT
So
pronunciation,
and
intonation,
and
their
body
language,
right?
DQ
1.18
TT
Ok,
very
good
A7:
The
teacher
demonstrated
a
conversation
TDM
14.45
TT
And
next
one,
I
***
to
look
at
another
dialogue,
just
practice
in
pairs
and
talk
about
your
favorite
sports
m
T-AS
T
IR
(continued)
Appendix D 209
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
with
one
student,
asked
students
to
construct
their
own
conversations
in
pairs
and
then
called
some
pairs
of
students
to
present
their
conversations.
1.33
Silence
(pause)
3.35
TT
Now,
please
talk
about
your
favourite
sports
1.79
TT
I'll
give
you
an
example
2.71
TT
First
one,
you,
boy
m
T-IS
T
IR
0.84
Silence
(pause)
1.59
TT
Hello.
Stand
up
3.61
TT
Hello,
my
name
is
Miss
Li
1.82
TT
Do
you
love
sports?
DQ
0.94
IST
Yes,
I
do
RL
1.98
TT
Good.
What
is
your
favourite
sport?
m
T-IS
T
IR
RQ
2.41
IST
I
like
***,
how
about
you
UL
1.04
TT
I
like
swimming
m
T-IS
T
IR
5.87
TT
Do
you
often,
do
you
often…
Yeah,
what
do
you
like?
RQ
0.87
IST
I
like…
RL
1.48
TT
You
like
play
football.
Oh
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.71
TT
Do
you
often
play
football?
RQ
1.55
Silence
(pause)
5.08
IST
Yes,
I
often
play
football…
er…after
school.
How
about
you?
UL
4.52
TT
I
often
go
swimming
at
weekend
m
T-IS
T
IR
0.93
Silence
(silence)
0.79
IST
Good
RL
0.87
Silence
(Silence)
1.26
TT
Thank
you,
Bye
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.77
TT
Ok,
thank
you
(continued)
210 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
3.9
TT
So
please
have
your
own
dialogues
like
this.
Ok?
m
T-AS
T
IR
1.08
TT
Be
quick
47.07
PST
<Students
work
in
pairs.>
1.19
TT
<clap
hands>
m
T-AS
T
IR
1.23
TT
Ok,
stop
here
3.55
TT
Stop
here.
Ok,
any
volunteers?
8.09
Silence
<Some
students
raise
their
hands.>
3.6
TT
Yeah,
S's
name.
Yeah.
And
your
partner.
Please
come
here
m
T-SS
T
IR
4.97
Silence
<Two
student
come
to
the
front.>
4.19
PST
Hello,
my
name
is
***.
Do
you
like
sports?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1.21
PST
Yes,
I
do
UL
4.04
PST
Good.
What
is
your
favorite
sport?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
2.14
PST
I
like
sport
UL
2.19
PST
What
about
you?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1.57
PST
I
like
sport
too
UL
2.34
Silence
(pause)
1.43
PST
Do
you
often
play
football?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IRF
UL
3.06
PST
I
often
play
football
at
***
UL
1.47
Silence
(pause)
0.76
PST
Good
UL
2.43
Silence
(pause)
1.23
PST
Thank
you.
Bye
UL
1.82
TT
Thank
you.
Bye
m&f
T-IS
T
IRF
(continued)
Appendix D 211
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
2.23
Silence
(pause)
4.72
TT
Yes,
he
says
goodbye
to
you,
and
what
you
should
say?
RQ
1.92
Silence
(wait
time)
0.99
TT
He
says
goodbye
0.58
PST
Bye
RL
2.13
TT
Yeah,
ok,
thank
you.
Go
back
to
your
seats
1.12
TT
Ok
m
T-SS
T
IR
4.25
TT
And
I
think
they
did
very
well
1.55
TT
So
anybody
else?
1.51
TT
Any
other
group?
1.69
Silence
<Some
students
raise
their
hands.>
1.15
TT
And
you,
ok?
3.51
Silence
<Two
students
walk
to
the
front.>
2.99
PST
Hello,
my
name
is
***.
Do
you
like
sports?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1.36
PST
I
like
***
UL
2.61
PST
Good.
What,
what
is
your
favorite
sport?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
4.55
PST
I
like
play
football,
playing
football.
What
about
you?
UL
2.14
PST
I
like
playing
basketball
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
2.48
PST
Do
you
often
play
basketball?
UL
1.57
Silence
(pause)
0.6
PST
football?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
(continued)
212 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
6.04
PST
I
often
play
football.
How
about
you?
UL
1.95
PST
I
often
play
basketball
UL
0.7
Silence
(pause)
0.65
PST
Good
UL
1.37
PST
Thank
you,
goodbye
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
0.56
PST
Goodbye
UL
2.73
TT
Ok,
thank
you.
Go
back
to
your
seats.
Please
give
them
claps
m
T-AS
T
IR
2.07
AST
<Clap
hands.>
1.57
TT
They
are
great
m
T-AS
T
IR
A8:
The
teacher
played
a
guessing
game
with
the
students.
She
showed
on
PPT
slides
some
pictures
about
playing
sports,
with
parts
of
the
pictures
intentionally
covered
and
asked
the
students
to
guess
what
sport
was
being
played
TDM
5.33
TT
Now,
I
think
we
will
play
a
game
2.1
TT
Would
you
like
to
play
a
game
with
me?
DQ
1.35
AST
Yes
2.29
TT
Yes,
now,
a
guessing
game
m
T-AS
T
IR
10.89
TT
Please
look
at
the
pictures
carefully
and
try
to
think
it
over.
What
sport
do
they
like?
RQ
1.06
Silence
(pause)
0.59
TT
Ok
3.51
TT
What
sports
do
they
like?
Put
up
your
hands
0.76
Silence
(wait
time)
1.79
TT
Ok…girl
m
T-IS
T
IR
2.52
IST
They
like
playing
volleyball
UL
1.35
TT
Do
you
think
so?
m
T-AS
T
IRF
DQ
1.04
AST
Yes
RL
(continued)
Appendix D 213
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
0.52
TT
Yes
0.53
TT
Ok
1
Silence
(pause)
4.04
TT
Let's
see
what
are,
what
sport
do
they
like?
m
T-AS
T
IR
1.98
Silence
<Show
the
word
badminton
on
the
PPT
slide.>
1.52
TT
Do
you
think
so?
1.37
Silence
(pause)
0.73
TT
Volleyball?
m
T-AS
T
IRF
DQ
3.28
TT
No,
they
like
playing
badminton
1.98
TT
Ok,
now,
read
after
me
again
0.72
TT
Badminton
4.16
AST
Badminton,
badminton,
badminton
RL
1.17
TT
Yes,
very
good
0.82
Silence
(pause)
1.07
TT
What
is
***?
m
T-IS
T
IR
RQ
2.83
Silence
(wait
time)
1.34
TT
S's
name.
Good
2.38
Silence
<The
student
stands
up.>
2.43
TT
What
sport
do
they
like?
RQ
2.11
IST
They
play
table
tennis
UL
1.7
TT
Play
table
tennis?
m
T-IS
T
IR
DQ
0.47
Silence
(pause)
1.42
TT
Anybody
else?
1.37
TT
Yeah,
good
1.36
IST
They
are
running
UL
1.14
TT
They
are
running?
m
T-IS
T
IR
(continued)
214 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
1.21
TT
Anybody
else?
1.42
Silence
(wait
time)
1.11
TT
Yes,
now,
you
1.81
Silence
<The
student
stands
up.>
1.33
IST
Play
basketball
RL
2.4
TT
Tell
me
the
whole
sentence
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.51
TT
They
like…
2.13
IST
They
like
playing
football
UL
1.41
TT
Yes
or
no?
m
T-SS
T
IR
DQ
1.94
SST
No
RL
0.75
TT
Sorry
2.75
TT
Who
can
give
me
the
correct
answer?
S's
name
m
T-IS
T
IR
2.49
IST
They
want
playing
basketball
UL
1.23
TT
Do
you
think
so?
m
T-SS
T
IR
DQ
0.85
SST
Yes
RL
3.75
TT
Yes.
They
like
playing
basketball
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.34
TT
And
next
one
1.47
Silence
(pause)
1.31
TT
It's
easier
0.41
Silence
(pause)
2.04
TT
What
do
they
like?
RQ
1.29
Silence
(wait
time)
0.64
TT
S's
name
1.08
IST
Playing
football
RL
1.82
TT
Playing
football.
Do
you
think
so?
m
T-AS
T
IR
DQ
0.82
AST
Yes
RL
(continued)
Appendix D 215
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
2.18
TT
He…yeah,
quite
good
m
T-IS
T
IR
0.89
Silence
(pause)
0.91
TT
Next
one
2.06
Silence
(silence)
2.42
TT
What
sport
do
they
like?
RQ
1.9
Silence
(wait
time)
0.74
TT
S's
name
2.23
IST
They
like
playing
volleyball
UL
2.12
TT
Volleyball.
Do
you
think
so?
m
T-SS
T
IR
DQ
0.92
SST
Yes
RL
1.83
TT
Ok,
S's
name
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.74
IST
Playing
tennis
RL
2.15
TT
Playing
tennis,
right?
m
T-IS
T
IRF
DQ
5.47
TT
Now,
let's
see
what's,
what
is
their
favorite
sport?
RQ
1.05
Silence
<Show
the
answer
on
PPT.>
2.65
TT
Yeah,
they
are
playing
tennis
2.64
TT
Ok,
they
are
playing
tennis.
Quite
good
1.23
TT
Next
one
2.09
Silence
(pause)
2.12
TT
Here,
watch
it
carefully
4.13
Silence
(pause)
3.96
TT
Do
you
***?
If
you
can't,
you
can
tell
me
in
Chinese
RQ
2.24
Silence
(wait
time)
1.31
TT
Good.
S's
name
(continued)
216 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
3.85
IST
***
play
baseball
RL
4.86
TT
Baseball,
baseball.
No.
I'm
sorry.
It
is
not
base
ball
1.07
Silence
(wait
time)
0.59
TT
You
m
T-IS
T
IR
2.02
IST
They
like
go
camping
UL
2.53
TT
Go
camping.
Oh.
I
am
sorry
m
T-SS
T
IR
1.53
TT
Anybody
else?
1.93
IST
(wait
time)
1.64
TT
Now,
I
will
show
you
2.43
Silence
<Show
the
answer
on
PPT.>
0.93
TT
What
is
that?
RQ
1
SST
Golf
RL
3.84
TT
Yes,
golf.
Ok,
they,
they
like
playing
golf
m
T-IS
T
IRF
1.29
TT
And
next
one
4.43
Silence
(pause)
3.15
TT
What
do
they
like,
do
you,
do
they
like?
RQ
1.56
TT
Ok,
S's
name
4.17
IST
They,
they
are
like,
they
like
playing
volleyball
UL
1.26
TT
Volleyball,
yes
1.31
TT
Yes
or
no?
Do
you
think
so?
m
T-SS
T
IR
DQ
1.22
SST
No
RL
1.98
TT
Any
other
answer?
Any
other
answer?
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.44
Silence
(wait
time)
(continued)
Appendix D 217
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
0.51
TT
You
2.17
IST
They
like
***
UL
2.92
TT
Oh,
yes.
Er,
pardon?
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.31
Silence
(pause)
1.03
TT
Pardon?
Stand
up
0.97
Silence
(pause)
1.17
TT
Please
say
it
again
4.81
IST
They,
they
are
playing
beach
volleyball
UL
3.24
TT
Please
tell
us,
beach
volleyball,
what
does
it
mean?
f
T-IS
T
IRF
DQ
1.03
IST
沙滩排球。
2.33
TT
Ok,
very
good.
Beach
volleyball
RL
3.32
TT
Yeah,
and
next
one,
what's
your
answer?
f
T-AS
T
IR
DQ
2.05
TT
Anybody
else,
any
other
answer?
1.86
Silence
(wait
time)
3.06
TT
So,
let's
see,
if
they
are
right…
2.49
Silence
(pause)
2.37
TT
They
are
playing
volleyball,
right?
3.02
TT
So,
S's
name
has
the
correct
answer.
Very
good
0.53
Silence
(pause)
3.65
TT
And
I,
here,
I
should
praise
S's
name
5.11
TT
She
tells
a
new
word
that
is
beach
volleyball.
Very
good
(continued)
218 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
A9:
The
teacher
organized
a
guessing
game
in
which
one
student
mimed
to
play
a
certain
sport,
another
student
who
stood
with
his
or
her
back
towards
the
performer
guessed
the
sport
by
asking
some
questions
to
the
rest
of
the
class
TDM
3.51
TT
Ok,
and
next
one
m
T-AS
T
IR
5.44
TT
I'd
like
to
play
another
game
again
1.25
Silence
(pause)
5.07
TT
This
game,
I'd
ask
some
students
to
come
to
the
blackboard
3
TT
And
do
some
action
5.31
TT
And
another
student
should
turn
back
and
guess
3.56
TT
and
ask,
“does
he
like
playing…”
4.86
TT
and
all
the
students,
you
should
answer
yes
or
no
0.95
TT
Clear?
1.35
TT
Ok
2.03
TT
Now,
I
think
m
T-SS
T
IR
0.7
Silence
(pause)
2.12
TT
This
group,
please
stand
up
0.78
TT
Come
here
2.61
Silence
<A
garoup
of
students
stand
up
and
come
to
the
front.>
2.34
TT
And
who
would
like
to
guess?
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.25
TT
would
like
to
guess?
0.98
Silence
(wait
time)
0.91
TT
Anything
else?
(continued)
Appendix D 219
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
1.93
Silence
(wait
time)
2.49
TT
S's
name.
Can
you
have
a
try?
1.85
Silence
<One
student
comes
to
the
teacher.>
0.86
TT
Yes,
you
turn
back
m
T-IS
T
IR
2.34
TT
You,
please
come
here
6.35
TT
Yes.
One
by
one.
One
by
one.
Yes.
Be
quick
3.73
TT
And
you
should
face
the
students,
face
the
students
1.07
TT
Ok.
2.12
Silence
(pause)
1.87
TT
S's
name.
Are
you
ready?
0.52
IST
Yes
RL
1.63
TT
Ok,
let's
go.
One
m
T-IS
T
IR
2
IST
Does…
RL
2.97
TT
Ai…you
just
do
the
action
m
T-IS-SS
T
IR
2.03
TT
Maybe
for
example
0.93
Silence
<show
a
gesture>
0.43
TT
Turn
back
1.22
SST
<laughter>
2.2
TT
May
be
you
can
do
it
like
this
m
T-IS
T
IR
2.17
Silence
<The
teacher
makes
actions
of
playing
badminton
and
swimming.>
0.88
TT
Or
something
like
that
1.4
Silence
<The
ﬁrst
student
makes
and
action
of
swimming.>
0.9
TT
So,
stop
1.07
Silence
(pause)
(continued)
220 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
1.32
TT
You
ask
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.02
Silence
<The
boy
makes
the
action
of
playing
badminton.>
0.59
TT
You
know?
m
T-SS
T
IR
1.3
SST
<laughter>
3.07
TT
You
can
ask,
“does
he
like
playing…”
m
IS-T-SS
T
IR
2.76
Silence
(pause)
3.46
IST
Does
he,
playing,
playing
running?
UL
1.39
SST
No,
no
RL
2.96
TT
No,
no,
he
doesn't
m
T-AS
T
IR
1.14
AST
Doesn't
RL
1.85
TT
Yes,
ok.
Go
on
m
T-IS
T
IR
4.3
IST
Does
he
playing
football?
UL
1.26
TT
Does
he
like…
m
IS-T-SS
T
IR
1.11
IST
Playing
football
UL
3.23
SST
No,
he
doesn't
UL
4.37
Silence
(Silence)
2.26
TT
***,
be
quick
m
IS-T-AS
T
IR
2.14
Silence
(pause)
2.32
IST
Does
he
like
playing
basketball?
3.2
AST
No,
he
doesn't
UL
4.01
Silence
(silence)
0.75
TT
***
m
IS-T-AS
T
IRF
4.29
IST
Does
he
like,
like
swimming?
UL
1.59
AST
Yes
RL
1.64
TT
Yes,
he…
0.85
AST
Does
RL
(continued)
Appendix D 221
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
3.22
TT
Yes,
you
are
great.
Thank
you.
Go
back
to
your
seat
m
T-AS
T
IR
5.34
TT
Good.
I
think
I
can
give
you…I
can
give
you
a
gift
0.65
Silence
<point
to
a
paper
bag>
8.12
TT
They
are
all
here.
They
are
all
here.
Now,
I
won't
let
you
know
what
is
in
it.
After
class,
I
will
give
you.
Ok?
1.01
Silence
(pause)
2.06
TT
And
anybody
else?
Who
would
like
to
come
here?
m
T-AS
T
IR
1.01
Silence
(wait
time)
1.09
TT
Ok.
S's
name.
Thank
you
m
T-IS
T
IR
8.84
Silence
<A
student
comes
to
the
front.>
2.12
TT
Two,
the
girl
m
T-IS
T
IR
2.05
Silence
<The
second
student
makes
an
movement.>
0.34
TT
Ok
1.85
Silence
(pause)
0.63
TT
Begin
m
T-IS
T
IR
0.74
Silence
(pause)
1.16
TT
S's
name.
Ask
3.55
IST
Does
she
like
playing
volleyball?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
3.09
AST
No,
she
doesn't.
RL
2.59
IST
Does
she
like
swimming
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
2.87
AST
No,
she
doesn't
RL
2.78
IST
Does
she
like
running?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
3
AST
No,
she
doesn't
RL
(continued)
222 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
5.2
IST
Does
she
like…
play…tennis,
playing
tennis?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
2.77
AST
No,
she
doesn't
RL
3.32
IST
Does
she
like
playing
football?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
2.9
AST
Yes,
she
does
RL
4.5
TT
Ok,
very
good.
Thank
you.
Very
clever.
Ok/
Go
back
to
your
seat
m
T-SS
T
IR
3.72
TT
Ok,
next
one.
Who
will
be
here?
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.66
TT
S's
name.
Come
here.
Be
quick
8.4
Silence
<A
student
comes
to
the
front.>
1.69
TT
Ok,
begin,
ask
2.04
Silence
(pause)
2.34
IST
Does
he
playing
football?
m
IS-T-AS
S
IR
UL
1.21
AST
No
RL
1.69
TT
Like
playing
1.09
TT
Ok,
go
on
m
IS-T-AS
T
IR
3.03
IST
Does
he
like
volleyball?
UL
3.26
AST
No,
he
doesn't
RL
4.02
IST
Does
he
like
playing
football?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
2.8
AST
No,
he
doesn't
RL
5.29
IST
Does
he
like
playing
basketball?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
3.11
AST
Yes,
he
does
RL
2.11
TT
You
are
great.
Ok.
thank
you.
Go
back
to
your
seats
m
T-SS
T
IR
(continued)
Appendix D 223
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
1.29
Silence
(pause)
2.31
TT
Ok,
***.
Next
one,
who?
m
T-IS
T
IR
1.59
Silence
(wait
time)
0.89
TT
Ok,
S's
name.
Go
on
9.04
Silence
<The
student
comes
to
the
front.>
1.6
TT
Ok,
ask
m
T-IS
T
IR
3.15
IST
Does
he
playing
football?
UL
1.03
TT
Does
he
like…
m
IS-T-AS
T
IR
2.42
IST
Does
he
like
playing
football?
UL
3.64
AST
No,
he
doesn't
RL
2.29
IST
Does
he
like…swim?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
2.91
AST
No,
he
doesn't
RL
3.49
IST
Does
he
like
playing
football?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
3.11
AST
No,
he
doesn't.
RL
2.49
IST
Does
he
like
playing
volleyball?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
3.38
AST
No,
he
doesn't
RL
1.82
Silence
(pause)
2.13
IST
Does
he
like
playing
***
games?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
DQ
2.25
AST
No,
he
doesn't
RL
2.57
IST
Does
he
like
***?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
2.89
AST
Yes,
he
does
RL
2.17
TT
Thank
you.
Go
back
to
your
seat.
Very
good
m
T-SS
T
IR
1.09
Silence
(pause)
3.14
TT
The
last
one.
The
last
one.
Who
will
come
here?
m
T-SS
T
IR
(continued)
224 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
4.79
TT
Yes.
***.
This
time
you
do
the
same
action
1.63
TT
You
can
have
a
discussion
2.54
TT
Yeah,
are
you
ready?
Yes
3.02
TT
The
same
discussion.
***
The
same
action
0.88
Silence
(pause)
2.95
TT
Ok,
you
do
it
together
m
T-SS
T
IR
5.93
Silence
<Two
students
do
some
actions.>
1.5
TT
Ok.
Can
you
ask?
You
can
ask.
m
IS-T-SS
T
IR
3.04
IST
Does
he…does
she…
UL
1.34
SST
Do
they?
RL
2.07
TT
Do
they…
2.61
IST
Do
they
like
playing
football?
m
IS-T-AS
S
IRF
UL
3.43
AST
No,
he
doesn't
RL
1
TT
Yeah,
very
good
5.46
IST
Do
they
like
playing…em…
basketball?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
3.37
AST
No,
they
don't
RL
1.67
Silence
(pause)
3.2
IST
Do
they
like
swimming?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
3.32
AST
No,
they
don't
RL
5.44
IST
Do
they
like…Badmonton?
m
T-IS
S
IRF
UL
2.43
TT
Badminton.
Not
badmonton.
Badminton
0.87
IST
Badminton
RL
1.37
TT
Yes
or
no?
Yes
or
no?
m
T-AS
T
IRF
3.27
AST
No,
they
don't
RL
(continued)
Appendix D 225
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
2.29
TT
Yes
or
no.
No
1.12
Silence
(pause)
6.7
IST
Do
they
like…tennis?
m
IS-T-AS
S
IRF
UL
1.93
TT
Do
they
like
tennis?
DQ
2.78
AST
No,
they
don't
RL
1.08
Silence
(pause)
3.36
TT
Ah,
it
is
a
little
difﬁcult,
yeah?
m
T-SS
T
IR
3.08
Silence
(pause)
5.21
TT
I
think,
maybe,
turn
back,
you
do
the
action
for
him
0.9
TT
Together
1.62
Silence
(pause)
2.1
TT
Do
action
again
3.06
Silence
<The
students
do
the
action
again.>
0.8
TT
What's
that?
m
T-AS
T
IR
1.66
Silence
(wait
time)
5.48
IST
Do
they
like
playing
table
tennis?
m
IS-AS
S
IR
UL
2.84
AST
Yes,
they
do
RL
3.39
TT
Ok,
thank
you.
Go
back
to
your
seats.
Thank
you
m
T-AS
T
IRF
UL
2.06
TT
Thank
you
for
all.
Ok
2.36
TT
Let's
give
ourselves
claps.
1.65
AST
<Clap
hands.>
0.61
TT
Good.
0.6
Silence
(pause)
A10:
The
teacher
presented
two
MMTA
4.63
TT
And
do
you
know,
what
does
Eddie
like
doing?
m
T-AS
T
IR
RQ
0.7
Silence
(pause)
(continued)
226 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
questions
on
PPT
slide.
She
asked
the
students
to
ﬁnd
the
answers
through
listening
to
a
dialogue.
Then
she
taught
some
grammatical
points
in
the
dialogue,
asked
the
student
to
read
and
acted
it
out
in
pairs
before
some
students
were
called
on
to
perform
the
dialogue.
4.87
TT
Now,
let's
listen
to
the
tape.
He
is
talking
with
Hobo
5.11
TT
Now
listen
to
the
tape
and
answer
the
question.
What
sport
does
Eddie
like?
10.6
AI
Eddie,
do
you
play
sports?
Yes,
I
like
walking.
Oh,
really?
Yes.
I
walk
to
my
bowl
many
times
a
day
m
AI-AS
T
IR
0.99
Silence
(Silence)
0.81
TT
Ok
m
T-AS
T
IR
0.63
Silence
(pause)
1.62
TT
Do
you
get
the
answer?
DQ
0.95
Silence
(pause)
1.46
TT
Now,
next
one
m&f
T-IS
T
IR
2.24
Silence
(wait
time)
1.95
TT
Guess.
S's
name
2.15
IST
Eddie
likes
the
walking
RL
1.41
TT
Walking.
Right?
m&f
T-AS
T
IRF
DQ
1.25
AST
Yes.
RL
0.97
TT
Yes,
very
good
1.49
TT
Now,
read
after
me.
Walking
f
T-AS
T
IR
0.79
AST
Walking
RL
1.07
TT
Twice
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.83
AST
Walking,
walking
RL
0.72
TT
Walking
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.61
AST
Walking,
walking
4.45
TT
And…Does
he
really
like
walking?
m
T-SS
T
IR
DQ
(continued)
Appendix D 227
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
2.31
TT
Does
he
really
like
walking?
1.21
TT
Yes
or
no?
1.67
SST
No
RL
1.04
Silence
(pause)
0.61
TT
You
m
T-IS
T
IR
0.6
IST
No
RL
1.12
TT
No,
he…
m&f
T-IS
T
IRF
5.66
IST
No,
he
likes…walk
to,
walk
to
his
bowl
UL
1.85
IST
Many
time
a
day
RL
0.66
TT
Yes
1.53
TT
How
do
you
know?
m
T-AS
T
IR
RQ
3.29
TT
Because
he
walks
to
his
bowl
many
times
a
day
2.47
TT
Why
does
he
go,
walk
to
his
bowl?
2.44
TT
Why
does
he
walk
to
his
bowl?
RQ
0.82
Silence
(wait
time)
1.46
TT
Because
he
wants
to…
1.53
AST
Eat
RL
1.65
TT
Eat,
read
after
me,
eat
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.59
AST
Eat
RL
0.88
TT
Eat
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.51
AST
Eat,
eat
RL
5
TT
He
is
lazy.
He
only
want
to
sleep
and…
eat
f
T-AS
T
IR
4.29
TT
Yes,
here,
read
after
me,
the
word
here.
Bowl
2.01
AST
Bowl,
bowl
RL
(continued)
228 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
0.66
TT
/ou/
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.57
AST
/ou/,
/ou/
RL
0.51
TT
Bowl
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.31
AST
Bowl,
bowl
RL
0.81
TT
/ir/
f
T-AS
T
IR
1.51
AST
/ir/,
/ir/
RL
0.76
TT
Really
f
T-AS
T
IRF
1.43
AST
Really.
really
RL
1.36
TT
Ok,
very
good
7.05
TT
And
here
look
at
this
sentence.
He
walks
to
his
bowl
to
eat
many
times
a
day
f
T-AS
T
IR
3.21
TT
Here,
walk,
it
is
a
verb
1.38
TT
It
is
a
verb
4.18
TT
And
here,
eat,
eat
is
another
verb
7.43
TT
When
we
use
two
verbs,
we
should
use,
the
second
verb,
we
can
use
to
do,
to
do
1.44
TT
Pay
attention
to
'to'
4.48
TT
当我们两个动词同时使用时,
第二个东西前面应该加上什
么啊?
0.78
AST
To
RL
6.21
TT
表示一种目的,
走到碗面前的目的就是为了
吃东西。Ok
1.21
TT
Now,
so
much
for
it
(continued)
Appendix D 229
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
10.9
TT
Next
one,
please
read,
turn
to
Page
18,
and
read
the
dialogue
by
yourselves
and
act
out
the
dialogue.
I
give
you
two
minutes.
Be
quick
m
T-AS
T
IR
2.46
TT
You
can
use
your
body
language
30.1
PST
<Students
work
in
pairs.>
0.89
TT
Ok
m
T-SS
T
IR
2.87
Silence
<The
teacher
goes
back
to
the
front.>
1.02
TT
Now,
stop
here
2.16
Silence
(pause)
1.03
TT
Any
volunteers?
1.87
Silence
(wait
time)
3.17
TT
Yes,
S's
name
and
your
partner
1.11
TT
Please
come
here
1.13
Silence
<Two
students
come
to
the
front.>
0.6
TT
Let's
welcome
m
T-AS
T
IR
2.72
AST
<Clap
hands.>
7.36
Silence
<Two
students
come
to
the
front.>
2.02
PST
Eddie,
do
you
like
sports?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1.43
PST
Yes,
I
like
walking
UL
1.27
Silence
(pause)
0.99
PST
Oh,
really?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
4.18
PST
Of
course,
I
walk
to
my
bowl
many
times
a
day
3.74
Silence
(Silence)
1.21
TT
Ok,
thank
you
m&f
T-AS
T
IR
(continued)
230 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
3.98
TT
Do
you,
do
they
think
they
are,
they
acted
very
well?
DQ
0.79
AST
Yeah.
RL
2.71
TT
Yes,
very
good.
Thank
you.
Give
them
claps
m
T-AS
T
IR
2.34
AST
<Clap
hands.>
0.81
TT
Another
pair
m
T-SS
T
IR
0.79
Silence
(pause)
0.76
TT
Another
pair?
0.62
TT
Boys?
1.51
Silence
(Pause)
0.76
TT
Boys?
0.91
Silence
(pause)
0.63
TT
You
two?
1.1
Silence
(pause)
1.1
TT
Or
you
two
2.71
TT
I
think
you,
ok,
you
two,
come
here
1.91
Silence
<Two
students
come
the
the
front.>
1.07
PST
I'm
Hobbo
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1
PST
I'm
Eddie
UL
2.4
Silence
(pause)
1.98
PST
Eddie,
do
you
like
sports?
m&f
IS-IS
S
IR
UL
1.82
PST
Yes,
I
like
walking
UL
1.07
PST
Oh,
really?
m&f
IS-IS-SS
S
IR
UL
1.44
Silence
(pause)
UL
5.08
PST
Yes,
I
want
to
walking
to
bowl
many
times
a
day
UL
(continued)
Appendix D 231
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
7.11
PST
Oh,
you
likes
eat.
You
like
eating
very
much.
You
are
very
fat
UL
1.03
SST
<laughter>
0.8
TT
Yeah.
Ok
m
T-SS
T
IRF
1.86
TT
Do
you
have
anything
to
say?
RQ
0.59
PST
No
3.09
TT
No,
ok.
Thank
you.
Go
back
to
your
seat
0.72
TT
Thank
you
2.47
AST
<Clap
hands.>
4.87
TT
Yeah,
he
likes
eating
too
much.
He
is
so
fat
2.03
TT
Very
good
dialogue.
Thank
you
0.39
Silence
(pause)
11.19
TT
Ok,
now,
I
think,
after
class,
you
can
make
up
your
dialogues.
Ok,
And
you
can
make
the
dialogue
longer
and
more
interesting
m
T-AS
T
IR
0.96
TT
Very
good
0.62
Silence
(pause)
A11:
The
teacher
initiated
a
free
discussion
with
the
student
on
the
issue
“the
meaning
of
playing
TDM
4.39
TT
Now,
I
think
it's
time
for
us
to
have
a
discussion
3.68
Silence
(pause)
2.47
TT
Can
we
just
sleep
and
eat,
why?
RQ
4.41
TT
What
should
we
do
and
what
sport
can
we
do
at
school?
RQ
(continued)
232 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
sports”
and
then
presented
some
proverbs
about
playing
sports.
9.08
TT
And
you
can
have
a
discussion
in
groups
of
four.
Four
students.
Four
students.
And
the
last
students.
You
can
have
a
try.
51.18
GST
<Students
work
in
groups.
The
teacher
walks
among
them
and
works
with
one
group.>
1.52
TT
Stop
here
m
T-AS
T
IR
3.11
Silence
(pause)
6.13
TT
Ok,
I
like
some
student
to
tell
us,
what
can,
can
we
just
sleep
and
eat?
m
T-IS
T
IR
RQ
4.85
TT
Who
will
***.
I
think,
S's
name,
have
a
try
1.58
Silence
(pause)
1.09
TT
Stand
up
0.77
Silence
<The
student
stands
up.>
3.95
TT
Can
we
just
sleep
and
eat?
m
T-IS
T
IRF
2.86
IST
No,
because
we
become
fat.
UL
3.78
TT
Good,
we
will
get
fat,
we
will
be
fat.
Ok
1.27
Silence
(Pause.)
1.6
TT
And
what
should
we
do?
m
T-IS
T
IR
RQ
0.81
Silence
(wait
time)
UL
2.61
IST
We
can…
do
exercise
2.71
TT
Ok,
and
what
sport
can
we
do
at
school?
m
T-IS
T
IR
RQ
5.18
IST
We
can
go
running,
we
can
running
and
playing
(continued)
Appendix D 233
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
3.01
TT
We
can
running
and
playing?
m
T-AS
T
IRF
DQ
1.96
TT
We
can
play
2.92
TT
We
can
playing.
We
can
running
1.39
Silence
(pause)
1.47
TT
We
can…run
1.19
TT
We
can…
0.81
AST
Play.
RL
2.14
TT
Yes,
ok.
Thank
you
1.97
Silence
(pause)
4.8
TT
I
think
sports
is
very
important
for
us
m
T-AS
T
IR
0.91
TT
Do
you
think
so?
DQ
2.92
TT
Here
I
have
some
proverbs
for
you
m&f
T-AS
T
IR
2.92
TT
See.
Movement
is
life
1.24
Silence
(pause)
1.2
TT
Movement
is
life
1.5
TT
Say
it
together.
Chinese
3.81
AST
生命在于运动。
4.12
TT
And
happiness
comes
from
sports
m&f
T-SS
T
IR
2.76
SST
***
3.06
AST
快乐来自运动。
m&f
T-AS
S
IR
5.37
TT
It
means,
我运动,我快乐。
0.64
Silence
(pause)
0.54
TT
Ok.
m&f
T-SS
T
IR
1.09
TT
Another.
***
(continued)
234 Appendix D
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
2.66
TT
Health
comes
from
sports.
1.74
Silence
(pause)
1.49
TT
Health
comes
from
sports.
It
means…
2.41
SST
我运动,我健康。
1.3
TT
Oh,
yes.
Say
it
together.
m
T-AS
T
IRF
4.58
AST
我运动,我健康。
2.73
TT
You
are
quite
clever,
quite
clever
1.47
TT
Fantastic,
ok
0.96
Silence
(pause)
6.66
TT
And,
you
should
love
sports,
and
love
your
life
8.28
TT
And
try
to
do
exercise
if
you
have
time,
so
that
you
can
keep
healthy
1.03
Silence
(pause)
A12:
The
teacher
gave
a
brief
review
of
what's
been
learned
in
this
class
by
asking
the
students
to
work
out
a
blank-ﬁlling
exercise,
and
then
she
assigned
the
homework
TDM
3.75
TT
Ok.
Now.
What
have
you
learned
today?
f
T-AS
T
IR
RQ
1.56
TT
What
have
you
learned
today?
4.89
TT
New
word
here,
and
some
sentences
here
3.11
TT
Now
I
think
you
can
ﬁll
in
blanks
now
1.42
TT
What
sports
do
they
like?
f
T-AS
T
IR
RQ
0.85
TT
They
like…
2.08
TT
They
like,
playing…
1.66
AST
playing
volleyball
RL
4.56
TT
They
like
playing.
They
like
doing
something
f
T-AS
T
IRF
(continued)
Appendix D 235
(continued)
Activity
Instructional
Materials
Duration
Interlocutor
Utterance
Meaning-
versus
Form-
focused
Participatory
organization
pattern
Student-
versus
teacher-
initiated
IR/IRF
Types
of
teacher
questions:
Referential
/
Display
Types
of
learner
talk:
restricted/
unrestricted
3.17
Silence
<The
teacher
writes
on
the
blackboard.>
4.49
TT
And
does
ehe
like…yes,
she
or
he…
1.06
AST
does
RL
2.12
TT
Very
good.
Yes,
he
does
1.31
TT
No,
he
or
she…
f
T-AS
T
IRF
1.11
AST
Doesn't
RL
1.91
TT
Very
good.
Very
good
1.58
TT
Do
they
like…
f
T-AS
T
IRF
1.68
TT
For
example,
do
they
like
running?
DQ
0.81
TT
Yes,
they…
0.98
AST
Do
RL
1.37
TT
Do,
good
1.31
TT
And
no,
they…
f
T-AS
T
IRF
0.81
AST
didn't.
RL
2.59
TT
Good.
Quite
good
3.15
TT
Ok.
Now.
So
much
for
today
m
T-AS
T
IR
8.14
TT
Today's
homework
is,
one,
tell
your
friend
your
favorite
sport,
two,
write
a
short
passage
about
your
favorite
sport
1.88
TT
Class
is
over.
Stand
up.
2.77
Silence
<Students
stand
up.>
0.78
TT
Goodbye,
class
1.15
AST
Goodbye.
Miss
Li
RL
236 Appendix D
References
Abrami, P. C., D’apollonia, S. & Rosenﬁeld S. The Dimensionality of Student Ratingsof
Instruction: What We Know and What We Do Not [A]. Perry R. P. & Smart J. C. (eds.)
Effective Teaching in Higher Education [C]. New York: Agathon Press, 1997. 321-367.
Adamson, B., & Morris, P. (1997). The English Curriculum in the People’s Republic of China.
Comparative Education Review, 41, 3–26.
Allen, L. Q. (2002). Teachers’ pedagogical beliefs and the standards for foreign language learning.
Foreign Language Annals, 35, 518–529.
Allwright, D. & Hanks, J. (2009). The developing language learner: An introduction to
exploratory practice. Houndmills, Basingstoke, Hampshire; New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Allwright, D., & Lenzuen, R. (1997). Exploratory practice: Work at the Cultura Inglesa, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil. Language Teaching Research, 1, 73–79.
Allwright, D. (2005). Developing principles for practitioner research: The case of exploratory
practice. The Modern Language Journal, 89, 353–366.
Allwright, D. (2003). Exploratory practice: Rethinking practitioner research in language thinking.
Language Teaching Research, 7, 113–141.
An, L. (2012). The role of textbooks in modifying teacher beliefs and practices: A project-based
study in middle schools in China. Shanghai: Shanghai International Studies University.
Argyris, C., & Schön, D. A. (1974). Theory in practice: Increasing professional effectiveness. San
Francisco: Jossey Bass.
Bailey, K. L. (1996). The best laid plans: Teachers 'in-class decisions to depart from their lesson
plans. In K. M. Bailey & D. Nunan (Eds.), Voices from the language classroom: qualitative
research in second language education (pp. 15–40). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bailey, K. M. (1990). The use of diary studies in teacher education programs. In J. C. Richards &
D. Nunan (Eds.), Second language teacher education (pp. 215–226). New York: Cambridge
University Press.
Bartlett, L. (1990). Teacher development through reflective teaching. In J. C. Richards & D.
Nunan (Eds.), Second language teacher education (pp. 202–214). New York: Cambridge
University Press.
Basturkmen, H. (2012). Review of research into the correspondence between language Teachers’
stated beliefs and practices. System, 40, 282–295.
Beretta, A., & Davies, A. (1985). Evaluation of the Bangalore Project. ELT Journal, 39, 121–127.
Beretta, A. (1990). Implementation of the Bangalore Project. Applied Linguistics, 11(4), 321–337.
Borg, S. (2012). Current approaches to language teacher cognition research: A methodological
analysis. In R. Barnard & A. Burns (Eds.), Researching language teacher cognition and
practice: International case studies (pp. 11–29). Bristol; Buffalo: Multilingual Matters.
Borg, S. (2006). Teacher cognition and language education: Research and practice. London; New
York : Continuum.
Borg, S. (2003). Teacher cognition in language teaching: A review of research on what teachers
think, know, believe, and do. Language Teaching, 36, 81–109.
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
Y. Zhu, Language Curriculum Innovation in a Chinese Secondary School,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7239-0
237
Borg, S. (2011). The impact of in-service education on language teachers’ beliefs. System, 39,
370–380.
Borich, G. D. (2011). Observation skills for effective teaching. Boston: Pearson Education.
Boyd, J., & Boyd, S. (2005). Reflect and improve: Instructional development through a teaching
journal. College Teaching, 3, 110–114.
Bradburd, D. (1998). Being there: The necessity of ﬁeldwork. Washington, DC: Smithsonian
Institution Press.
Breen, M. P., & Candlin, C. N. (1980). The essentials of a communicative curriculum in language
teaching. Applied Linguistics, 2, 89–112.
Breen, M. P., Hird, B., Milton, M., & Thwaite, A. (2001). Making sense of language teaching:
Teachers’ principles and classroom practices. Applied Linguistics, 4, 470–501.
Brown, H. D. (2001). Teaching by principles: An interactive approach. Beijing: Foreign Language
Teaching and Research Press.
Brown, H. D. (2007). Teaching by principles: An interactive approach to language pedagogy (3rd
edition). White Plains, NY: Pearson Education.
Brown, J. D., & Rodgers, T. S. (2003). Doing second language research. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Brumﬁt, C. J. (1984). The Bangalore procedural syllabus. ELT Journal, 4, 233–241.
Burden, P. R., & Byrd, D. M. (2003). Methods for effective teaching. Boston: Pearson Education.
Burns, A. (1996). Starting all over again: From teaching adults to teaching beginners. In D.
Freeman & J. C. Richards (Eds.), Teacher learning in language teaching (154–177).
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Burns, A. (1992). Teacher belief and their influence on classroom practice. Prospect, 3, 56–66.
Carless, D. R. (2001). Curriculum innovation in the primary EFL classroom: Case studies of three
teachers implementing Hong Kong’s Target-oriented Curriculum (TOC). The University of
Warwick.
Carless, D. R. (2003). Factors in the implementation of task-based teaching in primary schools.
System, 31, 485–500.
Carless, D. R. (2004). Issues in Teachers’ reinterpretation of a task-based innovation in primary
school. TESOL Quarterly, 4, 639–662.
CCP Central Committee & State Council. (1993). Zhongguo jiaoyu gaige he fazhan gangyao
[Program for China’s educational reform and development.]. Beijing: CCP Central Committee
& State Council.
CCP Central Committee & State Council. (1999). Zhongong zhongyang guowuyuan guanyu
shenhua jiaoyu gaige quanmian tuijin sushi jiaoyu de jueding. [Decision on deepening
educational reform and promoting quality education.]. Beijing: CCP Central Committee &
State Council.
CCP Central Committee. (1985). Zhonggong zhong yang guangyu jiaoyu tizhi gaige de jueding.
[Decision on reforming China’s educational system.]. Beijing, CCP Central Committee.
Clandinin, J. D., & Connelly, M. F. (1987). Teachers’ personal knowledge: What counts as
personal in studies of the personal. Journal of Curriculum Studies, 6, 487–500.
Cornelissen, F., Swet, J., Beijarrd, D., & Bergen, T. (2011). Aspects of school-university research
networks that play a role in developing, sharing and using knowledge based on teacher
research. Teaching and Teacher Education, 27, 147–156.
CPC. (1985). Zhonghua renmin gongheguo yiwu jiaoyufa. [Compulsory education law of the
People’s Republic of China]. Beijing: CPC.
Crookes, G., & Arakaki, L. (1999). teaching idea sources and work conditions in an ESL Program.
TESOL Journal, 1, 15–19.
Cullen, R. (2002). Supportive Teacher Talk: the Importance of F-move [J]. ELT Journal, 2,
117–127.
Cullen, R. (1998). Teacher talk and the classroom context. ELT Journal, 3, 179–187.
Curdt-Christiansen, X.-L., & Silver, R. E. (2012). Educational reforms, cultural clashes and
classroom practices. Cambridge Journal of Education, (2), 141–161.
238 References
Curdt-Christiansen, X.-L., & Silver, R. E. (2013). New Wine into Old Skins: The enactment of
literacy policy in Singapore. Language and Education, (3), 246–260.
Cynthia, A. B. (1986). The effects of referential questions on ESL classroom discourse. TESOL
Quarterly, 1, 47–59.
Dalton, S. S. (2008). Five standards for effective teaching: How to succeed with all learners. San
Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Debbie, G. E. H. (2005). Why do teachers ask the questions they ask? RELC Journal, 3, 297–310.
Denzin, N. K. (1978). The research act: A theoretical introduction to sociological methods (2nd
ed.). New York: McGraw-Hill.
Dörnyei, Z. (2007). Research methods in applied linguistics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Duff, P. (2000). Repetition in foreign language classroom interaction. In J. Hall & L. Verplaetse
(Eds.), The development of second and foreign language learning through classroom
interaction. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Dunne, R., & Wragg, T. (2005). Effective teaching. New York: Routledge.
Eisenhart, M. A., J. L. Shrum, Harding, J. R., & Cuthbert, A. M. (1988). Teacher beliefs:
Deﬁnitions, ﬁndings and directions. Educational Policy, (1), 51–70.
Ellis, R. (1990). Instructed second language acquisition. Oxford, UK; Cambridge, Mass., USA: B.
Blackwell.
Ellis, R. (1990). Researching classroom language learning. In C. Brumﬁt & R. Mitchell (Eds.),
Research in the language classroom (54–70). London: Modern English Publications.
Ellis, R. (1994). The study of second language acquisition. Shanghai: Shanghai Foreign Language
Education Press.
Ellis, R. (1997). SLA research and language teaching. Oxford; New York: Oxford University
Press.
Ellis, R. (2003). Task-based Language Learning and Teaching [M]. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Ellis, R., & Barkhuizen, G. (2005). Analyzing learner language. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Ellis, R. (2005). Principles of instructed language learning. System, 33, 209–224.
Ellis, R. (2006). Current Issues in the teaching of grammar: An SLA perspective. TESOL
Quarterly, 1, 83–107.
Ellis, R. (2009a). Corrective feedback and teacher development. L2 Journal, (1), 3–18.
Ellis, R. (2009). Task-based language teaching: Sorting out the misunderstandings. International
Journal of Applied Linguistics, 3, 221–246.
Ellis, R. (2012). Language teaching research and language pedagogy. Malden, Mass:
Wiley-Blackwell.
Fang, Z. (1996). A review of research on teacher beliefs and practices. Educational Research, 1,
47–65.
Feng, Z. (2002). Bilingual education and integrated english program. Journal of Tianjin Normal
University (Elementary Education Edition), 4, 54–58.
Feng, Z. (2012). Problems and solutions of EFL in China: An experimental study. Speech given in
Shanghai International Studies University.
Feryok, A. (2004). Personal practice theories: Exploring the role of language teacher experiences
and beliefs in the integration of theory and practice. University of Auckland.
Foster, P., & Ohta, A. (2005). Negotiation for meaning and peer assistance in second language
classrooms. Applied Linguistics, 3, 402–430.
Freeman, D. (1993). Renaming experience/reconstructing practice: developing new understand-
ings of teaching. Teaching and Teacher Education, (5/6), 485–497.
Freeman, D. (2002). The hidden side of the work: Teacher knowledge and learning to teach.
A perspective from North American educational research on teacher education in english
language teaching. Language Teaching, 1, 1–13.
Fullan, M. (2001). The new meaning of educational change (3rd ed.). New York and London:
Teachers College Press.
References 239
Gardner, D. C. (2011). Characteristic collaborative processes in school-university partnerships.
Planning and Changing, (1/2), 63–86.
Geng, F. (2012a). Developing learner autonomy and language speaking proﬁciency through LAP
Class: A project-based research at a secondary school in China. Shanghai International
Studies University.
Glaser, B. G., & Strauss, A. (2008). The discovery of grounded theory. New Brunswick, N. J.:
Aldine Transaction.
Gourlay, L. (2005). Ok, Who’s got number one? Permeable triadic dialogue, covert participation
and the co-construction of checking episodes. Language Teaching Research, 4, 403–422.
Graden, E. C. (1996). How language teachers' beliefs about reading instruction are mediated by
their beliefs about students. Foreign Language Annals, 3, 387–395.
Hamilton, J. (1996). Inspiring innovations in language teaching. Clevedon England; Philadelphia:
Multilingual Matters.
Hammersley, M., & Atkinson, P. (1983). Ethnography: Principles in practice. London: Tavistock
Publications.
Harmer, J. (2007). How to teach English (new edition). Harlow: Pearson Longman.
Harmer, J. (2001). The practice of English language teaching (3rd ed.). Harlow: Longman.
He, K. (2005). Transcendence basic education experiment (I). IT Education in Primary and
Secondary Education, 11, 58–60.
He, K. (2005). Transcendence basic education experiment (II). IT Education in Primary and
Secondary Education, 12, 45–48.
Hedge, T. (2000). Teaching and learning in the language classrooms. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Ho, B., & Richards, J. C. (1993). Reflective thinking through teacher journal writing: myths and
realities. Prospect: A Journal of Australian TESOL, (8), 7–24.
Holt Reynolds, D. (1992). Personal history-based beliefs as relevant prior knowledge in course
work. American Educational Research Journal, (2), 325–349.
Hu, G. (2005). English language education in China: Policies, progress, and problems. Language
Policy, 4, 5–24.
Hu, G. (2005). Professional development of secondary EFL teachers: Lessons from China.
Teacher College Record, 4, 654–705.
Hu, G. (2002). Recent important developments in secondary English-language teaching in the
People’s Republic of China. Language, Culture and Curriculum, 1, 30–49.
Hughes, A. (1989). Testing for language teachers. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Johnson, K. E. (1994). The emerging beliefs and instructional practices of preservice english as a
second language teachers. Teaching and Teacher Education, 1994(4), 439–452.
Johnson, K. E. (1992). Learning to teach: instructional actions and decisions of preservice ESL
teachers. TESOL Quarterly, 3, 507–535.
Johnson, K. (1992). The relationship between teachers’ beliefs and practices during literacy
instruction for non-native speakers of English. Journal of Reading Behaviour, 1, 83–108.
Johnson, K. (1995). Understanding communication in second language classrooms. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Kagan, D. (1992). Professional Growth among Preservice and Beginning Teachers [J]. Review of
Educational Research, 62, 129–169.
Kam-yin, W. (1993). Classroom interaction and teacher questions revisited. RELC Journal, 2,
49–68.
Kasper, G. (2001). Four perspectives on L2 pragmatic development. Applied Linguistics, (22),
502–530.
Kern, R. (1995). Students and teachers’ beliefs about language learning. Foreign Language
Annals, 1, 71–92.
Kırkgöz, Y. (2008). A case study of teachers’ implementation of curriculum innovation in English
Language teaching in Turkish primary education. Teaching and Teacher Education, 24,
1859–1875.
240 References
Kumar, K. (1992). Does class size really make a difference?—Exploring classroom interaction in
large and small classes. RELC Journal, 1, 29–47.
Kumaravadivelu, B. (2003). Beyond methods: Macrostrategies for language teaching. New
Haven: Yale University Press.
Kumaravadivelu, B. (1993). Maximizing learning potential in the communicative classroom.
English Language Teaching Journal, 1, 12–21.
Kumaravadivelu, B. (1994). The postmethod condition: (E)merging strategies for second/foreign
language teaching. TESOL Quarterly, 1, 27–48.
Kumaravadivelu, B. (2001). Toward a postmethod pedagogy. TESOL Quarterly., 4, 537–560.
Kumaravadivelu, B. (2006). Understanding language teaching: From method to postmethod.
Mahwah, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Kyriacou, C. (1997). Effective Teaching in Schools: Theory and Practice (2nd edition) [M]. United
Kingdom: Nelson Thornes Ltd.
Labov, William Sociolingustic. (1972). Patterns. Philidelphia: University of Pennsylvania.
Larsen-Freeman, D., & Long., M. H. (1991). An introduction to second language acquisition
research. London: Longman.
Lau, K. L. (2013). Chinese language teachers’ perception and implementation of self-regulated
learning-based instruction. Teaching and Teacher Education, 31, 56–66.
LeCompte, M., & Goetz, J. (1982). Problems of reliability and validity in ethnographic research.
Review of Educational Research, 1, 31–60.
LeCompte, M., & Schensul, J. J. (1999). Analyzing and interpreting ethnographic data. Walnut
Greek, CA: Altamira Press.
LeCompte, M., & Schensul, J. J. (1999). Designing and conducting ethnographic research.
Walnut Greek, CA: Altamira Press.
Lenneberg, E. (1967). Biological foundations of a language. New York: Willey.
Lerner, G. H. (1995). Turn design and the organization of participation in instructional activities.
Discourse Processes, 19, 111–131.
Li, D. (1998). “It is Always More Difﬁcult Than You Plan and Imagine”: Teachers’ perceived
difﬁculties in introducing communicative approach in South Korea. TESOL Quarterly, 4,
677–703.
Li, S. (2010). The Effectiveness of Corrective Feedback in SLA: A Meta-analysis [J]. Language
Learning, 2, 309–365.
Littleton, D. M. (1998). Preparing professionals as teachers for the urban classroom: A university/
school collaborative model. Action in Teacher Education, 4, 149–158.
Littlewood, W. (1981). Communicative language teaching: An introduction. Cambridge England;
New York: Cambridge University Press.
Long, M., & Sato, C. (1983). Classroom foreigner talk discourse: Forms and functions of
teacher’s questions. Rowley, Mass: Newbury House.
Long, M. (1991). Focus on form: A design feature in language teaching methodology. In K. de
Bot, R. Ginsberg, & C. Kramsch (Eds.), Foreign language research in cross-cultural
perspective. John Benjamin, Amsterdam (pp. 39–52).
Long, M. H. (1985). Input and second language acquisition theory. In S. M. Gass & C. G. Madden
(Eds.), Input in second language acquisition (pp. 377–393). Rowley, MA: Newbury House,
1985.
Long, M. H. (1996). The role of the linguistic environment in second language acquisition. In W.
C. Ritchie & T. K. Bhatia (Eds.), Handbook of second language acquisition (pp. 413–468).
New York: Academic Press, 1996.
Lortie, D. (1975). School teacher: A sociological study. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Mackey, A. & Goo, J. (2007). Interaction research in SLA: A Meta-analysis and research
synthesis. In A. Mackey (Ed.), Conversational interaction in second language acquisition: A
series of empirical studies (pp. 407–452). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Mackey, W. F. (1965). Language teaching analysis. Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
Markee, N. (1997). Managing curricular innovation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
References 241
Marsh, C. J. (2009). Key concepts for understanding curriculum (4th ed.). London and New York:
Routledge.
Marta, A. (1999). The discourse of a learner-centered classroom: sociocultural perspectives on
teacher-learner interaction in the second-language classroom. The Modern Language Journal,
3, 303–318.
Marzano, R. J. (1998). Snowflake Bentley [M]. Boston: Houghton Mifflin.
McIntyre, E., et al. (2009). 6 Principles for teaching English language learners in all classrooms.
Thousand Oaks, CA.: Corwin Press.
Merrill, S., Lindsay, B., & Agustina, T. (2002). Peer-peer dialogue as a means of second language
learning. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics., 22, 171–185.
Miles, M. B., & Huberman, A. M. (1994). Qualitative data analysis (2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks,
CA: Sage Publications.
Ministry of Education. (2010). Jiaoyubu caizhengbu guanyu shishi zhongxiaox jiaoshi guojiaji
peixun jihua de tongzhi [Announcement for implementing national training programs for
primary and secondary teachers by Ministry of Education and Ministry of Finance]. [EB/OL].
Retrieved from http://www.moe.gov.cn/publicﬁles/business/htmlﬁles/moe/s4667/201212/
xxgk_146071.html2010.
Ministry of Education. (2001). Jichu jiaoyu kecheng gaige gangyao (shixing) [The outline of basic
education curriculum reform (trial)]. [EB/OL]. Retrieved from http://www.moe.gov.cn/
publicﬁles/business/htmlﬁles/moe/moe_309/200412/4672.html2001a.
Ministry of Education. (2000). Jiunian yiwu jiaoyu quanrizhi chuji zhongxue yingyu jiaoxue
dadang (shiyong xiudingban) [English syllabus for nine-year compulsory education full-time
junior secondary schools] [Z]. Beijing: People’s Education Press.
Ministry of Education. (2000). Quanrizhi gaoji zhongxue yingyu jiaoxue dagang (shiyan
xiudingban) [English syllabus for full-time senior secondary schools] [Z]. Beijing: People’s
Education Press.
Ministry of Education. (1982). Quanrizhi liunianzhi zhongdian zhongxue yingyu jiaoxue dagang
(zhengqiu yijiangao) [English syllabus for six-year full-time key secondary schools] [Z].
Beijing: People’s Education Press.
Ministry of Education. (1978). Quanrizhi shinianzhi zhongxiaoxue yingyu jiaoxue dadang
(shingxing caoan) [English syllabus for ten-year full-time primary and secondary schools].
Beijing: People’s Education Press.
Ministry of Education. (2001b). Quanrizhi yiwu jiaoyu putong gaoji zhongxue yingyu kecheng
biaozhun (shiyangao) [English curriculum for full-time general senior secondary schools of
compulsory education (experimental)] [Z] Beijing: Beijing Normal University Press, 2001b.
Ministry of Education. Yiwu jiaoyu yingyu kecheng biaozhun. (2011). English curriculum for
compulsory education. Beijing: Beijing Normal University Press.
Mitchell, E. W. (2005). The influence of beliefs on the teaching practices of high school foreign
language teachers. University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Murchison, J. M. (2010). Ethnography essentials: Designing, conducting and presenting your
research. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.
Nassaji, H., & Wells, G. (2000). What is the use of ‘Triadic Dialogue’?: An investigation of
teacher-student interaction. Applied Linguistics, 3, 376–406.
Nespor, J. (1987). The role of beliefs in the practice of teaching. Journal of Curriculum Studies, 4,
317–328.
Newby, P. (2010). Research methods for education. Harlow: Pearson Education.
Numrich, C. (1996). On becoming a language teacher: insights from diary studies. TESOL
Quarterly, 1, 131–153.
Nunan, D., & Bailey, K. M. (2010). Exploring second language classroom research: A
comprehensive guide. Beijing: Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press.
Nunan, D. (2003). The impact of English as a global language on educational policies and
practices in the Asia-Paciﬁc region. TESOL Quarterly, 37, 589–613.
242 References
Nunan, D. (1992). The teacher as decision-maker. In J. Flowerdew, M. Brock & S. Hsia (Eds.),
Perspectives on second language teacher education (pp. 135–165). Hong Kong: City
Polytechnic.
Oraﬁ, S. M. S., & Borg, S. (2009). Intentions and realities in implementing communicative
curriculum reform. System, 37, 243–253.
Patton, M. Q. (2002). Qualitative Research and Evaluation Methods. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage
Publications.
Peacock, M. (2001). Pre-service ESL Teachers’ beliefs about second language learning: A
longitudinal study. System, 29, 177–195.
Peters, J. (2002). University-school collaboration: Identifying faulty assumptions. Asia-Paciﬁc
Journal of Teacher Education, 3, 229–242.
Phipps, S., & Borg, S. (2009). Exploring tensions between Teachers’ grammar teaching beliefs and
practices. System, 3, 380–390.
Pike, K. L. (1964). Language in relation to a uniﬁed theory of structures of human behavior. The
Hague: Mouton.
Pratt, D. D., & Associates. (1998). Five perspectives on teaching in adult and higher education.
Malabar: Krieger.
Prithvi, N. S. (2013). English language classroom practices: Bangladeshi Primary School
Children’s perceptions. RELC Journal, 2, 147–162.
Richards J. C., & Rodgers T. S. (1986). Approaches and methods in language teaching: A
description and analysis.Cambridge, New York: Cambridge University Press.
Richards, J. C., & Rodgers, T. S. (2001). Approaches and methods in language teaching (2nd ed.).
New York: Cambridge University Press.
Richards, K. (2003). Qualitative inquiry in TESOL. New York: Palgrave, Macmillan.
Richards, J. C., & Bohlke, D. (2011). Creating effective language lessons. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Richards, J. C., & Lockhart, C. (1996). Reflective teaching in second language classrooms.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Richards, J. C., Ho, B., & Giblin, K. (1996). Learning how to teach in the RSA Cert. In D.A.
Freeman & J.C. Richards (Eds.), Teacher learning in language teaching (pp. 242–259).
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Richards, J., Platt, J., & Platt, H. (1992). Longman dictionary of language teaching and applied
linguistics. London: Longman.
Richards, J. C., & Pennington, M. (1998). The ﬁrst year of teaching. In J. C. Richards (Ed.),
Beyond training (pp. 173–190). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Richardson, V., Anders, P., Tidwell, D., & Llody, C. (1991). The relationship between teachers'
beliefs and practices in reading comprehension instruction. American Educational Research
Journal, 3, 559–586.
Roebuck, R. F., & Wagner, L. C. (2004). Teaching repetition as a communicative and cognitive
tool: Evidence from a Spanish conversation class international. Journal of Applied Linguistics,
1, 70–89.
Roehler, L., &Duffy, G. (1991). Teachers' instructional action. In R. Barr, et al. (Eds.), Handbook
of reading research (pp. 861–884) New York: Longman.
Rogers, E. M. (1983). The diffusion of innovations (3rd ed.). London: Macmillan.
Rogers, E. M. (2003). The diffusion of innovations (5th ed.). London: Macmillan.
Russell, J., & Spada, N. (2006). The effectiveness of corrective feedback for acquisition of L2
Grammar: Ameta-analysis of the research. In J. Norris & L. Ortega (Eds.), Synthesizing
research on language learning and teaching (pp. 133–164). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Schmidt, R. W. (1993). Awareness and second language acquisition. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics, 13, 206–226.
Schmidt, R. W. (1990). The role of consciousness in second language learning. Applied
Linguistics, 2, 129–158.
References 243
Seedhouse, P. (1996). Classroom interaction: Possibilities and impossibilities. ELT Journal, 1, 16–
24.
Serrano, R. M., et al. (2012). University-school collaborative networks: A strategy to improve the
professional skills of future teachers. Education Research International, 1, 1–12.
Skehan, P. (1998). A cognitive approach to language learning. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Skehan, P. (1998). A cognitive approach to language learning. Oxford University Press.
Skinner, B. F. (1957). Verbal behavior. Harvard University Press.
Spada, N., & Fröhlich, M. (1995). The communicative orientation of language teaching
observation scheme (COLT). Australia: The National Centre for English Language Teaching.
Spada, N., & Massey, M. (1992). The role of prior pedagogical knowledge in determining the
practice of novice ESL teachers. In J. Flowerdew, M. Brock & S. Hsia (Eds.), Perspectives on
second language teacher education (pp. 23–37). Hong Kong: City Polytechnic.
Spada, N. (1987). Relationships between Instructional Differences and Learning Outcomes: A
process-product study of communicative language teaching. Applied Linguistics, 8, 137–161.
Spradley, J. P. (1979). The ethnographic interview. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Sprenger, M. (1999). Learning and memory: The brain in action. Alexandria, VA: Association for
Supervision and Curriculum Development.
State Council. (2001). Guowuyuan guanyu jichujiaoyu gaige yu fazhang de jueding [Decision on
reform and development of basic education].
State Education Commission. (1986). Quanrizhi zhonguxe yingyu jiaoxu dagang [English syllabus
for full-time secondary schools]. Beijing: People’s Education Press.
State Education Commission. (1990). Quanrizhi zhonguxe yingyu jiaoxue dagang (xiudingben)
[English syllabus for full-time secondary schools]. Beijing: People’s Education Press.
State Education Commission. (1988). Quanrizhi zhongxue yingyu jiaoxue dagang (xiudingben)
full-time junior secondary schools]. Beijing: People’s Education Press.
Stern, H. H. (1983). Fundamental concepts of language teaching. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Sternhouse, L. (1975). An introduction to curriculum research and development. London:
Heinemann.
Swain, M. (1995). Three functions of output in second language learning. In G. Cook & B.
Seidhofer (Eds.), For H.G. Widdowson: Principles and practice in the study of language.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Taylor, L. (2005). Washback and impact. ELT Journal, 2005(2), 154–155.
Thornbury, S. (1996). Teachers research teacher talk. ELT Journal, 4, 279–289.
Ten Tileston, D. W. (2000). Best teaching practices: How brain research, learning styles, and
standards deﬁne teaching competencies. Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin Press.
Tileston, D. W. (2004). What every teacher should know about effective teaching strategies.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin Press.
Tomlinson, B. (1990). Managing change in indonesian high schools. ELT Journal, 1990(1),
25–37.
Underwood, P. R. (2012). Teacher beliefs and intensions regarding the instruction of English
grammar under national curriculum reforms: A theory of planned behavior perspective.
Teaching and Teacher Education, 28, 911–925.
Ur, P. (2012). A course in language teaching: Practice and theory (2nd ed.). Cambridge England;
New York: Cambridge University Press.
Ur, P. (1996). A course in language teaching: Practice and theory. Cambridge England; New
York: Cambridge University Press.
van Lier, L. (1996). Interaction in the language curriculum: awareness, autonomy and
authenticity. London: Longman.
van Lier, L. (2000). Constraints and resources in classroom talk: Issues in equality and symmetry.
In C. Candlin & N. Mercer (Eds.), English language teaching in its social context: A reader
(pp. 90–107). New York: Routledge.
244 References
van Lier, L. (2000). Constraints and resources in classroom talk: Issues in equality and symmetry.
In C. Candlin & N. Mercer (Eds.), English language teaching in its social context: A reader
(pp. 90–107). New York: Routledge.
van Lier, L. (1994). Language awareness, contingency, and interaction. AHA Review, 11, 69–82.
van Lier, L. (1988). The classroom and the language learner: ethnography and second language
classroom research. London: Longman.
Vargas, J. S. (2013). Behavior analysis for effective teaching. New York: Routledge.
Wang, B. (2012a). Fostering learner autonomy via ELP-based assessment in the Chinese Context.
Shanghai International Studies University.
Wang, Q., & Mu, H. (2013). The roles of university researchers in a University-school
collaborative action research project- A Chinese experience. Multidisciplinary Journal of
Educational Research, 2, 101–129.
Waring, H. Z. (2009). Moving out of IRF (Initiation-Response-Feedback): A single case analysis.
Language Learning, 4, 796–824.
Watson, C. W. (1999). Being there: Fieldwork in anthropology. Sterling, VA: Pluto Press.
Watson-Gegeo, K. A. (1988). Ethnography in ESL: Deﬁning the essentials. TESOL Quarterly, 4,
575–591.
Wells, G. (1993). Reevaluating the IRF sequence: A proposal for the articulation of theories of
activity and discourse for the analysis of teaching and learning in the classroom. Linguistics
and Education, 5, 1–37.
Widdowson, H. G. (1990). Aspects of language teaching. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Wilen, W., Bosse, M. I., Hutchison, J., & Kindsvatter, R. (2004). Dynamics of effective secondary
teaching (5th ed.). Boston: Pearson Education.
Woods, D. (1996). Teacher cognition in language teaching. Cambridge England; New York:
Cambridge University Press.
Woods, D. (2011). Two dimensions of teacher knowledge: The case of communicative language
teaching. System, 39, 381–390.
Yalden, J. (1981). Communicative language teaching: Principles and practice. Toronto, ONT:
Ontario Institute for Studies in Education.
Yo-An, L. E. (2006). respecifying display questions: interactional resources for language teaching.
TESOL Quarterly, 4, 691–713.
Yoshida, R. (2008). Teachers' choice and learners' preference of corrective feedback types.
Language Awareness, 17(1), 78–93.
Yu, L. (2001). Communicative language teaching in China: Progress and resistance. TESOL
Quarterly, 35, 194–198.
Yuan, G. R. (2001). Dali tuijin zhongxioaxue jiaoshi jixu jiaoyu gongcheng, buduan kaichuang
jixu jiaoyu gongzuo xinjumian [Invigorate the continuing education project for primary and
secondary teachers; open up new prospects for continuing education].
Zheng, X., & Davison, C. (2008). Changing pedagogy: Analyzing ELT teachers in China.
London, New York: Continuum International Publishing Group.
Zheng, X. M. (2005). Pedagogy and pragmatism: Secondary English language teaching in the
People’s Republic of China. The University of Hong Kong.
An, L. (2012). Developing in-house ELT materials for an English teaching reform project in a
middle school. Foreign Languages and Their Teaching, 5, 10–14.
An, L. (2012). The role of textbooks in modifying teacher beliefs and practices: A project-based
study in middle schools in China. Unpublished doctoral thesis. Shanghai: Shanghai
International Studies University.
Chen, X., & Keith, S. (2005). Research on effective teaching in modern western countries:
Systematical review and some inspirations. Comparative Education Review, (8), 56–60, 71.
Cui, Y. (2001). Effective teaching: Principles and strategies (I). People’s Education, 6, 46–47.
Cui, Y. (2001). Effective teaching: Principles and strategies (II). People’s Education, 7, 42–43.
Duan, W. (2013). Current situation and solutions to problems in primary and secondary EFL
teacher education. Education and Management, 6, 59–61.
References 245
Geng, F. (2012). Fostering learner autonomy in secondary EFL classrooms. Foreign Languages
and Their Teaching, 5, 6–9.
Geng, F. (2012b). Developing learner autonomy and language speaking proﬁciency through LAP
Class—A project-based research at a secondary school in China. Unpublished Doctoral
Thesis. Shanghai: Shanghai International Studies University.
Hu, D. (1999). A review of 97 years’ history of English education in China. Shandong Foreign
Languages Journal, 4, 55–57.
Hu, W. (2009). The strengths and weaknesses of China’s foreign language education in the past 60
years. Foreign Language Teaching and Research, 3, 163–169.
Curriculum and Textbook Research Institute. (1999). A collection of EFL curricular and syllabi in
China’s basic education in 20th Century. Beijing: People’s Education Press.
Liu, D. (2008). Development of Foreign Language teaching and learning in China’s basic
education (1978–2008). Shanghai: Shanghai Foreign Language Education Press.
Pan, M. (2011). Reconceptualising and exploring oral communicative competence: A multimodal
perspective. Unpublished doctoral thesis. Shanghai: Shanghai International Studies University.
Ren, Q., & Liang, W. (2010). Investigating the effects of SLA studies on the professional
development of foreign language teachers. Foreign Language World, 4, 76–83.
Shen, Y., & Cui, Y. (2008). Classroom observation: Moving towards professional observation
and evaluation. Shanghai: East China Normal University Press.
Shen, Y., Lin, R., Wu, J., & Cui, Y. (2007). Frameworks and instruments for classroom
instruction. Contemporary Educational Science., 24, 17–21.
Shu, D. (2013). Developing an EFL PhD program through “learning in using and social service”.
Language Education, 1, 9–12.
Shu, D. (2005). China needs FLT theories with Chinese characteristics. Foreign Language World,
(6), 2–7,60.
Shu, D. (2013). An evaluative review of the Third SFLEP National Foreign Language Teaching
Contest. Foreign Language World, 2, 43–49.
Shu, D. (2012). Exploring an EFL teaching approach with Chinese characteristics: Exploratory
practices in a secondary school. Foreign Languages and Their Teaching, 5, 1–5.
Shu, D. (2012). The SFLEP National Foreign Language teaching contest and teacher development.
Foreign Language World, 3, 34–41.
Shu, D. (2010). Classroom instruction for college English teaching and learning: What to teach,
and how to teach? Foreign Language World, 6, 26–32.
Shu, D. (2011). The functions and objectives of EFL classroom instruction. Foreign Language
World, 1, 5–8.
Shu, D., An, L., Geng, F., Wang, B., & Yuan, Y. (2012). English curriculum innovation towards
and EFL teaching approach with Chinese characteristics. Shanghai: Shanghai Foreign
Language Education Press.
Song, Q. (2007). The implication and features of effective teaching. Exploring Education
Development., 6, 39–42.
Sun, Y. (2004). Research on the Effectiveness of the Framework for Classroom Teaching
Standards. Unpublished doctoral thesis. Shanghai: East China Normal University.
Wang, B., & An, L. (2012). Exploring an evaluative framework for College English classroom
instruction. Foreign Language World, 3, 42–50.
Wang, B. (2012). Portfolio-based assessment in EFL secondary classrooms. Foreign Languages
and Their Teaching, 5, 15–19.
Wang, B. (2012). Fostering learner autonomy via ELP-based Assessment in the Chinese context.
Unpublished doctoral thesis. Shanghai: Shanghai International Studies University.
Wang, D. (2004). College EFL teachers’ cognition: A qualitative study and its implications for
teacher development. Unpublished doctoral thesis. Shanghai: Shanghai International Studies
University.
246 References
Wang, Q., Zhang, W., & Lin, Z. (2010). The practical exploration into the collaborative action
research between universities and basic education teachers. Curriculum, Teaching Material
and Method., 12, 87–93.
Wang, Q. (2013). Deepening the curriculum reform, improving the quality of teaching:
Interpreting the major changes of the Nine-Year Compulsory Education English Curriculum
Standards. Curriculum, Teaching Material and Method., 1, 34–40.
Wen, Q., & Han, S. (2011). Research methods for english teachers: Case analysis. Shanghai:
Shanghai Foreign Language Education Press.
Wu, Y. (2008). Researching foreign language teachers: Results and implications. Foreign
Language Learning Theory and Practice, 3, 32–39.
Wu, Y. (2005). Towards a professional proﬁle for effective university EFL teachers. Foreign
Language Teaching and Research, 3, 199–205.
Yang, H. (2011). Effective teaching: Reflective comments on The SFLEP National Foreign
Language Teaching Contest. Foreign Language World, 2, 14–18.
Yao, L. (2005). A review of studies on effective teaching. Primary & Secondary Schooling
Abroad, 8, 23–27.
Yi, B. (2010). A study on English Curriculum Change of China’s basic education during the thirty
years of reform and opening up. Unpublished Doctoral Thesis. Changsha: Hunan Normal
University.
Yu, X. (2010). On the seven links in effective teachers’ training: Taking the “National Training
Plan—Trainers’ research and studies program” as an example. Educational Research, 2,
77–83.
Yuan, Y. (2012). University-school collaboration targeting appropriate educational goals:
Exploring an effective approach for foreign language teacher education. Foreign Languages
and Their Teaching, 5, 20–23.
Yuan, Y. (2013). Multi-interative model of School-based English Teacher Education: Theory and
practice. Unpublished doctoral thesis. Shanghai: Shanghai International Studies University.
Zhang, F. (2012). A Sociocognitive Study of English Teacher Cognition and Its Influencing
Factors in Chinese Secondary Schools. Unpublished doctoral thesis. Changchun: Northeast
Normal University.
Zhang, X., & Huang, L. (2014). Combining vertical and horizontal view of teaching expertise:
Three threads of discussions on teacher learning and professional development of teachers.
Global Education, 4, 59–67.
Zhang, Y., & Zhou, J. (2012). Foreign language teacher cognition and needs: A case study on
teacher participants of a summer school. Foreign Languages and Their Teaching, 1, 6–10.
Zheng, X. (2006). Exploration on teachers’ cognition in college English teaching innovation and
change: A case study. Computer-Assisted Foreign Language Education, 2, 32–39.
Zhou, W., & Cui, Y. (2008). How to conduct classroom observation? Management in Primary and
Secondary Schools, 4, 18–20.
Zhu, X. (2010). On the value of the National Training Plan. Teacher Education Research, (11),
3–8, 25.
Zhu, Y. (2013). Key factors to ensure the effectiveness of EFL classroom instruction. Foreign
Language World, (2), 50–58, 68.
Zhu, Y. (2014). An ethnographic study on foreign language teacher cognition and classroom
practice within curriculum innovation in a Chinese Secondary School. Unpublished doctoral
thesis. Shanghai: Shanghai International Studies University.
References 247
