Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 23
Africa, although the problem of the expression of evidential values in the
verb system of the African languages requires further investigation. Proba-
bly, the suggestion that there is no evidentiality in the African languages
(Aikhenvald 2004: 291) will have to be corrected in the future. At present,
the grammatical expression of clearly definable evidential values can be
found only in some few African languages (among them Dagon, spoken in
Mali, which I studied some time ago and which is one of the central di-
alects that have perfective forms with clearly inferential components, see
Plungian 1988). However, some of the grammatical strategies that are
broadly spread across Africa and which are related to the phenomenon in
question deserve much more attention. Among them are, above all, the
highly frequent use of logophoric pronouns and the category of temporal
distance that occurs in various forms in the verbal systems of many lan-
guages. Indeed, logophoric pronouns, which indicate whether the subject
of the speech (i.e. the speaker) and the subject of the governing verb of
saying in a proposition coincide or not, may, in some specific contexts, be
used (similar to the German Konjunktiv) for the indication of whether a
given fragment of a text is the reproduction of the words uttered by a third
individual and, consequently, whether given information is known to the
speaker through the words of some other speaker.
The close relation between logophoric markers and markers of eviden-
tiality has been noticed in a number of typological studies (see e.g. Dim-
mendaal 2001 and Aikhenvald 2004: 132 ff.). Concerning the category of
temporal distance, whose use (especially in discourse) has by far not been
studied sufficiently, one may observe that in many African languages the
verb system is characterized by a special marking of events that go back far
in the past and which are not directly accessible to the perception of the
speaker (for further details see Dahl1985: 120-128, Aksenova 1997, Nurse
2008: 80-124). A relation to evidential values seems to be very likely in
this case or at least deserves some more detailed investigation. For the
important semantic potential of many forms that are traditionally labelled
"discontinuous past tense" see also Plungian and van der Auwera 2006.
1.4. From the history of the study of evidentiality
As it has already been said, in the tradition of "western" linguistics the
grammatical category of evidentiality was clearly recognized only during
the second half of the twentieth century. The first typological studies of
this category began to be conducted towards the end of the 1960s until the
24 Vladimir A. Plungian
beginning of the 1980s. A more intense study of evidentiality in various
languages of the world began even later, towards the end ofthe 1980s. This
clearly distinguishes evidentiality from other typologically important ver-
bal categories, which were known in the European grammatical tradition
much earlier, in some cases (such as with tense or mood) as early as in the
antiquity.
Nevertheless, the history of the study of evidentiality is not that short
that one could represent it in a nutshell. As it is often assumed, the first
occurrence of evidential oppositions in forms of the past tense of Turkish
verbs was noticed and analyzed already in the well-known "Collection of
Turkish languages" (Arabic: Dfwanu Lugato t-Turki) by Mahmud al-
Kashghari in the eleventh century (see Friedman 2003: 189), with com-
ments by Robert Dankoff, the English translator of the Dfwanu (Dankoff
1982). Another pioneer of the modem study of evidentiality was, undoub-
tedly, the French folklorist and poet Auguste Dozon, who at the end of the
nineteenth century focused on special forms of the Albanian verb (see e.g.
Dozon 1879). In order to describe them he introduced the term 'admirative'
(French admiratif), which came to be widely used. Dozon took the emo-
tional evaluation of an uttered fact as the basis of meaning (therefore the
unusual internal form of the term, which indicates the meaning of "affec-
tion"), which is indeed clearly observable in the evidential forms of the
Albanian verb, together with more usual inferential and reportative values
that form one of the distinctive features of Albanian (for further details see
Friedman 1986, 2000, 2003; Duchet and Pemaska 1996). Considering this
shift of the semantic focus on modal meanings of evaluation, one may con-
clude that the observations by Dozon were highly important and had a
strong impact on the terminology and the direction of subsequent investiga-
tions in the tradition of Balkan philology.
Apparently, these two names - Mahmud al-Kashghari and Auguste Do-
zan - also represent the two most important landmarks of the history of the
study of evidentiality. However, the establishment of this category as a
research object in modem linguistics begins, as it is usually claimed, with
Franz Boas. Even the term "evidential" itself goes back to Boas,4 as well as
the first exhaustive description of the functioning of this category in Kwa-
kiutl (Wakashan family) and a number of other languages of the North-
Western coast, which was carried out at the beginning of the twentieth
century. In subsequent works Boas repeatedly focused on the role of evi-
dential meanings in what today we could label "folk semantics" (or "naive
conceptual system") characteristic ofAmerican Indian languages. A crucial
element in Boas' argumentation was the grammatical (that is, obligatory)
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 25
character of the expression of evidential values within the verb systems of
many North American languages, a phenomenon that, from his point of
view, formed a marked difference between American Indian languages and
languages like English concerning the grammatical strategies used to create
forms ofthe verb.
After Boas, evidential markers were discovered in and described for
many languages of the American Indians, particularly in the works of Ed-
ward Sapir, Morris Swadesh and other specialists in American languages.
The terminology was certainly not entirely uniform and fixed, and a con-
ception of these markers as a special type of "mood" predominated (simi-
larly, in earlier works in Bulgarian philology the phenomenon is often re-
ferred to as the "renarrative mood" of the Bulgarian verb). However, one
may state that the specific grammatical properties of evidentiality in this
period had been understood rather well, although the position of this cate-
gory among other grammatical categories of the verb and its typological
status in general were not subject to more detailed analyses. This was,
however, a natural consequence of the fact that in the first half of the twen-
tieth century a conception of a typology of grammatical categories in the
truest sense ofthe word had not been established yet.
The turning point in the history of the typological study of evidentiality
was the year 1957 when, at the same time and independently of each other,
two works appeared, both determining the direction of subsequent studies
for a long time. One of them was the seminal article by Jakobson (1957), in
which he introduces the term "shifter" and, based on it, the first fundamen-
tal classification of verbal categories (with an illustration of their different
properties on the basis of data from Russian). The other, not less important
(though, perhaps, less known) work was an article by the French specialist
in Iranian (and later one of the leading French typologists) Gilbert Lazard
1957, which was highly relevant for a conception of the problem. In this
article the author studied the verbal system of Tadjik (including the expres-
sion of the category of evidentiality in this language, which he particularly
focused on).
Both studies do not exclusively focus on evidentiality, but in each of
them particular aspects of this category play an important role.
In Jakobson's article evidentiality is one of the examples used to illu-
strate the peculiar type of verbal categories, which include in their meaning
the joint reference to what he labelled "narrated event", "speech event" and
"narrated speech event" In his own words, "[t]he speaker reports an event
on the basis of someone else's report (quotative, i.e. hearsay evidence), of
a dream (revelative evidence), of a guess (presumptive evidence), or of his
26 Vladimir A. Plungian
own previous experience (memory evidence)" (Jakobson 1971: 135i Fur-
thermore, Jakobson did not only establish the term "evidentiality" as one
denoting that grammatical category which indicates the source of informa-
tion of the speaker's utterance, but also integrated the category into the
broader typological context, establishing its place next to a number of other
verbal categories. Thus (and probably for the first time), various phenome-
na found in typologically different languages could be described under one
label, that of "evidentiality" Generally speaking, one could say that it was
now possible to find similarities, for example, between the verbal system
of Bulgarian and that of Kwakiutl, both of which are constructed in an
entirely different way otherwise. Thus, we owe it to Jakobson that a gener-
al label was found for phenomena that occurred in different languages, but
which until that time had not been considered as similar in nature. One
may regard this moment as the beginning of the typological study of evi-
dentiality. Furthermore, it was in the works of Jakobson that evidentiality
was first clearly distinguished from modality. This distinction had not been
drawn in such a clear-cut way before, neither in the tradition ofthe Balkan
linguistics nor in American linguistics.
The article by Lazard is entirely different in character. It is a detailed
analysis of the verbal system of Tadjik, which has grammaticalized mark-
ers of evidentiality. However, the way evidentiality is expressed in Tadjik
(which belongs to the zone of the "evidential belt" of Eurasia) differs fun-
damentally from the one observed by Boas and his successors in the lan-
guages of the North American Indians: it is a binary system (see below) in
which evidential markers are highly polysemous. For the description of the
semantic invariant of such markers Lazard suggested the term ''meditative"
(French mediatif), which is not entirely identical with Jakobson's "eviden-
tiality": it denotes any form of "indirect" reflection of a situation, which is
the case when the perception of situation is not based on direct, personal
experience of the speakers or on their own conception of the world. During
the following decades, Lazard's suggestions were not immediately ac-
knowledged in linguistic typology. However, through the accumulation of
linguistic data and a deeper understanding of evidential systems in the lan-
guages of the world it became clear that Lazard's intuitions were in many
respects accurate, and the term "meditative" came to be widely used for the
description of systems of the Balkan type, especially in the French linguis-
tic tradition (see e.g. Guentcheva 1993, 1996, but also later works of La-
zard himself: Lazard 1996, 1999 and 2000).
The publication of Jakobson's works gave a new impulse to the study of
evidentiality in various languages, and the period from the beginning of the
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 27
1960s to the middle of the 1980s was characterized by a continuous accu-
mulation of new findings and the publication of a remarkable number of
works. In these works, the authors intended to provide a deeper and more
precise description of systems of evidentiality found in individual languag-
es and to establish a more comprehensive typological conception of evi-
dentiality, i.e. one that was not restricted to a particular tradition, but which
accounted for all languages in the world that were known at this time.
Some of the most important studies of this period are Aronson 1967 (ela-
borating on Jakobson's ideas of the Bulgarian system of the expression of
evidentiality), Haarmann 1970 (one of the first monographs on evidentiali-
ty in the languages of the Great Evidential Belt), Friedman 1979 (analyzing
data from the Caucasian languages), Hardman 1981 and Barnes 1984 (both
providing a detailed analyses of data from South American languages),
Slobin and Aksu 1982 (one ofthe first detailed descriptions of evidentiality
in Turkish), and Giv6n 1982 (one of the first theoretical works accounting
for the relation between evidentiality and modality).
The studies of this period laid the foundation of the publication of the
famous edited volume by Chafe and Nichols 1986 and, closely related to it,
the article by Willett 1988, in which the material from the edited volume
was systemized and commented by the author. Until the present day, this
edited volume is one of the most frequently cited books with respect to
evidentiality. It does not only include a collection of very interesting and
reliable data from languages of different linguistic areas (although the lan-
guages of North America predominate), but also proposes a reasoned clas-
sification of evidential values in the languages of the world (which was
supplemented in Willett's article). Practically all subsequent studies were
based on this classification in one way or the other, and many ideas sug-
gested in the edited volume and in Willett's article were taken up later by
other authors who wrote about the classification of evidential values (for
further details see Section 2.2).
The following years were characterized by a rapidly growing interest in
the category of evidentiality (which, strictly speaking, ceased to be "exot-
ic" after the edited volume by Chafe and Nichols). It was a period in which
more data were accumulated and in which more attention was given to the
languages of the ,Old World" Such a shift of the focus was only to be
expected in view of the fact that these languages were given much less
room in the edited volume by Chafe and Nichols. However, the universal
classification of evidential values proposed in the volume could now be
applied to the new material, both to new and to known data. It does not
come as a surprise that in this period a number of edited volumes dealing
28 Vladimir A. Plungian
with evidentiality in the languages of the Old World were published, such
as Guentcheva 1996 and its continuation Guentcheva and Landaburu 2007,
Bo and Utas 2000, but also Dendale and Tasmowski 200 1 (published as a
special issue of the Journal ofPragmatics). Each of these works does not
only provide a collection of new data, but also attempts to make a contribu-
tion to the theory of evidentiality and the classification of evidential values
in general. These attempts often end up in more or less polemic statements
with reference to Willett's classification, which had drawn largely on ma-
terial from the languages of the New World. Especially important with
respect to theoretical aspects are the re-introduction of Lazard's ''medita-
tive" (or "indirective" in the terminology of Johanson and others) as a cov-
er term for the semantic cluster formed by evidential markers in binary
systems, and also the more profound discussion of the relation between
modality and evidentiality (we will return to this problem in Section 4.2).
All these discussions are characterized also by a renewed interest in the
conception of admirativity, which some authors exclude from the semantic
domain of evidentiality, whereas others do include it (see the different
points of view in De Lancey 1997, 2001, Lazard 1999 and Xrakovskij
2007a; for the modal component of evidential values see especially de
Haan 1999 and 2005, Xrakovskij 2007a, but also van der Auwera and
Plungian 1998).
The results of the study of evidentiality at this stage were analyzed in
two recently published works of more general nature: the edited volume by
Aikhenvald and Dixon 2003 and the monograph by Aikhenvald 2004. Cur-
rently, the latter can be regarded as the most comprehensive guide through
the history of the study of evidentiality and the semantics of this category
in the languages of the world. Further research on evidentiality will largely
draw on this book. In the present overview we will repeatedly refer to Aik-
henvald's views and also include those ideas into the discussion which
appear debatable to us.
2. Classification of evidential values
2.1. The main types of opposition
As it was shown above, the generalization of existing data of the category
of evidentiality suggests that the main opposition inherent in the various
evidential values is based on the types of access to the information uttered
by speakers, i.e. the means by which the speakers got to know about the
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 29
situation they speak about. This opposition can be of two kinds. On the one
hand, one may distinguish between direct (firsthand, witnessed) and indi-
rect access to information. Direct access refers to any means of obtaining
information that presuppose a direct perception of a situation by the speak-
ers (mainly visual, but not necessarily) and/or a direct participation of the
speakers in a situation. The difference between these two types of direct
access is needed because not all forms of direct participation in a situation
necessarily involve its observation "from the outside" Moreover, some-
times occurrences that are described from the "first person" perspective are
generally not observable, for instance in the case of personal physiological
sensations and emotions. These two types of direct access may be ex-
pressed by means of different grammatical constructions in different evi-
dential systems, which will be discussed more in detail below. According-
ly, an indirect access to information presupposes that the knowledge about
a situation was obtained through other means: the speaker did not observe
the situation in a direct way and did not participate in it.
On the other hand, one may distinguish between a personal and a non-
personal access to information. This opposition is not identical with the
preceding one, although it seems to be very similar to it. A personal access
to information presupposes that the speakers know about a situation on the
basis of facts that they personally got to know, whereas a non-personal
access to information presupposes that the speakers received their know-
ledge, roughly, through a report in somebody else's words. Thus, the
source of a retold assertion may be either known or unknown to the speak-
ers. The non-personal access to information forms the basis of the seman-
tics of one of the most widespread types of evidential markers, which, in
accordance with current practice, is called 'reportative' (one may also find
the terms 'renarrative', 'quotative', 'hearsay', and others; for more details
on the typology of these markers, see especially Wiemer to appear).
For a significant number of situations the conception of direct/indirect
and personal/non-personal access appears to be identical: a direct access is,
for obvious reasons, always personal, and an indirect access is non-
personal. (Note that a non-personal access is, per definition, also indirect.)
However, these features may also be independent of each other.
Indeed, a direct (and personal) access presupposes that the speakers
perceived the situation which they speak about themselves (in person) and
in a direct way. A non-personal (and indirect) access presupposes that the
speakers, talking about a situation, base their utterance on the information
of another person. Another possible combination is the one of an indirect
and personal access to the situation. In this case the speakers obtained
30 Vladimir A. Plungian
knowledge of a situation themselves, without other persons being involved,
but the knowledge of this situation has not been obtained in a direct way
since the speakers did not observe the situation directly. They may, for
instance, either observe any results of a situation and take these as the basis
for the conclusion that it took place or argue on the basis of some other
data. In any case, the speakers talk about a situation which they did not
observe personally and in which they did not take part, but about which
they have some evidence that allows them to assume that it took or takes
place. In (1) this type of access to a situation is reflected in (c): it may be
uttered by speakers if, for instance, they do not see the fish on the table, but
see how the dog guiltily has its tail between its legs. Such values are usual-
ly called inferential (or inferentive), since the speakers are required to draw
a logical conclusion (an inference) on the basis of observed results. Anoth-
er widespread type of meaning of a personal indirect access is the so-called
presumptive value, which refers to cases where speakers produce an utter-
ance in which they refer to a situation about which they do not know
through concrete observed results, but through their knowledge about par-
ticular cause-and-effect relations: compare the context of the form at this
time of the year the berries should already be ripe, where the utterance
about the ripeness of the berries is not based on direct observation, but, so
to speak, on the natural order of things. The difference between inferential
and presumptive contexts may also be illustrated in the following example.
One and the same utterance, such as The neighbour is already at home,
may, in a language that has the respective set of grammatical means, be
produced either by using presumptive or by using inferential markers of
evidentiality. The first would be used for instance in the context of eight
o'clock- the neighbour should already be at home (if the speakers know
that this is time when the neighbour usually comes home). The second
construction would be used in the context of the light is on in the house - it
seems that the neighbour is already at home (in this case the speakers con-
clude from an observed situation, which they interpret as evidence enough
for making the utterance). In this sense, the main difference between pre-
sumptive and inferential markers is that the first are based on the speakers'
knowledge about the world and their capacity to draw logical conclusions,
whereas the second are based on direct observation by the speakers (and,
indirectly, on their capacity to draw logical conclusions from it). For more
details on this problem, see also Tatevosov 2003.
From the two main oppositions characterized above the one between the
direct and the indirect access proves to be hierarchically (and typological-
ly) more important. The indirect access stands for a very broad range of
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 31
ways to get access to information, but excludes a direct synchronous per-
ception of a situation or participation in it. One of these ways may be a
logical conclusion from an observed result, or a reasoning based on general
properties of the world, or a reproduction of what other people said. In
many languages, this variety of types of indirect access is reflected in the
existence of finer grammatical distinctions: here, specialized markers of
the inferential, presumptive, reportative and other specific categories are
possible. However, in the majority of languages a different strategy can be
observed, namely the use of one single marker with a diffuse meaning for
the expression of the indirect access to a situation. Its basic value includes
only the indication of the fact that the speakers did not have direct access
to a situation, but that they got informed about it anyhow, or perhaps things
cleared up (if they did at all) through the context or through pragmatic
factors. Exactly this uniform type of evidential markers, i.e. the one which
indicates indirect access with a wide range of values (which are, however,
conceptually alike), was the type discussed by Lazard 1957 under the label
"meditative" (French mediatif), which was also called "indirective" in his
studies on the Turkish languages, "non-confirmative" in many studies of
the Balkan languages, and in many other ways. Aikhenvald 2004 uses the
term "non-frrsthand" for values that are very close to the one discussed
above. Since languages with this type of evidential markers form, as al-
ready said, the majority of all languages spoken on earth, the number of
terms that are used to capture their meaning and that arose in various lin-
guistic traditions independently of each other is large as well. In the Rus-
sian linguistic tradition, the term zaglaznost' (referring literally to what
happens "behind one's back") has been used to refer to this type of uniform
markers that indicate indirect access (especially in the works of Caucasian
linguistics, see, e.g., Kibrik 1977 for Archi). During the past few years also
the descriptive term "indirect evidence" (kosvennaja zasvide-
tel'stvovannost') came to be widely used (see Kozinceva 1994 and 2007,
Xrakovskij 2007a).
Markers of indirect access, which have a broad range of values in the
languages of the world, have, as a rule, one property in common: they do
not only express evidential values, but also different types of modal values.
In other words, their inherent evidential meaning is, as a rule, not separated
from the modal meaning, more precisely, from the meaning of epistemic
assessment (i.e., the assessment of the degree of certainty of what is said).
The pragmatic basis for this proximity is evident: speakers tend to evaluate
information that they did not obtain as the result of a direct synchronous
observation of a situation as less certain or less reliable. A more careful
32 Vladimir A. Plungian
formulation would probably not make use of the term "incertainty", but
rather speak of "epistemic distance": the speakers refrain from taking over
responsibility of the truth value of an utterance since the respective infor-
mation did not enter into their personal sphere.
It should be noted that the relation between the values of indirect wit-
ness and of epistemic incertainty (or rather epistemic "distance") is gener-
ally not extremely close: there are evidential systems in which the fact that
the speakers had no personal access to the respective information does not
necessarily result in a lower degree of certainty of this information. A use-
ful criterion for the evaluation of this relation is the type of markers used in
a given language to formulate utterances of the type "general truths" (i.e.
those which are unconditionally taken for granted in a given community) or
utterances that refer to well-known facts (for example, facts related to the
past of a given community), i.e. types of information which speakers can-
not observe personally. In languages with "meditative" evidentiality,
though not only in these, it often occurs that the use of markers of indirect
access is omitted in such cases (although the speakers has no direct access
to the described situation) in order to avoid an unnecessary epistemic load
of these markers. An analysis of data according to these criteria can be
found e.g. with reference to Bulgarian in Guentcheva 1996a and in Nicolo-
va 2007; cf. also Friedman 2000 for other languages with such semantic
effects.
However, in languages with more complex evidential systems markers
of direct access often lack such epistemic load: the use of "indirect" evi-
dential markers does not mean that the reliability of the description of a
situation that has not been observed personally is in any way affected. Ra-
ther, these markers may be used also to describe situations known as true
(this fact has, for example, been considered as characteristic for Tibetan by
Tournadre 1996). Confer also Mithun 1999's observation that in Central
Yup'ik, in contrast to a number of other languages, markers of indirect
access may render a verbal statement even more credible than markers of a
direct access since their semantics does not include reference to subjective
personal experience, but to more reliable collective experience (z'This is
not what I myself thought through, this is what everyone knows.'). Various
aspects of this type of marking are discussed also in Aikhenvald 2004,
where the term "epistemic extensions" is used to refer to this aspect of the
semantics of evidential markers. Thus, generally speaking, assertions refer-
ring to common knowledge may be expressed by means of entirely differ-
ent strategies in languages of the world: in some rare cases specialized
markers are used in this case (such as in the Tibetan and the Porno lan-
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 33
guages), in all other cases such strategies may be related either to the se-
mantic domain of indirect access (if it does not have additional shades of
epistemic uncertainty) or to the semantic domain of direct access (in con-
trast to its literal meaning).
Before we will continue with a discussion of the different approaches to
a typological classification of evidential values, we should add some im-
portant remarks on that component of the semantic domain of evidentiality
which is related to a direct access of the speaker to a situation. Typologi-
cally, one may observe a rather large number of independent values within
this domain, which in the languages of the world may be assigned a specia-
lized grammatical expression. In other words, the fineness of the subdivi-
sion of this semantic domain in the universal grammatical space may be
rather high.
The most typical division of those markers which are related to the do-
main of direct access is the one into markers of visual and non-visual evi-
dence. The first means that the speaker directly observed the respective
situation as a viewer, whereas in the second case the speaker got to know
about a synchronous situation not through visual perception, but through
any other means (through acoustic, olfactory or tactile perception, for ex-
ample). In some rare cases, one may find a more precise distinction within
the domain of visual markers, which depends on whether the speakers ob-
served the situation from far or whether they were in the immediate vicini-
ty or in contact with the participants of a situation. Sometimes visual mark-
ers may also indicate whether the speakers saw a situation in a dream,
although in a number of languages markers of indirect access are used in
this case (cf. n. 4). However, reliable evidence for the idea that there must
be a grammatical opposition of different ways of sensory non-visual per-
ception (say: auditory and tactile) in the languages of the world is not
available in the existing typological studies on evidentiality (cf. the data in
Aikhenvald 2004: 63-64). In this sense, the term "auditive", which is used
in descriptions of evidential systems in some languages (e.g. the Samoye-
dic), is somewhat misleading: actually, in Samoyedic the different auditive
forms refer both to auditory and to other types of non-visual perception of
a situation through the speaker (for example, tactile or olfactory percep-
tion). For further details see, for instance, Il'ina 2002, Burkova 2004, Gu-
sev 2007, Ljublinskaja and Mal'cukov 2007.
Another well-known and important opposition within the group of non-
visual markers is that between sensory markers (referring to all emotions
that are not related to visual perception) and the so-called endophoric
markers (this term, which was suggested by Claude Hagege, was used for
34 Vladimir A. Plungian
the description of evidential systems in the works of Tournadre 1996,
among others). Endophoric markers are used when speakers have to de-
scribe their own mental, emotional or physiological state. Such situations
cannot be perceived through any of the five "external" senses, but may be
accessed only on the basis of "internal" sensations, which shows that it
seems to be a special type of direct access. Correspondingly, in languages
with a system of endophoric markers expressions like I am hungry and you
are hungry have different grammatical forms. The first one is expressed by
means of a special endophoric marker (the speakers "know" about their
own physiological sensations, because they feel them, although they do not
perceive them visually or acoustically etc.), being in contrast to, for in-
stance, markers of a direct-visual or direct-sensory access. The second
expression is, however, realized with one of the markers of indirect access,
depending on the concrete evidential system: the speakers cannot have
equally reliable information about the physiological state of another person
as they may have about their own state. They may only draw conclusion on
this state on the basis of some indirect signs. The specialized expression of
endophoric evidentiality is typical, above all, for the Tibetan languages,
but occurs also in other languages of South-East Asia and the Far East, in
which evidentiality is grammaticalized.
However, next to visual and non-visual markers there is also another,
but much more rarely attested type among the group of markers of direct
access: the so-called "participatory" markers (also known as "performa-
tive", "personal agency", "constative", and others with different authors).
They are used in those cases in which the speakers themselves are partici-
pants of the situation which they speak about: they do not know about a
situation because they observed it or perceived it in any way, but because
they were directly involved in it. Participatory evidential markers, which
do not coincide with visual or sensory markers, can be found above all in
the Porno languages (Oswalt 1986, Mithun 1999: 181), but also in Oksap-
min and a number of other New Guinean languages (Loughnane 2007).
The participatory value is close to the endophoric one, but, as far as one
can conclude from existing descriptions, it is much more likely to occur
with predicates denoting activities and less so with predicates referring to
internal states of the subject. Moreover, these two types of markers of di-
rect access can be regarded as the realization of one and the same strategy
of obtaining information about a situation, namely one that is not based on
an observation of this situation, but on the direct participation in it.
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 35
2.2. The main types of classification
Many different classifications of all the evidential values that are possible
in the languages of the world have been suggested in the literature, but two
of them are most commonly known (and very similar to each other in vari-
ous ways). The frrst one goes back to Willett 1988 and is, in principle, a
generalization of empirical data presented in the volume edited by Chafe
and Nichols 1986. Willett distinguishes between three basic types of evi-
dential values: direct ones (subdivided into visual, auditory and other sen-
sory ones), indirect inferential ones (based on conclusions drawn by the
speaker), and indirect reportative ones (based on a transmission of some-
one else's words; one may distinguish between markers indicating different
degrees of quotation and markers whose use is based on an unspecified
source of information, e.g. a folklore text). In a somewhat simplified way,
Willett's system looks as illustrated in Figure 1.
Direct/Attested:
visual
auditory
other sensory
Indirect/Inferring:
results
reasoning
Indirect/Reported:
second-hand/third-hand/folklore
Figure I. Summary ofWillett 1988's classification
The basic types of grammatically relevant oppositions within the semantic
domain of evidentiality are very well captured in his system, but their in-
ternal subdivision seems to be insufficient. The most controversial aspect
of this classification is the separate place accorded to the specialized audi-
tive within sensory non-visual values, which is a typological claim that
may easily be disproved (for further details see Section 2.1). One may also
notice a somewhat too detailed subdivision of the reportative domain:
whether the various values distinguished by Willett are really universal
ones requires a more profound argumentation. At the same time, a number
of important evidential values discussed in the preceding Section are miss-
ing in this classification.
Another widely known typological classification of evidential values is
the one proposed by Aikhenvald 2004 (see Figure 2).
36 Vladimir A. Plungian
Visual
Sensory
Inference
Assumption
Hearsay
Quotative
(direct/firsthand)
(inferred/non-firsthand)
(reported/non-firsthand)
Figure 2. Summary ofAikhenvald 2004's classification
Aikhenvald's classification is based on a distinction into three basic groups
of evidential markers as well, similar to the groups proposed by Willett
(i.e. values of direct access and values of indirect access, which in turn are
split into inferential and reportative ones). The basic types distinguished by
Aikhenvald reflect the typological reality as it is known today in a better
way: a number of typologically doubtful values (or values for which there
is not sufficient evidence) occurring in earlier classifications are removed
in her classification. Equally reasonable seems also the internal subdivision
of evidential values proposed by Aikhenvald. hnportant for a typology of
evidentiality is, of course, the opposition of visual and sensory types of
direct access, and the one between inferential and presumptive types of
indirect access, but also the subdivision of reportative values into those
which refer to utterances of a concrete person ("quotatives") and those
referring to utterances of a person who is unknown or whose identity is
unimportant ("hearsay": rumors, stories, generally known opinions etc.).6
This terminology reflects the typological reality better than the distinction
into "second-hand" and ''third-hand" (as well as folklore) information pro-
posed by Willett: although, for instance, in some South American languag-
es one may find strategies by which different degrees of distance with ref-
erence to the source of information are distinguished (cf. Aikhenvald 2004:
178-179), their place within the system of grammatical means used for the
expression of evidentiality is rather marginal.
Aikhenvald's classification could be supplemented by some subtypes
that are not listed among the basic types of evidential values (although
direct or indirect reference to their existence is made in Aikhenvald's mo-
nograph). This refers, above all, to the values of direct access, which
should also include participatory and endophoric values.7 A special discus-
sion also deserves the value of "generally known truths", which in the ma-
jority of cases is expressed by one of the two types of evidential markers:
either by means of markers of direct access, or by markers of the reporta-
tive group. This way, a slightly modified and supplemented classification
of those evidential values which are the most important cross-linguistically
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 37
would look as shown in Figure 3 (the values printed in italics are those
which are either missing or not sufficiently integrated into the general
schema by Willett and Aikhenvald; the terms occurring in square brackets
are the most common terminological variants). Note the proposed division
of evidential values into an "upper" (with a distinction between di-
rect/indirect and personal/non-personal access) and a "lower" level.
This way, a much more balanced classification of evidential values in
the languages of the world compared to the existing ones can be derived
since all evidential values are divided into three large classes that result
from the interSection of the two partly independent binary features 'di-
rect/indirect' and 'personal/non-personal' access to information: values of
direct access (direct witness), indirect personal access and indirect non-
personal access (the two latter groups are subsumed under the category
"indirect evidence", which could also be labelled "meditative", "non-
confrrmative", or differently).
Direct/Personal[= Attested, Witnessed, Firsthand, Confirmative]
Participatory!Endophoric; <Common knowledge>
Visual (with subtypes)
Non-visual[= Sensory]
Indirect/Personal
Inferential (based on observed results)
Presumptive (based on plausible reasoning); <Common know-
ledge>
Indirect/Non-personal[= Secondhand]
Reported (with subtypes)
Figure 3. Updated classification of evidential values
Among the values of the group of direct access one may distinguish, on the
one hand, participatory and endophoric values, which characterize a fact as
being based on the personal participation of the speaker in a given situa-
tion (in the case of endophoric values: as experiencer), and, on the other
hand, values which characterize a fact as being based on the speaker's per-
sonal perception of a situation. If the type of perception of a situation is
grammatically relevant, one may further distinguish between visual and
non-visual (sensory) markers of direct access. Among the values of the
group of indirect personal evidence one may distinguish, above all, be-
tween inferential values, which indicate that an utterance about a situation
is based on what the speaker interprets as its observable result, and pre-
sumptive values, indicating that the utterance about a situation is based on
cause-and-effect relations known to the speaker. As already stated above,
38 Vladimir A. Plungian
in languages with grammaticalized evidentiality utterances referring to the
category of general truths can be formulated in different ways: if they do
not require the use of specific markers, they can be formulated either by
using markers of direct access, or through presumptive markers (if these do
not carry the additional epistemic load of incomplete certainty of what is
said). Finally, reportative values of the group of non-personal (and thus
indirect) evidence describe different variants of accessing a situation on the
base of the words uttered by another person. Within this group one may
distinguish between markers indicating a specific source of information
known to the speaker, an unknown source of information, and others.
3. Types of evidential systems in the languages of the world
The semantic domain of evidentiality in general was briefly characterized
above, i.e. the semantic domain that is related to the type of access to a
situation and from which the languages of the world draw grammaticalized
markers of evidentiality of the verb. We will now deal with another ques-
tion, which is one that is not less important for grammatical typology: How
can the different grammatical markers of evidentiality occurring in the
languages of the world be organized within verbal systems? This question
can be divided into two parts. Firstly, it has to be shown how systems of
specialized evidential grammatical markers of the verb can be constructed
("typology of evidential systems"). Secondly, it has to be shown in what
way verbal grammatical markers of evidentiality may be built into the
grammatical system of verbal markers in general (''the place of evidential
markers within the grammatical system").
Until the present day, these and other questions have attracted little in-
terest in grammatical typology. This is related to the well-known fact that
modern grammatical typology began to develop mainly as a typology of
universal grammatical values ("cross-linguistic gram types") and practical-
ly did not pay any attention to the question of how universal grammatical
values correspond to each other in the verbal systems of particular lan-
guages. Most of the studies on grammatical typology share a higher or
lower degree of"antistructuralist" ideology (the most typical representative
of this direction is certainly Joan Bybee), and the question of language-
internal interrelations of grammatical values must have occurred too
"structuralist" and thus of secondary importance to these scholars. Howev-
er, the position within the language system (as well as the typology of such
systems in general) is a very important topic both for purely descriptive
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 39
purposes and for many other aspects related to the function of grammatical
markers. Thus, it is not a coincidence that research on the typology of
grammatical systems has begun to accept these aspects as one of the most
important tasks of grammatical typology in general in the past years, to-
gether with a description of the composition and structure of a universal
grammatical inventory, i.e. the totality of values that in principle might be
grammaticalized in natural languages.
With respect to evidential markers, Aikhenvald's 2004 monograph is
the only one in which the task of setting up a typology of evidential sys-
tems is addressed. The problem is treated in a number of independent Sec-
tions in this monograph. In this sense, one of the strengths ofAikhenvald's
pioneering study is to have brought this topic into the center of interest,
although the typology proposed in this study is, as one may assume, not the
only possible one (some of its shortcomings will be discussed more in de-
tail below).
The main (and practically only) principle that determines the classifica-
tion of evidential systems in Aikhenvald 2004 is very simple: it is based on
the number of grammemes of the category of evidentiality that are formally
distinguished in a given language. Accordingly, Aikhenvald distinguishes
between "systems with two choices" (the simplest case), "systems with
three choices", "systems with four choices" and more complex systems
(the latter occurring very rarely, and the data of such systems often need
additional analyses). Each of these systems may be divided further into
subtypes, depending on the types of grammemes of evidentiality that are
formally distinguished in them.
One objection that might be put forward against this method used for
the classification of evidential systems is more general in character: the
quantitative principle, which appears to be clear and simple at first sight, is
somewhat too mechanical and leads to an analysis by which entirely differ-
ent systems may fall together into one and the same class, ifthey happen to
exhibit the same "arithmetical" number of grammemes of evidentiality.
Therefore it seems to be useful to propose an alternative classification of
evidential systems in which, next to the number of evidential grammemes,
also the type of evidential semantics expressed in each system will be giv-
en an equal consideration.
First of all, we will proceed from the distinction between "basic" evi-
dential systems and their variants, modified in one way or another. It seems
that the systems which have the best reason to be considered as basic are
ternary evidential systems. Here, all three types of cross-linguistically rele-
vant grammemes of evidentiality discussed above are included, i.e. markers
40 Vladimir A. Plungian
of direct access, indirect personal access (inferential) and non-personal
access (reportative) are formally opposed to each other. In this sense, the
basic system is in a certain way the prototypical realization of a genera-
lized typological idea of evidentiality in a most balanced and "symmetric"
way. Furthermore, the basic ternary systems are not necessarily the most
widespread ones, but systems that are sufficiently well represented in the
languages of the world. An example is the system of Quechua, but also that
of a number of other languages (for a more detailed overview see Aikhen-
vald 2004: 43-46). Interestingly, according to the descriptions in Wiemer
2006 and Wiemer 2007, present-day Lithuanian also belongs to the lan-
guages in which such a system can be found, considering that in standard
written Lithuanian two different strategies of the marking of evidentiality
are distinguished. The reportative is realized by means of constructions
with genuine particles (of the type ji dar ne-perskaiciusi laisko 'it is said
that she has not read the letter yet', literally: 'she yet not-having-read of-
letter'), whereas the inferential is realized by means of constructions with
"impersonal" negative particle that do not exhibit agreement (of the type
cia vaiko miegota 'it seems as if a child slept here', literally: 'here of-child
it-was-asleep'). Still, the systems represented in the majority of Lithuanian
dialects can most probably be treated as binary.
All the other systems of evidentiality can be regarded either as being the
result of a reduction of the basic system or, in contrast, of its extension.
Binary evidential systems, for instance, belong to the systems of the re-
duced type, and are apparently the ones which are most widespread on the
linguistic map of the world. A more usual type of binary systems is one
with a single generalized evidential marker of the ''meditative" type (i.e.
one which represents all types of indirect access to a situation), which is
opposed to a marker of direct access or to an unmarked form (although it is
difficult to draw a clear border line between these two cases; see especially
Aikhenvald 2004: 39-41 for a discussion of this issue). One may also fmd
binary systems in which only reportative value occurs as a marked element
(Latvian and Estonian seem to belong to this type, since both lack the
grammatical expression of inferential values). In the latter case the "reduc-
tion" of the basic system was not brought about by the generation of a po-
lysemous marker with a broad range of values, but through a procedure by
which one of the basic evidential values is simply not expressed by means
of grammatical elements.
On the other hand, all evidential systems with additional contrasts, i.e.
those that go beyond the inferential and the reportative values, belong to
systems of the extended type. As we have already seen, a rather large in-
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 41
ventory of such additional evidential values can be found in the languages
of the world: they may be found within the domain of direct access (partic-
ipant or visual vs. sensory), and within the domain of indirect access (infe-
rential vs. presumptive or various types ofreportative markers). More fine-
grained additional distinctions of evidential markers are also possible,
some of which have already discussed above.
The observed diversity of evidential systems basically corresponds to
the proposed taxonomy, i.e. they all correspond to either the basic ternary
type, the reduced binary type, or to the extended type with more than three
grammemes of evidentiality. However, another issue should be considered
in this respect. An evidential system that appears to be reduced is, general-
ly speaking, not always and necessarily a binary one. In some (however
rare) cases we may find systems with more than two grammemes of evi-
dentiality, but where the basic contrast between direct, inferential and re-
portative values is nevertheless absent. Such effect may arise when, for
instance, a system includes two different reportative markers, but none for
the marking of inferential values. Formally, such a system should be classi-
fied as ternary (as it is indeed done in Aikhenvald's monograph), but there
are still important semantic differences between such systems and the basic
ternary ones. Therefore, it is more appropriate to regard such systems as
subtypes of binary ones, to which they are typologically closer, and to
speak of modified binary systems in this case. In this sense, the classifica-
tion we propose is not based on the mere number of evidential grammemes,
but more on formal and semantic oppositions (see Figure 4).
Ternary systems ("basic"):
Direct vs. Inferred vs. Reported [Quechua-type]
Binary systems ("generalized"):
broad Indirective/Mediative or Secondhand [Balkan-type]
Complex systems ("elaborated"):
ternary systems with further distinctions and/or additional para-
meters such as 'endophoricity', 'participation', 'assumption',
'common knowledge', etc.
NB: Modified binary systems (e.g. with two types ofsecondhand evi-
dence) vs. "true" ternary or complex systems
Figure 4. Types of evidential systems
The problem of the position of evidential markers within verbal systems is,
at present, a minor topic, and in this survey we may only add some remarks
about it (useful additional facts are provided in Aikhenvald 2004). On the
42 Vladimir A. Plungian
one hand, the degree to which evidential markers occupy a central position
in verbal systems may vary. There are verbal systems (e.g. those of a num-
ber of languages spoken in North and South America) in which evidentiali-
ty is a central (but not the only) grammatical category of the verb, and their
expression is, this way or the other, subordinated to all other verbal catego-
ries. In other cases evidentiality has a status that is equal to that of other
verbal categories (and is expressed independently), such as aspect, mood,
and others.
On the other hand, evidentiality often occurs, so to speak, on the peri-
phery of some other category within the verbal system and may be ana-
lyzed as a special value of this category or a special way of using it. Such
cases of "dependent" expression of evidentiality are called "evidential
strategies" in Aikhenvald 2004, although, as one may conclude from exist-
ing descriptions, it is not always easy to draw the line between evidential
strategies and the expression of evidentiality by means of full-fledged
grammemes. One of the most common strategies of expressing evidentiali-
ty is the use of forms of the perfect with evidential functions (either de-
rived etymologically from the perfect, or still preserving a parallel use for
marking the perfect). The use of such "perfectoid" forms is typical for bi-
nary systems of the "Balkan type", with a broad mediative marker. In sys-
tems with perfect-based strategies of expressing evidentiality this contrast
is usually realized only in the forms of the past tense of the verb (perfecto-
id evidential systems may over time undergo an evolution into a full-
fledged evidential system, but such an evolution presupposes a considera-
ble reorganization of the entire verbal paradigm). There is a large body of
literature on perfectoid evidential systems; see, above all, Guentcheva
1996, Johanson and Utas 2000, Tatevosov 2001,2003.
One may also observe the tendency to use constructions with infinite
forms of the verb for the expression of evidentiality (participles, converbs,
and infinitives), which in initial stages are usually weakly grammaticalized
and which get engaged into the verbal system only gradually (for more
details see, for instance, Walchli 2000, who offers an overview of data
from the Baltic languages).
4. Evidentiality and other verbal categories
In this section we will briefly discuss the interrelation between evidentiali-
ty and two verbal categories, namely person and modality. As it has often
been mentioned in the literature on typology, both types of interrelations
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 43
are highly important (although the interpretation of the data differs tre-
mendously with different authors). Below we will provide a brief overview
of some well known facts.
4.1. Evidentiality and person
A verb form of the first person singular marked for an indirect evidentiality
displays a rather paradoxical combination of grammemes, since this form
relates to a situation in which the subject is the speaker. Note that markers
of both indirect and direct access are equally paradoxical here (of course,
except for participant and endophoric markers, which are specifically used
for such situations). Actually, ifthe speaker is the subject of a situation, the
access to the given situation is normally direct. However, the use of many
markers of direct access - especially those which presuppose a direct ob-
servation of the event - is not necessarily obligatory in this situation. In
this sense, one could expect that in many languages forms of the first per-
son cannot be combined with markers of evidentiality. Nevertheless, in the
majority of languages such forms exist and are actively used, and the
above-mentioned paradox is overcome in such a way that the given forms
assume a number of additional semantic features. Such additional features
are called 'first person effect' in Aikhenvald (2004: 237). In combination
with different markers of indirect access the forms of the first person
adopt, as a rule, the value of an uncontrolled and unintentional action (the
speakers do not remember what they did, they acted in a dream, in a drun-
ken state, etc.). This way, the subjects of a situation split up into an un-
consciously and a consciously acting figure and look at the preceding un-
conscious occurrences as if they did not take part in them, as mere
observers.8 An important semantic property of these forms is, that, for the
speakers (and in some languages also for the addressees, see Aikhenvald
2004: 239), the information about their actions turns out to be new and
often unexpected. It is this semantic peculiarity in which the admirative
value of evidential forms, which will be discussed in the following section,
manifests itself.
The first-person semantic effect is also connected with the so-called
"conjunct/disjunct marking" which, strictly speaking, is not so much re-
lated to the grammatical expression of evidentiality, but to the expression
of person (i.e. that of the speaker). The expression denotes a strategy (par-
ticularly characteristic for Barbacoan, Tibeto-Burman, and some other
languages), by which verb forms are opposed to each other on the basis of
44 Vladimir A. Plungian
two markers of person: one marker is used for utterances with a first person
subject (or the second person in questions), the other one for utterances
with a non-first person subject. The latter may also be used in utterances
from a first-person perspective, but in this case the speaker causes the ef-
fect already mentioned, namely the characterization of an action as uncon-
trolled or unintentional (for further details, see Curnow 2002, 2003, but
also the overview in Aikhenvald 2004: 123-130), by which the speakers
adopt the role of outside observers of themselves. The semantic "first per-
son effects" occurring in the context of evidential markers were discussed
in a number of special studies; next to some generalized observations in
Aikhenvald (2004: 219-239), the effects are also referred to in the works
by Guentcheva et al. 1994, Majsak and Tatevosov 2000, Curnow 2003,
Nicolova 2006.
4.2. Evidentiality and Modality
The interrelation between evidentiality and modality is, in all likelihood,
one of the most complex problems of all the theoretical difficulties related
to the description of the category of evidentiality. Therefore, it is no coin-
cidence that this question has been dealt with from all possible points of
view so that one may find strict positions (evidentiality is a type of modali-
ty; evidentiality and modality have nothing in common) and more relaxed
ones (evidentiality and modality are different categories, but there are se-
mantic overlaps).
Apparently, the problem became especially difficult to deal with be-
cause different authors had different things in mind when talking about
modality and evidentiality (although they often simply suggest different
interpretations of one and the same phenomenon). Evidentiality in general
is a very diffuse category with respect to its semantic nature (especially if
we do not analyze markers of evidentiality in isolation, but in relation to
the concrete verbal systems in which they function), and it is not easy for a
researcher who is familiar with only one type of evidential systems to for-
mulate general statements that would be valid for all observed types and
not only for one ofthem.
In what follows, we will present our ideas related to this confusing mat-
ter, knowing that we cannot, of course, offer a final solution of the prob-
lem. One may find a rather large number of concurring views on the nature
of modality and the question of where the line between the semantic do-
main of modality and that of other categories has to be drawn (we will not
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 45
present a more detailed summary of this problem here, but restrict our-
selves to a reference on the monographs by Bybee et al. 1994, Bybee and
Fleischmann 1995, Palmer 2001; cf. also van der Auwera and Plungian
1998, Plungian 2000). In the strictest sense, the conception of modality
includes, above all, the expression of possibility and necessity (including
also epistemic values, i.e. an assessment of the certainty of an event); a
broader conception would also include the expression of volition and all
other types of assessment, as well as the expression of the speakers' sub-
jective attitude in general. Volitive modality may, in a certain way, be re-
garded as a central element of the modal semantic domain since it includes
an evaluative component (people usually evaluate those things as positive
which coincide with their desires) and the concepts ofnecessity/possibility
(people usually want things that are not available in a given moment, but
which will probably be so in the future). Volitive modality is the basis for
grammatical categories of the verb like different kinds of the optative or
the imperative. In this sense, necessity, possibility, epistemic assessment
(and other types of evaluation) as well as volition all form a legitimate part
of the semantic domain of modality. As for the inclusion ofbroader seman-
tic components into this domain, it is by far more debatable and requires a
special justification.
Our discussion of the semantics of evidentiality with all its typological-
ly diverse forms has shown that one can by no means claim that evidential-
ity is a subclass of modal values, i.e. that it is entirely subordinated to the
semantic domain of modality. Such a conception of evidentiality was,
however, characteristic for the initial stages of the study of this category
and reflects an insufficient knowledge of all its different forms in the lan-
guages of the world.9 Evidentiality as a whole, i.e. the indication of the
type of access to a situation (or that of the source of information underly-
ing an utterance about a situation), can by no means be equated with mod-
ality, not even in the widest sense or by referring to some of the values of
evidentiality that have a prototypical modal character.
It would, however, be too early to stop the discussion at this point, since
the problem is not that easy and one-sided. In spite of the fact that eviden-
tiality and modality are different - even entirely different - categories, it is
also difficult to accept the opposite, radical view according to which these
categories have generally nothing in common. On the contrary, it would be
much more useful to adopt an approach that accounts for the large number
of diverse and complex relations that may be observed between evidentiali-
ty and modality.
46 Vladimir A. Plungian
One example for these relations is the fact that particular values within
the semantic domain of evidentiality also occur in the domain of modal
values, as it is, above all, the case with presumptive values (of the group of
values of personal indirect access; see also van der Auwera and Plungian
1998). Indeed, an utterance which refers to the fact that a situation takes or
took place, due to the existence of convincing reasons for it, is actually not
different from one referring to the epistemic necessity of this situation: in
both cases the speakers do not intend to become personally convinced of
the fact a situation takes or took place, but consider it as highly credible,
due to certain cause-and-effect relations known to them. The difference
between presumptive evidentiality and epistemic necessity (if it exists at
all) is often blurred through the merger of one of these meaning compo-
nents, namely that which was emphasized, with the other. If we regard such
values as modal, we stress one of the basic characteristics of modality,
namely the assessment of a situation (as highly probale); regarding it as
evidential, we stress one of the basic characteristics of evidentiality, name-
ly the reference to logical conclusions as a source of information about a
situation. This way, markers of presumptive evidentiality are the only evi-
dential markers with inbuilt modal components and the only modal mark-
ers with inbuilt evidential components. In a language that lacks other
markers of evidentiality the markers of epistemic necessity are not re-
garded as evidential ones, of course, since the inference of an evidential
fragment turns out here as the natural pragmatic consequence of this type
of epistemic modality. The existence of a marker of epistemic necessity is
therefore, if taken for itself, not an indicator for the presence of the gram-
matical expression of evidentiality within the system of a language. How-
ever, markers of this kind always exhibit an intersection of modal and evi-
dential values.
There are, however, also other factors to be discussed, which are proba-
bly even more interesting for the study of grammatical typology. One of
them is the occurrence of secondary modal values with evidential markers
in the languages of the world, another one the occurrence of secondary
evidential values with markers of modality. These values occur, at least in
the initial stages of their existence in a language, as derived and secondary,
and in this sense one may, following Aikhenvald 2004, speak of different
"evidential strategies" of using modal markers. However, one may also
speak of "modal strategies" ofusing evidential markers. Both strategies are
not universal, but each of them occurs frequently enough to allow for the
claim that the relation between evidentiality and modality is very close and
not coincidental.
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 47
We already discussed one of the most widespread modal strategies of
using evidential markers (i.e. the occurrence of secondary modal values
with evidential markers) in the beginning of the present article (see Section
2.1). The basic idea was that markers of indirect access convey the value of
epistemic uncertainty which, in the weak form, occurs as "epistemic dis-
tance", i.e. the speakers are released from the responsibility for the truth of
the utterance. Such modal strategies are characteristic for the large majori-
ty of binary evidential systems with generalized markers of the mediative
type. The fact that such systems were well known to researchers already in
the earliest periods of the study of evidentiality explains why in many of
the earlier studies of evidentiality this category is treated mainly as a modal
category. However, we have seen that such a relation does not always ex-
ist. Furthermore, modal strategies of the type described above may be en-
tirely absent in evidential systems of a different kind (especially with com-
plex evidential systems where the value of epistemic certainty does not
necessarily correlate with markers of direct access).
Another widespread type of modal strategies is the occurrence of so-
called admirative (or mirative) values with evidential markers. The latter
term, suggested by Scott De Laney, is more recent and obviously preferred
in typological studies. Its meaning is, taken for itself, undisputedly modal,
since it reflects one of the various kinds of epistemic evaluation, namely a
contradiction to the expectation of the speakers or, in other words, the fact
that the speakers were not prepared to cognitively process the situation
they observed.10 However, mirativity is not used to indicate the source in-
formation of a situation. Furthermore, a mirative situation is, as a rule,
accessed by means of a direct observation by the speakers. However, in
spite of this fact, mirativity may in the majority of languages be expressed
by means of markers of indirect access, which constitutes an important
descriptive and theoretical problem. Linguists who defend a rigid separa-
tion of mirative and evidential values, due to the legitimate semantic dif-
ferences between both, cannot explain why these values are regularly ex-
pressed by means of one and the same marker.
On the other hand, linguists who claim that mirativity is a part of the
various values of evidentiality cannot offer a typologically correct and
useful definition of the category of evidentiality itself, since from a seman-
tic perspective mirativity is probably too far away from the prototypical
evidential values. From our point ofview (cf. also Plungian 2001) the rela-
tion between mirativity and evidentiality is not a direct, but an indirect one:
the mirative effect occurs, as a rule, in binary evidential systems, where the
markers of indirect access already have a strong modal character. The val-
48 Vladimir A. Plungian
ue of unexpectedness then derives from the further development of the
value of epistemic uncertainty, but not from evidential values as such.
However, what is important is that all of these values form part of one sin-
gle mediative cluster in languages with evidentiality of the "Balkan type"
A more detailed discussion ofthe problem ofmirativity can be found in the
works of De Lancey 1997, 2001, Lazard 1999, 2000, Friedman 2005, and
others.
In this sense, it is important to note that modal strategies of different
kinds are most characteristic for binary systems in which the unmarked
form of the verb or the form that indicates direct access is opposed to a
form that represents a wide range of both truly evidential (relating to indi-
rect access) and modal values (epistemic distance/epistemic uncertainty
and mirativity). A semantic cluster of this type is usually called mediative
(if we use the "Iranian-based" terminology by Lazard), non-confirmative
(if we use the "Balkan-based" terminology by Friedman) or indirective (if
we use the "Turkic-based" terminology by Johanson).
One should also pay attention to a phenomenon that is, in a certain
sense, opposed to the one discussed above, namely the use of modal mark-
ers for the expression of secondary evidential values. In other words, we
should also consider cases in which evidential strategies are realized
through modal expressions. Such occurrences are well known since they
are widespread, above all in the Romance and the Germanic languages. We
will refer to only some ofthese. (2) illustrates the use of the English modal
marker of necessity in an inferential context; (3) shows the German modal
marker of necessity in a reportative context. A close equivalent to (3) in
French would be the use of the form of the conditional (aurait tue). One of
the basic values of the conditional is indeed modal in character, but the
category is generally more related to epistemic possibility (hypothetic con-
sequence) and optativity. Similar strategies may be found also in other
Romance languages (for further details see, e.g., Mortelmans 2000 and
Pietrandrea 2005).
(2) inferential use of necessity marker
Engl. A dog must have run here
(3) reportative use of necessity marker
Germ. Eine Schiilerin aus Thiiringen soli den Lebensgefahrten ih-
rer Mutter erschlagen haben. (from a newspaper)
'A schoolgirl from Th. is reported to have killed the boyfriend of
her mother'
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 49
Summing up what has been said so far, one may conclude the following.
Evidentiality and modality are two different semantic domains which are
closely related from a synchronic and a diachronic perspective. There is a
small semantic room (presumptive evidentiality- epistemic necessity) in
which these two zones intersect. It is important to note that the nature of
the relation between evidentiality and modality cannot be explained in a
general way since it depends on the concrete evidential system. In this
sense it might be useful to distinguish between "modalized" and "non-
modalized" evidential systems, as introduced in Plungian 200 1. In mod-
alized systems markers of indirect access obtain secondary values of epis-
temic distance and, deriving from them, mirative values. In non-modalized
systems such a strict relation does not exist. Modalized systems include,
above all, binary evidential systems of the "Balkan type" (which are also
found in Central and South Asia, in the Caucasus etc.), with mediative
markers that represent a wide range ofmodal-evidential values.
To conclude our- necessarily imcomplete and fragmentary- overview
of the problem related to the grammatical expression of evidentiality on
verbs we will mention some guidelines for the study of evidentiality which
in our view are essential for the further development of research in this
domain. The frrst one is the continuation of descriptive studies of such
evidential systems whose working mechanism is not sufficiently or badly
understood (this refers to systems as those found in the languages of South
America, New Guinea, Tropical Africa and the Utmost North). Such inves-
tigations may, above all, contribute to a significant enrichment of the uni-
versal set of parameters used for the classification of evidential systems.
An important aspect that has been neglected in the past is the function of
evidentiality as a core element of discourse and pragmatic mechanisms
(which is also shown in Aikhenvald 2004). Finally, further research on the
interrelation between markers of evidentiality and other grammatical mark-
ers of the verb within a universal typology of verbal systems is needed. In
this respect, only the first step has been taken.
Notes
1. The article is translated from Russian by Alexander Haselow.
2. For a detailed discussion of evidential systems in Tucano cf. the frequently
quoted articles by Barnes 1984 and Malone 1988; cf. Aikhenvald (2003a:
294ff.) in relation to a description of the system of evidentiality in Tariana, an
Arawak language that is subjected to intense influence from Tucano.
50 Vladimir A. Plungian
3. Obviously, the category of evidentiality in general belongs to those types of
linguistic phenomena which have a clearly areal character: it is easily diffused
by means of language contact, even if the languages do not share a close ge-
netic relation. Therefore, evidentiality is often considered as an important
"areal-forming" feature in studies of areal typology. For a more detailed dis-
cussion of the areal specifics of evidentiality cf. especially Aikhenvald and
Dixon 1998, also Aikhenvald 2003 and 2004: 288-299.
4. However, Boas did not use the term evidential to refer to the grammatical
category itself (for which he used terms of the type 'source of information',
which reflects its characteristic feature much more precisely). Rather, he used
the term to refer to one of the values of this category for which in current
works the term "inferential" is used.
5. Not all of the special values of the category of evidentiality distinguished by
Jakobson have an undisputedly typological status and can be equally well cor-
roborated by current investigations. Especially questionable is the occurrence
of grammemes specialized for the indication of the 'revelative' in the language
ofthe world, which Boas postulates for Kwakiutl. Events seen in a dream may,
of course, be expressed by specific grammatical means, including evidential
markers of the verb, but these markers usually also fulfil other functions than
that of indicating the 'revelative' only (for further details see Aikhenvald
2004: 344-347).
6. The term 'reportative' (or 'reportive') seems to be the most convenient as a
cover term for the various markers of non-personal access in general, and in
this sense Aikhenvald's (2004: 25) terminology is much more adequate. The
terms like 'quotative' or 'hearsay', also widely attested, should better be used
as referring to various sub types ofreportative values (in this sense, I would
suggest to change the terminological practice, which I myself have followed
earlier, as e.g. in Plungian 2001). In Wiemer's article, this volume, the terms
'reportive' and 'hearsay' are used synonymously, which is, in my view, some-
what less felicitous.
7. The existence of endophoric markers means that Aikhenvald's claim, accord-
ing to which "no language has two visual or two non-visual evidentials" (Aik-
henvald 2004: 177) should be tested more accurately. Furthermore, languages
may also have a number of visual markers which distinguish, for instance, ad-
ditional deictic parameters.
8. An analogous effect may, according to several descriptions, be observed in the
Tibetan languages, which manifests itself in the forms of the first person and
their combination with markers of direct access. Here, the construction is used
to describe a situation in which an event is observed visually (see Aikhenvald
2004: 237). Note, however, that these languages also have endophoric mark-
ers, which are used for descriptions of events or feelings of the speaker, and
visual markers used for those contexts in which the speakers "observe them-
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 51
selves from the outside" In languages with other evidential systems markers
of indirect access would be used in this case.
9. One should add that there were also approaches which were closer to the cur-
rent stage of the development of grammatical typology, such as those pro-
posed by Giv6n 1982 and Chafe 1986. According to these authors, evidentiali-
ty is part of a more general mechanism of the expression of epistemic values
("attitude towards knowledge", according to Giv6n). In modern studies of evi-
dentiality such radical points ofview are, however, not supported.
10. In descriptions of the semantics of the mirative one may often find the cliche
of an ''unprepared mind", as in the study by Slobin and Aksu 1982, which
since then was continuously reproduced. One should consider that in a number
of languages (as e.g. in Albanian, in which this value was observed first) the
semantic evolution of mirative markers went even farther: they may not only
indicate the unexpectedness of a situation, but a general positive emotional
evaluation of a situation by the speaker; see also Section 1.4.
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y.
2003 Evidentiality in typological perspective. In Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y.
and R.M.W. Dixon (eds.), 1-32.
2003a A Grammar of Tariana, from Northwestern Amazonia. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
2004 Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y., and R.M.W. Dixon.
1998 Evidentials and areal typology: A case study from Amazonia. Lan-
guage Sciences 20 (3): 241-257.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y., and R.M.W. Dixon (eds.)
1999 The Amazonian Languages. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press.
2003 Studies in Evidentiality. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Aksenova, Irina S.
1997 Kategorii vida, vremeni i naklonenija vjazykax bantu(= The catego-
ries of aspect, tense and mood in the Bantu languages). Moskva:
Nauka.
Aronson, H.l.
1967 The grammatical category of the indicative of the contemporary
Bulgarian literary language. In To honor Roman Jakobson, v. 1. The
Hague: Mouton, 82-98.
Barnes, Janet
1984 Evidentials in the Tuyuca Verb. International Journal ofAmerican
Linguistics 50: 255-271.
52 Vladimir A. Plungian
Burkova, Svetlana I.
2004 Evidencial'nost' i epistemiceskaja modalnost' v neneckom jazyke (=
Evidentiality and epistemic modality in Nenets). In Issledovanija po
teorii grammatiki 3: Irrealis i irreal'nost' (= Studies in the theory of
grammar 3: Irrealis and irreality). J. A. Lander et al. (eds.), 353-374.
Moskva: Gnozis.
Bybee, Joan L. and Osten Dahl
1989 The creation of tense and aspect systems in the languages of the
world. Studies in Language 13 (1): 51-103.
Bybee, Joan L. and Suzanne Fleischman (eds.)
1995 Modality in grammar and discourse. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Bybee, Joan L., Revere Perkins and William Pagliuca
1994 The Evolution ofGrammar Tense, Aspect and Modality in the Lan-
guages ofthe World. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Chafe, Wallace
1986 Evidentiality in English conversation and academic writing. In Chafe,
Wallace and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 261-272.
Chafe, Wallace and Johanna Nichols (eds.)
1986 Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding ofEpistemology. Norwood, NJ:
Ablex.
Curnow, Timothy J.
2002 Conjunct/disjunct marking inAwa Pit. Linguistics 40 (3): 610-627.
2003 Non-volitionality expressed through evidentials. Studies in language
27: 39-60.
Dahl, Osten
1985 Tense and aspect systems. Oxford: Blackwell.
Dankoff, Robert (with J. Kelly)
1982 Mahmud al-Kiisgari. Compendium of the Turkic dialects. (Diwiin
lugiit at-turk). Part I. Cambridge: Tekin.
De Haan, Ferdinand
1999 Evidentiality and epistemic modality: Setting boundaries. Southwest
Journal ofLinguistics 18 (1): 83-101.
2005 Encoding speaker perspective: evidentials. In Linguistic diversity and
language theories. Zygmunt Frajzyngier, Adam Hodges and David
S. Rood (eds.), 379-397. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
DeLancey, Scott
1997 Mirativity: the grammatical marking of unexpected information.
Linguistic Typology 1 (1): 33-52.
2001 Themirative and evidentiality. Journal ofPragmatics 33 (3): 369-382.
Dendale, Patrick and Tasmowski, Liliane
2001 Introduction: evidentiality and related notions. Journal ofPragmatics
33 (3): 339-348.
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 53
Demina, Elena I.
1959 Pereskazyvatel'nye formy v sovremennom bolgarskom literaturnom
jazyke (= Reported forms in contemporary Bulgarian). In Voprosy
grammatiki bolgarskogo literaturnogo jazyka (= Issues in the gram-
mar of the Bulgarian literary language). S. B. Bernstein (ed.), 313-
378. Moskva: Nauka.
Dimmendaal, Gerrit J.
2001 Logophoric marking and represented speech in African languages as
evidential hedging strategies. Australian Journal of Linguistics 21
(1): 131-157.
Dozon, Auguste
1879 Manuel de Ia langue chkipe ou albanaise. Paris: Ernest Leroux.
Duchet, Jean-Louis and Remzi Pernaska
1996 L'admiratif albanais: recherche d'un invariant semantique. In
Guentcbeva, Zlatka (ed.), 31-46.
Foley, William A.
1986 The Papuan Languages of New Guinea. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Friedman, Victor A.
1979 Towards a typology of status: Georgian and other non-Slavic lan-
guages of the Soviet Union. Papers from the conference on non-
Slavic languages ofthe USSR. Chicago, 338-349.
1986 Evidentiality in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian, and Albanian.
In Chafe, Wallace and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 168-187.
2000 Confirmative/nonconfirmative in Balkan Slavic, Balkan Romance,
and Albanian with additional observations on Turkish, Romani,
Georgian and Lak. In Johanson, Lars and Bo Utas (eds.), 329-366.
2003 Evidentiality in the Balkans with special attention to Macedonian and
Albanian. In Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. and R.M.W Dixon (eds.),
189-218.
2005 Admirativity: between modality and evidentiality. STUF 58.
Giv6n, Talmy
1982 Evidentiality and epistemic space. Studies in Language 6 (1): 23-49.
Guentcbeva, Zlatka
1993 La categorie du mediatif en bulgare dans une perspective typolo-
gique. Revue des etudes slaves 65 (1): 57-72.
1996a Le mediatif en bulgare. In Guentcbeva, Zlatka (ed.), 47-70.
Guentcbeva, Zlatka; A. Donabedian; M. Meydan, and R. Camus
1994 Interactions entre le mediatif et la personne. Faits de langues 3: 139-
148.
Guentcbeva, Zlatka (ed.).
1996 L 'enonciation mediatisee. Paris: Peeters.
54 Vladimir A. Plungian
GuentcMva, Zlatka and J. Landaburu (eds.)
2007 L 'enonciation mediatisee 11. Le traitement epistemologique de
!'information: illustrations amerindiennes et causasiennes. Paris:
Peeters.
Gusev, Valentin J.
2007 Evidentialnost' v nganasanskom jazyke (= Evidentiality in Ngana-
san). InXrakovskij, Viktor S. (ed.), 415-444.
Haarmann, Harald
1970 Die indirekte Erlebnisform als grammatische Kategorie: eine eurasi-
sche Isoglosse. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.
Hardman, Martha James (ed.)
1981 The Aymara language in its social and cultural context. Gainesville:
University Press ofFlorida.
Holvoet, Axel
2007 Mood and Modality in Baltic. Krakow: Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu
Jagielloflskiego.
Kiinnap, Ago
2002 On the Enets evidential suffixes. Linguistica Uralica 2: 145-153.
Il'ina, Ljudmila A.
2002 Auditivnaja forma glagola v sel'kupskomjazyke: tradicionnye funkcii
i evoljucija (=Auditive forms ofthe verb in Selkup: traditional func-
tions and evolution). Gumanitarnye nauki v Sibiri. Ser. Filologija (=
Human Sciences in Siberia. Series Philology), 2002 (4): 31-34.
Jakobson, Roman
1957 Shifters, Verbal Categories and the Russian Verb. Cambridge (MA):
Harvard U.; also in: Selected Writings. The Hague: Mouton, vol. II,
130-147.
Johanson, Lars and Bo Utas (eds.)
2000 Evidentials: Turkic, Iranian and Neighbouring Languages. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Kazakevic, Olga A.
2005 Izmenenie struktury jazyka s ogranicennoj sferoj upotreblenija (=
The structural change of a language with a restricted domain of
usage). In Malye jazyki i tradicii: suscestvovanie na grani. Vyp. 1
Lingvisticeskie problemy soxranenija i dokumentacii malyx jazykov
(=Minority languages and tradition: existence at the borderline. Vol.
1: Linguistic problems of the preservation and documentation of mi-
nority languages). A. E. Kibrik (ed.), 122-134. Moskva: Novoe lzda-
tel'stvo.
Kehayov, Petar
2002 Typology of grammaticalized evidentiality in Bulgarian and Esto-
nian. Linguistica Uralica 2, 126-144.
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 55
to appear Interactions between grammatical evidentials and lexical markers of
epistemicity and evidentiality: a case study of Bulgarian and Esto-
nian. In Wiemer, Bjorn and Vladimir A. Plungjan (eds.), to appear.
Kibrik, Aleksandr E.
1977 Opyt strukturnogo opisanija arCinskogo jazyka. t. II:
Taksonomiceskaja grammatika (=An essay of the structural descrip-
tion ofArchi, Vol. II: Taxonomic grammar). Moskva: MGU.
Koptjevskaja-Tamm, Maria and Berhard Walchli
2001 The Circum-Baltic languages: an areal-typological approach. In
Circum-Baltic languages: Typology and contact. Vol. 2: Grammar
and typology. b. Dahl and M. Koptjevskaja-Tamm (eds.), 615-750.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins
Kozinceva, Natalija A.
1994 Kategorija evidencial'nosti (Problemy tipologiceskogo analiza) (=
The category of evidentiality. Problems of typological analysis). Vo-
2007
prosyjazykoznanija (=Questions in linguistics) 1994 (3), 92-104.
Tipologija kategorii zasvidetel'stvovannosti (= A typology of the
category ofevidentiality). In Xrakovskij, Viktor S. (ed.), 13-36.
Lazard, Gilbert
1957 Caracteres distinctifs de la langue tadjik. Bulletin de Ia Societe de
1996
1999
2000
Linguistique de Paris 52 117-186.
Le mediatifen persan. In: GuentcMva, Zlatka (ed.), 21-30.
Mirativity, evidentiality, mediativity, or other? Linguistic Typology
3(1): 91-109.
Le mediatif: considerations tMoriques et application al'Iranien. In
Johanson, Lars and Bo Utas (eds.), 209-228.
Leinonen, Marja and Maria Vilkuna
2000 Past tenses in Permic languages. In Tense and Aspect in the Lan-
guages ofEurope. Osten Dahl (ed.), 495-514. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Ljublinskaja, Marija D. and Mal'cukov, Andrej L.
2007 Evidencial'nost' v neneckom jazyke (Evidentiality in Nenets). In
Xrakovskij, Viktor S. (ed.), 445-468.
Loughnane, Robyn
2007 Expanding the typology of evidentiality: the participatory/factual in
Oksapmin. Paper presented at the ALT 7 conference (Paris).
Majsak, Timur A. and Tatevosov, Sergej G.
2000 Prostranstvo govorja.Scego v kategorijax grammatiki, i1i cego nel'zja
skazat' o sebe samom (= The speaker's area in the categories of
grammar, or what one cannot say about oneself). Voprosy jazykozna-
nija (=Questions in linguistics) 2000 (5): 68-80.
Malone, Terrell
1988 The origin and development of Tuyuca evidentials. International
Journal ofAmerican Linguistics 54: 119-140.
56 Vladimir A. Plungian
Maslova, Elena S.
2003 Evidentiality in Yukaghir. In Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. and R.M.W.
Dixon (eds.), 219-235.
Mithun, Marianne
1999 The Languages of Native North America. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Mortelmans, Tanja
2000 On the 'evidential' nature of 'epistemic' use of the German modals
milssen and sol/en. In Modal verbs in Germanic and Romance lan-
guages. J. van der Auwera and P. Dendale (eds.), 131-148. (=Bel-
gian Journal ofLinguistics 14).
Nicolova, Ruselina
2006 Vzaimodejstvie evidencial'nosti i admirativnosti s kategorijami vre-
meni i lica glagola v bolgarskomjazyke (=The interrelation between
evidentiality and admirativity with the categories of tense and person
of the verb in Bulgarian) Voprosy jazykoznanija (= Questions in lin-
guistics) 2006 (4), 27-45.
2007 Modalizovannaja evidencial'naja sistema bolgarskogo jazyka (=
Modalized evidential system of Bulgarian). In Xrakovskij, Viktor S.
(ed.), 107-196.
Nikolaeva, Irina
1999 The semantics of Northern Khanty evidentials. Journal de Ia Societe
Finno-Ougrienne 88: 131-159.
Nurse, Derek
2008 Tense and aspect in Bantu. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Oswalt, R.L.
1986 The evidential system of Kashaya. In Chafe, Wallace and Johanna
Nichols (eds.), 29-45.
Palmer, F. R.
2001 Mood and modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (2nd
ed).
Perrot, Jean
1996 Un mediatif Ouralien: L 'auditifen Samoyede Nenets. In Guentcheva,
Zlatka (ed.), 157-68.
Pietrandrea, Paola
2005 Epistemic modality: Functional properties and the Italian system.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Plungian, Vladimir A.
1988 Resultative and apparent evidential in Dogon. In Typology ofResul-
2000
tative Constructions. V. P. Nedjalkov (ed.), 481-493. Amsterdami-
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
ObScaja morfologija: vvedenie v problematiku (= General morphol-
ogy: an introduction). Moskva: Editorial URSS (2nd edition, 2003).
Types ofverbal evidentiality marking 57
2001 The place of evidentiality within the universal grammatical space.
Journal ofPragmatics 33 (3): 349-357.
2006 Towards a typology of discontinuous past marking. Sprachtypologie
und Universalienforschung 59 (4): 317-349.
Slobin, Dan I. and Ayhan Aksu
1982 Tense, aspect, and modality in the use of the Turkish evidential. In
Tense-aspect: Between Semantics and Pragmatics. P. Hopper (ed.),
185-200. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Squartini, Mario
2008 Lexical vs. grammatical evidentiality in French and Italian. Linguis-
tics 46 (5): 917-947.
Squartini, Mario (ed.)
2007 Evidentiality between lexicon and grammar. Italian Journal of Lin-
guistics 19.1.
Tatevosov, Sergey
2001 From resultatives to evidentials: Multiple uses of the Perfect in
Nakh-Dagestanian languages. Journal ofPragmatics 33(3): 443-464.
2003 Inferred evidence: Language-specific properties and universal con-
straints. In Meaning Through Language Contrast. Jaszczolt, K.M.
and K. Turner (eds.), 177-192. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Tournadre, Nicolas
1996 Comparaison des systemes mediatifs de quatre dialectes tibetains
(tibetain central, ladakhi, dzongkha et amdo). In Guentcheva, Zlatka
(ed.), 195-213.
Vander Auwera, Johan and Vladimir A. Plungian
1998 Modality's semantic map. Linguistic Typology 2 (1): 79-124.
Walchli, Bernhard
2000 Infinite predication as a marker of evidentiality and modality in the
languages of the Baltic region. Sprachtypologie und Universalienfor-
schung 53: 186-210.
Wiemer, Bjorn
2006 Grammatical evidentiality in Lithuanian (a typological assessment).
Baltistica 41 (1): 33-49.
2007 Kosvennaja zasvidetel'stvovannost' v litovskom jazyke (= Indirect
evidentiality in Lithuanian) In Xrakovskij, Viktor S. (ed.), 197-240.
2010 Hearsay in European languages: towards an integrative account of
grammatical and lexical marking. This volume.
Wiemer, Bjorn and Vladimir A. Plungjan (eds.)
2009 Lexikalische Evidenzialitiits-Marker in slavischen Sprachen. Miin-
chen: Sagner. (Wiener Slawistischer Almanach, Sonderband 72).
Willett, Thomas L.
1988 A cross-linguistic survey of the grammaticization of evidentiality.
Studies in Language 12 (1): 51-97.
58 Vladimir A. Plungian
Xrakovskij, Viktor S.
2007 :Evidencial'nost', epistemiceskaja modal'nost', (ad)mirativnost' (=
Evidentiality, epistemic modality, (ad)mirativity). In Xrakovskij,
Viktor S. (ed.), 600-632.
Xrakovskij, Viktor S. (ed.)
2007 Evidencial'nost' v jazykax Evropy i Azii. Sb. statej pamjati N A.
Kozincevoj (= Evidentiality in the languages of Europe and Asia. In
the memory ofN. A. Kozinceva). Sankt-Peterburg: Nauka.
Hearsay in European languages:
toward an integrative account of grammatical and
lexical marking
Bjorn Wiemer
This article aims to smvey and classify expressions with reportive (= hearsay) func-
tion used in European languages. Hearsay is a subdomain of evidentiality, which in
turn is understood to be a functional domain pertaining to the cognitive and/or
communicative ground on the basis of which the speaker makes an assertion. It
therefore differs from epistemic modality. The purpose of this investigation is to
look at hearsay expressions from an integrative perspective allowing on the one
hand for them to be unified from a functional point of view and, on the other hand,
for a typology to be developed that accounts for differences of formal properties
like syntactic distribution and morphological format. The smvey includes any kind
of distinct units regardless of whether they are to be considered functional lexemes
(e.g., particles, complementizers), auxiliaries, grammatical affixes or complex
TAM markers. These expressions are located on a lexicon-grammar cline. The
decisive criterion for inclusion is that they be sufficiently conventionalized in the
given language and not just used as "ordinary" speech act verbs or other lexical
items with a full argument structure. On this basis, each class of units is subclassi-
fied according to their morphosyntactic properties, diverse kinds of semantic and
pragmatic properties are taken into account and illustrated, and gross areal cluster-
ings are discussed.
1. Introduction
The purpose of the present article is to provide a survey and classification
of expressions with reportive function used in European languages. Repor-
tivity is a sub-domain of evidentiality. Hearsay is understood to be a syn-
onym, a cover term for different kinds of functions subsumable under re-
portive evidentiality. These functions, however specific they may be, all
indicate that the speaker of the actual utterance bases his/her assertion on
previous utterances, usually made by another person (other persons) but
not necessarily so (see 3.5). I am not going to discuss some ofthe notorious
principal issues that have lately been raised such as the relationship of evi-
60 Bjorn Wiemer
dentiality to epistemic modality, or the question of what counts as a con-
ventionalized, holistic construction in this or that language. For the purpos-
es of this paper, suffice it to say that I advocate a strict separation of evi-
dentiality and epistemic modality on the conceptual and analytic level1 and
am aware of the fact that many units marking evidential functions carry
epistemic components ("overtones"), either additionally or even as a fea-
ture more salient than the evidential function. On the one hand, I have been
eager to take into account as many types of reportive marking devices as
we can find (with one regular exception, see Section 2) by including di-
verse kinds of distinct units for which a hearsay meaning can be considered
as a stable meaning component, regardless of genre or register variation
and frequency, and regardless of whether other components, e.g. epistemic
ones, co-occur with the hearsay meaning. However, the range of meanings
other than reportive will be accounted for, too. On the other hand, I have
been anxious to include only those devices for which a reportive compo-
nent can be accepted firmly enough, i.e., considered as a conventionalized
part of its meaning. There are some borderline cases which will be looked
at critically during the discussion of data in Section 3.
I conceive of evidentiality as a conceptual domain. My understanding
actually fits the definition given by Aikhenvald (2003: 1): "Evidentiality
proper is understood as stating the existence of a source of evidence for
some information; that includes stating that there is some evidence, and
also specifying what type of evidence there is." However, contrary to Aik-
henvald, I apply this definition not only to markers that are considered to
be grammatical in the strict sense, but also to lexical means, more specifi-
cally: to various classes of function words (see Section 2) whose semantics
contains a stable, non-detachable reference to hearsay. This broader func-
tional notion corresponds to Aikhenvald's recently coined term 'informa-
tion source' (Aikhenvald 2007). From this extension of the range of lin-
guistic devices for marking functions from a given conceptual domain, we
should distinguish the question of the degree to which a linguistic device
can be regarded as sufficiently conventionalized (and not only as an evi-
dential strategy), i.e., with a stable, non-detachable indication of an eviden-
tial or, more precisely, hearsay function.
Therefore, the approach taken here starts from a functional-
onomasiological perspective, i.e. we are searching for all kinds of distinct
means serving to express evidential functions, especially if they convey
some specific meanings from a taxonomy of evidential functions. Such
(partial) taxonomies have been established, inter alia, by Aikhenvald 2004,
Plungian 2001 and, at least indirectly, by Palmer e2001: 35-52), and more
Hearsay in European languages 61
specifically for hearsay by Anderson 1986. However, as soon as we have
found such means, the onomasiological perspective changes into a semasi-
ological one since we want to describe and classify these means on the
basis of their semantics and structural properties such as scope, morpho-
syntactic format, and distribution (see below). Thus the classification grid
to be introduced in Section 2 scrutinizes the formal properties of devices
which serve as indicators of hearsay. These formal properties will, as far as
possible at the present stage of our knowledge, be correlated with (i) sub-
functions of reportive evidentiality and (ii) possibly interfering inferential
functions and functions from other domains (see Section 3). I will group
marking devices according to their morphological format and syntactic
behavior; the principles will be argued for in Section 2, the classification
along these principles will be carried out in Section 3, which constitutes
the main body of this paper. The part of the overview in Section 3 which
deals with grammatical marking sensu stricto (bound morphology, exten-
sions of TAM grams), can be read as a critical assessment of the present
state of investigations insofar as it concerns grammatical evidentiality
marking, that has already been studied for an honorable span oftime.
The chosen procedure should allow these devices to be described and
compared to one another independent of decisions as to whether the given
marker has undergone a process of grammaticalization or lexicalization. I
thereby want to avoid an involvement in ongoing disputes concerning the
delimitation of grammaticalization from lexicalization (and other pheno-
mena of language change and their results). From the perspective taken and
the purpose of a morphosyntactically oriented classification of marking
devices, such an involvement is unnecessary; we need not wait until such
disputes might eventually have been abandoned or solved. Thus, although
in Section 2 I will briefly "out" my stand regarding the difference between
grammaticalization and lexicalization (viz. the relation between grammar
and lexicon), frrst and foremost the prime purpose is a descriptive and ex-
ploratory one, namely: to work out a representative picture of form: func-
tion-correlations of contemporary languages in a delimited geographic area
without any bias toward theories concerning specific processes of linguis-
tic change.
Here Europe is conceived of as the whole geographically defined sub-
continent including its eastern edges since I want to integrate one better
known language each from the Turkic family (Turkish in Turkey), the In-
do-European family in the Caucasus (Armenian), from Kartvelian (Geor-
gian), and from Finnic (Estonian). The survey is short of data on Scandina-
vian (except of Swedish) and also lacks information on Celtic, Basque,
62 Bjorn Wiemer
Hungarian, Greek and practically all languages with minor numbers of
speakers, such as numerous Turkic, Finnic and Indo-European varieties in
the Balkans and the European part of Russia.
To my knowledge, the present study is the first attempt at a comprehen-
sive account of a sub-domain of evidentiality (but see the preliminary study
based on questionnaire data reported in Ramat 1996). I do not intend to
draw any more far-reaching conclusions on areal patterns of formal classes
of hearsay marking. An areal assessment would be premature given the fact
that we are only beginning to understand along which parameters, both
functional and structural, evidential marking ought to be estimated and
classified, let alone the question of what can count as a sufficiently con-
ventionalized structural or lexical indicator of, or functional extension into,
evidentiality and, more specifically, into hearsay. Only a few salient fea-
tures from among an enormously intricate network of factors can be illu-
strated, others can only be "scratched" upon, many others will remain un-
mentioned.
2. Hearsay markers on a lexicon-grammar cline
What we are looking for presently is a viable classification of marking
devices for reportive functions comprising not only the traditionally inves-
tigated grammatical means, but also distinct classes of words carrying
hearsay meaning. By "viable" I mean that there should be a unified and
theoretically justifiable basis applicable to differently structured (ideally to
all) languages. From the start, we can exclude ''trivial" means of marking
hearsay like illocutive verbs, i.e., verbs with a 'say'-component in their
semantic description, with an "ordinary" argument structure implying a
sentential complement and various subject NPs (e.g., People say/Somebody
said that P) as well as steady collocations, or phraseological syntagms, like
Legend has it/There are rumors (that P) etc.
Among the first to formulate criteria for defining evidential units in
both semantic and structural terms was Anderson 1986. His semantic crite-
rion corresponds neatly to the approach advocated here: "Evidentials show
the kind ofjustification for a factual claim which is available to the person
making that claim", as well as the following caveat: "Evidentials have the
indication of evidence as their primary meaning, not only as a pragmatic
inference" (1986: 274). In fact, Anderson restricted the notion of 'eviden-
tials' to grammatical units (1986: 275): "Morphologically, evidentials are
inflections, clitics, or other free syntactic elements (not compounds or de-
Hearsay in European languages 63
rivational forms)." He did not consider whether there might be a lexical-
grammatical distinction for other "free syntactic elements" The same
holds true for de Haan who, in refining Anderson's criteria, added that
evidentials do not show agreement with the speaker and cannot be in the
scope ofnegation2 (de Haan 1997: 147-150; 2000: 75f.).
Semantic (or functional) criteria like those provided by Anderson have
hitherto been used to find evidential markers from among grammatical
morphemes in the narrow sense; such criteria have been generally ac-
cepted. Since they are semantic ones, nothing hinders us from applying
them to units other than grammatical morphology too, first of all to mor-
phologically independent lexical units. Given this, we can "browse"
through all sorts of morphemes in languages and then arrive at a cline of
the shape illustrated in Figure 1.
distinct lexical unit
<
granunatical
morphology
1. particles 5. predicatives3) 8. functional extensions
ofTAM-paradigms1)
2. complementizers2)
3. adpositions4)
4. sentential adverbs
require 'hosts' to take scope
over, but non-relational (with
the exception of
complementizers)
Remarks:
6. copulae participles
7. auxiliaries1)
9. bound morphology
(inflexion, agglutination)
operate on heads
(in a strictly morphosyn-
tactic sense)
>
l) Often hearsay functions of modal auxiliaries show up saliently only in
marked mood forms (see Romance modals discussed in 3.3.2).
2) This includes conjunctions.
J) Function as heads ofPPs or ofsentential dependents; in the latter case they
combine with complementizers.
4) Heads ofNPs (= PPs), PPs headed by them have propositional scope.
Figure I. Types of evidential markers on a morphosyntactic cline
64 Bjorn Wiemer
Presenting the types of units on a cline does not imply that units on one
pole are the input of diachronic processes yielding an output at the other
pole. The cline is simply meant as a very rough (and preliminary) represen-
tation of the fact that some morphemes (those approaching the left side)
have independent word status and thus belong to the lexical stock of a lan-
guage, whereas other units (closer to the right end) are bound morphemes
and function as operators on heads (in a strictly morphosyntactic sense).
In-between are units with an independent morphological status (in this
respect, separate lexical units) which, however, function only as compo-
nents of complex predicates (auxiliaries, copular participles) or are them-
selves heads of sentential arguments (predicatives). Finally, among func-
tional units with distinct word status (on the left end), complementizers are
the only class that takes part in narrowly understood dependency relations:
they relate superordinate predicates to their propositional arguments which,
as a rule, have a predicate-argument structure oftheir own. The other func-
tional classes are used either as adjuncts (PPs headed by adpositions, sen-
tential adverbs) or are outside clausal syntax (particles). For this reason,
complementizers are put slightly more to the right than the other distinct
function words. Parentheticals are not included in this cline because they
are highly heterogeneous in terms of their morphosyntactic format; func-
tionally they are closest to particles since, as a rule, they do not partake in
clausal syntax. The status and role of evidential parentheticals will be dis-
cussed more thoroughly in Sections 3.5-3.6.
The distinctions just mentioned should become clear in the course of
the data discussion in Section 3. Between different morphosyntactic classes
of possible evidential markers, manifold relations appear, arising mostly as
the result of parallel or subsequent diachronic development from an earlier
unit. Here is no place to dwell on this issue systematically, but see the re-
marks on 'heterosemy' in Section 3.9.
Notice that on the cline there is no obvious place for monoclausal con-
structions like Ncl-constructions with certain epistemic or illocutive verbs
(suppose, claim etc.) or with perception verbs (like seem, appear) which,
for different languages, have been claimed to develop reportive meanings
(as for SEEM/APPEAR-verbs see Section 3.6). I have deliberately excluded
monoclausal (or, following generative terminology, 'raising') construc-
tions; not because they were not worth deliberating, but because even more
space would be required to clarify the relation of these constructions to
particles and "ordinary" sentential complements of the respective verbs (as
well as the significance of constructions for evidentiality marking).
Hearsay in European languages 65
Returning to the cline, one might object that those items appearing as
'lexical units' on the left pole can, at least partly, be re-termed as 'function
words' In fact, grammars and textbooks usually refer to adpositions, con-
junctions (complementizers) and particles under this rubric. However, what
would be gained by saying that bound morphology, TAM paradigms and
auxiliary constructions belong to a language's grammar as well as function
words (adpositions, conjunctions etc.)? Such a qualification amounts to
saying that all functional units of a language belong to its grammar. This
sounds like a trivial, if not analytic assertion. It would not supply us with a
useful basis for discriminating between different expression classes of
functional elements (morphemes, word classes). Instead, a useful discrimi-
natory basis should allow for operative and verifiable decisions about
whether a given item is (rather) a distinct unit of its language's lexicon(=
inventory of lexemes) or (rather) a formative of more complex units on
which it depends3 Certainly, there may be cases in which a defmite and
clear decision is difficult to take; but this is just a corollary of clines with
focal points as the one introduced above.
I have now come to the point where I have to take a concise position as
to what shall be considered as grammatical(ization) vs. lexical(ization).
The one does not exclude the other; the relationship between both has to be
seen as the relation of a holistic unit (morphologically either simple or
complex) to constituents of a larger syntactic format. I adhere to Lehmann
(2002: 1) who formulated this relationship in the following condensed
way: "A sign is lexicalized if it is withdrawn from analytic access and in-
ventorized. On the other hand, for a sign to be grammaticalized it means
for it to acquire functions in the analytic formation of more comprehensive
signs." Exactly such a withdrawal from analytic access is what happens
when, e.g., a particle or a preposition evolves from petrified verb forms,
regardless ofwhether it underlies erosion or not; compare particles like Cz.
pry < pravi.3.PL.PRES.IND 'they say', Russ. mol < tmalvilb.3.SG.PAST.IND
'he said', various forms of the descendents of Latin dicere in Romance and
also particles deriving from SEEM/APPEAR-verbs (see 3.5-3.6) or the Lithu-
anian hearsay preposition pasak 'according to' < pasakyti 'to say' (see
3.8). Since, for instance, hearsay particles have scope over whole proposi-
tions, in order to claim that they are "grammaticalized" we must first show
what the more comprehensive signs look like, which format they have and
in which sense the particles can be considered as inextricable parts ofthese
comprehensive signs. Do we want to say that since particles are operators
on whole sentences (or conjunctions on clauses) they are grammatical for-
matives (or components) ofthe latter? To my mind, to do so would mean to
66 Bjorn Wiemer
overuse the notion of 'grammatical marker' Independent of this, we still
would have to describe every particle (conjunction, preposition, etc.) as a
distinct unit ofthe lexical inventory of the language. This is what usually is
neglected or overlooked in recent research. The following remark from
Lehmann (2002: 16) applies to all functional word classes distinguished in
this paper: "Those numerous complex prepositions and conjunctions which
constantly come and go do not indicate incomplete grammaticalization
processes but are simply products of lexical change." (the emphasis is
mine, BW). This makes them no less worthy ofthorough investigation, and
it is time to start doing this research. Consequently, the following survey
and remarks concerning the classification of hearsay marking devices are
also meant as a step toward the creation of a cross-linguistic data base es-
tablishing and describing the inventory of evidentiality markers. From this
angle, this is a problem paper which certainly digs out more questions than
supplies answers; hopefully, however, it helps to fmd the way toward solu-
tions for at least some nagging problems.
3. Distribution of markers across European languages
With respect to the areal distribution of morphological vs. lexical marking
of evidentiality in the languages of Europe, we can generalize some obser-
vations that will be discussed for more detail in the main body of the fol-
lowing text in advance. In the eastern half of Europe there are three hot-
beds of evidential extensions of perfect paradigms: the Balkans, the
Caucasus, and the Baltics. Perfect paradigms of languages in the western
"hemisphere" hardly ever show signs of evidential extensions. Instead,
Romance and some Germanic languages (German, Dutch) show evidential
extensions of marked moods (subjunctives) or their analytical substitutes
formed with an auxiliary. This area overlaps with evidential extensions of
modal auxiliaries, which are quite commonplace in the western part of
Europe and pertain even into Western Slavic. Copular particles seem to be
more or less restricted to the Baltic languages, whereas predicatives are
typical for Slavic and Baltic and appear to be virtually absent in other lan-
guage groups of Europe (for possible exceptions in Sardinian and Roma-
nian, see 3.9). Evidential complementizers likewise seem to be rather re-
stricted areally to the Baltic-Slavic area (see 3.7), whereas evidential
particles can be found almost everywhere throughout Europe; in fact, this
situation is less clear because of problems related to delimiting particles
Hearsay in European languages 67
from sentential adverbs, which form a frequent class of evidential modifi-
ers, too (see 3.5).
In a sense, bound morphemes indicating hearsay, either as a central
function or as a functional extension, are common in at least some parts
and/or language families of Europe. If we disregard tense-aspect and mood
grams, which had acquired the status of inflectional endings long before
they underwent evidential extensions, the number of languages with bound
morphology specializing in evidential functions diminishes drastically.
Within Europe we find them only on its eastern, especially its south-
eastern periphery (Eastern shores of the Baltic Sea region, Balkan, South-
em and Eastern shores of the Black Sea region). But again, even here, in
practically no case do these markers specialize in hearsay, instead the re-
portive function is only a contextually conditioned reading of a broad evi-
dential meaning potential. All bound morphemes of this sort represent ag-
glutinative morphology rather than inflectional affixes and almost all
derive from the (present) perfect. A remarkable exception, both in terms of
etymology and the range of evidential functions, is the Estonian suffix -vat
which, like the predicative active participles used in Estonian and the two
Baltic languages, is restricted to hearsay (see 3.1 and 3.2.1).
The following overview starts with hearsay marked on, or by, the predi-
cate (verb phrase). Bound morphology which has acquired evidential func-
tions will be looked at first (3.1) and separately from cases in which TAM
paradigms have experienced functional extensions into evidentiality but
not necessarily turned into unequivocal evidential markers (3.2).
Clitics will be dealt with in 3.5 and 3.9. I am aware that in many cases it
is arguable whether a clitic has turned into an agglutinated affix. As long as
the unit in question does not attach in a fixed position to a specific kind of
word form (without any "material'' intervening its connection with the
stem), I will regard it as a clitic and not as a word-form internal morpheme.
3.1. Bound morphology: inflection and agglutination
The only example of an inflectional gram used for evidential purposes in
European languages is the Georgian perfect. It forms part of a threefold
series of stems (Boeder 2000: 278). In the standard language evidential
readings (hearsay or inferential) are not marked by any additional mor-
phology (Boeder 2000: 277). It is only in dialects of Western Georgia and
adjacent Kartvelian languages where we find "a richer system which pro-
vides special evidential verb forms as counterparts not only for the non-
68 Bjorn Wiemer
evidential aorist but also for the present, imperfect, and future" (Boeder
2000: 309).4 If used with values of indirect evidentiality, the standard
Georgian perfect allows for definite time adverbials and can thus principal-
ly be used as the "propulsive tense" of a narrative (Boeder 2000: 296 and
317, f. 39). An analogous release of restrictions in evidential narratives can
be observed with the Turkish mJ.y-suffix (Johanson 2000) as well as in
Baltic, where perfect participles are encountered as the basic tense of narr-
ative texts in folklore (cf. Walchli 2000).
This suffix is probably the most frequently mentioned case of an agglu-
tinated evidential marker in Europe. In fact, cognates of -ml.y are attested in
practically all Turkic languages. But even if we restrict ourselves to stan-
dard Turkish (being spoken on the edge of Europe), it is essential to distin-
guish the agglutinated suffix from the nearly homonymous (and cognate)
copula particle lml.y. These morphemes differ both in their meaning poten-
tial and their distributional properties, including their impact on word
prosody (cf. Csat6 2000: 36-39; Johanson 2000: 80f.). A short comparison
of both units will be given in 3.9. At the moment it is important to realize
that the suffix -ml.y can be added only to primary verb stems, i.e., stems
that are not modified by other grammatical affiXes. It is itself an anteriority
marker able to focus on resultative states and therefore tightly associated to
core meanings of perfect grams; this obviously gave rise to its contempo-
rary meaning of 'indirectivity' (according to Johanson 2000), among which
hearsay and inferential interpretations figure prominently. The connection
with the perfect is never dissociated. Since -ml.y can also be used for differ-
ent kinds of inferential judgments, we can qualify it as a general marker of
indirect evidentiality. In this respect the meaning potential of -ml.y closely
resembles the Georgian perfect (see above) as well as Armenian, Balkan
Slavic (see 3.2.1) and Albanian (see below).5
Another agglutinated suffix exists in standard Estonian, namely -vat. In
contrast to Turk. -ml.y (and its cognates in other Turkic languages), Est.
vat is totally unrelated to the perfect system; it originates from a merger of
the marker -v(a) of the present active participle and the partitive ending -t
(Kehayov 2002: 129); compare, e.g., Ta tule-vat 'S/he has come, they say'
with the non-reportive past Ta tule-b 'Sihe has come/came'). Another dif-
ference in comparison to the Turkic (and Albanian kam 'have', see below)
construction is the restriction of -vat to hearsay, i.e., it is not used in infe-
rential function. This parallels the outstanding functional specialization of
active participle constructions in Estonian and the Baltic languages (see
3.2.1).
Hearsay in European languages 69
The last language to be mentioned in this subSection is Albanian. Ob-
viously, it is the only European language in which the functional extension
from perfect to evidentiality has to some degree been accompanied by coa-
lescence (in the sense of Lehmann 1995): the inflected HAVE-auxiliary
agglutinates to the abridged participle, and it does so in reverse order com-
pared to the perfect proper6, which is still productively used as an analyti-
cal tense:
(1) Albanian
perfect
kam hapur >
have.PRES.l.SG open.PART
'I have opened'
admirative
hap-kam
open.have.PRES.1.SG
'I have opened' (ADMIEVID).7
Albanian is striking as it is the only language of Europe (including its
"edges" in the Black Sea region) in which the original perfect auxiliary
incorporated so intimately with the verb stem (the participle) that this mor-
pheme combination has been reinterpreted into a marked form of the
present tense and given rise to a whole set of admirative (and eviden-
tial; see f. 8) paradigms combinable with any tense and mood except the
aorist (cf. Breu 2009: 3.3 and Friedman 2000: 342f. for details). None of
the following languages show verb morphology marked for evidentiality in
the present tense: Balkan Slavic, Turkish, standard Georgian, and Arme-
nian. This contrasts with Georgian dialects (see above), Estonian and Bal-
tic (see 3.2.1).
3.2. Functional extensions of TAM-paradigms
Since the TAM domain comprises an agglomerate of all kinds of grams
with different combinations of tense, aspect and mood distinctions, I will
divide these devices of hearsay marking into subtypes: first come grams
dominated by tense-aspect components, then grams for which mood dis-
tinctions are central. The tense-aspect part further splits into perfect grams,
future grams and past grams; the last mentioned are the most problematic
ones (see 3.2.3). A decision as to whether these extensions have become
new meanings of the paradigm or whether they are to be treated just as
evidential strategies in Aikhenvald's sense cannot be made in a general
manner but must be considered for every single case.
70 Bjorn Wiemer
3.2.1. Extensions from analytic perfects
Beside agglutinative perfect grams (Albanian and Turkish) and the inflec-
tional perfect of Georgian, treated in 3.1, evidential extensions are attested
for languages with perfect grams of an analytical structure based on parti-
ciples. These are: (a) the extant Baltic languages (Lithuanian, Latvian) and
some Finnic languages, first of all Estonian (but not Finnish!), (b) Balkan
Slavic (Bulgarian, Macedonian), and (c) West Armenian. The arrangement
of these languages (a-c) is meant to indicate that they belong to three areal
clusters, noticeably all ofthem on the Eastern periphery of Europe. At least
Balkan Slavic and Armenian form part of a much larger convergence area
(see f. 6).
Armenian has to be treated with some reservation, insofar as Modem
East Armenian has lost its core perfect character, since it can be used also
"in narration as a nonevidential past tense" (Kozinceva 2007: 81; cf. also
Kozintseva 2000: 407f.). This does not apply to Modem West Armenian,
in which the perfect is not used as a narrative tense and closely resembles
both the paradigmatic and functional distinctions of Balkan Slavic: their
perfects have not lost their character oftypical perfects (Donabedian 1996:
88f.).8
As concerns Balkan Slavic, Bulgarian and Macedonian conform to each
other in almost every respect; their "dialects show considerable morpho-
logical variation in their treatments of evidentials [as do varieties of other
Balkan languages; BW] (...),but the underlying semantics are fairly con-
sistent" (Friedman 2003: 192). The Balkan evidential system has some-
times been characterized as a highly "epistemicized" one, i.e., that an epis-
temic judgment usually accompanies the evidential function (Plungian
2001: 354); others, like Friedman (2000, 2003), maintain that it is the
"speaker's attitude" toward the information conveyed, not reference to the
"source", that is the decisive motif behind these forms. The same has been
claimed for Vlach Romani. This Balkan Romani variety shows a split of
inflected past tense forms vs. bare active past participles. This split is re-
stricted to the 3rd person singular (cf. Matras 1995), but it nonetheless very
much resembles the Balkan Slavic one to be discussed further.
The problem with the alleged epistemic component of evidential perfect
forms on the Balkans is that time and again investigators have come up
with examples and context types in which no necessary epistemic load can
be imputed, e.g., into the Bulgarian (or Macedonian) forms (see, for in-
stance, ex. 2, where epistemic connotations are absent). This notorious
bone of contention has remained extremely confusing. Whatever stance
Hearsay in European languages 71
one might take towards this issue, hearsay is only one possible interpreta-
tion of the paradigmatic forms referred in Bulgarian grammar as 'preizkaz-
noto naklonenie' ('renarrative mood'), in Macedonian grammar as
'preka.Zuvanje' ('renarration'). Thus in an utterance like the following one,
the speaker indicates only that s/he has not witnessed the described event
him/herself; out of context it remains indeterminate as to the more specific
evidential value, so that the hearer is free to interpret the form peel 'sung'
as either inferential or reportive:
(2) Djado mi (e) J7e-e-l
Grandpa me.DAT COP.PRES.3.SG sing.IMP.PPA:SG.M
v dirkva-ta.
m church.DEF
1. '(My) Grandpa is said to have sung in the church (choir).'
~hearsay
n. 'Obviously, (my) grandpa sang in the church (choir).'
~ inferential, or perfect ('indefinite past')
The form of the predicate peel goes back to the Common Slavic /-
participle, originally the active participle of the indefinite past used as a
perfect. In most Slavic languages, this form has ousted the synthetic prete-
rits (aorist, imperfect) and changed into a general past tense, but in Bulga-
rian and Macedonian the paradigmatic opposition between perfect, aorist
and imperfect has survived without restrictions. The meaning of the (indic-
ative) perfect often interferes with evidential readings (plus a possible mir-
ative one); absence vs. presence of the copula (e in ex. 2) is no reliable
criterion (see below).
There is, however, a point concerning the formal expression ofthe func-
tionally extended perfect which makes it clearly distinguishable and which
can likewise be illustrated from ex. (2). In contrast to Georgian, Armenian
and the Baltic languages, Bulgarian and Macedonian have introduced a
new combination of the perfect marker (the /-suffix) with a derived stem of
the imperfect. The "evidential" participle peel is made up of the imperfect
stem pe-e- plus the /-participle. Both suffixes (i.e., an allomorphic 'a/'e-
altemation for the imperfect expanded from the infinitive stem, and the /-
suffix) belong to common Slavic heritage, whereas the combination of
both does not. This innovation occurred relatively late and was conditioned
by the establishment of a series of evidential forms (for a simplified, yet
instructive table showing the paradigm structure cf. Friedman 2000: 330).
72 Bjorn Wiemer
The two main differences between the Bulgarian and Macedonian per-
fect series (analytic tenses) showing evidential extensions (Friedman's
'Nonconfirmative') are the following: (i) Macedonian never uses a copula
in the third person, even if used without evidential function (Friedman's
'Unmarked Past'); (ii) Macedonian has developed a resultative perfect with
the HAVE-verb (imam.PRES.l.SG +indeclinable participle) whose !-participle
(i.e., actually the perfect) forms the basis of an additional evidential para-
digm (e.g., Si imal napraveno '[Apparently] you did /have done (it)'). The
rise of the HAVE-perfect began in the Southwestern area (Ohrid, Struga)
and was obviously triggered by the model of the Albanian HAVE-perfect
(see 3.1; cf. also Breu 1987: 293f.).
In sum, a functional characteristic concerning most languages men-
tioned so far is that the reportive function of the perfect can be qualified
only as a subfunction within indirect evidentiality (including admirativity).
Exceptions are the northern-most languages; Latvian and Estonian as well
as Lithuanian, as far as active participles are concerned (see below). Fur-
thermore, in all these languages, most (in standard Georgian even all)
forms of the indicative tenses are "homonymous" with the 'evidential se-
ries' The "copula criterion" stated by normative grammars does not stands
the test of empirical distribution in discourse in Baltic, Balkan Slavic, and
Georgian. This fact corresponds to the weak paradigmatic distinction of the
evidential series in these languages.9 Nevertheless, the distinction from the
respective perfect paradigms is greater than in the case of mood or aspect-
tense paradigms with evidential extensions in other European language
groups (see the following subSections). Finally, in all languages mentioned
in this subSection, paradigmatic weakness corresponds to functional weak-
ness: in no case are the forms obligatory (cf. also Friedman 2003: 193,
209f. on Balkan Slavic and Albanian).
Now let us have a closer look at the Baltic languages and Estonian. All
three languages possess series of active participles from the present and
past - in the Baltic languages also from the future - stem, with which the
copula is normally absent or itself coded in a non-finite (participle) form
(see, for instance, f. 13, also Wiemer 2007a: 207-210). In this sense we
may say that these languages display greater "paradigmatic consistency"
over tenses than Balkan Slavic, Georgian, Armenian and Turkish, in which
participle-based evidentiality marking is restricted to forms deriving from
past tense and present perfect. Diachronically, in Baltic the present-tense
based verb forms with reportive functions do not derive from reinterpreta-
tions of the perfect; the Baltic and Estonian present tense evidentials
should rather be explained by a converging effect of two factors: (i) analo-
Hearsay in European languages 73
gy with an evidential reinterpretation of the perfect (which is formally
identical with the Balkan Slavic one) plus (ii) logophoric constructions
which in time acquired independent syntactic status (for the details cf.
Walchli 2000: 191-197; Wiemer 1998: 233-239; 2007a: 228-234). As a
consequence, the forms used in Baltic and Estonian vary quite considerably
in the non-past domain: Latvian and Estonian are actually more similar to
each other than the genetically closely related Latvian and Lithuanian (cf.
Holvoet 2007: 81-91 and Walchli 2000: 188-190 for details). This, by the
way, clearly indicates that language contact has played a considerable role
in the spread of evidential marking by grammatical means in the eastern
part of the Circum Baltic Area. Compare the following examples which
illustrate the past evidential, whose form is closest to the perfect indicative:
(3) Lithuanian
Tevas
father.NOM.SG.M
sugr#~s is misko.
return.PPA:NOM.SG.M
'Father apparently (they say) has returned from the forest.'
(4) Latvian
Vi!Js
he.NOM
dz1vojis.
live.PPA:NOM.SG.M
'He has lived, they say.'
(5) Estonian
Ta elanud.
s/he.NOM live.PPA
'S/he has lived, they say.'
There is only one basic formal difference in Estonian as compared to Lat-
vian and Lithuanian: the active participle functioning as evidential marker
is uninflected for those nominal categories which are usually marked on
Estonian participles. Compare ex. (5): the form elanud does not show any
agreement, contrary to sugr#-~s (3) in Lithuanian and dz1voj-is (4) in Lat-
vian.
Different kinds of reinforcement by a doubling of participles on the co-
pula occur (as they do in Balkan languages, too); cf. Holvoet (2007: 97-
99), Wiemer (2007a: 215). Forms based on a pluperfect are also created,
but their time reference quite often does not differ clearly from the time
reference of reportive forms based on the present perfect (cf. Kehayov
2002: 129f., 136f. on Estonian).
Lithuanian (more precisely, standard Lithuanian) is specific insofar as it
has two different participial constructions which tend to be distributed
74 Bjorn Wiemer
nearly complementarily in terms of evidential subdomains. It thus differs
from the two other languages both functionally and with respect to concur-
ring constructions. All participle constructions illustrated in (3-5) are basi-
cally restricted to hearsay. But Lithuanian has an alternative construction
with an invariant participle for the present and the past (or perfect) tense,
ending in -rna (simultaneous to reference time) and -ta (anterior to refer-
ence time), respectively:
(6) Krumuose vistl{ peretalperima.
bush.LOC.PL hen.GEN.PL brood.TA!brood.MA
'In the bushes (some) hens (must) have brooded/are [must be]
brooding their eggs.'
Sentence (6) could be uttered after the speaker has found a couple of eggs
in the bushes but does not see the hens; s/he thus concludes that hens must
have sat there. This construction is used almost exclusively for inferential
evidentiality; it is, therefore, in (almost) complementary distribution with
the agreeing participle construction illustrated in (3). From the structural
point of view, this construction does not have any agreeing NP Instead, the
highest-ranking(= most agent-like) argument must be coded with the geni-
tive (vist1{). 10 Latvian and Estonian do not have a specialized construction
for inferential evidentiality, nor do the other European languages with evi-
dential extensions ofperfect paradigms.
There is, however, another detail worth mentioning. Latvian and Esto-
nian can make reportive marking more explicit by using an uninflected
form of the copula BE.11 Actually, this is just an expansion of the construc-
tions in (4-5): Latv. Vi1JS esot dz1vojis, Est. Ta olevat elanud 'He lived, they
say' This construction is likewise restricted to hearsay function. In Lithua-
nian esq, the lexical and morphological cognate of Latv. esot, is used for
this purpose, too:
(7) Jis
he.NOM
esq_
COP.INDECL
Vilniuje desimt metl{.
gyven~s
live.PPA:NOM.SG.M
'In Vilnius he (has) lived, they say, 10 years.' 12
In this case, Lith. esq sort of reinforces (or stresses) the reportive value
(whatever that may mean), as do its Latvian and Estonian "cousins" But,
contrary to them, esq can occur alone and behaves like a particle, some-
times even like a conjunction or the predicate (cf. Holvoet 2007: 85f.;
Hearsay in European languages 75
Wiemer 2007a: 217-220; see 3.6, 3.7 and 3.9). This makes it differ from
Latv. esot and Est. olevat in grammatical and lexicographic terms. We may
say that the particle and complementizer uses of Lith. esq are the result of
the loss of paradigmatic relations with the inflected forms of the copula
proper (including its inflected participles!), whereas in Latvian and Esto-
nian this relation obviously has not been cut off.
3.2.2. Extensionfromfuture gram
Future markers, in particular grams that can be classified as future perfect
(futurum exactum) as indicators of inferential evidentiality, are widespread
in Europe. They are commonplace in Romance, Germanic, Baltic and
South Slavic. But practically nowhere do they expand into the domain of
hearsay, the only exception being Portuguese. As Squartini (2001: 319)
writes, this is "a case which (...) is unique in Romance and has never been
pointed out before" Compare one ofhis examples quoted below:
(8) Segundo fontes que lhe sao pr6ximas Soares terti dito a Gomes
Matas ea Carlos Monjardino que as criticas a lideram;a de
Guterresforam "pura locura"
'According to sources which are quite close to him, S. said [lit.
will have saidJ to G.M. and C.M. that the criticism of G.'s leader-
ship was pure nonsense.'
Obviously, this case is unique not only when compared to other Romance
languages, but also to all other European languages.
3.2.3. Extensions ofpast tense grams
Squartini (2001: 308-314) gives a conscientious account of usage types of
the Italian imperfect (lmparfetto) which have repeatedly been considered to
carry reportive meaning: "the evidential value expressed by the Imperfect
is a form of report of what the speaker knew was due to happen and about
which confirmation is lacking" An important condition necessary for the
Imparfetto to acquire this function is that "the reported information refers
to a scheduled situation" (Squartini 2001: 311). Examples which corrobo-
rate this conclusion are utterances in which the speaker presupposes know-
ledge shared with the interlocutor. It is important that aspectual values
usually ascribed to the Imparfetto can be cancelled, as in (9) where the
76 Bjorn Wiemer
adverbial fino aile sei del pomeriggio 'until six o'clock in the evening'
delimits the time span and thereby normally requires the Passato Remota
( = aorist) or Passato Prossimo (= perfect or generalized past):
(9) Paolo que! giorno lavoravafino aile sei del pomeriggio.
'On that day Paolo was to work [lit. worked.IMP] until six o'clock
in the evening.'
Here the Imparfetto can only convey reportive meaning, which arises by
implicature from the fact that the speaker possesses only indirect know-
ledge about the described state of affairs and that s/he could obtain this
knowledge only via hearsay. What further corroborates Squartini's conclu-
sion is the fact that the assumed reportive use of the Imparfetto patterns
exactly like the conditional, which in modem Italian conveys only a repor-
tive but no inferential function (see 3.2.4). However, despite this clear
parallel and the fact that the aspectual core meaning of the imperfect can
be overridden, there remains the question of whether we can really ascribe
a new conventionalized meaning to the imperfect (and not just a contextual
implicature).13
This question can be answered in the affirmative for the Estonian modal
auxiliary pidama14 whose past tense form can acquire reportive meaning
(see lOa). According to Erelt (2001: 16), this functional extension is to be
observed in the fact that past tense15 forms ofpidama (+ infinitive) "can be
replaced by the form of the morphological quotative" (= reportive), as in
(lOb):
(10) a. Praegugi
now too
koha-s
place-INE
b. Praegugi
now too
koha-s
pid-i neid
must-PAST.3SG they.PART
maa-s vedele-ma.
ground-INE lie-INF.
vedele-vat neid
lie-PRES.REP they.PART
maa-s.
place-INE ground-INE.
mitme-s
many-INE
mitme-s
many-INE
'Even now some of them [little slips of papers] are reported to be
lying on the ground in various places.'
As Erelt (2001) stresses, only the past tense of pidama can be used with
hearsay meaning, at least in contemporary standard Estonian. Usage pat-
terns typical of the older written language and some Northern dialects also
Hearsay in European languages 77
show indicative present forms in this function which have been related to
German influence (compare the modal sollen; see 3.3.2). Pidama can occur
together with other grammatical forms that are associated with reportive
meaning, first of all with the vat-suffix (see 3.1); cf. Erelt (2001: 16f.),
Kehayov (2002: 136). Notably, the past tense form pidi evokes an immi-
nence effect ('was about to /on the verge of; cf. Erelt 2001: 12-15). This
effect can probably be linked with the reportive function on the basis of
intentional stage and presupposed knowledge, which have been shown to
be crucial components for a reportive interpretation of the Italian Impar-
fetto, too.
3.2.4. Extensions from moods
Let us now look at hearsay extensions ofmood grams. A clear case in point
is German, which uses the subjunctive (Konjunktiv I and II) for this pur-
pose. Typically it occurs in the news, as in the following example with the
Konjunktiv I from a TV report (January, 13th, 2007):
(11) Angela Merkel hielt sich bedeckt //die arbeite gut und gerne mit
Stoiber zusammen
'Angela Merkel remained guarded //she is said to cooperate well
with Stoiber.'
Here the subjunctive form arbeite (vs. indicative arbeitet) serves as an
indicator that the author of this utterance did not produce the assertion
'AM likes to cooperate with St.' herself. Konjunktiv II works the same
way; actually the only difference between both subjunctives lies in (rela-
tive) time reference: Konjunktiv 11 is based on the pluperfect and thus can
always be recognized from the auxiliary (hiitte vs. hatte and ware vs. war),
whereas the forms of Konjunktiv I are to a large part homonymous with the
indicative (present and perfect);16 cf. Roels et al. 2007.
The hearsay function of the German subjunctives most clearly arises in
unembedded clauses (see ex. 11) where it developed from its original,
merely syntactic function, namely: as an indicator of indirect speech. This
diachronic background certainly explains why the evidential extension of
the subjunctive is restricted to hearsay and does not include inferentiality.
The same holds for some dialects of Rhaeto-Romance, in particular for
Surselvan, where the subjunctive is exploited as a means of marking hear-
say in main and subordinate clauses (Grunert 2003: 536-540). This beha-
78 Bjorn Wiemer
vior clearly departs from the usual pattern in Romance (see below) and can
most probably be explained by contact with German.
In Dutch there is no f o r m a 1 equivalent of the German situation,
since Dutch does not have a subjunctive, or conditional, as an inflectional
category of the verb. Instead, an analytical device is exploited, for which
see 3.3.1.
In Romance the situation differs from German in some significant re-
spects. In these languages it is the conditional which is the basis for evi-
dential extensions; and in most Romance languages, these extensions are
not restricted to hearsay but result in an undifferentiated indirect evidential
function (see Section 4). See the following examples (quoted from Squarti-
ni 2001:318, 306):
(12) Portuguese
Segundo certas vozes, teu pai teria reunido a esta altura um hom
peculia.
'According to some rumors, your father had saved [lit. would have
saved] a lot of money at that time.'
(13) French
Aux dernieres informations, les concurrents auraient franchi le
Cap Horn.
'According to the latest information, the competitors have
rounded [lit. would have rounded] Cape Horn.'
Among the contemporary Romance languages, Italian stands out insofar as
its conditional can no longer be used with inferential function, being re-
stricted to reportive evidence. However, this situation must have occurred
only recently, because during the 19th century the Italian conditional could
still mark inferential evidentiality. Modern Italian appears to be almost
unique among contemporary Romance, since it no longer shows an overlap
between the evidential functions ofthe future tense c~ inferential) and the
conditional(~ reportive); cf. Squartini (2001: 307f., 314f., 324-327). It is
only in Italian where we observe a clear-cut complementary distribution
between mood and tense grams: the French and Portuguese conditionals
allow for both interpretations whereas in Spanish (and Catalan), the condi-
tional as a means of marking evidentiality seems to be stigmatized in gen-
eral, and the Romance future is generally restricted to inferential eviden-
tiality (with the remarkable exception of Portuguese; see 3.2.2); cf. the
systematic and comprehensive study Squartini 2001.
Hearsay in European languages 79
Only Romanian comes close to the Italian distributional pattern (Squar-
tini 2005: 252), provided we account for the additional complication that in
Romanian both conditional and future can combine with the presumptive.
This is basically a modal category, which in Romanian can be exploited for
evidential purposes but obviously only as a strategy that allows for either
reportive or inferential interpretations. Its formal expression is based on the
combination of a gerund of the lexical verb with an indeclinable (petrified)
form of an auxiliary verb usually called a (modal) particle; the gerund
usually derives from present tense (-fnd), although many researchers admit
that past gerunds are possible, too (cf. Friedman 2000: 350f.; Squartini
2005: 252-263). This formal structure bears similarity to the structure of
the Baltic and Estonian active participle constructions, which can be based
on the present tense, too (see 3.2.1).
3.3. Auxiliaries
Similarly to TAM-paradigms, this subSection divides into tense-aspect
auxiliaries, mood auxiliaries, modal auxiliaries (briefly: modals) and voli-
tional verbs. However, within the domain of tense and aspect the only aux-
iliaries relevant would be copulae as components of analytic perfects.
These were already discussed in 3.3.1 where we saw that the distinction
between perfect (indicative) and evidential (reportive) paradigms tends (or,
has been claimed) to hinge on the presence (~ perfect) vs. absence (~
evidential) of the copula. We may, therefore, immediately tum to mood
auxiliaries.
3.3.1. Extensions from mood auxiliaries
Cases in point exist in Germanic. Germ. wiirde (+ infnitive) is used as an
analytical substitute of the subjunctive (see 3.2.4). Historically, this is the
morphological past subjunctive of werden 'to become' (Roels et al. 2007:
189; Smimova 2006). We can regard wiirde as an auxiliary because it has a
defective paradigm (no infinitive or other infinite forms, only present tense
forms) and combines only with the infinitive of the lexical verb. This com-
bination can be considered as an analytical mood, which has increasingly
been replacing the simple subjunctive (discussed in 3.2.2) both in senten-
tial arguments of illocutive verbs (indirect speech) and in syntactically
independent sentences in which it clearly marks hearsay.17 Compare the
80 Bjorn Wiemer
following example in which the wiirde-construction co-occurs with the
Konjunktiv I (underlined):
(14) Vor allem der Kommunikationsgedanke stehe im Vordergrund,
betonte auch Jeanette Klee. Schlieftlich gebe es einige altere
Menschen, die zum Teil auch nicht mehr in der Lage seien, fur
sich selbst zu kochen, oder Gesellschaft wiihrend des Essens
bevorzugen wiirden.
'Above all the idea of communication is in focus, also Jeanette
Klee emphasized. It is said that after all there are some elderly
people who are no longer capable of doing the cooking for them-
selves, or who would rather prefer to take their meals in compa-
ny.' (MannheimerMorgen, 17.12.2004)
In Dutch we find a structural equivalent which functions in a similar,
though not identical manner. The auxiliary zou(den/8 is the usual device to
form an analytical conditional; morphologically these are the past tense
forms of the auxiliary zullen, which is etymologically related to Germ.
sollen and Eng. shall. As a conditional auxiliary, zou(den) is used both in
main and subordinate clauses. Thus, syntactically, it behaves like Germ.
sollen. Zou(den) is also used as a marker of reported speech like the Germ.
sollen which, however, is not a mood marker, but a modal auxiliary (see
3.3.2). As a mood marker, zou(den) parallels Germ. wiirde, and also serves
as a reportive marker; but, in contrast to wiirde (and sollen), zou(den) indi-
cates reported speech only in main, not in embedded clauses.19
(15) Hij zou de moordenaar van het meisje zijn.
'He is supposed to be the murderer ofthe girl.'
In sum, as reportive marker German wiirde + infinitive is less restricted as
for its admissible grammatical contexts and, to this extent, can be consid-
ered as more grammaticalized than zou(den), which, thus, shares only the
semantic restrictions in the domain of evidentiality (i.e., only hearsay) with
Germ. wiirde and sollen. Its categorial function as mood auxiliary differs
from its German cognate sollen (which is a typical modal) but overlaps
considerably with wiirde (cf. the systematic Dutch-German comparison in
Roels et al. 2007).
Hearsay in European languages 81
3.3.2. Extensions from modal auxiliaries
This pattern is fairly well attested in Germanic and Romance. The modals
concerned in Germanic all belong to the field of deontic necessity (MUST,
SHOULD), whereas in Romance modals of possibility (CAN) are also en-
countered. Furthermore, evidential extensions of German (but not Dutch)
modals are clearly restricted to hearsay, whereas in Romance they consis-
tently lead to undifferentiated indirect evidentiality. Another difference
between German and Romance lies in the fact that in Romance, evidential
meanings of modal auxiliaries are very intimately bound to grammatical
mood since it is first and foremost their conditional forms that carry such
meanings (B. Staib, p.c.), in particular a reportive one. In German, by con-
trast, reportive extensions of mood and modal auxiliaries can be kept apart
neatly. This will be illustrated in the following.
Germ. sollen is used not only as a deontic modal ('should, ought to'),
but also as a marker of hearsay. This use, however, is restricted to the
present tense forms20 (see 16-20). The forms sollte(n) -morphologically
the past tense of soll(en) -can be used only to mark a conjecture (or as-
sumption), apart from a deontic use.21 Potential ambiguities with a deontic
reading are dissolved22 in accordance with the (un)controllable character of
the denoted state of affairs: if the intended illocution refers to a controlla-
ble situation, the deontic meaning prevails, if the situation is conceived of
as uncontrolled (i.e., as a simple description), the reportive reading comes
to the fore (for a detailed analysis of context factors cf. Diewald 1999: 278-
282). Compare (17a-b): without context, (17a) is ambiguous, but the slight
change in (17b) forces a controlled action so that the hearsay reading is
ousted (or at least heavily backgrounded):
(16) In China sol/en sie ganz andere Feiertage haben.
'It is said that in China they have totally different feasts.'
(17) a. Er soli im Bett liegen.
b. Er soli im Bett liegen bleiben.
(i) 'He is said to be lying in bed.'
~hearsay
(ii) 'He has to lie [= stay] in bed.'
~demand
'He has to stay [lit. stay lying] in bed.'
~ demand (deontic) /asarBa;'
82 Bjorn Wiemer
Conversely, if sollen combines with an anteriority ("perfect") infinitive,
which marks an event prior to, or a resultant state simultaneous to, refer-
ence time, a reportive reading is triggered, a deontic blocked (see 18). No-
tice, therefore, that this distribution is not restricted to telic verbs since it
does not hold solely for resultative states (as in 18) but applies to any situa-
tion anterior to the time of reference, as shown by (19-20):
(18) Er soil liegen geblieben sein/hingefallen sein/ein schones Bild
gemalt haben.
'He is said to have remained lying/to have fallen/to have painted a
beautiful picture.'
(19) Er soli (schon einmal) Schach gespielt haben.
'He is said to have played chess (once before).'
(20) In fruheren Jahrhunderten so/len die Menschen mehr auf dem
Landgearbeitet haben.
'In earlier centuries, people are said to have worked more in the
country.'
Sollen never implies an inferential meaning, i.e., it patterns complementari-
ly in comparison to its superficial past tense form (see f. 22). Sollen can be
used with reference to anonymous, generalized or contextually unspecified
original speakers as well as to specified speakers mentioned in the closest
context (Mortelmans 2000: 134). In this respect, it is slightly more restric-
tive than the subjunctive, which can be used even if the actual speaker
refers to an earlier assertion of him/herself (Diewald 1999: 229f.).
A deontic-reportive polysemy characteristic of Germ. solien is observed
also for the Polish, Czech and Slovak verb 'to have' (Pol. mief:, Cz. mit,
Slav. mat) used as an auxiliary. We encounter the same restriction to re-
portive (and exclusion of inferential) meaning; most probably the functions
of HAVE were calqued from Germ. sollen. Curiously, in all three West
Slavic languages the HAVE-verb can be used as hearsay device also in its
past tense forms (21), in contrast to German. Cf. an example from Polish
(cf. also Hansen 2001: 137f. as well as Rytel 1982: 49f. on Polish and
Czech):
(21) Mial zapomniec sw6j parasol na dachu samochodu.
'He is said to have forgotten his umbrella on the roof ofthe car.'
However, the Upper Sorbian HAVE-verb (mec), which also "copies" the
deontic-reportive polysemy of Germ. sollen, shows the same restriction to
Hearsay in European languages 83
present tense if used as a hearsay device (Fai3ke 1981: 77f.). Here the pa-
rallel with the German modal is even stronger and corroborates the as-
sumption that the reportive function of West Slavic HAVE-modal has been
calqued from German sollen.
Let us now come back to Germanic. Based on the data presented here, it
is worth remarking that in modem English no single modal belonging to
the former series of praeteritopraesentia (see f. 21) shows hearsay exten-
sions. Notably, Old English did know sculan 'should' as a reportive mark-
er, although this usage was predominantly bound to subordinate clauses
embedded in contexts of overt speech acts (Traugott 1989: 41f.). Since in
this paper we are not concerned with diachronic issues, I am not going to
dwell further on the relation of OE. sculan to Eng. should. There is, how-
ever, a secondary modal with a different etymological background, which
in modem English has been gaining hearsay function, namely: be supposed
to; cf. a short remark in Chafe (1986: 268) and the corpus-driven analysis
by Moore 2007. Her analysis makes one understand that a possible repor-
tive reading of utterances like
(22) The Brownings were supposed to be in Italy at that time.
arises from the speaker's (writer's) wish to evoke "an indeterminate but
external source for the belief or expectation" (2007: 119).
In 3.3.1, I mentioned the hearsay use of the Dutch mood auxiliary zul-
len, a cognate of Germ. sollen. Notice that in terms of Dutch, only the past
tense forms zou(den) are used reportively, whereas with Germ. sollen, re-
portive use is restricted to the present tense forms. These cognates are
therefore diametrically opposed in terms of their categorial distribution.
From this perspective, the Swedish cognate modal ska occupies an inter-
mediate position, behaving in a way slightly closer to its German than to its
Dutch cousin. Ska is the present tense form and used as a reportive marker.
According to Kronning (2007: 300-303), its past tense form skulle can
likewise be used for the purpose of hearsay. This reading proves, however,
to be difficult to get - contrary to ska - if there is neither a lexical specifi-
cation of hearsay in the context nor any such hint in the speech situation
(2007: 302f.). Evidently the past tense form skulle does not mark hearsay
by itself, but it is compatible with such a reading, similar to German
sollte(n) (see f. 22). Following Kronning's exposition, both tense forms,
ska and skulle, are likely to have developed as an extension either from
deontic or from alethic (viz. dynamic) modality.
84 Bjorn Wiemer
Apart from ska, Swedish knows another modal used as hearsay marker,
namely: lar. Etymologically, it derives from lara 'to seize, apprehend,
learn' and has become void of all its paradigmatic forms except the present
indicative. Like ska, its evidential function must have evolved from modal
meanings, either deontic or epistemic. The reportive interpretation of both
ska and lar, if used alone, is easily available for contexts in which the re-
ported event is anterior or simultaneous to the actual speech event; only
quite specific contexts trigger a reportive interpretation of ska and lar if the
reported situation is posterior to the speech event. In this respect, these
Swedish auxiliaries are similar to Fr. devoir (cf. Squartini 2004: 874-879),
albeit not wholly identical to it (Kronning 2007: 293-296; cf. also Doo-
ley/de Haan 2006). However, lar and ska can be combined to one complex
unit whose unequivocally reportive meaning does not depend on the lin-
guistic context, also with regard to situations posterior to the speech event.
Other modals of NECESSITY seem to be less well represented. Dutch
moeten 'must' is a potential case in point; its hearsay reading seems to be
triggered only by favorable context conditions, whereas the evidential de-
fault interpretation is the inferential one (F. de Haan, p.c.). Cf. the follow-
ing example from de Haan (1999b: 76):
(23) Het moet een goedefilm zijn.
i. 'This must be a good film.'
ii. 'This is said to be a good film.'
Neither Germ. miissen nor Engl. must show any remarkable signs of an
extension from inferential to reportive function. Mortelmans (2000: 137f.),
who claims that this happens, does not give any English example; nor is the
single German corpus example she adduces convincing, although Martel-
man's implicit intuition concerning discourse conditions favoring a shift
from inferential to reportive meaning is probably correct. The example
constructed by Ehrich (200 1: 150) deserves an analogous remark: Das
Testament mufl unterschrieben sein (habe ich gehort) 'The testament must
have been signed (as I heard)' Here miissen acquires a reportive interpreta-
tion only by virtue of the added comment habe ich gehort '(as) I have
heard' What the speaker is primarily saying in such a case is that slhe in-
fers that the testament has been signed; as a kind of "evidential corrobora-
tion" s/he can support this inference by reference to hearsay although this
is not inherent to miissen as such.
This indifferent evidential meaning corresponds to what we encounter
in some geographically close Romance languages. Fr. devoir 'must' has
Hearsay in European languages 85
been evolving a hearsay function via favorable contexts of report; its Ital-
ian cognate dovere has done so to a more restricted extent; even more re-
strictive are the conditions under which Sp. deber can acquire an air of
hearsay. With both the Italian and especially with the Spanish modal, these
conditions are characterized by the non-factual status of the state of affairs
which is being conveyed as (having been) bound to occur. Their status as
reportive markers is thus much more arguable than that of Fr. devoir (cf.
Squartini 2004).
In contrast to German and English but in accordance with Dutch, we
find the auxiliary for MUST with hearsay function in Romance. Again, this
function seems to have arisen, under favorable context conditions, out of a
broader meaning of undifferentiated indirect evidentiality (cf. Squartini
2004). Compare an Italian example, which corresponds exactly to the
Dutch one in (23) (same for Fr. devoir):
(24) Dev'essere un buonfilm.
i. 'It is said to be a good film.'
ii. 'It appears to be a good film.'
Excepting Germanic, Romance and West Slavic, modal auxiliaries hardly
ever seem to have acquired a reportive function. The only case known to
me is the past tense of Est. pidama 'must', already discussed in 3.2.3. Re-
markably, like the Germanic and Romance modals mentioned above,
pidama belongs to the field of (originally deontic) necessity. Apart from
the reportive past tense (pidi), the present tense form pidama if affixed by
the reportive vat-suffix can also convey a reportive function, but it will
then evoke epistemic overtones (Kehayov 2002: 136).
3.3.3. Extensions from volitional verbs
The only indisputable case seems to be Germ. wollen 'to want' The condi-
tions of its use are identical to those of sollen (cf. Diewald 1999: 283f.;
Remberger, to appear), as is the restriction to the present tense forms (see
3.3.2). A reportive reading is hardly possible if agentive control is obvious.
Thus an utterance like Sie will auf der Couch liegen will be interpreted
volitively ('She wants to lie on the sofa.'), and a reportive reading (#'She
claims to be lying on the sofa.') appears to be rather far-fetched. In com-
parison to sollen, there is only one crucial additional restriction: with wol-
len the speaker of the original utterance must be identical with the referent
86 Bjorn Wiemer
of the subject NP of the actual utterance, whereas it is exactly this referen-
tial identity, which is excluded for sollen. We can easily see this from a
comparison of the following examples. If in the made-up examples (19-20)
wollen replaces sollen, only (19') can be given a plausible interpretation
with (20') being extremely odd. The reason for this is that the identity con-
dition just formulated for wollen requires there to be a real referent of the
subject NP existing at the time ofutterance:23
(19') Er will (sehon einmal) Sehaeh gespielt haben.
'He is claiming to have played chess (once before).'
(20') ?? lnfruheren Jahrhunderten woilen die Mensehen mehr aufdem
Landgearbeitet haben.
?? 'In earlier centuries, people claim to have worked more in the
country.'
Furthermore, wollen is hardly imaginable as a reportive marker in the first
person. First-person use would yield a volitional reading. In minimal pair
conditions, the substitution of wollen for sollen would render the sentence
unintelligible or force a very complex interpretation due to which the ac-
tual speaker verbalizes what somebody else has claimed him/herself (i.e.,
the actual speaker) to have told about him/herself; simultaneously, the ac-
tual speaker denies having uttered the alleged assertion; see (25b). Occa-
sionally, first-person wollen could also lead to the pragmatically undesira-
ble effect of unmasking oneself; see (26b). This contrasts with first-person
usage of sollen, which is invariably interpreted as a simple reference to
other people's assertions (utterances) about the actual speaker (25a, 26a) (#
means pragmatic unintelligibility or inappropriateness):
(25) a. leh soil im Bett liegen geblieben sein.
'I am said to (*am obliged to, *should) have stayed in bed.'
b. ? leh will im Bett liegen geblieben sein.
'I am said to have said that I have stayed in bed.'
#?'I want to have stayed in bed.'
(26) a. leh soil mit der Mafia unter einer Deeke sleeken.
'I am said to be cooperating with the mafia.
b. ? leh will mit der Mafia unter einer Deeke sleeken.
i. #'I am said to be cooperating with the mafia.'
ii. 'I want to cooperate with the mafia.'
Hearsay in European languages 87
In sum, wollen and sollen distribute complementarity with respect to a
property that might be called 'referential selectivity'
Remberger (to appear), in a recent, thorough study on evidential and
modal shifts of WANT-verbs, has compared Germ. wollen with It. volere
and Fr. vouloir and their alleged hearsay meanings. She concluded that
quasi-evidential WANT "is restricted to a specific class of non-animate
nouns (...) or folklore" (p. 17f.) in the two Romance languages. Such uses
can be found not only in German, but also in English (The tradition
wants..., Die Tradition will (es), dafi ...). For this reason we cannot count
these verbs as sufficiently conventionalized markers of reportive eviden-
tiality.
3.4. Predicatives
The class of lexemes to be treated in this subSection is peculiar, insofar as
they are neither modifiers of the verb phrase, nor of clauses (or sentences),
but constitute sentences themselves. In this view, predicatives are interme-
diate between modifiers of the nucleus and lexemes that are not integrated
into clausal syntax but take scope over whole sentences (as do particles,
see 3.5).
Predicatives are a specific word class of heterogeneous morphological
origin whose members share three properties: (i) they are uninflected (in-
cluding originally finite verbal or nominal forms deprived of their para-
digms), (ii) their only syntactic function is a predicative one (thence their
name), i.e., they constitute the nuclei of (simple or complex) sentences,
(iii) they imply an animate argument (sentient being, perceiver) whose
syntactic realization is either blocked or relegated to an oblique case (most-
ly dative) or a PP Instead, many predicatives require a second argument,
very often of a propositional nature, which is syntactically realized by
complementizer + clause; exceptionally this argument may be encoded
with a PP which results in a specific evidential function (see ex. 33 and the
comment on it). In any case, sentences with predicatives as nucleus do not
have a nominatival subject, i.e., no NP to trigger agreement on the predi-
cate (verb).
Predicatives are numerous in Slavic and Baltic languages where we also
observe certain tendencies toward morphological unification. As concerns
lexical semantics, the predominant number of predicatives denote transient
emotional or physical states (e.g., Pol. Przykro nam.DAT, ie nie zdales
egzaminu 'We are sorry that you didn't pass the exam', Zimno mi.DAT
'I'm cold'), attitudes (e.g., Lith. Visiems.DAT buvo geda, kad teko sumelu-
88 Bjorn Wiemer
oti 'Everybody was ashamed that they couldn't but lie') or modal notions
like obligation, dynamic and deontic possibility or their negative counter-
parts (e.g., Russ. mozno, nel'zja, nado, Pol. trzeba, Lith. galima).
Beside the lexical groups just mentioned, there is a small subgroup of
predicatives related to perception which have evolved into evidential
markers; an even smaller number specializes in hearsay. These are:
(27) Russian
(28) Polish
(29) Lithuanian
reportive:
inferential:
reportive:
inferential:
reportive:
inferential:
slysno 'to be heard (to be told)'
vidno 'to be seen, inferred' (in the
same meaning also dialectal vidat';
cf. Kuz'mina 1993: 129f.)
slychac 'to be heard, told'
widac 'to be seen, inferred', czuc
'to be sensed'' znac 'to be known;
as is known'
girdeti 'to be heard, told'
matyti 'to be seen'
The tiny lists given here are most probably exhaustive; apparently, Latvian
does not have a single such unit (though, like the three other languages, it
has predicatives describing emotional and physiological states).
From their morphological form, the Polish and Lithuanian units in (28-
29) are infinitives. In Polish, these forms have been petrified because they
have lost all other forms of their former paradigms. On the contrary, Lith.
girdeti and matyti still function as the main, stylistically neutral verbs of
seeing and hearing, respectively. It is the infinitive (which does not allow
for a nominatival subject) and the way how it codes a sentential argument
which set them apart as hearsay units from the "homonymous" verbs with
intact inflectional paradigms and a diversified array of syntactic patterns
(see below; on matyti cf. Usoniene 2001). Contrary, the Russian predica-
tives slysno and vidno go back to adjectives (or adverbs) derived from the
same common Slavic roots vid- 'see' and slys-/slych- 'hear' (as do the
Polish predicatives in 28). In modem standard Russian, slysno still occa-
sionally shows up in adverbial usage (see 30a), whereas vidno can no long-
er be used as an adverbial at all; thus both units have split off semantically
from the adjectives vidnyj '1. visible, 2. prominent, 3. stately (about good-
looking men)' and slysnyj 'audible', which are tightly associated to direct
evidentiality.
Depending on the type and coding of the argument, slysno (as well as
vidno) mark different evidential functions. With a nominal object NP,
Hearsay in European languages 89
slysno refers to direct perception (30b); if the argument is propositional
and adjoined by a complementizer, slysno can still refer to direct percep-
tion (or inferences based thereof, see 30c), but it then can also acquire re-
portive function (30d):
(30) a. Na berezax ele slysno ozivajut razmjaksie vetki. ~ adverb
'On the birch trees the withered twigs come back to life hardly
audibly.'
b. Marfen 'ku vsegda slysno i vidno v dome. Ona to smeetsja, to
govorit gromko.
'Marfen'ka can always be heard and seen in the house. Either she
is laughing or she is shouting around.' (1. Goncarov, "Obryv")
~ predicative, direct perception
c. Gluxota moja byla nepolnoj: skvoz' nee bylo slysno, cto golos
Beloku rogo vysok i nazojliv.
'My hearing loss was not profound; it was still possible to hear
that Belokuryj had a high and piercing voice.' (1. Grekova, "Bez
ulybok",l975)
~ predicative, direct perception (inference ?)
d. Poslednee vremja to!'ko i slysno, cto oligarxam vredno
zanimat 'sja politikoj.
'Recently it can only be heard that it is detrimental for the
oligarchs to engage in politics.' ("Sovetskaja Rossija", Feb., 15th,
2003)
~ predicative, hearsay
Predicatives functioning as markers of indirect (reportive or inferential)
evidentiality never allow for a realization of the implied animate argument.
This salient syntactic feature distinguishes them from predicatives that
belong to other semantic domains (in particular from those denoting emo-
tional or physical states, but see also oligarxam.DAT.PL vredno 'for the
oligarchs it is detrimental' in the second part of ex. 30d). Cf., for instance
Lith. girdeti (31) and Pol. slychac (32):
(31) Gaila, kad Zemaites mes negalim skaityti zemaitiskai... - Gal
galesim? Girdeti (*visiems), kad susiprat~ leidejai ketina parupinti
autentiskai parengtusjos "Rastus"
'Too bad that we cannot read Zemaite in Samogitian -Maybe it
will be possible one day? (*To all) there are rumors that publish-
90 Bjorn Wiemer
ers who are skilled in it intend to get the authentically revised
"Writings" ' ("Siaures Atenai", 1995/5-7)
(32) Slychac (*nam), ie w lraku znowu dokonano zamachu.
'It is said (*to us) that yet another assault has been plotted in Iraq.'
Like Russ. slysno, these predicatives convey a reportive meaning only if
they code a propositional argument; see (31-32). Token frequency of such
items is, however, very low (cf. Wiemer 2006b: 29 for Polish) and out-
ranked by a pattern in which these predicatives take a nominal argument
and, consequently, mark direct auditory evidentiality; compare Pol. Na
ulicy bylo.PAST.N slychac krzyki.ACC.PL 'On the street one could hear
shouts', Lith. Uz kalno girdeti griausmas.NOM 'Behind the hill thundering
can be heard' Somewhat more frequently, Pol. slychac is used with the
valence frame o+LOC 'about' In this case it does not refer to the content of
reported speech but only its topic; e.g.
(33) Cz~sto bylo
often COP.PAST.3.SG.N
slychac
REP
o nim.
about he.LOC
lit. "" 'Often (it) was heard about him', i.e. 'Often he was spoken
about.'
The same applies to Russ. slysno, which is, however, more colloquial (no-
ticeably with the preposition pro+Acci4 than Pol. slychac o, whereas Lith.
girdeti practically does not realize this syntactic pattern at all.
The units listed in (27-29) have "homonymous" particles. The distinc-
tive criterion between particles and predicatives is that particles lack argu-
ment structure and, consequently, cannot be combined with a complemen-
tizer.
3.5. Particles and sentential adverbs
I will now proceed with those considerably more numerous expressions
that belong to classes which lack an argument structure of their own: par-
ticles and sentential adverbs. Since, on the basis ofthe existing literature, I
have found myself unable to figure out any fail-safe difference (either
functional or structural) between sentential adverbs and (modal) particles, I
will treat them here in one rubric, leaving the question of whether there is
any tenable functional difference that can be generalized over languages
for future investigations.25 I will refer to the relevant units as 'particles',
Hearsay in European languages 91
although in various descriptions some of them might have been named
'adverbs' (for a survey cf., for instance, Ramat 1996); terminology varies
considerably also due to national linguistic traditions.
The medley bag of words called 'particles', which we are concerned
with here, consists of sentential modifiers (as opposed to focus particles-
see f. 25 - and particles that function as signals of tum-taking or attention-
regulating devices in dialogue). Whether in European languages hearsay
particles can take scope not only on the propositional, but also on the illo-
cutionary level (for the difference cf. Faller 2006), cannot be investigated
here. As far as I can see, no cross-linguistically applicable criteria have
been formulated for what should count as particle; often particles are "de-
fined" in negative terms: they are uninflected; they are neither part of the
clause's constituent structure, nor do they have to occupy fiXed positions;
they are highly heterogeneous in terms both of syllable structure, cliticiza-
bility and morphological provenance, etc. Ultimately, the only valid criteria
appear to be located on the level of pragmatic functions (for overviews
and/or attempts toward defining particles as well as parentheticals cf., e.g.,
Burkhardt 1999; Grochowski 1986; 1997: 22-24; 2007; Mosegaard Han-
sen 1998: ch. 3).
More or less identical criteria are applied to determine parentheticals;
these are functionally closest to sentential particles, and this is reflected in
their shared scopal properties and syntactic independence from the rest of
the utterance (see 3.6). The reason why parentheticals should, nonetheless,
be treated apart is that parentheticals constitute an expression class that
embraces not only words (word forms), but also units consisting of more
than one word (form). Often they are even composed of whole syntagms
(e.g., small clauses). For this reason, one often encounters difficulties in
drawing a divide between (rather) occasional and (rather) conventionalized
parentheticals. Thus there is no appropriate place for parentheticals on the
lexicon-grammar cline in Fig. 1; they have to be considered on a different
level because units of virtually any morphological format and syntactic
status can be used parenthetically.
Therefore, before "uniting" particles and parentheticals on functional
grounds, it seems advisable to account for particles as one-word units first.
Admittedly, this dividing line appears somewhat arbitrary and in some
cases, it will even be violated, at least insofar as we would need a universal
definition of 'word' (in morphological and prosodic terms). We should,
however, notice that one-word units, being short, often underlie rules of
cliticization specific for the respective language. Beside that, particles can
take parenthetical clauses into their scope (see ex. 47); they must therefore
92 Bjorn Wiemer
be distinguished from each other. Thus, in order to supply a transparent
description, I prefer, for the time being, to provide arguments and empirical
data for parameters according to which reportive particles can be subdi-
vided. Whether and which of these parameters can be applied to sub-
classify parentheticals, too - and how we may unite both classes - has to
remain the task of a (hopefully) near future. Since structurally particles are
not integrated into the syntax of the clause which they modify, their scopal
behavior can vary, and since among all reportive markers they display
probably the widest array of semantic-pragmatic diversification, they are
best suited for the task of catalogizing structural and functional parameters
along which reportive markers can be classified. Particles, as it were, can
be considered as the best accessible playground ofmultifarious factors that
influence the usage of reportive markers and, therefore, supply the empiri-
cal basis on which I will try to work out an important part of the complex
network of these factors.
For the present purposes, it should suffice to conceive of 'particles' as
units which fulfill the usual criteria mentioned above. I will first give some
representative examples of reportive particles from different European
languages and then elaborate on parameters of their subdivision.
(34) English apparently
(cf. Wierzbicka 2006: 278ff., from where this example is quoted):
Apparently there's eight times more sheep than there are people
in New Zealand.
(35) German angeblich
Die Bundesregierung arbeitet angeblich an einem zweiten
Konjunkturprogramm im Umfang von mindestens 30 Milliarden
Euro.
'The Federal Government is reported to be working [is allegedly
working] on a second economic stimulus package totaling at least
30 billion Euros.' (ZEIT online, Dec., 13th, 2008)
(36) Romanian (by courtesy of A. Merlan, Konstanz)
Cica se casator-e~te cu o franJuzvaica
REP RM marry.3.SG.PRS with INDF.ART French.F
'He is said to be marrying a French woman.'
(37) Spanish dizque
Esto dizque va a ser pantano.
this REP go.PRES.3.SG to be swamp
'This is going to be swamp, they say.'
Hearsay in European languages 93
For this and other examples from different varieties of Romance cf. the
systematic account of dizque-units in Cruschina and Remberger (to ap-
pear).
(38) Polishjakoby (cited from Wiemer 2006b: 41)
List stryja wiele wyjasnial, ale jeszcze wif(_cej gmatwal; czego tam
nie bylo! Potopy, kt6re co tysiqc pif(_cdziesiqt lat nawiedzajq
Polskf(_; przodkowie rodem z Egiptu; historia Sieciecha, palatyna
Wladyslawa Hermana, kt6ry jakoby pragnql przekazac
przyjacielowi brata koronf(_; przyszle c6rki Alicji w roli
zbawczyn ojczyzny...
'The uncle's letter explained much, but then it caused even more
confusion: there was all sorts of stuff in there! Floods that hit Pol-
and every one thousand and fifty years; ancestors of Egyptian ori-
gin; the story of Sieciech, Wladyslaw Herman's Palatine, who alle-
gedly wished to pass on the crown to his brother's friend; the future
daughters of Alicja as saviours of the nation... (T. Mirkowicz:
"Pielgrzymka do Ziemi Swi~tej Egiptu", 1999)
(39) Croatian/Serbian navodno
Sve bi nas valjalo ponovo vratiti iza Karpata, odakle smo,
navodno, dosli.
'We all should be sent back beyond the Carpathian Mountains,
from where we are said to come.' (Internet)
(40) Lithuanian esq
Daugeliui teko ilgai laukti savo mokslinil{ laipsnil{ ir pedagoginil{
mokslo vardl{ patvirtinimo, nes, esq, jie , neturi" sovietinio
diplomo.
'Many had to wait long for an approval of their academic titles or
teaching diplomas, because, so it was said, they did "not have" a
Soviet degree.' (Zinkevicius "Prie lituanistikos zidinio"; 1999, 76)
(41) Latvian it kii 'as if
Sobrid it kii viss ir, lai izglltfba atbilstu darba tirgus pras'lbam.
'Allegedly, there is everything available now to render education fit
for the job market.' (www.politika.lv, December 2006; by courtesy
of I. K}evere-Wiilchli)
Further cases: It. dice (Giacalone Ramat and Topadze 2007: 27; Pietrand-
rea 2007: 55-57), Gr. lei (K. Stathi, p.c.), Russ. mol, deskat', -de (Arutju-
nova 2000; Plungjan 2008), Russ. kaietsja, budto by, vrode (Letucij 2008;
Wiemer 2008b), Pol. podobno, ponoc, rzekomo (Rytel 1982: 47f.; Wiemer
94 Bjorn Wiemer
2006b), Cz. pry, udajne (Hoffmannova 2008; Karlik et al. 1995: 626f.,
664; Rytel 1982: 46, 48f.), Slovak vraj, Croat./Serb. kaie, Macedonian vele
(Mushin 1997: 294-296), Lith. tarytum, girdi, neva (cf. Wiemer 2007b),
Georg. turme, titkos, vitam (Topadze 2008: 51f., 56-60). We should add
Arm. eYer, which is an etymological equivalent of Lith. esq (see ex. 40), as
it is an isolated participle form of the copula. In semantic terms, however,
e Yer differs from Lith. esq insofar as it is not restricted to hearsay (cf.
Donabedian 1996: 95-97).
Parameters pertinent to a sub-classification of reportive particles can be
divided and ordered into (at least) five global groups:
1) diachronic background, with a further subdivision into:
a) etymological and semantic evolution,
b) changes ofmorphosyntactic properties (along the "cline" in Fig. 1),
2) criteria of formal (morphosyntactic) properties and behavior,
3) criteria of semantic-pragmatic properties,
4) distributional criteria, i.e., how do such particles combine
a) with other evidential markers (regardless of their "morphosyntactic
format"),
b) with other units that function as sentential modifiers (e.g., epistem-
ic ones)?
In this paper I will focus only on criteria of groups (ii-iii). A fifth group of
criteria concerns (v) the variability of grammatical status (syntactic distri-
bution), i.e., the question of whether a unit with a particular phonological
shape can occur in different types of constituency (according to the classi-
fication substantiated in Section 2) without noticeable changes of lexical
meaning (sc. evidential function). This question as to the proportion of
units concerned is not to be neglected, nor should we dismiss it in our theo-
rizing. It is a kind of synchronic correlate to the diachronically oriented
issue in (i-b). The manner we handle in issue (v) will be crucial for any
solid lexicographic account of evidential markers in a language as well as
for approaches towards the lexicon-syntax-interface. I will pick up this
issue in 3.9.
Probably the most important criterion of group (ii) concerns the scopal
behavior of a unit, first of all whether its scope is only sentential or varia-
ble as in the latter case; it can narrow its scope down to even attributes of a
noun (see 42b, 43, 44). Although one needs to have checked a sufficient
amount of relevant data in order to be able to state firmly that the predomi-
nant number of reportive particles displays variable scope, I have by now
Hearsay in European languages 95
got the general impression that reportive particles are capable of variable
scope by default. Let us assume this for the time being. Another default
rule to hold for most hearsay particles appears to be that they need not
specify the author ofthe original utterance.
All units illustrated so far can have wide (propositional) scope; most,
but not all of them can occur with narrow scope. If they do, they normally
take the narrowest possible scope, i.e., scope only over a part of a NP (an
attribute). At least this is the most frequent case with text tokens known to
me. In this respect, Germ. angeblich 'allegedly' is representative; cf.:
(42) wide scope
a. Gestern [kam er angeblich erst um funf mit seiner bereits
sechsjiihrigen Tochter].26
'Allegedly, yesterday [he arrived only at five with his already six-
year-old daughter].'
narrow scope
b. Er kam gestern erst umfunfmit seiner angeblich [bereits
sechsjiihrigen] Tochter.
'Yesterday he arrived only at five with his allegedly [already six-
year-old] daughter.'
Here and in the following examples, narrow scope is indicated by square
brackets. See some further typical illustrations:
(43) Polishjakoby
Wiele os6b (..) w dyskusjach nadproblemem przywr6cenia do
zycia owego czolowego pomnika pami~ci narodowej podnosi [zbyt
dlugi]jakoby okres odbudowy oraz ogromnejej koszty.
'In debates on the issue of the revitalization ofthis outstanding site
of the national memory many have addressed the allegedly [too
long] period ofreconstruction and the enormous costs.' ("Mlody
Technik", 1971-3)
(44) Russianjakoby (cited from Rakhilina 1996: 299)
Vy, razumeetsja, slysali o moem jakoby [romane] s vami?
'For sure, you have heard about my alleged [affair] with you.'
(45) Russian budto by 'as if, apparently'
Muxin do six por budto by [nicego ne znaet ob etom].
'Apparently, until now Muxin knows nothing about it.'
96 Bjorn Wiemer
Utterances like (45) allow for inferential readings, too.27 Pol. jakoby and
Russ. budto by are also encountered as complementizers (see 3.7, 3.9).
Also attested, though less often, are cases in which a particle takes an
adverbial PP into its scope (46) or a parenthetical expression (small clause,
see 47):
(46) Lithuanian esq (cited from Wiemer 2007b: 177)
Pirmq kartq nepai[stamas vyriskis Juozui paskambino sil{ metl{
balandzio pabaigoje. Uiuominomis jam pasake, kad turesiqs
moketi pinigus esq [uz blogq tarpininkavimq]. Buvo leista
suprasti, kad reikia duokles.
'The first time an unknown man phoned up Juozas at the end of
April this year. Using allusions he told him that he would have to
pay money supposedly [for bad mediation]. They let him know
that a tribute was required.' ("Lietuvos Aidas" 1995-8)
(47) Croatian/Serbian navodno (by courtesy of A. Drobnjakovic)
Povodom teksta u estradnom casopisu "Mega hit", u kojemje os-
vanu la informacija da se razvodi, navodno [zbog jedne plave
zene], upitali smo Ljubu Alicica da life to istina. ,Naravno daje u
pitanju trac", kaie Ljuba.
'On the occasion of the article in the magazine 'Mega hit', where
the information appeared that he is going to divorce his wife, alle-
gedly [because of a blond woman], we asked Ljuba Alicic ifthat is
true. 'Of course it's a gossip,' says Ljuba.'
There is at least one peculiar case of a reportive particle which can also
function as a sort of word-formation device. This is Pol. niby 'as if: like
jakoby it can be used both as particle and conjunction (see 3.7, 3.9); it then
not only refers to a foreign speech act, but also implies that the actual
speaker does not subscribe to the implicit consequences which the original
speaker might have had in mind (cf. Wiemer 2006b: 45-48). If used like a
prefix, niby- adds an ironical touch:
(48) Widocznie te twoje niby-badania w tej szopie to wcale nie taki
cymes.
'Apparently, your so-called [= pseudo-]research in that shed there
is not such a big deal.' (R. Antoszewski: "Kariera na trzy karpie
morskie", 2000)
Hearsay in European languages 97
This is reminiscent ofwhat Brendel et al. (2007: 6) have called 'modalized
citation' ("modalisierendes Zitat") and similar to Travis' (2006: 1278)
'labelling' Thus niby- raises the general problem of whether it is justified
to include adnominal modifiers of the so CALLED-type into an inventory of
reportive markers. There are reasons in favor of such a decision. First,
labeling is not restricted to word-formation devices like Pol. niby- or attri-
butive adjectives like Germ. so genannter, It. cosidetto, Russ. tak nazy-
vaemyj, but is commonplace among particles with variable scope, i.e., to
the assumed absolute majority of them. Second, adpositions - which are
adnominal modifiers par excellence - can also be considered reportive
units (see 3.8), although they do not participate in word-formation. Third,
notice that so CALLED-modifiers have a specific quotative function sensu
stricto. Meibauer 2003 argued that quotative meaning components28 can be
integral parts of words. If we accept these arguments, we should, however,
be aware that we are likely to be running into problems with delimitation
both in semantic terms (how deeply can the element referring to a previous
utterance be anchored in the semantic explication of a linguistic item?) and
in morphosyntactic terms. As for the latter, remember Anderson (1986:
275), who excluded compounds and derivational forms from the inventory
of evidential markers (see his fourth defming criterion).
A further problem arises: if niby becomes a bound morpheme and the-
reby loses its syntactic freedom even more than clitics, how should its ca-
tegorial status be handled and, consequently, how many lexical entries of
niby are there? (On this general issue see Section 3.9.) Apart from this,
notice that niby used as a free morpheme cannot be regarded as a clitic
(just like most markers in Polish, Russian and Lithuanian do not behave
like clitics); we cannot, therefore, assume a cline: free> cliticized > agglu-
tinated(> fused) morpheme, as might be natural in other languages with a
more salient propensity towards clitics (e.g., Romance or South Slavic);
instead, we would have to assume that the "clitic stage" is circumvented.
Although most particles with hearsay meanings supposedly have varia-
ble scope, there are some of them which demonstrate only wide, sentential
scope. On preliminary terms, two rather systematic types figure saliently.
Remarkably, both can be characterized as quotatives in the narrow sense
(cf. Aikhenvald 2004: 64, 177f.). First, reportive markers which have only
recently split off from complementizers; in such cases it may even be argu-
able whether they have to be treated as units distinct from complementizers
at all. A nice case to illustrate this is supplied by colloquial Czech ze. See
the following examples from spontaneous discourse: in (49), ze occurs
after a subject pronoun (voni 'they') and we can assume an ellipsis of the
98 Bjorn Wiemer
predicate. In (50), however, ze occurs so frequently without a speech act
verb, both after intonational breaks and without any breaks (in the follow-
ing indicated by a dash'/'), that we get the impression that it is becoming a
syntactically independent unit marking quoted speech:
(49) mela sem pelmy seno (..) a tak sem sla Kostelce/a voni ze ui maji
vsechno piny a ze uZ to seno nebudou bratjo !(..)
'I had some nice hay (...) and so I went to Kostelec/but they ze already
had enough ofit, and ze they won't take any more hay, will they'
(50) vona meprosila (..) ze zkratka bych mohla ze cekci rodinu ze bych
mohla u nich bejt/ze se bude mit dobfe !!ale ze byli sami chudaci/
ze sem se nic moe nemelaize sem se tam hrozne zhubla (..)
'she asked me (...) ze I could, at short notice ze she is expecting a
child ze I could stay with them/ze s/he will be well off I!but ze they
were all poor/ze I wasn't well off/ze I terribly lost weight there'
Hoffmannova (2002: 374) treats the repeated use of ze as hypertrophy
which leads to a mixture of quoted, indirect and free-indirect speech. Now,
on account of the status of ze as oscillating between a complementizer
"floating" without its predicate and a particle, it is unlikely that ze gains
scope over constituents on levels lower than the clause.
Admittedly, some reportive particles which arguably began (and can
still be used) as complementizers with an 'as if-meaning are now used
with variable scope; compare Russ. jakoby and kak budto, budto by, Pol.
jakoby (see ex. 43), probably also Latv. it kii. These units, however, are
likely to have gained the status of particles a more considerable time ago
than Cz. ze. Most plausibly, all of them started as clause connecting devic-
es in constructions of comparison with an 'as if-meaning.29 To this group
we can add Lith. esq, although its history is different: it derives from a
participle used in complementation (see 3.2.1). It is reasonable to assume
that all these items acquired variable scope only after they had separated
from "their" subordinating verbs, although this assumption has not yet
conclusively been tested on diachronic data.
Second, another group of quotative units lacking variable scope origi-
nates from syntactic positions other than clause connectives. Colloquial
quotatives like Engl. like, Russ. tipa (= tip.GEN 'type, sort') should be
named here in the first place. Again, in this group, expressions used for
comparison are particularly commonplace, but (combinations of) demon-
stratives, pronouns and quantifiers (in a broad sense) are also mentioned
quite often such as, for instance, Germ. und sie so, lit. 'and she so' (+
Hearsay in European languages 99
quote). As a rule, such syntactically indeterminate units precede the repro-
duction not only of a literal quote, but also of paralinguistic features, mim-
ics and gestures of the original speech event; cf. the title of Galata's 2000
article dealing with the reference to "embodied actions" This distinguishes
them from units like Cz. ze, which started their lives as connectives. Since
quotatives of the LIKE-type are so tightly associated to the complex repro-
duction of speech, it is hard to imagine that they will ever occur with nar-
row scope. Moreover, since they refer to the entire "behavioral accompa-
niment" of utterances (the manner of pronunciation, characteristics of
voice, etc.), the notion of sentential (or propositional) scope sounds some-
what misplaced. Utterances need not take on the shape of sentences, and in
spoken language (i.e., where quotatives of this type occur) they notoriously
decline from models of standard syntax. Thus if we want to say that these
quotatives have scope over propositions, they additionally, and on equal
terms, mark illocutionary and emotional aspects of speech.
Some reportive particles can behave like clitics, e.g. Cz. ze, pry, Russ.
mol, probably also It. dice. Notice that the degree of coalescence (in terms
of Lehmann 1995) does not automatically correlate with a reduction of
scope. For instance, the Georgian hearsay morpheme -o is a clitic, but it
nonetheless operates on phrase level. According to Boeder (2000: 279), "in
colloquial speech [it] can occur on each constituent boundary" The fol-
lowing example is quoted from Giacalone Ramat and Topadze (2007: 18):
(51) gaero-m, v -i -ziareb
UN.ERG 1 VERS share:PRS
mc'uxareba-s -o
grief.DAT REP
'The United Nations said, we share your grief!'
-t
PL
tkven-s
your.DAT
Furthermore, certain reportive clitics show tendencies towards agglutina-
tion. As cases in point we can count Pol. niby mentioned above and Georg.
metki (see ex. 55). A further item which might belong into this subclass is
Russ. -de (cf. Plungjan 2008). Arutjunova (2000: 438) cites examples like
the following from the Dal'-dictionary (composed during the 19th c.), in which-
de occurs repeatedly on successive syntagms (and which can barely be trans-
lated into English other than with the aid ofa colloquial quotative marker):
(52) On govorit, ja-de ne pojdu-de, chot'-de, cto chos' delaj.
'He goes "I won't go, you can take it or leave it" '
100 Bjorn Wiemer
Such occurrences have, however, clearly diminished; (52) sounds rather
hypertrophic in contemporary Russian.
Let us now turn to the criteria of group (iii). Among them, three are sa-
lient:
(a) the relation to speaker's assessment of the trustworthiness or veracity
of the utterance(s) referred to (absence vs. presence of"epistemic over-
tones");
(b) known - anonymous speaker - folklore;
(c) the question of which level, or aspect, of the reported utterance(s) is
highlighted by the respective marker: propositional content vs. topic of
speech vs. manner of speaking; propositional content vs. literal quote;
can the speaker refer to an utterance of him/herself?; must the speaker
have heard the reported utterance(s) him/herself? etc.
As concerns the relation of hearsay to epistemic assessment, I refrain here
from any discussion. Factor (b) has casually been commented on above and
in Sections 3.2.4, 3.3.2 and 3.3.3. In the following, I will concentrate on
criteria of group (c).
We can distinguish a bunch of aspects within the reference to speech
acts which prove to be relevant at least for some units. The criteria named
immediately below do not pretend to be exhaustive, but they are exception-
al provided we regard the kind of reportive markers as the most trivial
(widespread) that (i) focus on the propositional content of speech (ii) ut-
tered previously (iii) by another person (other people) (iv) in the absence of
the actual speaker. Based on of these four "default conditions", the follow-
ing more specific aspects can be singled out:
1. Literal reproduction of speech. This is what quotatives proper do.
We have already mentioned a few. Notice that, as a rule, quotatives usually
imply that the actual speaker him/herself has witnessed the utterance slhe
is referring to. We may further ask whether particles that normally fulfill
the four default conditions just formulated can also be used with direct
quotes. Theoretically, nothing precludes such a usage; however, in practice
this seems to happen rarely, and labeling appears to be an exclusion (see
ex. 48). This shows that reference to utterances with "embodied action"
(Galata's 2000 term) differs in principle from reference to denominations
(etiquettes). Again, these impressions open up further issues remaining for
empirical investigation. In this connection it seems sensible to also test
whether the following unidirectional implication holds: if a reportive par-
ticle (or, generally, a reportive marker) is normally used under the four
Hearsay in European languages 101
default conditions, it can also be used with quotes, the reverse does not
apply (i.e., quotative markers cannot replace less specific reportive markers
if these refer only to the propositional content).
2. There are markers that allow referring not only to previous speech
acts, but also to their semiotic substitutes. In fact, quotatives often do refer
to semiotic substitutes or thoughts (assumed by the speaker), too. But this
is not an exclusive characteristic; other, non-quotative subgroups of hear-
say markers are able to highlight semiotic substitutes of speech as well. I
have found the following two. First, the Russian "xenomarkers" mol and
deskat', which do not primarily refer to the propositional content of the
reported message but to the manner in which it was formulated (Plungjan
2008: 306f.). In the following example (from Arutjunova 2000: 444) mol
does not refer to any speech act but to another person's way ofbehavior (delaja
vid, cto 'pretending /showing that') interpreted by the actual speaker:
(53) Na lice rabocego prenebrezenie, stal vozle tolpy bokom, dela;a vid,
cto on priostanovilsja na minutu, dlja zabavy: mol, zaranee znaju,
cto vse govorjat cepuxu.
'The worker's face shows contempt. He positions himself at the
edge of the crowd, giving the impression as if he had stopped only
for a minute, just for fun: {mol} I know from the start that every-
body talks rubbish.' (Bunin)
Second, reference to semiotic substitutes of speech occasionally occurs
with general hearsay markers that focus on the content of speech. See an
example ofPol.jakoby 'as if (quoted from Wiemer 2006b: 40):
(54) lnnym zn6w razem, gdy upuszczony ol6wek niefortunnie potoczyl
si~ za daleko, podniosla go niezwlocznie, nie przerywajqc wykladu
i, jakby nigdy nic, wloiyla do szuflady. Na rozpaczliwe gesty
poszkodowanego (ie nie ma jakoby czym pisac, ieby mu oddac
ol6wek) nie zwracala najmniejszej uwagi, kontynuujqc lekch.
'Some other time, when a dropped pencil rolled too far away, she
picked it up immediately, without interrupting her lecture, and, as
if nothing had happened at all, put it in her desk drawer. She paid
no attention whatsoever to the injured party's desperate gestures
(meaning that he allegedly had nothing to write with, so that he
would need the pencil back) and she carried on with the lesson.'
(A. Libera "Madame", 1998)
102 Bjorn Wiemer
In both cases given, an air of irony arises. It remains an open question as to
whether this is an accidental effect or the consequence of a more stable
implication of the "semiotic transfer" of the respective hearsay markers.
3. As shown for the Polish predicative slychac (see 3.4), reportive
markers happen to focus only on the topic of speech, provided their argu-
ment is coded with a PP I am unaware of similar cases from among par-
ticles or any other group of markers (in terms oftheir "format").
4. Usually reportive markers are used by speakers who have not par-
ticipated in the speech events on which they report, they rather exclude the
actual speaker's personal witness. An exception to this rule is found in the
Russian "xenomarkers" already mentioned. Not only must the speaker have
witnessed him/herself the reported utterance, but s/he can even also refer to
his/her own speech uttered previously. In addition, mol, deskat' and -de
require that the original speaker not be anonymous (or be at least easily
retrievable from the linguistic context), that reference to a reported speech
act has been prepared in the preceding context and the conditions under
which it occurred are described; cf. Arutjunova (2000: 442-447), Letucij
(2008: 223f.), Plungjan (2008: 306f.).
5. Reportive markers happen to underlie restrictions with respect to
grammatical person and/or to participants of the reported or the reporting
speech act. A certain kind of 'referential selectivity' was already demon-
strated for the reportive use of the German auxiliaries sollen and wollen
(see 3.3.3). There are, however, other dimensions of referential peculiari-
ties, one of them is characteristic of the Georgian particle -metki (< me
vtkvi 'I said'; cf. Topadze 2008: 44f.). It marks "exclusively quotations in
the first person singular when the speaker reports an utterance s/he had
already made or reflected on in the past" (Giacalone Ramat and Topadze
2007: 16). The following example given there can be characterized as an
indirect directive speech act:
(55) ramdendzer g -i -txar-i k'ar-i
how many times 2.SG -VERS.tell.AOR.1SG door.NOM
ar dak'et'-o -metki!
NEG close.OPT.2.SG- QUOT
'How many times have I told you not to close the door (I said)!'
Georgian has another marker, -tko (< -tkva 's/he said'), which "is used
when the addressee is a mediator between the speaker and a third person.
The utterance is addressed to the third person, the information source is the
speaker" (Giacalone Ramat and Topadze 2007: 16):
Hearsay in European languages 103
(56) utxar-1 male mod-i-tko.
tell.2.SG-IMP soon come-IMP.2.SG-QUOT
'Tell him/her, to come soon. (literally: 'tell him/her, come soon,
s/he said')
In this case, the reporting utterance has not yet been realized and is, as it
were, made in advance; by the same turn, the addressee ofthe speech event
uttered in (56) is "circumvented" The suffix -tko functions as a quotative
proper, i.e., with literal quotes, whose reference to discourse participants
does not agree with the indication of grammatical person: -tko is a quota-
tive marker reserved for the "prospective", intended addressee who is ab-
sent in the speech event of (56). This usage resembles Free Indirect Speech
insofar as there is a deictic switch of person reference which, in the second
part of (56), re-aligns the deictic system from the point ofview of the pros-
pective addressee. In a sense, this reminds us of some (not all!) uses of the
Russian xenomarkers, namely those which seem to be typical of an older,
18th-19th century pattern; cf. an example from Arutjunova (2000: 441):
(57) Poslusaj, podi skaii Petru, ctoby on skoree sjuda prise/: barynja,
deskat', sprasivaet.
'Listen, go and tell Peter that he should come here as quickly as
possible: the landlady {deskat'} asks (for him).' (Krylov)
Here the speaker is the landlady (the Sarin's wife, barynja) herself, but in
the last part of the utterance she refers to herself by using the third person
(sprasivaet 'asks') and marks the phrase she wants the servant to convey
with deskat' 30
Another item showing restrictions regarding grammatical person ap-
pears to be It. dice. Having been isolated from its paradigm, this originally
verbal form can be used in clauses with predicates (finite verbs) in the 3rd
person, both singular and plural (see ex. 58a-b), but neither with tt nor 2nd
person predicates (see 58c-d). This restriction holds at least if dice is used
after or within direct speech (C. Guardamagna, p.c.) so that it itself might
tum out to be restricted to the quotative use of dice:
(58) a. Mi ha chiesto/detto- dice- [continuation ofquote].
'S/he has asked/said to me - dice
b. Mi hanna chiesto/detto - dice - [continuation of quote].
'They have asked/said to me- dice
c. Ho!Abbiamo chiesto- *dice- [continuation of quote].
104 Bjorn Wiemer
'I/we have asked - *dice
d. Hai/Avete chiesto- *dice- [continuation of quote].
'You (SG/PL) have asked- *dice
3.6. Parentheticals
As already mentioned, from a functional point ofview, particles and paren-
theticals31 are hardly distinguishable: they both (a) take scope over whole
utterances, (b) their position is not fixed (neither is their scope), and (c)
their relation to the sentences (or constituents) they modify cannot be cap-
tured in terms of dependency.32
Here are some examples of markers where the decision as to whether
the given unit counts as parenthetical or particle proves to really be arbi-
trary:
(59) French paraft-iP3
(. ..) le charmant roi mage (. ..) avec lequel on lui avait trouve au
trefois - paralt-il- une grande ressemblance.
'The charming king of magicians (...), whom people once had
found him to resemble closely - so it seemed [as they said].' (M.
Proust: A Ia recherche du temps perdu; cited from "Le grand Ro-
bert..." 1985NII: 74)
(60) Alemannic (Swiss etc.) German schints (schynts etc.)
Vermutlich, wei! das Senioren-Konzert in Dilbendorfzu Ende war,
Herr Woody. Dort waren ja schins nicht aile gleich zufrieden mit
dem Gebotenen.
'Presumably because the concert for the elderly people in Oiiben-
dorf was finished, Mister Woody. Apparently not everybody was
equally content with what they had presented.' (Campionatischer,
2006.08.07)
(61) Russian kazetsja (cf. Bulygina and Smelev 1993: 80)
Ivan, kazetsja, uexal v Kiev.
'Ivan apparently left for Kiev.'
It is no accident that all examples given contain units deriving from verbs
with the meaning 'seem, appear' Other examples are Sp. al parecer (Cor-
nillie 2007: 34-36), It. a quanta pare (Squartini 2008: 932f.), Pol. zdaje si((
(Wiemer 2006b: 53-59; 2008b: 356-358), Engl. it seems (Chafe 1986: 268).
Characteristically, all these units seem to have acquired hearsay function
Hearsay in European languages 105
via inferential meanings, and most ofthem must now be qualified as undif-
ferentiated markers of indirect evidentiality34 (see Section 4). Interestingly,
the 3rd person singular form of the present indicative of SEEM-verbs35 high-
lights a reportive function only when it loses its dependency relations with
a host sentence, i.e., when it becomes petrified as a particle viz. parentheti-
cal. As long as it has not lost syntactic links with their immediate surround-
ing- in particular, if it is still used with a complementizer (basically as the
head of a hi-clausal sentence) or in constructions known as raising - it
functions only as a marker of inferences or direct perception (often with
epistemic "overtones"). Diewald 2001 and de Haan 2007, in their presenta-
tion of data from Germanic languages, do not concentrate on reportive
meaning, nor do they point to this tendency, but it can be read between the
lines. It becomes evident also in Cornillie's 2007 discussion of construc-
tions and items based on Sp. parecer, and I received the same impression
from my own preliminary investigation of Russian and Polish forms based
on SEEM-verbs. An analogous tendency can be observed with 'as if'-
connectives (see 3.7). Of course, at present, these observations allow only
for the careful formulation of a hypothesis to be verified by diachronically
oriented in-depth analyses of every single item.
Other source expressions frequently encountered in reportive parenthet-
icals (particles?) are the basic illocutive verbs of a language. Compare
again It. dice which, in colloquial speech, is still often used as a unit petri-
fied jointly with the complementizer che (Giacalone Ramat and Topadze
2007: 27; Pietrandrea 2007: 55-57). In Southern Italy, however, it occurs
also without a complementizer (C. Guardamagna, p.c.); see the above
comment on (58a-d).
In fact, at least some parentheticals differ from particles in at least one
important respect. Parenthetical clauses can contain anaphoric expressions
which link the whole clause to their 'host' without exerting an influence on
the syntactic structure of the latter; they can thus exhibit one-sided syntac-
tic dependencies on their hosts (cf. Dehe and Kovalova 2007: 6, basing on
Ackema and Neeleman 2004: 96-99). This property brings them close to
non-restrictive relative clauses as it is clearly associated to their function as
metatextual comments (see f. 32). However, I am unaware of any such
cases from among parentheticals with a reportive function. Of course, we
know of numerous cases in which a grammatical form of a SAY/TELL-verb
combines with connectives like Engl. as, Germ. wie, Russ. kak, Pol.jak, It.
come 'as (people say)' The question, however, is whether (and to which
degree) these syntagms can count as conventionalized holistic units and not
106 Bjorn Wiemer
just as productively used combinations of words to be analyzed composi-
tionally.
3.7. Conjunctions (complementizers)
In some of the languages of the Eastern part of Europe we encounter hear-
say units that have to be qualified as complementizers or conjunctions.
These units center around the meaning 'as if and introduce sentential ar-
guments of speech act verbs or link sentential modifications to NPs. Clear
cases in point are Pol.jakoby (62) and Lith. esq (63):
(62) Wspomniano mi,jakoby mial taki zamiar.
'I was told that apparently [lit. as ij] he had such an intention.'
(63) Seniai girdeti ir noriai cituojami argumentai, esq Baltijos
valstybes yra Maskvos islaikytines.
'For a long time we have been hearing arguments, as if the Baltic
states were nurtured by Moscow.' ("Lietuvos Aidas" 1995-8)
Lith. esq is the petrified obsolete neuter form of the present active parti-
ciple of the copula buti, its etymology thus differs from units meaning 'as
if (Wiemer 2007b: 177-179). All these units, however, have developed
further into "homonymous" particles (see 3.9); as for Lith. esq see (40), as
for Pol. jakoby see the following example, in whichjakoby combines with
the complementizer ie (cf. S~pien 2008: 327-330; Wiemer 2006b: 40-45;
2008b: 365-368):
(64) Pawel twierdzi, ie Michaljakoby znal Marka.
'Pawel claims that Michal allegedly/apparently knew Marek.'
As for the genetically closest languages (Russian, Czech, Slovak, Ukrai-
nian, Belarusian and Latvian, respectively), I have by now been unable to
find text instances with cognate or functionally similar units that are used
both as particles and conjunctions (complementizers) and in either case
would mark hearsay. In other words: hearsay conjunctions seem to belong
to a rare species of lexical units, whereas etymologically related particles
are more numerous since they prove to be more apt to develop a reportive
function (see 3.9). For instance, Letucij 2008 does not give a single exam-
ple of Russ. kak budto as a conjunction in speech act contexts; Letucij
(p.c.) considers such a use to be ungrammatical, contrary to budto by (e.g.,
Hearsay in European languages 107
Govorili, *kak budto lbudto by on uexal 'They said that [lit. as if] he had
left'; cf. also Wiemer 2008b: 347-353). In the same vein, Latv. it kii 'as if
functions as a complementizer, but, again, according to examples known to
me (thanks to I. KJevere-Wiilchli and N. Nau) and confirmed by J. Choj-
nicka (p.c.), it then introduces sentential complements in exclusively infe-
rential contexts (perception verbs etc.), whereas as a particle it kii can mark
hearsay (see ex. 41). It seems thus that, contrary to Polish and Lithuanian,
the syntactic distribution of the Russian and Latvian 'as if'-connectives
(particle vs. complementizer) tightly correlates with the evidential function
(perceptive-inferential vs. reportive).
3.8. Adpositions
The last word class to be considered in connection with hearsay is adposi-
tions. In European languages, relevant units are encountered throughout
with prepositions being in the majority. Semantically, adpositions modify
NPs, whereas syntactically they are their heads, rendering PPs. Conse-
quently, we have to distinguish their constituent-internal scope, which is
purely adnominal, from the scope taken by the PP as a whole. PPs with
reportive meaning always function as adverbials, their scope is therefore
propositional. Adpositions themselves show various restrictions as for the
admissible lexical noun class. Here I must restrict myself to a general re-
mark on a coarse level of classification, which will be illustrated from
Polish.
Among adpositions with a reportive function, we should distinguish at
least two types. In the first type the hearsay meaning is the only possible
one, i.e., the adposition collocates only with names of persons (or groups
of people), see (65a); this collocation restriction is loosened only in favor
of names of institutions or bodies of people with some official function
(65b). Adpositions of this sort cannot be used with names of products of
speech, see (65c). Compare Pol. zdaniem:
(65) a. Zdaniem rzecznika rzqdu (przewodniczqcegolnaszych
specjalist6wlprofesora...) kryzys gospodarczy nie powinien
wprowadzac nas w panik~.
'Due to the opinion of the government spokesman (the chairman/
our specialists/the professor...) the economical crisis should not
cause panic.'
108 Bjorn Wiemer
b. Zdaniem zarzqdu (redakcjilkomisjilrady...) kryzys gospodarczy
nie powinien
'In the opinion of the board (the editorial office/the commission/
the council.. .) the economical crisis
c. *Zdaniem ogloszenia rzecznika rzqdu (artykulu w gazecie/
raportu...) kryzys gospodarczy nie powinien
*'In the opinion of the governmental spokesman's release (the
newspaper article/the report. ..) the economical crisis
Units belonging to the second type mark hearsay only by virtue of a specia-
lized instantiation of a more global meaning consisting in a reference to the
basis of judgment or measurement. For this reason, markers of this type
can also collocate with names of products of speech, e.g., written texts,
announcements, and dictionary entries (see 66c). They can occur even with
names of other products of intellectual activity such as research results,
public surveys, etc. (see 66d). This is where, for instance, Engl. according
to belongs to (see the translations). Compare examples with its Polish
equivalent wedlug:36
(66) a. Wedlug wychowawczyni (przyjac6llbabci...) dziewczynka ma
wielki talent do rysowania.
'According to the house-mistress (the friends/grandma...) the girl
is very gifted in drawing.'
b. Wedlug komisji (rady nauczycielskiej...) dziewczynka ma
'According to the commission (the teachers' council) the girl
c. Wedlug przepisu (podr~cznika kucharskiegolwskazan sqsiadki...)
nie moina dawac tak duio droidiy do ciasta.
'According to the recipe (the cooking guide/the neighbour's
advices...) one must not put that much yeast into the dough.'
d. Wedlug wynik6w badan (ostatnich sondaiylwniosk6w...)
posuni~cia rzqdu spotykajq si~ z coraz mniejszym poparciem
obywateli.
'According to the research results (the last public surveys/the
conclu-sions ) the measures taken by the government are receiving
less and less support from the people.'
As far as I can see, beside Pol. Zdaniem, only Lithuanian happens to have
units fitting to the first type, namely: pasak, anot (cf. Wiemer 2007b:
183f.).
Hearsay in European languages 109
Contrastingly, examples of units of the second type are commonplace.
To these belong Germ. zufolge, gemaft, !aut, Engl. according to, It. sec-
ondo, Sp. segun, Fr. selon, Russ. soglasno, Bulg. spored, Croat. prema as
well as Georg. mixedvit, tanaxmad, cnobit (for the last three ones cf. To-
padze 2008: 49).
3.9. Intermediate cases
In the preceding subsections I have rather casually pointed at cases in
which the morphosyntactic classification of the units varies or causes prob-
lems. To a large extent, these cases can be characterized as "heterosemy"
One of the first to use this term was Lichtenberk (1991: 476); for him hete-
rosemy occurs ''where two or more meanings or functions that are histori-
cally related, in the sense of deriving from the same ultimate source, are
borne by reflexes of the common source element that belong in different
morphosyntactic categories" Heine 1990 used the term 'heterosemy' to
capture the result of a split of a unit's status on a lexicon-grammar cline if
this split was not accompanied by erosion. Correspondingly, I apply 'hete-
rosemy' to label a unit which, in an unaltered phonological shape, occurs
in variable syntactic environments and thereby belongs to different syntac-
tic morpheme or word classes without however changing its semantic val-
ue. As a rule, this syntactic variation reflects different layers of diachronic
development (a phenomenon which in work on grammaticalization has
been called 'divergence' or 'leveling'). For a similar approach cf. Aute-
nrieth 2002.
We will first look at units that are on the verge of focal points of a mor-
phological cline. In 3.5 we mentioned the Russian xenomarker -de. Nor-
mally it is called a particle, but we could equally well treat it as an aggluti-
native suffix. In fact, very few units in Russian behave this way oscillating,
as it were, between bound morpheme and clitic status, and this is conso-
nant with the fact that Russian generally has very few true clitics.
We face an analogous phenomenon with the Turkish 'copula particle'
lml~ (a term used among others by Csat6 2000).lml~ is cognate to the mJ~
suffix treated in 3.1. In contrast to this suffix, the evidential meaning ofthe
copula particle is temporally indifferent, i.e., not restricted to anterior
events and their results (Csat6 2000: 37f.; Johanson 2000: 80). This func-
tionally stable feature correlates with its distributional properties. Look at
the following pair of examples given by Csat6 (2000: 37; her translations):
110 Bjorn Wiemer
(67) Ali hasta-ymllj. (< hasta + zmz~)
Ali ill:IMI$
'Ali is/was/has (apparently) been ill.'
(68) Ali hasta-la-n-mey.
Ali become_ill:DNV.RM.MI$(=ANT)
'Ali has (apparently) become/became ill.'
The Iml~ particle can be attached to nominal stems (including extended
non-fmite verb forms) and thereby marks nominal predicates (67); this
property brings it into complementary distribution with ml~, which is at-
tached to primary and finite verb stems (the latter may be extended and
derived from nominal stems); see (68). Furthermore, Iml~ cannot be accen-
tuated, whereas -ml~ is capable of carrying pitch accent. From this we see
that Iml~ is less integrated into the word form than -ml~. Actually, this
property seems to be the only argument in favor of counting Iml~ as a clit-
ic, not as an agglutinated affix.
Now let us continue with items difficult to classify in terms of syntactic
distribution, inter alia because changes of word or morpheme class do not
hinge solely on morphologization (coalescence). Such a case was noticed
for Cz. ze. Originally being (and still used as) the main complementizer
void of any additional semantic elements, in colloquial speech it can be
disconnected from speech act verbs after which it introduces sentential
arguments (see 3.5). This can be considered as a change into particle status
which, however, is still bound to clause initial position. We can say that
the categorial change of ze has resulted from the loss of the syntactic link
with a subordinating verb.
The mirror image to this process, i.e., the loss of an otherwise necessary
complementizer following a speech act verb, has been repeatedly attested
in Romance. Here we come across reportive modifiers on clause level,
which originate from the fusion of a petrified form of a general SAY-verb
(as a rule, the form of 3.SG.PRES.IND) with a complementizer. These are
typical cases of lexicalization as understood by Lehmann 2002 and Him-
melmann 2004 and referred to in Section 2. If these modifiers lose all their
verbal features, they should be classified as particles (or sentential adverbs;
see 3.5). Interestingly, some of the relevant items have not stripped off all
verbal features: although they have ceased to be analyzable into their origi-
nal morphemes (root/stem+COMP); in some Romance varieties such unin-
flected function words can still take a sentential complement. This be-
comes obvious if they occur with another complementizer. According to
Hearsay in European languages 111
Cruschina/Remberger (to appear, p. llf.), such cases are attested in Sardi-
nian and Romanian. Compare an example they give for Sardinian:
(69) E
and
nachi
REP
andaiada nudda.
go.IMPF.3.SG nothing
chi
COMP
issa
she
'And it is said that she didn't go there at all.'
no b'
NEG there.CL
Analogous behavior can be observed in Rom. cica and colloquial Italian
dice (che); for the latter see 3.5. On the basis of the criteria formulated in
3.4, such units should best be classified as predicatives; complement-
selecting clausal modifiers of this kind do not allow naming the implicit
human referent. This is also characteristic of particles (see 3.5), but nor-
mally particles do not combine with complementizers.
There is another class of predicates coming close to the definition of
predicatives, which is enormously widespread in European languages: the
3.SG.PRES.IND form of SEEM/APPEAR-verbs, e.g. Eng. it seems that P,
Germ. es scheint, dafi P, Fr. il paraft que P,37 It. pare/sembra che P, Pol.
zdaje si~lwydaje si~, ze P, Russ. kazetsja, cto P, Lith. atrodo, kad P, as
well as Gr. fenome (K. Stathi, p.c.), etc. Their etymology denotes non-
agentive, non-specific perception; their "impersonal" forms regularly
evolve into inferential matrix predicates with sentential complements, in
many cases further into particles (cf. de Haan 2007 and Diewald 200 1 on
Germanic). Not every item among these crosslinguistic equivalents devel-
ops into a marker of hearsay, and there are borderline cases for which it is
difficult to decide whether a reportive interpretation is to be considered
still as a context-conditioned implicature or already as a conventionalized
meaning (as for Russian and Polish cf. Wiemer 2006b: 55f.; 2008b). But
remarkably, the transition from inferential to hearsay meaning seems to
correlate with a change from predicative to particle status.
A similar observation was made in 3.7 with respect to 'as if'-
complementizers from which hearsay particles evolve. From the syntactic
point of view they ''mirror" units lexicalized from SEEM/APPEAR-verbs
since 'as if' often links complements to such verbs. We have here another
prominent type of heterosemy, the most complex case probably being Lith.
esq; although its etymology does not derive from 'as if', it functions like an
'as if'-unit and deserves special attention.
112 Bjorn Wiemer
Compare (40), where esq was used as a particle, with example (63) and
the following one, where it links a clause to the verb priekaistauti 'to re-
proach' (cf. Wiemer 2007b: 177):
(70) R. Ozolas sake, kadjam bandoma priekaistauti, esq pasitraukus A.
SlezeviCiui, i}o vietq ateis kitas pareigunas, kuris darytl{ lygiai tq
pat[.
'R. Ozolas said that there had been attempts to reproach him, (for)
as people say when A. SleuviCius will have retired, another offi-
cial will occupy his place,who will do exactly the same. '(Lietuvos
Aidas1995-9)
Moreover, esq can be encountered in contexts where it can be regarded as
existential or copular predicate within a hearsay-context, although this
happens much more rarely; see, for instance the following (cf. also Wiemer
2007b: 178, ex. 4):
(71) Per pati saudymosi ir sprogimt ikarsti (. ..) pro mus praejo du
vokieCil{ kariai ir pasake, kad uzjl{jau slenka rusai, kuril{ esq
labai daug.
'In the heat of the gunfire and between explosions two German
soldiers passed by saying that behind them the Russians are ad-
vancing, and allegedly there were many of them.' (Z. ZinkeviCius
"Prie lituanistikos zidinio", Vilnius 1999; p. 55)
This usage reflects the original use from which the conjunctional and par-
ticle use must have developed. Furthermore, a challenge for an account in
terms ofword and morpheme classes is offered by some quotative markers.
Engl. like is a good case in point. See the following example from collo-
quial English (Google, by courtesy ofM. Lampert):
(72) How did you come up with the concept for "I Don't Need a
Hook"? The concept came from one of my friends. My friend rec
orded it in his studio in Patterson, he's an upcoming producer,
Dustin Hill, and he was like, "Oh, yeah, I have this beatfor you!"
AndI'm like, "OK, let me hear it. And I'm like, "Wow, that's
really a hot beat. I have to really get on that beat." He like, "Yeah,
I think this song should be called 'I Don't Need a Hook. "'And I'm
like, "OK. So, from there I just wrote the song and it's all history
from there.
Hearsay in European languages 113
Should we say that like is an adjective in predicative use and that the direct
quote follows on it asyndetically? Or should we, instead, assume there to
be an elliptical (or zero) predicate, just as this could be argued for in the
case of the Czech complementizer ze when it started losing its connection
with the speech act verb (see ex. 49-50)? Based on the latter analysis, like
could be considered as a particle. In contrast to Cz. ze, it does not originate
from a complementizer, but from an expression used in comparisons. We
may say that its semantic evolution into a quotative marker has been ac-
companied by a syntactic change into an adverbial modifier of a zero pre-
dicate with very general meaning ('to say' or 'to do').38
A similar point can be made for colloquial Russ. tipa 'like, as if; mor-
phologicaly, this is the genitive of tip 'type, sort' See the following inter-
net example (Google, by courtesy of M. Makarcev; idiomatic translation
approximative):
(73) Blin, devki, mne segodnja mama takoe zarjadila. Posmotrela v
telefon, a tam Tomik i govorit takaja tipa na tebja poxoz!!l Ja cut'
ne vypalalII
'Hi guys, fuck you, today my mum just knocked me flat out. She
looked at the phone, and there was Tomik and she was like "he's
like you"!!! It almost threw me for a loop!!!'
(http://forum.tokiohotel.ru/showthread.php?t=1316&page=28)
From the syntactic point of view, we can hardly qualify tipa as the predi-
cate, even if we do not assume a syntactic break after the preceding speech
act verb govorit '(she) says' We can regard tipa as being coded along with
a zero predicate. Zero predicates are a typical phenomenon of colloquial
Russian, and speech acts are one of three semantic domains in which they
occur particularly often.39 If the zero interpretation proves an adequate
option, Russ. tipa should be treated as a particle, too.
4. In place of a conclusion: recollecting the threads and data
As mentioned at the beginning, only some factors from the enormously
complex picture which condition the meaning and the behavior of hearsay
marking devices could be discussed and shown to be relevant for a com-
prehensive typology of such markers, which would include not only gram-
matical means (bound morphology, auxiliaries, periphrastic TAM grams),
but also lexical units. Until very recently, the latter ones have largely been
114 Bjorn Wiemer
neglected, the remarks made above could, to a lesser extent, only be based
on firmly achieved linguistic knowledge. Many times for these, I could
only "scratch" the surface of observations whose empirical validity must
be ascertained not only by thorough comparative in-depth studies, but also
on the basis of a transparent methodology which seeks to distinguish prop-
erly evidential from epistemic meaning components, pragmatic implica-
tures from non-detachable semantic elements as well as diverse subfunc-
tions within evidentiality, and which is anxious to unite markers of
different morphosyntactic format and status under a common functional
roof. The concluding resumption to follow now is meant only to highlight
some important, recurrent phenomena and problems mentioned in 3.
First, we have to stress that many markers with hearsay interpretations
are not reportive units per se, but should rather be characterized as general
markers of indirect evidentiality since they do not differentiate between
reportive and inferential functions. These indiscriminate semantics are a
recurrent pattern of the following classes of markers:
(i) evidential extensions of the (present) perfect; the Baltic languages and
Estonian are an exception to this "rule", insofar as their respective
active past participles seem to be restricted to hearsay.
(ii) evidential extensions of the conditional: modern Italian is an excep-
tion. Since, however, the restriction of the Italian conditional to hear-
say is a recent development, it rather confirms the indiscriminate na-
ture of this mood within evidentiality. In this respect, the Romance
conditional strikingly differs from the German subjunctive, which is
restricted to hearsay as is its "analytic substitute" wurde + infinitive.
(iii) evidential extensions of modal auxiliaries of deontic necessity; com-
pare Romance descendents of Latin debere as well as Dutch moeten.
For the latter, a hearsay function is debatable, even more so for Germ.
mussen and Sp. deber. It remains an open question as to whether evi-
dential extensions of MUST-auxiliaries, if they occur at all, are ac-
quired via epistemic necessity or directly from deontic necessity. No-
tice further that Italian and French modals of strong obligation rather
acquire evidential functions in their conditional forms. Again, their
pattern remarkably differs from Germ. sollen and West Slavic HAVE-
verbs, which are representatives of weakened obligation and have ex-
tended only into hearsay, not into inferentiality.
(iv) Throughout Europe, the form of the 3rd person singular present indic-
ative of SEEM/APPEAR-verbs extends into evidentiality, but a hearsay
function becomes more salient only when this form, by losing its ar-
Hearsay in European languages 115
gument structure, starts being used as a particle (or parenthetical), i.e.
without any complementizer. This allows for a careful hypothesis say-
ing that reportive meanings correlate with the least possible integra-
tion of paradigrnatically isolated verb forms into clausal syntax, whe-
reas inferential functions of the same units are available if the
respective unit still functions as a predicate with a sentential argument
in a syntactically definable dependency relation.
(v) The same applies to sentential adverbs like Engl. apparently, units in
which a form of a SEEM/APPEAR-verb has fused with a complementiz-
er, e.g. Sic. parica 'apparently' (Cruschina/Remberger, to appear: p.
21), or stable collocations like It. a quanta pare Squartini (2008: 927-
939), which should be regarded as parentheticals.
(vi) An analogous remark holds for 'as if'-connectives. They have to be
seen as the syntactic mirror image of petrified forms of SEEM!APPEAR-
verbs, insofar as they can serve as their complementizers. Again, hear-
say function is typical for particles with an 'as if'-etymology rather
than complementizers. If 'as if'-units function as evidential cample-
mentizers, they are either indifferent, since an inferential vs. reportive
reading has to be figured out from the context (Pol. jakaby), or they
are in almost complementary distribution with cognate units; e.g.
Russ. kak budta (inferential, never reportive as complementizer and
seldom so as particle) vs. budta by (rather reportive if used as a par-
ticle, but also inferential if used as a complementizer). Georg. turme,
titkas, vitam as well as Latv. it kii mark hearsay only as particles;
Russ. jakaby (a cognate of Pol. jakaby) has become obsolete as a
complementizer with inferential function and developed into a particle
marking only hearsay (accompanied by epistemic overtones). Notice
that Lith. esq shows the same heterosemy as 'as if-units but is re-
stricted to hearsay, probably due to its different etymology (petrified
copula going back to logophoric constructions). Curiously, I have not
come across instances of evidential 'as if-units outside East Slavic,
Polish, Baltic and the Caucasus (Georgian, Armenian); apparently
they are typical for (or even restricted to?) the eastern half of Europe.
On the basis of these observations we can hypothesize that a lack of dis-
crimination between inferential and reportive functions is the result of a
slow transition from inferential to reportive meaning, in other words: that
inferential meaning is acquired before shifts into reportive interpretations
take place; in some cases, this shift eventually ended with a stable, non-
detachable hearsay component of the respective unit's meaning. A plausi-
116 Bjorn Wiemer
ble pragmatic mechanism favoring such a transition is based on the need to
ground one's inference on other people's assertions. For diachronic and
discourse pragmatic arguments in favor of this explanation cf. Wiemer
2005; 2008b based on Russian and Polish.
As concerns grammatical marking in the strict sense, the overview in
3.1-3.2 showed that both the distribution of evidential extensions of TAM-
grams (however marked) and the distribution of inflectional vs. agglutina-
tive morphology with evidential functions do not scatter randomly. Instead,
within Europe, clear areal biases can be ascertained: the eastern half of
Europe "prefers" an extension of the perfect, whereas in the western "he-
misphere" (continental Germanic and Romance), marked moods (the sub-
junctive and its analytical substitutes in German and Dutch, and the condi-
tional in Romance) are chosen as the basis of evidential extensions. The
fact that Romanian in this regard patterns basically like the other Romance
languages, although it otherwise has acquired many Balkanisms and Sla-
vicisms due to language contact, demonstrates that contact-conditioned
features (among others, functional extensions of TAM-paradigms) can be
overridden, or resisted by remarkable genetic stability (for a survey on
Romance cf. Squartini 2001; 2005). On the other hand, Rhaeto-Romance
uses the subjunctive, not the conditional, contrary to the rest of Romance; a
fact which could be viewed as a result of German influence.
Agglutinated morphemes indicating hearsay, either as a central function
or as a functional extension, are rare in Europe; they appear only in three
languages of its South-Eastern and Eastern periphery: in Estonian, Alba-
nian and Turkic.40 Only Est. -vat specializes in hearsay, whereas the repor-
tive function of Turk. -ml~ and Alb. -kam is only a contextually condi-
tioned reading of a broad evidential (including mirative) meaning potential.
Georgian is the only language using inflectional morphology, as its perfect
forms part of a system based on alternations of stems.
Finally, notice that there is no tight correlation between type of mor-
phology and gram type: evidential extensions from the perfect can remain
analytic constructions (Balkan Slavic, Baltic languages, Armenian), can
betray signs of coalescence (Albanian), or be as agglutinative (Turkish) or
inflectional (Georgian) as the respective perfect proper. Est. -vat, in turn,
does not derive from the perfect but is nonetheless agglutinated. Finally,
we must remain aware that the extensions of mood paradigms into eviden-
tiality attested in Germanic and Romance can count as inflectional markers
of hearsay (or evidentiality in general) only insofar as these inflections
developed long before evidential extensions started, and the latter ones
Hearsay in European languages 117
have by no means led to a change in the morphonological features of these
moods.
List of abbreviations
Languages
Alb.= Albanian, Croat./Serb. = Croatian/Serbian, Cz.= Czech, Eng.= English,
Est. = Estonian, Georg. = Georgian, Germ. = German, Gr. = Greek, Fr. =
French, It. = Italian, Latv. = Latvian, Lith. = Lithuanian, OE. = Old English,
Pol. = Polish, Russ. = Russian, Sic. = Sicilian, Slov. = Slovak, Sp. = Spanish
Grammatical comments
1 =first person, ACC = accusative, ANT= anterior, AOR =aorist, ART= article,
COP = copula, DAT = dative, DEF = definite, DNV = derived nominal verb, ERG=
ergative, F = feminine, GEN = genitive, IM:P = imperfect, IM:PF = imperfective,
INDF = indefnite, IND = indicative, INDECL = indeclinable, INE = inessive, INF =
infmitive, LOC = locative, M=masculine, MA = indeclinable present tense parti-
ciple (Lithuanian), N = neuter, NEG= negation, NOM = nominative, OPT = opta-
tive, PART= partitive, PAST= past tense, PL =plural, PPA =participle past ac-
tive, PRES = present tense, QUOT = quotative, REP = reportive marker, RM =
reflexive marker, SG =singular, TA =indeclinable past tense participle (Lithua-
nian), VERS =verbal version (Georgian).
Acknowledgments
I have to thank very many colleagues and informants who helped gathering
material, testing assumptions and clarifying misunderstandings. I am espe-
cially indebted to Walter Breu, Joanna Chojnicka, Matthias Griinert, Cate-
rina Guardamagna, Maksim Makarcev, Tanja Mortelmans, Nicole Nau,
Elena Petroska, Eva Maria Remberger, Julian Rentzsch, Birute Ryvityte,
Mario Squartini, and Manana Topadze- to name only those whom I have
consulted most frequently and/or with regard to most intricate details. My
thanks are also due to an anonymous reviewer of the frrst version. I am
nonetheless the only person responsible for any kind of incorrect data,
misinterpretation or misguided claim that might have remained unnoticed
so far in this article. Finally, I owe my gratitude also to Beth Martin for
having "streamlined" the overall paper into an idiomatic English as well to
118 Bjorn Wiemer
Tina and Giinther Lampert who, beforehand, had essentially contributed to
rendering examples in a more readable English, facing the numerous cases
in which the transfer of evidential marking into another language can hard-
ly be at once adequate and idiomatic.
Notes
1. For arguments in favor of such a separation cf., inter alia, Aikhenvald 2004,
Anderson 1986, de Haan 1999a, and Ehrich 2001, to name but a few. Cf. also
Wiemer 2006b; 2008a: 6-10.
2. This restriction can be violated only under very specific discourse conditions
(de Haan 1997: 154f.), which, however, do not bear on the argument devel-
oped in this article.
3. Apart from this, if we do not accept a lexicon-grammar cline based on an
opposition between an inventory of lexical units (functional or autosemous)
and an inventory of morphemes that are highly dependent on their immediate
morphosyntactic context with which they form analytically accessible, produc-
tive complex units, other methodological problems arise: (a) How are we to
distinguish whether a one-word or a multiple-word form is conventionalized
holistically? (b) How are we to distinguish units of different "formats" with
identical functions (in particular, in discourse)? Both problems arise with re-
spect to particles and parentheticals.
4. Further analyses on such a system in Kartvelian and neighboring Caucasian
languages can be found in Friedman (2000: 353-355) and Topadze 2008.
5. Actually, the functional similarity of grammatical evidentiality marking and its
tight connection to the perfect in the languages of this large area are obviously
a result of areal convergence. It is very likely that the Turkic system rendered
the model on which evidential extensions of the perfect spread via contact into
adjacent language varieties.
6. Megleno-Romanian, which is spoken in the vicinity ofAlbanian (in the Greek-
Macedonian border region), also uses an inverted perfect with an inflected
(agglutinated or cliticized?) HAVE-auxiliary as an admirative (Friedman 2003:
190). As for Ammanian, however, only the Frasheriote dialect spoken in
southwestern Macedonia appears to have developed an admirative marked by
the invariant ''particle" -ka, borrowed from Albanian kam '(I) have' and at-
tached to the inherited Romance HAVE-auxiliary or the inflected verb in the
present tense (Friedman 2000: 347f.).
7. For the classification pursued, it is of no importance whether the Albanian
evidential forms should better be qualified as 'admiratives' (or 'non-
confrrmatives', in Friedman's terms) or whether the (ad)mirative function has
to be regarded as an evidential one. For different views on the relation be-
Hearsay in European languages 119
tween evidentiality and (ad)mirativity in Albanian cf. Breu (2009: 4.3) vs.
Friedman (2000: 342f.).
8. The main difference with regard to Lithuanian (and Latvian) lies in the fact
that, contrary to Armenian, Baltic has no aorist-imperfect system, only a gen-
eral past. The paradigmatic and functional link between perfect and evidential
usage is however the same, as is the "ban" on the perfect as a narrative tense
(unless in re-narration, i.e. when hearsay occurs).
9. As for Bulgarian cf. Friedman (2000: 334-338), and Kehayov (2002: 127f.),
for Lithuanian Wiemer (1998: 232f.; 2006a; 2007a: 201-210), and for Geor-
gianBoeder (2000: 285-294).
10. For a systematic account cf. Wiemer (2006a; 2007a: 213-216).
11. In Latvian, the future form of this uninflected participle (ending in -sot) is
used, too (cf. Holvoet 2007: 82f.).
12. The temporal value of such a sentence varies as it corresponds either to the
past or to the present perfect. Informants confirm that esq combines with a fi-
nite verb or participle in any tense. Perfect evidentials (reportives) are
characterized by the declinable (agreeing) form esqs.M, esanti.F etc. (e.g., Jis
esqs gyven~s Vilniuje 'He has lived in Vilnius, people say'), but these are very
uncommon in colloqial speech (informants reject them) and seem to be re-
stricted to some dialects.
13. Such an implicature can be detected in other languages as well, regardless of
their tense-aspect system. See, for instance, utterances characteristic of the
German past tense (Prateritum, aspectually indifferent) formulated as ques-
tions like those adduced by Squartini: Wer bekam das Schnitzel? 'Who is to
get the escalope?' (lit. 'Who got the escalope?'), which covertly refers to a
speech act (ordering of a meal). A reportive implicature is also possible with
Russian (or Polish) imperfective aspect (both in present and past tense), e.g.
Russ. (Ja znaju, Cto) ix poezd otpravljalsja v vosem' casov '(I know that) their
train was to leave at eigth o'clock' (lit. /eft.IPF.PAST). Like the Imparfetto, this
function of imperfective verbs (often called 'prospective') is typical of
scheduled situations, but, contrary to the Imparfetto, it is also compatible with
knowledge deriving from speaker's eyewitnessing (...i ja vide!, kak poezd
uxodil '...and I saw how the train was leaving').
14. The stem is pida-. The form used here represents the so-called ma-infmitive.
15. Traditionally, and confusingly, this tense has been called "imperfect"; notice
that it does not bear any specific aspectual value.
16. This formal (and diachronically motivated) difference is usually neutralized,
since in real discourse the time reference of these forms is indistinguishable
(cf. Thieroff 1992: 223-227). In this respect, the form:function-relations ofthe
subjunctive paradigms in contemporary German very much resemble the situa-
tion in Estonian and Baltic (see 3.2.1).
17. Since wurde + infinitive is connected not only with the subjunctive, but also
with the future (werden + infinitive), its paradigmatic status in the German
120 Bjorn Wiemer
tense-mood system has been an issue of constant debate, as has the question as
to which degree this auxiliary construction can be considered a reportive
marker (as opposed to the mere syntactic function of a subjunctive). The most
recent overview of research is given in Smirnova (2006: 19-40). In the conclu-
sion ofher primarily diachronic investigation Smirnova subsumes that the evi-
dential (i.e., reportive) reading of this construction is not as grarnmaticalized
as its subjunctive function but should nonetheless be figured out as a distinct
function (2006: 334).
18. The form zou is for the singular, zouden for the plural.
19. The only case when zou(den) can be imagined in indirect speech is found in
sentences in which the content of speech refers to an interval posterior to the
original speech act. Thus a German sentence like Er sagle, er wiirde nie mehr
wiederkommen lit. 'He said he would never return again' can be translated
with zou(den): Hij zei dat hij nooit nag zou terugkomen. This, however, is
only a manifestation of the regular grammatical correspondence between fu-
ture tense (in direct speech: Jk zal nooit terugkomen 'I shall not[= don't want
to] come back') and past conditional/subjunctive in indirect speech (T. Mor-
telmans, p.c.).
20. From a diachronic viewpoint, the contemporary present tense of modals de-
rives from the paradigm of former praeteritopraesentia. However, for the pre-
sent classification this is irrelevant since these forms were reinterpreted as a
special present tense conjugation a long time ago.
21. Corpus examples with sollte like those adduced in Faller (2006: 17) are no
proof against this restriction to the present tense form since sollte goes to-
gether here with the sentential adverb angeblich 'allegedly' without the latter
a reportive reading is hardly available. Actually, the difference in functional
distribution yields an argument for considering sollte(n) not as the past tense
ofsoll(en), but as a separate lexeme.
22. Disambiguation is possible with negation because the deontic reading requires
external negation (i.e., negation includes the modal) whereas with evidential
(reportive) reading, internal negation holds (i.e., negation is in the scope ofthe
"evidential modal"). Cf. the thorough analysis on this matter by Ehrich 2001.
23. (20') could be interpreted at best in the sense that the people spoken about left
some written documents behind about, say, their conditions for and habits of
labor. But how could those people have compared their way oflife with condi-
tions at the beginning ofthe 21st century?
24. Compare an instance from Soloxov ("Tixij Don"): -Pro Aksin'ju ne sly'Sno? -
sprosil Grigorij s delannym ravnodusiem v golose. "'Is there nothing to be
heard about Aksin'ja?", Grigorij asked in a voice that pretended indifference.'
25. Notice that focus particles belong to a slightly different species and are not
considered here because - contrary to modal particles - they usually focus on
a specific part of a sentence (uttterance). Although there have been attempts at
analysing focus particles as sentential modifiers (cf. Konig 1991: 11, 19;
Hearsay in European languages 121
Mosegaard Hansen 1998: 41-49), they obviously differ in their scopal
behavior from sentential adverbs and particles, which always take
propositional scope but are often able to take narrow scope, too (see below on
variable scope).
26. Actually, scope may be ambiguous and embrace only the adjacent constituents
to the right (the adverbial erst um fonf 'only at five' together or without the
comitative PP). Prosody (sentence stress) plays an important role in disam-
biguating scope. We must, however, leave this general problem, as it does not
contribute essentially to the present points.
27. For an analysis of budto by and other etymologically closely related units cf.
Letucij (2008: 222-232) and Wiemer (2008b: 347-353).
28. Such a component need not be marked morphologically, it can also manifest
itself as a prosodic (or graphic) feature in combination with the conversion of
whole phrases. But with so CALLED-units, they are part of their lexical mean-
ing.
29. A preliminary investigation of Russ. jakoby and its Polish cognate jakoby
corroborates this assumption (for details cf. Wiemer 2005: 115, 120-123;
2008b: 362-369). As for the development ofevidential marking from compari-
son constructions, in general, and the Russian series of expressions centering
around budto 'as if, in particular, cf. Letucij 2008.
30. During the last centuries Russian xenomarkers must have experienced a func-
tional change. In former times (obviously until the 19th c.) they were quite
common as markers of direct quotes, whereas in recent times they have been
moving out of this domain and been specializing as markers ofspeech that, on
the contrary, has to be reformulated by the actual speaker (cf. Plungjan
2008).
31. The German equivalent is 'Schaltworter, Schaltsyntagmen' (literally 'switch-
ing words/syntagms'), the Russian one, 'vvodnye slova' (lit. 'introductory
words').
32. Cf. KaltenbOck (2007: 31) on parenthetical clauses: ''parentheticals cannot be
defined by themselves. (...)They derive their existence, as it were, from their
interaction with a host clause. This interaction, however, takes place purely on
the linear plane, not on a relational (i.e., dependency) level." (Similarly in
Debe and Kovalova 2007: 9 and Grochowski 2007: 71.) The same two charac-
teristics - a functional one: their interpretation depends on a host to whose
truth-conditional semantics they bear some relevance, and a negative syntactic
one: no dependency relations - are typical of modal, or epistemic, particles
(under which evidential particles have usually been subsumed).
33. The same intermediate status can be ascribed to dit-on.
34. This is probably also true ofsome units which are usually classified as senten-
tial adverbs but have identical etymology, like Engl. apparently, Dutch
schijnbaar and their German counterpart anscheinend, which lately seems to
be increasingly used for the purposes ofhearsay.
122 Bjorn Wiemer
35. To this extent, Sp. al parecer (=infinitive) is an exception.
36. For further details cf. Wiemer (2006b: 32-38). In the last resort the semantic
difference between these two types of hearsay adpositions can be captured by
differences in metonymic shifts and conceptual distance: units of the first type
allow only for shifts from 'person' to 'institution embodied by that person (or
several persons)', i.e., to an immediately contiguous subdomain. Units of the
second type allow for more drastic shifts (or chains ofmetonymic transfers).
37. The appearance of an expletive subject pronoun in English-type languages is
due to their non-PRODROP-character and irrelevant to the argument because
expletive subjects do not fill argument positions.
38. The same applies, e.g., to It. dice ('say'), which presents us with the syntactic
''mirror image" ofwhat happens to complementizers or adverbials.
39. The other two domains are movements (as a rule, one-directional) and intense
physical actions like beating and hitting.
40. From a broader areal perspective the Turkic and Estonian (at the least) should
be considered as the western-most representatives of a vast Eurasian territory
(cf. Johanson 2000: 83f.; Walchli 2000 and the contributions to Xrakovskij
(ed.) 2007).
References
Achema, P. and Neeleman, A.
2004 Beyond Morphology. Interface Conditions on Word Order. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, AlexandraY.
2003 Evidentiality in typological perspective. In Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y.
and R.M.W. Dixon (eds.), 1-31.
2004 Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
2007 Information source and evidentiality: what can we conclude? In Evi-
dentiality between lexicon and grammar. Squartini, M. (ed.), 209-
227.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. and R.M.W. Dixon (eds.)
2003 Studies in Evidentiality. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjarnins.
Anderson, Lloyd B.
1986 Evidentials, Paths of Change, and Mental Maps: Typologically Regu-
lar Asymmetries. In: Chafe, Wallace and Johanna Nichols (eds.),
273-312.
Arutjunova, N.D.
2000 Pokazateli cuzoj reci de, deskat', mol. K probleme interpretacii rece-
povedenceskix aktov. InJazyk ojazyke. Arutjunova, N.D. (ed.), 437-
449. Moskva: Jazyki russkoj kul'tury.
Hearsay in European languages 123
Autemieth, Tanja
2002 Heterosemie und Grammatikalisierung bei Modalpartikeln (Eine
synchrone und diachrone Studie anhand von eben, halt,
e(cher)t, einfach, Schlicht und glatt). Tiibingen: Nie-
meyer.
Boeder, W.
2000 Evidentiality in Georgian. In Johanson, Lars and Bo Utas (eds.), 275-
328.
Brendel, Eva, Jorg Meibauer and M. Steinbach
2007 Aspekte einer Theorie des Zitierens. In Zitat und Bedeutung. Bren-
del, E., Meibauer, J., and Steinbach, M. (eds.), 5-25. Hamburg:
Breu, W.
1987
forth.
Buske.
Albanisches und makedonisches Verbalsystem in kontrastiver Ge-
genuberstellung. Balkan-Archiv, Neue Folge 12: 279-305.
Mood in Albanian. In Mood in the Languages ofEurope. Rothstein,
B. and Rolf Thieroff (eds.). Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benja-
mins.
Bulygina, T.V and A.D. Smelev
1993 Gipoteza kak myslitel'nyj i recevoj akt. In Logiceskij analiz jazyka:
Mental'nye dejstvija. Arutjunova, N.D. (ed.), 78-82. Moskva: Nauka.
Burkhardt, D.
1999 Govorja8cee lico und casti(cy) reci: Uberlegungen zu den vvodnye
slova. In Beitriige der Europiiischen Slavistischen Linguistik
(POLYSLAV). Bottger, K., M. Giger and Bjorn Wiemer (eds.), 83-
92. Mtinchen: Sagner.
Chafe, Wallace
1986 Evidentiality in English Conversation and Academic Writing. In
Chafe, Wallace and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 261-272.
Chafe, Wallace and Johanna Nichols (eds.)
1986 Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding ofEpistemology. Notwood, NJ:
AblexPubl.
Cornillie, Bert
2007 Evidentiality and Epistemic Modality in Spanish (Semi-)Auxiliaries.
A Cognitive-Functional Approach, Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Cruschina, Sanrdo and Eva-Maria Remberger
to appear In Selected Proceedings ofthe 34th lncontro di Grammatica Gene-
rativa. Beninca, Paola, Federico Damonte and Nicoletta Penello
(eds.). Padova: Unipress.
Csat6, :E.A.
2000 Turkish MI~- and IMI~-items. Dimensions of a functional analysis. In
Johanson, Lars and Bo Utas (eds.), 29-43.
124 Bjorn Wiemer
de Haan, Ferdinand
1997 The Interaction of Modality and Negation (A Typological Study).
1999a
1999b
2007
New York, London: Garland Publ.
Evidentiality and Epistemic Modality: Setting Boundaries. Southwest
Journal ofLinguistics 18: 83-101.
Evidentiality in Dutch. Berkeley Linguistics Society 25: 74-85.
Raising as grammaticalization: the case of Germanic SEEM-verbs. In
Squartini, Mario (ed.), 129-150.
Debe, Nicole and Y. Kovalova
2007 Parentheticals (An introduction). In Debe, Nicole and Y. Kovalova
(eds.), 1-22.
Debe, Nicole andY. Kovalova (eds.)
2007 Parentheticals. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Diewald, Gabriele
1999 Die Modalverben im Deutschen: Grammatikalisierung und
2001
Polyfunktionalitiit. Tiibingen: Niemeyer.
Scheinen-Probleme: Analogie, Konstruktionsmischung und die Sog-
wirkung aktiver Grammatikalisierungskaniile. In MUller, Reimar and
Marga Reis (eds.), 87-110.
Donabedian, A.
1996 Pour une interpretation des differentes valeurs du mediatif en arme-
nien occidental. In Guentcbeva, Zlatka (ed.), 87-108.
Dooley, Sh. and Ferdinand de Haan
2006 Epistemic Modality and Evidentiality: Swedish liir. University of
Arizona. http://u.arizona.edul~fdehaan/papers/laer.html
Ehrich, Veronika
2001 Was nicht mussen und nicht konnen (nicht) bedeuten konnen: Zum
Skopus der Negation bei den Modalverben des Deutschen. In MUller,
Reimar andMargaReis (eds.), 149-176.
Erelt, M.
2001 Some notes on the grammaticalization of the verb pidama in Esto-
nian. Estonian Typological Studies 5: 7-25.
Faller, Martina
2006 Evidentiality below and above speech acts.
http://personalpages.manchester.ac.uk/staf'Martina.T.Faller/docume
nts!Evidentiality.Above.Below.pdf
Fal3ke, H.
1981 Grammatik der obersorbischen Schriftsprache der Gegenwart (Mor-
phologie). Bautzen: VEB Domowina.
Friedman, Viktor A.
2000 Confirmative/nonconfrrmative in Balkan Slavic, Balkan Romance,
and Albanian with additional observations on Turkish, Romani,
Georgian, and Lak. In Johanson, Lars and Bo Utas (eds.), 329-366.
Hearsay in European languages 125
2003 Evidentiality in the Balkans with special attention to Macedonian and
Albanian. In Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. and R.M.W Dixon (eds.),
189-218.
Giacalone Ramat, Anna and Manana Topadze
2007 The coding of evidentiality: a comparative look at Georgian and
Italian. In Squartini (ed.), 7-38.
Golato, Andrea
2002 An innovative German quotative for reporting on embodied actions:
Und ich solund er so 'and I'm like/and he's like' Journal ofPrag-
matics 32: 29-54.
Grochowski, M.
1986 Pols/de partykuly (Skladnia, semantyka, leksykografia). Wroclaw
etc.: Ossolineum.
1997 Wyrazenia funkcyjne (Studium leksykograficzne). Krakow: IJP
PAN.
2007 Partykuly, parenteza a wyrazenia metatekstowe. Z polsldch studiow
slawistycznych, seriaXI: Jf:Z)'koznawstwo. Warszawa, 69-74.
Grunert, M.
2003 Modussyntax im Surselvischen (Ein Beitrag zur Erforschung der
Morphosyntax des Verbs im Bundnerromanischen). Tiibingen!Basel:
Francke.
Guentcbeva, Zlatka (ed.)
1996 L 'enonciation mediatisee. Louvain!Paris: Peeters.
Hansen, Bjorn
2001 Das slavische Modalauxiliar (Semantik und Grammatikalisierung im
Russischen, Polnischen, Serbischen/Kroatischen und Altldrchen-
slavischen). Miinchen: Sagner.
Heine, Bernd
1990 Grammaticalization Chains as Linguistic Categories. Duisburg.
(L.A.U.D., Series A, Paper No. 291.)
Himmelmann, Nikolaus P.
2004 Lexicalization and grarnmaticization: Opposite or orthogonal? In
What makes Grammaticalization? A Look from its Fringes and its
Components. Bisang, Walter, N.P. Himmelmann and Bjorn Wiemer
(eds.), 21-42. Berlin/NewYork: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hoffmannova, J.
2002 lntertextualita v mluvenych projevech (Uvahy o metodologii
v)'zkumu a koncepturuni soustave). Stylistyka XI, 371-381.
2008 Role ceskeho prylprejlpre pi'i vyjadi'ovani reproduktivnich a
modrunich v:Yznamu. In Wiemer, Bjorn and Vladimir A. Plungjan
(eds.), 149-165.
Holvoet, A.
2007 Mood andmodality in Baltic. Krakow: Wyd-wo UJ.
126 Bjorn Wiemer
Johanson, Lars
2000 Turkic indirectives. In Johanson, Lars and Bo Utas (eds.), 61-87.
Johanson, Lars and B. Utas (eds.)
2000 Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and Neighbouring Languages. Ber-
lin!NewYork: Mouton de Gruyter.
KaltenbOck, G.
2007 Spoken parenthetical clauses in English (A taxonomy). In: Debe,
Nicole andY. Kovalova (eds.), 25-52.
Karlik, P., M. Nekula and Zd. Rusinova (eds.)
1995 Pfirucni mluvnice cestiny, Praha: Nak-vi Lidove noviny.
Kehayov, Petar
2002 Typology of grammaticalized evidentiality in Bulgarian and Esto-
nian. Linguistica Uralica 38(2): 126-144.
Konig, Ekkehard
1991 The Meaning ofFocus Particles: A Comparative Perspective. Lon-
don/New York: Routledge.
Kozintseva [= Kozinceva], N.
2000 Perfect forms as a means of expressing evidentiality in Modem East-
em Armenian. In Johanson and Utas (eds.), 401-417.
2007 Perfect forms as a means of expressing evidentiality in Modem East-
emArmenian. InXrakovskij, Viktor S. (ed.), 67-84.
Kronning, H.
2007 Les auxiliaires <<mediatifs en suedois (a la lumiere du conditionnel
epistemique et du futur alethique en franyais). In Problemes de se-
mantique et de syntaxe. Hommage aAndre Rousseau. Begioni, L.
and Cl. Muller (eds.), 287-309. Lille Ed. du Conseil Scientifique de
1'Universite Charles-de-Gaulle.
Kuz'mina, LB.
1993 Sintaksis russkixgovorov v lingvogeograficesknm aspekte. Moskva: Nauka.
Lehmann, Christian
1995 Thoughts on Grammaticalization. Miinchen: LINCOM Europa.
2002 New reflections on grammaticalization and lexicalization. In New
reflections on grammaticalization. Wischer, lise and Gabriele Di-
ewald (eds.), 1-18. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Letucij, Alexandr
2008 Sravnitel'nye konstrukcii, irrealis i evidencial'nost' In Wiemer,
Bjorn and Vladimir A. Plungjan (eds.), 217-238.
Lichtenberk, F.
1991 Semantic Change and Heterosemy in Grammaticalization. Language
67: 475-509.
Matras, Yaron
1995 Verb evidentials and their discourse function in Vlach Romani narra-
tives. In Romani in contact: The history, structure and sociology ofa
Hearsay in European languages 127
language. Matras, Yaron (ed.), 95-123. Amsterdam/Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
Meibauer, JOrg
2003 Phrasenkomposita zwischen Wortsyntax und Lexikon. Zeitschriftfur
Sprachwissenschaft 22: 153-188.
Moore, C.
2007 The spread of grammaticalized forms: The case of be+supposed to.
Journal ofEnglish Linguistics 35(2): 117-131.
Mortelmans, Tanja
2000 On the 'Evidential' Nature of the 'Epistemic' Use of the German
Modals mussen and sol/en. In Modal verbs in Gennanic and Ro-
mance languages. van der Auwera, Johan and Patrick Dendale (eds.),
131-148. (=Belgian Journal ofLinguistics 14).
Mosegaard Hansen, Maj-Britt
1998 The function ofdiscourse particles: A study with special reference to
spoken standardFrench. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Milller, Reiner and Marga Reis (eds.)
2001 Modalitiit undModalverben im Deutschen. Hamburg: Buske.
Mushin, Ilana
1997 Maintaining Epistemological Stance: Direct Speech and Evidentiality
in Macedonian. In Chicago Linguistic Society 33: The Main Session.
Singer, K. et al. (eds.), 287-300. Chicago.
Palmer, Frank R.
2001 Mood and Modality, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Pietrandrea, Paola
2007 The grammatical nature of some epistemic-evidential adverbs in
spoken Italian. In Squartini, Mario (ed.), 39-63.
Plungian, Vladimir A.
2001 The place of evidentiality within the universal grammatical space.
2008
Journal ofPragmatics 33 (3): 349-357.
Ob evidencial'nyx pokazateljax cuzoj reci i nedostovemosti
v russkom jazyke: mol, jakoby i drugie. In Wiemer, Bjorn and Vla-
dimir A. Plungjan (eds.), 285-311.
Rakhilina, E.V
1996 Jakoby comme procede de mediatisation en russe. In Guentcheva,
Zlatka (ed.), 299-304.
Ramat, Paolo
1996 "Allegedly, John is ill again": strategies pour le mediatif. In
Guentcheva, Zlatka (ed.), 287-298.
Remberger, Eva-Maria
to appear The Evidential Shift of WANT. In Proceedings ofthe GLOW Work-
shop on evidentiality. UBC Working Papers in Linguistics. Dechain,
R.-M., T. Peterson, M. Schenner, U. Sauerland (eds.). Utrecht.
128 Bjorn Wiemer
Roels, Linde, Tanja Mortelmans, and Johan van der Auwera
2007 Dutch equivalents of the German past conjunctive: zou + infinitive
and the modal preterit. Cahiers Chronos 17: 177-196.
Rytel,D.
1982 Leksykalne srodki wyra:iania modalnosci w jezyku czeskim i polskim.
Wroclaw etc.: Ossolineum.
Smirnova, Elena
2006 Die Entwicklung der Konstruktion wiirde + lnfinitiv im Deutschen.
Berlin/New York: de Gruyter.
Squartini, Mario
2001 The internal structure of evidentiality in Romance. Studies in
Language 25 (2): 297-334.
2004 Disentangling evidentiality and epistemic modality in Romance.
Lingua 114: 873-895.
2005 L'evidenzialita in rumeno e nelle altre lingue romanze. Zeitschriftfur
romanische Philologie 121 (2): 246-268.
2007 Evidentiality between lexicon and grammar (= Rivista di Linguistica
19-1).
2008
Std'ie:6., M.
2008
Lexical vs. grammatical evidentiality in French and Italian.
Linguistics 46 (5): 917-947.
0 wzajemnym przenikaniu si~ ewidencjalnosci i modalnosci (na
przykladzie wybranych polskich czasownik6w i wyrazen
funkcyjnych). In Wiemer, Bjorn and Vladimir A. Plungjan (eds.),
313-333.
Thieroff, Rolf
1992 Dasjinite Verbi mDeutschen: Tempus-Modus-Distanz. Tiibingen: Narr.
Topadze, Manana
2008 Mezzi di espressione dell'evidenzialita in Georgiana. Pavia: Univer-
sita degli Studi di Pavia, Facolta di Lettere e Filosofia. (unpubl. ms.
of doctoral dissertation)
Traugott, Elizabeth C.
1989 On the Rise of Epistemic Meaning in English: An Example of Sub-
jectification in Semantic Change. Language 65 (1): 31-55.
Travis, C.
2006 Dizque: a Colombian evidentiality strategy. Linguistics 44(6): 1269-97.
Usoniene, Aurelia
2001 Veiksma.Zodzio matyti komplementq_ tipai: formos ir reiksmes
Sll:Veika. Baltistica 36(1): 115-124.
Wiilchli, B.
2000 Infinite predication as a marker of evidentiality and modality in the
languages ofthe Baltic region. Sprachtypologie und Universalienfor-
schung 53(2): 186-210.
Hearsay in European languages 129
Wiemer, Bjorn
1998 Pragmatical inferences at the threshold to grammaticalization - The
case of Lithuanian predicative participles and their functions. Lingui-
stica Baltica 7: 229-243.
2005 Conceptual affmities and diachronic relationships between epistemic,
inferential and quotative functions (preliminary observations on lexi-
cal markers in Russian, Polish and Lithuanian). In Modality in Sla-
vonic languages: New perspectives. Hansen, Bjorn and P. Karlik
(eds.), 107-131. Mlinchen: Sagner.
2006a Grammatical evidentiality in Lithuanian: a typological assessment.
Baltistica 41(1): 33-49.
2006b Particles, parentheticals, conjunctions and prepositions as evidentiali-
ty markers in contemporary Polish: A first exploratory study. Studies
in Polish Linguistics 3: 5-67.
2007a Kosvennaja zasvidetel'stvovannost' v litovskom jazyke. In Eviden-
cial'nost' v jazykax Evropy i Azii. (Sbornik statej pamjati Natalii
Andreevny Kozincevoj). Xrakovskij, Viktor S. (ed.), 197-240. Sankt-
Peterburg: Nauka.
2007b Lexical markers of evidentiality in Lithuanian. In Squartini, Mario
(ed.), 173-208.
2008a Lexikalische Markierungen evidenzieller Funktionen: zur Theorie-
bildung und empirischen Erforschung im Slavischen. In Wiemer,
Bjorn and Vladimir A. Plungjan (eds.), 5-49.
2008b Pokazateli s citativnoj i inferentivnoj funkcijami v russkom i
pol'skom jazykax - kommunikativnye mexanizmy semanticeskogo
sdviga. In Bjorn Wiemer and Vladimir A. Plungjan (eds.), 337-378.
Wiemer, Bjorn and Vladimir A. Plungjan (eds.)
2008 Lexikalische Evidenzialitiitsmarker im Slavischen. (= Wiener Slawis-
tischer Almanach, Sonderband 72.)
Wierzbicka, Anna
2006 English. Meaning and Culture. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Xrakovskij, Viktor S. (ed.)
2007 Evidencial'nost' v jazykax Evropy i Azii (Sbornik statej pamjati
Natalii Andreevny Kozincevoj). Sankt-Peterburg: Nauka.
Information source in Spanish and Basque:
a parallel corpus study1
Asier Alcazar
This paper is a preliminary study of Basque evidentiality that builds on empirical
data from a Spanish-to-Basque parallel corpus. The focus of the study is omen, an
alleged hearsay evidential marker. The corpus data confirms that omen is an ex-
pression of grammatical evidentiality. Basque translators also resort to lexical evi-
dentiality in particular cases: to express hearsay at the constituent level, to avoid
scope ambiguity (parentheticals) and to preserve ambiguity in the original (vs.
inference, doubt).
1. Introduction
Does Basque have an evidential system? This paper is the first in a series
of investigations dedicated to answering the question (see Alcazar 2009a,
to appear, 2009b, 2009c). To this end I have studied a collection of sen-
tence pairs extracted from a Spanish-to-Basque parallel corpus, where the
same sentence is expressed in both languages; Spanish being the original
and Basque the translation. In light of the empirical data, I take Spanish
and Basque to represent two different evidential systems, broadly con-
ceived as lexical and grammatical, respectively. What these two labels
mean, and the predictions that may follow from them, is the subject of a
lively and productive discussion in the field (see, among others, the contri-
butions to this volume on evidentiality in Western European languages,
and the individual contributions of Squartini, Pietrandrea and Aikhenvald
to the special issue on evidentiality in Rivista di Linguistica). I will illu-
strate the object of the study, the sentence pairs, with an example momen-
tarily, which I hope will at least vindicate that Spanish and Basque express
evidentiality differently, if many questions remain about the lexical-
grammatical divide2 The following example illustrates the sentence pairs
under investigation. The first part of the sentence pair is the Spanish origi-
nal (1), which is followed first by a line indicating the grammatical gloss
and secondly by a line providing a non-literal English translation. Bold
132 Asier Alcazar
font identifies words that we assume to express information source. A list
of abbreviations used in the glosses can be found in this endnote3
(1) aun esta lejos Ia que parece
yet be.3SG far the that seem.3SG
'what seems to be [the best solution] is yet to come:
Ia soluci6n definitiva: el que sea
the solution ultimate the that be.3SG.SUBJ
'the best solution:'
escribir a/ dictado
write to.the dictation
'the day one could write by dictating.'
posible
possible
In (1) the use of a clause with the verb parecer 'seem' points to the reader
that the writer is either presenting this information third hand, or not fully
vouching for it, among other possible interpretations. From the choices
made by the Basque translators, I infer that adverbs such as todavia and
aun 'yet' may on occasion serve a similar role.
The second part of the example, indicated by (1 '), comes from the Bas-
que section of the corpus, which was aligned to its Spanish original by
means of computational tools. The Basque example is followed by a
grammatical gloss, which is not too detailed to enable the examples to fit in
one or two lines, and also to facilitate their inspection for readers unfami-
liar with the language. It seems fitting to provide a second, semi-literal
translation for the Basque example to elucidate its syntax. For instance, in
contrast to English and Spanish, Basque relative clauses precede the noun
they modify (cf. first line 1'),the unmarked word order is SOV (vs. SVO),
postpositions are used instead ofprepositions, etc.
(1 ') Azken-eko aukera omen den
last-GEN option HEARSAY be.3SG.REL
'which seems to be the best option'
esan-era idatzi aha/ izate-a,
say-ADL write able be-ABS
'being able to write by dictating'
ordea, urruti omen dugu orain-o
however far HEARSAY have.lPL.3SG now-ADL
'however, is yet far from us' (lit.: we have it far up to now)
Beyond salient differences in sentence structure between the two languag-
es, one other thing stands out. Basque may resort to a different mechanism
Information source in Spanish and Basque 133
to indicate information source. In (1 ') omen, a verb particle, is used in both
instances to relay a similar, though more specific meaning. As we will see,
omen expresses hearsay evidence. What is more, the translator feels at
liberty to dispense with the elements in the Spanish original that signal a
potential hearsay interpretation: the verb and the adverb. (1 ") presents a
comparison ofthe two sentences.
(1 ") Proposition 1:
Spanish:
Basque:
Proposition 2:
Spanish:
Basque:
[it is far]
neutral (or lexically cued by aun)
/omen/
[(be) the best solution]
lparece/
/omen/
The corpus data reveals that Spanish resorts to a diverse set of lexical
means, or evidentiality strategies in the sense of Aikhenvald 2004, to ex-
press meanings that are reduced to the use of omen in Basque (see Section
2.2). In this paper I adopt the term evidentiality strategy (henceforth ES for
short). I describe the use of omen as grammatical evidentiality for several
cogent reasons: omen is a particle (a member of a closed set), it is dedicat-
ed to the expression of hearsay, and it is a proclitic. In effect, omen may be
considered part ofverbal inflection.
[...] particles 'count' as inflection: they are the only elements which may
stand between the participle and its auxiliary in positive analytic verbal
forms, and they are also the only elements that may 'intervene' between the
focalized element and a synthetic verb. Phonetically, they also form an ac-
centual group with the tensed verb. (Hualde et al. 1994: 317)
This is not to say that Basque will not make use of lexical means to express
information source (pace Jendraschek 2003). However, lexical strategies
complement Basque hearsay evidence, and they respond to syntactic and
semantic considerations (see Section 3).
This paper is dedicated to the hearsay particle omen, for several practic-
al reasons. First and foremost, omen has been accepted as a hearsay eviden-
tial, even if in passing, by numerous scholars (de Rijk 1972, Trask 1981,
Jacobsen 1986, Ortiz de Urbina 1989, Cinque 1999, Rebuschi 1997, Jen-
draschek 2003, Aikhenvald 2004). From this view, Basque would only
mark hearsay, and everything else would be unmarked. The corpus data
provides confirmatory evidence that omen is a hearsay evidential, although
it only expresses sentential scope (see Section 2.3). Incidentally, it seems
fair to say that the idea that the object of evidentiality is a proposition is a
134 Asier Alcazar
common de facto assumption that transcends linguistic framework (Cinque
1999's Evidential Mood Projection pp. 85-6; Speas 2006; Aikhenvald
2004; Higginbotham 2009; inter alia). This is again consistent with gram-
matical evidentiality, as we will see that various Spanish ES, which can
vary in scope (from sentences to constituents) are only rendered as omen if
the scope is at the sentence level. If, in the Spanish original, the scope is
not expressed at the sentence level, but rather at the constituent level, then
Basque cannot resort to omen and uses various ES instead. We will witness
an interesting interplay between lexical and grammatical evidentiality in
Basque articulated on the basis ofthe scope of the evidential expression.4
A second important reason to begin the study of Basque evidentiality
with hearsay evidence has to do with visibility: hearsay evidence is ex-
pressed in both languages. This is an important aspect to consider since
direct correspondence between ES and Basque particles is hard to find in
other areas. In the conclusion I briefly refer to further research that extends
this preliminary assessment to other possible evidential particles in Basque.
The outline of the paper is as follows. Section 2 introduces the parallel
corpus. It then presents the corpus data for omen and discusses the conclu-
sions that can be drawn from it. Section 3 considers an extended data set,
where we first search for particular Spanish ES to understand under what
circumstances these ES will be translated as omen or as a Basque ES. The
conclusion is that scope is a crucial factor. Nonetheless, translators also
resort to parenthetical expressions and semi-grammaticalized forms such as
the verb seem to render hearsay evidence with sentential scope. We reflect
on semantic considerations that may be involved in these choices. Section
4 ends the paper with the conclusions and questions for further research on
Basque evidentiality.
2. Hearsay evidence in Spanish & Basque: what does omen translate?
In this section we report our findings on a set of sentence pairs that contain
the particle omen in the translation. That is, the data set was retrieved by
searching for the particle in the Basque side of the corpus, then retrieving
the original sentences in Spanish. Section 2 now opens with background
information about the corpus that I have used for the study.
Information source in Spanish and Basque 135
2.1. Consumer Broski Parallel Corpus
The Consumer Broski magazine is a monthly paper publication in Spain
that is dedicated to consumer advocacy. Every month it features an inves-
tigative report. The December 2008 issue, for example, features an investi-
gation on 010 phone numbers, which provide citizens with practical infor-
mation such as bus schedules. The headline warns that 1 in 3 cities with
this service offers insufficient information. Because of its thorough inves-
tigative reporting, the magazine enjoys a certain level of prestige in Spain.
Of interest to us is the fact that the magazine also exists as an electronic
publication since 1998 (revista.consumer.es). Soon after the magazine be-
gan to exist online, it started to be translated to three other languages spo-
ken in Spain: Basque, Catalan and Galician. In the course of approximately
two years, every monthly issue was simultaneously published in the four
languages and it continues to do so. The Consumer Broski Parallel Corpus,
from which I extracted the sentence pairs, is the magazine from 1998 to
2006 turned into a collection of Spanish sentences aligned with their Bas-
que, Catalan and Galician translations (a personal project I undertook as a
graduate student). The corpus is accessible online via the University of
Vigo (http://sli.uvigo.es/CLUVI!index_en.html).
For example, here is one of the results returned by the search interface
if one searches for aeropuerto 'airport' in the Spanish section and wishes
to recover the translations to the other languages (2). Since the example is
intended for illustration, I spare the glosses (2a: Spanish; 2b: Basque; 2c:
Catalan; 2d: Galician).
(2) a. Me disponia a viajar a Caracas desde Madridy, pese a estar
en el aeropuerto con tres horas de antelaci6n, me vi afectado
por el overbooking.
'I meant to travel from Caracas to Madrid and, even though I
was in the airport three hours in advance, I was a victim of over
booking.'
b. Madrildik Caracaserako hegazkina hartzeko aireportura hiru
ordu lehenagotikjoan behar izan nuen baina, halaz ere, zo-
rioneko overbooking horrek harrapatu ninduen.
c. Em disposava a viatjar a Caracas des de Madrid i, tot i arribar
a l'aeroport amb tres hares d'antelaci6, em vaig veure afectat
per la sobrereserva.
136 Asier Alcazar
d. Dispufzame a viaxar a Caracas desde Madrid e, ainda que
estaba no aeroporto con tres horas de antelaci6n, vinme afec-
tado polo overbooking.
The Consumer Eroski Parallel Corpus fills an important gap in the re-
sources available to computational linguistic research on Basque (e.g., see
Diaz de Ilarraza et al. 2008). With the advent of statistical methods for
natural language processing, Basque is at a disadvantage in that few mono-
lingual text collections exist, much less bilingual. Consider, for example,
the accessibility of monolingual Spanish corpora, with hundreds of mil-
lions of words (CREA & CORDE, Royal Academy of the Spanish Lan-
guage: www.rae.es, or Corpus del espanol: www.corpusdelespanol.org,
Mark Davies), which have served as resources for evidentialists (Olbertz
2007, Comillie 2007). The Basque section of the corpus nears 1 million
words. Still, it is the largest of its kind for the Spanish-Basque pairs, where
it is used for developing and testing applications or algorithms that tackle
general purpose language (as opposed to domain specific ones, such as
legal proceedings www.deli.deusto.es/AboutUs/Projects/Legebiduna, for
which parallel texts existed). It is also quite attractive in size for research
on Galician and Catalan (Xavier Gomez Guinovart, Felipe Sanchez
Martinez p.c.), particularly considering that it is freely available.
2.2. Corpus data
I have carefully inspected 173 sentence pairs with omen: Spanish original
and Basque translation. There was a handful more that the alignment soft-
ware did not group into pairs. Sentences were aligned with Moore's bilin-
gual sentence alignment system from Microsoft labs. This alignment sys-
tem achieved to align 83% of Spanish-Basque sentences. The remaining
13% did not attain the necessary confidence level. I verified all the corpus
data for omen manually and no alignment errors were found. Alignment at
the sentence level is almost error free. The new research frontiers are
phrase and word level alignment.
It is worth noting that the density of omen in the corpus is approximate-
ly 173 out of 70000 sentences, or 1 in every 400 sentences. Intuitively, it
feels low for such a common word. There are several possible reasons for
this. One would be that the nature of the magazine being consumer reports
may have to do with the lower use of this particle. Investigative reporting is
assertive. On the other hand, investigative reporting does make use of re-
Information source in Spanish and Basque 137
ported information. More importantly, as anticipated, we will see that not
all ES expressions meaning hearsay are translated as omen. The nature of
the data being translated text, coupled with the ambiguity of the expres-
sions that in the Spanish original may signal hearsay (see Section 3), may
be ultimately responsible for this lower frequency.
Table 1. ES replaced by omen
Spanish ES N %
NB: In 23% of all cases
40 23.1
there is no ES in Spanish
parece (18),parecen (4),...
26 15.0
it seems, they seem,
se estima
11 6.3
it is estimated
al parecer (5), aparentemente (2)
7 4.0
apparently, apparently
se calcula
6 3.4
it is calculated
se considera (4), considerarse (1),
6 3.4
it is considered, to consider.refl
sepreve (4), se preven (1)
5 2.8
it is/they are anticipated
dicen (3), dice (1)
4 2.3
they say, he/she says
se atribuyen (3), se atribuye (1)
4 2.3
they are/it is attributed to
pretende (2), se pretende (1),
4 2.3
plans, it is planned
todavia (2), aun (1)
3 1.7
yet
supuestamente
2 1.1
supposedly
NB: other forms (mostly single occurrences
55 31.7
ofverbs in various tenses)
Total 173 100
It is important to clarify that omen is not a rarely used particle. An exact
search in the internet for omen da 'supposedly is' (be also functions as an
intransitive auxiliary) returns over 200,000 hits in Google; omen zen 'sup-
posedly was' returns over 70,000. The search omen ditu 'supposedly
has(plural object)' (have also functions as a transitive auxiliary) returns
over 100,000. Basque verbs are heavily inflected with agreement markers
138 Asier Alcazar
for person and number for the subject, direct object, indirect object argu-
ment and the addressee (for the latter, see Ohian;abal 1993, Alcazar and
Saltarelli 2009, to appear). The searches could go on and on. The point is
that these simple searches suggest that the frequency of use of the particle
omen in non-translated text and other registers is definitely higher than 1 in
400 sentences.
Why study the Spanish and Basque evidential systems in parallel? A
first argument would be that we can benefit from the comparison, in that
lexical means can provide shades of meaning to generalized, grammatica-
lized forms. These, in tum, can help us classify or bring together seemingly
disparate forms.
Extra-grammatical ways of marking information source may allow more de-
tailed specification of various degrees of assumption, inference, opinion
than do grammatical evidential systems, and often reliability and speaker's
evaluation of information. (Aikhenvald 2007: 1) There are many more op-
tions in the details one may want to express through lexical means than
through grammar. (p.lO)
In the case of a sentence-aligned parallel corpus, we can correlate gram-
matical markers with sets of ES. This is what I do in Table 1. The table
presents Spanish ES that are replaced by omen, sorted by frequency and
with a percentage value for reference. I procured the data for this section
searching for the particle in the Basque section, and subsequently retriev-
ing the Spanish originals. We are thus looking at hearsay evidence only
when it is translated as omen.
Note that the nature of the data is translated text. The discussion in this
paper thus concerns not only structural or morphosyntactic differences in
the means to express evidentiality, but also a meta-level of evidentiality
marking. The choices made by the translators reflect their understanding of
the original text, and their attempt to a most appropriate translation. By
cross-referencing these choices, a parallel corpus reveals the instrumenta-
rium in each language that writers can draw from to express evidentiality.5
Next I illustrate several sentence pairs from the corpus to exemplify the
most frequent types (4-12) and the least frequent ones (13-14) reflected in
Table 1. Then, I discuss the implications of these preliminary findings. The
examples in (3) and (4) are representative of the use of omen when, in ef-
fect, there is no ES in Spanish (n = 40). The Spanish sentence would ap-
pear to be neutral. The translator is qualifying information source at their
own discretion. These examples with no ES in the original account for
about a quarter of the uses of omen. In all other cases omen replaces an ES
Information source in Spanish and Basque 139
in Spanish, as we will see momentarily. We have introduced an ES in the
English semi-literal translation for the Basque examples (apparently in (3')
and seems in (4')), since the translation to Basque does make information
source explicit.
(3) En Ia actualidad, toda cita que se precie
in the modem.times, every event that 3SG.REFL value.3SG.SUBJ
'Nowadays, every [contemporary] art show of a certain caliber'
con el arte contemporaneo esta obligada a incluirfotografia.
with the art contemporary be.3SG obligated to include photography
'must include photography.'
(3 ') Gaur egun, here buru-a halakotzat dauka-n
today day its head-ABS as.such has.3SG.3SG-REL
'Nowadays, [any contemporary art show] of a certain caliber'
arte garaikide-ko zeinahi erakusketa-k
art contemporary-GEN any display-ERG
'any contemporary art show'
argazki-a agertu behar omen du.
photography-ABS show need HEARSAY
have.3SG.3SG
'must apparently include photography.'
(3' ') Proposition: [every event must include photography]
Spanish: /neutral/
Basque: /omen/
(4) Lo que sf es comun es
the what yes be.3SG common be.3SG
'What is indeed common is'
un cierto grado de rigidez en la estructura de la personalidad,
a certain level of inflexibility in the structure ofthe personality
'a certain level ofinflexibility in the nature oftheir personality,'
(4') Ba omen dago ezaugarri orokor bat:
yes HEARSAY be.3SG characteristic general one
'There seems to be a general characteristic:'
nortasuna-ren egitura zurrun samarra,
personality-GEN structure inflexible rather
'a personality ofrather inflexible nature,'
(4") Proposition: [it is common]
Spanish: /neutral/
Basque: /omen/
140 Asier Alcazar
Meaningful translation from Spanish to Basque is a sort of balancing act
that requires the translator to do some restructuring. Careful inspection of
the examples will show that the translation is both idiomatically correct
(idioms are translated) and faithful to the original, where it is syntactically
feasible. Incidentally, the quality ofthe translation is highly regarded in the
Basque Country, and the corpus constitutes a reference tool for translators
and Basque journalists alike (cf. Deer Merchan, General Coordinator of
Consumer Broski magazine, p.c.).
Examples like (5) and (6) represent the most frequent Spanish ES that
omen replaces. These are primarily finite forms of the verb parecer 'seem'
(n = 26).
(5) El ahorro enfarmacos parece llegar al 40%
the saving in drugs seem.3SG reach to.the 40%
'The savings in drugs seem to reach 40%
en los antirreumaticos,
in the rheumatoid.arthritis.drugs
'in the case ofrheumatoid arthritis drugs'
(5') Farmazi gaie-tako aurrezki-a %40-ra
Pharmacy good-from saving-ABS 40%-ADL
'The savings in pharmacy goods up to 40%'
iris-ten omen da produktu
reach-IMP HEARSAY be.3SG product
antirreumatiko-etan,
rheumatoid.arthritis.drug-LOC
'seem to reach in the case ofrheumatoid arthritis drugs'
(5") Proposition: [the savings reach 40%]
Spanish: /parecer/
Basque: /omen/
(6) Lo que mas parece inquietar a Ia sociedad
the what most seem.3SG trouble to the society
'What seems to trouble society most'
respecto de este nuevo modelo defamilia
regarding of this new model of family
'with respect to this new family model'
(6') Famili eredu berri horre-tatik gizarte-a
family model new that-from society-ABS
'From that family model'
gehien asalda-tzen omen dena[sic}
most trouble-IMP HEARSAY have.3SG.3SG(duena)
Information source in Spanish and Basque 141
'what seems to trouble society most'
(6") Proposition: [what troubles society most]
Spanish: /parecer/
Basque: /omen/
The following two examples illustrate the equivalence between omen, on
the one hand, and it is estimated (7; n = 11) and it is calculated (8; n = 5),
on the other. Because of the structural differences in the translation, we
have used adverbs expressing hearsay in the semi-literal translation to Bas-
que (7', 8').
(7) Se estima que un sistema de 4 m2 de placa
3SG.IM:PER estimate.3SG that a system of 4m2 ofpanel
'It is estimated that a system (consisting of) a 4 m2 sun panel'
solary un acumulador de la energia generada es suficiente
solar and an accumulator ofthe energy generated be.3SG sufficient
'and an accumulator to store the energy generated is enough'
para cubrir el consumo de agua caliente de
for cover the consumption ofwater hot of
unafamilia de cuatro personas.
a family of four people
'to cover the hot water needs of a family of four.'
(7') Lau metro karratu-ko eguzki-plaka-k eta
four meter square-GEN sun-panel-ABS.PL and
' [a system composed of] A four square meter sun panel and'
sortutako energia-ren meta-tzaile-ak osatutako sistema
generated energy-GEN accumulat-or-ERG.SG composed system
'an accumulator ofthe energy generated...a system composed of
nahikoa omen da lau kide-ko familia bat-en
sufficient HEARSAY be.3SG four member-GEN family one-GEN
'is apparently sufficient...ofa family of four'
ur hero kontsumo-a horni-tzeko.
water hot consumption-ABS provide-to
'to cover for the hot water consumption [of a family of four]'
(7") Proposition: [a system is enough]
Spanish: /estimar/
Basque: /omen/
(8) Se calcula que el primer afw de un hebe
3SG.IM:PER calculate.3SG that the first year of a baby
'It is calculated that a baby's first year oflife
142 Asier Alcazar
cuesta a los padres, sin hacer gran alarde de gastos,
cost.3SG to the parents without do great show of expenses
'costs the parents, without incurring into exaggerated expenses,'
mas de 6. 000 euros
more of 6,000 euros
'in excess of 6,000 euros.'
(8') Aparteko gastu-rik egin gabe ere,
extraordinary expense-PART do without even
'Even without incurring into any sort ofextraordinary expenses,'
haurra-ren lehen urtea guraso-ei 6. 000 euro-tik
child-GEN first year parent-DAT.PL 6,000 euro-ADL
'the baby's first year oflife to the parents over 6,000 euros'
gora kosta-tzen omen zaie.
above cost-I'MP HEARSAY AUX.3PL.3SG
'supposedly costs'
(8") Proposition: [a baby's first year of life costs over 6,000 euros]
Spanish: lcalcularl
Basque: /omen/
Next, we have less frequent examples that involve se preve(n) 'it is/they
are anticipated' (9; n = 5) and dice(n) que '(they) say that' (10; n = 4). It is
noteworthy that, despite its lower frequency, dice(n) que is the source of a
(pseudo-)grammatical form in the spoken language (see Travis 2006 on
Colombian Sp. Olbertz 2007 on Mexican Sp.). The written register does
make use of the verb parecer 'seem' as we saw earlier, but the verbal ex-
pression of hearsay evidence is quite diversified (n = 57 for the mostly
singleton set).
(9) En el tr6pico, por ejemplo, aunque este calentamiento
in the Tropics for example although this temperature.increase
'In the Tropics, for ex., even though this temperature increase'
sera !eve, se preve que
be.FUT.3SG moderate 3SG.IMPER anticipate.3SG that
'will be moderate, it is anticipated that'
habra alteraciones importante-s en Ia cantidad
have.FUT.3SG changes important-PL in the quantity
'there will be important changes in the quantity'
y frecuencia de las lluvias.
and frequency ofthe rains
'and frequency ofprecipitations'
Information source in Spanish and Basque 143
(9') Tropikoan, adibidez, berotzea arina
tropics-LOC example-INSTR temperature.increase light
'In the Tropics, for ex., [even though] this temperature increase'
izan-go den arren, aldaketa handi-ak
be-IRR be.3SG.REL even change big-ABS.PL
'even though it will be, great changes'
izan-go omen dira eurite-en kopuru eta maiztasunean.
be-IRR HEARSAY be.3PL-REL rain-GEN quantity and frequency.in
'will presumably be in the quantity & frequency ofprecipitation'
(9") Proposition: [there will be important changes]
Spanish: /prever/
Basque: /omen/
(10) Por ejemplo, siempre hay una universidad desconocida
for example, always there.is a university unknown
'For example, there is always an unlmown university'
que dicen que avala sus tesis.
that say.3PLthat back.3SG their theses
'that is said to support their claims.'
(10') Adibide-z, beti dago tesi horiek
example-INSTR always be.3SG thesis those
'For example, there is always those theses'
babes-ten omen ditu-en unibertsitate ezagunen bat.
back-IMP HEARSAYaux-REL university unlmown one
'that supposedly backs' 'some unlmown university'
(10'') Proposition: [an unknown university supports their claims]
Spanish: /decir/
Basque: /omen/
As representatives of the group with mostly single occurrences, we have
chosen the following two examples. In (11) omen replaces senalan '(they)
note' and in (12) se cree 'it is believed'
(11) Seiialan que no
note.3PL that NEG
existe
exist.3SG
tal capa,
such layer
'They note that such layer does not exist,'
(11 ') Ez omen dago geruza-rik,
NEG hearsay be.3SG layer-PART
'They note that such layer does not exist,'
(11 ") Proposition: [there is no such layer]
Spanish: /senalar/
144 Asier Alcazar
Basque: /omen/
(12) Se cree que
3SG.IMPER believe.3SG that
es un elemento relevante
be.3SG an element relevant
'It is believed that it is a relevant element'
en Ia mitad de los casas de dispepsia.
in the half ofthe cases of dyspepsia
'in half of dyspepsia cases.'
(12') Dispepsia kasuen erdi-an
dyspepsia case-GEN half-LOC
'in half of dyspepsia cases'
funtsezko elementua omen da hau.
essential element HEARSAY be.3SG this
'it is believed that this is an essential element'
(12") Proposition: [it is a relevant element]
Spanish: /creerl
Basque: /omen/
2.3. Discussion
The corpus data presents two distinct strategies in the expression of hear-
say evidence. On the one hand, Spanish resorts to 60+ ES, where Basque
may employ just one particle. The status of omen as a grammatical means
to express hearsay information seems confirmed in the empirical data in
this many-to-one mapping. On the other hand, this does not mean to say
that Basque can only resort to a grammatical strategy to express hearsay
evidence, as we will see in Section 3.
It is noteworthy that in 23% of the inspected examples (n=40) Basque
translators introduce omen without an ES being present in Spanish. The
result is consistent with grammatical evidentiality. One of the parameters
articulating the lexical vs. grammatical distinction is that the disclosure of
information source is optional in the former and obligatory in the latter
(Chafe and Nichols 1986, Aikhenvald and Dixon 2003). This could explain
a more frequent disclosure of information source in the translation. Follow-
ing up on this idea, if we assume an absolute distinction between lexical
and grammatical evidentiality, does it imply that Basque speakers must
consistently and systematically disclose information source in every
clause? The answer to this question is going to lead us to a delicate point in
the literature on evidentiality: whether speaker attitude on the reliability of
information is to be separated from information source (e.g., Chafe 1986
Information source in Spanish and Basque 145
vs. Aikhenvald 2004). Basque cares to express certainty (perhaps the core
idea behind the system, source becoming prominent as an indicator of de-
grees of certainty; see Mithun 1986 on Northern Iroquoian). And certainty
in the Basque evidential system is the unmarked value (see Faller 2002 on
her analysis of unmarked sentences in Quzco Quechua as Best Possible
Grounds).
Here we have to take sides with Basque and insist on the relevance of
certainty in its system (whether this trait should or should not be universal
is beyond the scope of our contribution). By way of example, we will ad-
duce a textbook for teaching Basque to adults (HABE, Barrene 13, lB
maila, http://www.ikasbil.net/idatziak/barrene/barrene_13ik.pdf). In con-
trast to descriptive grammars of Basque, which deal with evidential par-
ticles under different grammatical points that echo the European tradition
(e.g., modality: Azkue 1925, Zubiri and Zubiri 2000, Jendraschek 2003),
other types of text are free to explain the language less formally but more
meaningfully. The textbook introduces the topic of expressing ziurtasuna
or certainty, which is split in three levels: absolutely certain, certain, and
somewhat certain. The level in the middle, certain, is unmarked, and is
reported to be the most frequent ("even if we lack reliable data or informa-
tion, we do not question the truth of what we say in any way", p. 34; my
translation). The level somewhat certain is the domain of the particles we
are concerned with, such as omen when the speaker is not certain but
knows that someone else is, or bide when direct evidence is not available
but inference is possible. The first level absolutely certain would require
explicit expressions such as "I am sure that", "I have no doubt that", and
the like (also relative marker -en (very certain) as opposed to -ela (cer-
tain)).
We concur with the textbook description on the last two levels. Sen-
tences expressing that the speaker is certain of the information are not
marked, regardless of how this certainty was attained (through the senses,
by a third person, etc.). Accordingly, to say "Bogota is the capital of Co-
lombia" or "John is at work" does not require the particle omen, even ifwe
learnt these facts from a teacher long ago or we learnt about John's sche-
dule recently and directly from him. That said, omen signals that the in-
formation is second-hand, hearsay evidence. A relevant question here is
whether, and to what extent, a speaker may assimilate someone's belief or
evidence as his own (see Giv6n 1982). In Basque this assimilation, for lack
of a better term, is possible and may spear the use of omen and other par-
ticles. But, then again, we will not be able to solve here the question of
146 Asier Alcazar
whether speaker attitude must be an integral part of the characterization of
evidentiality across languages. We just note its relevance for Basque.
In this regard, Jendraschek (2003: 51) warns that omen may also ex-
press doubt (Ia fonction de omen n'est pas purement citationnelle. Son
usage implique la non-verification et, en consequence, un doute de la part
du locuteur; referring to Zubiri and Zubiri 2000: 580). We agree with Jen-
draschek on this. In our corpus we have two examples with a first person
subject, which we reproduce here (13, 14). We take it that the use of first
person cancels hearsay. Although we feel like the translator employed
omen as a mitigator in these examples in view of the use of the emphatic
pronoun neu(k) in both.
(13) Creo que yo segwre utilizando el soporte quimico,
think.lSG that I continue.!SG.FUT using the support chemical
'I think I will continue using chemical support,'
aunque mi postproducci6n es digital.
although my postproduction be.3SG digital
'although my postproduction is digital.'
(13 ') Ni-k neu-k euskailu kimikoz baliatuz
I-ERG I.El\.1P-ERG support chemical use-INSTR
'I myself' 'using chemical support'
segitu-ko omen dut,
continue-IRR HEARSAY have.lSG.3SG
'will continue'
ene postprodukzioa digitala izanagatik.
my postproduction digital in.spite.of.being
'in spite ofmy postproduction being digital.'
(13") Proposition: [I will continue]
Spanish: /creer/
Basque: /omen/
(14) Me parece que solo consigo enseiiar desde ese
me seems that only manage.l SGteach from that
'It seems to me that I only suceed in teaching from that'
punto de vista cuando yo misma trato de aprender y de
point ofview when I myself try.lSG ofleamand of
'point ofview when I myselftry to learn and'
adaptarme a mis alumnos.
adapt.REFL.lSG to my students
'adapt myselfto my students.'
(14') Jkuspegi horretatik, neu ikas-ten saia-tzen
Information source in Spanish and Basque 147
perspective that-from l.EMP learn-NOM try-IMP
'From that perspective, [it is only] when I myself try to learn'
naizenean, ikasle-ei egokitzen ahalegin-tzen
aux.lSG.WHEN student-DAT.PL adapt-NOM make.an.effort-IMP
'only when I make an effort to adapt to my students'
naizenean bakarrik irakas-ten omen dut.
AUX.lSG.WHEN only teach-IMPHEARSAY have.lSG.3SG
' [that] I teach'
(14'') Proposition: [I suceed in teaching]
Spanish: lparecerl
Basque: /omen/
It has been noted that first person can signal a scenario describing a dream-
like experience where a first person does not recall some event they parti-
cipated in (Aikhenvald 2004). The corpus data does not provide a similar
example. But it is possible to use omen in that capacity. It can also be em-
ployed as a disclaimer (an epistemic extension, following Aikhenvald
2004), although this use is not attested in the corpus either. Incidentally,
according to various traditional sources, ei is an equivalent form of omen
in Vizcayan Basque (e.g., Zubiri and Zubiri 2000). Thanks to Ikuska Anso-
la and Karlos Arregi (p.c.), we have been able to verify that ei (in Ondarroa
Basque) is equivalent to omen with one exception: the disclaimer interpre-
tation is not possible for ei. This is compatible with the idea that the dis-
claimer interpretation is an epistemic extension that may arise or not. It has
for omen.
Finally, going back to table 1, the reader may have noticed that the ma-
jority of ES are verbs, and wonder whether this is indeed the case more
generally. Table 2 can answer this question, which displays the information
relating to part of speech for the 133 instances of ES. In effect, verbs ac-
count for about 9 in 10 cases.
Table 2. ES by part ofspeech and their frequency
ES: Part of Speech
Verb
Adverb
Prepositional phrase
Total
N
118
9
6
133
%
88.7
6.8
4.5
100
Does this data mean that Spanish primarily uses verbs to express hearsay
evidence? Not necessarily, since the data set was generated by searching in
148 Asier Alcazar
the Basque section of the corpus. To begin with, it would be necessary to
perform additional searches in the Spanish section to establish whether the
adverbs and prepositional phrases are used in contexts where omen cannot.
As anticipated, we will see in Section 3 that ES based on adverbs and pre-
positional phrases are not translated as omen if their scope is not sentential.
3. Understanding the role of lexical evidentiality in Basque
In this section we will show that Basque translators also employ ES to
express hearsay evidence. It is our interest to understand under what cir-
cumstances Basque resorts to lexical evidentiality. There are three contexts
where I can anticipate Basque translators to deploy an ES. One has to do
with syntactic scope, another with semantic considerations, and a third seems to
be a combination ofthe two. I examine each ofthese factors in tum.
3.1. Sentential scope vs. constituent scope
When the scope of the evidential expression is not sentential, translators
never resort to omen. This can be shown by inspecting evidential expres-
sions that may vary in scope, such as the adverbs aparentemente 'apparent-
ly' and supuestamente 'supposedly' We begin with the latter.
There are 6 occurrences of supuestamente in the corpus. In two ofthem
the adverb has sentential scope, since it modifies the verb, and it is trans-
lated as omen (15; n=2). What the other four cases have in common is that
the adverb modifies some other constituent. Then translators resort to ES
(16; e.g., ustez (n=2), an adverb, or balizko (n=l), an adjective meaning
supposed; and once it is not translated (n=l)).
(15) En mayo de 1998 una entidad bancaria incluy6
in May of 1998 an entity bank include.3SG.PAST
'In May 1998 a bank listed one of its clients'
a un cliente en unjichero de morosos;
to a client in a file of delinquent.client
'in a file of delinquent accounts'
supuestamente debfa a/ banco 821 euros.
supposedly owe.3SG.PAST.IMP to.the bank 821 euros
'(s)he supposedly owed the bank 821 euros.'
Information source in Spanish and Basque 149
(15') Banku erakunde bat-ek 1998-ko maiatzean
bank entity one-ERG 1998-GEN May-LOC
'in May 1998 a bank'
bezeroetako bat berankor-ren fitxategi-an sartu
client.of one delinquent-GEN file-LOC put
'listed a client in a file of delinquent accounts'
zuen, banku-ari 821 euro
AUX.3SG.3SG bank-DAT 821 euro
'to the bank 821 euros'
zor omen zizkion eta.
owe HEARSAY AUX.3SG.3PL because
'because (s)he supposedly owed'
(15") Proposition: [she owed the bank 821 euros]
Spanish: lsupuestamente/
Basque: /omen/
(16) Por este motivo, es muy importanteque si encontramos
for this reason, be.3SG very important that if find.lPL
'For this reason, it is very important that ifwe find'
un cadaver o cebo supuestamente envenenado, se
a corpse or bait supposedly poisoned 3SG.REFL
'or a supposedly poisoned bait,'
apliquen unas lineas de actuaci6n que eviten defectos deforma
apply.3PL some lines of action that avoid.3PL.SUBJ defects of form
'for a protocol to be implemented to avoid these defects.'
(16') Horregatik, oso garrantzitsua da animalia
because.of.that very important be.3SG animal
'Because ofthat, it is very important
bat-en gorpua edo amu ustez pozoitu bat
one-GEN body or bait supposedly poisoned one
'an animal corpse or supposedly poisoned bait'
aurki-tzen ba-dugu, formazko ez izateko
find-J:MP if-AUX.lPL.3SG form NEG be
'if [we] fmd, ...it does not conform to specifications.'
moduan joka-tzea komeni da.
manner respond-NOM convenient be.3SG
'it is appropriate to respond like [it does not conform to specs.]'
(16") Constituent: [poisoned]
Spanish: lsupuestamente/
Basque: lustezl
150 Asier Alcazar
On the other hand, aparentemente has 27 occurrences. Table 3 presents a
frequency breakdown of the translations ofthis adverb to Basque.
Table 3. Aparentemente 'apparently' as an adjective or verb modifier
ES
aparentemente
apparently
aparentemente
apparently
Total
Modifies
Verb
Adjective
Translation
omen
itxura bateau
in appearance
itxuraz
in appearance
seem: badirudi (2), iruditu (1),
diruditen (1)
itxuraz behintzat
at least in appearance
without
translation
berez
in itself
ustez
in appearance
itxura bateau behintzat
at least in appearance
N %
2 7.4
8 29.7
5 18.5
4 14.8
3 11.1
2 7.4
3.7
3.7
3.7
27 100
We know from Table 1 that in two instances aparentemente is translated as
omen (n = 2). In these two cases the adverb modifies the verb directly, thus
expresses sentential scope. In the reminder of cases the adverb modifies an
adjective. Then the translators resort to various ES, including syntactic
restructuring of the constituent as a fmite clause with the verb iruditu
'seem' (n = 4). For reasons of space, we will spare further examples in this
subsection. It seems that these two adverbs in the corpus are more fre-
quently used to express constituent scope, rather than sentential scope. The
reason for this may be that verbs expressing hearsay evidence are fiXed in
scope, so to speak, while adverbs may modify different linguistic elements.
For this reason it could be hypothesized that adverbs, together with prepo-
sitional phrases and adjectives, are the workhorse of constituent scope in
Spanish.
Information source in Spanish and Basque 151
3.2. Ambiguity in scope: parentheticals
A relatively frequent ES in Spanish is al parecer (Table 1, n = 5), a prepo-
sitional alternative to aparentemente 'apparently' (Table 1, n = 2). In this
subsection I report the results of searching for this ES in the Spanish sec-
tion, then retrieving the Basque originals, regardless of whether omen was
used for the translation. This prepositional phrase occurs 27 times in the
corpus. Overall, it is translated as various parenthetical expressions of
equivalent meaning (n = 20; antza den-ez [appearance be.3SG-INSTR], di-
rudien-ez [seem.3SG-INSTR], etc.), as omen (n = 5), or it is dropped in the
translation (n = 2). The scope of the prepositional phrase is difficult to
determine. It is either sentential or it expands over several verbs, and it is
perhaps feasible to interpret it as a constituent modifier in some cases. I
have observed that the only cases where translators resort to omen, the
prepositional phrase directly precedes or follows the verb (half of the cases
where the modifier is adjacent to the verb: n = 10). In all other cases the
prepositional phrase is placed somewhere else in the sentence (n = 17) and
omen is not used. My interpretation is that, because omen is restricted in its
scope to the sentence where it occurs, it is less desirable as a translation
equivalent to parentheticals, which are potentially ambiguous in scope. By
choosing a parenthetical, the translators preserve the potential ambiguity of
the Spanish original. This reflection leads me to a third possible factor:
semantic ambiguity in the original ES.
3.3. Ambiguity in the original ES: is it hearsay or inference, doubt. .. ?
The verb parecer 'seem' has close to 200 occurrences in the third person.
Out of these, the verb is translated as omen in about 13% of cases. Why
translators would not resort to omen is clear in many cases, namely when
the semantics of the verb does not express hearsay evidence but rather
'looks like' or 'personal opinion' (we saw an example of personal opinion
before in (14), which was translated as omen, but this is a special mitigator
case in my opinion). For the semantics of seem as a main verb, the transla-
tors understandably resort to an equivalent verb in Basque: iruditu 'seem'
This verb is also called upon in the translation when perhaps omen could
be potentially used. But we need to bear in mind that, while omen may be
restricted to hearsay, parecer 'seem' is not (Bert Comillie, p.c.), as it may
be employed to express inference or doubt (see Comillie 2007). In Basque
inference and doubt, which have various shades of certainty, may be ren-
152 Asier Alcazar
dered by particles such as bide, edo and ote. For this reason, I assume that
the translators often exercise caution in dealing with such evidential ex-
pressions in Spanish, and decide not to restrict their interpretation in the
translation. Consequently, if my interpretation of the data is right, the na-
ture of our data (parallel text) imposes considerable restrictions on the use
of grammatical expressions of evidentiality that, if used, narrow down the
semantics ofSpanish ES to non-ambiguous evidential expressions.
4. Conclusion
I have shown that omen is a grammatical form to express evidentiality in
Basque, thus providing empirical confirmation to previous claims that Bas-
que contains at least one evidential marker. The arguments to identify
omen as a grammatical form are numerous: (i) it has no other meaning; (ii)
it belongs in a closed set (the particles); (iii) like other clitic particles, it
may be better seen as part of verbal inflection; (iv) it is restricted to senten-
tial scope (but see n.5); (v) it may be generally used as a disclaimer, and
with first person subjects it may project doubt (both potential epistemic
extensions); (vi) it is introduced in contexts where the Spanish original has
no ES. Perhaps translation practice is the clinching argument to identify
omen as a grammatical strategy. Even though translators may resort to the
same type of ES in Basque, (vii) they decide to use omen in place of over
60 different Spanish ES. Instead, the Basque ES are called upon in contexts
where scope is at the constituent level, or where omen may narrow down
scope ambiguity and/or semantic ambiguity in the original. Because of this,
I view lexical evidentiality as playing an important role in Basque hearsay
evidence (pace Jendraschek 2003), as it enables constituent scope and af-
fords ambiguity.
On the Spanish side, we have gathered a diverse collection of ES mostly
consisting of verbs in the third person. This we take to show that the writ-
ten register is far from a grammaticalization process that seems already
underway in several varieties of Latin American Spanish with verbs of
saying (dizque, quesque). Although our data is limited, we have also noted
a preference to use adverbs for constituent scope, on the logical assumption
that not all hearsay expressions are able to have various scope possibilities.
The promising results on the Basque side of the corpus invite further inves-
tigation into other particles that may be related to evidential meaning. The
suspicion has been there for quite some time. For example, Jacobsen points
to all of the particles mentioned in this paper in a footnote (1986: 7, fn. 3).
Information source in Spanish and Basque 153
I assume that the reason why the particles remain in the shadow has to do
with the ability to render their meaning explicitly in the languages geo-
graphically adjacent to Basque: Spanish and French (although I myself do
not speak French; it is a bona fide assumption). By way of example, con-
sider edo. Said particle is an inferential evidential equivalent to epistemic
must (e.g., "my keys must be here" with Azkue 1925: 470, 689) or prob-
ably (a weaker form of inferential) if it modifies a constituent (with Azkue
1925: 252, 409). I find that edo is capable of constituent scope, where its
meaning shades into dubitative, similarly to Latin American dizque and
quesque. Edo is also equivalent to approximately or about/around in ex-
pressions related to time and distance. I pursue an analysis of this particle
in relation to the standard assumption that grammatical evidentiality must
be sentential (Alcazar 2009b), and sketch a diachronic analysis of the evo-
lution of edo from a disjunctive conjunction to an inferential in a two step
subjectification process in Alcazar (2009a).
Other expressions are more cryptic. Ote seems a mirative evidential in
root questions and indirect questions, and a weak inferential in statements
(see DeLancey 1997). As a mirative ote may show a strong connection to
nervousness or anxiety (also noted by Zubiri and Zubiri 2000), but not so
as an inferential, a use attested in the internet, which I have not seen de-
scribed in grammars. Unfortunately, ote is simply regarded as a rhetorical
question marker (e.g., Hualde and Ortiz de Urbina 2003). I am not aware of
such clear-cut emotion-mirativity connection in other languages. In the
corpus we have found no Spanish ES equivalent to ote. Another candidate
is ohi, a likely syncretism between habitual aspect and general knowledge
(see Alcazar 2009c). While ohi may express habituality, it is used with
verb forms that cannot express this aspect (the trinko class, Zubiri and Zu-
biri 2000; Alcazar 2003). ohi co-occurs with be-support 25% ofthe time in
our corpus. Taken together, the sentence would be regarded as highly reli-
able. Separately, either ohi or be-support seems to convey a strong form of
certainty. If indeed ote and ohi express other evidential notions, they are
notions that have been less richly documented than hearsay or sensory
evidence in the evidential literature (Willet 1988, Aikhenvald 2004) and, as
a result, harder to pin down. For now, these meanings are lost in transla-
tion. Yet over time they may be better understood and incorporated into the
Basque evidential system.
154 Asier Alcazar
Notes
1. I would like to thank the organizers, Gabriele Diewald and Elena Smirnova, an
anonymous reviewer, and the participants at the conference, especially Bert
Cornillie and Bjorn Wiemer for comments and suggestions. Prior to the confe-
rence, colleagues and informants helped me shape the presentation at DGfS
2008 through discussion of ideas and data: Rosaura Alcazar, Ikuska Ansola,
Karlos Arregi, Vicki Carstens, Asuncion Estela, Roberto Mayoral Hernandez.
I also appreciate the early feedback received from Alexandra Aikhenvald and
Gerd Jendrascheck and their encouragement to pursue this line of research.
None of the persons mentioned necessarily agrees with the ideas defended
here. I am responsible for all possible inaccuracies or errors.
2. For a different view on the Basque evidential system, see Jendraschek (2003).
3. Key to the glosses: ADL adlative, ABS absolutive, EMP emphasis, ERG ergative,
FUT future, GEN genitive, HARSAY hearsay evidential, IMP imperective, IM:PER
impersonal, IRR irrealis, LOC locative, PAST past, PL plural, PRES present, SUBJ
subjunctive, REFL reflexive, REL relative marker, SG singular.
4. Omen can also be used as a constituent modifier in the absence of a finite verb
(e.g., see Hualde and Ortiz de Urbina 2003: 318). The inferential particle edo
can also be used as a constituent modifier with or without a finite verb
(Alcazar 2009a). These facts, coupled with constituent modification of other
likely evidential particles in Basque, beg the question of whether the object of
evidentiality must indeed be a proposition (see Blain and Dechaine 2007 on
Cree dialects; Alcazar 2009b).
5. I would like to thank an anonymous reviewer for clarification on this point.
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y.
2007 Information source and evidentiality: what can we conclude? In
Squartini, Mario (ed.), 209-227.
2004 Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. and R. M. W. Dixon (eds.)
2003 Studies in Evidentiality. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Alcazar, Asier
2009a Subjectification in Basque evidential particles. Cambridge Ocas-
2009b
sionalPapers in Linguistics.
On the scope of evidential markers. Ms. University of Missouri,
Columbia.
Information source in Spanish and Basque 155
2009c The truncation/expansion of evidential meaning in Quechua and
Basque: The case of general knowledge. Ms. University of Missouri,
Columbia.
2005
2003
Consumer Eroski Parallel Corpus. http://sli.uvigo.es/CLUVI/
Two Paradoxes in the Interpretation of Imperfective Aspect and the
Progressive. Journal ofCognitive Science 4 (1): 79-105.
Alcazar, Asier and Mario Saltarelli
2009 Why imperative sentences cannot be embedded. Selected Proceed-
ings ofChronos Vlli.
Azkue, Ressurreci6n Maria de
1925 Morfologia Vasca. Bilbao: La Gran Enciclopedia Vasca.
Blain, Eleanor and Rose-Marie Dechaine
2007 Evidential types: Evidence from Cree dialects. International Journal
ofAmerican Linguistics 73: 257-291.
Chafe, Wallace L. and Johanna Nichols (eds.)
1986 Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding ofEpistemology. Norwood, NJ:
Ablex.
Cinque, Guglielmo
1999 Adverbs and functional heads: a cross-linguistic perspective. Ox-
ford: Oxford University Press.
Cornillie, Bert
2007 The continuum between lexical and grammatical evidentiality: a
functional analysis ofSpanish parecer. In Squartini, Mario (ed.), 109-128.
DeLancey, Scott
1997 Mirativity: The grammatical marking of unexpected information.
Linguistic Typology 1 (1): 33-52.
Diaz de Ilarraza A., G. Labaka, and K. Sarasola.
2008 Statistical Post-Editing: A Valuable Method in Domain Adaptation
ofRBMT Systems. MATMT2008 workshop: Mixing Approaches to
Machine Translation.
Giv6n, Talmy
1982 Evidentiality and Epistemic Space. Studies in Language 6: 23-49.
Higginbotham, James T.
2009 Evidentials: Some Preliminary Distinctions. In Compositionality,
Context, and Semantic Values. Rob Stainton and Chris Viger (eds.),
221-235. Berlin: Springer Verlag.
Hualde, Jose Ignacio and Jon Ortiz de Urbina
2003 A Grammar ofBasque. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Jacobsen, William H.
1986 The Heterogeneity of Evidentials in Makah. In Chafe and Nichols
(eds.), 3-28.
Jendraschek, Gerd
2003 La modalite epistemique en basque. Miinchen: LINCOM Europa
156 Asier Alcazar
Mithun, Marianne
1986 Evidential Diachrony in Northern Iroquoian. In Chafe and Nichols
(eds.), 89-112.
Oyharyabal, Bernard
1993 Verb Agreement with Nonarguments: On Allocutive Agreement. In
Generative Stuides in Basque Linguistics, J. I. Hualde and J. Ortiz de
Urbina (eds.), 89-114. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Olbertz, Hella
2007 Dizque in Mexican Spanish: the subjectification ofreportative mean-
ing. In Squartini, Mario (ed.), 151-172.
Ortiz de Urbina, Jon.
1989 Parameters in the Grammar ofBasque. Dordrecht: Foris.
Pietrandrea, Paola
2007 The grammatical nature of some epistemic-evidential adverbs in
spoken Italian. In Squartini, Mario (ed.), 39-64.
Rebuschi, Georges (ed.)
1997 Essais de linguistique basque. Bilbao: Universite du Pays Basque
and Saint-Sebastien: Diputaci6n Foral de Gipuzkoa (Supplements of
Anuario del Seminario de Filologia Vasca "Julio de Urquijo",
XXXV).
1997a Enonces et formes hypothetiques en basque contemporain. In Rebus-
chi, Georges (ed.), 139-154.
1997b Temps, mode et aspect dans les indications sceniques. In Rebuschi,
Georges (ed.), 155-160.
De Rijk, RudolfP.G.
1972 Partitive assignment in Basque. Anuario del Seminario de Filologia
Vasca 'Julio de Urquijo' 6: 130-73.
Squartini, Mario (ed.)
2007 Evidentiality benveen lexicon and grammar. Rivista di Linguistica
19 (2).
2007a Investigating a grammatical category and its lexical correlates. In
Squartini, Mario (ed.), 1-6
Trask Robert L.
1981 Basque verbal morphology. Euskalarien nazioarteko jardunaldiak,
285-304.
Travis, Catherine
2006 Dizque: a Colombian evidentiality strategy. Linguistics 44: 1269-
1297.
Willet, Thomas
1988 A cross-linguistic survey of the grammaticization of evidentiality.
Studies in Language 12: 51-97.
Zubiri, Ilari and Entzi Zubiri
2000 Euskal Gramatika Osoa. Bilbao: Didaktiker.
Embedded evidentials in German
Mathias Schenner
This paper addresses two widespread preconceptions: First, there are no ("real")
evidentials in German. Second, evidentials cannot be embedded. These issues are
taken up in turn. The ftrst part introduces a semantically narrow but morphological-
ly broad notion of linguistic evidentiality that renders the set of evidentials in Ger-
man non-empty, in accordance with recent studies like Diewald and Smimova
(forth.). The second part focuses on embedded reportative modals in German and
demonstrates some of the semantic complexities that embedded evidentials can
give rise to.
1. Introduction
The past few decades have witnessed a remarkable increase of research on
evidentiality. However, most studies focus on evidentials in one particular
environment, namely declarative root clauses. Of course, it's a perfectly
reasonable strategy to start investigations of evidentials by studying their
behavior in maximally innocent and unmarked environments like declara-
tive root clauses. But one should be aware of the fact that it's impossible to
draw final conclusions about the semantics of evidentials unless one con-
siders their behavior in other clause types and in complex sentences.
By limiting one's attention to declarative root clauses, one might be
tempted to characterize evidentials as linguistic markers that indicate the
type of evidence the speaker has for the proposition expressed by her utter-
ance. Despite the fact that this characterization is actually rather wide-
spread in the literature, it drastically fails for many uses of evidentials. For
instance, evidentials in interrogative root clauses obviously do not indicate
the speaker's type of evidence for "the proposition expressed" (however
construed), nor the addressee's type of evidence for some proposition (as is
informally suggested sometimes), but rather (in most cases) the type of
evidence the speaker expects the addressee to have for the true answer.
Another counterexample are evidentials in embedded clauses that may not
indicate the speaker's type of evidence for some proposition, but rather that
of the matrix subject (e.g. in Tibetan, cf. Garrett 2001, ch. 5).
158 Mathias Schenner
This paper will focus on the semantics of evidentials in complement
clauses in German. Since many linguists seem to take it for granted that
there are no ("real") evidentials in German, we start by laying out our con-
ceptual and terminological background assumptions in Section 2, including
a well-motivated definition of evidentality that renders the set of evidential
expression in German clearly non-empty (in accordance with recent studies
like Diewald and Smirnova forth.). Section 3 discusses evidentials in Ger-
man, focusing on embedded occurrences of the reportative modal sollen.
2. Towards a definition
2.1. Evidentiality vs. epistemic modality
It is still a matter of debate whether evidentiality is a linguistic category in
its own right. Some researchers argue that evidentiality is a special kind of
epistemic modality. For example, Willet (1988: 52) states that "evidential
distinctions are part of the marking of epistemic modality" There are two
widespread defmitions of expressions of epistemic modality. According to
the first, they indicate the degree of commitment of the speaker to the em-
bedded proposition. According to the second, they mark the necessity or
possibility of the embedded proposition (the prejacent) relative to some
body of evidence or knowledge (von Fintel and Gillies 2007). Using the
first conception of epistemic modality, Palmer (1986: 54) argues that evi-
dentials are epistemic modals, because
their whole purpose is to provide an indication ofthe degree of commitment
of the speaker: he offers a piece of information, but qualifies its validity for
him in terms ofthe type ofevidence he has.
On the other hand, de Haan 200 1 and Aikhenvald 2004 argue at length that
evidentiality and epistemic modality are (in principle) independent catego-
ries, because in a number of languages, evidentials don't carry any epis-
temic overtones. Their slogan is:
Evidentiality is a category in its own right, and not a subcategory of any
modality. (Aikhenvald 2004: 7)
These two points of view correspond to two competing construals of the
notion of evidentiality. The narrow one, given in (1a), is defended by de
Haan 2001, Lazard 2001, Faller 2002, Aikhenvald 2004 and others. The
Embedded evidentials in German 159
wide one, given in (lb), is adopted by Pahner 1986, lfantidou 2001 and
Rooryck 2001 among others.
(1) Two popular conceptions of evidentials:
a. The narrow conception: Evidentials are linguistic markers that indi-
cate the speaker's type of evidence (or source of information) for
her claim.
b. The wide conception: Evidentials are linguistic markers that indicate
the speaker's type of evidence for her claim and/or the degree of its
reliability, probability or certainty.
Quite some ink has been spilled discussing which of these construals is to
be preferred. But a closer look at the kinds of arguments offered raises the
suspicion that there's no consensus about what exactly is at issue. Part of
the confusion is that the question "What is the relation between evidentiali-
ty and (epistemic) modality?", as it's usually stated, is highly ambiguous,
because it leaves implicit what exactly is meant by the terms 'evidentiality'
and 'modality': Concepts? Subsystems ofUniversal Grammar? Subsystems
of the grammar of a single language? This lack of precision invites misun-
derstandings and often leads to unnecessary debate at an abstract level.
Once we replace the original question by at least the following three more
precise ones, we get a surprisingly clear picture, and most disagreements
automatically disappear.
(2) a. Conceptual relation: What is the relation between the concept of
evidentiality and the concept of epistemic modality?
b. Encoding relation: What is the relation between the encoding of evi-
dential concepts and the encoding of modal concepts in language L?
c. Formal semantic relation: Can evidentials in language L be analyzed
in parallel to epistemic modals in formal semantics (involving quan-
tification over possible worlds) or do evidentials require a different
kind of analysis?
A satisfactory answer to the frrst question (2a) (understood as a psycholog-
ical, not as a philosophical question) requires a model of the human mind
that integrates and explains the interactions between a person's (type of)
source of a piece of information and various attitudes towards that piece of
information. This question, though important, is seldom explicitly ad-
dressed in research on evidentiality, noteworthy exceptions being Chafe
1986, Willet (1988: 85-89) and Nuyts 2001. Among the main components
160 Mathias Schenner
of such a model are the individual's specific source (source token), e.g. a
certain event in the past in which the individual has been told the relevant
piece of information. Source tokens can be classified in various ways at
various levels of abstraction. Some common high-level classifications are
based on the distinctions between direct and indirect types of source, and
between reported and inferred information. Two notions that are some-
times not properly distinguished in this context are (subjective) probability
and reliability. Whereas subjective probability relates an individual and
some piece of information, reliability relates an individual and a source
type or token, as illustrated in Figure 1. They are related, since (ceteris
paribus) a piece of information will have a high degree of subjective prob-
ability, if it stems from a highly reliable source token (both as judged by
the individual). Various types of background knowledge are at work that
complicate the picture, but we can safely claim that the reliability of the
source token and the source type as judged by the individual, are among
the main components that influence the individual's judgment regarding
the necessity or possibility of a proposition expressing the relevant piece of
information and, if uttered, the degree of the person's commitment to the
proposition expressed.
.,_.--- epistemic modals
probabil~ity:;...------......~
Figure 1. Accessing information: Conceptual relations
Thus, without going into details, it is clear that at the conceptual level,
evidentiality (understood as a person's type of source of information) and
epistemic modality (understood as the person's judgment regarding the
necessity or possibility of a proposition expressing the relevant piece of
information) are different but related: The type of source influences the
Embedded evidentials in German 161
strength of belief in the truth of the proposition, but the two concepts are
not interchangeable because other contextual factors intervene. If a person
considers a proposition necessary, this by itself does not allow any conclu-
sion as to the type of evidence the person has. Similarly, the fact that a
person has reportative evidence for the truth of a proposition does not de-
termine a certain strength of belief in this proposition.
The second question (2b) demands linguistic investigation. The relativi-
zation to a specific language is essential, because cross-linguistic research
has shown that languages differ in this respect. On the one hand, there are
languages that possess clearly distinct systems for evidentiality and epis-
temic modality. For example, Pawnee, Wintu and Makah have distinct sets
of morphemes for coding modal and evidential meanings (cf. Mithun 1999,
Stenzel2004: 338). On the other hand, there are languages that use a single
set of markers to denote evidential source and epistemic strength, e.g. Haa-
nis (Mithun 1999). In general, epistemic modals often acquire evidential
meaning extensions (e.g. English must, cf. von Fintel and Gillies 2007) and
evidentials may have epistemic extensions (e.g. Cuzco Quechua -cha, cf.
Faller 2002: 171-189). Sometimes it's almost impossible to determine
whether an expression is primarily evidential or primarily modal (see Aik-
henvald 2004: 147-151 for some borderline cases). This suggests that evi-
dentials and epistemic modals form the end points of a continuum allowing
expressions at intermediate positions to simultaneously encode evidential
and epistemic meaning components.
In the formal semantics literature the question concerning the relation
between evidentiality and epistemic modality is almost always understood
as in (2c): Are the same formal tools adequate for analyzing both epistemic
modals and evidentials? The influential formal analysis of epistemic mod-
als involving quantification over possible worlds by Kratzer 1991 has first
been used by Izvorski 1997 to analyze evidentials in Bulgarian, inspiring
similar analyses of evidentials in other languages, e.g. Garrett 2001 on
Tibetan, McCready and Ogata 2007 on Japanese, Chung 2005 on Korean,
Matthewson et al. 2007 on St'at'imcets and Sauerland and Schermer 2007
on Bulgarian. However, Faller 2006 argued convincingly that evidentials
are not a homogeneous class cross-linguistically and showed that eviden-
tials in Cuzco Quechua cannot be analyzed as epistemic modals.
To sum up, evidentiality and epistemic modality are conceptually dis-
tinct (though related) and encoded independently in the grammars of some
(but not all) languages. The linguistic question whether the encoding of
evidentiality is part of the encoding of epistemic modality cannot be ans-
162 Mathias Schenner
wered without reference to the grammar of a specific language since there
is substantial cross-linguistic variation.
2.2. Defining 'evidential'
The previous section established that evidential and epistemic categories
may be encoded independently (though they need not). Thus it makes sense
to adopt some version of the narrow concept of evidentials in (la). Let's
now try to make this more precise. The basic plan is as follows. We first
define the conceptual notion of an 'evidential condition' Then we define
the linguistic notion of an evidential via conditions on the mapping of natu-
rallanguage expressions to this concept.
(3) An evidential condition (EC) is a proposition of the form
'EVID(s, x, p, i)' that is true iff x has in s evidence of type i that p is
true, where s is a situation, x is an agent, p is a proposition, and i is a
type of evidence.
This definition incorporates several non-trivial decisions (see Schenner
2009 for a more extensive discussion). First, note that an evidential condi-
tion is simply a proposition that can be true or false; it's not a speech act.
Second, the definition is based on the assumption that the kinds of things
we can have evidence for are propositions, or rather the truth of proposi-
tions, in accordance with most of the recent formal semantic literature on
evidentials. This might tum out to be too restrictive, though (cf. e.g. Hen-
geveld 2006, who argues that there are clear differences between reporta-
tives and (other) evidentials that are due to the fact that the former operate
at a higher, interpersonal level, well above the level of propositional con-
tent).
Third, the definition in (3) makes use of a variable i that ranges over
types of evidence. Let's assume that i is taken from a set I that contains all
available types of information sources. Now what exactly is in this set?
There are at least two ways to go. One way would be to relativize the set I
to particular languages or language types. However, this would seriously
undermine our attempt to define the notion of an evidential condition in a
language-independent way. Thus we will assume at this point that I is a
stable set of universally available types of information sources. Since it has
to reflect some rather fine-grained distinctions that are not encoded gram-
matically in every language, we expect that linguistic evidentiality markers
Embedded evidentials in German 163
are typically associated with bundles of elements ofI rather than individual
members.1
We can now proceed to defining the linguistic property of having an
evidential component and the linguistic notion of an evidential in (4):
(4) a. A lexical item L has an evidential component iff one of the functions
ofL is to introduce an evidential condition with background status.
b. A lexical item L is an evidential iff one of the main functions ofL is
to introduce an evidential condition with background status.
Although this is quite a liberal definition of 'evidential', it still sides with
the narrow concept of evidentiality mentioned in (la) that excludes purely
epistemic expressions. An important feature of (4) is that evidentials are
not required to be grammatical elements (or grarnmaticalized). It thus
makes sense to talk about lexical vs. grammatical evidentials.
Another thing to note about (4) is that there are no restrictions as to the
level of meaning to which evidentials contribute. Evidentials are not re-
quired to be speech act modifiers, presuppositions or conventional implica-
tures. The only thing required is that the evidential condition be back-
grounded. This is intuitively clear, since evidentials indicate the source of
information for something that's at issue. A consequence is that there can-
not be inherently negative evidentials, something like 'nobody told me that
p' or 'there is absolutely no evidence that p' Evidentials serve to supply
the basis of some claim (or presented content), they cannot express the lack
of every kind of evidence. In other words, evidentials indicate a source for
the truth ofthe embedded proposition, never for its falsity.
Content can be backgrounded in various ways and at various levels of
meaning. Among the most promising candidates are presuppositions (lz-
vorski 1997), conventional implicatures (in the sense of Potts 2005) and
felicity conditions (Faller 2002). Lexical items may have both back-
grounded and non-backgrounded uses, a prominent example being clausal
complement-taking predicates. Many clausal complement-taking predicates
have both non-parenthetical and parenthetical uses. In their latter use em-
bedding verbs are backgrounded and in fact often explicitly analyzed as
evidentials (cf. Rooryck 2001, Simons 2007).2
Table 1 relates our notion of linguistic evidentiality to other popular de-
finitions in the literature (cf. Schenner 2009 for a more extensive compari-
son). We opted for a notion that is semantically narrow (excluding purely
epistemic elements, marked in the table as [+epistemic]), but morphologi-
164 Mathias Schenner
cally broad (including elements that do not have the status of highly gram-
maticalized markers, marked in the table as [+lexical]).
Table 1. Definitions of ,evidential'
source ~ +episternic
grammatical Aikhenvald Palmer (1986)
(2004)
t Rooryck (200 1)
+lexical our notion in (4-b) Ifantidou (2001)
3. Evidentials in German
German is one of the least likely languages one thinks of when talking
about evidentiality. However, even if we restrict our notion of an 'eviden-
tial' from Section 2 to grammaticalized means of expressing the type of
source of information, we can find several expressions in German that
seem to fit this description. The availability of reportative evidence can be
conveyed by the modal verbs so/len 'should' and wollen 'want', inferential
evidence may be indicated by means of the evidential constructions schei-
nen 'seem', drohen 'threaten', versprechen 'promise' pluszu-infinitive and
werden 'become' plus infmitive. Diewald and Srnirnova forth. argue that
the latter four constructions even build a paradigm in present-day German.
This section will focus on the reportative modal verbs, especially on some
of the complexities involved when they occur in embedded contexts.3
3.1. Reportative modals
German modal verbs are polyfunctional: They systematically allow for
both a circumstantial and an epistemic interpretation. The modals so/len
'should' and wollen 'want' are special in that they give rise to evidential
instead of episternic readings, in addition to their circumstantial readings.
Both indicate that there is reportative evidence for (the truth of) the preja-
cent proposition. In the case of so/len the source of the report is subject-
external (as is the source of the obligation in the circumstantial reading),
Embedded evidentials in German 165
cf. (5). In the case of wollen the source is the sentential subject itself (as is
the source of the volition in the circumstantial reading), cf. (6).
(5) Anna soli in Oslo sein
Anna should in Oslo be
a. 'Anna should be in Oslo (in view ofher obligations)'
b. 'Anna is said to be in Oslo'
(6) Anna will in Oslo sein
Anna want in Oslo be
a. 'Anna wants to be in Oslo'
b. 'Anna claims to be in Oslo'
The following sections will concentrate on the reportative use of sollen
'should' (henceforth, sollenREP) as illustrated in (5).
3.2. A standard modal analysis
Intuitively, by uttering sollenREp(p) a speaker conveys that there is reporta-
tive evidence for p. But what does this exactly mean? In order to make this
intuition more precise, the following questions are addressed in this sec-
tion: (a) What exactly is the content of the reportative component? (b)
What is the semantic status of this component: truth-conditional or illocu-
tionary? (c) Are additional meaning components conveyed, e.g. reduction
or suspension of speaker commitment? The first question is taken up in
Section 3.2.1, the second in Section 3.2.2, the third in Section 3.2.3. The
discussion results in a preliminary lexical entry for sollenREP in the final
Section 3.2.4.
3.2.1. Characterizing the reportative component
There are various ways to think about and to formally analyze utterances
and reports. In a simple case (sufficient for our purposes), an event of re-
porting involves a speaker, an addressee and a proposition that is con-
veyed. Like any event, a report is located at some spatiotemporal location
(in some possible world). In our simplified setting, a report can be con-
strued as a four-place relation, as in (7a), abbreviated in (7b) ('~' for 'di-
cendi').
166 Mathias Schenner
(7) General form ofa report:
a. x tells y in e thatp
b. il(e, x, y, p)
Reports about reports differ in whether both the speaker and the addressee
of the reported report are specified as in 'Anna told me that p', or only the
addressee as in 'I've heard that p', or only the speaker as in 'Anna said that
p' There are also reports about reports where neither the speaker nor the
addressee of the original report is explicitly expressed. A special case are
reports about rumors, as in 'It is said that p' or 'There are rumors that p'
These are not reports about specific reports, but involve quantification over
report events- very roughly, 'There are report events (in some contextual-
ly salient spatiotemporal region) that involve members of some (contex-
tually salient) speech community and convey that the propositionp is true'
This rumor reading seems to be the default interpretation of sollenREP,
e.g. in (5). But the reportative component conveyed by sollenREP is compat-
ible with many other kinds of reports. For example, it can be used to report
a specific utterance whose producer (and/or recipient) is explicitly men-
tioned, e.g. by an adverbiallaut X 'according to X', as in (8a), or anaphori-
cally inferred, as in (8b).
(8) a. Bea solli laut Annai in Oslo sein.
Bea should according-to Anna in Oslo be
'Anna said that Bea is in Oslo.'
b. Annai hat uns von Bea erziililt. Bea solli in Oslo sein.
Anna has us of Bea told. Bea should in Oslo be.
'Annai told us about Bea. Shei said that Bea is in Oslo.'
This being said, we will not be concerned with distinguishing the various
types ofreported reports in the following. The simplified abstract utterance
predicate il(x, p) (roughly, 'x said that p') is sufficient for the purposes of
this paper and will be uniformly used to represent the reportative compo-
nent ofsollenREP
3.2.2. Truth-conditionality
There is a long-lasting and still unresolved debate on whether epistemic
modals are truth-conditional, i.e. contribute to the proposition expressed
(cf. e.g. Papafragou 2006). For evidentials like sollenREP the same issue
Embedded evidentials in German 167
arises. One standard test for truth-conditionality is the so-called "embed-
ding test", according to which an item is truth-conditional iff it can be se-
mantically embedded in the antecedent of a conditional. When we try to
apply the test to sollenREP, we find both cases where sollenREP falls within
the scope of wenn 'if' and hence is truth-conditional, e.g. in (9), and cases
where it does not fall within the scope of wenn and hence qualifies as
"non-truth-conditional", e.g. in (10) (cf. Faller 2006 for similar examples).
In the consulted corpora (cf. Section 3.3.1), the latter cases are much more
frequent, but there are also many cases that allow for both a truth-
conditional and a non-truth-conditional reading.
(9) a. Wenn es morgen regnen soli, miissen wir die Fahrrader abdecken.
'If it is said that it is going to rain tomorrow, we have to cover the
bicycles'
b. lch habe es nicht gerne, wenn es hinterher nur einer gewesen sein
soli.
'I don't like it, if afterwards it is said that it had been only one'
[Berliner Zeitung, 02.07.2003, p.23]
(10) a. Wenn Herr Schroder das gesagt haben soli, dann miiftte er die
Konsequenz daraus ziehen und sagen
'If Mr. Schroder said this (as it is alleged), he should draw the
consequence and say ' [Die ZEIT 32/1985]
b. Die Dame miiftte mindestens um zehn Jahre alter sein, als sie
[tatsachlich} ist, wenn sie zu dem Bilde Modell gestanden haben
soli.
'The woman would have to be at least ten years older than she
actually is, if she had acted as a model for this painting (as it is
alleged)' [Vossische Zeitung (Morgen-Ausgabe), 03.03.1903, 5-6]
According to the embedding test, sollenREP has both truth-conditional and
non-truth-conditional uses.4 However, it can be argued that the seemingly
non-truth-conditional uses in (10) are rather parenthetical uses, as their
English translation by means of as-parentheticals also suggests. Parentheti-
cals fail the embedding test, but they can nevertheless be handled in truth-
conditional semantics (cf. e.g. Asher 2000, Potts 2005). The conclusion is
that sollenREP is truth-conditional, but has assertive (non-parenthetical) and
parenthetical uses (more on these in Section 3.3.2).
168 Mathias Schenner
3.2.3. Speaker commitment
Evidentials are often taken to not only indicate the type of source of evi-
dence, but also a certain (increased or decreased) degree of speaker com-
mitment. Scalar hierarchies have been built that order evidentials according
to their strength, i.e. the degree of speaker commitment they convey. A
typical example would be 'direct > inferred > reported' Given such a
scale, by using a direct evidential marker a speaker indicates a high degree
of commitment, whereas using a reported evidential marker would indicate
a low degree of commitment. However, these hierarchies are best con-
ceived of as partial orders and as context-dependent, as reflected in the
formal model of speaker commitment (changes) recently proposed by Da-
vis et al. 2007.
Turning to sollenREP, does it indicate (as part of its lexical meaning) a
reduced degree of speaker commitment, or even doubt or skepticism, as is
sometimes suggested? Here we can rely on Mortelmans (2000: 136), who
showed in a corpus study that, while sollenREP is compatible with speaker
skepticism, this usage is in practice very rare (in 5 out of 137 considered
cases, only one of which was a declarative clause). In addition, the speak-
er's skepticism is usually explicitly marked.
We conclude that sollenREP does not lexically encode speaker doubt.
Skeptic overtones are pragmatic effects. The shift of responsibility con-
veyed by sollenREP arises as part of the truth-conditional reportative mean-
ing: The speaker is not committed to the reported proposition, but to the
existence of a report of the embedded proposition.
3.2.4. A standard modal account
There are surprisingly few formal accounts of the evidential readings of
German modals, a notable exception being Ehrich 2001. She proposes
roughly the following lexical entry for sollenREP (cf. Ehrich 200 1: 168):
(11) llsollllw = 'Ap [ for every world w'Rw in which the claims ofXc in w are
true, it holds that w'~ p] (where Xc is understood as the contextually
supplied source of the relevant claims)
The basic idea behind (11) seems to be that 'sollenREP(p)' is equivalent to
'xc said that p' or, using the abstract utterance predicate introduced in Sec-
tion 3.2.1, '~(xc, p)' Framing the analysis in Discourse Representation
Embedded evidentials in German 169
Theory (DRT) (Kamp and Reyle 1993), we get the Discourse Representa-
tion Structure (DRS) in (12b) for (12a), where L1 is understood as a relation
between an individual and a DRS. Reportative wollen receives a parallel
treatment, with the minimal difference that the source of the reported
speech act is not a contextually supplied individual or group but rather the
sentential subject itself.
(12) a. Anna soli in Oslo sein.
'Anna is said to be in Oslo'
b. [a ox: Anna(a), Oslo(o), L1(x, [: in(a,o)])]
(13) a. Anna will in Oslo sein.
'Anna claims to be in Oslo'
b. [a o: Anna(a), Oslo(o), L1(a, [: in(a,o)])]
This analysis of German reportative modals correctly captures that sollenREP
and wollenREP are truth-conditional (as noted in 3.2.2) and do not indicate a
reduced degree of speaker commitment (as noted in Section 3.2.3). With-
out further assumptions, it predicts that embedded occurrences of sollenREP
are grammatical and receive the same modal interpretation as unembedded
occurrences. These predictions will be tested in the following section.
3.3. Embedded sollen: data and generalizations
Evidentials are typically considered to operate at the speech act level and
hence to be unembeddable (cf. e.g. Aikhenvald 2004: ch. 8.1.3) for a list of
languages that do not allow their evidentials to occur in embedded con-
texts). However, there are exceptions to this cross-linguistic tendency.
Evidentials are embeddable in complement clauses in Tibetan (Garrett
2001), in Bulgarian (Sauerland and Schenner 2007) and in German, as
shown below. In all of these languages, the embeddability of evidentials is
subject to certain restrictions. Reportative evidentials occur most naturally
under verba dicendi, but there are additional types of embedding predicates
that license evidentials in their complements.
Two questions will guide our investigation of the distribution of em-
bedded sollenREP in German. First (in Section 3.3.1), which embedding pre-
dicates license sollenREP in their complement clauses? Second (in Section
3.3.2), how is embedded sollenREP interpreted?
170 Mathias Schenner
3.3.1. The distribution ofembedded sollenREP
In order to determine whether sollenREP can occur in complement clauses,
two strategies have been deployed: (a) a corpus study and (b) a question-
naire study. In the corpus study, occurrences of embedded sollenREP in the
IDS and DWDS corpora5 of written German were identified and collected.
In total, about 300 corpus examples of sollenREP in complement clauses of
160 different complement-taking predicates were considered. Some typical
matrix predicates are listed in (14) in order ofdecreasing frequency:
(14) bekannt sein 'to be lrnown' (9%), kaum/schwer (zu) glauben 'hard
to believe' and nicht glauben konnen 'cannot believe' (7%), be-
richten 'to report' (6,5%), es heij3t 'they say' (3%), schwer vorzu-
stellen 'hard to imagine' (3%), behaupten 'to claim' (2,5%), er-
fahren 'to find out' (2,5%), hOren 'to hear' (2,5%), abstreiten 'to
deny' and leugnen 'to deny' (2,5%), dementieren 'to deny' (2%),
wissen 'to lrnow' (2%), kolportieren 'to hawk' (1,5%), erziihlen 'to
tell' (1,5%), lesen 'to read' (1%), sagen 'to say' (1%), bezweifeln
'to doubt' (1%), unwahrscheinlich sein 'to be unlikely' (1%)
In addition, a questionnaire study was conducted. 18 native speakers of
German were asked to rank the acceptability of a total of 25 test sentences
on a scale ranging from 1 (totally unacceptable) to 5 (perfect). The main
goals were to confirm the results ofthe corpus study and to identify matrix
predicates that do not allow for embedded sollenREP
The main results are summarized in (15), where the matrix predicates
are grouped according to the mean acceptability value of sentences with
sollenREP in their complement clauses.
(15) a. 5-4: horen 'to hear', seltsam sein 'to be odd', sagen 'to say', lesen
'to read', erziihlen 'to tell', erinnern 'to remember', entdecken 'to
discover'
b. 4-3: interessant sein 'to be interesting', wissen 'to lrnow', be-
dauern 'to regret'
c. 3-2: glauben 'to believe', triiumen 'to dream', fohlen 'to feel',
Hinweise geben 'there be indications', bezweifeln 'to doubt', lilgen
'to lie'
Embedded evidentials in German 171
d. 2-1: moglich sein 'to be possible', iiberzeugt sein 'to be con-
vinced', wiinschen 'to wish', vermuten 'to suppose', hoffen 'to
hope', beforchten 'to fear', beobachten 'to observe'
The results of the corpus study and the questionnaire study match in the
following sense: The predicates that frequently occurred with embedded
sollenREP in the corpora received a high acceptability rank in the question-
naire study (e.g. horen 'to hear'), while low ranked predicates did not oc-
cur in the corpora at all (e.g. hoffen 'to hope'). The lists in (16) and (17)
summarize and tentatively systematize these findings by grouping the rele-
vant predicates.
(16) Predicates that allow sollenRE, in their complement clause
a. speech/text production (utterance) predicates: e.g. behaupten 'to
claim', erziihlen 'to tell', berichten 'to report', kolportieren 'to
hawk'
b. speech/text perception predicates: e.g. horen 'to hear', lesen 'to
read'
c. epistemic (semi-)factives: e.g. wissen 'to know', bekannt
sein/werden 'to be/become known', erfahren 'to find out', erin-
nern 'to remember'
d. emotive (semi-)factives: interessant sein 'to be interesting', selt-
sam sein 'to be odd', bedauern 'to regret'
e. negative utterance (denial) predicates: e.g. abstreiten 'to deny',
leugnen 'to deny'
f. negative epistemic predicates: e.g. kaum/schwer zu glauben 'hard
to believe', nicht glauben konnen 'to cannot believe', bezweifeln
'to doubt'
(17) Predicates that do not (or only marginally) allow sollenREP in their
complement clause
a. direct perception predicates: e.g. beobachten 'to observe', fohlen
'to feel'
b. desire predicates: e.g. wiinschen 'to wish', hoffen 'to hope'
c. (non-factive, positive) epistemic predicates: e.g. glauben 'to be-
lieve', vermuten 'to suppose', iiberzeugt sein 'to be convinced'
d. (non-factive) emotive predicates: e.g. beforchten 'to fear'
e. predicates of (low positive) likelihood: e.g. moglich sein 'to be
possible'
172 Mathias Schenner
It is a non-trivial task to identify necessary and sufficient conditions for the
embeddability of sollenREP, given the heterogeneity of the licensing predi-
cates in (16). However, we can identify three main groups that might allow
embedded sollenREP for different reasons (see below):
(18) a. communication predicates
b. (semi-)factive predicates
c. negative (denial/doubt) predicates
It is clear that the set of predicates that license embedded sollenREP is dis-
tinct from the set of predicates that license embedded root phenomena, e.g.
verb-second (V2) complement clauses in German. There are both predi-
cates that allow embedded V2 but not sollenREP (e.g. befiirchten 'to fear')
and predicates that allow embedded sollenREP but not V2 (e.g. interessant
sein 'to be interesting'). However, there is some kind of interaction. It has
been argued that an embedded clause can have V2 order if and only if the
containing sentence can be used in such a way that the embedded clause
constitutes the main point of utterance (cf. Bentzen et al. 2007). In such
cases, where the embedding predicate is used parenthetically, sollenREP can
even occur in complement clauses of predicates in (17), especially non-
factive epistemic and emotive predicates like glauben 'to believe' or befiir-
chten 'to fear', as illustrated in (19a) and (19b).
(19) (Anna does not want to meet Charly at the party today, and Bea
knows this. Anna asks Bea, whether Charly will come. Bea
answers:)
a. lch glaubelbefiirchte, Charly soli kommen.
'I think/fear Charly should come.'
b. Charly soli kommen, glaubelbefiirchte ich.
Charly should come think/fear I
'I think /I'm afraid it is said that Charly will come'
This does not show that we should add these predicates to the list of solle-
nREP licensers. It rather shows that sollenREP occurs in (19a) and (19b) essen-
tially unembedded. To conclude, the parenthetical use of matrix clauses
can render sollenREP acceptable under certain predicates in (17) that allow
for such a use.
Embedded evidentials in German 173
3.3.2. The meanings ofembedded sollenm
In the previous subsection it was shown that sollenREP can occur in com-
plement clauses of a number of embedding predicates. But how is embed-
ded sollenREP interpreted? In order to answer this question, all of the corpus
examples were semantically evaluated and categorized, which often re-
quired a closer inspection ofthe broader linguistic context. As a result, the
following three kinds ofreading have been identified:
(20) a. A type reading: assertive (non-parenthetical, truth-conditional)
b. G type reading: global (parenthetical, non-truth-conditional)
c. C type reading: concord
The A type reading (assertive) is the one that the standard semantics for
sollenREP in Section 3.2.4 predicts: sollenREP(p) simply means 'it is said that
p' However, in embedded contexts this reading is surprisingly infrequent.
While, by introspection, many corpus examples are in principle compatible
with an assertive reading, this interpretation is in most cases contextually
clearly dispreferred. There are three factors that seem to favor an assertive
reading: (a) if the embedding predicate is used parenthetically (cf. (19)
above), (b) if the embedding predicate is factive and/or the embedded
clause discourse-old or even echoic (cf. (2la)), and (c) if the embedded
clause is an indirect question (cf. (2lb)). A real life example is given in
(22).
(21) a. A: Anna soil in Oslo sein.
'It is said that Anna is in Oslo.'
B: Jch weifi, dass Anna in Oslo sein soli.
'I know that it is said that Anna is in Oslo.'
b. Annafragte, ob Charly zur Party kommen soli.
'Anna asked whether it is said that Charly is coming to the party'
(22) 90 mal 190 Zentimeter: Das waren die Abmessungen von Goethes
bescheidenem Bett. Auf den Betrachter wirkt es heute ziemlich
kurz, vor allem wenn er weifi, dass Goethe graft von Statur
gewesen sein soli.
'90 x 190 em: That was the size of Goethe's humble bed. To the
beholder it seems quite short today, especially if they know that it
is said that Goethe had been tall' [Die ZEIT 1112004]
174 Mathias Schenner
The C type reading (concord) of sollenREp(p) is simply p, provided that it is
embedded under a communication predicate. The existence of this very
frequent reading, illustrated in (23), has been noted before by Letnes 1997.
While an A type reading is in principle available for these sentences, it is
contextually strongly dispreferred. For example, the author of (23a) clearly
didn't intend to express that the newspaper had wrongly claimed that it was
said that the princess gained her peerage dishonestly.
(23) a. Die Zeitschrift hatte fiilschlicherweise behauptet, dafi sich die Prin
zessin ihren Adelstitel unredlich erworben haben soli.
'The newspaper had wrongly claimed that the princess gained her
peerage dishonestly' [Die Presse, 19.12.1992]
b. Es ist irgendwie kindisch, dafi gleich behauptet wird, dafi MS da-
hinterstecken soli.
'It is somehow childish that it is immediately claimed that MS is
behind it' [http://www.pro-linux.de/news/2002/4353.html, ace.
04.04.2007]
The G type reading (global) of embedded sollen~) can best be paraph-
rased by a parenthetical construction: 'p, as it is alleged' Albeit its availa-
bility is somewhat unexpected, this type of reading is quite pervasive in all
of the corpora that have been looked at. Some examples are given in (24).
The term 'non-truth-conditional' for this reading is somewhat misleading
and will be avoided in the following, but has been mentioned, because
sollenREP in the G type reading fails the well-known embedding test for
truth-conditionality, as mentioned in Section 3.2.2.
(24) a. Dafi er dem Schiller auch auf den Kopf geschlagen haben soli,
streitet der Lehrer entschieden ab.
'The teacher resolutely denies that he hit the pupil also on the head
(as it is alleged)' [Salzburger Nachrichten, 18.01.1997]
b. Dafi es in ganz China im Vorjahr "nur" etwas mehr als 60.000
Verkehrstote gegeben haben soli, erscheint angesichts dieser rau-
hen Sitten wie ein Wunder.
'In view of these tough customs it seems like a miracle that there
were "only" slightly more than 60.000 traffic deaths in China last
year (as it is alleged)' [Salzburger Nachrichten, 26.11.1994]
c. Dafi Legrenzi sein Lehrer gewesen sein soli, ist unwahrscheinlich.
'That Legrenzi had been his teacher (as it is alleged), is unlikely'
[Salzburger Nachrichten, 27.07.1991]
Embedded evidentials in German 175
d. Es ist schwer zu glauben, dass ich der Vater Deines Kindes sein
soli.
'It is hard to believe that I am the father of your child (as it is al-
leged)' [Berliner Zeitung, 07.06.2005, p.l7]
To summarize, embedded sollenREP can be used in the following three ways
(see Table 2, where 'CTP' stands for the complement taking predicate that
embeds sollenREr).6 The contextually preferred type ofreading depends on a
variety of factors, the probably most important being the type of the em-
bedding predicate. Even the few examples given above suggest that there
are correlations between the type of the matrix predicate and the available
readings of embedded sollenREP The three main types of sollenREP licensing
predicates listed in (18) seem to be associated with the three types of read-
ing distinguished in (20) as indicated in Table 2. The unembedded use of
sollenREP patterns with the embedding under (semi-)factives.
Table 2. Readings of embedded reportative sol/en
Readings ofCTP(sollenRE,(p))
a. A (assertive) CTP(~(p))
b. G (global) ~(p) ~ CTP(p)
c. C (concord) CTP(p)
3.4. Analysis revisited
typical environment
unembedded,
under (semi-)factives
under negative
(doubt/denial) predicates
under communication
predicates
The semantics of sollenREP introduced in Section 3.2.4 wrongly assigns the
A type (assertive) reading to all occurrences of sollenREP. There are two
main options for revising the analysis: (a) an ambiguity analysis that treats
sollenREP as lexically ambiguous between A/G/C readings, and (b) a non-
ambiguity analysis where the various readings ofsollenREP are derived from
a single lexical entry. These two options are explored in the following sec-
tions.
176 Mathias Schenner
3.4.1. Ambiguity analysis
One way to account for the additional readings of embedded sollenREP is to
argue that it is lexically ambiguous between the standard semantics stated
in Section 3.2.4, a concord and a parenthetical reading. In the latter read-
ing, the reportative component is not added to the local DRS, but to the
global DRS. Informally stated and ignoring concord readings for the mo-
ment, we get the following two entries for sollenREP:
(25) a. sollenREP:J(p): add the condition 'f..(xc,p)' to the local DRS
b. sollenREP:2(p): add the condition p to the local DRS and the condi-
tion f..(xc, p) to the global DRS
For example, using sollenREP:J we can derive the A reading of (26a), shown
in (26b), and using sollenREP:J we can derive the G reading, shown in (26c).
(26) a. Bea sagtlweift, dass Anna in Oslo sein soil.
'Bea says/knows that Anna in Oslo be should.'
b. [abo: Anna(a), Bea(b), Oslo(o), say/know(b,[x: f..(x,[: in(a,o)])])]
c. [abo x: Anna(a), Bea(b), Oslo(o), say/know(b,[: in(a,o)]),
f..(x,[: in(a,o)])]
There are other ways of implementing the basic idea that sollenREP has a
non-parenthetical and a parenthetical reading, depending on one's favorite
theory of supplements. For example, using the multidimensional frame-
work of Potts 2005, we could replace (25) by (27).
(27) a. sollenREP:I /..p AxcAW [f..(p)(xc)(w)] <<sa,f>,<ea,<sa,f>>>
b. sollenREP:2 /..p AxcAW [f..(p)(xc)(w)] <<sa,f>,<ea,<sa,{>>>
The difference between (27a) and (27b) is that the assertive (non-
parenthetical) entry (27a) contributes the reportative component to the at-
issue content, while the parenthetical entry (27b) contributes it as a con-
ventional implicature in the sense ofPotts 2005.
No matter what version, the ambiguity approach suffers from several
problems. Without further assumptions, it radically overgenerates in two
cases. First, it does not predict that (and hence cannot explain why) solle-
nREP:J cannot be embedded in many (especially non-factive) contexts.
Second, it does not predict that sollenREP:J cannot be used in matrix clauses.
Embedded evidentials in German 177
Of course, we could come up with some principles that restrict possible
disambiguations of sollenREP, e.g. along the lines in (28).
(28) a. Do not commit the speaker top, if she uttered ' sollen~)
b. Prefer the strongest meaning, i.e. prefer sollenREP:2 to sollenREP:I
However, this line of thought will not be pursued in this paper, since there
is an additional reason to disfavor the ambiguity approach. By economy
considerations, a non-ambiguity approach that does not require a duplica-
tion of lexical entries is to be preferred over the ambiguity approach.
Hence we shift our endeavors to developing a non-ambiguity account of
sollenREP in the next section.
3.4.2. Non-ambiguity analysis: a presuppositional account
If we want a single entry for sollenREP, its meaning has to be, in a sense,
positionally flexible, since the reportative component conveyed by sollenREP
sometimes seems to be contributed to the local DRS, sometimes to the
global DRS. This kind of flexibility is reminiscent of the projection beha-
vior of presuppositions, "agile creatures eager to leave their homes"
(Geurts 1999: 114). In presuppositional DRT, DRSes are constructed in
two steps. First, a preliminary DRS for a sentence is built based on the
lexical meanings of its parts. Presuppositions are explicitly represented
where they are triggered. Second, the sentence is put in context, its presup-
positions are resolved, ultimately leading to the fmal DRS of the sentence.
There are two basic options for the resolution of presuppositions: Binding,
as in (29a), and accommodation, where we can further (minimally) distin-
guish between global (non-local) accommodation as in (29b) and local
(non-global) accommodation as in (29c) (cf. e.g. Geurts 1999).
(29) a. If Anna owns a cat, Anna's cat is black
b. IfAnna's cat is black, she must be happy
c. Either Anna doesn't have a cat or Anna's cat is in hiding
The basic idea of our non-ambiguity analysis of sollenREP is that it triggers a
reportative presupposition 'il(xc, p)' It turns out that the three readings of
(embedded) sollenREP correspond to the three basic projection possibilities
of this presupposition, as shown in Table 3.
178 Mathias Schenner
Table 3. Readings ofembedded reportative sol/en
type ofrea-
ding resolution configuration
A(assertive) local accomm. [CTP](A(xc,p))
typical
environments
unembedded,
under know
G (global) global accomm. A(xc, p)  CTP(p) under doubt
C (concord) binding CTP(p) under say
There is one complication: In the G reading of sollenREP(p), the proposition
p plays a double role, i.e. it is used twice in the semantic representation.
This double usage is typical for supplemental expressions; cf. Potts 2005
for discussion. The proposed semantics of sollenREP (somewhat simplified:
extensional and ignoring tense) is stated in (30). It consists of two parts: (a)
a reportative presupposition, (b) an assertive part that is only activated if
the resolution of the reportative presupposition violates local informativity.
The second part is required for deriving the G reading, as shown below.
(30) sollenREP(p):
(a) o[xc l!l(xc, p)]
(b) p, if the resolution of (a) violates local informativity
The idea that evidential expressions contribute a presupposition is not new
(cf. e.g. Izvorski 1997). However, as will become clear in a moment, the
presupposition of sollenREP in (a) does not behave exactly like a run-of-the-
mill presupposition (if there is such a thing). More specifically, the projec-
tion profile of the sollenREP presupposition features a low accommodation
threshold (thus the possibility of binding does not strictly exclude the pos-
sibility of accommodation). The second component in the semantics of
sollenREP in (30) is an instantiation of the idea that an expression has to
have some effect on its local DRS (local inforrnativity). This condition is
violated, for example, if the reportative presupposition of sol/en~) is
non-locally accommodated. In such a case, local informativity is rescued
by addingp to the local DRS (stripping off sollenREP)
Let's look at some applications. In the following examples, presupposed
material is underlined, conditionally activated material is in italics. The
simplest cases are occurrences of unembedded sol/enREP, as in (3la). Since
binding is not an option here, the reportative component has to be accom-
modated in the local(= global) DRS, satisfying local inforrnativity.
Embedded evidentials in German 179
(31) a. Bea soil in Oslo sein.
Bea should in Oslo be
'It is said that Bea is in Oslo.'
b. [b o K: Bea(b), Oslo(o), il(x,[: in(b,o)]), in(b,o)]
c. [b o x: Bea(b), Oslo(o), il(x,[: in(b,o)])]
If sollenREP is embedded under an utterance predicate, as in (32a), its repor-
tative presupposition can be bound to it. The presence of the conditionally
activated complement of sollenREP might facilitate this process which re-
sults in the concord interpretation in (32c).
(32) a. Anna sagt dass Bea in Oslo sein soli.
Anna says that Bea in Oslo be should
'Anna says that Bea is in Oslo.'
b. [abo: Anna(a), Bea(b), Oslo(o), say(a,[K: il(x,[: in(b,o)]),
in(b,o)])]
c. [abo: Anna(a), Bea(b), Oslo(o), say(a,[: in(b,o)])]
If the reportative presupposition cannot be bound, global accommodation is
the preferred option, as illustrated in (33a). Since global accommodation is
non-local here (in contrast to (3la)), local informativity is violated in
(33c), which triggers the (b) component in (30). The resulting DRS in
(33d) correctly captures the interpretation of (33a).
(33) a. Es ist schwer zu glauben dass Bea in Oslo sein soil.
It is hard to believe that Bea in Oslo be should
'It is hard to believe that Bea is in Oslo (as it is alleged).'
b. [b o: Bea(b), Oslo(o), hard-to-believe([K: il(x,[: in(b,o)]), in(b,o)])]
c. [box: Bea(b), Oslo(o), hard-to-believe([: in(b,o)]), il(x,[: in(b,o)])]
d. [box: Bea(b), Oslo(o), hard-to-believe([: in(b,o)]), il(x,[: in(b,o)])]
If sollenREP occurs in embedded contexts, local accommodation is also an
option, albeit usually a dispreferred one (cf. Section 3.2). For example,
(32a), repeated as (34a), can get the interpretation in (34c), if local ac-
commodation is enforced.
(34) a. Anna sagt dass Bea in Oslo sein soli.
Anna says that Bea in Oslo be should
'Anna says that it is said that Bea is in Oslo.'
180 Mathias Schenner
b. [abo: Anna(a), Bea(b), Oslo(o), say(a,[K: il(x,[: in(b,o)]),
in(b,o)])]
c. [abo: Anna(a), Bea(b), Oslo(o), say(a,[x: il(x,[: in(b,o)])])]
In Section 3.3.2 it was noted that (semi-)factive predicates seem to favor
local accommodation readings. If we assume that presuppositions are re-
solved bottom-up, i.e. presuppositions of deeper embedded triggers are
resolved prior to presuppositions of higher triggers, then we might be able
to explain this finding. For example, semifactive wissen 'know' presuppos-
es that its clausal complement is true. But the content of its complement in
(35a) depends (assuming bottom-up resolution) on the resolution of the
presupposition of sollenREP If the presupposition of sollen~) were ac-
commodated globally, the complement of wissen and hence a presupposi-
tion of the sentence would be p, as shown in (35b). But this would render
the contribution of sollenREP superfluous. By contrast, if the presupposition
of sollenREP is accommodated locally, we get the sensible interpretation in
(35c): "It is said that Bea is in Oslo and Anna knows that"
(35) a. Anna weift dass Bea in Oslo sein soil.
Anna knows that Bea in Oslo be should
b. [abo x: A.(a), B.(b), O.(o), know(a,[: in(b,o)]),
il(x,[: in(b,o)]), in(b,o)]
c. [abo x: A.(a), B.(b), O.(o), know(a,[y: il(y,[: in(b,o)])]),
il(x,[: in(b,o)])]
4. Conclusion
This paper pursued two main goals. The first was to argue for a semantical-
ly narrow but morphologically broad notion of linguistic evidentiality (in
Section 2). The second was to highlight the importance of investigating
evidentials in embedded contexts to uncover some oftheir central semantic
properties. The latter point was illustrated by an investigation of the Ger-
man modal verb sollen 'should' in its reportative use. It has been shown
that sollenREP can be embedded in complement clauses of at least three
classes of embedding predicates: communication predicates, (semi-)factive
predicates and certain negative (denial/doubt) predicates. Embedded occur-
rences of sollenREP can have one of three readings that have been labeled A
(assertive), G (global) and C (concord). The availability of G and C read-
ings are problematic for standard accounts of sollenREP and necessitate a
Embedded evidentials in German 181
more fine-grained analysis. In Section 3.4, two proposals have been consi-
dered that are capable of deriving the additional readings.
An interesting direction for future research is the investigation of re-
strictions on and semantic effects of embedding other types of evidentials
in German, in particular the paradigm of German inferential evidentials
identified by Diewald and Smimova forth.
The systematic cross-linguistic investigation of embedded occurrences
of evidentials has the potential to reshape major theories of evidentiality
that so far tended to exclusively focus on describing the semantic and
pragmatic effects of evidentials in (mostly declarative) root clauses.
Notes
I wish to thank Gabriele Diewald and Elena Smirnova for organizing this in-
spiring workshop. Furthermore I'm indebted to Hans-Martin Gartner, Manfred
Krifka, Rainer Ludwig, Jakob MacM, Fabienne Salfner, Uli Sauerland, Mag-
dalena Schwager, Frank Sode and Hubert Truckenbrodt for stimulating discus-
sions on the topic of my contribution. The research for this paper was funded
by the project CHLaSC in the FP6 Pathfinder Initiative What it means to be
human ofthe European Commission.
1. Speas (2004) explicitly argues that the set of evidence types available for
grammaticalization is rather small. Following her account, we could posit the
universal set I = {Personal Experience, Direct Evidence, Indirect Evidence,
Hearsay}. However, it's not that clear that languages only make use of four
distinct evidential categories. Moreover, we will allow for lexical evidentials
that can encode many more fme-grained sources of information.
2. Simons (2007) introduces the useful notion of the 'main point of utterance' to
characterize parenthetical uses: "the main point of an utterance U of a declara-
tive sentence S is the proposition p, communicated by U, which renders U re-
levant" (p.l 035). In examples "where the embedded clause has main point sta-
tus, the main clause predicate appears to be functioning as a kind of
evidential" (p.1036). A proposition is backgrounded in our sense if it is not the
main point ofutterance in the sense of Simons.
3. This section is based on Schenner 2008.
4. The type of conditional clause may influence the preferred reading; cf. the
distinction between central and peripheral adverbial clauses in Haegeman 2006.
5. For the IDS corpora (DeReKo) cf. http://www.ids-mannheim.de/kl/
projekte/korpora!, for the DWDS corpora cf. http://www.dwds.de/.
6. If 'cTP{p)' entails 'A.(p)', the G and C readings coincide. However, C readings
cannot be reduced to G readings in general. The C reading of the following
example (Uli Sauerland, p.c.) does not entail that somebody claimed or wrote
182 Mathias Schenner
that the princess is a fraud: Keine Zeitung hat geschrieben, dass die Prinzessin
eine Betrilgerin sein soli 'No newspaper wrote that the princess is a fraud'
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y.
2004 Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Asher, Nicholas
2000 Truth conditional discourse semantics for parentheticals. Journal of
Semantics 17: 31-50.
Bentzen, Kristine, et al.
2007 The Tromse guide to the force behind V2. Working Papers in Scan-
dinavian Syntax 79: 93-118.
Chafe, Wallace
1986 Evidentiality in English conversation and academic writing. In Evi-
dentiality: The linguistic coding of epistemology. Chafe, Wallace,
and Johanna Nichols (ed.), 261-272. Norwood: Ablex.
Chung, Kyung-Sook
2005 Space in tense: The interaction of tense, aspect, evidentiality, and
speech act in Korean. Doctoral Dissertation, Simon Fraser Universi-
ty, Burnaby, British Columbia.
Davis, Christopher, Christopher Potts, and Margaret Speas
2007 The pragmatic values of evidential sentences. In Proceedings of
SALT 17 Masayuki Gibson and Tova Friedman (eds.). Ithaca, NY:
CLC Publications.
Diewald, Gabriele, and Elena Smirnova
forth. The German evidential constructions and their ongms: A corpus
based analysis. In Papers presented at the international conference
on tense, aspect, mood, and modality, 18-20 september 2006, Frank
Brisard, Tanja Mortelmans, and Walter de Mulder (eds.). Antwerp:
University ofAntwerp.
Ehrich, Veronika
2001 Was 'nicht mlissen' und 'nicht konnen' (nicht) bedeuten konnen:
Zum Skopus der Negation bei den Modalverben des Deutschen. In
Muller, Reimar and MargaReis (eds.), 149-176.
Faller, Martina
2002 Semantics and pragmatics ofevidentials in Cuzco Quechua. Doctor-
al Dissertation, Stanford University.
2006 Evidentiality below and above speech acts.
http://semanticsarchive.net/Archive/GZiZjBhO/Faller-
evidentiality.above.below.pdf.

Embedded evidentials in German 183
von Fintel, Kai, and Anthony S. Gillies
2007 An opinionated guide to epistemic modality. To appear in Oxford
Studies in Epistemology, Vol. 2, Tamar SzabO Gendler and Jolm
Hawthorne (eds.).
Garrett, Edward Jolm
2001 Evidentiality and assertion in Tibetan. Doctoral Dissertation, UCLA,
Los Angeles.
Geurts, Bart
1999 Presuppositions andPronouns. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
de Haan, Ferdinand
2001 The relation between modality and evidentiality. In Milller, Reimar
and MargaReis (eds.), 201-216.
Haegeman, Liliane
2006 Argument fronting in English, Romance CLLD and the left peri-
phery. In Cross-Linguistic Research in Syntax and Semantics: Nega-
tion, Tense and Clausal Architecture, Zanuttini R., H. Campos, E.
Herburger and P. Portner (eds.), 27-52. Washington: Georgetown
University Press.
Hengeveld, Kees
2006 Evidentiality and reportativity in Functional Discourse Grammar.
Presentation at TAM TAM Workshop, Radboud University Nijmegen.
Ifantidou, Elly
2001 Evidentials and relevance. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Izvorski, Roumyana
1997 The present perfect as an epistemic modal. Proceedings of SALT 7:
222-239.
Kamp, Hans, and Uwe Reyle
1993 From Discourse to Logic. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Kratzer, Angelika
1991 Modality. In Semantik: Ein internationales Handbuch der zeitgenos-
sischen Forschung (HSK 6), Arnim von Stechow and Dieter Wunder-
lich (eds.), 639-650. Berlin/New York: de Gruyter.
Lazard, Gilbert
1999 Mirativity, evidentiality, mediativity, or other? Linguistic Typology
3: 91-110.
Letnes, Ole
1997 'Sollen' als Indikator fuer Redewiedergabe. In Aspekte der Modalitiit
im Deutschen - auch in kontrastiver Sicht, Studien zu Deutsch als
Fremdsprache 3, F. Debus and Oddleif Leirbukt (eds.), 119-134.
Hildesheim: Olms.
Matthewson, Lisa, Henry Davis, and Hotze Rullmann
2007 Evidentials as epistemic modals: Evidence from St'at'imcets, Ms.,
University ofBritish Columbia.
184 Mathias Schenner
McCready, Eric, and Norry Ogata
2007 Evidentiality, modality and probability. Linguistics and Philosophy
30: 147-206.
Mithun, Marianne
1999 The languages of native North America. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Mortelmans, Tanja
2000 On the evidential nature of the epistemic use of the German modals
'mussen' and 'sollen' In Modal verbs in Germanic and Romance
Languages, Belgian Journal ofLinguistics 14, Johan van der Auwera
and Patrick Dendale (eds.), 131-148. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Ben-
jamins.
MUller, Reimar, and Marga Reis (eds.)
2001 Modalitat und Modalverben im Deutschen. Hamburg: Buske.
Nuyts, Jan
2001 Epistemic modality, language, and conceptualization: A cognitive-
pragmatic perspective. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Palmer, Frank R.
1986 Mood and modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Papafragou, Anna
2006 Epistemic Modality and Truth Conditions, Lingua 116: 1688-1702.
Potts, Christopher
2005 The Logic of Conventional Implicatures. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Rooryck, Johan
2001 Evidentiality. Part I. GLOT 5: 125-133.
Sauerland, Uli, and Mathias Schenner
2007 Embedded Evidentials in Bulgarian. In Proceedings of Sinn und
Bedeutung 11, E. Puig-Waldmilller (ed.), 495-509. Barcelona: Un-
iversitat Pompeu Fabra.
Schenner, Mathias
2008 Double face evidentials in German: Reportative 'sollen' and 'wollen'
in embedded contexts. In Proceedings of Sinn und Bedeutung 12,
2009
Atle Gmnn(ed.), 552-566. Oslo: UniversityofOslo.
Evidentials in Complex Sentences: Foundational Issues and Data
from Turkish and German. To appear in Evidentiality, R.-M. De-
chaine, et al. (eds.), UBC Working Papers.
Simons, Mandy
2007 Observations on embedding verbs, evidentiality, and presupposition.
Lingua 117: 1034-1056.
Speas, Margaret
2004 Evidentiality, logophoricity and the syntactic representation of prag-
matic features. Lingua 114: 255-276.
Embedded evidentials in German 185
Stenzel, Kristine Sue
2004 A reference grammar of Wanano. Doctoral Dissertation, University
ofColorado, Colorado.
Willet, Thomas L.
1988 A cross-linguistic survey of the grammaticalization of evidentiality.
Studies in Language 12: 51-97.
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in
Turkish
Hatice Co:jkun
Turkish subordinations are mostly formed by morphological (or synthetic) means.
This so-called canonical subordination uses non-finite units. Beside synthetic sub-
ordination in Turkish, there are marginal alternative subordination strategies, either
asyndetic or using conjunctions or interrogative pronouns. Among other tasks, such
analytical subordination strategies license the possibility of embedding evidentially
marked clauses. This paper focuses on the embeddable evidential clause types in
Turkish and the semantic and pragmatic properties ofthe predicates they select.1
1. Introduction
Recent cross-linguistical typological studies based on Turkic languages,
Eastern Porno, Abkhaz and Baniwa treat the embedding of evidentiality as
a phenomenon which is not licensed in dependent clauses (cf. Aikhenvald
2004: 253). Turkish possesses a grammatical means for expressing eviden-
tials (the perfect inflection suffix -ml~ for verbal clauses and the clitic form
-(y)m1~2 for nominal ones), which do not primarily express evaluation or
assessment of the truth of the utterance. They state the existence of a
source of evidence for a propositional content. This propositional content
may be acknowledged through hearsay, inference or perception.
On hearing from Ay~e or from someone else that she is pregnant:
(1) Ay~e hamile-ymi.
A. pregnant-INDR.CLIT
'I heard that Ane is pregnant.'
On finding that one's glasses are not in one's bag or pocket:
(2) Gozliig-ilm-il yan-zm-a al-ma-m1~-zm.
eyeglass-1SG-ACC side-1SG-DAT take-NEG-INDR/PERF-1 SG
'It turns out I haven't brought my glasses with me.'
188 Hatice Co~kun
After tasting some coffee:
(3) Kahve c;ok ~ekerli-ymi.
coffee very sugary-INDR.CLIT
'As I tasted the coffee is very sugary.'
It has often been argued that the evidential sentence types in Turkic lan-
guages are limited to asserted sentences, i.e. main clauses with a stated,
contradictable content (cf. Johanson 2000: 61, 2006: 81). It is true that
evidentially marked propositions do not appear as embedded clauses that
are integrated into sentence, such as non-finite embedded clauses. Such are
relative clauses and nominalized complement clauses or non-finite adver-
bial clauses which are marked by converbs, participles etc. But unlike non-
finite subordinate clauses, finite subordinate clauses are similar to main
clauses in that they are asserted. Johanson claims that the embedded clause
in (4) illustrates purely postterminal value, but we will provide some data
to show that finite subordinate clauses may occur with evidential content
as well.
(4) <Ali'-yi
A.-ACC
ol-mii!;>
die-INDRIPERF
'I thought Ali had died.'
san-dz-m.
believe-PRET-1SG
Insofar as the main clause character of fmite subordination licenses eviden-
tiality, the following examples may still have an evidential meaning. The
discourse context below illustrates three finite complementation strategies:
complement clauses with complementizer ki (5), bare finite complement
clauses (6) and complement clauses with complementizer diye3 (7).
Context: Ali and Veli are twins and students of the same class. Veli
takes an exam for his brother, but their teacher notices it because ofVeli's
handwriting. She calls their mother into her office, and discussing the mat-
ters, utters sentence (5). Ay~e and Fatma, two colleagues of hers, are also
at the office and overhear the conversation; Ay~e says (6) and Fatma (7).
(5) Teacher:
Anla-dz-m <ki smav-a gir-en Ali
understand-PRET-lSG COMP exam-OAT enter-PART Ali
degil de karde~-i Veli-ymi. >
not CONI brother- 3SG V.-INDR.CLIT
'I found out that it was Veli who took the exam, not Ali.
(6)
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 189
Ay~e:
<Smav-a Ali degil de
exam-OAT A. not
san-zr-zm
think-AOR-lSG
ba~ka-sz
CONJother-3SG
gir-mi~>
enter-INORIPERF
'I think, as I heard, that someone else took the exam, not Ali.'
(7) Fatma:
Ben <smav-a Ali 'nin yer-in-e karde~-i
I exam-OAT A.-GEN place-3SG-OAT brother-3SG
gir-mi~ (diye/> anla-dz-m.
enter-INORIPERF (COMP) understand-PRET-1SG
'I understand, as I heard, that Ali's brother took the exam instead
ofhim.'
Contrary to the general assumption that only main clauses may be asserted
and only embedded clauses may be presupposed, Hooper claimed that also
embedded V2 clauses in English may convey an assertion. Hence, certain
complex sentences may contain two assertions (Hooper 1975: 117). Fur-
ther cross-linguistic observations have indicated that embedded asserted
clauses have illocutionary force and thus perform a speech act of their
own.5 Note that there are cases of indirect assertions, too; they are state-
ments by someone else merely reported by the speaker, as in (8) (cf. Hoo-
per 1975, Julien 2007: 113).
(8) Ahmet, <ameliyat ba~arzll gec;-mi~> san-zyor.
A. operation successful happen-INORIPERF think-PR.PROG
'Ahmet thinks the operation was reported to be successful.'
Turkish evidentials state the existence of a source of evidence for a propo-
sitional content without specifying it, i.e., the way in which the event is
acknowledged by the recipient is not criteria!. The reception may be rea-
lized through hearsay, inference or perception (cf. Johanson 2003: 274,
Johanson 2006: 73). Johanson has briefly touched upon the non-
specification of evidentials. According to him some lexical means like
apparently, allegedly or higher clauses with complementation markers like
it seems that, they say that, I hear that may compensate such an ambiguity
(cf. Johanson 2006: 86). Johanson's short comment indicates that the spe-
cification of the source is an optional strategy. Accordingly the present
paper also focusses on the role of the embedding of predicates as elements
specifying the information source.6
190 Hatice Co~kun
The questions that our paper aims to answer are the following:
1. To what extent are sentences with evidential content embeddable?
2. What kind of embedding strategies are there, and under which type of
embedding predicates are evidentials embedded?
3. What discourse-pragmatic factors determine the embedding of eviden-
tials and the selection of embedding predicates and complementizers?
1.1. Aim and organization of the paper
In the first section we offer a sketch of the Turkish subordination system
and present the properties ofthe evidential category in this language. In the
second and third sections we analyse the data7 on evidentiality, particularly
with respect to embedding strategies of evidential sentence types. The
fourth section consists of a summary and conclusions.
1.2. General properties of Turkish subordination
Turkish, a Turkic language (Oghuz branch), is spoken by nearly 70 million
speakers in Turkey and by more than 4 million in Western Europe, North
America and Australia. Turkish dialects are also spoken in Bulgaria, Cy-
prus, Greece, Macedonia, Iraq and Romania. Azeri (spoken in Azerbaijan
and Iran), Qashghai (Iran) and Gagauz (Moldavia) are close to Turkish.
The set of data presented here is from Modem Standard Turkish, which
developed from the Istanbul dialect.8
Turkish is an agglutinative language, whose unmarked word order is
SOV; its focus position is immediately before the verb and its topic posi-
tion is sentence initial (cf. Erguvanh 1984, Goksel and Kerslake 2005).
Turkish subordination is mostly formed by morphological (synthetic)
means. To subordinate clauses, one uses non-finite units as predicators,
using converbs as those ending in -(y)lp, -(y)ArAk (cf. example (9)) or -
(y)IncA, verbal nouns as those in -rnA, -m.Ak or -(y)I~, and participles like-
DIK or -(y)AcAK, as in (10) (cf. Goksel and Kerslake 2005).
(9) Ev-den <ko~-arak> c;lk-tz.
house-ABL run-CONV go out-PRET
'Slhe went running out of the house.'
(10)
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 191
Ta~z-n-acak e~ya-lar-z
carry-PASS-FUT.PART furniture-PL-ACC
'S/he has packaged the furniture to transported.'
paketle-di.
package-PRET
However, there also are analytical means for forming subordinate clauses
such as complement and adverbial clauses; verbal predicates of analytical
subordinate clauses are finite, as the ones ofmain clauses. While the predi-
cates of non-finite clauses are only verbal, as in (10), the predicates of fi-
nite clauses may be verbal or nominal, as in (11) and (12) respectively.
Finite subordinate clauses are realized with subordinators like diye, ki,
madem (ki), as in (11) and (13) or are bare, as in example (12).
(11) <Ali
A.
gel-ecek
come-FUT
diye>
COMP
bekle-di-m.
wait-PRET-1SG
'I waited thinking that Ali would come.'
(12) Ali <hasta-yzm> san-mz~.
Ali sick-lSG think-INDRIPERF
'Somebody told me Ali thought I am sick.'
(13) De-di-m <ki Ali gel-sin.>
say-PRET-lSG COMP A. come-OPT
'I said: Ali should come.'
While Turkish non-finite subordination is always left-branching,9 as in
(10), finite subordination may be left-branching, as in (11) and (12), or
right-branching, as in (13). Sezer (2001: 4) points out that in Turkic lan-
guages a finite verb must minimally contain a main tense and agreement
marker in that order to be well formed. Unlike Sezer, Schroeder (2000b:
86) posits the person marker of the predicate as the minimal criterion of
finiteness, as shown by (12).
1.3. Evidentials in Turkish and indirectivity
Indirectivity as an evidential category indicates that the propositional con-
tent of the utterance is reached in an indirect way, and which refers to its
reception by a conscious subject. Its core meaning may be formulated as 'it
appears to the recipient that X is the case' The recipient, who is or be-
comes aware of X, may be the speaker as a participant of the speech event,
or a participant of the narrated event, e.g. a protagonist in a narrative (cf.
Johanson 2003: 274,2006: 71, 73).
192 Hatice Co~kun
As mentioned, Turkish possesses the grammatical means of expressing
indirectivity, i.e., the verbal suffix -ml~ and the originally copular imi~,
now mostly used in its cliticized form -(y)mlfl (cf. Johanson 2000, 2006;
Csat6 2000). While the perfective verbal suffix -ml~ has a postterminal
aspect which refers to anteriority, imi~ has no tense or aspect content and
can be added to inflected verb forms. However, it is not compatible with
preterite -Dl and the copular idil-(y)dl. Hence, the aspectual meaning of a
sentence with inflected verb form and -(y)ml~ is identical to that of the
same sentence without evidential marking (cf. Johanson 1971 : 63-64,
2006: 75). Furthermore, unlike the -ml~ form, -(y)ml~ cannot carry high
pitch, as in (1) (cf. Johanson 2000, 2006; Csat6 2000). -ml~ is used both
for finite and non-finite forms. 10 Its non-finite use occurs in relative and
constituent clauses, where it stands for relative anteriority and is postter-
minal; i.e., it refers to situations where the relevant limit of the event has
already passed 'having done' as in (14) (cf. Johanson 1971: 283,2000: 62).
(14) agac;-tan yer-e dii~-mii~ bir elma
tree-ABL ground-OAT fall-PERF.PART an apple
'an apple (that has) fallen from the tree to the ground' (Kom:filt 1997:
416).
In finite use it yields different functions which can be interpreted as infe-
rential, hearsay, reportive, or perceptionallmirative. Further extensions
related to these core meanings are surprise and distance (cf. Aksu-Kov
2000, Johanson 2003).
i. Reportive/quotative/hearsay: The narrated or reported content comes
from some other speaker; corresponds to English reportedly, allegedly, as
they say etc., as in (15):
(15) Ay~e arkada~-zn-da kal-1yor-mu~.
A. friend-3SG-LOC stay-PR.PROG-INDR.CLIT
'Ayf}e is/was reportedly staying with her friend.'
ii. Inferential: The information on which the utterance is based is in-
ferred from reasoning or pure reflection coming from indirect evidence or
previous personal experiences; i.e., the speaker concludes/has concluded
that the uttered matter is the case, as in (16). Their English translation can
be formulated as as far as the speaker understands/understood or the like.
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 193
(16) Ders-i dinle-r-ken uyu-mu~-um.
lesson-ACC listen-AOR-CONJ sleep-INDRIPERF-lSG
'While listening to the lesson, I appear to have fallen asleep.'
iii. Perceptional/mirative: The account is based on the direct perception or
discovery of an unexpected event or state of affairs or the unexpected ef-
fects, traces, or consequences of some event, as in (17) (cf. Aksu-Kov and
Slobin 1986). The speaker himself witnesses the event he is reporting on.
This perceptional aspect may correspond to English as I perceive or as is
evident to me as in (3) (cf. Johanson 2000, 2006).
(17) Bebek silt-iln hep-sin-i i9-mi~!
Baby milk-GEN all-3SG-ACC drink-INDRIPERF
'Oh, the baby has drunk all the milk!' (Johanson 2006: 83)
1.4. Some earlier approaches to indirectives in Turkic languages
The indirective marker -ml~ was first treated in the 11th century in
Kasgari's D'lwiin Lugiiti 't-Turk (Compendium of the Turkic Dialects) as a
grammatical means indicating that the action occured during the speaker's
absence: ol barmis 'He went, but I did not see him go';11 ol kiilmiS 'He
came, but I did not see him'; iiwkii barmiS 'He went to the house, but I did
not observe it'; ol maiJa kiilmis 'He came to me, but I did not know it';
barmiiduq12 'He did not go, as far as I have heard or suppose'; kiilmiidiik
'He has not yet come, as far as I know' Kasgari's examples marked with
the preterite form -Dl, on the other hand, convey that the action occured in
the presence of the speaker: bardi 'He went, and I saw him go with my
own eyes'; barmiidi 'He definitely did not go'; kiilmiidi 'He definitely did
not come' (297-299). Kasgari pointed out that when -ml~ is in adjectival
position it indicates only past tense and functions as the passive participle:
qurmis ya 'a strung bow' qazmis ariq 'a canal that has been dug out'
(297). This shows that, already at that time, the indirective meaning of -ml~
was not licensed by non-finite usages like participles (cf. Dankoff and
Kelly 1982: 1985).
Lewis ([1967] 2000: 99) used the term inferential for referring to indi-
rectives im Turkish and formulated the content of the -(y)ml~ clitic as 'he
is/was said to be' or 'I infer that he is/was although I had not realized it
before'
194 Hatice Co~kun
In his monograph on the Turkish aspect system, Johanson (1971) dealt
with the actionality properties of -m/'-marked utterances with respect to
their viewpoint value and tense. He followed Lewis (1967) in using the
term inferential to refer to the indirective aspect of the -ml' form. He
pointed out that finite -ml' may convey clear inferential shades ofmeaning
rooted in its postterminality,13 though not expressing doubt or confirmation
concerning the event (cf. Johanson 1971: 282, 288).
According to the observations of Aksu-Ko.;: (1988, 1994, 2000) and Ak-
su-Kat;: and Slobin (1986), the -ml' form expressing unwitnessed or indi-
rectly experienced events is acquired later in childhood than the forms in -
Dl and -(I)yor, which express completed and ongoing action respectively.
Aksu-Ko.;: and Slobin (1986: 160-161) treat Turkish indirectivity from a
cognitive angle. They state that indirectives emphasize "the externality of
the process to the speaker's awareness", considering this point to be the
core of all uses of -ml': "In psychological terms, the use of -ml' represents
an experience of which the speaker has had no premonitory awareness."
According to them, -ml' conveys new information which is not yet part of
the speaker's integrated picture ofthe world.
Johanson (2000: 82-83; 2006: 83), on the other hand, states that features
such as surprise, relative novelty, and discovery contrary to expectation
are not core meanings of indirectivity, but connotations of it. He stresses
that it is not possible to interpret the reportive and inferential uses as deriv-
ing from a central notion such as surprise. Further contributions on the
evidential system of Turkish and of a number of languages related to or in
contact with it appeared in Johanson and Utas (2000), dwelling on syn-
chronic and diachronic aspects of the topic from a cross-linguistic perspec-
tive.
Johanson's other observation with respect to the source of information
is the perceptive use of the -ml' form, i.e., an event or its effect is per-
ceived by the speaker. The perceived event may be based on first-hand
knowledge, direct perception or indirect perception, i.e., the effects, traces,
or consequences of the completed event are perceived, noticed or discov-
ered (cf. Johanson 2000: 66, 77, 82). Hence, the content marked by the
simple -ml' form is not necessarily based on a foreign source or on logical
conclusion. Johanson indentifies the perceptional use of the -ml' form as
the basic reason of his use of the term indirectivity to refer to the evidential
system of Turkish, because the perceptional content of the -ml' marker
does not fit into the evidential schemes which distinguish between the
speaker's first-hand and non-first-hand evidence (cf. Johanson 2006: 73).
The fact that the perceptional meaning of -ml' and -(y)ml' cannot be de-
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 195
rived from their reportive or inferential meaning is illustrated as follows
(Johanson 2000: 68):
9orba guzel olmu~ 'The soup is (as I perceive by tasting) very good' is
based on an indirective meaning of 'as I perceive' or 'as is evident to me' It
may be interpreted as a normal postterminal use, i.e., as based on perception
of effects after the transgression of the relevant limit ol- 'become/come into
being/tum out' The use in a sentence such as Ahmet gelmi~ 'Ahmet has
come' can even be based on direct perception of the event itself. (Johanson
2000: 82)
A further observation is made by Csat6 and concerns the distinctions be-
tween the preterite -DI and perfect -ml~ forms which both refer to anterior-
ity. Csat6, following Johanson (1971: 63, 2000: 63), argues that the "-DI
form refers to events historically, i.e., refers directly to the occurence of an
event, while -ml~ items often indicate the diagnostic use, i.e., refer to an
event after its completion." (Csat6 2000: 30-31).14 Johanson considers the-
DI form as unmarked, i.e., neutral in contrast to the -ml~ form which marks
indirectivity (2000: 65): -DI may be used both for direct or indirect expe-
rience, i.e., it can be used for unwitnessed, uncontrolled, reported or in-
ferred events, as in (18). The -DI form covers in Turkish also both perfect
and preterite functions, because it lacks a competing pure postterminal,
e.g. gel-di come-PRET 'has come/came.' (cf. Johanson 2006: 76).
(18) Kemal Pa~a, Selanik'-te dog-du.
Kemal Pa~a Salonika-LOC be born-PRET
'(Atatiirk) Kemal Pa~a was born in Salonika.' (Johanson 2003: 282).
Some other observations by Johanson concern semantic distinctions be-
tween indirective clitic markers of Turkic languages. For instance in Uy-
gur, Uzbek, Kazakh and Turkmen -(y)ml~ (<er-mis) tends towards repor-
tive uses and ikenleken (<er-ken) towards non-reportive (inferential and
perceptional) uses. The contextual interpretation and semantic extensions
of indirective markers to testimony, involvement, factuality, and distance
are also additional aspects Johanson deals with (cf. Johanson 2003).
Erdal (2004: 273) uses the term status for his observations related to in-
directivity in his Grammar of Old Turkic. Status expresses "whether the
information which the speaker/writer supplies to the addressee reached his
(the speaker's) consciousness directly or indirectly." Erdal also emphasizes
the distinction between status and epistemic modality, which refers to the
speaker's attitude toward the credibility of the content of his utterance and
196 Hatice Co~kun
he states that the status category does not itself refer to reliability. He
points out that the indirective status of Old Turkic is similar to Turkish,
i.e., the verb form iir-mi~ is added to nominal or verbal sentences when
referring to indirectivity not posterrninality. However, the -ml~ form, which
serves also as perfect participle, replaces the preterite element -Dl when
referring to past and indirectivity.
Unlike Johanson, Erdal calls the third core function of -ml~ as mirative.
He states that the reported direct perception of the event by the speaker is
registered with surprise, because the speaker's mind was not in any way
prepared for this particular event.
Concerning Old Turkic (spoken in Mongolia and Western China a mil-
lenium ago) Erdal observes the use of -mA-dOk instead of -mA-ml~ under
negation:
Status is not an obligatory category in Turkic, which means that the use of a
directive form like -dl does not guarantee that the addressee has actually
witnessed the unfolding event. When the content is negative, -mA-dOk is
used in most of Old Turkic instead of -mls; the use of -mA-mJS sets in only
in rather late Old Turkic. The reasons for this suppletion may lie in content:
Evidentiality is the perhaps oldest function of the finite -mls in this lan-
guage, and an event which did not take place can have produced no evi-
dence. (Erdal 2004: 273)
1.5. Contextual interpretations and discourse types of indirectivity
Jndirectivity is restricted to certain discourse types either by its core mean-
ing or its further contextual readings. Johanson's observations on this mat-
ter are summed up below (cf. Johanson 2006). Indirectives bear neither
dubitative nor presumptive meanings. However, combinations with sanki
'as if' and giiya 'as if, supposedly' convey dubitative meanings, as in (19).
(19) may also be interpreted as non-dubitative if the verbal form is
stressed.
(19) Sanki anla-mz~.
as if understand-INDRJPERF
a) 'It is as if s/he has understood (but I don't believe it).'
b) 'S/he seems to have understood.'
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 197
A further contextual meaning regards emotional or cognitive distance.
Indirectives make it possible for speakers to distance themselves from the
event or responsibility of the expressed content, as if saying 'I am just
quoting, not asserting'
As mentioned above, the specification of the source of information is
not criteria! for indirectivity. This allows speakers to be vague about
sources that they do not want to lay open to view (cf. Johanson 2006: 85-
86). Johanson states that indirectives mostly occur in discourse types with
subjective registers which focus on the immediate situation and the person-
al involvement of the speaker. They prototypically represent direct interac-
tion, immediate face-to-face communication, conversations, speeches and
oral narratives. The texts in which they occur mostly exhibit coordinate
clause-linkage techniques yielding numerous short root clauses.
Unlike subjective discourse types, indirectives are not easily used in ob-
jective styles like descriptive texts with specifically informative contents.
Such registers have a higher degree of formality, less personal involvement
of the text producer and occur, e.g., in planned written discourse. There-
fore they indicate a low degree of expressivity. With respect to the unspe-
cified information source, indirectives are open to several interpretations.
Hence, the ambiguity of indirectives is another reason of avoidance by
objective registers of modem media which require less ambiguous expres-
sions. Fairy-tales, on the other hand, are a-prototypical discourse type for
indirectives (cf. Johanson 2006: 85-86).
1.6. Turkish indirective sentence types
Indirectives may occur in the following sentence types:
Declarative sentences
(20) Ay~e hamile-ymi~.
A. pregnant-INDR.CLIT
'I heard that Ane is pregnant.'
Interrogative sentences: i. Polar interrogative sentences:
(21) Araba-m-zn once-ki sahib-i ~anzzman
car-lSG-GEN before-ATTR owner-3SG gearbox
yag-m-z degi~-tir-t-mi~ mi?
oil-3SG-ACC change-CAUS-CAUS-INDRIPERF INTR
'Were you told whether the previous owner of my car had the gear
oil changed?'
198 Hatice Co~kun
Interrogative sentences: ii. Alternative questions:
(22) Ali gel-mi~ mi git-mi~
A. come-INDRIPERF INTR leave-INDRIPERF
mi?
INTR
'Has Ali come or left, according to what you heard?' (Johanson
2006: 82).
Interrogative sentences: iii. Wh-interrogative sentences:
(23) Sen yok-ken bilgisayar-zn-da kim ne
you absence-CONI computer-2SG-LOC who what
yap-m1~?
do-
INDRIPERF
'According to what you heard, who did what with your computer
while you were away?' www.hackbank.gen.tr/arsiv-konu-1782.0-
sen-yokken-bilgisayarinda-kim-ne-yapmis-ogren.html
The indirective operator is in the scope of the interrogative operator. In
indirective questions the speaker anticipates an indirective answer but does
not express any assumption about the addressee's source ofknowledge. An
indirective question corresponds to English 'did you (or someone else) get
any information on whether/what/who ... ?'
On the one hand indirectivity is generally incompatible with sentences
used for non-indicative speech acts, like imperatives, e.g. Gel! 'come!' On
the other hand the use of indirective clitic cancels the strength of a perfor-
mative utterance; 'I (hereby) promise', e.g., loses its performative force if
the indirective marker is added:
(24) Soz ver-iyor-mu~-um.
word give-PR.PROG-INDR.CLIT-lSG
,It turns out that I am making a promise.' (Johanson 2006: 81).
The indirective clitic -(y)ml~ may occur with subjective moods such as
optative, as in (25) , necessitative and debitive, as in (26), which evaluate
the actuality of an event in terms of moral or similar norms: it appears that
X should be the case (cf. Johanson 2006: 81-82).
(25) Sonra-dan gel-en-fer git-sin-mi~. 15
later-ABL come-PART-PL go-OPT-INDR.CLIT
'As I hear, those who arrived later are expected to leave.'
(26) Git-meli-ymi~-im.
go-DEB-INDR.CLIT-lSG
'He says I ought to go/It turns out I need to go.' (Johanson 2006: 82).
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 199
Indirectives are not within the scope of negation; i.e. the scope of negation
is the action, not the indirective, as in (27) and (28) (cf. Johanson 2003:
286).
(27) Ay~e arkada~-zn-da kal-m1-yor-mu~.
A. friend-3SG-LOC stay-NEG-PR.PROG-INDR.CLIT
'I hear that Ay~e is/was not staying with her friend.'
(28) Ahmet hasta degil-mi~.
A. sick NEG-INDR.CLIT
'Reportedly Ahmet is/was not sick.'
Indirectives also occur in certain expressive speech acts such as exclama-
tions expressing surprise. This can be interpreted in particular discourse
contexts as sudden awareness of revealed facts, mental unpreparedness
etc., as in (29) (cf. Aksu-Kov and Slobin 1986).
(29) Bu klz ne gilzel-mi~!
This girl what beautiful-INDR.CLIT
'How beautiful this girl is!' (Johanson 2006: 83).
2. Subordinated indirective sentence types
As mentioned before, in Turkish there are two types of subordination, fi-
nite and non-finite. As Ka~gari (297) already indicated in the 11th century,
the non-finite use of -ml~ as perfect participle does not convey any indirec-
tive content. -ml~ form followed by the auxiliaries ol- 'to be' and bulun-
'to be found (to)' in periphrastic combinations have no indicative value:
(30) Oku-mu~
read-PERF
ol-dug-u
AUX-PART-3SG
kitab-1
book-ACC
kaybet-ti.
lose-PRET
'Sihe lost the book (that) s/he had read.' (Goksel and Kerslake
2005: 452).
Unlike the non-finite subordination of the -ml~ form, certain finite subor-
dinate clauses marked with -ml~ have appeared since Old Turkic (7th-11th
century) with indirective content. In the following instance of Old Turkic
the -ml~ marker cannot be interpreted as postterminal, but rather as indirec-
tive; using the quotative converb tepiin (<say-converb suffix), the speaker
reports a content told by others:
200 Hatice Co~kun
OIJra na bar armis tepan biltimiz, tal)rili yakli nada otro sw.rusmis, yarokl'i
karal'i kalt'i katllmis, yerig tal)rig kim yaratmis tepan biltimiz (Xw 134-6)
'we know what there was before, why the gods and the devils fought, how
light and dark mixed, and who created the earth and the sky.' " bulmaz
armis tep sav asidti (Suv 621,20) 'She heard the news that they were not
finding (Erdal2004: 274)
2.1. Adverbial clauses
Certain fmite adverbial and complement clauses may convey indirective
content. An adverbial clause is "a subordinate clause that functions in the
same way an adverb or adverbial phrase does in a simple sentence" (Korn-
filt 1997: 66). There are three types of canonical adverbial clauses in Tur-
kish, two of which are non-finite:
a. ModifYing adverbial clauses: This type of adverbial clauses may be
realized with converbs such as -(y)ArAk, as in footnote 17 (b) and with
some complex morphological means in other ways: These are nomina-
lizing suffix like participles, verbal nouns, which may be marked with
case or followed by postpositions, as shown in footnote 17 (a) (cf.
Csat6 and Johanson 1998: 232-233).
b. Non-modifYing adverbial clauses: This type of adverbial clauses are
realized with the converb
c. -(y)lp, which is similar to the semantic function of the English coor-
dinative conjunction 'and' (cf. Csat6 and Johanson 1998: 231-232).
d. Conditional clauses, using the conditional verb form, either by itself or
with a conjunction.
The non-canonical adverbial clauses are finite. Their linkage may be bare
(asyndetic) or they may be subordinated through subordinators like diye or
like madem (ki).
2.1. I. Barefinite adverbial clauses
Bare finite adverbial clauses marked with -ml~ are of two types. The first
type is similar to non-modifYing adverbial clauses (such as clauses with -
(y)Ip) in not carrying any agreement marker and depending on the matrix
clause for tense reference, as in (31). Hence, they actually do not have a
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 201
real finite character, although they overtly seem finite. In this type, the -ml~
clause never has any indirective content.
(31) Ben hzrs-zm-1 al-ama-mz~, delice
I anger-lSG-ACC take-IMPSB-PERF madly
bagzr-zyor-du-m: ...
cry-PR.PROG-COP- lSG
'I could not tame my anger and shouted like mad:... ('Not being
able to tame my anger I shouted:... ') (Schroeder 2000a: 134)16
The second type of bare adverbial clauses with -ml~ is conditional clauses,
which have an indirective content. Turkish conditional clauses are regarded
as a sub-type of adverbial clauses (cf. Kornfilt 1997: 74), although they
differ from other adverbial clauses because the subordinated conditional
predicates take a person marker e.g. git-se-ymi~-im (go-COND-
INDR.CLIT-lSG) 'if, s/he says, I had gone' Non-finite subordinated
clauses (e.g. certain adverbial clauses and complement clauses with nomi-
nalized predicates) on the other hand may bear only possessive suffixes,
which refer to the subject of the subordinated clause, not a person mark-
er.17 Hence, conditional clauses have a more finite character, although they
are dependent as they cannot stand alone (cf. Erkman-Akerson 2000: 172-
173, Goksel and Kerslake 2005: 486). Conditional clauses are formed with
the verbal suffix -sA added to pure verbal stems and the copular marker -
(y)sA (<ise) added to inflected verbs and nouns. In the examples (32) and
(33) both the conditional clause and the matrix clause refer to a reportive
source.
(32) <Di~9i-ye birka9 ay once git-se-ymi~-im>
dentist-OAT few month earlier go-COND-INDR.CLIT-lSG
di~-im-i kurtar-abil-ecek-mi~.
tooth-1SG-ACC save-PSB-FUT-INDR.CLIT
'Somebody (presumably the dentist) says that s/he (the dentist)
could have been able to save my tooth if I had gone to him/her
earlier.' (Goksel and Kerslake 2005: 497)
(33) <Para-sz yok-mu~-sa> neden ev
money- SG non.existent-INDR.CLIT-COND.COP why home
al-ma-ya kalk-mz~?
buy-VN-DAT stand- INDRIPERF
'If (as is claimed) slhe has no money, why has slhe taken it into
202 Hatice Co~kun
his/her head to buy a flat?' (Goksel and Kerslake 2005: 500)
2.1.2. Finite adverbial clauses with the subordinators madem (ki) and diye
The subordinator diye follows the embedded clauses and precedes the ma-
trix clause and occurs in relatively informal registers. As a subordinator it
marks complement clauses as well. It may reflect its original meaning 'say-
ing' (de- 'say' + -(y)A converb suffiX) or, by extention, 'thinking' This
meaning of diye is extended to cause, purpose, precaution, or understand-
ing.18 The embedded clause with diye expresses a cause which refers to a
reportive source:
(34) Cumhurbakam Gill, < SuudiArabistan kral-1 Abdullah '-m
president Giil Saudi Arabia king-3SG A.-GEN
ayag-m-a git-mi diye> eletir-il-iyor.
foot-3SG-DAT go-INDRIPERF SUBDR criticise-PASS-PR.PROG
'President Giil is criticized for making a personal visit to the Saudi
Arabian king Abdullah.'
http://www.cafesiyaset.com/haber/20071113/Gulun-yaptigi-
dogrudur.php
madem the other subordinator we mentioned may precede the subordinated
clause or follow it. Unlike madem, madem ki mostly does not follow the
subordinated clause, but introduces it. Both of them express the piece of
information upon which the speaker bases the question or modalized utter-
ance contained in the main clause (cf. Goksel and Kerslake 2005: 465). As
the following examples (35) and (36) indicate, that the embedded asser-
tions refer to a reportive source.
(35) <Madem para-sl yok-mu> neden ev
SUBDR money-3SG non-existent-INDR.CLIT why home
al-ma-ya kalk-ml?
buy-VN-DAT stand- INDRIPERF
'Since (as is claimed) he has no money, why has he taken it into his
head to buy a flat?'
(36) <Madem ki seksen ya-m-da-ki komu-m
SUBDR eighty year-3SG-LOC-ATTR neighbour-lSG
bilgisayar kullan-ma-yz ogren-mi,>
computer use-VN-ACC learn-INDRIPERF
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 203
ben de ogren-ebil-ir-im.
I PRTCL1eam-PSB-AOR-1SG
'Seeing that my eighty-year-old neighbour has learned to use a
computer, I can learn it too.' (Goksel and Kerslake 2005: 465)
2.2. Complementation and indirectivity
The term complementation refers, in this section, to the grammatical state
where a proposition functions as an argument of a matrix predicate (cf.
Noonan 1985: 64). Complement clauses in Turkish are oftwo major types:
finite complement clauses and non-finite ones. Turkish complement claus-
es are mostly formed by using morphological means in their predicators,
mainly the participles in -DIK and -(y)AcAK and the verbal nouns in -mAk,
-mA and -(y)h Complement clauses of this type are also named nomina-
lized complements (cf. Erguvanh-Taylan 1998). On the one hand, they have
sentential properties, i.e., the nominalized predicate can govern further
arguments within embedded clauses and may bear mood and tense/aspect
markers to a certain degree.
On the other hand these nominalized predicates (except the one with -
mAk) may bear case markers like nouns, as in (37). Note that the overt
subject of the embedded clause takes the genitive marker. Unmarked ca-
nonical complementation is left branching. Some right branching uses of
nominalized complements may represent presupposed or old information
(cf. Csat6 and Johanson 1998: 225; Erdal1999; Erguvanh 1984). The basic
word order of complement clauses is similar to that ofmain clauses:
(37) <Ali'-nin
Ali-GEN
gel-eceg-in-i>
come-FUT-3SG-ACC
'I said that Ali is going to come.'
soyle-di-m.
say-PRET-1SG
Erguvanh-Taylan (1998) points out that the semantic properties of the em-
bedding predicates play an important role in determining the nominalizing
marker together with the semantic properties of the nominalizing suffix.19
Non-canonical complementation has a finite structure and may be left or
right branching (cf. Schroeder 1999, 2000; Kerslake 2007). It may use the
complementizer diye, as in (38) and ki, as in (39) or be without them; that
is, bare complement clause, as in (40).
204 Hatice Co~kun
(38) <Kitap-tan para kazan-li-zyor
book-ABL money eam-PASS-PR.PROG
diye> sor-du-m.
COMP ask-PRET-1SG
mu-ymu~
INTR-INDR.CLIT
'I asked whether (anyone thinks) one can earn money with books.'
www.tunakiremitci.comlbasin.asp?id=17
(39) Anla~-zl-dz <ki evrak-lar sahte-ymi~.>
to be understood-PASS-PRET COMP document-PL fake-INDR.CLIT
'It became clear that the documents were fake.'
(40) <Araba-m-zn once-ki sahib-i ~anzzman yag-m-1
car-1SG-GEN before-ATTR owner-3SG gearbox oil-3SG-ACC
degi~-tir-t-mi~ mi> bil-mi-yor-um.
change-CAU-CAU-INDR/PERF INTR know-NEG-PR.PROG-lSG
'I don't know whether the the previous owner of my car had the
gear oil changed.' www.toyotaclubtr.com/mekanik-
sohbet/sanziman-yagi- degisikligi/
The complementizer ki, which is a borrowing from Persian, introduces the
complement clause, like Indo-European subordinators such as its French
and Italian cognates que, che (cf. Goksel and Kerslake 2005: 136). ki and
diye are not interchangeable. While diye-complements are only left branch-
ing, ki-complements are only right branching. As mentioned before, diye
occurs mostly in informal registers; ki, on the other hand, may occur in
both formal and informal registers (Schroeder 2002: 76-77).
2.2.1. Barefinite complement clauses
Bare finite complement clauses with a -ml~ form are oftwo types:
a. Object complement clauses. Bare finite complement clauses with in-
directive content used as object argument may be embedded under verbs of
perception, communication, and cognition: bak- 'look at', de- 'say', sor-
'ask', anlat- 'explain', anla- 'understand', biZ- 'know' or ogren- 'learn'
bak- 'to look' is based on visual perception; the -ml~ marked complement
clause ofthis exclamative sentence has mirative content:
(41) Bak <torun-un ne kadar biiyii-mii~!>
look at grandchild-2SG how much grow- INDRIPERF
'Look how much your grandchild has grown up!'
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 205
The indirective complement clause in (42) may be read both as interroga-
tive and exclamative. The possible contexts with a visual content of bak-
'look at' are as follows: 1). The door is knocked. The speaker is busy in the
kitchen and utters (42a) to the children. Here, the complement clause has
indirective interrogative meaning. The speaker of (42a) anticipates an indi-
rective response. 2). A friend of the speaker comes for a surprise-visit and
knocks on the door. The speaker opens the door, takes the visitor inside
and, speaking to those who are at home, utters (42b). The exclamative
reading of the complement clause based on this context conveys a mirative
meanmg.
(42) Bak-m
look at-IMP.2PL
<kim
who
gel-mi~!>
come-INDRJPERF
a. 'Look who has come!' (interrogative)
b. 'Look who has come!' (exclamative)
In (43), the matrix predicate embeds a wh-interrogative right branching
clause as above; in this case, the indirective content of embedding is based
on a reportive source.
(43) Anlat <ne-ler ol-mu~.>
explain what-PL be-INDRJPERF
'Tell (me) what has happened!'
The wh-interrogative clause in (44) is embedded under a polar interroga-
tive matrix clause. Unlike preceding indirective clauses, which have the
postterminal aspect as well, this complement clause, marked with indirec-
tive copula, only has an indirective content, which may refer to an inferen-
tial source. It is uttered by a teacher telling to her class some stories of real-
life related to the torment of conscience. After some explanations she asks
the class this question, then expecting the students to define the torment of
consctence.
(44) <Vicdan
consctence
azab-1
torment-3SG
anla-dz-mz mz?
understand-PRET-2PL INTR
ne
what
de-mek-mi~>
mean-VN-INDR.CLIT
'Do you understand what the torment of conscience means?'
(Nesin 1967: 60).
206 Hatice Co~kun
The embedded polar interrogative clause with indirective content refers in
(45) to a reportive source.
(45) <Araba-m-zn once-ki sahib-i ~anz1man yag-zn-1
car-lSG-GEN before-ATTR owner-3SG gearbox oil-3SG-ACC
degi~-tir-t-mi~ mi> bil-mi-yor-um.
change-CAU-CAU-INDR/PERF INTR know-NEG-PR.PROG-1 SG
'I don't know whether the previous owner of my car had the gear
oil changed.'
www.toyotaclubtr.com/mekanik-sohbet/sanziman-yagi-degisikligi
The following embedded wh-interrogative clause with indirective content
is also based on a reportive source:
(46) <Benim bOlilm-ilm-den ka9 ki~i mezun
graduate
my department-lSG-ABL how many person
ol-mu~> bil-iyor-um.
be-INDRIPERF know-PR.PROG-lSG
'I know how many persons have graduated from my department.'
www.dikeygecis.org/forum/113-aobp-nerden-bulunur-24.html
In (47) the indirective content of the wh-interrogative clause refers to a
perceptional source. In a different context from the one out of which it is
quoted, it may refer to a reportive source as well. This happens to explain
how the owner of a computer can check things carried out on it by others
by getting the relevant information out of it through perception.
(47) <Sen yok-ken
you absent-CONI
yap-m1~>
do-INDRIPERFleam
bilgisayar-zn-da
computer-2SG-LOC
ogren!
kim
who
ne
what
'Find out who did what with your computer while you were away.'
www.hackbank.gen.tr/arsiv-konu-1782.0-sen-yokk:en- bilgisaya-
rinda-kim-ne-yapmis-ogren.html
b. Predicative complement clauses. Cognitive (i) and perceptional (ii) pre-
dicates may embed secondary predicates as their complement and govern,
in this capacity, all kinds of adjectives and adjective equivalents. Their
complement clauses consist oftwo types:
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 207
i. The first type of predicative complement clauses are direct complement
clauses and embedded under the following predicates:
bil- 'think (something or somebody to be somehow)'
farz et- 'assume (somehow)'
kabul et- 'take to be (somehow)'
say- /addet- 'consider (something or somebody to be somehow)'
san- /zannet- 'take, regard or gather (something or somebody to be somehow)'
The term direct complement clause refers to complement clauses having
the full range of TAM and agreement markers. Thus, they are finite and
similar to matrix predicates:
(48) <Ben-i hi9bir .yey gor-me-mi.y-im> say!
I-ACC any thing see-NEG-INDR/PERF-lSG consider
'Take me not to have seen anything.'
ii. The second type of predicative complement clauses are small clauses
and embedded under the following predicates:
bul- 'find (something or somebody to be somehow)'
gar- 'see (something or somebody to be somehow)'
gori1n- 'seem (somehow)'
gozuk- 'look, to be seen' (somehow)
hisset- 'feel (somehow)'
Here, the verbs can bear no agreement marker, as in (49b), while the first
type of complements is able to carry it.20 Hence, the second type of com-
plement clauses cannot be considered to be fmite subordinate clauses.
Their embedded -ml.y marked clauses have a postterminal content rather
than an indirective one:
(49) a. Sen-i ya.ylan-m1.y bul-du-m.
you-ACC age-INDRIPERF find-PRET-lSG
'I found you aged.'
b. *sen-i ya.ylan-mz.y-sm bul-du-m.
you-ACC age-INDRIPERF-2SG find-PRET-lSG
'I found you aged.'
208 Hatice Co~kun
Schroeder (2000: 134-135) states that the type of predicates which embeds
predicative complements may convey an inferential nuance together with
their postterminal meaning. In (50), the matrix verb gorun- 'seem' speci-
fies the information source of the embedded proposition as an inferential
interpretation based on traces or consequences of events, in this case the
improvement in the financial situation:
(50) <Kriz-in
crisis-GEN
ylkzcz
destructive
goriin-iiyor.
seem-PR.PROG
etki-ler-i bit-mi~.>
influence-PL-3SG finish-
INDR/PERF
'The damaging/destructive effects of the crisis seem to be
ended.' www.iibf.deu.edu.tr/dergi.php?idm=51
2.2.2. Finite complement clauses with the complementizer ki
As mentioned before, ki21 is untypical for Turkic in preceding comple-
ments it subordinates; it was borrowed from Persian and brought its Indo-
European subordination pattern along with it (cf. Johanson 1992: 254-255).
Schroeder points out that the complement constructions formed with ki are
frequently found in written discourse (cf. Schroeder 2002: 76-77). In un-
planned speech, ki gives the speaker time to organize the content of his
utterance while speaking (cf. Schroeder 1999: 191).
Indirective complement clauses can be embedded as object arguments
with the complementizer ki under verbs of communication, cognition and
perception such as de- 'say'; bil- 'know', san- 'believe, think', ogren- 'dis-
cover', anla- 'understand'; duy-li~it- 'hear', bak- 'look at' or farket-
'realize/notice' Indirective complement clauses with ki may also occur as
subject arguments of certain matrix verbs such as anla~zl- 'to be unders-
tood', iddia edil- 'to be asserted' or ortaya 9zk- 'emerge', and adjective
predicates such as belli 'clear, known', iyi 'good', and tabii 'natural, ob-
vious'
In (51), the matrix predicate anla- 'understand' specifies the informa-
tion source as inferential; here, the reasoning is based on the visual percep-
tion of mobile phones.
(51) ...on-un-de, bir-den
front-3SG-LOCone-ABL
fazla cep telefon-u
more pocket phone-3SG
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 209
gor-iir-se-niz anla-ym <ki kafa-ya
see-AOR-COND-2PL understand-INIP.2PL COMP mind-OAT
bakan ol-ma-y1 tak-ml.>
mm1ster be-INF-ACC put-INDRJPERF
'If you see several mobile phones in front of somebody, this means
that s/he has apparently put it in her/his mind to become a
minister.'
www.selahattinduman.com/kapi-dinleme-olayindan-ceptelefonu-
casus luguna.html
The passive matrix verb anlall- 'to be understood' may specify the infor-
mation source ofthe indirective complement clause as perceptional or infe-
rential:
(52) Anla-ll-dz
understand-PASS-PRET
<ki evrak-lar sahte-ymi.>
COMP document-PL fake-
INDR.CLIT
'It came out that the documents were fake.'
The matrix verb ogren- 'learn (about)' does not specify the source of the
information: We get an inferential reading if the sentence is based on the
observation about others experiences in love, or a mirative reading if it is
based on speaker's own unexpected experience concerning love, or are-
portive reading based on what people say about love:
(53) Ogren-di-k <ki ak aslmda sadece goniil yarasl
learn-PRET-lPL COMP love actually only heart pam
bzrak-zr-ml.>
leave-AOR-INDR.CLIT
'We came to know that love actually leaves only pain behind.'
www.eczantrik.com/forurnlshowthread.php?p=120884
When the information source is reportive, ogren- signifies 'to fmd out':
(54) Ogren-di-m <ki 3 y1l-dzr Niantal'n-da-ki
leam-PRET-lSGCOMP 3 year-smce N.-LOC-ATTR
Maximillian adlz miicevherat91-da gorevli-ymi... >
M. named jewellery-LOC employed-INDR.CLIT
210 Hatice Co~kun
'I found out that s/he has been employed for 3 years at the
jewellery named Maximillian in Ni~anta~1.'
http://www.gunes.com/2005/07/07/yazarlar/yi.html
The context of (55) shows that the information source of the complement
clause is reportive. In a different context the information source could be
inferential, for example, if the speaker would have attended the inspection
and would have received the information about the registrations.
(55) Yine ortaya c;zk-tz <ki pek c;ok ~irket-te
agam emerge-PRET COMP very many company-LOC
kayzt-lar dogru duzgiin tut-ul-ma-mz~. >
registration-PL correct regular hold-PASS-NEG-INDRIPERF
'Again, it emerged that in many companies the registrations were
not carried out correctly.'
www.radikal.com.tr/haber.php?haberno=202867
The matrix verb biZ- 'know' appears, in (56) with a factive reading.22 The
embedded clause is reportively indirective, based on the media. This shows
that factivity and the indirective category are independent of each other
and that indirectivity is not determined by evidential modality.
(56) ...bil-iyor-uz <ki para-lar-z cami-ler-de,
know-PR.PROG-lPL COMP money-PL-ACC mosque-PL-LOC
dinf hassasiyet-ler-i kullan-arak
religious sensibility-PL-ACe use-CONV
topla-mz~-lar c;og-u zaman. >
collect-INDRIPERF-3PL more-3SG time
'We know that most of the time they collected the money in the
mosques, by making use of/by taking advantage of religious
sensibilities.'
www.radikal.com.tr/haber.php?haberno=202867
In (57) the passive matrix verb iddia edil- 'to be claimed' embeds a propo-
sition based on a reportive information source.
(57) iddia ed-il-iyor <ki c;evre kirlilig-i onemli
claim do-PASS-IMPF COMP environm. pollution-3SG important
olc;u-de azal-ml~. >
measure-LOC decrease-INDRIPERF
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 211
'It is claimed that environmental pollution has substantially
decreased.' (Kerslake 2007: 241).
Unlike the verbal matrix predicates, the adjective predicate iyi in (58) can-
not specify any information source: The hearer learns about the source of
the information from the context; in this case it may be reportive:
(58) jyi <ki o an sakin-mi~.>
good COMP that moment quiet-INDR.CLIT
'I heard that he was quiet at that moment, thank God.'
2.2. 3. Finite complement clauses with the complementizer diye
lndirective clauses can be embedded with diye under verbs of cognition,
communication, and perception. This way of embedding has quotative
character. The embedding predicates which occur with this complementiz-
er are biZ- 'know', dii~iin- 'think', anla- 'understand', hatzrla- 'remember',
anlat- 'explain'' bahset- 'mention'' soyle- 'say'' yaz- 'write'' haber ver-
'inform', bildir- 'inform, declare', apkla- 'explain, declare', sor- 'ask',
soylen- 'mutter'' duy- 'hear'' ogren- 'discover'' and ~a~lr- 'to be surprised
(at)' The information of the embedded propositions may be based on hear-
say or media:
(59) <Bir torun-unuz ol-mu~
one/a grandchild-2PLbecome-INDRIPERF
duy-du-m.
hear-PRET-1SG
diye>
COMP
'I heard <that you have had a grandchild.>' (Goksel and Kerslake,
408).
(60) <Ukrayna hiikiimet-i lSl tasarrufu
Ukraine govemment-3SG heat conservation-3SG
sagla-mak amac-z-yla kanun 9zkar-mz~
fulfil-VN intention-3SG-INST law enact-INDRIPERF
diye> ogren-di-k.
COMP leam-PRET-1PL
'We heard that the Ukrainian government has reportedly enacted a
law with the intention to secure the conservation ofheat.'
www.tchayat.org/modules.php?name=News&file=article&sid=112
212 Hatice Co~kun
In (61) the embedded complement clause is exclamative and has mirative
meaning. The embedding predicate ~a~lr- 'to be surprised' specifies the
indirective content ofthe complement as surprise:
(61) < "Sen-de ne cevher-ler var-ml~ "
you-LOC what ability-PL exist-INDR.CLIT
diye> ~a~lr-dl arkada~-lar-1m.
COMP to be surprised-PRET friend-PL-1SG
'My friends were surprised saying "What talents you apparently
have!"'
www.guncedemir.blogspot.com/2006_04_01_archive.html
In (62), the complementizer diye embeds a polar interrogative clause under
the communication verb sor- 'ask' The indirective content of the comple-
ment is based on a reportive source. Wh-interrogative clauses can be em-
bedded in the same way:
(62) <Kitap-tan para kazan-1l-1yor mu-ymu~
book-ABL money earn-PASS-PR.PROG INTR-INDR.CLIT
diye> sor-du-m.
COMP ask-PRET-1SG
'I asked whether money can be earned with books.'
www.tunakiremitci.com/basin.asp?id=17
2.2.4. The interaction between complement clauses, embeddingpredicates
and complementizers
As has been shown, declarative, interrogative, and exclamative sentence
types with an indirective content are able to be embedded under certain
embedding predicates.23 This subsection deals with the interactions be-
tween the semantics of embedding predicates, complementizers and com-
plement clauses. (63) and (64) are embedded under an/a- 'understand' with
different subordinating means, ki or diye. Another difference concerns the
value of factivity in the clauses: While (63) has a factive reading, (64) does
not; it might be continued as 'but I might have misheard, so I'm not sure.'
(63) Anla-dz-m <ki smav-a
understand-PRET-1SG COMP exam-OAT
gir-en Ali
enter-PART A.
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 213
degil de karde~-i Veli-ymi~. >
not CONI brother-3SG V.-INDR.CLIT
'I realized that it was Veli who took the exam, not Ali.'
(64) <Ben smav-a Ali '-nin yer-in-e
I exam-OAT Ali-GEN place-3SG-DAT
karde~-i gir-mi (diye)> anla-dz-m.
brother-3SG enter-INDRIPERF (COMP) understand-PRET-1SG
'I understand, as I heard, that Ali's brother took the exam instead
ofhim.'
The matrix verb biZ- 'know' has a factive reading when it co-occurs with
the complementizer ki but a non-factive reading when it embeds a predica-
tive complement (direct complement clause) or the diye-complement, as in
(67). According to Goksel and Kerslake (2005: 424-425), the position of
stress within the sentence determines the factual value of the matrix verb
biZ- 'know' Hence the stressed biZ- means 'know', and the content of the
complement clause expresses an established fact. When, on the other hand,
the stress is placed within the complement clause, then biZ- is interchange-
able with san- 'think', and the complement clause expresses a supposition
that may turn out (or have turned out) to be false.24 In (65) and (66) the
matrix verb biZ- 'know' is factive, in (67) non-factive:
(65) <Benim bOlilm-ilm-den kac; ki~i mezun
my department-1SG-ABL howmany person graduate
ol-mu~> biL-iyor-um.
be-INDRIPERFknow-PR.PROG-1SG
'I know how many persons have graduated from my department.'
www.dikeygecis.org/forum/113-aobp-nerden-bulunur-24.html
(66) BiL-iyor- uz <ki para-lar-1 cami-ler-de,
know-PR.PROG-1PL COMP money-PL-ACC mosque-PL-LOC
dinf hassasiyet-ler-i kullan-arak
religious sensibility-PL-ACe use-CONV
topla-mz~-lar c;og-u zaman.>
collect-INDRIPERF-3PL much-3SG time
'We know that most of the time they collected the money Ill
mosques, by making use ofthe religious sensibilities.'
www.radikal.com.trlhaber.php?habemo=202867
(67) <Ben iznik iKi kere ba~kentol-mu~
I i. two time capital become-INDR/PERF
214 Hatice Co~kun
(diye)>
(COMP)
bil-iyor-du-m,
know-PR.PROG-PRET.COP-JSG
dart kere ba~kent ol-du di-yor.
four time capital become-PRET say-PR.PROG
bura-da
here-LOC
'I thought that imik was the capital twice, (but) here is said that it
was (the capital) four times.'
benimilkblogum.blogspot.com/2008/02/imik.html
It is enough for an embedding predicate with specification function to be
used once in the same narrative discourse context, i.e., it must not be re-
peated with every further indirective sentence of discourse as in (68b). The
indirective marker must, however, appear in each further sentence of the
same discourse:
(68) a. Duy-du-m ki kumar-da her ~ey-in-i
hear-PRET-lSG COMP gambling-LOC every thing-3SG-ACC
kaybet-mi~. Bu yiizden yuva-st da
lose-INDRIPERF therefore home-3SG PRTCL
dagtl-mt~.
disperse-INDRIPERF
'I heard that slhe lost every thing in gambling. This is also why his
family fell apart'
b. Duydum ki kumarda her ~eyini kaybetmi~. *Duydum ki bu yiizden
yuvast da dagtlmt~.
3. Conclusion
As shown, the non-fmite use of the -ml~ item in relative clauses or in verb
phrases with the auxilaries ol- 'to be' and bulun- 'to be found' do not con-
vey any indirective content but postterminal aspect. -ml~ marked small
clauses, which are selected by the predicates bul- 'find', gar- 'see', gariin-
'look, seem', gaziik- 'look, seem', and hisset- 'feel' have a non-finite cha-
racter due to the absence of an agreement marker and convey a posttermin-
al meaning. On the other hand, it is conceivable that the complement claus-
es selected by those predicates may be interpreted as indirective as well.
This interpretation may be caused by the semantics of those embedding
predicates, not by the -ml~ form. Finite subordination, on the other hand,
licenses the embedding of adverbial and complement clauses with indirec-
tive content. Indirective embedding can use subordinating words such as
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 215
madem, ki and diye. Conditional clauses, predicative complements and
object complements can, however, also appear without any such subordina-
tors. The matrix predicates selecting finite complement clauses with indi-
rective content are of five types:
i. communication verbs such as de- 'say', soyle- 'say, tell', or an/at- 'ex-
plain'
n. cognition verbs such as biZ- 'know, think' or an/a- 'understand'
iii. perceptional verbs such as duy- 'hear'
iv. attitude verbs such as san-lzannet- 'think, believe, consider'
v. evaluative or descriptive nominal predicates such as belli 'known', iyi
'good'
The interaction between the embedding predicates and the finite comple-
mentation types determines the factive value of certain matrix verbs like
biZ- 'know' and an/a- 'understand' The complement clauses of these ma-
trix verbs with the quotative complementizer diye or without it may have a
non-factive reading, while the same matrix predicates may have a factive
reading with the complementizer ki. Another significant point is that only
certain embedding predicates such as duy- 'hear', de- 'say', soyle- 'say,
tell', or an/at- 'mention' can specify the source of information with repor-
tive reference. The other information sources may be specified rather
through the discourse context of the matrix and embedded propositons,
which affects the reading of the embedding predicates.
List of Abbreviations
ABL = ablative case; ACC = accusative case; AOR = aorist; ATTR = attributive;
AUX = auxiliary; CAU = causative; CLIT = clitic; COMP = complementizer;
CONI= conjunction; CONV = converb; COP= copula; DAT =dative case; DEB
= debitive; FUT = future; GEN = genitive case; IMP = imperative; IMPSB = im-
possibility; INDR = indirective; INST = instrumental; INTR = interrogative; LOC
=locative case; NEG= negative; OPT= optative; PART= participle; PASS= pas-
sive; PERF = perfect; PL = plural; POST = postposition; PR = present; PRET =
preterite; PROG = progressive; PRTCL = particle; PSB = possibility; SG = singu-
lar; SUBDR = subordinator; VN = verbal noun.
216 Hatice Co~kun
Notes
1. My special thanks go to Prof. Marcel Erdal for his comments and feedback.
All remaining errors are mine.
2. Concerning -(y)ml~ the term copula has also been used (cf. Johanson 2000,
Goksel and Kerslake 2005).
3. diye, originally a converb of the verb 'to say', has correspondents in all other
Turkic languages; madem and ki were taken over from Arabic and Persian re-
spectively (cf. TDK 2005).
4. The subordination may be attained through the complementizer diye or be
bare.
5. See Julien 2007; Simons 2006; Meinunger 2006 for Norwegian, Swedish,
English and German.
6. Certain adverbial clauses which specify the information source for the main
clause are not dealt in the paper for the reason ofplace, e.g.
<Duy-dug-um-a gore> k1z-1 ev-den ka{:-ml~.
hear-PART-lSG-DAT POSTP daughter-3SG house-ABL run away-INDRJPERF
'According to what I have heard his/her daughter has run away from the house.'
7. The examples are based on Google searches from Turkish websites, Turkish
Grammar (Goksel and Kerslake 2005), fiction (Nesin 1967), and related ar-
ticles. Sentences which I constructed as native speaker of Turkish have been
checked by other native speakers: Abdulkadir Co~un (philosophy PhD Stu-
dent), Prof. Mustafa Kayalin {Turkologist at Marmara University), Suna Kaya-
lin (housewife), Emine Kotan (pedagogy student), Hilal Kutlu {Turkish teach-
er in high school). My special thanks go to them for their comments and data.
8. We will be using the official spelling of Turkey. Some morphophonemic and
syntactic denotations are as follows: Capital letters in suffixes as A, C, D, G, I
stand for variability. Hyphens in glosses divide morphemes. ( ) in an example
indicates that the bracketed item is dropped under certain morphophonemic
conditions. < > in the Turkish examples indicates a subordinate clause.
9. The right dislocation of such elements is taken to be related to backgrounding
and presupposition (cf. Erdal 1999, Csat6 1998, Erguvanh 1984).
10. For the non-finite use of -ml~ as attributive participle and its aspecto-temporal
content see Schroeder (2000: 115-143).
11. The original translations are in Arabic.
12. -mAdOk is the negative form of-ml~ in Old Turkic (cf. Erdal 2004: 239).
13. Postterminal aspect means that the relevant limit of the event has already
passed ('having done') (cf. Johanson 1971: 282, 288).
14. If the speaker reports after a certain time a completed event he has directly
perceived, he will always use -DI (Marcel Erdal, p. c.).
15. A. Qubukyu, "Amerika kuyu kaztyor!", Evrensel, 02.06.2002, cited by Aydm
(2007: 157).
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 217
16. The form -mA-ml~ (negated -ml~) is used adverbially in some Anatolian
dialects (Kars, Erzincan, Erzurum, Sivas, Rize) like the converb -mAdAn 'not
doing' or 'before doing'
<Bu emanet-i gor-me-mi> gapi (1-ma-m.
this deposit-ACC see-NEG-PERF door open-NEG.AOR-1SG
'I won't open the door without seeing this deposit.' (Sivas) (cf Ostiiner 2000: 151-
152; Sagtr 1995: 355).
17. E.g. in (a) the subject of adverbial clauses is referred to through the possessive
marker 1PL. The adverbial clause in (b) illustrates a modifying adverbial
clause, which carries neither a possesive nor a personal marker.
(a) <YardJm et-me-miz i~Yin> yalvar-dJ.
help AUX-INF-1PL for entreat-PRET
' S/he entreated that we help (him/her).'
(b) <Agla-yarak> biz-e yalvar-dJ.
cry-CONY we-DAT entreat-PRET
'S/he has crying entreated us.'
Examples can be found in Goksel and Kerslake (2005: 462-463).
18. See Erguvanh-Taylan 1998 for the classification of complement taking predi-
cates.
19. Schroeder 2000 treats this type of complements as an adverbial clause. Korn-
filt (-: 14-15) dealt with some ofthese complement-taking pradicates under the
term reduced complements. Csat6 and Johanson (1998: 231) dealt with them
as a finite subordination type. Goksel and Kerslake (2005: 433-434) treat them
as embedded small clauses. Ozsoy (2001: 213-237) names them bare clausal
complements.
20. Old Turkic since 9th century similarly uses kim, which appears to come from
Sogdian, another Iranian contact language (cf. Caluson 1972, Erdal2004).
21. The Turkish verb 'to know' is not necessarily factive; it can also refer to
things one erroneously thinks one knows (personal communication of Prof.
Marcel Erdal).
22. Such predicates, which license the subordination of finite clauses in Germanic
languages, are by Vikner named bridge verbs (1995). He distinguishes them
by their ability to embed finite complements, not by their semantic content. In
their examples capitals refer to stress:
<Sen-in abla-n-m yan-m-da ol-dug-un-u>
you-GEN sister-2SG-GEN side-3SG-LOC be-PART-2SG-ACC
biL-iyor-du-m.
know-PR.PROG-P.COP-1 SG
'I knew you were with your sister.'
<Senin ABlanm yamnda oldugunu> biliyordumlsamyordum.
'I thought you were with your sister.' (Goksel and Kerslake 2005: 424, 425)
218 Hatice Co~kun
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y.
2004 Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y., and Robert M. W. Dixon (eds.)
2003 Studies in evidentiality. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Aksu-Koy, Ayhan
1988 The acquisition ofaspect and modality. The case ofpast reference in
Turkish. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1994 Development of linguistic forms: Turkish. In Relating Events in
Narrative. A crosslinguistic developmental study, R. A. Berman and
Dan I. Slobin (eds.), 329-392. Hillsdale NJ: Lawrance Erlbaum.
2000 Some aspects of acquisition of evidentials in Turkish. In Evidentials.
Turkic, Iranian and neighbouring languages, Lars Johanson and Bo
Utas (eds.), 15-28. Berlin, New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Aksu-Koy, Ayhan, and Dan I. Slobin
1986 A psychological account of the Development and Use of Evidentials
in Turkish. In Evidentiality. The linguistic coding of epistemology,
Wallace Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 159-167. Norwood, N.J.:
Ablex Publ. Corp.
Aydm, Ozgfu
2007 Turk~ede O~uncu Ki~i Buyrum Yapzlarz [3th person imperative struc-
tures in Turkish]. In Ankara Universitesi Dil ve Tarih-Cografya
Fakultesi Dergisi, 47 (1): 151-163.
Chafe, Wallace, and Johanna Nichols (eds.)
1986 Evidentiality. The linguistic coding ofepistemology. Norwood, N.J.:
Ablex Publ. Corp.
Clauson, S. Gerard
1972 An etymological dictionary of pre-thirteenth-century Turkish.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Csat6, Eva A.
2000 Turkish MI~- and IMI~- items. Dimensions of a functional analysis.
In Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and neighbouring languages, Lars
Johanson and Bo Utas (eds.), 29-43. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Csat6, Eva A., and Lars Johanson
1998 Turkish. In The Turkic languages, Lars Johanson and Eva A. Csat6
(eds.), 203-236. London: Routledge.
Dankoff, Robert, and James Kelly (eds. and translators)
1982, 1985 Compendium of the Turkic Dialects, by MahmUd al-Ka~gari.
(Duxbury, Mass.: Harvard University Printing Office) 3 vols.
Sources of oriental Languages and Literatures 7, Turkish sources
VII.
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 219
Erdal, Marcel
1999 Das Nachfeld im Tiirkischen und im Deutschen. In Turkisch-Deutsch
im Vergleich, Lars Johanson and Jochen Rehbein (eds.), 53-94.
Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.
2004 A grammar ofOld Turkic. Boston: Brill.
Erkman-Akerson, Fatma
2000 Clause linkage strategies in Turkish. In Studies on Turkish and
Turkic Languages, Ash Goksel and Celia Kerslake (eds.), 171-180.
Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.
Erguvanh-Tay1an, Eser
1984 The Function ofWord Order in Turkish Grammar. Berkeley Univer-
sity: University of California Press.
1998 What determines the choice of nominalizer in Turkish nominalized
complement clauses? In Proceedings ofthe 16th International Con-
gress ofLinguistics, Bernard Caron (ed.), Oxford: Pergamon.
Erguvanh-Tay1an, Eser (ed.)
2001 The Verb in Turkish. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Gokse1, Ash, and Celia Kers1ake
2005 Turkish. A comprehensive grammar. London: Routledge.
Hooper, Joan
1975 On assertive predicates. In Syntax and Semantics, John Kimball
(ed.), IV 91-124. New York: Academic Press.
Johanson, Lars
1971 Aspekt im Turkischen. Vorstudien zu einer Beschreibung des turkei-
turkischen Aspektsystems. Studia Turcica Upsaliensia 1. Uppsa1a:
Almqvist & Wiksell.
1992 Strukturelle Faktoren in Turkischen Sprachkontakten. Stuttgart:
Steiner.
2000 Turkic indirectives. In Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and neighbouring
languages, Lars Johanson, and Bo Utas (eds.), 61-87. Berlin/New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
2006 Indirective sentence types. In Turkic Languages 10: 72-87.
Johanson, Lars, and Eva Agnes Csat6 (ed.)
1998 The Turkic languages. London: Routledge.
Johanson, Lars, and Bo Utas (eds.)
2000 Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and neighbouring languages. Ber-
lin!NewYork: Mouton de Gruyter.
Julien, Marit
2007 Embedded V2 in Norwegian and Swedish. In Working Papers in
Scandinavian Syntax 80: 103-161.
Kers1ake, Celia
2007 Alternative subordination strategies in Turkish. In Connectivity in
grammar and discourse, Jochen Rehbein, Christiane Hohenstein, and
220 Hatice Co~kun
Lucas Pietsch (eds.), 231-258. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Ben-
jamins.
Komfilt, Jaklin
Some Typological Properties of Complementation in Turkish.
http://lang.syr.edu/Linguistics/ CVs/Kornfilt.htm
1997 Turkish. London and New York: Routledge.
Lewis, Geoffrey
2000 Turkish Grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Meinunger, Andre
2006 On the discourse impact of subordinate clauses. In Studies in Gen-
erative Grammar 82: The Architecture ofFocus, Valeria Molnar and
Susanne Winkler (eds.), 459-487. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Guy-
ter.
Simons, Mundy
2007 Observations on embedding verbs, evidentiality, and presupposition.
Lingua 117: 1034-1056.
Noonan, Michael
1985 Complementation. In Language Typology and Syntactic Description,
T. Shopen (ed.), Vol. 2. 42-140. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press.
6zsoy, Surnru A.
2001 On 'small' clauses, other 'bare' verbal complements and feature
checking in Turkish. In The Verb in Turkish, Eser Erguvanh-Taylan
(ed.), 213-239. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Sagu, Mukim
1995 Erzincan ve Yoresi Ag1zlan [The dialects of Erzincan]. Ankara: Tfuk
DilKurumu.
Sezer, Engin
2001 Finite inflection in Turkish. In The Verb in Turkish, Eser Erguvanh-
Taylan (ed.), 1-47. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Schroeder, Christoph
1999 The Turkish Nominal Phrase in Spoken Discourse. Wiesbaden: Har-
rassowitz.
2000a
2000b
2002
Between resultative, historical and inferential: non-finite-ml forms
in Turkish. In Evidentials. Turkic, Iranian and neighbouring lan-
guages, Lars Johason and Bo Utas (eds.), 115-143. Berlin/New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Pradikation im Tfukischen. InC Schroeder- Workshop on Predica-
tion, Bremen (PDF).
On the structure of spoken Turkish. ELiSe: Essener Linguistische
Skripte- elektronisch 2 (1): 73-90.
Tfuk Dil Kurumu (TDK)
2005 Turk~e Soz/Uk [Turkish Dictionary]. Ankara: TDK Yaymlar1.
Embedding indirective (evidential) utterances in Turkish 221
Ustiiner, Ahad
2000 Anadolu Agzzlarmda Sifat-fiil Ekleri [The participal suffixes of the
Anatolian dialects]. Ankara: Tfuk Dil Kurwnu.
Vikner, Sten
1995 Verb movement and expletive subjects in the Germanic languages.
New York: Oxford University Press.
Epistemic modality and evidentiality
and their determination on a deictic basis:
the case of Romance languages
Gerda Hajller
In recent years the category of evidentiality has come into use also for the descrip-
tion of Romance languages. This has been contingent on a change in its interpreta-
tion from a typological category to a semantic-pragmatic category, which allows an
application to languages lacking specialised morphemes for the expression of evi-
dentiality. In the following we will flrst describe the theoretical framework in which
we use the category of evidentiality for the description of Romance languages. A
key question to be elucidated here will be the determination of evidentiality as a
deictic phenomenon. This will also be the basis for discussing the distinction be-
tween evidentiality and epistemic modality.
1. Applying the typological category of evidentiality to describe
semantic-pragmatic phenomena
Typologists assume that there is a universal inventory of grammatical and
lexical categories, out of which each language makes a distinct selection.
In about one-fourth of all of the languages in the world, every utterance
must indicate the kind of source on which it is based (Aikhenvald 2004: 1).
However, operating with typological categories in differently defined con-
texts has been practised for some time. Here we should mention the cate-
gory of aspect, which is also used in the description of languages with
verbs that do not have any grammaticalised means of expressing the quality
of "course of action" In accordance with Bondarko, we assume that the
aspect correlation "perfective" vs. "imperfective", as is found in the Slavic
languages and in Greek, forms the core of a functional-semantic category
characterised as aspectuality. On the periphery, several additional linguis-
tic means, such as types of actions (''Aktionsarten") and adverbs belong to
aspectuality. In this sense Bondarko considers that it is justified to assume
a functional-semantic category of aspectuality even for languages lacking
the grammatical core ofaspectuality, the verbal aspect (Bondarko 1984 and
1987, Barentson 2001). The basis for this transfer of a typological category
224 Gerda Hafiler
to semantic and pragmatic circumstances is the assumption that there is a
universal need for expression of the function taken over by the relevant
category. In languages lacking the grammatical core of the category this
function can be assumed by other linguistic means, which thus have a
greater diversity and can be polyfunctional.
In this sense we consider evidentiality to be a functional domain which
can be expressed by a variety of means and by contextually exploiting cer-
tain structures. Evidentiality is usually considered to be in strict connexion
with epistemic modality. While epistemic modality concerns the evaluation
of the likelihood of a certain hypothetical state of affairs and its occurring
or not occurring, evidentiality is seen as dealing with the speaker's signal-
ling the nature of the evidence that he/she has relative to a certain state of
affairs (Capelli 2007: 128). Usually we differentiate between direct and
indirect evidentiality. Direct evidential expressions are used by the speaker
when he himself (visually, auditorily or through other senses) has per-
ceived the occurrence about which he reports in his evidentially marked
utterance (cf. de Haan 2001: 203). In this case the described circumstance
has taken place within the deictic sphere of the speaker (cf. de Haan 2005:
2). Indirect evidential expressions come into use when the speaker did not
perceive the occurrence himself, but was informed of it by others. If the
speaker therefore uses indirect evidential markings, the circumstance ex-
pressed by him took place outside of his deictic sphere (cf. de Haan 2005:
2). If the speaker wants to express a conclusion, and if this is characterised
as such, he refers to this as using inferential markers.
Here, distinguishing between evidentiality and epistemic modality
proves to be problematic, insofar as adding markers of the source of the
speaker's knowledge often limits the degree ofresponsibility of the speaker
for the content ofthe utterance:
(1) a. II doit l'avoirfait par pitie.
'He must have done it out of pity.'
In sentence (1a), doit marks an inference of the speaker, at the same time
the proposition becomes less probable than in the corresponding sentence
without the marking of the inference:
(1) b. lll'afait par pitie.
'He did it out ofpity.'
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 225
In the reality of communication the two categories - evidentiality and epis-
temic modality- may quite possibly overlap. Nevertheless, it seems mea-
ningful to first proceed on the assumption of a separate ascertainment of
the content of evidentiality and to describe its means.
For typologists, the distinction between epistemic modality and eviden-
tiality is unproblematic in so far as both are expressed with different mor-
phological elements, which together can also be combined with a verb.
This can be seen in the example of the evidentiality system in the Tuyucan
language, which consists of five parts: (2a) the direct personal and visual
experience ofthe speaker, (2b) the perception through hearing, (2c) making
deductions from evidence, (2d) learning from the report of another person
and (2e) drawing a conclusion based on logic (cf. Barnes 1984: 257):
(2) a. diiga ape-wi
soccer play-3rd PERS.PRET.VISUAL
'He played soccer [I saw it]'
b. diiga ape-ti
soccer play-3rd PERS.PRET.NOTVISUAL
'He played soccer [I heard it but didn't see it]'
c. diiga ape-yi
soccer play-3rd PERS.PRET.INFERENCE
'I have evidence that he played soccer, but I didn't see it.'
d. diiga ape-yigi
soccer play-3rd PERS.PRET.REPORT
'I was told that he played soccer.'
e. diiga ape-hiyi
soccer play-3rd PERS.PRET.CONCLUSION
'It can be logically assumed that he played soccer.'
The simple assertion that someone played soccer is not possible here with-
out providing the source of this knowledge. But even where marking evi-
dentiality is obligatory, the languages with evidentials differ - e.g. some
languages have fewer evidential markers and only differentiate between
'first hand' and 'not first hand' Typologists view evidentials as linguistic
means with the primary characteristic of 'source of knowledge', without
implying a direct reference to the certainty and responsibility of the speak-
er or the truth of his assertion. However with this limitation, not only is the
category of evidentiality inapplicable to European languages, it becomes
problematic for everything that goes beyond the determination of elements
with evidential core meaning. 1
226 Gerda Hafiler
Evidential suffixes also contribute to express the caution with which a
speaker handles the information. For this function the following maxims
can be listed which have a pragmatic character:
1. (Only) one's own experience is reliable.
2. Unnecessary risks are to be avoided, for example assuming the re-
sponsibility for information about which one is not absolutely sure.
3. One may not be gullible.
4. Responsibility can only be assumed for what is certain.
Following Giv6n (1984: 24) one should not expect cognitive or linguistic
categories and processes to be absolutely categorical, but only sufficiently
so. Neither categories nor rules of grammar operate in a vacuum, but rather
in the close proximity of related, interdependent semantic and pragmatic
functional domains.
An example that evidential markers assume the pragmatic function of
marking the insecurity of the speaker even in languages with pure eviden-
tials is the use of the suffixes -mi/-shi/-chi in the Huallaga dialect of the
Quechua language, which allows the speaker to assume or reject responsi-
bility for the content of what is said. With -mi the speaker assumes respon-
sibility, with -shi he defers it to someone else, with -chi he indicates that
no responsibility can be taken for this type of content.
According to Weber (1989: 421) with (3a) the speaker expresses his
certainty, with (3b) he refers to a report from someone else and with (3c) to
a possibility.
(3) a. Waiiu-nqa-paq-mi.
'[I assert that] it will die.'
b. Waiiu-nqa-paq-shi.
'[I was told], it will die.'
c. Waiiu-nqa-paq-chi.
'[Perhaps] it will die.'
The use of the signal evidentiality marker -shi goes far beyond the expres-
sion of second-hand information. It is also used in the so-called narrated
past, for which one does not wish to assume responsibility. The Quechua
culture places great value on avoiding gullibility, which the use of this evi-
dential marker definitely reveals. A mixture of morphologically conceived
evidentials with pragmatic circumstances seems apparent as soon as one
goes beyond typological issues to look at the use of these elements.
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 227
2. Evidentiality as a deictic category
Since the use of evidential means is always accompanied by a perspectiva-
tion of the speaker, an investigation of this category with respect to its
deictic characteristics seems appropriate. Deixis refers to the phenomenon
in which understanding the meaning of certain words and phrases in an
utterance requires contextual information. Mushin remarks in reference to
deixis and evidentiality: "[D]escriptions of the deictic nature of evidential-
ity have been given relatively little focus in the literature" (Mushin 200 1:
33).
In her view, the reason for this is that evidentiality is not a "prototypical
deictic category":
[...] evidentiality is not a prototypical deictic category. The semantics of
prototypical deictic markers like personal pronouns I and you can only be
understood in terms of indexicality. That is, they have no meaning outside of
their function to point out the current speaker and addressee. Evidential
markers clearly have some semantic content independent of their indexical
function - the categories ofsource of information and their associated mean-
ings ofepistemological assessment [...]. (Mushin 2001: 33-34)
However, while in a number of linguistic papers on evidentiality its "deic-
tic nature" is referred to implicitly in most cases, in part it is referred to ex-
plicitly.2 Evidential markers are deictic because they index information to
the conceptualiser, who makes an epistemological judgement (cf. Mushin
2001: 33). The choice of evidential categories serves to select the deictic
origin from which all temporal, spatial and identifYing information can be
calculated. Especially interesting here is the inclusion not only of the deix-
is ofthe speaker but also ofthe addressee.
Under the chapter heading Participant systems Palmer asserts: "In some
languages there are systems indicating more direct reference to the partici-
pants in the discourse" (Palmer 2001: 62). In other words: There are sys-
tems of evidentials, in which the deixis of the addressee is already an-
chored. The Kogi language spoken in northern Colombia, which was stud-
ied by Hensarling (1982, cited in Palmer 2001: 62-63), is one of the lan-
guages possessing such a system of evidentials: "In Kogi [...]there is, Hen-
sarling (1982) tentatively suggests, an 'evidential' system indicating 'who
knows what about the situation being discussed'" (Palmer 2001: 62). Hen-
sarling lists the particles in chart form, from which it is evident that the
228 Gerda Hafiler
speaker refers to the status of knowledge of the addressee by using differ-
ent particles (Palmer 2001: 62):
Table 1. Particles
[Particle]
ni
na
shi
skaN
ne
Speaker
+
+
+
Addressee
+
?
Meaning
'remind'
'inform'
'ask'
'doubt'
'speculate'
With the particle ni 'remind' the speaker expresses that he knows some-
thing that he supposes that the addressee must also know. If the speaker
uses the particle na 'inform' he assumes that his interlocutor does not (yet)
know the circumstance that is the subject of the conversation. The particle
shi 'ask' implies that the addressee knows something, but the speaker does
not Frawley, who also studied the deictic structure of Kogi evidentials,
remarks: "[t]he three [...] forms, ni, na, and shi, explicitly make reference
to the addressee" (Frawley 1992: 415). The particle for 'doubt', skaN, indi-
cates that neither the speaker nor the addressee know anything (exactly).
Lyons (1995: 191) remarks in this context:
[...] if speakers express doubt as to the truth of a particular proposition, in
conversation rather than in soliloquy, they may well be understood in con-
text (and expect to be understood) to be inviting the addressee to resolve
their doubt for them[...]. (Lyons 1995: 191)
With the particle ne the Kogi speaker expresses that he (only) suspects
something without considering the knowledge status of his interlocutor (cf
Palmer 2001: 63).
Lowe (1972: 367-372) discovered an even more complex system, the
Event Verification System for the Nambiquara language spoken in BraziL
Both the speaker and the addressee are integrated into this system:
Individual verification forms treat of an event verified by the speaker only,
who then relates his account to the addressee; collective verification forms
treat of an event verified simultaneously by both speaker and addressee.
(Lowe 1972: 369; italics in the original)
The linguistic forms of the Collective Verification System have the general
meaning 'I report what both I and the addressee saw the actor doing'
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 229
(Lowe 1972: 371), i.e., the speaker tells what he and his addressee saw
together. In the moment in which the speaker reports about an event that
his interlocutor, too, can witness first hand, he refers to the knowledge
status of his addressee. Here are some example sentences from Nambiqua-
ra and their corresponding meaning (Lowe 1972: 371).
(4) a. wa3kon3tait1ti2tu3wa2
'Both you and I saw that he worked.'
b. wa3ko3nain1tailti2tu3wa2
'Both you and I saw that they worked.'
3,_ 3 3 . 1 . 1 2 3 2
c. wa AOn ya sam tazt tl tu wa
'Both you and I saw that I and they worked.'
Gomez Rendon (2006) studied the Interpersonal Aspects ofEvidentiality in
Ecuadorian Quechua in his essay of the same title. The prerequisite for his
work was a pragmatic understanding of evidentiality:
[E]videntiality is a pragmatic aspect more than a purely semantic one and
any interpretation of evidentials must incorporate the identity of participants
and their assumption of each other's knowledge about the source of infor-
mation (Gomez Rendon 2006: 38).
[E]videntiality is anchored in the pragmatics of the speech act and[...] all
analyses need to start at the interpersonal level (Gomez Rendon 2006: 41).
He therefore proposes an "interpersonal reading' (Gomez Rendon 2006:
37) of evidentiality, since he views the use of evidentials as the result "of
an interlinking of the speaker's assumption about his/her interlocutor's
knowledge of the information source and the identity of participants in the
speech event" (2006: 37). After all, a speaker only mentions his source of
information, when (1) he believes that the source of information is un-
known to his interlocutor and (2) when he assumes that its mention would
be relevant to the conversational situation. Moreover, Ifantidou 200 1 de-
scribes evidentials as "part of the speaker's intention to make his/her utter-
ance relevant enough to be worth the hearer's attention" (Comillie 2007:
9). Since she thus addresses the interactive function of evidentials -men-
tioning the speaker-addressee relationship - this means that she, too, re-
cognises the deictic characteristics of evidentials. Let us take a look at the
speaker-addressee relationship contained in the evidentials of Ecuadorian
Quechua. Here are two statements by one and the same speaker. In the first
230 Gerda Hafiler
case the information source is named, but in the second it is not(Gomez
Rendon 2006: 41):
(5) Shina-ka parla-shun fiesta-ta, Sanjuan fiesta-ka shina-mi ka-rka.
'So let's talk about the festival, Saint John's festival was like this.'
The speaker, who expressed this sentence to a young audience that already
knew about the festival from stories of their grandparents, had himself
taken part in that festival in the 1930s, which he expresses by using the
direct evidential mi. "The speaker makes the data source explicit because
he thinks the addressee lacks such information and he considers it to be
relevant for a felicitous exchange" (Gomez Rendon 2006: 41). Indeed, nar-
ratives of an event are more credible if it can be witnessed by the speaker
himself. Hence, speakers not only mark their sentences evidentially when
they are uncertain about the circumstances they are explicitly expressing or
rather when they want to "draw their heads out of the noose", but also
when they want to strengthen the credibility of their own statement. When
a speaker uses an evidential phrase to make his interlocutor believe him, he
thus refers to the origo ofthe addressee.
In the next example the same speaker addresses persons of his own age
group whom he knows were also present at the Saint John's Festival. In
view of this speaker-addressee constellation, the use of an evidential seems
to him to be superfluous, i.e. it is no longer necessary to strengthen his
credibility. Besides this, what makes the following example interesting is
the tacked-on question, with which the speaker refers to the knowledge
status of his friend:
(6) Chai.fiesta-ka primerotoro-huan-pash karka, nachu taitiku?
'The first festivals included bullfighting, isn't it true buddy?'
(Gomez Rendon 2006: 41)
The speaker demands a verification of the circumstance expressed in the
proposition only because he knows that the addressee also gained his
knowledge through direct experience. Gomez Rendon writes in this context
of an "interplay between participation and non-participation in the narrated
event" (2006: 41). He thus showed that by (not) using evidentials, the posi-
tion of the addressee is taken into account even if the term deixis in his
work is not used once in his paper.
De Haan 2005 assumes an identifying stance toward deixis and eviden-
tiality. Here he explains that evidentiality is a deictic category and not a
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 231
modal one, since evidentiality fulfils ''the same function for marking rela-
tionships between speakers and actions/events" as demonstratives "for
marking relationships between speakers and objects" (de Haan 2005: 1).
He provides evidence for his deictic understanding of evidentiality with
linguistic data of the Sanuma language spoken in Brazil and Venezuela
which was studied by Borgmann (1990). In the present tense of Sanuma,
spatial deictic morphemes set the event described in the proposition in
relation to where the speaker is located at the time of the event, which is
illustrated in the following table (Borgmann 1990: 166; cited in de Haan
2005: 13):
Table 2. Spatial deictic morphemes
Morpheme
kule
kulai /kulaai
kulati /kulahati
kulali /kulahali
kulatili
kulakili
kupoli lkupoholi
kupokili
kimati lkuimati
kimanilkimahani
kimakili
kimi
Meaning
Near the speaker.
Rather near, observed by the speaker, but view impaired
Farther away from the speaker, but on the same level
Upriver, on the other side ofthe river or also on land with a
valley or several valleys between the speaker and the event
Seen from the river: far away inland.
Far away downriver.
Above (in the air, in the tree etc.).
Below (in the hole in the ground etc.).
Going away from the speaker, on the same level.
Going away from the speaker, downriver or on the other
side ofthe river.
Going away from the speaker, downriver.
Coming towards the speaker.
Hence, in the present tense of the Sanuma language the use of an evidential
implies a spatial relationship between an event, which is the subject of a
proposition, and the speaker at the time of the occurrence (de Haan 2005:
13):
[Evidentials] are used to denote the relative distance between the speaker
and the action. A speaker will use an indirect evidential to state that the ac-
tion takes/took place outside the speaker's deictic sphere, whereas the use of
a direct evidential shows that the action takes or took place within that deic-
tic sphere (de Haan 2005: 2).
232 Gerda Haftler
Thus he assigns evidentiality to the kind of deixis with which a circum-
stance is shown or referred to.3 According to him, demonstrative pronouns
behave - with respect to the position of the speaker - in just the same way
to nouns as evidentials (or evidential expressions) behave to a circum-
stance.
The linguistic examples mentioned above show that multiple attempts
have already been made to gain access to evidentiality on a deictic basis for
languages with a "grammatical core" of this category. If we use the lin-
guistic category of evidentiality also for languages in which there is no
grammatical core for marking the origin of the speaker's knowledge, the
deictic determination of evidentiality can likewise be reinterpreted prag-
matically. The determination of evidentiality on a deictic basis shall also
aid in showing the meaningfulness of distinguishing between epistemic
modality and evidentiality.
3. Problems distinguishing between epistemic modality and
evidentiality: the example of adverbs in Romance languages
If we look at the situation in Romance languages, drawing a boundary be-
tween epistemic modality and evidentiality presents problems that are diffi-
cult to solve. Even if we assume that there are linguistic elements which
fulfil the original function of marking the source of the speaker's know-
ledge, this is contingent with the term epistemic modality. Hence, the term
ovviamente 'obviously' in example (7), an excerpt from the Italian press, is
not what the author has seen directly but rather a personal conclusion from
what he has heard, to which with eppure a possible counterargument is
immediately considered.
(7) Ciampi, ovviamente, non fa riferimenti diretti alle polemiche
scatenate dalle dichiarazioni del premier, eppure nelle sue parole
si Iegge un appello all'indipendenza dell 'informazione rispetto
all'esecutivo. (19. Apri12002 in La Repubblica)
'Ciampi obviously does not make any direct reference to the
polemic incited by the statements of the prime minister, and yet in
his words one can read an appeal to the independence of
information with respect to the executive branch. (19 April 2002 in
La Repubblica)
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 233
Without ovviamente the sentence would doubtlessly be more definite than
with the adverb, which based on its original lexical meaning would have to
underscore the obviousness of the conclusion. Still greater indefiniteness is
expressed in sentence (8) where a conclusion oriented on the future is for-
mulated.
(8) Un argomento di cui, ovviamente, si parlera in studio.
'An argument which will apparently be discussed in the studio.'
The lexical meaning of ovviamente must have undergone changes for it to
be used as the modalisation of a future event that is here even seen as only
hypothetical. In its meaning the adverb can only conditionally be traced
back to owio ('what comes about with direct necessity and without any
possibility of doubt on the level of interpretation or judgement', Devoto
and Oli 1990: 1313), in so far as the characteristics 'direct visibility of the
proof' and 'exclusion of error' have diminished in importance. Ovviamente
is a sentence adverb which is used parenthetically in the two examples. It
comes before the conjugated verb form and is separated by pauses from the
rest of the sentence. Basically, the adverb used in this way contains an ad-
ditional predicate and could be transformed into a main clause, in which
the sentence in which it stands contains the argument:
(9) E ovvio che Ciampi non fa riferimenti diretti alle polemiche
scatenate dalle dichiarazioni del premier.
'It is obvious that Ciampi did not make a direct reference to the
polemic incited by the statements of the prime minister.'
(10) Eovvio che eun argomento di cui si parlera in studio.
'It is obvious that that is an argument which will be discussed in
the studio.'
While with the explication of the predication with the predicate adjective
the author makes a clear statement about the superficiality and plausibility
of his conclusion, with the adverb he merely marks the conclusion as such.
No explicit reference is made to what was behind it or its basis. The use of
the adverb ovviamente allows the tuning out of the sources of the reported
knowledge, but however allows characterising them as given. Thus, a cer-
tain vagueness of the assertion is accomplished which the text producer
does not have to commit himself to or specify. The limitation of the regress
obligation, however, takes place through the evidential marking of the
234 Gerda Hafiler
statement, which is concluded from bases and sources of lrnowledge which
are not specified more closely.
In a similar way this applies to the Spanish adverbs visiblemente
'visibly', aparentemente 'apparently' and evidentemente 'evidently, obvi-
ously', which in their direct meaning denote visual access to the content of
the proposition. However, while this access for visiblemente is explicit,
aparentemente and evidentemente can also denote conclusions which are
not based on visual perception (cf. HaBler 2004).
(11) La suma de estos quebrantos - que se hizo evidente cuando el
gobierno debi6 renegociar su gigantesca deuda externa - ya
oblig6 al Presidente Figueiredo a someterse a una delicada
operaci6n de bypass y lo ha afectado visiblemente en lo fisico.
(Hoy, 25/04-01/05/1984)
'The sum of these losses, which became evident when the
government had to renegotiate its gigantic foreign debt, had
already compelled President Figueiredo to undergo a serious
by-pass operation and had visibly affected him physically.' (Hoy,
25/04-01/05/1984)
(12) Esta confianza estaba evidentemente fundada en Ia disposici6n
general de todos los espaiioles, que guiados por el instinto de Ia
felicidad, que el autor de Ia naturaleza puso en el coraz6n de los
hombres, sabian que no habia otro camino para que se mejorase Ia
suerte de Ia Espana, que el de cambiar las instituciones, ni otro
medio de conseguirlo que por un alzamiento militar. (El Imparcial,
1 de fe brero de 1822)
'This trust was evidently based on the general disposition of all
Spaniards who - guided by the instinct of happiness which the
creator of nature has placed in the human heart - lrnew that there
was no other way for the fate of Spain to tum positively than to
change the institutions, and there was no other means to achieve
that than by a military uprising.' (El Imparcial, 1st February 1822)
(13) Y, de igual manera que en el Estado juridico se destacan lazos
legisla-tivos que descubren y ordenan las relaciones en todo el
ambito nacional, porque a todos protegen y a todos obligan las
relaciones aparentemente invisibles de Ia colectividad, de Ia
misma manera en el ambito econom1co nacional hay que
descubrir tambien las nterrelaciones econ6micas entre los
distintos sectores, [...]. (Contabilidad Nacional, ABC, 11 de julio
de 1958)
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 235
'And in the same way that in the lawful state legislative ties
dominate which uncover and organise the relationships on the
entire national level because they protect everyone and oblige
everyone to uphold the apparently invisible relationships of the
group, in the same way on the national economic level one must
also uncover the economic interrelationships between the different
sectors [...].'
As example (13) shows, aparentemente is readily combinable with ele-
ments which negate the visibileness (aparentemente invisibles).
In example (14) aparentemente is used autonymically in an oral inter-
view and indicates the process of becoming conscious of its use. At first
the speaker uses it automatically (!Javid es un nino supernormal, aparente-
mente) after which she becomes aware that her speech act is not a conclu-
sion, but a simple statement. For this reason she corrects herself with
words such as buena, aparentemente y sin aparentemente, es supernormal:
(14) El segundo se llama David David es un nino supernormal,
aparentemente, buena, aparentemente y sin aparentemente, es
supernormal y tiene ahara pues yo creo que veintiseis veinticinco,
buena, nunca me aclaro con estos dos. (1998, Entrevista CSC008,
mujer, 20 aiios, frag mentos no transcritos en el Corpus para el
estudio del espa:fiol)
'The second one is named David. David is apparently a
supernormal child, well, apparently and not apparently, he is
supernormal, and now I think he's twenty-six or twenty-five, I'm
not sure which of the two.' (1998, Entrevista CSC008, woman,
aged 20 years, untranscribed fragments in the text body for the
study of Spanish)
In these cases, the lexical meaning as well as the evidential function have
nearly disappeared. It is not that the content of the utterance is apparent,
not that it is visible, but rather the non-presence, the not-mentioning of the
information source that is decisive for the use of the adverbs, which could
be regarded as discourse markers. Analogously, in the Italian si dice one
can ascertain that in all syntactic usages the mentioning of a speech act can
take backstage. In example (15) the statement gained from hearsay is di-
rectly questioned and contrasted with a position in a direct quotation.
236 Gerda Hafiler
(15) Si dice chela quotazione in ltalia sia propedeutica a nuove acquisi-
zioni. E' vero?"Noi ci guardiamo sempre attorno. Luxottica
continua a crescere per vie interne, ma a volte ci sono delle
occasioni sul mercato che possono consentire di fare dei grandi
salti in avanti. Noivo gliamo essere pronti" (La Repubblica
2.12.2000)
'It is saidthat having quotas in Italy paves the way for new achieve-
ments. Is this true? "We always keep our eyes open and look
around. Luxottica is continuing to grow internally, but sometimes
there are occasions on the markets which allow great leaps
forward. We want to be ready" ' (La Repubblica, 2 December
2000)
The meanings of these elements are not referentially describable; on the
contrary, they have a more procedural character4 The instruction arising
from the use of markers of the vague origin of the speaker's knowledge
problematises the relationship between the content of the proposition and
its logical value. If a proposition is really evident it does not require a
marker as evident. From this simple fact the conclusion can be drawn, with
reference to Grice's conversation maxims5, that evidentiality markers can
be interpreted as relevant in this sense that they are always attributed to
having a limiting effect with respect to the actual evidence. This also ap-
plies when the respective words would denote a maximal degree of evi-
dence based on their lexical original meaning.
Finally, the use of certain means which also carry out evidential mark-
ings can even contribute to the blurring ofthe different kinds of evidential-
ity. Thus, the French conditionnel can express reported speech, but also a
conclusion. In example (10) already used by Guentcbeva (1994: 17-18) it is
impossible to distinguish whether the statement of the cause of death was
concluded from the diagnosis that was given beforehand or if it reports
what the doctor said:
(16) Les resultats des examens realises, notamment a l'hopital neuro-
cardiologique de Lyon, par le docteur T., neuro-cardiologue, et
par le professeur V., toxicologue, font etat de la presence dans le
sang, oit le taux d'alcoolemie atteignait 1,8 gramme, d'opiaces, de
la morphine en particulier. La cause de la mort serait ainsi une
crise cardiaque declenchee dans un contexte de prise d'opiaces par
voie buccale qui ne semble pas devoir etre assimile a une
surdose. (Le Monde, 17 juin 1993)
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 237
'Notably, the results of the examinations carried out in the Neuro-
Cardiological Hospital of Lyon by the neurocardiologist Doctor T.
and by the toxicologist Professor V reveal narcotic drugs, in
particular morphine, in the blood along with an alcohol
concentration of 1.8. The cause of death would thus be a cardiac
crisis triggered in the context of the intake ofnarcotics through the
mouth, which does not seem to be linked to an "overdose" '
It can only be unequivocally determined in this example that it is not an
utterance based on the own experience of the text producer and his/her
insight into the matter.
As we have seen, there are demarcation problems in the Romance lan-
guages between epistemic modality and evidentiality and also overlaps
between the different kinds of evidentiality. With the determination of the
category of evidentiality as marker ofthe origin of the speaker's knowledge
there is a category centred on the speaker. It therefore seems justified to
include deixis in the determination ofevidentiality.
4. Modality, Evidentiality and Deixis
Evidentiality is closely related to two moments: on the one hand to the
reference to the source of information and on the other hand to the epis-
temic stance of the speaker. In this sense it seems justified to view eviden-
tiality as a deictic phenomenon, in so far as the evidentiality markers refer
to elements outside the linguistic context, namely to the source of informa-
tion and to the speaker who has access to it. The deictic character of evi-
dentiality has already been pointed out in previous papers (e.g. Jakobson
1957, Schlichter 1986, Frawley 1992, Volkmann 2005). Frawley uses sev-
eral categories for his model of the internal organisation of evidentiality in
order to classifY the epistemic field from a deictic point of view. His model
is based on the following "deictic understanding" of the epistemic field:
Ifwe understand the requirements ofepistemic modality by the categories of
source/direction of knowledge and the scale of strength of knowledge, we
can simplify and unify accounts of epistemic modality. To do so, we must
first reexamine the basic deictic structure of modality, via deixis itself,
which [...] has three components: deictic points, direction, and remoteness
(Frawley 1992: 412; italics in the original).
238 Gerda Hafiler
Under deixis we understand a specific mechanism of referentialisation
which refers to the context ofthe utterance and establishes a relationship to
ego-hie-nunc.
Table 3. Source ofKnowledge- Strength ofKnowledge (Frawley 1992: 413)
Self
From
To
Other
From
To
Scaled Categories of Inference
necessary> possible
Scaled Categories of Sensation
visual> auditory> other senses> feel6
Scaled Categories of External Information
quote > report > hearsay> other
Scaled Categories ofParticipants
other > all else
Frawley views the two kinds of sources of information (source of knowl-
edge) as deictic points: "Sometimes the self is the center of the epistemic
stance (as in judgments) and sometimes the other (nonself) (as in hearsay)"
(Frawley 1992: 412). If one then applies the criterion of directionality,
which Frawley (1992: 412) calls "from the self, to the self, from the other,
to the other", one obtains four subcategories: 1. Inference (originating from
the speaker), 2. Sensory perceptions as perception scale with hierarchical
graduation (coming towards the speaker, or better: influencing the
speaker), 3. Quotations, messages, etc. (originating from other persons) and
4. one or more participants in the conversation (approaching others). Fraw-
ley introduces the third component of deixis, distance (remoteness), in
order to thus capture the criterion of the proximity of the speaker to the
circumstance. In doing so, however, he also places evidentiality and epis-
temic modality in an interdependent relationship:
When we say that a speaker is less committed to a proposition, the evidence
is less strong or direct, or the speaker is less confident, we mean that, just as
in any deictic system, the distance between the reference point and located
point is relatively large. Confidence, commitment, strength, and so on are
ways of talking about the relative distance between the source ofknowledge
[...] and the object of knowledge [...] (Frawley 1992: 413; italics in the
original).
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 239
Recognising the deictic character of evidentiality and describing it as deic-
tic phenomenon helps to determine the place of evidentiality within the
language and provides a basis for distinguishing it from epistemic modal-
ity.7 Deixis implies a perspectivation from the standpoint of the speaker,
which the hearer, outgoing from his/her own discursive position, has to
reinterpret. This concept of implicit perspectivation in deixis allows a dif-
ferentiation of epistemic modality and evidentiality. Epistemic modality
and evidentiality act together in the construction of the reliability of the
utterances. While the epistemic modality monologically contributes the
epistemic stance of the speaker or the author, evidentiality can also require
the hearer or reader to produce a reference to the source of information,
which means a necessary adaptation with respect to his/her identity, indi-
viduality and epistemic stance toward the sources. In this last mentioned -
epistemic stance- he may also differ from the producer ofthe utterance.
The examination of the point of reference, of the distance and of the di-
rection in the case of evidentiality must take into consideration the non-
discrete character of evidential factors and access to the information
source. Besides, pure modal meanings must be excluded in order to ade-
quately describe and classify evidential values. Points of reference here
would be the participants in the communication act with or without access
to the source of information; the distance to the information source would
be represented by the continuum between own and foreign information and
the mode of access to information would be represented by the access di-
rection.
Table 4. Mode of access to information
Mode of access to information Information source Access to information
cognitive foreign universal
t t
sensoric own limited
Evidentiality is thus not merely a reference to the source of information
reported in an utterance, but also a deictic phenomenon which refers to the
speaker, his assumptions about the status of knowledge and his complex
relationships to information and its sources.
240 Gerda Hafiler
5. The evidential value of the Spanish imperfect: an example
Let us look at the example of the use of the imperfect in Spanish with evi-
dential value. Reyes explains the quotative use of the Spanish imperfect
with the example sentence "Maiiana daba una conferencia Maria" 'Tomor-
row Maria was giving a lecture' (Reyes 1990 y 1996 [1994]):
El uso, aprentemente an6malo, del imperfecto daba para hacer una referen-
da al futuro se debe ala intenci6n del hablante de seiialar que su informa-
cion es de segunda mano: se puede agregar facilmente una expresi6n citativa
como segful me dijeron. [...] El enunciado [...] ejemplifica un caso de cita en
el que se trata de deslindar responsabilidades: el hablante no asume entera-
mente lo que dice, y para eso indica (por ejemplo, usando el imperfecto de
ese modo peculiar) que su conocimiento procede del testimonio de otro.
(Reyes 1996: 12)
'The use, apparently anomalous, of the imperfect daba to make reference to
the future is due to the intention of the speaker to signal that his information
is second hand: a citative expression like segun me dijeron can be added
easily. The statement exemplifies a case ofa quotation used to demarcate re-
sponsibilities. The speaker does not assume complete responsibility for what
he says, and for that reason he indicates (e.g. using the imperfect in this dis-
tinctive way) that his knowledge comes from the testimony of another per-
son' (Reyes 1996: 12)
While the synthetic future has thus obtained an epistemic value to express
a possibility or a necessity, the imperfecto has assumed a quotative value.
In doing so the imperfect has partially lost its prototypical reference in a
temporal and factual respect, i.e. to represent an action in the past in its
progresston.
Wachtmeister Bermudez (2005: 16) points out that the imperfecto is
used evidentially when both the speaker and the addressee have access to
the information source. He distinguishes between "acceso privativo [a la
fuente de la informacion]" (private access to the source of information),
und "acceso compartido [ala fuente de la informacion]" (shared access to
the source of information). The first expresses that only the speaker has
access to the source of information; acceso compartido indicates by con-
trast that both interlocutors have access to it, which can be expressed by
the evidential use ofthe Spanish imperfect.
That this can absolutely take place in the deictic sense presented above
can be seen from the following example. A teacher is teaching mathematics
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 241
to a student and in solving an equation produces one of the following utter-
ances:
(17) ...y simplificando nos da entonces 1,5 porIa raiz cuadrada de 2, y
Ia raiz cuadrada de 2 era 1,4142, asi que el resultado final...
' [...] and the square root of 2 was 1.4142 [...]'
(18) ...y simplificando nos da entonces 1,5 porIa raiz cuadrada de 2, y
Ia raiz cuadrada de 2 es 1,4142, asi que el resultado final...
' [...] and the square root of 2 is 1.4142 [.. .]'
In utterance (17) the speaker emphasises that both he and the hearer have
access to the source of information, in this case to the numerical value of
the square root of 2. In utterance (18) however, the speaker presents this
information as new for the hearer. It has long been lmown that the tempo-
rality of the imperfect and also the German preterite can also depend on
deicticals. Let us look at the Spanish translation ofthe example Kate Ham-
burger used back in 1957:
(19) Pero por Ia manana tenian que adornar el arbol. Manana era
navidad
'But in the morning she had to decorate the tree. Tomorrow was
Christmas.'
I see one possibility to explain the imperfect in this sentence in the ana-
phoric character of some of the verb forms (Garcia Fernandez and Camus
Bergareche 2004: 54). With reference to temporality, the verb form era is
coreferential with the deictical manana, which is contingent on its ana-
phoric character. Deictic elements tend to assign a different value to a verb
form than their prototypical value. In many cases it is a matter of marking
potential or at least not real processes. The aspective value ofthe imperfec-
tivity approaches uncertainty. With the use ofthe imperfect the speaker can
express that he has uncertain, i.e. second-hand information regarding the
matter. As example the sentence (20) could be reformulated using the evi-
dential value ofthe imperfect as (21):
(20) Juan viene manana, segun me anunciaron.
Juan comes tomorrow following me announced
'Juan is coming tomorrow, according to what was announced to
me.'
(21) Juan venia manana.
242 Gerda Hafiler
Juan came tomorrow
'Juan was coming tomorrow.'
With the use of the imperfect venia the speaker is not referring to the past
of the coming of Juan, but to a heard or read utterance, in which the com-
ing was announced. In this case, too, we can assume that the anticipated
circumstance of Juan's coming the next day is known to the speaker as well
as to the addressee and that this should just serve as a reminder. In Ger-
man, toned down to some extent with doch, this sentence would be trans-
lated as:
(22) Juan soli doch morgen kommen.
Juan should [particle] tomorrow come
'Juan is supposed to come tomorrow.'
Using the imperfect in this way is not only possible in assertive speech
acts, but in interrogative speech acts as well:
(23) Necesito saber cuando venias.
I need to know when [you] came
'I need to know when you were coming.'
In example (23)8 the imperfect makes clear that the speaker was not only
informed about the coming of the addressee, but actually was supposed to
know the exact time, but had forgotten this or had not registered it exactly.
In such cases, which are relatively frequent in spoken Spanish, the
speaker shows that he cannot assume full responsibility for the content of
the utterance and he pre-empts the ability of the hearer to classify the in-
formation as from a foreign source.
Another case in which deixis can be used to demarcate evidentiality and
modality is the contrast between the consecutive connectors asi que, de ahi
que and por eso:
(24) Me trataron mal, asi que mefui.
Me [they] treated badly, so that me [I] left
'They treated me badly so I left.'
(25) Me trataron mal, de ahique me haya ido.
Me [they] treated badly, of here that me [I] had gone
'They treated me badly which is why I left.'
(26) Me trataron mal, por eso mefui.
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 243
Me [they] treated badly, for that me [I] left.
'They treated me badly, therefore I left.'
In all three utterances the speaker asserts that the fact that he left is a con-
sequence of his having been treated badly. In sentence (24) he presents the
fact that he left as something new for the hearer: 'They treated me badly so
I left.' and in (25) as information to which the hearer already has access:
'They treated me badly which is why I left.' In (18) both interpretations are
possible.
In conclusion it can be said that evidentiality is not simply a curiosity of
a language group which is typologically far removed from the European
languages, but rather a fundamental characteristic of languages which finds
its place more in perspectivation than in epistemic modality, but which
naturally shows some overlap with this. Evidentiality is not only a refer-
ence to an information source, but is also a deictic phenomenon which re-
fers to the speaker who conceived the utterance and to his complex rela-
tionship to the hearer, to information and its sources. While epistemic mo-
dality adds the stance of the text producer to the predication, evidentiality
presumes the production of a reference to the source of knowledge by the
recipient and thus a judgement oftrustworthiness.
Notes
1. For further studies on evidentiality cf. Aikhenvald 2004, Aikhenwald and
Dixon 2003, Chafe and Nichols 1986, Dendale and Tasmowski 1994, Dendale
and Tasmowski 2001, Hoff 1986, Ifantidou 2001, Lazard 2001, Mushin 2001,
Nuyts 2001, Plungian 2001, Willett 1988, Bybee et al. 1994, HaBler 2001,
2002, 2003, Gonz:ilez Vazquez 2006; and with a consciously chosen contrast-
ing term (mediatisation) Guentcheva 1996.
2. For the analyses of Hensarling 1982, Lowe 1972, Gomez Rendon 2006, Ha-
viland 1989 and de Haan 2005 I am greatly indebted to my doctoral student
Anja Hennemann.
3. Diewald 1999 applies a similar relational structure between the origo as start-
ing point and the proposition as target point also to the deictic reading of
modal verbs.
4. Ifantidou (2001: 87), Sperber and Wilson 1995: procedural meaning.
5. Sperber and Wilson (1995: 78): "We take for granted that there is a good
match between the strength ofour assumptions and the likelihood that they are
true. That is, we trust our cognitive mechanisms to strengthen or weaken our
assumptions in a way that is epistemologically sound: we trust our representa-
244 Gerda Hafiler
tion of the world to be adequate in this respect, as in others. As a result, intui-
tions about the strength of our assumptions are expressed as intuitions about
the degree of confirmation. Such intuitions are assumptions about assump-
tions, and can be processed as such."
6. Although Frawley's deictic approach is of great importance for this paper, an
interaction between the category of sensory perceptions and the category of in-
ference should be made clear graphically for the following reason: A sensory
perception is often (if not always) the prerequisite for a conclusion which one
draws based on signs.
7. To distinguish evidentiality and epistemic modality compare also De Haan
1999, Squartini 2004.
8. I owe the example to Anja Hennemann.
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra
2004 Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y., and R. M. W. Dixon (eds.)
2003 Studies in Evidentiality. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Barentson, Adrian
2001 Functional Grammar aspect and aspectuality; tense and temporal-
ity; essays in honour of Alexander Bondarko. Mlinchen: LINCOM
Europa.
Barnes, Janet
1984 Evidentials in the Tuyuca verb. International Journal ofAmerican
Linguistics 50: 255-271.
Bondarko, Alexander V
1984 Teorija grammaticeskogo znacenija i aspektologiceskie issledo-
vanija. Leningrad: Nauka
1987 Vvedenie, aspektual'nost, vremennaja lokalizovannost' taksis. Le-
ningrad: Nauka.
Bybee, Joan, Perkins, Revere, and Pagliuca, William
1994 The evolution ofgrammar. Tense, aspect, and modality in the lan-
guages of the world. Chicago/London: The University of Chicago
Press.
Capelli, Gloria
2007 "I reckon I know how Leonardo da Vinci must have felt... Episte-
micity, evidentiality and English verbs ofcognitive attitude. Pari: Pa-
ri Publishing.
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 245
Chafe, Wallace, and Johanna Nichols (eds.)
1986 Evidentiality: the linguistic coding of epistemology in language.
Notwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Cornillie, Bert
2007 Evidentiality and Epistemic Modality in Spanish (Semi-)Auxiliaries.
A Cognitive-Functional Approach. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
DeHaan, Ferdinand
1999 Evidentiality and Epistemic Modality: Setting Boundaries. South-
west Journal ofLinguistics 18: 83-101.
2001 The relation between modality and evidentiality. In Modalitat und
Modalverben im Deutschen. Milller, Reimar, and Marga Reis (eds.),
201-206. Hamburg: Buske.
2005 Encoding Speaker Perspective: Evidentials. In Linguistic Diversity
and Language Theories. Frajzyngier, Zygmunt, Hodges, Adam, and
Rood, David S. (eds.), 379-397. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Ben-
jamins.
Dendale, Patrick, and Liliane Tasmowski (eds.)
1994 Les sources du savoir et leurs marques linguistiques. Paris: La-
rousse.(= Langue Franr;aise 102)
2001 Evidentially. Amsterdam etc.: Elsevier. (Journal ofPragmatics. An
interdisciplinary Journal ofLanguage Studies 33: 339-464)
Devoto, Giacomo, and Gian Carlo Oli
1990 II dizionario della lingua italiana. Firenze: Casa Editrice Felice Le
Monnier.
Diewald, Gabriele
1999 Die Modalverben im Deutschen. Grammatikalisierung und
Polyfunktionalitat. Tiibingen: Max Niemeyer.
Frawley, William
1992 Linguistic semantics. Hillsdale: Laurence Erlbaum Associates.
Garcia Fernandez, Luis, and Camus Bergareche, Bruno (eds.)
2004 Elpreterito imperfecto. Madrid: Gredos.
Givon, Talmy
1984 Syntax: A functional-typological introduction. Vol. I. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Gomez Rendon, Jorge
2006 Interpersonal Aspects ofEvidentiality in Ecuadorian Quechua. ACLC
Working Papers 2006 (1): 37-50.
GonzaJ.ez Vazquez, Mercedes
2006 Lasfuentes de Ia informacion: Tipologia, semimtica y pragmatica de
Ia evidencialidad. Vigo: Universidade de Vigo, Servizo de Publica-
dons.
246 Gerda Hafiler
GuentcMva, Zlatka
1994 Manifestations de la categorie du mediatif dans les temps du fran-
yais. Langue Fram;aise 102: 8-23.
GuentcMva, Zlatka (ed.)
1996 L 'enonciation mediatisee. Louvain/Paris: Editions Peeters.
Hamburger, Kate
1957 Die Logik der Dichtung. Stuttgart: Klett
HaJ31er, Gerda
2001 Kontrastive und typologische Oberlegungen zur epistemischen Mo-
dalitat in den romanischen Sprachen und im Deutschen. In Studien
zum romanisch-deutschen und innerromanischen Sprachvergleich.
Akten der IV Internationalen Tagung zum romanisch-deutschen und
innerromanischen Sprachvergleich, Wotjak, Gerd (ed.), 169-184.
Bern etc.: Peter Lang.
2002 Evidentiality and reported speech in Romance languages. In Re-
ported Discourse. A meeting groundfor different linguistic domains,
Giildemann, Tom, and Manfred von Roncador (eds.), 143-172. Ams-
terdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
2003 Epistemic modality revisited: evidential functions of lexical and
grammatical forms in Romance languages. In Proceedings of the
XVII International Congress of Linguists, E. Hajicova, A. Ko-
tesovcova, J. Mirovsk:Y (eds.), CD-Rom. Maftyzpress: vydavatelstvi
Matematicko-fyzikalni fakulty Univerzity Karlovy v Praze.
2004 El uso evidencial de adverbios modales. In Algunos problemas es-
peciftcos de Ia descripci6n sintirctico-semimtica, Juan Cuartero,
Gerd Wotjak (eds.), 229-244. Berlin: Frank & Timme.
Haviland, John B.
1989 'Sure, sur': evidence and affect. In Text. Special issue on discourse
andAffect. Ochs, Elinor, and Schieffelin, Bambi (eds.), 9 (1): 27-68.
Hensarling, Grace
1982 Aspects of Cogui morphophonemics. Fourth Biennal Conference of
the Society for Caribbean Linguistics. Paramaribo, Suriname 1982
(ms.)
Hoff, Berend Jacob
1986 Evidentiality in the Carib: Particles, affixes and a variant ofWacker-
nagel's Law. Lingua 69: 49-103.
Ifantidou, Elly
2001 Evidentials and Relevance. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benja-
mins.
Jakobson, Roman
1957 Shifters, verbal categories and the Russian verb. In Selected Writ-
ings. Vol.2. Jakobson, Roman, 130-147. Cambridge University
(1971). The Hague: Mouton.
Epistemic modality and evidentiality 247
Lazard, Gilbert
2001 On the grammaticalization ofevidentality. Journal ofPragmatics 33:
359-367.
Lowe, Ivan
1972 On the Relation of Formal Sememic Matrices with Illustrations from
Nambiquara. Foundations ofLanguage 8 (3): 360-390.
Lyons, Lyons
1995 Linguistic Semantics: An introduction. Cambridge: University
Presss.
Mushin, Ilana
2001 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance. Narrative Retelling. Ams-
terdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Nuyts, Jan
2001 Subjectivity as an evidential dimension in epistemic modal expres-
sions. Journal ofPragmatics 33: 383-400.
Palmer, Frank R.
2001 Mood and Modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Plungian, Vladimir A.
2001 The place of evidentiality within the universal grammatical space.
Journal ofPragmatics 33: 349-357.
Reyes, Graciela
1990 Tiempo, modo, aspecto e intertextualidad. Revista Espanola de
LingUistica 20: 17-53.
1996 e1994] Los procedimientos de cita: citas encubiertas y ecos. Madrid:
Arco/Libros.
Schlichter, Alice
1986 The origins and deictic nature ofWintu evidentials. In Evidentiality:
The Linguistic Coding ofEpistemology. Chafe, Wallace, and Johan-
na Nichols (eds.), 46-59. Norwood: Ablex.
Sperber, Dan, and Wilson, Deirdre
1995 Relevance. Communication and Cognition. 2nd ed. Oxford: Black-
well.
Squartini, Mario
2004 Disentangling evidentiality and epistemic modality in Romance.
Lingua 114: 873-895.
Volkmann, Gesina
2005 Weltsicht und Sprache. Epistemische Relativierung am Beispiel des
Spanischen. Tiibingen: Narr.
Wachtmeister Bermudez, Fernando
2006 Evidencialidad La codificacion linguistica del punto de vista. Tesis.
Stockholm: Stockholms Universitet Institutionrn fOr Spanska, Por-
tugiska och Lateinamerikastudier.
248 Gerda Hafiler
Weber, David J.
1989 A grammar ofHuallaga (Hwinuco) Quechua. Berkeley: University
ofCalifornia Press.
Willett, Thomas
1988 A cross-linguistic survey of the grammaticalization of evidentiality.
Studies in Language 12 (1): 51-97.
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs of perception
in English and German1
Richard Jason Whitt
Verbs of perception - those verbs signifying sight, sound, touch, smell, and taste -
are ideal candidates for carriers of evidential meaning, as much of what we know
and believe is based on what we perceive. This study focuses on perception verbs
in English and German, particularly two verbs ofvisual perception (English see and
German sehen). The high degree of polysemy found among perception verbs mani-
fests itself in the evidential domain as well, as these verbs attest an array ofeviden-
tial meanings. And exactly what type of evidential meaning is expressed depends
on what type of complementation pattern or construction type the perception verb
occurs in. A number of corpora representing the Early Modem and Modern periods
of English and German provide the data for this study.
1. Introduction
Although evidentiality has been receiving increased attention in the lin-
guistics community in the last quarter century or so (the collection of es-
says in Chafe and Nichols 1986 marks the first collaborative effort to bring
evidential studies to the forefront of linguistic enquiry), most of the scho-
larship in this field has concentrated on the grammatical encoding of evi-
dentiality. Indeed, Aikhenvald 2004 declares evidentiality to be solely a
grammatical category (although she does allow for evidential meaning to
be expressed by lexical means as well). Surveys of evidential markers in
European languages such as English and German - where evidentiality is
not (yet) encoded grammatically -are thus lacking.
Granted, some work has been done on various types of evidential mark-
ers in these two languages: Chafe 1986, Traugott 1989, 1997, Brinton 1996
for English; Mortelmans 2000, Diewald 2004, Smimova 2006 for German.
There as not, however, been a systematic study of one of the most obvious
markers of evidentiality in English and German: perception verbs. Gis-
bome 1998 and Gisborne and Holmes 2007 do pay some attention to evi-
dential meaning and perception verbs in English (although most of the
discussion of Gisbome and Holmes 2007 concentrates on the verbs seem
250 RichardJason Whitt
and appear), while there is an utter lack of scholarship of evidentiality and
perception verbs in German. This is a gap I would like to fill by examining
in what type of constructions the verbs of perception express evidential
meaning, and how these meanings are bound to specific constructions in
which they occur. The discussion here is based on Whitt 2008.
2. The Verbs of Perception
It should be no surprise that the verbs of perception - those verbs denoting
sight, sound, touch, smell, and taste - provide speakers of English and
German (and no doubt many other languages) with means of indicating
their source of information. After all, the renowned semiotician Charles
Sanders Peirce (1998: 227) once said, nihil est in intellectu quin prius fu-
erit in sensu ['nothing is in the intellect that was not first in the senses'].
Consider the following:
(1) a. I see Karen swimming.
b. lch sehe Karen schwimmen.
Here, the speaker not only asserts that Karen is swimming, but also that
slhe visually perceives this event taking place. And it is this visual percep-
tion that provides the basis for the speaker's claim of Karen's action; it
leaves less doubt about information source. This indication of visual per-
ception may not be an obligatory aspect of asserting p (Karen is swimming
in the lake), but it does provide increased specificity in the discourse.
2.1. Perception Verb Typolo~
The five sensory modalities do not enjoy equal status in linguistic usage:
some types of perception verbs are used more often than others, and some
of these verbs exhibit a higher degree of polysemy than others. Viberg
1983 makes this clear with his perception verb hierarchy, which is based
on a cross-linguistic typological study of 53 of the world's languages from
14 different "language stocks" (124):
Sight > Hearing > Touch > {Smell, Taste}
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 251
"A verb having a basic meaning belonging to a sensory modality higher (to
the left) in the hierarchy," he explains, "can get an extended meaning that
covers some (or all) ofthe sense modalities lower in the hierarchy" (Viberg
1983: 136-137). Hence verbs of visual perception can be expected to exhi-
bit a higher degree of polysemy and/or generalization than verbs of olfacto-
ry perception. This is no surprise when one considers that the bulk of scho-
larship on perception verbs is devoted mostly to visual perception (cf.
Sweetser 1990: 23-48, Schroder 1995, van der Does and van Lambalgen
2000, Harm 2000, and de Haan forth.). But considering that vision pro-
vides us with our most global and immediate access to the world around us
(whereas a modality such as smell is not as global nor as reliable), it makes
perfect sense that the verbs of visual perception should find themselves at
the top ofthis hierarchy.
It is necessary to draw a two-way distinction between subject-oriented
and object-oriented verbs of perception (Viberg 1983, Harm 2000), for we
will see later how this distinction plays into the expression of evidential
meaning. Subject-oriented perception verbs (called "experiencer-based" by
Viberg) are those verbs whose grammatical subject is the perceiver and
they emphasize the perceiver's role in the act of perception. They are tran-
sitive verbs, and they can be further sub-divided into agentive and expe-
riencer perception verbs. The subject-oriented agentive perception verbs
signify an intended act of perception:
(2) a. Karen listened to the music.
b. Karen hat die Musik angehort.
(3) a. Karen smelled the iris with delight.
b. Karen hat die Iris mit Vergniigen gerochen.
So in (2) and (3), Karen intends to listen to the music and she intentionally
smells the iris. On the other hand, subject-oriented experiencer perception
verbs indicate no such volition; instead, they merely describe a non-
intended act of perception:
(4) a. Karen heard the music.
b. Karen hat die Musik gehort.
(5) a. Karen tasted the garlic in the soup.
b. Karen hat den Knoblauch in der Suppe geschmeckt.
So here in (4) and (5), Karen does not intend or go out of her way to audi-
torily perceive the music or to gustatorily perceive the garlic in her soup;
252 RichardJason Whitt
they are simply acts of perception that she naturally experiences without
any volition on her part. But one thing that (2) through (5) have in common
is that Karen is both the grammatical subject of the clause and the agent -
whether intended or not - of perception. Some examples of subject-
oriented perception verbs include see (experiencer), look (agentive), hear
(experiencer), listen (agentive),Jeel (agentive or experiencer), smell (agen-
tive or experiencer), and smell (agentive or experiencer) in English; sehen
'see' (experiencer), ansehen 'look at' (agentive), horen 'hear' (experienc-
er), anhoren 'listen to' (agentive),fuhlen 'feel' (agentive or experiencer),
schmecken 'taste' (agentive or experiencer), and riechen 'smell' (agentive
or experiencer) in German. As can be seen, visual and auditory perception,
the two modalities at the top ofthe hierarchy, have separate lexical items in
both English and German for subject-oriented agentive and experiencer
perception verbs, whereas the other three modalities each share a single
lexical item that can signify both types of perception.
The object of perception, rather than the perceiver himself, is the
grammatical subject of object-oriented perception verbs (called "source-
based" by Viberg), and the agent of perception is sometimes wholly absent
from the clause. These verbs are intransitive. When using an object-
oriented perception verbs, speakers make an assessment concerning the
state of the object of perception, and these verbs are often used evidentially:
(6) a. Karen looks healthy.
b. Karen sieht gesund aus.
(7) a. The cake tastes good.
b. Der Kuchen schmeckt gut.
The speaker reports on what is perceived here, and neither Karen nor the
cake are perceivers. In (6), the speaker infers via visual perception that
Karen is healthy (this is evidential). In (7), the cake is deemed via gustato-
ry perception to be of good quality (not evidential). If the speaker is not the
agent of perception and wishes to report on someone else's experience, a
to-clause in English or a dative object in German may sometimes be used:
(8) a. The cake tastes good to the baker.
b. Der Kuchen schmeckt dem Backer gut.
And similarly, if the speaker wishes to indicate that the act of perception is
indeed theirs and not someone else's, to me may be used in English and
mir can be employed in German. Examples of object-oriented perception
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 253
verbs include look, sound,feel, taste, and smell in English; aussehen 'look,
appear,' (sich) anhoren 'sound,' (sich) anfuhlen 'feel,' schmecken 'taste,'
and riechen 'smell' in German. Some verbs that are lower in the hierarchy
function both as subject-oriented and object-oriented perception verbs in
English, while German employs the derivational prefixes such as an- and
aus- or a reflexive pronoun to make the distinction between subject-
oriented and object-oriented verbs.
2.2. Polysemy
The issue of polysemy is inevitable and unavoidable when one considers
the rich semantics of perception verbs. Merely a brief glance at respective
entries in the Oxford English Dictionary (OED) or the Deutsches Worter-
buch (DWB) reveal how many meanings the verbs of perception can signi-
fy, especially when it comes to the verbs of visual perception. The "core"
meanings of the perception verbs are, of course, physical in nature, but
there is no shortage ofmetonymic or non-physical (i.e. internal, metaphori-
cal) extensions to the meanings of these verbs (Sweetser 1990: 23-48;
Harm 2000). The polysemy expressed by verbs of each sensory modality is
outlined below.
2.2.1. Visual Perception
Physical perception with the eyes is the prototypical meaning one finds
expressed by verbs such as see or sehen. But these verbs can also be ex-
tended metaphorically to cover internal states of knowledge or intellection
(Sweetser 1990: 32-34; Harm 2000: 127-161). One is certainly hard-
pressed to find the literal meaning of vision in expressions such as I see
what you mean or lch sehe, was du meinst; the meaning here is one of in-
ternal understanding, not external vision. The focusing of mental attention
on an object or state of affairs can also be indicated by verbs of visual per-
ception, as in to look ahead to or vorausschauen, where the mental focus is
on some event in the future. Sweetser (1990: 33) describes this metaphori-
cal extension as the expression of mental 'vision' These extensions should
come as no surprise, for there is a cross-linguistic affinity between vision and
knowledge: e.g. Lat videre is cognate with Engl. wise and Germ. wissen.
254 RichardJason Whitt
2.2.2. Auditory Perception
Because verbs of auditory perception can also point to the content of what
is heard - rather than the physical act of hearing itself- they display a cer-
tain degree of (metonymic) polysemy as well. This becomes especially
apparent in cases of hearsay evidentiality:
(9) a. I heard that Karen isn't coming to the party.
b. Jch habe gehort, dass Karen nicht zur Party kommt.
As we see, the object of the verb of auditory perception is the proposition
Karen isn't coming to the party, i.e. what is heard. Of course, this informa-
tion was acquired via auditory perception, so the literal meaning of hear
and hOren is not completely absent either. A bit more abstract is when
meanings of auditory perception become extended to cover obedience, as
in Listen to your mother or Hor aufdeine Mutter. But seeing that auditory
perception is the most likely way one will find out what is expected ofhim,
this meaning extension (hearing> obeying) is not unexpected.
2.2.3. Tactile Perception
In Modern English and German, the main verbs of tactile perception (i.e.
feel and fuhlen) denote forms of internal perception (emotion, intuition,
inference) just as often as they signify acts of external perception. Harm
(2000: 194-202) also notes that, along with the verbs of visual perception,
the verbs of tactile perception can indicating understanding, yet another
internal process, as in e.g. begreifen 'comprehend, understand' (<Middle
High German grifan 'feel, touch'; cf. English grasp) or the English collo-
quial expressions I feel your pain 'I understand and empathize with your
suffering' or simply I feel you 'I understand what you mean.'
2.2.4. Olfactory and Gustatory Perception
These two sensory modalities fail to evince the rich array of polysemy
expressed by the verbs of other sensory modalities, but they are not totally
devoid of metaphorical extensions to their core meanings either. Consider
the evidential utterances I'm smelling a rat or Das riecht nach Skandal
'That smells like a scandal.' There is clearly no act of olfaction expressed
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 255
in either of these statements; instead, the verb of olfaction is used to signi-
fy that the speaker has a general feeling that something is not in order with
the current situation (embodied in the form of a metaphorical rodent) or
that a scandal exists. And sometimes verbs of trying or choosing are de-
rived from verbs of gustation, as in the German kosten 'to sample, taste,'
which involves the sampling of food items.
On a more general note, the verbs of olfactory and gustatory perception
(as well as tactile perception) can function as both subject-oriented and
object-oriented verbs. When taste, for example, is used as a subject-
oriented verb, it denotes the physical act of someone's gustatory expe-
rience (whether this experience is intended or not depends on whether the
verb is being used in its agentive or experiencer sense). But when used as
an object-oriented verb, taste refers to the quality ofthe object being tasted
(e.g. I tasted the soup vs. The soup tasted spicy).
2.3. Evidential Perception Verbs
So how is all this polysemy germane to a discussion of evidentiality and
perception verbs? For one, a single perception verb can express a variety
of evidential meanings, and these meanings generally correspond to mean-
ings found outside of the evidential domain as well. Verbs of visual per-
ception, for example, can point to literal vision as the source of informa-
tion, but they can also indicate that understanding or knowledge forms the
basis of speaker knowledge. Secondly, certain evidential meanings tend to
be bound to specific construction types; yet even within a single construc-
tion type, different types of evidence may be expressed, so we can speak of
constructional polysemy here as well.
In order to pinpoint what exactly constitutes an evidential perception
verb, it is necessary to employ a criterion that has been recognized since
Jakobson ([1957] 1971): deixis. Evidentiality is, by nature, deictic, so any
evidential use of a perception verb must include a deictic meaning in addi-
tion to the regular denotation of physical perception (or any metonymic or
metaphorical extension thereof).3 Consider (10) and (11):
(10) a. I see the house.
b. lch sehe das Haus.
(11) a. I see the house burning.
b. lch sehe das Haus brennen.
256 RichardJason Whitt
In (10), there is only one proposition: I see the house. But in (11), there are
two propositions: one, the house is burning, and two, I see the house burn-
ing. It is this second proposition that carries evidential meaning, for it is
here where the act of visual perception is used to describe the speaker's
relationship with the first proposition, i.e. the house can be reported to be
in a state of burning because the speaker has visual evidence to support this
claim. And because evidentiality is deictic, the perceptual evidence always
lies with the speaker, even when- as in the case of object-oriented percep-
tion verbs - the speaker (the agent of perception) is not syntactically ex-
pressed:
(12) a. Karen looks sick.
b. Karen sieht krank aus.
There may not be two explicit propositions here, but there are certainly two
layers of meaning: one, the speaker has visually perceived Karen, and two,
the speaker infers - based on this perception - that Karen is sick. The visu-
al evidence (Karen's appearance) provides the basis for the speaker's claim
of Karen's health. Examples (10) through (12) also exhibit a tendency
found among evidential perception verbs: constructions involving subject-
oriented perception verbs can only be evidential with a frrst-person subject,
whereas the object-oriented perception verbs allow evidential readings
when second- and third-person grammatical subjects are present.4
3. TheData
In order to examine exactly when and how evidential perception verbs are
used in English and German, I conducted a corpus study that covers both
the Early Modem and Modem periods.
For English, I consulted the Early Modem section of the Helsinki Cor-
pus, which covers the years 1500-1710 and contains a total of 551,000
tokens (the entire Helsinki Corpus contains 1,979,420 tokens). I also used
the ARCHER (A Representative Corpus of Historical English Registers)
Corpus, which covers the years 1650-1990 and contains 1,789,309 tokens.
For German, I examined the Bonner Friihneuhochdeutschkorpus 'Bon-
ner Corpus of Early New High German,' whose texts date from ca. 1350 to
1699 and whose total token count is roughly 608,000. Because there is not
yet a comprehensive corpus that covers the eighteenth and nineteenth cen-
turies,5 I consulted two single-author corpora that I believe satisfactorily
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 257
cover this time period with a variety of text types: the Kant Corpus and the
Goethe Corpus. The Kant Corpus contains 3,338,068 tokens from both the
philosophical writings and personal correspondences (Briefwechsel) of
German philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724-1804). The Goethe Corpus
contains 1,400,000 tokens from twenty-nine selected writings of various
text types by the German author Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749-
1832). And for the twentieth century, I consulted the Digitales Worterbuch
der deutschen Sprache 'Digital Dictionary of the German Language'
(DWDS), which contains roughly 100,000,000 tokens of spoken and writ-
ten twentieth century German. Given the large size of this corpus, I took a
random sample comparable in size to the amount of data found in other
corpora where relevant.
4. A Typology of Evidential Perception Verbs
After the criteria for an evidential verb of perception (discussed in Section
2.4) were established, a search of the corpora discussed in Section 3 was
conducted, and the following construction types were found to evince evi-
dential meaning:
Type 1: Perception Verb (PV) + Finite Complementizer Clause (FCC)
<PV+FCC>
(13) Now I hear you were with the old man later on last night.
(ARCHER: 1960vidl.d8a)
(14) Do es nue liecht ward, do sach wir, daz dy. herren zu einander
giengen in ain haws. (Bonner Corpus: Text 113, Helene
Kottanerin, Denkwii.rdigkeiten (1445-1452), S. 23)
'When it now became light, then we saw that the lords went to one
another in a house.'
As can be seen, the complementizer (that in English, dass in German) is
sometimes omitted in the construction, as in (13).6 This construction is
limited to subject-oriented perception verbs.
Type II: PV + WH-Complementizer Clause
<PV+WH-CC>
(15) Thence I to Westminster-hall and there hear how they talk against
the present management ofthings, and against Sir W Coventry for
his bringing in of new commanders and casting out the old
258 RichardJason Whitt
seamen... (Helsinki Corpus: CEDIAR3, Samuel Pepys, The Diary
ofSamuel Pepys (1666-1667), P VIII, 317-318)
(16) hier sehen wir abermals, wie sich die Netzhaut durch eine
Sukzession von Schwingungen gegen den gewaltsamen iiuj3ern
Eindruck nach und nach wieder herstellt. (Goethe Corpus: Zur
Farbenlehre Didaktischer Teil (1793), Hamburger Ausgabe,
Band 13, S. 338)
'Here we see once again how the retina recuperates from a violent
external impressions little by little through a succession of
oscillations.'
Instead of that or dass, this construction features a wh-word as the com-
plemtnzier of the clause for which the speaker indicates there is evidence.7
But as with Type I, the construction is also restricted to subject-oriented
perception verbs.
Type III: PV + Direct Object (DO) + Non-Finite Verb (NFV)
<PV +DO + NFV>
(17) And John bare record saying, I saw the Spirit descending from
heaven, like a Doue, and it abode vpon him. (Helsinki Corpus:
CNTEST2, The New Testament (1611), I, 20)
(18) Wir sehen auch diese Theorie in der Praxis hinreichend bestiitigt.
(Kant Corpus: AA VIII, Uber den Gemeinspruch (1793), S. 303)
'We even see this theory adequately confirmed in practice.'
Both English and German allow the use of infmitives and past participles
as NFVs here, but only English allows the use of present participles to
function as NFVs as well. Only subject-oriented perception verbs are
found in this construction.
Type IV: PV + Prepositional Phrase (PP)
<PV+PP>
(19) Well, Thomas, why? Make me understand because I'll tell you
now, from where I stand, this looks like cowardice! (ARCHER
Corpus: <1960bolt.d8b>)
(20) Oder wenn der Sohn, als der Vater das Zusammensein mit der
blilhenden Schwiegertochter etwas allzu begeistert schildert, dem
Alten zuruft: ,Du -I Das riecht nach lnzest! -Nun ja, dies ist eben
ein Theaterskandal in Paris, und der Himmel weij3, daj3 wir an
andere gewohnt sind. (DWDS: Paul Block, ,Das Grab unter dem
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 259
Triumphbogen", in: Berliner Tageblatt (Morgen-Ausgabe), S. 2-3,
(11.03.1924))
'Or if the son, when the father somewhat all too surprised depicts
the encounter with the blossoming daughter-in-law, calls out to his
father: "You! That smells like incest! Well, this is just a theater
scandal in Paris, and heaven knows that we're used to others like
this."'
Generally, there are only a limited number ofprepositions that can be used
with any particular perception verb, and one only fmds object-oriented
perception verbs occurring in this construction.
Type V: PV +Adjective (ADJ)
<PV+ADJ>
(21) She was looking remarkably well; her very regular, very pretty
features, having the bloom andfreshness ofyouth restored by the
fine wind which had been blowing on her complexion, and by the
animation of eye which it had also produced (ARCHER Corpus:
<1818aust.f5b>)
(22) Mutter Aurelie schlug mich immer auf die Finger, wenn ich nach
der Karavine griff, der Vater sah so bos aus, ich dachte, er wiirde
mich schlagen. (Goethe Corpus: Wilhelm Meisters Lehrjahre
(1795-1796), Hamburger Ausgabe, Band 7, S. 604)
'Mother Aurelie always hit me on the finger if I reached for the
Karvine, the Father looked so angry that I thought he would hit
me.'
As with the Type IV construction, this construction is limited to object-
oriented perception verbs as well.
Type VI: PV +Conjunction (CONJ) +Clause (C)
<PV + CONJ + C>
(23) Mary <[Hume]> is a very warm-hearted, since [sic] girl, whom I
have always liked, & I doubt not will make him an excellent wife...
I feel as though I am very glad he is going to marry... (ARCHER
Corpus: <1863holm.j6a>)
(24) wenn wir mit den Giitern in Ordnung sind, muj3t du gleich mit nach
Hause, denn es sieht doch aus, als wenn du mit einiger Vernunft in
die menschlichen Unternehmungen eingreifen konntest. (Goethe
260 RichardJason Whitt
Corpus: Wilhelm Meisters Lehrjahre (1795-1796), Hamburger
Ausgabe, Band 7, S. 501)
'After we have taken care of the properties, you must immediately
come home with us, for it looks as if you could intervene in human
affairs with some rationality.'
The conjunction involved here is usually a phrasal conjunction such as
English as ifor as though, or the German als ob or als wenn, although sin-
gle-word conjunctions can appear as well. Similar to Types IV and V, con-
struction Type VI is also limited to object-oriented perception verbs.
Type VII: PV + (Infinitive Copula (IC)) + ADJ or Noun (N) or ADJ + N
<PV + {IC + ADJ; (IC) + N; (IC) + ADJ + N}>
(25) The Captain on deck and in a jolly mood pointed out to us an
iceberg in the distance. It looked, through the glass, to be about 30
feet long and 50 or 60 feet high. (ARCHER Corpus:
<1850low.j6a>)
This construction is found only in English and only allows the use of ob-
ject-oriented perception verbs. When only an adjectival complement is
present, the use of the infinitive copula is obligatory (thus differentiating
this construction from Type V). But ifthere is a nominal or an adjectival+
nominal complement, then the use ofthe infmitive copula is optional.
Type VIII: Parenthetical Construction
<PARENTH>
(26) Your sister-in-law is giving a luncheon to which I hear my parent
& aunt are invited Saturday in honor of my cousin who is getting
married. (ARCHER Corpus: <1964ocon.x8a>)
(27) Lobell wiederholt; Jch halte diese Aktennotiz im vollsten
Umfange - aufrecht und weise den unerhOrten Vorwurf -, den Sie
(zu Erzberger) hier am Sonnabend gemacht haben und den Sie,
wie ich sehe, heute wiederholen, mit der allergroj3ten
Entschiedenheit zuriick. (DWDS: "Deutscher Reichstag", in:
Berliner Tageblatt (Morgen-Ausgabe) 05.03.1907, S. 20-21)
'Lobell repeats; I stick to what's in this memo and dismiss the
unspoken allegation, which you (to Erzberger) made on Saturday
and which you, as I see, repeat again today most decisively.'
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 261
Unlike construction Types I through VII, there is no overarching structure
to parenthetical constructions involving evidential verbs of perception,
other than the fact that these parentheticals "interrupt" the linear order of
the clause in which they occur.8 As far as the data in the corpora are con-
cerned, only subject-oriented perception verbs occur in parenthetical con-
structions, although the use of object-oriented perception verbs in such
constructions is not inconceivable.
Type IX: Perception Verb External to the Clause
<EXT>
(28) That night late his body was found in a ditch, about a mile out of
town, near St. Pancras church. His sword was thrust through him,
but no blood was on his clothes or about him. His shoes were
clean, his money was in his pocket: but nothing was about his
neck, and a mark was all round it, an inch broad, which shewed he
was strangled His breast was likewise all over marked with
bruises, and his neck was broken. All this I saw; for Lloyd and I
went to view his body. (Helsinki Corpus: CEH- IST3A,Gilbert
Burnet, Burnet's History ofMy Own Time (Part I: The Reign of
Charles II)(l640-1710), 1, II, p. 164)
(29) Hieraus sehen wir: da der Korper sogar in der Natur nicht
deswegen unelastisch sei, weil seine Theile eingedrilckt werden,
sondern nur deswegen, weil sie sich nicht mit eben dem Grade
Kraft wieder herstellen, mit welchem sie eingedrilckt worden.
(Kant Corpus: AA I, Gedanken von der wahren Schiitzung der
lebendigen Kriifte undBeurtheilung der Beweise... (1747), S. 071)
'From this we see: since the body is therefore not even inelastic in
nature because its parts are pushed in, but rather only because they
don't restore themselves with the same force with which they were
pushed in.'
Here, the evidential perception verb occurs outside of the clause for which
the speaker indicates there is evidence, and this "evidentialized" clause
tends to be indicated by some sort of phoric marker such as a pronoun or
demonstrative. Other time, the relationship is more asyndetic. Only sub-
ject-oriented perception verbs were found to occur in such constructions.
262 Richard Jason Whitt
5. A Case Study: see and sehen
Since the verbs of visual perception attest the highest degree of polysemy,
they best illustrate how the polysemy discussed in Section 2.4 transfers
into the evidential domain, and how certain evidential meanings tend to be
bound to specific construction types. We will focus only on two subject-
oriented perception verbs here: English see and German sehen.
5.1. Quantitative Results
5.1.1. English see
The perception verb see is, by far, the verb of perception attested most
often in the examined corpora, in terms of both variety of evidential mean-
ings and overall occurrence. In the Helsinki Corpus (Early Modem sec-
tion), there are 1,168 attestations of the verb see, 90 (7.7%) being eviden-
tial markers. In the ARCHER Corpus, see occurs a total of 3,119 times.
And of these, 280 (9%) are evidential. Thus we can see that evidential see
occurs at relatively the same frequency in both of the corpora, and hence
throughout the entire Modem period ofthe English language.
Table 1 Occurrences of evidential see in English language corpora
CONSTRUCTION TYPE Helsinki corpus ARCHER corpus
I <PV+FCC> 50 (55.6%) 102 (36.4%)
with complementizer 10 42
without complementizer 16 40
seeing construction 24 20
II <PV + WH-CC> 2 (2.2%) 17 (6.1%)
III <PV + DO + NFV> 29 (32.2%) 137 (48.9%)
infinitive 17 34
present participle 6 73
past participle 6 30
VIII <PARENTH> 5 (5.6%) 12 (4.3%)
IX<EXT> 4 (4.4%) 12 (4.3%)
TOTAL 90 280
Construction Types I and III are most prevalent in both corpora, although
Type I occurs more often in the Helsinki Corpus, and Type III occurs more
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 263
often in the ARCHER Corpus. Types II, VIII, and IX occur at a far lesser
frequency in both corpora, but interestingly, parenthetical and external
constructions occur at ahnost the same frequency in the Helsinki Corpus,
and they do occur at the same frequency in the ARCHER Corpus. There is
a greater disparity among the uses of Type II in both corpora, with the
ARCHER Corpora showing 3.9% higher frequency ofuse.
5.1.2. German sehen
Like its English counterpart, German sehen is the most widely attested
perception verb in the examined corpora. There are 852 total attestations of
sehen in the Bonner Corpus of Early New High German, 30 (3.5%) being
evidential. In the Kant Corpus, 68 (3.9%) of the 1,756 cases of sehen are
evidential. 3,555 attestations of sehen can be found in the Goethe Corpus,
and ofthese, 274 (7.7%) express evidential meaning. Finally in the DWDS,
there is a surprisingly low percentage of evidential attestations. Out of a
random sample of 1,500 attestations, sehen was used evidentially in only
19 (1.3%) of these cases. There is no apparent reason why this should be
the case, considering all the uses attested in earlier corpora can still be used
on contemporary German. In any case, an explanation for this discrepancy
lies beyond the confmes of the present study. Table 2 presents us with the
breakdown of construction types in the German language corpora.
Table 2: Occurrences of evidential sehen in German language corpora
CONSTRUCTION BONNER KANT GOETHE DWDS
TYPE CORPUS CORPUS CORPUS
I<PV+FCC> 18 (60%) 39 (57.4%) 73 (26.6%) 9 (47.4%)
with complementizer 14 38 61 8
without compl. 4 12
II <PV+WH-CC> 7 (23.3%) 2 (2.9%) 5 (1.8%) 3 (15.8%)
III <PV+DO+NFV> 4 (13.3%) 20 (29.4%) 181 (66.1%) 4 (21.1%)
infmitive 3 4 113 1
past participle 16 68 3
V<PV+ADJ> 1 (1.5%)
VIII <PARENTH> 3 (4.4%) 13 (4.7%) 2 (10.5%)
IX<EXT> 1 (3.3%) 3 (4.4%) 2 (0.7%) 1 (5.3%)
TOTAL 30 68 274 19
264 RichardJason Whitt
Similar to the English data, Construction Types I and III are most widely
attested throughout the corpora, although- as with English- Type I enjoys
greater frequency in some corpora (Bonner, Kant, DWDS), while Type III
is more prevalent in others (Goethe). And similar to English, all other con-
struction types occur at a much lesser frequency than Types I and III (al-
though in the Bonner Corpus, Type II occurs more often than Type III).
There is one anomaly in the German language corpora, particularly the
Kant Corpus: the appearance of one instance of the Type V construction,
which is generally restricted to object-oriented perception verbs. This will
be addressed later (see Section 5.2.4).
5.2. Qualitative Analysis
We now turn to an examination of the relevant construction types and the
evidential meaning(s) conveyed within each of these types. In general,
English see and German sehen display a remarkable similarity with on
another in terms of what type(s) of evidence is/are expressed by each con-
struction.9
5.2.1. <PV +FCC>
Literal visual perception is one type of evidence that can be designated by
see or sehen when it is followed by a finite complementizer clause:
(30) We saw that the crocodile moved only his upper jaw. (ARCHER:
<1667laud.j2b>)
(31) nun sah ich erst, dafi unten quervor ein ziemlich langes Biinkchen
stand, worauf eine Mandoline lag. (Goethe Corpus: Dichtung und
Wahrheit (1811-1833), Hamburger Ausgabe, Band 9, S. 58)
'It was then that I saw that down below a rather long bench stood
diagonally in front of me, on which a mandolin was lying.'
So in (31), for example, visual perception allows the speaker to pinpoint
and indicate the location of the mandolin. More common in this construc-
tion type, however, is the indication by the speaker (or writer) that infe-
rence has driven him/her to arrive at a certain conclusion. This inference is
often based on observation, which of course involves some degree ofvisual
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 265
perception, so the literal meaning of see or sehen is not wholly absent
when inference is being indicated:
(32) I see you are dying with curiosity to know what has excited my
anger, which I consider both inquisitive and impertinent.
(ARCHER: <1889madd.d6b>)
(33) Wir sehen, daj3 die Lebenshaltung des Volkes eine bessere
geworden ist, und der weitere Ausbau des Eisenbahnnetzes wird
die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung auch ferner giinstig beeinjlussen.
(DWDS: "Landtagsverhandlungen", in: Vossische Zeitung (Abend-
Ausgabe) (06.03.1907), S. 4)
'We see that the people's standard ofliving has become better, and
moreover, the further expansion of the railway system will
influence economic development positively.'
Neither the addressee's curiosity in (32) nor the standard of living in (33)
can be visually perceived directly, but some sort of action or state of affairs
that is indicative ofthese conditions can be visually perceived, and it is this
act ofperception that drives the inference made in both these examples.
Of a more abstract nature is the metaphorical use of see or sehen to in-
dicate knowledge or understanding. In these cases, traces of literal percep-
tion are more difficult to pinpoint than in (32) or (33):
(34) I now see plainly that Men cannot arrive at a full Satisfaction by
Riches, nor at Power by enjoying Principalities or Kingdoms, nor
at Esteem and Reverence by the Accession of Dignities, nor at
Nobility by Glory, nor at true Joy by carnal Pleasures. (Helsinki
Corpus: CEBOETH3, Richard Preston (trans.), Boethius (1695), p.
124)
(35) Sulzers Theorie war mir wegen ihrer falschen Grundma:xime
immer verhaj3t, und nun sah ich, daj3 dieses Werk noch viel mehr
enthielt, als die Leute brauchen. (Goethe Corpus: Italienische
Reise (1786-1788), Hamburger Ausgabe, Band 11, S. 207)
'Sulzer's theory was always abhorrent to me because of its
incorrect fundamental maxims, and now I saw that this work
contains much more than the people need.'
Of course, for either Boethius or Goethe to have arrived at this understand-
ing, they must have observed or witnessed (i.e. visually perceived) events
that shaped their epistemology, so even here, one cannot wholly exclude
266 RichardJason Whitt
literal perception. After all, it is the source domain of the SEEING IS KNOW-
ING metaphor (Sweetser 1990: 32-34; cf. Lakoff and Johnson 2003), for
one knows what one has seen.
Although the complementizer is present in most of the above examples,
sometimes -as in (32) - it can be absent. There have been suggestions that
this may be an indication of grammaticalization (see Note 6), although as
far as evidential meaning is concerned, the presence or absence of this
complementizer does not appear to affect the type of meaning expressed in
any perceivable way.
There is, however, one constructional sub-type included here that fol-
lows the <PV + FCC> structure but behaves rather differently than any
other evidential construction. This is the grammaticalized use of the Eng-
lish present participle seeing, in which this participle behaves more like a
causal conjunction (e.g. because) than an actual perception verb because
the speaker/writer takes whatever propositional content falls within the
scope of seeing for granted, i.e. it belongs to the domain of knowledge;
this, in tum, is then described as the cause or motivation for the apodosis:
(36) Than begane he to water hys plantes, sayenge unto me, "Syr, I
thowghte once never to have seene yow agayne; yow are
grownowte ofmy knolledge; and, seynge that yt ys the wyll ofGod
that yow shold not dye by ther crwelty, I truste that your blud shal
never be requyryd at my handys. (Helsinki Cor-pus: CEAUTO1,
Thomas Mowntayne, The Autobiography of Thomas Mowntayne
(1500-1570),p. 213)
(37) Seeing that diplomatic relations with Japan have been broken off,
you can prevent, ifyou consider it necessary, any Japanese descent
on Korea. (ARCHER Corpus: <1905pall.n7b>)
Because seeing indicates that the speaker is in possession of the know-
ledge, i.e. evidence, that allows the content of the protasis to be a given,
this type of construction is included in the <PV + FCC> category, even
though it is notably different than uses not involving subjectless present
participles. But like other cases of FCCs, the complementizer need not
appear in the constructions. Whatever the implications of this omission
may be (a higher degree of grammaticalization?) lie beyond the confines of
this study.
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 267
5.2.2. <PV + WH-CC>
The same types of evidential meanings expressed in the <PV +FCC> con-
struction are found in this construction as well. Only here, the exact nature
of the proposition is often vaguer because the complementizer is a wh-
word that lacks specificity. Consider (38) and (39), for example, where
literal vision is indicated as evidence:
(38) We were there at ye time of ye fair & so saw what there chief
merchantdise consisted of namely, flax, hemp, sheep, horses,
mules, & such like, & pistols also which are there made & sold in
great quantities, it being a place for that sort of work ye most
remarquable in France. (ARCHER Corpus: <1687ferr.j2b>)
(39) Jch habe gesehen, wie der Groj3forst Sergius von Ruj3land getotet
wurde... ("Feuilleton," in: Vossische Zeitung (Abend-Ausgabe)
03.03.1905, S. 9)
'I saw how the grand duke Sergius of Russia was killed .
So in (39), although we know the writer saw that Sergius of Russia was
killed, we do not know exactly how (wie) he was killed. The case is similar
in (38), where we do not learn immediately what constituted the merchan-
dise, although this information is provided immediately after the comple-
mentizer clause. The case is similar when a general sense of observation -
which includes varying degrees of literal visual perception - serves as evi-
dence:
(40) I was delighted to see how rapidly my proposition was accepted,
and we made a hasty breakfast, first sending in some ofourfood to
the other party. (ARCHER Corpus: <1892stoc.f6a>)
(41) Lasset uns bei diesem heiligen Kunstwerk, der Wohlthat, durch die
unser Geschlecht ein Menschengeschlecht ward, mit dankbaren
Blicken verweilen, mit Verwunderung, weil wir sehen, welche neue
Organisation von Kriiften in der aufrechten Gestalt der
Menschheit anfange, und wie allein durch sie der Mensch ein
Mensch ward! (Kant Corpus: AA VII, Recensionen von
J G.Herders Ideen zur Philosophie der Geschichte der Menschheit.
Theil] & 2 (1785), S. 48)
'Let us linger by this holy work of art with thankful looks and
amazement, the boon through which our species became the human
race, because we see which new organization of powers begins in
268 RichardJason Whitt
the upright form of humanity, and how only through it the person
became a human!'
So in (40), we lrnow the writer's proposition was accepted rapidly (but we
don't lrnow how rapidly), and (41), we do not lrnow which ''new organiza-
tion of powers" (neue Organisation von Kriiften) or how through these
powers "the person became a human" (der Mensch ein Mensch ward), but
we do lrnow that Kant claims to have observed these events occur; the wh-
complementizers, which contain part of the propositional content, simply
cause their respective clauses to lack specificity. The case is the same
when see or sehen have metaphorical denotations of lrnowledge and under-
standing:
(42) When I was with him I was always puzzled and uneasy, and always
wondering why on earth he had ever marriedDottie or rather how
Dottie had ever arranged it, but I could see why he liked thefamily
publishing business. It was a sort of ivory tower for him a
plaything with which he could do what he wanted without
worrying over the financial angle and books with the Peale
imprint always had artistic distinction. (ARCHER Corpus:
<1951marq.f8a>)
(43) vnnd damit wir widerumb sehen/wie von der Sichtbarn
Catholischen Kirchen dij3 zu verstehen seylzeugt der Hey!.
(Bonner Corpus: Text 157, Johan Rosenthal, Auj3fuehrliche
Widerhol- und Vermehrung der kuertzen Bedencken vom
bestaendigen Baw auf!den Felsen vnd nicht auf! den Sand
(1653),8.15)
'And the Lord testifies so that we see again how this is to be
understood by the visible Catholic Church.'
In (42), the writer indicates that Henry Peale (the antecedent of he) liked
the publishing business and that he understood this to be true. What we do
not lrnow is why this was the case, even though the author indicates he also
understands the reason behind Peale's affinity with publishing; he simply
does not specify this fact. And in (43), exactly how (wie) the Lord's testi-
mony clarifies what is to be understood is not indicated within the com-
plementizer clause; that information is left elsewhere in the discourse.
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 269
5.2. 3. <PV +DO + NFV>
If there is any construction in which literal vision will be indicated as evi-
dence, it is in the <PV + DO + NFV> construction, which almost solely is
a marker of visual evidentiality when either see or sehen is the PV Wheth-
er the NFV is an infinitive, a past participle, or a present participle (in Eng-
lish) makes no difference as to what type of evidential meaning is ex-
pressed; rather, the NFV is used to aspectually distinguish the action or
state for which there is evidence. Consider the following:
(44) I saw her pass through the room where we sat before dinner. (AR-
CHER Corpus: <1765bswl.x4b>)
(45) And John bare record saying, I saw the Spirit descending from
heaven, like a Doue, and it abode vpon him. (Helsinki Corpus:
CNTEST2, The New Testament (1611), I, 20)
(46) Vnd do wart ich aber verzucket, vnd sihe hi mir ston einen gar
grosen man... (Bonner Corpus: Text 231, Rulmann Merswin, Des
Gottesfreundes im Oberland (1352), S. 11)
'And then I was thrilled and saw a very large man standing next to
me.'
(47) Sdeath! I have heard Sense run down, and seen Idiotism,
downright Idiotism triumph so often, that I cou'd almost think of
Wit and Folly as Mr. Hobbes does ofMoral Good and Evil, that
there are no such Things. (ARCHER Corpus: <1730fiel.d3b>)
(48) Wir sehen eine neuerliche Steigerung der Provisionen (um rund
400000 M) und der Einnahmen aufZinsen- und Wechselkonto (um
1 313 000 M) hervortreten. (DWDS: ["Der Aufschwung des "],
in: Vossische Zeitung (Morgen-Ausgabe) (03.03.1912), S. 10)
'We see a recent increase of provisions (about 400,000 M) and the
revenues from interest- and acceptance accounts (at 1,313,000 M)
emerging.'
In (44) through (46), vision provides the evidence for the propositions. But
in English examples (44) and (45), a further aspectual distinction is made:
the infinitive in (44) provides a non-progressive reading of the event, whe-
reas the present participle in (45) mandates a progressive interpretation of
the Spirit's descent. In (46), the infinitive is the only possible verb form
because the use of a present participle in such a context in German would
be ungrammatical. So whether there is to be an additional aspectual read-
ing (or whether such a distinction in German is relevant at all) is left to
270 RichardJason Whitt
context and reader/hearer interpretation. In (47) and (48), there is not so
much a sense of direct vision as there is of observation, although in both
these instances, it should be clear that vision would form at least part ofthe
basis of observation. Hence in (47), idiotism itself cannot be visually per-
ceived, but acts of idiotism can, and it is these acts which the writer has
seen/observed that draws him to the conclusion that idiotism triumphs "so
often."
When a past participle appears as the NFV, two things are indicated: the
resultant state of a previous action (which seems to be more in focus in
(49) and (50)), or the passive framing of an event, i.e. the agent of action
being omitted from the clause and patient of action appearing as the direct
object instead (emphasized in (51) and (52)):
(49) Looking from where I now stood I saw on every side a thick wood
pierced with avenues in a more or less perfect state. (ARCHER
Corpus: 1795twin.j4b>)
(50) Als ich eines Tages die Strafte betrat, sah ich an der nahen Station
der Untergrundbahn eine Menschenmenge versammelt. (DWDS:
[P.B.], "Das Jahr in Paris", in: Berliner Tageblatt (Abend-
Ausgabe) (03.03.1908), S. 1-3)
'One day when I entered the street, I saw a crowd of people
assembled at the nearby subway station.'
(51) For when many things are spoken of before in scripture, whereof
we see first one thing accomplished, and then another, and so a
third, perceiue wee not plainely, that God doeth nothing else but
lead vs along by the hand, til he haue setled vs vpon the rocke of
an assured hope, that no one iote or title of his word shall passe
till all befulfilled? (Helsinki Corpus: CESERM2A, Richard
Hooker, Two Sermons upon Part ofS. Judes Epistle (1614), p. 8)
(52) Wir sehen auch diese Theorie in der Praxis hinreichend bestiitigt.
(Kant Corpus: AA VIII, Uber den Gemeinspruch (1793), S. 303)
'We even see this theory adequately confirmed in practice.'
The crowd of people are already assembled at the subway station in (50),
and the writer indicates that he sees this current state which is the result of
a previous assembling of people. In (52), on the other hand, the focus ap-
pears to be more on Kant's observation that the theory has been confirmed,
but he does not indicate exactly who is responsible for the theory's confrr-
mation. There is indeed a resultant state indicated here as well, but there is
also an additional sense of passivity that is lacking in (50). The same can
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 271
be said of (49) and (51): the focus of (49) appears to be more of a previous
action resulting in avenues throughout the woods (although who is respon-
sible for "piercing" these woods is not indicated), whereas in (51), the ac-
tual acts of accomplishments without regard to the agents of these acts are
in focus.
There is one other type of evidence indicated in the <PV + DO + NFV>
construction, although it occurs far less frequently than that of literal vision
or general observation involving vision: the presence of an internal emotive
state. Here, the speaker/writer indicates that they base their knowledge on
some sort of internal compulsion rather than on external visual perception:
(53) .. .undje lebendiger irgend ein Wissen in uns wird, desto mehr
sehen wir uns getrieben, es in seinem Zusammenhange aufwarts
und abwarts zu verfolgen. (Goethe Corpus: Tag- und Jahreshefte
(?),Hamburger Ausgabe, Band 10, S. 498)
'and the more lively any knowledge becomes in us, the more we
see our selves compelled to pursue it upwards and downwards in
its coherency.'
Clearly the compulsion ofknowledge to engage in some sort of intellectual
activity is not something to be perceived in the realm of vision, so here,
Goethe uses sehen to indicate that his perception of this compulsion is
internal (intuitive or emotive) rather than external.
5.2.4. <PV +AD.!>
There is one instance in the Kant Corpus of sehen taking an adjectival
complement, something generally reserved for object-oriented perception
verbs. Here, the evidential meaning is similar to (53), in that emotions or
intuition- rather than external vision- are indicated:
(54) Dadurch sehen wir uns in den geheimsten Beweggriinden
abhangig von der Regel des allgemeinen Willens, und es entspringt
daraus in der Welt aZZer denkenden Naturen eine moralische
Einheit und systematische Verfassung nach bloj3 geistigen
Gesetzen. (Kant Corpus: AA II, Traume eines Geistersehers
(1766), S. 335)
'Thus we see ourselves in the most secret motivations dependent
on the rule of the general will, and a moral unity and systematic
272 RichardJason Whitt
constitution according to mere spiritual laws arises from this in the
world of all thinking beings.'
Dependency, something obviously not detectable by vision, is the per-
ceived state here, and Kant indicates via a metaphorical use of sehen that
he considers himself to be in this state. His use of the plural pronoun wir
indicates that Kant believes his readers to share his views and find them-
selves in this state of dependency as well.
5.2. 5. <PARENTH>
When see and sehen occur in parenthetical constructions, they are never
solely markers of direct visual perception. They can, however, indicate
general observation, where vision may or may not be involved:
(55) They sometimes, I see, use the word captivate thus: "Five or six
ships captivated, " "His whole army captivated " (ARCHER
Corpus: <1819moor.j5b>)
(56) ,was aber fangen wir mit Felix an?" fragte Makarie, ,,welcher,
wie ich sehe, mit der Betrachtungjener Bilder schon fertig ist und
einige Ungeduld merken liij3t" (Goethe Corpus: Wilhelm Meisters
Wanderjahre (1829), Hamburger Ausgabe, Band 8, S. 117)
"'But what are we going to do with Felix?," asked Makarie, "who,
as I see, is already fmished observing those pictures and is showing
some impatience."'
In (56), it does seem that visual perception informs Makarie's observation
of Felix's behavior. In (55), vision is involved as well, insofar as the writer
is indicating what he as read, an act that requires visual perception. There
can also be an added connotation of inference besides the indication of
observation:
(57) This course we see hath been very effectual in a short time, with
some more ripe witted children, but othres of a slower
apprehension (as the most and best commonly are) have been thus
learning a whole year together... (Helsinki Corpus: CEEDUC3B,
Charles Hoole, A New Discovery of the Old Art of Teaching
Schoole (1660), p. 4)
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 273
Indeed, to deem whether a certain method of instruction as been effectual
requires both an act of observation and subsequent inference. Finally, pa-
renthetical constructions are capable of indicating internal states of lrnow-
ledge and understanding metaphorically:
(58) Und hierin hat also, wie wir sehen, die Mathematik einen Vorzug
vor der Philosophie, daj3 die Erkenntnisse der erstern intuitive, die
der letztern hingegen nur discursive Erkenntnisse sind. (Kant
Corpus: AA IX, Logik (1800), S. 23)
'And here mathematics has a priority over philosophy, as we see,
for the insights of the former are intuitive, while those of the latter
are, on the other hand, only discursive realizations.'
Here, Kant is simply putting forward the argument that mathematics has a
priority over philosophy, and he employs the parenthetical construction
involving sehen to indicate that this argument should be self-evident (i.e.
understood) and to point out the inherent nature of both disciplines (i.e.
aspects belonging to the realm oflrnowledge).
5.2.6. <EXT>
When see or sehen occur external to the clause for which they indicate
there is evidence, a variety of evidential meanings can be expressed, in-
cluding direct visual perception:
(59) Oons, Madam, they're broke in to the House with Fire and Sword,
I saw them, heard them, they'll be here this Minute. (Helsinki
Corpus: CEPLAY3B, George Farquhar, The Beaux Stratagem
(1707), p. 60)
A general sense of observation - where visual perception plays a promi-
nent role- can also be indicated:
(60) An inquisitiue man is a pratler: so vpon the like reason, a
credulous man is a deceiuer: as we see it in fame, that hee that will
easily beleeue rumors, will as easily augment rumors, and adde
somewhat to them ofhis owne, which (Tacitus) wisely noteth, when
he sayth: (Fingunt simul creduntq); so great an affinitie hath
fiction and beleefe. (Helsinki Corpus: CEEDUC2B, Francis Bacon,
274 RichardJason Whitt
The Twoo Bookes ofthe Proficience and Advancement of
Learning (1605), 21V)
(61) es ist, was ich zum voraus wuj3te, nun aber mit Augen sah: er hat
eben immer gemacht, was andere zu machen wilnschten, und ich
mochte jetzt nichts darilber sagen, als daj3 es von ihm ist. (Goethe
Corpus: ltalie- nische Reise (1786-1788), Hamburger Ausgabe,
Band 11, S. 103)
'It is what I already lmew but now saw with my own eyes: he just
always did what others wished to do, and because it is from him, I
wouldn't like to say anything about that now.'
Visual perception is clearly the basis for observation in (61), and it can be
argued to be present in (60) as well: whether fame proves that "an inquisi-
tiue man is a pratler" or a "credulous man is a deceiuer" can only be de-
termined from the acts that these men engage in, acts that are perceived
primarily through vision. An additional reading of inference can be in-
cluded when observation is indicated:
(62) I expect every hour the definitive sentence that must separate us
for ever - I am sure you feel for me - I see you do - pardon these
tears! (ARCHER Corpus: <1764walp.f4b>)
(63) ,Die ist gesund und munter. - "Ja, das sah ich, als du
vorbeirudertest. (DWDS: Ottomar Enking, "Die Damekower", in:
Berliner Tageblatt (Morgen-Ausgabe) (08.02.1906), S. 5)
"'She is healthy and happy." Yes, I saw that when you paddled
by.'
In both (62) and (63), it should be clear that visual perception forms the
basis of the speaker's inference: face-to-face contact in (62), and more
general observation ofpersonal demeanor in (63).
5.2. 7. Summary ofsee and sehen
We have seen that the subject-oriented verbs of visual perception in Eng-
lish and German can express a remarkable variety of evidential meaning
ranging from literal vision to metaphorical extensions of lmowledge, un-
derstanding, and even internal emotion. And these meanings tend to be
bound to specific construction types. In both constructions involving com-
plementizer clauses (<PV +FCC> and <PV + WH-CC>), for example, a
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 275
great variety of evidential meaning involving both direct and indirect evi-
dence was found: literal perception, general observation, inference based
on observation, knowledge, and understanding. Direct vision was almost
the sole type of evidential meaning expressed in the <PV + DO + NFV>
constructions, on the other hand. And in the lone <PV + ADJ> construc-
tion found in the Kant Corpus, internal states of intuition and/or emotion
were indicated. General observation (where literal vision might play a role)
and metaphorical extensions of knowledge and understanding were indi-
cated in parenthetical constructions, while literal vision always seemed to
play a role in external constructions, whether a single act was witnessed or
a general state of affairs was observed.
6. Conclusion
I hope to have provided a general overview of how verbs of perception in
English and German can express a variety of evidential meanings, a natural
consequence of their inherent polysemy. It has also been shown that certain
evidential meanings are restricted to specific construction types, although
some types of evidential meaning do indeed appear in multiple construc-
tions. Only the most salient similarities between English and German have
been discussed here, and a number of issues are left unaddressed: how the
object-oriented perception verbs also serve as evidential markers, the con-
sequence of coupling a modal verb or cognitive verb (think, denken, etc.)
with an evidential perception verb, the effects of negation, and the role of
the other four sensory modalities could not be addressed here due to con-
siderations of space. But at the least, it should be clear how fundamental
perception is in shaping speaker epistemology, and it is also worth consi-
dering the role perception plays in markers of evidentiality that are not
overtly indicators of sensory perception.
Notes
1. Support for this research was made possible by the Fulbright Program and the
UC Berkeley Graduate Division. In addition, I would like to thank Gabriele
Diewald, Elena Smimova, Thomas Shannon, Irmengard Rauch, and Eve
Sweetser for assistance during various stages ofthis project. Any errors are, of
course, mine alone.
276 RichardJason Whitt
2. All of the distinctions made in perception verb typology are based on the pro-
totypical meaning of each perception verb and not on any possible metaphori-
cal or metonymic extensions.
3. The deictic nature of evidentiality is best summed up by Joseph (2003: 308):
"[evidential] utterances typically include indicators pointing directly to partic-
ular sources or away from potential sources, as the speaker takes a particular
point ofview in describing an action."
4. I wish to emphasize that this is a tendency of evidential perception verbs, not a
hard and fast rule. I did fmd a few counter-examples to this in my corpus
study, but these were far and few between, so this rule holds in virtually all
cases.
5. The GerMane (German Manchester Corpus) project attempts to fill this gap
with representative data from 1650 through 1800. Currently, only excerpts of
newspapers are available, but plans to expand this corpus to a large variety of
text types are underway.
6. Some, e.g. Thompson and Mulac 1991 and Brinton 1996, have suggested that
the omission of the complementizer in similar constructions involving cogni-
tive verbs (guess, think, etc.) in English is part of a grammaticalization process
that results in epistemic parenthetical constructions. They base their argument
mainly on semantic and pragmatic criteria of spoken data. Their arguments do
not seem to hold for the verbs of perception encountered in this study, al-
though admittedly, more data would be necessary before one could argue one
way or another iftheir conclusions are also applicable to perception verbs.
7. I would like to thank Maurice Vliegen for bringing this construction type to
my attention.
8. For more elaborate discussions of parenthetical constructions, see essays in
Debe and Kavalova 2007.
9. I initially intended to provide quantitative data on the particular evidential
meanings found within each construction type. However, such precise analysis
proved impossible to apply consistently, for there are sometimes shades of
multiple meanings signified in one singular instance. Therefore, I only provide
an overview of the varying evidential meanings found in each construction
type.
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra
2004 Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Brinton, Laurel J.
1996 Pragmatic Markers in English: Grammaticalization and Discourse
Functions. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Evidentiality, polysemy, and the verbs ofperception 277
Chafe, Wallace
1986 Evidentiality in English conversation and academic vvriting. In Evi-
dentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology, Wallace Chafe
and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 261-272. Norwood, NJ: Ablex Publ.
Debe, Nicole, and Yordanka Kavalova (eds.)
2007 Parentheticals. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Diewald, Gabriele
2004 Faktizitat und Evidentialitat: Semantische Differenzierung bei den
Modal- und Modalitatsverben im Deutschen In Tempus!Temporalitiit
und Modus!Modalitiit im Sprachvergleich, Oddleif Leirbukt (ed.),
231-258. Tiibingen: Stauffenburg.
Does, Jaap van der, and Michiel van Lambalgen
2000 A logic ofvision. Linguistics andPhilosophy: 1-92.
Gisborne, Nikolas
1998 The attributary structure, evidential meaning, and the semantics of
English SOUND-class verbs. University College ofLondon Working
Papers in Linguistics 10: 1-25.
Gisborne, Nikolas, and Jasper Holmes
2007 A history of English evidential verbs of appearance. English Lan-
guage andLinguistics 11 (1): 1-29.
Haan, Ferdinand de
forth. Visual evidentiality and its origins. Diachronica.
Harm, Volker
2000 Regularitiiten des semantischen Wandels bei Wahrnehmungsverben
des Deutschen. Stuttgart: Steiner.
Jakobson, Roman
1971[1957] Shifters, Verbal Categories, and the Russian Verb. Roman Jakob-
son: Selected Writings. Vol. II: Word and Language. The Hague:
Mouton de Gruyter, 130-147.
Joseph, Brian D.
2003 Evidentials: Summation, questions, prospects. In Studies in Eviden-
tiality. Alexandra Aikhenvald and R. M. W. Dixon (eds.), 307-327.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Lakoff, George, and Mark Johnson
2003 Metaphors We Live By. With a new Afterword. Chicago/London:
The University ofChicago Press.
Mortelmans, Tanja
2000 On the 'evidential' nature of the 'epistemic' use ofthe German mod-
als mussen and sol/en. Belgian Journal ofLinguistics 14: 131-148.
Peirce, Charles Sanders
1998 Essential Peirce: Selected Philosophical Writings. Vol. 2 (1893-
1913). Eds. Nathan Houser and Christian J. W. Kloesel.
Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
278 RichardJason Whitt
Schroder, Jochen
1995 Zur Verben der visuellen Wahrnehmung (Kerngruppe). In Deutsch
als Fremdsprache: An den Quellen eines Faches. Festschrift fiir Ge-
rhard Helbig zum 65. Geburstag, Heidrun Popp (ed.), 317-325. Miin-
chen: ludicum.
Smirnova, Elena
2006 Die Entwicklung der Konstruktion wiirde + lnfinitiv im Deutschen:
Eine funktional-semantische Analyse unter besonderer Berucksichti-
gung sprachhistorischer Aspekte. Berlin/New York: de Gruyter.
Sweetser, Eve
1990 From Etymology to Pragmatics: Metaphorical and Cultural Aspects
ofSemantic Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Thompson, Sandra A., and Anthony Mulac
1991 A quantiative perspective on the grammaticization of epistemic pa-
rentheticals in English. In Approaches to Grammaticalization. Vol.
II: Focus on Types of Grammatical Markers, Elizabeth Closs Trau-
gott and Bernd Heine (eds.), 313-329. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs
1989 On the rise of epistemic meaning in English: An example of subjecti-
fication in semantic change. Language 65: 31-55.
1997 Subjectification and the development of epistemic meaning: The case
of promise and threaten. In Modality in Germanic Languages: His-
torical and Comparative Perspectives, Toril Swan and Olaf Jansen
Westvik, 185-210. Berlin!New York: de Gruyter.
Viberg, Ak:e
1983 The verbs of perception: A typological study. Linguistics 21: 123-
162.
Whitt, Richard J.
2008 Evidentiality and perception verbs in English and German: A corpus-
based analysis from the Early Modern period to the present. Ph.D.
diss., Department of German, The University of California at Berke-
ley.
Evidential markers in French scientific writing:
the case of the French verb voir
Francis Grossmann andAgnes Tutin
The present paper describes a study of the evidential functions of the French verb
voir ('see') in the scientific genre, based on a corpus compiled from writings in the
fields of linguistics and economics. Our objective was to answer two questions: (a)
What are the main functions of this marker in this genre and how are these func-
tions made manifest (meaning and use of voir)? (b) Do different fields have specif-
ic ways of using evidential markers? A briefpresentation ofthe evidential functions
of the lexicon of perception is followed by a review of the literature on the eviden-
tial meaning of voir. In order to explore this linguistic phenomenon, we compiled a
large corpus of scientific writings and annotated the occurrences of voir. This ap-
proach enabled us to address the linguistic properties of voir as a statement marker
and to analyze its other evidential function, that of a reference marker. We also
compared the evidential functions of voir in linguistics and economics writings
using a corpus drawn from these two fields.
1. Introduction
In evidential typologies, visual evidence1 is considered to be one of the
prime sources of information. One somewhat paradoxical result of this is
that certain languages with evidential systems do not have linguistic mark-
ers to indicate visual access to information - the default mode of access -
whereas modes such as inference or hearsay are marked linguistically.
Aikhenvald 2004 found that in languages such as French and English
that do not possess evidential markers in the strict sense of the word, the
notions of evidentiality are sometimes used abusively; that is to say, evi-
dential markers are grammaticalized. Excluding the specific lexicon used
in evidentiality research, she did however recognize evidential strategies
that are used to add evidential semantic extensions to linguistic tools with
other main functions (modal markers, reported speech markers, etc.). This
restrictive vision can be nuanced by arguing that, in the same way that it is
useful to study the lexical methods some languages use to express aspect
(even if only to observe their interactions with the values of inflectional
280 Francis Grossmann and Agnes Tutin
classes), it may also be interesting to study how these languages mark evi-
dentiality, including through lexical means; especially as languages with
evidential systems have often derived these grammatical tools from lexical
markers, such as the verbs of perception. A tendency to grammaticalize
lexical markers can be seen in the French language's lexicon of visual per-
ception, particularly with respect to the use of vu 'seen' As early as the
Middle Ages, vu was being used as a preposition with the meaning of eu
egard a'considering'' and, in the 17th century, vu began to be used in legal
documents to signify apres avoir examine 'after having examined'. In addi-
tion, the conjunctive locution vu que 'given' appeared in the 14th century
and it is still used today in some areas. It is true that this tendency to
grammaticalize certain uses derived from voir 'see'2 does not necessarily
mean these uses will become part of an evidential system, as this grammat-
icalization is limited, for example, when voir is employed as an auxiliary to
partially erase its visual aspect. Our working hypothesis is that in certain
genres in French the evidential characteristic of voir is usually expressed
discursively. We postulate that is particularly true in the sciences, a genre
that employs very specific forms in certain uses. As a result, we felt it
would be interesting to examine differences in the discursive use of eviden-
tial markers in two fields: economics and linguistics. Finally, we wanted to
show how difficult it is, in certain types of written discourse, to clearly
differentiate between markers used to indicate visual sources, inferences or
intellectual arguments based on statements made by other parties. After
briefly explaining how voir functions in French and the framework for our
study (Section 2), we present the method used to analyze our corpus (Sec-
tion 3) and describe the two types of evidential usage of voir (Sections 3
and 4). We conclude by contrasting the distribution of these two types of
usage in the fields of economics and linguistics.
2. Voir and the lexicon of perception in scientific genres
2.1. Perceptual paradigm
Voir is used in a wide variety of forms in scientific writings. Table 1 lists
some of these lexical forms. The lexical field of voir can be divided into
"subjective" verbs of perception (the agent is the subject and the object
"seen" is the direct object) and "objective" verbs for which the subject is
the object "seen" (see Whitt 2008). However, this field also contains other
syntactic categories, such as adverbs or adverbial expressions, e.g. appa-
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 281
remment 'apparently' and a premiere vue 'at first sight', prepositional
forms, e.g. au vu de ces resultats 'given these results', nouns, e.g. observa-
tion 'observation', coup d'oeil 'quick look' and adjectives, e.g. visible
'visible', observable 'observable'
Linguistic expressions within the lexical field ofvisual perception often
have a hedge function, with certain verbs, e.g. apparaitre 'appear' and
adverbials, e.g. visiblement 'visibly', apparemment 'apparently' being used
by authors to dilute their responsibility (N0lke 1994). However, these
verbs and adverbials can also have a direct evidential function (Dendale
1994). As we will see below, this hedging role does not concern the verb
voir or other expressions that have a more directly evidential function, such
as au vu de 'given' and aIa lumiere de 'in the light of The role of these
lexical elements is more to show that a "fact speaks for itself'; even if the
access to this factual knowledge is rarely through purely visible perception.
Table 1 The lexical field ofvisual perception in scientific writings
"Subjective" "Objective" Adverbs Preposi- Nouns Adjectives
verbs verbs tions
voir 'see' apparaitre/ visiblement au vu de observation visible
observer lafigure 'visibly' (de ces (les pre- 'visible'
'observe' apparait apparem- resultats, mieres
apercevoir, 'appear/the ment etc.) observa- discer-
s 'apercevoir figure ap- 'apparently' 'given tions man- nable
'perceive' pears... ' a premiere these trent que) 'discer-
regarder sembler vue results' 'observa- nable'
'look (at)' 'seem' 'at first ala lu- tion the
discerner, reveler sight' miere de first obser-
apparent
deteeter 'show' en appa- 'in the vations 'apparent'
'discern, devoiler renee light of show' observable
detect' 'reveal' 'apparently' coup d'reil 'observa-
examiner se revele 'glimpse'
ble'
'examine' Adj.)
reperer 'reveal' Adj
'recognize'
We should also mention the fact that certain lexemes in the field of voir are
used to contrast appearance and reality, or, more exactly, to contrast a
spontaneous but erroneous visual analysis and a deeper analysis that is
contrary to appearances. A premiere vue 'at first sight' and apparemment
'apparently' are often accompanied by an adjective such as surprenant
'surprising', contre-intuitif 'counter-intuitive' or paradoxa! 'paradoxical',
282 Francis Grossmann andAgnes Tutin
as in (1). Here, the analysis favoured by the author is introduced by en fait
'in fact'3:
(1) En revanche, /'influence du revenu du conjoint est conforme a
celle qui ressort de travaux analogues, mais apremiere vue plus
surprenante. On s'attendrait a ce qu'un revenu du conjoint plus
eleve decourage l 'activite du fait de la progressivite du systeme
fiscal: les prelevements sur un meme salaire jeminin sont d'autant
plus eleves que le salaire du mari est consequent, puisque la
tranche marginale d'imposition est plus grande, ce qui n 'est pas le
cas sur le tableau 1. En fait, le profil est perturbe par la forte
homogamie sociale qui conduit les femmes diplomees avivre avec
des conjoints, eux aussi diplomes.
'On the other hand, the influence of the partner's revenue is similar
to that found in other studies but, at frrst sight, more surprising.
One would expect a higher partner revenue to discourage the
activity because of the progressiveness of the tax system: the
amount of tax paid on the wife's salary is higher when the
husbands salary is high, because the marginal tax burden is larger,
which is not the case in table 1. In fact, the profile is skewed by the
strength of social homogamy, which means that highly qualified
women tend to live with highly qualified partners'
(K.IAP economics corpus)
2.2. Linguistic functioning ofthe verb voir
In his Dictionnaire historique de la langue fran9aise, Alain Rey (2004:
4107) notes that the Latin verb videre, from which voir is derived, comes
from the Indo-European root 0 weid- which indicates vision, although pri-
marily with respect to knowledge and only secondarily with respect to per-
ception by sight. The Latin verb, like its French successor, whether it is
used intransitively or with an accusative, signifies both perceived by sight,
witness and notice4 This co-existence of the perceptive and intellectual
meanings of voir is the source of its uses within the scientific genre and are
the subject ofthe present study.
Numerous studies of the different uses of voir have been carried out, ei-
ther as part of more general studies of verbs of perception, or separately
(see e.g. Bat-Zeev Shyldkrot, 1981, 1984, 1989, 1997, Picoche, 1986,
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 283
1993, Willems, 1983, 2000a, 2000b, Franckel and Lebaud, 1990, Labelle
1996, Naukkarinen, 1997, Leeman and Sakhokia Giraud 2001, Grezka,
2006). These studies have used different theoretical frameworks to investi-
gate the principles explaining the numerous uses of voir or the semantic
variety of these uses. Franckel and Lebaud 1990, who applied Culioli's
approach, showed the importance of the speaker's stance in interpreting
voir, a point we feel is particularly important. Grezka (2006: 61), who took
an object-class approach, highlighted the importance of the second argu-
ment for voir, as the first argument is always an animate NP
Discussions have frequently looked at dichotomies, for example, be-
tween direct perception (="physiological") and indirect perception
(="cognitive"), or between active perception (the perceptive act is con-
trolled by the subject) and passive perception (perception is an experience
that the subject undergoesi The roles of the co-text and of complements
have been invoked to explain the passage from a passive meaning to an
active meaning for prototypical ''passive" verbs of perception, such as voir
and entendre. Grezka (2006: 53) noted that the co-text may govern the
selection of either a passive verb of perception (voir, entendre) or an active
verb of perception (regarder, ecouter). For example, in order to specify an
object that demands intellectual participation, an active form of voir is
selected, as in As-tu vu un film hier soir 'Did you watch a film yesterday
evening?' For many researchers, (e.g. Le Goffic 1993: 250, quoted in
Grezca, 2006), when voir introduces a complement clause it takes on a
more cognitive meaning and signals access to knowledge. This proposition
is irrefutable, although it should be realized that in many cases the cogni-
tive dimension of voir does not entirely override its perceptual dimension.
In fact, access to a piece of information is often provided by a visual clue:
(2) Mais en regagnant sa chambre, elle a vu que la porte du balcon
etait entrouverte.
'But, when she got back to her room she saw that the balcony door
was ajar' (B. Friot)
This example clearly shows that when voir acquires an evidential value
(i.e. when it is used to indicate an observed fact), this always implies a
double predicative dimension and therefore two processes: the process
expressed by the subject of voir introduced by the observer and the process
that translates the observed fact, which can be carried out syntactically in
different ways. Without this double structure, voir would be a simple per-
ceptual marker and would not have any evidential value. A sentence such
284 Francis Grossmann and Agnes Tutin
asje vois un arbre 'I see a tree appears' to be a perceptual statement of fact
and not a way of indicating the source or status of the information. This
explains why, syntactically, the use of an evidential often involves either
completive or infinitive propositions that can be regulated by voir, or other
means of syntactically signalling a predication. The literature shows that an
infinitive proposition favours a perceptual interpretation, whereas a com-
pletive construction leads to a more cognitive interpretation. This can be
illustrated by contrasting the following two sentences:
(3) Je vois Paul partir vs Je vois que Paul part.
'I see Paul leave vs I see that Paul is leaving'
Both cases contain a double predicative structure: the structure associated
with the observer who "sees", and the structure that corresponds to the
observed fact, but the completive construction, which more strongly rein-
forces the two predications, seems to emphasize the observer's point of
view. Hence, the completive construction appears to be a better candidate
for use as an evidential marker. However, other structures can also be used.
Thus, in a sentence such as:
(4) On voit ici l'importance de R.
'We see here the importance of R. (Revue de statistique
appliquee, 1962, val. X, 1)
the evidential structure is expressed using an abstract predicative noun,
rather than a completive. Our corpus study identified other syntactic con-
structions with evidential value in scientific writings.
2.3. The framework used to study voir in scientific genres
Although our study is based on the above facts, our approach was much
more specific, as our aim was not to explain all the uses of voir, or its poly-
semy; rather, it was to examine the uses of voir in scientific writings and to
try and identify criteria that can be used to identify the evidential role of
these uses. We postulate that voir, when it forms part of an evidential
structure in a scientific text, can be subject to three independent levels of
analysis: lexical-semantic, enunciative and rhetorical-pragmatic.
Our lexical-semantic analysis used a similar approach to Fillmore's
frame semantics. We believe that the evidential use of voir differs from
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 285
other uses in the nature of the frame elements involved in the valence of
voir. These roles can be identified through the syntactic constructions em-
ployed and through the semantic characterisation of the arguments of the
verb6
The enunciative level constitutes the polyphonic space in which the
scientific demonstration occurs and indicates how the semantic frames are
manifested in the enunciative interplay, most notably through the personal
pronouns7 There is a complex relationship between the enunciative inter-
play and the lexical semantic roles linked to the frame implied by the verb.
As we will see with respect to voir, the figure of the scientific author8 is
represented, in principle, by the personal pronouns Nous, On, and some-
times Je, which present the demonstration to a Model Reader. Although
generally implicit, this Model Reader can appear in certain injunctive
forms, for example, through the use of on (e.g. pour une synthese, on se
t ' 'fi ')
repor era a... or a summary, see....
Lastly, the rhetorical-pragmatic level takes into account how the lexical-
semantic level is inserted into the text. We postulate that the evidential use
of voir involves cognitive/rhetorical operations linked to scientific argu-
mentation and that it frequently introduces a process of validation, thereby
entering the proof system of the scientific genre. As Aikhenvald 2004
pointed out, there is no direct relationship between evidentiality and the
proof or validation system. The act of specifying the source of a piece of
information (evidential role) is not necessarily intended to guarantee the
validity of that information. However, in certain genres of discourse, speci-
fying the source represents a validating factor that is used argumentatively
by the locutor. This is the case in scientific writing, which demands that
the nature of the sources of information be specified whenever new infor-
mation is added9 Specifying both the source of a piece of information and
the way that information was obtained (personal work by the author, refer-
ence to work by peers) is an important element in validating research work.
3. Methodology and corpus
3.1. The corpus
Our study of voir was based on a corpus of scientific writings in French,
taken from articles in respected journals, PhD theses, reports and course
books, in two fields within the humanities: linguistics and economics. The
journal articles were taken from the KIAP corpus, which was compiled by
286 Francis Grossmann and Agnes Tutin
Kjersti Fl0ttum and his team (see Fltattum et al. 2006) for a detailed study
of auctorial presence. The items from the KIAP corpus were supplemented
by items from PhD theses, reports and course books. Table 2 outlines the
composition ofthe corpus, which contains just over 1.3 million words.
Table 2. Corpus ofscientific writings used in the study ofthe verb voir
Scientific articles
(corpus KIAP)
Theses, reports, course books
Total
Linguistics
285 881 words
364 812 words
650 693 words
Economics
374 516 words
286 653 words
661 169 words
The corpus used was sufficiently large and varied for our purposes, which
were to identifY the main semantic and pragmatic functions of the verb
voir, and to determine its syntactic characteristics.
3.2. Productivity of the verb voir
The verb voir is one of the most frequently occurring verbs in our corpus
of scientific writings.
Table 3. The most frequently occurring verbs in the corpus ofscientific writings
Verb Economics Linguistics Total
Etre 'be' 14709 15518 30227
Avoir 'have' 4494 4703 9197
Pouvoir 'be able to' 2557 3573 6130
Faire 'do, make' 783 1400 2183
Permettre 'allow' 1100 864 1964
Devoir 'have to' 732 638 1370
Mettre 'put' 608 680 1288
Considerer 'consider' 656 618 1274
Voir 'see' 519 734 1253
Montrer 'show' 637 379 1016
Apparaftre 'appear' 286 706 992
Prendre 'take' 426 556 982
Donner 'give' 426 536 962
Utiliser 'use' 541 414 955
Correspondre 'correspond' 389 556 945
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 287
As can be seen from Table 3, for economics and linguistics combined, voir
is the ninth most frequently used verb and the third "full" verb (after per-
mettre 'allow' and considerer 'consider'), if auxiliary verbs, supporting
verbs and modal verbs are excluded. In linguistics, it is the second "full"
verb, whereas in economics it occupies fifth place, behind permettre 'al-
low' considerer 'consider' montrer 'show' and utiliser 'use' Voir can
therefore be considered representative of scientific writings. However, as
we saw above, voir has a wide variety of uses that need to be described in
more detail. The corpus was annotated for this purpose.
3.3. Annotating the different uses of voir in the corpus
As was noted in Section 2, voir is a polysemic verb that is not easy to ana-
lyze and that has resisted even the best efforts to identify a common seman-
tic core for all its different meanings (see Picoche 1986, 1993; Franckel
and Lebaud 1990). For the present study we adopted a pragmatic approach,
as our main objective was to isolate the evidential uses of voir. This led us
to identify the main senses, which represent only a subset of the uses de-
scribed in reference works (for example, in the Petit Robert dictionary or
in the Tresor de Ia Langue Fram;aise). As far as possible, we associated
the main senses with precise argumental structures, in order to facilitate
their analysis and to annotate them in the corpus.
Five main senses were identified in the corpus and the different occur-
rences ofthese senses in the corpus were labelled using XML annotation.
Voir as a statement marker, evidential, with prototypical syntactic struc-
ture: NP (hum) voit (that Sentence) INP (abs)
This use, which is very common in scientific writings, can be consi-
dered evidential. The origin of a fact, here introduced in the completive
('visage' a unfort degre d'affinite avec Ia majorite de ces cliques "face'
has a high degree of affinity with the majority of these cliques', becomes
obvious to the author and the reader (on) through simple observation, often
of a visual support (e.g. a table).
(5) On peut voir dans ce tableau que visage a un fort degre d'affinite
avec Ia majorite de ces cliques.
'The table shows that 'face' has a high degree of affinity with the
majority of these cliques'). (Linguistics corpus).
288 Francis Grossmann andAgnes Tutin
This sense is similar to the one described by Whitt 2008 as, 'an inference
based on observation' We have also used this label for slightly different
senses, including the one labelled 'lmowledge and understanding' by
Whitt. In most cases, in a corpus, it is extremely difficult to separate these
two uses10
Voir as a reference marker, evidential, with syntactic structure: Sen-
tence (voir NP or voir Adv). Another important function of voir- which
we believe is specific to scientific writings- is its use to indicate intratex-
tual or intertextual references. In this context, voir, used in the infinitive, is
often placed in parentheses and followed by one or more intra- or intertex-
tual references. For example:
(6) Les auteurs qui traitent ( ..) d'O. travers et au travers de abordent
systematiquement ces prepositions a partir de leurs emplois
spatiaux, de nature intrinsequement dynamique (voir, par exemple,
Borillo 1998: 85, Spang-Hanssen 1963: 231-233)
'Authors who study "a travers" and "au travers de" systematically
approach these propositions from a spatial perspective, which is
intrinsically dynamic (see, for example, Borillo 1998: 85, Spang-
Hanssen 1963: 231-233') (Linguistics corpus).
(7) On verifie, aisement, que lafonction valeur V(xt-1, Rt) est solution
de /'equation de Bellman (voir annexe E)
'It is easy to check that the value function V(xt-1, Rt) is the
solution to the Bellman equation ~ appendix E)'
(Economics corpus)
Section 3 presents a detailed analysis ofhow these two evidential values of
voir function.
Voir in the sense of 'to examine' (non evidential) with syntactic struc-
ture: NP (hum) voir NP (-hum). This sense, which is quite common in
scientific writings, is not an evidential use, as the following examples
show:
(8) Voyons les semes que le contexte du programme des Verts nous
permet d'extraire apropos de ces deux courants synchroniques
dans nos pays industrialises
'Let us look at the semantic features that the context of the Green
Party's program allows us to extract with respect to these two
synchronous currents in our industrial countries'
(Linguistics corpus)
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 289
(9) Notre objectif est maintenant de determiner les prix d'equilibre.
Nous allons proceder en deux temps. Nous verrons tout d'abord
l 'equilibre instantane
'Our objective now is to determine equilibrium prices. We will do
this in two stages. First we will look at the instantaneous equilib-
rium.'(Economics corpus)
The element introduced by voir, an SN, is not a fact. It is often an object
analyzed by the author during the demonstration or the study.
Voir as an opinion and judgement verb (non evidential) with syntactic
structures: NP(hurn) voir NP(abs) as NP(abs) or NP(hurn) voir NP(abs)
PrepLoc NP(abs). In these senses (see examples below), voir can be consi-
dered a verb of opinion or judgement, and it does not have an evidential
use.
(10) Les cotisations du systeme par repartition sont souvent vues
comme des prelevements obligatoires sans contrepartie
'Contributions paid into a redistribution system are often seen as
obligatory deductions that do not give any return').
(Economics corpus).
(11) ...l'on voit dans l'enonciation une sorte de prolongement du
structuralisme...
' ...we can see in the utterance a sort of extension of structuralism'
(Linguistics corpus)
Other non-evidential uses were found in our corpus, but much less fre-
quently. These include uses that are totally specific to the verb voir in its
role as a semi-auxiliary ofthe passive, as in the following example:
(12) La theorie des operations enonciatives se voit intimement associee
a une definition du langage "comme une activite qui modifie une
situation en faisant reconnaitre a autrui une intention
pragmatique"
'The theory of enunciative operations ! intimately associated with
a definition of language "as an activity that modifies a situation by
acknowledging the pragmatic intention of a co-locutor"'
(Linguistics corpus)
290 Francis Grossmann andAgnes Tu tin
It is interesting to note that the corpus did not contain any examples of
direct perceptual usage. Chafe (1986) recorded a similar fmding for Eng-
lish.
3.4. Distribution ofthe uses ofvoir in the corpus
By identifying values and annotating the corpus it was possible to deter-
mine the most common uses of voir in our corpus. As Figure 1 shows, evi-
dential uses account for an overwhelming majority ofoccurrences (75%).
600
Statement Reference Other
marker marker
Figure 1. Distribution of the different uses of voir in the corpus of scientific writ-
ings (number of occurrences)
In addition, statement and reference markers show interesting syntactic and
enunciative specificities that we will examine in the following two sec-
tions.
4. Voir as a statement marker
In these uses, the origin of the stated fact is not directly perceptual because
the author is presenting a proposition. As in the perceptual sense, the syn-
tactic subject can be considered non-active as it receives the information,
but does not really "create" it. Thus voir differs from verbs such as deduire
'deduce' or conclure 'conclude', which bring into play more complex men-
tal operations. However, in some examples, voir is not only constative; it
also includes a notion of demonstration. This is notably the case when the
verb is used in the present perfect tense, as in the following example:
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 291
(13) On a vu que couper correspond a des proces tres differents dans
ses differents emplois lexicaux.
'We have seen that, in its different lexical uses, to cut refers to
very different processes.' (Linguistics corpus)
It is difficult to unequivocally interpret this example out of context, but it
is probable that the author has established this fact, rather than merely stat-
ing it in an earlier section of the text describing several lexical uses of the
verb couper 'cut' The use of voir, rather than montrer 'show' or etablir
'establish', gives the text greater objectivity, in the true sense of the word:
the facts are self evident and the responsibility ofthe author - which would
appear greater if he/she had used terms such as on a montre 'we have
shown', or on a etabli 'we have established'- is pushed to the background.
Moreover, in scientific writings, voir as a statement marker occurs in spe-
cific syntactic contexts and has specific enunciative properties.
4.1. The subject of voir as a statement marker: inclusion ofthe "reader as
witness"
The subject of voir is nearly always on ('one') or nous ('we') (90.5% of
occurrences in our corpus11), as in the following example:
(14) Comme nous l'avons vu precedemment, la definition et le choix
d'un conceptpour l'equiteposent de redoutables problemes
'As we saw earlier, the definition and the choice of a concept for
equity is extremely problematical.' (Economics corpus)
The personal pronouns nous and on are not used merely out of protocol.
They cannot be replaced by a first person singular pronoun, as they can in
the case of other verbs, such as montrer or demontrer:
(15) *J'ai vu precedemment que couper correspond a des proces tres
differents
'I saw earlier that to cut corresponds to very different processes'
(16) J'ai demontrelmontre precedemment que couper correspond ades
proces tres differents...
'I showed earlier that to cut corresponds to very different
processes...
292 Francis Grossmann andAgnes Tutin
The fact that it is impossible to replace nous/on by je shows that the author
is not the originator ofthe fact described (the je is not an active agent), but
that the facts are, to a certain extent, self-evident. Furthermore, nous and
on in these cases are not exclusive, as they include the community ofpeers:
(17) On admet couramment en epistemologie qu'il n 'existe pas de chose
en soi que le scientifique pourrait apprehender sur le mode de
/'observation pure.
'It is widely accepted in epistemology that there are no things in
and of themselves that a scientist can understand through pure
observation.' (Economics corpus)
In fact, when nous and on are used with voir to form a statement marker,
they are inclusive (J + You) in that they include the reader, who is called
upon to witness, alongside the author, the facts described12 Here, voir, like
other verbs ofthe same paradigm, is clearly used in a dialogical context (as
it is when it is used as a reference marker), where the author draws the
reader's attention to a group of facts that support the author's reasoning.
The inclusion of the reader in verbal forms is quite rare in scientific writ-
ings, with the exception of certain imperatives13, as indications that the
reader is being taken into account generally take the form of markers that
guide the reader, such as metatextual elements d'une part 'on the one
hand' ,pour conclure 'to conclude', etc.
4.2. Voir as a parenthetical
Another specific characteristic of voir as a statement marker is its use as a
parenthetical (on l'a vu 'we have seen', on le verra 'we will see', comme
nous le voyons 'as we can see', etc), as in the following examples:
(18) Les metaphores vives, on l'a vu, sont sensibles au contexte, et il est
necessaire de connaftre les conditions d'enonciation pour pouvoir
attribuer un sens precis al'enonce.
'Living metaphors, as we have seen, are context dependent, and it
is necessary to know the conditions of enunciation in order to be
able to attribute a meaning to the utterance.') (Linguistics cor-
pus)
(19) Le facteur individuel incorpore en e./Jet les orientations du couple
en matiere de descendance et, comme on l'a vu, celles-ci se
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 293
traduisent probablement dans les choix du menage en matiere
d'habitation ou de biens durables
'The individual factor incorporates the couple's choices in terms of
having children and, as we have seen, these choices are probably
reflected in their choices in terms of accommodation or consumer
durables... ' (Economics corpus)
These uses account for more than 20% of the occurrences in our corpus,
and seem to be characteristic of scientific writings. As Rooryck (2001)
showed, parentheticals are used particularly frequently with verbs express-
ing evidentiality. On a communicative level, the secondary predication
expressed by voir reinforces its evidential function: the author provides a
reminder that the facts expressed by the primary predication are justified
by an observation that is made in association with the reader. In addition,
the use of parentheticals helps to maintain textual coherence and the com-
plicity with the reader by announcing information to come or by recapitu-
lating facts that have already been demonstrated and observed. These ele-
ments help guide the reader, alongside other intertextual marks that we will
look at now.
4.3. Supporting a statement: locative complements
Although voir is not used as a verb of perception in scientific writings, the
visual dimension is not completely absent. The author uses the text, some-
times supported by graphs and tables, to ask the reader to accept certain
facts. Textual support may be implicit, in that it does not include any spe-
cific markers, but it is often given explicitly through intertextuallocative
complements, such as adverbs of place ici 'here', plus haut 'above', ci-
dessous 'below', supra 'above', infra 'below', etc. or prepositional phrases
that indicate tables, graphs or other parts of the text to be examined (dans
Ia section 1 'in section 1',dans le tableau 2 'in table 2', etc.). For example:
(20) On peut voir dans le tableau precedent que ce taux est du
essentielle-ment aIa contribution des cliques...
'The above table shows that this rate is mostly due to the
contribution of the cliques... ' (Linguistics corpus)
(21) Comme nous l'avons vu dans le chapitre 2, Ia proximite
geographique releve de Ia localisation dans l'espace des acteurs
et de leurs liens en termes de distance
294 Francis Grossmann andAgnes Tutin
'As we saw in chapter 2, geographical proxmnty decribes the
localization of the parties in space and their links in terms of
distance... ' (Economics corpus)
In a small number of cases the localization does not appear in a comple-
mentary clause, but in a parenthetical structure, which is a point of similar-
ity between this use of voir and its use as a reference marker:
(22) Avant le XVle siecle, on l'a vu (chapitre I, section 2.1.), le terme
d'antonomase recouvre principalement l'antonomase du nom
commun.
'Before the 16th century, as we have seen (chapter I, section 2.1.),
the term antonomasia mostly covered the antonomasia of the
common noun... ' (Linguistics corpus)
Like parentheticals, intratextual locative markers improve textual cohe-
rence and allow the author to guide the reader through the demonstration.
These elements help support the argument by indicating the place of obser-
vation.
4.4. Summary
In scientific writings, voir (and its paradigm) as a statement marker can be
described using Fillmore's frames (2003).
Table 4: Different uses of voir as a statement marker
Examples Witness Fact Localization
On voit ainsi sur Ia Fig- On un changement de sur Ia Figure
ure 4 qu 'un changement seuilpeutfaire bas- 4
de seuilpeutfaire bascu- euler une configura-
ler une configuration tion d'ambigurte
d'ambigui''fe 'Thus, we 'a change in threshold
can see from Figure 4 can clarify an ambi-
that a change in threshold guous configuration'
can clarify an ambiguous
confisuration'
Les metaphores vives, on On Les metaphores vives (not realized
l'a vu, sont sensibles au sont sensibles au - the piece of
contexte, ... contexte, ... scientific
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 295
'Living metaphors, as we
have seen, are dependent
on context. ..
'Living metaphors...
are dependent on
context. ..
Voir brings into play the followingframe elements:
writing by
default)
A witness: this element is generally realized using an inclusive subject
pronoun (nous or on) that encompasses the author(s) and the readers.
A fact: prototypically, the stated fact is expressed by a complement
clause or an NP consisting of an abstract noun, but it can also appear in
a principal in the case of parentheticals.
A localization: Implicitly, the localization of the statement is the piece
of scientific writing. Sometimes, the localization is expressed explicitly
using an intratextual locative (section, chapter, figure, linguistic exam-
ple).
In the following section, we show that this structure can also be applied to
the use of voir as a reference marker.
5. Voir as a reference marker
The second use of voir in scientific writings is as a reference marker14, an
aspect that might seem out of place in a discussion of evidentiality. In fact,
voir is commonly used in the infinitive as a synonym for cf(Latin confer =
compare)15 to direct the reader to a source. This use, which involves a
double predication, differs from the typical evidential structure (described
above) in appearance only. In fact, the second predication is expressed
using an imperative form of voir, as the main predication corresponds to an
assertion made in a locution or a section of the text to which the reference
is made. This indicating function is closely linked to the use of the infini-
tive with an imperative value, but voir falls into a frame that is very similar
to the one described in the section on voir as a statement marker. The ref-
erence introduced by voir provides the source and validates the text preced-
ing voir. The reader is encouraged to check, to "go and see", the content of
a source that supports the author's affirmation. The source can be external
(intertextual use of voir) or internal (intratextual use). Peritextual content
(footnotes) and parentheticals are important but slightly different means of
introducing elements of proof into the reasoning. More detailed studies are
296 Francis Grossmann and Agnes Tutin
needed to compare the uses of voir as a source indicator alongside other
referencing modes. The introduction of the author-date system by scientific
publications allows authors to refer to sources supporting affirmations by
simply adding the relevant publication date in parentheses. However, this
sometimes leads to difficulties in interpretation16, as the reference can be
regarded either as a simple reference to an affirmation made by another
author, or as an element that is considered to have been accepted by the
scientific community. Similar ambiguities occur with the intertextual use
of voir.
5.1. Voir as an intertextual reference marker
When applied intertextually, voir is most commonly used to refer to other
work that supports an affirmation:
(23) L 'accroissement des inegalites face a l'emploi constitue l'un des
traits majeurs de l 'evolution du marche du travail dans les annees
80. La progression de l 'ecart relatif des niveaux de chOmage des
actifs qualifies et non qualifies est une caracteristique particuliere
de ce phenomene inegalitaire (.voir. par exemple, GLYN [1995}
'The rise in inequalities with respect to employment is one of the
main features of the evolution of the job market in recent years.
The increase in the differences between the unemployment rates
for qualified and unqualified workers is an important charac-
teristic of this phenomenon of inequality (see, for example,
GLYN [1995])') (Economics corpus)
Here the validation is based on the knowledge accumulated by the scientif-
ic community in a certain field. In most of its uses, voir is accompanied by
modifiers (in the above example, the modifier is par exemple 'for example'
that reinforce the validity of the presented fact. For example, terms such as
entre autres 'among others' or par exemple indicate that the fact presented
by the author is so well known to the peer community that it is unnecessary
to give a detailed list of references. The adverbs notamment 'notably' and
en particulier 'in particular' are used to emphasise the importance of a
specific contribution by highlighting the author's expertise, which allows
him/her to establish a hierarchy in the sources used.
Intertextual reference markers, which indicate sources of evidence, be-
long to a secondary enunciative level. Two localizations account for an
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 297
overwhehning majority of occurrences: parentheticals (as for the use of
voir as a statement marker) and, even more frequently, footnotes (Figure
2), although, as we will see below, there is a substantial difference in their
frequencies ofuse in economics and linguistics writings.
Figure 2. Occurrences of voir as a reference marker
A parenthetical statement marker using voir is placed immediately after the
fact it supports. The sources given, which form the localization, affirm the
stated fact. When voir is used in a footnote, it operates slightly differently.
Like a parenthetical statement marker, a footnote number, placed at the end
of the stated fact, may refer to a note providing an intertextual reference
that supports the validity of the stated fact. However, some intertextual
references introduced by voir also seem to have another, not entirely evi-
dential function, in that they provide further information about a point that
has not been sufficiently explained in the main text or they introduce com-
plementary information, as in the following example.
(24) (In the body of the text) On ne saurait considerer comme relevant
tout afait du hasard le fait qu 'a Ia fin du dix-neuvieme siecle le
philosophe Victor Egger consacre un livre aIa parole interieure,
landis que dans ses le9ons sur l'aphasie Charcot met al'ordre du
jour Ia question du langage interieur et que le roman
contemporain promeut le monologue interieu,-1
'We would not consider it to be pure coincidence that at the end of
the 19th century the philosopher Victor Egger devoted an entire
book to internal speech, while in his lectures on aphasia Charcot
298 Francis Grossmann andAgnes Tutin
raised the question of internal language and contemporary novels
promoted inner dialogue1)
(As a footnote) 1. Voir notamment a ce sujet la contribution de
Christian Puech dans ce recueil
'For more on this subject, see the contribution by Christian Puech
in this volume' (Linguistics corpus)
Parenthetical reference markers can also be used in this way, but this is
much rarer.
5.2. Voir as an intratextual reference marker
When used intratextually, voir refers the reader to another part ofthe text:
(25) Cette distinction reprend deux des fonctions (excellence et circons-
tances, mais pasfiliation) de l'antonomase antique (voir 1.2.1.)
'This distinction takes into account two of the functions
(excellence and circumstances, but not parentage) of ancient
antonomasia (see 1.2.1)' (Economics corpus)
Here, the locative source is the complement of voir. This obligatory com-
plement is sometimes realised by a locative adverb that guides movement
through the text (ci-dessous, ci-dessus, infra, supra11), as in the example
above, or by a simple paragraph, section or part number. Unlike intertex-
tual uses, the inclusion of voir (or cf) is obligatory. Locative complements
are comparable to those that appear with statement markers and, in general,
these two uses appear very similar in all aspects other than their syntactic
structures. Hence, the following statement marker can easily be trans-
formed into a reference marker by making a few adjustments to the syntax.
Use as a statement marker (original example):
(26) Nous avons deja vu a la fin de la Section 2 que /'interdiction de
pratiquer la discrimination du troisieme degre entre marches a
elasticites differentes a des consequences ambigues sur le bien-etre.
'We have already seen at the end of Section 2 that the ban on
carrying out third degree discrimination between markets with
different degrees of elasticity has ambiguous consequences on well
being'). (Economics corpus)
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 299
Use as an intratextual reference marker (manufactured example):
(27) L 'interdiction de pratiquer Ia discrimination du troisieme degre
entre marches a elasticites differentes a des consequences
ambiguiis sur le bien-etre (voir Ia fin de Ia Section 2).
'The ban on carrying out third degree discrimination between
markets with different degrees of elasticity has ambiguous
consequences on well being (see end of Section 2)).
When used as an intratextual marker, voir is often placed in parentheses
but it is relatively rare for it to be used with footnotes, at least in econom-
ics texts. References to appendices containing documentary sources are
also common:
(28) ... On verifie, aisement, que Ia fonction valeur V(xt-1, Rt) est
solution de !'equation de Bellman (voir annexe E.
'It is easy to check that the value function V(xt-1, Rt) is a solution
for the Bellman equation (see appendix E)' (Economics corpus)
Intratextual references can also be more complex, as in the case of syntac-
tic units such as voir notre developpement precedent sur... 'see our pre-
vious discussion of. .. where the indicator refers to ideas developed in
those sections ofthe text as well as to a localization.
5.3. Summary
To conclude, most uses of voir as a reference marker are cognitively and
rhetorically similar to its uses as a statement marker, hence, their structures
can be described using the same frame.
The witness (the reader), who is asked to check the validity of
sources, is expressed dialogically by the use of the imperative infini-
tive.
The fact is the statement preceding the reference indicated by voir.
The localization is the intra or intertextual object introduced by the
marker voir. In this case, voir is obligatory, contrary to statement
markers. The following examples illustrate this structure.
300 Francis Grossmann andAgnes Tutin
Table 5. Different uses of voir as a reference marker
Examples
On wirifie, aisement, que la
fonction valeur V(xt-1, Rt)
est solution de !'equation de
Bellman (voir annexe E)
'It is easy to check that the
value function V(xt-1, Rt) is
a solution for the Bellman
equation (see appendix E)'
(Economics)
La progression de l'ecart
relatifdes niveaux de ch6-
mage des actifs qualifies et
non qualifies est une carac-
teristiqueparticuliere de ce
phenomene inegalitaire
(voir, par exemple, GLYN
[1995])
'The increase in the differ-
ences between the unem-
ployment rates for qualified
and unqualified workers is
an important characteristic
of this phenomenon of
inequality (see, for example,
GLYN [1995] ')
Witness
=the
receiver,
who
appears
implicitly
in the
infinitive
imperative
form
As above
Fact
On verifie, aisement, que la
fonction valeur V(xt-1, Rt)
est solution de !'equation de
Bellman
' It is easy to check that the
value function V(xt-1, Rt) is
a solution for the Bellman
equation'
La progression de l'ecart
relatifdes niveaux de ch6-
mage des actifs qualifies et
non qualifies est une carac-
teristiqueparticuliere de ce
phenomene inegalitaire
'The increase in the differ-
ences between the unem-
ployment rates for qualified
and unqualified workers is
an important characteristic
ofthis phenomenon of
inequality'
6. Comparison between economics and linguistics
Localiza-
tion
AppendixE
GLYN
[1995]
One of our working hypotheses was that the evidential function in our cor-
pus involves cognitive operations that are related to scientific reasoning
and textual rhetoric. As methods, types of scientific object examined and
modes ofreasoning differ between fields, we hypothesized that the eviden-
tial use of voir would also vary according to the field.
Detailed examination of our corpora confirmed this hypothesis. First,
voir occurred more frequently in our linguistics corpus (513 occ.) than in
our economics corpus (420 occ.), for similar-sized corpora. Two main dif-
ferences in the distributions ofthe uses of voir were also noted (Figure 3).
Linguistics texts contain more statement markers, whereas economics
texts contain more intertextual references. However, comparable numbers
of intratextual markers are found in the two fields. These results can be
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 301
interpreted in a number of ways. The greater use of statement markers by
linguists may be the result of a greater need to involve the reader in the
demonstration. However, this hypothesis does not seem to be supported by
the occurrence of the other markers of interaction with the reader that were
identified by Fl0ttum et al. 2006 in the KIAP corpus18 For example, meta-
textual markers and imperatives occurred much more frequently in the
economics corpus than in the linguistics corpus. Less importantly, the fre-
quent use of statement markers by linguists probably results from the fact
that linguistics authors often support their reasoning with examples in the
text, whereas observations in economics are often based on linguistic ob-
jects, in particular numerical results.
59.5
Figure 3: Evidential uses of voir in economics and in linguistics (in%)
The greater use of intertextual reference markers in economics writings
suggests that economists are more likely to refer to previously established
knowledge in their field, whereas linguists tend to base their statements on
observations contained within their own text. It would be tempting to think
that economists have a more cumulative concept of science and a greater
tendency to build on the work of their peers. However, the bibliographies
of economics articles tend to be shorter than those of linguistics texts, at
least in the case of research articles (see Fl0ttum et al. 2006: 219). Fur-
thermore, the use of reference markers appears to be slightly different in
the two fields: linguists favour parentheticals (60% of occurrences), whe-
reas economists tend to use footnotes (66.5%), which often have other
302 Francis Grossmann and Agnes Tutin
functions that are not purely evidential. From an academic point of view,
economists may have a greater need to found their work on previous re-
search carried out within their discourse community. This hypothesis is
corroborated by a study carried out on information source markers, which
are much more explicit in economics than in linguistics (Garcia da Silva
2008). Nevertheless, to avoid hasty judgments and caricatural sociological
interpretations, a more detailed and qualitative analysis is needed to con-
firm these hypotheses. Finally, although both fields appear to use compa-
rable numbers of intratextual markers, they generally refer to different
types of object. Most of the markers used in economics articles refer to
graphs and tables summarizing data (Figure 1, Table 2, Graph 1), or to
other sections of the text, either specifically (Section 1, Appendix D, Note
4) or generally, using "vague" adverbs of place (supra 'above', infra 'be-
low', plus haut 'above', ci-dessous 'below', etc). In linguistics, references
to tables and graphs are rare, as linguistics articles do not tend to contain
such elements. On the other hand, linguistics articles do contain references
to examples within the text, although cf is more commonly used in these
cases.
7. Conclusion
The verb voir, analyzed here within a subset of scientific writings, is only
one element, albeit a very productive one, in the evidential system used in
this discursive genre. Hence, it would be valuable to integrate studies of
voir, and of verbs such as observer 'observe', s'apercevoir 'notice' and
examiner 'examine' into more general studies of the evidential role of
markers referring to visual metaphors. Analysis of our corpus has revealed
a recurring semantic structure (frame) containing three main elements: a
witness, a fact and a localization. However, this structure also includes a
certain amount of diversity, which can be described using three main crite-
ria:
The degree of syntactic and semantic integration between voir and the
stated fact. Integration is strong in completive structures indicating an
observation (on a vu que 'we have seen that', etc.). In parentheticals
the degree of integration is lower. There is also a third level, where
voir appears in a separated structure within parentheses, in which the
degree of integration is even lower. The syntactic and scriptural dis-
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 303
tance from the fact is even greater when voir is used peritextually, e.g.,
in note19
The type of localization: implicit or explicit, intratextual or intertex-
tual. Implicit localizations (i.e., not referring to a precise location with-
in the same text or in a precisely identified external source) and paren-
theticals without explicit localizations often reinforce the rhetorical or
cohesive function. Localizations are always intratextual in the case of
voir as a statement marker (On voit dans Duchmoll2003 que... 'It can
be seen from Duchmoll2003 that... '). In the case of voir as a reference
marker, a localization must be given, as the localization associated
with voir is an essential complement and not a modifier;
The status of the witness, who may have a different role in scientific
reasoning. The witness is first a Being in discourse, who is associated
with the co-observation of the facts presented. The dialogical dimen-
sion is central and aims to involve the reader in the demonstration.
Thus, the reader is called upon to witness, either through a statement
with which s/he is associated by the inclusive personal pronoun nous,
or through an explicit invitation. In this second function - apparently
more modest but nevertheless fundamental - the witness seems to be a
mere guarantor of the information given.
So what is the exact status, in evidential terms, of the verb voir? Our data
support the idea of a very strong ambivalence between the verb's percep-
tual meaning, which although secondary remains present, and its cognitive
meaning, through which it indicates the inference. In examples such as en
se reportant ala figure 3b, on voit que l'espace des phases est defini par
deux variables 'looking at figure 3b, we can see that the phase space is
defined by two variables' (Naukkarinen 1997: 123) voir is used as an infe-
rence marker.
'When used as an intratextual marker (as well as in numerous statement
uses) voir allows an author to validate a statement by inviting the reader to
look at data included in other parts of the text, thereby directing the "tex-
tual circulation. 'When used as an intertextual reference marker, voir directs
the reader to supporting evidence provided by the writings of third parties,
and thus indicates that the 'proof' is accepted by the relevant discourse
community. In both uses, the reasoning role is inextricably entwined with
the evidential function. Finally, our comparison between the fields of eco-
nomics and linguistics supports our hypothesis that the traditions governing
the use of evidential markers in scientific writings differ between fields,
even for fields within the Humanities.
304 Francis Grossmann andAgnes Tutin
Notes
1. Note that the terms evidence and evidentiality are derived from the Latin word
videre, meaning to see.
2. See Chocheyras 1968 on this subject.
3. For more on the use of en fait as an evidential marker, see Grossmann and
Wirth2007.
4. Leeman and Sakhokia Giraud (2001: 59) also highlight the intellectual and
perceptive values of voir in French, linking them to etymology.
5. For a summary, see in particular, Grezka 2006.
6. We present these roles at the end of the corpus analysis. In Fillmore's frame-
work semantics, the predicative meaning is represented by prototypical situa-
tions or scenarios (frames), which can be divided into different levels of or-
ganization. These frames are seen as places of articulation between human
experience and/or the cognitive dimension and the lexical coding. The seman-
tic roles (or frame elements) correspond to the arguments of the predicates,
verbal or nominal predicates (Fillmore et al. 2003).
7. Fillmore 1982 identified two types of frame: cognitive frames and interaction-
al frames. Interactional frames aim to represent the interaction between the lo-
cutor and the allocutor, or between the author and the reader. From this idea
we have retained the need to bring together cognitive frames (and the elements
associated with them) and the enunciative and textual perspective.
8. In order to avoid any ambiguity, it must be remembered that the notion of
author comprises several components: the author as an empirical being, the in-
stitutional author, as defined in law and, finally, the figure of the author as
constructed at the enunciative and textual rhetoric levels. The latter is the
component that interests us here.
9. Chafe 1986 stressed the fact that certain well-established written gemes have,
over time, codified their use ofvery specific forms to mark evidentiality.
10. For example, both values are possible in the phrase on voit bien dans ce
schema que 'this diagram clearly shows: recognition is combined with a de-
duction'
11. In most other cases, when voir is used as a statement marker, it is used in an
impersonal form: II est surprenant de voir que ce type de competence est
egalement produit dans l'entreprise 'It is surprising to see that this type of
skill is also produced within the company' (Economics corpus)
12. In their study of the pronoun on in the KIAP corpus, Fl.0ttum, Dahl, and Kinn
2006 also showed that the inclusive use of on is particularly linked to verbs of
perception.
13. The reader's attention can be solicited through the use of certain first person
plural imperatives, as well as through pronominal and verbal forms (see
Fl.0ttum et al. 2006), as in the following examples: Enfin, examinons une der-
niere donnee 'Finally, let us look at one last piece of data' (Linguistics cor-
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 305
pus); Voyons brievement quelques examples 'Let us take a brief look at a few
examples' (Linguistics corpus)
14. It is interesting to note here that the verbs in the examples also belong to the
voir paradigm, even ifthey do not have an evidential function.
15. The Framenet project has catalogued the equivalent usage of see in English,
using a frame called Source_of_information, which is defined as: "In a text, a
Source_of_information is given that provides a reader of the text with further
Information relevant to the text. In this frame the author and reader are com-
pletely deprofiled, with the Source_of_information made salient" Neverthe-
less, this deprofiling ofthe enunciative roles remains relative, as the role ofthe
jussive infinitive can be interpreted as an invitation to the reader.
16. Although the two forms are often presented as equivalents (PhD students are
generally advised to choose one of the two systems), semantic motivation,
which is slightly different, can explain some nuances of usage. Cf (abbrevia-
tion of the Latin confer ('compare') can also be used to introduce other ele-
ments of the same order as those already introduced; whereas voir emphasizes
more clearly the desire to document the source of an affirmation. In practice,
however, the two markers are often used interchangeably.
17. On this question, see Grossmann 2002.
18. We did not fmd passim (9a et Ia here and there') in the corpus, which allows
us, according to the TLFI, "to avoid mentioning the exact localization of pas-
sages with a bearing on a given subject when a reference is given"
19. Our corpus contains the French economics and linguistics articles from the
KIAP corpus.
20. Of course, this does not prevent the information provided in a footnote from
being capital, as, according to tradition, the text provides the arguments but
the footnote provides the proof by giving the sources and a commentary that
makes the text clearer. For a history of footnotes, see Grafton 1997.
References
Aikhenwald, Alexandra Y.
2004 Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bat-Zeev Shyldkrot, Hava
1981 A propos de la forme passive se voir +Vinf. Folia linguistica XV (3-
4): 387--407.
1984 La concurrence entre la proposition conjonctive et voir+ proposition
infinitive. The FrenchRewiew, LVIII (2): 202-215.
1989 Les verbes de perception: etude semantique. In Actes du XVIJeme
Congres International de Linguistique et Philologie Romanes, 282-
294. Tome 4. Tubingen: Max Niemeyer Verlag.
306 Francis Grossmann andAgnes Tutin
1997 La grammaticalisation des auxiliaires; le cas de voir. Scalia 10: 205-
224.
Chafe, Wallace
1986 Evidentiality in English conversation and academic writing. In Evi-
dentiality: the Linguistic Coding of Epistemology, Wallace Chafe
and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 261-272. Norwood-New Jersey: Ablex
Publishing.
Chafe, Wallace, and Johanna Nichols (eds.)
1986 Evidentiality: The linguistic Coding of Epistemology. Advances in
Discourse Processes. Norwood-New Jersey: Ablex.
Chocheyras, Jacques
1968 Un nouvel outil grammatical en franyais moderne: le verbe voir. Le
Fram;ais Moderne 36 (3): 219-225.
Dendale, Patrick
1994 Devoir episremique, marqueur modal ou evidentiel? Langue Fran-
ifaise 102: 24-40.
Dendale, Patrick, and Liliane Tamsmowski (eds.)
1994 Les sources du savoir et leurs marques linguistiques. Langue Fran-
ifaise 102.
Fillmore, Charles J.
1982 Frame semantics. In Linguistics in the Morning Calm, Linguistic
Society ofKorea (ed), 111-137. Seoul: Hanshin Publishing Co.
1985 Frames and the semantics ofunderstanding. Quaderni di Semantica 6
(2): 222-254.
Fillmore, Charles J., Chris Johnson, and Miriam R.L. Petruck
2003 Background to FrameNet. In Special Issue ofthe International Jour-
nal of Lexicography on FrameNet and Frame Semantics, Thierry,
Fontenelle (ed.), 235-250. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fillmore, Charles, J., and Sue Atkins
1992 Towards a frame-based organization ofthe lexicon: The semantics of
RIK and its neighbors. In Frames, Fields, and Contrast: New Essays
in Semantics and Lexical Organization, Adrienne Lehrer, Eva Feder
Kittay, Richard Lehrer (eds.), 75-102. Hillsdale: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates.
Flettum, Kjersti, Trine Dahl, and Torodd Kinn (eds.)
2006 Academic Voices - across languages and disciplines. Amsterdam/
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Francke!, Jean-Jacques, and DanielLebaud
1990 Les figures du sujet, A propos des verbes de perception, sentiment,
connaissance. Paris: Ophrys.
Garcia da Silva, Pedro
2008 Etudes des marques de Ia filiation dans les ecrits scientifiques.
Memoire de master. Grenoble: Universire Stendhal, Grenoble 3.
Evidential markers in French scientific writing 307
Grafton, Anthony
1997 The Footnote: A Curious History. Cambridge: Harvard Univ. Press.
Grezka, Aude
2006 Etude du lexique de la perception: bilan et perspectives. Suvremena
lingvistika ('Contemporary Linguistics') 61: 45-67.
Grossmann, Francis
2002 Les modes de reference aautrui: l'exemple de la revue 'Langages'
Faits de langue 19: 255-262.
Grossmann, Francis, and FranyoiseWirth
2007 Marking Evidentiality in Scientific Papers: The Case of Expectation
Markers. In Language and Discipline Perspectives on Academic
Discourse, Kjersti Fl.0ttum (ed), 202-218. Newcastle, UK: Cam-
bridge Scholars Publishing.
Labelle, Marie
1996 Remarques sur les verbes de perception et la sous categorisation,
Recherches linguistiques de Vincennes 25: 83-106.
Leeman, Danielle, and Madona Sakhokia Giraud
2001 Point de vue culiolien sur le verbe voir dans "Les Verbes franyais",
Languefram;aise 153:58-73.
Le Goffic, Pierre
1993 Grammaire de Ia phrasefram;aise. Paris: Hachette.
Naukkarinen, Oili
1997 Etude de quelques verbes de perception dufram;ais. Helsinki: Ylio-
pistopaino.
N.0lke, Henning
1994 La dilution linguistique des responsabilite. Essai de description lin-
guistique des marqueurs evidentiels il semble que et il parait que,
Languefram;aise 102: 84-94.
Picoche, Jacqueline
1986 Structures semantiques du lexique fram;ais. Paris: Nathan.
1993 Didactique du vocabulairefranr;ais. Paris: Nathan.
Rey, Alain
2004 Reprint. Dictionnaire historique de Ia langue franr;aise, Paris, Dic-
tionnaires Le Robert. Original edition, Paris: Dictionnaires Le Ro-
bert, 1992.
Rooryck, Johan
2001 Evidentiality. Part 1. Glot InternationalS (4): 125-133.
Whitt, Richard, J.
2008 Evidentiality, polysemy, and perception verbs: a corpus-based analy-
sis of English and German. Hand-out ofthe conference "The linguis-
tic realization of evidentiality in European Languages", Bamberg,
27-28 February 2008.
An interactional approach to epistemic and
evidential adverbs in Spanish conversation
Bert Cornillie
This paper deals with the discourse functions ofepistemic and evidential adverbs in
Spanish conversation. It is shown that these adverbs not only vary in mood and
relative frequency, but also have different roles in the organization of the turn-
taking process. By doing so, they go beyond the traditional epistemic and evidential
qualifications mentioned in the existing literature. A lo mejor and igual 'perhaps'
are shown to invite the interlocutor(s) to confirm or reject the view of the state of
affairs (or part of it) presented, that is, the adverbs play an important role in the
turn-taking process. The epistemic adverb quiza, by contrast, lacks the interactional
functions typical of a lo mejor. Finally, the analysis indicates that speakers use
evidential adverbs such as evidentemente to retain the turn, i.e. to keep the word.
1. Introduction
Epistemic and evidential adverbs are generally defined as invariable ex-
pressions that qualify (parts of) a proposition in terms of the degree of
likelihood that the event expressed may be real (in the case of epistemic
markers), or in terms of the reference to the information that leads to a
proposition (in the case of evidentials). Although this certainly holds for
the bulk of the adverbs in monologic registers such as fiction or non-fiction
prose, a closer look at their use in a conversational context points to sever-
al other functions in addition to qualifying the proposition (cf. Clift 2006).
This paper is concerned with disentangling the discourse functions of epis-
temic and evidential adverbs.
Spanish has a lot of epistemic and evidential adverbs at its disposal.
First, at least seven 'adverbs' express 'maybe' or 'perhaps': a lo mejor,
igual, quiza, tal vez, acaso, posiblemente and probablemente. Some au-
thors prefer to use the term 'adverbial phrase (or, in Spanish, locuci6n ad-
verbial) for epistemic a lo mejor. Second, several adverbs (and adverbial
phrases) express a specific mode of knowing: aparentemente (also al pa-
recer, por lo que parece), evidentemente, obviamente, supuestamente, vi-
310 Bert Cornillie
siblemente (also por lo visto).1 Note that these adverbs are to be differen-
tiated from discourse markers such as clara, por supuesto and desde fuego
meaning 'of course', which necesessarily interact with the preceding con-
text and do not refer to a specific mode of knowing. In this paper, I will
only account for the first four epistemic adverbs and the four evidential
adverbs.
The paper is structured as follows. I first present some preliminary re-
marks (Section 2) before presenting previous accounts of the adverbs and
the central hypotheses of this paper (Section 3). Then we go on to discuss
the data both from a quantitative and a qualitative point ofview (Sections 4
and 5). In the fmal section I present a series of conclusions as well as pros-
pects for further research.
2. Preliminary remarks
The relation between epistemic modality and evidentiality is a heavily de-
bated topic in the functional-linguistic literature (cf. Dendale and Tas-
mowski 2001; Plungian 2001; Cornillie 2007). For some authors, an epis-
temic value is necessarily implicated in the reference to knowledge
encoded in evidential expressions, whereas epistemic expressions some-
times lack such a reference to knowledge (Plungian 2001). Other authors
argue that epistemic modality and evidentiality are two different but related
categories with specific functions (Nuyts 2008; Cornillie 2009). Chafe
1986 holds an alternative view in that he establishes a broad category of
evidentials which includes both epistemic and purely evidential expres-
sions. Although the relation between epistemic modality and evidentiality
is important, in this paper I will focus on what epistemic and evidential
adverbs do in discourse, rather than deal with the semantic differences
between them.
For the purpose of this paper, it is worth recalling Chafe's 1986 com-
parison of spoken and written language as far as the use of evidentials is
concerned. Chafe (1986: 262) mentioned that his samples of conversational
English and academic writing "showed approximately the same proportion
of evidential markers to the total number of words. [...] Differences ap-
peared, not so much in the frequency of evidentials overall, as in the fre-
quency of specific kinds of evidentials" Hence, some evidentials will more
frequently appear in written communication, whereas other ones will show
up more often in spoken interaction. If we fmd different adverbs in speech
and writing, the question arises whether a cognitive-functional motivation
An interactional approach to epistemic and evidential adverbs 311
for the different use ofthe adverbs can be found in the differences between
speaking and writing. Since the two registers differ in many respects, this
may be the case.
First, a writer usually has much more time to produce, i.e. edit, a text
than a speaker can use for producing utterances in interaction. Writers can
read their texts over and make local changes so as to have the best final
result. Since authors often tend to present the most nuanced view, they
have recourse to specific epistemic and evidential expressions involving
specific modes of knowing. Register-related preferences may also give rise
to interesting alternations with the same verb. In previous research I have
accounted for (i) the tendency of using evidential auxiliaries in written
Spanish (e.g. parecer 'to seem'+ infinitive) to the detriment of other forms
with a finite que-clause and for (ii) the fact that the auxiliary + infinitive
does not show up in spoken language. The answer lies in the observation
that the qualification expressed by the auxiliary is based on inferences
from reasoning only, whereas the parece que-construction can also involve
inferences from direct evidence (Comillie 2007a,b).
Secondly, speakers are in direct, face-to-face interaction with the inter-
locutors or co-participants. It can be expected that the involvement in a
social activity causes speakers to pay more attention to speaker-hearer re-
lated experiences. As a matter of fact, this leads me to hypothesize that
evidentials used in conversation refer more frequently to evidence shared
with co-participants. The preceding observations entail to the following
questions. (i) with regard to written language, does more time to deliberate
and to edit mean more inferences on reasoning and less circumstantial infe-
rences? (ii) with regard to spoken language, does direct experience in inte-
raction lead to more circumstantial inferences? Due to space restrictions, in
this paper I will only address the second question.
3. Previous accounts and hypotheses
Since the publication of Chafe's seminal paper on evidentials, back in
1986, the existing literature has not satisfactorily dealt with register-related
topics in epistemic modality and evidentiality. Moreover, in-depth studies
of modality in conversation are rare. In this respect, the field of Spanish
linguistics is no exception. The New Reference Grammar ofModern Span-
ish mentions that a lo mejor is "confmed to spoken language or informal
styles" (Butt and Benjamin 1994: 244) but does not specifY whether quiza
or tal vez are more frequently used in one or the other register. Moreover,
312 Bert Cornillie
no specific interactional functions are attributed to the individual adverbs.
The Gramatica Descriptiva de Ia Lengua Espanola (1999) only dwells on
the modal adverbs briefly, comparing them with other adverbs. No atten-
tion is paid to their use in day-to-day Spanish.
Whereas for English conversation there is Kiirkkiiinen's 2003 book on
the expression of epistemic stance, the field of Spanish conversation stu-
dies does not have any publication that comes close to it. In line with
Kiirkkiiinen 2003, Fernandez Sanmartin 2006 presents a comprehensive
inventory of the epistemic and the evidential expressions that appear in the
informal conversations compiled by the Val.es.Co group. It is a first step
towards a better understanding of the use of different expression types in
Spanish conversation, although does not deal with the dialogic context in
which the expressions are used. Hence, a clearly interactional approach to
Spanish epistemic and evidential expressions is still needed.
Now, if the interaction has not been a central topic, what are then the
approaches adopted for the study of Spanish modal adverbs? Many authors
discuss the mood alternation with some of the adverbs, although some au-
thors observe that with epistemic adverbs a different mood selection does
not alter the likelihood expressed (Branza and Delbecque 2008). Most
grammars point out that a lo mejor and igual combine exclusively with the
indicative mood whereas, when they precede the verb, tal vez and quiza
usually combine with the subjunctive mood. Yet, no satisfactory account is
given for this mood distribution. In his Gramatica Comunicativa del es-
panol, Matte Bon (2000: 257-258) distinguishes between the subjunctive
and the indicative in terms of the "hip6tesis rematicas" (new information)
and "hip6tesis tematicas" (given information) the adverbs introduce. The
adverbs quiza(s) and tal vez are said to qualify given information, whereas
a lo mejor would only introduce rhematic hypothesis or new information.
In (1), Speaker B takes the tum from speaker A and attempts to explain the
situation given by speaker A.
(1) A. Nada... lmposible: esta comunicando sin parar. (Matte Bon 1999:
257)
'nothing... Impossible: they do not stop talking'
B. A lo mejor tienen el te!efono estropeado.
'Perhaps their telephone is broken'
When speakers use quiza and tal vez with a fmite verb in the subjunctive
mood, as in (2), they formulate a hypothesis based on thematic or given
An interactional approach to epistemic and evidential adverbs 313
information. Hence, the information was previously mentioned to the
speaker but was not communicated to the co-participant before.
(2) A. ;,Sabes? Quiza cambie de trabajo. (Matte Bon 1999:258)
'You know (already)? Maybe (s)he changes job'
Quiza(s) and tal vez can combine with a rhematic hypothesis, but, accord-
ing to Matte Bon, do never have the same rhematic force as a lo mejor. By
using this adverb, the speaker "gives the impression of presenting hypo-
theses that come up at the moment of formulating them" (Matte Bon 1999:
258).2 As it will be shown in Section 5, a lo mejor does more: the speaker
not only presents a hypothesis but also attempts to know what the co-
participants think about it. Moreover, a lo mejor functions in (1) as an epis-
temic marker with an inferential dimension, somewhat similar to inferen-
tial deberlmust. By contrast, quiza in (2) is not used with an interactional
purpose, nor does it have an inferential dimension.
Unlike the epsitemic markers, evidential adverbs do not witness mood
variation (cf HaBler 2004). The indicative is the standard mood with these
expressions. Since this paper combines the study of epistemic and eviden-
tial adverbs, it is worthwhile replacing a lo mejor and quiza by the eviden-
tial adverbs under examination here. In (3) a lo mejor can be readily substi-
tuted by aparentemente 'apparently', obviamente 'obviously' and
evidentemente 'evidently', but conflicts with supuestamente 'supposedly'
(3) A. Nada... lmposible: esta comunicando sin parar.
'nothing... Impossible: they do not stop talking'
B. .................. tienen el telefono estropeado.
their telephone is broken'
- Aparentemente (inferential - circumstantial)
- ??Supuestamente (reported- knowledge)
- Obviamente (inferential - knowledge)
- Evidentemente (inferential - knowledge)
The fact that aparentemente fits in the open slot in (3) can be explained by
the new situation the speakers are confronted with. Speaker A and Speaker
B did not expect to be unable to call somebody. The inference is made on
the basis of their observation that they cannot call. When obviamente and
evidentemente are used, Speaker B refers to a situation which (s)he has
already experienced on another occasion or which (s)he is familiar with
through other means. Supuestamente, by contrast, excludes personal expe-
314 Bert Cornillie
rience and reports the observation made by someone else. It is clear that
such a reading clashes with the pragmatics of the context. In sum, the test
with the four evidential adverbs points to variation in the mode of know-
ing, which can be inferential or reported, and the type of evidence, which
can be circumstantial, i.e. direct evidence, or knowledge, i.e. indirect evi-
dence. In (4), none of the four evidential adverbs fits in the slot occupied
by the epistemic adverb quiza. The first person singular of the verb cam-
biar may also clash with the evidential qualification following the question
;,sabes? 'You know?'
(4) A. ;,Sabes?  cambia de trabajo.
'You know?..............(s)he changes job'
- ??Aparentemente (reported- circumstantial)
- ??Supuestamente (reported- knowledge)
*Obviamente (inferential - knowledge)
*Evidentemente (inferential - knowledge)
The test in (4) shows two things: (i) the discourse context of epistemic
marker without an inferential dimension does not allow for evidential ex-
pressions. It tells us that evidentiality and epistemic modality are two dif-
ferent functional categories; (ii) there is a conflict between introducing
new information to co-participants and using adverbs that hint at know-
ledge shared with them. With regard to (ii), there is a slight difference be-
tween aparentemente-supuestamente and obviamente-evidentemente. The
former can be used if the speaker frames the information as previously
unknown to him/her, whereas the latter do not allow for such a reading.
Whereas the mood alternation in terms of information structure is quite
convincing, an interactional approach will have to disentangle the dis-
course function of adverbs in a conversational context. In a dialogic set-
ting, information structure can be broadenend with the criterion of shared
or personal information. Hence, the difference between the subjunctive and
the indicative mood should not only be seen in terms of theme-rheme but
also be examined from the point of view of the speaker's on-line planning
to ensure a reaction or a response from the co-participants (Kiirkkiiinen
2003: 83). The two following hypotheses can be derived from the preced-
ing observations:
Hypothesis 1: the epistemic adverbs a lo mejor and igual present a hy-
pothesis to be confirmed or refuted by the interlocutor, whereas quiza and
tal vez stick to the speaker's epistemic qualification of the proposition ra-
An interactional approach to epistemic and evidential adverbs 315
ther than engaging in interactional strategies. This opposition could be seen
as a functional elaboration of the theme-rheme opposition.
Hypothesis 2: the evidential adverbs aparentemente and supuestamente
emphasize the evidence, but differ as to the type of conclusion (new or
reported) they can encode. The former adverb is expected to perform both
readings, whereas the latter only can be reported. Obviamente and eviden-
temente, by contrast, focus the attention on the interlocutor or co-
participant. Not the new or the reported conclusion but the on-line planning
(reasoning) behind is emphasized.
Before I go on to test and subsequently verify these hypotheses in the
qualitative analysis in Section 5, I will first present a quantitative overview
of the relative frequency ofthe adverbs in different corpora.
4. A quantitative view of the epistemic and evidential adverbs
In this section I present figures that illustrate the frequency of the adverbs
in different corpora. In order to roughly distinguish between registers, we
will start with the Corpus del espaiiol, which is a large on-line corpus con-
taining more Latin American than peninsular Spanish. Its section of con-
temporary Spanish consists of the three subsections: spoken language, lite-
rature and texts.
Table 1. Frequency distribution ofthe epistemic adverbs
%
a lo mejor quiza(s) tal vez
Spoken 1030 1004 1191 3225
% 31.94 31.13 36.93 100
Literature 443 967 1758 3168
% 13.98 30.52 55.49 100
Text 33 622 411 1066
% 3.10 58.35 38.56 100
Table 1 starts from the following question: which of the three adverbs is
preferred in the spoken register, in literature and in non-fiction prose, re-
spectively? Note that igual is not taken into account due to technical prob-
lems.3 It can be observed that both in fiction (literature) and in non fiction
prose (text) there is a clear preference for one of the three adverbs. Fiction
authors seem to have more often recourse to tal vez (55.49%), whereas, in
non-fiction prose, quiza(s) is most frequently used (58.35%). In the latter
316 Bert Cornillie
case, a lo mejor can hardly be considered a real option (3.10%). Surpri-
singly, in the spoken subcorpus the three epistemic adverbs are equally
frequent, with tal vez being slightly more frequent.
Table 2. Frequency distribution ofthe epistemic adverbs
Text Literature sEoken
a lo mejor 33 443 1030 1506
% 2.19 29.42 68.39 100
Quiza(s) 622 967 1004 2593
% 23.99 37.29 38.72 100
tal vez 411 1758 1191 3360
% 12.23 52.32 35.45 100
Since the register corpora all comprise approximatively 5.150.000 words,
we can also look at how an adverb is distributed over the various registers.
The figures in Table 2 allow us to check the degree of entrenchment of an
adverb in a certain register. For instance, whereas Table 1 shows more or
less the same frequency in the spoken subcorpus, Table 2 indicates that
only a lo mejor has a prototypical use in spoken language. Tal vez, by con-
trast, confirms its high frequency in literature observed in Table 1. Finally,
despite the fact that quiza(s) is the speaker's first choice in texts, the ad-
verb is more often found in literature and in spoken language.
Let us now examine along the same lines the frequency distribution of
the four evidential adverbs under examination. First of all, it should be
observed that these adverbs are far less frequent than the epistemic ones.
Table 3 shows that the opposition between aparentemente - supuestamente
and evidentemente - obviamente is reflected in their respective frequency
in non-fiction prose. In fiction prose, aparentemente and evidentemente are
the preferred evidential adverbs. Finally, evidentemente is by far the most
frequent evidential adverb in spoken Spanish.
Table 3. Frequency distribution ofthe evidential adverbs
Ae.arentemente Sue.uestamente Evidentemente Obviamente
Press 174 162 97 92
33.14 30.86 18.48 17.52
literature 157 35 99 36
48.01 10.70 30.28 11.01
Spoken 111 60 596 173
11.81 6.38 63.40 18.40
An interactional approach to epistemic and evidential adverbs 317
The frequency distribution in Table 4 confinns the tendencies observed in
Table 3: aparentemente and supuestamente are more frequent in the writ-
ten register, whereas evidentemente and obviamente are much more fre-
quent in the spoken corpus.
Table 4. Frequency distribution ofthe evidential adverbs
Press Literature SEoken Total
Aparentemente 174 157 111 442
% 39.37 35.52 25.11 100
Supuestamente 162 35 60 257
% 63.04 13.62 23.35 100
Evidentemente 97 99 596 792
% 12.25 12.50 75.25 100
Obviamente 92 36 173 301
% 30.56 11.96 57.48 100
Given that the written genres differ among them, it may be expected that
considerable variation can be witnessed within the spoken genre. Indeed,
the broad term "Spoken language" covers a whole range of spoken subre-
gisters such as political debates, telephone calls, interviews and conversa-
tions. Ifwe really want to study interactional contexts, we have to base our
analysis upon purely conversational data. As for spoken Spanish, there are
at least two high quality conversational corpora from Spain, respectively
from the University of Valencia and the Autonomous University of Madr-
id. The so-called Corpus del Habla Culta is a third option, albeit less suit-
able for interactional analysis because of the interview format. Interviews
cannot be considered an equivalent of spontaneous speech.
Corpus de conversaciones coloquiales. Val.es.Co (Valencia). +/- 100.000
words
Corpus oral del castellano. Conversation section. UAM (Castilia).
252.349 words
Corpus del habla culta (Castilia: 138.539 words/America: 841.644
words)
Let us look at the frequency distribution of the epistemic verbs in these
different corpora. Several observations can be made: (i) the informal
Val.es.co. corpus has the highest percentage of a lo mejor; (ii) igual is the
second most frequent epistemic adverb in informal peninsular Spanish; (iii)
318 Bert Cornillie
quiza(s) is far more frequent in the peninsular part of the Habla Culta Cor-
pus; (iv) the American part of the Habla Culta Corpus has the highest per-
centage of tal vez, which is almost absent in the corpora of peninsular
Spanish.
Table 5. Epistemic adverbs in different corpora
a lo mejor Quiza(s) tal vez lgual
Val.es.Co (Valencia)
+/-100.000 words
%
DAM (Castilia)
252.349 words
%
Habla Culta (Castilia)
138.539 words
%
Habla Culta (America)
841.644 words
%
93
79.49
131
69.31
57
50
116
25.84
4
3.42
14
7.41
56
49.12
166
36.97
Table 6. Evidential adverbs in different corpora
Val.es.co (Valencia)
+/-100.000 words
%
DAM (Castilia)
252.349 words
%
Habla Culta (Castilia)
138.539 words
%
Habla Culta(America)
841.644 words
%
aparen-
temente
0
2
8.70
0
20
25.32
supues-
tamente
0
0
0
10
12.66
0
0.53
0.88
167
37.19
20
17.09
43
22.75
0
0
eviden- obvia-
temente mente
3
100
19
82.61
2
100
41
51.90
0
2
8.70
0
8
10.13
Total
117
100
189
100
114
100
449
100
3
100
23
100
2
100
79
100
Table 6 shows that also in conversation evidential adverbs are less frequent
than the epistemic ones. In all of the four corpora, evidentemente is the
An interactional approach to epistemic and evidential adverbs 319
most frequent evidential adverb. Somewhat surprisingly, several adverbs
do not show up in the peninsular conversation corpora, whereas they do in
the Latin American interview corpus.
In sum, a lo mejor is by far the most common epistemic adverb in in-
formal and interactional contexts, igual being the second option. As for the
evidential adverbs, evidentemente is clearly the preferred expression. It is
striking that several adverbs are really marginal in conversation. The con-
trast with their frequency in interviews corroborates the assumption that
interviews differ from spontaneous talk-in-interaction. There is the guid-
ance by the interviewer, and the interviewee usually attempts to elaborate
larger sequences of discourse. In other words, the interviewee is keen to
retain the turn.
5. A qualitative view of the adverbs
In this section we look at the discourse functions of the epistemic and evi-
dential adverbs attested in the Val.es.Co corpus. I will focus on the contrast
between a lo mejor and quiza, and also discuss the case of evidentemente.
The aim is to present a functional account of the differences in frequency
distribution. The main claim is that people use most those adverbs that
serve interactional strategies best (a free interpretation of DuBois 1985).
The discourse contexts that surround a lo mejor allow us to differentiate
between its various discourse functions. The analysis below will indicate
that the adverbs under examination do much more than conveying epistem-
ic readings. That is, they go beyond the traditional focus on the evaluation
of the likelihood.
Table 7 Different readings of a lo mejor
Discourse functions Examples %
Alignment (fmward-type) 54 58.06
Aligmnent (backward-type) 9 9.68
Attenuation 8 8.60
Situational 7 7.53
Purely epistemic 6 6.45
Intentional 5 5.38
Approximative 4 4.30
93 100
320 Bert Cornillie
From Table 7 we clearly observe that with a lo mejor speakers combine
epistemic qualifications and alignment strategies with the co-participant.
Example (5) illustrates such a context.
(5) Fragment 1 (Val.es.Co 2002: 117 -lines 1456-1457):
1 G: Ia primerat quitar el contacto
'the first [question] take offthe contact'
2 E: Ia primeral quitar el contacto en teorial![o sea pues}
'the first take offthe contact in theory so well'
3 L: [pues/no lo entiendo}
'well I don't understand'
4 G: [no no no no no o s(e)a}
'No no no no no actually'
5 en teoria y en practical!o sea
'in theory and in practice actually'
6 E: [pero a lo mejor noes lo primero que haces}
'but perhaps this is not the first thing you do'
7 L: [((a lo mejor explota))]
'perhaps it explodes'
8 G: inormal! [que puede explotar el cochel puede arder1=}
'normal the car may explode may burn'
9 E: [si/llevas raz6n tit}
'yes you are right'
10 G: =sino quitas al contacto Ia bateria estaa- estafuncionando
'if you don't take offthe contact the battery is is working'
11 E: ((y va y hace pumba))
And goes and does 'baing'
In (5) speaker E suggests a hypothesis to speaker G which (s)he wants to
be taken into account. Interestingly, the epistemic value does not corres-
pond to doubt about the proposition that follows, but should rather be seen
as a reply to speaker G. Furthermore, Speaker L elaborates the hypothesis
of speaker E and directs it to speaker G, who fmally takes the turn back
and answers affirmatively. Hence, the two suggestions introduced by a lo
mejor provoke the co-participant (i.e. speaker G) to take the turn. As a
matter of fact, using a lo mejor can be considered a discourse strategy of
the speaker to achieve alignment with the co-participant. This phenomenon
can be termed forward-type of alignment (DuBois 2007).
Let us now discuss the other functions of a lo mejor. In addition to a
forward-type of alignment, the adverb also serves to confirm alignment that
An interactional approach to epistemic and evidential adverbs 321
is already achieved in the previous turn. This use is called the backward-
type of alignment.
(6) Fragment 2 (Val.es.Co 2002: 100-101)
1 E:  [pero yo por ejemplo} tengo problemas de cultural
1mt I for example I have cultural problems'
2 que si que entiendo que- no debes ser asipero lo soy!
'which oh yes I understand you shouldn't be so but I am'
3 no sepor que/yo por ejemplo- a mime repugna laa
'I don't know why I for example I disgust'
4 homosexualidadlyo estoy totalmente en contrail
'homosexuality I am completely against'
5 [pero no (())=}
'but not'
6 L: [;,pero por que?}
'But why'
7 E: =no lo selno sepor quelnunca lo he descubierto/1
'I don't know I don't know why I never discovered it'
8 de verdadl hay ahi una diferencia entre la mente de ((un
'really there is a difference between the mind of a'
9 sex6logo)) y de un homosexualj/1/hombre/
'sexologist and a homosexual you know'
10 casos de homosexualidad concretos no conozco ninguno
'concrete cases ofhomosexuality I don't know any'
11 va(le)- yo que sellos aparentes eso que- uno que-
'okay- dunno those who manifest the thing that'
12 entonces[de tio a tio eso a mi-J
'well from guy to guy for me'
13 G: [eso- e- e- es por eso}
'This is it is therefore'
14 porque no has conocio ningUn caso
'because you haven't known any case'
15 E: es por eso a lo mejorl
'it is because ofthis perhaps'
16 porque imaginate que si yo tuviera-
'because imagine that ifl had'
17 L: si estuvieras con un tio de esosj
'ifyou were with such a guy'
18 E: yo creo que ahora- a lo mejor si co- si
I think that now perhaps if I if
322 Bert Cornillie
[a lo mejor conozco=]
'perhaps I know'
19 L: [jgMg]_no me aaa]
'perhaps it doesn't--- me'
20 E: = (()) y el- a lo mejor digo i}oder!llpero de verdad-
,and he perhaps I say waw/jeezes but really'
21 pero yo de- de entrada lo rechazo
'but I from the beginning I reject it'
22 G: yo cuando- cuando ibaa
'I when when I went'
23 E: yo que sel me da mucho
'dunno it causes me a lot'
24 G:  cuando iba al institutoJ yo
'when I went to the secondary school, I'
[tenia unn- un amigo=]
'I had a friend'
25 E: [o sea/nose]
'well dunno'
26 G: =que era- que me llevaba cantidad de bien con el ;,no?
'who was, whith whom I was on very good terms, you know'
27 ibamos siempre tresjuntos ;,no? y uno de ellos eraa!luno
'the three ofus were always together and one ofthem was one'
28 de los otros dos era marica/lmaric6n
'one ofthe two others was a fag... gay'
29 E:  ;,pero lo reconocia el como tal?
'but did he recognize it as such'
30 G:  lo reconocia ellperoo el no se comportaba- no se
'he recognized it but he did not behave'
31 comportaba con- con los amigos que tenia dee- ni se pasaba
'he did not behave with the friends he had nor did he"
32 ni se [comportaba mal=]
'nor did he misbehave '
33 E: [yayaya]
'I see I see'
In line 15 of example (6), speaker E confirms speaker G's hypothesis cau-
tiously by means of a lo mejor. The primary focus is on the alignment be-
tween speakers, though an attenuative dimension can also be observed.
Interestingly, there are contexts in which we find attenuation without clear
alignment strategy. In line 18, for example, a lo mejor precedes the condi-
An interactional approach to epistemic and evidential adverbs 323
tiona} clause introduced by the si conjunction, and thus weakens or atte-
nuates the condition. Speaker E wants to keep her freedom and, hence,
does not want to be held responsible for the consequences of her condi-
tional reasoning. This use is in line with other face-saving strategies.
In line 18, the repeated a lo mejor is part of the conditional protasis. In
this context the adverb has a situational use, in that it has scope over a po-
tential situation sketched in this first part of the conditional. In the main
clause (apodosis) we also fmd a lo mejor. Since in this context the adverb
combines with a verb in frrst person, it points to the speaker's intentions,
hence the term intentional use. A lo mejor is followed by is a longer pause
which indicates that the co-participant can take the tum. Since (s)he does
not take it, the speaker goes on. Both the situational and the intentional
dimension focus on the co-participant in that the speaker expressed that
(s)he takes into account the co-participant's opinion and feelings.
An approximative use of a lo mejor before numbers is also observed in
the corpus, as exemplified in (7).
(7) Fragment 3 (Val.es.Co 2002:128 -line 231)
1 A: [pero e-) pero es que//es que es el gasto que lleva
'but but you know the expenses which brings about'
2 el ascensor/1/es la cantidad de luz quee!gasta
'the elevator is the amount of electricity that it consumes'
3 M: sf
yes
4 A: luego el engrase/luego las ave[rias]
'then the grease and then the damages'
5 M: [no/eso es] una cosa que se tiene
'right, this is a thing that one has'
6 que- que- que!alimentarj/se tiene que- que/que cuidarj
'to to to nourish one has to to to care'
7 /claro eso es [(())]
'of course that's right'
8 A: [pero si} ahora pagamos mil pesetas de luz de
'but ifwe now pay thousand pesetas for the electricity of
9 escalera luego tendrian que sera lo mejor DIEZ MILI/I
'the stairs later on it must be perhaps ten thousand'
10 [e- es un gasto enorme]
'this is an enormous cost'
324 Bert Cornillie
Finally, note that the examples ofpure epistemic modality lack any interac-
tional dimension. The function of a lo mejor in these contexts is the judg-
ment of the likelihood. On the other hand, uses as in (8) could also be seen
as part of a personal dialogue. Evidence for this can be found in the verb
decir 'say'
(8) Fragment 4 (Val.es.Co 2002: 83-line 48)
1 G: hombrel {...}he llegao y he llamao all- ahi al- al veinticinco
'Listen I arrived and lrnocked a...there.... at the 25'
2 no- no abria nadie ;,no? al veinticinco
'No nobody opened..no. at 25'
3 L:  ;,pero sabias que era el veinticinco?
'But did you lrnow that it was the 25'
4 G: silyo sabia que eraajleste pisoj yy bueno pues... por lo que
'Yes, I lrnew that it was.. this apartment and well from what I'
5 me acuerdo yo de orientaci6n y tallsabia que mas o menos
1 remember about the direction and so I lrnew more or less that'
6 era... aqui ;,no? y he llamao y como no abria nadie yo digo
'It was here I lrnocked but as nobody opened I say'
7 a lo mejor noes aqui.. y he llamao ahi alla(d)o y tampoco estaban
'perhaps it is not here and I rang at the house next to, and
there weren't at home either'
8 E: ;,si?l
'Oh yes?'
9 G: pues vaya
'A pity'
Let us now tum to quiza(s). For reasons of space, the examples of quiza(s)
will not receive the same attention as those of a lo mejor. One clear differ-
ence we can mention from the outset is that quiza does not show up at the
end of the turn, that is, it does not invite the co-participant to take the tum.
This adverb seems to serve to modalize the speaker's own discourse with-
out aiming at interventions of the co-participant. Hence, quiza is not pri-
marily directed at alignment, as shown in (9).
(9) Fragment 5 (Val.es.Co 2002: 337-line 63)
B:  ;,pero podeis ampliar la memoria real 1 en corto plazo?
'But can you amplify the real memory in short term'
A: yolo llevo pidiendo hace un aiio [(RJSAS) (())}
I am asking it since a year [laughter]'
An interactional approach to epistemic and evidential adverbs 325
B: [(( ))} buenolpues a ver si podemoos/1/hacer algo aquilpor lo
menos transitoriamentel;,no?
'Well, well let's see if we can do something here at least as a
transition /okay?'
paraa!poder resolver un poco el programa porque quizaa/si estos
ee- trabajos de Tese6 corto no se les hiciera
'to be able to solve a bit the program because maybe if to these
eh' 'works ofTese6 corto weren't applied'
suapautllpues noo- no habria tanto problema ino?
'swap-out well no-- there wouldn't be such a problem, right?'
A: por ejemplo
'For example'
B: o sea que Ia degradaci6n es demasiado fuerte debido a esto ;,no?
aa-a que
'Let's say that the degradation is too strong due to that, isn't ah
that'
As example (10) confrrms, quiza appears in longer turns than a lo mejor.
By means of this adverb the speaker suggests an idea which (s)he can re-
fute or attenuate subsequently. Not quiza(s) but other elements serve to
organize turn completion: intonation breaks, exclamative utterances and
tag questions give the co-participant the chance to intervene.
(10) Fragment 6 (Val.es.Co 2002: 363-line 534)
0: = tu familia/dado que tu eres experta en esos temas les ira todo
muy bien ;,no?
'your family /given that you are an expert in these topics they will
do well, won't they'
A: bueno/mira [veras- veras Ia cuesti6n familiar=]
'Well /look you see- you see the family question'
0: [;,o a Ia familia nose puede enseiiar?J
'Or can't the family be taught?'
A: = nolo sea!por ejemplo yo 1 lo que esta claro y hoy lo comentaba
con otra amiga 1 yo no tengo que convencer a nadie 1lo seale!
quee- yo lo que puedo explicar es algo 1 y Ia persona pues
recapacita y si le va 1 oo parece- le parece posible yy
aceptable 1 pues valelentonces tengo en mi casa doss chicoss de
ingenieria!con lo cual estos son mas escepticos ;,no? 0 sea
decirltal!PERO por ejemplo pueslquiza porque me ven y soy su
madre
326 Bert Cornillie
'more sceptical aren't they?that say like BUT for example well
maybe because they see me and I am their mother'
pues entran j nose como decirte ino? mi hija no... mi hija si (())
'they come in I don't know how to tell you, you know my girl
don't you.. my girl yes'
tranquila es- es mujer y entonces esa cosa pues le apetecely mi
marido me respeta un monton 1lse le ponen asi unos ojitos viendo
Ia cantidad de personas que vienen y luego le dicen ihay que ver tu
mujer! y aquel diciendo ivaya tela! o sea [(RJSAS)}
B: [(RJSAS)}
C: [(RJSAS)} y yo sin saberlo
Finally, we will examine the evidential adverbs in their interactional con-
texts. Despite the fact that they are very infrequent in the Val.es.Co-corpus,
the three examples of evidentemente give us a good idea of how they ftmc-
tion in conversation. By means of evidentemente the speaker is clearly
engaged in keeping alignment with the co-participant: the speaker indicates
that (s)he is aware of the co-participants potential objections. Thus, the
adverb preempts the co-participant's next turn. The two examples of evi-
dentemente in example (11) illustrate this pattern. Interestingly, the intona-
tion break that follows the adverb is a starting point for elaborating the
main argument with which the speaker tries to convince the co-participant.
Hence, the break not only does not lead to turntaking, the reverse is true: it
gives the speaker the occasion to keep the turn.
(11) Fragment 7 (Val.es.Co 2002:128 -line 486)
A:  es una decision de administracionlpura y simple
'it is a administrative decision pure and simple'
B: pero no esta basada en ningun estudio previoo
'but is not based in any previous study'
A  no j evidentemente!si que esta basado en una situacion
anterior donde solamente habia uno [y entonces=}
'No obviously (yes) it is based in a situation in which there was
only one and then'
C: [y entonces}
'and then'
A: = habia un colapso total
'There was a collapse'
B: mm
An interactional approach to epistemic and evidential adverbs 327
A: entonces el problema quee nosotros hemos detectado/es un
problema que hemos detectao evidentemente/
'Hence the problem that we have detected ouservelves is a problem
that we have detected obviously'
entonces/llo que hicimos fue/ee/de uno pasar a treslpero es un
problema de capacidad y de prestaciones... no se si me explico/
normalmente/si lo hiCJEses por prestaciones no tendrias tres/
tendrias cincuenta... porque el acceso es totalmente aleatorio ...
entonces claroljpf!llme explico ;,no?
Evidentemente contrasts with both a lo mejor and quiza. This evidential
adverb differs from a lo mejor in that it is part of the speaker's strategy to
keep the tum, and it differs from quiza because of establishing mental con-
tact with the co-participants. In other words, by means of evidentemente
the speaker lets the co-participant know that (s)he is still developing
his/her idea.
After this qualitative analysis we now come back to our initial question
of Section 2 concerning the type of inferences. It turns out that the eviden-
tial adverb mainly involves inferences from reasoning. Yet, the reasoning
is not so much triggered by sensorial, visual or auditive stimuli but is part
of the discourse planning. It can be argued that there is a semantic shift
from a purely evidential reading (i.e. something that can be clearly per-
ceived) to a discourse related reading (i.e. something that is clear according
to discourse patterns). Interestingly, the other evidential adverbs do not
readily allow for such a reading. It is now clear that in conversation ad-
verbs do not readily express evidential qualifications that are based on
circumstantial inferences. This confirms that conversation is very much
focused on the attitudes of speech participants rather than on integrating
new knowledge from the immediate physical context.
Now, given the previous observations, what can we tell about the epis-
temic adverbs? As shown in Section (2), a lo mejor- igual are suitable for
expressing an inferential dimension, whereas quiza and tal vez do not
usually invite for such a reading. The fact thatthe former are more frequent
in conversation than the latter leads us to conclude that the addition of a
(circumstantial) inference to an epistemic evaluation facilitates the interac-
tion. The reason why epistemic adverbs experience a shift to an evidential
dimension, whereas evidential adverbs shift away from it is a topic for
further research.
328 Bert Cornillie
6. Conclusions
This paper has shown that epistemic and evidential adverbs deserve to be
examined in terms of their discourse functions in conversation.
The relative frequency in different corpora has turned out to be indica-
tive for these functions. The quantitative corpus analysis has shown that a
lo mejor is the preferred epistemic adverb in spoken language, in general,
and in conversation, in particular. In (Latin-American) interviews (Corpus
del Habla culta), we observed the relatively frequency of quiza(s) and tal
vez. The evidential adverbs aparentemente and supuestamente contrast
with evidentemente and obviamente in that the former are far less frequent
in spoken language than the latter.
In conversational Spanish a lo mejor reveals to have several functions
other than being an epistemic qualification of the proposition. The organi-
zation of alignment appears to be the most prominent one in the Val.es.Co
corpus. A lo mejor is not only used to introduce hypotheses with new in-
formation, but also invites the interlocutor(s) to confirm or reject the view
of the state of affairs (or part of it) presented, that is, the adverb plays a
role in the tumtaking process. The relative frequency of igual goes along
the same line.
Thus, the above-presented analysis gives a functional explanation for
the claim that with a lo mejor (and igual) the indicative mood correlates
with new hypotheses. Interestingly, the corpus data of quiza contrast with
those of a lo mejor, not so much because of the thematic hypotheses, but
rather because of the longer turns in which quiza appears. The marginal
frequency of quiza in conversational Spanish illustrates that it is less inte-
ractional than a lo mejor. The relative frequency of quiza(s) in interviews
is due to the longer turns, in which the speaker does not invite for turn-
taking.
In sum, we believe that the analysis presented in this paper demostrates
that an interactional approach can account for the different mood and fre-
quency distribution of the epistemic and evidential adverbs.
Notes
1. In recent publications more attention has been paid to adverbial phrases such
as por lo visto 'apparently' and al parecer 'seemingly' (Gonzalez 2006; Fant
2005, 2006).
An interactional approach to epistemic and evidential adverbs 329
2. In Spanish: "a lo mejor da la sensaci6n [...] de presentar hip6tesis que se le
ocurren al hablante en el momento mismo de formularlas."
3. Since this form also refers to the adjective with the meaning 'same', it is ex-
tremely frequent (more than 3500 examples). Yet, only a tiny minority ofthese
many examples have a modal reading. Further research on igual is needed.
References
Branza, Mircea. D., and Nicole Delbecque
2008 Variaci6n modal con los adverbios de duda en espafiol. In Studii de
Lingvisticii ~i Filologie Romanicii, A. Cunita, C. Lupu and L.
Tasmowski (eds.), 58-71. Bucharest: Editura Universitafii Bucure~ti.
Briz, Antonio and Grupo Val.Es.Co.
2003 Corpus de conversaciones coloquiales. Madrid: Arco-libros.
Butt, John, and Carmen Benjamin
1994 A New Reference Grammar of Modern Spanish. 2nd ed. Great Brit-
ain: Edward Arnold.
Chafe, Wallace
1986 Evidentiality in English Conversation and academic writing. In Evi-
dentiality: the Linguistic Coding of Epistemology, Wallace Chafe,
and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 261-72. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Clift, Rebecca
2006 Indexing stance: Reported speech as an interactional evidential.
Journal ofSociolinguistics 10: 569-595.
Cornillie, Bert
2007a Epistemic Modality and Evidentiality in Spanish (semi-)Auxiliaries.
A Cognitive-functional Approach. (Applications of Cognitive Lin-
guistics 5.) Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
2007b On the continuum between lexical and grammatical evidentiality.
Evidence from Spanish. Italian Journal of Linguistics 19 (1): 108-
129.
2009 Evidentiality and epistemic modality: on the close relationship oftwo
different categories. Functions ofLanguage 16 (1): 44-32.
Dendale, Patrick, and Liliane Tasmowski
2001 Introduction: Evidentiality and related Notions. Journal ofPragmat-
ics 33 (3): 339-348.
DuBois, John W.
1985 Competing motivations. In !conicity in Syntax, John Haiman (ed.),
343-366. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
2007 The Stance Triangle. In Stancetaking in Discourse, Englebretson,
Robert (ed.), 139-182. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
330 Bert Cornillie
Fernandez Sanmartin, Alba
2006 La expresi6n de Ia modalidad epistemica en el espaiiol
conversacional. Ma Thesis. Department of Spanish Philology.
Santiago de Compostela: Universidade de Santiago de Compostela.
Gonzlilez Ramos, Elisa
2005 Como eludir responsabilidades sobre lo dicho: los signos ''por lo
visto" y "al parecer" (analogias y diferencias en su empleo actual).
Espaiiol actual: Revista de espaiiol vivo. 84: 153-158.
HaBler, Gerda
2004 El uso evidencial de adverbios modales. In Algunos problemas
especificos de Ia descripci6n sintactico-sem(mtica, Juan Cuartero,
and Gerd Wotjak (eds), 229-244. Berlin: Frank & Timme Verlag.
Karkkainen, Elise
2003 Epistemic stance in English conversation. A description ofits inter-
actionalfunctions, with a focus on I think. Amsterdam/Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
Matte Bon, Francisco
2000 Gramatica Comunicativa del espana!. Madrid: Edelsa.
Nuyts Jan
2008 The "one-commitment-per-clause" principle and the cognitive status
of qualificational categories. Linguistics 47 (1): 141-171
Plungian, Vladimir A.
2001 The Place of Evidentiality within the Universal Grammatical Space.
Journal ofPragmatics 33 (3): 349-357.
Tomer Castells, Sergi
2005 Aspectos de Ia semantica de los adverbios de modo en espaiiol. Ph.
D. diss. Department of Linguistics. Barcelona: Universitat Pompeu
Fabra.
Revelative evidentiality in European languages:
linguistic marking and its anthropological
background
Alexandra Kratschmer andAdrienne Heijnen
In this article we aim to present the results to date of an ongoing interdisciplinary
research project on dreams and dreaming, focusing primarily on the linguistic as-
pects, i.e. the marking ofthe source and manner ofacquisition of dream material in
dream accounts, pointing at relevant relations to the cultural background of the
speakers.1 The project is executed by a linguist (AK) and an anthropologist (AH).
The objective of this article is threefold: a) empirical (as we draw a first inventory
of linguistic markers used in European languages in order to present information as
"dreamed", diachronically and synchronically, helping us to seize the complex
semantic structure of this domain), b) theoretical (as we wish to show that the
semantic domain of evidentiality, revelative but also in general, will draw profit of
the integration of a ,rather undetected aspect, namely the interaction between the
human receiver and a human/divine/personified source of information) and c) me-
thodological (as we seek to use our results on the linguistic and anthropological
aspects of dream treatment to illustrate the heuristic potential of cross checking
"claims" made by language structure about non linguistic matters (culture, cogni-
tion, etc.) in the relevant discipline, in our case anthropology.
1. Revelative Evidentiality
We start out with a definition of our concept of revelative evidentiality
(Section 1), continue with considerations regarding the heuristic value of
our interdisciplinary approach (Section 2), introduce briefly our written
and oral corpora (Section 3), after which we present the empirical linguis-
tic and anthropological results of our studies to date and address possible
relations between these (Section 4). In our conclusions (Section 5) we re-
turn to our previously established threefold objective, namely rendering
account for the empirical, theoretical and methodological results of our
studies.
332 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
1.1. A first working defmition
Following Aikhenvald's seminal monography on evidentiality in the lan-
guages of the world, "Evidentiality is a linguistic category whose primary
meaning is source of information" (Aikhenvald 2004: 3). The author clear-
ly states that this term should be used uniquely to refer to grammatical
means of coding the source of information (Aikhenvald 2004: 11). In the
mean time, an increasing number of scholars, especially those working on
European Languages, insist on "considering evidentiality as a more general
functional category whose scope includes not only grammatical but also
lexical phenomena" (Squartini 2007: 1). For example, Squartini (2008:
918) aims at "exploring how an integrated account of both grammatical
and lexical evidentiality can contribute to a better understanding of the
whole domain" [our emphasis]. In what follows, we will use the term of
evidentiality noting the semantic domain of information source as marked
by linguistic means. These linguistic markers can be grammatical, lexical
or even discoursive (contextual).2 We will hence speak of grammatical vs.
lexical vs. discoursive evidentiality marking. Thus, the inclusion of the
option of discoursive evidentiality marking even goes further in challeng-
ing the original3 understanding of the category of evidentiality than e.g.
Squartini cited above.4
Within this domain, another distinction, advocated for by e.g. Squartini
(2008: 918), is useful for our purpose, namely "mode of knowing" vs.
"source of evidence": the "mode of knowing" is always "dreaming" in our
case, but the "source of evidence" can be linguistically represented as the
dreaming subject him/herself or as a more or less unspecified source out-
side the subject. Note here that the dreaming subject might be distin-
guished from the waking subject in certain societies, especially in episte-
mological terms (Heijnen forth.).
In languages with grammatical evidentiality marking, one can typically
observe the use of different markers for different types of information
sources, with different degrees of specification depending on the language.
The recurrent semantic parameters are visual, non-visual sensory, infer-
ence, assumption, hearsay and quotative (Aikhenvald 2004: 63-64). Some
languages do also have markers for endophoric evidentiality that "refer to
the speaker's own physiological or psychological states" (Plungian 2001:
354, as well as personal communication). As early though as in 1910, Boas
inventarizes a suffix with a special evidential meaning 'see in a dream' in
Kwakiutl. In 1986, Jacobsen suggests that this suffix could be related to a
formative suffix meaning 'have a dream' in Makah. It was actually Roman
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 333
Jakobson, who coined the term "revelative evidence" for such phenomena
in 1957 (Aikhenvald 2004: 345i Aikhenvald discusses the grammatical
marking of that kind of information source in her monography. She re-
marks that in different languages different types of knowledge and experi-
ence are associated with conventionalized sources. In Jarawara, Quechua,
Tuyuca and Tatuyo dreams are treated on a par with directly observed real-
ity, in Shipibo-Konibo, Yukaghir, Cree and Modem Eastern Armenian
dreams are represented as being outside conscious reality and are coded as
reported or non-firsthand evidential, while in Tucano and Tariana ordinary
humans' dreams are coded as non-visual evidential, but shamans' as visual
evidential (Aikhenvald 2004: 380-381). Thus, dreams are very often
marked by means normally used to refer to other kinds of evidential cate-
gones.
Since we interpret "evidentiality" as a semantic category, we treat in-
formation revealed in dreams as a special evidential category meriting its
own attention. What interests us primarily is which linguistic means
(grammatical, lexical, or discoursive) can be used in different languages to
mark this semantic category, whether dream marking draws on other evi-
dential categories (e.g. the visual one) and/or non-evidential semantic cate-
gories (e.g. epistemic modality).
Our working definition of revelative evidentiality reads broadly "infor-
mation linguistically marked as created inside the mind of a subject with-
out direct input from the outside world (which is not necessarily the view
of the experiencing subject, see below), e.g. dreams, visions/revelations,
hallucinations, inspiration/ideas, etc.", information revealed in a dream
being a very important subcategory, in fact the category this article will
focus on.
2. The interdisciplinary point
2.1. Basic methodological assumption
Conventionalized and grammaticalized linguistic expressions "make
claims" about cultural experience and knowledge and cognitive processes.
While inferring cultural and cognitive circumstances directly from linguis-
tic structures can lead to erroneous conclusions, we see testing "claims
made by language" against anthropological and (neuro-, psycho- etc.) cog-
nitive empirical data to be a powerful heuristic tool. The importance of this
becomes obvious when considering Aikhenvald's conclusions about dream
334 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
theories among the Yukaghir, mentioned in Section 1.1. While Aikhenvald
claims that for the Yukaghir, dreams are not equal to conscious reality,
basing herself on the older work of Jochelson 1905, recent anthropological
study undermines her point. Willerslev, who has conducted ethnographic
fieldwork among the Yukaghir in the 1990s and 2000s, writes that, for the
Yukaghir, dreaming involves a conscious experience ofthe ayibii6 the soul,
often unfolding as sexual engagement with spiritual beings (Willerslev
2007: 175).
In the ongoing project we intend to test "claims" made by language on
the cultural-cognitive basis of dream experiences against anthropological
data on culture related perspectives to dreams and dreaming in order to see
whether there can be detected any convincing relations between language
use and cultural ideas and practices, and, in the positive case, whether there
is any plausible way in determinating a causal directionality from culture to
language or vice versa. At the present point of the investigation there seem
to emerge certain patterns, even though they lack statistical significance.
2.2. Expected benefits
At a general level, an interdisciplinary investigation will further our under-
standing of the relation between thought, practice and language and will be
able to put NeoWhorfian approaches to the thought/language problem to
the test. At the linguistic level, it will further our understanding of the se-
mantic category of evidentiality (also regarding such factors as e.g. interac-
tivity, see below) and of its cultural and cognitive basis, besides helping to
inventorize its linguistic realization options. At the anthropological level as
well as that of cognitive sciences, it will further our understanding of the
use of linguistic material as an important heuristic source. Methodologi-
cally, in anthropology, "what people do" often predominatess "what people
say", while anthropologists depend increasingly on semi-structured inter-
views due to a change of research conditions. These new settings urge for a
reconsideration of the relation between language use, cognition, culture
and social practice.
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 335
3. The empirical data
3.1. The linguistic corpus
3.1.1. Bible versions ofJoseph's story
Our linguistic corpus is meant to cover both diachronic and synchronic
data. As a diachronic corpus, we chose different versions of Joseph's story
(Old Testament, Genesis 37-44)7 in different European languages (as well
as the Biblical Hebrew original) through history. This method allowed us
to compare variations on a constant theme, notably a story focusing on
dreams and dream accounts, both interlinguistically and language inter-
nally through time.
We have to date analyzed the following versions of Joseph's story: Bib-
lical Hebrew (original= 0, B.C., exact period heavily discussed), Classical
Greek (Septuagint = SE, B.C-A.D, exact period equally discussed), Latin
(Vulgata = V, 4th cent. A.D.), German (1545/modemized = G1, 1871 =
G2, 1905 = G3, 1912 = G4, 1951 = G5, 1984/99 = G6, 2000 = G7), Dutch
(1618/modemized = DU1, 1734 = DU2), Danish (1550 = DA1, 1647 =
DA2, 1931 = DA3, 1992 = DA4, 2002 = DA5), Icelandic (1815 = IC1,
1841 = IC2), Faroese (1949/74 = FA), French (1707/44 = FR1,
1744/1881/86/1996 = FR2, 1859/1991 = FR3, 1894/1910 = FR4,), Italian
(1649 = IT1, 1821 = IT2, 1925 = IT3, 1974 = IT4, 2007 = IT5) as well as
Spanish (1569 = S1, 1909 = S2, "modem"= S3, 1986/97 = S4, 2005 = S5).
We have used the English spoken American Standard Version (ASV) for
glossing purposes if convenient.
3.1.2. Interviews with informants
We have to date registered oral dream accounts and qualitative data regard-
ing language use in dream telling, combined with linguistics tests on
grammaticality, discourse compatibility and paraphrasing dream related
expressions, among Icelanders, Faroese, Dutchmen, Germans as well as
Italians. The main criterium for selecting informants was that the group
should allow for comparison between the various languages and societies.
The informants are men and women between 20 and 35 years of age, who
study various disciplines at institutions of higher education in Denmark.
Whereas our corpus of Icelandic dream accounts possesses a clear quan-
titative significance (cf. Heijnen 2005a, forth.), our Faroese, Dutch, Ger-
336 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
man and Italian oral corpus to date consists of qualitative data collected
through focus group interviews and semi-structured interviews. Even
though our data is extensive enough to observe certain patterns, it still
lacks quantitative statistical weight.
3.2. Anthropological methods and data collection
With the help of focus group interviews and semi-structured interviews, we
have collected data on the cultural perspectives and practices related to
dreaming, dream telling and interpretation among Faroese, Italians, Ger-
mans, Dutchmen and Icelanders. For the Icelandic case, our data is exten-
sive. Heijnen collected the data during fieldwork in Reykjavik and South
Iceland during the period 1996 to 2008, using the methods of participant
observation (including semi-structured interviews) and literature studies.
Participant observation allows for collecting data on the context in which
dreams are remembered and narrated. To obtain historical depth in the
analysis and to reduce personal bias, Heijnen collected numerous dream
accounts written from the 13th century until the present day8 Thus, the
anthropological data consists of nearly 1000 Icelandic dream accounts,
covering a period of almost 1000 years (Heijnen 2005a, forth.).
4. The results to date
4.1. Linguistic results
4.1.1. Issues ofrevelative evidentiality in Joseph's story across time and
across languages
During our work with the biblical material, the following cardinal points of
revelative evidentiality emerged as subject to variation as well as pattern
forming:
reference to the dream experience as such
marking the beginning of the dream account
marking of the dream account while unfolding it
combined forms where at least two of the aspects just mentioned are
fused
marking the ending ofthe dream account
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 337
the revelative element
the etymology ofthe lexemes '(a) dream',' to dream'
Not all of these cardinal points have to date been subject of systematic data
scrutiny, therefore, we will focus here on the reference to the dream expe-
rience (4.1.1.1.), the marking of the beginning of the dream account and of
its unfolding (4.1.1.2.) and fmally the revelative element (4.1.1.3.).
4.1.1.1. The reference to the dream experience as such
In this area, the questions which arise are those of verbal valence and of
the semantic roles selected by the verb 'to dream' as well as those of the
choice of verb in combination with the noun 'a/the dream' Clear diachron-
ic and synchronic typological patterns can be observed which also can be
blurred by obvious traductological issues. In our corpus, the following
constructions and diachronic patterns are found:
'to dream a dream': this is the only documented form used in the Bib-
lical Hebrew original9 and is, probably by strong traductorial influ-
ence, present in all our corpus-languages, except Latin (translated
from Classical Greek, not from the Hebrew original) and Icelandic (on
the special status of Icelandic, see below)
'to see a dream': this is the by far preferred construction in Classical
Greek10 and the only documented construction with the noun dream in
Latin; the Latin use of this construction is not pursued by the Rom-
ance Languages, nor does it exist in the Germanic Languages
'to see something' with reference to dreaming is documented in the
Latin Vulgata
'to dream' (absolute use) or 'to dream + direct object' (typically oc-
curring in constructions like 'I/he dreamed something' or with com-
pletive clauses as 'tell me what you have dreamed', 'listen what I have
dreamed', 'I have dreamed that'): this construction is documented in
German, Danish, Dutch, Faroese, French, Italian and Spanish remains
active throughout history
'to have a dream': Dutch and Faroese, and Spanish show a stable (and
exclusive) use in our corpus11 of 'to have' in combination with 'a
dream' and especially for Spanish this construction is by far the pre-
ferred one in our corpus, compared to 'to dream (a dream)'
338 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
German and Danish on the one hand and French and Italian on the
other undergo a characteristic diachronic development towards con-
structions suggesting increased subject participation (cf. 4.1.1.1.1)
Icelandic shows an extremely stable use throughout history of a
double accusative construction (cf. 4.1.1.1.2)
4.1.1.1.1. The subject participation axis
In our corpus, there can be observed that earlier Bible versions of German
and Danish make extensive (though not exclusive) use of constructions
with the dreaming person in a dative/oblique12 case (it dreamed [to] me, a
dream [nom.] dreamed [to] me): Es [nom.] hat uns [dat.] getriiumet 'it has
dreamed [to] us' (40:8, G1), Was ist das fur ein Traum, der [nom.] dir
[dat.] getriiumet hat? 'what kind of dream is that, that has dreamed [to]
you?' (37:10, G1), Mig [obl.] dmmde ocsaa '[to] me [it] dreamed also'
(40:16, DA1), Da dmmde oss [obl.] baade en nat huer sin dmm [nom.] 'it
dreamed [to] both of us one night a dream' (41:11, DA1), which later on
recede in favor of constructions with the dreaming person as a nominative
subject: [...] der Pharao [nom.] triiumte 'the Pharao dreamed' (40:8, G2),
Hor dog, hvadjeg [nom.] har dmmt! 'listen what I have dreamed' (37:6,
DA3). Parallel to this, a representation of the dreaming subject as a nomin-
ative 'possessor' ('I had a dream') is documented from the first sources
onward and remains strong throughout history: [...] hatte Joseph [nom.]
einmal einen Traum 'had J. once a dream' (37:5, G1), [...] haffde Joseph
[nom.] en gong en dmm 'had J. once a dream' (37:5, DA1).
On the other hand, our corpus shows a development, concerning French
and especially Italian, from a productive 'to have a dream' (Joseph eut un
songe13 'J. had a dream', 37:5, F4; Giuseppe ebbe un sogno 'J. had a
dream', 37:5, IT314) to a more and more frequent use of 'to make a dream'
(Nous avons fait un songe 'we have made a dream', 40:8, F2; Giuseppe
fece un sogno 'J. made a dream', 37:5, IT5). In both languages, 'to dream'
with a nominative agentive dreaming subject is documented throughout
history (J'ai aussi songe 'I have also dreamed', 40:16, F1; sogno di nuovo
'he dreamed again', 41:5, IT1).
Looking at these data, language use seems to make a claim that the
dreaming subject, in a way consistent for several European language com-
munities, represents itself on an "activity" or "subject participation" axis,
as moving towards more subject participation/responsibility: starting as an
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 339
experiencer, (s)he becomes an owner and finally a creator of his/her
dreams (see Table 1).
Table 1. Diachronic development along the subject participation axis (simplified)
languages experiencer >> owner >> creator
German, Danish 'It dreamed to me'
'A dream dreamed to me'
French, Italian
'I had a dream' 'I dreamed'
'I had a dream' 'I made a dream'
'I dreamed'
The validation by historical and present day anthropological empirical
material of this "claim made by language" about a development of the cul-
tural attitude to dreams and dreaming in these linguistic communities
represents an important heuristic opportunity, which we will follow up in
4.2.2.2 and 4.2.2.3 resp.
4.1.1.1.2. The double accusative construction in Icelandic
Both in our corpus, but also in the remainder of the thousand years of Ice-
landic language history, documented in the prolific written source material
(cf. Heijnen 2005a, forth.), a strong persistence in the use of the construc-
tion '[It] dreamed me [accusative] a dream [accusative] [evt. for some-
body/something [dative]]': Mig [ace.] dreymdi draum [ace.] [!Yrir
einhverju [dat.]] is found. 15
Based on different theoretical backgrounds, different syntactic interpre-
tations can be given of this construction (Hrafnbjargarson/Tromso, per-
sonal communication). While traditional grammar considers it as a double
(accusative) object construction, Generative Grammar (e.g. Hrafnbjargar-
son 2004: 133) analyzes it as a construction with a human accusative sub-
ject and nonhuman accusative object.
These two different interpretations make, as we see it, different, but
equally intriguing claims about how the dreaming subjects experience their
role in a scenario which is equally complex in both cases. According to the
traditional (double object) analysis, there is an unidentified agentive entity
(the implicit nominative subject ofthe verb), a "power", exercising a direct
influence (marked by the direct objects) on the dreaming person as well as
on the dream (its content), sometimes regarding a third party (the preposi-
tional dative object). The verb 'to dream' shows a complex valence pattern
340 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
with a series of actants (1 nominative, 2 accusatives) and the frequent pres-
ence of a standardized circumstant (a prepositional dative), mirroring a
complex constellation of involved entities.
According to the Generative Grammar analysis (human accusative sub-
ject), the dreaming person combines "agentive" (subjecthood) and pa-
tient/theme features (accusativity), "acting" and "undergoing the action" at
the same time. The dream itself is (equally) under direct influence of the
action/the agent. 16 Also in this interpretation17, there is a complex constel-
lation of entities involved.
We will show below that this complex constellation of involved entities
in dream experiences can indeed be confirmed as an important underlying
metaphysical stance of Icelandic culture (cf. 4.2.1 and 4.2.2.1).
4.1.1.2. The marking ofbeginning ofthe dream account and ofits
unfolding
Due to lack of space we have to limit ourselves to a very synoptic presenta-
tion of the linguistic phenomena regarding these two cardinal points, re-
serving the extensive discussion of the extremely rich data material for
another occasion. As some of the following phenomena can mark both the
beginning and the unfolding of the account, a collective treatment is by no
means unnatural.
4.1.1.2.1. Visual evidentiality
This is by far the most dominating evidential domain in our corpus. Here, a
pervasive role is played by the 'behold'-marker which goes back to the
Biblical Hebrew original hinneh18 and which is subsequently found in all
corpus languages except Faroese, e.g. German (siehe, as in 37:7, G2). It
has to be noted though that the visuality conveyed by the 'behold'-marker
is a phenomenon that obviously arose due to a traductorial problem: most
target languages lacked a comparable focus marker, and the marker with a
similar textual deictic function at hand was one conveying the idea of
summoning the gaze of the listener ('behold'). The traductorial pressure to
conserve this marker (but in a new disguise) seems to have been rather
strong.
Three of our Germanic corpus languages (namely German, Dutch and
Danish) share the feature that they allow for perception verbs to be fol-
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 341
lowed by a subordinate clause introduced- instead of by 'that' (dass, at,
dat)- by the manner conjunction 'how' (wie, hvordan/hvorledes, hoe dat),
expressing not a manner, but the intensive perception of an action in
progress or a situation under development (e.g. Duden [Drosdowsky 1984:
686], for German). While there are no German occurrences of this phe-
nomenon in our corpus, both one Dutch and one Danish version (DAl) use
the 'how'-connector, not after a perception verb, but after 'had a dream',
probably capable of implying a context of (visual) perception, in the same
verse19 (41:1): hadde Pharao eenen droom hoe dat hy stand aan het
waater, DU2.
Another aspect of visuality in dream accounts is what we call tableau
painting, grammatically marked by imperfective verb forms (see
5.1.1.2.4.).
4.1.1.2.2. Inferential evidentiality and epistemic modality intertwined
In our corpus, it is often verbs or complex expressions of epistemic modali-
ty that are used to mark the beginning or the continuation of a dream ac-
count. In the European Languages represented in our corpus, these markers
appear to carry systematically an evidential nuance inherent to the lex-
erne/construction (cf. Nuyts 2001: 64-72, 122-129, 205-208 on modal ad-
verbs and adjectives, mental state predicates as well as modal auxiliaries in
German and Dutch; Cappelli 2007, on English verbs of cognitive attitude)
or depending on the grammatical and/or semantic context (cf. Kratschmer
2006 on the broad, context sensitive variety of evidential nuances of the
Italian epistemic verbs sembrare and parere, both 'to seem', as well as
Comillie 2007 on Spanish parecer 'to seem', equally expressing different
nuances depending on the syntactic context).20 Typically, the epistemic
verbs and expressions found in our corpus are of that latter kind, i.e. ex-
pressing a clearly subjective judgment, sometimes combined with an ele-
ment of epistemic reserve in the sense of marking that the content of the
narration is not unambiguously assessable.
It has to be noted that these epistemic verbs are not attested in the He-
brew original, but find their way into the text already in the Greek Septua-
gint (r.fJflf!V oimen 'to believe', 'to seem'). They are consequently consis-
tently used in the Latin Vulgata (puto 'to mean', 'to judge', 'to consider
as'), in the German (diinken, archaic 'to seem'), Dutch (dunken 'to seem',
'to think), Danish (tykke (archaic), syntes, both 'to mean'), Icelandic (ao
pykja 'to find', 'to feel'' 'to seem', 'to like'; ao pykjast 'to claim'' 'to pre-
342 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
sume', 'to profess'), Faroese (tao var (fyri) mtEr, sum 'it was (to) me, as
(if)') French (sembler, roughly 'to seem'), Italian (parere 'to seem') as
well as in the Spanish Bible versions (parecer 'to seem'). The evidential
nuance carried by these lexemes is mostly inferential, in rare cases possibly
visua1.21
In a series of versions, a comparative connector is the inherent part in
an expression of epistemic reserve, as in the subordinate connector follow-
ing the verb 'to seem' This is true for Danish som 'as' following syntes 'to
seem' (an archaic combination, e.g. 40:10: Oc (mig siuntis) som det blef
gmnt22, DA2), as well as for Faroese sum 'as' following 'it was [to] me':
Tao var mtEr, sum vit bundu bundi uti aakrinum23, 37:7, FA.
4.1. 1.2.3. Alternative reality
Dreams can be marked as alternative reality by various means, as e.g. a
comparative connector 'as if' 24 This is documented in the following Ice-
landic version of 40:9 based on pykja 'to seem' followed by sem 'as (if)'
and the subordinated verb in the preterite subjunctive, a non-realis mood:
Mer patti i svefninum sem vinviour sttEoi [pret. subj.] forir framan mii5,
IC1.26
The alternative reality aspect of the narrated dream can be marked in Ice-
landic, not only by the preterite subjunctive mood following 'to seem' just
mentioned, but also by this mood following mig dreymdi '[it] dreamed [to]
me', as in mig dreymdi ao vinviour vreri gegnt me?7 (40:9, IC2).28 The
same is true for German, where the 2nd subjunctive is used: Mir hat auch
getriiumet, ich triige drei weij3e Korbe aufmeinem Haupt?9 (40: 16, G1).30
4.1. 1.2.4. Narratological aspects
A "typical" feature of Romance dream telling is the use of a characteristic
aspectual pattern in the preterite verbal conjugation, at least following
grammaticography.31 This use is opposed to conventional narrative aspect
use which combines perfective (marking actions as single and concluded)
and imperfective preterite (marking actions or states as ongoing at refer-
ence time). The oniric preterite consists of casting the whole account in the
imperfective aspect, which is often explained by the imperfect's potential
of expressing "alternative realities" 32 It can, on the other hand, be used as
a mere (non fictional) narrative marker, supposed to "immerge" the listener
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 343
into the action, typically in history writing or modem journalist style (Dar-
dana, Trifone 1995: 354; Togeby 1982: 319).33
Interestingly enough, the use of the oniric imperfective aspect in our
Romance Bible versions is not systematic at all, compare e.g. the two com-
peting version of Spanish 37:7: [...] y he aqui que mi gavilla se levant6
[perfective preterite] [...] (S4 + S5) vs. [...] y he aqui que mi manojo se
levantaba [imperfective preterite] [...] (S 1-3).34
One can conclude that the oniric imperfect, claimed by Romance
grammaticography to be a definitorial feature of dream telling, is, as far as
our corpus is concerned, regularly overridden by the "conventional" narra-
tive aspect use.35 This question of the stability of use of the oniric imper-
fect has also been part of our native speaker investigation with Italian in-
formants (see 4.1.2.3.).
(Visual) evidentiality and concerns of story telling go hand in hand,
when the teller makes use of the narrative strategy of painting a "tableau"
for his/her public's (inner) eye. This is done in several of our corpus Bible
versions by verbal markers of imperfective aspect which represent the ac-
tion "as it unfolds", either in the form of present participles as in the origi-
nal Hebrew version, in the Greek Septuagint, the Latin Vulgata as well as
our Icelandic versions (bl6mstrandi 'blossoming', 40:10), as a gerund as in
Spanish (estabamos atando 'we were binding'; 37:7, S4 + S5), or as finite
verbal forms as the Classical Greek imperfective aspect: (which stands in
opposition to the aorist, coding perfective aspect)36, as well as the Latin
imperfective preterite.37
The imperfective markers in our corpus are the only grammatical mark-
ers of (revelative) evidentiality, but they are not autonomous. They require
a context marked as a dream beforehand and can therefore only be classi-
fied as combinatorial markers. The context is created by lexical elements,
which obligatorily have to be members of the lexical family 'a dream'/'to
dream' The same is true for the above mentioned lexical markers, namely
the epistemic verbs.
4.1.1.3.lnteractive evidentiality
Finally, concerning the aspect of dreams being experienced as divine reve-
lations, it turns out that evidentiality can and should be regarded from an
interactive perspective where information can be passed and received in a
deliberate and conscious manner.
344 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
The idea of revelation is verbalized three times in our written corpus in
Gen 41. Joseph explains the divine origin and intention of the Pharao's
dreams to the Pharao: [... ]God has told to Pharaoh what He is about to do
(Gen 41 :25); [... ]God has sho\\11 to Pharaoh what He is about to do (Gen
41:28). The Pharao in his turn speaks about Joseph's dream interpreting
gifts equally as being divine revelations: Since God has informed you ofall
this [...] (Gen 41:39; all ASV, all emphases ours).38 In both constellations
there is a relevator (God) who reveals something (the target) to the other
(the Pharao or Joseph), and in all cases the action is seen from the perspec-
tive of the agent (God).
Table 2. Revelation: the interactive patterns
level of interaction aspect focussed on
visual perception 'to direct the other's gaze to the
target by one's finger'
'to move the target into the field of
perception ofthe other and hold it
expressions: tokens
'to point/indicate': 11
3 rosli;ev SE
5 zeigen G 1, 4-7
1 anzeigen G5
2 indicare IT4,5
'to hold up/forward': 3
1 hiGGid 0
there' 2 ostendere V
'to cause the other's perception ofthe 'to make see': 10
target' 1 her'a0
2 sehen lassen G2,3
1 lade skue DA3
2 lade se DA2,4
1 ltita sja IC2
1 lata siggja FA
2 {air voir F1,2
'to remove an obstacle in order to 'to unveil/to reveal': 3
enable the other to perceive the target' 1 enthullen G7
2 a[slere DA5
'to arrange the naked(= non-hidden) 'to render bare in the
target in the open(= in the visual field open': 3
ofthe other)' 2 abenbare DA3,5
1 opinbera FA
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 345
'to shed light on the target in order to 'to declare/to make
enhance the other's perception of it' clear, to illuminate': 5
'to arrange the target in a way that
enables the other to perceive it'
'to make the target touchable to the
hand of the other'
1 birta ICl
1 augrysa IC2
3 declarer Fl-3
'to exhibit/display': 15
1 vertoonen DU1,2
1 syna ICl
1 montrerF3
4 mostrare ITl-3
8 mostrar Sl-5
'to manifest': 5
5 manifestare IT1,4,5
symbolic behavior symbols used 'to give signs': 2
2 significare ITl,3
cognition
utterance act
content
'to communicate ver-
bally (to tell)': 1
1 fortrelle DA4
'to deliver a message':
20
3 verkundigen G1,4 6,
8 kundtun G1-6
1 ankUndigen G7
2 verkondigen DU1,2
1 kond doen DU2
1 kundgere DA3
1 booa ICl
1 kunngjora IC2
2 anunciar S4,5
enrichment ofthe other's cognitive 'to make know': 21
universe 1 hOch"''.' 0
1 te kennen geven DUl
2 give til kende DA1,2
3 lade vide DA1,2,4,
1 lata vita FA
6faire connaftre Fl-4
2far conoscere IT2,3
5 hacersaber Sl-5
346 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
In Table 2 the verbs and expressions used in the single versions of our cor-
pus text are listed in conceptual groups following their etymology39 The
etymologies of the used verbs and expressions very clearly contain the
concept of interaction. As one can se, in our corpus, the level of visual
interaction is by far the dominant one (55 vs. 23/symbolic behavior vs.
21/cognition). Inside the visual group, we find three dominating subgroups:
'to indicate' (11), 'to make see' (10) and 'to display' (15). Inside the sym-
bolic behaviour group, 'to deliver a message' is the dominating choice (20
of 23). The cognition level, despite of disposing of only one realization
pattern: 'to make know', is nevertheless important (21).
There are no absolute patterns regarding the distribution of the above
conceptual options of revelativity over the different languages in different
periods (e.g. typological constraints regarding interaction levels), but one
can detect a marked preference for the concept 'to deliver a message' in the
Germanic (18 of 20) and a marked preference for 'to display' (13 of 15) in
the Romance and a certain preference for 'to make know' (13 of 21, the-
reof one in the Hebrew original) again in the Romance languages.
On the basis of these data, the interactive aspect seems crucial in evi-
dentiality matters and we wish to make a plea for an integration of interac-
tive aspects in evidentiality studies in general, that is, in all studies on in-
formation source marking. At that point, we even want to raise the
question, not at all rhetorically meant, if one can find, in the languages of
the world with grammatical evidential marking in the Aikhenvaldian sense,
different evidential markers for 'overhearing something' vs. '(inter-)actively
being told' or ' (visually) perceiving' vs. 'being shown'
4.1.2. Issues ofrevelative evidentiality in modern European languages
form the native speakers 'perspective
We repeat that we possess statistically relevant material only for the Ice-
landic situation at this point of the project (viz. Heijnen 2005a; 2007,
forth.). The data material for the other communities has to be regarded as a
first insight that has to be corroborated by a far larger amount of data.
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 347
4.1.2.1. Linguistic results ofparticipant observation among and
interviews with Icelandic native speakers
Our Icelandic corpus consists of approximately 80 semi structured inter-
views, conducted between 1996-2009 (Heijnen 2005a, forth.); a collection
of interviews primarily carried out by the Icelandic ethnologist Hallfreour
Om Eiriksson40 and the earlier listed literary sources (cf. n. 4). In line with
the investigations for this particular project, we also conducted two inter-
views with Icelandic students in Denmark in the age group 25-35.
Our data show a strong continuity in the use of the construction: mig
dreymdi draum 'it dreamed me a dream', since the 13th century41 at least.
However, the in note 11 mentioned inversion ofnominative, accusative and
dative42 is to some degree present in our material. Our modem data de-
monstrates that the double accusative construction mig dreymdi draum is
especially consequently used among Iceland's older population. In addi-
tion, the mixing up of accusative and nominative occurs primarily in the
perfect tense, mig hefur dreymt 'it has been dreamed me a dream', people
using eg hef dreymt 'I have dreamed' instead, and in the general mann
dreymir 'it dreams one' Thus, the application of nominative eg dreymdi 'I
dreamed' occurs, but is rare. We have not encountered Icelandic native
speakers who consequently apply nominative in the marking of dream ac-
counts.
Having analyzed numerous dream accounts, we found the following ep-
istemic verbs: the most important being ao pykja 'to find' 'to feel', 'to
seem'' 'to like'' ao pykjast 'to claim'' 'to presume'' 'to profess'' 'to make
believe', 'to pretend' and ao.finnast 'to seem', ' to think, 'to like'. Ao pykja
and ao pykjast are especially found in (older) written material and in dream
accounts of the older population. The verb ao .finnast is less formal and
more commonly used nowadays. These epistemic verbs are often followed
by a designation ofplace43
Our data shows that dream accounts are told in the past tense and in the
"historical" present. In the latter case, the dreamer enhances the recalling
of the dream by "reexperiencing" the dream, as well actualises the content
for the audience. The use of the "historical" present is often related to in-
tense dream experiences, such as nightmares. In addition, the subjunctive
mood occurs frequently in the modem dream accounts (see the example in
4.2.2.1), in a similar way as we noted for the biblical references (see
4.1.1.2.3).
348 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
4.1.2.2. Results ofinterviews with German native speakers
We interviewed one female and two male university students from the
Northern and Eastern part of Germany aged between 21 and 23 years. We
started with linguistically oriented single interviews and proceeded with a
focus group interview to obtain anthropological data. Two of the students
had never heard the construction mir [dat.] hat getraumt ('it has dreamed
to me') and experienced it as outright ungrammatical, the last one remem-
bered reading the form in older texts44 For all of them ich habe getraumt
('I have dreamed') was the only form they claimed to use.45
They spontaneously observed that the dative construction would vehicu-
late the idea that the dream was coming from outside themselves, while on
the contrary they felt it was their own mental product. This is clearly a case
of what we would like to call "norm-violation induced transparency", i.e.
the "literal'' semantic interpretation of constructions that depart form the
norm. This phenomenon has its counterpart in "norm-compliance induced
opacity", i.e. that fact that conventionalized ("salient") non-"literal'' mean-
ings are automatically accessed as whole units without their constitutional
parts being analyzed each for themselves.46 That means that the fact, that
the dative is experienced as expressing extra-subject dream origination
does not imply that the form with the nominative experiencer is automati-
cally and consciously used and interpreted as expressing intra-subject
dream creation by the naive language user.
Inspired by the biblically documented use of the archaic epistemic verb
diinken (in G1 and G4) for marking the beginning of the dream account,
the subjects' readiness to interpret the modern equivalent scheinen 'to
seem' not as an epistemic reserve marker, but as a mere marker of revela-
tive evidentiality, was tested, but the subjects could actually not decide on
the question in a conclusive manner.
Inspired by the biblical use of the visual perception verb (ich/er sah
'1/he saw') in dream accounts, we tested the natural interpretation of this
verb in dream accounts either as a marker ofrevelative evidentiality or as a
marker of straightforward visual perception as an ingredient to the dream
action (on a par with other events occurring in the dream). Here, the sub-
jects agreed on only accepting the latter. A phrase lch sah, wie ich Fahrrad
fuhr 'I saw how I rode the bike' was not interpretable as 'I dreamed that I
rode the bike' to them, but only as 'I saw myself riding the bike (from out-
side, as one can experience that in a dream)'
Asked to produce an actual dream account, we registered both "histori-
cal" present (actualizing the content for the teller and the audience) and
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 349
past tense forms. One subject spontaneously produced a subordinate clause
in the second subjunctive, as documented in G1 and G4 (cf. 4.1.1.2.3): ich
habe getriiumt, ich ware [2nd subj.] in einem Turm 'I have dreamed I were
in a tower', thus marking the alternative reality status of the dream. Di-
rectly questioned, all subjects accepted that use.
To conclude, it can be said that the results of our interviews did not
contradict the diachronic evolution documented by our Bible studies, i.e.
that the verb triiumen 'to dream' is becoming more and more agentive,
meaning that it is more easily combined with a nominative agent than with
a dative experiencer.
4.1.2.3. Results ofinterviews with Italian native speakers
We interviewed three female university students aged between 21 and 31,
originating from Northern, Center and Insular Italy respectively. All lin-
guistically oriented interviews were single interviews; two of the infor-
mants gave a group interview, while one informant, for schedule reasons,
also responded to the anthropological questions during her individual in-
terview.
They all came to the conclusion that the noun un sogno 'a dream' was
absolutely incompatible with avere 'to have' and always requiredfare 'to
make', thus confirming the diachronic tendency announced by our Bible
corpus. According to two of them (the third one not being present), avere
'to have' was compatible though with un incubo 'a nightmare', or with un
sogno premunitorio 'a premonitory dream' 47 Again they spontaneously
observed, that 'to have' would indicate that the dream was not the product
of their own mind, as they felt it was and as 'to make' appropriately verbal-
ized according to their view, while the premonitory dream could be seen as
a message from elsewhere. Again, we have to suspect a possible "norm
violation transparency"-effect here.
'To dream about somebody' can only be construed as sognare qualcuno
'to dream somebody', and one subject spontaneously produced the sen-
tence una mia arnica[... ]sognava se stesso correre 'a [girl] friend of mine
dreamed herself [to] run' 48 The epistemic verb sembrare 'to seem' is still
possible as a dream account marker (it was not produced spontaneously
though), but the linguistic tests made it very clear that this function is only
accessible after the introduction of the dream concept by the noun sogno or
the verb sognare.
350 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
The informants were asked to give an actual dream account as well as to
create a fictive dream account on the basis of a prefabricated mini-plot in
key words about a dog chasing them (i.e. containing actions succeeding
each other and thus potentially reflecting clearly any oniric aspect use).
Both in the genuine dream accounts and the fictive ones, the subjects used
mainly either present tense or perfective tense forms, with only isolated
occurrences of the oniric imperfect (and only by one informant). Asked
about it post hoc, they knew the concept and judged dream accounts based
on the oniric imperfect as "more beautiful'', "more poetic", "more correct",
"more story", while the normal aspect was "more direct", "more effective",
"quicker", obviously meaning that it did not require a genre related elabo-
ration effort.
The informants confrrmed further that the Italian conjunction come
'how' following vedere 'to see' cannot be used to emphasize the perceptual
process regarding actions in progress as the Dutch, Danish and German
equivalents can, but only can refer to the manner in which an action is per-
formed (hence the lack of it in our biblical corpus).
We can conclude that, also what our Italian informants are concerned,
the tendencies found in our diachronic Bible corpus were at least not con-
tradicted. This was true for the weakening of the expression avere un
sogno 'to have a dream' in favour offare un sogno 'to make a dream', as
well as for the not at all unchallenged position of the oniric imperfect as an
obligatory marker of dream accounts.
4.2. Anthropological results
4.2.1. Written data- The Icelandic case
Supported by the written sources, listed in note 4, we argue that the idea of
dreaming being a means to experience temporal and spatial realms that are
hidden from the waking mind can be traced continuously from the first
Icelandic sources written down in the 13th century until the present day.
Christianity, foreign influence and modernisation have, of course, generat-
ed change in Icelandic society, and it should be noted that the narrative
form, dream content and the actors involved in dreaming, dreamtelling and
interpretation vary from period to period. However, the basic theory of
dreaming being a revealing activity is persistent.
In the Old Norse literature, dreaming is primarily related to revealing
the fate of the dreamer or the persons in his or her direct environment. In
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 351
the 16th to 18th century, many dreams are revelations, as we lrnow from
other European Christian divine literature and provide guidance in Chris-
tian ethics, while few dream references found in the rimur (metrical rom-
ances) and folktales witness of dreaming as a gateway to hidden realms. In
the literature, the realness of other realms is often proved by the dreamer's
ability to bring something from these realms to the waking world. This can
be lrnowledge, objects (e.g. Skioarima in Homan 1975: 197-216) or a
change of physical state, for example by becoming pregnant (e.g. Kotlu-
draumur infP.JE 1954-1961,1: 59).
Two surveys, conducted respectively in 1974 (Haraldsson 1978) and in
2006 and 2007 (Amalds et al. 2007), show the persistence and even slight
increase of an inclination towards considering dreams as revelations in
present day Iceland. People were asked whether they considered them-
selves being berdreyminn49, the results being 36% of positive answers for
1974, 39% for 2006 and 42% for 2007 (Amalds et al. 2007).
4.2.2. Oral data
4.2.2.1. Results ofinterviews, dialogues andparticipant observation
among Icelandic native speakers
Also our ethnographic data shows the strong continuing presence in mod-
em Iceland ofthe theory that dreaming does not involve a withdrawal with-
in the self, but social engagement whereby hidden lrnowledge is revealed
(Heijnen 2005a, 2005b, in press). The following example from one of
Heijnen's keyinformants, who worked at the time of the dream as night
watch at a home, illustrates the revelative role of dreams in contemporary
Iceland:
Mig dreymdi ao eg vreri50 i vinnunni og eg var ao klifra upp einhvern vegg,
ofan abakinu amer sat su sykursjuka, og pao sem eg var ao gera, var ao
eg var ao lyfta henni upp i sykri, fyrir ofan vegginn var einhverskonar op,
eoa gluggi og eg purfti ao kama hennipangao inn, fyrir innan gluggann var
starfsf6lk, eg mann bara einn starfsmanninn og pao var hun Rosa. [It
dreamed me a dream that I was at work and I was climbing up a certain wall.
On my back was the person with diabetes and what I was doing was, that I
was raising her level of insuline. High at the wall was a kind of radiator, or
window, and I needed to get her in there. On the other side of the window
were staffmembers, I only remember one staff member and that was Rosa.]
(Icelandic man, b. 1969, Reykjavik, 21 January 2000)
352 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
The dream refers to a Diabetes patient. The informant said that the night he
dreamed his dream, this patient got an insulin chock due to a wrong level
of medication. Other dreams about this patient followed this first dream,
encouraging the dreamer to ask for further medical examination.
Our data contain many examples, where people follow the wellbeing of
others through their dreams and gain knowledge about their own life or
that of others.
However, despite for persistence of the theory that dreams are revela-
tive, Heijnen's ethnographic studies in the period 1996-2009 demonstrate
an increase in the inclusion of personal feelings and emotions in Icelan-
ders' dream accounts and interpretations, as well as a slight change in
epistemology. Rather than experiencing the dream solely as originating
from an external source, a few dreamers mentioned that they picked up
unconsciously hidden hints in daily life, which were responsible for the
generation of revealing dreams during the night. Against the background of
Aikhenvald's claims about Yukaghir dream theory, we argued earlier (see
2.1.) that to understand the interrelation between local attitudes and prac-
tices concerning dreaming, on the one side, and language use, on the other,
as well as to support our thesis that evidentiality should be approached
from an interactive perspective, it is crucial to consider notions of person-
hood (including ideas about the "soul") and agency. As such, the Icelandic
dream theory, which recognizes that dreams are not taking place within
persons' head but involve engagement with other realms, has radical impli-
cations for understanding the use of linguistic markers of evidentiality.
While according to a mainstream Euroamerican psychological point of
view, dreamers create their dreams and are the only agents in the dream, in
Iceland the agents in dreams might be the dreamer, but also the dead and
other beings who appear in dreams, with or without counterparts in the
waking world. Telling a dream is therefore not necessarily an act of utter-
ing personal sentiments, anxieties or perceptions, but might solely involve
the communication of information (visually experienced in the dream)
about the life of others. Also, as for the Yukaghir, while the dreamer might
be observed passively lying asleep, his or her "soul" might be actively en-
gaged in conscious "frrst-hand" experience in the dreaming realm.
Thus, to conclude, our data shows a strong parallel between the persis-
tence ofthe double accusative construction mig dreymdi draum 'it dreamed
me a dream' and the continuing importance of the theory that dreams have
the potential to reveal knowledge, otherwise hidden for the waking mind51
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 353
4.2.2.2. Results ofinterviews with German native speakers
For our subjects, dreams are products of their own psyche, processing phe-
nomena of real life impressions and (pre)occupations. They are not revela-
tions coming from whatever source outside themselves. Even as products
of their own psyche, dreams do hardly directly influence their choices in
the woken life, at most could give occasion for reflection. Nevertheless,
they all knew other persons from their nearest community, most female, to
whom dreams serve as guidelines or objects of speculation or preoccupa-
tion, either because of their supposed psychoanalytic value or their status
of being messages from supernatural realms.
At least what our few subjects is concerned, we can conclude that the
linguistic and the anthropological data provided by them are highly consis-
tent: the attitude towards dreams and dreaming as phenomena produced by
the dreaming subject's psyche seems to be perfectly mirrored by the dia-
chronically successful verbal valency structure where the verb triiumen 'to
dream' selects for a nominative (agentive) subject representing the dream-
mgperson.
4.2.2.3. Results ofinterviews with Italian native speakers
As it was true for our German subjects, our Italian subjects equally saw
dreams as products of their own minds. One of our subjects reported hav-
ing had several premonitory dreams having come true later on. The source
of these dreams was seen by her as a supernatural sphere consistent with
her catholic faith, a conceptualization not infrequent in Italian society
where Catholic faith is a social parameter of a certain weight. Neverthe-
less, she claimed to conceive herself as the creator of the actual dream, of
the form it takes, while it is uniquely its content, the message that comes
from a source outside her. Italy has further a strong tradition, originating
from the town of Naples, of dream interpretation regarding guessing the
right numbers for different lottery institutions, the so called Smorfia.52
Our subjects that had not experienced premonitory dreams did not at-
tribute any importance to dreams, but again knew people that did, be it for
psychoanalytic or religious, revelative reasons (catholic or less orthodox,
as in the case of believers in the Smor.fia). Also concerning our Italian sub-
jects we could conclude that the cultural attitude towards dreams and
dreaming and the linguistic realization of the reference to this phenomenon
is consistent to a certain degree, taking our subject's metaphysical subtle-
354 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
ties into account: the dreaming person creates the dream (entirely or at
least what its actual form is concerned, in case it is revealed from a super-
natural source outside the dreamer), which can be said is mirrored by the
loss of the construction form 'to have a dream' in favour of 'to make a
dream'
5. Conclusions
5.1. Empirical conclusions
As far as the linguistic data analyzed is concerned, it is no surprise that no
independent grammatical markers for revelative evidentiality could be
found in the European corpus languages, Classical Greek, Latin, German,
Danish, Dutch, Icelandic, Faroese, French, Italian and Spanish, nor in the
Biblical Hebrew part ofour written corpus.
The only grammatical markers found were dependent on a previous
marking of the oniric sphere by a lexical element of the etymological field
of dream or dreaming. These markers were ones of imperfective verbal
aspect, either as finite inflection or as participial/gerund forms,
representing the dream content either as belonging to a sphere of alterna-
tive reality or as an action unfolding before the eye of the teller as well as
the listener ('visual evidentiality').
Visual evidentiality in general proved to play a dominant role in Euro-
pean revelative evidentiality. This aspect can be marked by the use of per-
ception verbs or conjunctions emphasizing the perceptive process (as in
Dutch and Danish). As a traductorial heritage from the Hebrew original,
the 'behold'-marker equally belongs to this sphere.
As typical for European languages, inferential evidential aspects are of-
ten intertwined with aspects of epistemic judgment. Epistemic reserve is a
part of dream accounts in the form ofverbs like 'to seem' or expressions as
'it was (to me)'
What the creative source of the dream is concerned, we can distinguish
between linguistic structures that seem to mark an attribution of creative
power and thereby responsibility for the dream to the dreaming subject and
those seeming to mark its attribution to a metaphysical realm outside the
dreaming subject. While a language as Icelandic shows a diachronically
rather stable pattern of the dreaming subject in oblique case position, sug-
gesting exposure to the action and not acting, we can pin down a diachron-
ic process towards a marking that suggests more subject participation and
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 355
thereby responsibility in languages like German, Danish, French and Ital-
ian by the use of nominative subjects and/or the creation/production verb
'to make'
With the exception of the lexical family 'to dream', 'a dream', revela-
tive evidentiality in European Languages is not a semantic domain that has
a specialized formal apparatus of markers at its disposition, but which
presents itself more like a dynamic system that has to be constructed to the
purpose, building on elements of visual and inferential evidentiality, of
epistemic reserve and of comparison, and in some cultures of a seeming
interaction between the dreaming subject and another realm. It is further-
more absolutely depending on the explicit lexical marking of the concepts
'a dream' or 'to dream'
What the anthropological background of these data is concerned, we
could witness a certain consistency between dream conceptualization
"suggested" by construction types in a certain language and the cultural
attitude of (some of) its speakers, a consistency that by no means should be
considered as self evident though.
This was true e.g. for Icelandic, whose double accusative construction
matches perfectly well with the Icelandic attitude to dreaming as messages
received, by the dreaming person, from another realm.
German and Italian, for which there could be observed a diachronic de-
velopment from linguistic constructions suggesting less subject participa-
tion and hence responsibility for the dream towards constructions seeming-
ly mirroring a higher degree of both, speakers agreed on experiencing
dreams as creations of their own mind, at least what their outer form was
concerned. This field of investigation deserves by all means a larger scale
attention, whereas the outcome hardly can be predicted at this point.
5.2. Theoretical conclusions
In so far, as revelative evidentiality is perceived, in many historical and
some contemporary cultures, as a phenomenon implying a metaphysical
source outside the dreaming subject to whom a message is revealed, the
interactive aspect of revelative evidentiality emerged as crucial. A large
inventory of metaphors or metonymies for this passing on of information
between the revelator and the dreaming subject could be inventarized in
our corpus. These metaphors and metonymies stem from the sphere of -
again -visual perception, symbolic behavior and cognition.
356 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
These data suggest that the interactive aspect might be important in evi-
dentiality matters in general, and we would like to encourage typologists to
follow this lead. It might be rewarding to see whether one can find, in the
languages of the world with grammatical evidential marking, different evi-
dential markers for e.g. 'overhearing something' vs. '(inter-)actively being
told' or '(visually) perceiving' vs. 'being shown'
5.3. Methodological conclusions
Based on the assumption that testing "claims" made by conventionalized
and grammaticalized linguistic expressions against anthropological and, by
the way, (neuro-, psycho- etc.) cognitive, empirical data represents a po-
werful heuristic tool, we have collected some first data regarding "claims"
made by language on the cultural-cognitive basis of dream experiences and
anthropological data on culture related attitudes to dreams and dreaming.
We have focussed, in the first place, on Icelandic, German, and Italian.
Independently of any concrete outcome, which in our case actually hap-
pened to show a certain consistency between linguistic representation and
cultural attitude, we consider this method to be a fruitful guideline to both
linguistic and anthropological studies. The merits of this method are two-
fold: furthering and preventive. On one hand, this method helps linguistics
and anthropology (or cognitive sciences) to fertilize each other, taking
advantage of the other discipline's results and emulating them by their
own. On the other hand, this method helps linguists not to jump to cultural
or cognitive conclusions based on mere linguistic data, while it helps anth-
ropologists not to ignore relevant linguistic clues, circumventing the occa-
sional "blind spots" ofboth disciplines.
On the long run, an interdisciplinary investigation will further our un-
derstanding of the relation between thought, practice and language and will
be able to put NeoWhorfian approaches to the thought/language problem to
the test.
At the linguistic level, it has proved able to further our understanding of
the semantic category of evidentiality, especially regarding the factor of
interactivity.
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 357
Notes
1. We are deeply indebted to the following scholars for sharing their expertise on
the following languages: Dan Enok Serensen!Aarhus: Biblical Hebrew; Stef-
fen Krogh/Aarhus: Biblical Hebrew & Early New High German; Jette Persia-
nilAarhus: Classical Greek; Per Overgaard/Aarhus: Latin; Hemik Jergen-
sen!Aarhus: Early Modem Danish; Sten Vikner/Aarhus: Early Modem Danish
& Icelandic; Gunnar Hrafu Hrafnbjargarson!Tromse: Early Modern Danish &
Icelandic; Susana Femandez/Aarhus: Spanish; Karsten Hvidtfeld/Aarhus: Mo-
dern German & Modem Danish, Peter Bakker/Aarhus: Old and Modem
Dutch. All responsibility for errors is of course ours. We are equally deeply
indebted to our Icelandic, Faroese, Dutch, German and Italian informants, as
well as to an anonymous reviewer whose observations helped us to enhance
the focus ofthis paper and to elaborate on some crucial issues.
2. As we will show in the case of dream accounts.
3. In the Aikhenvaldian sense.
4. We thank the anonymous reviewer for pointing out to us, how far we actually
stretch the understanding ofthis category.
5. It was also Jakobson who, on that very same occasion, first used the term
"evidential" in the way we understand it now, as a generic term for informa-
tion source. Until then, it was understood as used by Boas, namely 'something
for which there is evidence' (Aikhenvald 2004: 13).
6. The ayibii can be literally translated as shadow and be physically manifested
in dreams (Willerslev 2007: 57).
7. The quoted examples stem from the following different dream accounts
(which is sometimes also true for our exemplification of a particular pheno-
menon, when different languages or even different Bible editions in the same
language choose different marking strategies for a particular verse): Joseph's
direct speech account to his family about his own two dreams (37:6-7 and
37:9), the chief butler's direct speech account to Joseph (40: 9-11), the chief
baker's direct speech account to Joseph (40: 16-17), the account of the Pha-
rao's two dreams as told by the narrator's voice (41:1-7) as well as the Pha-
rao's own direct speech account ofhis two dreams to Joseph (41 :17-24).
8. Literature studies included the following Old Norse sources, containing ca.
530 references to dreams (Kelchner 1935: 3). Eddukvreoi (the Poetic Edda);
Landnamab6k (Book of settlements); islendingab6k (Book of Icelanders);
Konungasogur (Kings' sagas); Fornaldarsogur (Sagas of antiquity); islendin-
gasogur (the Icelandic family sagas) and Sturlungasaga. For the period 14th-
19th century, mainly rimur (metrical romances); vitranir (epiphanies) and folk
tales were used and, for the modem society, personal collections of dreams;
diaries; letters and dreamfora at radio, television and in newspapers, as well as
surveys on beliefs and practices around dreaming and related phenomena
358 Alexandra Kratschmer andAdrienne Heijnen
(Haraldsson 1978; Arnalds et al. 2007 and the survey Simi 61. Draumar, fy-
rirburoir, spadomar oflceland's National Museum, 1985).
9. Steffen Krogh!Aarhus, personal connnunication.
10. Jette Larsen Persiani/Aarhus, personal connnunication.
11. For different data regarding Faroese cf. note 46.
12. The oblique case in Danish, a phonetically merged form of both prior accusa-
tive and dative, has probably to be analyzed as deriving from a historical accu-
sative in this case, especially given the Icelandic situation, usually representing
a conservative condition af Scandinavian; Steen Vikner/Aarhus, personal
connnunication.
13. In our Bible corpus Fl-F4, we exclusively found the "old or literary" (cf. La-
rousse [Guilbert 1977], s.v. songe) songe '(a) dream' and sanger 'to dream',
but not reve and rever, the unmarked forms in contemporary French (cf. La-
rousse 1977, s.v. reve).
14. The same version shows 'to make a dream' systematically in direct speech,
reflecting the innovativity of the construction, felt probably as more informal
at that time: il sogno che ho fatto 'the dream that I have made', 37:6, but also
in 40:8 and twice in 41 :11, IT3.
15. But there have been exceptions already in Old Icelandic, with a growing ten-
dency from the middle of the 19th century (Jonsson, Eythorsson 2005: 224f.):
it is true for many verbs with human semantic roles in accusative and dative
case that speakers use nominative or dative for accusative and nominative or
accusative for dative, or even dative or accusative for nominative; among a
longer series of concerned verbs, 'to dream' is one of the most stable ones
though, still standing strong with its use ofthe dreaming subject in the accusa-
tive, and dative preferred over nominative as an alternative to accusative
(Jonsson, Eyth6rsson 2005: 232).
16. Note also the form mig dreymdi sjalfa mig 'me [ace.] dreamed myself [ace.]',
'I dreamed about myself
17. Which is completely ours; for e.g. Hrafnbjargarson!personal connnunication,
there is no clear semantic role assignable to the human accusative subject in
this or any of the other occurrences of double accusative constructions in Ice-
landic.
18. Hinneh is a focus marker used in direct speech and narratives to draw the
listener's or reader's attention to the piece of information following it. Its ety-
mology is heavily discussed, but does as far as is known not comprise the idea
ofvisuality (S.0rensen 2003: 418-419)
19. ASV: Pharaoh dreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river. [lit. 'P. had a
dream how he stood by the water']
20. Cf. also Plungian (2001: 354): "[...]an evidential supplement can always be
seen in an epistemic marker"; for this author, the opposite does not automati-
cally hold in all languages, but following him, there exist "modalized eviden-
tial systems", viz. systems where evidential markers (grammatical, lexical, or
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 359
else) must code aspects of epistemic modality at the same time. This view of
Plungian's is critized by Aikhenvald (2007, note 3), who argues that "in the
same language one evidential may have en epistemic extension, and another
one may not").
21. The inferential domain can comprise subdomains as circumstantial inferences
(based on circumstantial clues), generic inferences (based on world know-
ledge) and conjectures (lacking any sensory evidential basis; cf. Squartini
(2008: 924) on Romance languages). Concerning the exact evidential nuances
ofsembler/paraftre in French, cf. N.0lke (2001 :30), ofsembrare/parere in Ital-
ian, cf. Kratschmer 2006 (synchronically) as well as Squartini 2006 (diachron-
ically), and ofparecer in Spanish, cf. Cornillie (2007:118).
22. ASV: and it was as though it budded [lit. 'and it seemed to me as though it
became green'].
23. ASV:for, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field [lit. 'it was [to] me as
[...]'].
24. In a similar way as regarding the 'behold'-marker, this could equally be a
traductorial issue: the original Hebrew form in the relevant verses is the con-
junction k, with the possible readings 'as if, but also purely temporal 'when'
Clines (1998: 348) gives as an example specifically Gen 40:10 and translates
it into and when it budded. Note that the ASV writes and it was as though it
budded. The Septuagint shows hosper, which can have the same two readings
(comparative and temporal) ask and therefore did not cause problems oftrans-
lation. The choice of the comparative reading 'as if in certain translated ver-
sions could therefore be due to inaccurate translation.
25. ASV: In my dream, behold, a vine was before me [lit. 'It seemed [to] me in
the sleep that[...]'].
26. This example combines the alternative reality reading with an epistemic verb.
This observation together with the fact that parallel contexts also can be pre-
sented as contexts of mere epistemic reserve (e.g. 40:10: Oc (mig siuntis) som
det blefgrent, DA2), confirms, as we see it, the parallel analysis, proposed in
Kratschmer (in press), ofcontexts of epistemic reserve and ofalternative reali-
ty comparison (illustrated by two possible readings of the Italian verbs sem-
brare/parere 'to seem'), attributing their difference to a mere degree of epis-
temic force ('epistemic factor'): compare 'the computer seems broken'
(epistemic reserve) vs. 'the computer seems sentient' (alternative reality com-
parison).
27. ASV: In my dream, behold, a vine was before me [lit. 'it dreamed me that a
vine were before me']..
28. This use is also documented in our modern oral corpus, see 4.2.2.1. below.
29. ASV: [...]I also was in my dream, and, behold, three baskets ofwhite bread
were on my head.
30. This use is equally documented in our modern oral copurs, see 4.1.1.2. below.
360 Alexandra Kratschmer andAdrienne Heijnen
31. E.g. Dardano and Trifone (1995: 354) for Italian, and Fernandez Ramirez
(1986: 282) for Spanish.
32. Cf. Dardano and Trifone (1995: 354). The imperfective preterite is also used
as a fiction marker in children's play (Fernandez Ramirez 1986: 275-276.,
Togeby 1982: 315), as well as in the French prostasis of the present irrealis
hypothetic period: Si j'avais [imperfect preterite] de /'argent, j'acheterais
[present conditional] une voiture 'if I had money, I would buy a car.' (Italian
and Spanish use the imperfective subjunctive in this context).
33. Marking thus punctual, concluded actions: fr./sp./it. Colombe!Colombo nais-
saitlnacialnasceva [imp.] en/ne/1451, 'Columbus was born in 1451'
34. ASV: and lo, my sheafrose up.
35. The interference of narrative conventions with evidentiality is also noted by
Aikhenvald (2004: 380): "The narrative genre as a macro-convention typically
overrides all our preferences. Narrative conventions thus serve to narrow
down the polysemy of evidentials depending on person and other factors."
36. Jette Larsen Persiani!Aarhus, personal communication.
37. Per Overgaard/Aarhus, personal communication.
38. As correctly pointed out by the anonymous reviewer, these contexts do equally
challenge the boundaries of the category of evidentiality, namely its (presup-
posed?) defmition as marking the source of a piece of information presented
as a full proposition expressed in clausal form. Our contexts enumerated here
do admittedly show pronominal combinations ('all this') and pro-phrases
('what he is about to do'), hence not semantcially full propositions but rather
propositional variables (nominal and clausal). Nontheless, we still consider
these contexts relevant to evidentiality matters, by two reasons. The first rea-
son is that comparable contexts exist where the same revelative verbs are fol-
lowed by semantically and syntactically full clauses, as in e.g. II Kings 8:13
(Jehovah hath showed me that thou shalt be king over Syria.; ASV). The
second reason is that even in languages with grarnmaticalized evidentiality
marking, these marker do not only occur in the standard contexts of full claus-
es, but can be attached to pro-phrasal elements, e.g. an interrogative marker
standing in for a proposition (which by definition is uncomplete due to its in-
terrogative status) as in the following example from Kham (mentioned in Aik-
henvald 2004: 248: ''the question is directed by the speaker to the addressee
(second person), but it 'has its origin outside the speech situation': the author
ofthe question is 'he or she' "):
karao di
why REP [= reportative; note by AK + AH]
'(He or she wants to know) why'
39. Information source marking verbs like speech verbs are often taken into con-
sideration in evidentiality studies only when standing e.g. in parenthetical
form, not when taking a clausal complement. It appears that this is due mostly
to practical reasons, the body of data simply threatening to grow to unsur-
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 361
mountable dimensions. This, of course, is not a valid reason for not investigat-
ing these structures at all, hence our decision to include revelative verbs here.
40. We always chose the original etymology, even though not all lexemes are
etymologically transparent any more to non linguist nativespeakers, as e.g.
dan. abenbare 'to render bare in the open', being more or less interpreted as
an abstract 'tell a secret', the same way as engl. reveal is no longer felt as to
express 'to remove a veil from' by non linguist native speakers.
41. This collection is part of the Oral Archives of the Ami Magnusson Institute of
Icelandic Studies.
42. The construction appears for example in LandnamabOk (Book of Settlement)
of which the oldest manuscript survived dates from the 13th century. However,
it is generally thought that LandnamabOk was created in the 12th century.
43. This mixing up of nominative and accusative is recognized in Iceland as a
widespread grammatical deficiency and is designated in Icelandic with the
general term polfallssyki, literally, 'the illness of accusative' Also inversion
between nominative and dative is a recognized problem and called pagu-
fallssyki 'illness ofdative'
44. The following examples illustrate this: [...] ao pau hj6n voru nyhirttuo; patti
konunni sem maour ka:mi ao rnmstokknum. Pessi maour biour hana kama
jlj6tlega a fa:tur (II>JE, I, 1954-1961: 17). '[...] when the couple just had gone
to bed, it seemed to the woman that a man had come to the bedside. This man
asks her to get up quickly';[...] svo dreymir mig nokkuo eftir, bara skamm ef-
tir jaroforina, pa finnst mer ao eg fari gegnum dimm gong. '[...] then it
dreamed me, somewhat later, just after the funeral, it seems to me that I am
going through a long dark corridor' (quote from an interview with an Icelandic
woman of70 years old, 2001).
45. He was unsure though whether it should not rather be an accusative: mich
[ace.] hat getriiumt, which gives associations to the Icelandic case variations
mentioned above.
46. As a more anecdotical note, the linguist in this collaboration (AK), remembers
her own mother using mir hat getriiumt still about 20 years ago, experiencing
it as slightly affectated at that time, while her mother now claims never to use
anything else but ich habe getriiumt.
47. Regarding the concept of saliency, cf. e.g. Giora 1997; regarding a discussion
of the concept of literal/"minimal" meaning (and among others saliency), cf.
e.g. Ariel 2002.
48. A statement not all Italians want to subscribe to though (Valentina Bambini,
Pisa, personal communication).
49. Cf. the parallel Icelandic construction mentioned in note 12.
50. Ber ('naked' or 'revealed') dreyminn (masc. nom. adjective of the verb ao
dreyma 'to dream') means to be able to dream dreams that reveal knowledge
on past, present and future events; cf. the interactive evidential pattern 'to
render bare in the open' mentioned in 5.1.1.3.
362 Alexandra Kratschmer andAdrienne Heijnen
51. Note, here, the use ofthe subjunctive mood (cf. 4.1.1.2.3).
52. The Faroese situation provides an interesting parallel: In Faroese, a develop-
ment from the construction meg droymde 'it dreamed me [ace.]' to eg
droymde 'I dreamed' can be detected (cf. Poulsen 1997 as well as Jonsson and
Eythorsson 2005: 227). This linguistic change seems to run parallel with a
change in attitude towards dreaming, whereby dreaming increasingly is
thought to take place within people's head. Even though, for some, dreams
have the potential to reveal knowledge, the successful integration of Christian
doctrines in Faroese society has defined revealing dreams as superstition (see
e.g. Joensen [1975: 139-147] for information on the role of dreams in Faroese
society).
53. Following this tradition dating back to the 16th century (Cosentino [2003: 1]),
different dream contents are associated with different numbers, conceived as
secure bets for the next lottery extraction (e.g. mulino ad acqua 'water mill' =
7, mulino a vento 'wind mill'= 77; Cosentino [2003: 333]).
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y.
2004 Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
2007 Information source and evidentiality: vvhat can we conclude? In Eviden-
tiality between lexicon andgrammar; Mario Squartini (ed.), 209-282.
Ariel, Mira
2002 The demise of a unique concept of literal meaning. Journal ofPrag-
matics 34: 361-402.
Arnalds, Asdis A., Ragna Benedikta Gar6arsdottir and Fri6rik Jonsson
2007 Konnun a islenskri pjootru og truarviohorfum. Reykjavik:
Felagsvisindastofuun, Haskola islands.
Capelli, Gloria
2007 "J reckon I know how Leonardo da Vinci must have felt Episte-
micity, evidentiality and English verbs ofcognitive attitude. Pari: Pa-
ri Publishing.
Clines, David J.A.I. (ed.)
1998 The dictionary ofClassical Hebrew. Sheffield Acedemic Press.
Comillie, Bert
2007 The continuum between lexical and grammatical evidentiality: a
functional analysis of Spanish parecer. In Evidentiality between lex-
icon and grammar; Mario Squartini (ed.), 109-128.
Cosentino, M. (ed.)
2003 La vera smorfia napoletana. Sogni e numeri per vincere al lotto.
Florence: Giunti.
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 363
Dardano, Maurizio, and Pietro Trifone
1995 Grammatica italiana con nozioni di linguistica. Terza edizione.
Bologna: Zanichelli.
Drosdowsky, G-unther (ed.) et al.
1984 Duden- Grammatik der deutschen Sprache. 4. Auflage. Mannheim:
Dudenverlag.
Fernandez Ramirez, Salvador
1986 Gramatica Espanola. 4. El verbo y la oracion. Madrid: Arco Libros.
Giora, Rachel
1997 Understanding figurative and literal language: The graded salience
hypothesis. Cognitive Linguistics 7: 183-206.
Guilbert, Louis (ed.)
Grand Larousse de Ia langue franr;aise. Tome sixieme. Paris: Li-
braire Larousse.
Haraldsson, Erlendur
1978 Pessa heims og annars. Konnun a dulramni reynslu fslendinga,
trUarviohorfum og pjootru. Reykjavik: Bokaforlagio Saga.
Heijnen, Adrienne
2005a Dream Sharing in Iceland. Ph.D. diss. Arhus: University ofAarhus.
2005b Dreams, Darkness and Hidden Spheres. Paideuma 51: 193-207
2007 Stregkoder, sparegrise og barnedab. Det islandske selv i
entrepretWrskab og navngivning, Tidsskriftet Antropologi 55: 21-35.
in press Name-giving by the dead. An argument against the geneticisation of
relatedness, Social Anthropology.
forth. The Life ofDreams. Sharing Sensory Experience in Iceland. Prince-
ton: Princeton University Press?
Hrafnbjargarson, Gunnar Hrafn
2004 Oblique Subjects and Stylistic fronting in the History of Scandina-
vian and English: The Role ofIP-Spec. Ph.D. diss., Arhus: Universi-
ty ofAarhus, Aarhus.
Jochelson, Vladimir Illich
1905 Essay on the grammar of the Yukaghir Language. American Anthro-
pological Supplement 7: 369-424.
Joensen, Joan Pauli.
1975 Frereske sluppfiskere.Etnologisk undersegelse afen erhvervsgruppes
liv. Torshavn: Feroya FrMskaparfelag.
Jonsson, Johannes Gisli, and Th6rhallur Eythorsson
2005 Variation in subject case marking in Insular Scandinavian. Nordic
Journal ofLinguistics 28 (2): 223-245.
Kelchner, Georgia Dunham
1935. Dreams in Old Norse literature and their affinities in folklore. Cam-
bridge: Cambrodge University Press.
364 Alexandra Kratschmer andAdrienne Heijnen
Kratschmer, Alexandra
2006 Che te ne sembra? Semantica e pragmatica delle costruzioni italiane
con sembrare/parere. In Atti del XVI Congresso dei Romanisti Scan-
dinavi, Copenaghen e Roskilde, 24-27 agosto 2005, Michel Olsen,
and Erik Zwiatek (eds.). http://www.ruc.dk/cuid/publikationer/ pu-
blikationer/XVI-SRK-Pub/MMH/MMH07-Kratschmer
in press Categorisation vs comparaison une question de quantification epis-
temique. Modele interpretatif semantico-pragmatique modulaire des
constructions italiennes avec sembrare /parere. Cahiers Chronos.
Nelke, Henning
2001 La dilution linguistique des responsabilires. Essai de description des
marqueurs evidentiels il semble que et il paraft que. In Le regard du
locuteur 2. Pour une linguistique des traces enonciatives, Henning
Nelke (ed.), 17-34. Paris: Kime.
Nuyts, Jan
2001 Epistemic Modality, Language, and Conceptualization. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Poulsen, J6han Hendrik W. (ed.)
1997 Feroyskoroab6k. http://obg.fo/
Plungian, Vladimir A.
2001 The place of evidentiality within the universal grammatical space.
Journal ofpragmatics 33: 349-357.
Squartini, Mario
2006 Hearsay and quotatives in the diachronic evolution of the Italian
pare/sembra evidential pair. Abstract at the 39th annual meeting of
the Societas Linguistica Europaea (SLE), 30th august - 2nd september
2007a
2007b
2008
2006, Bremen.
Investigating a grammatical category and its lexical correlates. In
Evidentiality between lexicon and grammar; Mario Squartini (ed.),
1-6.
(ed.) Evidentiality between lexicon and grammar. Italian Journal of
Linguistics 19 (1).
Lexical vs. Grammatical evidentiality in French and Italian. Linguis-
tics 46 (5): 917-947.
Serensen, Dan Enok
Bibelsk-hebraiskgrammatik. Kopenhagen: Hovedland.
Togeby, Knud
1982 Grammaire Franr;aise. Vol. II. Copenhague: Akademisk Forlag.
Willerslev, Rane
2007 Soul Hunters. Hunting, Animism, and Personhood among the Siberia
Yukaghirs. Berkeley: University ofCalifornia Press.
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 365
Source material: Bible versions -books
Danish
1550
1647
Dutch
1734
Icelandic
1841
Faroese
1949
Kong Christian the Third's Bible translation, primariylbased on
Luther's German version. Facsimile-Edition. Det Dansk Sprog- og
Litteraturselskab. 1917. Copenhagen.
Bishop Svane's revised version of Hans Povl Resen's 1607 transla-
tion, based on the original languages. Copenhagen.
Nederduytse bijbel. Dat is bet oude en nieuwe Testament na de Over-
setting van D.M. Lutherus met Aile desselfs gelykluydende Texten,
en Inhoud der Kapittele tot Dienst van de Christelyke Gemeentes,
toegedaan d'Onveranderde Augsburgsche Confessie van verscheyde
Drukfouten vebetert. t' Amsterdam gedrukt voor bet Lutherse
Weeshuys en zijn te Bekoomen by de Eygenaar van 't Prvilegie van
bet Psalm boek. Amsterdam 1734.
Biblia. l>oo er heileg ritning. I 5ta sinni utgefin, any yfirskoooo og
leiOrett, a0 tilhlutun ens islen6ska Bibliu felags. Vi6eyar Klaustri.
1841.
BiBLIAN HIN HEILAGA SKRIFTIN i cy6ing Victor Danielsens
fra 1949. Endursko6a0 1974. Hin Feroyski Bibliugrunnurin eigur
upphavsrrettindini til hesa cy6ingina av Bibliuni.
Source material: Bible versions -online
http://scripturetext.com
Hebrew Orig.
Septuagint
[as accessed in december 2007; bibliographical indications as listed
on the website, with varying degree of informativity, authors' com-
ments in square brackets]:
Westminster code with vowels and consonants: The BHS Hebrew
Bible, Leningrad Codex has been made available through the hard
work of several organizations, including the Westminster Theologi-
cal Seminary, University of Pensylvania CCAT, German Bible So-
ciety, and Unbound Bible.
The Septuagint /LXX /Greek Old Testament has been made available
through the hard work of several organizations, including the Univer-
366 Alexandra Kratschmer and Adrienne Heijnen
Vulgata
German
1545
1871
1905
1912
1951
Danish
1931
Dutch
1618
French
1707
1744
1859
1894
Spanish
1569
1909
Mod.
sity ofPensylvania CCAT, German Bible Society, and Unbound Bi-
ble.
Biblia Sacra Vulgata [translated from Greek by Hieronymus, 4th
cent. AD]
Luther: Made available in electronic format by Michael Bolsinger at
http://www.luther-bibel-1545.de (see here for the most recent ver-
sions in text and HTML format). It was converted to SWORD
format by Matthias and Joachim Ansorg. This text has been modern-
ized, and the Johannine Comma added to 1 John 5.
1871 Elberfelder Bible
1905 Elberfelder Bible
1912 Lutherbibel
1951 Schlachter Bible
Det Gamle Testamente af 1931: copyrighted Etext (c)1931 Det
Danske Bibelselskab. The Old Testament of 1931: copyrighted
Etext (C) by Det Danske Bibelselskab 1931. (The Danish Bible So-
ciety). The New Testament is Public Domain.
Staten Vertaling: BUBEL DAT IS DE GANSE HEILIGE
SCHRIFT DOOR LAST VAN DE HOOG-MOGENDE HEREN
STATEN-GENERAAL DER VERENIGDE NEDERLANDEN EN
VOLGENS HET BESLUIT VAN DE SYNODE NATIONAAL
GEHOUDEN TE DORDRECHT IN DE JAREN 1618 EN 1619 UIT
DE OORSPRONKELIJKE TALEN IN ONZE NEDERLANDSE
TAAL GETROUWELIJK OVERGEZET- BEVATTENDE AL DE
KANONIEKE BOEKEN VAN HET OUDE EN NIEUWE TES-
TAMENT Based on electronic edition from http://www.coas.nl/
bijbel.
La Bible David Martin, 1744. Downloaded from http://desmond.
oshea.free.fr/BibleMartin!Bible%20Martin%201744/Bible%20Marti
n%201744.html
French: Osterveld 1744. Text dovvnloaded from www.theophilos.sk
French: Darby. Text dovvnloaded from www.theophilos.sk.
Version Louis Segond 1910 (LSG) -- Texte libre de droits.
Spanish: Sagradas Escrituras (1569)
Spanish: Reina Valera (1909)
Spanish: Modern
Revelative evidentiality in European languages 367
1986 Las citas biblicas son tomadas de La Biblia de las Americas  1986,
1995, 1997 by The Lockman Foundation, La Habra, Calif,
http://www.lockman.org. Usadas con permiso.
2005 Las citas biblicas son tomadas Nueva Biblia de los Hispanos  2005
by The Lockman Foundation, La Habra, Calif, http://www.lockman.
org. Usadas con permiso.
Italian
1649 1649 Italian Giovanni Diodati Bibbia
1927 Italian: Riveduta Bible (1927)
English [for glossing purposes only]
1960 New American Standard Bible Copyright 1960, 1962, 1963, 1968,
1971, 1972, 1973, 1975, 1977, 1995 by The Lockman Foundation,
La Habra, Calif. All rights reserved. For Permission to Quote Infor-
mation visit http://www.lockman.org
German
1984
2000
Danish
1992
Danish
2002
Icelandic
1815
http://www.dbg.de/[as accessed in nov. 2007 and jan. 2008]
Bibeltext in der revidierten Fassung von 1984. Herausgegeben von
der Evangelischen Kirche in Deutschland. Durchgesehene Ausgabe
in neuer Rechtschreibung.  1999 Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft Stutt-
gart. Die Lutherbibel wurde in den Jahren 1952-1984 uberarbeitet.
Gute Nachricht Bibel. Revidierte Fassung der ,,Bibel in heutigem
Deutsch" Durchgesehene Ausgabe in neuer Rechtschreibung. 
2000 Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft Stuttgart.
http://www.bibelselskabet.dk/[as accessed in feb. 2008]
Bibelteksten er hentet fra den autoriserede oversrettelse,  Det
Danske Bibelselskab 1992. http://www.hverdagsbibel.dk/ [as ac-
cessed in feb. 2008]
Hverdagsbibel [Bibel in "every day language"]: den nye, gennemre-
viderede udgave af hele Bibelen pa Hverdagsdansk udkom den 1.
november, 2007. Den kan lreses online sammen med en rrekke andre
oversrettelser fra International Bible Society pa www.bibleserver.
com. http://www.snerpa.is/netlbiblia/biblia.htm [as accessed in dec.
2007]
Hio islenzka bibliufelag. Biblian Heilog ritning. 1815. [identical to
the following 1966-edition: Biblia. Pao er heilog ritning. Ny pyoing
ill frumma1unum. Reykjavik: A kostnao hins islenzka bibliufelags.
Prentsmiojan Oddi H.F. 1966] http://www.laparola.net/[as accessed
injan. 2008]
368 Alexandra Kratschmer andAdrienne Heijnen
Italian
1821
1974
Italian
2008
Nuova Diodati, Revisione (1991), edizione La Buona Novella
Brindisi. [modernized Diodati-version, under continuous revision]
La versione C.E.I., seconda edizione (1974), a cura della Conferenza
Episcopale ltaliana. La Bibbia di Gerusalemme ha lo stesso testo,
con l'aggiunta di alcune note prese dalla Bibbia di Gerusalernme
francese. Euna versione approvata dalla Chiesa cattolica romana
http://www.biblegateway.com [as accessed in jan. 2008]
La versione C.E.I., a cura della Conferenza Episcopale ltaliana.
Subject index
Adposition 65-67, 99, 109
Adverb 65f., 69, 78, 90, 92f., 98, 109,
112,115,117,134,143,149-152,
202,225,234f.,282f.,292,298,300,
304,311,314-318,320f.,325,328-
330,343
Agglutinative 7, 69, 72, 111, 118, 192
Ambiguity 8, 133, 138, 152-154, 177-
180, 191, 199
Anthropology 333, 336, 358
Auxiliary 67, 71, 78, 81f., 84, 138, 282,
289,291,313
Basque 133-155
Complementation 100, 190, 204, 217,
222,251
Complementizer 65-67, 77, 89, 92, 99f.,
107f., 112, 117, 190, 205, 210, 213-
215,217,259,264,268-270,278
Conjunction 67f., 76, 98, 108, 114, 131,
155, 189,202,261f.,268,325,342,
352,356
Construction4, 18, 29, 40, 61, 66, 70,
75f., 82, 107, 117, 166, 176,210,
241,251,257,262,286,313,339-
341,357
Croatian 95, 98, 119
Danish 337, 339, 343, 356
Deixis 9, 229, 232, 239, 244
Embedding 165, 168,171, 174f., 182,
189, 191,207,213,216{.
English 2, 5, 9, 24, 48, 85-87, 94, 101,
114, 133, 140, 163, 169, 191, 194,
200,202,251,254f.,259f.,264f.,
278, 312, 337
Epistemic modality 46, 61f., 161f., 221-
223,230,235f.,308,312,321,339
Evidentiality
auditory 33, 35, 91, 236
direct 26, 28f., 32, 34-37,41, 90,
169,222,228,272,279,309
hearsay 7, 10, 25, 29, 35f., 61-116,
134f., 138, 141, 144-146, 148-
150, 187, 192, 211,233, 236,
252,277,330
firsthand 28, 35, 37,331
indirect 26, 28f., 34-37,41,46, 69f.,
74, 78, 82, 86, 91, 106, 115, 169,
191f., 272
inferential8, 10, 23, 30, 34, 36f., 40,
48,63,69f., 72, 74,77-80,84,
86, 91, 106, 112, 117, 154f., 182,
192-195, 205, 207, 209, 222,
311{.,325,339,352
interactive 227, 341, 344, 349, 353
personal 26, 29-32, 36f., 45, 223,
311
quotative 29, 35, 78, 98, 100, 102,
104,113,192,211,215,237,330
reportive/ reportative 29, 35-37, 39,
48, 61f., 66, 69, 74, 76, 78, 80,
82-85, 91, 93, 99, 103f., 108,
112, 115, 117, 160, 166-168,
179f., 192,194,198,201,209
revelative 25, 329, 334, 341, 346,
351
sensory 33f., 37, 330
third-hand 35-36
visual35-37, 40,223,231,236,277,
370 Subject index
331, 338f., 351
Evidentiality marking
discoursive 330f.
grammatical12, 16, 19f., 30, 36, 38,
63-65, 67, 74, 78, 82, 135, 140,
146, 165, 171, 191, 221,247,
330f.,341,351
lexical 3-8, 18, 62, 65f., 108, 115,
133, 135, 146, 149f., 165, 277,
330,341
Faroese 333, 335,338, 351
French 48, 80, 154, 204,234, 277, 283,
335f.,339,352
German 23, 48, 68, 77, 79, 81f., 85, 88,
103, 117,159f., 166f., 171,182,239,
247f.,250,254-256,260f.,267,272,
333,335,338f.,345f.,350f.
Grammaticalization 3f., 22, 63, 6, 110,
125,264,278
hnperfect69, 73, 77,237f.,240,340f.,
347
Italian 78, 80, 86, 112,230, 333, 335f.,
339f., 346f., 350f.
Lexicalization 2f., 63
Metaphor 251,253, 263, 266, 271, 353
Modal verb 3, 166, 182,273,282
Parenthetical66, 92f., 105f., 136, 152,
165,169, 174f., 178,231,258f.,270,
290f.,293,295,300
Particle 5, 7, 40, 65f., 76, 80, 92f., 96,
98f., 102, 105, 107, 111-113, 116,
135,140, 147,225f.
Perception verb 247-251, 256, 259, 269,
273,338,346,351
Person 42f., 72, 88, 104, 149, 254, 283,
289
Polish 84, 89f., 94, 97, 103, 106, 108,
112, 117
Polysemy 84,248, 251f., 252,259,273,
282
Portuguese 77, 80
Predicative 65f., 69, 88f., 112, 114, 206,
212, 214, 282
Presupposition 165,178-181,184
Reasoning 30, 35, 37, 192, 208, 290,
293,298,301,309,313,320,325
Romance 48, 67, 77, 79, 82, 87, 112,
115,117,221,230,235,335,340,
344,348
Russian 25, 31, 90, 97, 99, 102, 106,
108, 110, 112, 117
Scope 63, 65, 67, 89, 92,96-99, 105,
108, 135f., 150,152-154,198,264,
321,330
Spanish 80, 86, 94, 133-149, 153, 237f.,
242,307,309f.,313,315,335,339,
349,351
Strategy, evidential10, 62, 135
Subordination 188, 190f., 208,214,219
System, evidential:
modalized 7, 48
non-modalized 7, 48
Temporality 1, 4, 239
Tense 4, 7, 19f., 22f., 42, 49,70-74,78,
80f., 87, 118, 139, 191, 193,200,
203,228,242,288,344
Turkish 8, 19, 27, 31, 63, 69f., 74, 111,
187,189-192,200,202
Volition 7, 44f., 81, 87f., 166, 249
Subject index 371
Witness 28, 31, 37, 72, 102f., 136, 159,
192f., 195, 226, 263, 273, 280, 290,
292,297,301,311,352
