20 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
expectation; whether this expectation is justified is another question I wish
to leave open.
Instrumental Signs
Natural Conventional
Reminiscent Indicative Reminiscent Indicative
Figure 1: Taxonomy of Instrumental Signs
A further set of useful distinctions is to be found in the Port-Royal Logic.59
Arnauld and Nicole discuss both conventional and natural indicative signs;
as examples of the latter, they offer the expression of a face as a sign of a
mental attitude and warm ashes as the sign of a fire; as examples of the
former, they cite words as conventional signs of thoughts.60
Their classifications cut across the categories of reminiscent and indica-
tive signs, even if some of the sub-categories so constructed are empty. The
most obvious distinction, already discussed, is (a) that between natural and
conventional signs. Natural signs do not depend on human activity; con-
ventional signs are arbitrary.61
The next (b) is drawn between signs whose
significates are copresent with them, and those whose significates are not.62
One difference between the way in which warm ashes are a sign of fire
and rain is a sign of a cloud is that the fire temporally precedes the ashes,
while rainfall and a cloud are copresent. Arnauld and Nicole also distin-
guish between (c) signs whose presence ensures the existence of the thing
signified – “as respiration is a sign of the life of animals”63
– and signs from
whose presence we can only conclude the probable existence of the thing
signified – as “pallor is only a probable sign of pregnancy in women.”64
59 We can be fairly certain that Locke was familiar with the Port-Royal Logic, as Harrison and Laslett
list both French and Latin editions of La Logique as present in Locke’s library. See their (1971, p. 75).
Harrison and Laslett do not list a copy of Hobbes’s De Corpore as among his possessions; however,
he did have a copy of Leviathan, among other of Hobbes’s works.
60 “[L]es mots sont signes d’institution des pensées,” Arnauld and Nicole (1970, p. 82). And later: “On
peut dire en général sur ce sujet, que les mots sont des sons distincts & articulés, dont les hommes
ont fait des signes pour marquer ce qui se passe dans leur esprit” (1970, p. 143).
61 (1970, p. 82). 62 (1970, p. 81).
63 “[C]omme la respiration l’est de la vie des animaux” (1970, p. 80).
64 “[L]a pâleur n’est qu’un signe probable de grossesse dans les femmes” (1970, p. 80).
Signs and signification 21
As we have seen, this distinction was captured by the tradition as hold-
ing between those signs which are “necessary” and those which are merely
“probable.”65
If a given sign is conventional, we can safely infer several of its other
features. First, in order for a conventional signification relation to be set
up, the parties concerned must have perceptual access to the signifier. No
conventional sign, it seems, could be a formal sign. Consider Hobbes’s
example (itself borrowed from the traditional logicians) of the bush in front
of the wine shop: my wine business will hardly be improved by signifying
that I sell wine by some sign of which no one could be aware. A bush outside
the shop is useful precisely because perceptual access to it is (at least pre-
theoretically) unproblematic. It is an open question, as yet, what kind of
access (if any) we must have to the thing signified. Thus, it seems fair to say
that any conventional sign will have to be instrumental rather than formal.
Adherence to the Augustinian tradition on this point seems mandatory.
With regard to (b), conventional signification is indifferent. With regard
to (c), however, it seems clear that the relation is merely probable. We can
easily imagine conventions such that in one context, x signifies y, while in
another, x signifies z.
We are now in a position to return to Locke.
ideas as signs
How, then, does Locke understand signification? Which of these competing
traditions best captures the sense of the term in his mouth?
A natural place to begin is Locke’s discussion of ideas, which he also
calls signs.66
As we have seen, Kretzmann is driven to claim that Locke
equivocates when he calls both ideas and words “signs.”67
A reading that
is able to account for his use of this term in both ideational and linguistic
contexts naturally has the advantage.
Locke argues that our simple ideas “agree to the reality of things” whether
or not they resemble anything in the external world. For they are “designed
to be the Marks, whereby we are to know, and distinguish Things, which we
have to do with” (II.xxx.2: 372–3). Whether they are “only constant Effects,
65 See Gassendi’s Syntagma Part I in Gassendi (1972, p. 330). Gassendi refers to Aristotle’s Rhetoric 1357b
and the Prior Analytics II.xxvii, as well as to Quintilian, Institutio oratoria V, ix. Aristotle says that
signs that are merely probable indicators of their significates lack a name; Quintilian provides one,
saying that “the Greeks” called those signs which are “necessary” tekmêria, and those which are not
sêmeia.
66 “ . . . [T]here are two sorts of Signs commonly made use of, viz. Ideas and Words” (IV.v.2: 574).
67 Kretzmann (1975, p. 135).
22 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
or else exact Resemblances of something in the things themselves,” such
ideas are dependable marks or signs68
of the objects or qualities of objects
that can cause us to have those ideas. Ideas of sensation serve as grounds for
inference to their causes: when I have a piece of paper before me in certain
conditions, the idea white is produced in my mind, “by which I know, that
that Quality or Accident (i.e. whose appearance before my Eyes, always
causes that Idea) doth really exist” (IV.xi.2: 631). In this case, my having
the idea white gives me a basis for inference to the presence of a secondary
quality in a physical object.69
It is in this sense that the idea is a sign or
mark of its cause.
Consider Locke’s response to the inverted spectrum problem. We have
seen that an idea of sensation is a sign of its cause. Locke uses this premise
to argue that it would not “carry any Imputation of Falshood to our simple
Ideas, if by the different Structure of our Organs, it were so ordered, That
the same Object should produce in several Men’s Minds [qualitatively] different
Ideas at the same time” (II.xxxii.15: 389).70
What matters about the idea we
connect with “blue” is not its qualitative content, but rather its epistemic
role. That the same object should produce in us qualitatively different ideas
in no way undermines our claim to have the same ideas, because the criteria
of sameness here are not qualitative.71
Instead, Locke appeals to what we
might call significative sameness, sameness of idea qua sign. Two ideas of
a secondary quality are the same, on this view, if they are evidence for the
presence of the same extra-mental object or quality that causes them.72
Ideas of sensation are thus indicative instrumental signs that allow us
to infer to the objects and qualities that cause them, which are necessarily
hidden from us. But how do ideas come to represent their objects in the
first place? Unsurprisingly, the causal connection that funds indicative sign
inferences in the case of simple ideas also accounts for their role as repre-
sentations. The epistemic function of ideas presupposes a distinct means of
68 Note that unlike Hobbes Locke uses the terms “mark” and “sign” interchangeably. For example,
immediately after stating that words signify ideas in III.ii, Locke writes, “That then which Words
are the Marks of, are the Ideas of the Speaker: Nor can any one apply them, as Marks, immediately
to anything else, but the Ideas, he himself hath” (III.ii.2: 405).
69 On this issue, see Michael Ayers (1998b, pp. 24–47) and (1991, vol. 1, passim).
70 We must be careful to distinguish different criteria for the sameness of ideas. For if numerical identity
is at issue, it is obvious that the same object must produce different ideas in distinct minds. The
sentence immediately following the one quoted in the text makes clear that qualitative difference is
what is meant here.
71 Nevertheless, given our common physical makeup, Locke is “very apt to think, that the sensible Ideas,
produced by any Object in different Men’s Minds, are most commonly very near and undiscernibly
alike” (II.xxxii.15: 389). But by Locke’s lights, this is a side issue to be settled by physiology rather
than philosophy.
72 For a related treatment of the inverted spectrum issue, see Michael Losonsky (1994).
Signs and signification 23
representing what is indicated; causal co-variance provides this means, even
if, as we shall see, Locke supplements this with teleological considerations.
Locke argues that simple ideas “represent to us Things under those ap-
pearances which they are fitted to produce in us: whereby we are enabled to
distinguish the sorts of particular Substances, to discern the states they are
in, and so to take them for our Necessities, and apply them to our Uses”
(IV.iv.4: 564). This and many other passages suggest that Locke is offering
a causal account of representation familiar from the work of Jerry Fodor.73
We must note, however, that Locke applies his causal account only to
simple ideas; his distinct treatment of the representation of complex ideas
will be treated below (chapter three). What is more important, Locke’s
causal account contains a teleological element.
A causal account on its own runs into two serious problems. First, it
is unclear how a simple idea could ever misrepresent anything. If idea x
represents quality or thing y just in case y causes x, then, by the very nature
of the case, there is no sense to be made of an x that misrepresents its y.
A closely related problem is that of disjunction: if an idea of green, for
example, is caused sometimes by green things and sometimes by red things,
what it represents is no longer the quality green but the disjunction of green
and red. It is typical for causal theorists to appeal to standard conditions to
solve these problems: a properly functioning cognitive system in standard
conditions will token green only in response to things genuinely having
that quality. However tempting this move might seem, Robert Cummins
has argued that it is impossible to specify these standard conditions in a
non-circular way.74
Locke never explicitly addresses these problems. His account has the
resources to do so, however.75
For Locke is not simply a causal theorist:
his account includes a teleological element, built on God’s role in setting
up the relation of causation between simple ideas and things. He need not
appeal to standard conditions on their own because the disjunction and
misrepresentation problems can be solved by appeal to design: “God in
his Wisdom, having set [simple ideas] as Marks of Distinction in Things,
whereby we may be able to discern one Thing from another; and so chuse
any of them for our uses, as we have Occasion” (II.xxxii.14: 388). A tokening
of an idea is veridical just in case it is caused by the quality or object
that God intended. Alternatively, we can say that veridical tokenings are
those that take place under normal conditions. “Normal conditions” must,
73 See Fodor (1987). 74 See Cummins (1989, p. 46).
75 My thoughts here are very much in line with those of Sally Ferguson’s (2001).
24 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
of course, be cashed out in non-intentional terms. The appeal to teleology
allows precisely this: normal conditions are just those under which ideas
function as they are supposed to, that is, as indications of the relevant
extra-mental object or quality.
Contemporary naturalists have replaced divine teleology with that of nat-
ural selection. The result is the same: misrepresentation can be accounted
for in terms of the purposes of God (or the ersatz purposes of natural
selection) in setting up the connection between objects and mental repre-
sentations. The disjunction problem also disappears once we see that the
reference of a mental representation is fixed by the purposes of the creator.
As Sally Ferguson puts it, “the intentionality of the designer trickles down
to the thing designed.”76
These issues will become important again when we consider Locke’s
doctrine of abstraction (chapter 3), and in applying his linguistic views to
his official definition of knowledge and his replies to skepticism (chapter
seven). For now, it is enough to note that the role of ideas as indicative
signs is distinct from their role as representations, even though the same
relation, causation, underlies both.
words as signs
I have been arguing that in his epistemology Locke exploits a notion of
sign as an indication or an evidence, a grounds for inference. Given this,
the most natural interpretation of Locke’s claim that words are signs of
ideas in the mind of the speaker is that words serve as indicators or signals
of those ideas. Consider once again Locke’s argument from the uses of
words. A person’s thoughts “are all within his own Breast, invisible, and
hidden from others, nor can of themselves be made to appear” (III.ii.1:
405). The use of words lies in their capacity “to stand as outward Marks
of our internal Ideas” (II.xi.9: 159). The case is exactly parallel with that of
ideas of sensation: they, too, must serve as signs of what is hidden, since
only our ideas (and perhaps our own minds)77
are immediately present to
us. Note that the signification relation in the case of ideas of sensation is
dependent on causation; it is the fact that an idea of blue, for instance, is
caused by an object with the proper secondary quality that allows the idea
to serve as a sign of that quality. To say that words are conventional signs
is just to say that the signification relation in their case is dependent upon
76 Ferguson (2001, p. 118).
77 For the suggestion that our own minds might be immediately present to us, see IV.xxi.4: 720–1.
Signs and signification 25
their role in an artificial, shared convention rather than in a natural relation
such as causation.
Although Locke’s focus is usually on words as instruments of communi-
cation, and so as indicative signs, he nevertheless follows the spirit (but not
the letter) of Hobbes’s distinction between signs and marks. Immediately
before stating the linguistic thesis in III.ii.2, Locke writes,
The use Men have of these Marks [i.e., words], being either to record their own
Thoughts for the Assistance of their own Memory; or as it were, to bring out their
Ideas, and lay them before the view of others: Words in their primary or immediate
Signification, stand for nothing, but the Ideas in the Mind of him that uses them . . .
(III.ii.2: 405)
Note that this statement of the thesis declares not just that words are signs
of ideas in the mind of the speaker, as is usually the case, but more broadly,
in the mind of the person making use of the words. This allows for words to
serve as Hobbesian marks, a use I take to involve, at least paradigmatically,
writing rather than speech. One might jot down words for her own use
and come back to them later, so as to remind herself of what she had been
thinking, or one might use them as signs to others of her ideas. In either
case, they are signs only of the user’s ideas.
It is important to see that Locke’s philosophy of language is partly nor-
mative. His claim is that the purpose of speech is to allow us to offer each
other sensible signs of our ideas (III.i–ii; cp. III.xi.11: 514). But this is not
to say that experience cannot set up a connection between a word and the
idea it is used to indicatively signify such that one passes from the sound of
the word to that idea without making an inference. Indeed, this is precisely
the kind of laziness that Locke thinks responsible for so much confusion.
Consider the case of a person who has already mastered one language at-
tempting to learn another. On Locke’s view there is a two-step process.
First, one tries to infer the ideas a speaker has in his mind. We can check
our progress, Locke thinks, by means of ostensive definition. After a time,
a different kind of connection is set up, this time, not between a word and
the idea in the speaker’s mind, but between the word and an idea in one’s
own mind, with which one customarily associates that idea. Locke writes,
there comes by constant use, to be such a Connexion between certain Sounds, and the
Ideas they stand for, that the Names heard, almost as readily excite certain Ideas, as
if the Objects themselves, which are apt to produce them, did actually affect the
Senses . . . [B]y familiar use from our Cradles, we come to learn certain articulate
Sounds very perfectly, and have them readily on our Tongues, and always at hand
in our Memories . . . (III.ii.6,7: 407; see II.viii.7: 134)
26 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
So after constantly conjoining a word with an idea, our thoughts move
without hesitation from the one to the other. Locke never says that this
activity is signification. Indeed, the causal connection presupposes, and so
cannot explain, the conventional link established through signification.
Words, by their immediate Operation on us, cause no other Ideas, but of their
natural Sounds: and ’tis by the Custom of using them for Signs, that they excite,
and revive in our Minds latent Ideas; but yet only such Ideas, as were there before.
For Words seen or heard, re-call to our Thoughts those Ideas only, which to us
they have been wont to be Signs of: But cannot introduce any perfectly new, and
formerly unknown simple Ideas. (IV.xviii.3: 689)
Even if a man were inspired by God, he could not communicate to others
any simple ideas they have not already had. This, as we have seen, was
precisely Augustine’s point: words do not magically transmit any content;
they serve only to indicate ideas in the mind of the speaker, or to revive ideas
in us. What is crucial for our purposes is the clear relation of dependence
Locke draws between words as causes of ideas in the hearer’s mind and
words as indicators. It is only in virtue of their role as signs of ideas in the
speaker’s minds that they are able to revive ideas in us. As we shall see below,
the latter practice is a kind of laziness that, in some contexts, is pernicious.
Before we can move on to see how Locke argues for the thesis that words
signify nothing but ideas, we must clear up two other issues. I have noted
above that Locke is very free in his terminology: he sometimes says that
words “denominate” or “name” things, and his talk of words primarily
signifying ideas has led Kretzmann and Ashworth to supply him with a
notion of secondary signification. Does Locke think that the indicative
signification of ideas is the only, or even the central, role played by words?
Let us begin with primary and secondary signification. Both Kretzmann
and Ashworth claim, reasonably enough, that the passages early on in Book
III (esp. III.ii.1: 405; III.ii.2: 405; III.ii.4: 406; III.ii.8: 408) commit Locke
to a distinction between these two kinds of signification. But in the course
of Book III, Locke lets the restriction to primary or immediate significa-
tion drop, claiming simply that words are “the Signs of our Ideas only”
(III.x.15: 499). Moreover, he never so much as uses the phrases “mediate”
or “secondary” signification; still less does he explain these notions.
Traditionally, the distinction between primary and secondary significa-
tion was drawn in order to set apart ideas and things as distinct classes
of significates of words. This distinction is easily accommodated on my
account, for Hobbes specifies a sense (albeit a degenerate one) in which
one may say that words signify things. Hobbes writes, “for that the sound
Signs and signification 27
of this word stone should be the sign of a stone, cannot be understood in
any sense but this, that he that hears it collects that he that pronounces it
thinks of a stone.”78
We must note, as Kretzmann and Ashworth do not,
that Locke claims that words “properly and immediately signify” (III.ii.4:
406, my emphasis; see III.ii.7: 407) nothing but ideas, implying that they
can only improperly be said to signify things. If my suggestion is correct,
we can easily see why Locke would say this, for only in an attenuated sense
can we say that words signify things.79
Even if we accept this, however, we must acknowledge that Locke often
speaks, in other contexts, of words “denominating” things; we are said
to “rank things under names” (see, e.g., III.iii.13: 415; III.vi.1: 438). Does
Locke, then, have room for a semantic relation between words and extra-
mental things, in addition to the semiotic relation between words and
ideas? This question is difficult to answer precisely because Locke is so loose
in his terminology. For he often says that words “name” ideas (II.xi.8–9:
158–9; III.vi.6: 442; III.vii.1: 471). Moreover, he tells us nothing about
what this other semantic category is supposed to be. Certainly “naming”
cannot be reference; otherwise, Locke would be guilty of holding semantic
idealism. I think it is most reasonable, in light of Locke’s linguistic thesis
and the emphasis he puts on it, to read the “denomination” of things
by words as reducible to the signification of ideas. There are three key
considerations here. First, since Locke says nothing by way of arguing for
or even explicating the claim that words denominate or name things, it is
difficult to see how we could be justified in interpreting him as undertaking
a commitment to an altogether new semantic category. Second, Locke can
reduce the denomination of things to the signification of ideas in the way
suggested above: to say that “x” denominates x is just to say that someone
uttering “x” is indicating that she has x in mind. And if my reading is
correct, it is hardly surprising that Locke should require a shorthand for
this cumbersome analysis. Finally, as we shall see, Locke spends a great
deal of time in III.x and elsewhere deploying the linguistic thesis against
the Aristotelian. If he did think that words refer to extra-mental things, it
is very hard to understand why he would do so, for he would no longer
be disagreeing with the Aristotelian: both could happily claim that words
refer to things. By contrast, Locke believes that striving for Aristotelian
78 De Corpore I.ii.5 (1839–45, vol. 1, p. 17).
79 It is also worth noting that Sergeant attributes to Locke the view that words signify ideas in the
mind of the speaker; nowhere does Sergeant mention primary/immediate, or secondary/mediate
signification. In his marginal notes, Locke very often corrects what he perceives as misconstruals of
his position. But he is silent on this point.
28 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
real definitions is a result of misunderstanding the role of words as signs of
ideas. (I do not suppose that this last consideration can be persuasive until
chapterfour,whereweexploreLocke’santi-Aristotelianargumentindetail.)
At a minimum, then, it seems we can ascribe to Locke the position
that for speech to have sense requires (a) a suitable convention and (b) an
intention to communicate by participating in that convention (III.i.2: 402;
III.ii.2: 405). What is necessary on the hearer’s side? First let us ask what it
is to understand other kinds of conventional sign. What is it to understand,
for example, what a stone at the boundary of a field means? It is at least this:
(c) to take it as a sign of the boundary of a field, and (d) to be correct in so
taking it, (c) will be possible only if one has knowledge of the convention
invoked in (a), whereas (d) depends on (b) the intentions of the person,
if such there be, who put the stone there. Similarly, we might say that to
understand speech is for the hearer (c) to take the words as indicative signs
of ideas in the mind of the speaker (or mental acts), and (d) to be correct
in so taking them. Although Locke doesn’t use this terminology, it seems
that when we simply allow words to revive ideas in us, we cannot really
be said to be engaged in communication, even if doing so is sufficient for
daily life.
Thisnotionofsignificationasindicationisradicallydifferentfromthatof
sense or reference, or making known, or expressing. But this does not entail
that the notion of signification found in these authors is not properly called
“meaning.” There is a perfectly good pre-theoretical sense of “meaning” that
fits the bill: a motorist can ask a mechanic, “what does this green puddle
mean?”, without using “mean” in a novel sense. The view will seem alien
to us only so long as we fail to keep in mind the logical and explanatory
priority these writers thought the mental had over the linguistic. On Locke’s
view, the work of intentionality is carried out at the level of ideas. If we
must speak in terms of sense and reference (and I do not see why), we must
say that if anything, ideas have sense; that is, they are or have a “mode of
presenting” an object, and reference, a thing or class of things falling under
them. On this account, words do not magically latch on to things through
some unspecified causal connection. They are of use only in unfolding our
minds to one another.
locke’s main argument
Hobbes’s understanding of what it is for a word to be a sign provides him
with a very straightforward argument for the conclusion that words cannot
be signs of things:
Signs and signification 29
But seeing names ordered in speech . . . are signs of our conceptions, it is manifest
they are not signs of the things themselves; for that the sound of this word stone
should be the sign of a stone, cannot be understood in any sense but this, that he
that hears it collects that he that pronounces it thinks of a stone. And, therefore,
that disputation, whether words signify matter or form, or something compounded
of both, and other like subtleties of the metaphysics, is kept up by erring men, and
such as understand not the words they dispute about.80
If we read “signify” as “express” or “refer” or any of the other candidates
Ashworth brings forward as common currency among the late Scholastics,
the dispute Hobbes refers to makes some sense. Its connection with the
detested hylomorphist framework is clear enough: is the substance itself, a
form/matter compound, referred to or expressed by our words, or do words
pick out some one of these elements? Hobbes dismisses the controversy with
one stroke: once we understand what signification really is, and so under-
standthewordswedisputeabout,wecanseethatitwouldbeabsurdtoclaim
that anything besides our own cogitations were the significates of words.
The argument is simple: if “sign” is understood as Hobbes defines it, “stone”
cannot signify a stone. For to do so it would have to be a harbinger, as it
were, or an indication, of a stone. Unless I am a magician, stones do not ap-
pear when I utter the word “stone.” If I wanted my utterance “stone” to be a
sign of stones, I would have to be very sparing in my use of the word.
Armed with this grasp of one important contemporary understanding of
“signification,” as well as with Hobbes’s argument to the effect that words
do not signify extra-mental objects, we are now in a position to come to
grips with Locke’s argument in favor of his linguistic thesis.
Kretzmann quotes an argument he takes to be another version of the
argument from representative ideas, but which his account is powerless to
explain. Locke writes, “by this tacit reference to the real Essence of that
Species of Bodies, the Word Gold . . . comes to have no signification at
all, being put for somewhat, whereof we have no Idea at all, and so can
signify nothing at all, when the Body itself is away” (III.x.19: 501). I shall
explore the context of this passage at greater length below (chapter four).
For now, let us see whether either of the two dominant interpretations can
make sense of its argument.
If we take the primary signification of a word as its sense, and its mediate
or secondary signification as its reference, as Kretzmann’s account seems
to suggest, there is, perhaps, a good reason why one cannot give a word
the latter without also giving it the former. How could anyone refer to
80 De Corpore I.ii.5 (1839–45, vol. 1, p. 17).
30 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
something if there were no mode in which that thing was presented to
him, or, to use Gareth Evans’s terminology, how could one think about
somethingwithouttherebeingawayinwhichonethinksaboutthatthing?81
If we were to cash out Locke’s view in this way, we might read him as saying
that our words cannot succeed in referring to things when they lack sense.
But this sort of argument is not to be found in the passage at hand.
Why should it be that, if one uses a word to signify something without the
mediation of an idea, that word would signify nothing “when the Body
itself” was away? What difference could that possibly make? If sense and
reference have any place here, the conclusion should be that it is in principle
impossible to primarily signify a thing (as opposed to an idea) with a word,
not that, if one did so, the signification would only work when the thing
signified was present. Alternatively, the Kretzmannian might say that “when
the Body itself is away” is to be read as “when the thing one is attempting
to refer to does not exist.” Thus Locke would be warning us that successful
reference can take place only when the referent exists; this view, if counter-
intuitive and perhaps false, is at least intelligible. But this is not Locke’s
point at all: for a body to be away seems to be nothing more than for the
body to be out of the presence of the speaker.82
Nor does Ashworth’s view fare any better here. To say that “signify” in
this passage is used by Locke to include aspects of both sense and reference
does not enable us to explain why it should be that this combination does
not obtain when the thing signified is out of the presence of the speaker. We
might read Ashworth as suggesting instead that “signify” is to be understood
in the more general sense of “making something known.” But why should
the physical absence of a thing impede one’s ability to make it known to
others through words? The proposal under fire from Locke seems to be
that words can (immediately) signify real essences of things. Why should
someone putting forth that proposal be vulnerable to the objection that the
word could only do its work of making known the real essence when the
body whose real essence is at issue is present?83
Moreover, on Ashworth’s
account, Locke is saying that one cannot signify a thing unless one has an
81 See Gareth Evans (1982, p. 32ff.). 82 See III.vi.19: 449.
83 It has been suggested to me that Ashworth and/or Kretzmann might respond by saying that the
presence of the body allows one to have an idea that determines the thing the name signifies
ostensively. While this might explain why the body must at some time or other be “present” so that
one can have an idea of it, it cannot, on pain of denying our ability to remember ideas, explain
why the word cannot signify anything when the body is away. Another ingenious response worth
considering is this: in the absence of an idea of a real essence of, say, gold, one purporting to signify
that essence by his words can only have in mind ideas such as “yellow,” “malleable,” etc. Thus when
the piece of gold is removed, the claim that one is speaking about its real essence seems plausible
only because these ideas can be recalled – “gold” calls up this collection of ideas. But on this story,
Signs and signification 31
idea of it. But in this passage, Locke implies that if the thing were present,
one could signify it, even in the absence of an idea.
In fact, the only way to understand this passage is to read “signify” as I
have suggested. The proposal under consideration is that my word is a sign,
not of any mental content or event in me, but rather of the hidden internal
constitution of a thing. According to Locke, one does not have perceptual
access to real essences; nevertheless, one might be able to infer that there are
such things. This means that we might know that each individual instance
of gold has some real essence, though we do not know what it is. This seems
to allow that we could make a word a reliable indicator of the presence
of the real essence of a thing simply because we know that a thing (which
is perceptually accessible) and its real essence (which is not) come as a
package. But Locke argues that this maneuver fails. For as long as the thing
and its real essence cannot live up to the requirement that a word be able
to reliably indicate them, the point about perceptual access is moot. The
crucial criterion here is that they be the right sorts of things to be reliably
indicated by words. This is explicit in the conclusion of Locke’s argument:
the word assumed to signify a real essence “can signify nothing at all, when
the Body itself is away.” Whether the word is supposed to be a sign of the
thing or of the perceptually inaccessible real essence of the thing, the word
will do its work only when its utterer is in the presence of that entity. This
is absurd without being contradictory just because of the contingent fact
that one, regrettably, cannot reliably indicate the presence of gold (or its
real essence) simply by saying, “gold.” This is the sense in which “gold”
understood as signifying the real essence of gold, has “no signification at
all.”84
Let us consider another argument Locke offers against the idea that our
words signify the real essences of things:
[T]hey not having any Idea of that real Essence in Substances, and their Words
signifying nothing but the Ideas they have, that which is done by this Attempt, is
only to put the name or sound, in the place and stead of the thing having that real
Essence, without knowing what that real Essence is; and this is that which Men
do, when they speak of Species of Things, as supposing them made by Nature, and
distinguished by real Essences. (III.vi.49: 470)
According to the previous argument, the attempt to use “gold” to signify
the real essence of a thing fails due to a set of contingent facts about the sorts
the word does have signification: it signifies a collection of ideas, even in the absence of the physical
stuff. By contrast, Locke’s conclusion is that the word signifies nothing at all when the body is
away.
84 See III.ii.7: 408, discussed above.
32 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
of things our words can reliably indicate. There is an alternative, however,
to saying that “gold,” given this signification, has no signification at all, and
that is to say that the word signifies the auditory impression occasioned
by the utterance of the word itself. This puts the “name or sound” of the
word in place of the thing signified, which I take to mean, in the role of
the thing signified.85
If my uttering “gold” cannot be a reliable indicator of
the presence of gold, it can, trivially, be a reliable indicator of the sound
“gold.” The word used in this way is not strictly speaking meaningless, since
it signifies an idea; the idea in question is simply that of the sound of the
word itself. Obviously, this is no improvement in the position of Locke’s
imaginary antagonist.
I think that the first of these arguments constitutes, albeit in a rather
sketchy form, the basic line of thought Locke had in mind as support for
his claim that words can signify nothing but ideas. On my reading, the
thesis is this: all categorematic words conventionally signify (here, serve as
grounds of inference for) nothing but ideas in the mind of the speaker.
This follows from two premises: first, from the nature of signification, and
second, from a set of contingent facts about what sorts of things words
can be used to indicate. Locke thinks that he can rule out proposals that
things other than ideas (and mental acts) are signified simply by consulting
the definition of signification, and then seeing if these candidates can be
linked with words in such a way as to meet that definition. Note that the
argument I am attributing to Locke does not have the form of a reduction
to contradiction: there is no logical impossibility about a world in which
whenever anyone utters the word “stone,” a stone appears. It is just that
that world is not our world.
If I am right about Locke’s argument in support of the thesis, the argu-
ment from the uses of words must be enlisted to support the first of the
two premises I listed above. One naturally wants to say to Locke that, of
course, if words are signs in Hobbes’s sense, then there will be a difficulty
in making them signs of anything but ideas or acts of the mind; but why
believe that words are signs in this sense? Locke’s response will be to advert
to the uses to which words are put: insofar as communication is what is
wanted, he will argue that words must be signs of ideas.
We can now round out this discussion by re-examining the passage
in which Kretzmann purports to find the “argument from representative
ideas” (III.ii.2: 405). Immediately before the portion quoted above, Locke
85 In this connection, compare Arnauld and Nicole (1970, p. 67): “Car il y auroit de la contradiction
entre dire que je sais ce que je dis en pronançant un mot, & que neanmoins je ne conçois rien en le
prononançant que le son même du mot.”
Signs and signification 33
states both the linguistic thesis and the argument from the uses of words.
With this in place, he can then argue that it is impossible for someone
to use words to (immediately) signify anything but ideas. Locke argues
that “this would be to make them Signs of his own Conceptions, and
yet apply them to other Ideas, which would be to make them Signs, and
not Signs, of his Ideas at the same time.” Before we can understand this
argument we must be clear about what else such a speaker is trying to signify.
The rest of the passage suggests that the “other Ideas” Locke intends are
ideas in the minds of others. The violation of the thesis, then, lies in the
attempt to make one’s words signs of one’s ideas and those of others at once.
There is nothing contradictory in this; however, the nature of signification
together with obvious facts about distinct human minds entails that such
an attempt must fail. As Locke says at the end of the passage, even if the
speaker “consents to give [his ideas] the same Names, that other Men do,
’tis still to his own Ideas; to Ideas that he has, and not to Ideas that he
has not” (III.ii.2: 406). Moreover, the purpose of speech is to reveal one’s
mind to others, not to reveal other minds to others. This is what gives
the violation of the thesis Locke considers its air of self-contradiction. If
my interpretation is correct, there is no need to attribute the fallacious
argument from representative ideas to Locke; instead, this passage draws
out one consequence of the nature and purpose of linguistic signification,
viz., that the sole proper objects of such signification are one’s own ideas.
I believe that my interpretation is to be preferred simply because it better
accords with the texts. Historians of philosophy who want to attribute
to Locke views that, if not ultimately correct, are at least plausible by
our lights, will initially look askance at my view: although I have argued
against attributing to him the fallacious argument examined above, the
interpretation I defend must sound harsh to the ears of philosophers steeped
in the Fregean tradition. For at bottom there is no room for an irreducible
conception of Bedeutung in Locke’s view. He can recast sentences involving
ascriptions of reference easily enough, but he cannot, and does not wish
to, accommodate the intuition that words directly refer to things. This
is the heart of his disagreement with the Aristotelians. Insofar as one’s
sympathies lie with a Kripke/Putnam view of reference, one is apt to find
Locke’s position absurd. But it is worth noting that Locke is no less out
of step with causal theories of reference when it comes to the intimately
related issue of natural kinds, an issue I shall turn to below in chapter three.
chapter 2
Particles and propositions
BeforewecanproceedtoapplyLocke’sviewsonlanguagetoothertopics,we
must fill a lacuna that has been left by the preceding chapter. So far we have
seen nothing at all from Locke about the crucial issues of propositional
content and attitude. If we were to take Locke at his word in the early
chapters of Book III, his position would be hopelessly unable to account
for the feature that differentiates a proposition from a mere list of items,
and for whatever differentiates such propositional attitudes as belief, doubt,
supposition, and so on. As we shall see, Locke’s position has the resources
to meet these demands.
Locke states his linguistic thesis in Book III as if it applied to all words
whatsoever. But even if we grant that nouns and predicates signify ideas
(confining ourselves to declarative sentences), it is hardly plausible to think
that words such as “is,” “and,” and “but” work in this way.1
There is a
hoarytraditionthatrunsfromAristotle(DeInterpretatione16b20and20a13)
throughthemedievalsandearlymodernsthatdistinguishes“categorematic”
words(suchas nounsandpredicates),whichcanbe significantontheirown,
from “syncategorematic” words, such as those listed above, which cannot.2
Into the latter class fall the logical connectives, the copula, and prepositions,
among others. The difficulty with Locke’s view is that it seems to have no
place for syncategoremata. The central case we shall examine is that of the
copula. If Locke held that “is” signified an idea, his account would not only
be phenomenologically implausible but unable to account for what Peter
Hylton calls “the unity of the proposition.” What is it that makes a set of
words (and the ideas they signify) into a proposition rather than a list?
I shall argue that Locke implicitly restricts the thesis to categoremata.
On his view, like that of his immediate predecessors the Port-Royalians,
the copula signifies not an idea but a mental act that unites the ideas in
1 See William P. Alston (1964, p. 24). This objection is very popular. See, e.g., Simon Blackburn (1984,
p. 48) and Tim Crane (1995, ch. 1).
2 This tradition is catalogued in Nuchelmans (1986).
34
Particles and propositions 35
a mental proposition. This, however, raises a new problem. For the Port-
Royalians refer to this act of combination as “judgment.” How, then, can
they make sense of propositional attitudes other than assent? If in connect-
ing the subject and the predicate one is thereby judging, how is it possible
to withhold assent, or to suppose something for the sake of argument? A
number of philosophers, including Mill, Peter Geach, and Anthony Kenny,
have claimed the moderns’ accounts of language are vitiated by their in-
ability to account for the propositional attitudes. In this historiographical
tradition, Frege (or perhaps Kant) is seen as the first philosopher to draw
a serviceable distinction between proposition and attitude. By contrast, I
shall locate Locke’s views in a continuous chain of development that runs
from the Port-Royal logicians to Kant and Frege. Locke can be blamed for
his relative neglect of propositional attitudes, but his embryonic account
has much more in common with those of Kant and Frege than has been
recognized.
I am not claiming that Locke’s view is fully defensible. Indeed, I shall
argue that his account of affirmation and negation is subtly circular.
Nevertheless, the difficulties to which it succumbs are quite other than
those usually diagnosed.
the copula and propositional content
We must begin by setting out more clearly the problem of propositional
unity. This was felt acutely by the Russell of the early years of the century, as
Hylton argues, as well as by Wittgenstein in the Tractatus.3
Here is Russell’s
statement of the problem:
Consider, for example, the proposition “A differs from B.” The constituents of
this proposition, if we analyze it, appear to be only A, difference, B. Yet these
constituents, thus placed side by side, do not reconstitute the proposition. The
difference which occurs in the proposition actually relates A and B, whereas the
difference after analysis is a notion which has no connection with A and B. It may
be that we ought, in the analysis, to mention the relations which difference has to
A and B, relations expressed by is and from when we say “A is different from B.”
These relations consist in the fact that A is referent and B relatum with respect to
difference. But “A, referent, difference, relatum, B” is still merely a list of terms,
not a proposition.4
If we attempt to construct a proposition out of simple elements (whether
ideas or Russellian “terms”), we are bound to fail, for in addition to these
3 See Wittgenstein (1974, Proposition 3.141ff.)
4 Russell (1937b, §54); quoted in Hylton (1984, p. 376).
36 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
elements we require a means of uniting them in a proposition. This prob-
lem does not seem tied to any particular view of reference or meaning.
Indeed, Locke’s account of signification makes the problem more pressing:
to say that all words signify ideas closes off any possibility of introducing
propositional unity.
The problem becomes clearer if we examine an objection Peter Geach
lodges against Hobbes. In his De Corpore, Hobbes claims that there is no
necessity that a proposition be composed of subject, copula, and predicate.
It is possible to get by without the copula with sufficient conventions
that accomplish the same task by, say, the order of the words.5
Remarking
on this position, Peter Geach writes, “Hobbes . . . held that the copula
was superfluous; but we might very well object that on the contrary it is
necessary, because a pair of names is not a proposition but a list . . .”.6
This comment of Geach’s is useful, even if it misses the point of Hobbes’s
declaration of the superfluity of the copula. For Hobbes’s idea is simply
that, while the job of the copula must be done, it need not be done by
“is,” “est,” or what have you. His point here is surely sound. We could
in principle accomplish the same task by writing the name of the subject
above the name of the predicate on the page, or by clearing our throats
before speaking the two words; we would be “not a jot the less capable of
inferring, concluding, and of all kinds of reasoning, than were the Greeks,
and Latins.”7
So far from making a proposition into a list by analyzing
each of its members as categorematic terms, Hobbes explicitly states that
the copula is not a name at all.8
This becomes clear if we examine Hobbes’s
view of the proposition:
A Proposition is a speech consisting of two names copulated, by which he that speaketh
signifies he conceives the latter name to be the name of the same thing whereof the
former is the name; or (which is all one) that the former name is comprehended by the
latter. (De Corpore I.iii.2)9
For Hobbes, the copula’s function is to indicate that the speaker is con-
ceiving of things in a certain manner. This accords well with the primacy
of the mental over the linguistic: the function of the verbal proposition
is to serve as a spoken sign of internal conceptions, and one important
aspect of this is to signify the way in which the speaker is having those
conceptions.
5 De Corpore I.iii.2 in Hobbes (1839–45, vol. 1, p. 31). 6 Geach (1980, p. 60).
7 Leviathan IV.46 (1839–45, vol. 3, p. 674). 8 Ibid.
9 Hobbes (1839–45, vol. 1, p. 30). See also Leviathan IV.46 in Hobbes (1839–45, vol. 3, pp. 673–4) and
Human Nature V.9 in Hobbes (1839–45, vol. 4, p. 23).
Particles and propositions 37
Nor, of course, do the Port-Royalians think of propositions as lists of
ideas. As we have seen, they agree with Locke that words “are distinct and
articulated sounds that people have made into signs to indicate what takes
place in the mind.”10
On their view, the greatest distinction we can draw
among what passes in the mind lies between objects of thought and the
form or manner in which we think them.11
Correspondingly, in addition
to words that indicate that we are thinking of a given thing, we must have
words that indicate the manner in which we think of it. In particular, a
verb “is nothing other than a word whose principal function is to signify
an affirmation.”12
Affirmation is an act performed on two ideas and is the
principal mode of our thought. It is, however, only the verb “to be,” and
that only in the third person, that works in this limited way: other verbs are
also used to express ideas. The suggestion here is that verbs other than “to
be,” although they signify affirmation (since they can always be construed
as involving the copula: e.g., “Peter lives” says the same thing as “Peter is
living”), can also be used to express attributes (as “is living” expresses the
attribute of living as well as affirmation). And although
not all our judgments are affirmative, since there are also negative judgments,
verbs nonetheless always signify in themselves only affirmations, negations being
indicated only by the particles “not” and “no,” or by nouns including them, nullus,
nemo, “none,” “no one.” When joined to verbs, these words change them from
affirmations to negations . . .13
On this view, negation is signified by adding a negative particle or noun to
a verb that by itself signifies affirmation. It is crucial that verbs indicate the
activity of affirmation, and not the idea of it; it is an act, not another object
of thought alongside the others. In Scholastic terms, we might say that
affirmation and negation are operations of judgment, while the concepts
or ideas affirmation and negation are “second intentions” that have as their
objects these first-order operations.14
The case of interjections provides
a parallel. There is a great difference between “yahoo” and “joy,” even
though in a sense they signify the same feeling. A sincere utterer of the
former expresses an emotion he is actually having, while an utterer of the
latter is signaling that he is thinking of joy, and obviously need not be
10 Arnauld and Nicole (1996, p. 74; see p. 37). 11 Arnauld and Lancelot (1966, p. 47).
12 Arnauld and Nicole (1996, p. 79). By contrast, Dickoff and James (Arnauld and Nicole, 1964,
p. 104) translate this definition thus: “a verb is nothing else but a word whose principal function is
to indicate assertion.” But this is to conflate assertion and affirmation, and Dickoff and James are
simply wrong to translate affirmer as assertion.
13 Arnauld and Nicole (1996, p. 82).
14 For another treatment of these issues, see Nuchelmans (1983, p. 76).
38 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
in the grip of that emotion.15
The copula signifies the act of affirmation,
which makes the difference between merely conceiving of a subject and a
predicate on one hand and combining or separating them in a proposition
on the other. The nature of affirmation “is to unite and identify, so to speak,
the subject with the attribute, since this is what is signified by the word
‘is’.”16
Given the sense of signification common to Hobbes and the Port-
Royalians, this makes a good deal of sense. Just as a categorematic word
indicates the corresponding idea in the mind of the speaker, so the particle
indicates the corresponding act. Locke’s discussion of particles in III.vii
comes into focus when seen against this background. In a mental propo-
sition, the mind, “either by perceiving or supposing the Agreement or
Disagreement of any of its Ideas, does tacitly within it self put them into
a kind of Proposition affirmative or negative . . .” (IV.v.6: 576). Among
other things, particles serve to indicate these acts of the mind.17
These acts,
which Locke has “endeavoured to express by the terms Putting together and
Separating” (ibid.), are responsible for introducing propositional content
and distinguishing between a mere concatenation of ideas, as when one
thinks of a golden mountain, and a proposition, wherein ideas are related
in a complex that admits of a truth-value. Locke echoes La Grammaire
II.xiii (cp. La Logique II.ii)18
when he writes,
Besides Words, which are names of Ideas in the Mind, there are a great many
others that are made use of, to signify the connexion that the Mind gives to Ideas, or
Propositions, one with another. The Mind, in communicating its thought to others,
does not only need signs of the Ideas it has then before it, but others also, to shew
or intimate some particular action of its own, at that time, relating to those Ideas.
This it does in several ways; as, Is, and Is not, are the general marks of the Mind,
affirming or denying. But besides affirmation, or negation, without which, there
is in Words no Truth or Falsehood, the Mind does, in declaring its Sentiments
to others, connect, not only the parts of Propositions, but whole Sentences one
to another, with their several Relations and Dependencies, to make a coherent
Discourse. (III.vii.1: 471)19
15 For a discussion of the distinction between interjections and categoremata as it was found in the
medieval literature, see Nuchelmans (1983, p. 55ff.)
16 Arnauld and Nicole (1996, p. 129).
17 Thus I disagree with Jonathan Bennett, who claims that Locke’s treatment of particles “amounts to
a depiction of them as classificatory after all” (1971, p. 20).
18 “Les hommes . . . n’ont pas eu moins besoin d’inventer des mots qui marquassent l’affirmation . . .
que d’inventer qui marquassant les objets de nos pensées” (1980, p. 175).
19 It is worth noting that Russell sometimes offers a similar account of syncategoremata. For instance,
he writes, “my statement [‘that was a stoat or a weasel’] expresses partial knowledge combined with
hesitation; the word ‘or’ expresses my hesitation, not something objective” (1948, p. 126).
Particles and propositions 39
Like Hobbes and the Port-Royalians, Locke insists that the copula does not
function as categorematic words do. For instead of signifying an idea, it
signifies an act of the mind, which is responsible for connecting ideas and
forming a proposition. Through reflection, one gains an idea of affirmation;
but this idea is not what is signified by the copula.
It is worth pausing to note that this provides further support for my
interpretation of Lockean signification. It is not clear how other interpreta-
tions, such as that of Kretzmann, can come to grips with III.vii. Kretzmann
is, in effect, faced with a dilemma: either particles are words lacking sense
(since they are not correlated with any ideas), or there is another kind of
signification at issue besides sense or reference. But matters are still worse,
since even if one allows that a particle term can refer to an act of the mind
without signifying an idea, the view this generates falls prey to the argument
set out above: a proposition composed solely of referring terms does not
seem to be a proposition at all. On my interpretation, there is no need to
postulate a new sense of signification to accommodate what Locke says at
III.vii.
It is true, however, that Locke’s claim that particles signify mental acts
conflicts with the linguistic thesis insofar as it admits that some words
signify acts rather than ideas; as we shall see below (chapter six), this was
one source of inspiration for Berkeley as he struggled against the thesis in
its unrestricted form. But this tension within Locke’s text is best seen as
arising from the different purposes he has in these passages. At the start of
Book III, he is beginning to sketch his own view of essences and laying the
groundwork for his attack on the Aristotelians in III.x. There he is simply
not concerned with the detailed workings of language. The focus is on
sortal terms, not on propositions or their syncategorematic components.
In III.vii he makes clear that his view can make sense of non-categorematic
terms and can account for the unity of the proposition.
It is worth noting that Locke’s treatment of the copula departs from that
of the Port-Royalians. On their view, “is” always signifies affirmation; by
adding “not” one as it were deflects this affirmation into a negation. Locke,
by contrast, treats “is not” as a single element, signifying negation. This
seems much more plausible; Locke does not posit an act of affirmation
contained within the act of negation. Locke’s account is also richer than is
usually recognized. For under the heading of particles he includes other syn-
categorematic elements that indicate mental acts other than combination
and separation. Locke claims that in addition to the copula, senseful dis-
course requires a battery of other words to indicate “the several Postures of
[the] Mind in discoursing” (III.vii.3: 472). In addition to the more familiar
40 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
logical connectives, Locke offers a subtle analysis of “but,” discussing five
distinct uses of it to “intimate several relations, the Mind gives to the sev-
eral Propositions or Parts of them, which it joins by this monosyllable”
(III.vii.5: 473). For example, in the proposition “you pray, but it is not
that God would bring you to the true religion,” “but” “intimates a suppo-
sition in the Mind, of something otherwise than it should be” (ibid.) In
this use, the word conveys censure. This is not another idea alongside the
constituents of the proposition, nor does it contribute to the truth-value
of the sentence, since here “but” simply has the force of a conjunction.
Nevertheless, the word allows the speaker to convey the manner or way in
which he conceives of the proposition.
I have up till now been defending Locke’s view from an obvious objec-
tion. It will now emerge that although Locke is justified in holding that
particles signify acts of the mind, the account he offers of these acts is in
fact circular. We have been taking for granted such notions as “combin-
ing” and “separating” one’s ideas. These activities allow mental propositions
to admit of truth values. In this, Locke is following a tradition stemming
from Aristotle, who says that “names and verbs by themselves – for instance
“man” and “white” when nothing further is added – are like the thoughts
that are without combination and separation; for so far they are neither
true nor false” (De Interpretatione 16a14–15).20
But obviously mere reliance
on a tradition does not absolve a philosopher of the duty to give a satisfac-
tory working-out of his position. If Locke cannot give an account of these
notions that does not presuppose the presence of propositional content,
his view is uninformative. This, I shall argue, is precisely the situation in
which we find him.
What does Locke mean by his metaphor of combination? Let us first
make sure we know what it cannot mean. Combination cannot merely
be a matter of holding two ideas in the mind at once, for this is equally
true of the separation involved in negation. Moreover, if combination were
understood in this way, then other operations on simple ideas21
(such as
those by which we construct our idea of God, for example) would have
to involve affirmation. Nor can combination mean simply conflating one’s
ideas; for then one has a mongrel idea, not a proposition.
Locke thinks that whether combination or separation takes place de-
pends on whether one takes the ideas to agree (combination) or disagree
(separation). To “combine” (“separate”) one’s ideas in this sense, it seems,
20 In Aristotle (1984, vol. 1, p. 25).
21 See, e.g., II.xii.2: 164 for a discussion of these other operations.
Particles and propositions 41
is to judge that two ideas do (do not) agree. At IV.i.2: 524, Locke sets out
four kinds of agreement or disagreement that might obtain between ideas:
identity or diversity, relation, co-existence, and real existence. We have a
fourfold concatenation of kinds of proposition and truth-value: (a) an af-
firmative judgment that is true in virtue of one of these kinds of agreement;
(b) an affirmative judgment that is false because this agreement does not
obtain; (c) a negative judgment that is true because its ideas do not agree,
and (d) a negative judgment that is false because its ideas do in fact agree.
This kind of agreement or disagreement is supposed to be available in in-
trospection, and we know it via intuition (IV.iii.8: 543–4).22
Sometimes,
of course, we need to introduce intervening ideas in order to perceive such
agreement or disagreement (IV.ii.2–3: 531–2).
But how enlightening is this as an analysis of negation? To perform a
negation is to separate one’s ideas, i.e., to judge that the two ideas do not
agree, where this in turn is analyzed in one of the four ways above. But these
analyses themselves invoke negation; they themselves have propositional
content. To take one example, consider the judgment : that idea x does
not contain idea y. To judge that one’s ideas disagree in this way is to make
a judgment that already contains propositional content. Nor are matters
helped by the appeal to intuition:23
even if this is the means by which
we ascertain the truth of a judgment such as , the fact remains that 
itself has propositional content and contains a negation. The same goes,
mutatis mutandis, for the other varieties of combination and separation.
Locke’s account seems simply circular. Nor does there seem much hope
for an alternative interpretation: the other ways we have looked at above
that attempt to analyze “combination” and “separation” so as not to beg
the question fail to introduce propositional content. Locke’s only means of
cashing out the metaphor of sub-propositional combination and separation
presupposes what it is supposed to explain: propositional content.
propositional attitudes
Let us turn now to the second difficulty sketched above, that of proposi-
tional attitudes. At least since the time of J.S. Mill, it has often been said
22 Thus Leibniz argues that Locke has not adequately specified the sort of agreement in question:
“[a]greement obtains between two eggs, disagreement between two enemies” (Nouveaux essais IV.v.2,
in Leibniz 1996, p. 311). Berkeley in his Manuscript Introduction to the Principles also criticizes Locke
for not having specified what agreement is supposed to mean here.
23 See II.xxi.5: 236, where Locke distinguishes three sorts of perception (the latter two of which he
equates with understanding) according to their objects: of ideas, of the signification of signs, and of
the agreement or disagreement of ideas.
42 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
that philosophers of the modern period are unable to account for propo-
sitional attitudes other than assent. For at first glance their views seem to
provide little room for a distinction between the content of a proposition
and the attitude one adopts toward it, be it doubt, disbelief, supposition
for the sake of argument, or what have you.
Mill offers a sweeping condemnation of “[p]hilosophers, from the time
ofDescartesdownwards,andespeciallyfromtheeraofLeibnitzandLocke,”
and indeed “almost all writers on Logic in the last two centuries, whether
English, German, or French.” They have made
their theory of Propositions, from one end to the other, a theory of Judgments.
They considered a Proposition, or a Judgment, for they used the two words indis-
criminately, to consist in affirming or denying one idea of another. To judge, was
to put two ideas together, or to bring one idea under another, or to perceive the
agreement or disagreement between two ideas: and the whole doctrine of Propo-
sitions, together with the theory of Reasoning (always necessarily founded upon
the theory of Propositions), was stated as if Ideas, or Conceptions, or whatever
other term the writer preferred as a name for mental representations generally,
constituted essentially the subject matter and substance of those operations . . .
It is, of course, true, that in any case of judgment, as for instance when we judge
that gold is yellow, a process takes place in our minds of which some one or other
of these theories is a partially correct account. We must have the idea of gold and
the idea of yellow, and these two ideas must be brought together in our mind.
But in the first place, it is evident that this is only part of what takes place; for we
may put two ideas together without any act of belief; as when we merely imagine
something, such as a golden mountain; or when we actually disbelieve: for in order
even to disbelieve that Mahomet was an apostle of God, we must put the idea of
Mahomet and that of an apostle of God together.24
On Mill’s view, the ideational treatment of language common to his pre-
decessors led them to account for propositions in terms of the connection
of ideas in an act of judging. Against this, Mill makes two points. First,
since we often connect our ideas without thereby making a judgment at
all, as when we merely imagine a golden mountain, it cannot be the case
that all connection of ideas involves a proposition.25
Second, Mill argues
that if all propositions are judgments, we are left without any way to ac-
count for the diverse attitudes one might take up with respect to those
propositions, such as doubting, hoping, supposing, etc. To equate proposi-
tions with judgments is to turn all propositional thought into belief. Thus
24 Mill (1867, p. 59).
25 Cp. Leibniz, who criticizes Locke by saying that “‘l’homme sage’ does not express a proposition and
is yet a joining of two terms, or, if one prefers, of the two ideas signified by those terms” (Nouveaux
essais IV.v.2, in Leibniz 1996, p. 311).
Particles and propositions 43
the treatment of propositions common to the post-Cartesians is radically
impoverished.
However acute his criticisms, it is not clear that Mill himself succeeds in
distinguishing between propositional content and attitude, since he treats
propositions and assertions as equivalent.26
This erases the very distinction
he chides the moderns for having failed to recognize.
Frege is the obvious choice to play the hero in this story. For Frege’s
distinction in Begriffsschrift between the content-stroke and the assertion-
stroke does seem to sever, once and for all, propositional content from
propositional attitude. In their respective works on Frege, Peter Geach and
Anthony Kenny both present him as overthrowing the “traditional view,”
whereby all propositions are assertions. (I shall refer to this view without
inverted commas even though I doubt whether it is traditional in any
meaningful sense.) On the traditional view, Geach claims, a proposition is
a subject/predicate complex, united by the copula; the view conflates this
unification with assertoric force, with the result that all propositions make
assertions. That the traditional view is wildly mistaken is almost too obvious
to need pointing out: for example, some propositions serve as antecedents
or consequents and so are not themselves asserted.27
In this vein, Kenny
writes that “some earlier logicians” had thought that “attaching a predicate
to a subject . . . necessarily involve[s] making an assertion about what the
subject named.”28
Neither Geach nor Kenny names any particular figure
who is supposed to have held this view.
In a paper on the Port-Royal Logic, Jill Vance Buroker provides the best
statement of the view I take to be natural to someone persuaded by this
narrative. Buroker writes,
According to [the Port-Royalians], every time one connects a subject and a pred-
icate, one is ipso facto judging. Thus there is no room for thinking propositions
and suspending judgment, as Descartes advocated in his method of doubt. In fact
the Port-Royal view of the copula would make this process impossible; for this
reason Arnauld and Nicole use the terms “judgment” and “proposition” inter-
changeably . . . [Kant] takes the first step toward distinguishing judgment from
proposition by treating the categories of modality – possibility, actuality, and ne-
cessity – as ways in which the proposition is held by the thinker. On Kant’s view,
26 See Mill (1867, p. 12) and Skorupski (1989, ch. 2).
27 Geach writes, “[a] predicate may obviously be attached to a subject in a clause that does not serve
to make an assertion” (1961, p. 133).
28 Kenny (1994, p. 37). There is a potential confusion here between assertion, which seems to be a
performance, and assent, which involves the ascription of an attitude. (To see the difference, recall
that one may assert a proposition without assenting to it.) Nothing much turns on the issue, for my
purposes.
44 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
problematic propositions express only logical possibility (A75/B101). Frege carries
out the solution in the Begriffsschrift by distinguishing the content-stroke from the
assertion-stroke, thereby removing assertive force entirely from the propositional
content of the judgment.29
Call this the “progressivist” account: discussions of proposition and judg-
ment in the modern period are benighted because of their inability to
distinguish propositional content from attitude; Kant comes closer to the
truth, but a robust distinction had to wait until Frege’s Begriffsschrift.
I wish to undermine the progressivist account. I am not contesting the
obvious fact that Frege represents a tremendous gain in clarity on these
issues. What I do contest is the claim that, with the possible exception of
Kant, Frege’s modern predecessors were committed to the traditional view.
Let me be clear about what my arguments must show. The progressivist
need not, of course, claim that any figure explicitly made the error in
question; more often, the suggestion seems to be that the error is entailed
by other of the philosopher’s commitments. Now, since the conflation of
predication with assent or assertion is so obviously a confusion, it seems
to me enough to show that a particular figure need not be read as making
this conflation. If the argument for attributing this view to the figure in
question is a poor one, only a minimal degree of charity is required to allow
us to refrain from making the attribution. In the case of Locke, I argue that
his text presents an embryonic account of propositional attitudes that not
merely allows but compels us to refrain from foisting the traditional view
on him.
Before beginning, a word of caution is in order about “judgment.” The
ambiguity of this word has caused much confusion. For my purposes, the
most important distinction lies between the propositional and the sub-
propositional senses. In the former use, judgment involves an attitude to-
ward a proposition. Thus for Descartes judgment always takes a proposition
as its object: one judges that something is or is not the case.30
This point
is sometimes obscured by Descartes’s use of “idea” to refer both to repre-
sentations and propositions, although he says that only in the former sense
is the term really appropriate.31
On Descartes’s view, intellectual percep-
tion provides us with an awareness of the proposition to be considered,
while “various modes of willing,” such as “desire, aversion, assertion, and
denial” must be brought in to account for the attitude we adopt regard-
ing the proposition.32
Frege’s use of “judgment” (Urtheil) clearly belongs
29 Buroker (1993, p. 462). 30 See, e.g., Descartes (1984, vol. 1, p. 45, p. 207; vol. 2, p. 26, p. 105).
31 Descartes (1984, vol. 2, p. 25). 32 Descartes (1984, vol. 1, p. 204).
Particles and propositions 45
in the propositional category as well. In his Begriffsschrift, a judgment is
signified by a vertical stroke to the left of the content stroke. Removing the
vertical stroke not only indicates that the content is not asserted, but also
that the content is no longer a judgment but “a mere complex of ideas.”33
A
content preceded by a horizontal stroke alone “will not express this judg-
ment [that opposite magnetic poles attract one another], but should merely
arouse in the reader the idea of the mutual attraction of magnetic poles,
in order, say, to draw conclusions from it . . .”34
Obviously, such “ideas”
can be propositions, and can figure in deductions, or, as Frege sometimes
says, “pseudo-deductions.”35
Despite their differences, both the Cartesian
and Fregean uses of judgment are propositional in that they assume that
judgments take propositions as their objects.
We also find what I shall call the “sub-propositional” use of “judgment”
in the modern period. It is in this sense that the Port-Royalians use it,
or so I shall argue. Buroker is quite right to say that on their view, every
time one entertains a proposition one is making a judgment. If they meant
“judgment” in the propositional sense, they would obviously be open to
refutation along Mill’s lines. But if the progressivist takes for granted that
propositional judgment is meant, she begs the question. This is something
to be argued for, not assumed from the outset. In fact, on the Port-Royalian
account, judgment is not something one does to a proposition, but rather
to the constituents of propositions. On this view, judgment is a mental act
in which one unites two ideas.
In discussing each text, then, it will be important to be clear about just
what “judgment” means. Unless otherwise stated, I use “judgment” to mean
the sub-propositional activity of uniting one’s ideas. I shall now argue that
this is the sense intended by the Port-Royalians.
We have already seen that “affirmer” refers to a mental act whereby we
combine our ideas and so produce a judgment or proposition.36
To say that
I affirm x of y is simply to say that I am thinking of x and y in a particular
manner: this is what it is to make a judgment. Affirmation, negation, and
33 Frege (1997, p. 52). 34 Frege (1997, p. 53).
35 Mitchell Green has pointed out to me that Fregean assertion/judgment requires not only that one
genuinely hold that the asserted proposition is true, but that it actually be true. Frege often describes
judgment as the recognition (Anerkennen) of a thought’s truth. See, e.g., Frege (1980, pp. 20–2).
Anerkennen is a success term: one cannot recognize that which is false. It seems, then, that to assert
a false thought is only to seem to assert it, and to infer from a false thought is merely to make a
“pseudo-inference” or a “purely formal deduction” (see Frege, 1980, p. 17). If this is correct, Buroker’s
reading of the purpose of Frege’s assertion sign is mistaken. For it does not mark what we ordinarily
call asserted propositions off from unasserted ones, simply because Frege also requires the content
of an assertion to be a true thought. This is a difficult issue I do not pretend to settle here.
36 Arnauld and Nicole (1996, p. 82).
46 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
their genus, judgment, are clearly sub-propositional acts and not acts that
one performs upon a complete proposition.
We are not entitled to infer that all judgments are asserted. For assertion,
unlike judgment in the Port-Royalian sense, must have a proposition as its
object: one asserts propositions. But one does not judge propositions, in the
sense Arnauld et al. specify. Their account so far says nothing at all about
the assertive force of the resulting proposition. It is instead a view about
how propositions are generated in the first place.
This is a key point in my argument. Let us pause to consider how
Buroker goes wrong in reading the Port-Royalians as imbuing the copula
with assertoric force. She attributes this mistake to them on the grounds of
the following passage: “After conceiving things by our ideas, we compare
these ideas and, finding that some belong together and others do not, we
unite or separate them. This is called affirming or denying, and in general
judging.”37
From this she deduces that “the copula has two functions in a
judgment: it relates the subject and the predicate, and it signifies affirmation
or denial.”38
But in order for this to support her interpretation, Buroker
must read “affirming” and “denying” as carrying assertoric force. Have
the Port-Royalians committed themselves to this? On the contrary, in the
quoted text, they are using “affirming” and “denying” to refer to the sub-
propositional act, and not the propositional attitude or the assertion of a
proposition.
The progressivist might reply that even though affirmation and denial
are sub-propositional, they still commit one to the resulting proposition.
For in the text just quoted, Arnauld and Nicole claim that we compare
our ideas and unite them in a proposition when we find that they agree or
disagree. Does this not suggest that whenever we form a proposition, we
also assent to it? We must keep in mind, however, that at this stage of their
Logic (II, 3), the authors have not dealt with complex propositions. Among
the latter are conditionals and counterfactuals. On the Port-Royalian view,
in evaluating the truth of a proposition such as “if a creature’s will can
obstruct the absolute will of God, God is not omnipotent,” “we consider
only the truth of the inference.”39
In constructing the antecedent, we must
unite our ideas; but we certainly cannot find that they agree, since, or so
the Port-Royalians would presumably maintain, it is false that a creature’s
will can obstruct the will of God. But we nevertheless affirm this as part
of an inference. Why should we think that Arnauld et al. hold, absurdly,
37 Arnauld and Nicole (1996, p. 82). 38 Buroker (1993, p. 460).
39 Arnauld and Nicole (1996, p. 100).
Particles and propositions 47
that the affirmation contained in the antecedent has assertive force? To be
sure, in order to entertain the antecedent, I must perform the mental act
of combining these ideas. But this is to say nothing about the status of the
proposition so formed.
Just as we cannot assume that every judgment containing an affirma-
tion is asserted, so we cannot, pace Buroker, assume that every judgment
containing a negation is a denial.40
This, of course, would be disastrous:
it would, for example, make it impossible to grasp a counterfactual, which
has a false proposition as its antecedent. But again, there is no way to in-
fer simply from a position about sub-propositional entities and acts to a
position about propositional attitudes.
This is not to say that the Port-Royalians offer an adequate account
of propositional attitudes. What I have done, at most, is to undermine
the quick inference from sub-propositional act to propositional attitude. It
remains to be seen whether the Port-Royalians have a satisfactory positive
account.41
Rather than pursue this issue, let us return to Locke’s account and see
how it fares in the face of Mill’s objections. Mill’s first objection was that
to connect our ideas is not thereby to make a judgment, since we might
think of two ideas without making any judgment at all. This point is easily
handled by Locke, Hobbes, and the Port-Royalians. For none claims that
any act of connecting one’s ideas whatsoever constitutes a judgment. It
should be clear that, for Locke, not all separation of ideas is negation, for
example, since at least one kind of abstraction is a process by which ideas
are separated, and yet no proposition, mental or otherwise, is involved.42
WhatofMill’ssecondobjection,viz.,thatinanalyzingtheconnectionthe
mind gives to its ideas in terms of negation and affirmation, this account
makes all propositional thought assertoric? Part of the response to this
40 Buroker (1993, p. 461).
41 Arnauld et al. attempt to deal with at least some of the other attitudes one might take toward a
proposition by means of inflection and mood: “I have said that the principal use of the verb is to
signify affirmation, because we will see below that it is also used to signify other movements of our
soul, such as to desire, to pray, to command, etc. But this is only to change the inflexion and the mood:
and therefore we will consider the verb in this chapter only in its principal signification, which is
the one which it has in the indicative . . .” (Arnauld and Lancelot, 1966, p. 109). Whatever these
other movements of the soul might be, the verb’s principal use is still to signify affirmation. In a later
chapter in the Grammaire on the “moods or manners of verbs,” the authors (1966, p. 121) argue that
“beyond simple affirmations” such as “he loves,” “there [are] some conditioned and some modified
affirmations, such as although he would have loved, when he would love.” To accommodate these acts
of the mind, people doubled the inflections of some verbs in some tenses. But the authors do not
provide any discussion of how this relates to the copula, beyond saying that they are “modified”
affirmations.
42 This is the model of abstraction to be found at, e.g., II.xi.9: 159. See below, chapter three.
48 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
objection has already been given. For Locke, like the Port-Royalians, sees
affirmationandnegationassub-propositional. But a strongerdefensecanbe
made if we consider non-copulative particles such as “if” and “and.” These
signify relations between propositions and allow us to link propositions in
chains of dependence and support. Such particles, then, can take as their
objects propositions, which of necessity involve acts of combination and
separation.
Already we have the materials to deal with negation as it occurs in
counterfactuals. For on Locke’s account, one constructs the antecedent,
which is itself a proposition, by linking two signs of ideas with “is not,”
the sign of negation. When this proposition occurs after an “if” and is
followed by another proposition, we have a third proposition which has as
one of its constituents a proposition containing a negation. “If” signifies the
connection one takes to obtain between the antecedent and the consequent.
This alone should prevent us from thinking that Lockean negation is always
denial, where this is understood as an attitude toward or operation on a
proposition.43
The logical connectives do not exhaust the different ways in which
the mind might consider propositions. Locke says that we give proposi-
tions “such different Entertainment, as we call Belief, Conjecture, Guess,
Doubt, Wavering, Distrust, Disbelief, etc.” (IV.xvi.9: 663). But what are
these “entertainments?”
Locke seems to give two different answers. At the start of Book II, he
declares them to be acts of the mind. His examples of the operations of
the mind of which we have ideas of reflection are almost entirely made
up of such attitudes: “Perception, Thinking, Doubting, Believing, Reasoning,
Knowing, Willing” (II.i.4: 105). On this view, propositional attitudes are
second-order acts having as their object propositions which themselves
involve first-order acts (i.e., affirmation and negation).
But later in Book II, Locke lists “Believing, Doubting, Intending,
Fearing, [and] Hoping” under the heading of “the several modes of
Thinking” (II.xxiii.30: 313; see II.xix.1–4: 226–9). In calling propositional
attitudes modes of thinking, Locke is making two points: that they are
parasitic on the act of thinking a given proposition, which involves holding
two ideas in mind and combining or separating them; and that they are
ways in which one thinks of those propositions. If this is Locke’s view, there
is no need for a second-order act of the mind whose object is a proposition.
43 Note that Locke himself in the passage quoted does not use “denial” in this technical sense. On his
view, one can say both that an idea is denied of another idea, and that a proposition is denied. In
the text I am using “denial” only in the latter sense.
Particles and propositions 49
Instead, if one is to think a proposition, there must be a way in which one
thinks it; these different ways just are the propositional attitudes.
However that may be, it should be clear that Locke has not inadver-
tently made all propositions objects of affirmation or negation, nor has he
confounded assertive force and propositional content. Propositions must
contain such acts of the mind if they are to be propositions at all; but, contra
the progressivist, assent does not exhaust the attitudes one might take up
with regard to those propositions. The progressivist’s objections stem from
conflating affirmation with assertion or assent in a way Locke would find
puzzling.
But as with the Port-Royalians, a problem arises in this context. Locke
speaks of “perceiving, or judging” (IV.v.5: 575) that two ideas agree or
disagree. This use of “judgment” is distinct from the official meaning Locke
givesit,whereitreferstotheactoftakingtwoideas to agreeordisagreewhen
this is mediated by one or more other ideas, “whose certain Agreement, or
Disagreement with them [the mind] does not perceive, but hath observed
to be frequent or usual” (IV.xviii.17: 685). In the former use, it seems
to commit one to the resulting proposition. After all, if one perceives the
agreement of two ideas and so combines them in a proposition, how can one
withhold assent? For Locke there are of course “intuitive” propositions such
that the mind immediately perceives the agreement or disagreement of the
constitutive ideas, “as the Eye doth light” (IV.ii.1: 531). Here it is impossible
to withhold assent. The problem then is that in speaking of the perception
of agreement or disagreement in IV.v.5, Locke is in danger of making
all propositions intuitive. A little later in IV.v, Locke is more careful: he
says that “whenever he [the thinker] perceives, believes, or supposes” (IV.v.6:
576; my italics) that his ideas agree or disagree, he combines or separates
those ideas and so produces a proposition. This allows for combining or
separating our ideas even when we doubt the resulting proposition, or know
it to be false.
kant and the modality of judgments
Part of the progressivist’s claim, although not an essential one, is that Kant
represents a vast improvement over the moderns and a significant step on
the road to Frege. Let us turn now, however briefly, to Kant’s account, and
test how far this progressivist story holds true.
Kant’s table of judgments in the Analytic of Concepts includes four sets
of three moments each under the headings of quantity, quality, relation, and
modality. Under the last of these headings, Kant makes a set of distinctions
50 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
that shows his sensitivity to the difference between propositional content
and attitude.
It is crucial to see that what determines the modality of a judgment
is the attitude of the judger: it is a matter of how one thinks of a given
proposition.44
To say that a judgment is possible is to report on the atti-
tude of the judger, not to make a claim about de re modality. “Problematic
judgments are those in which affirmation or negation is taken as merely pos-
sible (optional). In assertoric judgments affirmation or negation is viewed as
real (true), and in apodeictic judgments as necessary” (A74/B100).45
What
counts, then, is the status one assigns to the judgment, which itself contains
an affirmation or a negation. Kant claims that the modality of judgments
“is a quite peculiar function” in that “it contributes nothing to the content
of the judgment . . . but concerns only the value of the copula in relation to
thought in general” (B99–100/A74).46
Whether a judgment is problematic,
assertoric, or apodeictic, it has precisely the same content. What one takes
to be its relation to the laws of thought determines whether one considers
a judgment as necessarily true, i.e., as following from the laws of thought,
as simply true, or as possible.47
On Kant’s view, the possibility of problematic judgments explains our
ability to use false judgments as constituents of hypothetical judgments. In
a proposition such as “if there is a perfect justice, the obstinately wicked
are punished,” the antecedent “is not stated assertorically, but is thought
only as an optional judgment, which it is possible to assume; it is only the
logical consequence which is assertoric. Such judgments may therefore be
44 T.K. Swing writes, “[t]he problematic judgment is one whose truth is unknown or undetermined;
the assertoric judgment is one whose truth is known or verified; and the apodeictic judgment is one
whose truth is guaranteed by the laws of thought alone” (1969, pp. 17–18); quoted in Mattey (1986,
p. 425, n. 10). Even this needs some correction, however, for Swing’s characterization of apodeictic
judgments omits the crucial feature that they are taken to be necessary truths. It is how judgments
are viewed, not whether or not they in fact follow from any laws, that is at issue. Buroker also misses
this point when she maintains for Kant problematic propositions “express only logical possibility”
(1993, p. 462).
45 Kant (1958, pp. 109–10). 46 Kant (1958, p. 109).
47 Here there arises a difficulty. For in what sense is a problematic judgment “merely possible?” There
are two ways of taking this: first, as seems intended in the Critique, that an affirmation or negation is
performed, but the act is regarded as optional, or alternatively, that no act of affirmation or negation
is performed at all. The second view of problematic judgments seems to be adopted by Kant in
the Logic, where he identifies assertoric judgments with propositions. (This, of course, is the very
mistake Buroker lauds him for avoiding.) Kant (1974, p. 116) declares a “problematic proposition” to
be a “contradictio in adjecto.” This is because “[b]efore I have a proposition I must indeed first judge”
(ibid.) The difficulty is that if a problematic judgment is one in which no affirmation or negation is
performed at all, then there will be no way to introduce propositional content. But in the Critique,
the point is that the judger sees the act of affirmation or negation which he has already performed
as optional, i.e., as not compelled by the laws of thought. For further discussion, see Mattey (1986,
pp. 430–1).
Particles and propositions 51
obviously false, and yet, taken problematically, may be conditions of the
knowledge of truth” (A75/B100).48
There is a non-trivial point of agreement here between Kant and Locke.
For on Kant’s account, the modality of a judgment reflects the attitude
one adopts toward a sub-propositional act of affirmation or negation; sim-
ilarly, Locke holds that the objects of propositional attitudes are mental
propositions that of necessity contain acts of affirmation or negation. This
is true whether Locke thinks that propositional attitudes are second-order
acts or simply ways in which first-order acts (combination and separation)
are performed.
Despite this, there is a significant difference between Kant and his pre-
decessors. One difficulty with the mental act or mode account proposed
by the early moderns is that it places no constraints whatever on what can
be judged; to use Hylton’s example, nothing rules out judging “that this
table penholders the book.”49
Kant, by contrast, claims that the synthesis
responsible for the unity of a judgment must be performed according to the
categories.50
Indeed, the categories just are the logical functions of judg-
ment brought to bear on the manifold of representations (B143).51
Since
experience for Kant is shot through with judgment, as it were, this claim
has an idealist consequence: our experiences could not be structured other
than they are, simply because the categories constrain us in judgment, and
experience is generated not by the impression of objects upon a passive
understanding but by the understanding’s actively structuring appearance
in accordance with the categories, i.e., performing its characteristic func-
tion, judgment. It was in large measure Russell’s wish to avoid the idealism
implicit in so constraining judgment that led him to construct his own
theories and to declare that “all sound philosophy should begin with an
analysis of propositions.”52
Obviously Kant’s account raises many issues I have not space to explore
here. For our purposes, the crucial point is that the same features of his
view that prevent Kant from being landed with the traditional account are
also to be found in his modern predecessors.
Although I of course do not pretend to have made a full survey of these
issues in modern philosophy, I hope to have shown that the progressivist
view is false. It is unfair to accuse the Port-Royalians of conflating affirma-
tion (negation) with assertion or assent (denial). Locke’s account provides
a clear basis for marking off content from attitude, a basis on which Kant,
48 Kant (1958, p. 110). 49 Hylton (1984, pp. 386–7).
50 Hylton (1984, pp. 378–92) argues for this claim in greater depth. 51 Kant (1958, p. 160).
52 Russell (1937a, p. 8), quoted in Hylton (1984, p. 375).
52 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
whether knowingly or not, builds. I do not claim that the moderns’ account
of the proposition is fully defensible. My claim is only that these figures
cannot be convicted of subscribing to the traditional view. If I am right,
the cleavage between the modern view and the proto-Fregean account of
Kant is not so great as it at first seems. And this is precisely what one should
expect.
conclusion
In this chapter, I have been arguing that Locke’s position does not succumb
to the objections from propositional unity or attitude. In the latter case,
there is a historiographical lesson to be learned. Narratives of the history of
philosophy that turn on attributing fundamental mistakes to philosophers
of an entire period are to be looked upon with suspicion. Locke’s position is
indeed subject to serious difficulties, but these problems do not flow from
his having unthinkingly accepted an obviously false “traditional” view of
propositional attitudes. Instead, they stem from his inability to provide
an informative account of the mental acts that he thinks underlie verbal
affirmation and negation.
chapter 3
Essence and abstraction
Thus far, we have seen that for Locke, categorematic words signify ideas.
The simple ideas given in sensation and reflection are all perfectly deter-
minate, not only because their content is so, but also because each simple
idea includes a “determination” to the particular time and place at which it
was experienced (III.iii.6: 411). At first sight, this seems odd, as if each idea
bore a sort of time-stamp linking it to the occasion on which it was given
in sensation. Instead, Locke’s point is that each simple idea is intromitted
by the senses along with a number of other ideas, all of which together will
determine that idea to a particular experiential context. If we had access
only to such ideas, we would be correspondingly limited to thinking only
about particulars. This is precisely the predicament of non-human animals,
which, Locke suggests, are fully capable of reasoning. Pace Descartes, they
are not mere automata; they can reason, but their reasoning is limited to
particulars (II.xi.11: 160).
What is more, since each person’s sensory and reflective ideas are deter-
minate in both of the senses we have specified, limitation to particulars
would make us unable to communicate. It would be impossible for dif-
ferent persons, each having distinct experiential histories, to use a word to
signify the same idea (III.iii.3: 409–10).1
To remedy this predicament, Locke posits abstract ideas. But it is impor-
tant to see that his discussion of abstraction is also an episode in his general
anti-Aristotelian project. Abstraction functions as a replacement for the
Aristotelian mechanism of intentionality, which was tied to the outmoded
hylomorphist ontology. This raises the question of Locke’s own ontological
commitments with regard to properties and universals. Thus the second
part of the present chapter is devoted to exploring the ontology underlying
1 The earliest example of this criticism I have been able to find is in Henry Lee (1702, p. 43). Kant
(1958, p. 182), makes a closely related objection to treating concepts as images. For the relevant sense
of “same idea,” see chapters one and six.
53
54 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
Locke’s account of generality and essence. I shall argue that, far from be-
ing purely nominalist, Locke’s thoroughgoing opposition to natural kinds
is perfectly compatible with a kind of realism about properties. Although
Locke attacks the idea of mind-independent essences, he happily endorses
objective resemblances. Locke thus separates the issues of objective resem-
blance (and the properties that explain it) from those of kind-membership
and essentialism; only in the latter two cases does Locke have an axe to
grind. In the end, we shall see that nothing in Locke’s text suggests that he
need deny that there are objective, particularized properties of objects at the
corpuscular level that explain their resemblance in a given respect. What
he wishes to deny is that these properties compel or justify our decision
to select some and not others as essential for kind-membership. Neverthe-
less, any such decision is not arbitrary and can be evaluated in terms of its
ability to map at least some of the objective resemblances and in terms of
its practical value. What we find, then, is that Locke offers an appealing
mixture of realism and anti-realism on these issues.
abstraction
Like most everything else in Locke’s philosophy, the discussion of abstrac-
tion is notoriously difficult to interpret. I shall argue, pace the current trend
in the scholarship, that Locke conceives of abstraction as mental separation.
Although Locke requires selective attention for abstraction, it is not to be
identified with abstraction itself.
Locke uses abstract ideas in two ways: as standards or patterns that things
might fit or fail to fit, and as representations of a class of particulars.2
They
account not only for our ability to think about classes of things, but also
for the truth and falsity of statements of the form “x is F (where F is a
property) or an F (where F is a sortal term).” This is to be determined, as
we shall see below, by checking to see whether x “agrees with” the abstract
idea of F (or an F). Since Locke’s concern with language focuses on precisely
these categorical statements, much will turn on his ability to provide an
intelligible analysis of them capable of supplanting the Aristotelian view.
Such an analysis would determine the truth of statements such as the one
above by checking the relation between substantial form and property, in
the paradigmatic case. (The Aristotelian view is developed at greater length
in the next chapter.)
2 Ayers (1991, vol. 1, p. 248).
Essence and abstraction 55
In addition to explaining our ability to think of simple qualities, abstract
ideas are also supposed to explain how we can think about classes of things.
Locke must posit both simple and complex abstract ideas, since they must
range over not only simple qualities (such as whiteness), but substances such
as human beings. Although, as I shall argue, the process by which both of
these ideas are generated is properly called a kind of mental separation, this
belies some significant differences between them.
Before considering particular texts in detail, I wish to set out three central
problems that any defensible account of Lockean abstraction must be able
to answer.
(1) Locke says in numerous places that abstraction consists in separating
simple ideas from complex ones (see, e.g., III.iii.9). But Locke is equally
clear that all ideas enter the senses “simple and unmixed” (II.i.1: 119). What
need is there, then, for such separation?3
(2) In abstraction, the mind “make[s] nothing new, but only leave[s] out
of the complex Idea [of the particular instances] that which is peculiar to
each, and retain[s] only what is common to all” (III.iii.7: 411). Although
this might seem plausible in the case of simple ideas, it is much harder to
see how it can be true of complex abstract ideas. Locke seems committed to
the principle that the senses afford us awareness only of fully determinate
features. But if this is so, how can a single idea range over a number of
particulars, which might not share any determinate features? An abstract
idea of mankind that includes a fully determinate set of facial features or
even number of limbs would be wholly inadequate to representing every
individual falling under the sortal term “mankind.” So it seems that the
mind must in some sense “make something new,” insofar as the abstract
idea must include determinable, not determinate, features.
(3) Locke claims that generality is only a relation ideas are placed in;
intrinsically, nothing at all is general (III.iii.11; examined below). If this is
true, it is hard to see why Locke needs to posit abstract ideas at all. Abstract
ideas would be perfectly ordinary and fully determinate ideas plucked from
the chorus to serve as representations of a given kind. (Indeed, most of my
opponents, who claim that Lockean abstraction is selective attention rather
than mental separation, point to this passage for support.) But the claim
that generality is a wholly extrinsic relation sits uneasily with other of
Locke’s commitments. What, then, is Locke’s real position? Or is he simply
inconsistent?
3 Willis Doney raises this issue; see his (1956).
56 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
We can make a start on this last question by examining Locke’s account
of knowledge and working back to the mechanisms of abstraction.4
We
have seen that “proposition” is ambiguous for Locke between mental and
verbal propositions; the latter are parasitic on the former, so it is with
mental propositions that we are concerned. Thus S can be said to know
that  (a mental proposition) when S sees that the ideas composing 
agree or disagree, depending upon whether  contains sub-propositional
affirmation or negation and whether the ideas of  do in fact so agree or
disagree. This model works best in evaluating definitions: is man a rational
animal? That depends upon whether those two ideas are included in one’s
idea of man. Locke is quite clear in saying that knowledge can never extend
beyond one’s own ideas, strictly speaking, although when these ideas in
turn represent real objects outside the mind, it can be said to know true
propositions about them. Locke writes,
Every Man’s Reasoning and Knowledge, is only about the Ideas existing in his own
Mind, which are truly, every one of them, particular Existences: and our Knowledge
and Reasoning about other Things, is only as they correspond with those our
particular Ideas. So that the Perception of the Agreement, or Disagreement of our
particular Ideas, is the whole and utmost of all our Knowledge. Universality is but
accidental to it, and consists only in this, That the particular Ideas, about which
it is, are such, as more than one particular Thing can correspond with, and be
represented by. (IV.xvii.8: 680–1)
In what sense is universality “accidental” to knowledge? Locke is adamant
that only particulars exist; but then how is universality to be achieved at all?
Locke does seem, at the end of the passage, to posit an intrinsic generality
to some ideas insofar as they are such as multiple things can be represented
by. What makes them suited for this work, and how is this consistent with
Locke’s consistent disavowal of intrinsic generality?
Given that ideas are the ineliminable intermediary between mind and
world, our knowledge can be said to reach beyond our ideas only when they
succeed in representing extra-mental things. This lets us see why Locke
claims that universality is “accidental” to knowledge: our ideas themselves
are particular, but when they range over a number of other particulars,
they can be said to be universal, and our knowledge with them. This
universality is not a property of the ideas themselves; it consists in the
relation of agreement between the idea and other particulars. Nevertheless,
the ideas in question must have the intrinsic property of being able to
4 This strategy is suggested by Ayers (1997).
Essence and abstraction 57
represent particulars. And as I shall argue below, their universality consists
partly in the use to which we put them.
With this in mind, let us turn to III.iii.11, the centerpiece of my oppo-
nents’ arguments:
Ideas are general, when they are set up, as the Representatives of many partic-
ular Things: but universality belongs not to things themselves, which are all of
them particular in their Existence, even those Words, and Ideas, which, in their
signification are general. (III.iii.11: 414)
Universality, then, is not an intrinsic character of anything, whether a
physical object or an idea. Ideas are general, that is, they apply to more
than one thing, when we craft them in such a way that they represent many
particulars. We must distinguish between the properties of the idea (e.g., it
exists in a mind, it is thought of at this moment, or what have you) from
the properties the idea represents. An idea as a mental object is always fully
determinate and particular. But what it represents need not be. There is
in general no inference from the properties of a representation to those of
what is represented. Ideas are not themselves universal or general (allowing
that Locke uses these terms interchangeably) even though there is no bar to
their having a content that applies to many individuals. Locke continues:
When therefore we quit Particulars, the Generals that rest, are only Creatures of
our own making, their general Nature being nothing but the Capacity they are
put into by the Understanding, of signifying or representing many particulars. For
the signification they have, is nothing but a relation, that by the Mind of Man is
added to them.
Locke appears to be claiming that there is nothing about the idea itself that
explains its generality. But this cannot be his position, or so I shall argue,
since he posits abstraction as a process issuing in an idea whose content,
while present in the initial idea(s) from which it was generated, must be
separated from the other ideas with which it was presented in experience.
The generality, then, must have a foundation in the intrinsic character of
the idea’s intentional object: if an idea represents dogs, its content must in
some way “conform” to dogs. Locke’s point is, first, that the general nature
is a function of the content of the idea rather than of any feature the idea
qua mental item possesses, and second, that the abstract idea must have
a particular causal history: it must have been made by its owner in order
to represent what it does in fact represent. Given Locke’s denial of innate
ideas, any abstract idea will have this history. If, perhaps per impossibile, an
idea of a determinable arrangement of neutrinos were suddenly to pop into
my head, it would not for me be a representation of that arrangement of
58 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
neutrinos, but simply a very odd mental flash. This is the relation added
by the mind of man: the idea has been formed on the basis of experience
for the purpose of representing individuals.
With this as background, let us turn to the first kind of abstraction Locke
must posit, which involves simple qualities. In constructing an abstract idea
of white, for instance, the mind does not need to combine previous ideas
or drain them of any content, but only to separate them. The central issue
concerns what this separation amounts to. Most commentators suggest that
Locke appeals to a process of selective attention, whereby the mind attends
tosomefeaturesofasingleideaandignoresothers.Ifthisisright,thenLocke
must deny what Kenneth Winkler has called the “content assumption”: the
assumptionthatthecontentofthoughtisfixedbytheidea.Themindwould
generate an abstract idea of white not by separating it from the other ideas
with which it was initially bundled in sensation but by holding a complex
idea and attending to some aspect, in this case the color, and neglecting
others. Commentators such as C.C.W. Taylor, J.L. Mackie, Michael Ayers
and Winkler all hold that Locke not only endorses the selective attention
model but that it is his only model for understanding abstraction. But
I shall show that the text normally appealed to in order to justify this
reading is insufficient. Instead, Locke holds that one gains an idea of white,
for example, by separating it from its concomitant ideas. This presupposes
selective attention in that before one can separate idea A from ideas B and C
one must first have the complex idea ABC and selectively attend to A before
one is in a position to separate A from ABC. So abstraction, on my view,
requires but is not identical with selective attention. In the case of complex
ideas of substances, Locke seems to require an idea of a determinable in
order to represent things falling under a given sortal term. I shall argue that
the standard objections to this reading of Locke are inadequate. At most,
they show that Locke’s commitment to abstraction in this sense is in tension
with his position on conceivability and possibility. But even this tension
disappears, or so I shall argue, once one sees the passages in question in
their proper context.5
According to Locke, the third power of the mind is “separating them
[ideas] from all other Ideas that accompany them in their real existence;
this is called Abstraction” (II.xii.1: 163). On its face, this is an unambiguous
endorsement of the separation model. My opponents, however, typically
point to Locke’s discussion of abstraction in the previous chapter. In II.xi.9:
5 Other commentators who have argued against the dominant view of Lockean abstraction include
Christopher Panza (forthcoming) and Jonathan Walmsley (1999). I am indebted to their work in
what follows, with the exception of my treatment of space.
Essence and abstraction 59
159, Locke writes, “the Mind makes the particular Ideas, received from par-
ticular Objects, to become general; which is done by considering them as
they are in the Mind such Appearances, separate from all other Existences,
and the circumstances of real Existence, as Time, Place, or any other con-
comitant Ideas.” It is not immediately clear that this amounts to selective
attention, as Winkler and others have assumed. For in order to generate
an abstract idea, one considers it apart from its concomitant ideas, which
Locke thinks are distinct from it. So it is not that there is a single idea before
the mind that includes the circumstances of real existence Locke lists. In-
stead, this passage suggests that there are multiple ideas, only one of which
is before the mind after the process of abstraction has been completed.
This, of course, is compatible with the content assumption. Later in the
passage, however, Locke writes, “the same Colour being observed to day in
Chalk or Snow, which the mind yesterday received from Milk, it considers
that Appearance alone, makes it a representative of all that kind” (II.xi.9:
159). But this still does not amount to a clear endorsement of the selective
attention model, since of course one way to consider the appearance alone
is simply to think about the simple idea of white without thinking of the
ideas with which it came into the senses.6
The quick inference to selec-
tive attention depends on conflating these distinct ideas into one, whereas
Locke, of course, holds that the ideas provided by experience are all simple
ideas (see, e.g., II.i.1: 119). (I shall have more to say about this when I discuss
problem (2) below.)
If we are committed to reading Locke literally where possible, as I believe
we should be, we must take his consistent talk of abstraction as separation
seriously. On my reading, abstraction in this sense amounts to thinking of
an idea without thinking of its concomitant ideas. This is distinct from
attending to some aspect of an idea and not others. At this point we need
to examine Locke’s discussion of space (II.xiii.13), the text Winkler cites
as “decisive” in favor of attributing to Locke only the selective attention
model. In this passage, Locke wishes to distinguish what he calls partial
consideration from mental division. Locke seems to argue that the parts
of space are indivisible even in thought because they cannot be divided in
reality. Although Winkler takes this to mean that “Locke, like Berkeley,
is unwilling to allow mental separation where he refuses to allow actual
separation,”7
this is far from obvious. For there might be considerations
particular to the idea of space that make such separation impossible. What
6 C.C.W. Taylor (1978) also recognizes that these passages are ambiguous between the two models of
abstraction in question.
7 Winkler (1989, p. 41).
60 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
is more important, I shall argue that in these passages Locke is not speaking
of separation in the sense required by abstraction. Instead, he speaks of
“mental Separation, or Division” (II.xiii.13: 172). It will emerge that there
is a subtle but important difference between the separation involved in
abstraction and mental division.
We must begin by noting that these passages about space are not pre-
sented in the course of a discussion of abstraction and are certainly not
presented by Locke as an account of that process. Nowhere does Locke
connect these considerations about space with abstraction. Locke’s aim is
to show that body and extension are distinct ideas (II.xiii.11: 171); to do so
he points to a number of properties included in the one concept but not
the other. Among these is the property of divisibility: bodies are clearly
divisible, but space itself, with which Descartes had identified extension, is
not. Space is a simple idea which we get through sight and touch (II.xiii.2:
167), whereas its modes are complex ideas which “contain not in them the
supposition of subsisting by themselves, but are considered as Dependen-
cies on, or Affections of, Substances” (II.xii.4: 165). Thus Locke seems to
begin by treating space as a substance on which modes depend, though
later in II.xiii he will raise the question whether space is indeed a substance
or an accident.
What is important for my opponents, especially Ayers and Winkler, is
the general prohibition they think II.xiii contains against mental separation
without the possibility of physical separation. Winkler, for example, reads
Locke as committing himself to the more general Berkeleyan thesis that
conceivability entails possibility, the contrapositive of which would prohibit
abstract ideas. If it is impossible for what an idea represents to exist, and
this certainly seems to be the case at least with abstract ideas of kinds, then
the idea in question is similarly impossible. The solution offered by these
commentators is that Locke, like Berkeley, conceives of abstraction only as
selective attention.
As I shall show, however, this position is not supported by the text.
The passages in question show Locke issuing a prohibition against mental
division, not mental abstraction qua separation, and that only in the case of
space. Abstraction and division are distinguished by the fact that the latter
involves a further act of the mind over and above holding before the mind a
simple idea that has been split off from another. This is obscured by Locke’s
loose usage of “divide” and “separate”; but the substance of what he says will
make clear that there is in fact an important difference between these, even
if in the context of the passage under consideration he was not concerned
to draw this distinction explicitly. That there is a distinction is signaled by
Essence and abstraction 61
the fact that the passages concerning abstraction speak of separation only,
never division.
Here is the beginning of Locke’s passage:
To divide and separate actually, is, as I think, by removing the parts from one
another, to make two Superficies [surfaces], where before there was a Continuity:
And to divide mentally, is to make in the Mind two Superficies, where before
there was a Continuity, and consider them as removed one from the other; which can
only be done in things considered by the Mind, as capable of being separated . . .
(II.xiii.13: 172; italics mine).
To divide the parts of space mentally, then, involves more than simply
holding in mind an idea of a part of space that was formerly contained in
another idea of a part of space. What is said to be impossible is only doing
so when at the same time considering the two ideas as removed from one
another. Mental division is not abstraction, for abstraction involves forming
an idea of a quality or class of things by distilling some element already
present in the idea(s) given in the senses; division contains an extra mental
act. Locke argues that division is not possible in the mind where it is not
possible in reality, but this by itself does not rule out abstraction in my
sense.
’Tis true, a Man may consider so much of such a Space, as is answerable or
commensurate to a Foot, without considering the rest; which is indeed a par-
tial Consideration, but not so much as mental Separation, or Division; since a
Man can no more mentally divide, without considering two Superficies, separate one
from the other, than he can actually divide, without making two Superficies dis-
join’d one from the other: But a partial consideration is not separating. A Man
may consider Light in the Sun, without its heat; or Mobility in Body without its
extension, without thinking of their separation. One is only a partial considera-
tion, terminating in one alone; and the other is a Consideration of both, as existing
separately. (II.xiii.13: 172–3; second emphasis mine)
As in the earlier texts, it is simply not clear whether “partial consideration” is
to be identified with mental separation as I have defined it or with selective
attention. For surely one way to think of light in the sun without thinking
of its being separate from the sun is simply to have before the mind an
idea of light that one has separated from the other constituent ideas of the
complex idea of the sun. This reading is supported by the last line of the
quoted passage: partial consideration “terminates” in one surface (or idea
of that surface), not in a consideration of an aspect of that surface or idea.
However that may be, it is clear that both of these processes are to be
contrasted with mental division, which involves thinking of two surfaces
62 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
(“Superficies”) as existing separately or as divided. In order for an act of
thought to violate Locke’s principle that one can no more mentally divide
space than one can physically divide it, it would have to include a thought
of two surfaces as existing separately. But simply thinking of a single idea
of a part of space does not include this. It is only when one adds that
there is another part of space distinct from it that the problem is generated.
There is no suggestion in the text that this predicament is widespread; in
fact, it seems to turn on features peculiar to space. Commentators have
consistently missed the fact that mental division is here defined specifically
as it relates to space: there is obviously no suggestion on Locke’s part that
we achieve abstract ideas by “mak[ing] two Superficies, where before there
was a Continuity.”
What is it about pure space that makes it incapable of mental division?
The only way to divide something mentally is to think of an idea of a
continuity and thus in thought make two surfaces; then one must make
the further judgment that the two are removed from one another. But in
the case of space itself, there is no way to do this, for in introducing distinct
surfaces, we are thinking of separating only body, not space itself.8
Although it makes sense to speak of dividing or moving body, the same
cannot be said of extension or space. Thus, contra Descartes, extension and
body are two distinct ideas, which was exactly what Locke set out to prove.
None of this has any bearing on the very different matter of separating a
simple idea out of a complex one. Contrast the genesis of the abstract idea
of white. In this case, we split this idea off from the other constituents of
the complex idea. There is no reason to suppose that here, as in the case of
parts of space, we must also divide these ideas, which here would involve
affirming that the quality white and the other qualities which make up the
complex source idea represent independent objects.
Locke’s discussion of space, then, is by no means in tension with his
earlier pronouncement (II.xii.1, examined above) that abstraction is mental
separation. Nor is any difficulty created by Locke’s arguing that there is
no necessary connection between space and solidity on purely conceptual
grounds.9
For Locke is arguing in II.xiii for a distinction between the ideas
of body and extension/space, a point Winkler and others consistently miss.
True enough, there is an important upshot to all of this: Locke argues that
if we knew the real essence of body to be extension, our ideas of both would
8 Thus Jonathan Walmsley writes, “The parts of pure space, then, cannot be separated from each other,
as any such separation would involve the introduction of body, and such an introduction would mean
that we are not now thinking of pure space” (1999, p. 132).
9 Winkler (1989, p. 41).
Essence and abstraction 63
be the same, so that we could never go wrong in substituting one word for
the other.10
All of this is rather far from the problem of abstraction.
There are independent grounds for thinking that Locke does not en-
dorse Winkler’s conceivability principle. If Locke did hold this principle,
he would either be inconsistent or else we would have to read away most
of his official claims about abstraction. For Locke is quite clear in saying
that an indeterminate triangle, for example, “is something imperfect, that
cannot exist” (IV.vii.9: 596). Locke is not saying, of course, that the idea is
impossible. Although the idea of a determinable triangle serves to represent
triangles, nothing that is merely determinable can exist in reality, even if it
can exist in the mind in the sense that an idea can have it as its immediate
intentional object. Locke must therefore distinguish between nomological
and logical impossibility: determinable triangles are not logically incon-
sistent but prohibited from existing outside the mind, presumably by the
laws of nature. Winkler, of course, denies that Locke has the resources to
make such a distinction. Indeed, the conceivability principle depends on
eliding any such distinction, and Berkeley cheerfully accepts the conse-
quence that only self-contradictory things or states of affairs can be said to
be impossible. Although Winkler argues that the moderns in general do
not distinguish different kinds of modality, with the result that possibility
collapses into logical possibility alone, this is debatable. Michael Ayers, for
example, argues that Locke has room for synthetic a priori laws.11
In these
cases, the possibility of a thing or event would be determined not by logical
consistency, but by whether or not they violate these laws. But I do not
wish to insist upon this point. It seems to me far more clear simply to
point to the notorious triangle passage for a distinction between logical
and nomological possibility. Obviously Locke is not saying that the ab-
stract idea itself is impossible; nor does he think that particular triangles
are impossible; he must then think that the determinable triangle, what we
might call the content of the idea, is impossible. But clearly it is not logically
impossible, like a square circle; if it were, it would also be inconceivable.
Instead, it violates the laws of nature: no physical thing can exist that is not
fully determinate in every respect.
To support his attribution of the conceivability principle to Locke,
Winkler adverts to IV.iii.6, where Locke claims that it is possible for
thought to be annexed to matter because he can “see no contradiction
in it.” But of course this makes only for epistemic possibility: as far as I
10 Ayers calls this the “argument from language” (1991, vol. 2, pp. 51–64). See below, chapter four.
11 For such a distinction in Locke, see IV.viii.8; see Ayers (1991, vol. 2., ch. 12).
64 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
can tell, Goldbach’s conjecture might be true, because I cannot detect a
contradiction. But there is a clear gap between our being unable at this
moment to detect a contradiction and one’s really being present.
Let us see how this reading of the first kind of abstraction fares when
set against the remaining two problems outlined above. The first problem
asked why, since sensation only provides simple ideas, there is any need for
abstraction. Why couldn’t the mind simply focus on one of these ideas?
To see why abstraction is necessary, we must look at Locke’s account of
substances.
The Mind being, as I have declared, furnished with a great number of simple Ideas,
conveyed by the Senses, as they are found in exteriour things, or by Reflection on
its own Operations, takes notice also, that a certain number of these simple Ideas
go constantly together; which being presumed to belong to one thing, and Words
being suited to common apprehensions, and made use of for quick despatch, are
called so united in one subject, by one name; which by inadvertancy we are apt
afterward to talk of and consider as one simple Idea, which indeed is a complication
of many Ideas together . . . (II.xxiii.1: 295)
Although it is true that only simple ideas are available in experience, the
mind is disposed to assume that the variety of simple ideas received on a
certain occasion is in fact a single simple idea. So even though in experience
we perceive simple ideas, we tend to lump those ideas that “go constantly
together” into a single complex idea; it then takes effort to separate out the
original constituent ideas. Upon reflection, Locke thinks we will see that
our ideas of substances (such as man, horse, etc.) are complex rather than
simple. He does not, however, think that this fact is immediately obvious
in introspection.
The second and final remaining problem asks how it is that the mind can
be said to “make nothing new” when it generates an abstract idea. But in
the present case the answer is clear enough: the content of the abstract idea
of a quality is itself contained in that of the complex idea of a substance.
Thus in order to think of that quality, one need only separate it from the
others.
Thus, whether by selective attention or by separation, Locke clearly holds
that we are able to form general ideas of qualities on the basis of experience.
These ideas are given in experience and require only to have the ideas with
which they were initially experienced amputated, as it were, in order to
become general. We are now in a position to turn to complex, rather than
simple, abstract ideas, which can represent kinds of substances. This case is
the more difficult, as it involves the formation of ideas of whose intentional
Essence and abstraction 65
objects are not given, or at least not given as such, in experience. How is one
to form the idea of a human being on the basis of the individual humans
one has seen? Even if one were to strip away the determining features of
time and place, one would still be left with an idea of a particular human.
The famous passages in Book III suggest the following picture: after ob-
serving several individuals, one forms a general idea, wherein one “make[s]
nothing new, but only leave[s] out of the complex Idea [of the particular
instances] that which is peculiar to each, and retain[s] only what is common
to all” (III.iii.7: 411). On Locke’s view, we must construct a new idea by
draining away some content from the initial one. The idea then becomes
general in virtue of being an idea of a determinable. For example, the idea
of human being must include the property of having some height or other,
but not any height will do (a humanoid form that stood ten miles high
would not match up with most of our ideas of human being).
Is it possible to have an idea that is an idea of a determinable in the
requisite sense? If abstract ideas are construed as images, the answer must
be yes. There are two relevant kinds of indeterminacy. First, there is the
obvious sense in which an image as it were has nothing to say on a certain
issue. Does Goya’s Colossus have an ingrown toenail? Does he have a scar
on the right side of his face? The painting says nothing one way or another.
Second, and more problematically perhaps, images can have content that
is itself indeterminate and not merely that leaves some questions open. For
example, if one forms an image of a tiger, is it necessary that the image
have a fully determinate number of stripes? Tigers, of course, must be fully
determinate in every respect; but this does not prevent mental images from
being indeterminate.
Even if we grant all of this, however, we must acknowledge that Locke’s
account of abstraction does not fit very neatly with his account of represen-
tation (see above, chapter 1). Recall that simple ideas represent in virtue of
their causal and teleological connections with their objects. This works well
if we restrict ourselves to the abstraction of simple ideas. In such cases, we
separate off a single idea that has its representational powers as it were built
in: once we separate it off from the other ideas with which it was intromit-
ted by the senses, the simple idea of white represents the relevant quality
(type, and not just token) in the object that caused that idea. But what can
Locke say about complex abstract ideas, such as the idea of a horse? Here,
in sharp contrast to his discussion of simple ideas of sensation, he relies on
resemblance. But between what sorts of things is the resemblance supposed
to hold? If between an idea and the real object, the resemblance would
obtain only with regard to ideas of primary qualities. But clearly most of
66 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
our substance ideas will also involve ideas of secondary qualities as well, pri-
marily color, but also, in some cases, taste and the other secondary qualities
(see II.xxxi.8: 381). In such cases, the resemblance relation will not hold.
Need we read Locke as committing himself to this account of resem-
blance with regard to complex abstract ideas? Let me suggest another way,
equally consistent with the texts, in which to make sense of Locke’s view.
One forms these ideas by noting resemblances among particulars and omit-
ting those features in which the particulars diverge. It is natural to say, then,
that one recognizes x as of type y when one’s idea of x (and not x itself)
resembles y in the relevant respects. Thus, the resemblance that funds the
representational capabilities of complex abstract ideas obtains between the
complex, fully particular idea we get from sensation and another idea,
viz., the abstract idea. Even if ideas of secondary qualities cannot resemble
anything in the objects themselves, they can surely resemble one another.
This reading seems justified in light of Locke’s remarks in II.xxx and
II.xxxi. The reality and adequacy of complex ideas of substances depends
not on the degree to which they resemble the objects they represent but
rather on the degree to which they capture the co-existence in experience
of the simple ideas that make them up. Locke writes that complex ideas
of substances “are no farther real, than as they are Combinations of simple
Ideas, as are really united, and co-exist in Things without us” (II.xxx.5: 374).
Here Locke’s self-consciously ambiguous use of “idea” (see II.viii.8: 134)
complicates matters. Locke surely does not mean that the ideas really exist
in extra-mental things. If we compare a later passage, Locke’s meaning
becomes a bit clearer. Locke says that our ideas of substances are inadequate,
for “whatever Collection of simple Ideas it makes of any Substance that
exists, [the mind] cannot be sure, that it exactly answers all that are in the
Substance” (II.xxxi.13: 383). When forming our ideas of substances, our
aim, in the usual case, is to include all and only those simple ideas whose
co-existence has been experienced. Given the way simple ideas represent,
the idea/quality ambiguity is virtuous: the presence of a simple idea in
experienceindicatesthecorrespondingpresenceofthequalitythatproduces
it. The barriers to adequacy and reality arise when we try to discern the
purely accidental co-occurrences of such qualities from those that are not.
In terms of representation, however, the resemblance relation that allows a
complex abstract idea to be applied to a number of particular substances
obtains not between the idea and those substances but between the abstract
idea and the ideas of those substances. It is then a further question whether
the qualities that the simple ideas represent are “really united” in the extra-
mental object or have occurred together for some other reason.
Essence and abstraction 67
If I am right, it is not strictly accurate to cast Locke as a purely causal
(or causal-cum-teleological) theorist with regard to representation. He must
invoke resemblance to explain representation at the level of complex ab-
stract ideas; the resemblance holds between two ideas, and not an idea and
its extra-mental object. If it is difficult to see how a mental object could
resemble something extra-mental, it should be correspondingly easier to
see how two mental objects might resemble each other. The difficulties,
however, with making resemblance do any of the work of representation
are so well known I shall not go through them here.12
It is worth point-
ing out that Locke’s failed attempt to account for the representation of
complex ideas makes him no worse off than contemporary theorists who
attempt similar reductions of representation. For one of the most serious
difficulties afflicting the projects of Fodor, Dretske, Millikan, and others,
is their apparent inability to explain how complex concepts and mental
states are generated. The point retains its force even though “simple” and
“complex” obviously mean different things in Lockean and contemporary
contexts. It is one thing to explain the content of a mental state such as the
belief that it is raining; it is quite another to explain the content of mental
states that are far removed from the context of indication, or that of any
of the other recently proposed naturalistic analyses.13
For our purposes, it
is enough to see that Locke’s two-tiered approach to representation allows
him to acknowledge the role of the mind in forming abstract ideas of kinds
while still anchoring the representation of simple ideas to their (proper)
causes.
Having addressed objections (1) and (3) above, we are now in a position
to deal with (2), which presents a genuine problem for abstract ideas in this
second sense only. (2) asks how Locke can posit a process or method by
which abstract ideas are created and at the same time hold that in creating
such ideas the mind “makes nothing new.” It seems that the content of any
abstract idea must in some sense already be present in experience. Although
this posed no problems for abstract ideas of qualities, it remains obscure
how experience could contain the determinable features requisite for ab-
stract ideas of kinds. I think there is a perfectly good sense in which forming
an idea of a determinable from determinates can be said to introduce no
new features. For what made the idea a representation of a particular in
the first place was the determinacy of its content in the relevant respects:
the idea represented, say, a Peruvian hairless rather than dogs-in-general.
12 For a brief discussion of the problems with resemblance as representation, see Cummins (1989,
p. 46).
13 See Crane (1995, p. 189).
68 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
It makes sense for Locke to say that abstraction is a process of omitting
irrelevant details while retaining the feature of dog-in-general, which the
content of the original idea also had. But the problem is not to be brushed
off so quickly. The sense in which the original content can be said to have
this feature seems attenuated at best: it did not represent dogs-in-general
but only those of the Peruvian hairless breed. There are at least two in-
terpretative options: we can say that Locke did not mean his claim that
the mind makes nothing new when it makes abstract ideas to be taken in
the way I have taken it, or we can say that experience itself reveals deter-
minable features.14
Neither option is attractive, but the latter may seem
preferable if we consider that a determinate feature may “contain” a deter-
minable in the sense that it contains the material for forming the idea of the
determinable.Thatis,theidea’sfeaturesaresuchthatperformingtheappro-
priate abstractive process on it is sufficient to produce the relevant abstract
idea.
objections and replies
In this section I shall consider briefly what I take to be the two most
prominent objections to Locke’s view. It is important to see that this inquiry
is distinct from the interpretative project of the previous section. However
well or badly a given view fares is not in general relevant to the issue of
whether a philosopher holds that view. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that
Locke’s account as I have interpreted it has the resources to answer these
objections.
The first objection, presented by Wittgenstein in the Blue and Brown
Books and leveled against Locke by Bennett, argues that Locke’s account
presupposes the very ability it is supposed to explain.15
For classifying ideas
seems no different in kind from classifying things. Consider, for example,
the account Locke would give of someone recognizing an animal as an
aardvark. One is presented with a visual image of the creature and then
consults one’s catalogue of abstract ideas to find one that fits the image.
But how is it that, although I could not simply look at the aardvark and
recognize it, I can “look” at my abstract idea of an aardvark and recognize it?
The abstract ideas which determine what kind of thing a particular item is
are themselves particulars, no less in need of classification than extra-mental
objects.
14 I am indebted to Christopher Panza for making me see this difficulty.
15 See Wittgenstein (1958, p. 3) and Bennett (1971, p. 15).
Essence and abstraction 69
The objection needs to be developed a bit more carefully if it is to
apply to Locke, however. For Locke, the issue cannot be how we recognize
aardvarks, since his representationalism entails that we perceive aardvarks
only through the mediation of our ideas. It is the idea given in sensation,
not the thing the idea represents, that needs classifying. If for the moment
we assume that Lockean ideas are images, the “matching” of a new idea to an
abstract idea becomes more perspicuous. Locke might well have conceived
this process as the mental analogue of sliding a piece of tracing paper over
a number of other drawings in order to see which one it matched.
This conception of recognition fits neatly with E.J. Lowe’s rejoinder
to the Wittgensteinian argument. Locke’s view is indeed in peril if he
held that our abstract ideas themselves stand in need of classification. But
Locke might reply that the mechanism by which one applies an abstract
idea to a new item of experience is automatic, in the way that a vending
machine’s “recognition” of a quarter is automatic. Matching the idea of the
aardvark with the appropriate abstract idea does not require an extra step
whereby one recognizes that the abstract idea is an idea of an aardvark.16
To
Lowe’s proposal, however, the Wittgensteinian will reply that if automatic
processes are to be invoked in the case of abstract ideas, why could they
not be invoked at the initial stage, when one is first presented with the
novel item of experience? This would circumvent the need for abstract
ideas altogether. The challenge to Locke is to show a difference in kind
between the recognition of ideas of sensation and that of abstract ideas;
there is no reason to think that abstract ideas “wear their character on their
faces,” as it were, while ideas given in sensation do not.
This reply in fact reveals the central weakness of the Wittgensteinian
argument. For what exactly is it to “classify an abstract idea?” We know
what it is to classify an idea of sensation: it is to determine that it agrees
with or fits a certain abstract idea. But what then is left to explain? Perhaps
the Wittgensteinian is asking for an account of why we associate a given
word with an abstract idea. “Classifying” the abstract idea, then, would
be determining which word signifies that idea. But this is a demand that
Locke can meet. Let us back up a moment and consider very briefly Locke’s
account of language learning. When first learning the signification of a
categorematic word, one might need to be given an ostensive definition, or
a definition in terms of other words.17
After this instruction has “taken,”
a causal connection is set up whereby hearing a given word causes one to
16 See Lowe (1995, p. 165).
17 Wittgenstein, of course, challenges ostensive definition as means of linguistic instruction. I consider
this below; see chapter six.
70 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
have the associated idea. Why shouldn’t the connection go the other way
as well? Locke might well hold that having a certain abstract idea brings to
mind the idea of the word associated with it. There is no need for a further
process of recognition to determine which word is associated with a given
abstract idea.
The second common objection stems from the work of Peter Geach.18
On Locke’s view, we must (at least at some early stage of our mental devel-
opment) be able to identify and re-identify objects without bringing them
under concepts. Concept formation is posterior to our experience of a world
of objects. But how is it that we can individuate objects before applying
concepts to them? How can we think of the aardvark as a distinct item in
need of classification without thinking of it as an animal, or a living thing,
or what have you? Locke seems to require that we can fix our attention on
objects without applying any sortal terms to them at all.
To answer this objection, it is not necessary to make the ontological claim
that the world is sorted into discrete objects and then work back to our
apprehension of this fact. Indeed, it is one of Locke’s central claims that our
pre-theoretical conception of the world is in many respects mistaken. What
Locke needs is some way to account for the origin of this pre-theoretical
conception in the first place. Locke seems to take for granted that we do
in fact individuate objects prior to having an abstract idea that would
allow us to think of them as members of a certain kind. A natural account
for him to give of this process is to posit a psychological disposition to
individuate objects as we do. It seems true that some ways of “carving up”
the world are more natural to us than others. Locke can accept the point
made by contemporary empiricists such as Quine and Goodman that this
naturalness does not reflect anything in the nature of the things themselves.
Our tendency to think of a rabbit, for instance, as a distinct object from the
grass on which it sits might well have a basis in evolutionary psychology.
To adapt a phrase of Quine’s, creatures who do not individuate animals
from their settings, for example, have the pathetic but praiseworthy habit
of dying out.
To what extent does this answer the objection? Once again we see Locke
driven to posit an automatic psychological mechanism. The natural reply
is that this is inconsistent with his empiricism.19
After all, Locke inveighs
against innate ideas; how then can he help himself to these innate mecha-
nisms? But the claim that human beings are predisposed to sort the things
18 See Geach (1957, §§6–11).
19 Lowe (1995, p. 163) makes a parallel point about the detection of resemblance, an issue treated above.
Essence and abstraction 71
they encounter in one way rather than another is in no way inconsistent
with the denial of innate ideas. What would be innate is not an idea at all
but rather a capacity. Even the most rabid empiricist must, after all, grant
that some capacities are innate in human beings. Locke does not claim that
the pre-theoretical picture of the world generated with the help of these
capacities mirrors anything in nature. Moreover, Locke’s famous character-
ization of the mind as a “tabula rasa” must be balanced against his claim
that the mind at birth is an “empty Cabinet” (I.ii.15: 55). The metaphors
are importantly different, since, unlike a blank slate, a cabinet has some
structure. Locke might well have thought that this structure was the result
of innate psychological mechanisms.
I have done no more in this section than sketch some replies Locke might
make to these familiar objections. I propose now to consider his position
on the related topics of properties and universals.
realism and nominalism
Locke’s account of abstraction, as I have said, is meant to function as a
replacement for the Aristotelian account of intentionality, especially where
natural kinds are concerned. Although it is usual to subsume the question
of natural kinds under that of properties or universals, Locke’s novel move
is to give a quite different treatment to each. Since his main purpose is
to attack the Aristotelians, he spends most of his time arguing against
realism about natural kinds. Falling under a kind is simply agreeing with
a nominal essence, which itself is an abstract idea. Thus Locke’s positive
position on natural kinds is naturally much more perspicuous than his
position on properties; nevertheless, the outlines of his position can be
discerned. We should not be misled, however, into thinking that the two
questions are totally independent of one another. R.I. Aaron, for example,
makes this mistake when he writes, “Locke might have denied that we
knew real essences in the case of species and genera and yet have affirmed
that we knew universals in the realist sense in the case of universals of
quality. But he never considers these points.”20
In the course of his anti-
Aristotelian arguments, Locke, as we have seen, claims that everything that
exists is particular; there are thus no universals of quality out there to know.
But Aaron is right to point out that conceptual nominalism at the level
of natural kinds does not imply a similar nominalism about qualities or
properties.
20 Aaron (1952, p. 40).
72 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
What complicates matters here is that the term “nominalist” can refer
to a wide array of positions. For if Locke is a nominalist in the sense that
he believes that everything is particular, so too, arguably, are Aristotle and
perhaps even Plato. (After all, if we take seriously Plato’s position in the
Timaeus that the forms are exemplars, it seems they must themselves be
particular.) To be more precise, I propose to use the term instead to refer
to those views that hold that there is no mind- or language-independent
justification for grouping things or qualities under a single heading. Even
within this camp, we can distinguish the restricted nominalist, who im-
poses extra-linguistic or extra-mental limits on the nature and number
of kinds we construct, from what we might pejoratively call the rabid
nominalist, who accepts no such constraints. (The latter view is extremely
unpopular, although certain of Hobbes’s remarks lead one to believe that
he was sympathetic to it.) In this sense, I shall argue, Locke is a restricted
nominalist with regard to natural kinds, but a realist with regard to proper-
ties construed as foundations of objective resemblances at the corpuscular
level.
Locke tells us that nominal essences are the abstract ideas signified
by general terms. At both the micro- and macro-physical levels, Locke
holds that there are objective resemblances. “Nature, in the Production
of Things, makes several of them alike”; sorting things under names “is
the Workmanship of the Understanding, taking occasion from the similitude it
observesamongstthem”(III.iii.13:415).Locke’sversionofconceptnominal-
ism, then, falls into the category of “restricted” nominalism, set out above.
In addition to pragmatic constraints on our groupings of things, Locke
recognizes constraints imposed by objective resemblances. The crucial de-
parture from realism that Locke effects turns on the claim that objective
resemblance does not uniquely determine a particular classification or sort-
ing of the objects in question. So although we must be responsive to these
resemblances, we cannot suppose that they justify us in choosing one sys-
tem of concepts over another. We are always free to ask why this particular
point of resemblance should be chosen over another in constructing our
idea of a kind.
Nevertheless, Locke’s doctrine of real essences might seem to take the
bite out of his nominalism. For his picture might seem to suggest that we
are justified in positing a single real essence isomorphic to each nominal
essence. That Locke does not hold this is clear. For one of his key arguments
against the claim that nominal rather than real essences determine kind-
membership for us turns on the claim that members of the same kind often
exhibit different properties. Locke writes,
Essence and abstraction 73
That we find many of the Individuals that are ranked into one Sort, called by
one common Name, and so received as being of one Species, have yet Qualities
depending on their real Constitutions, as far different one from another, as from
others, from which they are accounted to differ specifically. This, as it is easy to be
observed by all, who have to do with natural Bodies; so Chymists especially are
often, by sad Experience, convinced of it, when they, sometimes in vain, seek for
the same Qualities in one parcel of Sulphur, Antinomy, or Vitriol, which they have
found in others. (III.vi.8: 443)
The pre-theoretical sorting of objects according to their readily observable
properties is obviously subject to correction.21
What is of interest here is
the suggestion that so long as we cannot penetrate to the real essences of
things, there is always the chance that the objective resemblances at the
macro-physical level are explained not by the persistence of a single real
essence or inner constitution but by multiple such constitutions. Moreover,
even a real essence, if we could discover it, would be relative to an abstract
idea (III.vi.6: 442; III.vi.29: 463). For anything to be an “essence” of either
the nominal or real sort implies that there is some feature it has necessarily.
“Buttakeawaytheconsiderationofitsbeingrankedunderthenameofsome
abstract Idea, and then there is nothing necessary to it, nothing inseparable
from it.” Thus even a real essence “relates to a Sort, and supposes a Species”
(III.vi.6: 442).
Matters are much more complicated when we come to the question of the
ontological status of properties rather than natural kinds. Locke’s consistent
claims that we are ignorant of the real essences of things presupposes that
there is some objective foundation for the resemblances we would detect
among things were our senses sufficiently perspicacious to perceive that real
constitution.
If we could discover the Figure, Size, Texture, and Motion of the minute Con-
stituent parts of any two Bodies, we should know without Trial several of their
Operations one upon another, as we do now the Properties of a Square, or Triangle.
(IV.iii.25: 556)
This passage reflects Locke’s belief that the laws of nature are in principle
intelligible, even if they are not intelligible to us now. The picture it suggests
is one in which the laws of nature are ultimately the laws of geometry that
we could apply a priori if we knew the primary qualities of the corpuscles.22
This is consistent with Locke’s hostility to Aristotelian realism, since there
21 One might think that II.xxiii.3: 296 tells against this interpretation; but there Locke only says that the
combinations of simple ideas that go together in experience are “supposed to flow from the particular
internal Constitution, or unknown Essence of that Substance” (emphasis mine).
22 See Ayers (1991, vol. 2, ch. 12).
74 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
is no suggestion here that objects having similar internal constitutions, and
so similar causal powers, form natural kinds. Which points of resemblance
to take as essential for being of a given kind is up to us, subject to the limits
set out above.
How are we to reconcile Locke’s denial of real universals with his com-
mitment to properties? Concept nominalism is clearly of no use here, since
Locke insists that the resemblances among objects are objective and not
a matter for conceptual or linguistic legislation. Many writers argue that
Locke holds a kind of resemblance nominalism (henceforth “RN”), ac-
cording to which the resemblances Locke alludes to are founded on fully
particularized properties. The defender of RN must posit such properties
on pain of vacuity. For it is always a good question, in virtue of what do a
and b resemble one another? If the defender of RN replies simply that it
is a brute fact that resemblance obtains, that opens the door for anything
to resemble anything else, as D.M. Armstrong points out.23
Instead, the
strongest version of RN casts particularized natures, in Armstrong’s phrase,
or, as I prefer, particularized properties, to account for resemblance. To say
that two things are the same in some respect is not to say that they share in
a numerically identical universal, but that they have particular properties
related by means of exact resemblance. Like identity, exact resemblance
is symmetrical, transitive, and reflexive. It is crucial to see that this view
need not be identified with the trope theories of G.F. Stout and D.C.
Williams, among others; there is no suggestion here that the properties are
ontologically independent of the substances they modify, or that things are
“bundles” of properties.24
It is not clear to what extent Locke commits himself to this view. We
cannot take it for granted that Locke had a fully worked-out view, which
needs only to be discovered. He might well have felt himself pulled in
different directions. Nevertheless, it does seem true that either the trope
theory or the version of resemblance nominalism sketched above must be
attributed to Locke if he is to avoid inconsistency. Since his commitment to
a substance/attribute ontology is indisputable, it seems clear that the latter
view is to be preferred.
Nevertheless, RN faces some serious challenges, foremost among them
Russell’s regress argument.25
Russell argues that the appearance of economy
RN presents is illusory. RN has seemed attractive primarily because it allows
one to avoid positing universals; but Russell argues that this is not in fact
the case. Suppose a and b resemble each other in respect F, that is, they
23 Armstrong (1989, p. 44). 24 Denkel (1989) makes this point. 25 Russell (1912, p. 55).
Essence and abstraction 75
have particularized properties F and F’ which resemble each other exactly.
Russell now asks, what of this resemblance itself? Is it another particularized
property? But then we will need to posit yet another resemblance relation
to account for the resemblance between the F and F’ and that which holds
between F” and F’’’, where F” and F’’’ are properties of distinct objects.
We are soon involved in a regress; the only way to avoid it is to posit
resemblance as a real universal, in which case the apparent economy of RN
disappears.26
E.J. Lowe suggests that this argument is fatal to Locke’s position.27
But
the answer to Russell’s regress has in fact come from Armstrong, who in
Universals and Scientific Realism had himself deployed it against RN. There
must be something wrong with Russell’s argument, Armstrong argues, be-
cause if it were sound it would undermine not just RN, but every theory that
attempts to account for the apparent phenomena of universals. Even a pred-
icate nominalist will have to posit applying as the tie between the predicate
and its referents. And the believer in universals must posit instantiation.28
An argument that tells against all views on a given topic cannot be held
to be decisive. Michael Loux has suggested a different reply to Russell.29
Russell assumes that the regress is vicious, but it is not obvious that this is
so. The infinite hierarchy of resemblances thus generated might be meta-
physically uneconomical, but so long as these higher-order resemblances
are not invoked by RN to explain the first-order resemblance, the regress is
virtuous. RN analyzes the claim that two objects a and b resemble each
other in respect F in terms of the particularized properties, which in turn
resemble one another. This analysis might generate, but clearly does not
invoke, the higher-order resemblances.
We are now in a position to move forward and ask to what degree Locke’s
position is a realist one. How far are we constrained by the world in forming
our abstract ideas, both of properties and kinds?
It is clear that Lockean real essences, being relative to abstract ideas,
are not Aristotelian essences adapted to the corpuscularian or mechanist
ontology. They are mind-dependent in a way that prohibits us from pre-
tending that we could ever “carve nature at its joints,” no matter how deeply
we penetrated into its microscopic structure. Nevertheless, it is quite clear
26 Alan Donagan (1971) suggests an alternative reading, according to which Russell was attempting
to show the ineliminability of predicate-terms. But then it is not clear that the argument has any
ontological force. See Loux (1978, p. 46) for a discussion of Donagan.
27 Lowe (1995, p. 163).
28 Armstrong (1989, p. 54). For a different reply to Russell’s regress, see Denkel (1989).
29 Loux (1978, p. 46).
76 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
that at neither the macro- nor the microscopic level are our abstract ideas
formed arbitrarily (see III.iii.13: 415; III.vi.28: 455; III.vi.46: 468). Locke
often speaks of a “standard” set by nature, according to which we form
such ideas. This standard must simply be the co-existence of certain ideas
in our experience. Although there is no bar to combining the idea of the
head of a tiger with that of the body of a man, such an idea would be
useless for practical purposes. This uselessness is then explained in terms
of the regular productions of nature. At the corpuscular level we also find
objective resemblances founded on particular properties. These properties
will be the primary qualities, which would both cause and resemble the
ideas we would have of them if our senses were sufficiently acute.
There is a prima facie tension between Locke’s view of laws of nature and
the version of RN attributed to him above. Locke, it seems, wants to claim
that objects have the causal powers they do in virtue of their hidden inner
constitution. This in turn is explicated in terms of their having certain
primary qualities; the interrelations between these qualities explain why in
a given circumstance a given effect is produced. These primary qualities
are nothing more than a selected subset of the thing’s properties. So we can
generate an account of laws of nature according to which an exemplifica-
tion of F brings about, under a certain set of background conditions, an
exemplification of G. This claim itself would invoke nomological necessi-
ties that Locke might well wish to analyze in terms of the laws of geometry,
which, on his view, are synthetic. We thus have the means to ground out
the counterfactual claims that seem essential to causation. The problem
is that for Locke F and G are fully particular properties. So it seems we
can never generate a law of nature that applies in multiple instances. (This
concern seems to lie behind Armstrong’s challenge to RN.)30
Unless Locke
wishes to hold some version of causal particularism à la G.E.M. Anscombe,
and it seems clear he does not, he is stuck.
A natural response on Locke’s behalf would be to speak not of individual
properties but of resemblance classes founded on those on properties. So an
exemplification of F is analyzed not as an exemplification of the universal F
but rather the presence of a particularized property that exactly resembles
others of its class. The laws of nature will then involve these classes of
properties rather than the properties themselves. They will take the form:
whenever a particular having a property similar to others in a class defined
by resemblance, the presence of a property similar to others in a different
class will come about. It will be no objection to say that things do not
30 See Armstrong (1991, p. 489).
Essence and abstraction 77
have their causal powers in virtue of the resemblance class to which they
belong (after all, if there were only one individual object in the universe,
it would resemble no others, but still might have causal powers). Locke
is free to agree with Armstrong that the properties of things account for
their causal powers. It is just that those properties themselves are fully
particular. Armstrong’s challenge, then, can be met. Although Locke did
not himself formulate his position in this way, it is consistent with his other
commitments.
One of the virtues of this realist cum nominalist position, whether or
not I am correct in ascribing it to Locke, is its ability to accommodate
our intuition that although nominal essences are human constructions
they are not formed arbitrarily. Locke can also claim that an ideal science
would appeal to fully particularized properties at the corpuscular level to
explain the causal powers of physical objects. Whatever its other defects,
these positions serve Locke’s purpose well: to provide an alternative to the
Aristotelian view without sacrificing the belief that there is in principle
an objective foundation for our ascriptions of properties and our belief in
causal laws.
At this stage of the present work, we have examined Locke’s views of
signification, abstraction, and essence. We are now in a position to turn
to Locke’s application of these views in his anti-Aristotelian project before
assessing of his overall position.
chapter 4
Locke contra the Aristotelians: signification
and definition
With this background in place, we can now see how Locke deploys his
linguistic thesis in an argument against the Aristotelians. For Locke’s in-
vestigations into the nature of language are not gratuitously added on to
the rest of the Essay. They have a clear polemical purpose: to guard against
confusion, both quotidian and philosophical. Locke holds that some of
the chief obstacles to the advancement of knowledge stem from an igno-
rance of the workings of words. In particular, the Aristotelian conception
of empirical inquiry as directed at uncovering de re definitions stems from
a fundamental misconception of the signification of words. Before we can
see this, however, we must begin with a sketch of the position under attack.1
locke’s opponents
According to the Aristotelian family of views, definition proceeds by as-
signing a difference to a genus: thus in the definition of man, animal is the
genus, rationality the difference. The properties of the thing (such as risibil-
ity in humans) flow from its essence; they are not essential, but instead are
a result of the essence. Other traits are accidents, which do not flow from
the essence. Within accidents, we can distinguish separable ones (such as
baldness in humans) from inseparable (such as the blackness of a crow). A
definition expresses the essence of a substance;2
indeed, an essence just is
the substance, insofar as it is knowable by the intellect.3
In Aquinas’s termi-
nology, “definition” refers to the definiens, which is not of subject-predicate
form: “definitions . . . do not declare that something is or is not.”4
Rational
1 This account is drawn from Thomas Spencer (1628, p. 57ff.), cited in Ayers (1981), and John Sergeant
(1984), as well as the works of Aquinas. I am attempting here only to extract what is common to these
authors; I go on below to point out their differences.
2 See, e.g., Aquinas, De Ente et Essentia (1993, p. 93).
3 Aquinas, Summa Theologica I, 3, 5, ad.1, in Aquinas (1945, vol. 1, p. 32); see also I, 29, 2. See Etienne
Gilson (1956, p. 30).
4 Commentary on the Posterior Analytics I.19 in Aquinas (1970, p. 62).
78
Locke contra the Aristotelians 79
animal, construed as a real nature, is the definition of human being; sim-
ilarly, the definiendum is not a linguistic entity but a real nature, existing
enmattered, outside of the mind.5
This is not to say, however, that an
individual can be defined qua individual; for on Aquinas’s view, materia
signata, matter thought of as underlying certain defined dimensions, is the
principle of individuation and cannot enter into a definition.6
To arrive
at a definition of Socrates qua human being, we must abstract the form, a
universal, from the particular entity, Socrates. This means merely that we
consider the specific nature apart from its individuating characteristics.7
A
true definition (here, in the sense of a proposition) of “human being” has a
predicate that consists of terms signifying the essence of human beings. This
essence exists only in individual matter; it is the business of the intellect
to know such natures, but not as individualized natures. Aquinas offers an
account of this process according to which an intelligible species is present
in the intellect as a likeness of the thing understood. But it is crucial that we
not mistake this intelligible species for the object of thought or definition.
It is that by which we understand, not that which is understood.8
No Aristotelian is committed to thinking that all our definitions fully
capture the real essences of things. Instead, as John Sergeant puts it,
“Definitions are the Work of Reflection, and are to suppose our Natural
Notions, which are the Rough Drafts of Knowledge, Common to us, and
to the Vulgar.”9
Nature provides us with notions in experience, for they
are the intelligible forms as they exist in the mind abstracted from expe-
rience. Thus the business of science is to refine the understanding of the
untutored, not supplant it. Although we may include some aspects of the
thing’s essence in our notion “confusedly,”10
they are present and need only
be drawn out by reflection.
5 This, it should be noted, is only the most prominent kind of definition in the Aristotelian tradition.
At Posterior Analytics II. 8–11, Aristotle introduces another definition of “definition,” viz., that which
“makes clear why a thing is” (93b37, in Aristotle 1984, vol. 1., p. 155). For example, if we define
thunder as the extinguishing of fire in the clouds, we thereby give an account of thunder through
its cause. See also Metaphysics Z 17, as well as Aquinas’s commentary on the relevant chapters of the
Posterior Analytics. This class of definitions is seldom discussed in the modern period, whether by
Aristotelians or their opponents. One important exception to this is Hobbes, who contends that
definitions of caused things “must consist of such names as express the cause or manner of their
generation” (De Corpore 6, in Hobbes 1839–45, vol. 1., p. 81).
6 De Ente et Essentia, in Aquinas (1993, p. 94). Aquinas does, however, argue that matter in general,
e.g., flesh and bone in general, can enter into the definition. This “undemarcated” matter itself, it
seems, is simply form at a different level, and can be included in a definition: “Socrates’ essence
differs from human essence [which includes ‘flesh and bones in general’] only by being demarcated”
(De Ente et Essentia, p. 94).
7 Summa I, 85, 1 ad 1, in Aquinas (1945, vol. 1, pp. 813–14).
8 Summa I, 85, 2, in Aquinas (1945, vol. 1, p. 817). 9 Sergeant (1984, p. 299).
10 Sergeant (1984, p. 294).
80 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
As many writers have noticed, Aristotelianism is hardly homogeneous.
Within the camp of those who claim that the categorematic words in a
definition signify essences, we can distinguish those, like Aquinas, who
distinguish the intentional species from the object of thought, and those,
like Locke’s contemporaries John Sergeant and Kenelm Digby, who do not.
On Aquinas’s view, the intentional species is a part of the causal mechanism
that allows our thought to be directed to the extra-mental essence and is
not itself, in the usual case, an object of thought or definition.11
What is
defined is a thing, and a definition signifies its essence.12
The distinction
between the manner of existence proper to things as they exist in the world
and as they exist in the mind is a key part of the Aristotelian tradition.
Aquinas, for example, is careful to draw it in his discussion in the Summa.13
Reasonably enough, he claims that this difference in manners of existence
means that the intentional species and the enmattered species cannot be
numerically identical but only similar.
Seventeenth-century Aristotelians such as Digby and Sergeant offer a
different account. Both claim that what is present in the mind is the object
of thought. Their novel move is to claim that the mental object is nu-
merically identical with the extra-mental thing, in a sense specified below.
Moreover, both misread earlier Scholastics as claiming that the intentional
species is what is immediately known. Against this position, Sergeant ar-
gues that if what is present in us in the act of intellection were merely the
likeness of a thing, we could not be said to understand the thing itself but
merely something that imperfectly resembles it. “The Schoolmen . . . in-
vented their Species Intentionales; which, if they were not the Same with our
Notions, or the Things in our Knowledge, were mere Resemblances coined
by Fancy, as our Modern Ideas generally are.”14
He continues: “If they
[intentional species] be imperfectly like the Thing, they are no more but
mere Resemblances of it; then, ’tis already abundantly demonstrated, that
the Thing can never be known by them.”15
Sergeant is referring to an earlier
discussion, not of the Schoolmen, but of Locke, where Sergeant writes,
11 See esp. Summa Theologica I q. 85 art. 2, in Aquinas (1945, vol. 1, pp. 816–18).
12 See Aquinas (1970, I.19). Matters are complicated by the fact that Aquinas wants to count only the
definiens as a definition (1970, I.19.5, II.2.11) and MacDonald (1993, p. 169ff.). The crucial point for
my purposes, however, is that the definiendum is supposed to be extra-mental and extra-linguistic.
For an argument that “it is unacceptable for a definition to be nothing more than a statement
explaining the signification of a name,” see Aquinas (1970, p. 186).
13 Aquinas (1945, vol. 1, p. 795): “the intellect, according to its own mode, receives under conditions
of immateriality and immobility the species of material and mobile bodies; for the received is in the
receiver according to the mode of the receiver.”
14 Sergeant (1984, p. 60). 15 Sergeant (1984, p. 61).
Locke contra the Aristotelians 81
“That only is Known, which I have in my Knowledge, or in my Under-
standing . . . Therefore, if I have only the Idea, and not the Thing, in my
Knowledge or Understanding, I can only know the Idea, and not the Thing;
and by consequence, I know nothing without me, or nothing in Nature.”16
Kenelm Digby argues in precisely the same way.17
This argument would
not make sense unless it assumed that what is in the mind is the thing
apprehended or understood, rather than part of the mechanism whereby
the mind is directed to that thing. Sergeant and Digby both insist that
direct realism demands that, in the latter’s words, “when we apprehend any
thing, the very thing is in us.”18
On this view, the definiendum is a mental
content, the species as it exists immaterially in the mind. Definitions may
be said to be de re simply because there is no real distinction between an
idea of a real essence and a real essence: though they have different manners
of existence, they are identical. Sergeant writes, “A Notion is the very thing
it self existing in my understanding.”19
Obviously Sergeant does not mean
that the thing exists materially in the mind. His view is made clear later
in Solid Philosophy, where he addresses the objection that the extra-mental
object can be known only by resemblance, since whatever exists in the un-
derstanding has immaterial being, and so is not identical with anything
outside the understanding. Sergeant writes,
[Someone might object] that the Notion of a Thing (a Stone, for example) has a
Spiritual Manner of Being in the Mind; whereas the Thing, or Stone, out of the
Mind has a Corporeal Manner of Being, and therefore ’tis in some respect Different
from the Thing; and consequently, not perfectly the Same with it; and so can only
be barely like it, or resemble it. I answer, ’Tis granted that it is Unlike it, and so
Different from it, and therefore not the same with it, as to the Manner of Existing;
but I deny that either its Existing, or Manner of Existing do enter into the Notion
(except in the notion of God, to whom Existence is Essential,) or do at all belong
to it, or the Thing either; but that the Notion is the Thing, precisely according to
what is Common to it both in the Understanding and out of it, abstractedly from
both those Manners of Existing.20
The fact that Sergeant’s notions and physical objects have different manners
of existing, since one is immaterial and the other material, does not prevent
them from being identical. Notice how far we are from the Thomistic
conception. Aquinas would argue that the relation of likeness between the
16 Sergeant (1984, p. 30). 17 Digby (1657, Second Treatise, pp. 3–4).
18 Digby (1657, Second Treatise, pp. 3–4).
19 Sergeant (1984, p. 27). Similarly, Kenelm Digby treats the claim that “the very nature of a thing
apprehended, is truly in the man, who doth apprehend it” as equivalent to the claim that “when we
apprehend any thing, the very thing is in us” (Digby 1657, Second Treatise, pp. 3–4).
20 Sergeant (1984, p. 38).
82 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
intentional species and the thing represented does not entail that what is
known is only the likeness, since the intentional species is a causal rather
than an epistemic intermediary.
Since Locke rarely names his targets in the Essay, it is difficult to know
the precise details of the position he takes himself to be attacking. There
are passages, however, when he clearly seems to have the Digby/Sergeant
position in mind. For example, in Book II, he argues that none of our ideas
is itself a real essence (II.xxxi.6: 379); if it were, the properties of anything
agreeing with it would “be deducible from it, and their necessary connexion
with it . . . known.” Aquinas, as we have seen, would not have said that the
essence of a thing is the immediate object of thought, at least in the usual
case. In what follows, I shall abstract from these differences of doctrine,
since there is still a core thesis on which both the seventeenth-century
Aristotelians and orthodox Aristotelians agree: words in definitions signify
real essences that exist in physical objects. It is this doctrine I have in mind
when speaking of “Aristotelianism.”
the structure of locke’s anti-aristotelian
arguments
It is useful to divide Locke’s arguments against the Aristotelians into two
classes: epistemological and metaphysical. The former appeal to our relative
benightedness; if our pre-theoretical classificatory scheme mapped on to or
even dimly reflected a network of Aristotelian real essences, a number of
conditions would have to be met that aren’t. The metaphysical arguments,
by contrast, suggest that even if our epistemic state were improved to God-
like omniscience, there still would be nothing that could play the role of
such essences. In its most general formulation, the point Locke wishes
to establish by means of both kinds of argument is this: the world, even
at the level of its microscopic corpuscular structure, does not force upon
us one set of classifications rather than another, since the standards for
kind-membership will always invoke an abstract idea. The choice of which
objective similarities to count as defining a kind is still a choice, even if it
is not purely arbitrary.
The central thesis of this chapter is that there is a third strand of argument
that proceeds from the nature of signification. Unlike the other arguments,
it is indirect: it seeks to undermine the metaphysical commitments of the
Aristotelian by showing how they flow from a fundamental error about
the workings of language. Whenever a philosopher attacks an entrenched
body of doctrine, it is reasonable to expect an account that not only shows
Locke contra the Aristotelians 83
that doctrine to be a mistake but explains why so many intelligent people
have made it. These tasks are often tightly woven together. Berkeley, in the
introduction to the Principles, affords an instance of this strategy: he begins
by attempting to sweep away the doctrine of abstract ideas that alone makes
belief in necessarily unperceivable objects plausible or perhaps unavoidable.
At the same time, he makes a start at showing that materialism is in fact
false. On my reading, Locke is engaged in a parallel effort in the case of
Aristotelian essences. Central to his case is the linguistic thesis, which he
thinks rules out the possibility of de re definitions.
It is often acknowledged that the linguistic thesis must have some role
to play in Locke’s anti-Aristotelian argument. After all, Locke’s purpose in
undertaking the study of language in the first place was, in part, to clear
away the rubbish that stands in the way of the mechanical science. But I
shall argue that neither of the kinds of argument sketched above accords
the linguistic thesis a sufficiently robust role in this project. If we admit
only these two families of argument, the link Locke clearly wants to draw
between violations of the linguistic thesis and belief in Aristotelian essences
will remain obscure.
As much of this is well-traveled ground (ground I have myself partially
covered in the previous chapter), I shall offer only a brief account of the
epistemological and metaphysical arguments.21
Let us begin with the latter.
The heart of Locke’s metaphysical disagreement with the Aristotelians, I
suggest, lies in the mechanist ontology.22
If, as Boyle had claimed, we can in
principle account for observable differences among objects in terms of the
primary qualities of their corpuscular constitutions, it will make no sense
to speak of distinct Aristotelian essences that provide grounds for a division
of things into natural kinds. At bottom, all physical things are composed
of corpuscles differing only in size and shape. What makes the difference
between the Lockean real essence of a horse and that of a donkey is not the
presenceorabsenceofaScholasticformbutratherofacertainmicrophysical
structure. As we have seen, Locke is happy to admit the existence of such
“real essences” so long as it is clear that they are relative to an idea. Locke
21 The best treatment of these issues is probably Ayers (1981); but see also Bolton (1998a), discussed
below.
22 By contrast, Ayers writes, “Locke’s argument hinges on the denial of real universals and on the
intuitive ontological principle that everything that exists is particular” (1981, p. 254). I doubt whether
this represents Ayers’s considered view, even though something like this statement appears in his
(1991). It is hard to see how these two points could undermine Aristotelianism, since there clearly
are Aristotelian views that endorse both; Súarez, for example, seems to agree that everything is
particular and that enmattered universals are perfectly determinate and particular. Moreover, Ayers’s
own discussions of Locke’s argument, on which I draw below, do not explicitly appeal to either
point.
84 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
does not deny that there are objective resemblances among objects, even at
the corpuscular level; what he denies is that these resemblances are sufficient
to ground one particular way of sorting those objects as opposed to any
other. Which resemblances we select to serve as necessary conditions for
membership in a given group is entirely up to us. As Ayers puts it, “one
mechanical difference is as good a ground for distinction as another – there
is no principled difference between them.”23
It is worth noting that Ayers also discusses what he calls “the argument
from language” (see III.viii.1–2: 474–5 and III.x.6: 493),24
which does not
appeal to the linguistic thesis but to the claim that our ability to intelligibly
distinguish between a substance and what is supposed to be its essence
(aswithbodyandextension,forexample)showsthatwehavenotyetpinned
down that essence. Descartes, for example, had argued that “Thought and
extensioncanberegardedasconstitutingthenaturesofintelligentsubstance
and corporeal substance; they must then be considered as nothing else but
thinking substance itself and extended substance itself – that is, as mind
and body.”25
There is only a conceptual distinction between a substance and its
essence. But Locke sees a problem here: if in fact the essence of XYZ is
PQR, we could never go wrong in replacing occurrences of “XYZ” with
“PQR.” But when we run this test on proposed essences, we find that we
produce gibberish. Thus the claim that extension is the essence of body
must be false, since “body” is not replaceable by “extension” salve veritate
or even salve congruitate. This argument tells only against Cartesian essen-
tialism, since orthodox Aristotelianism would deny that a substance is only
conceptually distinct from its essence.26
Let us now turn to the epistemological arguments. In III.vi.14–19: 448–9,
Locke gives a set of conditions that would have to obtain if we were to sort
things according to their Aristotelian real essences.27
First, nature would
have to oblige by making only things that clearly fit into one category or
another. Locke thinks that the existence of monsters (creatures not clearly
23 Ayers (1997, p. 176). 24 Ayers (1991, vol. 2, pp. 51–64).
25 Principles §63, in Descartes (1984, vol. 1, p. 215).
26 See Aquinas, De Ente et Essentia, in his (1993). It is not entirely clear where Sergeant stands on this
issue, since he seems to think that the sum of a thing’s accidents suffices for individuation. Aquinas’s
resistance to the identification of a substance with its essence stems from the need for materia signata
to individuate that essence; lacking this motivation, it is not clear whether Sergeant must follow
Aquinas here.
27 Locke lists five conditions, but under the fifth heading he merely adds a lemma to the fourth. The
first condition is simply a demand for a “better explication” of the doctrine that “Nature, in the
production of Things, always designs them to partake of certain established Essences, which are to
be the Modes of all Things to be produced.”
Locke contra the Aristotelians 85
falling into any of the supposed real species) gives us grounds to doubt
either whether nature always “attains” the essence it picks out for a given
creature, or, more fundamentally, whether it gives creatures essences at
all.28
For “if History lie not, Women have conceived by Drills; and what
real Species, by that measure, such a Production will be in Nature, will be a
new question” (III.vi.23: 451). Locke reports that he “once saw a Creature,
that was the Issue of a Cat and a Rat, and had the plain marks of both about
it” (ibid.). Although it was common in Locke’s age to individuate species
according to their capacity to interbreed, these alleged counterexamples
are designed to show that this criterion is not sufficient. If we classify
things according to their parentage, we ignore the fact that they might well
lack many of the traits we took to be associated with the alleged essence.
According to Locke, these irregular productions of nature show that we are
not confronted with a world that can be “carved at the joints” but rather a
continuum of characteristics, where divisions, if there are to be any, must
be imposed by us. Is there really a fact of the matter, Locke seems to ask,
that can decide whether or not a particularly hideous baby (such as the
future Abbot of St. Martin) is “really” a human being?
More fundamentally, Locke argues that if the Aristotelian picture were
correct, we ought to have ideas of the real essences, according to which we
are allegedly classifying things (III.vi.18: 449). The classificatory difficulties
posed by monsters is just one sign of our ignorance of essences. This is a
puzzling point since, as we noted above, the claim that we have complete
knowledge of essences was no part of Aristotelianism. The Aristotelian,
it seems, can happily accept Locke’s points, writing off the existence of
monstersasperplexingonlybecauseofourimperfectknowledgeofessences.
Leibniz makes this point in the New Essays: “It is true that we cannot define a
species in terms of something that is unknown to us; but the outer features
serve in place of it, though we recognize that they do not suffice for a
rigorous definition, and that even nominal definitions in these cases are
only conjectural and sometimes . . . merely provisional.”29
These “outer
features” are enough to go on, giving us grounds for supposing that there is
an essence that explains them. In Aristotelian terms, each essence has a set
of properties flowing from it, which might allow us to distinguish things
into kinds even in ignorance of that real essence.
Locke, however, blocks this move in the next passage (III.vi.19: 449). If
we don’t know the essence, how are we supposed to tell which properties
28 This is a somewhat odd way of putting matters, but it follows Locke’s own in III.vi.15–6.
29 Leibniz (1996, p. 311).
86 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
flow from it? Any judgment about the necessary connection between a
quality and an essence presupposes a knowledge of the latter as well as
the former. As Ayers has noted, there might be a tension here in Locke’s
view.30
For he sometimes seems happy to allow that the copresence of
qualities justifies us in positing a (Lockean) real essence to explain them;
the Aristotelian is merely making a parallel move. But when he is more
careful, Locke disallows the inference from the copresence of observable
features to a single real essence. (See above, chapter three.)
So far, the epistemological points do not seem especially telling against
the Aristotelian. One way of putting this point is to say that the Aristotelian
conceives of essences primarily as explanations for observable phenomena,
whereas Locke in these passages seems to construe them as an account
of our current classificatory practices. But it is perfectly consistent with
Aristotelianism to confess our ignorance of some or perhaps all of these
essences.
Perhaps we can reconstruct a robust anti-essentialist argument from these
materials, however, if we introduce Locke’s considerations about language.
ThisiswhatMarthaBoltonhasattemptedtodo.SheseesLocke’sopponents
as defending a “referentialist” view, according to which our sortal terms can
refer to natural kinds even in the absence of an idea of the essence that
accounts for the difference among those kinds. It is worth noting that it is
not at all clear that the referentialist view was actually held by any of the
figures Locke might have had in mind. Indeed, if Ashworth is right, their
claim would be that some words signify essences, where “signify” includes
aspectsofbothsenseandreference.LetussetthisasideandexamineBolton’s
reconstructed argument.
As Bolton understands III.vi.9: 442ff., Locke invokes two key premises:
an abstract idea is what it is immediately perceived to be, and an idea
represents exactly those things that agree with it.31
But if we do not know
what a real essence is, then we cannot have an idea of the kind determined
by it:
Locke’s traditional semantic formula conjoined with this epistemic requirement
implies that we cannot have a name that signifies things in a kind determined by
an unknown real essence. It follows at once that the “referential” theory is false.
It says we can have names for kinds whose boundary-determining essences we do
not know.32
As this passage suggests, Bolton adopts Ashworth’s reading of the thesis,
claiming that on Locke’s view, we can signify extra-mental things only if
30 Ayers (1991, vol. 2, pp. 79–81). 31 See Bolton (1998a, p. 220). 32 Bolton (1998a, p. 219).
Locke contra the Aristotelians 87
we have an idea to which they “agree.” Locke and his opponents are said
to concur on the nature of language but part ways when it comes to the
necessity for a mental object, an idea, to mark off those things that share
an essence from all others.
This “idea-theoretic” argument is independent of the question of essen-
tialist metaphysics. For even if such Aristotelian real essences did exist, and
we knew them, it would still be ideas, and not those essences, that determine
kind-membership. The classificatory scheme embodied in our network of
abstract ideas would, in such a case, map precisely those distinctions found
among species. If successful, then, the idea-theoretic argument shows at
most that the extension of an abstract idea is fixed by agreement to that
idea, not that its extension cannot include all and only those members of a
mind-independent natural kind.33
This kind of worry, I think, is what has
led commentators such as Ayers to hold that the doctrine of abstract ideas is
offered, not as an assumed premise in an argument against the essentialists,
but rather as an alternative to their theory.34
However that may be, we can ask how robust a role the idea-theoretic ar-
gument assigns to the linguistic thesis. The crucial premises follow from the
very nature of Lockean ideas. Conjoined with any of the three understand-
ings of the linguistic thesis (whether my own, Ashworth’s, or Kretzmann’s),
these premises show the “referentialist” view to be false. Indeed, the linguis-
tic thesis, on Bolton’s reading, is of a piece with the very body of doctrine
Locke takes himself to be attacking.
But at this point we might begin to suspect that our understanding of
Book III is impoverished. For Locke clearly thinks that the fact that words
signify nothing but ideas does play a role in undermining the Aristotelian
picture. An interpretation that makes of this thesis a wheel that spins freely
cannot be satisfactory. We can begin to assign the thesis its proper role
only if we recognize that it is not a bit of Scholastic detritus Locke failed
to expunge, but rather part of a tradition deeply at odds with the debased,
albeit commonplace, late Scholastic understanding of signification.
the secret references
At the start of Book III, Locke discusses two chief abuses to which lan-
guage is subject: these are the “secret references” that “Men . . . in their
Thoughts” give to words (III.ii.4: 406). For “references” we might substitute
33 See Bolton (1998a, p. 225). 34 See Ayers (1991, vol. 2, p. 66).
88 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
“suppositions’: Locke’s claim is that we are apt tacitly and unthinkingly to
suppose that words latch onto things or ideas in the minds of others.35
It is seldom noted that there are in fact four secret references, not two.
There are four distinct ways one might go wrong: one might refer one’s
ideas to (a) ideas in other men’s minds, or (b) the real natures of things;
alternatively, one might refer one’s words to either (a) or (b). Ideas are the
focus of II.xxxii.8: 386 (cp. II.xxxi.6: 378), while III.ii.4: 406–7 focuses
on words. Most commentators run these four different activities together;
Locke himself is not careful to distinguish between them. But there are
important differences, and an argument against referring words to real
essences, for example, will have to be quite different from an argument
against referring ideas to real essences.
Let us take up the case of ideas first. It is because we think that our ideas
have a “double conformity” with the things we take them to represent and
with ideas in other men’s minds signified by the words of our common
language that we secretly refer our ideas to these things, i.e., we suppose
that they do in fact so conform. Otherwise, we think we would “both think
amiss of Things in themselves, and talk of them unintelligibly to others”
(II.xxxii.8: 386). But if ideas are “referred to real Essences as to Archetypes
which are unknown” they “cannot be supposed to be any representation
of them at all” (II.xxxi.6: 379). To say that I refer my idea to a real essence
seems to amount to nothing more than that I suppose that my idea is a
representation of that essence, and this supposition is always false.
To say that I refer my ideas to those in another’s mind is just to say that I
suppose that our ideas are tokens of the same type. But this supposition is
likely to take place only when we are trying to communicate: our ideas are
in danger of falsity (in an attenuated sense, for Locke) when we suppose
them “conformable to [those] in other Men’s Minds called by the same
common Name; v.g., when the Mind intends, or judges its Ideas of Justice,
Temperance, Religion, to be the same, with what other Men give those
Names to” (II.xxxii.5: 384). Similarly, when we secretly give our words a
reference to ideas in the minds of others, we suppose our words to be signs
of those ideas in them. That is, we suppose that a token of a given word
is a reliable indicator of a token of the same idea-type in our interlocutor
as it is in us. Thus the secret references of both ideas and words to ideas in
others’ minds come to the same thing.
35 It should be obvious that Locke does not mean “Bedeutung” by “reference” here. See II.xxix.12:
367, where Locke writes that the confusion proper to ideas “still carries with it a secret reference to
Names.”
Locke contra the Aristotelians 89
The temptation to make these secret references stems both from our
desire to communicate and the laziness that sometimes prevents us from
bothering to check whether we are in fact communicating at all. Locke
writes:
[Men] suppose their Words to be Marks of the Ideas in the Minds also of other Men,
with whom they communicate: For else they should talk in vain, and could not be
understood, if the Sounds they applied to one Idea, were such, as by the Hearer,
were applied to another, which is to speak two Languages. But in this, Men stand
not usually to examine, whether the Idea they, and those they discourse with have
in their Minds, be the same: But think it enough, that they use the Word, as
they imagine, in the common Acceptation of that Language; in which case they
suppose, that the Idea, they make it a Sign of, is precisely the same, to which the
Understanding Men of that Country, apply that Name. (III.ii.4: 406)
The situation envisioned here is one in which a speaker supposes that the
words he uses as indicative signs of his own ideas are also signs of the same
ideas in his hearers. So a speaker might (legitimately) think that his uttered
word  is an indicative sign he gives to his audience of an idea y in his mind;
but he also might (illegitimately) think  an indicative sign of the same
idea in his speakers. He might run the inference the wrong way. This is
more perspicuous if put in the conditional framework provided by Aristotle
et al.: the right kind of inference occurs when the hearer judges, “if x speaks
, then x is having an idea of type z”; the wrong inference occurs when the
speaker judges, “if I speak , then my hearer is having an idea of type z.”
Again, words are signs only of ideas in the speaker’s mind.
The final secret reference to be examined is the most important for our
purposes. This consists in supposing our words to be signs of extra-mental
things, including real essences.
the argument from signification
Locke’s argument for his linguistic thesis (explored above, chapter one)
seems so strong that we may doubt whether anyone has ever held that
words are signs of things, in Locke’s sense. Locke is fully aware that the
position he ascribes to his opponent is so ludicrous as to make one suspect
he is attacking a strawman. Locke disagrees:
But however preposterous and absurd it be, to make our names stand for Ideas we
have not, or (which is all one) Essences we know not, it being in effect to make our
Words the signs of nothing; yet ’tis evident to any one, whoever so little reflects on
the use Men make of their Words, that there is nothing more familiar. (III.x.21:
502)
90 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
The fifth abuse of words Locke discusses in III.x consists in “setting them in
the place of Things, which they do or can by no means signify” (III.x.17: 499).
Since “Men would not be thought to talk barely of their own Imaginations,
but of Things as they really are . . . they often suppose their Words to stand also
for the reality of Things” (III.ii.5: 407). Since our words do not signify real
essences, the knowledge they convey is limited to the fact that the speaker
is having certain ideas or performing certain operations upon them. Our
dissatisfaction with this predicament makes us apt to suppose that the
contrary is the case.
On Locke’s view, this “secret Supposition” (II.x.18: 500) is part and parcel
of our natural tendency to construe categorical statements as making claims
about the real essences of things. Locke writes:
[W]hen we put [the names of substances] into Propositions, and affirm or deny
any thing about them, we do most commonly tacitly suppose, or intend, they
should stand for the real Essence of a certain sort of Substances. For when a Man
says Gold is malleable, he means and would insinuate more than this, that what I
call Gold is malleable, (though truly it amounts to no more) but would have this
understood, viz. that Gold; i.e. what has the real Essence of Gold is malleable, which
amounts to thus much, that Malleableness depends on, and is inseparable from the
real Essence of Gold. (III.x.17: 499)
In the use of substance words such as “gold,” “there is scarce any Body . . .
but often supposes each of those names to stand for a thing having the real
Essence, on which [its] Properties depend” (III.x.18: 500). The pernicious
supposition, then, is that malleableness is a property (in the Aristotelian
sense specified above) of gold: while not part of the essence of gold, it flows
from and depends upon that essence. This, Locke thinks, is to suppose
“gold” the sign of the enmattered real essence of gold, and “malleable,” the
sign of a property of that essence. Allegedly de re definitions involve us in
a similar confusion, for the Aristotelian view has it that the definiendum is
an extra-mental real essence. Locke continues:
Thuswhenwesay,thatAnimalrationaleis,andAnimalimplumebipeslatisunguibus,
is not a good definition of Man; ’tis plain, we suppose the Name Man in this
case to stand for the real Essence of a Species, and would signifie, that a rational
Animal better described that real Essence, than a two-leg’d Animal with broad nails,
and without Feathers. For else, why might not Plato as properly make the Word
	 or Man stand for his complex Idea, made up of the Ideas of a Body,
distinguished from others by a certain shape and other outward appearances, as
Aristotle, make the complex Idea, to which he gave the Name 	 or Man,
of Body, and the Faculty of reasoning join’d together; unless the name 	
Locke contra the Aristotelians 91
or Man, were supposed to stand for something else, than what it signifies; and to
be put in the place of some other thing, than the Idea a Man professes he would
express by it? (III.x.17: 500)
Locke’s point is that there is no motivation for attempting to distinguish
good from bad definitions on other than purely pragmatic grounds,36
or
for indulging in disputes about definitions, unless one is laboring under
the misapprehension that the word signifies a thing rather than an idea.
The only thing necessary is to get our definitions straight, that is, make
sure that we are annexing the same idea-type to a given word-type. But this
is simply to define a word; it takes us no closer to de re definition.
Why is it that words do not signify real essences? It is common enough
to declare that definitions are merely de dicto. But Locke is not simply
stipulating this, as Richard Robinson suggests.37
Instead, the claim follows
from the nature of signification, and the contingent fact that when one says,
e.g., “stone,” a stone does not thereby materialize. Once one understands
what is meant by “sign,” the claim should be uncontroversial. In De Corpore,
Hobbes had already argued in this way that words can only be signs of
ideas.38
Locke makes precisely the same move when he argues that the world
gold understood as signifying a real essence “comes to have no signification
at all”: “by this tacit reference to the real Essence of that Species of Bodies,
the Word Gold . . . comes to have no signification at all, being put for
somewhat, whereof we have no Idea at all, and so can signify nothing at
all, when the Body itself is away. (III.x.19: 501; discussed above, chapter
one). If a sign serves as an evidence for what it signifies in virtue of being a
signal or indicator of its significate, it would be absurd to say that a word
can signify the real essence of gold. If we had an idea of the essence, we
could, of course, signify it; in the absence of the physical stuff, “gold”
would signify our idea of its real essence. But as matters stand, if “gold”
were a sign for the physical stuff, or for its real essence, it could be a sign
only when the speaker is in the presence of gold. “When the body itself
is away,” the word no longer indicates or signals anything. If a sign is an
indication, one can, of course, use a word to signify an extra-mental thing
such as gold: one simply utters the word when and only when one is in
the presence of gold. One might, in this way, become a gold-indicator.
But although words can signify extra-mental things in this way, this is not
the purpose for which they were designed. This option would hardly be
36 See III.iv.6: 422. 37 Robinson (1950, p. 9ff.).
38 De Corpore I.ii.5 in Hobbes (1839–45, vol. 1, p. 17), quoted above.
92 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
attractive to Locke’s Aristotelian opponents, and the linguistic thesis is not
compromised by his admitting the possibility of signifying things in this
way. If anything, it makes the structure of Locke’s argument for the thesis
more perspicuous: words signify ideas precisely because of the special tasks
for which we employ them (III.ii; see II.xi.8–9).
The linguistic thesis is not an a priori truth; it flows instead from the sort
of work we expect words to do and the sort of things with which they can
be so correlated as to fund inferences. In order to use language, one must
“be able to use these [articulate] Sounds, as Signs of internal Conceptions; and
to make them stand as marks for the Ideas within his own Mind, whereby
they might be made known to others . . .” (III.i.2: 402). This means that
one cannot offer a de re definition simply because there is no way for the
real essence to stand in the place of the definiendum: what one defines is
a word, not a thing. This kind of definition consists merely in setting out
the idea with which the word is customarily linked.39
Let us be clear about the logical structure of the argument from significa-
tion. It is designed to function independently of the more familiar planks
of Locke’s anti-essentialist position, such as the theory of abstract ideas
and the mechanist ontology. The linguistic thesis itself is a consequence
of the nature of signs, together with obvious (but contingent) facts about
the sorts of things one can profitably use words to signify. According to
Locke, considerations about the nature and purpose of language suffice
to undermine the project of attaining de re definitions. Given that words
are conventional signs or indications, they can signify neither objects in a
public environment nor their enmattered real essences.
If successful, the argument from signification would undermine crucial
parts of Scholastic doctrine, particularly those pertaining to science. For
Aristotelian science is essentially classificatory: it proceeds via demonstra-
tion on the basis of definitions. If these definitions turn out to be merely
nominal in Locke’s sense, so does all that is built upon them. What is
more, categorical predications other than definitions were construed by
the Aristotelian as being true or false in virtue of the relation between
an essence and the properties flowing from it; now their truth or falsity
depends instead on the contents of a speaker’s mind.
The most obvious charge against Locke’s argument is simply that no
one has ever held the position he attacks. It would indeed be absurd to
think that words are indicators of the sorts of physical objects of which
39 “For Definition being nothing but making another understand by Words, what Idea, the term
defined stands for . . .” (III.x.iii: 413).
Locke contra the Aristotelians 93
we desire de re definitions. The Aristotelian might protest that Locke is
just equivocating on “signify,” substituting his use of the word for theirs.
Thus the first line of resistance Locke’s argument will meet is a challenge
to the claim about language on which it is based, viz., that words are signs
in the sense I have been suggesting. In order to meet this challenge, Locke
will advert to the purpose of words: their use is to inform others of our
own conceptions and mental acts performed on those conceptions, such as
combination and separation (III.i.2: 402; see also II.xi.19: 159 and III.ii.1:
404–5). According to Locke, this entails that words are signs in Hobbes’s
sense, and the argument examined above is then deployed to show that
words can be signs in this sense only of mental acts and contents. To
the charge of equivocation, then, Locke will reply that his opponent has
been mistaken all along about the nature of language; once the Aristotelian
properly understands this nature, he will see how absurd his view really is.
One might also object that Locke’s point has no teeth, since he seemingly
allows a notion of reference to be constructed out of signification (see above,
chapter one). If we can truly say that “man” refers to man, “rational,” to
a certain quality, and “animals” to animals, why can we not generate a
de re definition of man?40
But recall that notions of reference so constructed
must be treated as a shorthand for a cumbersome analysis: to say that
“animals” refers to animals is just to say that someone speaking that word
in certain contexts is liable to have an idea of the class or sort animals in
his head. And this sortal idea is a purely nominal essence. So although
Locke is happy to allow that words in an attenuated sense “refer to” things,
once a proper analysis is provided, we can see that this does not entail
that de re definitions are possible. The definiendum and definiens are still
ideas.
What about those other notions Locke sometimes uses, such as “mark,”
“denote,” and “design?” Clearly he sometimes speaks of words latching onto
things by means of these relations. We now have indirect support for my
claim above (chapter one) that Locke wishes to allow these relations only
so long as they receive the proper analysis, as sketched above. It seems true
that if Locke did think that words signify ideas but unproblematically and
unanalyzably refer to things, his disagreement with the Aristotelian would
be a purely verbal one. The linguistic thesis would have no anti-essentialist
implications. But this is so plainly false that I do not see how we can take
this suggestion seriously. In addition, I have argued against this position
above at some length.
40 I am grateful to Harold Langsam for making this objection to me.
94 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
We can see the instability of Locke’s terminology in this passage from
earlier in the Essay:
The next thing to be considered is, by which of those Essences it is, that Substances
are determined into Sorts, or Species; and that ’tis evident, is by the nominal Essence.
For ’tis that alone, that the name, which is the mark of the Sort, signifies. ’Tis
impossible, therefore, that any thing should determine the Sorts of Things, which
we rank under general Names, but that Idea, which that Name is design’d as a
mark for. (III.vi.:7: 443)
This brief passage occurs in the heart of the epistemological argument of
III.vi, and anticipates the argument from signification of III.x. Here Locke
uses “mark” to refer both to a relation between words and ideas and be-
tween words and things. This imprecision is liable to obscure the main
point, which I think is clear enough: since only ideas (nominal essences)
can be signified by words, it is absurd to suppose that a real essence fixes the
sorts of things we use our words to “refer” to (in the attenuated sense spec-
ified above). Here, Locke explicitly uses the linguistic thesis to ground the
claim that nominal, and not real, essences fix the boundaries of sorts. This
indicates the complexity of Locke’s strategy. We should be wary of taking
any one of his arguments as fundamental, since he connects them to form a
sophisticated web of anti-Aristotelian considerations. If my interpretation
is correct, Locke’s argument from signification must take its place in this
web alongside the epistemological and metaphysical arguments.
This argument attempts to move from a view about the nature of lan-
guage to the conclusion that the project of attaining de re definitions is
incoherent. Now, this is surely not the first time that a philosopher has
thought considerations about the nature of language relevant to epistemo-
logical and metaphysical concerns. Locke takes his place in the Baconian
tradition of heaping scorn upon the “learned Gibberish” of the Schoolmen.
But he does more than this: he presents a developed theory of the nature of
language he thinks capable of cutting Aristotelian nonsense off at the root
and showing up pretensions to de re definition.
chapter 5
Beyond the bounds of sense?
Locke’s deployment of his linguistic thesis against the Aristotelians raises the
specter of self-refutation. For all we have said so far, it is unclear how Locke
can argue that the Aristotelians talk nonsense because they use categoremata
without corresponding ideas while helping himself to discussions of God,
real essence, and substance. In all three cases, Locke denies that experience
provides us with ideas of these things. In order to make room for significant
speech about that which lies beyond the bounds of experience, Locke must
relax the linguistic thesis; but if he is not to vitiate his arguments against
the Aristotelians, he must be wary of giving too much ground. I shall argue
that Locke’s considered view accomplishes precisely this. The goals of the
present chapter are twofold: to show that Locke escapes self-refutation
and, perhaps more importantly, to deepen and in some respects revise our
understanding of the linguistic thesis.
nonsense
As we have seen, Locke’s thesis that words signify ideas and acts in the mind
of the person speaking them imposes a limit on the senseful use of lan-
guage. The argument we have been examining is an instance of what Irving
Thalberg has called the “argument from nonsense,”1
common through-
out modern and later empiricism. Such an argument tries to show that
a given claim is not false but nonsensical. “Nonsense” has several differ-
ent senses: we sometimes apply it to obviously false statements or to the
gibberings of infants. Philosophically interesting nonsense, however, uses
words that have been given other uses in the language to make claims that
are not merely false but literally without sense. We can distinguish two
kinds of argument from nonsense: verificationist and ideational. Locke,
Berkeley, and Hume all deploy the latter, requiring that categoremata, with
1 See Thalberg (1981).
95
96 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
some exceptions, be correlated with mental contents that can in turn be
traced back to an initial experience, or constructed out of contents that
can be thus traced. With the advent of Frege’s context principle, philoso-
phers came to see the entire sentence rather than the word as the smallest
unit of meaning. Empiricists such as Ayer accordingly rejected ideational
arguments from nonsense, since these depend on an isomorphic relation
between categoremata and ideas, and thus on the supposition that words
can have meaning outside the context of a sentence. While the traditional
argument from nonsense was genetic, since it asked for the experiential
credentials of any allegedly significant categorematic word, verification-
ist arguments are forward-looking. The question becomes, not whether
a speaker has the experiential credentials to use a given word in a given
way, but whether the claim the speaker is making is one for which he can
in principle describe experiences that would tell either for or against that
claim.
Despite the clear difference between these two kinds of argument, both
can be found in early modern empiricism. Although the verificationist
form of the argument from nonsense is rarely explicit in earlier thinkers,
it is implicit in passages such as the following from Berkeley’s Principles:
“[I]f there were external bodies, it is impossible we should ever come to
know it; and if there were not, we might have the very same reasons to
think there were that we have now” (P 20). The hypothesis that there are
external objects is one that experience itself could never decide. Berkeley
does not draw the conclusion a positivist would, namely, that the hypothesis
is therefore meaningless. Berkeley uses very different grounds to argue
that the materialist position is unintelligible; this is his famous “master
argument” (see P 22–4). Despite this, it is not fanciful of Ayer to see in
Berkeley a precursor to his own brand of empiricism,2
for Berkeley clearly
thinks that a central problem with the materialist3
cum representationalist
picture is that no experience can ever be relevant to ascertaining its truth or
falsity. This is closely connected with another of Berkeley’s points, namely
that an external world is explanatorily otiose: it does no work in accounting
for our experiences that cannot be done with a more modest ontology, one
that includes only God and finite minds.
To this extent the verificationist argument from nonsense was prefigured
in the modern period. But alongside this kind of argument, we find in both
Berkeley and Hume a more straightforward demand that for any senseful
2 Ayer (1946, p. 31).
3 I am using “materialism” (as Berkeley did) to refer to the position that a material world exists.
Beyond the bounds of sense? 97
categorematic word, one be able to advert to an item of experience from
which the idea that the word signifies was derived.4
Someone offering the
verificationist argument need not be concerned with how the individual
words of a given claim get their meaning; the verificationist takes as his
target the proposition as a whole. By contrast, the ideational argument from
nonsense deals with the particular categorematic words making up such a
claim. What is at issue there is not whether the claim itself can be verified,
but whether experience provides the ideas that make the categoremata of
the claim meaningful.
That Locke is the most immediate source for this earlier form of the
argument from nonsense will already be apparent. His linguistic thesis,
in a sense we have yet to specify, identifies the bounds of sense with the
bounds of experience. The purpose of this chapter is to clarify and evaluate
Locke’s position in light of his own metaphysical commitments: can Locke
affirm the linguistic thesis while helping himself to the very metaphysical
notions later empiricists such as Berkeley, Hume, and Ayer were to reject
as nonsensical?
Let us begin by examining the varieties of nonsense Locke thinks we are
apt to commit. The first of six “abuses of words” Locke discusses in III.x5
is the “most palpable”: using words either with no ideas at all or without
a clear and distinct idea. When this happens, debates inevitably arise that
are pointless not only because the parties involved are talking past each
other but because they are using words without (clear and distinct) ideas,
making their disagreement merely verbal. In philosophy, this most often
happens when metaphysicians coin new words “without much troubling
their Heads to examine, what are the precise Ideas they stand for” (III.x.2:
491). The “great Mint-Masters” of such terms, the Schoolmen, were apt
to paper over genuine difficulties by introducing new words whenever it
suited them, without specifying the ideas they were to signify.
Nonsense also results when we attempt to give words a signification
they cannot have. The Aristotelian obsession with definitions springs from
this abuse of words, as we saw in the previous chapter. In such cases, the
Aristotelians have not coined new words but simply made a mistake about
the workings of language. Existing words that in ordinary discourse serve
perfectly well to indicate ideas in the mind of the speaker are taken to
4 I am neglecting here Berkeley’s doctrine of notions, according to which words referring to minds can
be significant even if they are not associated with any idea. I discuss this doctrine in more detail in
the next chapter. I am also abstracting from the issue of the precise meaning of signification in these
later figures. I address this with regard to Berkeley in the next chapter as well.
5 We need not be detained by the other abuses of words Locke discusses in III.x.
98 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
signify extra-mental objects and their real essences instead. As a result, we
end up with familiar words that taken in their proper signification are
unobjectionable but when put to the use the Aristotelian requires signify
nothing at all. This confusion explains why the Aristotelians would wish to
place philosophical weight on definitions, weight they cannot bear. From
Locke’s point of view, the whole metaphysical system of forms and essences
rests on this confusion about the nature of language. When one tries to
give words a signification they cannot have, one produces not genuine
speech (or writing) but mere sounds (or squiggles on a page). The words
are divorced from their fundamental role as tools for revealing our thoughts
to one another, and so become nonsense. This argument, then, is just a
special case of the ideational argument.
Although arguments from nonsense can be quite powerful, they also
have a tendency to turn on the philosopher who uses them. Notoriously,
the principle of verification cannot itself be verified, and so the position
seems self-refuting.6
Locke’s ideational argument is not vulnerable to the
same charge. But if Locke is going to set limits to senseful discourse, he must
be careful of violating those very limits in stating his own position. The
ideational argument from nonsense threatens not only Scholastic meta-
physics but Locke’s metaphysics as well. We shall look at three concepts
that are central to Locke’s view, and for which we do not seem to have the
requisite ideas.
semiotic empiricism
We must begin with a more careful statement of what we might call Locke’s
“semiotic empiricism,” revising a phrase of Bennett’s.7
As a first approxi-
mation, consider:
(1) Every meaningful categorematic word, when used by S, must signify
an idea in the mind of S; that idea must come from either sensation or
reflection.
So stated, the doctrine is unclear. What sense of “comes from experi-
ence” is intended? Is it necessary that the idea be given in experience, or
merely that experience provide the materials from which the idea can be
6 This is to ignore, of course, other means of retaining the verification principle, such as van Fraassen’s
suggestion that it embodies a “stance” rather than a claim about meaningfulness.
7 According to Bennett, Locke’s “semantic empiricism” is the claim that “no classificatory word makes
sense to us unless either (a) we have sensorily encountered things to which it applies, or (b) we can
define it in terms of words which satisfy (a)” (1971, p. 26). That this is not Locke’s position will
become apparent.
Beyond the bounds of sense? 99
constructed? We might call these views narrow and wide semiotic empiri-
cism, respectively. At some points Locke seems committed to the narrow
view, as when he writes, “the simple Ideas we receive from Sensation and
Reflection, are the Boundaries of our Thoughts; beyond which, the Mind,
whatever efforts it would make, is not able to advance one jot” (II.xxiii.29:
312; see II.xxxii.25: 393). At other times, however, Locke is well aware of
his need to allow for ideas that have been built on the simple ideas. Right
at the start of Book II, for example, we are told that although there is no
idea that has not been “imprinted” through sensation or reflection, these
ideas can be “with infinite variety compounded and enlarged by the Under-
standing” (II.i.5: 106). Evidently Locke thought it unnecessary to mention
abstraction, as this would not, strictly speaking, produce new ideas out of
old but only separate some features from others, or some simple ideas out
of a single complex one (see above). Locke’s semiotic empiricism is thus
better captured by:
(2) Every meaningful categorematic word, when used by S, must signify
an idea in the mind of S; that idea must either be given immediately in
sensation or reflection or constructed out of ideas that have been so given.
This chapter has the twofold purpose of tracing out the consequences of
(2) for Locke’s overall position and revising our conception of his semiotic
empiricism as we go. For although (2) seems to capture Locke’s intent, it
is not clear that it allows Locke to say that “God,” “substance,” and “real
essence” are significant. I shall argue that these ideas ineliminably involve
mental acts and that Locke must therefore revise (2) to allow for words
that are significant in virtue of signifying both mental objects and acts. We
have already seen that Locke is happy to allow that some words, namely,
syncategoremata, signify mental acts; my claim now is that Locke must also
allow that some categoremata signify acts as well as objects. The tension in
Locke’s view, I shall argue, stems from his wish to reconcile his use of the
semiotic thesis as a tool for eliminating nonsense and his recognition that
there are some things of which we have no adequate idea.
It is useful to see Locke’s project in light of the debate between Hobbes
and the Port-Royalians. Hobbes had objected to Descartes that we do
not in fact have the idea of God on which Descartes based his Third
Meditation proof of God’s existence. For Hobbes, an idea is simply an
image. As Descartes points out, he and Hobbes simply disagree over the
nature of ideas. Descartes acknowledges that there can be no Hobbesian
idea (image) of God. By contrast, the Cartesian idea of God is a paradigm
case of an idea that could not have come from experience and so could not be
an image. What is relevant for our inquiry is that although Hobbes denies
100 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
that we have an idea of God he nevertheless thinks the term meaningful.
Hobbes’s solution seems to be that “God” becomes meaningful not by being
associated with an idea, but in virtue of abbreviating a definite description.
Hobbes writes,
Just as a person born blind who has often been brought close to a fire, and feeling
himself growing warm, recognizes that there is something that is warming him,
and, on hearing that this is called “fire,” concludes that fire exists, even though he
does not know what shape or color it has, and has absolutely no idea or image of
fire appearing in his mind; just so, a man who knows that there ought to be some
cause of his images or ideas, and some other cause prior to this cause, and so on,
is led finally to an end of this series, namely to the supposition of some eternal
cause which, since it never began to be, cannot have a cause prior to itself, and
necessarily concludes that something eternal exists. Nevertheless, he has no idea
that he could call the idea of this eternal something . . .8
Hobbes must deny that every significant categorematic word is associated
with an idea. For he wishes to say that there are words that are significant
even though they cannot be linked with an idea; this class includes not
only “God” but “substance.” Hobbes writes, “we do not have an idea of
substance. For substance . . . is something that is established solely by
reasoning; it is not something that is conceived, or presents any idea to
us.”9
We are entitled to go on talking of substance only because that word
is linked with a definite description, just as “God” means “that first, eternal
cause.”10
Hobbes distinguishes between what is known by experience and
what is known by rational inference. Experience provides us with images
of things, whereas rational inference gives us only the assurance that there
is something that fits a certain description. It is vital for Hobbes that the
limits of language extend more widely than the limits of our ideas.
The Port-Royalian rejoinder comes in La Grammaire: “Had we no idea
of God, then in pronouncing the word ‘God,’ we would conceive only
the letters ‘g,’ ‘o,’ and ‘d.’ ”11
On their view, it would be a contradiction
to maintain that one does not associate an idea with a given word but
nevertheless understands what that word means.12
8 Third Objections in Descartes (1984, vol. 2, p. 127). 9 Descartes (1984, vol. 2, p. 130).
10 Hobbes’s position on the use of “God” is complicated by his suggestion in Leviathan that the word
is used not so that we may conceive of God but “that we may honour him” (Hobbes 1839–45, vol. 3,
p. 11). This suggests an emotive or prescriptive account. But Hobbes does not develop this suggestion.
11 Arnauld and Nicole (1966, p. 67). Locke’s argument at III.vi.49: 470 (examined above, chapter one)
is strikingly similar.
12 Arnauld and Nicole (1970, p. 67): “Car il y auroit de la contradiction entre dire que je sais ce que
je dis en pronançant un mot, & que neanmoins je ne conçois rien en le prononançant que le son
même du mot.”
Beyond the bounds of sense? 101
I shall argue that Locke’s central project in accounting for our ability
to speak of things that lie beyond the bounds of experience is to reconcile
these two accounts. For Locke clearly wants to maintain, with Arnauld and
Nicole,13
that each categorematic word must be associated with an idea.
Failure to do so is responsible for much confusion (see III.x.2: 490–1).
But at the same time, Locke is skeptical of claims to have informative or
substantive conceptions of God, real essence, and substance. Thus he finds
congenial the line taken by Hobbes in the third Objections, viz., that we
can only be said to think of these things by means of a definite description.
Yet Locke does not want to deny that we have ideas of them, for this would
be to give up a favorite tool of abuse.
What way out, then, is open to Locke? It is somewhat different in each
of the three cases we shall examine. There is a common thread, however: in
each case Locke denies that there is a single mental object corresponding
to the word in question and claims instead that the word signifies a string
of mental objects and acts. This leads Locke to claim that the ideas in
question are obscure or confused, despite the fact that they succeed in
representing real things or qualities. Let us begin with Locke’s attempt to
answer Descartes’s challenge: how can an idea of God be generated on the
basis of experience?
god
Having rejected Descartes’s innatist and intellectualist conception of ideas,
Locke finds himself obliged to explain how we can arrive at an idea of
God using only the materials furnished by experience. These materials are
simple ideas of reflection, such as existence, duration, knowledge, power,
pleasure, and happiness (II.xxiii.33: 314; note that pleasure and happiness
are absent from the corresponding list in II.xvii.1).14
We take these simple
ideas and then “enlarge” them with our idea of infinity. This does not yield
an idea of God’s essence, but only “the most suitable” idea of God we can
frame. However inadequate this idea might be, it must nevertheless truly
represent God; otherwise it would cease to be an idea of God.
This method differs significantly from that of the Scholastic empiricists,
especiallyAquinasandCajetan.Forthesefigures,theologicaldiscoursemust
make use of analogy. Extending Aquinas’s account, Cajetan argues that an
analogy of proportionality allows us to speak of God’s attributes. This kind
13 See La Grammaire I.i (1966, p. 67).
14 Power is a special case here, since Locke suggests elsewhere that sensation also affords us an idea of
power. He claims only that it is in reflection that we attain the clearest idea we can have of it.
102 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
of analogy is best made clear by an example: “to see by corporeal vision
and by intellectual vision are indicated by the term to see, because just as to
understand presents something to the mind, so to see presents something to
the corporeal body.”15
We can attain a grasp of God’s attributes by treating
them as analogous to human attributes in this way: thus, we might say that
God’s wisdom is to God as man’s wisdom is to man. This doesn’t tell us
much about the nature of God’s wisdom but at least allows us to conceive of
the relation between God and his wisdom. As Cajetan points out, analogy
of proportionality involves equivocation: “wisdom,” in our example, is
not used in the same sense throughout. Indeed, Cajetan rules out the
analogy of inequality (where two things are said to “unequally participate”
in a single nature, e.g., “body” applied to plants and the celestial bodies)
precisely because it uses its terms univocally. It is not immediately clear why
Locke eschews the analogy of proportionality as a means of conceiving of
God, although his consistent hostility to metaphorical and non-univocal
uses of language might lie at the bottom of it (see, e.g., III.xi.26: 523;
IV.viii.11: 616; and IV.xvii.13: 683).16
This is just as well, since the analogy
of proportionality is uninformative. If the above example were to provide
us with an understanding of the relation between God and his wisdom,
we would have to have antecedent knowledge of at least one of those two
relata. The “God” side of the equation, as it were, is blank.
By contrast, Locke offers two slightly different accounts of how we
“enlarge” our ideas, at II.xvii and II.xxiii.32–3, respectively. I shall argue
that one tension in his account concerns which ideas we can be said to
“enlarge” with our idea of infinity, a point on which Locke seems to have
vacillated. Another tension, more interesting for our purposes, concerns
the negative idea of infinity and whether it can be said to be a single mental
object rather than a complex of mental object and act. Let us begin by
examining Locke’s two accounts of the formation of an idea of God.
Locke argues at length in II.xvii that we do not have a positive idea of
infinity. An idea of infinity would be positive if it represented the entire in-
finite class under consideration. Locke’s argument that we cannot conceive
such an idea depends on an appeal not to our cognitive limitations but to
the nature of infinity itself: since an infinite set is one in which it is always
possible to proceed to the next item in the series, no single idea could ever
be adequate to it. For constructing a positive idea, of no matter how large
a class, necessarily imposes a limit on that class, and so is inconsistent with
15 Cajetan (1953, p. 25). For a fuller treatment of Cajetan and Aquinas, see Ott (1997).
16 See Ott (1997) for further discussion.
Beyond the bounds of sense? 103
infinity (see II.xvii.8: 214). The only idea of infinity we have comes from the
consciousness of the power of our own minds to go on with a given series
without ever coming to the end of it. Locke says that “the Power, we observe
in our selves, of repeating without end our own Ideas” (II.xvii.6: 212) gives
us our idea of infinity. This seems strange, since we have no such power (as
a practical matter, there is a limit to our ability to “repeat” our own ideas).
Locke’s point seems to be instead that the negative idea of infinity arises
from our awareness of the possibility in principle of continuing to repeat
our ideas. We know that however vast the intentional object of our idea of
space, we can always in principle add the idea of another foot or mile. Our
“growing and fugitive” (II.xvii.12: 216) idea of infinity does not provide
us with a conception of the whole infinite series as such. Nevertheless, we
must begin with a positive idea. Locke writes,
The Idea of Infinite, has, I confess, something of positive in all those things we
apply to it. When we would think of infinite Space or Duration, we at first step
usually make some very large Idea, as, perhaps, of Millions of Ages, or Miles . . . All
that we thus amass together in our Thoughts, is positive, and the assemblage of a
great number of positive Ideas of Space or Duration. But what still remains beyond
this, we have no more a positive distinct notion of, than a Mariner has of the
depth of the Sea, where having let down a large portion of his Sounding-line, he
reaches no bottom: Whereby he knows the depth to be so many fathoms, and
more; but how much that more is, he hath no distinct notion at all. (II.xvii.15:
217–18)
Although there is a positive element in our idea of infinity, namely, an idea
of a determinate but very large space or duration, we would not have an
idea of infinity unless we also conceived that there is something beyond
this positive element. In the case of God, we can say that God has all the
knowledge we humans do, but we must add that his knowledge extends
infinitely.
Here we run into a difficulty. For Locke accepts what we might call the
“mereological principle”: “finite” and “infinite” are “looked upon by the
Mind, as the Modes of Quantity, and . . . attributed primarily in their first
designation only to those things which have parts” (II.xvii.1: 209). This
is because the idea of infinity is really nothing but the infinity of number
applied to determinate parts (II.xvii.10: 215). “Those Ideas that consist not of
Parts, cannot be augmented to what proportion Men please, or be stretched
beyond what they have received by their senses” (II.xvii.6: 213). Whiteness,
for example, cannot be imagined infinite, for there are no discrete parts
of this simple quality that one can imagine being repeated forever. If one
imagines a foot of a white surface, one can indeed apply the idea of infinity,
104 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
but only in respect of the idea of the determinate distance, not that of the
whiteness.
In II.xvii, Locke sees that the mereological principle will make trouble for
his account of how we generate an idea of God. In the case of God’s duration
and ubiquity, there is no problem, since we have determinate elements that
we repeat in our minds with the awareness that such repetition could go on
for ever. But can the same be said for God’s other qualities, such as power,
wisdom, and goodness? Here Locke gives two different answers. In II.xvii.1:
210, Locke claims that we “primarily” speak of God as infinite in time and
space, and only “figuratively” speak of his being infinitely powerful, wise,
and good. Here, as in III.i.5: 403, a word’s “primary” signification or “first
designation” is simply its literal use.17
Moreover, Locke does not include
pleasure and happiness as traits we might ascribe to God, although he does
do so in II.xxiii.
Locke, however, does not rest content with this account for long. As I
have suggested, he might well have been uneasy with relying on metaphor
to provide an idea of God. His proposed solution in II.xxiii.32–3 is not to
deny the mereological principle, but to argue that some qualities other than
extension in space and time also admit of parts. In the case of knowledge, for
example, he now claims that he can frame an idea of knowing twice as much
as he knows now, simply by doubling the number of things he now knows.
This assumes that there is in fact a determinate number of propositions a
person knows at any given time, which is doubtful at best. Locke’s account
of knowledge as the perception of agreement or disagreement between
ideas allows him to assume that the mental propositions known are those
that can be called into consciousness and thus that knowledge admits of
quantity.
By doubling his idea of knowledge, Locke thinks he can extend it
to represent knowledge of “all things existing, or possible” (II.xxxii.34:
315). This would bring the idea of infinite knowledge into line with the
mereological principle. But Locke goes on to violate this principle by
claiming to extend his idea of knowledge by imagining knowing things
more perfectly. It is hard to see how the perfection of knowledge could
be given parts beyond simply numbering the propositions known. Locke
goes on to say that the same process can be carried out with power, wis-
dom, and goodness. But this again seems problematic. Perhaps Locke’s
thought is that we can look upon acts involving these qualities as “units”
17 Contrast the use made of “primary” signification by Ashworth and Kretzmann, discussed above,
chapter one.
Beyond the bounds of sense? 105
of those qualities and so generate a negative idea of their infinity that
still accommodates the mereological principle. It would be important for
Locke to stipulate that the acts in question include not just the actual but
the possible exercises of God’s attributes, since only the latter would be
infinite.
We have seen that Locke is less than consistent in his account of how we
generate the idea of God. I now propose to turn to the core of that con-
ception and ask whether it is consonant with Locke’s semiotic empiricism
as represented by (2) above.
The negative idea of infinity contains an irreducibly propositional ele-
ment: we must be conscious of the fact that however often we repeat one
of our ideas, we will never have attained an idea that is adequate to its
object in the sense of fully representing every member of the series. Locke’s
denial of a positive idea of infinity is a denial of the claim that there is a
single mental content lying behind the word “infinity.” Instead, we have a
hodgepodge of mental acts and objects: we have the positive component
of the idea (the idea of a determinate number of units or parts of a given
thing), but there is also the awareness of the fact that this positive compo-
nent does not exhaust the infinite thing, quality, or series. This absence of
a single object is, I believe, the source of Locke’s conviction that the idea of
infinity is confused (II.xvii.15: 218), obscure, and “fugitive.” When we turn
to real essence and substance, we shall see further instances of this same
predicament.
Of course, none of this means that on Locke’s view the idea of God or its
components fails to pick out the proper object. If that were Locke’s claim,
there would be no point in offering proofs of God’s existence, since “God”
would signify an idea that does not represent God, and might represent, say,
Schmod instead.18
It simply means that although we can posit the existence
of a being with these infinite attributes, we must be careful not to claim
that we have an idea that represents God in all his infinitude.
real essence
Locke faces a parallel difficulty in the case of real essences. For Locke
consistently says that we have no ideas of real essences, and yet somehow
“real essence” is significant. In the following passage, he shows that he is
fully aware that his semiotic thesis is in danger of rendering much of the
Essay nonsensical:
18 See Ott (1999).
106 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
I must beg pardon of my Reader, for having dwelt so long upon this Subject, and
perhaps, with some Obscurity. But I desire, it may be considered, how difficult it
is, to lead another by Words into the Thoughts of Things, stripp’d of those specifical
differences we give them: Which Things, if I name not, I say nothing; and if I
do name them, I thereby rank them into some sort, or other, and suggest to the
Mind the usual abstract Idea of that Species; and so cross my purpose. For to
talk of a Man, and to lay by, at the same time, the ordinary signification of the
Name Man, which is our complex Idea, usually annexed to it; and bid the Reader
consider Man, as he is in himself, and as he is really distinguished from others, in
his internal Constitution, or real Essence, that is, by something, he knows not what,
looks like trifling: and yet thus one must do, who would speak of the supposed real
Essences and Species of Things, as thought to be made by Nature; if it be but only to
make it understood, that there is no such thing signified by the general Names, which
Substances are called by. (III.vi.43: 465–6; last emphasis mine)
It is suggestive that Locke uses the same formula (‘something he knows not
what’) for real essence that he usually associates with substance. In both
cases, Locke needs some way of talking about something that is beyond
experience unless he is to be in the paradoxical position of using a word
in order to deny that there is an idea corresponding to it. This would not
amount to a powerful anti-Scholastic argument, but rather to a confession
that the words he has just set down are themselves nonsense. Locke’s po-
sition must have the resources to talk about what is beyond experience if
the division between sense and nonsense is not to collapse in on itself.
But how is Locke entitled to this, given that he holds that each cate-
gorematic word must stand for an idea? The internal constitution is not
wholly mysterious, since, as Locke says, “I have an Idea of Figure, Size, and
Situation of solid Parts in general, though I have none of the particular
Figure, Size, or putting together of Parts, whereby the Qualities [of the
object] are produced” (II.xxxi.6: 380). If we did not have an idea of what
kind of the thing the real essence was, Lockean real essences would be in
no way more intelligible or defensible than Aristotelian forms. The point
remains that “real essence” cannot designate a single idea, or even a finite
number of ideas, since a real essence is not just an idea of figure, size, and
position “in general,” but rather of that particular arrangement, whatever
it is, on which the qualities of an object depend.
But if this is right, Locke must allow that a word can make sense to us
because it signifies ideas and acts of the mind at once. It seems to me that
Locke is thinking that “real essence” signifies the ideas and acts that make
significant a definite description such as “the real internal constitution of
a thing on which its discoverable properties depend.” Such phrases make
ineliminable use of words Locke does not allow to be associated with ideas,
Beyond the bounds of sense? 107
such as “the,” “such,” and so on. It does seem that any definite description,
although not itself a complete proposition, must involve syncategoremata.
Thus, as in the case of “God,” we must refine (2) to allow that a word might
have its meaning, not by being correlated with a single idea (be it simple or
complex), but rather with several ideas connected by an act of the mind:
(3) Every meaningful categorematic word, when used by S, must signify
an idea in the mind of S; that idea must either be given immediately in
sensation or reflection or constructed out of ideas that have been so given,
possibly in conjunction with mental acts.
Locke can say that “real essence,” for example, signifies an “idea” in
the attenuated sense that it signifies a string of ideas together with acts
of the mind: the mentalese for “the real but hidden constitution,” etc. So
someone who thinks that his word signifies an idea of a real essence is under
the impression that he has a single idea adequately representing its object,
whereas in fact he has merely a thought of an x such that x, etc. Locke is able
to take over Hobbes’s point that some words stand for definite descriptions
whose objects are not given in experience while retaining the Port-Royalian
insistence that categoremata be correlated with ideas, but he can only do
this if he is willing to widen “ideas” to include constructions composed of
ideas and acts of the mind.
substance
Perhaps the central test case for (3) is that of substance. For here, if any-
where, Locke is in danger of sawing off the branch he sits on. Stillingfleet’s
insistence that Locke had “almost discarded substance out of the reasonable
part of the world”19
seems justified in light of Locke’s consistent attacks on
the coherence and intelligibility of the idea of substance in II.xxiii. Like real
essence, substance is a “something-I-know-not-what” that must be posited
to explain certain features of our experience. My primary concern in this
section is not to address the ultimate metaphysical status of substance, al-
though my arguments might have consequences for this, but rather to trace
out Locke’s account of how we generate our idea of substance in the first
place.
To begin, we must distinguish three senses of “substance” in Locke’s
text: we have “substances,” which Locke, like the Aristotelians, construes
as ordinary middle-sized objects such as people, trees, etc.; “general sub-
stances” such as extension and thought as construed by the Cartesians; and
19 Stillingfleet (1697, p. 234).
108 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
finally what Locke calls “pure substance in general.” I shall use the word
“substance” only in the last sense.
On Locke’s view, complex ideas of macro-physical objects must include
not only the ideas of the qualities that co-exist in them, but also the obscure
and confused idea of substance. Since we cannot imagine how observable
qualities could subsist on their own, we must posit something for them to
inhere in. It is not enough to say that substance is that which has properties,
since properties themselves can have properties. Instead, Locke construes
substance as ontologically prior to accidents or modes in that a substance
does not require anything further in which to inhere. Locke’s account in
II.xxiii.1 raised Stillingfleet’s ire by suggesting that we form the idea of
substance through custom alone rather than reason; Locke says that since
we are unable to imagine qualities subsisting on their own, “we accustom
our selves, to suppose some Substratum, wherein they do subsist, and from
which they do result” (II.xxiii.1: 295). This substratum is always some-
thing other than all of the observable qualities, including extension. But in
his replies to Stillingfleet Locke is at pains to make clear that positing sub-
stance is rationally defensible, indeed compulsory; he goes so far as to claim
that if he is to be accused of doing away with substance, “Burgersidicius,
Sanderson, and the whole tribe of Logicians”20
must join him in the dock.
This seems a bit disingenuous, since traditional Aristotelian logic would
not have agreed with Locke that the substance is anything over and above
the actual macro-physical object. For them, “substance” must be taken
only in the first of the senses discussed above; the role of ultimate subject
is played instead by prime matter, which clearly does not meet the tradi-
tional Aristotelian requirement of being able to exist as an independent
entity. Nevertheless, Locke’s demand for an ultimate subject does have an
Aristotelian pedigree.
My characterization of Locke’s conception of substance is controversial.
Michael Ayers has argued that Lockean substance is not an ultimate subject
of properties, but is instead simply the real essence thought of under a
different concept. To support this, Ayers notes that knowing substance
would allow us to explain why the qualities we observe to co-exist do in
fact go together, a role also played by real essence. Ayers concludes that
“[f]or Locke the real essence simply is the internal frame or constitution of
the thing.”21
Although the ideas are distinct, their objects have a common
explanatory role to play in an ideally completed science, since knowing each
20 Letter to Stillingfleet, included in the fifth edition of the Essay as a footnote to II.xxiii.2.
21 Ayers (1991, vol. 2, p. 41).
Beyond the bounds of sense? 109
would allow us to explain the co-existence of qualities and properties at the
macro-physical level, even if it would not reveal a set of natural kinds to
us. One difficulty with Ayers’s view is that it neglects the metaphysical role
substance must play in addition to its job as the hidden cause of the unity
of the qualities we experience. The “support” of properties cannot be read
as simply the ultimate “explanation” of why those properties go together.
Although this is controversial, Locke’s adherence to the traditional model
seems to entail that even if we had a God’s-eye view and fully knew the real
essence, we could still sensibly ask what the properties we observe inhere
in (see, e.g., II.xxiii.3: 297). If this is true, what E.J. Lowe has called the
“sanitized” reading of Locke is untenable.22
However that may be, it is clear that sensation and reflection do not pro-
vide us with an idea of substance. How, then, can we go about constructing
one? I shall argue that Locke in fact offers two slightly different accounts
of this process, one involving an appeal to the mental acts and ideas of a
definite description, another, to a single complex idea. The former is clearly
present in the Essay. Locke writes,
So that if anyone will examine himself concerning his Notion of pure Substance in
general, he will find that he has no other Idea of it at all, but only a Supposition
of he knows not what support of such Qualities, which are capable of producing
simple Ideas in us . . . (II.xxiii.2: 295; see II.xxiii.15: 305; I.iv.18: 95)
The only idea we have of substance in general is a supposition of whatever
it is that supports the qualities producing the relevant ideas in us. It is
revealing that at one point, he writes, “of Substance, we have no Idea of
what it is, but only a confused obscure one of what it does” (II.xiii.19: 175).
This, together with his use of the formula “something I know not what,”
suggests a parallel with Hobbes’s position. When speaking in this vein,
Locke argues that we in fact have no idea of substance as such;23
what we
have is a supposition of something that fills a certain role, but whose nature
remains inaccessible to us.
It is instructive that when Berkeley, anticipating Hume, denies that there
is such a thing as mental substance, he attacks precisely the syncategoremata
distinctive of definite descriptions. In the Notebooks, Berkeley flirts with
the notion that the mind is a congeries of perceptions, a position he later
rejected.Inattackingthesubstanceview,Berkeleywrites,“SayyoutheMind
is not the Perceptions. but that thing wch perceives. I answer you are abus’d
by the words that & thing these are vague empty words wthout a meaning”
22 See Lowe (2000).
23 See also Locke’s first entry under “Substance” in his index (1975, p. 745): “S. no Idea of it.”
110 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
(PC 581). Locke’s talk of abuse of words is replaced by an accusation of
abuse by words. A definite description account of the meaning of “mind”
is allegedly nonsensical because it uses words that lack meaning. This is
simply an application of Locke’s own ideational argument from nonsense.
At this point in his career, Berkeley accepted what he took to be Locke’s
semiotic empiricism. Later, however, Berkeley rejects semiotic empiricism
in the case of words for minds and their acts. In Alciphron, Berkeley argues
that words that “denote an active principle, soul, or spirit do not, in a strict
sense, stand for ideas,”
And yet they are not insignificant neither; since I understand what is signified by
the term I, or myself, or know what it means, although it be no idea, nor like an
idea, but that which thinks, and wills, and apprehends ideas, and operates about
them.24
Berkeley is here using the very strategy he had earlier condemned.
Although Locke says much in the Essay to indicate that he regards
“substance” as short for a definite description, it is not obvious that this is
his final position. In the exchange with Stillingfleet, for example, he main-
tains that we can in fact construct an idea of substance that seems not to
involve the syncategoremata of a description. Stillingfleet argues that if we
have good reason to infer the existence of substance, we must allow that
there is an idea of it. Locke replies that there is in fact “a complex idea [of
substance], made up of the general idea of something, or being, with the
relation of a support to accidents.”25
This account of the idea of substance
involves three items: the general idea of “something,” the idea of the re-
lation of support, and that of accidents or observable qualities. Without
this last element, we have not yet constructed an idea that represents what
underlies sensible qualities. Although the idea of being-in-general is the
usual focus of criticism, it is well to remember that the relation of support
needs ideas of both relata.
Locke’s vacillation between these two accounts explains his tendency to
deny that we have an idea of substance and yet go on talking about “the
idea of substance.” We need not decide which was his true view, since
both accounts run into the same problem, for both require ideas of both
being-in-general and support. Can Locke provide them?
No.26
Given Locke’s account of relations, his view cannot even get off the
ground. On Locke’s view, relations only arise when a mind compares two
24 Berkeley, Alciphron VII.5, Berkeley (1949–58, vol. 3, p. 292).
25 Locke (1812, vol. 4, p. 19). For ideas of relations, see III.xxviii.18: 360.
26 Some of my arguments here draw on E.J. Lowe’s (2000).
Beyond the bounds of sense? 111
ideas. Thus relation is “not contained in the real existence of Things, but
something extraneous, and superinduced” (II.xxv.8: 322). Relation is only
a way of comparing or considering two things (II.xxv.7: 322) and involves
an act of the mind. But if this is the case, there is simply no reason to posit
a real object to fill the blank spot in the relation of “support.” This relation
would only appear when a mind considered observable properties together
with something else. But since no relation is real, where is the motivation
for undertaking an ontological commitment in order to create the second
relatum, substance?
This point aside, there is an obvious problem with the idea of being-in-
general Locke requires. Recall that in order to generate the idea of substance
via the relation of support, we required ideas of both relata. Commentators
have focused on the difficulty in filling in the blank, as it were: given that we
are aware of qualities, how can we construct an idea of what supports them?
But the obverse point also holds. For if we had an idea of being-in-general
that fits substance, which does not require anything further in which to
inhere, this idea could not be used as the first relatum. It is crucial for Locke’s
purposes that the idea of being we gain from reflecting on our ideas involve
the necessity of being supported or inhering in a further subject. Conversely,
the idea of being-in-general we can draw from experience must, it seems,
include the notion of being dependent on something for its existence.
Given this, it is simply not suited to serve in the construction of an idea of
substance.
Lastly, it is far from clear that Locke is entitled to the relevant idea of sup-
port. As Berkeley argued, Locke must be using “support” in a metaphorical
sense. Experience provides us with instances of support, as when a foun-
dation supports a building. But that is clearly not the requisite idea of
support. Locke famously makes fun of the reliance on metaphor in meta-
physics while arguing that our idea of substance is obscure. “Substantia” we
are told “is in plain English, standing under, or upholding” (II.xxiii.2: 296).
If Locke cannot supply a meaning for “support” besides this, Stillingfleet’s
charge seems justified. When Hylas objects that Philonous has taken his
talk of support too literally, Philonous replies,
I am not for imposing any sense on your words: you are at liberty to explain them
as you please. But I beseech you, make me understand something by them. You
tell me, matter supports or stands under accidents. How! is it as your legs support
your body? . . . Pray let me know any sense, literal or not, that you understand it
in.27
27 TD 199; see TD 218.
112 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
Absent an account of the metaphysical relation of support, Locke must
concede that his idea of substance is empty.
Locke’s failure to account for our idea of substance can be regarded
either as a failure of his philosophy of language in general, which requires
us to construct ideas on the basis of experience if our words are to be
meaningful, or simply as a failure of Locke’s own notion of substance. Like
some contemporary metaphysicians,28
I prefer an account of substance
according to which it is not metaphysically distinct from the object itself.
The confusion arises when we treat substances and their properties as of
the same logical category. It is perfectly possible to say in one logical tone
of voice, to borrow a phrase of Ryle’s, that substances exist, and in another
tone of voice, that properties exist. But we should not take this to mean
that the properties require something extra, over and above the object itself,
in order to exist. Thus the problem is not semiotic empiricism but rather
the particular conception of substance Locke asks us to endorse.
conclusion
We have seen that the distinction between categoremata that signify ideas
and those that signify both the contents and acts of the mind that would also
be signified by the words of a definite description is central in grasping the
extent to which Locke endorses semiotic empiricism. One might plausibly
suggest that it is in fact only his willingness to countenance such descriptions
that prevents the talk of real essence (and perhaps of substance as well) in
the Essay from itself being accounted gibberish. Despite this innovation,
Locke was unable to construct an idea of substance. For unlike real essence,
substance is not merely whatever plays a certain explanatory role, but a
metaphysical entity Locke invokes to support accidents. Yet it is extremely
difficult to see how the relevant ideas of support and being-in-general could
be constructed out of materials furnished by experience.
More generally, Locke must modify his linguistic thesis. The slogan
“all words stand for ideas” was shown in chapter two to require emen-
dation in order to allow for particles; now it must be further amended
to allow for categorematic words that attain their significance not by sig-
nifying a single mental object but rather a complex of ideas and mental
acts. Correspondingly, Locke’s semiotic empiricism is even more permis-
sive than the wide version considered above. This is fully consonant with
Locke’s larger project of undermining Aristotelianism and making room
28 Esp. Lowe (2000) and perhaps Martin (1980).
Beyond the bounds of sense? 113
for the claims of corpuscular science. His version of the ideational argu-
ment from nonsense is designed to be powerful enough to rule out some
key claims of Aristotelianism (as we saw in the previous chapter), yet not
so powerful that it rules out talk of that which lies beyond experience. In
this respect, Locke’s handling of the argument from nonsense is a genuine
achievement.
chapter 6
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language
With the previous chapters, we have established both the content and the
application of Locke’s views of language. It is now possible to look at some of
the most important reactions to those views, with an eye both to correcting
misunderstandings on the part of Locke’s respondents and to deepening
our grasp of Locke’s views themselves.
An exhaustive treatment of this chapter’s topic would demand a further
monograph. Here, I shall begin by considering two critiques of Locke from
his contemporaries (or near-contemporaries) that come from opposite sides
of the debate between the Aristotelian and the modern forms of empiricism.
Although rarely recognized, Locke’s indefatigable Aristotelian critic John
Sergeant anticipated many of the most popular objections to Locke’s view.
Much more often mentioned in this connection is Berkeley; we shall see
that his relation to Locke is quite complex, since he seems to misunderstand
key parts of Locke’s view of language. Exploring Berkeley will also afford
us the opportunity to see how the traditional conception of signs sketched
above (chapter one) was both exploited and transformed in the modern
period.
Next I discuss perhaps the most common source of objections, the
privacy of the mental. I distinguish between epistemic and metaphysi-
cal versions of the privacy argument. It will emerge that whether Locke
can successfully respond to these arguments will turn on his conceptions
of mental representation and ostensive definition. In the final chapter, I
offer a broader assessment of Locke’s overall view from a contemporary
perspective.
an aristotelian critique: john sergeant
Sergeant’s official comment on Book III suggests that he thinks Locke’s
views on language insignificant:
114
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 115
This learned Author having most elaborately, largely and acutely prosecuted in his
former Book the distinction of his Ideas, and the whole Duty of Words being to
signify our Thoughts to others, I cannot discern what need there could be to take
such pains about those Outward Signes.1
But this is belied by Sergeant’s own practice. In the “second Preliminary” of
his Solid Philosophy, Sergeant offers a battery of fifteen arguments against
Locke, three of which explicitly challenge his views on language.
Contra Locke, Sergeant, as we have seen, holds that what is in the mind
in the act of thinking is not an idea or representation but the thing itself. In
his ninth argument, Sergeant uses considerations of the nature of language
and meaning to support his position: “Notions are the Meanings, or (to
speak more properly) what is meant by the words we use: But what’s meant
by the words is the Thing it self; therefore the Thing it self is in the Meaning;
and consequently in the Mind; only which can mean.”2
Since only minds
are capable of being directed toward objects in an act of thought, and since
our words clearly do “mean” the “things themselves,” these things must be
in the mind. (Sergeant’s use of “mean,” “signify,” and so on, are far from
clear, but he certainly uses them as if they meant, at least in part, “refer to.”
In Sergeant’s case, I am happy to admit that Ashworth’s understanding of
signification might well be correct.) But they are not in the mind materially;
things and intentional species are numerically identical on Sergeant’s view
but have distinct “manners of existence.” Unsurprisingly, Locke argues that
this is absurd: on his view, Sergeant’s direct realism entails that the thing
thought of exists materially in the mind. In a letter to Stillingfleet, Locke
writes,
For since I make no doubt but that . . . you will allow that you have some immediate
objects of your thoughts, which are the materials of that knowledge, about which
it is employed, those immediate objects, if they are not, as Mr. J.S. says, the very
things themselves, must be ideas. Not thinking your lordship therefore yet so
perfect a convert of Mr. J.S.’s, that you are persuaded, that as often as you think
of a cathedral church, or of Des Cartes’s vortices, that very cathedral church at
Worcester or the motion of those vortices, itself exists in your understanding; when
one of them never existed but in that one place at Worcester, and the other never
existed anywhere in “rerum natura.”3
Like “Mr. J.S.,” Locke requires that the intentional object be ontologically
present to the mind (IV.xxi.4: 720–1).4
For Locke, this means that it makes
1 Sergeant (1984, p. 287). 2 Sergeant (1984, p. 33).
3 Locke (1812, vol. 4, pp. 390–1). 4 See Ayers (1991, vol. 1, chs 5–7).
116 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
no sense to say that anything other than an idea can be the immediate
object of thought. To Sergeant’s claim that the objects’ distinct manners
of existence do not preclude their numerical identity, Locke argues (in his
marginal notes on Solid Philosophy) that a and b cannot have different
manners of existence at the same time and still be numerically identical.
The indiscernibility of identicals surely rules this out.5
Despite the weakness of his own position, Sergeant develops his criticism
in his tenth argument. Sergeant points out that “when a Gentleman bids his
Servant fetch him a Pint of Wine; he does not mean to bid him fetch theIdea
of Wine in his own head, but the wine it self which is in the Cellar.”6
If we
leave aside Sergeant’s metaphysics for a moment, we can see that the kernel
of both of these arguments is the intuitive thought that what is meant by a
categorematic word is (much of the time) a physical object rather than an
idea. Unfortunately, Sergeant has simply misinterpreted Locke’s view, just
as Mill was to do later (see chapter one); Sergeant’s objection tells against
the view that words refer to ideas, but not the view that words signify ideas,
in Locke’s sense.
The final argument of Sergeant’s we shall examine is stronger. It is worth
quoting in full:
Our words are ad placitum, and have no Natural Connexion with the Things they
signifie, but are order’d to express them by the Agreement of Mankind: Therefore
what’s signified by them, must be fore-known to that Agreement. But the Ideas, or
Resemblances we have, cannot be fore-known to this Agreement, since they could
not be at all known, (being in the Mind,) but by the Words; which, not being yet
agreed on, can make known, or signifie, nothing. Therefore the Things which we
naturally had fore-knowledge of, and not the Ideas, are that which is signified by
Words.7
Since words, as Locke himself insists, have no natural connection with what
they signify, it is only in virtue of the agreement of human beings that they
signify anything at all. Sergeant asks, how can this agreement get off the
ground? Words are needed only because what lies in each person’s mind is
hidden, by Locke’s own account. But if no one can observe what goes on in
another’s mind, how can we agree to use a given word to signify the same
idea? How could we ever check that others were living up their end of the
bargain, as it were? Sergeant has neatly turned Locke’s own argument from
the uses of words against him. Note that Sergeant’s argument does not turn
5 I leave aside the question of relative identity, which some might use to defend Sergeant’s position.
6 Sergeant (1984, p. 33).
7 Sergeant (1984, p. 34). This passage and the preceding ones also lend support to Ashworth’s claims
about the late Scholastic use of “signification.”
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 117
on any particular understanding of signification: it is just as strong if we
read it as indication, as I have suggested. How can we agree to use words
to indicate something of which no two persons could in principle ever be
directly aware?
It will already be clear that Locke must deny one of Sergeant’s premises.
Sergeant’s argument only works if he assumes that it is only by means of
words that we make our ideas known to others. Locke clearly does not
think this is the case. Locke cautions against assuming that other speakers
are going along with the “agreement” and recommends that we use osten-
sive definition, in some cases, to make sure that words are being used in
the same sense by different speakers. This move itself, of course, is highly
controversial. I discuss Locke’s account of ostensive definition below. The
concerns Sergeant raises about the privacy of the mental will also be devel-
oped and explored below.
a modern empiricist critique: george berkeley
According to the orthodox story about Berkeley’s development, he began
his career as a fervent disciple of Locke’s views on language and then rejected
them. On this view, although Berkeley in his notebooks endorses Locke’s
dictum that each significant word stands for an idea, he came to criticize
that doctrine in more or less effective ways.
Like many such stories, it is true, so far as it goes. But I want to suggest
that the picture is much more complicated. Berkeley was indeed deeply
influenced by what he took to be Locke’s views, but he was largely mistaken
about what those views actually were. What is more, the crucial departure
from this early view can be traced to suggestions Locke himself makes, even
if Berkeley misunderstands these suggestions. He thus arrives at a view quite
dissimilar to Locke’s, but he misses some of Locke’s most important insights
about language.
First I shall explore Berkeley’s treatment of signification, arguing that he
and Locke understand that notion very differently. I shall then consider
the most notable exception to the linguistic thesis, the doctrine of notions.
In this section I show how Berkeley arrived at this doctrine partly through
a misunderstanding of Locke’s discussion of particles in the Essay. In the
third, I consider Berkeley’s position in Alciphron on such topics as force and
relation, suggesting that his treatment of these topics does not constitute an
exception to the linguistic thesis, as Berkeley understood it. It will emerge
that Berkeley was neither so successful in overthrowing, nor so acute in
understanding, Locke as is usually imagined.
118 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
berkeley and the linguistic thesis
I wish to begin by setting out two Lockean propositions, leaving open for
now the precise sense in which Berkeley understands them:
(1) The purpose of language is to communicate ideas.
(2) All significant words stand for (i.e., are signs of) ideas.
In the Notebooks, Berkeley often endorses (2) (PC 356, 378, 422), but
each of these entries is marked with a “+,” probably indicating that it was
to be discarded. In PI, Berkeley traces the hated doctrine of abstract ideas
to the conjunction of (1) and (2):
But to give a farther account how words came to produce the doctrine of ab-
stract ideas, it must be observed that it is a received opinion, that language has
no other end but the communicating our ideas, and that every significant name
stands for an idea. This being so, and it being withal certain, that names, which
yet are not thought altogether insignificant, do not always mark out particu-
lar conceivable ideas, it is straightaway concluded that they stand for abstract
notions. (PI 19)
On Berkeley’s account, if we accept (1) and (2), and add “what nobody will
deny,” viz., that there are some words that do not always suggest particular
determinate ideas, we will be driven to posit abstract ideas as the significates
of those words. It is not clear how this argument is supposed to work. For,
as we shall see, the doctrine of abstract ideas is traced most plausibly to the
doctrine that each word must always signify the same idea in order to be
univocal. The counterexamples Berkeley has in mind in the final sentence
above involve, not words that do not signify ideas, but words that signify
no particular idea but any one of a given class of ideas indifferently. It is
thus a bit misleading for Berkeley to present his case as he does, since (1)
and (2) are not the real targets he has in view.
It is crucial that Berkeley is not suggesting here that there are significant
words that are never associated with an idea. On Berkeley’s own account, a
word becomes general, not by signifying a single general idea, but simply
through its capacity to suggest to the mind any number of ideas indiffer-
ently. This is not to deny (2). Even though “there is no such thing as one
precise and definite signification annexed to any general name” (PI 18), it
remains the case, for all Berkeley has said so far in PI, that such names must
suggest ideas to the mind. Berkeley continues:
And a little attention will discover, that it is not necessary (even in the strictest
reasonings) significant names which stand for ideas should, every time they are
used, excite in the understanding the ideas they are made to stand for: in reading
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 119
and discoursing, names being for the most part used as letters are in algebra, in
which though a particular quantity be marked by each letter, yet to proceed right it
is not requisite that in every step each letter suggest to your thoughts, that particular
quantity it was appointed to stand for. (PI 19)
Molyneux wrote Berkeley to ask the natural question: if we allow ourselves
to reason without ideas, at least sometimes, what guarantees that we stay on
the right track? How can we ensure that our reasonings are sound without
employing the ideas at every step? Berkeley’s response relies on the formal
character of inference: we can be sure of this so long as we are manipulating
symbols according to the rules prescribed by logic and grammar. Berkeley
writes, “I cannot but dissent from what You say, of there being no set Rules
for the Ranging and Disposition of Words but only the Syllogistic, for to
Me it appears That all Grammar & every part of Logic contain little else
than Rules for Discourse & Ratiocination by Words.”8
Moreover, in order
to observe these rules, it is not necessary to check the words against the
ideas in question at each step: since the rules are purely formal, attending
to the moves made with the counters will suffice.
This leads to a modification of (2):
(3) All significant words must be able to suggest an idea to the mind.
This dispositional claim is more plausible than (2). But it is still true that
there must be some idea or other that we can call up and associate with a
given word. The only exception to (2) is provided by the doctrine of no-
tions, to which I turn below. Let us now look at Berkeley’s treatment of (1).
In PI 20, Berkeley objects to (1): “[T]he communicating of ideas marked
by words is not the chief and only end of language.” Language has many
otherpurposes,includingtheraisingofpassionsorthedirectionofanother’s
actions. In PC, Berkeley made this point explicitly with regard to religious
language:
When I say I will reject all Propositions wherein I know not fully & adequately &
clearly so far as knowable the Thing meant thereby This is not to be extended
to propositions in the Scripture. I speak of Matters of Reason & Philosophy not
Revelation, In this I think an Humble Implicit faith becomes us just (where we
cannot comprehend & Understand the proposition) such as a popish peasant gives
to propositions he hears at Mass in Latin. (PC 720)
A similar thought is presented in the so-called First Sermon, when Berke-
ley discusses the description of the rewards of heaven: “’tis wt eye hath not
seen nor ear heard neither hath it enter’d into the heart of man to conceive.”9
8 Letter 6 in Berkeley (1949–58, vol. 8, p. 27). 9 Berkeley (1949–58, vol. 1, p. 12).
120 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
This text was to recur as an example of useful discourse not associated with
ideas throughout Berkeley’s writings, and the example of a promise of a
“good thing” in PI 20 clearly echoes it. In these passages, Berkeley presents
a noncognitive analysis of at least some religious discourse, surprising in
the works of one who was to become a bishop. As Antony Flew points out,
“neither [Berkeley], nor any other bishop of his century, would have had
any truck with a religion without propositions.”10
According to Berkeley,
there clearly are cognitive regions of such discourse (roughly, those falling
under the heading of “natural” as opposed to “revealed” religion). Neverthe-
less religion includes mysterious pronouncements that perform an emotive
or prescriptive function, rather than a fact-stating one. Note that, unlike
the emotive words discussed in PI, the propositions in Scripture are com-
pared to propositions in an unknown language. In PI, the suggestion was
that words that were once associated with ideas come to excite emotions
directly, without the intervention of those ideas. But here Berkeley suggests
that there need be no such initial ideational link.
Although Berkeley presents his account of the emotive and prescriptive
uses of language in the context of an attack on both (1) and (2), it should
be clear that it says nothing whatever about (2). Thus Luce and Jessop are
wrong when they say in a note that the biblical text in the First Sermon
“supplied Berkeley with a decisive argument against Locke’s principle that
every significant name must stand for an idea.”11
If “significant” here means
“signifying an idea,” or, more generally, “contributing to the fact-stating
uses of language,” then the text in question is not a counterexample at all.
This is not the role Berkeley sees such language as playing. If “significant”
means something else, such as “useful” or “able to evoke emotion,” then the
text in no way conflicts with (2). Berkeley does speak in PI 19 of “significant
names that stand for ideas,” suggesting that he intends a contrast with other
kinds of significant names that do not. But Berkeley is careful in PI 20 not to
say that the words used emotively or prescriptively are significant. In ALC,
Euphranor says that a discourse “that directs how to act or excites to the
doing or forbearance of an action may, it seems, be useful and significant,
although the words whereof it is composed should not bring each a distinct
idea into our minds.”12
Here “significant” seems intended as an honorific –
it is to be contrasted with “useless.” In this sense Berkeley might well claim
that prescriptive or emotive discourse is significant, but this, obviously,
would not be to disagree with the claim that such discourse is nevertheless
non-cognitive.
10 Flew (1993, p. 223). 11 In Berkeley (1949–58, vol. 1, p. 12). 12 ALC VII.5, p. 292.
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 121
It is not clear how damaging the denial of (1) is to Locke’s own position.
Locke may simply have neglected uses of language other than descriptive or
cognitive ones; this shows his account of language to be incomplete but not
fatally flawed. That Locke is guilty as charged appears from such claims as
this: “When a Man speaks to another, it is that he may be understood; and
the end of Speech is, that those Sounds, as Marks, may make known his
Ideas to the Hearer” (III.ii.2: 405). This is clearly false, and Berkeley takes
Locketotaskforthisinanumberofplaces.13
Infact,theneglectofotheruses
of language seems to be a recurring and recalcitrant malaise in philosophy
of language generally. Thus J.O. Urmson can say of logical atomism that it
“regarded [other uses of language besides descriptive statements] as beneath
philosophical notice . . . [a]s for the subtlety of the distinction between
giving verdicts, telling stories, making claims, consolation, congratulation,
promising, all this was hidden by the blindness which is the guardian angel
of preconceptions.”14
This blindness obscured not only emotive uses of
language but also its uses in illocutionary acts, such as promising, warning,
and so on. Yet obviously one might reject (1) and simply amend (3) to read:
(4) In all descriptive uses of language, all significant words must be able
to suggest an idea to the mind, though they need not do so on each
occasion.
This retains the kernel of (2). Berkeley’s allegiance to (4) is suggested at
the end of PI, where he announces that he will endeavor to take the ideas
themselves (rather than the words) “bare and naked in my view” (PI 21)
and enjoins the reader to do the same (PI 25; cp. Locke’s Essay II.x.21). At
least in PI, then, what we have is not a wholesale rejection of the Lockean
position but three revisions of it: words need not suggest the same idea
on each occasion of use or to each auditor in order to be used univocally;
the purpose of language is not confined to communication of ideas; even
when such communication is intended, one need not have an occurrent
idea associated with each word, even though, in descriptive discourse, such
an association must be at least possible.
But I have left unclear what this association consists in, which Berkeley,
like Locke, speaks of as “signifying” or “standing for.” The clearest discus-
sion of this concept comes in TVV. In general, a sign is something that
suggests something else to the mind. In the quotations from Berkeley above,
we see that he often speaks of a word’s “exciting” an idea in the mind of
the speaker, or “suggesting” it. In TVV, he distinguishes between arbitrary
13 E.g., PC 720; P 20; the so-called “First Sermon” (1949–58, vol. 1, pp. 11–13); and ALC VII.10.
14 Urmson (1967, pp. 197–8).
122 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
and necessary signification. Cases of the latter include a similarity between
ideas (as the mind passes from an idea to another that resembles it) or
causality (as when the mind infers from the effect to the cause or vice
versa). An idea of sensation is an indication of God’s existence, since it is a
“sign or effect” (P 148) of God’s power.
But even when “there is no such relation of similitude or causality, nor
any necessary connexion whatsoever, two things, by their mere coexis-
tence, or two ideas, merely by being perceived together, may suggest or
signify one the other, their connexion being all the while arbitrary; for it
is the connexion only, as such, that causeth this effect” (TVV 39). Berkeley
here exploits the ancient notion of reminiscent signification (see chapter
one above), just as in the case of ideas of sensation he exploited that of
indicative signification. A great number of reminiscent signs constitute a
language (TVV 40); this language can be instituted either by human beings
or by God. Indeed it is one of Berkeley’s central claims that visual ideas
constitute a divine language. There is thus no difference in kind between
words and visual ideas considered as means of communication. The similar-
ity goes even deeper, since we master each system of signs in the same way:
“by a connexion taught us by experience, [visible ideas] come to signify and
suggest [the sensations attending vision] to us, after the same manner that
words of any language suggest the ideas they are made to stand for” (P 43).
The person born blind and then made to see is in the same position as a
monolingual Francophone who is suddenly plopped down in Tennessee.
When pressing these points of similarity between human and divine
language (as in ALC IV.10 and P 44), Berkeley forgets his criticism of (1).
Thus in NTV he writes,
Upon the whole, I think we may fairly conclude that the proper objects of vision
constitute an universal language of the Author of Nature, whereby we are instructed
how to regulate our actions in order to attain those things that are necessary to
the preservation and well-being of our bodies, as also to avoid whatever may be
hurtful and destructive of them . . . And the manner wherein they signify and mark
unto us the objects which are at a distance is the same with that of languages and signs
of human appointment, which do not suggest the things signified by any likeness
or identity of nature, but only by an habitual connexion that experience has made
us observe between them” (NTV 147, emphasis added; see ALC IV.8).
My habit of moving from the sound “tree” to the idea of a tree is so
entrenched that it takes some effort to see that it is happening. The arbitrary
connection is purely the product of a habit I acquired when first learning
English. Berkeley’s position here is not obviously consistent with (4), or
with the rejection of (1), since it seems to assume that a word is significant
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 123
only on those occasions when it does in fact elicit the proper idea. Moreover,
no provision is made, even in the late ALC text cited above, for notions.
Let us take up each issue in turn.
When drawing the comparison with the divine language, Berkeley im-
plies that words, like visual ideas, were instituted in order to cause a certain
idea to occur in the mind. In the case of words, their purpose is to allow
a speaker to cause his hearer to have a certain idea. This seems to support
(2) rather than (4): if a word is to be significant, must it not raise, and not
merely be able to raise, an idea in the mind of the hearer? Compare the
divine language. There the claim is not simply that one is able to associate
an idea with a given visual impression, but that one in fact does so as the
result of habit.
Yet perhaps this is a cavil. Berkeley might well insist on the analogy be-
tween human and divine language and deny that a proposition analogous
to (4) holds true for the latter. Berkeley’s rejection of (1), however, seems
a more difficult position to accommodate in light of his remarks on the
nature of language as such. For there is nothing analogous to an emotive or
prescriptive use of visual ideas. But again, Berkeley can parry this objection.
His claim is that visual ideas and words are alike in that they arbitrarily sig-
nify other ideas; human language has a further use that the divine language
does not. Alternatively, Berkeley might claim that the divine language does
have at least prescriptive uses. This is not obviously absurd, though I will
not press the point.
The only real difficulty raised by these passages, I think, is that they
leave little room for notions. Words for active beings are supposed to be
significant even though they cannot be linked with any idea. It is not just
that the analogy between visual ideas and words breaks down at this point.
It is rather that Berkeley’s remarks in the context of the divine language
lead him to pronouncements that are not consistent with his overall view.
The italicized portion of the above passage makes this particularly evident.
And later on in that work Berkeley will give perhaps his clearest statement
of the doctrine of notions.
I will pursue this issue in the next section. Now, let us ask how well
Berkeley has understood Locke. As we have seen, Locke’s view is that words
signify ideas in the mind of the speaker, not the hearer. Berkeley recognizes
thisinPI,wherehecharacterizeshisopponentasholdingthatgeneralnames
are significant when the speaker designs them “for marks of ideas in his own
[mind], which he would have them raise in the mind of the hearer” (PI 20;
Locke himself uses “mark” and “sign” interchangeably; see III.ii.1–2). But
moreoftenhecharacterizesLockesimplyasendorsing(2),withsignification
124 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
understood as suggesting or exciting an idea. Thus the clearly Lockean
Alciphron is made to say, “Words are signs: they do or should stand for ideas,
which so far as they suggest they are significant.”15
Alciphron’s position then
is one according to which significant words are those that summon a certain
idea in the listener. The arguments of previous chapters have shown that
this position is not Locke’s. Although Locke grants that in practice much of
the time we simply allow ourselves to have ideas caused by another’s speech,
he never calls this relation between word and idea signification. Moreover,
as we have seen, this causal connection is parasitic on the initial connection
of indicative signification. If I did not at one time infer that your word
x indicated that you were having idea y, your utterance of x would never
come to be associated in my mind with y. The difference between Locke
and Berkeley here roughly maps onto the difference between indicative and
reminiscent signification, drawn explicitly by Sextus Empiricus and, later,
Gassendi (see above, chapter two).
This distinction makes available to Locke an argument against (4). The
argument concerns how the signification relation is set up in the first place.
In the case of the visual language, Berkeley can plausibly claim that experi-
ence creates an association between two ideas such that one leads the mind
to think of the other. But human language is crucially different, since it
is conventional. How can we have an experience of the idea with which
a speaker wishes to associate a given word? On Locke’s view, the role of
words in causing us automatically to think of ideas is parasitic on their role
as indicative signs of those ideas. The latter relation needs to be consciously
instituted, by means of ostensive definition, for example, before words can
“suggest” or “excite” ideas in the hearer (see IV.xviii.3: 689). The challenge
to Berkeley is to explain how the reminiscent signification relation comes
into existence in the first place. With the visual language, as I have sug-
gested, we can easily see how this works. But a language that depends on
human convention seems to require a very different basis.
notions
I have been arguing that Locke and Berkeley usually use “sign” in dif-
ferent senses. Thus Berkeley’s debt to Locke is complicated by the fact
that he understood “sign” in a very different way. Indeed, Locke would
have found Berkeley’s position deeply problematic. He would have seen
Berkeley’s view as conceptually impossible, given that language is an arbi-
trary human construction.
15 ALC VII.2, p. 287.
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 125
Does Berkeley’s attack in PI, then, miss its target? Clearly (1) is indifferent
among different understandings of signification. (2), however, is not. We
must conclude that Berkeley has simply misunderstood Locke. Locke is
not saying that each time a word is spoken, it must excite the proper idea
in the mind of the hearer in order to be significant. Rather, his position is
that significant words are those that indicate the proper ideas in the mind
of the speaker.
One might well argue that this difference is not so great as it at first
appears. For Locke is still claiming that the distinction between significant
and insignificant descriptive speech is to be drawn in ideational terms.
That is, Locke still requires an idea to be associated (in a sense neutral
between the two kinds of signification) with a given word in order for it
to be significant. This is not correct, however, since Locke believes there
are some words, namely particles, that signify mental acts rather than ideas
(see above, chapter two). The slogan “all words signify ideas,” although
it occurs often enough in varying forms in the early parts of Book III,
must be relaxed to accommodate particles. Thus Berkeley’s Alciphron gives
an incomplete, and to that extent, uncharitable presentation of Locke’s
view. Locke simply does not hold (2). Berkeley might be forgiven some
imprecision in his statement of Locke’s thesis. Berkeley often characterizes
the opposing position as one according to which names, rather than words
generally, signify ideas (see, e.g., PI 19).
What is interesting here is that these passages about particles in the
Essay provided, ironically, the impetus for what is in some ways Berkeley’s
most significant departure from the Lockean theses (1)–(4): the doctrine
of notions. Berkeley’s doctrine allows what Locke’s cannot: a significant
categorematic word that cannot be associated with any idea.
In his first notebook, Berkeley claims that “soul” or mind signifies “one
Complex idea made up of existence, willing & perception in a large sense”
(PC 154; cp. PC 44). In the second notebook, however, Berkeley becomes
suspicious of abstract ideas such as “existence,” which “is never thought
of by the Vulgar” (PC 552). He thus feels compelled to jettison his earlier
account. He writes:
Consult, ransack yr Understanding wt find you there besides several perceptions
or thoughts. Wt mean you by the word mind you must mean something that you
perceive or yt you do not perceive, a thing not perceived is a contradiction. to
mean (also) a thing you do not perceive is a contradiction. We are all in this matter
strangely abused by words. (PC 579)
Mind is a congeries of Perceptions. Take away Perceptions & you take away the
Mind put the Perceptions & you put the Mind. (PC 580)
126 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
In PC 579 we can see Berkeley struggling to accommodate knowledge of
the mind within the confines presented by the principle that all knowledge
is only of ideas (PC 522). In these passages, Berkeley suggests that if the
mind cannot be known by means of an idea, it cannot be perceived at
all, which makes the mind “a contradiction,” just as much as unperceived
matter. In a note on the verso page, Berkeley suggests that we do not know
the mind at all; “this will be plain if we examine wt we mean by the word
knowledge” (PC 576a). What Berkeley requires is a means of thinking
about and knowing the mind that does not involve ideas. He found this by
reflecting on Locke’s position on particles.
Berkeley writes, “The Understanding seemeth not to differ from its
perceptions or Ideas. Qu: wt must one think of the Will & passions” (PC
587). The will is essentially active and therefore there can be no idea of it,
since ideas are passive (PC 643, 657). But at PC 639, Berkeley claims that
it is demonstrable that “a Man can never be brought to Imagine any thing
should exist whereof he has no Idea. Whoever says he does, banters himself
with Words.” Berkeley requires words for the will or volition that are not
associated with ideas and yet are significant (in the cognitive sense). Locke,
as Berkeley seems to have come to realize, had already made room for such
words in his discussion of particles. Berkeley writes: “Some words there are
wch do not stand for Ideas v.g. particles Will etc.” (PC 661).
Locke of course did not claim that particles stand for volitions, but for
the mental operations necessary to unite ideas into propositions and propo-
sitions into senseful discourse. Berkeley, however, takes mental operations
and volitions to be equivalent: “Tis allow’d that Particles stand not for Ideas
& yet they are not said to be empty useless sounds. The truth on’t is they
stand for the operations of the mind i.e. volitions.” (PC 667).
The escape route from the narrow confines of (1) is provided by Locke
himself. What was in Locke’s hands a way of accounting for propositional
content and the logical relations among propositions becomes in Berke-
ley’s a way of accounting for discourse of the mind. What the two uses
have in common is that in neither case is there an idea lying behind the
word.
Berkeley did not use the claim that words might be associated with acts
of the mind in order to account for significant discourse about minds alone.
Words for relations must also be associated with acts of the mind rather
than ideas:
We may be said to have some knowledge or notion of our own minds, of spirits
and active beings, whereof in a strict sense we have not ideas. In like manner we
know and have a notion of relations between things or ideas, which relations are
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 127
distinct from the ideas or things related, inasmuch as the latter may be perceived
by us without perceiving the former. (P 89)
It is also to be remarked, that all relations including an act of the mind, we cannot
so properly be said to have an idea, but rather a notion of the relations or habitudes
between things. (P 142)
On Locke’s view, ideas of relations always involve mental acts. Such an
idea “consists in the consideration and comparing one Idea with another”
(II.xii.7: 166; see II.xxv.5: 321). If we wish to distinguish between ideas and
mental acts and operations, it seems odd to class thoughts of relations so
understood among the former rather than the latter. Berkeley insists on a
mild reform of Locke’s mental taxonomy when he writes, “[t]o me it seems
that ideas, spirits and relations are all in their respective kinds, the object of
human knowledge and subject of discourse: and that the term idea would
be improperly extended to signify everything we know or have any notion
of” (P 89), even if “this is after all an affair of verbal concern” (P 142).
Despite appearances, then, Berkeley and Locke agree on:
(5) In all descriptive uses of language, all significant words must signify
either an idea or an act of the mind, or a complex of both.
But here again we run into a problem with Berkeley’s conception of
linguistic signification. If words signify mental acts, it must be indicative
signification that is at issue: they indicate to the hearer that the speaker
is performing a certain mental operation. It seems very odd to say that
words might excite or cause such a mental act in the mind of the hearer,
even if they might suggest the idea of that act. Moreover, Berkeley’s official
accounts of language on analogy with visual ideas seem to have no room
for words that indicate rather than suggest or excite.
force and motion
We have seen that although Locke is committed to (1), he does not endorse
(2). And even allowing for the string of revisions above, Locke does not
endorse (5) as Berkeley understands it. We must conclude, then, that where
(2) and its successors are involved, Locke and Berkeley are simply talking
past each other. Berkeley’s attack on (1) is well taken, but it hardly amounts
to a devastating critique.
But there is another way in which the two might be brought into direct
disagreement. Let us revise (5) so as to be neutral between the different
conceptions’ signification:
(6) In all descriptive uses of language, all significant words must be associ-
ated with either an idea or an act of the mind, or a complex of both.
128 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
Here, “association” means signification in either of the two senses and
does not require that on each occasion of use the associated idea or act
must be present. Locke and Berkeley both accept (6). The differences only
emerge when we attempt to cash out “association.” For the two have distinct
conceptions of the relation of signification.
By contrast, Antony Flew has claimed that in ALC Berkeley extends
“indefinitely the list of words that do not, and perhaps cannot, stand for
ideas.”16
Flew points out that in ALC Berkeley includes not just notions and
relations but concepts such as force and grace. Such concepts can figure
in true propositions, and thus belong under the heading of descriptive
or fact-stating uses of language, although they cannot be associated with
any idea. Indeed, Flew wants to go further and claim that they cannot
be associated with any idea or mental act. Berkeley, on Flew’s view, has
anticipated Wittgenstein’s dictum that use rather than private mental object
or event is responsible for meaning.
But it is not at all clear that Berkeley does wish to class propositions
involving such terms as “force” with descriptive uses. I shall argue that Flew
goes wrong in neglecting Berkeley’s instrumentalist conception of science.
For Flew distinguishes between the theoretical and the practical uses of
language, and claims, contra Bennett, that the former involves words that
cannot be associated with ideas. Although this is true enough, it does not
prove Flew’s point, since for Berkeley, as we shall see, theoretical discourse
itself is at bottom practical.
In ALC VII, Berkeley draws an analogy between force and grace:
Euphranor need not adduce an idea that can be associated with the lat-
ter, since even Alciphron must agree that there is no such idea associated
with some of the fundamental notions of science. There may be “divers
true and useful propositions concerning the one [grace] as well as the other
[force].”17
What is it for such a proposition to be true? It is vital to see
that there are two ways of taking any proposition involving such terms: as
predicating something, a power or quality, such as force or grace, of the
subject; or as tools for predicting events or influencing behavior. Berkeley,
of course, denies that the former is the proper way to understand such
propositions. Euphranor asks Alciphron to consider “force itself in its own
precise idea,” abstracting it from its effects, such as motion. Unsurpris-
ingly, this proves impossible. Nevertheless, Euphranor argues that there are
“evident propositions or theorems relating to force, which contain useful
truths.”18
Yet the truth of such propositions does not consist in their ac-
curately depicting the world. A proposition such as “a body with conjunct
16 Flew (1993, p. 222). 17 ALC VII.7, p. 296. 18 ALC VII.7, p. 295.
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 129
forces describes the diagonal of a parallelogram, in the same time that it
would the sides with separate” (ibid.) does not tell us about the world but
guides our calculations and actions. Berkeley uses the same example in De
Motu, where he argues that such propositions are “of service to reckoning
and mathematical demonstrations”; but this “is one thing, to set forth the
nature of things is another” (De Motu 18). Here Flew might well argue that
the usefulness of these propositions does not prevent their also having a
descriptive role; this seems to be Flew’s main point against Bennett.19
But
everything Berkeley says points to the conclusion that the practical use of
these propositions does indeed exhaust their “significance.” “Force, gravity,
attraction, and terms of this sort are useful for reasonings and reckonings
about motion and bodies in motion, but not for understanding the sim-
ple nature of motion itself or for indicating so many distinct qualities” (De
Motu 17). The theoretical, for Berkeley, is no less practical than the emotive.
Berkeley’s “revolutionary insight,” then, is not to shift the burden of the
meaningfulness of descriptive language in these cases from “the (private)
idea to the (public) use”20
but instead to widen the class of non-descriptive
or practical “meanings” to include not just emotive uses but theoretical
as well. The ontological commitments of science are avoided by recasting
science itself in instrumentalist terms, not by carving out a new realm of
descriptive meanings that have no links to mental acts and objects. This
conception of science is indeed revolutionary. But Berkeley achieves it by in
effect divorcing the theoretical uses of language from the descriptive. Such
claims are only apparently engaged in describing “the nature of things.”
When we miss this, we bog down in the fruitless search for the nature of
force or motion in itself.
If I am right, the relation between Locke and Berkeley on language is
quite complex. Where Berkeley does disagree with Locke, he is following
up Locke’s own insights, although he does so in a way Locke himself would
not welcome. The exception here is the case of the theoretical uses of
language. But Berkeley does not, as we have seen, depart from Locke’s
general principle that each significant word in descriptive discourse must
be associated with either an act of the mind or an idea. Instead he removes
the propositions of science from descriptive discourse altogether.
privacy: epistemic issues
We have seen that Locke requires us to infer on the basis of a sign
(a word) what is happening in a speaker’s mind if we are to understand
19 See Flew (1993, p. 222). 20 Flew (1993, p. 216).
130 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
what is said. How could we ever know whether our inferences are justi-
fied, or yield a true conclusion? How can we know if our interlocutors
understand us, or we, them? It seems we can never know whether or not
we “speak two Languages” (III.ii.4: 407), since we can never be sure that
speaker and hearer are annexing the same idea (or mental act) to a given
word. It is important to note at the start that Locke accepts that if we are
annexing different ideas to the same word, we cannot communicate: “[I]f
it should happen, that any two thinking Men should really have different
Ideas, I do not see how they could discourse or argue one with another”
(II.xiii.27: 180).
In this, Locke agrees with Frege, who argues that if the objects of thought
are different, disagreement becomes impossible: “If [someone holding the
view that thoughts are ideas] heard from me the opinion that a thought is
not an idea he could not dispute it, for, indeed, it would not now concern
him.”21
Just as one who says, “I washed my car yesterday” does not disagree
with one who says, “I did not wash my car yesterday,” two speakers annexing
different ideas to the same word are incapable of disagreement.
The complaint that we can never know whether our sign-inference is
correct is a standard one, lodged by, among others, Bennett, Stephen Land,
and Robert Hanna.22
It probably has its origins in the work of Frege and
Wittgenstein, even if they do not explicitly target Locke.23
But the objection ignores much of what Locke has to say. In the first
place, Locke is aware of the skeptical consequences of his view and counsels
epistemichumilitywhenjudgingwhethercommunicationisactuallytaking
place or not, i.e., whether we are actually annexing the same idea to a
given word (see, e.g., II.xxxii.9: 386).24
More important, it ignores Locke’s
remedies for this predicament.25
Locke says that our ideas, when referred to those in other men’s minds
(i.e., supposed to be conformable to them) “may any of them be false”
(II.xxxii.9: 386). Some of our ideas have a “standard . . . in Nature” (III.ix.5:
477) whereby the signification of our words may be checked. The “only
sure way” words for our simple ideas of sensation, for example, can have
21 “Thoughts,” in Frege (1977, p. 17).
22 They do not put the criticism in these terms. For Land, see his (1986, pp. 35–41); for Robert Hanna,
see his (1991, p. 795).
23 Thus Land cites Philosophical Investigations I §377 for support.
24 See chapter four for a treatment of the “secret references.” Here it is important to see that the skeptical
consequences Locke approves are not global, but merely local. That is, he does believe there is a way
to be sure that we are using the same word for the same idea; his counsel is against assuming this to
be so.
25 For more on Locke’s “rectification of names” (III.ix.7: 478), see Losonsky (1994) and Aarsleff (1964).
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 131
their significations settled is “by presenting to his [the person one would
teach] Senses that Subject, which may produce it in his Mind, and make him
actually have the Idea, that Word stands for” (III.xi.14: 515).
When some simple ideas are conjoined in our experience, we can say
that nature provides a standard by which to settle the signification of a
word for a complex idea composed of those simple ones. But in the case of
mixed modes, this usually is not the case; any complex ideas that the mind
“makes at pleasure” (II.ix.7: 478) lack standards in nature. The best that
can be done here is to ostensively define, if possible, the constituent simple
ideas.
Many writers, from Augustine to Wittgenstein and Quine,26
have
claimed that ostensive definition radically underdetermines reference.
When I place a red ball before someone, to which of the many ideas caused
by it am I directing his attention? If I try to define “round” in this way,
what makes it the case that the student will not instead annex the idea of
redness to that word? To take a particular case: Quine argues that in cases of
terms with “divided reference” (as opposed to mass terms like “water”), os-
tension does not fix reference. This is because with a term such as “rabbit”
one must master “its principle of individuation: where one rabbit leaves
off and another begins.” Pace Wittgenstein, Quine grants that mass terms
can be mastered by ordinary processes of conditioning and induction, even
if this may take many lessons. It is only when questions of individuation
arise that ostension underdetermines reference. When translating a foreign
tongue, for example, Quine argues that we will find many competing hy-
potheses equally confirmed by the facts of language use. The fact that the
natives use “gavagai” while pointing to rabbits does not itself tell us whether
they are referring to rabbits or undetached rabbit parts, or rabbit stages,
or what have you. Quine’s argument for the indeterminacy of reference
is sometimes seen as an objection to mentalism (the doctrine that mental
states fix reference). I do not think we can accuse Quine himself of this
confusion; he clearly assumes that mentalism is false from the outset. For
Quine, only behavioral evidence is to be admitted in fixing reference, even
in one’s own.27
There is an enormous literature attempting to refute this Quinean the-
sis, which I shall not repeat here.28
Let me instead develop what I think
is the most natural reply. If Quine’s argument works, it works not just for
26 See Augustine, De Magistro 10.35ff.; Wittgenstein’s Philosophical Investigations I §§27–34 and Quine
(1969).
27 Quine (1969, pp. 26–9).
28 See, e.g., Levin (1971). My brief reply draws on Searle (1987), esp. pp. 130–3.
132 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
our translations of foreign languages, but for own language. (Quine and
Davidson, incidentally, both seem happy with this consequence.) This en-
tails that there is for us no way to tell what we mean by “rabbit.” In this,
John Searle finds a reductio ad absurdum of Quine’s linguistic behavior-
ism: if meaning is (eliminatively) reduced to correlations between external
stimuli and dispositions to verbal behavior, our words have no determinate
reference. But we do know what we mean by our own words; “rabbit” in
English does refer to rabbits as opposed to undetached rabbit parts. So
linguistic behaviorism must be false. Another way to put this point is that
the argument itself presupposes that we know at least in our own case the
difference between referring to rabbits and referring to rabbit-stages. But if
behavioral evidence does not fix reference for speakers of “Gavagai”-talk, it
does not do so in our case either. So the argument has to assume the very
fact that it calls into question, viz., that we know what we mean by our
own words.
Quine sees that his thesis tends toward this conclusion.29
His solution is
to advert to the relativity of reference: seen against a background language,
reference is determinate. We English speakers can be said to refer to rabbits
by “acquiescing in our mother tongue and taking its words at face value.”30
Is Quine entitled to this acquiescence? After all, our mother tongue on his
account is itself just a set of dispositions to verbal behavior (in response
to “surface irritations”). We can’t take our own language “at face value”
because by Quine’s own argument there is no fact of the matter about
what that value is. Quine’s position can be regarded not as an intriguing
and important result but rather as a reductio of linguistic behaviorism. In
any case, it cannot be seen as posing a genuine threat to Locke’s views on
ostensive definition since it simply assumes from the start that Locke’s view
is false.
In general, I think that philosophers tend to exaggerate the degree to
which ostension underdetermines reference, and to ignore the possibility
of correcting error by future instances of ostension. I believe that Quine’s
claim with regard to mass terms, namely, that the only difficulty attaching to
the ostensive definition of terms is that of any induction, holds for language
generally. Philosophers have tended to abstract from the context in which
ostensive definition is apt, in the real world, to be performed. Teacher and
student are not in a vacuum: they have come to this point because of their
combined interests, intentions, and goals, and they might well have behind
29 See Quine (1969, pp. 47–8). 30 Quine (1969, p. 49).
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 133
them a history of other acts of ostension.31
All of this helps to make the
referent of the ostensive act determinate.
Even granting the ability of ostensive definition to determine which idea
is signified by a word that refers (in Locke’s attenuated sense) to a physical
object, however, it is very hard to see how it can help us fix the signification
of particles. For these indicate acts in the mind of the speaker, which, it
seems, could never be the objects of ostensive definition. Locke seems to
see this when he grants that most of our words for the operations of the
mind, and indeed almost all our words for non-sensible things, had as their
“primary signification” (here, original acceptation) simple ideas of sense.
These then are “transferred to more abstruse significations” (III.i.5: 403), but
Locke does not say much more. His thought apparently is that it is their
metaphorical relation with non-sensible things that allows these simple
ideas to play the role they do. But the sense of a metaphor, it seems, is
parasitic on the literal senses of the words involved; one must grasp the
latter before being in a position to grasp the former. Since I am acquainted
with the acts of my own mind through ideas of reflection, there seems to be
no problem in making this transfer intra-subjectively. The problem comes
when we try to calibrate our words for mental operations; since ostensive
definition cannot be invoked, we must hope that others have picked up on
the metaphorical relation. But it is unclear how, on Locke’s own terms, we
could ever check that this is in fact the case.
privacy: metaphysical issues
The difficulties just discussed are apt to be lumped in with difficulties of
a quite different kind. For in addition to asking, how do we know that
we are annexing the same idea to a given word, we can also ask, can these
ideas be the same? The question is not whether our ideas in this or that
circumstance can be the same, but rather, whether it even makes sense to
talk of two ideas in different minds being the same. For if our words signify
ideas, which are private entities, it is hard to see how we could ever succeed
in talking about the same thing. Put more perspicuously, Locke’s account
31 For example, imagine a case in which a child learns the word “dog” through ostension. Suppose
that the child and dog have been interacting; the parent then says “dog” and points at the dog.
Why should we think it mysterious that the child has a good chance of learning the word “dog” in
this way? Naturally, this account assumes that the child has some pre-linguistic ability to respond
differentially to objects. I argue above that Locke can posit such an ability without violating his
empiricism. For more on the question of pre-linguistic capacities for carving up one’s environment,
in both human and non-human animals, see Alasdair MacIntyre (1999).
134 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
of language threatens to strip us of our ability to affirm or deny the same
proposition, or to talk about the same thing.
These worries are raised most clearly by Frege. Though Frege does not
explicitly mention Locke as one of his targets, Locke is clearly a member of
the empiricist tradition Frege attacks. It is worthwhile, then, to see whether
Frege’s criticisms can be made to tell against Locke’s position as I have stated
it. I am interested here in a particular strand of Frege’s anti-psychologistic
arguments; I do not pretend to have addressed all such strands.
A good way into these issues is to take up the inverted spectrum prob-
lem.32
This is usually posed in an epistemic form: “how could I ever know
that anyone else is having the same internal experiences as I am? In partic-
ular, how could I ever know that you are using “blue” to signify the same
idea as I?” Locke’s response is in effect to change the question to “what are
the criteria for sameness of idea?” Once we answer this question, the initial
problem takes on an entirely new light.
I have developed a Lockean account of “significative” sameness, whereby
what determines the sameness of two ideas is not a similarity between their
introspectible contents but rather their epistemic roles, which in turn are
founded on their causal roles. Two ideas are the “same,” on this view, if they
are evidence for the presence of the extra-mental object that causes them.
If this is right, “same idea” is, in Locke’s mouth, multiply ambiguous, not
only as between token and type, but between qualitative and significative
sameness, sameness of idea qua sign.33
Locke requires sameness of idea for successful communication, but in
which of these senses of “same?” Obviously it is impossible for two minds
to have the same token of a given idea; this is what Frege insists upon time
and again in “Thoughts.” Sameness of type, then, is at issue. But within
sameness of type, we can still ask whether Locke requires qualitative or
significative sameness. Locke says that the hypothesis that an object pro-
duces in several minds qualitatively different ideas carries no “Imputation
of Falshood to our simple Ideas” (II.xxxii.15: 389), and that someone in this
state of affairs would be able to “distinguish Things for his Use by those
32 Note that Locke does not think the problem meaningless or nonsensical, even though he acknowl-
edges that there is in principle no way to ascertain the qualitative sameness of color ideas.
33 Compare Sydney Shoemaker (1982, p. 365). Shoemaker distinguishes between qualitative and what
he calls “intentional” sameness: “If Fred’s house looked yellow to him at both t1 and t2, then
with respect to color his house ‘looked the same’ to him at those two times in the sense that his
experiences of it on those two occasions were of the same objective color, or had the same color as
their ‘intentional object.’ Call this the ‘intentional’ sense of ‘looks the same.’” Significative sameness
differs from Shoemaker’s intentional sameness only in that the former requires an idea of a color to
be evidence for the existence of a physical object capable of causing that idea.
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 135
Appearances, and understand, and signify those distinctions, marked by the
Names Blue and Yellow” (ibid.; see II.xxiii.8: 300). Thus all that is necessary
for successful communication, at least where ideas of secondary qualities
are involved, is significative sameness.
There is an arbitrariness to ideas of secondary qualities mirroring that of
words. Unlike ideas of primary qualities, those of, say, color do not resemble
their objects. Thus introspecting on their content tells us nothing about
what they represent. Instead, we must look to their role as evidence of the
qualities of the external objects fitted to produce them. Just as we might
have made “dung” the sign of the idea of cake, God might have made the
idea having the qualitative content blue the sign of an external object that
in this possible world produces the quale red.
We can now turn our attention to the epistemic form of the question
with which we began. To know that the word “blue” stands for the same
idea for both of us would amount to knowing whether we were using “blue”
to stand for the same idea qua sign. So if we have reasons to believe that
our ideas causally co-vary, then, whatever their qualitative content, we can
say they are the same. Such reasons lie outside Locke’s purview, as they
could only be supplied by empirical science; nevertheless, our common
constitution provides some grounds for believing that there is this kind
of causal co-variance among our ideas.34
Moreover, the epistemic role of
simple ideas will presumably show itself in the subject’s inferences.
This puts us in a position to understand Frege’s worries, for his main
argument against “psychologism” turns on the identity conditions of propo-
sitions and thoughts of those propositions. In “Negation,” Frege entertains
the view that negation is separation, and affirmation, combination. As we
have seen, this conforms to the outline of Locke’s view, though some qual-
ification is necessary to make clear that these acts are sub-propositional.
Frege asks:
What then are these objects, which negation is supposed to separate? Not parts of
sentences; equally, not parts of a thought. Things in the outside world? They do
not bother about our negating. Mental images in the interior world of the person
who negates? But then how does the juryman know which of his images he ought
to separate in given circumstances? The question put before him does not indicate
any to him. It may evoke images in him. But the images evoked in the jurymen’s
inner worlds are different; and in that case each juryman would perform his own
act of separation in his own inner world, and this would not be a verdict.35
34 Note that, since not all Lockean ideas are indicative signs, there are some ideas whose sameness
might be qualitative rather than significative.
35 Frege (1977, pp. 39–40).
136 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
The same kind of point is made in “Thoughts,” except that here Frege
brings out more clearly the subjectivist and solipsistic consequences he sees
as following from the view that thoughts are simply private mental contents.
Frege writes:
If every thought requires an owner and belongs to the contents of his consciousness,
then the thought has this owner alone; and there is no science common to many
on which many could work, but perhaps I have my science, a totality of thoughts
whose owner I am, and another person has his. Each of us is concerned with the
contents of his own consciousness. No contradiction between the two sciences
would then be possible, and it would really be idle to dispute about truth; as
idle, indeed almost as ludicrous, as for two people to dispute whether a hundred-
mark note were genuine, when each meant the one he himself had in his pocket
and understood the word “genuine” in his own particular sense. If someone takes
thoughts to be ideas, what he then accepts as true is, on his own view, the contents
of consciousness, and does not properly concern other people at all. If he heard
from me the opinion that a thought is not an idea he could not dispute it, for,
indeed, it would not now concern him.36
Frege’s critique of the position that equates thoughts, the objects of judg-
ment, with ideas, is sometimes strikingly close to Mill’s famous objection
to Locke. For instance, Frege offers this as a reductio: “if I state some-
thing about my brother, I do not state it about the idea that I have of my
brother.”37
But to say that words signify ideas in no way entails that all of
our talk is about our own ideas. As I argued in chapter one, it is open to
Locke to accept that language, at least sometimes, is “about” or “refers to”
public objects, so long as this is reducible to the signification relation, plus
the intentionality of mental contents. That is, to say that the word “dog” in
certain contexts refers to dogs is just to say that in general someone speaking
the word provides us with evidence upon which we may infer that she is
thinking of dogs. The work of “aboutness,” if you like, is done at the mental,
not the linguistic, level. This move allows Locke to parry Mill’s objection.
Similarly, pace Frege, to say that we are immediately acquainted only
with our own ideas does not entail that we cannot be aware of anything
else:38
ideas, for a representationalist like Locke, are instead the very means
by which we obtain this awareness of the external world.
36 Frege (1977, p. 15). 37 Frege (1977, p. 23).
38 See “Thoughts” in Frege (1977), where Frege mounts an attack on what seems to be representation-
alism. He writes: “[e]ither the thesis that only what is my idea can be the object of my awareness is
false, or all my knowledge and perception is limited to my range of ideas . . . In this case I should
have only an inner world and I should know nothing of other people” (1977, p. 19). One of the
dangers of Frege’s apparent reluctance in this essay to name those figures he takes to have held an
opposing view is that the critique he offers has trouble finding a target. Certainly at least this portion
of it does not tell against Locke.
The reception of Locke’s philosophy of language 137
But Frege goes beyond Mill in the two passages I have just quoted.
The question is, under what conditions can we say that two people are
having the same thought, or affirming (or denying) the same proposition?
Frege argues that if the limits of our Cartesian theaters are the limits of
our language, it will be impossible for us ever to disagree. Locke’s response
would be to point to his account of sameness of idea. Locke requires that
the ideas be tokens of the same type, and that (at least in some cases, such
as those of ideas of secondary qualities) they have what I have been calling
significative, and not necessarily qualitative, sameness.39
But what about the act of the mind signified by a particle term? Here only
type identity can reasonably be required. Your act of negating and mine
cannot be numerically one; but nothing stops them from being instances
of separation, and this is what matters, on Locke’s view.
Frege, of course, will have none of this. He proclaims that “two men do
not have the same sense impressions though they may have similar ones.”40
Whatever appearance this has of being an obvious truth is deceptive. Unless
one assumes that numerical identity of ideas or sense impressions is the
only kind worth having, the only kind relevant to the issues we have been
exploring, this consideration goes no distance at all toward substantiating
Frege’s claim that his opponents are committed to what we might call
linguistic solipsism.
What I have offered here does not, of course, amount to a complete
vindication of Locke’s view. I hope only to have shown that Locke’s view
cannot be dismissed as easily as many of his critics believe. In particular,
the privacy of the mental does not preclude successful communication and
indeed Lockean ersatz reference to public objects and qualities. The next
chapter completes the evaluative portion of this work by assessing Locke’s
view in light of more contemporary developments in the philosophy of
language.
39 Ascertaining significative sameness, of course, requires moving beyond the Cartesian theater to
make claims about such extra-mental events as causal relations between physical objects and our
sense organs. This is another instance in which the metaphysical scheme Locke offers needs to be
invoked in understanding his views about language. See chapter seven.
40 Frege (1977, p. 26).
chapter 7
Conclusion
Although something has been done above to situate Locke in a contem-
porary context, the reader may well wonder about the importance of all of
this for the contemporary philosopher. What, when all is said and done,
does Locke have to say to us?
By way of at once answering this question and drawing together the
threads of this project as a whole, I shall step back for a moment from the
details of Locke’s view and ask whether an approach to language on Locke’s
lines is viable. As I indicated at the outset, I fully expect philosophers
who have felt the twin influences of Frege and the Kripke/Putnam view
of reference to be hostile to Locke’s position. The claim that one’s mental
representations fix the reference of one’s words is controversial enough; the
additional claim that at bottom there is no such thing as reference is apt to
sound paradoxical. It would be well to begin our assessment of Locke, then,
by examining Putnam’s arguments against the broadly Lockean position
that meaning is a matter of mental representation.
Having argued that Locke’s approach has the resources to answer these
arguments and that mental representations can plausibly be said to mediate
the word/world connection, I go on to assess the particular relations and
mechanisms Locke thinks connect a (categorematic) word and a mental
representation on one hand and such a representation and the world on the
other. In so doing, we shall gain a clearer overview of Locke’s philosophy
as a whole.
word and world
Many contemporary philosophers of language would part ways with Locke
right at the start. Any approach that posits the mental as a tertium quid
is bound to have a decidedly backwards air about it. In particular, it is
common to read that Hilary Putnam has shown (along with Kripke) that
meanings “ain’t in the head.”
138
Conclusion 139
Details aside, Locke clearly holds a version of mentalism: the psycholog-
ical state of the speaker determines the reference of his words. My claim
that reference can be analyzed as a construction out of signification (see
chapter one) does not affect the central point: one’s ideas and mental acts
determine what one “is talking about” in the pre-theoretical sense of this
phrase. By contrast, Putnam argues that psychological states cannot fix ref-
erence because two beings might be in exactly the same psychological state
and yet refer to different things. I shall show that Putnam’s arguments do
not support this conclusion. Lockean mentalism remains untouched.
Putnam’s first argument deploys his famous Twin Earth example.1
Sup-
pose an Earthman, Oscar, and his Twin-Earth counterpart, call him Toscar,
are atom-for-atom qualitatively identical. Putnam asks us to imagine that
they have not only the same physical structure but the same thoughts and
“interior monologue”; in short, they share all the same psychological states.
It happens that on Twin Earth water is not H2O but XYZ. What is the
extension of “water” for Toscar? Since he is on Twin Earth, it must be XYZ.
For Oscar, however, the extension is good old H2O. So psychological states
alone do not fix the extension of “water.”
For this argument to have even the appearance of proving what it claims
to prove, it must stipulate that Oscar and Toscar are in the same psycho-
logical state. This begs the question. The mentalist will argue precisely
that they are not in fact in the same state.2
The mentalist might suggest
that psychological states themselves are individuated in part by their con-
nections with the environment. Consider Locke’s causal-cum-teleological
account of mental representation. Since simple ideas represent the objects
that (God has intended to) cause them, Oscar’s idea of water and Toscar’s
idea of water are not the same ideas, even if they are qualitatively identical.
Although Locke holds that psychological states fix reference (in the atten-
uated sense specified above), he does not think that psychological states
themselves are individuated by their qualitative contents. Instead, it is their
causal/teleological link to extra-mental objects that makes them states of a
given thing or quality (if we abstract from Locke’s distinct account of the
workings of natural kind terms). Locke’s mentalism supplemented by his
causal theory of representation makes him immune to Twin Earth-style
counterexamples.
1 Putnam (1973, pp. 701–2).
2 The dialectical moves in the Twin Earth debate are paralleled by those in arguments about the identity
of indiscernibles. As Ian Hacking (1975b) has shown, the standard counterexamples (e.g., the alleged
possibility of qualitatively identical spheres) to Leibniz’s view invariably beg the question by assuming
that there are two such spheres, or what have you.
140 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
Even if we grant that Oscar and Toscar are in the same mental state,
however, Eddy Zemach has shown that Putnam’s conclusion does not fol-
low. According to Putnam, “water” in Earth English refers to water because
it has the same nature as “most of the stuff I and others in my linguistic
community have, on other occasions, called ‘water.’”3
But who constitutes
Putnam’s “linguistic community?” If it includes the Twin Earthians, then
“water” does not refer to H2O; either it is not a substance word at all (which
seems absurd), or it refers to (H2O v XYZ). (In fact, many of our substance
words (“glue,” “paper,” even “water,” which refers to both heavy water and
H2O) do have disjunctive extensions.) Putnam obviously does not want
the Twin Earthians to be counted as members of the same linguistic com-
munity; but why? Where is the argument for excluding them? Note that
Putnam cannot say that the Twin Earthians aren’t part of the same linguistic
community because they use water to refer to XYZ rather than H2O; this
is question-begging.
Putnam sometimes invokes Kripke’s causal theory of reference in this
connection. Consider Putnam’s account of how “electricity” gets its mean-
ing. For most of us, we “learn the word from someone linked by a chain
of such transmissions to an introducing event.”4
An initial “dubbing” es-
tablishes the reference of the word; thereafter, the word continues to refer
to the initially ostended or described kind, even if speakers come to have
radically mistaken beliefs about that kind. Thus on both Earth and Twin
Earth Putnam wishes us to suppose that an initial act of ostension or de-
scription allows Oscar, even if he did not himself perform this initial act,
to refer to H2O, and Toscar to XYZ. Their relationship to these different
initial dubbings put Oscar and Toscar in distinct linguistic communities.
Zemach points out that it is now epistemically possible that “water” refers
to pig urine. For we can never hope to know the circumstances surrounding
the initial introduction of a word. Even if there was such a mythical act of
naming in the distant past, it is impossible for us ever to learn anything
about that act. Zemach concludes: “any theory which has as a result that we
do not and cannot know what is the correct reference of the word ‘water,’
or any other substance term, cannot be right.”5
Putnam links the Kripke view with his second main argument, the argu-
ment from the division of linguistic labor (DLL). On the causal view, our
words refer as they do because we are members of a linguistic community
that stands in the proper causal chain leading back to the original dub-
bing of the natural kind. We should stop thinking of language as “private
3 Putnam (1973, p. 702), quoted in Zemach (1976, p. 118).
4 Putnam (1975, p. 202). 5 Zemach (1976, p. 123).
Conclusion 141
property.”6
In some cases, it is in part our relation to the rest of the com-
munity that explains our ability to refer. For example, it is not necessary
that everyone using the word “gold” properly has the ability to tell real gold
from iron pyrite. Some of us rely on a special subset of speakers who do
have this ability; our use of “gold” “depends upon a structured cooperation
between [us] and the speakers in the relevant subsets.”7
In many cases, we
are willing to defer to experts on the extension of our sortal terms. All of
this seems true. But it does not support Putnam’s overall claim.
To see why, note that Putnam grants that some words, such as “chair,”
do not exhibit DLL; others did not at one time but now do. How are we
to determine which is the case?8
Consider Oscar once again. Oscar cannot
tell beeches from elms; walking through the woods, he will apply “elm”
indiscriminately. Does “elm” in Oscar’s idiolect exemplify DLL? We can’t
decide this question by deferring to the scientists. Nor can we assume that
the answer must be “yes.” Oscar might well use the term to refer to all trees
that have some feature or set of features in common and not give a hoot
what the experts will say. Unlike Putnam, Locke can answer this question:
we must ask Oscar about his concept of elm and see whether he intends
“elm” to signify “whatever the experts mean by ‘elm’” or not. DLL is thus
perfectly consistent with Lockean mentalism. In fact, as Zemach argues, it
seems to presuppose either mentalism or some other “traditional” account.
For Putnam himself cannot simply stipulate that “elm” in Oscar’s idiolect
exemplifies DLL. Whether it does or not, according to Locke, will turn on
the content of Oscar’s psychological states (and their extra-mental causes).
Locke’s position, then, does not fall to these arguments against mental-
ism. For all that, we must not overestimate the gap between Locke’s position
and the Putnam/Kripke view. As I have suggested above, Locke conceives
of mental representation at least partly in terms of causal connection. It is
not much of an exaggeration to say that Locke’s view is what results if we
alter Putnam’s so that the mental, as opposed to the linguistic, is the source
of intentionality. As we shall see (chapter seven), Locke’s insistence on the
causal connections between mental representations and their referents is
not so far removed after all from Putnam-style externalism.
word and mind
I have argued that it is reasonable to hold a Lockean view of language in
the face of Putnam-style arguments against mentalism. This is far from a
6 Putnam (1975, p. 203). 7 Putnam (1975, p. 228).
8 Zemach (1976, p. 125) offers a version of this argument.
142 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
defense of Locke’s view, of course, since mentalism can take many different
forms. The claim that the word–world connection is mediated by the mind
says nothing about either the word–mind or mind–world connection. A
fuller assessment of Locke’s view must therefore consider his proposed
accounts of those two relations. In this section, I shall offer some remarks
on the first of these.
I have already granted that, as a full account of language, Locke’s position
is woefully inadequate. Locke simply has nothing to say on the multifarious
uses of language; topics such as illocutionary acts are never addressed and
pretty clearly cannot be made to fit the Procrustean bed of signification.
To take this as a devastating critique, however, is to miss Locke’s point in
engaging in his inquiry in the first place. He is after an account of the
regions of language that are of central importance to his epistemology and
metaphysics.
If we then implicitly limit the application of Locke’s view to what we
might call “descriptive” or “fact-stating” uses of language, it becomes much
more plausible. True, it would be implausible, phenomenologically, to say
that we always take others’ words as indications of their mental acts and
objects. But as we have seen, Locke grants that in practice most of us do not
consciously infer a speaker’s thoughts from her words, but simply have an
idea “raised up” in us. That this sometimes causes confusion hardly needs
saying; that it often takes place also seems clear.
Much of the apparent implausibility of the linguistic thesis disappears
once one sees that Locke in no way claims that language is about our ideas.
As we have seen, intentionality, for Locke, takes place at the mental, not
linguistic, level. In this sense of “aboutness,” words are not about anything.
Instead, they are signals others can (although they often do not) use to infer
what is going on in our minds. The Fregean notions of Sinn and Bedeutung
have no real place in Locke’s theory, although I have argued that Locke can
reconstruct the apparent facts of reference through a slightly cumbersome,
but perfectly plausible, reductive analysis.
Locke’s view is built around the claim that the linguistic inherits its
intentionality from the mental.9
This view of intentionality strikes me as
right. There are of course many other positions besides that of Putnam that
challengetheroleofmentalrepresentationsinfixingmeaning.Indeed,some
philosophers, such as Paul Churchland, treat talk of mental representations
as part of a defective “folk psychology” that will one day be supplanted by
9 Perhaps the most famous argument for the claim that the intentionality of language is primary to
that of the mental is offered by Sellars (1963).
Conclusion 143
a complete neuroscience. This position has come under withering attack.10
Nor do I see much hope for other eliminativist strategies, such as that
of Daniel Dennett. Dennett’s instrumentalism about intentionality strikes
me as neither plausible nor internally coherent.11
There is not space here
to mount a full attack on these competing views. It must be enough here
to note that the core of Locke’s position has emerged unscathed from the
objections we have considered.
mind and world
Even if we grant Locke this much, the crucial connection between mind
and world has yet to be drawn. The first group of problems we must
examine center on Locke’s “ideism,” in Sergeant’s phrase. If all knowledge
is propositional (II.xxxiii.19: 401), and all (mental) propositions are made
by affirming or denying one idea of another, how can we be said to know
anything outside our own minds? In particular, how can Locke account for
our ability to predicate real existence of the objects of the senses? The second
problem I shall discuss concerns Locke’s account of representation. As we
have seen, Locke offers a causal-cum-teleological view of representation,
intended to establish the link between mind and world. We saw above
(chapter one) that the teleological element of his view allows him to answer
the two most formidable objections to causal theories. But what can Locke
say to the skeptic, who argues that, having placed us behind a “veil of ideas,”
Locke has in effect severed any possible epistemic link between mind and
world?
Let us begin with knowledge. If propositions consist of affirmations and
denials of one idea of another, in what sense can we say that knowledge
is about real things, and not just ideas? We have already seen a general
answer to this question in discussing Locke’s view of representation: the
ideas themselves (in some cases) represent real things. But it is obscure how
this ideational account can ever make sense of knowledge of real existence.
For to say that x exists would seem to be to go beyond the bounds of one’s
own ideas.
As A.D. Woozley puts it,
On the accepted interpretation of Locke’s theory of ideas, his account of knowledge
runs immediately into an insuperable objection. Given that knowledge is what he
defines it to be, the perception of the agreement or disagreement of ideas, the
10 See Crane (1995).
11 For a thorough critique of Dennett’s “intentional stance,” see Lynne Rudder Baker (1989).
144 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
only propositions that even in principle could be known would be hypothetical
non-existential propositions, e.g. those of mathematics. Existential propositions
not only could not in fact be verified (for that would require breaking out of the
circle of ideas), but they could not even in principle be candidates for knowledge,
because such propositions not only do not assert a relation between one idea and
others, but are not relational propositions at all.12
Woozley lays the blame for this “insuperable difficulty” at the door of
representationalistreadingsofLocke.Ihavearguedbrieflyforsuchareading
above. But if we look more carefully at Locke’s conception of experience,
we shall see that the difficulty Woozley raises is indeed superable.
In fact, Woozley’s objection stems in part from the same misunderstand-
ing of Locke’s view of language I have been fighting against throughout this
work. A proposition does not necessarily assert that the ideas in question
agree or disagree, even though this is what makes them true or false. A
mental proposition is about the things the ideas refer to. This, however, is
only the beginning of the story. For in order to have real knowledge, one’s
ideas must reach out beyond themselves to extra-mental things and their
qualities.
In IV.iv, Locke writes,
I Doubt not but my Reader, by this time, may be apt to think, that I have been
all this while only building a Castle in the Air; and be ready to say to me, To what
purpose all this stir? Knowledge, say you, is only the perception of the agreement
or disagreement of our own Ideas: but who knows what those Ideas may be? . . .
’Tis no matter how Things are: so a Man observe but the agreement of his own
Imaginations, and talk conformably, it is all Truth, all Certainty . . . But of what
use is all this fine Knowledge of Men’s own Imaginations, to a Man that enquires after
the reality of Things? (IV.iv.1: 562–3)
Knowledge per se is propositional for Locke, since it is the perception of
the agreement or disagreement of ideas; a bit of knowledge can be said
to be real just in case the ideas involved in the true mental proposition
conform to or agree with “the reality of Things” (IV.iv.3: 563). This means
that we must distinguish between what makes a proposition true from
what makes a true proposition count as real knowledge. The former is
simply the agreement or disagreement of its constituent ideas (depending
upon whether the proposition is an affirmation or denial); the latter is
the relation between each constituent idea and its extra-mental object.
12 Woozley (1964, p. 48). A century earlier T.H. Green had made the same point: Locke’s subsumption
of real existence under the agreement and disagreement of ideas “departs at once and openly from his
definition, making it an agreement, not of idea with idea, but of an idea with ‘actual real existence’ ”
(quoted in Mattern 1998, p. 227).
Conclusion 145
(If either idea lacks such an object, the proposition is not a proper object of
real knowledge.) The distinction between real knowledge and knowledge
that involves ideas that lack referents (such as “an Harpy is not a Centaur”
(IV.iv.1: 563)) turns not on the agreement or disagreement of ideas but
on whether the individual ideas involved conform to extra-mental objects.
Although Locke’s criterion for knowledge seems clearly internalist, insofar
as the contents of ideas are immediately present to the mind, his criterion
for real knowledge is not. That is, on my reading of Locke, it is perfectly
possible for someone to meet the criterion for real knowledge and not know
it. Ideally, of course, we want not only to have real knowledge but to know
that our knowledge is indeed real. Under what circumstances can we be
justified in believing that the criterion for real knowledge has been met?13
Locke’s answer invokes, in the first place, his view of representation.
Given his account of simple ideas of sensation, he can claim that they
conform to things because they are the effects of real objects operating on
our senses; moreover, this causal connection was instituted by God to allow
us to deal effectively with our environment. In IV.iv, however, Locke offers
further reasons for thinking that simple ideas provide real knowledge.
The first [sort of ideas that we can know agree with things] are simple Ideas, which
since the Mind, as has been shewed, can by no means make it self, must necessarily
be the product of Things operating on the Mind in a natural way, and producing
therein those Perceptions which by the Wisdom and Will of our Maker they are
ordained and adapted to. (IV.iv.4: 563–4)
One detects more than a whiff in such passages of Descartes’s anti-skeptical
strategy: the benevolence of the Deity assures us that our sensory faculties
reliably indicate the presence of real, extra-mental objects. Locke’s passage
also suggests the more familiar claim that since the ideas of sensation cannot
be caused by the mind itself, they must be caused by objects in an external
world. Both strategies are subject to grave (and rather obvious) difficulties
I shall not go into.
But Locke need not have even flirted with such strategies. For on his
view, the representational content of an idea is fixed by its cause (and
ultimately by God’s intentions in setting up the causal connections), and
so there is no sense to be made of the proposal that simple ideas might fail
to represent their intended objects under normal conditions (see chapter
one). As a reply to the Cartesian skeptic, this line of thought is totally
13 I am focusing here on the reality of knowledge involving our simple ideas of sensation. Locke
offers different accounts of the reality of knowledge where moral, mathematical, and other forms of
knowledge are concerned. See IV.iv: 564–70.
146 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
unpersuasive: Locke’s move, from that point of view, would only push
that problem back, since now the introspectible content of an idea is no
longer a guide to what it represents. (Compare the common reaction to
Putnam’s response to the brain-in-a-vat scenario: if Putnam were right, that
would make Vatman all the worse off, since now he no longer knows even
what his own words mean!) But it is a central feature of externalism about
mental representation that it does not proceed from the first-person point
of view. It is just not clear why we should feel compelled to attempt the
Cartesian project of reconstructing the world on the basis of the contents of
our own minds. Locke’s externalism about representation, I submit, makes
him similarly hostile to the position that philosophy must proceed from the
first-person perspective. This is borne out in his flippant attitude toward
skepticism, evident throughout IV.iv. The core of his response, that our
simple ideas represent their causes, is clearly question-begging from the
skeptic’s point of view; but Locke is unconcerned because he refuses to
occupy that perspective when discussing questions of knowledge.14
Nevertheless, the details of Locke’s view on existence make his position
difficult to defend. In a mental proposition asserting existence, one affirms
the idea of existence of another idea. The idea of existence itself is intromit-
ted by the senses, on Locke’s view: it is “suggested by to the Understanding,
by every Object without, and every Idea within” (I.vii.7: 131). Our experi-
ence of the whiteness of the paper before our eyes carries with it the idea
existence, and so justifies (and allows us to create) the propositional claim
that the paper exists. Thus existence is as it were bundled with all our
sensory experiences.
Whether the details of Locke’s account are defensible will turn, in part,
on whether he has the right conception of existence, as Woozley clearly
sees. Locke treats existence as a predicate, and claims of existence on a par
with ordinary predications. From Suárez to Kant, this treatment has been
challenged. But perhaps the most articulate foe of Locke’s position here is
Hume.
As is well known, Hume argues that belief is nothing more than “a
particular manner of forming an idea: And as the same idea can only be
vary’d by a variation of its degrees of force and vivacity; it follows upon
the whole, that belief is a lively idea produc’d by a relation to a present
impression . . .”15
What is less well known is how Hume arrives at this
somewhat idiosyncratic view. In fact, he begins his argument by focusing
on the central case of existence:
14 See Ayers (1991, vol. 1, p. 38). Ayers neglects the teleological component of Locke’s view.
15 Hume (1978, p. 97).
Conclusion 147
’Tis . . . evident, that the idea of existence is nothing different from the idea of any
object, and that when after the simple conception of any thing we wou’d conceive
it as existent, we in reality make no addition to or alteration on our first idea. Thus
when we affirm, that God is existent, we simply form the idea of such a being, as
he is represented to us; nor is the existence, which we attribute to him, conceiv’d
by a particular idea, which we join to the idea of his other qualities, and can again
separate and distinguish from them . . . I likewise maintain, that the belief of the
existence joins no new ideas to those, which compose the idea of the object. When
I think of God, when I think of him as existent, and when I believe him to be
existent, my idea of him neither encreases nor diminishes.16
Hume is hostile throughout the Treatise toward views such as Locke’s that
treat propositions as composed of distinct ideas combined by a mental act.17
David Owen has shown that this hostility has its source in Hume’s objection
to the way in which such views must treat affirmations of existence.18
A
subject/predicate treatment of such affirmations clearly requires that we
have a separate idea of existence, distinct from that of the object itself.
Every idea and impression, according to Hume, is conceived as existent;
either this conception is nothing other than the force or vivacity of the
idea, or it is itself a distinct idea that accompanies every other perception.
The latter option is unavailable within Hume’s system, for it is one of his
fundamental principles that no two ideas are inseparable.19
Whatever we make of Hume’s own position, he is on firm ground in
asserting that existence is not a predicate. His own account is vulnerable to
a number of objections, chief among them, that he has no way to account
for propositional content.20
A plausible treatment of existence, it seems,
had to await the development of quantificational logic.
Locke’s view of the representative powers of simple ideas allows him to
link mind and world in a very plausible way and to sidestep skepticism.
His implicit opposition to externalist views of linguistic meaning, such as
Putnam’s, does not prevent him from adopting an externalist stance with
regard to mental representation in the case of simple ideas. The arbitrariness
of language is not mirrored at the level of mental representation.
Locke has not enclosed us in a “circle of ideas” from which knowledge
of existence would require us to break out; instead, ideas are precisely
the means we have of knowing the external world. This point is often
missed because it is so obviously question-begging in the face of Cartesian
skepticism. But, as I have suggested, perhaps there are some questions we
should be content to beg.
16 Hume (1978, p. 94). 17 See esp. his footnote at (1978, p. 96).
18 See Owen (forthcoming). 19 This is the dilemma Hume poses; see his (1978, p. 66).
20 See Owen (forthcoming).
148 Locke’s Philosophy of Language
The goal of this study was to clarify Locke’s conception of signification and
use it to illuminate core areas of his epistemology and metaphysics. Once
Locke’s conception of signification is rightly understood, much else about
his view that is otherwise puzzling falls into place. We have seen how Locke’s
position on syncategoremata and the nature of the proposition become
intelligible, if not fully defensible, in this light. And his conception of the
operations of the mind involved in human understanding gains much from
his treatment of particles. In these respects, then, Locke’s inquiries into the
nature of language fit nicely with his announced “Historical, plain Method”
(I.i.2: 44). Locke’s descriptive project, directed as it is at the workings of
the mind itself, would hardly be complete without these elements.
What is perhaps more important for our understanding of the early mod-
ern period, the sense in which Locke intends his conception of language to
tell against competing views, especially those of the Aristotelians, becomes
clear. His views have a normative, as well as a descriptive, side that allows
him to deploy linguistic arguments. In particular, he argues that Aristotelian
essentialism arises from a persistent and natural misunderstanding of the
ways words function, given the purposes for which we use them. In this
light, Locke’s philosophy of language can be seen as part of an “error theory”
about essentialism: it serves not only to expose fundamental errors but to
explain their continuing appeal.
Whether one finds essentialism independently attractive will affect, if
not determine, one’s estimation of Locke’s philosophy of language. Attacks
on Aristotelianism were far from uncommon, of course, among Locke’s
predecessors. But Locke, arguably, does the most thorough job of attacking
the Aristotelian form of essentialism. It took centuries before essentialism
could be resurrected, the dust of the empiricist attacks brushed off, and
made to look respectable once again, by the likes of Kripke and Marcus.
Was Locke, then, just another modern empiricist who helped to throw
philosophy off the scent? So Michael Ayers seems to believe; on his view,
essentialism is at once common-sensical and philosophically correct. The
Aristotelians largely had it right; Locke is the reason why philosophers fell
“away from the truth.”21
Thisisnottheplacetoargueforthemeritsof nominalismoressentialism.
But we can ask why essentialism seems so appealing in the first place. In my
view, the chief attraction of essentialism is the work it can do in the key areas
of causation and laws of nature. As we have seen, however, Locke’s restricted
nominalism does just as good a job of grounding laws of nature (and by
21 Ayers (1981, p. 248).
Conclusion 149
extension, causality) as essentialism. For Locke can reconstruct laws of
nature in terms of the particularized properties of the substances concerned
(see chapter three). This is entirely independent of the question of natural
kinds and essences. Indeed, I see it as one of Locke’s chief achievements that
he was able to distinguish the question of properties from that of natural
kinds and essences, and to offer distinct treatments of each. We can be
skeptical of natural kinds and yet endorse (particularized) properties as key
ingredients in the best account of the laws of nature and causation. Locke
provides a very reasonable way of acknowledging the human contribution
to our pre-theoretical ways of carving up reality while still respecting the
limits reality imposes on our conceptual activity.
Bibliography
Aaron, R.I. 1952. The Theory of Universals. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Aarsleff, Hans. 1964. “Leibniz on Locke on Language.” American Philosophical
Quarterly 1: 165–88.
Alston, William. 1964. The Philosophy of Language. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice
Hall.
Aquinas, St. Thomas. 1945. Basic Writings. 2 vols. Edited by Anton Pegis. New
York: Random House.
———. 1970. Commentary on the Posterior Analytics. Translated by F.R. Larcher.
New York: Magi Books.
———. 1993. Selected Philosophical Writings. Edited by T. McDermott. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Aristotle. 1984. The Complete Works of Aristotle. 2 vols. Edited by Jonathan Barnes.
Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
———. 1989. Prior Analytics. Translated by Robin Smith. Indianapolis: Hackett.
Armstrong, D.M. 1978. Universals and Scientific Realism. 2 vols. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
———. 1989. Universals: An Opinionated Introduction. Boulder, CO: Westview
Press, 1989.
———. 1991. “Arda Denkel’s Resemblance Nominalism.” Philosophical Quarterly
41: 478–82.
Arnauld, Antoine. 1775. Oeuvres de Messire Antoine Arnauld. 43 vols. Paris:
Sigismond D’Arnay.
———. 1990. On True and False Ideas. Translated by Stephen Gaukroger.
Manchester: Manchester University Press.
Arnauld, Antoine and Claude Lancelot. 1966. Grammaire générale et raisonnée, ou
La Grammaire de Port-Royal. Edited by Herbert E. Brekle. Stuttgart: Friedrich
Fromman Verlag.
———. 1975. The Port-Royal Grammar. Translated and edited by Jacques Rieux
and Bernard E. Rollin. Paris: Mouton.
Arnauld, Antoine and Pierre Nicole. 1964. The Art of Thinking: Translated by James
Dickoff and Patricia James. New York: Bobbs-Merrill.
———. 1970. La Logique, ou L’art de Penser. Paris: Flammarion.
150
Bibliography 151
———. 1996. Logic or the Art of Thinking. Translated and edited by Jill Vance
Buroker. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ashworth, E.J. 1981. “Do Words Signify Ideas or Things?” Journal of the History of
Philosophy 19: 299–326.
———. 1984. “Locke on Language.” Canadian Journal of Philosophy 14: 45–73.
———.1988.“TheHistoricalOriginsofJohnPoinsot’sTreatiseonSigns.”Semiotica
69: 129–47.
———. 1990. “Domingo de Soto and the Doctrine of Signs.” In De Ortu
Grammaticae, edited by G.L. Bursill-Hall, Sten Ebbesen, and Konrad
Koerner. Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Augustine. 1958. On Christian Doctrine. Translated by D.W. Robertson. New York:
Bobbs-Merrill.
———. 1975. De Dialectica. Translated by B. Darrell Jackson. Boston: D. Reidel.
———. 1991. The Trinity. Translated by Edmund Hill. New York: New City Press,
1991.
———. 1995. Against the Academicians and The Teacher. Translated by Peter King.
Indianapolis: Hackett.
Ayer, A.J. 1946. Language, Truth and Logic. New York: Dover.
Ayers, M.R. 1975. “Introduction.” In George Berkeley: Philosophical Works, Including
the Works on Vision, edited by M.R. Ayers. London: J.M. Dent.
———. 1981. “Locke Versus Aristotle on Natural Kinds.” Journal of Philosophy 78:
247–72.
———. 1986. “Are Locke’s ‘Ideas’ Images, Intentional Objects, or Natural Signs?”
The Locke Newsletter 17: 3–36.
———. 1991. Locke: Epistemology and Ontology. London: Routledge.
———.1997.“ReviewoftheCambridgeCompaniontoLocke.”TheLockeNewsletter
28: 157–89.
———. 1998a. “The Foundations of Knowledge and the Logic of Substance: the
Structure of Locke’s General Philosophy.” In Locke, edited by Vere Chappell.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
———. 1998b. “Ideas and Objective Being.” In The Cambridge History of
Seventeenth Century Philosophy, edited by M.R. Ayers and Daniel Garber.
2 vols. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Baker, Lynne Rudder. 1989. “Instrumental Intentionality.” Philosophy of Science 56,
2: 303–16.
Behan, David. 2000. “Descartes and Formal Signs.” In Descartes’ Natural
Philosophy, edited by Stephen Gaukroger, John Schuster, and John Sutton.
London: Routledge.
Bennett, Jonathan. 1971. Locke, Berkeley, Hume: Central Themes. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
Berkeley, George. 1949–58. The Works of George Berkeley. 8 vols. Edited by A.A.
Luce and T.E. Jessop. London: Thomas Nelson.
———.1987.Berkeley’s ManuscriptIntroduction.EditedbyBertilBelfrage.Oxford:
Doxa.
152 Bibliography
Blackburn, Simon. 1984. Spreading the Word. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bolton, Martha. 1998a. “The Relevance of Locke’s Theory of Ideas to his Doctrine
of Nominal Essence and Anti-essentialist Semantic Theory.” In Locke, edited
by Vere Chappell. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
———. 1998b. “Universals, Essences, and Abstract Entities.” In The Cambridge
History of Seventeenth Century Philosophy, edited by M.R. Ayers and Daniel
Garber. 2 vols. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Burnyeat, Myles F. 1982. “The Origins of Non-Deductive Inference.” In Sci-
ence and Speculation: Studies in Hellenistic Theory and Practice, edited
by Jonathan Barnes, Jacques Brunschwig, Myles Burnyeat, and Malcolm
Schofield. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Buroker, Jill Vance. 1993. “The Port-Royal Semantics of Terms.” Synthese 96, 3:
455–76.
Cajetan (Cardinal Thomas de Vio). 1953. The Analogy of Names. Translated by E.A.
Bushinski. Pittsburgh: Pittsburgh University Press.
Coimbran Commentators. 1976. Commentarii Conimbricenses in dialecticam
Aristotelis (1607). Reprinted by Hildesheim: G. Olms.
Crane, Tim. 1995. The Mechanical Mind. London: Penguin.
Cummins, Robert. 1989. Meaning and Mental Representation. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Denkel, Arda. 1989. “Real Resemblances.” Philosophical Quarterly 39: 36–56.
Descartes, René. 1984. The Philosophical Writings of Descartes. Vols. 1 and 2,
edited by John Cottingham, Robert Stoothoff, and Dugald Murdoch; vol. 3,
edited by Cottingham, Stoothoff, Murdoch, and Anthony Kenny. New York:
Cambridge University Press.
Digby, Sir Kenelm. 1657. Two Treatises: in the one of which, the nature of bodies,
in the other the nature of mans soule is looked into: in way of discovery of the
immortality of reasonable soules. London.
Donagan, Alan. 1971. “Universals and Metaphysical Realism.” In The Problem of
Universals, edited by C. Landesman. New York: Basic Books.
Doney, Willis. 1956. “Locke’s Abstract Ideas.” Philosophy and Phenomenological
Research 16, 3: 406–9.
Doyle, John P. 1984. “The Conimbricenses on the Relations Involved in Signs.” In
Semiotica, edited by John Deeley. New York: University Press.
Dretske, Fred. 1990. “Misrepresentation.” In Mind and Cognition, edited by
William G. Lycan. Oxford: Blackwell.
Evans, Gareth. 1982. The Varieties of Reference. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Ferguson, Sally. 2001. “Lockian Teleosemantics.” Locke Studies 1: 105–22.
Flew, Antony. 1993. “Was Berkeley a Precursor of Wittgenstein?” In Alciphron: In
Focus, edited by David Berman. London: Routledge.
Fodor, Jerry. 1984. “Semantics, Wisconsin Style.” Synthese 59: 231–50.
———. 1987. Psychosemantics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Frege, Gottlob. 1950. The Foundations of Arithmetic. Translated by J.L. Austin.
Evanston: Northwestern University Press.
Bibliography 153
———. 1959. Collected Papers on Mathematics, Logic, and Philosophy. Translated
by Max Black. Oxford: Blackwell.
———. 1977. Logical Investigations. Translated by P.T. Geach and R. H. Stoothoff.
New Haven: Yale University Press.
———. 1980. Translations From the Philosophical Writings of Gottlob Frege. Edited
by Peter Geach and Max Black. 3rd edn. Oxford: Blackwell.
———. 1997. The Frege Reader. Edited by Michael Beaney. London: Blackwell.
Gassendi, Pierre. 1972. The Selected Works of Pierre Gassendi. Edited by Craig Brush.
New York: Johnson.
Geach, Peter. 1957. Mental Acts. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul.
———. 1961. “Frege.” In Geach and G.E.M. Anscombe, Three Philosophers.
London: Blackwell.
———. 1980. Reference and Generality. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Gilson,Etienne.1956.TheChristianPhilosophyofThomasSt.Aquinas.NotreDame:
University of Notre Dame Press.
Grice, H.P. 1957. “Meaning.” Philosophical Review 66: 377–88.
Guyer, Paul. 1994. “Locke’s Philosophy of Language.” In The Cambridge
Companion to Locke, edited by Vere Chappell. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Hacking, Ian. 1975a. “The Identity of Indiscernibles.” Journal of Philosophy 72:
249–56.
———. 1975b. Why Does Language Matter to Philosophy? Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Hanna, Robert. 1991. “How Ideas Became Meanings: Locke and the Foundations
of Semantic Theory.” Review of Metaphysics: 44: 775–805.
Harrison, John and Peter Laslett. 1971. The Library of John Locke. 2nd edition.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Hobbes, Thomas. 1839–45. The English Works of Thomas Hobbes. 11 vols. Edited by
William Molesworth. London: Richards.
———. 1994. Human Nature and De Corpore. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hume, David. 1978. A Treatise of Human Nature. Edited by L.A. Selby-Bigge,
revised by P.H. Nidditch. Oxford: Clarendon.
Hylton, Peter. 1984. “The Nature of the Proposition and the Revolt Against Ide-
alism.” In Philosophy in History, edited by Richard Rorty, J.B. Schneewind,
and Quentin Skinner. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
———. 1992. Russell, Idealism, and the Emergence of Analytic Philosophy. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Inwood, Brad and L.P. Gerson. 1988. Hellenistic Philosophy: Introductory Readings.
Indianapolis: Hackett.
Kant, Immanuel. 1958. Critique of Pure Reason. Translated by N.K. Smith. London:
Macmillan.
———. 1974. Logic. Translated by Robert Hartmann and Wolfgang Schwartz.
New York: Dover, 1974.
Kenny, Anthony. 1994. Frege. London: Penguin.
154 Bibliography
Kretzmann, Norman. 1975. “The Main Thesis of Locke’s Semantic Theory.” In
Locke on Human Understanding, edited by I.C. Tipton. Oxford: Oxford
University Press. Philosophical Review 77. First published in (1968): 175–96.
Land, Stephen K. 1986. The Philosophy of Language in Britain. New York: AMS
Press.
Landesman, Charles. 1976. “Locke’s Theory of Meaning.” Journal of the History of
Philosophy 14: 23–35.
Lee, Henry. 1702. Anti-skepticism: or notes upon each chapter of Mr. Locke’s Essay.
Leibniz, G.W. 1996. New Essays on Human Understanding. Translated and edited
by Jonathan Bennett and Peter Remnant. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Levin, Michael E. 1971. “Length Relativity.” Journal of Philosophy 68, 6: 164–74.
Locke, John. 1812. The Works of John Locke. 11th edn. 10 vols. London: Otridge
et al.
———. 1975. An Essay concerning Human Understanding. Edited by P.H. Nidditch.
Oxford: Clarendon.
Long, A.A. and D.N. Sedley. 1987. The Hellenistic Philosophers. 2 vols. New York:
Cambridge University Press.
Losonsky, Michael. 1994. “Locke on Meaning and Signification.” In Locke’s Phi-
losophy: Content and Context, edited by G.A.J. Rogers. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
Loux, Michael. 1978. Substance and Attribute. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Lovejoy, Arthur O. 1907. “Kant’s Classification of the Forms of Judgment.” Philo-
sophical Review 16: 588–603.
Lowe, E.J. 1995. Locke on Human Understanding. London: Routledge.
———. 2000. “Locke, Martin, and Substance.” Philosophical Quarterly 50:
499–514.
MacDonald, Scott. 1993. “Theory of Knowledge.” In The Cambridge Companion
to Aquinas, edited by N. Kretzmann and E. Stump. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
MacIntyre, Alasdair. 1999. Dependent Rational Animals. Chicago: Open Court.
Mackie, J.L. 1974. “Locke’s Anticipation of Kripke.” Analysis 34: 177–80.
———. 1976. Problems from Locke. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Markus, R.A. 1957. “St. Augustine on Signs.” Phronesis 2: 60–83.
Martin, C.B. 1980. “Substance Substantiated.” Australasian Journal of Philosophy
58, 1: 3–10.
Mattern, Ruth. 1998. “Locke: ‘Our Knowledge, which All Consists in Proposi-
tions.’” In Locke, edited by Vere Chappell. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Mattey, G.J. 1986. “Kant’s Theory of Propositional Attitudes.” Kant-Studien 77,
4: 423–40.
Matthews, H.E. 1971. “Locke, Malebranche, and the Representative Theory.” The
Locke Newsletter 2: 12–21.
McCann, Edwin. 1994. “Locke’s Philosophy of Body.” In The Cambridge Com-
panion to Locke, edited by Vere Chappell. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Bibliography 155
McCracken, Charles J. 1983. Malebranche and British Philosophy. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
Mill, J.S. 1867. A System of Logic. New York: Harper.
Nuchelmans,Gabriel.1980.LateScholasticandHumanistTheoriesoftheProposition.
New York: North Holland.
———. 1983. Judgment and Proposition from Descartes to Kant. New York: North
Holland.
———. 1986. “The Historical Background to Locke’s Account of Particles.”
Logique et Analyse 29: 53–71.
Ott, W. 1997. “Locke and the Scholastics on Theological Discourse.” The Locke
Newsletter 28: 51–66.
———. 1999. “Locke and the Idea of God: A Reply to Vivienne Brown.” The
Locke Newsletter 30: 67–71.
———. 2002a. “Locke’s Argument from Signification.” Locke Studies 2:
145–76.
———. 2002b. “Propositional Attitudes in Modern Philosophy.” Dialogue 41:
1–18.
———. 2002c. “Locke and Signification.” Journal of Philosophical Research 27:
449–73.
Owen, David. “Locke and Hume on Belief, Judgment, and Assent.” Forthcoming,
Topoi.
Panza, Christopher. “Partial Consideration, Mental Separation, and General
Reference.” Forthcoming.
Philodemus. 1941. De Signis. Translated by W. and D. De Lacey. Philadelphia:
American Philological Association.
Poinsot, John (John of St. Thomas). 1995. Tractatus de Signis. Translated and edited
by John Deely. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Putnam, Hilary. 1973. “Meaning and Reference.” Journal of Philosophy 70, 19:
699–711.
———. 1975. Mind, Language, and Reality: Philosophical Papers, Vol. 2. New York:
Cambridge University Press.
Quine, Willard Van Orman. 1969. Ontological Relativity and Other Essays. New
York: Columbia University Press.
Quintilian. 1920. Institutio Oratoria. Translated by H.E. Butler. 4 vols. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press.
Robinson, Richard. 1950. Definition. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Russell, Bertrand. 1912. The Problems of Philosophy. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
———. 1937a. The Philosophy of Leibniz. London: Allen and Unwin.
———. 1937b. Principles of Mathematics. London: Allen and Unwin.
———. 1948. Human Knowledge: Its Scope and Limits. New York: Simon and
Schuster.
———. 1983. The Collected Papers of Bertrand Russell. 8 vols. Edited by Elisabeth
Eames and Kenneth Blackwell. London: Allen and Unwin.
———. 1992. Logic and Knowledge. London: Routledge.
156 Bibliography
Searle, John. 1987. “Indeterminacy, Empiricism, and the First Person.” Journal of
Philosophy 84, 3: 123–46.
Sedley, David. 1982. “On Signs.” In Science and Speculation: Studies in Hellenis-
tic Theory and Practice, edited by Jonathan Barnes, Jacques Brunschwig,
Myles Burnyeat, and Malcolm Schofield. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Sellars, Wilfrid. 1963. “Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind.” In Science,
Perception, and Reality. Atascadero, CA: Ridgeview Publishing Company.
Sergeant, John. 1984. Solid Philosophy Asserted Against the Fancies of the Ideists. New
York: Garland.
Shoemaker, Sydney. 1982. “The Inverted Spectrum.” Journal of Philosophy 79, 7:
357– 81.
Skorupski, John. 1989. John Stuart Mill. London: Routledge.
Soles, David E. 1998. “Locke on Ideas, Words, and Knowledge.” Revue International
de Philosophie 42: 150–72.
———. 1999. “Is Locke an Imagist?” The Locke Newsletter 30: 17–66.
Spencer, Thomas. 1628. The Art of Logic. London. Scolar Press facsimile.
Stillingfleet, Edward. 1697. A Discourse in Vindication of the Doctrine of the
Trinity: with an Answer to the Late Socinian Objections against it from Scripture,
Antiquity and Reason. London.
Swing, Thomas K. 1969. Kant’s Transcendental Logic. New Haven: Yale University
Press.
Taylor, C.C.W. 1978. “Berkeley’s Theory of Abstract Ideas.” Philosophical Quarterly
28, 111: 1–19.
Thalberg, Irving. 1981. “The Discovery of Nonsense.” In Midwest Studies in Phi-
losophy 6, edited by Peter French, Theodore Uehling, and Howard Wettstein.
Notre Dame, IN: University of Notre Dame Press.
Urmson, J.O. 1967. Philosophical Analysis. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Walmsley, Jonathan. 1999. “Locke on Abstraction: A Response to M.R. Ayers.”
British Journal for the History of Philosophy 7: 123–34.
Weidemann, H. 1989. “Aristotle on Inferences from Signs.” Phronesis 34: 343–51.
Winkler, Kenneth. 1989. Berkeley: An Interpretation. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Wisdom, John. 1931–3. “Logical Constructions I–V.” Mind 40–2.
Wittgenstein, Ludwig. 1953. Philosophical Investigations. Translated by G.E.M.
Anscombe. New York: Macmillan.
———. 1958. The Blue and Brown Books. Translated by Rush Rhees. London:
Blackwell.
———. 1974. Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. Translated by D.F. Pears and Brian
McGuinness. London: Routledge.
Woolhouse, Roger. 1972. Locke’s Philosophy of Science and Knowledge. New York:
Barnes and Noble.
Woozley, A.D. 1964. “Introduction.” In Locke’s Essay Concerning Human Under-
standing, edited by Woozley. New York: Meridian.
———. 1976. “Berkeley’s Doctrine of Notions and Theory of Meaning.” Journal
of the History of Philosophy 14: 427–34.
Bibliography 157
Yolton, John. 1968. John Locke and the Way of Ideas. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1968.
———. 1970. Locke and the Compass of Human Understanding. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
———. 1984. Perceptual Acquaintance from Descartes to Reid. Minneapolis: Uni-
versity of Minnesota Press.
———. 2000. “Response to My Fellow Symposiasts.” In Descartes’ Natural Philos-
ophy, edited by Stephen Gaukroger, John Schuster, and John Sutton. London:
Routledge.
Zemach, Eddy. 1976. “Putnam’s Theory on the Reference of Substance Terms.”
Journal of Philosophy 73, 5: 116–27.
Index
Aaron, R.I. 71
abstraction 53–68
selective attention model 58
separation model 58–63
and space 59–63
see also Representation
analogy 101–2
Aquinas, St. Thomas 78–80, 101–2
Aristotle 14–16, 34
Aristotelianism 78–82, 148–9
Armstrong, D.M. 74, 76
Arnauld, Antoine see Port-Royalians
Ashworth, E.J. 8–13, 19, 30
Augustine, St. 17, 18, 26
Ayer, A.J. 96
Ayers, Michael R. 63
on abstraction 58
on ideas 4
on laws of nature 63
on anti-Aristotelian arguments 84
on substance 108
on the merits of Aristotelianism 148
Bennett, Jonathan 68
Berkeley, George
and arguments from nonsense 96
contra Locke 117–29
and notions 125–9
and signification 121–4
and substance 109
Bolton, Martha 86–7
Burnyeat, Myles F. 15
Cajetan (Cardinal Thomas de Vio) 101–2
causation 73–7, 148
Coimbran Commentators (Conimbricenses) 19
conceivability 60, 63–4
Cummins, Robert 23
definition 78, 81, 89–94
ostensive 131–3
Descartes, René 44, 62, 84, 99
Digby, Sir Kenelm 80, 81
drills, conception by 85
empiricism, semiotic 98–101
essence, real 30–1, 72–3, 105–7
existence 146–7
externalism about meaning 138–41, 144–6
Flew, Antony 128–9
Fodor, Jerry 23
force 127–9
Frege, Gottlob
and context principle 96
and judgment 44
and propositional attitudes 42–3
on privacy 130, 134–7
Gassendi, Pierre 17
Geach, Peter 36, 43, 70
Hobbes, Thomas
and argument from signification
28–9
and nature of signification 13–14, 18
and propositions 36
and semiotic empiricism 99–100
Hume, David 146–7
ideas
nature of 3–4
as signs 21–4
abstract 53–68
see also representation, intentionality,
abstraction
infinity 102–5
mereological principle of 103–5
intentionality 21–4, 28, 115, 142–3
see also ideas, representation, abstraction,
externalism
inverted spectrum 22, 134–5
158
Index 159
judgment 35, 44–5
Descartes’s use of 44
Frege’s use of 44
Locke’s use of 49
Modality of 49–52
Port-Royalians and 45–7
see also propositional content; propositional
attitudes
Kant, Immanuel 49–52
Kenny, Anthony 43
knowledge 56, 143–6
Kretzmann, Norman 8–12, 21, 29, 39
laws of nature 63, 73–7, 148
Leibniz, Gottfried Willhelm von 85
Loux, Michael 75
Lowe, E.J. 69, 75
Mill, J.S. 8, 42–3
monsters 85
motion 127–9
natural kinds 71–7
see also nominalism; laws of nature;
abstraction
nominalism 72
resemblance nominalism 73–6
nonsense, arguments from 95–8
notions see Berkeley, George
Owen, David 147
particles 38–40, 48, 126, 133
copula 38, 39
Plato 72
Poinsot, John (John of St. Thomas) 19
Port-Royalians 20–1, 37–8, 45–7, 100
properties 73–6
propositional content 35–41
propositional attitudes 41–51
Putnam, Hilary 138–41, 146
Quine, Willard Van Orman 131–3
reference, causal theories of 33, 138–41, see also
Putnam, Hilary
relations 126
representation 21–4, 65–7
causal theory of 22–4, 144–6
and teleology 23
and misrepresentation 23
and disjunction 23
see also abstraction, intentionality
Russell, Bertrand 35, 51
and regress argument 74–5
‘Secret references’ 87–9
semiotic empiricism see empiricism, semiotic
Sergeant, John 79–82, 114–17
Sextus Empiricus 16–17
signification
argument from 82, 89–94
primary and secondary 9, 26–7
indicative 16–18, 19, 121–4
reminiscent 16–18, 19, 121–4
Berkeley and Locke on 121–4
skepticism 143–6
Stillingfleet, Edward 107, 110
Stoics, the 16
substance 107
as substratum 108–9
Twin Earth 139–40
Winkler, Kenneth 58, 59, 63–4
Wittgenstein, Ludwig 68, 128
Woozley, A.D. 143
Zemach, Eddy 140–1
