Aristotle on the Necessity of the Consequence 13
13
conclusion itself is always going to be an actual truth. In order to
know whether such a substitutional view is what Aristotle has in mind,
we need to look not just at the (valid) syllogisms but also at the ex-
amples he offers when there is no syllogism – when a schema must
be rejected. In such cases Aristotle tells us we cannot syllogize. As a
rule, it is only in his instructions for constructing such examples that
Aristotle offers terms – ‘man’,‘animal’,‘moving’ are among his favour-
ites. By contrast, in cases where we can syllogize – that is, where there
is a valid syllogism – Aristotle’s discussion relies on the more abstract
term-variables A, B and C, and he does not suggest terms. (It is worth
noting that Aristotle does not have our modern labels ‘valid’ and ‘in-
valid’. He expresses the distinction between what today we call a valid
syllogistic schema and an invalid one by describing when ‘there is a
syllogism’ and when ‘there is no syllogism’, or equivalently, when we
can syllogize and when we cannot.)
Aristotle’s syllogistic unfolds in stages and it will help to follow the
stages of development as laid out in An. Pr. My initial focus is, there-
fore, the non-modal (or assertoric) examples. As this paper will show,
in these Aristotle can always use terms which generate instances of
schemas which involve only actual truth. Section 2 of this chapter sets
out the textual evidence for this claim. But as later sections show, in
the modal syllogistic, when Aristotle gives instructions for construct-
ing examples to establish when a conclusion does not follow, the
results often go beyond actual truth and falsity, and instead require
non-actual possibilities. This suggests that at least in the modal syl-
logistic Aristotle has a modal view of validity which goes beyond the
notion that any substitution of terms preserves actual truth. But, first,
what should we say about the non-modal? How well can the substitu-
tional view capture what Aristotle describes there?
2. Non-modal Reasoning in An. Pr.
(the Assertoric Syllogistic)
In order to begin to answer, we need to look at Aristotle’s method for
demonstrating when a premise-pair will not yield a syllogism. The first
such non-modal (assertoric) example occurs in An. Pr. A4:
However, if the first extreme [A] follows all of the middle [B] and the mid-
dle [B] belongs to none of the last [C], there will not be a deduction of
Adriane Rini
14
the extremes [A, C], for nothing necessary results in virtue of these things
being so. For it is possible for the first extreme to belong to all as well as
to none of the last. Consequently, neither a particular nor a universal con-
clusion becomes necessary; and, since nothing is necessary because of these,
there will not be a deduction. Terms for belonging to every are animal, man,
horse; for belonging to none, animal, man, stone. (An. Pr. A.4, 26a2–9)5
Aristotle’s point is that this is a case in which from the given premise-
pair – ‘A belongs to all B’ and ‘B belongs to no C’ – we have no guar-
antee of any conclusion. (Some scholars say that such a premise-pair
is ‘inconcludent’.) That no proposition can be obtained is important,
and reflects the nature of syllogistic reasoning. In Aristotle’s system
there are just four basic forms which propositions can take. Medieval
scholars used the vowels i, o, a, and e to label the different forms:
‘A belongs to some C’ is a particular affirmative – i.e., an i-proposition.
‘A does not belong to some C’ is a particular privative – i.e., an o-proposition.
‘A belongs to every C’ is a universal affirmative – i.e., an a-proposition.
‘A belongs to no C’ is a universal privative – i.e., an e-proposition.
In the syllogistic,Aristotle routinely relies on the lesson from his square
of opposition, that i and e are contradictories, and that o and a are
contradictories. The premises described in the preceding passage are
an a-proposition ‘A belongs to all B’ and an e-proposition ‘B belongs
to no C.’ By showing that there is no conclusion from these premises,
Aristotle argues that there is no syllogism. He is not looking for just
any conclusion but a conclusion of a specified form – in this passage
the purported conclusion must itself be a proposition which links an
A predicate to a C subject.
So, we need to consider whether either an affirmative conclusion
‘A belongs to some C’ or a privative conclusion ‘A does not belong
to some C’ follows from the premises. This means we are looking at
the following two schemas, where (i) and (o) indicate the type of the
purported conclusion:
A belongs to every B A belongs to every B
B belongs to no C B belongs to no C
A belongs to some C (i) A does not belong to some C (o)
5
I have inserted the A, B and C to make clear the structure of Aristotle’s text.
Aristotle on the Necessity of the Consequence 15
15
Although Aristotle does not explicitly state this, as proof that these
premises do not yield a syllogism it clearly suffices for him to show
that neither an ‘affirmative particular’(i) nor a ‘negative particular’
(o) can be obtained. Indeed he seems to have in mind to show both
that you cannot get ‘A belongs to some C’ as the conclusion, and that
you cannot get ‘A does not belong to some C.’ He rules out the i-
proposition ‘A belongs to some C’ as a conclusion by offering a set
of terms which makes its contradictory true. These are the ‘terms
for belonging to none’: animal, man, and stone. They give the true
e-proposition ‘Animal belongs to no stone.’ Aristotle rules out a con-
clusion in the form of the o-proposition ‘A does not belong to some
C’ by offering a set of terms which makes its contradictory ‘A belongs
to every C’ true. These are the ‘terms for belonging to every’: animal,
man, and horse. These give the true a-proposition ‘Animal belongs to
every horse.’ When we put in the terms which Aristotle recommends,
we get the following:
‘terms for belonging to every’ ‘terms for belonging to none’
Animal belongs to every man Animal belongs to every man
Man belongs to no horse Man belongs to no stone
Animal belongs to every horse (a) Animal belongs to no stone (e)
From the given premises, no conclusion of the required form ‘becomes
necessary’ because the different sets of terms give different (true)
results. One set of terms gives a true a-proposition, which shows
that you cannot obtain an o-conclusion (and so not an e-conclusion).
The other set gives a true e-proposition, so you cannot obtain an i-
conclusion (and so not an a-conclusion). So you cannot obtain any
conclusion of the required form. That is to say, there is no conclusion
relating an A predicate to a C subject. So Aristotle says ‘there is no syl-
logism’. The rejected conclusions – both the i and the o – are particu-
lars, and showing that no particular AC proposition logically follows
also establishes that no universal AC proposition follows, but Aristotle
does not comment on this.
Aristotle uses this method right through the assertoric syllogistic
of An. Pr. A4–6, in order to establish which non-modal, assertoric
premise-pairs do not yield a syllogism. Chapter A4 deals with schemas
in what Aristotle calls the ‘first figure’. (The preceding schema is in
the first figure.) Chapter A5 deals with schemas in the ‘second figure’,
Adriane Rini
16
and chapter A6 deals with the ‘third figure’. Taking A, B and C as our
terms, we can represent the figures schematically:
First Figure Second Figure Third Figure
Pred-Subj Pred-Subj Pred-Subj
A-B A-B A-C
B-C A-C B-C
A-C B-C A-B
Aristotle calls the term which occurs twice in the premises the
‘middle term’. The other terms he calls the ‘extremes’. So in the first
figure, the B term is the middle and drops out of the conclusion. In
the second figure, the A term is the middle, and in the third figure,
C is the middle.
Triples of terms together with the definitions of the three figures
give us Aristotle’s ‘recipe’ for constructing examples to show which
schemas do not syllogize. Some awkwardness arises right away. As
a rule Aristotle does not himself actually put the terms into these ex-
amples for us; instead, he sketches what he reasons we need to have
in order to be able to do so ourselves. He offers proofs of validity of
the valid syllogisms, but leaves the final business of showing when
we cannot syllogize as homework for us, his readers. So, the evidence
of these examples is not straight, direct evidence. We have to do our
homework, and that involves some pencil work and therefore some
small amount of interpretation on our own part. So if these examples
do provide evidence of how Aristotle was thinking about the nature
of his logic, then in order to access that evidence that we have to
unpackage it. The tables which follow give a complete list of the term-
triples which Aristotle offers for showing which assertoric, non-modal
schemas do not let us syllogize and should be interpreted in the way
I have described. These schemas are listed by the An. Pr. chapter in
which they appear – that is, A4, A5, or A6, in bold – and by the line
numbers of the relevant explanations. The term-triples are listed in
the top line of each entry. The term-triples are numbered using square
brackets, for greater ease of reference. And where Aristotle indicates
that we should construct an example using the term-triples, the ex-
ample is included. The terms give two true premises, but in each case
no conclusion follows from the premises, and Aristotle’s point is that
in none of these can we syllogize.
Aristotle on the Necessity of the Consequence 17
17
Rejected assertoric schemas
A4: (First Figure)
26a2–9 animal-man-horse; animal-man-stone [1]
a Animal belongs to all men Animal belongs to all men
e Man belongs to no horse Man belongs to no stone
Animal belongs to all horses Animal belongs to no stone
26a11–12 science-line-medicine; science-line-unit [2]
e Science belongs to no line Science belongs to no line
e Line belongs to no medicine Line belongs to no unit
Science belongs to all medicine Science belongs to no unit
26a34–36 good-condition-wisdom;a
good condition-ignorance [3]
i Good belongs to some condition Good belongs to some condition
a Condition belongs to all wisdom Condition belongs to all ignorance
Good belongs to all wisdom Good belongs to no ignorance
26a38 white-horse-swan; white-horse-raven [4]
i White belongs to some horse White belongs to some horse
e Horse belongs to no swan Horse belongs to no raven
White belongs to all swans White belongs to no raven
26b6–10 animal-man-white; [swan and snow in place of white] [5]
a Animal belongs to every man Animal belongs to every man
o Man does not belong to some swan Man does not belong to some snow
Animal belongs to every swan Animal belongs to no snow
26b10–14 inanimate-man-white [swan and snow in place of white] [6]
e Inanimate belongs to no man Inanimate belongs to no man
o Man does not belong to some snow Man does not belong to some swan
Inanimate belongs to some snow Inanimate does not belong to some swan
26b24–25 animal-white-horse animal-white-stone [7]
i Animal belongs to some white Animal belongs to some white
i White belongs to some horse White belongs to some stone
Animal belongs to every horse Animal belongs to no stone
o Animal does not belong to some white Animal does not belong to some white
i White does not belong to some horse White does not belong to some stone
Animal belongs to every horse Animal belongs to no stone
i Animal belongs to some white Animal belongs to some white
o White does not belong to some horse White does not belong to some stone
Animal belongs to every horse Animal belongs to no stone
o Animal does not belong to some white Animal does not belong to some white
o White does not belong to some horse White does not belong to some stone
Animal belongs to every horse Animal belongs to no stone
a
Aristotle’s terms in [3] and [4] will show that oa and oe are also inconcludent.
In [5] and [6] Aristotle first offers white as one of the recommended
terms but then in elaborating on the proof, he suggests that we “let
swan and snow also be selected from among those white things of
which man is not predicated.” Where white names an accident, swan
Adriane Rini
18
and snow name substances and so generate examples in which the
truth value of the purported conclusions is easy to appreciate. As the
terms in [5] and [6] make clear, we never need move beyond simple
actual-world truths.
The terms offered in [7] are given to show that a family of schemas
can all be quickly rejected. These all involve combinations of various
particular premises. Aristotle uses the same terms to establish that in
each such case there is no deduction. Here is the passage:
Nor will there be a deduction in any way if both the intervals are particular,
whether positively or privatively, or if one is stated positively and the other
privatively, or if one is indeterminate and the other determinate, or both
are indeterminate. Common terms for all are animal, white, horse; animal,
white, stone. (An. Pr. A4, 26b22–25)
A5: (Second Figure)
27a18–20 substance-animal-man; substance-animal-numbera [8]
a Substance belongs to every animal Substance belongs to every animal
a Substance belongs to every man Substance belongs to every number
Animal belongs to every man Animal belongs to no number
27a20–23 line-animal-man; line-animal-stone [9]
e Line belongs to no animal Line belongs to no animal
e Line belongs to no man Line belongs to no stone
Animal belongs to every man Animal belongs to no stone
27b4–6 animal-substance-raven; animal-white-raven (27b5-6) [10]
o Animal does not belong to some substance Animal does not belong to some white
a Animal belongs to every raven Animal belongs to every raven
Substance belongs to every raven White belongs to no raven
27b6–8 animal-substance-unit; animal-substance-science [11]
i Animal belongs to some substance Animal belongs to some substance
e Animal belongs to no unit Animal belongs to no science
Substance belongs to all unit Substance belongs to no science
27b16–23 [no terms for belonging];b black-snow-animal [12]
e Black belongs to no snow
o Black does not belong to some animal
Snow belongs to no animal
27b26–28 [no terms for belonging];c white-swan-stone [13]
a White belongs to every swan
i White belongs to some stone
Swan belongs to no stone
Aristotle on the Necessity of the Consequence 19
19
27b28–32 white-animal-raven; white-stone-raven [14]
i White belongs to some animal White belongs to some stone
e White belongs to no raven White belongs to no raven
Animal belongs to every raven Stone belongs to no raven
27b33 white-animal-swan; white-animal-snow [15]
i White belongs to some animal White belongs to some animal
a White belongs to all swans White belongs to all snow
Animal belongs to all swans Animal belongs to no snow
27b36–38 white-animal-man; white-animal-inanimate [16]
a
Aristotle calls substance the middle.
b
As Ross explains, no terms are given here since Aristotle has already shown that second figure ee
is inconcludent, so you would only need a proof that eo is inconcludent if the o was not an e. But
if the o is not an e then there must also be an i (since if the e is false – that it is not so that none –
then it is so that some). But if there is an i as well as an o we get Festino, and then Aristotle
puts it this way: “But it is not possible to find terms of which the extremes are related positively
and universally, if M belongs to some O, and does not belong to some O.” [This is Jenkinson’s
translation, in Aristotle 1985.]
c
Here we require the second i not to be an a, so we have to have an o as well as an i. But second
figure ao is not inconcludent since we have Baroco.
The terms in [16] occur in a brief passage in which – as in [7] earlier –
we find a sweeping description of several separate premise combi-
nations, none of which produces a valid syllogism. In [16] Aristotle
explains that all such second-figure combinations can be shown to be
invalid by the same sets of terms – and the terms here in [16] are strik-
ingly similar to the terms in [7]. The full passage in which he offers the
term-triples for the second figure is as follows:
But neither does a deduction come about if the middle term belongs or does
not belong to some of each extreme, or belongs to one and does not belong to
the other, or not to all of either, or indeterminately. Common terms for all these
are white, animal, man; white, animal, inanimate. (An. Pr. A5, 27b36–39)
With white as the middle term, each of these various premise combina-
tions is straightforward and does not involve any modal suppositions.
i White belongs to some animal White belongs to some animal
i White belongs to some man White belongs to something inanimate
Animal belongs to every man Animal belongs to nothing inanimate
i White belongs to some animal White belongs to some animal
o White does not belong to some man White does not belong to something inanimate
Animal belongs to every man Animal belongs to nothing inanimate
o White does not belong to some animal White does not belong to some animal
i White belongs to some man White belongs to something inanimate
Animal belongs to every man Animal belongs to nothing inanimate
Adriane Rini
20
o White does not belong to some animal White does not belong to some animal
o White does not belong to some man White does not belong to something inanimate
Animal belongs to every man Animal belongs to nothing inanimate
A6: (Third Figure)
28a30–33 animal-horse-man; animal-inanimate-man [17]
a Animal belongs to every man Animal belongs to every man
e Horse belongs to no man Inanimate belongs to no man
Animal belongs to every horse Animal belongs to nothing inanimate
28a33 animal-horse-inanimate; man-horse-inanimate [18]
e Animal belongs to nothing inanimate Man belongs to nothing inanimate
e Horse belongs to nothing inanimate Horse belongs to nothing inanimate
Animal belongs to every horse Man belongs to no horse
28b22–24 animate-man-animal; [“We cannot get terms”] [19]
(because of Datisi)
a Animate belongs to every animal
o Man does not belong to some animal
Animate belongs to every man
28b36-38 animal-man-wild; animal-science-wild [20]
i Animal belongs to something wild Animal belongs to something wild
e Man belongs to nothing wild Science belongs to nothing wild
Animal belongs to every man Animal belongs to no science
29a2 animal-science-wild; animal-man-wild [21]
o Animal does not belong to some wild Animal does not belong to some wild
e Science belongs to nothing wild Man belongs to nothing wild
Animal belongs to no science Animal belongs to all men
29a3 [“We cannot get terms”] raven-snow-white; [22]
(because of Ferison) e White belongs to no raven
o Snow does not belong to some white
Raven belongs to no snow
29a9–10 animal-man-white; animal-inanimate-white [23]
In [23], we again have a passage in which Aristotle gives a sweeping
description of a number of separate premise combinations, none of
which produces a valid syllogism and all of which Aristotle says can
be shown to be invalid by the same terms. The full passage in which
these term-triples appear is as follows:
Nor will there be a deduction in any way if each term belongs or does not
belong to some of the middle, or if one belongs and the other does not
belong, or if one belongs to some and the other not to every, or if they belong
Aristotle on the Necessity of the Consequence 21
21
indeterminately. Common terms for all these are animal, man, white; animal,
inanimate, white. (An. Pr. A6, 29a7–10)
Putting the terms in place shows we cannot syllogize in any of these
cases.
i Animal belongs to some white Animal belongs to some white
i Man belongs to some white Inanimate belongs to some white
Animal belongs to all men Animal belongs to nothing inanimate
i Animal belongs to some white Animal belongs to some white
o Man does not belong to some white Inanimate does not belong to some white
Animal belongs to all men Animal belongs to nothing inanimate
o Animal belongs to some white Animal belongs to some white
i Man does not belong to some white Inanimate does not belong to some white
Animal belongs to all men Animal belongs to nothing inanimate
o Animal does not belong to some white Animal does not belong to some white
animal belongs to all men animal belongs to nothing inanimate
Ross (p.  302) notes:  “where A.  states that a particular combin-
ation of premises yields no conclusion he gives no reason for this, e.g.
by pointing out that an undistributed middle or an illicit process is
involved; but he often points to an empirical fact which shows that the
conclusion follows.” While Ross does not particularly like the intro-
duction of empirical fact, he carefully notes throughout most of his
discussion of these cases that the ‘conclusion’ expresses a relation be-
tween subject and predicate which is in fact true. This is an important
point, a point which makes our tables needed evidence, but it seems to
be a point whose significance Ross has not entirely grasped. If I have
represented Aristotle’s plan as he intended, then the terms he offers for
constructing the assertoric examples leave open the possibility that he
understands the necessity in (1) – that is, the necessity in his definition
of a syllogism – as indicating only that any substitution of terms in a
(valid) schema which gives true premises will also give a true conclu-
sion. His examples never take us beyond what is in fact true.
Aristotle clearly thinks that he has shown that his fourteen asser-
toric syllogisms are the only assertoric syllogisms. But in addition to
the assertoric, non-modal syllogisms, Aristotle considers two kinds
of modal syllogisms. Apodeictic syllogisms have at least one prem-
ise explicitly involving necessity. Problematic syllogisms have at least
one premise involving possibility. Aristotle’s definition of a syllogism
Adriane Rini
22
as it is stated in (1), above, is clearly intended to cover all syllogisms
including the apodeictic and problematic, so we need to consider the
rejected modal schemas as well. The rejected apodeictic and prob-
lematic modal schemas raise different considerations. Section 3 looks
at counterexamples in the apodeictic syllogistic, in A9–11. Section 4
looks at counterexamples in the problematic syllogistic, in A14–22.
3. Deductions Involving Necessary Premises in
An. Pr. (the Apodeictic Syllogistic)
The shift to syllogistic schemas with necessary premises also brings
with it a shift in Aristotle’s counterexamples. Where in the non-modal
counterexamples actual facts are all that is needed, this is not the case
in the apodeictic counterexamples, and Aristotle is clearly aware that
apodeictic counterexamples require more. To see why, let us turn to
the text and his discussion, and let us begin with the schema known
as Barbara XLL. (These names – ‘Barbara’,‘Datisi’,‘Ferison’, etc. – en-
code instructions for the construction of the proof. See Rini 2011 for
an account of the basic mnemonics. When we move to modal syllo-
gistic, scholars often add to the old mnemonics, using ‘X’ to indicate
a non-modal, assertoric proposition, ‘L’ to indicate a premise about
necessity, and ‘Q’ and ‘M’ to indicate various kinds of possibility. The
name Barbara XLL then tells us that we are considering a schema
in the form of Barbara in which the first a-premise is assertoric (X),
the second a-premise is about necessity (L), and that we are consid-
ering whether we can syllogize to a conclusion which is itself an a-
proposition about necessity (L).)
Barbara XLL
A belongs to all B
B belongs of necessity to all C
A belongs of necessity to all C
Aristotle explains that this does not produce a syllogism  – that is,
Barbara XLL is invalid:
However, if AB is not necessary but BC is necessary, the conclusion will not
be necessary. For if it is, it will result that A belongs to some B of necessity,
both through the first and through the third figure. But this is incorrect: for
it is possible for B to be the sort of thing to which it is possible for A to
Aristotle on the Necessity of the Consequence 23
23
belong to none of. It is, moreover, also evident from terms that the conclu-
sion can fail to be necessary, as, for instance, if A were motion, B animal, and
C stood for man. For a man is of necessity an animal, but an animal does not
move of necessity, nor does a man. (A9, 30a24–32)
When we put Aristotle’s terms – A motion, B animal, and C man – into
Barbara XLL, we get the following instance:
Motion belongs to all animals
Animal belongs of necessity to all men
Motion belongs of necessity to all men
This first premise, however, is not actually true. Aristotle is aware of
this, and his careful explanation marks an important shift beyond the
kind of simple factual reasoning which characterizes the examples in
the non-modal counterexamples. In the discussion of Barbara XLL,
Aristotle wants to make clear that the initial AB premise is not a modal
one. Initially, he describes the AB premise as ‘not necessary’ in order
to distinguish it from the second premise and the conclusion, both of
which are about necessity. Today, we simply mark such a premise with
an ‘X’ to indicate its assertoric nature, as distinct from an apodeictic
premise, which we mark with an ‘L’ to indicate necessity. Aristotle’s
explanation, however, is more complicated. He says, “it is possible for
B to be the sort of thing to which it is possible for A to belong to none
of” – and so uses two occurrences of a modal expression to describe
what is a non-modal premise. It is much easier to explain the premise’s
assertoric nature by putting Aristotle’s terms in place: ‘it is possible for
animal to belong to nothing in motion.’ That is, there is nothing about
being an animal which prevents animals from being in motion, so we
can suppose that the premise is true – that all animals are in motion.
The terms allow a step away from the formal discussion. Aristotle’s
simple point is that animals can be but do not have to be moving. For
the purpose of the proof, he wants us to take as an AB premise the
supposition that all animals are moving. We are to assume that the
premise is true, even when strictly – that is, even when in the actual
world – it is not.
The need for such assumptions characterizes many of Aristotle’s
apodeictic counterexamples and indicates an increasing sophistication
in the move from actual truths in the assertoric syllogistic to counter-
factual assumptions in the apodeictic syllogistic.
Adriane Rini
24
As the modal syllogistic unfolds, Aristotle becomes more explicit
about the counterfactual assumptions sometimes required by his apo-
deictic counterexamples. When he argues, in An. Pr. A10, that the
schema Camestres LXL does not produce a syllogism, he introduces a
new distinction between what is ‘necessary without qualification’ and
what is ‘only necessary when these things are so’. When a conclusion
is only necessary when these things are so, we are instructed to assume
that an assertoric premise which is actually false were true. Here is
how he explains:
nothing prevents the A having been chosen in such a way that it is possible
for C to belong to all of it. And moreover, it would be possible to prove by
setting out terms that the conclusion is not necessary without qualification,
but only necessary when these things are so. For instance, let A be animal, B
man, C white, and let the premises have been taken in the same way (for it is
possible for animal to belong to nothing white). Then, man will not belong
to anything white either, but not of necessity: for it is possible for a man to
become white, although not so long as animal belongs to nothing white.
Consequently, the conclusion will be necessary when these things are so, but
not necessary without qualification. (An. Pr. A.10, 30b30–40)
Camestres LXL has the following form:
A belongs of necessity to all B
A belongs to no C
B belongs of necessity to no C
Aristotle’s terms bring out the need for a counterfactual assumption.
Animal belongs of necessity to every man
Animal belongs to nothing white
Man belongs of necessity to nothing white
Again, the non-modal, assertoric premise is strictly false, because, of
course, there are many things which are animals but which are none-
theless white. But for the counterexample to work, we must suppose
that the premise were true. That is, we must reason counterfactually.
When we make this counterfactual assumption, then we can validly
conclude that ‘man belongs to nothing white’ (an assertoric conclu-
sion) and so we do get a syllogism Camestres LXX. By contrast,
Camestres LXL is not a syllogism, and so we cannot validly con-
clude that ‘man belongs of necessity to nothing white’ (an apodeictic
Aristotle on the Necessity of the Consequence 25
25
conclusion). It is in order to capture this difference between Camestres
LXX and LXL that Aristotle introduces the expressions ‘necessary
without qualification’ and ‘necessary when these things are so’. The
assertoric conclusion ‘man belongs to nothing white’ is only ‘necessary
when these things are so’ – that is, it follows of necessity only from
the counterfactual assumption that animal belongs to nothing white.
This allows us to syllogize to the assertoric conclusion, but not to the
apodeictic proposition ‘man belongs of necessity to nothing white.’ So
when we do syllogize according to our counterfactual assumption, the
conclusion we reach is not necessary without qualification – that is, it
is not itself a modal proposition.
4. Deductions Involving Premises about Possibility
in An. Pr. (the Problematic Syllogistic)
In An. Pr. A14–22, Aristotle focuses on the syllogistic involving pos-
sibility. And he carefully distinguishes between two senses of possi-
bility: ‘possibility according to the definition’ – that is, that which is
contingent, ‘neither necessary nor impossible’  – and ‘possibility not
according to the definition’ – that is, that which is not necessarily not
the case. Scholars often call the first ‘two-sided possibility’ and the
second ‘one-way possibility’. Aristotle does not in fact spend much
time discussing the effect of one-way possibility on the syllogistic – his
account of these syllogisms is largely contained in An. Pr. A8. On the
other hand, the effect of two-sided possibility on syllogistic reasoning
clearly interests him, and drives his study through An. Pr. A14–22.6
One of the themes which Robin Smith explores in this volume is the
importance of Aristotle’s method of proof involving the realization of
a possibility. This realization method makes its first appearance in An.
Pr. A15, in a discussion of a schema called Barbara XQM, where the
‘Q’ indicates a premise about contingency or two-sided possibility, and
the ‘M’ indicates one-way possibility. The schema is as follows:
Barbara XQM
A belongs to every B
B contingently belongs to every C
A possibly belongs to every C
6
Marko Malink’s chapter in this volume is a careful discussion of the relation
between these two senses of possibility in Aristotle’s logical (and other) works.
Adriane Rini
26
Here is Aristotle’s explanation:
Now, with these determinations made, let A belong to every B and let it be
possible for B to belong to every C. Then it is necessary for it to be possible
for A to belong to every C. For let it not be possible, and put B as belonging
to every C (this is false although not impossible). Therefore, if it is not pos-
sible for A to belong to every C and B belongs to every C, then it will not be
possible for A to belong to every B (for a deduction comes about through the
third figure). But it was assumed that it is possible for A to belong to every
B. Therefore, it is necessary for it to be possible for A to belong to every C
(for when something false but not impossible was supposed, the result is im-
possible). (An. Pr. A15, 34a34–b2)
The BC premise is about contingency, but in his instructions for con-
struction of the proof Aristotle carefully signals the need for counter-
factual assumption, telling us to “put B as belonging to every C (this
is false although not impossible).” So from the given premise, ‘B con-
tingently belongs to every C’, we are told to suppose that ‘B belongs
to every C’ – that is, we are to suppose the possibility in the initial
premise is realized. Aristotle coaches us through by suggesting how
we might put terms (animal, moving and man) in place. Following
his instructions, we begin with a premise about possibility: ‘motion
contingently belongs to all men.’ When we suppose that what is pos-
sible were actual, then we obtain the non-modal proposition ‘motion
belongs to all men’, which Aristotle says “is false although not impos-
sible”. At 34b11–12, he explains: “For perhaps nothing prevents man
from belonging to everything in motion at some time (for example, if
nothing else should be moving).”
The expression ‘nothing prevents’ reminds us that our reasoning
here is counterfactual. Aristotle understands that if something is pos-
sible then it might be true, and that supposing that it is true might lead
to a falsehood, but since it is possible then supposing that it is true can-
not lead to an absurdity. I have discussed this schema more thoroughly
in Rini (2011) and (2013), looking closely at the details of Aristotle’s
method. But what makes Aristotle’s method of proof through realiza-
tion important in the present discussion is that it demonstrates the
extent to which Aristotle comes to embrace explicitly counterfactual
reasoning in the syllogistic.
Consider a similar example in the second figure. In chapter A19,
37b36–38, Aristotle explains why there is not a syllogism from two
Aristotle on the Necessity of the Consequence 27
27
affirmative premises, where one premise is non-modal and the other
contingent. This is not surprising because there are no second-figure
syllogisms from two affirmative premises even in the non-modal cases,
and so we might expect that the non-modal results will carry over to
the modal case. Aristotle, at any rate, suggests terms for the construc-
tion of the proof and leaves the actual construction to the reader. This
is all that we find in the text:
But if both premises are put as positive, there will not be a deduction. Terms
for belonging are health, animal, man; terms for not belonging are health,
horse, man. (37b36–38)
These instructions give the following results:
Every animal is contingently healthy
Every man is healthy
Some man is possibly not an animal
Every animal is healthy
Every man is contingently healthy
Some man is possibly not an animal
Every horse is contingently healthy
Every man is healthy
Some man is a possible horse
Every horse is healthy
Every man is contingently healthy
Some man is a possible horse
If these are to stand as proof that there is no second-figure syllogism
from one assertoric premise and one premise about contingency, then
we must suppose that the premises are in fact true. But of course it is
not true that every man is healthy, nor that every animal is healthy,
nor that every horse is healthy. The supposition that these premises
are true then involves a counterfactual assumption. That is, for these
terms to work, we must suppose that every man is healthy, that every
animal is healthy, that every horse is healthy.
Aristotle’s own reasoning is not restricted to actual-world truth, and
because it is not, the necessity involved in his discussion moves beyond
what a purely substitutional notion of validity can accommodate. And
so this stands as further evidence that what Aristotle means by ‘neces-
sity’ in (1) is a genuinely modal notion.
Adriane Rini
28
Aristotle’s method exhibits a sureness and confidence about coun-
terfactual reasoning and shows how counterfactual reasoning does
in fact play a central role in his understanding of syllogistic. I would
hazard to say that probably we should read this counterfactual reason-
ing all the way back into the assertoric syllogistic as well, and simply
attribute to Aristotle a sophisticated counterfactual notion of logical
consequence. But as noted in Section 2, above, we lack the concrete
textual evidence to establish that in the earliest –that is, the assertoric –
part of the syllogistic Aristotle had reached the sophisticated counter-
factual notion of validity that he later exhibits in the modal syllogistic.
It could be that in the assertoric syllogistic of An. Pr. A4–6, he has at
most a substitutional notion. And it could be that the more sophisti-
cated counterfactual understanding only arises through his efforts to
explain the first invalid modal schemas in A9. But one thing we can
clearly say is that when he reaches that discussion in the modal syl-
logistic, his understanding does rely on counterfactual notions, and
establishing this gives us the answer to our initial question about what
Aristotle understands by the necessity in his definition of a syllogism.
At the very least, by the time he gets to the apodeictic syllogistic his
definition of a syllogism involves a genuinely counterfactual under-
standing of validity. Aristotle’s understanding of syllogistic reasoning
is not just about what happens to be so as a matter of actual fact, but
about what must be so.
29
29
2 Aristotle on One-Sided Possibility
Marko Malink
The term ‘possible’, in Aristotle’s view, is ambiguous.1
It has two
senses, known as one-sided possibility and two-sided possibility (or
contingency). Being two-sided possible means being neither impossi-
ble nor necessary, and being one-sided possible simply means being
not impossible. Aristotle defines the two senses in Prior Analytics 1.13
(32a18–21). This definition is followed by a controversial passage
which states several equivalences between modal expressions (32a21–
28). It is often thought that this passage is spurious and should be
excised even though it is found in all manuscripts.2
I argue that the
passage is not spurious, but contains a coherent argument justifying
the one-sided sense of ‘possible’ (Section 1). This argument follows a
pattern of proof explained by Aristotle elsewhere in the Prior Analytics
and De caelo (Section 2). Moreover, it is closely related to a similar
argument concerning one-sided possibility in De interpretatione 13
(Section 3). Examining this latter argument will help us better under-
stand the controversial passage in Prior Analytics 1.13 (Section 4).
1. The Problematic Passage
At the beginning of Prior Analytics 1.13, Aristotle introduces the two
senses of ‘possible’ as follows:
[i] I use the expressions ‘to be possible’ and ‘what is possible’ in application
to something if it is not necessary but nothing impossible will result if it is
1
Prior Analytics 1.3 25a37–38.
2
Becker 1933: 11–14, Ross 1949: 327–328, Mignucci 1969: 112 and 295–296,
Seel 1982: 163, Smith 1989: 18 and 125–126, Patterson 1995: 270, Huby
2002: 92, Striker 2009: 18 and 128–129.
I would like to thank Simona Aimar, David Charles, Max Cresswell, Brad Inwood,
and Ben Morison for helpful comments on an earlier draft of this paper.
Marko Malink
30
put as being the case; [ii] for it is only equivocally that we say that what is
necessary is possible.3
(An. Pr. 1.13 32a18–21)
In point [i] of this passage, Aristotle characterizes two-sided possibil-
ity. Something is two-sided possible just in case it is not necessary and
nothing impossible results from putting it as being the case. This char-
acterization involves the term ‘impossible’. Unlike ‘possible’, ‘impos-
sible’ is not ambiguous in the Prior Analytics but is consistently used
in the sense of ‘not one-sided possible’ as opposed to ‘not two-sided
possible’.4
Aristotle takes the condition that nothing impossible results
from putting X as being the case to be equivalent to the condition that
X is not impossible.5
Thus, he holds that something is two-sided pos-
sible just in case it is neither necessary nor impossible.
In point [ii] of the passage, Aristotle turns to one-sided possibility. He
does not offer an explicit definition of one-sided possibility, but charac-
terizes it by pointing out the specific case of application that distinguishes
it from two-sided possibility. Thus, he states in point [ii] that whatever
is necessary is one-sided possible. Accordingly, something is one-sided
possible just in case it is not impossible. Two-sided possibility is, so to
speak, bounded on two sides by impossibility and necessity, whereas
one-sided possibility is only bounded on one side by impossibility.
Aristotle often does not explicitly indicate whether a given occur-
rence of ‘possible’ is to be understood in the two-sided or one-sided
sense, but in the Prior Analytics it is usually clear from the context
3
[i] λέγω δ’ ἐνδέχεσθαι καὶ τὸ ἐνδεχόμενον, οὗ μὴ ὄντος ἀναγκαίου, τεθέντος δ’ ὑπάρχειν,
οὐδὲν ἔσται διὰ τοῦτ’ ἀδύνατον· [ii] τὸ γὰρ ἀναγκαῖον ὁμωνύμως ἐνδέχεσθαι λέγομεν.
4
In the De interpretatione, by contrast, ‘impossible’ (ἀδύνατον) is occasionally
used in the sense of ‘not two-sided possible’ (see n. 38).
5
See Ross 1949: 327, Łukasiewicz 1957: 154–55, Ebert & Nortmann
2007: 470–471, and Beere 2009: 120–121. Aristotle holds that if something
impossible results from putting X as being the case, then X is impossible (De
caelo 1.12 281b14–15 and 23–25; Physics 7.1 243a1–2, An. Pr. 1.15 34a25–
33; cf. Alexander in An. Pr. 157.7, Beere 2009: 121–122, Rosen & Malink
2012: 185–187, 196–200, and 210–211). Moreover, he is committed to the
converse, that if X is impossible then something impossible results from putting
X as being the case. Otherwise there would be an X which is impossible but
satisfies Aristotle’s two conditions for being two-sided possible stated in point
[i] (since nothing impossible is necessary; De int. 13 22b13–14). Consequently,
something would be both impossible and two-sided possible, which is absurd
(see De int. 13 22a15–17). This leaves open the question of whether, if X is
impossible, X itself can be regarded as something impossible that results from
putting X as being the case. Ebert & Nortmann (2007: 470–471) think that the
answer is yes, whereas Beere (2009: 120 n. 4) is sceptical.
Aristotle on One-Sided Possibility 31
31
which of them he means. In point [ii], the one-sided sense is quali-
fied as being merely equivocal (ὁμωνύμως). This qualification indicates
that the one-sided sense is not the preferred sense of ‘possible’ in the
system of modal syllogisms expounded in Prior Analytics 1.13–22.6
Modal syllogisms concerning one-sided possibility play only a minor
role in these chapters.7
Instead, Aristotle focuses on modal syllogisms
concerning two-sided possibility.8
Accordingly, he refers to the charac-
terization of two-sided possibility in point [i] as his official ‘definition’
(διορισμός) of possibility in the modal syllogistic.9
Having introduced the two senses of ‘possible’ in points [i] and [ii],
Aristotle proceeds as follows:
[iii] That this [viz., one-sided possibility] is what is possible is evident from
opposed pairs of denials and affirmations. [iv] For ‘it is not possible to
belong’ and ‘it is impossible to belong’ and ‘it is necessary not to belong’ are
either the same or follow one another, [v] so that their opposites, ‘it is pos-
sible to belong’ and ‘it is not impossible to belong’ and ‘it is not necessary
not to belong’, will also either be the same or follow one another; [vi] for
either the affirmation or the denial holds of everything. [vii] Therefore, what
is possible will not be necessary and what is not necessary will be possible.10
(An. Pr. 1.13 32a21–29)
6
For this use of ὁμωνύμως, see Bonitz 1870: 514a49–61 and Striker 2009: 128.
7
Aristotle generally does not consider any modal syllogisms that contain a
one-sided possibility premiss (the only exception is his use of a syllogism
called Barbara MXM at 1.15 34b2–6; see Malink & Rosen 2013: 971–973).
Aristotle discusses a number of modal syllogisms that have a one-sided
possibility conclusion, but he does so only when the modal syllogism in
question is established by reductio ad absurdum.
8
Thus, two-sided possibility is the preferred notion of possibility in the modal
syllogistic in Prior Analytics 1.3 and 8–22. By contrast, one-sided possibility
is preferred in the framework of propositional modal logic developed in
Metaphysics Θ 4 and Prior Analytics 1.15. This framework is based on the
principle that if B follows from A then the possibility of B follows from
the possibility of A (Rosen & Malink 2012: 179–195). The principle is
correct for one-sided possibility but not for two-sided possibility (Hintikka
1973: 59–60). Thus, the adjective ‘possible’ (δυνατόν) must be understood as
expressing one-sided possibility in Metaphysics Θ 4 and Prior Analytics 1.15
(1047b14–30 and 34a5–33). On the other hand, the adjective is never used
to indicate possibility in the premisses and conclusions of modal syllogisms in
Prior Analytics 1.3 and 8–22 (instead, Aristotle uses the verbs ἐνδέχεσθαι and
ἐγχωρεῖν; see Malink & Rosen 2013: 959–961).
9
An. Pr. 1.14 33b23, 1.15 33b28, 33b30, 34b27; see Malink 2013: 257 n. 14.
10
[iii] ὅτι δὲ τοῦτ’ ἔστι τὸ ἐνδεχόμενον, φανερὸν ἔκ τε τῶν ἀποφάσεων καὶ τῶν
καταφάσεων τῶν ἀντικειμένων· [iv] τὸ γὰρ οὐκ ἐνδέχεται ὑπάρχειν καὶ ἀδύνατον
ὑπάρχειν καὶ ἀνάγκη μὴ ὑπάρχειν ἤτοι ταὐτά ἐστιν ἢ ἀκολουθεῖ ἀλλήλοις, [v] ὥστε
Marko Malink
32
This passage has been the subject of controversy. The main question
is whether the pronoun ‘this’ in point [iii] refers to two-sided or one-
sided possibility. Since Philoponus, most commentators have taken
it to refer to two-sided possibility.11
Thus, they take points [iii]–[vii]
to justify the notion of two-sided possibility introduced in point [i].
However, this is problematic because Aristotle’s claims in point [v]
are true for one-sided but not for two-sided possibility (e.g., the claim
that ‘it is possible to belong’ is equivalent to ‘it is not necessary not to
belong’). Because of this problem, it is often thought that points [iii]–
[vii] are spurious and should be excised even though they are found in
all manuscripts (see n. 2).
On the other hand, some have argued that the passage can be
retained if the pronoun ‘this’ in point [iii] is taken to refer to one-sided
possibility.12
On this interpretation, points [iii]–[vi] are intended to
explain the notion of one-sided possibility introduced in [ii]. Aristotle
does so by establishing, in point [v], a number of theses that are charac-
teristic of one-sided possibility but do not hold for two-sided possibil-
ity. By contrast, point [vii] is again about two-sided possibility, drawing
a consequence from the initial characterization of two-sided possibility
in [i].13
Thus, points [i] and [vii] deal with Aristotle’s preferred notion of
possibility, whereas [ii]–[vi] constitute a parenthetical argument intro-
ducing and justifying the secondary notion of one-sided possibility.
On this interpretation, there is no reason to think that points [ii]–[vi]
are spurious, even if they are parenthetical. In what follows, I elaborate
καὶ τὰ ἀντικείμενα τούτοις, τὸ ἐνδέχεται ὑπάρχειν καὶ οὐκ ἀδύνατον ὑπάρχειν καὶ οὐκ
ἀνάγκη μὴ ὑπάρχειν, ἤτοι ταὐτὰ ἔσται ἢ ἀκολουθοῦντα ἀλλήλοις· [vi] κατὰ παντὸς
γὰρ ἡ φάσις ἢ ἡ ἀπόφασις. [vii] ἔσται ἄρα τὸ ἐνδεχόμενον οὐκ ἀναγκαῖον καὶ τὸ μὴ
ἀναγκαῖον ἐνδεχόμενον. In point [vi] of this passage, φάσις is used in place of
κατάφασις to mean ‘affirmation’ (Waitz 1844: 403, Bonitz 1870: 813a16–23).
11
Philoponus in An. Pr. 148.6–11, Pacius 1597a: 146, Waitz 1844: 402–403,
Becker 1933: 11, Mignucci 1969: 295–296, Hintikka 1973: 32, Smith
1989: 125, Nortmann 1996: 162–165, Ebert & Nortmann 2007: 474–475.
12
Gohlke 1936: 66, Hintikka 1977: 81, Buddensiek 1994: 21–23, Thom
1996: 13, King 2014: 487–488.
13
Maier 1900: 140 n. 1, Buddensiek 1994: 21–23. Thus, the connective
‘therefore’ (ἄρα) at the beginning of [vii] indicates a consequence, not of the
preceding argument in [iii]–[vi], but of [i] (pace Becker 1933: 12). Point [vii]
leads into the discussion of two-sided possibility propositions at 32a29–b3.
The phrase ‘what is not necessary’ in [vii] should presumably be understood
as shorthand for ‘what is not necessary either way’, excluding both what
necessarily belongs and what necessarily does not belong (see Hintikka
1973: 32–34, 1977: 81, Patterson 1995: 270, Nortmann 1996: 167).
Aristotle on One-Sided Possibility 33
33
and vindicate this interpretation by showing how Aristotle’s argument
in [iii]–[vi] succeeds in establishing the one-sided sense of ‘possible’,
and how it is related to a similar argument concerning one-sided pos-
sibility in De interpretatione 13.
2. Establishing One-Sided Possibility in Prior Analytics
1.13 (32a21–28)
As Aristotle indicates in point [iii], his argument for one-sided possibil-
ity appeals to opposed pairs of denials and affirmations. The denials
he has in mind are linguistic expressions such as ‘it is not possible to
belong’; the corresponding affirmations are expressions such as ‘it is
possible to belong’.14
In Table 2.1, Aristotle considers the six expres-
sions in points [iv] and [v]. Each row of Table 2.1 contains an opposed
pair of affirmation and denial. The denials in the left-hand column are
the contradictory opposites of the corresponding affirmations in the
right-hand column, and vice versa. Aristotle does not simply assume
that these expressions are contradictory opposites, but argues for this
in detail in De interpretatione 12.15
In the earlier chapters of De interpretatione, affirmations and deni-
als are defined as complete declarative sentences affirming or denying
something of something.16
In De interpretatione 12–13 and in points
[iii]–[vi] above, however, Aristotle uses the terms ‘affirmation’ and
‘denial’ to refer not to complete sentences but to incomplete expres-
sions that can be completed into sentences.17
Thus, the six expressions
14
τὸ (οὐκ) ἐνδέχεται ὑπάρχειν. The combination of the definite article τὸ with the
finite verb ἐνδέχεται in points [iv] and [v] indicates that Aristotle is concerned
with linguistic expressions rather than with non-linguistic items signified by
expressions; cf. Categories 10 12b5–16.
15
21b23–26 and 21b34–22a13.
16
De int. 4 17a2–3, 5 17a8–9, 6 17a25–26; see Crivelli 2004: 86–89.
17
See Ackrill 1963: 150, Weidemann 2002: 402–403, and Striker 2009: 128.
Table 2.1 Opposed pairs of affirmations and denials at Prior Analytics
1.13 32a21–28
it is not possible to belong it is possible to belong
it is impossible to belong it is not impossible to belong
it is necessary not to belong it is not necessary not to belong
Marko Malink
34
listed in Table 2.1 are sentential fragments that can be completed into
sentences of the form ‘It is possible for A to belong to B’ and ‘It is
not possible for A to belong to B’ (or, in other words, ‘It is possible
for B to be A’ and ‘It is not possible for B to be A’). In what follows, I
use ‘affirmation’ and ‘denial’ to refer to such incomplete expressions
rather than to complete sentences.
The affirmations and denials listed in Table 2.1 can be regarded as
sentential forms such as ‘It is possible for ... to belong to –––’ and ‘It is
not possible for ... to belong to –––’. Each of them has two free slots.
Let X be a pair of expressions such that the result of filling the two
slots with these expressions is a well-formed sentence. If the result-
ing sentence is true, we say that the affirmation or denial in question
holds of X. For example, if X is the pair of expressions ‘walking’ and
‘Socrates’, then the affirmation ‘it is possible to belong’ holds of X,
whereas the corresponding denial does not hold of X (since it is pos-
sible for Socrates to be walking).
In point [vi], Aristotle states a version of the law of excluded mid-
dle (LEM), according to which ‘either the affirmation or the denial
holds of everything’. The same version is stated in De interpretatione
12 (21b4).18
This version of LEM seems to presuppose that the affir-
mations and denials in question are not complete sentences, but in-
complete expressions that are capable of holding of something. In
De interpretatione 12, Aristotle adds a corresponding version of the
principle of non-contradiction (PNC), according to which ‘it is impos-
sible for opposite expressions (τὰς ἀντικειμένας φάσεις) to be true of the
same thing’ (21b17–18). Thus, each of the contradictory pairs listed in
Table 2.1 satisfies the following two principles:
Where X is a pair of expressions as described above:
PNC: Not both the affirmation and the denial hold of X
LEM: Either the affirmation or the denial holds of X
As we will see shortly, both PNC and LEM play an important role in
Aristotle’s argument in points [iii]–[vi].
In point [iv], Aristotle states that the three expressions on the left-
hand side of Table 2.1 are ‘the same or follow one another (ἀκολουθεῖ
ἀλλήλοις)’.By this he means that the expressions are mutually equivalent.
18
Similarly, An. Pr. 1.46 51b32–33, 2.11 62a13–14, Topics 6.6 143b15–16.
Aristotle on One-Sided Possibility 35
35
In the Prior Analytics, Aristotle uses the verb ‘follow’ (ἀκολουθεῖν or
ἕπεσθαι) to express that a term is predicated universally of another
term in the sense that the former term holds of everything of which the
latter holds.19
For example, when Aristotle says that animal follows
man, he means that ‘animal’ holds of everything of which ‘man’ holds
(An. Pr. 1.27 43b31). Correspondingly, A and B follow one another
just in case they are equivalent in the sense that, for any X, A holds of
X just in case B holds of X.20
In point [iv],Aristotle states that the three
expressions on the left-hand side of Table 2.1 are mutually equivalent
in this sense. He does not argue for these equivalences but seems to
take them for granted (see Section 4).
Aristotle goes on, in point [v], to infer that the three expressions on
the right-hand side of Table 2.1 are mutually equivalent.21
He infers
their equivalence from that of their contradictory opposites on the
left-hand side by appealing to LEM in point [vi]. Aristotle does not
spell out the details of this inference in Prior Analytics 1.13. However,
he provides an account of the inference elsewhere, in chapters 1.46
and 2.22 of the Prior Analytics and in De caelo 1.12.22
Let us consider
these accounts in turn, beginning with the one in chapter 1.46:
Whenever A and B are so related that it is not possible for them to belong
to the same thing at the same time, but necessarily one or the other of them
19
See, e.g., An. Pr. 1.27 43b3–4, 43b22–32; cf. Striker 2009: 192.
20
For this use of ‘follow one another’ (ἀκολουθεῖ ἀλλήλοις), see Metaph. Γ 2
1003b22–25 and De caelo 1.12 282a30–b2; similarly, De int. 12 21b35–36.
21
These equivalences hold for one-sided possibility but not for two-sided
possibility. Accordingly, some commentators who take points [i]–[vi] to
be about two-sided possibility suggest that Aristotle does not state any
equivalences between modal expressions in [iv] and [v] (Hintikka 1973: 33,
Nortmann 1996: 162–166, Ebert & Nortmann 2007: 474–475; cf.
n. 11above). However, once [ii]–[vi] are taken to be about one-sided possibility,
there is no reason to deny that Aristotle states these equivalences in [iv]
and [v].
22
In points [iv] and [v], Aristotle states that the expressions in each column of
Table 2.1 ‘are either the same or follow one another’. If they are taken to be
the same (or to signify the same), Aristotle’s inference is underwritten by the
principle that ‘if things are the same, their opposites also will be the same, in
any of the recognized forms of opposition; for since they are the same, there
is no difference between taking the opposite of the one and that of the other’
(Topics 7.1 151b33–36). Aristotle’s account in Prior Analytics 1.46, 2.22,
and De caelo 1.12 justifies the inference on the weaker assumption that the
expressions are not the same (or do not signify the same) but are equivalent in
the sense that they follow one another.
Marko Malink
36
belongs to everything, and again C and D are related in the same way, and
A follows C, ... then D will follow B... For, since necessarily one or the other
of C and D belongs to everything, but it is not possible for C to belong to
anything to which B belongs, because C brings along with it A, and it is not
possible for A and B to belong to the same thing, it is evident that D will
follow B. (An. Pr. 1.46 52a39–b8)
In this passage,Aristotle considers four terms A, B, C, and D. He assumes
that A and B do not both hold of the same thing (Premiss 1), but that
one or the other of them holds of everything (Premiss 2). The same
is true for C and D (Premisses 3 and 4). Moreover, Aristotle assumes
that A follows C, that is, that A holds of everything of which C holds
(Premiss 5). He concludes that D follows B:
Premiss 1: For any X, not both A and B hold of X
Premiss 2: For any X, either A or B holds of X
Premiss 3: For any X, not both C and D hold of X
Premiss 4: For any X, either C or D holds of X
Premiss 5: For any X, if C holds of X then A holds of X
Conclusion: For any X, if B holds of X then D holds of X
This argument is valid. Its conclusion follows logically from Premisses
1, 4, and 5. Premisses 2 and 3 are dispensable in the present argument,
but they are required for the corresponding argument inferring the
converse of the conclusion from the converse of Premiss 5.23
Although
Aristotle does not mention this converse argument in Prior Analytics
1.46, it is a straightforward version of the one he presents in the pas-
sage just quoted. Taken together, the two arguments establish that,
given Premisses 1–4 and given that A and C follow one another, it may
be inferred that B and D follow one another:
Premiss 1: For any X, not both A and B hold of X
Premiss 2: For any X, either A or B holds of X
Premiss 3: For any X, not both C and D hold of X
Premiss 4: For any X, either C or D holds of X
Premiss 5*: For any X, A holds of X if and only if C holds of X
Conclusion*: For any X, B holds of X if and only if D holds of X
23
In this converse argument, the conclusion ‘For any X, if D holds of X then B
holds of X’ is inferred from Premisses 2–3 and the converse of Premiss 5 (i.e.,
‘For any X, if A holds of X then C holds of X’).
Aristotle on One-Sided Possibility 37
37
Aristotle justifies the inference from Premisses 1–5* to Conclusion*
in De caelo 1.12 as follows:
It has been shown that A and C follow one another. When terms stand to
one another as these do, that is, when A and C follow [one another], B and
A never belong to the same thing,24
but one or the other of them belongs to
everything, and D and C likewise, then it is necessary that B and D follow
one another. For suppose that B does not follow D. Then A will follow, since
either B or A belongs to everything. But C belongs to [everything] to which
A belongs. Consequently, C will follow D; but it was assumed that this is
impossible. And the same argument shows that D follows B. (De caelo 1.12
282b25–283a1)
This argument proceeds by reductio ad absurdum. The assumption
for reductio is that B does not follow D. In other words, the assump-
tion is that it is not the case that, for any X, if D holds of X then B
holds of X. This means that there is something – call it Y – such that
D but not B holds of Y. Aristotle proceeds to draw a consequence
from the assumption for reductio. He describes this consequence by
the phrase ‘A will follow’ (τὸ ἄρα Α ἀκολουθήσει). Contrary to what
might be thought, this does not mean that A will follow D; for this
would not be warranted by the assumption for reductio. Instead,
Aristotle’s intended meaning is that A  will hold of Y, of which D
holds. Similarly, Aristotle concludes the reductio by claiming that
‘C will follow D’ (τῷ ἄρα Δ τὸ Γ ἀκολουθήσει). Again, this should
not be taken to mean that C holds of everything of which D holds.
Rather, Aristotle uses the phrase ‘C will follow D’ to express that C
holds of something, namely, Y, of which D holds. By contrast, the
phrase ‘D follows B’ in the last sentence of the passage just quoted
expresses the claim that D holds of everything of which B holds.
Thus, Aristotle’s use of the verb ‘follow’ in the reductio at 282b30–
32 is potentially misleading (as we will see, the same misleading use
of ‘follow’ occurs in De interpretatione 13). Nevertheless, his argu-
ment is a lucid proof, in two halves, of the inference from Premisses
1–5* to Conclusion*.
24
This translates τὸ δὲ Ε καὶ τὸ Ζ μηθενὶ τῷ αὐτῷ. Here and elsewhere in this
passage I supply ὑπάρχει; see 282a14–21. For ease of exposition, I write ‘A’, ‘B’,
‘C’, ‘D’ for Aristotle’s ‘Z’, ‘E’, ‘Θ’, ‘H’ in this passage.
Marko Malink
38
Aristotle presents the same proof in Prior Analytics 2.22 without
the misleading use of ‘follow’:
If either A or B and either C or D belong to everything, but they cannot be-
long at the same time, then, if A and C convert, B and D also convert. For if
B does not belong to something to which D belongs, it is clear that A belongs
to it; and if A belongs, then also C does; for they convert. Consequently, C
and D belong to it together; but this is impossible. (An. Pr. 2.22 68a11–16)
In this version of the argument, Aristotle uses the verb ‘convert’ in-
stead of the phrase ‘follow one another’. He avoids the misleading use
of ‘follow’ in the reductio by writing ‘A belongs to it’ instead of ‘A will
follow’, and writing ‘C and D belong to it together’ instead of ‘C will
follow D’.
In sum, then, Aristotle has demonstrated that Premisses 1–5* en-
tail Conclusion*. In De caelo 1.12, he proceeds to use this pattern of
argument to establish the equivalence of the terms ‘imperishable’ and
‘ungenerable’ based on the equivalence of their contradictory oppo-
sites. To this end, he interprets the schematic letters as follows:25
A generable
B ungenerable
C perishable
D imperishable
In Prior Analytics 1.13, he uses the same pattern of argument in point
[v] to establish the equivalence of modal affirmations and denials. In
this application of the pattern, the quantified variable ‘X’ ranges over
suitable pairs of expressions that yield complete sentences when com-
bined with incomplete affirmations and denials, as explained above.
The schematic letters are interpreted as follows:
A it is not possible to belong
B it is possible to belong
C it is impossible to belong
D it is not impossible to belong
In this interpretation of the schematic letters, A is the contradictory
opposite of B, and C is the contradictory opposite of D. Consequently,
25
De caelo 1.12 282b23–25 and 283a1–3. Similarly, An. Pr. 2.22 68a8–11; cf.
Ross 1949: 479.
Aristotle on One-Sided Possibility 39
39
Premisses 1–4 of the inference are guaranteed by LEM and PNC,
respectively. Thus, Aristotle’s appeal to LEM in point [vi] of his argu-
ment is a statement of Premisses 2 and 4 of the inference. Aristotle
does not explicitly assert PNC in Prior Analytics 1.13, but takes it for
granted since he regards it as the firmest of all principles.
3. Establishing One-Sided Possibility in De interpretatione
13 (22b11–14)
In De interpretatione 13, Aristotle discusses various implications
(ἀκολουθήσεις, 22a14) between modal expressions. He presents these
implications by means of the square in Table 2.2.26
For the sake of
brevity, I will write ‘necessary’ as shorthand for ‘necessary to be’, ‘pos-
sible not’ as shorthand for ‘possible not to be’, and so on.
Aristotle asserts that the first expression in each quadrant of the
square implies the second and third expressions (22a14–23). For
example, ‘possible’ implies ‘not impossible’ in the sense that, for any
X, if the former holds of X then the latter holds of X.27
Likewise,
26
Aristotle’s square contains separate entries for two distinct expressions of
possibility: δυνατὸν εἶναι and ἐνδεχόμενον εἶναι (22a24–31). Aristotle takes these two
expressions to be equivalent in De interpretatione 13 (22a15–16; see Ammonius in
De int. 231.9–16, 237.14–15, Seel 1982: 149, Weidemann 2002: 424–425); thus it
suffices for our purposes to consider only one expression of possibility.
27
I use ‘imply’ as the converse of Aristotle’s ‘follow’ (ἀκολουθεῖν) at 22a14–37.
Thus, an expression implies another expression just in case the latter follows
from the former. Hintikka’s (1973: 45–47) suggestion that ἀκολουθεῖν at
22a14–37 signifies the mutual equivalence of expressions is not convincing;
cf. Bluck 1963: 216–17, Frede 1976: 239–240, Brandon 1978: 175–177, Seel
1982: 148–149, Weidemann 2002: 425, 2012: 109.
Table 2.2 Aristotle’s square of modal expressions (De interpretatione
13 22a14–31)
possible to be not possible to be
not impossible to be impossible to be
not necessary to be necessary not to be
possible not to be not possible not to be
not impossible not to be impossible not to be
not necessary not to be necessary to be
Marko Malink
40
‘possible’ implies ‘not necessary’, and so on. Aristotle does not assert
that the expressions in each quadrant are mutually equivalent; nor
does he assert that the second or third expression implies the first
expression.28
Rather, his focus is on determining what follows from
the first expression in each quadrant.
Unfortunately, as Aristotle goes on to explain at 22b10–28, the
square in Table  2.2 turns out to be incoherent. The incoherence is
best described as being due to the ambiguity of ‘possible’ between
the two-sided and the one-sided sense. Although Aristotle does not
explicitly distinguish between these two senses in De interpretatione
13, the distinction underlies his discussion of the incoherence. In the
left-hand column of the square, ‘possible (not)’ is taken to imply ‘not
necessary (not)’. This implication requires that ‘possible’ be under-
stood not in the one-sided sense but in the two-sided sense. In the
right-hand column, by contrast, ‘not possible’ is taken to imply ‘ne-
cessary not’, and ‘not possible not’ is taken to imply ‘necessary’. These
implications require that the occurrences of ‘possible’ in these phrases
be understood not in the two-sided but in the one-sided sense. For if
‘possible’ is understood in the two-sided sense, then ‘not possible’ does
not imply ‘necessary not’ but only the disjunctive phrase ‘necessary or
necessary not’.29
Thus, ‘possible’ expresses two-sided possibility in the
left-hand column of the square, but one-sided possibility in the right-
hand column.30
This does not mean that Aristotle’s use of ‘possible’ in the square
is random or haphazard. There is a systematic difference between the
two columns that helps to explain the distribution of one-sided and
two-sided uses of ‘possible’: in the left-hand column ‘possible’ occurs
unnegated in affirmations, but in the right-hand column it occurs
negated in denials. When introducing the square at the beginning of
chapter 13, Aristotle states the implications in question without argu-
ment (22a14–23). Thus he takes it for granted that ‘possible’ expresses
two-sided possibility when it occurs unnegated in affirmations,whereas
28
Brandon 1978: 176; pace Hintikka (1973: 45–47). However, Aristotle
asserts that the second expression implies the third expression in the two top
quadrants; see 22b3–10 and 22b15–16; cf. Seel 1982: 147–150, Weidemann
2002: 425, 2012: 102.
29
Cf. An. Pr. 1.17 37a9–26.
30
See Ackrill 1963: 151, Bluck 1963: 215–216, Seel 1982: 160, Whitaker
1996: 162–164, Weidemann 2002: 442.
Aristotle on One-Sided Possibility 41
41
it expresses one-sided possibility when it occurs negated in denials. He
does not, at this point in chapter 13, recognize any unnegated one-
sided uses of ‘possible’, nor any negated two-sided uses of ‘possible’.
The double use of ‘possible’ threatens not only the coherence of
Aristotle’s square, but also the main results of chapter  12. There,
Aristotle argues at length that ‘possible’ and ‘not possible’ constitute
an opposed pair of affirmation and denial.31
He requires that such
opposed pairs satisfy LEM, according to which ‘the affirmation or
the negation holds of everything’.32
However, Aristotle’s square in
Table 2.2 violates LEM. For example, consider the affirmative sen-
tence ‘It is possible for every human to be an animal’ and the corre-
sponding negative sentence ‘It is not possible for every human to be an
animal’. LEM requires that at least one of them be true. But according
to Aristotle’s square, ‘possible’ is to be understood as expressing two-
sided possibility in the affirmative sentence, and as expressing one-
sided possibility in the negative sentence. As a result, LEM is violated
because neither sentence is true (since it is necessary for every human
to be an animal).
Because of the homonymy of ‘possible’, the occurrences of ‘possible’
and ‘not possible’ in Aristotle’s square fail to constitute a genuine
opposed pair of affirmation and denial.33
For in a genuine opposed
pair the same thing must be denied and affirmed of the same thing not
homonymously:
Let us call an affirmation and a denial which are opposite a contradiction
(ἀντίφασις). I speak of sentences as opposite when they affirm and deny the
same thing of the same thing – not homonymously, together with all other
such conditions that we add to counter the troublesome objections of soph-
ists. (De int. 6 17a33–37)
According to this definition,‘not possible’ fails to be the contradictory
opposite of‘possible’ in Aristotle’s square. On the other hand,Aristotle
holds that for every affirmation there is a corresponding denial which
is its contradictory opposite, and that for every denial there is a corre-
sponding affirmation which is its contradictory opposite (17a30–33).
31
De int. 12 21b23–25, 21b37–22a1, 22a11–13.
32
De int. 12 21b4; see n. 18.
33
Weidemann 2002: 443–444.
Marko Malink
42
Hence, if ‘possible’ has the two-sided sense in a given affirmation,
there must be a corresponding denial in which it has the same sense.
And if ‘possible’ has the one-sided sense in a given denial, there must
be a corresponding affirmation in which it has the same sense. Given
this, Aristotle is in a position to construct a revised square in which
‘possible’ has the same sense throughout, and which therefore does
not suffer from the problems described previously.
In De interpretatione 13, Aristotle chooses to construct a revised
square for one-sided possibility (he does not give a square for two-
sided possibility). As a first step toward this revised square, Aristotle
argues that ‘necessary’ implies ‘possible’, as follows:
[i] What is necessary to be is possible to be. [ii] For otherwise the denial will
follow, [iii] since it is necessary either to affirm or to deny; [iv] and then, if it
is not possible to be, it is impossible to be; [v] so what is necessary to be is
impossible to be – [vi] which is absurd.34
(De int. 13 22b11–14)
In point [i] of this passage, Aristotle states the thesis to be proved, that
everything necessary is possible: for any X, if ‘necessary’ holds of X
then ‘possible’ holds of X. Aristotle’s proof of this thesis proceeds by
reductio. The assumption for reductio is that there is something – call
it Y – such that ‘necessary’ holds of Y but ‘possible’ does not hold
of Y.
In point [ii], Aristotle draws a consequence from the assumption
for reductio. He indicates this consequence by the phrase ‘the denial
will follow’ (ἡ ἀπόφασις ἀκολουθήσει). Contrary to what is sometimes
thought, this is not intended to mean that ‘not possible’ follows ‘nec-
essary’ in the sense that the former holds of everything of which the
latter holds; for this is not warranted by the assumption for reductio.35
Rather, point [ii] exhibits the same slightly misleading use of ‘follow’
that we saw in De caelo 1.12 (282b30–32). When Aristotle writes that
‘the denial will follow’, his intended meaning is that‘not possible’ holds
34
[i] τὸ μὲν γὰρ ἀναγκαῖον εἶναι δυνατὸν εἶναι· [ii] εἰ γὰρ μή, ἡ ἀπόφασις ἀκολουθήσει·
[iii] ἀνάγκη γὰρ ἢ φάναι ἢ ἀποφάναι· [iv] ὥστ’ εἰ μὴ δυνατὸν εἶναι, ἀδύνατον εἶναι·
[v] ἀδύνατον ἄρα εἶναι τὸ ἀναγκαῖον εἶναι, [vi] ὅπερ ἄτοπον.
35
Pace Ackrill (1963: 152), who holds that when Aristotle ‘claims that ‘necessary’
must imply ‘possible’ since otherwise it would have to imply ‘not possible’ he
is, of course, misusing the principle of excluded middle’. Similarly, Fitting &
Mendelsohn (1998: 34) think that in point [ii] ‘Aristotle confused the negation
of the conditional with the negation of the consequent’.
Aristotle on One-Sided Possibility 43
43
of something, namely, Y, of which ‘necessary’ holds.36
Aristotle justifies
this claim by appealing to LEM in point [iii]: since the assumption for
reductio implies that ‘possible’ does not hold of Y, it follows by LEM
that ‘not possible’ holds of it.
In point [iv], Aristotle goes on to infer that, since ‘not possible’ holds
of Y, so does ‘impossible’. This is justified by one of the implications
stated in Aristotle’s original square (in the top right-hand quadrant,
22a19–20). Finally, Aristotle infers in point [v] that ‘what is neces-
sary to be is impossible to be’. Again, this does not mean that ‘impos-
sible’ holds of everything of which ‘necessary’ holds. Rather, it means
that ‘impossible’ holds of something, namely, Y, of which ‘necessary’
holds.37
In point [vi], Aristotle states that this last consequence is ab-
surd, thereby concluding the reductio.
Aristotle’s argument in points [i]–[vi] can thus be reconstructed as
follows:
1. There is an X such that ‘necessary’ holds of
X and ‘possible’ does not hold of X
[assumption for
reductio]
2. ‘Necessary’ holds of Y and ‘possible’ does
not hold of Y
[from 1: existential
instantiation]
3. ‘Necessary’ holds of Y [from 2]
4. ‘Possible’ does not hold of Y [from 2]
5. Either ‘possible’ holds of Y or ‘not possible’
holds of Y
[premiss: LEM]
6. ‘Not possible’ holds of Y [from 4, 5]
7. For any X, if ‘not possible’ holds of X then
‘impossible’ holds of X
[premiss: 22a19–20]
8. ‘Impossible’ holds of Y [from 6, 7]
9. There is an X such that ‘necessary’ holds of
X and ‘impossible’ holds of X
[from 3, 8]
10. Not: there is an X such that ‘necessary’ holds of X
and ‘impossible’ holds of X
[premiss]
11. Not: there is an X such that ‘necessary’ holds of X
and ‘possible’ does not hold of X
[reductio: 1–9, 10]
12. For any X, if ‘necessary’ holds of X then ‘possible’
holds of X
[from 11]
36
Weidemann 2002: 437–441. The same use of ‘follow’ is found at 22b30, where
Aristotle recapitulates point [ii] of the present argument.
37
The use of the phrase ‘what is necessary to be’ (τὸ ἀναγκαῖον εἶναι) in [v] differs
from its use in [i]. In [i], this phrase indicates a general term true of everything
Marko Malink
44
This argument relies on three premisses. First, it relies on LEM (line
5, stated in [iii]). The second premiss is that ‘not possible’ implies
‘impossible’ (line 7, stated in [iv]).The third premiss is that‘impossible’
and ‘necessary’ are disjoint in that they do not hold of the same thing
(line 10, stated in [vi]). This last premiss makes it clear that ‘impos-
sible’ is taken to mean ‘not one-sided possible’ rather than ‘not two-
sided possible’. This is a substantive assumption because ‘impossible’
is also occasionally used in the latter sense in De interpretatione 13.38
It follows that ‘not possible’, since it implies ‘impossible’, is disjoint
from ‘necessary’. This means that the negated occurrence of ‘possible’
in ‘not possible’ does not have the two-sided sense but the one-sided
sense; for if it had the two-sided sense, ‘not possible’ would mean ‘not
two-sided possible’ and would fail to be disjoint from ‘necessary’ (in
fact, it would follow from it). Thus, the second and third premisses
taken together entail that a negated occurrence of ‘possible’ has the
one-sided sense.
On this basis, Aristotle’s argument establishes, by means of LEM,
that an unnegated occurrence of ‘possible’ has the one-sided sense.
For if the argument’s conclusion in line 12 is to be true, the unnegated
occurrence of ‘possible’ in it cannot have the two-sided sense but must
have the one-sided sense.39
This is the first unnegated occurrence of
‘possible’ that is used in the one-sided sense in De interpretatione 13.
Prior to Aristotle’s argument at 22b11–14, all unnegated occurrences
of ‘possible’ in this chapter are understood in the two-sided sense.40
Aristotle’s argument shows that unnegated occurrences of ‘possible’
can also have the one-sided sense.
4. The Revised Square of Modal Expressions
(De interpretatione 13 22b10–28)
Having shown that ‘necessary’ implies ‘possible’, Aristotle goes on to
argue that the left-hand column of his original square is incorrect and in
of which ‘necessary to be’ holds. In [v], by contrast, the phrase picks out a
particular item, Y, of which ‘necessary to be’ holds (Weidemann 2012: 441).
38
For example, ‘impossible’ presumably means ‘not two-sided possible’ in
Aristotle’s claim that ‘not impossible’ implies ‘not necessary’ (22b15–16); see
Seel 1982: 161–163, Weidemann 2002: 443.
39
Provided that ‘necessary’ holds of something; otherwise the conclusion in line
12 would be vacuously true.
40
See De int. 13 22a15–31; cf. Seel 1982: 160.
Aristotle on One-Sided Possibility 45
45
need of revision. In particular, he argues that, contrary to what he said
at the beginning of chapter 13,‘possible’ does not imply ‘not necessary’.
For otherwise – since‘necessary’ implies‘possible’ – it would follow that
‘necessary’ implies ‘not necessary’, and that is absurd (22b14–17). Nor
does ‘possible’ imply ‘necessary’ or ‘necessary not’ (b17–22). From this
Aristotle concludes that the only expression concerning necessity that
can be implied by ‘possible’ is ‘not necessary not’ (b22–28).
Thus, Aristotle revises his original square (Table 2.3) by transposing
‘not necessary’ and ‘not necessary not’ in the left-hand column. In this
revised square, ‘possible’ is not ambiguous but is consistently used in
the one-sided sense throughout. Accordingly, ‘impossible’ means ‘not
one-sided possible’. As before, Aristotle holds that the first expression
in each quadrant implies the second and third expressions.
The top half of the revised square corresponds exactly to the two
groups of modal expressions discussed by Aristotle in his argument for
one-sided possibility in Prior Analytics 1.13 (see Table 2.1). This argu-
ment can easily be adapted to capture the bottom half of the revised
square. Thus, Aristotle’s discussion in Prior Analytics 1.13 is closely
connected to the revised square in De interpretatione 13. Nevertheless,
there are differences between his arguments in the two chapters. In De
interpretatione 13, Aristotle does not give a full direct proof showing
that ‘possible’ implies ‘not necessary not’. Instead, he argues that ‘pos-
sible not’ does not imply any of the other three expressions concerning
necessity in the square. From this he infers that it implies ‘not neces-
sary not’. However, since he has not shown that it must imply at least
one of the four expressions, his argument remains incomplete. In Prior
Analytics 1.13, by contrast, Aristotle gives a full proof that ‘possible’
implies ‘not necessary not’. In fact, he proves that the two expressions
are equivalent.
Table 2.3 Revised square of modal expressions (De interpretatione
13 22b10–28)
possible to be not possible to be
not impossible to be impossible to be
not necessary not to be necessary not to be
possible not to be not possible not to be
not impossible not to be impossible not to be
not necessary to be necessary to be
Marko Malink
46
In De interpretatione 13, Aristotle states that ‘not possible’ implies
‘necessary not’ (in the top right-hand quadrant of the square). By
contraposition, it follows that ‘not necessary not’ implies ‘possible’,
and hence that the two expressions are equivalent. Crucially, however,
Aristotle does not state the latter implication; nor does he perform
such inferences by contraposition in De interpretatione 13. Although
he is committed to the equivalence of the three expressions in each
quadrant of the revised square, Aristotle does not explicitly state these
equivalences in De interpretatione 13.41
Thus, the argument in Prior
Analytics 1.13 is not only more concise and straightforward than the
one in De interpretatione 13; it is also more powerful in that it estab-
lishes the equivalence of the three expressions in each quadrant of the
square. In particular, it establishes the two equivalences that guaran-
tee the interdefinability of one-sided possibility and necessity, namely,
the equivalence of ‘possible’ and ‘not necessary not’, and – provided
that the argument is extended to the bottom half of the square – the
equivalence of ‘necessary’ and ‘not possible not’.
Despite these differences, the arguments in Prior Analytics 1.13 and
De interpretatione 13 share important similarities. First, they are both
of an extensional nature in that they prove implications (or equiva-
lences) between modal expressions by showing that the one expres-
sion holds of everything of which the other holds (and vice versa).
Moreover, they both aim to establish the one-sided sense of unnegated
occurrences of‘possible’ by appealing to the one-sided sense of negated
occurrences of ‘possible’. They do so by invoking the law of excluded
middle (LEM). Among other things, this law encodes Aristotle’s com-
mitment to the principle that for every denial in which something is
denied of something there is a corresponding affirmation in which the
same thing is affirmed of the same thing not homonymously. It follows
from this principle that for every negated occurrence of ‘possible’ in a
denial there is a corresponding unnegated occurrence in an affirmation
such that both occurrences have the same sense. If the negated occur-
rence has the one-sided sense, the unnegated occurrence must have the
one-sided sense too.
41
See Seel 1982: 157, Weidemann 2002: 425 and 456, 2012: 102; cf. n. 28
above. When Fitting & Mendelsohn (1998: 7) claim that Aristotle identifies
‘not necessary not’ as the equivalent of ‘possible’ in De interpretatione 13, this
claim must be qualified accordingly.
Aristotle on One-Sided Possibility 47
47
Aristotle’s strategy in both arguments shows that, in his view,
negated occurrences of ‘possible’ are most naturally interpreted in the
one-sided sense, whereas unnegated occurrences are more naturally
interpreted in the two-sided sense. For Aristotle, one-sided readings
of unnegated occurrences are somewhat artificial and stand in need
of justification. Aristotle does not explain why this is so. Modern
theorists have provided an explanation on his behalf by appealing
to the Gricean concept of conversational implicature. These theorists
disagree with Aristotle that there are two distinct senses of ‘possible’.
Instead, they argue that there is only the one-sided sense, and that the
two-sided interpretation is a pragmatic phenomenon resulting from a
conversational implicature. Thus, Lauri Karttunen writes:
Aristotle distinguished between one-sided possibility and two-sided
possibility... However, I doubt that there is any need to postulate these two
distinct senses. As far as I understand it, Aristotle’s distinction is designed
to account for the same facts that are also covered by Grice’s conversa-
tional postulates. Assuming that the speaker is following the cooperative
principle by saying that something is possible, he indicates that he is not
in the position to make a stronger statement [to the effect that that thing is
necessary]... Therefore, for all he knows, the contrary is also possible. The
two-sided interpretation of possible arises from these considerations; it is
not part of the meaning of possible.42
(Karttunen 1972: 6 n. 2)
One of Grice’s postulates governing cooperative communication is
the requirement that the speaker is to provide the addressee with the
strongest relevant information available. Thus, if the speaker asserts
that something is one-sided possible she must have reasons to with-
hold from the stronger claim that it is necessary. On the assumption
that the speaker knows whether or not the stronger claim is true, her
assertion of the weaker claim gives rise to a conversational implicature
to the effect that the stronger claim is false.43
This helps explain why
42
Similarly, Horn 1973: 207, 1989: 211–212, Levinson 1983: 163–164, van der
Auwera 1996: 184–185.
43
For the same reason, an assertion of a particular affirmative sentence such
as ‘Some As are B’ gives rise to a conversational implicature to the effect
that the corresponding universal sentence ‘All As are B’ is false. Accordingly,
particular affirmative sentences can be used in a two-sided sense (‘Some but
not all As are B’) and in a one-sided sense (‘Some, perhaps all, As are B’). In
Prior Analytics 1.1–22, particular affirmative sentences are used only in the
Marko Malink
48
the two-sided interpretation of unnegated occurrences of ‘possible’ is
usually preferred to the one-sided interpretation in ordinary language.
It may also help explain why Aristotle felt the need to include an argu-
ment justifying the one-sided sense of unnegated ‘possible’ in Prior
Analytics 1.13.
On the other hand, negation in ordinary language typically oper-
ates exclusively on the meaning of expressions but not on conver-
sational implicatures that might be associated with them on a given
occasion of use.44
Thus, if a negation is applied to ‘possible’, it only
negates its one-sided meaning but not the implicature that gives rise
to its two-sided interpretation. Consequently, ‘not possible’ is usu-
ally understood as ‘not one-sided possible’ rather than ‘not two-sided
possible’ in ordinary language. This is to say, negated occurrences of
‘possible’ are usually interpreted as expressing one-sided possibility
in ordinary language.
In the Prior Analytics, Aristotle sometimes uses the phrase ‘not pos-
sible’ in the sense of ‘not two-sided possible’. However, these uses are
restricted to special contexts in which Aristotle explicitly indicates that
the kind of possibility that is being negated is two-sided possibility.
For example, he often says that ‘what is necessary was not possible’ in
chapters 1.14–19 of the Prior Analytics.45
By using the past tense form
one-sided sense, whereas ‘possible’ is frequently used in the two-sided sense
(see Horn 1989: 209–210). In the second book of the Prior Analytics, however,
particular affirmative sentences are sometimes used in the two-sided sense,
when Aristotle takes ‘Some As are B’ to imply the particular negative sentence
‘Some As are not B’ (An. Pr. 2.2 55a15, 2.3 56a15; see Waitz 1844: 490–
491, Ross 1949: 431 and 433, Smith 1989: 188). Even in chapters 1.1–22,
Aristotle is trying to avoid examples in which a particular sentence is true
together with the corresponding universal sentence (An. Pr. 1.4 26a39–b10;
see Patzig 1968: 177–178, Brunschwig 1969: 14–15, Ebert & Nortmann
2007: 304–305). When he must use such examples, he finds it necessary to
explain this fact by pointing out that particular sentences are to be understood
in the one-sided sense rather than in the two-sided sense (1.4 26b14–20, 1.5
27b20–23, 1.6 28b28–30), just as he finds it necessary to explain the one-
sided sense of ‘possible’ in chapter 1.13. It is sometimes thought that Aristotle
connects the one-sided use of ‘possible’ to the one-sided use of particular
sentences at De interpretatione 13 23a16–18 (Seel 1982: 167–169, Whitaker
1996: 169; pace Pacius 1597b: 104, Weidemann 2002: 455). Whatever the
correct interpretation of 23a16–18, the parallel between the one-sided uses of
‘possible’ and particular sentences is an apt one.
44
See, e.g., Horn 1989: 362–389.
45
1.14 33b17, 1.17 37a8–9, 37b9–10, 1.19 38a35–36. See also 37a14–24, where
it is clear from 37a8–9 that two-sided possibility is under consideration.
Aristotle on One-Sided Possibility 49
49
‘was’, Aristotle indicates that he is referring to his official definition of
two-sided possibility as the preferred notion of possibility introduced
in chapter 1.13 (32a18–20).46
Absent such explicit markers, the usual
interpretation of negated occurrences of ‘possible’ is the one-sided one.
Aristotle takes advantage of this fact in De interpretatione 13 when
he takes it for granted that ‘not possible’ implies both ‘impossible’
and ‘necessary not’, and in Prior Analytics 1.13 when he takes it for
granted that these three expressions are equivalent.
Finally, we are in a position to respond to an objection raised by
Gisela Striker, who rejects this interpretation of the argument in Prior
Analytics 1.13 on the following grounds:
One might then think that these lines [1.13 32a21–8] are intended to ex-
plain the one-sided sense of ‘possible’. If so, however, one would expect
something like the consideration mentioned at De Int. 13, 22b11–14 or
29–33: it would seem absurd to say that what is necessary is not possible
(and hence impossible). But this does not seem to have worried Aristotle in
the Analytics (cf. 33b17; 37a8–9; 38a35). (Striker 2009: 129)
First, it is important to note that the passages mentioned by Striker at
the end of this quotation are the ones in which Aristotle uses the past
tense‘was’ to make it clear that he is negating two-sided possibility but
not one-sided possibility (see n. 45). These passages do not show that
Aristotle is comfortable calling what is necessary ‘not possible’ when
he has not made it clear that what is being negated is two-sided pos-
sibility. Moreover, there is no need for Aristotle in Prior Analytics 1.13
to invoke the consideration from De interpretatione 13, because the
structure of his argument differs in the two chapters. The two argu-
ments share a common goal: to establish the one-sided sense of unne-
gated occurrences of ‘possible’. In the De interpretatione, Aristotle
achieves this goal by invoking Striker’s consideration to argue that
‘possible’ does not imply ‘not necessary’ but ‘not necessary not’. In the
Prior Analytics, he achieves the goal in a more powerful and elegant
way by showing that ‘possible’ is equivalent to ‘not necessary not’.
46
See n. 9.
50
3 Why Does Aristotle Need a Modal
Syllogistic?
Robin Smith
To supply a connection between the modal syllogistic developed in
Aristotle’s Prior Analytics and the rest of his philosophy interpreters
frequently assume that the modal syllogistic must somehow have been
intended for use in Aristotle’s theory of demonstration as found in
the Posterior Analytics, and, on this basis, try to find explanations for
some of its peculiarities. According to the most common such pro-
posal, Aristotle’s claims about necessity syllogisms are often explained
by making a distinction between essential and accidental predication
and supposing that the necessary premises of demonstrations are ne-
cessary because they rest on definitional or essential predications. The
evidence adduced for such claims is essentially that if we suppose
Aristotle to have some notions in mind that appear in the Posterior
Analytics when he develops the modal syllogistic, then we can see why
he makes the claims that he does about what is or is not a neces-
sary proposition, or a valid inference, etc. However, these are at best
speculative answers to the question why Aristotle developed the modal
syllogistic as he did, given that he had already decided to develop it.
They do not explain why he might have wanted to develop such a
theory in the first place. They do not tell us what use the modal syllo-
gistic might have been to him in his theory of demonstration – or, more
precisely, what use he might have had in mind for it. In order even
to speculate productively about that, we should really like to iden-
tify some puzzles or difficulties concerning demonstrative science that
results of the modal syllogistic might help resolve. At the very least, we
would hope to find some evidence in the Posterior Analytics of use of
even some general results found in the modal syllogistic. However, all
we see is the claim that if what is demonstrated is itself necessary, then
the premises from which it is demonstrated must also be necessary.
In order to link the modal syllogistic with the rest of Aristotle’s phil-
osophy we must look elsewhere. It turns out that there is a passage
in the Prior Analytics in which Aristotle articulates a principle about
Why Does Aristotle Need a Modal Syllogistic? 51
51
possibility, which is almost word for word identical with a passage
which appears in book Θ of the Metaphysics. In Met Θ Aristotle is con-
cerned to argue against contemporaries who appear to have believed
that only what is actual is possible. The principle in question states
that what follows from what is possible is itself possible, and this pas-
sage provides a textually supported link between Aristotle’s modal
logic and his metaphysics.
1. Syllogistic in the Posterior Analytics
Aristotle’s Analytics is about scientific knowledge1
(episteme), which
for Aristotle means demonstrative knowledge: that form of knowledge
which consists in the possession of a demonstration or proof so that
the propositions involved in such knowledge not only are true but are
necessary. Aristotle declares this in the opening sentence of the treatise:
We must first state what our inquiry is about and what its object is, saying
that it is about demonstration and that its object is demonstrative science.
(An. Pr., 24a10–11)
A demonstration or proof (apodeixis) is a type of argument or deduc-
tion (sullogismos). Therefore, says Aristotle, he must give an account
of arguments before turning to demonstrative arguments in particular.
The former is contained in the first part of the treatise, known to us as
the Prior Analytics, and the latter in the second part, which we call the
Posterior Analytics.
This description is more than superficial. The Posterior Analytics
relies on results established in the Prior Analytics to reject a challenge,
presented in An. Post. I.3, to Aristotle’s conception of demonstration.
Since a demonstration or proof must be a deductive argument from
premises known to be true, we may ask, how are the premises them-
selves known to be true? One tentative answer is that they are known
by demonstration from still further premises. According to An. Post.
I.3, some of Aristotle’s contemporaries objected that this conception
1
I translate ἐπιστήμη as ‘scientific knowledge’ rather than simply ‘knowledge’
because it is really a term of art for Aristotle. The alternative translation
‘understanding’, proposed by Burnyeat, seems to me misleading and ambiguous
(unless it is given a technical sense – but then we might as well use ‘science’
with the same sense).
Robin Smith
52
relies on an incoherent view of scientific knowledge. If all scientific
knowledge must be demonstrated from other scientific knowledge,
then a vicious regress results. If this regress continues indefinitely, then
ultimately there are no known first premises on which the demon-
stration depends, and thus there is no scientific knowledge.2
Some,
Aristotle says, argued that demonstrations may proceed in a circle: a
premise p used in a demonstration of conclusion c may appear as
the conclusion of another demonstration in which c is a premise (or
perhaps as the conclusion of a series of demonstrations where c is a
premise at the first stage). Thus, on this account, all that is scientif-
ically known is demonstrated: in one sense, the regress of premises
never ends, but there are nevertheless only finitely many propositions
in the regress since it wraps around in a circle. Aristotle replies to such
a challenge by denying that scientific knowledge can only be deduced
from other scientific knowledge: there must in addition be premises
that are known but not known through demonstration.
There is much more to Aristotle’s reply, however, than the simple
assertion that such premises must exist. Interpreters have often seen
Aristotle’s position as a form of foundationalism. Briefly, Aristotle
would then be arguing as follows:
1. If we have any knowledge, then there must be knowledge that does
not rest on demonstration.
2. We do have some knowledge.
3. Therefore,thereisknowledgethatdoesnotdependondemonstration.
Such a way of understanding Aristotle’s procedure leaves open what
the role of the syllogistic is. Presumably such ‘foundationalists’ simply
regard it as no more than an example of ‘accurate reasoning’. What
I want to suggest in this chapter is that Aristotle’s notion of demon-
stration is intimately and explicitly tied to the technical details of his
syllogistic. That is to say, Aristotle’s way of identifying the principles
of scientific knowledge cannot be understood apart from certain facts
about his logical theory.
Consider, for example, the set Σ containing the two propositions
‘Every A is a B’ and ‘Every B is a C’ plus all the consequences that can
2
In fact, Aristotle makes it clear that the objectors’ argument is a dilemma: either
the regress continues forever (in which case there is no knowledge), or it ‘comes
to a stop’ (in which case there is no knowledge).
Why Does Aristotle Need a Modal Syllogistic? 53
53
be derived from these two syllogistically. There are, then, nine propos-
itions in the set Σ:
1. Every A is a B
2. Every B is a C
3. Every A is a C [from 1 and 2 by Barbara]
4. Some C is a B [from 1 and 3 by Darapti]
5. Some B is a C [from 3 and 1 by Darapti]
6. Some C is an A [from 3 by conversion per accidens]
7. Some A is a C [from 6 by conversion]
8. Some B is an A [from 1 by conversion per accidens]
9. Some A is a B [from 8 by conversion]
This set is deductively closed under the syllogistic,3
and in fact the
deductive closure of any finite set is itself finite. Moreover, the set Σ has
further peculiarities: if we delete either (1) or (2) from it, the result-
ing set remains deductively closed. Thus, although Σ is the deductive
closure of {(1), (2)}, both (1) and (2) are deductively independent in Σ.
Still further: if we replace (1) with its denial ‘Some A is not a B’ the
resulting set is still deductively closed (the same holds for (2)).
We may take Σ as a picture of the truths of a toy science, that is, all
the truths about a particular subject matter. What these results then
show is that in that science, there are two propositions such that (a)
they cannot be deduced from other truths and (b) all other truths can
be deduced from them. It follows in addition that if either (1) or (2)
is known, it cannot be on the basis of other knowledge, since neither
proposition can ever be deduced from other true propositions. On the
other hand, if both (1) and (2) are known, then every other propos-
ition in Σ can be deduced from known propositions. Consequently,
with respect to Σ, we can say that there is knowledge by demonstration
of its truths if and only if precisely these two propositions (1) and (2)
are known without dependence on demonstration. Let us say, then,
that (1) and (2) are the only possible principles for this science: on the
one hand, they must be known as principles if they are known at all,
and on the other hand, if they are known, then every other truth of Σ
3
Of course, it is not deductively closed in any system that incorporates
propositional logic in its deductive theory, since in propositional logic any
proposition p is logically equivalent to infinitely many other propositions (p&p,
p෻

p, p&p&p, etc.) and in addition any tautology is a deductive consequence of
any set of propositions.
Robin Smith
54
can (we may reasonably suppose) be known by deduction from them.
This status of (1) and (2) does not depend on any fact about human
epistemic abilities.
Given these facts about the syllogistic, Aristotle’s next task is to see
how to use them in such a way as to show that a (necessary) propos-
ition can always either be demonstrated or be known without demon-
stration. In Prior Analytics I.27–28, Aristotle presents a method (his
term is methodos) for discovering premises from which a conclusion
follows. This may be called a method of “analysis”, that is, the in-
verse of the procedure of deduction (Aristotle uses the verb analuein
in this sense, e.g., at 78a6–8). Here, Aristotle relies on the claim that
all proofs are syllogistic proofs to spell out a method exactly corre-
sponding to the premise regresses of Posterior Analytics I.19–22. The
object of this procedure is to find the principles (archai) of a science,
the indemonstrable first premises on which that science’s proofs rest.
Aristotle claims that this procedure, applied to the totality of truths
concerning any subject matter, will lead to the discovery of which of
those truths are the indemonstrable principles:
Consequently, if the facts concerning any subject have been grasped, we are
already prepared to bring the demonstrations readily to light. For if noth-
ing that truly belongs to the subjects has been left out of our collection of
facts, then covering every fact, if a demonstration of it exists, we will be
able to find that demonstration and demonstrate it, while if it does not nat-
urally have a demonstration, we will be able to make that evident. (An. Pr.,
46a22–27)
The simplest version of Aristotle’s method may be illustrated by look-
ing at the most basic of Aristotle’s syllogisms, that is, the case of the
one called Barbara, which Aristotle discusses in Posterior Analytics
I.15,19–23. Suppose that a true universal affirmative proposition
AaB can be demonstrated. Since Barbara is the only syllogism with
a universal affirmative conclusion, there must then be true premises
AaC, CaB from which it can be deduced. If AaC can in turn be dem-
onstrated, then there must be further true premises AaD, DaC from
which AaC can be deduced; similarly, there must be true CaE, EaB
from which CaB can be deduced, if it can be demonstrated. This pro-
cess of finding further true premises carries with it the construction
of a series of terms A, D, C, E, B such that AaB, BaD, DaC, CaE, EaB.
Why Does Aristotle Need a Modal Syllogistic? 55
55
Aristotle calls such a series of terms A1, ..., An such that for each Ai,
AiaAi+1, a chain (sustoichia), and he says that each term in such a chain
is above its successor (and therefore above all subsequent terms).Thus,
the continuation of the regress of premises for a universal affirma-
tive proposition AaB involves the insertion, at each step, of another
term, which Aristotle calls the ‘middle term’, in a chain between A and
B. The process of filling in this chain by the insertion of new (mid-
dle) terms (a process which Aristotle at least once calls katapuknoun,
“packing full”) can continue so long as there are adjacent terms Ai,
Ai+1 in the chain for which there is a new term T such that AiaT and
TaAi+1 are both true. If no middle term can be found, then the regress
“comes to a stop” (histatai), and each interval in the chain is “unmid-
dled” (amesos), that is, lacks a middle term (and we may also say that
the proposition corresponding to each interval is unmiddled). If, on
the other hand, the process of finding further premises by inserting
more middle terms never comes to a stop, then there must be infinitely
many terms in the chain between A and B. For a universal affirmative
proposition AaB, then, the regress of premises comes to a stop if and
only if there are only finitely many terms that can be inserted into
the chain between A and B, and the fully packed chain at which that
regress comes to a stop corresponds to a series of unmiddled propos-
itions none of which can be established deductively and from the set
of which all other propositions can be deduced.
This gives a concrete picture of how the process works, with the
additional detail that it will, in various cases, “come to a stop” just
exactly when we find that there is no term that occurs in two sets of
terms we have generated in accordance with Aristotle’s method. Thus,
for a proposition AaB, the regress “comes to a stop” if there is no term
both in the set of terms below A and in the set of terms above B. What
Aristotle’s method does is to make this evident, that is, make it evident
that AaB is an unmiddled, and therefore indemonstrable, proposition.
What Aristotle has in mind is the kind of “coming to a stop” of
terms in a chain as described previously. We find explicit confirma-
tion of this in An. Post. I.19–22, the goal of which is to prove that
all regresses of premises inevitably “come to a stop” in just this way.
He first argues that any regress of premises for a universal affirmative
proposition must proceed by inserting terms into a chain between its
subject and its predicate. Thus, if there is an infinite regress of premises
for AaB, then there must be a chain containing infinitely many terms
Robin Smith
56
between A and B. Next, he argues for the following claims. An ascend-
ing chain above term A is a series of terms A1 ... An such that for each
Ai, Ai+1aAi and A1 = A. A descending chain below A is a series of terms
A1 ... An such that for each Ai, AiaAi+1 and An = A. Aristotle argues that
if every ascending chain is finite and every descending chain is finite,
then there cannot be infinitely many terms between any two terms.
Thus, if every ascending or descending chain is finite, then no premise
regress for a universal affirmative proposition can continue forever.
All that Aristotle needs therefore is a way of setting limits on the
possible middle terms. And if the recipe he sets out in An. Post. I.13
is to make sense, it would seem that this is just the kind of guarantee
that he thinks is available. For if we are trying to demonstrate that
every A is a B, then we have to choose a C which has a necessary con-
nection with both A and B. That is why there could be no science of
accidents, since, as Aristotle tells us at Met. Γ4, 1007a14–15, there are
infinitely many accidental features of anything, and so you could have
an infinity of middle terms. If accidents are ruled out, Aristotle clearly
thinks that the possible terms will be finite – and this in turn means
that a demonstration of ‘every A is a B’ will involve only terms which
have a necessary connection with A and B. And, as we have seen in our
discussion of deductive closure in the syllogistic, the deductive closure
of any set of propositions made up from a fixed finite set of terms will
be finite.
The case of Barbara is particularly simple, since the propositions
involving the new middle terms are all universal affirmatives. But the
principle is the same for all syllogistic propositions relating A and B. In
fact, Aristotle argues in An. Post. I.21 for a lemma: if every ascend-
ing or descending chain is finite, then every regress for a universal
negative proposition must terminate. Finally, he argues in I.22 that
every ascending or descending chain is finite.4
In proving these results,
4
I have passed over several issues concerning these arguments. First, Aristotle
does not need the finiteness of both ascending and descending claims to prove
the finiteness of universal affirmative regresses: since every chain between two
terms is both an ascending chain over its bottom term and a descending chain
below its top term, the finiteness of either all ascending or all descending chains
would be sufficient. (Jonathan Lear 1979) thinks that Aristotle might need both
types of finiteness because there might be a chain between two terms that is
infinite in one direction but not in the other, but this notion is incoherent: for
a decisive refutation, see Scanlan 1983.) Next, the argument in I.21 treats a
“third way” of universal negative proof that appears erroneous, but it is easy
Why Does Aristotle Need a Modal Syllogistic? 57
57
Aristotle relies on results concerning his syllogistic theory: specifically,
that any proof of a universal affirmative proposition must be in the
form Barbara and any proof of a universal negative proposition in one
of the forms Celarent, Cesare, Camestres.5
In effect, then, he takes it
as established that these are the only possible forms of argument with
universal conclusions. That result is argued for in Prior Analytics I,
where Aristotle says that he has shown that all deductions whatever
can be “reduced to” arguments “in the figures”, i.e., in his syllogistic
theory.
The syllogistic is presented as a mathematical theory. Aristotle’s con-
cerns are primarily with what we would call metalogic. He first estab-
lishes all the valid forms of argument in the syllogistic, in the process
showing that every syllogism can be reduced to one of the four first-
figure syllogisms. Next, he shows that an even further reduction is pos-
sible: the particular first-figure forms (Darii and Ferio) can be reduced
to the universal ones (Barbara and Celarent) by way of intermediate
reductions (using arguments through impossibility) to second-figure
Camestres, which in turn is reduced to first-figure Celarent. This is
not at all the kind of result we would expect from a simple expos-
ition of valid forms of proof to be used in demonstrative sciences,
but it is exactly the kind of result Aristotle needs in order to establish
such things as the finiteness of all premise regresses. He must know all
the forms a regress of premises might take in order to determine the
ways a regress for any type of conclusion might continue. If all deduc-
tions can be reduced to deductions using only the two universal first-
figure forms, then that problem is greatly simplified: all that he needs
to show is that all universal regresses terminate. This is in fact what he
does in An. Post. I.19–21.
Aristotle takes pains to argue that the syllogistic is not simply a
preferred style of valid arguments for demonstrations but in fact the
to reconstruct Aristotle’s argument coherently. Third, only the finiteness of
ascending chains is required even in the universal negative case, but it may
be significant that if we extend Aristotle’s arguments to particular (i.e., non-
universal) propositions, the termination of regresses requires that all descending
as well as ascending chains be finite.
5
Aristotle’s proof for universal negative regresses, as presented, is incoherent,
since it seems to appeal to a third-figure syllogistic form in a regress for a
universal negative proposition (which is impossible since any third-figure form
must have a non-universal conclusion). Commentators have noted this problem
since ancient times.
Robin Smith
58
full and complete story of valid inference: this is a crucial element in
his arguments. Aristotle’s argument for the finiteness of all premise
regresses is closely linked with the argument for the discovery of prin-
ciples that can be seen in An. Pr. I.27–28. In An. Pr. I.30, Aristotle
proudly proclaims that he has presented the one true scientific method
(method for the construction of demonstrative sciences and the dis-
covery of principles that this requires): we can hardly understand the
point of this method without keeping the Posterior Analytics before us.
In summary, then, Aristotle’s Posterior Analytics relies essentially on
results Aristotle thinks he establishes in the Prior Analytics for one of
its most central claims, and from this claim we can reconstruct not
simply a picture of the structure of a demonstrative science but also an
answer to a vital question: what are the principles of a science? A crit-
ical part of that reliance is the claim that all deductions whatever are,
or can be reduced to, syllogistic deductions. Aristotle undertakes to
prove this in the Prior Analytics, and whether his arguments are suc-
cessful or not, it is clear that he thinks they are.
What my argument so far shows is that the connections between
the Posterior Analytics and the syllogistic theory of the Prior Analytics
are deep and even, one might say, essential. A major argument of the
Posterior Analytics depends crucially on results established in the Prior
and nowhere else. Conversely, the exposition of the syllogistic in the
Prior Analytics appears to have been expressly designed with these
uses in mind. Against this background, what can we say about the
modal syllogistic presented in An. Pr. I.8–22? That is, what do these
chapters contribute to Aristotle’s theory of demonstration? In fact, no
result about modal syllogisms is used for any argument in the Posterior
Analytics. While Aristotle does say that the principles of demonstra-
tions must be necessary, and while it may be true that the finiteness of
demonstrations requires essential predication (to prevent the possi-
bility of infinitely many middle terms), Aristotle does not say that they
must be propositions asserting necessary predication (that is, explicit
necessity propositions). Moreover, the most that might be claimed
is that the Posterior Analytics agrees with the Prior that a necessary
conclusion follows from necessary premises. We cannot even find a
recognition of the claim, defended in the Prior, that in some cases a
necessary conclusion follows from premises not all of which are ne-
cessary. There is no trace in the Posterior Analytics of the modal syl-
logistic concerning possible premises or mixed possible and necessary
Why Does Aristotle Need a Modal Syllogistic? 59
59
premises at all. We thus have no indication what use Aristotle’s modal
syllogistic might have been for his theory of demonstration.
This is not to deny that we can learn much about the content of the
modal syllogistic by studying what Aristotle has to say in the Posterior
Analytics, and elsewhere, about necessity and possibility. However,
nothing we find either in the modal syllogistic itself or in the Posterior
Analytics points to any issue about which a modal syllogistic might
have made any difference for the theory of demonstrative science.
2. The Modal Syllogistic and Possibility
If we do not find a motivation for the modal syllogistic in Aristotle’s
theory of demonstrative science, where might we turn? One answer is
to look at the Prior Analytics itself. As we know, Aristotle claims in a
famous passage at the end of the Sophistical Refutations that he had
created logic from nothing. Whatever he may have meant precisely
it seems a plausible conclusion that he was discovering features of
formal reasoning that go beyond the scientific uses he wants to put it
to. We know that he recognized that the (assertoric) formal logic that
he was developing works equally when applied to premises which are
not necessary, and even to premises which are not even true. (See, for
instance, Rini, Chapter 1 of this volume.) For that reason one could
argue that he has motivation enough to develop a modal logic.
However, I would like to pursue a different direction. Previous inter-
preters of Aristotle’s modal syllogistic have usually begun with neces-
sity syllogisms and tried to give an account of those independently of
the syllogisms involving possibility (which include mixed-modal cases
involving combinations of necessary and possible premises). This is
perhaps a natural approach given two points:
(a) Aristotle treats necessity syllogisms first;
(b) the theory of necessity syllogisms is much simpler.
A further reason appears if the place we look to for possible applica-
tions of the modal syllogistic is the theory of demonstration, where
only necessary premises play a role. I propose that it might be more
fruitful to suppose instead that it is possibility premises that are at the
focus of Aristotle’s attention. First, we may note that while there are
4 chapters of the assertoric syllogistic (24b30–29b28) and 5 chapters
of apodeictic (29b29–32a14), there are 10 chapters of problematic
Robin Smith
60
(32a15–40b16). But more important for my purposes is that we
can find an explicit textual link between two passages which dis-
cuss the issue of unactualized possibilities. In contrast to the silence
of the Posterior Analytics about modal arguments, there is a strong
similarity between a passage in the modal syllogistic and a passage
in Metaphysics Θ: Met. Θ4, 1047b14–30, echoes an argument in An.
Pr. I.15, 34a5–24. Moreover, the issue that arises in the former pas-
sage is one to which modal logic is highly relevant. Aristotle attacks
a position he attributes to “Megarians” according to which nothing
is possible except what is actual, from which it readily follows that
whatever is necessarily as it is. This is a direct challenge to Aristotle’s
own notion of potentiality (the subject of Met. Θ) and thereby to the
foundations of his physics and metaphysics. In De Int. 9, Aristotle
responds to a related position according to which the necessity of true
statements about the past leads to the necessity of true statements
about the future, and thereby to the necessity of whatever is the case.
While Aristotle does not ascribe this position to anyone, it is obviously
close to the ‘Master Argument’ of Diodorus Cronus, and whether or
not Diodorus was in some sense affiliated with the Megarian philoso-
phers, there is a line of continuity between Megarian positions and
this argument.
The Megarian challenge is that there are no possibilities except those
that are actualized. For instance, there is nothing that is possibly A ex-
cept what is actually A. Megarian universal necessitation, as Aristotle
sketches it in Met. Θ and in De Int. 9, can be argued for as follows:
You cannot now be both seated and not seated
You are now seated.
Therefore, you cannot now not be seated.
This is easily generalized to any proposition whatever to show that
if it is now the case that P, then it is now necessary that P, so that
whatever is true is necessary and whatever is false is impossible. More
specifically, a Megarian objection might go as follows: if we suppose
that x is not A and is at that very time also possibly A, then we are
supposing that x is possibly (A and not A). However, nothing can
be A and not A at the same time: that would be a straightforward
contradiction.
It appears to depend only on the principle of contradiction. There is
an interesting relationship of this argument to the argument Aristotle
Why Does Aristotle Need a Modal Syllogistic? 61
61
wants to counter in De Int. 9. That latter argument depends in some
way on the law of excluded middle. The principles of contradiction
and excluded middle are the two principles given special treatment in
Metaphysics Γ: while Aristotle argues that the former is the most se-
cure of all principles, excluded middle does clearly have an important
place for him. This is a little evidence that Metaphysics Θ3 and De Int.
9 are parts of a general response to Megarianism.
The principle on which Aristotle’s reasoning depends is articulated
in Metaphysics Θ4, and in An. Pr. I.15. Both passages may be trans-
lated as follows:
If when A is, B necessarily is, then when A is possible, B will be possible of
necessity. (An. Pr. 34a5–7) (Met 1047b14–16)6
While the interpretation of this test is controversial, Aristotle’s use of
it in the modal syllogistic is generally associated with proofs through
impossibility. In the course of such an argument, if we have a possi-
bility premise – which must be a genuine possibility, such as that a coat
is cut up or a log is burned, not that the diagonal is measured – then
we may assume the corresponding assertoric premise; if, having made
this assumption, we reach an impossible result, then we may reject the
original reductio hypothesis. I shall call this rule ‘R’, and show how it
functions in the syllogistic.
What the Megarian position denies is that there are any unactual-
ized possibilities. To respond to this, Aristotle needs a principled way
to distinguish between what is false but possible and what is false and
impossible. How might Aristotle reply? He might first say that while
the property of being possibly (A and not A) is self-contradictory, the
property of being (possibly A and possibly not A) need not be. Let us
further suppose that this latter property is a single occurrent property
and that it is consistent both with the property of being A and with
the property of not being A. Such a property is intimately connected
with the notion of “two-sided” possibility that he gives as his standard
6
The Metaphysics passage reads:πρῶτον δὲ λεκτέον ὅτι εἰ τοῦ Α ὄντοςἀνάγκη τὸ Β
εἶναι, καὶ δυνατοῦ ὄντος τοῦ Α δυνατὸν ἔσταικαὶ τὸ Β ἐξ ἀνάγκης. (34a5–7) ἅμα δὲ
δῆλον καὶ ὅτι, εἰτοῦ Α ὄντος ἀνάγκη τὸ Β εἶναι, καὶ δυνατοῦ ὄντος εἶναι τοῦΑ καὶ τὸ Β
ἀνάγκη εἶναι δυνατόν· (1047b14–16)The language here is almost identical with
the passage from Prior Analytics (the differences are δυνατὸν ἔσται ... ἐξ ἀνάγκης
versus ἀνάγκη εἶναι δυνατόν and minor variations in word order).
Robin Smith
62
account in the Prior Analytics. In fact one can say that the property
he seeks is simply the property of being (two-sided) possibly A. In
these terms we can say that being (two-sided) possibly A is logically
independent of the property of being A, so that it is equally possible
for something that is A either to be (two-sided) possibly A or not to
be (two-sided) possibly A. The possession of such a property will then
be what differentiates between that which is not A but could be A
and that which is not A and could not be A. His definition of ‘possi-
ble’ may be designed to provide just that: that which leads to nothing
impossible if it is assumed to be true. This definition appears in Met. Θ
in simple form: “that is possible [for something] which, if the actual-
ity of which it is said to have the potentiality obtained, there will be
nothing impossible” (1047a24–26). In An. Pr. I.13, it appears as “that
which is not necessary but, when it is supposed to obtain, there will be
nothing impossible because of this” (32a19–21).
We might think of this as an unnecessarily prolix definition of
‘possible’, if it simply amounts to ‘the possible is whatever does not
entail anything impossible.’ A first point to note is that, as Marko
Malink argues (this volume) ‘impossible’ here has to be understood
as one-sided impossibility. A second point is that Aristotle’s ‘defin-
ition’ is one which already assumes a modal notion – one-sided (im)
possibility – and we can therefore think of Aristotle’s definition of
two-sided possibility as presupposing the following principle of one-
way possibility:
(I) If every B which follows from A is possible, then A itself is possible
What is added to this by the further principle that if A entails B, then
if A is possible B is possible? It allows us to infer one possibility from
another. If whatever is walking is moving, and if X is possibly walking,
then X is possibly moving. This principle is, in a sense, the converse of
(I). That is to say, the converse of (I) is
(II) If A is possible then every B which follows from A is possible.
It is precisely principle II which is the one stated in Met. Θ4 and An.
Pr. I.13.
If we were to express (I) and (II) as principles of current modal logic
using ☐ for necessity and ◊ for possibility they become
Why Does Aristotle Need a Modal Syllogistic? 63
63
(Ia) If, for every B, ☐ (A ๖B) ๖◊B, then ◊A
(IIa) If ◊A then, for every B, ☐ (A ๖B) ๖
 ◊B
(IIa is simply a standard principle of all (normal) modal logics.)
(IIb) ☐ (A ๖B) ๖(◊A ๖
 ◊B)
(Ia) is in fact derivable using only the principle ☐(A ๖A). For if the
antecedent of (Ia) is true then, by (Ia) we have, in particular, ☐(A ๖A)
๖◊A, from which ◊A follows.
Still, the fact that (I) and (II) are converses may well make it plaus-
ible that they are linked in Aristotle’s mind, and perhaps that he did
not clearly distinguish between them. What Aristotle needs to show in
Metaphysics Θ is that there are possibilities that never are actualized.
Aristotle is arguing against a criticism of his own criterion for possi-
bility according to which that is possible which leads to nothing im-
possible if it is assumed to be actual. The objector undertakes to show
that, by this criterion, it is possible that the diagonal of the square will
be measured even though it never will actually be measured, just as
it is possible that this cloak will wear out, even though it will never
actually be worn out (since it will be cut up first), and just as it is pos-
sible that this log will be burned, even though it will never actually be
burned (since it is at the bottom of the sea). To reply to this, Aristotle
must draw a reasonable distinction between the case of the diagonal
and the cases of the cloak and the log. The relevant difference is that
in the case of the diagonal, an impossibility would result that is not
merely a matter of an inconsistency between the supposition itself and
the actual state of affairs (in the case in point, that ‘odd numbers are
equal to even numbers’).7
The differences between the passage in the Metaphysics and that
in the Analytics indicate, I  think, that the latter is an attempt to
develop the idea found in the former in terms of the syllogistic. In the
Metaphysics, both principles are stated in terms of the language of
actuality and potentiality. In the Analytics, Aristotle seems to me to be
7
Section 1 stressed that syllogistic proofs are finite. It is therefore of some
significance to note the connection between the case of the diagonal and the
finitude of proofs. For the proof of incommensurability proceeds by showing
that if the diagonal is measured by any n/m then it is more accurately measured
by some n'/m' so that its value cannot be established in a finite number of steps.
Robin Smith
64
making an explicit effort to expand this to a generic notion of possibil-
ity. I see two bits of evidence for this.
First, after stating the principle that ☐ (A ๖B) ๖(◊A ๖◊B) in 34a5–
12, Aristotle adds a qualification (34a12–15): possible must not be
understood as only applying to ‘becoming’ (genesis) but also in all the
other ways that ‘possible’ is said. I propose that this is a deliberate
move away from Met. Θ’s focus on potentiality and actuality, which is
indeed a focus on becoming. It also perhaps prepares the way for the
next point (34a16–24), to which I will return in a moment.
Second, in the earlier presentation of the definition of ‘possible’ in
32a18–20, Aristotle follows with a passage Ross brackets because he
sees in it a logical error (32a21–29). The passage concludes with “the
possible will therefore be not necessary and the not necessary possible”.
But I suggest that this is not an error but instead an endorsement of a
twofold distinction between things which cannot be otherwise (which
includes both what is necessary and what is impossible) and things
which can be otherwise (which exactly coincides with “possible in
accordance with our definition” in Aristotle’s usage, i.e., neither neces-
sary nor impossible). Since what is impossible is what is necessarily not
the case, Aristotle is here using ‘necessary’ in the sense ‘necessarily as it
is’ (and thus its negation is ‘not necessarily as it is’). What Aristotle is
doing here is, I suggest, arguing again for a generic sense of ‘possible’
not limited to the sphere of actuality and potentiality.
And now to return to 34a16–24: in this second explanatory note
to the principle ☐(A ๖B) ๖(◊A ๖◊B), Aristotle adds a fundamental
result he believes he has established in the Analytics: nothing follows
from just one premise. Consequently, in ‘if A is then B must be’, A
must be (at least) a pair of premises. He has, then, carried the entire
doctrine of Met. Θ over to the syllogistic environment, and in so doing
he has both generalized it (to any notion of possibility, not simply
what can be expressed in terms of actuality and potentiality) and also
in a sense narrowed it (because of his belief that the syllogistic is the
full story of inference).
What I have just said does imply that the modal syllogistic is chrono-
logically later than Met. Θ. But I think that is a desirable result. The
modal syllogistic is (or so I think) clearly an unpolished work, an ex-
tension of the plain syllogistic attempted by Aristotle in hopes that it
would give him a more powerful tool for responding to the Megarian
position.
Why Does Aristotle Need a Modal Syllogistic? 65
65
3. The Necessity Syllogistic
In Section 2 I have argued that the possibility syllogistic should be
taken as basic. In this final section I will be concerned to show that
the necessity syllogistic can based on possibility. If we take (two-sided)
possibility as primary, it is a straightforward matter to define necessity
and impossibility. That which is necessarily A is that which is A but is
not (possibly A and possibly not A); that which is necessarily not A is
that which is not A and in addition is not (possibly A and possibly not
A). In what follows, I will write ‘P(A)’ for the (two-sided) possibility
of being A – the property of being possibly A and possibly not A. As
I  am interpreting him, then, Aristotle treats A and P(A) as distinct
properties. The property of being necessarily A is compounded from
these: what is necessarily A is what is A and not P(A). This reflects
Aristotle’s assertion in several places that what is necessary is what
cannot be otherwise. We may also define ‘necessarily not A’ as ‘not A
and not P(not A)’, but since P(A) = P(not A), that is equivalently ‘A
and not P(A)’. The property of being necessarily A is a matter of hav-
ing the first property without the second.
With this in place, a plausible translation scheme for the propos-
itions of the apodeictic syllogistic into standard first-order predicate
logic, using the term letters A, B etc., as (non-empty) one-place predi-
cates, with modal operators treated as predicate qualifiers, can be pro-
vided as follows:
Necessarily A: N(Ax) = Ax ෺
 ¬P(A)x
Impossibly A: N(¬Ax) = ¬Ax ෺
 ¬P(A)x
We can extend this to Aristotelian categorical sentences:
‘Every A is necessarily B’ = N(BaA) = ී

x(Ax ๖(Bx ෺¬P(B)x)) = BaA ෺
 P(B)eA
‘Every A is necessarily not B’ = N(BeA) = ී

x(Ax ๖(¬Bx ෺¬P(B)x)) = BeA
෺
 P(B)eA
This can be extended to particular propositions using the principles
of ‘ekthesis’:
‘Some A is B’ (= BiA) iff: for some C, BaC ෺AaC
= ූ

C(ී

x(Cx ๖Ax) ෺ී

x(Cx ๖Bx))
= ූ

x(Ax ෺Bx)
‘Some A is not B’ (= BoA) iff: for some C, BeC ෺AaC
Robin Smith
66
= ූ

C(ී

x(Cx ๖Ax) ෺ී

x(Cx ๖¬Bx))
= ූ

x(Ax ෺¬Bx)
We then have:
‘Some A is necessarily B’ (= N(BiA)) iff, for some C, N(BaC) ෺AaC
= for some C, BaC ෺P(B)eC ෺AaC
= ූ

C(ී

x(Cx ๖Ax) ෺ී

x(Cx ๖(Bx ෺
¬P(B)x)))
= ූ

x(Ax ෺Bx ෺¬P(B)x))
‘Some A is necessarily not B’ (= N(BoA)) iff, for some C, N(BeC) ෺AaC
= for some C, BeC ෺P(B)eC ෺AaC
= ූ

C(ී

x(Cx ๖Ax) ෺ී

x(Cx ๖(¬Bx ෺
¬P(B)x)))
= ූ

x(Ax ෺¬Bx ෺¬P(B)x))
These translation schemes give a good account of the necessity syllo-
gistic except in one crucial respect. That is, they cause trouble for rules
of modal conversion, and for those modal syllogisms which depend on
them. Aristotle holds that N(AeB) is convertible, that is, that it entails
N(BeA). The translations given previously do not immediately yield
this, however. N(AeB) = AeB ෺¬P(A)eB, while N(BeA) = BeA ෺¬P(B)
eA. AeB entails BeA, but the inference from P(A)eB to P(B)eA requires
further resources. In brief, we need some rule giving a logical relation-
ship between the predicate A and the predicate P(A), and as presented
earlier these two predicates are logically independent. In fact the rule
required is the rule that I called R, which is based on the principle that
Aristotle has defended in the doublet passage from Met. Θ.4 and An.
Pr. I.15:
If when A is, B necessarily is, then when A is possible, B will be pos-
sible of necessity.
Using this principle, then, a proof of the convertibility of N(AeB)
can be constructed as follows:
1. N(AeB) = AeB ෺¬P(A)eB assumption
2 AeB 1, simplification
3. BeA 2, conversion
4. P(BiA) reductio hypothesis
5. P(B)iA 4, definition
6. BiA 5, assumption by R
Why Does Aristotle Need a Modal Syllogistic? 67
67
7. AiB 6, conversion
8. P(A)iB If AiB is possible but false, then P(A)iB
9. P(A)eB 1, simplification
10. P(B)eA 5, rule R: assuming BiA leads to the im-
possible P(A)iB, by contradicting 9
11. N(BeA) 3,10, definition
What then should be said about this proof? While it does seem to
reflect the way Aristotle argues when discussing this conversion in An.
Pr. I.3 (see especially 25a31–32), it does not appear to respect the
translation scheme we have been using. Suppose, to use the kind of
examples Aristotle often supplies, that A means ‘horse’ and B means
‘moving’, and suppose that only humans are moving. Then it would
seem that N(AeB), for no moving thing is a horse, and it is not possible
that any moving thing, i.e., any human, be a horse. But then, although
no horse may be moving, it is certainly possible that a horse be mov-
ing. For this reason the following formula is not valid:
(ී

x(Bx ๖¬Ax) ෺ී

x(Bx ๖¬P(A)x)) ๖(ී

x(Ax ๖¬Bx) ෺ී

x(Ax ๖¬ P(B)x))
If we look at the proof (1)–(11), just given, and replace its steps by
their ‘translations’ what we get is
1. ී

x(Bx ๖¬Ax) ෺ී

x(Bx ๖¬
(P)Ax)
assumption
2 ී

x(Bx ๖¬Ax) 1, simplification
3. ී

x(Ax ๖¬Bx) 2, conversion
4. ූ

x(Ax ෺P(B)x) reductio hypothesis
5. = 4
6. ූ

x(Ax ෺Bx) 5, assumption by R
7. ූ

x(Bx ෺Ax) 6, conversion
8. ූ

x(Bx ෺P(A)x) If AiB is possible but false, then P(A)iB
9. ී

x(Bx ๖¬P(A)x) 1, simplification
10. ී

x(Ax ๖¬ P(B)x) 5, rule R (assuming BiA
leads to the impossible P(A)iB), by
contradicting 9
11. ී

x(Ax ๖¬Bx) ෺ී

x(Ax ๖¬ (P)Bx) 3,10
To see what has gone wrong look at how the rule R has been applied: at
line 4 we assume, for reductio, that there is an A which is a possible B.
Robin Smith
68
So we then, according to R, are entitled to suppose that some A really
is a B. With A as ‘horse’ and B as ‘moving’ this means that we are sup-
posing that some horse is moving. This is a consistent supposition; but
notice what it does. What it does is change the things which are mov-
ing so that one of them is a horse. It does not envisage a circumstance
in which one of the actually moving things – one of the humans – has
become a horse. But at line 8 we conclude that some moving thing is
a possible horse.
The explanation of what has gone wrong is not easy, and for that
reason it is not clear whether Aristotle was aware of it, or how he
might have responded to it. Perhaps he would say that in applying
the rule R you have to be careful how you choose your terms.8
Or he
might say that we must ‘ampliate’ the movers so that it covers the pos-
sible movers,9
and certainly if you ampliate you get
(ී

x(Bx ๖¬Ax) ෺ී

x(P(B)x ๖¬) P(B)x) ๖(ී

x(Ax ๖¬Bx) ෺ී

x((P)Ax ๖¬
P(B)x))
which is valid.
Alternatively one might argue somewhat as follows. Starting from
Striker 1994, one might argue for the view that the modal syllogistic
is, in the form we have it, unsalvageable because of its multiple serious
inconsistencies. But saying this is perhaps not particularly helpful in
diagnosing just why Aristotle might not have seen these inconsisten-
cies. If we can assume a principle of reasoning which seems, on the
surface, a plausible one, but yet a principle which, when looked at
closely, might be seen to be fallacious, then we can explain why such
an astute logician as Aristotle might nevertheless have not discerned
where the trouble is. One might then argue that a rule like R is one of
these places. We have evidence that he uses such a rule, and the explan-
ation of why it may not be justified is one which someone who had
just invented logic might easily have missed.
What I have tried to do in this chapter is address the problem of
why Aristotle needs a peculiarly modal syllogistic, given that, while
his theory of scientific demonstration demands essential use of the
assertoric syllogistic, it makes no use of the modal syllogistic. I have
8
That seems to be the line taken in Rini 2011 (pp. 151f).
9
Something like this seems to be the view of Nortmann 1996.
Why Does Aristotle Need a Modal Syllogistic? 69
69
suggested that the answer lies in his theory of possibility, and I have
used a principle set out in Metaphysics Θ to show how he puts modal
principles to work in answering an objection to his claim against the
Megarians that there can be unactualized possibilities. We have, then,
identified not only a textual connection between the modal syllogistic
and another part of Aristotle’s work but also an issue in which his
modal logic can be seen to play a crucial role.
70
4 Necessity, Possibility, and
Determinism in Stoic Thought
Vanessa de Harven
1. Introduction
Necessity and possibility in Stoic thought run deep, through logic,
physics, and ethics together. There is a wealth of scholarship just on
Stoic responses to Diodorus Cronus’s Master Argument that every-
thing possible either is or will be true, revealing the Stoics’ sophisti-
cated propositional logic and modal theory. Likewise, scholars have
long mined the Stoics’ innovative theory of causation and their unique
commitment to an everlasting recurrence of the cosmos, elucidating
the scope of necessity and possibility in Stoic physics. And, perhaps
most famously, the vexed relationship between determinism and re-
sponsibility testifies to another vein of modality running through Stoic
ethics. This chapter will argue that underwriting the Stoics’ moves in
all these areas is a distinction among logical, metaphysical, and what
I will call providential necessity and possibility.
Complicating matters, the Stoics are known to embrace apparent
paradox, a trace of Eleatic influence through the Megarians.1
It will
become apparent as we proceed that understanding Stoic thought is
doubly challenging: in addition to the exegetical and interpretative
challenge of dealing with ancient, self-consciously paradoxical views,
there is also, inextricably, the basic reconstruction of Stoic views
through often hostile lenses. The textual evidence of Stoic thought is
fragmentary, scant, and subject to widespread interpretative debate.
1
To name just a few: only bodies exist, but not everything that is Something
exists (Alexander, In Ar. Top. 301,19–25 (27B); Democritus’s cone split in
half yields surfaces that are unequal, and neither equal nor unequal (Plutarch,
Comm. not. 1079E (50C5); we consist of a determinate number of parts (head,
trunk, and limbs) and yet no determinate number of parts (in virtue of infinite
divisibility of their continuum physics) (Plutarch, Comm. not. 1079B–D (50C3).
Parenthetical citations like 38D refer to the chapter and order of passage in
Long and Sedley 1987, hereon LS; unless otherwise noted, translations are LS
with modifications.
Necessity, Possibility, and Determinism in Stoic Thought 71
71
The method of this chapter will be to undertake a close textual
analysis of a single piece of testimony from Diogenes Laërtius on Stoic
modality, bringing other passages to bear as needed.2
I will show that
we can find these three senses of necessary and possible in Diogenes’
report, and that the Stoics can exploit this systematic ambiguity to
embrace the air of paradox while crafting a unique compatibilism in
their ethics, making room for counterfactual truth in a predetermined
physics, and upholding bivalence amid genuinely possible futures.3
By logically necessary, I will mean what is true a priori (e.g., If it is
day, it is day).4
By metaphysically necessary I will mean what is true
a posteriori, as a function of the active principle (arche), i.e., god or
divine logos, working on the passive principle, matter (hule): a world
order according to certain metaphysical principles and natures.5
By
providentially necessary I  will still mean what is true a posteriori
as a function of the divine active principle (god), but this time god
conceived as the immanent chain of efficient causes, acting through
the natures and principles established as metaphysically necessary, to
bring about the same world order time and time again. The Stoics are
committed to an everlasting recurrence of the cosmos, punctuated by
periods of conflagration when the world turns into fire and then starts
over. Crucially, however, while the laws of nature are metaphysically
necessary, the fated (or determined) chain of causes is not. So what is
providentially necessary is not defined in terms of what will be, but
only in terms of what is or has been. A particular event only becomes
providentially necessary once it is under way or in the past; until then
2
I have chosen Diogenes Laërtius’s testimony (hereon DL) at 7.75 for its
completeness and greater detail over Boethius, In Ar. De Int. 234.27–235.3,
which only gives the first three definitions and is otherwise in general agreement
with DL.
3
I am going to operate on the hypothesis that it is legitimate to speak of the
Stoics as a whole in reference to orthodox views that unify the school. I do not
thereby deny that there was internal debate or that successive heads of school
and other individual Stoics left their mark on Stoic doctrine. Rather, I take there
to be core doctrine against which, as an agreed-upon background, there were
more fine-grained internal debates. In this case, the relevant orthodoxy is the
recognition of these three senses of necessity and possibility (Cleanthes and
Chrysippus on the Master Argument notwithstanding, cf n. 59).
4
I have avoided characterizing logical truths as analytic because I do not think
the analytic/synthetic distinction is entirely applicable; see Kneale 1937, for an
effort to apply this distinction to Stoic modality.
5
Kripke 1972.
Vanessa de Harven
72
the future remains providentially contingent – even though bivalence
for propositions about the future holds. Hence for the Stoics there are
future truths that are not necessary.6
Corresponding to these three senses of necessity, according to my
reading, what is providentially possible is what the circumstances
allow; this will include ordinary circumstances such as not being in jail
so it is possible to go to the agora, and what one might characterize as
technical circumstances, such as being in future, so it is not yet settled,
given the unwinding of the rope of fate so far.7
Metaphysically possible
is what the metaphysical principles and natures allow regardless of
the external circumstances; and logically possible is what is not self-
contradictory. So what is providentially possible is a subset of what is
metaphysically possible, which is itself a subset of the logically pos-
sible. I hope this suffices as a preliminary account of the three senses of
necessity and possibility I have in mind. I will fill in the details of this
picture in Section 2, as I argue from the textual evidence.
2. Textual Evidence
As I have alluded, at the heart of the Stoic theory of modality is a
strict commitment to bivalence, even for future contingents. Naturally,
this commitment to both future truth and contingency has often been
thought paradoxical, and the hostile commentators from whom we
get much of our scant testimony make the most of it. So we will begin
with testimony from Diogenes Laërtius, a neutral and generally re-
liable (if sometimes superficial) doxographer. I  will provide the en-
tire passage A here, then undertake a close reading of the numbered
segments.
A. (1) Further, there are those [axiomata] on the one hand that are possible
(dunata), as well as those on the other that are impossible (adunata). And
there are those on the one hand that are necessary (anankaia), and those on
the other that are not necessary (ouk anankaia). (2) Now, possible (dunaton)
is what (a) admits of being true (to epidektikon tou alethes einai), (b) not
being opposed externally (ton ektos me enantioumenon) in being true, e.g.,
“Diocles is alive.” (3) Impossible (adunaton) is that which (a) does not admit
6
As well as false futures that are not impossible; see Cicero, passage B, later.
7
For the image of the rope see Cicero, Div. 1.127 (55O), Gellius 7.2.
Necessity, Possibility, and Determinism in Stoic Thought 73
73
of being true, <or (b) what does admit of being true but is opposed by things
external to it from being true>, e.g., “Earth flies;” and (4) necessary (anan-
kaion) is (a) that which being true, does not admit of being false, or (b) what
on the one hand does admit of being false but is opposed by things external
to it from being false, e.g., “Virtue benefits;” and (5) not necessary is that
which both is true and can be false, being contradicted by nothing external,
e.g., “Dion is walking.”8
Note first, from A1, that the bearers of modal properties are strictly
speaking axiomata,9
which we can translate loosely as propositions;
they are incorporeal entities distinct from the corporeal words uttered
and world spoken about, a species of what the Stoics call lekta, or say-
ables, which also include questions, imperative, oaths, et al.10
Axiomata
are introduced by the Stoics to be the bearers of truth value, enter log-
ical relations, and ground causal analysis, as well as to be shared in
communication and to stand as the objects of our assent as rational
agents. The Stoics’ correspondence theory of truth is well attested, so
it will be uncontroversial to take the modal properties of propositions
as evidence about what is necessary and possible in the world itself.11
Note, too, that I take it as given that the Stoics’ modal notions are inter-
definable in the customary way, with necessarily contradicting possibly
not, and so on.12
I will thus move freely between speaking of what is
possible and not necessary, impossible and necessarily not.
Another interpretative question about this passage concerns the
connection between (2a) and (2b): whether they are two distinct con-
ditions for possibility, or whether (2b) merely explains (2a). Michael
Frede has argued and most have agreed that the genitive absolute not
being contradicted externally in being true should be read as giving
further conditions for possibility, rather than as an explanation of
what it means to admit of truth.13
I will also take this as given, so that
8
7.75 (38D).
9
Thus, as Bobzien 2003: 117 puts it, not a logic of modal propositions but of
non-modalized propositions insofar as they themselves are possible, necessary,
etc. Cf. Bobzien 1999: 99-102.
10
DL 7.66–7.
11
DL 7.65 (34A); for arguments to this effect see D. Frede 1990, Bobzien 1993.
12
This is largely agreed but not settled. See Paolo Crivelli’s thorough accounting
of the current state of this debate in the Complements to Mignucci 1978 in
Brunschwig 2006.
13
M. Frede 1974. NB: this debate is related to the question of interdefinability;
on the conjunctive interpretation of the genitive absolute the necessary and
Vanessa de Harven
74
the possible is what both (a) admits of truth (can be true) and (b) is not
opposed, or hindered, externally.
But what does it mean to be opposed externally, and what does
that tell us about admitting of truth? Here too there is some de-
bate, and for my purposes, an opportunity for some added clarity
on what the relevant externals are. Susanne Bobzien, embracing the
conjunctive reading, has suggested that admitting of truth is a mat-
ter of being internally consistent, i.e., not self-contradictory; the
Stoics are concerned to exclude items such as round squares.14
Thus
the relevant externals are those things external to the logical subject
of the axioma; the first part of the definition (2a) embraces Philo’s
modal definition of the possible: that which is capable of being true,
by the proposition’s own nature, i.e., intrinsically or internally as a
matter of logical consistency.15
I agree with this reading and take
what admits of truth (2a) to capture the Stoic notion of what is log-
ically possible, their widest modal notion and minimal constraint
on contingency. However, using the external opposition of (2b) as
a contrast case to understand the possibility of (2a) as internal to
the concept says nothing yet about what it means to be hindered
externally.
Bobzien and most other commentators have understood external
hindrances, quite sensibly, as circumstantial barriers to something’s
happening; “ordinary, physical hindrances: for example, a storm or
a wall or chains that prevent you from getting somewhere; the sur-
rounding ocean that prevents some wood from burning.”16
So Bobzien
defines the possible as (a) what is logically possible and (b) is not in
fact prevented by the circumstances from happening. If wood is not
(or will not be) at the bottom of the sea, then it is possible for it to
burn. If you do not spend the rest of your life in chains, it will be pos-
sible for you to go to the agora.
However, one might worry, as Margaret Reesor does, that such a
reading conflicts with the well-attested Stoic response to Diodorus
Cronus’s Master Argument, namely, their commitment to there being
the impossible are disjunctive definitions, while possible and not necessary
are conjunctive, as required for interdefinability. Cf. Mignucci 1978,
Sorabji 1980a.
14
1993: 76–77; Hankinson 1999 concurs on this point.
15
Boethius 234.10-21: possibile esse, quod natura propria enuntiationis suscipiat
veritatem, ut cum dico me hodie esse Theocriti Bucolica relecturum.
16
1999: 119; cf. also 1993: 77, and 1998: 112–16.
Necessity, Possibility, and Determinism in Stoic Thought 75
75
something possible that neither is nor will be.17
Briefly, the Master
Argument consists of three mutually inconsistent premises designed to
restrict the possible to what is or will be, i.e., to the actual. They are
that 1) Every past truth is necessary; 2) An impossible cannot follow
from a possible; and 3) There is something possible that neither is nor
will be.18
Diodorus is committed to the first two in exclusion of the
third, so that what is possible is what is actual. Although Cleanthes and
Chrysippus may disagree about whether the first or the second premise
is to be rejected, the Stoics are in any case committed to the truth of the
third. So here again we see the Stoic commitment to future truth and
contingency together. Reesor’s worry, as I understand it, is that casting
external hindrances in terms of opportunity conflicts with the Stoic
commitment to things that are in fact hindered being nonetheless pos-
sible; the conflict arises because ex hypothesi they will not take place, so
they will be hindered, and thus will not have the opportunity. Likewise,
Reesor worries that the following testimony from Cicero about a jewel
that is in fact hindered but nonetheless possible to be broken suggests
that possibility is not restricted to opportunity.
B. For he [Diodorus] says that only that is possible which either is true or
will be true; that whatever will be is necessary; and that whatever will not
be is impossible. You [Chrysippus] say that even things that will not be are
possible. For example, that this jewel be broken, even if that will never be
the case. And you say that it had not been necessary that Cypselus should
rule in Corinth, even though the oracle of Apollo had foretold it a thousand
years earlier. But if you are going to endorse these divine predictions you
will also hold things falsely said about the future to be in such a class that
they cannot happen, so that if it be said that Scipio will take Carthage, and
if that is truly said about the future and it will be thus, you must say that it
is necessary. And that is precisely Diodorus’s anti-Stoic view.19
17
Reesor 1965: 292, n. 17.
18
Epictetus, Diss. 2.19.1–5 (38A). There has been a tremendous amount of
scholarship devoted just to reconstructing the argument so that any two
premises entail the contrary of the third; see, for example, Barreau 1978,
Denyer 1981, Kneale 1937, and Prior 1955 (who argues we can find Lewis’s S4
system in Diodorus). We can bypass these issues because it is uncontroversial
that the Stoics agreed in accepting the third premise of the argument, i.e., in
holding that there is a possible that neither is nor will be. Therefore, I will also
largely bypass the details of Chrysippus’s and Cleanthes’ diverging strategies
with respect to the other two premises (cf. n. 59).
19
Fat. 13 (38E3).
Vanessa de Harven
76
Now, one might yet reply that the Stoic commitment to the third
premise of the Master Argument is compatible with the reading that
external circumstances must provide the opportunity for something to
take place if it is to be considered possible, even if it will not take place
as a matter of fact. One could maintain that as a matter of fate (and
thus fact) a certain piece of wood will not burn, but that what makes
it nonetheless possible is that it is not (or will not be) at the bottom
of the sea; and that what makes it possible that the jewel will break is
that someone has the opportunity to break it, and can thus be praised
for not doing so.20
What I would like to say at this juncture is that,
while it is true that moral responsibility requires opportunity (i.e., that
you cannot be praised for not breaking a jewel if you were nowhere
near it), this cannot be the whole story of possibility in Stoic thought.
Indeed, I think it likely that Zeno’s agreement with Philo extends be-
yond logical possibility as conceptual coherence to possibility as meta-
physical coherence, i.e., from the first part of the definition (2a) to the
second (2b). Philonian possibility is described as follows by Alexander
of Aphrodisias.
C. “That which is said in accordance with the bare fitness of the substrate
(to kata psilen legomenon ten epitedeioteta tou hupokeimenou), even when
having been prevented (kekolumenon) from coming about by some nec-
essary external factor.” Accordingly, he said that it was possible for chaff
in atomic dissolution to be burnt, and likewise chaff at the bottom of the
sea, while it was there, even though being prevented of necessity by its
surroundings.21
According to this passage it is possible for wood (or chaff) at the
bottom of the sea to burn because it is of a nature to burn, regardless
of whether circumstances prevent its burning. Wood is combustible
according to its bare fitness or suitability to burn, i.e., according to its
intrinsic nature, so it is not just logically but metaphysically coherent
to call it combustible even when surrounded by water (in a way that it
would not be to call water itself or iron combustible). Similarly, a shell
at the bottom of the sea is perceptible, even if circumstances prevent
its being perceived. To locate possibility in the bare fitness of a subject
20
As Sorabji 1980a: 272 insists, and LS: 235 agree.
21
Alexander, In Ar. An. Pr. 184.7–9 (38B2); cf. Sharples 1983.
Necessity, Possibility, and Determinism in Stoic Thought 77
77
is thus to move away from possibility as opportunity and toward pos-
sibility as intrinsic capacity, placing it in the nature inherent to the en-
tity. The issue of how far the Stoics agree with Philo is fraught because
of conflicting evidence that points both ways.22
My suggestion is that
the Stoics agree with Philo in locating possibility in something’s bare
fitness, or intrinsic nature; but disagree with Philo insofar as they also
recognize possibility as opportunity. This would explain testimony in
both directions, and solve what Bobzien calls the Philonian Paradox,
that possibility defined in terms of bare fitness leaves no reasonable
room for responsibility.23
Reesor has argued persuasively that possibility for the Stoics is
“found in the principal cause (e.g., breakable), which was a quality
inseparable from its substratum (e.g., gem) and the cause of a predi-
cate (e.g., is broken) which may or may not be realized; and a possible
event is one in which the predicate is derived from the principal cause
but which may or may not be realized (e.g., The gem is broken).”24
The principal cause is what I have been calling the intrinsic capacity,
or nature inherent to the entity. A gem is of a nature to be broken,
whether it is broken or not, so that opportunity is not the salient issue
but rather what things are true in virtue of (what predicates can be
derived from) the principal cause or nature of the entity, i.e., what it
can do given the kind of thing that it is.25
Another well-known ex-
ample of a principal (alternatively, perfect or complete) cause is the
shape of a cylinder.26
Although an external (alternatively, initiating
or auxiliary) cause may be required to set a cylinder in motion, say,
22
Both in the ancient evidence: Plut., St. Rep. 1055E (for), Boethius 234
(against); and in contemporary commentators: Bochenski 1951: 87, Mates
1953: 41, Rist 1969: 115 (for); Bobzien 1993: 75–76, Kneale 1962: 122–123,
Salles 2005: 82-89, Sorabji 1980a: 271 (against).
23
1993: 75.
24
1965: 296; see also Reesor 1978 and Stough 1978 in the same spirit.
25
I prefer not to speak in terms of predicates (kategoremata), which represent
an interpretative challenge of their own that we can put aside without damage
to the present thesis. Predicates are considered incomplete lekta (sayables)
and they figure prominently in the Stoic account of causation, in the role of
effects. D. Frede 1990 argues that lekta are the laws of nature themselves;
and Reesor in effect makes the same point; cf. also Striker 1987. I agree that
the Stoic theory of modality is concerned to underwrite counterfactual truths
about nature, but I disagree that the lekta are the laws themselves, or that lekta
should be cast as events, facts, or states of affairs in any case.
26
e.g., Cicero, Fat. 42 (62C5).
Vanessa de Harven
78
someone pushing it, the responsibility and complete explanation for
that motion lie in the shape of the cylinder. Crucially, this intrinsic ca-
pacity is where the Stoics locate moral responsibility – someone may
have pushed the cylinder, but it rolls because of its shape; analogously,
a thief may be pushed to steal by seeing a jewel, but a thief steals be-
cause of character.
Reesor argues also that the Stoics recognized two distinct senses of
fate: that of the internal, principal cause (the nature with which you
are born and its habituated states developed in reaction to the envi-
ronment, i.e., the nurture it receives), and that of the series of external,
initiating causes, i.e., the sequence of events to which principal causes
react. The unwinding of the rope of fate is thus the interaction of ex-
ternal causes with internal natures.27
So, for Reesor, a possible event
is a predicate derivable from the principal cause, which may or may
not be realized due to external circumstances. Or, as I would prefer to
put it, what is possible is what something’s nature (in the first sense
of fate) allows, independent of what in fact goes on once fate in the
second sense, as the chain of external causes, is in motion. Thus a piece
of wood at the bottom of the sea is combustible because the predicate
is burnt resides in the principal cause (i.e., it is of a nature to burn),
even if external causes prevent that predicate from becoming true of it.
By locating possibility in the principal cause, internally, Reesor rightly
separates possibility from opportunity.
R. J. Hankinson also recognizes something like this in the Stoics, with
two distinct types of modality he calls species possibility and actual pos-
sibility. Species possibility corresponds to what is “possibly applicable
to an individual of natural kind K just in case K’s can, other things being
equal, be P’s;”while actual possibility is defined by what actually obtain-
ing circumstances do not prevent; he adds, “if this is right, it is false to
say that the only type of possibility available to the Stoics is epistemic.”28
My purpose in limning this debate in the literature over possibility as
27
The image of the rope unwinding is not entirely felicitous since the idea is
more like the winding of a rope with internal and external causes coming
together to intertwine; perhaps we might now prefer the image of a zipper.
28
1999: 528. Given more space, I would have liked to engage with these and
other scholars whose analyses are in the neighborhood, so to speak; e.g., D.
Frede 2003 as an alternative to equating laws with lekta; the Kneales 1962
on absolute vs. relative necessity; Kneale 1937 for logical vs. metaphysical vs.
empirical facts; LS as an alternative or addition to possible for vs. possible
that; Rist 1969: 122, 132 for the role of natures in the Stoic retreat from
Necessity, Possibility, and Determinism in Stoic Thought 79
79
opportunity as opposed to intrinsic capacity is to show that intuitions
on both sides are not only correct but in fact complementary once we
see that the Stoics recognized both: what I am calling metaphysical pos-
sibility, located in the intrinsic nature of each thing, and providential
possibility, located in the chain of external causes.
With our central passage from Diogenes in mind, then, and in par-
ticular the interpretative question of what it means to be hindered ex-
ternally to the concept, let us turn now to testimony from the late Stoic
Epictetus. The following passage gives further reason to think that the
Stoics employed a notion of metaphysical possibility, and in particular
that they thought of external hindrances this way.
D. Fittingly enough, the one thing the gods have placed in our power (eph’
hemin epoiesan) is the one of supreme importance, the correct use of impres-
sions. The other things they have not placed in our power. Is this because
they didn’t want to? My belief is that they would have entrusted them to us
too, had they been able to, but that they simply weren’t able. For we are on
the Earth, bound by an Earthly body and Earthly partners. How then could
we have failed to be hampered (empodizesthai) by externals with regard
to these things? What does Zeus say? “Epictetus, if it had been possible,
I would have made your wretched body and trappings free and unhindered.
But as it is, please note, this body is not your own, but a subtle mixture of
clay.”29
Here I take Epictetus to be expressing a sense of being hampered
by externals that means being hampered by those things external to
the mind that makes use of impressions, i.e., those things external to
what is conceivable, or logically possible. In particular, we find that
God is constrained by the matter he has to work with; being on Earth,
bound by earthly partners is to be bound by the properties of mat-
ter. Crucially, even God is subject to these constraints in crafting the
cosmos: if it had been possible, I would have made your wretched
body free and unhindered. Otherwise, the sphere of possibility would
be constrained only by logical consistency; as it is, however, God is
constrained by matter and so what is cosmically, or metaphysically,
possible is narrower than what is logically possible.
necessity; Sorabji 1980a for his rejection of empirical vs. logical; and Stough
1978 for the room she finds in cannot for moral responsibility.
29
Diss. 1.1.7–11 (62K, part).
Vanessa de Harven
80
Thus, what is metaphysically possible is what is logically possible
and not hindered externally to the concept by God’s decisions within
the given material constraints; and to define it this way, as what is not
hindered, is of course to work around the external hindrances that
there are. What is possible is what is left over after what is necessary
(and thus impossible) has been established. According to this picture,
then, God cannot make just any possible world – only those that can
be crafted out of the matter he is given. Moreover, God does not make
just any of those possible worlds, but rather the best one.30
God takes
the matter, and crafts the best world he can; in so doing he establishes
what is metaphysically necessary and possible. My next suggestion is
that in addition to the various natures he creates within the constraints
of matter, God establishes certain metaphysically necessary principles,
most crucially the principle of bivalence and its correlate that there is
no motion without a cause.31
Dorothea Frede has argued that the Stoics treated bivalence (fu-
ture truth) not only as a consequence of Stoic fatalism (if everything
is predetermined, then there must be future truths), but also as an
argument for it.32
If bivalence does not hold, the causal order of the
cosmos is threatened: anything could happen at any time (as indeed
the Epicureans held in introducing the swerve of an atom), contrary to
Stoic determinism. Frede writes:
This coherence and stability can be maintained only if there is an eternal un-
interrupted causal series. But not only that: there must be a fixed order within
the causal series, and that can be guaranteed only if the same cause is always
followed by the same effect. Take for example the rule: “When someone puts
a burning match to a dry haystack, the haystack will burn.”To guarantee the
stability of the physical order the Stoics had to assume that there are such
eternally valid causal principles that obtain even if nothing actually corres-
ponds to the hypothetical state of affairs at a particular moment.
Thus to question future truth, i.e., to consider suspending bivalence, is
to question the very laws of nature; future truth is a necessary condi-
tion for causality.
30
This claim is not to be confused with a teleological account of nature; it is
rather a story of providential creation; cf. Hankinson 1999: 539 for agreement
on “limitations on creative possibility supplied by material recalcitrance.”
31
Cicero, Fat. 20–21 (62G), Alexander, Fat. 185,7–11 (62H),
191,30–192,28 (55N).
32
1990: 210; cf. Hankinson 1999: 519–520.
Necessity, Possibility, and Determinism in Stoic Thought 81
81
For all that, however, it is perfectly conceivable, i.e., logically pos-
sible, that bivalence does not hold and that the world is not deter-
mined – the Stoics were only too aware of this fact, surrounded as they
were by lively criticism and debate over fatalism and future truth in a
competitive intellectual era. Thus we would not want to say that the
principles and natures that God creates hold a priori as logically nec-
essary. Rather, the necessity of metaphysical principles is a posteriori,
according to the decisions God makes in crafting the cosmos within
the constraints of matter. So, what is metaphysically possible is what is
unhindered external to the concept, i.e., unhindered by the metaphysi-
cal principles and natures that God establishes. It is metaphysically
possible for wood on the ocean floor to burn even if it will always be
surrounded by water, because it remains combustible by nature.
We can also discern this gap between what is logically and meta-
physically possible from the Stoic defense of infinite, extracosmic void.
One of the many criticisms of the Stoic notion of void is that they
cannot simultaneously say that the cosmos is at the center of void
and yet claim that the void is isotropic. The Stoic response is that the
cosmos is not in fact at the center of independently subsisting void,
so they are not committed to an identifiable center of something infi-
nite and isotropic.33
Nonetheless, they can speak as though there were
such a middle, and even consider the possibility of a cosmos not at
the center of void. Hence Plutarch quotes Chrysippus as saying that
“if it [the cosmos] should be imagined elsewhere [than in the middle],
destruction would almost certainly be attached to it”; and that “it has
also in some such way been an accident of substance (ousia sunte-
teuchen), from the very fact that it is the kind of thing it is, to have
occupied everlastingly the middle place, so that otherwise but also ac-
cidentally it does not admit of destruction.”34
In imagining the cosmos
elsewhere, in a void that is in fact self-subsistent, Chrysippus evinces
a recognition that what is logically possible is distinct from what is
metaphysically possible. It is also clear that substance (ousia), which
for the Stoics picks out the material substrate, is what accounts for
that distinction.35
Thus what is metaphysically possible is distinct from
what is logically possible, as a function of God’s decisions within the
33
As I argue in de Harven 2015.
34
Plut., St. Rep. 1054C–D, trns. Cherniss; see also 1055D.
35
That ousia refers to the material substrate is largely agreed, e.g., by LS, Sorabji
1988, and Sedley 1982; pace Menn 1999.
Vanessa de Harven
82
constraints of matter, establishing the principles, natures, and causes
of the one and only cosmos.
What is metaphysically possible is also distinct from what is prov-
identially possible, which captures the notion of possibility as oppor-
tunity that commentators have favored. In this sphere, as in the last,
there are things that remain possible even though they are not and
will not be – herein lies moral responsibility. It is true enough that
one cannot be held responsible for actions one did not have the op-
portunity to commit: a thief who never steals again because locked
up is not thereby reformed and cannot be given credit for not stealing
anymore. Only if the opportunity to steal is presented and passed up
can there be credit for not stealing. What is providentially possible is
therefore what your circumstances allow, including the absence of or-
dinary hindrances such as being locked up and what one might think
of as technical hindrances such as being too late, i.e., in the past. What
is possible is thus what is not yet settled, what is possible prior to the
external, initiating causes that set the principal cause in motion. It is
thus providentially possible for the thief who is not locked up and has
the opportunity to steal not to steal, even if as a matter of fact he will.
On this basis even what is fated is not necessitated, and the Stoics
can coherently stand by the third premise of the Master Argument,
that there is a possible that neither is nor will be (at both the meta-
physical and providential levels). Now, it is true that from the cosmic
perspective what is providentially possible must in some sense be con-
sidered necessary, since it is impossible that the world order turn out
otherwise.36
However, this cosmic perspective notwithstanding, there
is an important difference between what is providentially possible and
necessary: namely, that what is providentially possible is not yet settled
insofar as the relevant initiating causes that will set the principal cause
in motion are not yet present to it; the rope has not yet unwound that
far. Thus it is providentially possible that Socrates will escape from
jail, until he drinks the hemlock – only then does his death become
necessary (more on this below, with the Stoic account of necessity).37
In summary, I submit that Diogenes’ definition of Stoic possibility
in passage A should be understood as what admits of truth (logical
36
Cf. the Stoics’ “bifocals” in Long 1971, also Rist 1969.
37
I take this to address Sorabji’s concerns about responsibility amid necessity,
since I deny that the chain of fate is necessary except once an event is past.
Necessity, Possibility, and Determinism in Stoic Thought 83
83
possibility) and is not hindered externally to the concept, either as a
matter of metaphysics (metaphysical possibility) or as a matter of ex-
ternal circumstances (providential possibility). The example Diogenes
provides, Diocles is alive, does not settle matters in one direction or
the other. This proposition could be considered possible either as
a matter of metaphysics – Dion is of an animate nature – or as a
matter of providence: Dion is not dead (he either is or will be alive).
Boethius’s example is similarly neutral, and thus capable of illustrating
both senses: that I will reread Theocritus’ Bucolica today. Our testi-
mony is extremely compressed; although we cannot be certain, it is at
least possible that these examples were carefully chosen to illustrate
both kinds of possibility external to the concept that I describe.
I turn next to Diogenes’ definition of the impossible (A3): that
which (a) does not admit of being true, <or (b) what does admit of
being true but is opposed by things external to it from being true>,
e.g., Earth flies. Accepting Michael Frede’s emendation (in brackets),
this disjunctive definition is the contradictory of what is possible.38
It
is (3a) what is logically impossible, e.g., It is day and Not: it is day; or
(3b) what is logically possible (i.e., internally consistent), but opposed
externally. Again, we ask what it means to be opposed externally. Here
the example, Earth flies, is of help, although intuitions do diverge.
Bobzien takes the example to illustrate the first part of the definition,
(2a), a logical impossibility.39
But the reason the Earth cannot fly (as
far as the Stoics are concerned) is that the Earth does not have wings.40
So I would argue that the reason Earth flies is impossible is that as a
matter of metaphysical fact the Earth does not have wings and so can-
not fly. It is at least conceivable that the Earth have wings, so it does
not seem like a logical impossibility that is being illustrated.41
Further,
it is clear that the relevant hindrance to Earth’s flying is no external
circumstance since there are no such circumstances for God, who is
identical with everything there is.42
So the relevant impossibility must
38
With LS and Mignucci 1978, contra Inwood & Gerson 1988; cf. earlier
remarks in n. 13 concerning the conjunctive reading of possibility.
39
1999: 118.
40
SE, PH 2.104–106 (35C3), M. 8.113.
41
And to reply that it is logically impossible in the context of this wingless Earth
that it fly, would be to concede the point that it is not true as a matter of logic
that Earth does not fly.
42
Plut., St. Rep. 1050C–D (54T).
Vanessa de Harven
84
be metaphysical, and knowable only a posteriori, having established
that as a matter of fact the Earth has no wings.
Now to Diogenes’ definition of Stoic necessity, passage A4: (a) that
which, being true, does not admit of being false, or (b) what, on the
one hand, does admit of being false but is opposed by things external
to it from being false, e.g., “Virtue benefits.” It should be familiar by
now that the first part of the definition (4a) corresponds to what is
logically necessary, i.e., impossible not; and that the second part (4b)
corresponds to what is metaphysically necessary. Here too scholars
have thought that the example Virtue benefits illustrates a logical ne-
cessity for, as the Kneales put it,“a Stoic could scarcely have conceived
that in certain circumstances ‘Virtue is beneficial’ might be false.”43
Here again I would argue that while the Stoics are certainly commit-
ted to the necessity of this proposition, they would not have seen it
as logically necessary. Following in the footsteps of Socrates, they
would have been all too aware that few take this position to be true,
let alone logically true, and concerned to argue for the necessity of
this principle naturalistically. Indeed, it is uncharitable to think the
Stoics would conflate their metaphysical principles with logical truths.
Rather, Virtue benefits is necessarily true because our natures are such
that virtue cannot fail to be good for us (the predicate is derived from
the principal cause, as Reesor would put it); and it is not logically true
since, as Glaucon so well illustrates in Plato’s Republic, it is certainly
conceivable that humans are pleonectic in nature so that justice is only
instrumentally good, and never beneficial in itself.
The necessity of Stoic metaphysical principles and natures is con-
firmed by ample textual evidence. For instance, Alexander testifies
that for the Stoics “what each does is in accordance with its proper
nature.... Hence, they say, none of the things each of them does in
accordance with its proper nature can be otherwise: everything they
do is done of necessity.... For the stone, if released from a height, and
not prevented, cannot fail to travel downwards.”44
Note here the idea
that natures are as they are as a matter of necessity (as a function of
its nature, the stone necessarily falls when unhindered by external cir-
cumstances), and that this corresponds to Reesor’s first sense of fate
43
1962: 123; cf. Reesor 1978, Gourinat 2000: 206.
44
Fat., 181,18–27 (62G2–4); cf. Long 1970 for a detailed exegesis of
Alexander’s Fat.
Necessity, Possibility, and Determinism in Stoic Thought 85
85
as principal cause (and to the Philonian bare fitness extended to the
second part of Stoic possibility).45
Alexander then adds: “the very fate,
nature and rationale in accordance with which the all is governed is
god. It is present in all things that exist and happen, and in this way
uses the proper nature of all existing things for the government of the
all.”46
Having crafted the principles and natures that constitute fate in
the first sense, God then relies on the necessity of their natures (uses
the proper nature of all existing things) in unwinding the rope of fate
by the chain of initiating causes.
The necessity of these natures is further emphasized when the
Epicurean Philodemus tells us that for the Stoics the inference “Since
the humans familiar to us are mortal in that and in so far as they are
human, humans everywhere are mortal too” is correct (orthos).47
The
reason the inference is correct is that the conditional “If something
is human, then it is mortal” is sound; i.e., it meets the Stoic crite-
rion of implication called cohesion, which says that “a conditional is
sound whenever the contradictory of its consequent conflicts with its
antecedent.”48
Stoic implication is stronger than Philonian, which is
merely truth-functional, and stronger again than Diodorian implica-
tion, which states that a conditional is sound when it is impossible for
there to be a true antecedent and false consequent. But the criterion of
Stoic implication is unclear to the extent that the nature of the conflict
between affirmed antecedent and negated consequent is unclear.
It has been suggested by S. Sambursky and by M. Frede that we
understand the conflict as logical, in contrast to empirical.49
Perhaps
retreating from the force of logical necessity, Long and Sedley suggest
that the relevant sense of conflict is a conceptual rather than empir-
ical incompatibility, such that “when the consequent is hypothetically
eliminated the antecedent is thereby be ‘co-eliminated’ – a formula-
tion which appears to outlaw any considerations which cannot be
extracted from our understanding of the antecedent and consequent
themselves.”50
I  agree that the consequent and antecedent will be
coeliminated, but would like to give a finer point to the discussion,
45
Cf. Stough 1978: 223 about the necessity of acting according to our natures.
46
192,25–28 (55N4).
47
Sign., fr. 6 (42G4).
48
SE, PH 2.111 (35B4); NB: sound for the Stoics, here, is captured by our true.
49
1959 and 1974, respectively; see also Sorabji 1980a: 267 on this.
50
LS: 211.
Vanessa de Harven
86
because to say that the relevant necessity behind cohesion is concep-
tual rather than empirical elides the difference between logical and
metaphysical necessity.
The example Sextus gives of a sound conditional according to the
criterion of cohesion is If it is day, it is day, which is logically necessary
and thus clearly knowable a priori. Certainly, analytic truths make
for sound conditionals and that is why Sextus cites it as an example;
but it is clear the Stoics do not want to restrict their inferences to log-
ical or analytic truths. They are with Diodorus in aiming “to convert
the sound conditional into the kind of necessary truth which might
ground scientific or dialectical inferences.”51
Recognizing this, Long
and Sedley say it is our understanding of the antecedent and conse-
quent themselves that makes the connection conceptual rather than
empirical. Here I interject to suggest that the connection between ante-
cedent and consequent is better thought of as metaphysical: necessary
but a posteriori, and therefore already empirical, not logical. At the
same time one would not want to deny that there is a certain concep-
tual connection between antecedent and consequent in a sound con-
ditional. What Earth is makes it metaphysically necessary that Earth
does not fly, and our concepts are correspondingly related: the concept
of Earth does not admit flying. Likewise, human nature makes it neces-
sary that virtue is to our benefit, and this is reflected in our concepts so
that it is scarcely conceivable that matters be otherwise; nevertheless,
no formal contradiction emerges from the supposition.52
In case doubts remain that these necessary truths are a posteriori
and conceivably otherwise, I offer this additional evidence that shows
even such correlative concepts as good and evil, justice and injustice,
pain and pleasure, virtue and vice, and even true and false are a pos-
teriori in the way I have been describing, as a function of material
constraints and God’s decisions for the best.
E. In his judgment it was not nature’s principal intention to make people li-
able to disease: that would not have been fitting for nature, the creator and
mother of all good things. But, he [Chrysippus] adds, while she was bring-
ing about many great works and perfecting their fitness and utility, many
51
LS: 210.
52
Cf. Kneale 1937, for whom what is metaphysically necessary is that whose
consequent is inconceivable but not self-contradictory.
Necessity, Possibility, and Determinism in Stoic Thought 87
87
disadvantageous things accrued as inseparable from her actual products.
These, he says, were created in accordance with nature, but through certain
necessary “concomitances” (which he calls kata parakolouthesin). Just as,
he says, when nature was creating people’s bodies, it was required for the
enhancement of our rationality and for the very utility of the product that
she should construct the head of very thin and tiny portions of bone, but this
utility in the principal enterprise has as a further, extraneous consequence
the inconvenience that the head became thinly protected and fragile to small
blows and knocks – so too, illnesses and diseases were created while health
was being created.53
It is clear that the necessity of illness alongside health is not a logical
necessity, since nature would have preferred to do otherwise, and thus
can at least conceive of health without illness. It is also clear that the
concomitances result from material constraints, and that the relevant
necessity in play is material necessity. Even such correlative concepts
as good and evil, health and illness, virtue and vice are connected con-
ceptually only because they are connected metaphysically, as a func-
tion of matter; and such necessity is entirely a posteriori.
Thus I suggest that what underwrites the Stoic criterion of cohe-
sion is not logical but metaphysical necessity; and although it is incon-
ceivable that necessary truths fail to hold, it is perfectly conceivable
that what is metaphysically necessary be otherwise. This is why the
Mowing Argument is invalid: 1) if you will mow, you will mow; and, if
you will not mow, you will not mow; 2) but necessarily, either you will
mow or you will not mow; 3) therefore, if you will mow, you will mow
necessarily; and, if you will not mow, it is impossible that you mow;
the contingent is eliminated.54
The principle of bivalence expressed in
premise 2 is itself metaphysically necessary, but the proposition that
must now be true or false according that principle, as expressed in
premise 3, is not itself necessary or impossible; it is merely predeter-
mined, as expressed in premise 1.
We can now see why the Stoics retain the Philonian conditional (ma-
terial implication), which they express as a negated conjunction, Not
both: p and not-q. Philonian implication expresses what is true as a
matter of fate, i.e., what is determined (and thus subject to divination)
53
Gellius 7.1.1–13 (54Q); examples cited in introducing the text occur earlier in
the passage, not quoted here, but are subject to the same account.
54
Ammonius, In Ar. De Int. 131, 20–32 (28G).
Vanessa de Harven
88
but not, for all that, necessary. As Long and Sedley observe, a negated
conjunction asserts no direct logical connection between p and q, and
“since laws of divination assert empirical rather than logical connec-
tions between past and future truths, the negated conjunction is indeed
the appropriate means of formulating them.”55
Here again I interject
to suggest we say instead that the laws of divination assert providen-
tial rather than metaphysical connections – what is determined rather
than necessitated. This is why the Stoics can maintain that what is
determined not to be is nonetheless possible: no necessity attaches to
the future truth, which is reflected in the use of the conjunction to ex-
press future truths (while the conditional is reserved for metaphysical
and logical truths that do hold of necessity). Future truths are provi-
dentially possible, not necessary. Thus the Stoics avoid the charge that
appeared above in passage B (Cicero’s testimony with the jewel), that
bivalence commits them to false futures as impossible, and true futures
as necessary.56
This leaves open the question, what is providential necessity? One
might still worry, as I did above, that the entire world order is provi-
dentially necessary, since it cannot turn out otherwise. But providen-
tial necessity is not just the ineluctable hand of fate. Rather, it cor-
responds to what is already settled, how far the rope has unwound.
Alexander again:
F. Whenever the external causes that encourage the stone’s natural motion
are also present, the stone of necessity moves with its natural motion. And
these causes of its moving are, at the time, unconditionally and necessarily
present. Not only is it incapable of not moving when they are present, but it
also moves of necessity at that time, and such a movement is brought about
by fate through the stone.57
This passage expresses two levels of necessity: the metaphysical ne-
cessity that the stone act according to its nature upon encountering the
relevant external causes (that the stone will fall if dropped), and the
providential necessity of the moving causes once they are present or
actual (the providential necessity of the stone’s falling when dropped).
55
236.
56
Cf. Bobzien 1993: 82 for a denial that future truths are contingent, Reesor
1978 and Rist 1969 for an endorsement.
57
181, 28–30 (62G4, part).
Necessity, Possibility, and Determinism in Stoic Thought 89
89
Hence, the stone is counterfactually incapable of not falling when
dropped (as a result of the metaphysical necessity of its nature), and
actually incapable of not moving once it is in fact dropped (because of
the providential necessity of what is current or past). Once the stone
is dropped, it is providentially necessary, i.e., settled, that it falls. Until
then it is merely possible, albeit predetermined. Hankinson says some-
thing similar: “Consider an example of Aristotle’s: a new cloak might
perish as a result of ordinary wear, or it might be cut. For the Stoics,
sub specie aeternitatis there is only one thing that can happen to it –
the unraveling of fate will see to that. However, there is nothing now in
the world that prevents either outcome, for no causally efficient state
of affairs is now making it the case that it will (or will not) be cut.”58
What is providentially necessary is what a causally efficient state of
affairs makes to be the case, what is happening now and what has
been.59
Finally, I turn to Diogenes’ definition of what is not necessary: that
which both is true and can be false, being opposed by nothing external,
e.g., Dion is walking. Here again the central interpretative question
concerns what it means to be opposed externally. As with the case of
Diocles is alive to illustrate possibility I suggest that we hear the ex-
ample as illustrating what is not necessary either as a matter of meta-
physics or as a matter of providence. Dion’s nature does not dictate
that he be walking all the time (the way, say, fish nature might dictate
that Nemo be swimming all the time); nor do his life circumstances
dictate that he walk all the time. Note that even if Dion’s fate were to
58
1999: 528.
59
Thus it is clear how Chrysippus can affirm the first premise of the Master
Argument, that all past truths are necessary. Although Cleanthes denies this
premise, we need not take this as a deep divide in Stoic modal theory (as do,
e.g., Rist 1969: 118, 1978: 197, Barreau 1976: 30–40). Cleanthes could deny
that past truths are necessary in the sense that they remain contingent events,
not metaphysically necessary. It would then be open for him to embrace past
events as providentially necessary, along with Chrysippus, while denying they
are metaphysically necessary in a way that meets the dialectical requirements
of the Master Argument. Alternatively, Cleanthes could deny providential
necessity altogether, holding that fate is always determined but never necessary,
so even past events do not become necessary; he could argue from everlasting
recurrence that past contingents are future contingents, and thus never
necessary. Both of these, however, constitute a legitimate retreat from necessity,
obviating the need to see possibility as merely epistemic, on which see Long
1971: 189, Reesor 1978: 194–197, Sorabji 1980a: 276–278.
Vanessa de Harven
90
spend his whole life walking, it would not thereby be providentially
necessary that he walk. This is the point of making the distinction
between what is providentially possible and necessary: namely, to pre-
serve contingency even for future truths. Thus even if as a matter of
fate Dion is walking were always true (while he lives), it will not be a
future truth expressible by a sound conditional (since that is reserved
for logical and metaphysical truths) but by the negated conjunction:
Not: Dion lives and Not: Dion walks. What is not necessary is thus
the sphere of things that can be otherwise, as a matter of either meta-
physics or providence.
3. Conclusion
In conclusion, if I am right that the Stoics recognized these three senses
of necessity and possibility, the Stoic retreat from necessity is accom-
plished across logic, physics, and ethics. In the domain of logic, we see
that the Stoic response to the Master Argument is underwritten by the
fact that providential necessity applies only to present and past truths,
so future truth and contingency are compatible. Also, that we have
reason to see metaphysical necessity as the principle of cohesion. In
physics we see that metaphysical necessity underwrites the counterfac-
tual truths that guarantee the stability of the cosmos. And in ethics, the
sphere of responsibility is secured by what is providentially possible.
Thus the Stoics embrace the apparent paradox of future truth and
contingency without falling into contradiction.
91
91
5 Necessity in Avicenna and the
Arabic Tradition
Paul Thom
1. Introduction
The expression ‘Arabic logic’ is used by scholars to cover a tradition
of writing over a period stretching from the eighth century to the pre-
sent day. The treatises and handbooks that belong to this tradition
were written in various languages, including Arabic, Persian, Turkish,
Hebrew, and Urdu. The central figures are Alfarabi (d. 950), Avicenna
(d. 1037) and Averroes (d. 1198) (Street 2013a, introduction). Because
of limitations of space, this chapter will omit Alfarabi, discussing only
Avicenna and some of the more significant thinkers (including Averroes)
whose work is based on, or reacts against, the latter’s logical theories.
2. Avicenna
Avicenna uses the term ‘necessary’ to mark out (a) a class of beings,
and (b) a class of propositions. His doctrine of the unique Necessary
Being from which all contingent beings are derived is well known.
Contingent beings are described as ‘possible’; but ‘possible’ here means
two-sided possibility. A contingent being is one that can either exist or
not exist. Whether it exists depends on a cause external to it. A neces-
sary existent is one that cannot not exist, because its existence does not
depend on anything external:
TEXT 1. And so we say that the things that fall under ‘being’ can be divided
by the intellect into two groups. One of these comprises things which, when
considered by themselves, do not possess necessary being; and it’s clear
also that their being is not impossible, otherwise they would not fall under
‘being’, and these are contained in the term ‘possibility’. The other comprises
I want to extend my warm thanks to Tony Street and Riccardo Strobino for
giving me the opportunity to present an earlier version of this paper to the senior
research seminar in the Faculty of Divinity, The University of Cambridge, and for
their insightful and helpful comments.
Paul Thom
92
those which when considered by themselves possess necessary being. And so
we say that a being which is necessary by itself does not have a cause, and
that what is possible by itself has a cause. (Avicenna 1977, I, 6, 8 ff)
What is the connection between the usage of ‘necessary’ as a predi-
cate of beings and its usage as a predicate of propositions? There is
some evidence that, in Avicenna’s view, the first usage is a particular
case of the second – that to say a being is necessary is to say that
the proposition expressing the being’s existence is a necessary propo-
sition. Avicenna’s standard example of a proposition which is abso-
lutely necessary is a proposition about the Necessary Being, namely,
the proposition ‘God exists’ (Street 2004, 551).
This, however, does not imply that Avicenna’s exposition of the
sense in which the Necessary Being is necessary can be applied to the
necessity of necessary propositions. The Necessary Being is necessary
in the sense that it does not depend on anything other than itself for
its being. But this is not the sense in which a necessary proposition is
necessary. There does not seem to be any textual evidence for thinking
that when Avicenna ascribes necessity to a proposition he means that
it does not depend on any other proposition. Such a conception might
be applied to indemonstrable propositions; but the concept of neces-
sity, as applied to propositions, is much broader than that of inde-
monstrability. So it seems that, for Avicenna, even though propositions
expressing the existence of the Necessary Being are themselves neces-
sary propositions, the necessity ascribed to it is more specific than the
necessity ascribed to them.
Avicenna knows that the generic necessity which is ascribed to
all necessary propositions can be defined as the impossibility of the
contradictory proposition; and he also knows that such a definition is
circular (Avicenna 1977, I, 5, 65ff).
According to Avicenna, a necessity-proposition may be either pre-
dicative or hypothetical. Both types of proposition contain temporal
operators.A predicative proposition affirms or denies that its predicate
applies to its subject in some temporally qualified way: either always,
or at some specified or unspecified time (Street 2002, 132). Similarly,
according to him, ‘if-then’ propositions take forms such as:
Always: if every A is B then every J is D
Never: if every A is B then not every J is D
Once: if every A is B then not every J is D
Necessity in Avicenna and the Arabic Tradition 93
93
Khaled El-Rouayheb comments:
The prefixing of modal operators to conditionals may strike scholars famil-
iar with the Latin logical tradition as odd. It is in fact distinctive of the
Avicennian tradition of Arabic logic. Avicenna explicitly drew an analogy
between these modal operators prefixed to conditional propositions and the
quantifiers in categorical propositions. (El-Rouayheb 2009, 210)
However, Avicenna’s discussion of propositional necessity is mainly
concerned with predicative propositions:
Avicenna does not discuss modal conditional propositions except very
sketchily .... What we describe as necessary, possible ... etc. is the judge-
ment that a certain consequent follows from a certain antecedent. Saying
this he goes on to explain what is meant by the modal notion ‘necessity’.
A universal connective, according to him, is necessary if the consequent fol-
lows (in any of the senses of following) the antecedent every time we posit
the antecedent and so long as the antecedent remained posited. (Shehaby
1973, 253)
Avicenna was familiar with Aristotle’s definition of the syllogism, and
thus with the notion that the conclusion of a syllogism follows with
necessity from the premises. But he does not seem to have devoted
much thought to a specific consideration of this type of necessity.
In some of his works Avicenna seems to tie the concept of necessity to
that of perpetuity. For example, in the logic section of his Deliverance
(Najat) he portrays the idea of perpetuity as the central element in
the concept of necessity: every necessary proposition ‘has some share
in perpetuity’. In his logical writings Avicenna shows little interest in
the concept of absolute necessity. As mentioned earlier, his standard
example of an absolutely necessary proposition concerns the Necessary
Being.The concept that interests him is the concept of relative necessity.
For beings other than the Necessary Being, all necessities are relative.
Avicenna distinguishes different types of relativity. In his classification
of six types of necessity-proposition he notes that (i) the proposition
‘God is living’ is true in perpetuity because God exists eternally. (ii)
The proposition ‘Every man is by necessity an animal’ is true in the
sense that its predicate applies to its subject at all times when there are
men; but since men do not exist eternally, this proposition expresses a
perpetuity only in a qualified sense. (iii) The proposition ‘By necessity
every white thing has a colour which dilates sight’ is true ‘as long as
Paul Thom
94
the substance of the subject is described by a description that is posited
along with this substance’. (iv) ‘Zayd is walking’ is necessary ‘as long as
the predication exists’; i.e. Zayd is by necessity walking for as long as
he is walking. (v) The proposition‘The moon eclipses’‘is not a necessity
that persists perpetually, but for some exact and specified time’. (vi) The
proposition ‘By necessity every man breathes’ holds ‘for some unspeci-
fied span of time’ (Avicenna 2011, §48.ii–vii).
Avicenna distinguishes a proposition’s matter (mawadd) from its
mode (jihat). The matter is the objective relationship of necessity, pos-
sibility or impossibility linking the proposition’s predicate and subject;
the mode is what is expressed in the proposition regarding that rela-
tionship. In identifying a proposition’s matter we speak of a necessary
proposition, and so on for the other sorts of matter; in identifying its
mode we speak of a necessity-proposition, and so on. His six types of
necessity-propositions also happen to be necessary in matter (given the
appropriate relativities). But Avicenna knows that a proposition’s mat-
ter may not be the same as its mode. For example, in the proposition
‘It is possible for Zayd to be an animal’ the matter is necessary but the
mode is one of possibility (Avicenna 2011, §41 and 45).
Among the types of necessity-proposition Avicenna gives priority to
type (ii):
TEXT 2. Our statement, ‘Every B is A by Necessity’ means ‘Everything that
is described in the intellect as B – whether [it is so described] perpetually or
non-perpetually – is perpetually described as A, as long as its individual sub-
stance exists’. [An example is] your statement, ‘By Necessity, every mover is
a body’. (Avicenna 2011, §53)
In addition to the reduction of necessity to perpetuity, two points
stand out in this treatment. First, propositions of type (ii) are treated
as propositions about every individual falling under the subject:
TEXT 3. ‘Every man is by necessity an animal’, i.e. each one among humans
is always an animal as long as his substance exists. (Avicenna 2011, §48.iii)
Second, these propositions are understood as making a predication
about their subject relative to the continued existence of the substance
underlying that subject.
Both these points are also evident in the parallel passage from
Avicenna’s magnum opus, The Cure (Shıfa):
Necessity in Avicenna and the Arabic Tradition 95
95
TEXT 4. But we say: ‘Every whiteness is a colour’ and ‘Every human is alive’
meaning not that every single thing which is white is a colour which always
was and will be [a colour], or that every human is alive and always was and
always will be [alive]. Rather, we are just saying that everything that fits the
description [WHITENESS], and that is [properly] said to be a whiteness, is
a colour so long as its essence continues to be satisfied. And likewise every-
thing (properly) said to be human (is not alive in the sense) that it always
was and always will be an animal; but rather so long as its essence and sub-
stance continue to be satisfied. (Hodges 2010, 11–12)
The example of whiteness and colour gives rise to a terminological
question. At Topics I.9 (See Aristotle 2009) Aristotle uses ‘essence’ (ti
esti) in two different ways in the same paragraph. First (103b20), he
applies the expression to the category of substance as distinct from
the categories of quantity, quality, etc. Then (103b25) he says that the
expression‘essence’ applies not only to substance but also to quality and
the other categories. His point is that in all the categories we find the
genus-species relation – a relation that depends on the notion of essence,
since the genus is of the essence of the species (Topics I.8, 103b15). If
we were to follow Aristotle’s usage in the first passage, we would use
‘essence’ and ‘substance’ interchangeably. If we were to follow the sec-
ond usage, we would say that both man and whiteness are essences, but
of these two only man is a substance. I shall follow the second usage,
and thus I call type (ii) predications ‘essential’. For type (iii) predications
I will use Tony Street’s term ‘descriptional’ (Street 2004, 551).
Where in this classification can we fit the necessity with which a
consequent follows logically from its antecedent? Earlier I  quoted
Avicenna’s phrase ‘the consequent follows (in any of the senses of
following) the antecedent every time we posit the antecedent and so
long as the antecedent remained posited’. This phrase suggests that
Avicenna thinks of the necessity of a consequence as a kind of descrip-
tional necessity. What he has in mind is that the mental act of positing
the consequent is relative to the act of positing the antecedent: the
latter remains in force only so long as the former remains in force.
But this does not get to the question of the necessary logical rela-
tion between the propositions which are antecedent and consequent.
If Avicenna had considered the question whether this necessity was
essential or descriptional, I think he could have come to the conclu-
sion that it is an essential necessity, as distinct from the necessity of
statements like ‘Khaled’s latest statement follows with necessity from
Paul Thom
96
Khaled’s latest statement’. But in order to develop this thought, he
would have had to articulate an ontology of propositions, analogous
to the Aristotelian ontology of substances and accidents. So far as
I know, he did not do this. His account of the necessity of logical con-
sequence remains sketchy.
Avicenna held that first-figure syllogisms whose minor premise states
a possibility are valid. For example, he held that if every J is possibly B,
and every B is necessarily A, then it follows that every J is necessarily
A. Now, if ‘B’ in the second premise applies only to what is actually B,
it seems that the inference will be invalid, because if we consider a J
that is possibly B but not actually so, the premises will not imply that
this J is necessarily A. And yet, in The Cure Avicenna states that the
subjects of predicative propositions (including necessity-propositions)
should not be understood as applying to whatever possibly falls under
the subject-term:
TEXT 5. When we say ‘Every white thing’, its sense is definitely not ‘every-
thing that could legitimately be white’. Rather it means ‘everything that in
actuality fits the description [WHITE], where besides being actual, it can
be so for some time which is indeterminate or determinate or permanent’.
(Hodges 2010, 11)
It is not clear how Avicenna can maintain the validity of the syllo-
gism mentioned, at the same time as denying that the subject of a true
necessity-proposition applies to whatever possibly falls under it. Some
later Arabic logicians thought that Avicenna could avoid inconsistency
if he distinguished what can be B from what can become B:
By excluding ampliation to the possible, Tusı took Avicenna to be excluding
the ampliation of a term like ‘men’ to include things that could become men,
like sperm. I would therefore tend to take the Js “in mental supposition”
(fi l-fardi l-dhihni) as licensing a kind of ampliation to the possible. (Street
2002, 134)
In his different logical works Avicenna seems to espouse conflicting
views on (a) the nature of necessity, (b) the application of the subject-
term, and (c) what is quantified over in necessity-propositions.
For example, in his later Pointers and Reminders (Isharat), perpetu-
ity is not identified with necessity, and some of his remarks explicitly
Necessity in Avicenna and the Arabic Tradition 97
97
distinguish the two concepts. In this work, Avicenna gives separate
truth-conditions for necessity and perpetuity propositions:
TEXT 6. An example of a statement with such an addition is, “Necessarily
every C is B,” as if saying,“Every one of that which is qualified as C, always
or not always, is, as long as its essence exists, B by necessity” ....
Another example is the statement, “Every C is always B,” as if saying
“Every one of the things which is C according to the previously mentioned
manner is found to have B always, as long as its essence exists, yet without
necessity.” (Avicenna 1984, Fourth Method chapter 5)
Furthermore, he gives examples of non-necessary perpetuities (relative
to the continued existence of the subject):
TEXT 7. An example of that which endures and is non-necessary is some-
thing like the affirmation or negation, applicable to an individual, [of a
quality] accompanying him in a non-necessary manner as long as he exists;
as you may correctly say that some human beings have white complexions
as long as their essence exists, even though that is not necessary.....
You must know that what endures is other than the necessary. Thus, writ-
ing may always be negated of a certain individual at the time of his exist-
ence, let alone at the time of his non-existence, without that negation being
necessary. (Avicenna 1984, Fourth Method chapter 3)
So, a singular negative proposition might hold perpetually without
holding necessarily. Avicenna adds that, even if there are reasons for
holding that there are no non-necessary universal perpetuities (i.e. if
there are reasons for accepting the Principle of Plenitude), these will
be non-logical reasons:
TEXT 8. Is it possible for that which is not necessary to be always present
in every individual, or is it always negated of every individual? Or is this
not possible, and that which is not necessary must unavoidably be negated
of some others? <This> is a matter concerning which the logician need not
make any judgment. (Avicenna, Fourth Method chapter 3)
His view appears to be that if logicians have to refrain from mak-
ing judgments on that issue, then they have to allow for a distinction
between perpetuity and necessity even in universal propositions; and
accordingly they have to develop separate logics for propositions of
these two types.
Paul Thom
98
We may add that, in the case of conceptual truths such as ‘Horses
are animals’, which are both perpetual and necessary, their necessity is
primary, and their perpetuity derivative, both epistemically and onto-
logically. We know these truths are perpetual only because we know
they are necessary.And this implies that what we know when we know
that a proposition is necessary cannot be just that every individual of
a given sort is always such as the proposition describes; rather, what
we know is something concerning a relationship between two concep-
tions. Avicenna does not make this clear; but we shall see presently
that this is the way he was understood by later Arabic logicians.
3. Formalisation
Since Avicenna presented different ideas about necessity in different
works, and since there are sometimes questions about the internal con-
sistency of what he presents in a single work, there is no straightfor-
ward answer to the question of how his logic of necessity should be
formalised. Two formalisations have been published in recent times.
Wilfrid Hodges takes The Cure as his main text. He reads Avicenna
as identifying necessity with perpetuity, and as holding that necessity-
propositions quantify over individuals. He explains Avicenna’s refer-
ences to an underlying essence as follows:
TEXT 9. Ibn Sına often uses a strange phrase: ‘for as long as its essence
(dat) is satisfied’. From his examples it’s clear that he means ‘for as long as
it exists’. (Hodges 2014, 160)
He proposes the following formalisation, which he styles ‘two-
dimensional semantics’ because it involves quantification over indi-
viduals and over times. Singular predications are relativised to a time:
‘Bxτ’ says that the individual x is B at time τ. There is an existence
predicate: ‘E!xτ’ says that the individual x exists at time τ. Thus, the
proposition ‘Every B is necessarily A’, understood as being relative to
the essence underlying B, is true iff
(1) ූ

xූ


τBxτ ෺ී

x [ූ


τBxτ ๖ී


τ(E!xτ ๖
 Axτ)]
The same sentence, understood as being relative to the description ‘B’,
is true iff
Necessity in Avicenna and the Arabic Tradition 99
99
(2) ූ

xූ


τBxτ ෺ී

x [ූ


τBxτ ๖ී


τ(Bxτ ๖
 Axτ)]
(Hodges 2014, 157; notation altered). Possibility-statements are
understood in an analogous way.
The present author takes Pointers and Reminders as his main text.
Necessity-propositions involve quantification over individuals, but
necessity is not identified with perpetuity. Two different necessity-
operators are taken as primitive: a de dicto operator ‘L’ forming prop-
ositions from propositions, and a de re operator ‘L’ forming predicates
from predicates: ‘LBx’ says that Bx is necessary, ‘BLx’ says that x is
necessarily B’ in the sense that B is the essence of x. ‘Every B is neces-
sarily A’, understood as expressing an essential relationship, is true iff
(3) Lී

x (Bx ๖
 ALx).
Understood as expressing a descriptional necessity, it is true ff
(4) Lී

x (Bx ๖
 Ax)
(Thom 2008, 286; notation altered). Possibility-statements are
treated analogously. Temporal statements can be represented using
term-forming operators for ‘always’ and ‘sometimes’ that are nota-
tionally distinct from the necessity-operators (Thom 2008, 284).
Both these formalisations accept the validity of the necessity/pos-
sibility syllogism mentioned earlier. Hodges does so by effectively
ampliating the subject-term of a modal proposition to apply to what
possibly falls under it; for the possibly-B is the same for him as the
sometime-B. Thom does not directly invoke such an ampliation; in-
stead, he requires that de dicto necessity obeys the principles of S5 –
which indirectly achieves the same result (Thom 2008, 288).
In Thom’s formalisation the notion of essence appears under the
name of de re necessity. Hodges’ formalisations deal with Avicenna’s
notion of an underlying essence in an indirect way, through a proxy,
namely, the notion of existence. Of course, there is nothing wrong with
using proxies in logical analysis, if the purpose of the analysis is to
construct a formalism that makes valid just those inferences that are
supposed to be valid. But achieving this purpose is not the same as giv-
ing a philosophical analysis that captures the thought of the text being
analysed. Neither formalisation does that.
Paul Thom
100
4. Averroes
MostArabiclogicianspostAvicennatookAvicennaratherthanAristotle
as the springboard for their logical reflections. Averroes (d. 1198), who
lived in Muslim Spain, was an exception. He wrote numerous com-
mentaries on Aristotle, and was harshly critical of Avicenna’s logic,
including the latter’s treatment of necessity. Here is my translation of a
passage from Averroes’ Logical Questions (Quaesita) as printed in the
sixteenth-century Latin edition:
TEXT 10. Now Avicenna was in error about this, and his error was a big
one. [Averroes gives a summary of Avicenna’s sixfold division of necessity-
propositions.] But all this is error and perversion. For ‘Man is an animal’
never fails to be the case, nor will such a predication ever fail to be the
case, regardless of whether or not there exists a single man necessarily and
permanently. For universals do not go in and out of existence – and I mean
those things from which a universal proposition is composed, as when we
say ‘Man is an animal’..... But I think that this man [Avicenna] held the
opinions worked out under these headings because certain men had defined
the necessary as that which never fails to be the case and will never fail to
be the case, and they said that the absolute is what holds when something
is in a subject for so long as its being is preserved, either essential (if it is
not in a subject) or in a subject (if its being is in a subject). And this man
said that the name ‘necessary’ is said equivocally of this meaning and of
the absolute, since this man thought that the claimed varieties of absolute
being were varieties of universal necessary propositions, and that the first
definition of the necessary is ‘what is always the case in the singulars’, and
this definition contains species of the necessary in the singulars insofar as it
is universal..... And this, I believe, is the source of this man’s error. But God
knows the truth. (Averroes 1562, 79vb–80rb)
It is not completely clear what error Averroes is ascribing to
Avicenna. What is clear is that Averroes takes essential predications
such as ‘Man is an animal’ to concern a relationship between two
universals – a relationship that holds omnitemporally, and therefore
independently of the existence of individuals falling under the prop-
osition’s subject-term. By contrast, he accuses Avicenna of think-
ing that affirmative necessity-propositions are about the individuals
instantiating the subject-term, and therefore fall short of the pure
necessity which is found in God, precisely because they do not hold
at all times.
Necessity in Avicenna and the Arabic Tradition 101
101
Averroes is right about this. Avicenna does require that necessity-
statements are false when their subject-terms are not instantiated:
TEXT 11. The condition is either [1] perpetual [relative] to the existence of
the substance [of the subject] (dat), as in ‘Man is necessarily a rational body’;
by which we do not mean to say that man is and always will be a rational
body, because this is false taken for each human individual. Rather we mean
that while he exists as a substance (ma dama mawjuda d-dat) as a human,
he is a rational body. (Avicenna 1984, §264–266, Street translation; Street
2013a, §2.3.1)
But neither Hodges’ nor Thom’s formalisation represents Avicenna’s
necessity-statements in this way. In both cases the formalisation of an
essential necessity comes out as a proposition that does not change its
truth-value over time; if true at all, such propositions are eternally true.
Hodges’ formalisation could be adapted so as to capture this fea-
ture of Avicenna’s analysis, if we introduce a time-constant ν (‘now’),
governed by the assumptions
(5) Bxν ๖ූ


τ
 (Bxτ)
(6) ී


τ(Bxτ) ๖
 Bxν.
‘Every B is necessarily A’ will then be true as an essential predication iff
(7) ූ

x Bxν ෺ී

x [ූ


τBxτ ๖ී


τ(E!xτ ๖
 Axτ)].
Thus, ‘Every man is necessarily an animal’ is not now true if there are
now no men.
Similarly, Thom’s formalisation could also be adapted so as to be
false if there are no men, if we stipulate that ‘Every B is necessarily A’
is true iff
(8) ූ

x Bx ෺Lී

x (Bx ๖
 ALx).
The fundamental criticism that Averroes makes of Avicenna is that his
analysis of necessity-statements runs together two features that should
be kept apart:  he wants essential necessity-propositions to express
omnitemporal relations between essences, and he also wants them to
express intermittent truths about singular things.
Paul Thom
102
5.  Razı
Working within a basically Avicennian framework, but attempting to
improve what they saw as weaknesses in Avicenna’s logic, a number
of thirteenth-century Arabic logicians arrived at a similar criticism of
Avicenna’s ideas about necessity. The first of these logicians was the
Persian Fakhraddın al-Razı (d. 1210). Razı proposed a distinction be-
tween two types of predication. One of these is extensional, and is
based on what exists in the external world (the khariji reading); the
other is intensional and is based on judgments about what would be
true were certain kinds of thing to exist (the haqıqı reading). In his
Compendium (Mantiq al-Mulakhkhas) Razı writes:
TEXT 12. [When we say‘Every J is B’] we don’t mean by it what is described
as J externally, but rather something more general, which is: were it to exist
externally it would be true of it that it is J, whether it exists externally or
not. For we can say “every triangle is a figure” even if there are no triangles
existent externally. The meaning is rather that everything which would be a
triangle were it to exist would be – in so far as it existed – a figure.....
By the second reading, we mean by “every J” every single thing which
exists externally among the individual Js... On this hypothesis, were there
no septagons existent externally, it wouldn’t be correct to say “every sep-
tagon is a figure”; if the only figures existent externally were triangles, it
would be correct to say “every figure is a triangle.” (Translation in Street
2013a, §2.3.2)
Intensional (haqıqı) propositions are about relationships between con-
ceptions; extensional (khariji) propositions are about all the individ-
uals under the subject-term.
The distinction between intensional and extensional predications
was widely taken up by logicians after Razı.
6. Formalisation
The extensional predications can presumably be formalised in the
same way as standard Aristotelian categorical propositions. ‘Every B
is an A’ would be true iff
(9) ූ

x Bx ෺ී

x (Bx ๖
 Ax).
Necessity in Avicenna and the Arabic Tradition 103
103
It is not obvious how an extensional necessity-proposition should be
represented. We will return to this question.
In order to represent the intensional predications we need a lan-
guage in which we can name abstract entities. (I have been calling
these entities ‘conceptions’. Averroes talks instead of ‘universals’.) An
intensional proposition then affirms or denies a logical relation be-
tween two conceptions. There are two approaches to this.
One could require that the logical relation linking conceptions is
that of inseparability (ම
), taken as primitive. The properties of this
relation include:
(10) β ම
 β
(11) α මβ ෺β මγ ๖
 α ම
 γ.
The intensional proposition ‘Every B is A’ then says that
(12) α ම
 β;
the intensional ‘No B is A’ says that
(13) ී


δ[β මδ ๖¬ (α ම
 δ)].
The particular propositions are the contradictories of the universals of
opposite quality. Given that, by (10) and (11), the universal affirmative
can equivalently be expressed
(14) ී


δ[β මδ ๖α ම
 δ],
the universal negative denies of the subject exactly what the univer-
sal affirmative affirms of the same subject. Thus, if the two particular
propositions are defined as the contradictories of the universals, the
four propositions will form a square of opposition.
Now, Razı states that a universal negative necessity-proposition
expresses the predicate’s incompatibility with the subject:
TEXT 13. The meaning of ‘no J is possibly B’ is that J and B are mutually
incompatible due to their essences (li-dhatayhima). (Street 2014, 495)
Paul Thom
104
But in our formalisation the universal negative proposition does not
say that the predicate is incompatible with the subject. In order to
say that, it would have to say that the opposite of the predicate is
inseparable from the subject. In order even to raise the question
whether the intensional affirmation entails that the opposite of
the predicate is inseparable from the subject, our formal language
would need to be expanded to include, for every conception α, a
corresponding negative conception D . The question would then be
whether (13) implies
(15) ී


δ[β මδ ๖
 D ම
 δ].
We would have an affirmative answer if
(16) ¬ (αමδ) ๖
 (D ම
 δ).
This is a very strong requirement, stating that a pair of conceptions
must be related either by inseparability or by incompatibility. The pair
round, white provides an obvious counter-example. (But see Thom
2012, where principle A7 defines a class of conceptions for which (16)
is true.)
It seems preferable therefore to find an alternative formalisation.
Fortunately, one springs readily to mind. We can introduce a primitive
relation of incompatibility (ර
) alongside that of inseparability. The
formal properties of incompatibility include:
(17) β රα ๖
 α ර
 β
(18) α රβ ෺β මγ ๖
 α ර
 γ.
The intensional universal negative necessity-proposition then says that
(19) β ර
 α.
The particular propositions will be, as usual, the contradictories of
the universals (12) and (19). However, these four propositions do not
form a square of opposition: (12) and (19) are not incompatible with
one another. In order to guarantee their incompatibility we have to
make another assumption:
Necessity in Avicenna and the Arabic Tradition 105
105
(20) β මα ๖¬ (α ර
 β).
If we view the relations of conceptual inseparability and incompati-
bility as analogous to the relations that hold when one proposition, or
its negation, is implied by another proposition, then we can say that
the inseparability relation required by (20) is analogous to a connexive
implication relation, i.e. an implication relation satisfying the principle
known as Boethius’ Thesis:
(21) If A ൺB then ¬ (A ൺ
 ¬B).
(21) is not a thesis of classical logic; but there are consistent con-
nexive logics containing it as a thesis (Wansing 2014). Analogously,
it should be possible to develop a consistent logic of the relations
of inseparability and incompatibility between conceptions which
contains (20).
Nonetheless, the acceptance of (21) places certain limitations on
such a logic. Claudio Pizzi points out that a logic containing (21) can-
not contain
(22) (A ෺
 B) ൺ
 A
if it is to be consistent:
In fact, two instances of [(22)] would be (A ෺¬A) ൺA [and] (A ෺¬A) ൺ¬A,
which are jointly incompatible with [(21)] (Pizzi 2008, 143).
Adapting this point to our conceptual logic, it becomes clear that if
our language includes a notation for conjunctive conceptions (say, ‘β
& α’ for the conception of being both B and A), and if we allow the
substitution of signs denoting negated conceptions (e.g.‘β’) for the let-
ters α, β, then we should not adopt as axioms the principles
(23) β ම
 β &γ
(24) β රγ iff  E J
 .
Otherwise, both
Paul Thom
106
(25) E E E
 &
and
(26) E E E
 &
will be theses (by (23)), where (26) implies
(27) E E E
  & .
(by (24)). But (25) and (27) jointly conflict with (20).
So, the adoption of (20) cannot be combined with the admission of
conjunctive and negated conceptions governed by (23) and (24), on
pain of inconsistency.
6.1 Impossible Subjects
In fact, some thirteenth-century Arabic logicians, wishing to develop
a logic applicable to impossible conjunction of conceptions, adopted
(20) in combination with (23). Afdaladdîn al-Khunajı (d. 1248) and
Athıraddın al-Abharı (d. 1265) were among these. I will say something
about Khunajı. (For a discussion of Abharı, see Thom 2010.) In his
Disclosure of Secrets as to the Obscurities of Thought (Kashf) Khunajı
discusses the convertibility of predicative propositional forms contain-
ing various temporal and alethic modalities (Street 2014, 454 ff). He
argued that ‘nothing that is at some time J is at all times B’ implies
‘Something that is at some time B is at no time J’. His reasoning was
as follows. First, in place of the antecedent we can substitute ‘Nothing
that is at all times B is ever J’. Then:
TEXT 14.... If [“no always-B is ever J”] is true ..., then “some [sometime]
B is never J” is true; because in this case “every always-B is [at some time]
B” is true, and “no always-B is ever J”, which produces “some [sometime] B
is never J.” (Street 2014, 469)
His reasoning takes the form:
(28) Everything that is at all times B is at some time B; nothing that is at all
times B is at some time J; so, something that is at some time B is not at any
time J.
Necessity in Avicenna and the Arabic Tradition 107
107
But this syllogism (Felapton) deduces a particular conclusion from
two universal premises, and thus, if its premises and conclusion are
read intensionally, the inference is valid only if (20) is accepted.
Furthermore, Khunajı understood the conception moon to be
inseparable from the conception eclipsed; and in discussing the truth-
value of ‘Something that is eclipsed is not a moon’, he introduced the
conjunctive conception eclipsed-which-is-not-a-moon – a conception
which (it seems) is governed by (23):
TEXT 15. So the eclipsed-which-is-not-a-moon, even though it is impos-
sible, is among those individuals which would be eclipsed, were they to
come to exist. (Street 2014, 470)
On this basis he arrives at the conclusion that, even though moon
is inseparable from eclipsed, something is both eclipsed and not a
moon, namely, the eclipsed-which-is-not-a-moon. Since (24) seems to
be merely notational, Khunajı seems to be committed to the combin-
ation of (20), (23) and (24) – and thus to the inconsistency presented
a moment ago. My aim here is not to explore possible ways out of
this inconsistency; it is only to show that some of the Arabic logicians
wanted to extend their logic of conceptions to impossible conceptions.
6.2 The Logical Relations between Intensional and
Extensional Propositions
The logical relations between intensional and extensional propositions
can be determined on the basis of the following assumptions:
(29) If α මβ then ී

x[Bx ๖
 Ax]
(30) If α රβ then ී

x[Bx ๖
 ¬ Ax]
(29) provides us with a way of understanding Razı’s idea (taken up
by Khunajı and others) that the (possible/impossible) Bs would be A
were they to exist. For (29) entails that if ‘Every B is an A’ is true (on
its intensional reading) and something is B then ‘Every B is an A’ is
true (on its extensional reading). This, I suggest, is what it means to say
that the Bs would be A were they to exist. Thus, the relations between
intensional and extensional propositions is as in Figure 5.1.
Paul Thom
108
6.3 The Relation between the Intensional/Extensional and the
Essential/Descriptional Distinctions
On the face of it, the distinction between intensional and extensional
necessities seems to cut across the distinction between essential and
descriptional necessities. In order to test whether this is in fact the case,
we need a language in which both distinctions are expressible. Such a
language can be developed if we include a concept of essence in our
formal language of conceptions. But in doing so we need to be clear
that an ‘underlying’ essence of the proposition’s subject is not evident
on the surface of the proposition. It does not underlie the subject in
the sense that it is a logical subject of the proposition’s subject. That
would imply that the essence is less general than the proposition’s sub-
ject, whereas the essence should be more general than that subject. The
essence underlying the conception slave is human: this is not because a
human is essentially a slave, but because a slave is essentially human.
The proposition ‘Men are necessarily animals’, understood as being
essential and intensional, states that men are necessarily animals by
their essence; and the essence here is a middle term by which man falls
under animal. Thus, the proposition states that animal is inseparable
from man, and there is an essence intermediate between them, from
which animal is inseparable, and that is inseparable from man. What
the proposition states is true according to Aristotelian ontology: the
a e
i o
a e
i o
Intensional
Extensional
Figure 5.1 Squares of opposition for intensional and extensional predications.
Necessity in Avicenna and the Arabic Tradition 109
109
intermediate essence can be animal itself, since animal is an essence
and inseparability is reflexive.
The proposition ‘What walks necessarily moves’ can be understood
as being descriptional and intensional, in which case it states that mov-
ing is inseparable from walking. There is no reference to essences here.
There is no essence intermediate between moving and walking. There
is an essence that is inseparable from walking, namely, animal: only
animals walk, and this is a necessary truth about the Aristotelian genus
animal according to Aristotle. But moving is not inseparable from
animal: it is possible for animals to be stationary.
The two propositions just considered can also be understood exten-
sionally rather than intensionally, in which case they make statements
about the class of men or the class of walkers, rather than about the
conceptions man and walking.
With these points in view, let ‘E’ be a primitive predicate, applicable
to conceptions. The sentence ‘Eα’ will be read as ‘α is an essence’. By an
essence I mean a conception which is of a kind of thing that belongs,
as such, in an Aristotelian category.
Then the distinction between universal intensional predications that
are essential and those that are purely descriptional can be represented
as the distinction between, on the one hand,
(31) ූ


δ[Eδ ෺α මδ ෺
 δ ම
 β]
or
(32) ූ


δ[Eδ ෺α රδ ෺δ ම
 β],
and (12) or (19), on the other.
(If a symmetrical semantics is required for the universal negative
proposition, then it should be represented as
(33) ූ


δ
,ε [Eδ ෺Eε ෺ε රδ ෺δ මβ ෺ε ම
 α].)
The distinction between universal extensional predications that are
essential and those that are descriptional can be represented as the dis-
tinction between, on the one hand,
(34) ූ

x Bx ෺ී

x [Bx ๖ූ


δ(Eδ ෺α මδ ෺δ ම
 β)]
Paul Thom
110
or
(35) ී

x [Bx ๖ූ


δ(Eδ ෺α රδ ෺δ ම
 β)]
and
(36) ූ

x Bx ෺ී

x [Bx ๖ූ


δ(α මδ ෺δ ම
 β)]
or
(37) ී

x [Bx ๖ූ


δ(α රδ ෺δ ම
 β)].
Given the properties of inseparability and incompatibility stated in (10),
(11), (17), (18), we can see what relations of entailment hold among
our eight types of universal predication. Among universal propositions,
extensionals entail the corresponding intensionals; thus, (34), (35),
(36), (37), respectively, entail (31), (32), (12), (19). Essential predica-
tions entail the corresponding descriptionals; thus, (31), (32), (34), (35)
entail (12), (19), (36), (37). These relationships are shown in Figure 5.2.
Putting all this together, the entailment-relations among the four
types of universal affirmative necessity-proposition are as follows: the
extensional essential (33) entails both the extensional descriptional
(34) and the intensional essential (31), and both of these entail the
intensional descriptional (12). These relations are shown are shown
in Figure 5.2.
7. Summary
The Arabic logicians analysed necessity-propositions by considering
various sorts of things to which the necessity which these propos-
itions express is relative. The two most important relativities are to
the subject-term’s underlying essence, and to the description explicitly
given by the subject-term.
The post-Avicennian logicians also distinguished those necessity-
propositions whose subject is picked out purely extensionally from
those where the subject is identified intensionally. Some of the thirteenth-
century logicians extended the application of intensional proposi-
tions to those having impossible subjects. The distinction between
Necessity in Avicenna and the Arabic Tradition 111
111
extensional and intensional necessities can be combined with the
essential/descriptional distinction.
There is no concept of purely logical necessity among the Arabic
logicians surveyed. The necessity of the Necessary Being’s existence
is ontological. The necessity of essentially necessary propositions like
Man is an animal depends on a metaphysical concept of essence. Even
the necessity of a descriptionally necessary proposition like ‘Whatever
walks moves’ derives its necessity from the essential necessity ‘Walking
is a species of movement’.
Telling though these points are, we should remember that logic, for
the Arabic logicians, included the material in Porphyry’s Introduction
to the Categories, and thus included the study of essential predica-
tions such as those that predicate a genus of its species. The concept of
essence, for them, was a logical concept, and they frequently included
a discussion of essence and the essential early on in their logic books
(Avicenna 1984, §151; Avicenna 2011, §7). The fact that this never
happens in modern logic textbooks is an indication of how the idea
Extensional-essential
Extensional-descriptional
Intensional-essential
Intensional-
descriptional
a
a
a
a
e
e
e
e
i
i
i
i
o
o
o
o
Figure 5.2 Logical relations among the four types of universal
necessity-proposition.
Paul Thom
112
of logic, and that of logical necessity, have changed since the time of
Avicenna, Averroes, Abharı, and Khunajı. The Arabic logicians may
not have developed a theory of logical necessity as it is specifically
exemplified by valid logical consequences and more generally by logi-
cal truths; but they certainly had the concept of logical consequence,
and they knew how to demonstrate that a given consequent followed
with necessity from a given set of antecedents – as any reader can see
by inspecting the working of their logical proofs (Street 2002; Thom
2012).
113
113
6 Modality without the Prior Analytics:
Early Twelfth Century Accounts of
Modal Propositions
Christopher J.Martin
Peter Abaelard’s birth around 1079 coincided with the promulgation
by Pope Gregory VII of a decree instructing his bishops to ensure that
all clerics were trained in the liberal arts, and Abaelard’s life was shaped
by the consequent increase in the number and importance of teaching
masters. These early twelfth century teachers commented on the works
of what would later be called the logica vetus, including from Aristotle
only the Categories and De Interpretatione. Abaelard also had some
access to the Sophistical Refutations and, indeed, seems to have known
a little about the Prior Analytics. The latter work, however, played no
role in the development of thinking about modal propositions in the
period to be considered here. Rather it was Aristotle’s remarks on the
proper placing of the negative particle in forming the contradictory
of a given modal proposition in de Interpretatione 12, and 13, and a
distinction made by Boethius between different forms of modality in
his De Syllogismis Hypotheticis that prompted early twelfth century
philosophers to investigate the nature of modal propositions.
1. Ancient Sources
The general problem for the De Interpretatione is to characterise the
logical relationship of opposition in truth-value.Aristotle has no notion
of negation as a propositional operator and proceeds, rather, syntactic-
ally, to consider where the negative particle is to be inserted into each
form of categorical proposition to produce the desired opposite. This
leads him in chapters 12 and 13 to the question of the proper nega-
tions of, and logical relations between, propositions involving nominal
Work on this study was supported by an award from the Marsden Fund Council
administered by the Royal Society of New Zealand.
Christopher J.Martin
114
modes. For the Latin writers we are to consider here these are prop-
ositions such as ‘(For) Socrates to be a man is possible’ (‘Possibile est
Socratem esse hominem’) and ‘(For) Socrates not to be a stone is neces-
sary’ (‘Necesse est Socratem non esse lapidem’).1
Aristotle holds that
negation is an operation on terms which takes the narrowest possible
scope. For modalities this entails, he concludes, that it must be applied
to the modal adjective to yield, for example, ‘not necessary to be’ as
the negation of ‘necessary to be’. In chapter 13 of De Interpretatione
he summarises his results in a set of four tables of equipollent com-
binations of mode and quality which were the starting point of early
twelfth century discussions of modal sentences. Aristotle’s presenta-
tion is almost entirely schematic with no indication of whether there
is any difference between the application of modal determinations to
singular and to quantified propositions.
Before turning to Aristotle’s text Boethius begins his longer com-
mentary on De Interpretatione 12 with an extensive discussion of the
negation of modal propositions.2
He observes that modal adverbs
such as ‘rapidly’ in ‘Socrates walks rapidly’ apply directly to the verb
as predicate to indicate its ‘quality’ but notices no difference between
them and the application of nominal modes to produce propositions
such as ‘(For) Socrates to be a man is possible’. In the case of the lat-
ter he follows Aristotle and takes the mode to be the predicate and
the infinitive in the subordinate clause to be the subject of the modal
proposition. Like Aristotle, too, Boethius has no notion of propos-
itional negation.3
Just as the negative particle is applied to the mode
in the case of adverbial qualifications, so, too, he insists, it is applied
to a nominal mode.
While Boethius does little more than rehearse Aristotle’s construc-
tion of schematic tables of equipollent modals in his commentary
on De Interpretatione 13, in his own treatise on the hypothetical
syllogism4
he introduces a form of modal proposition not mentioned
1
In what follows I will where possible give English versions of the sentences
under consideration, but the original Latin should be easily recoverable from
these examples. ‘For’ is needed to yield something that looks like colloquial
English but perhaps has a tendency to suggest that the sentences are to be
construed de re. They are not; rather the formulation is intended to leave the
range of possible readings quite open.
2
Boethius 1877.
3
See Martin 2009: 56–84.
4
Boethius, 1969.
Modality without the Prior Analytics 115
115
by Aristotle and an important distinction. Modal propositions may,
he claims, take three forms, two in which the modality is temporally
qualified and a third in which it is predicated without qualification.The
temporal qualification is indicated with the conjunction ‘dum,’ which
I will translate as ‘while’. It may mean simply ‘now’, as in English pre-
sent progressive constructions, such as ‘Socrates is whistling while he
is working’, or habitual association, as in the English gnomic present
‘Socrates whistles while he works’. The discussion in the twelfth cen-
tury of such constructions anticipates the recent development of what
has been characterised as hybrid logic with indexicals – the combin-
ation of tense and modality with so-called nominals such as ‘now’ to
fix temporal reference rigidly.5
Boethius distinguishes the three ‘grades’ of necessity and the corre-
sponding possibility, using nominal rather than adverbial modes:
(Mod1) The temporally qualified clause merely repeats the main
clause as in ‘(For) Socrates to sit is necessary while he sits’ and
‘(For) Socrates to sit is possible while he sits’. Since Boethius holds
that such modals are equivalent to the simple categorical ‘Socrates
sits’ the sense of ‘while’ here must include now.
(Mod2) The temporally qualified clause is different from the main
clause, as in ‘(For) a man to have a heart is necessary, while he
is alive’ and ‘(For) Socrates to read is possible while he exists’.
Boethius ambiguously glosses such sentences as asserting that the
necessity or possibility holds ‘just so long as’6
the condition is sat-
isfied, leaving it open whether it is presently satisfied.
(Mod 3) Finally, modal claims may involve no temporal determin-
ation – as ‘(For) God to be immortal is necessary’.
2. Eleventh and Twelfth Century Developments
It is difficult to date texts from this period precisely but we do have
two closely related discussions of modal propositions, designated by
Yukio Iwakuma as M1 and M3,7
preserved in manuscript Orléans
5
For a survey of hybrid logic see Braüner 2006. On the addition of indexicals to
hybrid logic see Blackburn and Jørgensen 2012: 144–160.
6
‘quamdiu’.
7
These are not the only texts which included discussions of modal propositions
from this period, but they are the most extensive.
Christopher J.Martin
116
266, with M1 also found in Paris BN Lat 13368.8
These must report
something of the debates about such propositions, which took place in
the first decade of the twelfth century since they refer to the opinions
of Masters W., Gos., and Gosl, presumably William of Champeaux,
who had left Paris by 1113, and certainly Goselin of Soissons, who
remained there until around 1115. M3 seems to be the continuation of
the commentary on De Interpretatione which immediately precedes it
in the manuscript and in which there are also references to Master W.,
Master G., and Master Gos., who at one point is dignified as Magister
noster. Likewise M1 is found in both of the manuscripts in which it
is preserved immediately after the de Generibus et Speciebus,9
which
also contains references to both Master G. and Master W. In addition
to these texts we have the Dialectica of Garlandus Compotista:  a
slightly earlier work, which develops logic in the anti-realist fashion
associated with Abaelard’s first master, Roscelin. Together they give
us some idea of the theories of modal propositions current at the
beginning of the twelfth century to which Abaelard is responding in
his Dialectica.10
Garlandus’s Dialectica contains only a brief discussion of modal
propositions but it goes well beyond Boethius. Nominal modes are
contrasted with the corresponding adverbs and Garlandus notes that
modality lies properly in the modification of a predicate. Nominal
modes, he tells us, may be ‘resolved’ into the corresponding adverbial
forms with ‘(For) Socrates to read is necessary’, for example, equiva-
lent to ‘Socrates necessarily reads’.
While Boethius employs only schemas in discussing modality
Garlandus applies modes to quantified categorical propositions and
provides lists of modal equipollents for both singular and quantified
modal propositions. He goes on to list the various forms of tempor-
ally qualified modality repeating what Boethius had said about them
but then goes beyond him with a new classification of the varieties of
possibility:
(1) Possibility which is actual – it is possible for a man to be an animal
(2) Possibility which is not actual
8
M1 = Orléans, Bibl. Municipale, 266: 166a–169a; Paris, Bibl. Nationale, lat.
13368, 175va–177ra. M3 = Orléans, Bibl. Municipale, 266: 252b–257b.
9
See King 2015.
10
Garland 1959.
Modality without the Prior Analytics 117
117
(a) which actually occurs after the time at which it is possible
(i) follows necessarily – it is possible for the sun to set(ii)
does not follow necessarily – it is possible for Socrates to
become pale
(b) which does not occur after the time at which it is possible –
it is possible for Garland to become a bishop.
Here we meet for the first time a possibility which will in some cases
never be actualised but which will attract many twelfth century logi-
cians, the possibility of becoming a bishop, which Garlandus charac-
terises as that ‘to which nature is not repugnant but which will never
come about’.
The Orléans treatises, like a number of texts from this period, are
very closely related though M3 is considerably longer than and con-
tains much material not found in M1. When they do deal with the
same issues the two texts often have the same structure, the same
arguments, and the same wording although they also contain different
arguments and formulate their claims in different ways.
In these texts we soon meet again the possibility of being a bishop,
this time attributed to a peasant. We are first introduced to nominal
and adverbial modes and told that propositions containing the latter
differ from the corresponding simple categoricals only in that they can-
not be converted by the non-Aristotelian procedure of term contrapos-
ition introduced by Boethius,11
to convert ‘S is P’ into ‘not P is not S’.
This we are told is because, as Aristotle insists in De Interpretatione 12,
we cannot negate, or ‘infinitize,’ a phrase.
Both M1 and M3 go on to note, following Boethius, that an adverbi-
ally modified term stands to the unmodified term as a part to a whole.
We may thus appeal to the topical locus a toto warranting an inference
from part to whole, to conclude that a predicate holds without modi-
fication of a subject if the corresponding modified predicate holds of
it: to infer, for example, from the fact that Socrates is running rapidly
that he is running. The solution to the puzzle that we may thus prove
that our peasant is a bishop is, we are told, to distinguish between
adverbs which modify both wording and sense and those which mod-
ify only the wording of the simple propositions to which they are
added. To modify both word and sense the application of an adverb to
11
In Boethius 2008.
Christopher J.Martin
118
a term must restrict its extension to only part of that of the unmodified
term. It must modify it, that is, in just the way required for the locus
a toto to be applicable. The kind of adverb, on the other hand, which
M1 and M3 characterise as a modifier ‘only of a word’ does in fact,
according to them, also modify meaning. Adverbs used in this way
may, like ‘possibly’, ampliate the terms to which they are applied, or
transform their meanings into the opposite, as in the true proposition
‘a stone impossibly lives’12
where the extension of ‘lives’ is modified to
include only those things which cannot possibly be alive.
The inference from ‘a peasant is possibly made a bishop’ to ‘a peas-
ant is made a bishop’ thus fails because ‘possibly’ ampliates the predi-
cate verb to produce an expression which applies to both bishops
and non-bishops. This solution according to M1 was not accepted by
Master Goselin, referred to in the present tense, who argued rather
that adverbial modals should be expounded using the corresponding
nominal modes as having the figurative sense of ‘(For) a peasant to be
made a bishop is possible’ from which it does not follow that the peas-
ant is a bishop – presumably, though we are not told this, because the
possible truth of a proposition does not entail its actual truth.
This solution is apparently the one accepted by M3. As an alterna-
tive, M1 tells us, we may follow Master W., who retained the adver-
bial formulation of the claim, but proposed that here the mode func-
tions to form an expression that signifies a single concept applying
equally to actual and potential bishops, but for which no name has
been introduced. Taking the expression in this sense we may thus infer
that someone who is a bishop is possibly a bishop but not conversely.
Neither M1 nor M3 has any more to say about the logic of adverbial
modals, which, as we saw, reduces for them essentially to that of simple
categoricals. Nominal modes, they agree, are quite different and they
suggest that it was the problem of establishing their logical relations
that led Aristotle to pay them special attention. The crucial question
here is how we are to understand properly the various ways in which
quality, quantity, and mode may be combined in forming such prop-
ositions. Both M1 and M3 give the schematic tables of equipollence
for nominal modes and hold that they are satisfied for all permissible
substitutions of quantifiers. The discussion of simple modals in M1 is
limited to the question of the proper interpretation of the interaction
12
‘lapis impossibiliter vivit’.
Modality without the Prior Analytics 119
119
of negation and quantity in such sentences and we will return to that
in a moment. M3, on the other hand, has much more to say about the
nature of such propositions.
First there is the general question of the grammatical structure of
a categorical modal proposition such as ‘(For) every man to be an
animal is possible’. According to Aristotle the subject (SUBJ) of such
a sentence is ‘to be an animal’ and the predicate (PRED) is the mode
‘is possible’. The quantified term ‘every man’ is taken in our two texts
to function as a determination (DET) of the grammatical subject. The
proposition thus has the grammatical structure:13
(For) [(every man)DET(to be an animal)SUBJ,(is possible)PRED].
According to M3 all such propositions are grammatically indefinite
but since Boethius assigns them different quantities we must do so too
and M3 and M1 agree that the quantity to be assigned to a nominal
modal is that of the unmodalised simple categorical of whose nomin-
alisation the modal adjective is predicated. ‘(For) every man to be an
animal is possible’ is thus universal and, since its quality is that of the
copula, affirmative.
M1 and M3 agree that, save for the failure of term contraposition,
adverbial modals convert in just the same way as simple categori-
cals, but according to M3 every form of conversion fails for nominal
modals. It first gives a series of arguments for these failures for each
form of conversion, which it then rejects but which we will meet again
in Abaelard’s discussion of nominal modes. For example, against the
simple conversion of nominal modals M3 tells that ‘(For) no dead
(thing) to be a man is possible’ is true but ‘(For) no man to be dead
is possible’ is false, apparently reading the propositions de re. Later,
however, it denies this and claims that the second proposition, like the
first, is true, now apparently reading them de dicto. While these pairs of
propositions are thus not counter-instances to the principles of conver-
sion, according to M3 there are others which are. For example, against
simple conversion ‘(For) no old man to be a young man is possible’,
which M3 says is true, and which is so read either de re or de dicto, and
‘(For) no young man to be an old man is possible’, which M3 says is
false, which it is if it is read de re but not if it is read de dicto.
It is thus not clear from its examples whether M3 understands
the logical relations between nominal modals to be those between
13
[(omnem hominem)DET(esse animal)SUBJ,(est possibile)PRED].
Christopher J.Martin
120
the corresponding adverbial modals, and so reads them de re, or
whether it reads them de dicto. The only explicit remarks on the
sense of nominal modals in the text indicate the latter, but these
present us with a serious puzzle about one of Abaelard’s references
to his master.
Having dismissed the proposal that with nominal modal propos-
itions a modality is attributed to individual things, to words, or to
the corresponding understandings, M3 turns to the suggestion that
such modals are equivalent in meaning to the corresponding adverbial
forms, a position which it attributes to Master W., referring to him in
the imperfect tense:
Master W. in fact said that the common sense of all modals with a nominal
mode is that they should be expounded by those with an adverbial mode,
just as this: ‘(For) Socrates to be a man is possible’, that is ‘Socrates is pos-
sibly a man’.
M3 goes on to offer a number of objections to this position, which
make it clear that it really is the proposal to explicate the sense of
nominal modals as that of the corresponding adverbials. Against it M3
sets down its own position:
It seems to us that the sense of modals should be expounded in another way,
when we say ‘(For) Socrates to be a man is possible’ or ‘(For) Socrates to
read is possible’, we are not saying that Socrates is possible, or that Socrates’
reading is possible, or that the words or understandings are possible, but
rather that the sense Socrates to read is possible, that is it is possible that
Socrates reads.
The position attributed here to Master W.  is that insisted on by
Abaelard in his Dialectica in opposition to the theory that he attrib-
utes to his master (‘magister noster’), which is, if not identical with,
very close to the position which M3 says is its own and perhaps is
also that mentioned previously by M1 as held by Goselin of Soissons.
One further complication, though not so embarrassing for the stand-
ard identification of references by Abaelard to magister noster with
William of Champeaux, is found in M3’s discussion of the signification
of ‘possibile’. M3 rejects the suggestion that ‘possible’ signifies a prop-
erty, possibleness, which inheres in its bearer, apparently understood to
Modality without the Prior Analytics 121
121
be a state of affairs. In response to the arguments against this account
of modality, it tells us:
Master W. (referred to in the imperfect tense again) expounded these prop-
ositions in a negative way: as in the case of ‘(For) Socrates to be an animal is
possible’, that is, it is not repugnant to the nature of the thing that Socrates
be an animal.
We have been taught to associate this account of possibility in terms
of non-repugnance with nature with Abaelard14
but as we have seen
was already employed by Garlandus and indeed it seems to be the
standard view at the beginning of the twelfth century.
As I noted above, most of the treatment of nominal modals in M1
and a substantial part of that in M3 is concerned with the question of
what quantity and quality they should be assigned. These discussions
are particularly interesting because there seems to be no awareness at
all in them that negation may be propositional, or as Abaelard says
‘extinctive’,15
yielding for any proposition another with the opposite
truth-value, rather than predicative, Abaelard’s ‘separative’ negation,
serving to indicate the separation of the predicate from the subject of
a categorical proposition.
Both M1 and M3 maintain that the negative particle ‘not’ apposed
to the nominalised quantifier must modify the quantity of the subor-
dinate clause, and so of the whole proposition, but also that it must
transform either the infinitive or the finite verb into the opposite qual-
ity. Such propositions, it follows, may be assigned different qualities
depending on how they are construed.
Here in order to see the point being made it is better to leave our
sentence in the regimented Latin of our texts. In the case, for example,
of ‘non omnem hominem esse animal possibile est’16
the application of
‘non’ to the universal quantifier ‘omne’ results in a proposition whose
quantity is particular. If the negative particle is construed as determin-
ing the infinitive, the resulting proposition is affirmative ‘non omnem
hominem esse animal est possibile’. If it is construed as determining
the copula as ‘non omnem hominem esse animal est possibile’, it is
14
See Knuuttila 1980: 163–257.
15
See Martin 2004: 158–199.
16
Literally ‘Not every man to be an animal is possible’.
Christopher J.Martin
122
negative. A  distinction of scope, then, but one according to which
the negative particle must be construed in addition to modifying the
quantity as modifying either the nominalised expression which is the
subject of the modal proposition or the main verb of the modal prop-
osition as a whole. M1 goes on to note that the application of the
negative particle to the main verb alone also modifies the meaning of
the nominalised quantifier. Thus ‘omnem hominem esse animal non
est possibile’ is negative because the negative particle is applied to the
main verb and particular because it must also affect the quantity:
We say that it is rendered particular in sense because just as we say that
when ‘non’ is preposed to the sign it is referred to a verb, so conversely,
the negative particle conjoined with ‘est’ is referred back to the sign to be
cancelled.
Applying these principles our two texts go on to discuss the quality
and quantity of quantified modals with two negative particles but no
more since according to M3:
To appose three negations would make no sense and have no reason, as in
the case of: ‘non omnem hominem non esse animal non est possibile’.
There is thus again no hint that negation may be propositional.
M1 and M3 complete their discussions of modal sentences by
considering the temporal qualification of modality, and for this they
now have a technical vocabulary. Composite modal propositions are
formed with qualifying terms and the one of most interest to our
authors is ‘while’ as used by Boethius to distinguish the two forms of
conditioned modality mentioned above as (Mod1) and (Mod2). Such
propositions are referred to as determinate modal propositions and
have the general form mod(A)det(B). Where ‘A’ and ‘B’ are the same,
as they are in propositions of type Mod1, the determination is said to
be intrinsic. Where they differ in any way, as in type Mod2, the deter-
mination is extrinsic. For any determinate modal let us call ‘A’ the
modalised proposition, ‘B’ the determining proposition, ‘mod(A)’ the
modal proposition, and ‘det(B)’ the determination.
Prior to any further analysis determinate modal propositions are
characterised as categorical since modality is a modification of predi-
cation. Their basic logical properties according to M1 and M3 are:
Modality without the Prior Analytics 123
123
(det 1) so long as the modal proposition does not involve negation a deter-
minate modal is true only if its determining proposition is true.
(det 2) intrinsically determinate modalisations of the same simple prop-
osition which do not include negation, for example ‘(For) Socrates to sit is
possible while he sits’, ‘(For) Socrates to sit is necessary while he sits’ and
‘Socrates sits’, are equipollent, i.e. identical in truth-value.
We will return to the problem of negation in a moment.
Having introduced determinate modals as categorical propositions
our two texts note that they may in fact be expounded in two different
ways. The basic structure of such sentences is determined by Aristotle’s
remark that in nominal modals, the infinitive is the subject and the
mode the predicate. Determinate nominal modals thus have a gram-
matical structure that we may represent as follows, for example, for
‘(For) Socrates to be a man is necessary while he is a man’:
(For) [(Socrates)DET(to be a man)SUBJ,(is necessary)PRED] (while he is a man)det
Remembering that their basic logical property is that where the
modality is affirmative the truth of the determination follows from the
truth of the whole proposition, there are, according to M1 and M3,
two possible readings of determinate modals, depending on whether
the determination is construed as applying to the subject or to the
predicate. If it is to the subject, the result is what M1 calls a modal
categorical:
(For)[(Socrates)DET(to be a man)SUBJ(while he is a man)DET,(is necessary)PRED],
which is construed as the claim that Socrates is such that it is necessary
that now, while he is man, he is a man; i.e. he is such that it is not pos-
sible that he is now both a man and not a man.
Alternatively the determination may be construed as applying to
the predicate and expounded as what our texts call a temporal hypo-
thetical,17
where ‘hypothetical’ means no more than compound:
(For) [(Socrates)DET(to be a man)SUBJ,(while he is a man)DET(is necessary)PRED]
17
For the treatment of temporal hypotheticals in later mediaeval logic by
Ockham, Burleigh, and Buridan see Øhrstrøm 1982: 166–179.
Christopher J.Martin
124
In this case ‘while’ is treated as a propositional conjunction and the
resulting compound proposition might be more clearly expressed with
‘now, while Socrates is a man, it is necessary that Socrates is a man’.
The modal categorical is true as long as Socrates is a man but the
temporal hypothetical is false since while Socrates is a man we may
detach the consequent to conclude that without qualification he is
necessarily a man, a claim about all future times according to our
texts and so false.
M3 but not M1 insists that the proper way to read determinate
modals is as categorical propositions with the determination applying
to the subject and goes on to discuss the sense of ‘while’ in such prop-
ositions. Given that we can infer the truth of the determining prop-
osition it must include the sense of ‘now’. M3 notes, however, that
if we are to agree with The Book, i.e. Boethius, we should include in
the sense of ‘while’ the temporal coincidence at any time expressed by
‘whenever’, which he employs in expounding the second type of condi-
tioned necessity. M3 argues, however, that if we include such temporal
coincidence in the sense of ‘while’, true claims about possibility will
turn out to be false, for example, ‘(For) today to be is possible while
the sun shines’, where ‘today’ is, as we would say, rigid. The solution
is to distinguish the use of ‘while’ in formulating determinate possibil-
ities, where its meaning is simply that of ‘now’, and its use in determin-
ate necessities, where its sense includes that of ‘whenever’, and, since
M3 insists, ‘whenever’ does not include the present instant, also the
sense of ‘now’.
The problem with determinate modals involving negation according
to M1 is that if the relations of equipollence which hold for simple cat-
egoricals also hold for determinate modals, then what we may call the
Equipollence Argument could be employed to prove the impossible,
that Socrates is a stone.
As it appears in M3 the proof is:
(E*1) ‘(For) Socrates to be stone is possible while he is a stone’ is false,
because the determination is false. So
(E*2) ‘(For) Socrates to be stone is impossible while he is a stone’ is true
since what is not possible is impossible. So
(E*3) ‘(For) Socrates not to be a stone is necessary while he is a stone,’ is true
if the modalisations are equipollent.
It follows that Socrates is a stone.
Modality without the Prior Analytics 125
125
M3 notes that because of this argument some people conclude that
equipollence fails for determinate modals. Others attempt to main-
tain that equipollence remains but since they construe the determina-
tion as applying to the predicate of the determined proposition, and
so treat the determinate modal as a temporal hypothetical, they can-
not avoid the same conclusion. M3 itself holds that the argument fails
because the determination must be taken to apply to the subject of the
modal proposition. The negation understood predicatively thus, as it
says, serves to remove ‘to be a stone while he is a stone’ from Socrates.
3. Abaelard on Simple and Determinate Modalities
Abaelard’s views on modal propositions are found in the Dialectica18
written around 1112 and reflecting the debates in which he had been
involved in Paris in the preceding decade and in the commentary
on De Interpretatione in his Logica ‘Ingredientibus’19
written some
years later.
Aside from the reference to Master Goselin’s position in M1 the
Orléans texts do not discuss the reduction of nominal to adverbial
modes or indicate whether they think that the adverbial formulation is
in some way prior to the nominal one. This claim is, however, central
to Abaelard’s account of simple modals in his Dialectica, where much
of the discussion is concerned with the refutation of the alternative
position, which he tells us was held by his master. Abaelard begins by
distinguishing between the grammatical, or surface structure, of modal
propositions and their sense (sensus), what we can call their semanti-
cal structure. He insists that only adverbial constructions are properly
modal and that nominal modals simply employ an alternative gram-
matical structure to express the same semantical structure, the same
qualification, that is, of the same semantical subject and predicate.
Thus the meaning of ‘(For) Socrates to be a bishop is possible’ is that
Socrates is possibly a bishop, or, better, that Socrates is able to be
a bishop, a claim about him which Abaelard expounds negatively in
terms of its non-repugnance to his species nature:20
18
Abaelard, Dialectica, Tract. II.2: 191–210.
19
Abaelard, Glossae.
20
Abaelard, Dialectica, p. 193.
Christopher J.Martin
126
‘When we say ‘(For) Socrates to be a bishop is possible’, even if this is never
so, it is nevertheless true since his nature is not repugnant to <his> being a
bishop; which we conclude from other individuals of the same species, who
we see to actually participate in the property of <being a> bishop’.
This is precisely the same exposition of the nominal modals as that
attributed in M3 to Master W.
Given Abaelard’s exposition, the truth-values of nominal modals
and their logical relations are just those of the adverbial modals with
the same semantical structure. The logical properties of ‘(For) every
man to be white is possible’ are thus exactly the same as those of
‘Every man is possibly white’. The grammatical structure of adverbial
modals does not, however, according to Abaelard, necessarily mirror
the true semantical structure of the intended claim. If it did, we would
be able to infer from Socrates’ possibly being a bishop that he actu-
ally is one. The inference, however, fails, he tells us, for just the reason
reported by M1 to have been given by Master W.
Immediately after defusing the objectionable inference from part to
whole, Abaelard goes on to report the alternative account of nominal
modals, which he tells us was held by his master, referring to him in
the present tense:21
It is our master’s theory that modals descend from simple categoricals in
such a way as to be concerned with the sense (de sensu) of <these categori-
cals>, so that when we say ‘(For) Socrates to run is possible, or necessary’
what we are saying is that what the proposition ‘Socrates runs’ says to be so
is possible or necessary.
Abaelard characterises his master’s theory here as holding that
modality applies to the sense of the nominalised categorical and
although he refers on a couple of occasions in the discussion of
modals in the Logica ‘Ingredientibus’ to modal claims understood ‘de
dicto’, his preferred formulation is that this view construes modality
‘de sensu’. According to it, what is possible or necessary is the state
of affairs which the non-modalised categorical proposition assets to
be so, apparently the position which we saw M1 attribute to Master
Goselin in contrast to that held by Master W.!
21
Abaelard, Dialectica, p. 195.
Modality without the Prior Analytics 127
127
Abaelard criticises his master for assigning the wrong quality,
the wrong truth-values, and the wrong logical relations to nominal
modals. ‘(For) no man to be white is possible’, for example, according
to the de sensu theory is, Abaelard insists, an affirmative non-modal
proposition rather than a negative modal one, and ‘(For) a man to be
dead is possible’, expounded as ‘what the proposition “a man is dead”
says is possible’ is false rather than, as he claims it should be, true. This
is so, of course, only if one assumes that the de re reading of nominal
modals is the correct one.
It is not at all clear in fact that Abaelard’s master had a theory of
modal sentences since Abaelard’s most powerful objection is that his
treatment of conversion is inconsistent because he argues for his conclu-
sions on the basis of the de re reading of modals, ignoring the fact that
these do not agree with his official de sensu readings. In effect Abaelard
charges his master with failing to distinguish the two readings, a short-
coming of which, as we have seen, M3 also appears to be guilty.
The conversions considered by Abaelard are those initially given by
M3 to illustrate the failure of its various forms but which M3 eventu-
ally rejects. According to Abaelard the advocates of the de sensu theory
did indeed maintain that all forms of conversion fail but according to
their own account they should have accepted some at least of those
which they rejected. They claim, for example, he tells us, that ‘(For) no
dead (thing) to be a man is possible’ is true but what they take to be its
simple converse ‘(For) no man to be dead is possible’ is false, just as the
de re reading of such sentences has them. Read de sensu, however, since
‘No man is dead’ and‘No dead (thing) is a man’ are logically equivalent
the two modal propositions must have the same truth-value.
The advocates of the de sensu theory, according to Abaelard, also
had an argument to show that term-contraposition fails for nominal
modals, an argument which is given in M3, although again it is rejected
there. Abaelard insists, however, that according to the de sensu theory
equivalence must be accepted here since it holds for the simple cat-
egorical from which the modals descend. The objection to it, accord-
ing to the de sensu theorists, is that while ‘(For) every non-stone to be a
non-man is possible’ is true, its converse by term-contraposition ‘(For)
every man to be a stone is possible’ is false. Their argument for the
truth of the former is interesting and in the Dialectica Abaelard does
not indicate what he thinks might be wrong with it. Let us call it the
Contraposition Argument. Both
Christopher J.Martin
128
(1) ‘(For) every man to be a non-man is possible’ and
(2) ‘(For) every non-man to be a non-man is possible’ are true.
(2) is obviously so and (1) is so, Abaelard tells us, they claim, because
every man will be a non-man, and ‘what is future is possible’. This
relies on an appeal to the de re reading, but exactly the same justifica-
tion seems to be given by M3. Since a non-stone is either a man or a
non-man it follows that (3) ‘(For) every non-stone to be a non-man is
possible’ is true. For Abaelard’s account of the flaw in the argument we
have to turn to the Logica ‘Ingredientibus’.
After working through the orders of equipollence and entailment
for quantified modals, and discussing the signification of modal adjec-
tives, where he again rejects the de sensu theory that modal claims are
simple categorical statements concerning states-of-affairs, Abaelard
moves on to discuss determinate modals, as in the Orléans texts he
distinguishes between their exposition as modal categoricals and as
temporal hypotheticals. His solution to the Equipollence Argument
in the Dialectica is the same as that in M3 save that he explicitly con-
strues the negation as what he elsewhere calls extinctive, that is to
say, propositionally. Here again the point being made is clearer if the
example is left in Latin:22
When we say that if ‘possibile est Socratem esse lapidem dum est lapis’ is
false, then ‘non possibile est Socratem esse lapidem dum est lapis’ is true,
with the negative particle we extinguish the whole sense of the proposition.
Rather than considering what he has to say about determinate modals
in the Dialectica, however, let me turn to the Logica ‘Ingredientibus’,
where Abaelard shows what is wrong with the Contraposition
Argument and what is right with the Equipollence Argument.
Abaelard’s discussion of modal propositions in the Logica
‘Ingredientibus’’ takes the form of short treatise on the subject placed
before his glosses on De Interpretatione, 12, in which the material is
organised in the same way as it is in the Dialectica and the Orléans
treatises. Abaelard retains here the distinction between grammati-
cal and semantical structure, continuing to insist that only adverbial
modals properly represent the semantical structure of modal claims,
22
Abaelard, Dialectica, p. 208.
Modality without the Prior Analytics 129
129
and indeed only some of them, since ‘possibly’, for example, is not
semantically a mode, and the sentence ‘Socrates possibly runs’ must be
expounded as ‘Socrates is able to run’. New in the ‘Ingredientibus’ is an
account of the proper way to form the various converses of adverbial
and nominal modals with a ‘that’ clause (quod). ‘(For) no body to be
a man is necessary’, for example, converts simply with ‘Nothing that
is (such that it is) necessary (for it) to be a man is a body’. With this
understood the principles for the conversion of modals are just those
for the conversion of simple propositions.
Abaelard no longer refers to his master in the discussion of modals
in the ‘Ingredientibus’ and the Contraposition Argument23
which was
associated with him in the Dialectica is not in the ‘Ingredientibus’
invoked as part of the criticism of the de sensu exposition of such
propositions, but rather analysed as involving a quite general mistake.
The argument, Abaelard presumably realised, applies equally well
against the de re account of nominal modals and so must be refuted
rather than invoked to criticise the de sensu theorists’ exposition of
them. It is an instance of a fallacy which may be equally well com-
mitted in converting simple categoricals. Whereas in the Dialectica
Abaelard’s complaint was that the advocates of the de sensu theory
did not recognise that they were committed to the logical equivalence
of term-contrapositives, here he complains only that those who appeal
to this argument have not properly formulated the contrapositive of
‘(For) every non-stone to be a non-man is possible’, which should
rather be ‘Every thing that is (such that it is) not possible (for it) to be
a non-man is a stone’, just what is required by the de re theory. In this
form, however, it is false, while the argument has apparently shown
that the original sentence is true. The problem Abaelard realises is that
in Aristotelian syllogistic all quantification carries an existential pre-
supposition. But in this case the predicate of the converted sentence,
in de re terms ‘able to be a non-man’, has universal extension and so
when contraposed it is empty. The inference fails, he tells us, in just the
way that the inference from ‘every non-human is a non-rose’ to every
‘rose is a human’ fails in the only circumstance in which the premiss
can be true, i.e. when there are no roses.
23
For a discussion of this argument in the Logica ‘Ingredientibus’ see
Astroh 2001.
Christopher J.Martin
130
Although Abaelard does not mention his master here, he does intro-
duce the theory associated with him in the Dialectica in one of the
two passages in which he refers to the Sophistical Refutations. Having
established that modals convert in the way that simple categoricals do,
assuming throughout the de re exposition of them, he notes that there is
an alternative to this. The de re exposition corresponds, he proposes, to
what Aristotle calls the per divisionem reading of a proposition. In the
case of ‘(For) a standing man to sit is possible’, for example, attributing
the ability to sit to someone who is presently standing. Alternatively
the proposition may be read per compositionem, or coniunctionem, to
yield the de sensu exposition ‘It is possible that what the proposition “a
standing man is sitting”says comes about’.As in the Dialectica Abaelard
rejects this exposition as not properly modal. He goes on, however, in
the ‘Ingredientibus’ to investigate in some detail the properties of imper-
sonal modal propositions, noting that there are some which cannot be
resolved personally, and so de re, but must be construed de sensu, and
when they are, they convert in that we may substitute for the subject
proposition the equipollent or implied converted proposition: again just
the position which he had insisted on in the Dialectica.
The logics of both de re and de sensu propositions are, Abaelard
argues, perfectly straightforward and, pace the objections of various
modern commentators, he correctly formulates the relations of equi-
pollence and implication for both of them.24
When he arrives finally at
the mixed logic of de re and de sensu modals Abaelard notes, however,
that if we persist in expounding propositions de sensu by predicating
the mode of the corresponding simple proposition, a general principle
that the de re exposition of modal proposition follows from its de sensu
exposition fails. For example, the proposition ‘(For) my son to be alive
is possible’ is false, Abaelard says of himself, expounded de re, because
he has no son, but true de sensu because the proposition that his son
is living may at some time be true. While noting that it perhaps does
not matter that this principle does not hold Abaelard goes on to offer
an alternative account of the de sensu exposition for which it does.
This version of the per coniunctionem reading attributes to an existing
subject the ability simultaneously to possess the features attributed
to it in the unexpounded modal proposition in contrast to the per
divisionem reading, which attributes to the subject characterised as
24
See Martin 2001.
Modality without the Prior Analytics 131
131
possessing one feature the ability to possess another. The difference is
that between ‘the standing man is able to be seated while remaining
standing’ and ‘the standing man is able to be seated’. Read in this way,
Abaelard claims, the de sensu exposition of any modal implies the de
re exposition but not vice versa.
Rather than going into any more detail here or considering
Abaelard’s account of determinate modals, the final third of his trea-
tise on modality, let me finish by saying something briefly about his
resolution there of the Equipollence Argument.
In the version of the argument that Abaelard considers the problem-
atic proposition is
(E**2) ‘(For) Socrates to be a stone is not possible while he is a stone’.
Its truth is inferred from the falsity of
(E**1) ‘(For) Socrates to be a stone is possible while he is as stone’.
Depending on whether this latter proposition is construed as a tem-
poral hypothetical or as a categorical modal, Abaelard notes, there are
three different ways in which we may construe (E**2). As an affirma-
tive temporal hypothetical the consequent of which is the negation of
the consequent of the original falsehood
(E**2a) While (Socrates is a stone), (for Socrates to be a stone is not pos-
sible); as a ‘negative’ temporal hypothetical
(E**2b) Not (while (Socrates is a stone), (for Socrates to be a stone is pos-
sible)) which is the propositional negation of the original falsehood; or as
negative categorical
modal
(E**2c) (For) Socrates to be a stone while he is a stone is not possible, with
the sense that it is not possible for the compound predicate ‘is a stone while
he is a stone’ to apply to Socrates.
Abaelard’s comments on these alternatives are very brief25
but it
is clear is that he has grasped perfectly that the validity or invalidity
25
Abaelard, Glossae: 431–432.
Christopher J.Martin
132
of the argument and so the preservation of the principles of equipol-
lence turns upon the way in which negation is understood and in par-
ticular its application both predicatively and as a propositional func-
tion. (E**2a) follows from (E**1) if it is a temporal hypothetical and
Socrates is a stone but this is false and so the argument is unsound.
(E**2b) follows from (E**1) if it is a temporal hypothetical and
(E**2c) if it is a categorical modal, but in both cases the determination
is included within the scope of the negation, propositional negation in
the first case, predicative negation in the second, and so the argument
cannot proceed to infer the truth of the determination.
4. Conclusion
Abaelard was notorious in at the beginning of the twelfth century for
the novelties which he introduced into logic and for his attack upon
the positions held by other Parisian masters, and he has seemed to
modern commentators to break new ground in the theory of modal
propositions. It is certainly true that his is the first reference to and use
of the distinction between the composite and divided reading of prop-
ositions made by Aristotle in the Sophistical Refutations. Abaelard’s
considered application of this distinction, however, does not, as we
have seen, ultimately identify the composite reading with the de sensu
theory of nominal modal propositions. In other areas we can see from
the Orléans treatises on modality and other early twelfth century texts
not discussed here that Abaelard is working within a well-developed
tradition and, incidentally, that the identification of the de sensu the-
ory with William of Champeaux must be reconsidered. Abaelard is
certainly an innovator in the study of modal propositions, but his
innovations have more relation to his sophisticated understanding of
scope and, for the first time in the Latin tradition, of negation as a
propositional operator on propositional contents than they have to
the introduction of a new theory of modality.26
With this new under-
standing of propositionality, however, the de sensu exposition of modal
propositions can be clearly formulated and distinguished from the de
re exposition, providing twelfth century logicians with a sophisticated
tool to use in their first attempts to understand the Prior Analytics.
26
For what was new in Abaelard’s metaphysics of modality see Martin 2001.
133
133
7 Ockham and the Foundations of
Modality in the Fourteenth Century
Calvin G. Normore
Prologue
There was a very considerable development of modal logic within the
mediaeval Latin tradition both before and rather soon after the trans-
lation of Aristotle’s Prior Analytics. The subject was explored, largely
without benefit of the Prior Analytics, by Abelard and his generation
and with the Prior Analytics in hand by Kilwardby and his. By the
early fourteenth century we find a good deal of reflection on just what
was involved in a modal logic.1
In particular by this time there are
a well-developed propositional logic and a well-developed syllogistic
and the question of how modality interacted with each could be and
was posed directly. In this chapter I hope first to present a sketch of the
semantic and metaphysical foundation of modality as it appeared in
the first half of the fourteenth century and then some of the nuts and
bolts of modal logic as it was developed by Ockham.
1. Part I. The Foundation
1.1 Something between a Fable and a Fact
Once upon a time, perhaps by the mid- to late thirteenth century, the
concept of possibility was intimately connected with that of power –
some state of affairs was thought possible just in case it was thought
there was some agent who could bring it about. For adherents of the
Abrahamic religions the chief among these agents was an omnipotent
God. Exactly what omnipotence meant is not entirely clear (it does
not seem to require that God be able to make it true that Adam freely
eats forbidden fruit, for example) but it at least entailed that if any
agent could make or destroy a thing then God could make or des-
troy that thing. For the Latin West this picture had already been given
1
Cf. Chapters 5 and 6 in this volume.
Calvin G. Normore
134
a vivid and interesting formulation by Anselm of Canterbury and it
had been developed in some earlier thirteenth century thinkers, Robert
Grosseteste, for example.2
It remained central until the middle of the
fourteenth century when a number of writers, Thomas Bradwardine
and Gregory of Rimini notable among them, launched us on a path
which broke the connection between possibility and power and even-
tually replaced it with a conception of possibility as a semantic or
logical matter. This is an idea which goes back at least to the early thir-
teenth century commentaries on Aristotle’s Physics and was imported
into theology by Richard Rufus of Cornwall and Henry of Ghent, and
developed by Duns Scotus.3
When this process was complete, instead
of considering what agents could do we came to consider first which
sentences could be true, and, strikingly, we came to see the question of
which sentences could be true as a question of the semantic relations
among terms. Thus was born the idea that the only necessity is verbal
necessity – an idea we still find it hard to shake.
1.2 Reflection
I find it difficult to overstate the magnitude of the shift which this story
postulates. It involves a shift in the logical structure of the modalities
(from S4-like systems in which what is possible is not necessarily so to
S5-like systems in which it is), a complete reconceiving of the relation
between time and modality, the separation of causal possibility from
possibility tout court, and even the repudiation of the axiom that act
precedes potency. If, as I claim, the decisive early battles in this struggle
occurred in the fourteenth century, one might expect William Ockham
to have been involved and indeed he was – on the side of the older ra-
ther than the newer modal model. Moreover his siding with the older
picture of modality is not just a quirk of his thought. On the contrary,
Ockham’s view on this question is central both to his conception of
valid inference and to his solution to the problem of future contin-
gents. Nor does Ockham argue merely from his theory. He thinks,
as we shall see, that the Scotistic device which was to play a crucial
2
Cf. for Anselm particularly in De Casu Diaboli and his so-called Philosophical
Fragment. For Grosseteste cf. his De Libero Arbitrio.
3
For a quick sketch of some of these developments cf. Normore 1984, especially
pp. 374ff.
Foundations of Modality in the Fourteenth Century 135
135
role in the development of the picture of modality as verbal – the so-
called non-evident capacity for opposites – is based on a logical error.
Ockham will turn out, on my telling, to be the hero of the piece but
like the most interesting heroes to be not entirely without flaw.
1.3 Ockham
Since Prof. Allan Wolter’s seminal paper “Ockham and the Textbooks:
On the Origin of Possibility” no one has disputed that there is a close
connection for Ockham – and indeed for Aquinas, Aureoli, Scotus and
Henry of Ghent as well, to name but a few – between possibility and
the power of God.4
Part of the connection Ockham states explicitly
when he writes:
Rather it should be understood that something’s being possible sometimes
is understood according to the laws ordained (ordinates) and instituted by
God and those things God is said to be able to do by his potentia ordinata.
[But sometimes] ‘to be able’ (posse) is understood in another way for ‘to be
able to do all that whose doing does not include a contradiction’ whether
God ordains this to be going to be done or not, for God can do many things
which he does not do as the Master says. ... And these things are said to be
possible by his potentia absoluta. (Quodlibet VI, Q.l)
Ockham’s view about the relation between God’s potentia ordinata
and potentia absoluta is still the subject of much controversy and to
take it up here would lead us far afield. What seems clear is that there
are not, for Ockham, two sorts of possibility, one corresponding to the
potentia ordinata and the other to the potentia absoluta. Rather to say
that something is possible de potentia ordinata is just to say that it is
possible de potentia absoluta and that God has in some sense ordained
its doing. The modalities correlated with God’s absolute power are the
basic modalities.
If this is true it already shows that the Diodorean conception of
possibility as truth-at-some-time is certainly not Ockham’s concep-
tion. There are things which God can do de potentia absoluta but
never will do. These are, nonetheless, genuinely possible. Thus we are
given a lower bound on possibilities – there are at least more things
4
Reprinted in Wolter 2003 ch. 13.
Calvin G. Normore
136
possible than actual. What of an upper bound? We are torn today
between two conceptions of the basic modalities  – one sometimes
called logical and another sometimes called metaphysical. The logical
conception of possibility has at least two species. One identifies it
with consistency. On this view a sentence describes a possibility if
no contradiction is entailed by it taken together with the axioms of
whatever logic is being employed. ‘Contradiction’ looks like a syn-
tactic concept. It is common for elementary logic books to claim that
‘It is not the case that p’ is the contradictory of p and that an explicit
contradiction is a conjunction of contradictories. Sometimes a sen-
tence is said to be an implicit contradiction or to imply a contradiction
if an explicit contradiction can be derived from it. Another form of
the logical conception identifies it with truth in a model where models
are constrained only by the requirement that those items picked out
as the logical constants behave the same way in all of them.
There are certainly evidences of a consistency conception of pos-
sibility in the Middle Ages. As heirs to Aristotle’s De Interpretatione
mediaeval logicians had a formal notion of contradictory and hence
of contradiction. But it is not this formal notion of contradiction
which Ockham has in mind in his discussion of potentia absoluta; nor
when Ockham says that by his potentia absoluta God can do ‘any-
thing whose doing does not include a contradiction’ does he mean
that if there is no semantic inconsistency in the description of God’s
bringing something about then God can bring it about. He writes:
Sometimes some consequence or conditional should be conceded although
the antecedent can be maintained without the consequent when the ante-
cedent involves a contradiction. Hence if it is asked whether the Holy Spirit
would not be distinct from the Son if he did not proceed from the Son, it
should be answered that it is so because through this question nothing is
asked but the truth of this conditional “If the Holy Spirit did not proceed
from the Son, the Holy Spirit would not be distinct from the Son” which is
true though it is not evidently true. Whence many consequences are good
and many conditionals true although not evident to us. (Summa Logicae
III-3, c.42 1.47–56)
Ockham uses examples like this to support the general claim that
there are sentences that involve a contradiction but cannot be shown
to be inconsistent. He writes:
Foundations of Modality in the Fourteenth Century 137
137
From all this it is evident that many propositions including a contradiction –
that is entailing contradictories – can be maintained in impossible positio,
nor should contradictories be conceded on account of this because when
such a positio is made not everything following from the positum should
be conceded. Rather many things which follow should be denied or not
conceded. For all those things which do not follow evidently so that such
an inference cannot be made evident by natural consequences should not be
conceded because of the positum. (Summa Logicae III-3, c.42, 1.68)
The context of the text just quoted is Ockham’s discussion of a type
of Obligatio known as impossible positio. In this type of obligatio
the positum is a sentence which is in fact impossible. Since the obli-
gatio would be trivial in such a case if rules like “from the impossible
anything follows” could be invoked there are restrictions on the rules
which may be employed. It seems that for Ockham the rules which may
be employed are those of what he calls simple formal consequence.
In his discussion of consequentia Ockham distinguishes between
those which are ‘formally’ valid and those which are valid but only
‘materially’. He divides formally valid consequences into two kinds –
those which hold immediately in virtue of what he calls an extrinsic
middle and those which hold mediately through an extrinsic middle
but immediately through a middle which is intrinsic. Extrinsic mid-
dles are very like inference rules in the twentieth century sense; in-
trinsic middles are (a subset of) true categorical sentences. Thus formal
consequences holding immediately in virtue of extrinsic middles seem
to be what we would call formally valid arguments, and formal con-
sequences holding immediately in virtue of an-intrinsic middle are a
special kind of enthymeme which can be reduced to a formally valid
argument by adding the right kind of premiss. If this is correct then the
inconsistent sentences would be just those which can be refuted in an
obligatio employing impossible positio.
Support for this claim can be found in Ockham’s discussion. For ex-
ample, giving advice to the respondens in an impossible positio about
which posita to accept, he writes:
Whence only that impossible proposition from which it is not possible for
contradictories to be inferred through rules and propositions per se nota
which no understanding can doubt should be accepted in impossible positio.
(Summa Logicae III-3, c.42 1.24–27, p. 739)
Calvin G. Normore
138
And just a little later he spells out the kinds of rules which should be
accepted and rejected in impossible positio:
Hence this rule can be given: everything following from the positio by nat-
ural and simple consequences holding by virtue of propositions or rules
per se nota should be conceded. From which it follows that in impossible
positio what follows from what has been posited or well conceded syl-
logistically should be conceded. Similarly what follows by virtue of rules
about circumstamces such as ‘from an affirmative with an infinite predicate
to a negative with a finite predicate is a good consequence’ and suchlike
should be conceded. For if such consequences were denied there could be
no disputation. However that which follows by an ut nunc consequence
or a material consequence or other consequences like this can be denied
however much it may truly follow from the positum (Summa Logicae III-3,
c.42 1.36-45, p. 740)
In the text quoted, Ockham claims that there are good consequences
which do not follow ‘evidenter’ and which cannot be made evident ‘ex
naturalibus’. Such consequences are, I claim, not formal, and while
they may be good their consequent cannot be shown to follow from
their antecedent except in very special cases.
Given these texts it is reasonable to interpret Ockham as asserting
that although sentences like that in the Trinitarian case quoted above
entail a contradiction in the sense that it is impossible for them to be
true unless contradictions are true, there is no formal consequence or
chain of formal consequences holding immediately through extrinsic
middles which will get us from the sentence to a contradiction, and,
moreover, there is no evident or per se nota proposition which, when
added as a premise, will facilitate the deduction. In short Ockham
is arguing that there are valid arguments whose validity cannot be
known a priori and cannot be guaranteed by logic alone. From this it
follows that there are propositions which are impossible but cannot be
known a priori to be impossible.
The other widely used contemporary notion of possibility, the one
frequently called ‘metaphysical possibility’, seems suggested by this re-
sult. It is a concept still under development. In one influential way of
conceiving the matter some sentence expresses a metaphysical possi-
bility if and only if what it expresses is compatible with the identities
and natures of the things under discussion – something which may
well not be graspable a priori (in the modern sense of that phrase).
Foundations of Modality in the Fourteenth Century 139
139
Thus if Cicero is Tully it is not metaphysically possible that Cicero be
a famous orator and Tully not; nor is it metaphysically possible that
water contain no hydrogen – though it is metaphysically possible (we
suppose) that Aristotle have been a wrestler rather than a philosopher.
This account too employs a modal term ‘compatible’ and we might
be led to think that any satisfactory account of the modalities will
employ some modal term – though we can build a theory of the mo-
dalities. This seems closer to the way Ockham and his contemporaries
proceed; Ockham and many of them accepted the view that a conse-
quence is good just in case it is impossible for its antecedent to be true
and its consequent false. Ockham also accepted the rules that “from
the impossible anything follows” and “the necessary follows from
anything”. Thus, for Ockham, including a contradiction is a broader
notion than formally entailing a contradiction and, hence, the sphere
of the possible is narrower than that of the semantically consistent. Is
it then the sphere of the metaphysically possible?
There seem to be two ways in which, for Ockham, something se-
mantically consistent might turn out to be impossible. In some cases,
like the Trinitarian case mentioned above, language is simply inad-
equate to reality. The difficulty here is in our capacity to form concepts
adequate to express the natures or identities of the things involved,
which seems to be very like the issues involved in the notion of meta-
physical modality. There are, however, other cases where Ockham
seems to recognize necessities which would not be metaphysical ne-
cessities in that sense.
Ockham thought that the past as such is necessary. For example, in
Quodlibet II, q.5 he writes:
I say that had God produced the world from eternity he would have pro-
duced it from eternity by necessity because supposing that case this propos-
ition would now be necessary ‘The world was from eternity’ since it would
be true and never could be false. However it would have been able to be
false just as a true proposition about the past is necessary and yet was able
to be false.
Why does Ockham think that the past is necessary? Two lines
of thought converge here. One is simply Aristotelian and relates to
Aristotle’s attempt to define temporal order in terms of the order of
potency and act. That is another subject. I want to focus here instead
Calvin G. Normore
140
on the second line, which is intimately connected with what I call Peter
Aureoli’s Principle:
If x is A and it is possible that x be not-A, then x can become not-A.
Aureoli’s Principle links possibility and mutability and from it the neces-
sity of the past follows almost at once. No one can change the past for
that would require that some sentence of the form ‘It was the case that
q’ be true before a time t and false after t. But ‘It was the case that q’ is
true at a time only if ‘q’ was true at an earlier time. If that condition is
met when we consider just the times before t it will certainly be met if
we consider these plus some times after t. So if ‘It was the case that q’ is
true at some time, it is true at any later time.
I call the principle Aureoli’s because Petrus Aureoli used it and an
argument rather like the one I have just sketched to show that either
the future is necessary or some sentences about the future are neither
true nor false. The future is no more changeable than the past. But if
some sentence, say ‘The Antichrist will be’, is true but can be false, and
if Aureoli’s Principle holds, then ‘The Antichrist will be’ can become
false. But then the future would change from one in which there is to
be an Antichrist to one in which there is not. That is impossible.
Ockham accepts Aureoli’s Principle. He also accepts the necessity
of the past and the view that every sentence is either true or false. He
agrees that if something is actual and immutable then it is necessary.
He evades Aureoli’s argument by adopting something very close to a
disappearance theory of truth. On this view to claim that ‘q’ is true is
not to ascribe a property to ‘q’ at all and so sentences about the future
can be true without their truth being part of what is actual. It was
commonly conceded during the Middle Ages that God is immutable
and, by extension, that the single act by which God creates is not re-
visable. Given that that act is actual and that whatever is actual and
immutable is necessary it follows that whatever God does God does
necessarily. Thus God cannot do anything which God does not in fact
do. This was apparently accepted by Peter Abelard (inter alia) and was
among the propositions condemned at Paris in 1277.
Ockham does not draw the condemned conclusion. Instead he, in
effect, claims that God’s single creative act is not all actual. He claims,
for instance, that ‘God will give Peter grace on the last day’ while de-
scribing part of God’s activity does not describe anything which is. By
Foundations of Modality in the Fourteenth Century 141
141
thus suggesting that the divine creative act unfolds in time Ockham
seems to suggest that, in some way, God is in time. Thus it is not sur-
prising that his view aroused opposition. Some of that opposition fo-
cussed on Aureoli’s Principle.
The way in which the past is necessary seems different from
other ways of being necessary. Even if one thinks that a sentence
like ‘Ockham existed’ is now as necessary as ‘2 + 2 = 4’, it is none-
theless reasonable to suppose that it was not always as necessary.
We can then distinguish between true sentences which could have
been false once but can no longer be false and true sentences which
never could have been false. Actuality plus immutability character-
izes the first kind but seems too weak for the second. It is central to
Ockham’s view as I understand it that this appearance is illusory –
that at bottom necessity just is actuality plus immutability. If this
is right Ockham’s notions of necessity and possibility are not the
contemporary (to us) notions of metaphysical necessity and possi-
bility either.
Of course there is a difference between necessity and immutability
tout court and there is also a difference between being always neces-
sary and being necessary from some time on, but if I am right this diffe-
rence is not a difference in the kind of necessity involved. What is dif-
ferent is just when the sentences are necessary. Moreover for Ockham
there seems to be no difference between the necessity of the past and
the necessity involved in valid inference. I think a case can be made
that it is a necessary and sufficient condition for a consequence’s being
simply valid that not even God by his absolute power can make the
antecedent true and the consequent false. Ockham is a modal monist.
Some evidence for this can be had by looking at cases where
Ockham employs a sentence about the past as a middle to reduce an
enthymematic formal consequence to one holding by virtue of an ex-
trinsic middle; for such a reduction to be valid the necessity of the in-
trinsic middle must be at least as strong as that of the conclusion. This
Ockham does on at least one occasion. He writes:
This should be noted – that some such consequences are only ut nunc
and some are simple. For when the predication of the subject of the ante-
cedent of the subject of the consequent is necessary, then the consequence
is simple; however when the [resulting] categorical is contingent and not
necessary then the consequence is only ut nunc. Hence this consequence is
Calvin G. Normore
142
only ut nunc “Any divine person was from eternity; therefore something
which is creating was from eternity” if the subject of the consequent is
taken [to stand for] what is, because this is contingent “Something which
is creating is God”. However if the subject of the consequent is taken for
what was, then the consequence is in a way simple, because this is ne-
cessary “Something creating was God” taking the subject for what was
just as this is necessary “God was creating”. (Summa Logicae III-3, c.6,
1.243–256)
One might cavil about the ‘in a way’. I take it though that the argu-
ment in question is this:
“Any divine person was from eternity”
Therefore, “Something which was creating was from eternity”
The antecedent is simply necessary. The argument, Ockham suggests,
is simply valid. Hence the consequent must be necessary in whatever
sense is required for validity. The consequent was not always true but
is now true and indeed necessarily true in the sense in which the past is
necessary. Hence that sense must be strong enough to preserve a valid
inference from a premiss that is timelessly necessary.
Since which sentences are necessary changes from time to time, it
would seem that which arguments are valid changes from time to time.
Hence we might expect the full reduction principles characteristic of
S5 to fail for Ockham’s logic. He himself suggests as much when he
writes:
Sometimes, although rarely, a modal universal may be impossible and each
singular possible as is evident in the case of “Each of these of necessity is
true” pointing out “Socrates was at [time] a” and “Socrates was not at a”.
This universal is impossible yet each singular is possible for this is possible
“This is necessarily true ‘Socrates was at a’ “, and similarly the other is pos-
sible. (Summa Logicae II-10, 1.94–99)
The point can be stated more explicitly, putting L for the operator ‘it is
necessary that’, and M for the operator ‘it is possible that’. The claim
is then that if we could derive “It is necessary that Socrates was at a”
(LA) from “It is possible that it is necessary that Socrates was at a”
(MLA) then by applying rules for de dicto modality which Ockham
accepts we could derive the contradictory of “It is possible that it is
Foundations of Modality in the Fourteenth Century 143
143
necessary that Socrates was not at a”(~ML~A).That is because we can
derive ~ML~A from LA. But we are told explicitly that that is true.5
Ockham’s modal monism and his acceptance of the view that ac-
tuality plus immutability yield necessity were controversial in the
Middle Ages. We already find the beginnings of a challenge to them in
the work of Robert Grosseteste almost a century earlier. In his treatise
“On Free Will” Grosseteste claims:
Of what is necessary there are two sorts. Of one sort is that which has no
possibility in any way for being otherwise. ‘Two and three are five’ is of this
sort for it is not able to be untrue either before time or in time. Such a prop-
osition is simply necessary. There is another sort of necessary thing which
has no power to be its opposite in the past or in the present or in the future.
‘The Antichrist is going to be’ is of this sort and so are all those which are
about the future and which are such that given that their truth exists if the
truth is not able to have non-being after being as has been shown above.
However there is a possibility that from eternity and without beginning it
will have been false. (De Libero Arbitrio c.6, p. 68. 1.24ff.)
One might wonder whether Grosseteste thinks that God now has the
power to do that which he neither did nor will do and which is impos-
sible in his second sense. Grosseteste thinks that God does have this
power but in a rather peculiar way: God has the power because he has
already exercised it. On Grosseteste’s view not only is God’s power to
do A numerically the same as God’s power to do not-A, but for God
to actualize his power to do A is just for him to actualize his power to
do not-A. This view makes it difficult to be certain just how far from
Aureoli’s Principle Grosseteste has strayed.
If it is not clear whether Grosseteste rejected the doctrine that what
is actual and immutable is necessary it is clear that John Duns Scotus
did. The context is a mediaeval problem closely related to the question
5
The proof of ~MLA~A from LA holds even in the system T and is as follows.
Let A be “Socrates was at a”:
1) LA Premiss
2) A Necessity Elimination from 1
3) MA Possibility Introduction
4) LA ๖LMA Modal distribution (given that 2 implies 3)
5) LMA 1,4 Modus Ponens
6) ~M~~L~A Modal interchange
7) ~ML~A Double negation
Calvin G. Normore
144
of God’s freedom, namely, the problem whether a created will which
existed only for an instant would be able to act freely. Suppose a will
that exists only at instant t. Suppose this will does A. To do A freely at
t it seems that the will must be able to avoid doing A. But when can
this will avoid doing A? Not before or after t since what does not exist
has no powers. But not at t either. At t the will does A and, if Aureoli’s
Principle is correct, then if it does A at t and can avoid A at t then it
can change from doing A to avoiding A at t. But change takes time and
t is just an instant. Hence the will does A necessarily. One way out of
this difficulty is to abandon belief in instants. A second is to abandon
Aureoli’s Principle and admit that what is actual and immutable might
still not be necessary. This is Scotus’ approach. For, he says:
Therefore there is a power of this cause [the will] for the opposite of it [the
volition] so that without any change it may cause the contrary. This real
power is a power which as first act is naturally prior to the contraries which
as second act are naturally posterior. For a first act considered in that instant
In which it is naturally prior to a second act contingently produces that ‘se-
cond act’ as its effect so that as something naturally prior It would equally
be able to produce a contrary thing. Moreover this real act of power nat-
urally prior to that which is produced accompanies a logical power which
is an absence of exclusion in the terms (quae est non repugnantia termino-
rum). (I. Sent., d.39 t. 16)
Here Scotus abandons Aureoli’s Principle while apparently accepting
an analogue of it for the order of nature. The text is a remarkably rich
one and Scotus’ claim that the ability which the will has for the time
it freely does A to do not-A instead “accompanies a logical power
which is an absence of exclusion in the terms” seems to be the first
explicit identification of necessity and analyticity. It entails abandon-
ment of the tag ‘omne quod est, quando est, necesse est esse’ and with
it Aureoli’s Principle, but it is not clear that it entails abandonment of
the necessity of the past. Curiously, it may have been Ockham him-
self who, in his zeal to correct what he perceived as Scotus’ error, first
showed how the non-evident capacity for opposites connected with
the necessity of the past. In his De Praedestinatione Q.III Ockham
attacks Scotus’ view, claiming:
Suppose that ‘the will wills this’ is true for the instant A but that the cap-
acity to not will this can be actualized by you at that same instant. Then at
Foundations of Modality in the Fourteenth Century 145
145
the same instant these would be simultaneously true: ‘the will wills this’,
‘the will does not will this’ and thus contradictories at the same time. (trans,
based on Adams and Kretzmann 1983, p. 73)
This argument is a rather complex enthymeme involving both time
and modality. Ockham continues:
Suppose instead that if this capacity were actualized so that the will does not
will this for instant A, then its opposite ‘the will wills this in instant A’ will
be false ... On the contrary every sentence simply about the present has, if
it is true, some necessary sentence about the past [corresponding to it]. But
‘the will wills this in instant A’ is true by hypothesis and is simply about the
present, therefore ‘the will willed this in instant A’ will always be necessary
afterward. Therefore, after instant A, ‘the will did not will this in instant A’
cannot be true. (Ibid., my translation)
Ockham’s argument is valid but seems subtly to miss the point. Scotus
does not have to show that ‘the will did not will this in instant A’ can
be true but only that ‘the will does not will this in instant A’ could
have been true. And Scotus need not accept PMp ๖MPp, which seems
to be the principle Ockham employs.
Christopher J. Martin has pointed out that in formulating his doc-
trine of the non-evident simultaneous capacity for opposites Scotus
uses the framework of the Obligatio, and that his innovation consists
in rejecting a rule of Obligatio that corresponds in that framework to
Aureoli’s Principle. It is within this picture that the subsequent debate
about the necessity of the past is carried on. Yet, in a sense, by accept-
ing this framework the Ockhamists have already sold the past. To re-
fute someone in an Obligatio one has to show that the positum and
the proposita form a set from which a contradiction can be formally
derived. In other words within Obligatio impossibility collapses into
semantic inconsistency.
Nevertheless the debate about the necessity of the past was vigorous
and in it both sides deployed the immutability of God. Those like
Thomas Buckingham who claimed that God cannot make a different
past argue that to suppose God can is to suppose an impossible change
of the divine mind. Those like Bradwardine and Gregory of Rimini
who argue that God can make a different past claim that to suppose
he cannot is to suppose an impossible diminution of the divine power
over time. Starting from divine immutability Gregory argues that the
Calvin G. Normore
146
proper test of whether God can make a sentence to have been true is
whether the terms of the sentence exclude one another. Gregory writes:
The third consequence is that God is able to make any past thing not to
have been. I prove this proposition thus: any past thing not to have been
does not imply a contradiction, therefore any past thing God can make not
to have been. The consequence is evident from the preceding argument. The
antecedent I prove because Adam’s not having been and similarly Eve’s and
Abel’s and so on for singulars does not imply a contradiction. For in say-
ing that Adam was not it is no more said that Adam was and was not, nor
does any other contradiction follow from the same, than would if it were
said that the Antichrist or some other thing which is going to be in fact will
not be.
The second argument goes thus:
God did not will to produce Adam, therefore God did not produce Adam
and further, therefore Adam was not. The consequences are necessary and
the first antecedent is possible, therefore so is the last consequence and fur-
ther it follows ‘it is possible for Adam not to have been, therefore God is
able to make it that Adam will not have been.’ [If] one asks if the first ante-
cedent is possible, it is proved thus: everything that God was able from eter-
nity to will, he is now able from eternity to have willed and what he was able
not to will he is able not to have willed. Therefore, although he will have
willed from eternity to produce Adam he is able not to have willed it and he
is able to will not to produce him just as he was able from eternity. (I. Sent.
d. 42 – UU, q. 1, art. 2, f. 162 r. b)
Those, like Buckingham, who argue for the necessity of the past are
fond of enumerating implausible consequences of the contrary view –
consequences like that it would be possible for a man who in fact had
parents to lack them and possible for Christ to be born only yesterday.
These are not silly objections. If the origins of things are essential to
them, then it is an essential property of me that I had the parents I had,
and it may be essential to me that I was born when I was. Careful
consideration of just how the parts of the past depend on one another
might well show that God’s power to make a different past is signifi-
cantly more limited than was his power to make a different future.
Later things may require earlier ones in a way in which earlier ones do
not require later ones. But for Ockham and most other theologians of
Foundations of Modality in the Fourteenth Century 147
147
the fourteenth century this type of argument is a non-starter. Among
the propositions condemned at Paris is 1277 we find “that God cannot
produce the effect of a secondary cause without the secondary cause
itself.” Perhaps in response to this, one of the cornerstones of four-
teenth century theology is the claim that God can do directly whatever
can be done with the help of creatures. From this principle it follows
immediately that the efficient causes of things are not essential to them
and further that if God has any power over the past at all he can make
one thing never to have been without altering anything else. The im-
mutability of the divine power and Scotus’ criterion combine to reduce
necessity to something very like analyticity. In particular they combine
to emphasise the transcendence of God and to eliminate time as an
element in conceptions of modality.
This has consequences for the logic of modality (for instance, it
makes it possible to accept the characteristic S5 thesis Mp ๖LMp,
which is falsified in a modal tense logic in which sentences become
necessarily true, and it has consequences too for our understanding of
what modality is. The fourteenth century discussions of God’s power
in the period after Ockham emphasise the differences between the
divine power and the powers of other things. In so doing they rob
the notion of power of its explanatory centrality. We still think with
the consequences.
2. Part II Modal Logic
By the early fourteenth century logicians were the possessors not only
of an assertoric syllogistic that extended and considerably revised
Aristotle’s own, but also of a propositional logic which included a
truth-functional account of conjunction and disjunction – though not
of the conditional.6
They turned to modal logic with these resources
in hand.
For fourteenth century authors modals were, at their core, adverbial
modifications of the copula of a sentence. Following a tradition going
back to Aristotle they distinguished six ‘basic’ modals – necessary, con-
tingent, possible, impossible, true and false. They also treated tenses
6
At least not of the conditional if one does not identify what was termed ‘ut nunc’
consequence with the material conditional. I do not think this is the right way to
understand ut nunc consequence but on this cf. Adams. M. 1973, pp. 5–37.
Calvin G. Normore
148
in a way largely parallel to one part of their treatment of modals and
made forays into deontic logic. In what follows here I will concen-
trate on two of the four modes they themselves seem to have taken as
central – necessary, possible. As is customary with us they recognised
that impossibility and contingency could be defined in terms of these.
For Ockham the most basic modal sentence is one of the form
Q A (mode) is B
where Q is some determiner expression such as ‘omnis’ (all), ‘aliquis’
(some) or‘nullus’ (none). A and B were taken to be names either proper
or general which, in normal cases,‘supposited for’ the objects they sig-
nified (i.e. of which they were names). Sentences without a determiner
were taken to be singular if A was a proper name and ‘particular’; that
is equivalent to a sentence with an explicit ‘aliquis’ in front, if A was
a general name. Within this framework in an assertoric sentence like
1) Some Humans are Greeks
‘Humans’ would supposit for the actual humans and ‘Greeks’ for
the actual Greeks. The sentence would be true if there is overlap in the
supposition of the two terms.
When we add a mode to such a sentence the sentence can, on
Ockham’s view, be understood in two ways. Thus
2) Some humans possibly are Greeks
could be understood ‘in the divided sense’ (in sensu diviso) or ‘in the
composite sense’ (in sensu composito).
If we understand such a sentence in the divided sense, Ockham
claims it has two readings and in each the supposition of the terms is
affected in a way that depends on the particular modal involved. On
both readings the supposition of the predicate is affected but on one
reading, that of the subject is, and on the other it is not. Thus for 2) we
get readings I might express this way:
2ಿSome actual humans are possible Greeks.
And
Foundations of Modality in the Fourteenth Century 149
149
2ೀSome possible humans are possible Greeks.
2ಿand 2ೀare not sentences Ockham would have liked because they
replace the adverbial modification of the copula with adjectival modi-
fications of the terms and so are not, strictly speaking, even modal sen-
tences by Ockham’s lights. They do, however, as we will see, accurately
represent the logical structure Ockham attributes to such sentences
If we understand 2 in the composite sense, it is, Ockham claims,
equivalent to a sentence in which a modal adjective is predicated of
a ‘dictum’. A dictum is an accusative plus infinitive construction in
Latin the closest natural analogue of which in English is a construction
like “for humans to be Greeks” though we more commonly use “that
humans are Greeks”.7
Thus, in Ockham’s account, 2 taken in the com-
posite sense is equivalent to
3. For some humans to be Greeks is possible
(Aliquos homines esse Graecos est possibile)
or
3ಿ.[It is] possible for some humans to be Greeks
(Possibile est aliquos homines esse graecos)
which in the Latin differ only in whether the adjective ‘possibile’ is in
subject or predicate position.
Strictly speaking, in these sentences a modal is the predicate (or sub-
ject) term and the other term, the dictum, functions very like a name
for sentences.8
Thus we have only what Quine would have called the
first grade of modal involvement.
We are now in a position to represent Ockham’s modal syllogistic.
We can do so surprisingly simply: Take a complete set of rules for
the sentential calculus and a complete assertoric syllogistic. Add two
basic ideas:
7
The difference between the apparently subjunctive ‘possible for A to be B’ and
the indicative ‘possible that A is B’ may well be significant and bear directly
on the issue whether possibility is to be understood in terms of powers; cf.
Hacking 1967, pp. 143–168. I do not know how to settle the better English
translation of the Latin accusative infinitive construction on grammatical
grounds and will use both English forms indifferently.
8
Indeed Buridan explicitly claims that dicta supposit for propositions.
Calvin G. Normore
150
a) that sentences in the divided sense should be understood so that
the copula always ampliates the predicate but may or may not
ampliate or restrict the subject. Treat the result as though it were
an assertoric sentence with new terms. Apply the rules listed below
and the standard assertoric syllogistic. Stir!
b) that sentences in the composite sense i.e. with a modal predicate or
a modal term prefixed be treated inside syllogisms according to the
rules of a propositional modal logic.
What slightly complicates the presentation of such a system is that
Ockham, like all of his contemporaries as far as I have been able to de-
termine, does not attempt to provide a complete and detailed account
of his logic. For example, while he thinks that conjunction (et) and dis-
junction (vel) are commutative and associative follows from the truth
conditions he gives for conjunctions and disjunctions he nowhere
states that. Again while much of his modal syllogistic can be derived
by applying a few rules to the assertoric syllogistic, he and his contem-
poraries prefer to divide the subject by figure and mood and treat each
of these subdivision separately. In the Appendix I have attempted to
provide a set of rules I think to be complete and to indicate where pos-
sible places in which Ockham states them or commits himself to them.
Ockham does not attempt himself to provide a minimal basis for
his modal syllogistic so to determine the adequacy of the set of rules
provided in the Appendix one would need, as far as I have been able
to tell, to check them case by case against Ockham’s resvults. I gladly
leave that as an exercise for the reader!
3. Appendix
Ockham’s Propositional logic
Let A and B be schemata for sentences
Reversible Rules (each of these can be read top to bottom or bottom
to top)
Introduction Eliminaton
A et B A vel B A A non non A
B et A B vel A A non non A A
Conjunction Disjunction Double Negation
Commutation Commutation
Duplication
Foundations of Modality in the Fourteenth Century 151
151
Conjunction DeMorgan’s Rules
Introduction Elimination
A A et B A et B A vel B
B A Non (non A vel non B) Non (non A et non B)
A et B
non-reversible rules
Si A, B A
A et B A A
A A vel B
B A
Meta-rules about consequence
If A ๵B and B ๵C then A ๵
 C
Ockham’s Modal Propositional Logic (OMPL)
Add to OPL the following non-reversible rules
Nec A A Cont A Nec A
A Pos A Pos A et Pos non A non pos non A
pos A
non nec non A
If A ๵B then Nec A ๵
 B
(S.LII,c. 24.·If the antecedent is necessary,the consequent is necessary.)
Ockham’s Assertoric Syllogistic
Simple Conversion Subalternation
a) No a is b b) Some a is b a) Every a is b b) No a is b
No b is a Some b is a Some a is b Some a is not b
Let us, when convenient, abbreviate ‘Every a is b’ by Aab, ‘Some a
is b’ by Iab
‘No a is b’ by Eab and ‘Some a is not b’ by Oab
Calvin G. Normore
152
Let –X be the contradictory of X then
Reductio ad impossibile
Contradiction
Aab Eab Iab Oab
–Aab –Eab –Iab –Oab
A
B
–B
–A
Barbara Celerant
Aab Eab
Aca Aca
Acb Ecb
Given this background we can extend the assertoric syllogistic to
modal syllogistic in the divided sense by simply adding the following:
Let ‘pos X’ be the term that supposits for the things which can be X,
‘nec X’ the term which supposits for the things that are necessarily X and
‘cont X’ the term suppositing for the things which are contingently X.
Restriction Rules
Every Pos A is B Every A is B Every Pos A is B
Every A is B Every Nec A is B Every Cont A is B
No Pos A is B No A is B No Pos A is B
No A is B No Nec A is B No Cont A is B
Ampliating Rules
Some Nec A is B Some A is B Some Cont A is B
Some A is B Some Pos A is B Some A is B
Composite Sense Rules
That p is necessary That p is necessary That p is necessary
p p p
q q
That q is necessary That q is necessary
Foundations of Modality in the Fourteenth Century 153
153
The connection between the divided and the composite senses in the
case of singulars.
That (This) A is B is Possible (This) A can be B
(This) A can be B That (this) A is B is Possible
154
8 Theological and Scientific
Applications of the Notion of
Necessity in the Mediaeval
and Early Modern Periods
Jack MacIntosh
In the mediaeval and early modern periods the notion of necessity
was found important in both theological and scientific areas. For the
mediaevals, following Aristotle, a scientific result had to be deduced
from universal, necessary principles via a valid syllogism, to yield a
universally necessary conclusion:
It is clear [said Aristotle] that if the propositions from which a deduction
proceeds are universal, then it is necessary for the conclusion of such a
demonstration ... to be eternal. There is therefore no demonstration of
perishable things, nor any understanding of them simpliciter but only inci-
dentally, because nothing holds of them universally but only at some time
and in some way.1
In the late fifteenth century Petrus Garsia, bishop of Ussellus in
Sardinia, noted that this left experimental results outside the scientific
fold: “To assert that ... experimental knowledge is science or a part of
natural science is ridiculous ... [Experimental knowledge] according to
those of that opinion, is practical knowledge, whereas natural science
in itself and in all its parts is purely speculative knowledge.”2
This view
was still held in the early modern period, especially among the writers
of logic texts, although others, following Francis Bacon, pointed to
natural philosophy’s need for a new notion of demonstration.
1
An. Post., Aristotle 1994, 75b 21–26.
2
Garsia 1489, quoted Partington 1961, 2:10. Garsia was criticizing Pico della
Mirandola.
This chapter began as a talk in the Logic Workshop organized by Max Cresswell,
Adriane Rini, and Ed Mares. Adriane, Ed, and in particular Max have offered a
variety of very helpful suggestions, as has Peter Anstey. Unfortunately, for reasons
of space, not all of them have found their way into this version of the chapter.
Theological and Scientific Applications 155
155
Theologically, the derivations of truths about God and God’s re-
lation to humanity provided examples of necessity, but another, dis-
tinct, modal notion was also in play, that of necessary existence,
which remained an important notion, theologically, throughout the
early modern period. For the mediaeval views I shall concentrate on
Aquinas, whose writings provide us with a variety of senses, some-
times overlapping, of necessity, and which also provide a clear account
of the notion of necessary existence.
1. Necessity and Necessary Existence in Aquinas
There are a number of senses of necessity in Aquinas and other medi-
aeval authors. Here I consider four which remained important in the
early modern period: necessity as the self-evident, tensed necessity, ab-
solute necessity, and necessary existence.
1.1. Self-Evidence
Thomas notes that “self-evident” truths need not be obviously self-
evident: necessary truths may be difficult to discover. Effectively
dismissing the ontological argument when considering the question
“Whether the existence of God is self-evident?”3
Thomas allows a
spectrum of possibilities: things which are obvious to all or almost all
(“Humans are animals”), things which are ‘obvious’ only after a good
deal of intellectual hard work4
(revealed but deducible truths, scientific
principles5
), and things whose truth, let alone whose ‘self-evidence’,
may be quite hidden from us:
What is in itself the more certain may seem to us the less certain because
of the weakness of our intellect.... Doubt about articles of faith is not due
to the uncertain nature of the truths, but to the weakness of our human
intelligence.6
3
Summa Theologiae (hereafter ST) 1a 2.1. In the next century Ockham discussed
this question in detail (Ockham 1970, I, D3, Q4, 432–442), but Thomas’s
succinct points are sufficient here.
4
Cf. De Veritate 10.12c, where Thomas notes that similar points may be found
in Boethius.
5
Summa Contra Gentiles (hereafter SCG) 1.4; MacDonald 1993, 178–179.
6
ST 1a 1.5 ad 1.
Jack MacIntosh
156
1.2. Tensed Necessity (Necessity per Accidens)
In ordinary language modal terms are typically tensed:  It was pos-
sible for you not to be reading this sentence, but that is no longer
possible. “It is impossible per accidens for Socrates not to have run, if
he did run.”7
The sense of necessity involved, as Arthur Prior pointed
out, following de Rivo,8
is that of the “now-irrevocable,” the “now-
unpreventable.” This per accidens sense of necessity is the sense in
which all genuinely past or present tensed sentences are, if true, ne-
cessarily true, and if false, necessarily false.9
Future events such as the
sun rising tomorrow which are already knowable in their causes10
also
have per accidens necessity. As we shall see in authors such as Lowde
and Cudworth, this notion continued to be philosophically, and par-
ticularly theologically, important in the early modern period. It fol-
lows at once that humans cannot know, nor indeed can the angels, any
truths about “wholly future individuals.”11
Such knowledge belongs
to God alone. As Prior pointed out, it follows that possibilities vanish
(what was once possible is no longer possible), and come into exist-
ence: until item x exists, there are no possible truths about it.12
1.3. Absolute Necessity
Absolute necessity, or necessity per se, is typically contrasted with neces-
sity per accidens, but it appears as a contrastive term in different con-
texts. It is, centrally, that whose negation is contradictory.Thus Thomas,
considering the (absolute) possibility that the world could have been
infinite in past time, writes: “By faith alone do we hold, and by no dem-
onstration can it be proved, that the world did not always exist.”13
7
De pot. 1.3 ad 9.
8
Prior 1967, 117.
9
Genuinely, to rule out sentences such as ‘Yesterday it was the case that two
days from then, p’, Ockham emphasizes the need to distinguish sentences
which are de futuro secundum rem, from those which are so merely secundum
vocem, and makes clear that this need not be a simple matter (Ockham 1978).
See further MacIntosh 1998a.
10
ST 1a 57.3c, ST 1a 86.4c, etc.
11
ST 1a
 57.3c.
12
Prior 1960, 688, reprinted in Prior 1968, 70. It also follows, though neither
Prior nor Aquinas stresses this, that whatever properties an entity has initially
it has with at least per accidens necessity.
13
ST 1a 46.2 c, and cf. De Pot. 3.17 c. Despite this clear statement of his position
modern discussions of the five ways often assume that Aquinas’s argument
Theological and Scientific Applications 157
157
A world infinite in past time would be peopled with individuals not
present in this world, and no branching from a finite world could lead
to a world infinite in past time; conversely no branching from a world
with an infinite past could lead to a world with a finite past,14
a point
which James Lowde in the seventeenth century was to note as theo-
logically important.
Absolute necessity is contrasted with suppositional necessity:
There are two ways in which a thing is said to be necessary: absolutely, and
by supposition.... absolutely necessary from the relation of the terms, as
when the predicate forms part of the definition of the subject: thus it is ab-
solutely necessary that humans are animals.... It is not necessary in this way
that Socrates sits: ... though it may be so by supposition; for, granted that he
is sitting, he must necessarily sit, as long as he is sitting.15
In SCG Aquinas remarks, concerning God and the necessity of sup-
position: “whoever wills something, necessarily wills whatever is ne-
cessarily required for it, unless there be a defect in him either because
of ignorance or because he is led astray through passion from the right
choice ... Thus [since these exceptives cannot apply to God] it is ne-
cessary that God will the rational soul to exist supposing He wills
humans to exist.”16
Again, “Predestination most certainly and infal-
libly takes place, yet it does not impose any necessity.”Anything which
God wills “is necessary on the supposition that He so wills ... but is
not necessary absolutely,” and “the same must be said about predestin-
ation.”17
Aquinas points out that this allows us to see the scope fallacy
involved in treating ႓
(p ൺq) as if it were (p ൺ
 ႓

q): 
Everything known by God must necessarily be ... may be taken de re or de
dicto. If de re (Everything which God knows is necessary), it is divided, and
requires the impossibility of an infinite past sequence of causes. Whatever
problems the five ways may have, this is not one of them, though such an
infinite string would be a string of accidental, not of essential causes. See
further Ibn Sına (Avicenna 2004), 6.2, 201ff.
14
But see Mackie 1974 for a provocative modern wonder about this point.
15
ST 1a 19.3c. Later Leibniz’s usual case was necessity as that whose negation
is contradictory, but suppositional necessity may be found in his distinction
between logical and hypothetical necessity (Parkinson 1965, 109–110).
16
SCG 1:83.
17
ST 1a 23.6 c, ad 3. Cf. Aristotle’s ‘relative necessity.’ (An. Pr. 30b39-40.)
Jack MacIntosh
158
false. If de dicto (This sentence, “that which is known by God is” is neces-
sary) it is composite and true.18
Aquinas notes in passing that a conditional proposition may be (ne-
cessarily) true, though both antecedent and consequent are necessarily
false (If a man is a donkey, he has four feet).19
Finally we have the case of absolute necessity as opposed to some-
thing which is necessary because of a thing’s nature. This notion over-
laps with necessity of definition. “A human is a donkey” is impossible
under both notions but, particularly where God is concerned, there
are divergences. For example, because of God’s nature, God cannot
will evil.20
That is distinct from God’s inability to change the past,
which is “impossible, not only in itself, but absolutely (non solum per
se, sed absolute), since it implies a contradiction.”21
By contrast, God’s
inability to will evil is not impossible absolutely, but it is impossible
in view of God’s nature. Similarly, God cannot correctly be said to be
sorrowful or in pain; God cannot hope or fear or repent.22
For mediaeval thinkers an explanation in terms of a thing’s nature
was found both clear and helpful, but one of the changes the seven-
teenth century’s “new philosophy” brought about was a difference in
the way in which nature was conceived. Briefly, for the mediaevals
each kind of thing has a nature which explains many things about
it: why is snow white? – because it is the nature of snow to be white.
But if things are simply made up of tiny corpuscles, all composed of
the same matter, such explanations no longer sufficed, or even had any
explanatory value:
If you ... Ask them, how white Bodies in Generall do rather Produce this
effect of dazling the Eyes, then Green or Blew ones, instead of being told,
that the former sort of Bodies reflect Outwards, and so to the Eye farre
more of the Incident Light, then the Latter; You shall perchance be told,
that ‘tis their respective Natures so to act, by which way of dispatching dif-
ficulties, they make it very easy to solve All the Phænomena of Nature in
18
ST 1a 14.13 ad 3.
19
ST 1a 25.3 ad 2.
20
SCG 1:95.
21
ST 1a 25.4 ad 1.
22
SCG 1:89. The case is different with God incarnate. Christ suffered pain and
sorrow, knew fear and wonder, and, “without sin,” was subject to anger, that
“passion composed of sorrow and the desire of revenge (ST 3a 15.5–9).”
Theological and Scientific Applications 159
159
Generall, but make men think it impossible to explicate almost Any of them
in Particular.23
Physical change was to be explained in terms of minute particles of
matter, their motion, and the “texture” their relative positioning gave
rise to, for only these could provide intelligible explanations: “if an
Angel himself should work a real change in the nature of a Body [said
Boyle], ‘tis scarce conceivable to us Men, how he could do it without
the assistance of Local Motion; since, if nothing were displac’d, or
otherwise mov’d than before, (the like hapning also to all external
bodies to which it related,) ‘tis hardly conceivable, how it should be in
it self other, than just what it was before.”24
Leibniz, though no cor-
puscularian, makes a similar point: “All things come about through
certain intelligible causes ... And since we may perceive nothing accur-
ately except magnitude, figure, motion, and perception itself, it follows
that everything is to be explained through these four.”25
1.4. Necessary and Contingent Being
Following Aristotle, Aquinas held that some things, of their nature,
must cease to be in the course of time.26
Others will not cease to be
naturally, i.e., in the course of nature, though of course God could at
any time cease sustaining them in existence.27
Something has necessary existence if it cannot cease to be naturally,
if its nature does not guarantee its eventual corruption. For Aquinas
the way for something of a given form to cease to be naturally is for
the matter of which it is composed to shed that form and acquire
another. Anything for which this is not a possibility has necessary ex-
istence. This means that there could be and, Aquinas believed, there
were, two types of things that have necessary existence.
23
Boyle, Forms and Qualities, Works 5:300–301.
24
Boyle, Excellency and Grounds of the Mechanical Hypothesis, Works, 8:110.
25
“On a Method of Arriving at a True Analysis of Bodies and the Causes of
Natural Things”, Leibniz 1961 7:265.
26
ST 1a 2.3 c; cf. Aristotle, De Generatione, 337a4–5, 337a8–15, and De Caelo
281b25–282a25.
27
De Pot. 5.3, ST 1a 10.5 ad 3, and elsewhere. Descartes, Boyle, and others
in the early modern period retained the view that God sustained things in
existence.
Jack MacIntosh
160
First, anything made of matter which cannot lose its form has ne-
cessary existence. No sublunar matter is like this, but mediaeval think-
ers believed that the heavenly bodies were made of such matter.28
As
such they had necessary existence, as would Newtonian atoms on this
account.29
Secondly, anything that was not material at all, which was
pure form, could not perish naturally, because it had no underlying
matter that could lose one form and gain another. Thus the heavenly
bodies, for one reason, and the angels, good and bad, as well as human
souls and God, for another reason, were all necessary existents.30
All
of these but God had their necessity from another and all but God re-
main in existence only on God’s sufferance.
There are other notions of necessity in Aquinas,31
but these are the
senses most important for early modern thinkers. It may be worth
pointing out explicitly that contemporary philosophers who speak as
if Thomas’s necessary existence had something to do with “existence
in every possible world” (when discussing the third way, for example)
are wandering down an uninteresting anachronistic bypath. Nor is
“existence in every possible world” the notion of necessary existence
used by many seventeenth century writers since they clearly allowed
possible worlds (that of the classical Epicureans, for example) in which
the God of Christians did not exist.
2. The Early Modern Period: Theologians, Logicians,
and Natural Philosophers
Early in the seventeenth century Descartes suggested that eternal
truths, such as “mathematical truths ... have been established by
God and depend on him entirely, just as all his other creatures do.”32
28
“The celestial bodies are said to be incorruptible because they do not have
matter of the sort found in generable and corruptible things.” QD De Anima
art 14 sed contra. See also ST 1a 66.2c, and ST 1a 2ae 49.4c.
29
Newtonian atoms never “wear or break in pieces; no ordinary Power being
able to divide what God himself made one in the first Creation” (Newton
1730, Qu 31, 375–376).
30
See, e.g., ST 1a 50.5c.
31
See further MacIntosh 1998b.
32
Descartes to Mersenne, April 15, 1630, AT 1:145. God can do everything that
we understand to be possible, Descartes continued, but we must not think
that our imagination reaches as far as his power (AT 1:146). There is a large
literature on Descartes’ claim. See, among others, Frankfurt 1977, Hacking
1980, Curley 1984, Normore 1993. Descartes had no idea how God might
Theological and Scientific Applications 161
161
This position, already rejected by the orthodox, following Aquinas,
did not find general favour in the seventeenth century. It was in fact
a very early doctrine: Fritz Zimmermann has noted that circa 700
AD there was an Islamic occasionalist treatise33
suggesting that God
could produce any combination of qualities. He could, for example,
combine goodness with murder, so that murder would be good, not
evil. It was precisely this moral cum theological facet of the doctrine,
rather than the mathematical one, that most disturbed seventeenth
century writers. Descartes’ view, as applied to mathematical truths,
was unacceptable, but as applied to moral truths, which they con-
sidered equally to be necessary truths, it was unacceptable in a much
more important way.
Leibniz praised Bayle for combating“admirably the opinion of those
who assert that goodness and justice depend solely upon the arbitrary
choice of God.”34
As he remarked earlier, “We need not suppose with
certain persons that the eternal truths, being dependent on God, are ar-
bitrary and depend on His will, as Descartes, and afterward M. Poiret,
seem to have held.”35
Poiret also came in for criticism in England: “Let
us see,” asked Lowde rhetorically, “how he answers that Objection,
that according to his Principles, the hatred of God might have been
good, and the love of him evil, if he had so appointed.”36
2.1. Necessity in Proofs of God’s Existence
As with the mediaevals, what many seventeenth century writers have
to say concerning necessity is intertwined with their remarks on reli-
gion, and in particular with their attempts, endemic in the seventeenth
century, to confound the atheist and demonstrate the existence of God.
Here I consider three such attempts, those of Cudworth and Boyle,
which seem to require an acceptance of Brouwer and S4, respectively,
and of James Lowde, who notes that the relevant sense of ‘necessity’ in
many of the discussions is that of necessity per accidens.
have made necessary truths either false or contingent; he simply was unwilling
to say that God could not have done it.
33
Sorabji 1980b, 298.
34
Theodicy, §180, Leibniz 1961 6:221.
35
Monadology §46, Leibniz 1961 6:614; cf Theodicy §§335, 351, Leibniz 1961
6:313–314, 322–323, and Leibniz 1981a, 1.1.5, 80.
36
Lowde 1694, 103.
Jack MacIntosh
162
2.1.1 Cudworth
Descartes’ arguments for God’s existence met with varied responses in
the seventeenth century. They were often recounted somewhat simplis-
tically: an “Axioma Necessarium,” said Henry More, is “an Axiome
that is Necessary, or eternally true.” He added,“Wherefore there being
a Necessary Connexion betwixt God and Existence, this Axiome, God
does Exist, is an Axiome Necessarily and Eternally true.”37
Others,
seeing the full complexity of Descartes’ argument, reacted differently.
Cudworth’s massive discussion in his True Intellectual System was
intended “for the Confirmation of Weak, Staggering, and Sceptical
Theists,”38
and in consequence he was worried that Descartes’ manoeu-
vres might be too complex for most people, who would “Distrust, the
Firmness and Solidity of such thin and Subtle Cobwebs.” Cudworth
offered various alternative arguments, which might, he hoped, prove
more “Convictive of the Existence of a God to the Generality.”39
First,
a possibly unconvincing Cartesian argument: suppose that a putatively
necessary being did not exist. That would show its possible non-exist-
ence. But then we would have the result that if the necessarily existing
being did exist, it would exist not necessarily but contingently. But it
“is a manifest Contradiction, that the same thing should Exist both
Contingently and Necessarily.”40
However:
We shall leave the Intelligent and Impartial Reader, to make his own
Judgment concerning the forementioned Cartesian Argument for a Deity,
drawn from its Idea, as including Necessity of Existence in it, that there-
fore It Is; ... it is not very Probable, that many Atheists, will be convinced
thereby, ... they will rather be ready to say, that this is no Probation at all
of a Deity, ... and a meer Begging of the Question; that therefore God Is,
because he Is, or Cannot But be.41
Because this argument is less than clearly convincing,
we shall endeavour, to make out [a] Demonstration, for the Existence of
a God, from his Idea, as including Necessary Existence in it, some other
ways.... Though it will not follow from hence, because we can Frame an
37
More 1662, 22.
38
Cudworth 1678, preface.
39
Cudworth 1678, 725.
40
Cudworth 1678, 723.
41
Cudworth 1678, 724.
Theological and Scientific Applications 163
163
Idea of any thing in our minds, that therefore such a thing Really Existeth;
yet nevertheless, whatsoever we can Frame an Idea of, Implying no man-
ner of Contradiction in its Conception, we may certainly conclude ... that
such a thing was not Impossible to be; there being nothing ... Impossible,
but what is Contradictious and Repugnant to Conception. Now the Idea
of God or a Perfect Being, can Imply no manner of Contradiction in it, be-
cause it is only the Idea of such a thing as hath all Possible and Conceivable
Perfections in it; that is, all Perfections which are neither Contradictious in
themselves, nor to one another.42
... Therefore God is at least Possible, or
no way Impossible to have been. In the next place as this particular Idea of
that which is Possible, includeth Necessity of Existence in it; from these Two
things put together at least, the Possibility of such a Being, and its Necessary
Existence (if not from the Latter alone) will it according to Reason follow,
that He Actually Is.43
Cudworth takes himself to have shown that it is possibly necessary
that God exists and then, implicitly assuming the Brouwer axiom in
the form ◊ჱ

p ൺp, he has his conclusion. Alternatively, given that if
God exists, necessarily God exists, g ൺჱ

g, and given further the pos-
sibility of God’s existing, ◊g, then assuming the equivalence of g ൺჱ

g
and ◊g ൺg, the result follows immediately.44
Cudworth immediately moves to another argument, which depends
on necessity per accidens: if God is possible then he exists, because
if he did not exist, it would be absolutely impossible that he should
come to exist. Cudworth draws the correct, disjunctive, conclu-
sion: “Wherefore God is either Impossible to have been, or else He
Is.”45
An equivalent conclusion is “God is either necessary to be, or
else He does not exist,” for with regard to God’s existence, prov-
ing necessity, actuality, or possibility all amount to the same thing.46
Cudworth has a variety of other arguments, of which perhaps the most
42
Cudworth’s surprising restatement of “a thing as hath all Possible and
Conceivable Perfections in it,” as “all Perfections which are neither
Contradictious in themselves, nor to one another,” is one we shall meet again.
See further Lovejoy 1906, 198–199.
43
Cudworth 1678, 724.
44
Since Cudworth is already, implicitly, invoking the Brouwer axiom, he may
be allowed this equivalence, which follows, given that axiom. A similar, if less
explicit, argument combining possibility and necessity to yield actuality may
be found in Descartes’ response to Caterus (AT 7:119, CSMK 2:85)
45
Cudworth 1678, 724.
46
See further MacIntosh 1991.
Jack MacIntosh
164
interesting is a sophisticated version of Zeno of Citium’s “Nothing
lacking consciousness and reason can produce out of itself beings with
consciousness and reason,”47
an uncompelling version of which was
later offered by Locke.48
2.1.2 Lowde
Lowde, clearly invoking the notion of tensed necessity, remarks:
Whoever grants the possibility of the Being of God, must either grant that
he really is, or else will be forced to contradict himself.... [I]f God be not
now, and actually was not existent from all Eternity; it is impossible for such
a Being ... ever to begin to be.49
So that an Atheist must prove not only that
there is no God, but that it was from Eternity impossible, that there should
be one; neither of which, he will ever be able to prove.50
Lowde also made use of tensed necessity to argue that it is incumbent
on the believer to provide an argument to show that the world is finite
in past time, for if the possibility of an infinite past world is allowed,
it will be very hard ... by any other Argument to force ’em out of their
Opinion: For I do not see, that it would be any absurdity to say, That sup-
posing the World to be Eternal, there has been as many Years as Days; that is,
an equal Infinite number of both, all Infinites being Equal; for Infinity can no
more be exhausted by Years than Days; But the truth is, such is the nature of
Infinite with respect to our Finite Capacity that the one is not a Competent
Judge of the other: and when we enter into disputes of this nature, we are
often entangled with unanswerable difficulties on both sides.51
Earlier Boyle had noted that it is a mistake to assume that“the common
Rules whereby we judge of other things, [are] applicable to Infinites,”52
and much earlier Ibn Rus[d (1126–1198) pointed out, “Our adver-
saries believe that, when a proportion of more and less exists between
parts, this proportion holds good also for the totalities, but this is only
47
“Nihil quod animi quodque rationis est expers, id generare ex se potest
animantem conpotemque rationis,” quoted Cicero, De nat. deor. ii 22.
48
Essay, 4.10.2–3. For discussion see MacIntosh 1997.
49
The earliest clear statement of the point is Aristotle’s “It is impossible for what
once did not exist later to be eternal (De Caelo 283b6–12).” And note also “in
the case of eternal things what may be is (Physics, 203b30).”
50
Lowde 1694, 126.
51
Lowde 1694, 131.
52
Things above Reason, Works, 9:369.
Theological and Scientific Applications 165
165
binding when the totalities are finite.”53
However, Lowde’s awareness
that proper subsets and their supersets could have the same cardinality
was uncommon in the early modern period. Indeed, the impossibility
of such a result was regularly invoked to prove the world’s finitude.
2.1.3. Boyle’s S4 Argument from Miracles
1. There are “arguments from natural Reason, in favour of Religion.”
These may not amount to a Demonstration, but “if Physicks do but
stand neuter, they may be sufficiently justify’d by History and Moral
Arguments.”54
And, for any counter demonstration,
it must be shewn that the Being said to be Impossible, has something in-
consistent with the nature of a Being in general, or with the nature or Idæa
that is essential to that particular Being. Upon these grounds I see not how
it can be demonstrated, that the existence of God is impossible. For the best
notion and the most Philosophical we know of the Deity, is, that ‘tis a Being
Infinitly perfect; or, to express the same notion a little more clearly, that ‘tis
a Being as perfect as we are able to conceive.55
So God’s existence cannot be shown to be impossible, which Boyle
treats as equivalent to God’s existence not being impossible, i.e., using
‘g’ for ‘God exists,’ ¬ჱ
¬g. We shall consider this claimed equivalence
more closely shortly.
2. Now, let us consider the occurrence, or apparent occurrence, of
miracles. Our testimony for miracles is as good as the testimony for
any other notable historical occurrence, Boyle claims.56
Indeed, his
claim is milder than that of many of his contemporaries.“To deny and
disbelieve all Miracles, is either to deny all Certainty of Sense, which
would be indeed to make Sensation it self Miraculous; or else mon-
strously and unreasonably to derogate from Humane Testimonies and
History,” said Boyle’s contemporary, Ralph Cudworth.57
53
Ibn Rus[d (Averroes 1954), 1:9.
54
Among the “positive Reasons afforded by Philosophy to prove a Deity,”
Boyle offers “the Cartesian Idæa, the Originall of Motion, the use of Parts in
Animalls, especially the Eye, the valves of the heart, the musculi perforantes
& perforati, & the temporary [parts] of a foetus <& the Mother>” (BP 3:113,
BOA 3.8.2, p. 310).
55
BP 5:106, BOA 3.8.3, p. 311.
56
Boyle offers a defence of the apostles’ testimony to miracles at BP 3: 317–318,
BOA 4.6.8, pp. 378–380.
57
Cudworth 1678, 709.
Jack MacIntosh
166
3. There is only one real objection: “That the Miracles must be false
because they suppose the power of God to worke them; and ‘tis
Impossible that there can be a God, or at least absurd to beleive
there is one.”58
But this grants that if there is a God, miracles are
possible: “this objection denyes not that the Historical proofe of the
Miracles is sufficient in its kind, that is such as would engage us to
believe the matters of Fact, if it were not impossible they should be
true.”59
I.e., g ൺ◊m. This will lead us, though Boyle does not make
this explicit, to the result that if it is possible that God exists then it is
possible that miracles are possible: ◊gൺ◊◊m, and given S4, we have;
if it is possible that God exists then miracles are possible: ◊g ൺ◊m.60
But there is a further point here. For since it was only their supposed
impossibility that cast doubt on the historical testimony, if they are
in fact possible, then the historical testimony may be allowed to
ground them: ◊m ൺ
 m.
4. Let us grant the opponent’s point that if God does not exist there
are no miracles: ¬g ൺ
 ¬m.
5. Therefore, God exists.That is we have:
1. ◊g
2. ◊g ൺ
 ◊m
3. ◊m ൺ
 m
4. ¬g ൺ
 ¬m
5. g
Clearly lines 1 and 3 are dubious, and Max Cresswell has noted
that line 3’s contingency ensures the contingency of the conclusion.
However, seventeenth century arguments for God’s existence typically
58
BP 4:60, BOA §3.8.1, p. 305.
59
BP 4:70, BOA §3.8.1, pp 306–307.
60
Explicitly:
1. g ൺ◊m Theological theorem
2. ¬◊m ൺ¬g 1, Sentential Logic
3. ჱ(¬◊m ൺ¬g) 2, Necessitation
4. ჱ
¬◊m ൺჱ
¬g 3, Modal logic
5. ¬ჱ
¬g ൺ
¬ჱ
¬◊m 4, Sentential Logic
6. ◊g ൺ◊◊m 5, df ◊
7. ◊◊m ൺ◊m S4
8. ◊g ൺ◊m 6,7, syll
Theological and Scientific Applications 167
167
aimed to show God’s necessary existence, not the claim that neces-
sarily, God exists. Boyle’s argument for line 3 was, at the time, com-
pletely acceptable. Line 1, however, requires something more by way
of defence. In general inability to demonstrate impossibility does not
yield possibility. Further, Boyle’s “Being as perfect as we are able to
conceive” is not at all the same as “a Being Infinitly perfect,” a trans-
position already to be found in Descartes and Cudworth. Descartes,
responding to an objection of Caterus, simply invokes a being which
has “all the perfections which can exist together.”61
And, as noted
earlier, Cudworth suggests that “the Idea of God ... is only the Idea of
such a thing as hath all Possible and Conceivable Perfections in it; that
is, all Perfections which are neither Contradictious in themselves, nor
to one another.”62
Leibniz saw clearly that a proof of the compatibility
of God’s perfections was needed, and he was not open to limiting God
to all the compossible perfections. God has all the perfections, and
we need to show that the notion of God does not contain a possibly
unobvious contradiction as, for example,‘the greatest integer’ does. At
one time Leibniz thought that it would not be difficult to show this,63
but it proved more difficult than he hoped.
Any apparently incompatible properties ascribed to God, Boyle
suggests, may be due to the imperfections of commentators. And if the
apparently incompatible properties really are incompatible and really
are claimed of God? Drop one:  “thô men shall forbear to ascribe
to God any thing that it manifestly appears cannot belong to him,
there will remain included in his Idæa, excellencies enough to make
him the subject of our highest wonder & adoration.”64
In the case
of apparent incompatibilities such as that highlighted by Hume in
the next century between God’s benevolence, omnipotence, omnisci-
ence, and the present state of his world, which should we drop? Boyle
offers no suggestion, but perhaps his justification of line 1 above may
now be allowed to stand, with the caveat that the (possibly dimin-
ished) deity whose possibility is invoked may not be a theologically
acceptable deity.
61
AT 7:119; CSMK 2:84.
62
Cudworth 1678, 724.
63
“non est difficile ostendere, omnes perfectiones esse compatibiles inter se, sive
in eodem esse posse subjecto.” Leibniz 1961 7:261.
64
BOA, §3.8.3, 311.
Jack MacIntosh
168
3. Necessity in Demonstration
3.1. The logicians
By comparison with the work of logicians such as Buridan and
Ockham, logic was in a severe decline in the early modern period.
Textbook logic tended to be a mixture, albeit often an interesting mix-
ture, of informal logic, epistemology, and psychology. Necessary prop-
ositions tended to be passed by in a sentence or two, for example:
Of Enuntiations some are necessary, and some probable or contingent....
Necessarie Enuntiations are either when the Genus is attributed to the
Species; as, Man is a liuing creature. Or the difference; as, Man is rea-
sonable. Or the propertie; as, All fire is hot. The Contingents are when
some accident is attributed to the Subject; as, The horse is white. Man is
a Physician.65
Isaac Watts, after noting that there was a “Division of Propositions
among the scholastick Writers ... into pure and modal,” suggested
that “there are many little Subtilties ... concerning ... these modal
Propositions, suited to the Latin or Greek Tongues, rather than the
English, and fit to pass away the idle Time of a Student, rather than to
enrich his Understanding.”66
The central way in which the notion of
necessity is found in the logicians lies in their treatment of demonstra-
tion.67
A scientific demonstration required the valid deduction of a ne-
cessary truth from necessary principles, where the deduction provided
an explanation or cause of the conclusion.
Aristotle distinguishes two types of demonstration: demonstration
of “the fact” (tou hoti; demonstratio quia) and demonstration of the
“reason why” or of the “reasoned fact” (tou dioti; demonstratio prop-
ter quid). Aristotle provides two examples, from the nearness of the
65
Du Moulin 1624, 105–106.
66
Watts 1726, 161. Nonetheless there are various examples of modal consequences
among writers in the early modern period, for which see Ashworth 1974, esp.
170–186.
67
See further BOA, §2.1, “The Difficulty of Demonstration,” 70–81. For a
discussion of demonstration as used by philosophers such as Bacon, Hobbes,
and Locke see Jesseph 2013 and Jesseph 1999, ch. 5, as well as Peter R.
Anstey’s “Locke and the Problem of Necessity in Early Modern Philosophy”
(Chapter 9, this volume).
Theological and Scientific Applications 169
169
planets and their lack of twinkling, and from that sphericity of the
moon and its waxing.68
Consider the two syllogisms:
I II
The planets do not twinkle The planets are near
What does not twinkle is near What is near does not twinkle
The planets are near The planets do not twinkle
Both are valid, acceptable syllogisms, but only the second pro-
vides a true explanation. It is not that the planets are near because
they do not twinkle. However, their lack of twinkling is because of
their nearness. The second syllogism offers a causal explanation of
the phenomenon; it gives us the ‘reason why’, the demonstration
propter quid.
This became the accepted view among early modern logicians.
Galileo in 1590 looked with approval at the Aristotelian notion of
demonstration.69
Du Moulin, in 1624, remarked,“Science is a certaine
knowledge of a thing certaine, whose proof is drawne from the cause.”
This is not sensory knowledge: “If a man know certainly a thing be-
cause he seeth it, or toucheth it, that is neither called Science, nor
Faith, nor opinion, but sense, which knoweth only things singular: but
Science is of things vniversall.”70
Gassendi concurred (“A syllogism
whose premises are necessary ... is an apodeictic, demonstrative or
scientific syllogism”71
), as did Arnauld and Nicole: “A true demon-
stration requires two things: first, that the content include only what
is certain and indubitable; the other, that there is nothing defective in
the form of the argument.”72
68
An. Post. 78a30–78b12. Aristotle offers a reason for the twinkling at De Caelo
290a 17–23: The visual ray being excessively prolonged becomes weak and
wavering. [This] probably accounts for the apparent twinkling of the fixed
stars and the absence of twinkling in the planets. The planets are near, ...
but when [the light] comes from the fixed stars it is quivering because of the
distance ... and its tremor produces an appearance of movement in the star.
The incorruptibility of the heavenly bodies means that truths about them are
eternally, or necessarily, true (An. Post., 75b 21–26).
69
Galileo 1992; see further Wallace 1992, ch. 4, “Demonstration and Its
Requirements in MS 27,” 135–190.
70
Du Moulin 1624, 162, 163.
71
Gassendi 1658, 144.
72
Arnauld and Nicole 1996, part IV, ch. 8, 323–324. Pascal makes similar points
in L’Esprit Geometrique (Pascal 1954).
Jack MacIntosh
170
In the next century, Isaac Watts noted two kinds of demonstration:
1. Demonstrations a Priori, which prove the Effect by its necessary Cause;
as, I prove the Scripture is infallibly true, because it is the Word of God,
who cannot lye.
2. Demonstrations a Posteriori, which infer the Cause from its necessary
Effect; as ... I infer there is a God, from the Works of his Wisdom in the
visible World. [This] is called Demonstratio του οτι, because it proves
only the Existence of a Thing; the first is named Demonstratio του διοτι,
because it shews also the Cause of its Existence.73
Throughout the early modern period, then, for logicians, a scientific
demonstration not only had a necessary truth as its conclusion; it
should give us the ‘reason why’: it should be a causal demonstration.
This provided a difficulty about mathematics, to be noted shortly. It
was, incidentally, this lack of a causal or explanatory connection that
Aquinas found troubling in the notion of necessity held by Diodorus
Cronos and by the Stoics:
Diodorus distinguished possibility and necessity according to the out-
come: that which will never be the case is impossible; that which will always
be the case is necessary; that which will sometimes be the case, and some-
times not, is possible. The Stoics ... distinguished between them according to
external prevention. They said that which cannot be prevented ... is neces-
sary; that which is always prevented ... is impossible; while that which can
be prevented or not is possible.
Both these ways of making the distinction seem faulty. The former [be-
cause] it is not that something is necessary because it will always be the
case; rather it will always be the case because it is necessary.... The latter
[because] it is not that something is necessary because it is not prevented;
rather, it cannot be prevented because it is necessary.74
However, there were problems with the logicians’ account. It was,
Bacon noted, not the kind of demonstration needed in natural phil-
osophy. Consequently, Aristotle’s point – “Our discussion will be ad-
equate if it has as much clearness as the subject-matter admits”75
was
regularly invoked, and it was generally accepted that something other
73
Watts 1726, 309.
74
In Perih., I, 14.8.
75
Nicomachean Ethics, 1094b12–13, and cf. Metaphysics, 995a 15–16.
Theological and Scientific Applications 171
171
than the logicians’ demonstration was appropriate in theology, in law,
and in experimental philosophy.
Besides the Demonstrations wont to be treated of in vulgar Logick, there
are among Philosophers three distinct ... kinds ... of Demonstration. For
there is a Metaphysical Demonstration, ... such as Nihil potest simul esse &
non esse.... There are also Physical Demonstrations ... such as ... ex nihilo
nihil fit: ... And ... Moral Demonstrations ... where the Conclusion is built,
either upon some one such proof cogent in its kind; or some concurrence of
Probabilities, that it cannot be but allowed.
And this third kind of Probation, though it come behind the two others
in certainty, yet it is the surest guide, which the Actions of Men, though not
their Contemplations, have regularly allow’d them to follow.76
3.2. The Mathematicians
Aristotelian demonstration, then, was at best incomplete. But the
Aristotelian notion of demonstration led to a general question about
mathematics: is mathematics a science? Aristotle considered mathem-
atics to be a science (or a group of sciences), but, later writers won-
dered, is it truly scientific in the sense of providing the reason why, the
explanation of its results? Moreover, some of its results apparently
cannot provide such a (causal) explanation, for they are equivalence
results. But if we have p if and only if q, then at most one of the con-
ditionals can be such as to provide a demonstration of the “reasoned
fact.” Otherwise we would be faced with the claim that some result
was its own explanation.77
Logicians also found a related problem with indirect mathematical
proofs.In the Port Royal Logic Nicole andArnauld picked out six“com-
mon mistakes in the geometers’ method,” including “Demonstrations
by impossibility,” for this method “can convince the mind but it cannot
enlighten it,”78
a point picked up by Watts in the next century:
Labour in all your Arguings to enlighten the Understanding, as well as to
conquer and captivate the Judgment.... Geometricians sometimes break this
Rule ... When they prove one Proposition only by shewing what Absurdities
76
Reason and Religion, Works 8:281.
77
See further Mancosu 1996, to which I am considerably indebted in this
section.
78
Arnauld and Nicole 1996, 255.
Jack MacIntosh
172
will follow if the contradictory Proposition be supposed ... as for Instance,
When they prove all the Radii of a Circle to be equal, by supposing one
Radius to be longer or shorter than another.... This ... forces the Assent, but
it does not enlighten the Mind by shewing the true Reason and Cause why all
Radii are equal, which is derived from the very Construction of a Circle....79
Mathematicians took the causality charge seriously, and Isaac Barrow,
Newton’s predecessor in the Lucasian Chair, produced an answer in
the mid 1660s.80
Barrow pointed out, anticipating Hume, that no case
of presumed efficient causality could support a claim of necessity be-
tween cause and effect.81
Only formal causality could yield the desired
necessity, but that was precisely what mathematics provided:
Nor ... is [there] any other Causality in the Nature of Things, wherein a
necessary Consequence can be founded. Logicians do indeed boast ... of
Demonstrations, from external Causes either efficient or final; but without
being able to shew one genuine Example ... For there can be no ... efficient
Cause in the Nature of Things ... which is altogether necessary. For every
Action of an efficient Cause, as well as its consequent Effect, depends upon
the Free-Will and Power of Almighty God, who can hinder the ... Efficacy
of any Cause at his Pleasure.... Hence it is possible that there may be
such a Cause without a subsequent Effect.... There can therefore be no
Argumentation from an efficient Cause to the Effect ... which is lawfully
necessary.82
This, Barrow suggested, solves both the causal problem and the
equivalence problem. The purported necessity of efficient causality is
denounced as an impossible requirement; and the worry, if worry there
be, about the lack of causality in mathematics is evaded by the shift to
formal causality, with which mathematics abounds, and which allows
equivalences as results.
Effectively, then, both natural philosophy and mathematics freed
themselves from the ‘causal’ constraint the logicians found important.
The notion of tensed, or per accidens, necessity continued to play an
79
Watts 1726, 334–335.
80
Published in 1683 as Lectiones Mathematicae, translated in Barrow 1734.
81
Anders Kraal has pointed out to me that Dugald Stewart also noted Barrow’s
anticipation of Hume (Stewart 1805, 55–58).
82
Barrow 1734, 88–89.
Theological and Scientific Applications 173
173
important role in theological contexts, but was little discussed by the
logicians. The notion of moral demonstration (effectively, in natural
philosophy, empirical demonstration) keep coming to the fore in legal,
theological, and natural philosophy contexts provided a needed exten-
sion to the “Demonstrations ... in vulgar Logick.”
174
9 Locke and the Problem of Necessity
in Early Modern Philosophy
Peter R. Anstey
In the early modern period necessity was tied to each of a clutch of
interlocking notions: causation, laws of nature, essence, demonstra-
tion, logical inference, mathematical proof, etc. So, for example, some
argued that if existence is of the essence of God, then God exists ne-
cessarily. Again, some argued that if the laws of motion are not known
a priori but are discovered by experience, then they are not necessary.
There was, however, no attempt to develop a typology of necessities,
such as our contemporary distinctions among logical necessity, epi-
stemic necessity, metaphysical necessity and nomic necessity. Indeed,
a central concern of current-day interpreters of early modern texts is
to disentangle claims about necessity in one domain, say, causation,
from those in another, say, logic. Nor was the problem of necessity a
desideratum for early modern philosophers to solve. There is a sense
then in which it is slightly anachronistic even to speak of the problem
of necessity in early modern philosophy.
Nevertheless, the modal notion of necessity features prominently in
early modern philosophy and it is important that we as modern-day
interpreters of early modern texts find ways to understand and explain
how it was understood. To that end, it will be helpful to find a general
way of framing the problem of necessity in early modern philosophy.
What I offer here is a two-stage analysis that aims to capture the broad
contours of a cluster of problems that we would now call problems
of necessity. As such, it provides a reference point against which dif-
ferent philosophers’ accounts of modal notions can be compared and
assessed. The chapter has two sections. Section 1 presents a general
heuristic for studying the problem of necessity in the early modern
period, including a crucial development in the early modern view of
necessary facts about the world. Section 2 applies that heuristic, by
way of example, to the philosophy of John Locke.
Locke and the Problem of Necessity in Early Modern Philosophy 175
175
1. The General Problem of Necessity in Early
Modern Philosophy
Most early modern philosophers admit that some propositions are
true irrespective of the way the world is and would be true even if
there were no world. Such truths include those of mathematics and
self-evident principles, such as ‘Whatever is, is’. Surprisingly, however,
they were more concerned with the grounds of absolute certainty
than with necessary truth per se. Debates about absolute certainty
were more often framed around the notion of eternal truths (aeter-
nae veritates) than around the notion of necessary truth. And many
discussions related the absolute certainty of eternal truths to the will
of God. Descartes, for example, notoriously claimed in a letter to
Mersenne that
[God] was free to make it not true that all the radii of the circle are equal ––
just as free as he was not to create the world (CSMK, Vol 3, 25)
Yet he claims in The World that
knowledge of these [eternal] truths is so natural to our soul that we cannot
but judge them infallible when we conceive them distinctly, nor doubt that if
God had created many worlds, they would be as true in each of them as in
this one. (Descartes 1985, vol. 1, 97)
This is no place to try to untangle Descartes’ notion of necessity,1
but
what is evident, from the passage in The World, is that for Descartes
necessary propositions provided a foundation from which other know-
ledge was derived. He tells us that one who has a sufficient grasp of the
consequences of these truths ‘will be able to have a priori demonstra-
tions of everything that can be produced in this new world’ (ibid.).
It is Descartes’ reference to ‘this new world’ that provides our entrée
into the main forms of necessity that are the concern of this chapter.
Descartes’ imaginary world in The World is, to all intents and pur-
poses, our world and it is necessary truths about our world that are
our concern here.
Most early modern philosophers were committed to five theses
about necessity as it pertains to the world: two metaphysical theses
1
For a survey of the issues see Cunning 2014.
Peter R. Anstey
176
and three epistemological theses. First, they believed that there are ne-
cessary facts about the world.2
Of course, we need to be careful not
to load the term ‘fact’ with too much ontological baggage here. What
we mean is that many early moderns believed that there are things
about the world, broadly construed, that are necessary, or, again, that
there are necessary features of the world, such as the co-occurrence
of certain properties. I will, however, for better or for worse, continue
to use the term ‘facts’. Secondly, for many philosophers in the seven-
teenth and early eighteenth centuries, the most important of these
necessary facts about the world are facts about the essential natures
of things: that is, they are facts about essences. Turning to Descartes
again, he claims in the Fifth Meditation:
When, for example, I  imagine a triangle, even if perhaps no such figure
exists, or has ever existed, anywhere outside my thought, there is still a de-
terminate nature, or essence, or form of the triangle which is immutable and
eternal, and not invented by me or dependent on my mind. (Descartes 1985,
vol. 2, 44–45)
Thirdly, most early modern philosophers believed that we can have
epistemic access to some of these necessary facts. That is, we can
and do know the essences of some things. This is important because,
fourthly, many were also committed to the view that knowledge of
necessary facts about the world is foundational. It is foundational in
so far as this knowledge is not based on anything other than the facts
themselves, unless, perhaps, it is based on the nature of God. Fifthly, as
Descartes claims in the quote provided above, knowledge of necessary
facts can generate new knowledge. The widespread view was that we
are able to reason on the basis of these foundational necessary facts
about the world in such a way as to generate systematic bodies of
knowledge across whole domains, be it a science or scientia of nature,
of morality or of politics.
If these five theses constitute a core of common belief about neces-
sity, they also provide reference points for widespread disagreement
about necessity. For example, while there was general agreement
that there are essences in the world, the nature of these essences was
2
On the emergence of the notion of fact as an epistemic category in the
seventeenth century, see Serjeantson 2006, 158–164.
Locke and the Problem of Necessity in Early Modern Philosophy 177
177
enormously controversial and hotly debated. And while there was
agreement that we can know some of these essences, early modern
philosophers disagreed over the manner in which we gain epistemic
access to these modal facts. Again, while many held the view that
knowledge of these necessary facts could lead to new knowledge
about nature, they disagreed as to the mechanism by which this
knowledge was generated.
Early in the seventeenth century the problem of how we gain new
knowledge about nature on the basis of these necessary facts was com-
monly framed in a manner that derived from Aristotle. This was the
view that systematic knowledge of nature, or scientia, could be derived
by syllogistic reasoning from premises about necessary facts about the
world. Indeed, when it came to the study of nature, many believed that
an ideal demonstrative natural philosophy would be one that was both
complete and based upon, inter alia, a finite set of propositions about
the essences of natural substances and properties.3
Thus, the ques-
tion of epistemic access to necessary facts about the world, framed as
knowledge of essences, was of the utmost importance: knowledge of
necessary facts provides the basis for further knowledge. This bears re-
iterating: knowledge of modal facts about things in the world is a gift
that keeps on giving; the certainty of these modal facts flows through
to all other truths demonstrated from them.
Aristotle claimed that we could only obtain knowledge of essences
through the use of nous, but there is sharp disagreement amongst com-
mentators as to what nous is and the process by which the use of nous
enabled the acquisition of knowledge of these particularly important
modal facts.4
If we substitute the early modern English term ‘reason’
for the Stagirite’s nous we can set up the problem of epistemic access
to necessary facts about the world as an inconsistent tetrad.5
1. We have knowledge of necessary facts about the world.
2. We can have knowledge of necessary facts about the world only if
we acquire it by observation or reason.
3
For Aristotle’s theory of principles and knowledge acquisition in the Posterior
Analytics, see McKirahan 1992.
4
See, for example, the discussion in Perelmuter 2010.
5
Some commentators use ‘intuition’ for nous and consider it a species of reason.
Still others go further and identify intuition with induction. I choose to gloss
over these distinctions here by sticking with the general term ‘reason’.
Peter R. Anstey
178
3. We cannot acquire knowledge of necessary facts about the world
from observations.
4. We cannot acquire knowledge of necessary facts about the world
by reason.
This inconsistent tetrad provides a helpful heuristic for examining the
views of leading philosophers of the early seventeenth century on the
question of our epistemic access to essences. So, for example, Francis
Bacon denied propositions 3 and 4 because he believed he had a new
theory of induction that circumvented the problem of generalizing
from particulars to necessary truths. Descartes denied proposition 4
because he argued that we can have innate knowledge of the essences
of some things in nature.6
Ralph Cudworth went even further than
Descartes, claiming that there is a perceptive faculty in the soul that
has immediate epistemic access to the essences themselves:
The proper and immediate objects of science rightly so-called and intellec-
tion (τὰ νοητά), being the intelligible essences of things and their necessary
verities, that exist nowhere but in the mind itself, the understanding by its
active power is fully master of them, and comprehends ‘not idols or images
of them’, but the very things themselves within itself.7
The Leibniz of the New Essays clearly affirmed proposition 3.  He
claims in the preface to that work:
And we have reason to believe that these flashes reveal something divine and
eternal: this appears especially in the case of necessary truths. That raises
another question, namely whether all truths depend on experience, that is
on induction and instances, or if some of them have some other foundation.
For if some events can be foreseen before any test has been made of them, it
is obvious that we contribute something from our side. Although the senses
are necessary for all our actual knowledge, they are not sufficient to provide
it all, since they never give us anything but instances, that is particular or
singular truths. But however many instances confirm a general truth, they
do not suffice to establish its universal necessity; for it does not follow that
what has happened will always happen in the same way.8
6
See, for example, Descartes, Rules for the Direction of the Mind, (CSMK, vol.
1: 22 and 44.)
7
Cudworth 1996, 135.
8
Leibniz 1996, 49.
Locke and the Problem of Necessity in Early Modern Philosophy 179
179
This statement of inductive fallibilism is tantamount to an acceptance
of the claim that we cannot reason from observation to knowledge
of essences. And Leibniz uses this to claim that there must be another
source of our knowledge of necessary truths over and above experi-
ence and that source is innate ideas.9
Needless to say, we could go on through the canon of leading phi-
losophers from the period and analyse their views with respect to the
tetrad. We could also explore the content of each proposition and find
sites within important early modern texts that deal with each of them.
Thus, we could analyse, say, book II of Bacon’s Novum organum as a
response to proposition 3. However, this would leave the picture in-
complete, for I contend that there is an important second stage to the
development of the problem of necessary facts about the world.
Anyone who is familiar with early modern logic texts and discus-
sions of method from the period will know that a science, or scientia,
in a particular discipline was founded not merely upon necessary prop-
ositions about the essences of its primary subject matter, but also upon
a finite set of principles.10
These principles included general principles
applicable to all disciplines and proper principles that were necessary
propositions that referred to the fundamental notions of a discipline.
So, for example, in geometry there were proper principles about lines
and points such as ‘a line is a length without breadth’. These principles
were subject to classification, the standard fault line being between
speculative and practical principles following the division of the facul-
ties of the soul as speculative and practical and the divisions of types
of knowledge as speculative and practical. (There were other ways
of dividing up principles, such as by the manner by which the mind
grasped the principles in question.)
Once a philosopher had the general principles, the set of principles
that pertained to his or her discipline, and propositions that speci-
fied the essences of the relevant species, that philosopher could then
proceed to construct demonstrative syllogisms that through careful
and systematic elaboration would eventually constitute a science. At
least that was the theory. In practice, however, this method failed to
deliver and, as is well known, one of the significant developments in
9
Leibniz 1996, 51.
10
See, for example, Blundeville 1617, 163–164.
Peter R. Anstey
180
early modern philosophy was the modification and constraining of
this whole approach to knowledge acquisition.
So, in the early decades of the seventeenth century it was widely
thought that in order to acquire knowledge in a discipline, one needed
at least the following: a set of principles, a set of propositions about
the essences of the relevant subject matter, and the syllogistic. Now, as
we have seen, there was a deep problem about our epistemic access
to essences, a problem that had beset Aristotle’s Posterior Analytics
and remained unsolved down to the time of Bacon. We arrive then at
the key development that I am characterising as the second stage in
the history of early modern necessity and that is the emergence of the
concept of laws of nature. What I want to assert, and this is the central
developmental claim of this chapter, is that initially the laws of nature
were grafted onto this neo-Aristotelian conception of the generation of
knowledge, or scientia, because they were regarded as principles, but
they were principles that expressed new modal facts.
There is a sense in which the introduction of this notion, initially in
the writings of Descartes, widened the range of modal facts that were
to be discovered. Not only do natural philosophers need knowledge
of the essence of, say, humans or heat, but they now needed to know
necessary facts about the behaviour of natural bodies:  bodies with
gravity or bodies that can refract light, etc. Thus, the problem of epi-
stemic access to modal facts seemed to broaden.
Five points are worth noting about this development. First, by the
end of the century, it was pretty clear that these modal facts expressed
as laws of nature were able to generate new knowledge. In fact, some
regarded them as more effective than necessary propositions about
essences at generating new knowledge of nature. Indeed, Katherine
Brading has argued that these new modal facts actually provided a
new way to discover the essences of things and therefore provided
a partial solution to the problem of epistemic access to essences.11
Second, these new modal facts that were understood as laws of nature
were almost unanimously believed to be learned from experience and
not innate and so they, with respect to the inconsistent tetrad, pro-
vided cases in which proposition 3 is false.12
Third, as with knowledge
11
See Brading 2011 and 2012.
12
A heroic attempt to argue that the laws of mechanics are known a priori is
that of Jean Le Rond d’Alembert in his Traité de dynamique, Paris, 1743.
Locke and the Problem of Necessity in Early Modern Philosophy 181
181
of essences, however, the nature of the necessity involved in laws of
nature was often inextricably tied to the will or mind of God.Thus, the
theological complications that plagued the problem of knowledge of
essences were not avoided in the case of laws. Descartes, for example,
derived his laws of motion from the immutable nature of God.13
Fourth, most modern-day analyses of laws of nature involve rela-
tions, yet in the seventeenth century very few philosophers were
realists about relations. On the whole when it came to relations nom-
inalism reigned. This, it could be argued with hindsight, inhibited
philosophical analysis of the nature of laws of nature, including their
modal status. Fifth, even though the notion of laws of nature was new,
philosophers had long discussed the notion of causation and ‘cause’
itself was a deeply theorized term in the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries and theories of causation invariably invoked modal notions.
Thus, for example, Malebranche seems to have analyzed causal neces-
sity in terms of logical necessity.14
In summary then, in the seventeenth century there was a general
problem about our epistemic access to necessary facts in the world.
Early in the century this problem was framed almost exclusively in
terms of knowledge of essences of natural substances and properties.
Later in the century, however, it was complicated by the introduction
of a new type of necessary fact, laws of nature. These laws of nature
were in some quarters regarded as additional or alternative principles
that could complement a demonstrative natural philosophy. In other
quarters, laws of nature came to be a means of generating new know-
ledge of nature in their own right, rendering the need for a demonstra-
tive natural philosophy redundant.
Having established this two-stage heuristic for analysing the
problem of epistemic access to necessary facts in early modern phil-
osophy, I should now like to set out some guidelines by which to
apply it on a case-by-case basis. First, we need to determine whether
a philosopher believes that there are necessary facts and if so, to de-
termine what that philosopher believed about the nature of essences.
In examining a philosopher’s views about essences it will be helpful
to assess them in relation to the inconsistent tetrad. Second, we need
to take account of a philosopher’s views on the Aristotelian ideal of a
13
See Principles of Philosophy, II, §§36–39, CSMK, vol. 1, 240–241.
14
See the nuanced discussion in Fisher 2011.
Peter R. Anstey
182
demonstrative natural philosophy. This will include an examination
of his or her views on the syllogistic, laws of nature, and principles.
In addition we should address some or all of the following issues: his
or her views on innate principles and ideas; his or her views on the
nature of causation; his or her views on the nature of sensory percep-
tion; his or her theory of demonstration (and induction); his or her
views of God’s relation to the laws of nature; and his or her views of
the nature of volition.
2. Locke on Necessity
In the remainder of this chapter I will focus on the views of the English
philosopher John Locke. I should stress, however, that Locke is not
an exemplar of early modern treatments of necessity, but merely one
among a diverse constellation. Indeed, while some aspects of Locke’s
views on these matters were influential, there is no other philosopher
whose views on the nature of necessity are quite like those of Locke.
Moreover, Locke’s views were not static, but developed over time and
underwent significant change in the last decade of his life; neverthe-
less, they are particularly useful for illustrating the heuristic that I have
presented here.
Locke accepted that there are modal facts about the world and that
these are facts about the essences of things. He developed a sophisti-
cated theory of essences. He defined essence as follows: ‘Essence may
be taken for the very being of any thing, whereby it is what it is’ (Essay
III. iii. 15). He distinguished between real and nominal essence. Real
essence is ‘the real internal, but generally in Substances, unknown
Constitution of Things, whereon their discoverable Qualities depend’
(ibid.). Nominal essence is ‘nothing else, but those abstract complex
Ideas, to which we have annexed distinct general Names’ (Essay
III. iii. 17). That this is a genuine theory of essences is evident from the
following modal claim:
It is as impossible, that two Things, partaking exactly of the same real
Essence, should have different Properties, as that two Figures partaking in
the same real Essence of a Circle, should have different Properties. (Ibid.)
Locke accepted the ideal of a demonstrative natural philosophy
though in a highly qualified sense. He believed that if we could
Locke and the Problem of Necessity in Early Modern Philosophy 183
183
penetrate to the inner natures of substances, their real essences, then
we could deduce the qualities that they have:15
These insensible Corpuscles, being the active parts of Matter, and the
great Instruments of Nature, on which depend not only all their secondary
Qualities, but also most of their natural Operations, our want of precise
distinct Ideas of their primary Qualities, keeps us in an incurable Ignorance
of what we desire to know about them. I doubt not but if we could discover
the Figure, Size, Texture, and Motion of the minute Constituent parts of any
two Bodies, we should know without Trial several of their Operations one
upon another, as we do now the Properties of a Square, or a Triangle. Did
we know the Mechanical affections of the Particles of Rhubarb, Hemlock,
Opium, and a Man, as a Watchmaker does those of a Watch, whereby it
performs its Operations, and of a File which by rubbing on them will alter
the Figure of any of the Wheels, we should be able to tell before Hand,
that Rhubarb will purge, Hemlock kill, and Opium make a Man sleep; ...
But whilst we are destitute of Senses acute enough, to discover the minute
Particles of Bodies, and to give us Ideas of their mechanical Affections, we
must be content to be ignorant of their properties and ways of Operation;
nor can we be assured about them any farther, than some few Trials we
make, are able to reach. But whether they will succeed again another time,
we cannot be certain. This hinders our certain Knowledge of universal
Truths concerning natural Bodies: and our Reason carries us herein very
little beyond particular matter of Fact. (Essay IV. iii. 25, underlining added)
How does one demonstrate that, say, rhubarb will purge and hem-
lock will kill? Locke had an idiosyncratic theory of demonstration.
This was predicated on his theory of ideas. Space does not allow a
full elaboration of this theory, but the bare bones are as follows.16
Knowledge in its most basic form is the perception of the agreement
or disagreement of ideas. This agreement or disagreement can be per-
ceived immediately or mediately. Immediate perception of agreement is
intuitive knowledge. Mediate perception is demonstrative knowledge.
15
The claim that Locke was committed to a demonstrative natural philosophy in
a rather strong sense is denied by some of Locke’s interpreters. What worries
them are Locke’s claims in the Essay that God might superadd powers to
bodies and that we cannot know what is the relation between primary and
secondary qualities. See, for example, Stuart 1996 and Stuart 2013, 266–277.
16
For a more detailed account of Lockean demonstration see Anstey 2011,
chap. 7.
Peter R. Anstey
184
It is mediate in so far as a third idea, an intermediate idea that Locke
calls a proof, is required for the perception to take place.
Demonstration, then, is the perception of the agreement or dis-
agreement of two ideas with the assistance of a third idea. This primal
form of knowledge is not propositional, but rather is a form of what
Bertrand Russell called knowledge by acquaintance.17
As such, demon-
strative knowledge is not about the relation between propositions and
does not involve the notion of validity. One important consequence of
Locke’s theory of demonstration is that he rejected the syllogistic as an
efficacious means of acquiring knowledge of nature. Of course, Locke
still needs to give an account of how the perception of the agreement
or disagreement of the ideas is expressed propositionally, and he pro-
vides this in his account of the formation of mental and verbal prop-
ositions.18
Nevertheless, Locke does admit to a severe limitation with
regard to epistemic access to certain modal facts and it is to this that
we now turn.
Instead of believing that demonstration concerns the relations be-
tween propositions, Locke claims that at the most basic level acts of
demonstrative reasoning are related to perceiving the agreement or
disagreement of ideas in one of four different ways:
1. Identity, or Diversity
2. Relation
3. Co-existence, or necessary connexion
4. Real Existence (Essay IV. i. 3)
It is clear that this list is related to modal facts. Let us take ‘Co-
existence, or necessary connextion’. This concerns the necessary con-
nections between properties of substances such as the connection be-
tween the colour and malleability of gold. Since Locke gives particular
attention to this form of agreement or disagreement and this concerns
modal facts, we shall examine his view in more detail.
As we saw in the last extended quotation, Locke has a very pessim-
istic account of our prospects for determining the necessary connec-
tions between the properties of substances and between those proper-
ties and our ideas of them. He discusses this at length in Essay IV. iii.
9–17. He regards the determination of the connections between the
17
See Russell 1976 and Anstey forthcoming.
18
Essay IV. v.
Locke and the Problem of Necessity in Early Modern Philosophy 185
185
properties of bodies to be ‘the greatest and most material part of
our knowledge concerning Substances’ (Essay IV. iii. 9). By ‘great-
est’ here he means important, for, our knowledge of these connec-
tions is ‘very short’. This is because, in the first place, the simple
ideas that make up the complex idea of a particular substance do not
carry with them any ‘visible necessary connexion, or inconsistency
with any other simple Ideas’ (§10). Locke seems to have in mind the
manner in which some ideas ‘carry’ with them the additional idea
that it is derived from memory or from sensation (Essay II. x. 2).
There is no analogue of this when it comes to connections with other
simple ideas.
Furthermore, most of the simple ideas that constitute our ideas
of substances are ideas of secondary qualities, and the ontological
grounds of these ideas, that is, the primary qualities of their insens-
ible parts, are too removed from us for us to know which secondary
qualities ‘have a necessary union or inconsistency one with another’
(§11). Nor do we have epistemic access to the connections between the
underlying primary qualities and each individual secondary quality
(§§12, 13). So we are ignorant of necessary connections between sec-
ondaries, and between secondaries and underlying primaries. We can
know by intuition and demonstration that some primary qualities are
necessarily connected, such as shape and extension (§14), and that the
having of a determinate primary or secondary necessarily precludes
the having of all others that fall under that determinable (§15). This
modal knowledge derives from the ideas or concepts involved and not
from observation. Furthermore, Locke believed that if we are going
to make any headway on this problem for material substances it will
probably be through the corpuscularian hypothesis (§16), but the situ-
ation is even worse when it comes to our ideas of the properties of
spirits (§17).
Let us take stock so far. Locke believed in modal facts, he had a
theory of essences, and he was committed to the ideal of a demon-
strative natural philosophy. However, his view of demonstration bears
little resemblance to the Aristotelian one. What then is Locke’s view of
the inconsistent tetrad?
1. We have knowledge of modal facts about the world.
2. We can have knowledge of modal facts about the world only if we
acquire it by observation or reason.
Peter R. Anstey
186
3. We cannot acquire knowledge of modal facts about the world
from observations.
4. We cannot acquire knowledge of modal facts about the world by
reason.
If proposition 1 were restricted to knowledge of the real essences of
substances, whether material or spiritual, clearly he would reject it,
because he believes that we do not have epistemic access to the real
essences of things.
There has been some debate as to whether Locke believes that we
cannot have epistemic access to real essences in principle or as a mat-
ter of contingent fact. In my view this debate has been settled by Lisa
Downing,19
who has shown that, for Locke, it is a contingent matter
that we cannot perceive real essences, but that with the development
of more powerful microscopes we may one day have such knowledge.
Nevertheless, Locke was supremely pessimistic on this point.
And therefore I am apt to doubt that, how far so ever humane Industry
may advance useful and experimental Philosophy in physical Things, sci-
entifical will still be out of our reach:  because we want perfect and ad-
equate Ideas of those very Bodies, which are nearest to us, and most under
our Command.... Certainty and Demonstration are Things we must not, in
these Matters, pretend to. (Essay IV. iii. 26)
Yet Locke’s view about our epistemic access to essences is not
restricted to our ideas of substances, for, within his theory of ideas he
allows for a broad class of ideas that he calls modes. Locke’s use of
the term ‘mode’ is not to be conflated with the ontological category of
mode that was introduced by Suárez and popularized by Descartes.
For Locke, modes are ideas that are modified in certain ways. Simple
modes are those ideas that are modified by simple functions on that
very idea, such as iteration. Thus, the numbers 2 and 9 are modifica-
tions of the idea of one or unity.20
Complex modes, such as obligation
or murder, are combinations of different simple ideas that are
not looked upon to be the characteristical Marks of any real Beings that
have a steady existence, but scattered and independent Ideas, put together
by the Mind. (Essay II. xxii. 1)
19
Downing 1992.
20
Essay II. xvi. 2, 5.
Locke and the Problem of Necessity in Early Modern Philosophy 187
187
In the case of our ideas of substances, we have no way of knowing
whether our nominal essence, say, the complex idea of gold, corres-
ponds to the real essence in the world. By contrast, in the case of
our ideas of mixed modes, Locke claims that our nominal essences
are the same as the real essences. If Locke means here that for any
mixed mode the nominal essence is identical to the real essence, then
the problem that besets our knowledge of real essences of substances
is avoided:  for mixed modes we have immediate epistemic access
to real essences because the real essences just are those clusters of
ideas that constitute the nominal essences. This promises to guar-
antee epistemic access to modal facts across the whole domain of
mixed modes.
Unfortunately, however, this ‘ideational’ reading of Locke on mixed
modes is not so straightforward. Part of the problem is that Locke ex-
plicitly claims that many of our ideas of mixed modes are derived ‘By
Experience and Observation of the things themselves’ (Essay II. xxii.
2), and he often speaks of the transient nature of the real world cor-
relates of our ideas of mixed modes, which, unlike substances, are
‘not capable of a lasting Duration’ (Essay III. vi. 42). Thus, the real
essences of wrestling and murder are in the world, even if they never
last very long. Moreover, when Locke says that for mixed modes the
nominal essence is the same as the real essence, he could be equivo-
cating between identity and equivalence. As for simple modes such
as shapes and the geometrical propositions that are constructed from
them, Locke appears to hold that the ideas are real and the propos-
itions are certain in virtue of the nature of things in the world, and,
in particular, the nature or essence of Euclidean space.21
If this line of
interpretation is the interpretation of best fit for the various passages
in which Locke discusses ideas of simple and mixed modes, then it is
clear that the certainty of propositions constructed from them depends
upon the essences of things in the world.22
Locke claims concerning
someone who knows true propositions about triangles:
he is certain all his Knowledge concerning such Ideas, is real Knowledge:
because intending Things no farther than they agree with those his Ideas, he
is sure what he knows concerning those Figures, when they have barely an
21
Essay IV. iv. 6.
22
For a detailed discussion of these issues, see Anstey 2011, chap. 6.
Peter R. Anstey
188
Ideal Existence in his Mind, will hold true of them also, when they have a
real existence in Matter. (Essay IV. iv. 6)
We as modern-day interpreters might want to gloss this by saying that
Locke is grounding the epistemic necessity of, say, geometrical prop-
ositions, on the metaphysical necessity of the essential nature of actual
(as he presumed it to be) Euclidean space.
What then is Locke’s view of eternal truths? He is keen to stress
that, in contrast to propositions that assert the existence of particular
things, we are able to form universal and certain propositions from
the ideas of the essences of things: ‘Truths belonging to Essences of
Things, (that is, to abstract Ideas) are eternal, and are to be found
out by the contemplation only of those Essences’ (Essay IV. iii. 31).
Given that some of those essences of modes may be perceived by the
senses – such as murder and wrestling – Locke cannot maintain that
all eternal truths are known a priori. Nevertheless, eternal truths are
propositions constructed as a result of our perceiving the agreement
or disagreement of particular abstract ideas. The example he gives is
‘Men ought to fear and obey God’. For Locke, this sort of proposition
is an eternal truth because the certainty of the proposition is guaran-
teed by the relations between the abstract ideas:
because being once made, about abstract Ideas, so as to be true, they will
whenever they can be supposed to be made again at any time past or to come,
by a Mind having those Ideas, always actually be true. (Essay IV. xi. 14)
And yet,almost in the same breath,Locke can say that this proposition –
‘Men ought to fear and obey God’ – ‘proves not to me the Existence
of Men in the World, but will be true of all such Creatures, whenever
they do exist’.23
But this is equivalent to saying that ‘the sum of the
internal angles of all triangles is 180º’ is certain and will be true of
all triangles in Euclidean space whenever and wherever they do exist.
Or again, that the proposition ‘The Cartesian idea of space disagrees
with the idea of a vacuum’ is certain and will be true of all exist-
ing Cartesian worlds.24
This is not to say, however, that all eternal
truths are mere trifling propositions. The example of the derivation of
23
Essay IV. xi. 13.
24
See Essay IV. vii. 12–13.
Locke and the Problem of Necessity in Early Modern Philosophy 189
189
geometrical truths shows that such knowledge can be instructive and
not merely trifling.25
It might seem, particularly when we consider modal ideas, that
Locke restricts intuitive and demonstrative knowledge to conceptual
knowledge. But Locke’s view is subtler than this. Take, for example,
his distinction between certainty of truth and certainty of knowledge.
The former, certainty of truth, occurs ‘when Words are so put together
in Propositions, as exactly to express the agreement or disagreement
of the Ideas they stand for, as really it is’.26
The latter, certainty of
knowledge, is merely the perception of the agreement or disagreement
of ideas. Only certainty of truth will give us real knowledge of modal
facts about the world. In those cases when essences of modes are ac-
tually perceived by our senses we have the certainty of truth – we can
know that wrestling involves motion – because the real essences are
the same as the nominal essences. Importantly, however, we can also
have certainty of truth in the case of verbal propositions that signify
simple ideas, propositions such as that this snow is white. This is be-
cause, for Locke, as in modal ideas so ‘in all simple Ideas’ the real and
nominal essence is the same.27
Locke, therefore, believes that we can
have knowledge of many contingent truths.
This takes us, finally, to Locke’s view of principles and on this point
I believe that Locke has often been badly misunderstood. Locke’s view
of principles changed over time. We fail to do Locke justice on this
point if we presuppose that his position on principles was a static one.
Furthermore, Locke’s view of principles has been obscured or even
overlooked because of the agendas and historiographical orientations
of Locke’s later interpreters. In my view, however, it is crucial to get the
interpretation of Locke right on this point, not least because it enables
us to see how Locke dealt with the issue of epistemic access to neces-
sary facts about the world.
Let us start then with a very standard logic, Thomas Blundeville’s
The Arte of Logick, 1617. It is worth looking at Blundeville’s discus-
sion of certain knowledge before turning to Locke. Recall that on the
traditional Aristotelian view what is required for scientia is necessary
25
Essay IV. viii. 8. Locke regards propositions expressing identity as trifling; see
Essay IV. viii. 1–3. For further problems in Locke’s account of our epistemic
access to modal facts, see Bennett 2000.
26
Essay IV. vi. 2, underlining added.
27
Essay IV. vi. 4.
Peter R. Anstey
190
propositions about essences, the syllogistic, and principles. The ques-
tion, however, is how do we know what the principles are?
Blundeville begins by saying that certain knowledge resides in three
things: universal experience,principles,and the judging of consequents,
that is, deductive inference. We turn next to principles. Blundeville
asks, ‘What be Principles?’. His answer is
Principles bee certaine generall conceptions and naturall knowledges grafted
in mans minde of God to the intent that by the helpe thereof, he might in-
vent such Arts as are necessarie in this life.... (Blundeville 1617, 163)
He then asks, ‘How many Divisions doe the Schoole-men make
Principles?’ His answer, ‘Divers’. And next he commands ‘Rehearse
those Divisions’ Answer:  ‘The first is of Principles, some be called
Speculative, and some Practive....’
These are precisely the doctrines that Locke attacks in book I of the
Essay, which is not motivated by a rejection of innate ideas but with
the rejection of innate speculative and practical principles.28
There is nothing more commonly taken for granted, than that there are
certain Principles both Speculative and Practical (for they speak of both)
universally agreed upon by all Mankind; which therefore they argue, must
needs be the constant Impressions, which the Souls of Men receive in their
first Beings, and which they bring into the World with them, as necessarily
and really as they do any of their inherent Faculties. (Essay I. ii. 2)
This is the rationale of book I of the Essay. Thus, to claim that it
is an attack on innate ideas is to miss its polemical thrust entirely.
But Locke is not just concerned to reject the view that principles are
innate. He aims to show that, given his theory of demonstration, prin-
ciples are superfluous in the acquisition of intuitive and demonstrative
knowledge (see especially Essay IV. vii. 16–19). The Essay in its first
edition included a forthright attack on any form of principle.
One particular form of principle that Locke rejected was maxims.
The whole of Essay book IV chapter 7 is against maxims.29
What are
maxims? Let us turn back to Blundeville on this point. He tells us that
maxims are a species of principle and that
28
The term ‘principle/s’ occurs 156 times in book I of the Essay.
29
See also Essay, IV. xxii. 1.
Locke and the Problem of Necessity in Early Modern Philosophy 191
191
every Science has his proper principles: of which some bee called dignities or
Maximes, and some Positions.
Wherefore are they called ... Maximes?
For that they are worthy to be credited for their selfe sake, for as soone as
we heare them in such speech as we understand, wee naturally know them
to bee true without any further proofe. (Blundeville 1617, 164)
This is exactly what Locke attacks. He opens the chapter saying:
There are a sort of propositions, which, under the name of maxims and
axioms, have passed for principles of science: and because they are self-
evident, have been supposed innate, without that anybody (that I know)
ever went about to show the reason and foundation of their clearness or
cogency. (Essay IV. vii. 1)30
One of the arguments Locke runs against maxims is that any instance
of intuitive knowledge will be a maxim. Not only did Locke reject
a role for special maxims, he also had little use for laws of nature.
There is only a handful of references to laws or rules of nature in the
Essay and they play no significant explanatory role. It was only after
he came to understand something of the achievement of Newton’s
Principia that Locke realised that, in fact, laws of nature can generate
new knowledge and that they function in the way that principles do in
the Aristotelian approach to scientia.
The first inkling that Locke was altering his views with regard to
the role of principles in natural philosophy is in 1693 in a new sec-
tion written for Some Thoughts Concerning Education, a section that
does not derive from the earlier correspondence with Edward Clarke,
which formed the backbone of the book. Locke tells us:
the incomparable Mr. Newton, has shewn, how far Mathematicks, applied to
some Parts of Nature, may, upon Principles that Matter of Fact justifie, carry
us in the knowledge of some, as I may so call them, particular Provinces of
the Incomprehensible Universe. (Locke 1989, §194, 248, underlining added
(=§182 in the first edition))
30
Compare Leibniz, who says in the New Essays, summarizing Locke’s position:
‘Whatever use one may make of maxims in verbal propositions, they cannot
yield us the slightest knowledge of substances which exist outside us’. He
replies, ‘I am of an entirely different opinion’; Leibniz 1996, 423.
Peter R. Anstey
192
It is the ‘Principles that Matter of Fact justifie’ that are the basis of
Newton’s success. What might these principles be? In the Conduct of
the Understanding, begun around 1697, we get another insight, for
there Locke tell us
there are fundamental truths that lie at the bottom, the basis upon which a
great many others rest, and in which they have their consistency. These are
teeming truths, rich in store, with which they furnish the mind, and, like the
lights of heaven, are not only beautiful and entertaining in themselves, but
give light and evidence to other things, that without them could not be seen
or known. Such is that admirable discovery of Mr. Newton, that all bodies
gravitate to one another, which may be counted as the basis of natural phil-
osophy; which, of what use it is to the understanding of the great frame of
our solar system, he has to the astonishment of the learned world shown;
and how much farther it would guide us in other things, if rightly pursued,
is not yet known. (Locke 1823, vol. 4, 282, underlining added)
One cannot help but regard the fundamental truth that ‘all bod-
ies gravitate to one another’ as one of the principles that ‘Matter of
Fact justifie’. This may be reinforced by Locke’s Elements of Natural
Philosophy, purportedly composed at this time. There Locke claims:
Two bodys, at a distance; will put one another into motion by the force of
attraction: which is unexplicable by us, tho’ made evident to us by experi-
ence, and so to be taken as a Principle in Natural Philosophy. (Locke 1823,
vol. 3, 304–305, underlining added)
However, the authorship of the Elements has recently been called into
question, and it may be some time before we can be confident that
Locke was the author of this comment.31
Nevertheless, I believe that
this was a decisive shift in Locke’s thinking about how we can gain
demonstrative knowledge of nature, but it all came too late and was
never grafted in to the Essay and has largely been ignored in Locke
scholarship. It is, however, the final piece in the picture that constitutes
Locke’s treatment of natural necessity.
3. Conclusion
This chapter has claimed that the problem of gaining epistemic access
to necessary facts about nature and the processes of deriving further
31
See Milton 2012.
Locke and the Problem of Necessity in Early Modern Philosophy 193
193
truths from them is central to the early modern conception of neces-
sity. The heuristic that I have set out, including the inconsistent tetrad,
is a useful means for determining just what view of epistemic access
to necessary facts any particular philosopher from the period main-
tained. This is clearly illustrated in the philosophy of John Locke.
Furthermore, changes to Locke’s conception of the role of principles
within natural philosophy nicely illustrate the manner in which the
new modal facts pertaining to laws of nature forced early modern
philosophers to revise the traditional manner in which necessity was
handled in the period.
Of course, this heuristic does not provide an exhaustive treatment
of the notion of necessity in early modern philosophy – it does not,
for example, give us much purchase on the problem of free will in the
period – but it does provide a starting point. The general features of
the early moderns’ conception of the nature of necessary facts about
the world, the processes through which we come to have knowledge
of them and the knowledge derived from them by demonstration, were
to have a long-term legacy. One can even construe some of the salient
features of the syntactic conception of scientific theories, so popular in
the twentieth century, as descending from this view.
194
10 Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity
Brandon C. Look
1. Introduction
It is not uncommon to say that rationalism, interpreted in a strict,
consistent, and thoroughgoing manner, entails necessitarianism – the
view that everything that happens necessarily and that there are no
unactualized possibles. For, according to the principle of sufficient rea-
son (PSR), there is a reason why everything is so and not otherwise,
or, put differently, nothing exists for which there is not a reason why
it is so and not otherwise. In the realm of the apparently contingent
happenings of the world, this means that every event has a reason for
its coming to be, and every event is itself the reason for the occurrence
of some other event. Every event is, it seems, necessitated by some
previous event. More worrisome for some philosophers, if every event
or action is necessitated by some particular event or action, then it is
not the case that an agent could have done otherwise. He or she is not
free; he or she is not morally responsible. Moreover, if God is good
and the creator of the universe, then God must bring into existence the
best world; it is impossible for God to have actualized another world;
hence, strictly speaking, there are no unactualized possibles. That, at
least, is the short version of the story.
And it is not so far from the truth to say that something like this
story – or rather the worry that it manifests – was running through the
mind of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (1646–1716) as he contemplated
the implications of his own budding version of rationalism. Writing in
1689, Leibniz remarks that his reflections on the principle of sufficient
reason led him “very close to the view of those who think that every-
thing is absolutely necessary” (A VI iv 1653/AG 94).1
What pulled him
1
In this chapter, the following abbreviations will be used: “A” followed by
series, volume, and page number = Leibniz 1923-; “AG” = Leibniz 1989;
“AT” followed by volume and page number = Descartes 1996; “C” = Leibniz
1903; “CP” = Leibniz 2006; “CSMK” followed by volume and page
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 195
195
back from this “precipice” was the consideration of possible things
that neither are nor will be nor have been. In other words, let the sim-
plistic argument be that rationalism implies necessitarianism. Leibniz
simply rejected the consequence, and by modus tollens concluded that
the antecedent needed refinement. But how? Leibniz, more than any
other philosopher, placed great weight on the PSR; he really did be-
lieve that there was a reason for everything. Indeed, given Leibniz’s
other views on the nature of individual finite substances and divine
omniscience, omnipotence and benevolence, it is fair to say that one of
the central tensions in his philosophical system relates to determinism
and necessitarianism: can one give an account of necessity and deter-
minism that does justice to the rational order of the universe while it
preserves the possibility of human freedom? Moreover, concerning the
nature of necessity, it is also important to point out that the problem
for Leibniz was not simply to give an account of the nature of math-
ematical truths and their like – the “eternal truths” for those working
in the seventeenth century – but also, as has been suggested, to give
an account of those truths – seemingly “contingent” from our contem-
porary point of view – that are, for Leibniz, necessary ex hypothesi.
To resolve this tension and to preserve both the commitments of
rationalism and the possibility of human and divine freedom, Leibniz
employed an argumentative strategy that carefully distinguished meta-
physical or absolute necessity from hypothetical necessity.2
But there
was much more to Leibniz’s account. It is generally recognized that
Leibniz developed two theories of our modal notions of necessity, pos-
sibility, and contingency. According to his first account, propositions
can be considered necessary or contingent per se; likewise, individ-
uals, or better their essences, can be considered per se possible or im-
possible. According to some scholars, Leibniz abandoned this per se
theory of modality account in favor of a second, according to which
number = Descartes 1985; “DSR” = Leibniz 1992; “G” followed by volume
and page number = Leibniz 1875–1890; “Grua” = Leibniz 1948; “H” = Leibniz
1985; “L” = Leibniz 1969; “LLP” = Leibniz 1960; “MP” = Leibniz 1995;
“RB” = Leibniz 1996; “T” = Theodicy, followed by section number. Whenever
possible the original language text will be cited along with the most common
English language text. Passages lacking a reference to an English language
text are given in the author’s translation; an asterisk indicates that the cited
translation has been altered.
2
Leibniz also adds moral necessity – the obligation to choose the best. But this
will not play a role in the story I wish to tell here.
Brandon C. Look
196
a proposition is necessary if it can be resolved into a statement of
identity in a finite number of steps, while a proposition is contingent
if its analysis can go on to infinity without arriving at a statement of
identity.3
Yet, neither account has proven to be very satisfying to inter-
preters of Leibniz’s thought. What does it mean to say that something
is per se possible or per se necessary? And how helpful is the infinite
analysis account in practice? Some scholars, in fact, have suggested
that Leibniz should have simply gone over the precipice and accepted
that the principle of sufficient reason implies strict necessitarianism.
Recently, however, a number of scholars have suggested that Leibniz’s
first account of per se possibility and necessity is in fact superior to the
infinite analysis account and can be used to block the inference from
the principle of sufficient reason to necessitarianism.4
In this chapter,
I shall argue that the infinite analysis account and the per se account
of modality complement each other. Finally, it should be rather ob-
vious that Leibniz’s invocation of possible worlds in his philosophy is
echoed in contemporary accounts of modality that appeal to possible-
worlds semantics. While Leibniz does not explicitly define necessity
and contingency in terms of possible worlds, I shall show that his con-
ception of possible worlds underlies his accounts of our modal notions
and that his standard account of necessity and contingency can easily
be translated into possible-worlds semantics.
2. Leibniz’s Theory of Per Se Possibles
It is common to point to the fact that Leibniz spent much of his career
situating his philosophy in opposition to the thought of Spinoza. This
is a common story because it is true. And even in the simple story
sketched earlier linking rationalism and necessitarianism, it is easy to
see Spinoza as the main opponent.5
When we try to tell a historically
3
This view is expressed best by Sleigh (1990). However, Blumenfeld (1988) and
Adams (1994) argue that the per se account of modality is preserved throughout
Leibniz’s career, a view I share, as will become clear. Newlands (2010) makes
a similar case – though his focus differs from the general view presented here.
The reader interested in this subject should also consult the following important
works: Ishiguro (1990), Mates (1986), Parkinson (1965), and Russell (1937). The
most recent major contribution to this discussion can be found in Griffin (2013).
4
See, for example, Lin (2012).
5
While not classed among the “rationalists” and not arriving at the position in
the same way, Hobbes espoused a version of necessitarianism that was just as
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 197
197
faithful story of Leibniz’s philosophy, however, we need to be a little
more careful. For well before Leibniz had even seen a copy of Spinoza’s
Ethics, he was very much concerned with giving an account of our
modal notions that would respect both his rationalism and his other
philosophical commitments.
Indeed, in 1672–1673, Leibniz, a twenty-something, budding phil-
osopher just arrived in the intellectual capital of Paris,began to compose
a long dialogue, Confessio Philosophi (The Philosopher’s Confession),
that addressed the problem of evil and (for him) the related issue of
the nature of necessity and contingency. His first attempt to explicate
modal notions runs like this:
Those things are contingent that are not necessary; those are possible whose
nonexistence is not necessary. Those are impossible that are not possible, or
more briefly: the possible is what can be conceived, that is, (in order that
the word can not occur in the definition of possible), what is conceived
clearly by an attentive mind; the impossible what is not possible; the neces-
sary that whose opposite is impossible; the contingent that whose opposite
is possible.6
(A VI iii 127/CP 55)
There are several points to note here. First, the sense of Leibniz’s defin-
ition of necessity is essentially identical to what one will find through
much of the rest of his career, though it is usually expressed in this
way: “Something is necessary if its contrary implies a contradiction.”
In fact, Leibniz will immediately describe necessity in these terms on
the next page of the dialogue, as we shall see. Second and more inter-
esting, Leibniz clearly links possibility with conceivability. But he also
disturbing to the young Leibniz. Spinoza became the preferred philosophical
sparring partner because Spinoza’s philosophy was vilified throughout Europe
after his death and because Leibniz recognized that his own system was in
many ways very close to that of Spinoza. The literature on this subject is
extensive; for more a good starting point is, again, Newlands (2010) as well as
my own Look (2006).
6
A brief remark on the text: Sleigh’s translation is perfectly fine, but the
reader should be aware that Leibniz does not explicitly say “those things are
contingent that are not necessary,” but rather “contingents are what are not
necessary.” I mention this because Leibniz talks about the modal properties of
beings, essences, and actions (e.g. the necessary being, God, or as we shall see
in a moment, the necessity or contingency of sins) and the modal properties of
propositions or truths. Naturally, these two ways of speaking are related, but
Leibniz is not always as careful as one would wish him to be.
Brandon C. Look
198
recognizes that conceivability itself is a kind of modal notion; that
is, “conceivability” implies that the thinker can conceive something.
Hence, Leibniz removes the modal component and says that the pos-
sible is what is conceived clearly by the attentive mind. Sadly, in much
of the rest of the Confessio, Leibniz forgets this point and falls back to
talk about the link between possibility and conceivability.
More important for the purposes of this essay, however, is the point
that immediately follows this set of definitions.7
The theologian puts
the following argument to the philosopher.
What is your response going to be to the argument proposed previously: the
existence of God is necessary; the sins included in the series of things follow
from this; whatever follows from something necessary is itself necessary.
Therefore sins are necessary.
The conclusion, of course, is heretical and, in fact, can be generalized
to be a statement of necessitarianism. For it would be not just sins but
every state of affairs that follows necessarily from the necessary exist-
ence of God. The most natural response for an orthodox theist would,
of course, be to reject the second premise of this argument – the sins
included in the series of things follow from the necessary existence of
God. But Leibniz’s philosopher does not take this route; instead, in the
final draft of the dialogue, he says:
I reply that it is false that whatever follows from something necessary per
se is itself necessary per se. Certainly it is evident that nothing follows from
truths except what is true; nevertheless, since a particular proposition can
follow from purely universal propositions, as in [the syllogistic forms]
Darapti and Felapton, why not something contingent or necessary on the
hypothesis of another from something necessary per se?
Now, in Leibniz’s first draft of this passage, the philosopher simply
claims that “it is false that whatever follows from something necessary
is itself necessary.” In other words, Leibniz wishes to reject the third
premise – that whatever follows from something necessary is itself ne-
cessary. It might seem that Leibniz is hereby denying a fairly elemen-
tary theorem of modal logic, namely, the axiom of the weakest system
7
For a very nice discussion of these issues, see Sleigh’s introduction to CP (pp.
xxiv–xxv).
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 199
199
of modal logic K: ჱ(pൺ

q) ൺ(ჱ

p ൺჱ

q). But his invocation of the “per
se modalities” is meant to be a way around this issue. The philosopher
thus continues:
I will establish this from the very notion of necessity. Now I have defined
the necessary as something whose contrary cannot be conceived; therefore,
the necessity and impossibility of things are to be sought in the ideas of
those very things themselves, not outside those things. It is to be sought by
examining whether they can be conceived or whether instead they imply
a contradiction. For in this place we call necessary only what is necessary
per se, namely, that which has the reason for its existence and truth in
itself. The truths of geometry are of this sort. But among existing things,
only God is of this sort; all the rest, which follow from the series of things
presupposed – i.e., from the harmony of things or the existence of God
– are contingent per se and only hypothetically necessary, even if nothing
is fortuitous, since everything proceeds by destiny, i.e., from some estab-
lished reason of providence. Therefore if the essence of a thing can be con-
ceived, provided that it is conceived clearly and distinctly..., then it must
already be held to be possible, and its contrary will not be necessary, even
if its existence may be contrary to the harmony of things and the existence
of God, and consequently it never will actually exist, but it will remain
per accidens impossible. Hence all those who call impossible (absolutely,
i.e. per se) whatever neither was nor is nor will be are mistaken. (A VI iii
127–128/CP 55–57*)
The fundamental idea behind Leibniz’s account of per se possibility
appears quite simple: an essence (or a state of affairs) is possible just
in case it is conceivable, just in case there is no inherent contradic-
tion in that essence (or state of affairs) considered in and through
itself. Per se necessity, on the other hand, can be characterized thus: a
truth or being is said to be necessary just in case the ground for the
truth or being is contained within itself. Therefore, Leibniz believes
himself to have avoided the heretical conclusion of the theologian’s
argument since the sins or states of affairs that follow from the neces-
sity of God’s being (and creation)8
are not necessary per se but rather
merely hypothetically necessary. Moreover, since the necessitarianism
8
I avoid the question of whether and in what sense, for Leibniz, God’s choice of
worlds and act of creation was necessitated. As mentioned in fn. 2, God is in
some sense constrained by “moral necessity” to choose the best; but this is not
the same as being constrained by absolute necessity.
Brandon C. Look
200
of the theologian’s argument also goes hand in hand with a denial of
unactualized possibles, Leibniz takes himself to have dispatched with
that as well in this passage.
While it is easy to get a general sense of what Leibniz was trying
to say with his per se modalities, further reflection cannot but lead to
the conclusion that this is all fairly vague. There arise a number of ob-
vious questions: how do we know that we have clearly and distinctly
conceived of an essence, so that we know that there are no contradic-
tions among its properties? What does it mean for a being or a truth
to contain the ground of its being within itself?
As mentioned earlier, it has been argued that Leibniz largely aban-
doned this per se account of modality. While it never again constituted
Leibniz’s main account of modality, the idea remained with Leibniz
throughout his career. Consider, for example, the following from
Leibniz’s Theodicy (1710):
When one speaks of the possibility of a thing it is not a question of the
causes that can bring about or prevent its actual existence; otherwise one
would change the nature of the terms, and render useless the distinction be-
tween the possible and the actual.... That is why, when one asks if a thing
is possible or necessary, and brings in the consideration of what God wills
or chooses, one alters the issue. For God chooses among the possibles, and
for that very reason he chooses freely, and is not compelled; there would
be neither choice nor freedom if there were but one course of possible. (T
§235: G VI 257–258/H 278–279)
In short, possibility is a property intrinsic to the nature or essence of
a thing; it is prior to and independent of existence itself. Moreover,
Leibniz’s per se account of modality is connected with two philo-
sophical commitments in the metaphysics of modality that remained
remarkably stable for the rest of his career: the distinction between
hypothetical and absolute necessity, and the view that the modal prop-
erties of beings and propositions are real, tied to their essences (in
the case of beings), and not mere conventions.9
Indeed, the distinction
between what is hypothetically necessary and absolutely necessary be-
came an essential part of Leibniz’s account of human freedom. Several
years after beginning the composition of the Confessio, he showed a
9
Neither of these points is unique or novel to Leibniz, of course. Where Leibniz
is genuinely insightful and unique will be shown in a moment.
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 201
201
version to Nicholas Steno, and in the notes on his conversation with
Steno, Leibniz writes the following:
Absolute necessity is when a thing cannot even be understood to be other-
wise, but it implies a contradiction in terms, e.g., three times three is ten.
Hypothetical necessity is when a thing can be understood to be otherwise in
itself, but per accidens, because of other things already presupposed outside
itself it is necessarily such and such.... The series of things is not necessary
by an absolute necessity. (A VI iv 1377/CP 119)
The point should now be familiar: something is per se necessary if and
only if its negation entails a contradiction in terms; something is hypo-
thetically necessary if and only if it follows from something else but
could be conceived differently. For example, it is conceivable (in some
sense) that Judas did not betray Christ, though it is necessary that he
did so given the particular world-series of which he was a member.
Regarding the role of the consideration of essences in Leibniz’s theory,
consider the following passage from a letter to Simon Foucher, written
in 1675:
This possibility, impossibility, or necessity (for the necessity of something
is the impossibility of its contrary) is not a chimera we create, since we do
nothing more than recognize it, in spite of ourselves and in a consistent
manner. Thus of all things that there actually are, the very possibility or im-
possibility of being is the first. Now, this possibility or this necessity forms or
composes what we call the essences or natures and the truths we commonly
call eternal – and we are right to call them so, for there is nothing so eternal
as that which is necessary. Thus the nature of the circle with its properties
is something existent and eternal. That is, there is a constant cause outside
us which makes everyone who thinks carefully about the circle discover the
same thing. (A II i 387–388/AG 1–2)
Here the view is that possibility and necessity are prior to and inde-
pendent of human thought. The essence of a being is simply the set of
properties that either are or are not per se or through themselves in-
ternally consistent. Thus, when there is no contradiction of properties
within the essence of a being, it can be said to be a possible existent;
when there is a contradiction, the thing in question is impossible. An
unactualized possible is simply a being that is possible per se, but whose
essence is impossible given the other essences in this world, the world
Brandon C. Look
202
that has the most perfection and reality.10
Now, the last sentence in this
passage might appear somewhat strange given what we have seen thus
far, and it is deserving of two brief comments. First, what Leibniz says
here is really nothing other than what he says often throughout his en-
tire oeuvre: that the eternal truths are grounded in the infinite intellect
of God. Second, Leibniz’s point here foreshadows his more sophisti-
cated account of necessity and possibility, the infinite analysis account.
There are uniformity and unanimity in our thoughts about mathemat-
ical objects, or mathematical or eternal truths, precisely because we can
all arrive at an understanding of the relevant concepts in a finite number
of steps. And it is precisely this doctrine that we will turn to now.
3. Infinite Analysis
In a short piece, On Freedom, written in 1689, Leibniz gives the
autobiographical sketch mentioned in the Introduction to this essay.
He claims that after considering the implications of the principle of
sufficient reason, he “was very close to the view of those who think
that everything is absolutely necessary” but that “consideration of
possibles ... brought [him] back from this precipice” (A VI iv 1653/
AG 94). There is much more to the story of Leibniz’s rejections of
necessitarianism than just this, however, for he goes on in this piece
to link the solution to the problem of freedom and contingency to
the nature of truth:
Recognizing the contingency of things, I further considered what a clear
notion of truth might be, for I  hoped, and not absurdly, for some light
from that direction on how necessary and contingent truths could be dis-
tinguished. Now, I saw that it is common to every true affirmative propos-
ition, universal and particular, necessary or contingent, that the predicate
is in the subject, that is, that the notion of the predicate is involved
somehow in the notion of the subject. And this is the source [principium]
of infallibility in every sort of truth for that being who knows everything
a priori. But this seemed only to increase the difficulty, for if the notion of
10
I will expand upon this point later, but just to give away part of the story
now: necessary truths are grounded in the principle of contradiction;
contingent truths are grounded in the principle of the best or the principle of
sufficient reason; the PSR will require that there be a ground for a truth or a
being outside itself.
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 203
203
the predicate is in the notion of the subject at a given time, then how could
the subject lack the predicate without contradiction and impossibility, and
without changing that notion? At last a certain new and unexpected light
shined from where I least expected it, namely, from mathematical consider-
ations on the nature of infinity. (A VI iv 1654/AG 95)
Leibniz believes himself simply to be following Aristotle in holding
that a true (affirmative) proposition is one in which the notion of the
predicate is contained in the notion of the subject. Indeed, as he will
say elsewhere, “Every true proposition can be proved” (A VI iv 776/
LLP 77). The problem that he immediately admits here is that in many
(indeed, most) cases subjects – i.e. substances that exist in a world –
will have contradictory predicates: the young Leibniz had a full head
of hair; the old Leibniz was bald. But the solution is not simply to
time-index the properties of subjects; the solution is connected with
Leibniz’s doctrine of the complete individual concept of a substance,
the classical statement of which is to be found in §8 of the Discourse
on Metaphysics (1686): “The nature of an individual substance or of
a complete being is to have a notion so complete that it is sufficient to
contain and to allow us to deduce from it all the predicates of the sub-
ject to which this notion is attributed” (A VI iv 1540/AG 41).
This view of the nature of substance and its properties leads Leibniz
to reflections on the infinite. For, he believes, “no substance [is] so im-
perfect that it does not contain the entire universe, and whatever it is,
was, or will be, in its complete notion (as it exists in the divine mind),
nor is there any truth of fact or any truth concerning individual things
that does not depend upon the infinite series of reasons” (A VI iv 1655/
AG 95). It is at this point, Leibniz tells us, that he realized “a most pro-
found distinction between necessary and contingent truths”:
Namely, every truth is either primitive [originaria] or derivative. Primitive
truths are those for which we cannot give a reason; identities or immediate
truths, which affirm the same thing of itself or deny the contradictory of its
contradictory, are of this sort. Derivative truths are, in turn, of two sorts, for
some can be resolved into primitive truths, and others, in their resolution,
give rise to a series of steps that go to infinity. The former are necessary, the
latter contingent. (A VI iv 1655/AG 95–96*)
In short, the fundamental distinction between necessary truths and
contingent truths is that the former can be reduced to identities in a
Brandon C. Look
204
finite number of steps; the latter cannot be reduced to identities and
thus cannot be demonstrated.
In contingent truths, even though the predicate is in the subject, this can
never be demonstrated, nor can a proposition ever be reduced [revocari]
to an equality or to an identity, but the resolution proceeds to infinity, God
alone seeing, not the end of the resolution, of course, which does not exist,
but the connection of the terms or the containment of the predicate in the
subject, since he sees whatever is in the series. (A VI iv 1656/AG 96)11
Leibniz’s account of necessity as a property of propositions amen-
able to finite analysis seems relatively straightforward. A proposition
is necessary (or expresses a necessary truth) if and only if, in analyzing
the subject and predicate terms, one arrives at a statement of iden-
tities. A simple example can be found in arithmetic: “2 + 1 = 3.” Since
“2 = 1 + 1” and “3 = 1 + 1 + 1,” we can easily show that the original
statement can be reduced to “1 + 1 + 1 = 1 + 1 + 1.” Here we have an
obvious case of an identity and one where we can say that the con-
cept of the predicate – in this case, “4” – is contained in the concept
of the subject, “2 + 1” (or “(1 + 1) + 1”).12
It should also be clear that
Leibniz’s definition of what is necessary will be adopted by Kant, but
Kant will call this analytic. Indeed, Leibniz’s account of necessity as
essentially involving conceptual analysis (“reduction”) will sound fa-
miliar to many contemporary philosophers.
Leibniz’s account of contingency via infinite analysis, on the other
hand, might seem less satisfactory. Of course, what Leibniz intends is
clear enough: a proposition expresses a contingent truth if and only if an
identity between subject and predicate terms cannot be demonstrated.
To clarify his position, Leibniz often compares the distinction between
necessary and contingent truths to rational and irrational numbers.
In proportions, while the analysis sometimes comes to an end, and arrives
at a common measure, namely, one that measures out each term of the pro-
portion through exact repetitions of itself, in other cases the analysis can
be continued to infinity, as happens in the comparison between a rational
number and an irrational number, such as the comparison of the side and
11
Leibniz makes this point in many writings, but a particularly nice formulation
can also be found at A VI iv 1650/AG 28.
12
Leibniz famously gives this as an example of how the truths of mathematics
and logic work in his New Essays, bk. IV, ch. 2 (A VI vi 366–367/RB 366–367).
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 205
205
the diagonal of a square. So, similarly, truths are sometimes provable, that
is, necessary, and sometimes they are free or contingent, and so cannot be
reduced by any analysis to an identity, to a common measure, as it were.
And this is an essential distinction, both for proportions and for truths. (A
VI iv 1657/AG 97)
The reason or ground for any contingently true proposition is to be
found in another contingently true proposition, and this chain of rea-
sons goes back ultimately to the creation of the world (or rather to
God’s free choice of this particular world). We, with our finite minds,
are not able to grasp this chain of reasons, but God can grasp the
entire chain of reasons as well as the comparative perfection of this
world and that of all other possible worlds.
The “infinite analysis” account of modality has not met with many
supporters. Indeed, one of the most acute scholars of Leibniz’s thought
has remarked, “I have to confess that I can find no intuitive plausi-
bility whatsoever in this ‘solution.’ It is hard to see what the length
of the reduction of a proposition would have to do with whether the
proposition is false of some possible world.”13
But is it really so bad?
The issue is not the length of the reduction, but the act of reduction.
Necessary propositions are demonstrable in a finite number of steps,
and the actual number of steps is usually not great. Contingent true
propositions, on the other hand, simply do not admit of a reduction to
identical terms. Now, I believe that part of the resistance to Leibniz’s
account is to be found in a knee-jerk suspicion of rationalist meta-
physics. For what Leibniz actually goes on to say is not very radical
or strange at all. After claiming that God alone sees the totality of the
world-series and thereby the connection (not identity!) of terms or the
containment of the predicate in the subject, Leibniz writes that
two ways remain for us to know contingent truths, one through experience,
and the other through reason – by experience when we perceive a thing
sufficiently distinctly through the senses, and by reason when something is
known from the general principle that nothing is without a reason, or that
there is always some reason why the predicate is in the subject. (A VI iv
1656/AG 96)
13
Mates (1986: 108). For now we will bracket Mates’s invocation of possible
worlds in the analysis of modality. The take away is simply: “This is silly; why
should it matter how long the analysis goes on?”
Brandon C. Look
206
In other words, we know necessary truths (“truths of reason”) through
analysis and demonstration, and we know contingent truths (“truths
of fact”) through experience and the principle of sufficient reason.
Many contemporary philosophers seem to be skeptical of the prin-
ciple of sufficient reason,14
but, again, Leibniz’s view of contingency
should not alarm anyone: he is simply saying that a proposition is
contingently true just in case the demand for a ground can keep being
pushed back.
The distinction between the necessary and the contingent is con-
nected to Leibniz’s “two great principles of all our reasoning”:  the
principle of contradiction and the principle of sufficient reason. We
see this throughout his writings, though the connection becomes more
explicit and more closely connected to the infinite analysis account
later in his career. For example, in a relatively early piece, On Freedom
and Necessity (1680–1684?), Leibniz says the following:
There are two primary propositions: one, the principle of necessary things,
that whatever implies a contradiction is false, and the other, the principle
of contingent things, that whatever is more perfect or has more reason is
true. All truths of metaphysics, or all truths that are absolutely necessary,
such as those of logic, arithmetic, geometry and the like, rest on the former
principle, for someone who denies them can always be shown that the con-
trary implies a contradiction.... And so all truths that concern possibles
or essences and the impossibility of a thing or its necessity (that is, the im-
possibility of its contrary) rest on the principle of contradiction; all truths
concerning contingent things or the existence of things, rest on the principle
of perfection. (A VI iv 1445/AG 19)
Strictly speaking, the principle of the best is not exactly the principle of
sufficient reason. But what Leibniz is saying is clear enough: the reason
or ground for the existence of contingent things is found outside the
thing itself and in God’s free choice of the world.15
And in a passage
from the Monadology (1714) that all students of philosophy are fa-
miliar with, Leibniz writes:
14
Real philosophers can deal with brute facts!
15
One might think that Leibniz has moved on from his per se account of
possibility here. But Leibniz is talking about the principle of sufficient reason
in connection with contingents; the nature of unactualized possibles must still
be considered per se.
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 207
207
There are also two kinds of truths, those of reasoning and those of fact.
The truths of reasoning are necessary and their opposite is impossible; the
truths of fact are contingent, and their opposite is possible. When a truth is
necessary, its reason can be found by analysis, resolving it into simpler ideas
and simpler truths until we reach the primitives. This is how the speculative
theorems and practical canons of mathematicians are reduced by analysis
to definitions, axioms and postulates. And there are, finally, simple ideas,
whose definition cannot be given. There are also axioms and postulates,
in brief, primitive principles, which cannot be proved and which need no
proof. And these are identical propositions, whose opposite contains an ex-
plicit contradiction. (§§33–35: G VI 612/AG 217)
Conceptual analysis and demonstration aided by the principle of
contradiction can thus reveal truths to be necessary; while those prop-
ositions that cannot be revealed to be reducible to statements of iden-
tity are contingent. Their truth can only be grounded in an appeal to
the principle of sufficient reason, which ultimately will be a question
of why God chose to create one particular over others.
4. Leibniz’s Possible Worlds and the Nature of Necessity
Of all of Leibniz’s philosophical theses, the most famous or (thanks
to Voltaire) infamous is that we live in the best of all possible worlds.
More exactly, according to Leibniz, there are an infinite number of
possible worlds, and God chose to bring into existence the world that
is most perfect.16
Because of this commitment to the infinity of possible
worlds Leibniz has been seen as a kind of forefather to contemporary
modal theories, in particular possible-worlds semantics. Indeed, we
can ask, did Leibniz himself endorse a kind of possible-worlds seman-
tics for our modal concepts? The short answer is no – at least not ex-
plicitly. The longer and more interesting answer is that he had all the
conceptual resources to give a possible-worlds semantics of necessity
and contingency, and his standard accounts of modality can easily be
translated into the terms of possible-worlds semantics.
Before we examine Leibniz’s view, let us very briefly lay out
possible-worlds semantics. The claim here is that our basic modal
16
Even more specifically, the best of all possible worlds is the world that is
simplest in hypotheses and richest in phenomena (Discourse on Metaphysics
§6: A VI iv 1538/AG 39).
Brandon C. Look
208
concepts – necessity, contingency, possibility, and impossibility – can
be defined simply in terms of truth in a world or truth in worlds.
(a) Possibility: A proposition is possible if and only if it is true in some
possible world. A being is possible if and only if it exists in some
possible world.
(b) Contingency: A proposition is contingently true if and only if it is
true in this world and false in another world.
(c) Necessity: A proposition is necessarily true if and only if it is true
in every possible world.
(d) Impossibility: A proposition is impossible if and only if it is not
true in any possible world.
The crucial insight of possible-world semantics is that it explains
modal concepts without making reference to modality at all.17
Now,
the precise nature of possible worlds has, of course, been a subject of
great debate in contemporary modal metaphysics, and fortunately we
can avoid this debate altogether.
For Leibniz, however, a world is a set of individual substances, or as
he puts it in the beginning of On the Ultimate Origination of Things,
a world is a “collection of finite things”18
(G VII 302/AG 149). But it is
false to think that a world is just any old collection of things.According
to Leibniz, “The universe is only a certain kind of collection of com-
possibles; and the actual universe is the collection of all possible exist-
ents, that is, of those things that form the richest composite” (Letter to
Bourguet: G III 573/L 662*). The point is general, however: a world
can contain only those individuals that are jointly possible; that is, a
world cannot contain individuals that have contradictory properties.19
Further, according to Leibniz, “there are as many possible worlds as
there are series of things that can be conceived that do not imply a
17
In a way, this is like Leibniz’s recognition in his early work that there is
something wrong with describing what is possible as that which is conceivable,
for conceiv-ability is implicitly modal.
18
Leibniz sometimes speaks as if a world is the collection of substances along
with the laws of nature. However, insofar as each substance is to have a
complete individual concept or insofar as each substances has a law of
unfolding of its own perceptions and appetitions, it is just as fair to say that
the physical laws are derivative of the concepts, essences, or perceptual states.
19
The issue of compossibility in Leibniz is interesting and has generated nice
work among Leibniz scholars; a wonderful place to begin with this issue is
Brown (1987).
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 209
209
contradiction” (Discussion with Gabriel Wagner (1698), Grua 390).
And, Leibniz believes, there are an infinite number of possible worlds
that God did not choose to bring into existence.“There are, in fact, an
infinite number of series of possible things. Moreover, one series cer-
tainly cannot be contained within another, since each and every one of
them is complete” (On Contingency (1686): A VI iv 1651/AG 29). In
saying that a world is a set of compossible things and that each world
is complete in itself, however, Leibniz is saying that a world is a kind
of collection of things that God could have brought into existence. But
not even God can bring into existence a world in which there is some
contradiction among its members or their properties.20
In contemporary discussions of modality, it is not uncommon to
talk about possible worlds in terms of “world-books.”21
It will per-
haps be of some interest to readers of this volume to learn that Leibniz
employs exactly this kind of language in the fascinating conclusion
to the Theodicy. He tells the story of the high priest Theodorus, who
witnesses Sextus Tarquinius, complaining to Jupiter about his fate.
Moved by Sextus’s story, Theodorus seeks counsel in the temple of
Pallas Athena and is there shown the “palace of the fates.” Athena
says, “Here are representations not only of that which happens but
also of all that which is possible. Jupiter, having surveyed them be-
fore the beginning of the existing world, classified the possibilities into
worlds, and chose the best of all” (Theodicy §414: G VI 363/H 370).
She continues,
I have only to speak, and we shall see a whole world that my father might
have produced, wherein will be represented anything that can be asked of
him; and in this way one may know also what would happen if any par-
ticular possibility should attain unto existence.And whenever the conditions
are not determinate enough, there will be as many such worlds differing
from one another as one shall wish, which will answer differently the same
question, in as many ways as possible.... But if you put a case that differs
from the actual world only in one single definite thing and in its results, a
certain one of those determinate worlds will answer you. These worlds are
all here, that is, in ideas. I will show you some, wherein shall be found, not
absolutely the same Sextus as you have seen (that is not possible, he carries
20
There is a sense in which Leibniz’s account of per se possibles underlies this
account of compossibility.
21
See, for example, Plantinga (1978).
Brandon C. Look
210
with him always that which he shall be) but several Sextuses resembling
him, possessing all that is already in him imperceptibly, nor in consequence
all that shall yet happen to him. (Theodicy §414: G VI 363/H 370–371)
Theodorus is led into one of the halls of the palace and, observing a
great volume of writings in the hall, asks what it is.“It is,”Athena tells
him, “the history of this world which we are now visiting...; it is the
book of fates” (Theodicy §415: G VI 363/H 371–372).
It was claimed previously that Leibniz did not explicitly adopt the
kind of possible-worlds semantics endorsed by Lewis and others in his
own definitions and explanations of our basic modal concepts. But
we are now in a position to see that Leibniz’s account can easily be
translated into these terms. For what is possibility but being included
in one of the representations of what God might have created? Put
differently, a being is possible if and only if it is included in a world-
book. Further, let us return to the distinction between the absolutely
necessary and the hypothetically necessary. In §13 of the Discourse on
Metaphysics:
the one whose contrary implies a contradiction is absolutely necessary; this
deduction occurs in the eternal truths, for example, the truths of geometry.
The other is necessary only ex hypothesi and, so to speak, accidentally, but
it is contingent in itself, since its contrary does not imply a contradiction.
And this connection is based not purely on ideas and God’s simple under-
standing, but on his free decrees and on the sequence of the universe. (A VI
iv 1547/AG 45)
Leibniz then moves on to discuss Julius Caesar’s crossing of the Rubicon
(and predicate “crosses the Rubicon” in the concept of Caesar):
For it will be found that the demonstration of this predicate of Caesar is
not as absolute as those of numbers or of geometry, but that it supposes the
sequence of things that God has freely chosen, a sequence based on God’s
first free decree always to do what is most perfect and on God’s decree with
respect to human nature, following out of the first decree, that man will
always do (although freely) that which appears to be best. But every truth
based on these kinds of decrees is contingent, even though it is certain; for
these decrees do not change the possibility of things, and, as I have already
said, even though it is certain that God always chooses the best, this does
not prevent something less perfect from being and remaining possible in
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 211
211
itself, even though it will not happen, since it is not its impossibility but its
imperfection which causes it to be rejected. And nothing is necessary whose
contrary is possible. (A VI iv 1548/AG 46)
The point is simple: a proposition is contingently true in this world if
and only if it is dependent upon the first free decree of God; in other
words, a proposition is contingently true when its ground is in the
actualization of this particular world. In the case of Julius Caesar, his
action of crossing the Rubicon was free, that is, not necessitated, be-
cause the contrary does not imply a contradiction.22
In other words,
there is a possible world in which Caesar did not cross the Rubicon;
and, therefore, it is not metaphysically necessary that he cross the
Rubicon.23
Further, as we have already seen, Leibniz defines a possible
proposition as a proposition that will never result in a contradiction
in its analysis; but given Leibniz’s account of possible worlds, this
simply means that the proposition is true in some world. Finally, and
most important for the purposes of this contribution, since necessary
truths are not dependent upon the first free decree of God but are
instead revealed by analysis to be identities, they are in fact propos-
itions that are true in all possible worlds. And so, while the “official”
Leibnizian account of necessity, contingency, and possibility is given
in terms of per se possibles and infinite analysis, it is a not a great
jump to possible-worlds semantics.
5. God and Necessity
Leibniz’s notion of necessity is tied up with two of his arguments
for the existence of God in ways that might interest readers of this
volume. The first case concerns the ontological argument, of which
Leibniz offered an important critique and revision.24
Let the standard
ontological argument be expressed in the following manner:
22
More precisely, for Leibniz, an action is free if it is (a) contingent,
(b) spontaneous, and (c) the result of intelligence (i.e. choice). See T §288: G VI
287/H 303.
23
In my view, Leibniz denies transworld identity. Therefore, it is better to say
that there is a possible world in which a Caesar did not cross the Rubicon.
24
Leibniz focuses on Descartes’s version of the ontological argument, not
on Anselm’s. There are some minor differences that I discuss in my Look
(forthcoming), but they need not slow us down here.
Brandon C. Look
212
(1) God is the ens perfectissimum (i.e. the most perfect being, or the
being containing all perfections).
(2) Existence is a perfection.
(3) Therefore, God exists.
Leibniz’s criticism of the argument so construed is that it is incom-
plete or, rather, question-begging, because it assumes that an ens per-
fectissimum is possible. There are expressions, however, that seem
to correspond to something, but that in fact contain contradictions.
For example, Leibniz says, we can think of and talk about a “greatest
number”; but, in fact, such a number does not exist, and closer inspec-
tion reveals a contradiction within the concept.
As Leibniz writes in one of his first publications, the Meditations
on Knowledge, Truth and Ideas (1684), the Cartesian ontological
argument only licenses the conclusion “if God is possible, then it
follows that he exists” (A VI iv. 588/AG 25). Leibniz therefore sets
himself the task of proving the possibility of an ens perfectissimum;
that is, he wishes to prove the possibility of a necessary being. To
accomplish this task and fill the lacuna in the ontological argument,
it must be shown that it is possible for some object to possess all
perfections. In a number of texts from 1676, Leibniz gives us argu-
ments that demonstrate precisely this possibility. Now, according to
Leibniz, “perfections, or simple forms, or absolute positive qualities,
are indefinable or unanalyzable” (A VI iii 575/DSR 97); similarly,
a perfection is a “simple quality which is positive and absolute, or,
which expresses without any limits whatever it does express” (A VI
iii 578/DSR 101). Leibniz now has what he needs for a reductio ad
absurdum. Suppose there are two perfections, A and B, that cannot
possibly belong to the same subject; that is, suppose the two per-
fections are necessarily incompatible. If the proposition “A and B
are incompatible” is necessarily true, then, according to Leibniz, it
is either self-evident or demonstrable. But it is impossible for us to
know by intuition that A and B are incompatible. Nor can we dem-
onstrate this since demonstration requires the analysis of concepts
and A and B are simple qualities, that is, unanalyzable. Therefore,
we cannot demonstrate that they are necessarily incompatible. But
since it cannot be shown that A and B cannot be in the same subject,
it must be possible for them to be in the same subject, and since the
same reasoning applies to any two or more simple, positive qualities,
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 213
213
25
See A VI iii 578–579/DSR 101–103 (= L 167); A VI iii 575–576/DSR 97–99.
26
Leibniz repeats this idea and terminology throughout his career, writing in
1688 (?) again of the “pinnacle of modal theory [fastigium doctrinae modalis]”
(A VI iv 1617/MP 76) and after 1700 of “a modal proposition which would be
all perfections are compatible.25
, It is now possible to rewrite the
ontological argument in the following way:
(1) God is the ens perfectissimum. (Definition)
(2) Existence is a perfection.
(3) If the ens perfectissimum is possible, it exists.
(4) The ens perfectissimum is possible.
(5) Therefore, God exists.
Leibniz was particularly proud of this argument, writing, “I am per-
haps the first to have shown that a being to which all affirmative
attributes belong is possible” (A VI iii 395–396/DSR 47–49). But does
this argument actually prove God’s necessary existence? Might it not
simply be a contingent fact that all perfections are instantiated in this
case? In short, is there a difference between an ens perfectissimum and
an ens necessarium?
Leibniz was aware of these kinds of questions, and he sought to
clarify the issue in other texts from this period. He writes, for ex-
ample, that “a necessary being is the same as a being from whose
essence existence follows. For a necessary being is one which neces-
sarily exists, such that for it not to exist would imply a contradiction,
and so would conflict with the concept or essence of this being” (A
VI iii 583/DSR 107). Now, obviously, if it is possible for a being to
have all perfections and if existence is a perfection, then existence is
one of the perfections of the ens perfectissimum. Further, if existence
belongs to the essence of the ens perfectissimum, then, according to
Leibniz’s new definition, the ens perfectissimum is a necessary being.
It is now possible, however, to reformulate the ontological argument
without reference to an ens perfectissimum, but rather in terms of an
ens necessarium. Indeed, according to Leibniz, if a necessary being is
a being whose essence entails existence,“we have a splendid theorem,
which is the pinnacle [fastigium] of modal theory and by which one
moves in a wonderful way from potentiality to act:  If a necessary
being is possible, it follows that it exists actually, or, that such a being
is actually found in the universe” (A VI iii 583/DSR 107).26
What
Brandon C. Look
214
exactly is this “pinnacle of modal theory”? It is none other than the
fundamental axiom of the strongest of our modal logics, S5: “if pos-
sibly necessarily p, then necessarily p” (◊႒

p ൺ႒

p).27
In the case of the
argument for the existence of God, we would seem to have this axiom
working as a premise: “if it is possible that God necessarily exists,
then God necessarily exists.”28
Leibniz is clear, however, that this is a
“privilege” of the necessary being, for only it has such a nature that,
given its possibility, it exists.29
But this version of the argument takes
us beyond the simple ontological argument sketched at the begin-
ning of this section; it is a version of what has come to be called the
“modal ontological argument.”30
Leibniz offers a second argument for the existence of God that has
relevance to issues in the nature of necessity – namely, his argument
from the eternal truths. On Leibniz’s view, the existence of God is
demonstrable because only an infinite intellect can ground the eternal
truths, i.e. the truths of logic and mathematics. “If there were no
eternal substance, there would be no eternal truths; so this too affords
a proof of God, who is the root [radix] of possibility, for his mind is
the very region of ideas or truths” (A VI iv 1618/MP 77). According
to Leibniz, there must be a reason why a true proposition is true –
in contemporary parlance, every truth requires a “truthmaker” – and
there must be something that explains not only their truth but also
their reality. As he puts it in the Monadology §44, “if there is reality
in essences or possibles, or indeed, in eternal truths, this reality must
be grounded [fondée] in something existent and actual” (G VI 614/AG
218). We know that, for Leibniz, the nature of truth is that the concept
of the predicate is contained in the concept of the subject and that in
the case of necessary truths an identity can be demonstrated. And we
could, therefore, claim that mathematical and logical truths are simply
one of the greatest fruits of all of Logic [une proposition modale qui seroit un
des meilleurs fruits de toute la Logique]” (G IV 406).
27
The S5 axiom, as presented in most textbooks, is ◊p ൺ႒
◊p, but this is logically
equivalent to the formula shown earlier.
28
Admittedly, this formulation allows for a kind of de re/de dicto confusion. But
Leibniz’s intention ought to be clear enough.
29
See, for example, A VI iv 542/MP 13; A VI vi 438/RB 438; G IV 359; G IV
402; G VI 614/AG 218 (Monadology §45).
30
For more on this issue, see Malcom (1960), Oppy (1995), Gödel (1995), as
well as my own (2006) and (forthcoming).
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 215
215
true by definition; they are “analytic truths” in the Kantian sense and
might simply be grounded in human language and convention. Leibniz
rejects this kind of nominalist position that he had seen in, among
others, Hobbes.31
The obvious alternative position is that of Plato, for
whom the abstract objects of mathematics exist or subsist independ-
ently of anything else, and propositions are true or false independent of
subjective features. But this position is also rejected by Leibniz. For, on
his view, the objects of logic and mathematics are simply not the kinds
of things that can subsist by themselves; only substances can truly
be said to exist, and essences, possibilities, or truths require a mind.
Therefore, Leibniz believes, it is “the divine understanding which gives
reality to the eternal truths” (T §184: G VI 226/ H 243).
It is important to realize that Leibniz’s view that the eternal truths
are grounded in the divine understanding is explicitly opposed to the
Cartesian position that the eternal truths owe their existence to the
divine will.32
“It is highly erroneous,” he writes,
to suppose that eternal truths and the goodness of things depend on the
divine will; for every act of will presupposes a judgement of the intellect
about goodness – unless by a change of names one transfers all judgements
from the intellect to the will; and even then it cannot be said that the will
is a cause of truths, since the judgement is not such a cause. The reason for
truths lies in the ideas of things, which are involved in the divine essence it-
self. (A VI iv 1618/MP 77)
For Leibniz, then, the ideas of things, whether essences, mere possi-
bilia, or the eternal truths of logic and mathematics, are very much de-
pendent upon God. Indeed, they are only possible because there exists
an infinite intellect. Leibniz makes this point even more clearly in his
comments on Wachter’s Elucidarius cabalisticus: “The very reality of
the essences, indeed, that by which they flow into existence, is from
God. The essences of things are coeternal with God like numbers. And
the very essence of God comprehends all other essences, to the extent
31
In 1677, Leibniz addressed the Hobbesian position in a short and fascinating
piece. See A VI iv 20–25/AG 268–272.
32
This is one of the most notorious and striking positions of Descartes, whose
voluntarism rendered God capable of freely decreeing that, for example, 2 +
2 = 5. (See, for example, his letter to Mersenne from 15 April 1630: AT I 145/
CSMK III 23).
Brandon C. Look
216
that God cannot be perfectly conceived without them.”33
Moreover, be-
cause essences and the eternal truths are contained within the essence
of God, when we come to know the eternal truths and indeed even
when we clearly and distinctly perceive things in this world or reflect
on possible essences, we establish a connection with God.
God is the only immediate external object of souls, since there is nothing ex-
cept him outside of the soul which acts immediately upon it. Our thoughts
with all that is in us, insofar as it includes some perfection, are produced
without interruption by his continuous operation.... And it is thus that our
mind is affected immediately by the eternal ideas which are in God, since
our mind has thoughts which are in correspondence with them and partici-
pate in them. It is in this sense that we can say that our mind sees all things
in God. (G VI 593–594/L 627)
Of course, this kind of view is foreign to most contemporary philoso-
phers. Nevertheless, it is interesting and important to see how one of
the great mathematicians and logicians of all time sought to explain
the nature of mathematical truth, the nature of necessity, navigating
between conventionalist nominalism and Platonist realism.
6. Conclusion
I began this chapter by mentioning the connection between ration-
alism and necessitarianism. The driving question could be stated this
way: how should a rationalist conceive of necessity, contingency, and
possibility? In seeking to preserve human freedom in the face of the
apparent necessitarian consequences of rationalism and determinism,
Leibniz asked one of the most fundamental of all philosophical ques-
tions: What is truth? And he came to realize that there is a funda-
mental difference between true necessary propositions and true con-
tingent propositions, ultimately relating to the nature of the infinite.
His compatibilist response to the threat of necessitarianism is one that
preserves the determinism and grounding of events within this world,
while still allowing for human freedom. Further, he claims that the ne-
cessary and the contingent rest on the two great principles of all our
reasoning: the principle of contradiction and the principle of sufficient
33
Beeley 2002, 5/AG 273*.
Leibniz’s Theories of Necessity 217
217
reason. With regard to the nature of necessity, we learned that propos-
itions are necessary just in case their negation implies a contradiction.
At the same time, however, we saw that necessary propositions can also
be explained by Leibniz in very contemporary terms as being true in all
possible worlds, precisely because they do not require explication in
terms of the principle of sufficient reason and God’s first free decree to
bring a particular world into existence. Leibniz also seems both trad-
itional and contemporary insofar as his preferred version of the onto-
logical argument depends upon a strong axiom of modal logic: if pos-
sibly necessarily p, then necessarily p. But Leibniz also seems to think
that the necessary truths of logic and mathematics are only possible
if there is the infinite intellect of God, for truths and essences depend
upon a mind for their reality. While I suspect that the reader will not be
convinced of all (or any) of Leibniz’s views as presented here, I do hope
to have shown that Leibniz is a fascinating example of a philosopher
whose thought, especially on matters modal, is at times traditional and
orthodox and at times modern and radical, one who has an important
place in the history of necessity.
218
11 Leibniz and the Lucky Proof
Jonathan Westphal
There are a number of different strands to Leibniz’s thinking about
necessity. From as early as the compatibilist determinism of the Letter
to Magnus Wedderkopf in 1671,1
which is the setting for all his sub-
sequent thinking about contingency and necessity, to the Theodicy of
1710, and beyond, the strands are twisted together in various different
ways. Leibniz begins as a determinist, and then has to consider how
contingency and freedom fit in. Among the elements in his thinking
about the analysis of modality are the following:
(i) The impossible is or is on analysis the contradictory and the pos-
sible is what is or is on analysis the consistent.
(ii) The necessary is what is essential to a thing, or possible consist-
ently with its own nature, if it exists at all, as in a definition, and
the possible and contingent is what actually exists, if it is created,
except God, whose essence is existence.
(iii) The necessary is what is real, though incompletely or not deter-
minately described, such as an abstract plane rather than a real
tabletop.
(iv) The necessary is what is internal to a thing, derived from its
cause, when it comes into existence, and the contingent is what is
external to it.
(v) The necessary is what obtains in all possible worlds, and the
merely possible is what obtains only in some.
(vi) A necessary truth can be finitely analyzed, whereas a contin-
gent truth is a truth whose analysis is infinite, in the sense that it
1
Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, “Letter to Magnus Wedderkopf,” May 1671, Leibniz
1969, p. 146.
The material in this chapter is taken from a paper read at the Northern New
England Philosophical Association annual meeting, University of Massachusetts,
Dartmouth, October 17–19, 2014. I am grateful to the participants for comments
and criticisms.
Leibniz and the Lucky Proof 219
219
“contains” an infinitely long list of predicate terms. This list con-
verges asymptotically on the complete individual concept associ-
ated with the subject term, the truth known by God in a single
apprehension. We beings with finite minds can know necessary
truths by analysis, since the list of their predicate terms is finite
in number, but we can only know or “prove” contingent truths a
posteriori. The contingent truths do allow an a priori proof, but
it is not one that is available to us.
(vii) The necessary truth is the eternal truth in the mind of God.
I am very uneasy about thinking that these elements or groups of
elements form different, complete, and incompatible theories of contin-
gency and necessity in Leibniz’s mind, as Robert Adams has suggested.2
For Adams there are three distinct theories. I shall call them (A) Neo-
Spinozism, (B) the Finite Analysis Solution, and (C) the Possible Worlds
Analysis. Adams observes that it is hard to find (C) in Leibniz’s texts,3
that it is a reading of the twentieth-century semantics of modal logic
back into Leibniz, and that it may not count as a complete theory in
Leibniz, if it is there at all. (A), neo-Spinozism, is the view that necessity
is what is in the nature of a thing. By 1677 the necessitarian position
[the view that ‘flatly and without qualification,’ ‘everything that ever
happens is necessary’]4
was replaced by a theory that Leibniz frequently
repeated, publicly and privately, to the end of his career, and which must
be regarded as his principal (and most confident) solution to the prob-
lem of contingency.”5
In a comment on Spinoza (1678) Leibniz writes,
“Certainly nothing but these things could have been produced but
according to the very nature of things considered in itself [per se] things
could have been produced otherwise.”6
Neo-Spinozism tells us what
necessity is (the sense of “necessity,” if you like), but also which events
are necessary – all of them. When Leibniz was “pulled back from this
precipice,”7
it was not by abandoning his determinism, but by finding a
form of compatibilism more sophisticated than “The free is the neces-
sary and uncoerced,” and one integrated with a theory of contingency.
2
Adams 1994, pp. 9–35.
3
Ibid., p. 46.
4
Ibid., p. 12.
5
Ibid., p. 12.
6
Ibid.
7
Leibniz, “On Freedom,” Leibniz 1969, p. 263.
Jonathan Westphal
220
(B), the Finite Analysis Solution, is only a theory about what necessity
is. It claims very roughly that necessity is what can be finitely analyzed.
The “solution to the version of the problem of contingency that has so
fascinated his twentieth-century readers”8
is that necessary truths are
those that can be analyzed in a finite number of steps, whereas for con-
tingent truths the analysis “proceeds to infinity,” and only God can see
its reason in a single stroke.9
In (C), the Possible Worlds Analysis, neces-
sity is truth through all possible worlds. Contingent truths are truths
only “at” particular possible worlds or groups of possible worlds. The
following passage from “Necessary and Contingent Truths,” dated c.
1686 by Parkinson,10
contains this conception.
Propositions of essence are those which can be demonstrated, by the resolu-
tion of terms; these are necessary, or virtually identical, and so their opposite
is impossible, or virtually contradictory. The truth of these is eternal; not
only will they hold whilst the world remains, but they would have held
even if God had created the world in another way. Existential or contingent
propositions differ entirely from these. Their truth is understood a priori
by the infinite mind alone, and cannot be demonstrated by any resolution.
These propositions are such as to be true at a certain time; they express, not
only what pertains to the possibility of things, but also what actually exists,
or would exist contingently if certain things were granted – for example that
I am now alive, or that the sun is shining.11
(A), according to Adams,“must be regarded as Leibniz’s principal (and
most confident) solution to the problem of contingency.”12
(C) is to be
found earlier in the passage, and so this text is one of the few in Leibniz
where (C) is to be found easily, according to Adams; but then (B) can also
be detected in the same passage. (A) is most in line with the metaphysics
of the creation, since with “the nature of a thing” we are looking both at
God’s definition or blueprint for creation, and at the power that keeps
everything in its being as what it is, but (B) certainly adds a snap and a
crackle that are of the essence of Leibniz’s thinking on the topic.
What, therefore, is the ultimate reason for the divine will? The divine intel-
lect ... what then is the reason for the divine intellect? The harmony of
8
Adams, p. 26
9
Leibniz, “On Freedom,” Leibniz 1989, p. 99.
10
Adams, pp. 44–45, esp. note 70.
11
Leibniz, “Necessary and Contingent Truths” (c. 1686), Parkinson 1973, p. 98.
12
Adams, p. 12.
Leibniz and the Lucky Proof 221
221
things. What is the reason for the harmony of things? Nothing. For example
no reason can be given for the ratio of 2 to 4 being the same as that of 4 to
8, not even in the divine will.13
If (A), (B), and (C) were separate theories, then one might well expect
to find difficulties with one or another of them that do not apply to the
others. This would in turn provide a kind of evidence that the theories
are distinct. I do not myself feel any tension among (i)–(vii), or any
difficulty in reconciling their different elements, and I can see only a
single many-sided theory. One should also add to Adams’ list (i), as a
separate element, the suggestion that the necessary truth is one whose
denial is a contradiction. Why is this not a separate theory, if the (A)-
(C) are? Where are the contradictions among (A), (B), (C) and (i)? And
how would they contradict the proposition (viii) that necessary truths
are those which exist eternally in the mind of God. The views are
different in emphasis, certainly, but that is all. There is as far as I can
see no explicit rejection of any of them, anywhere in Leibniz’s work,
even after he had discovered the others, and I cannot see an obvious
route from any one to a negation of any of the others. Contra Adams
I also believe that we would do well to note Leibniz’s delight14
in hav-
ing discovered (B), as well as the twentieth century’s recognition of its
technical excellence and amazing cleverness, and its wonderful fit with
the metaphysics of the infinite complexity of the contingent universe.
Still, Adams has described a criticism of (B), which William Irvine
has christened “the Lucky Proof,” that would drive wedges among the
three theories. Adams offers no solution to the criticism. If the criti-
cism is a success, then (A), (B), and (C), as well as (i) and (vii), may not
be consistent, in which case they are distinct theories.
In this chapter I propose to defend Leibniz against the criticism
without entering into the wider project of demonstrating the consist-
ency of (A), (B), (C), (D) and (E). The criticism, according to Adams,
is a “difficult problem” that Leibniz “ignores.” I  shall be arguing
that the problem is not difficult, that it has an obvious solution, and
13
Leibniz, “Letter to Wedderkopf,” Leibniz 1969, p. 146.
14
In “The Source of Contingent Truths,” Leibniz 1989, p. 98 ff., one can see
that Leibniz is so thrilled with his discovery that he lays out the description of
necessary and contingent truth, in the manner of a mathematician describing
a dual construction or laying out dual proofs, in a column parallel to one
describing commensurable and incommensurable proportions. It is a very
interesting question why he should have taken truth and proportion to be duals.
Jonathan Westphal
222
that given the solution, it would not have appeared as a problem to
Leibniz. In short, it is a misunderstanding. I shall also argue briefly
that what would or should have been Leibniz’s solution to this prob-
lem itself creates a second problem, one which Adams regards as
“deep.” It is related to the question how we can refer to anything
with an infinite analysis in the first place. But first to the Problem of
the Lucky Proof.
Even if infinitely many properties and events are contained in the complete
concept of Peter, at least one of them will be proved in the first step of any
analysis. Why couldn’t it be Peter’s denial? Why couldn’t we begin to ana-
lyze Peter’s concept by saying “Peter is a denier of Jesus and...”? Presumably
such a Lucky Proof must be ruled out by what counts as a step in an analysis
of an individual concept, but so far as I know, Leibniz does not explain how
this is to be done.15
It is clear enough what Adams and Leibniz mean by “analyz-
ing Peter’s concept”; it consists of listing the things that are true of
Peter: that he was a denier of Jesus, that he denied Jesus three times,
that he was the first of the twelve to be called, and so on. So it is not
easy to see why Adams supposes that Leibniz’s best defense is in the
understanding of what a step in an infinite proof is. For we do have a
concept of just such a step in the straightforward understanding of the
finite proof. The only difference is that the infinite proof has infinitely
many of them – there is always another – so that we cannot complete
it, but the nature of the step remains the same. Nor can God complete
the proof, as Leibniz points out,16
but God can apprehend the entire a
priori proof of the contingent truth in a single act of knowledge,17
just
as we can apprehend, with sufficient understanding, the a priori proof
of the necessary truth in one go.
However, we might find, perhaps to our surprise, that some con-
cept we are analyzing turns out to be contradictory. There is Leibniz’s
15
Adams, p. 34.
16
“But in contingent truths, even though the predicate is in the subject, this can
never be demonstrated, nor can a proposition ever be reduced [revocari] to an
equality or to an identity, but the resolution proceeds to infinity, God alone
seeing, not the end of the resolution, of course, which does not exist, but the
connection of the terms or the containment of the predicate in the subject.”
Leibniz, “On Freedom,” Leibniz 1989, p. 96.
17
G. W. Leibniz, “The Source of Contingent Truths,” ibid., p. 99.
Leibniz and the Lucky Proof 223
223
example of the concept of the greatest possible speed,18
an example
that seems reasonable enough, especially given relativity theory. Or
one can imagine the concept of some supposedly historical character
that turns out, in the small print, to be contradictory. Suppose we were
to begin the analysis of “Peter is one who denied Jesus.” We begin the
analysis, as the objection of the Lucky Proof imagines, with our first
predicate: a denier of Jesus.
Peter is a denier of Jesus
one who remembered the words of the Lord when the
rooster crowed.
.
.
.
X
–X
.
.
.
During the course of the a priori proof or analysis we arrive at a step
that gives us X, followed by a step that gives us -X, as would happen
in the attempted proof of the proposition that there is some wheel that
turns with the greatest speed. We cannot know that there will not be
such a contradiction at some future point in the analysis. Since there
are always more steps to be examined, there might always turn out to
be a contradiction tucked away among the infinitely many predicates
“contained” within the subject. In an elaboration of a related difficulty
that Leibniz faces, Hawthorne and Cover write,
Suppose, as Leibniz seems to assume, that a determination of s as possible
requires an examination of all of s’s predicates. Only an infinite analysis
will suffice to determine s as possible. The point can be made easily enough.
A subject-predicate statement of the form “s is F” (reading ‘is’ essentially,
not existentially) is true, according to Leibniz, if s the F is a possible exist-
ent. As we have been at pains to emphasize, the possible existence of s the
18
Leibniz, “Meditations on Knowledge, Truth and Ideas,” Leibniz 1989 p. 25,
Leibniz 1961 IV, p. 424.
Jonathan Westphal
224
F requires not only that F be contained in the concept expressed by “s” but
also that this concept denotes a possible existent. Should it emerge that “s”
expresses an incoherent concept, then it will not be a possible individual
concept in the divine mind, and thus will not correspond to one of the crea-
tive potentialities contained in God’s nature. Granting the existence of a
finite proof that the predicate F is indeed contained in the subject concept
expressed by “s,” it remains to be proven that this is a possible concept.
Suppose, as Leibniz seems to assume, that a determination of s as possible
requires an examination of all of s’s predicates. Only an infinite analysis will
suffice to determine s as possible. But then no matter what F is, an infinite
proof sequence is required to determine that s the F is a possible existent.
“Caesar is a rational animal” – indeed even “Caesar is Caesar” – turns out
to be no less contingent than “Caesar crossed the Rubicon.”19
Yet in Hawthorne and Cover’s discussion of Leibniz’s well-known
argument that the ontological argument requires a proof of the con-
sistency of the perfections and thereby of the concept of the most per-
fect being, they notice neither the content nor the form that Leibniz’s
own proof takes. He does not consider the infinite analysis of “per-
fect” or “the most perfect”; nor does he need to, for two reasons.
(a) As to content, there is the definition of the perfection. “I call
every simple quality that is positive and absolute a perfection.”20
Analyses ending in simple concepts are finite, provided that they
have a finite number of terms.
(b) As to form, Leibniz’s proof proceeds not by an infinitely pro-
longed inspection but by reductio ad absurdum, with the re-
ductio assumption “A and B are compatibles,” where A and B
are perfections. When this assumption produces a contradiction,
we can see that its negation is true, and we can do it in a finite
number of steps.21
Now (a) does not matter, since the proofs of
19
Hawthorne and Cover 2000, pp. 155–156.
20
Leibniz 1961, VII, p. 261. There is perhaps the basis here for a Leibnizian
distinction between necessary truths and conceptual truths. The necessary
truths are the finite ones containing only simple concepts, whereas the
conceptual ones are the finite ones containing concepts that themselves have
infinite analyses. What the Lucky Proof would then show is that “Adam is the
first human” is a conceptual truth.
21
Ibid. There are ways other than the infinite survey. Hidé Ishiguro notes that
God’s knowledge involves an infinite analysis of the concepts, which God
alone can carry out. “Leibniz believes that God can do this, not because He
Leibniz and the Lucky Proof 225
225
the possibility and then the existence of the most perfect being
are a priori proofs of necessary truths, but there can be reductio
proofs of contingent truths as well. Galileo proves the contingent
truth that heavier bodies do not fall faster than light ones by re-
ductio. Suppose that heavier bodies do fall faster than light ones.
Consider two bodies, one heavier than the other. Let them be
connected by a physical line, and drop the system into a free fall.
Since the first body is heavier than the second, the second will
function as a drag on the first, so the heavier body will fall more
slowly than it would have done alone. But since heavier bodies
fall faster than lighter ones, the system of the two bodies as a
whole will fall faster together than the heavier body alone, and
so the heavier body will fall faster than the heavier body alone.22
(c) There is a further difficulty with the claim of Hawthorne and
Cover (that “Only an infinite analysis will suffice to determine s
as possible”), in the existence of the possibility of non–a priori
knowledge offered by Leibniz in the “Meditations on Knowledge,
Truth and Ideas” of 1684.23
Leibniz states there that the possibility
of a thing can be known a priori or a posteriori.“The possibility of
a thing is known a posteriori when we know through experience
that a thing actually exists, for what actually exists or existed is
at very least possible.”24
So there can be knowledge of contingent
truths even without their a priori proofs, as from the fact that an
infinite list of predicates cannot be produced it does not follow
that we do not know that the concept is consistent.
Still, if we were to allow the premise that “only an infinite analysis
will determine the possibility of ‘s is F’, or, for Leibniz,‘s the F is a pos-
sible existent’, then, Hawthorne and Cover write, ‘... no matter what
F is, an infinite proof sequence is required to determine that s the F is
a possible existent.’”
I have suggested that the premise (only an infinite analysis will de-
termine whether a truth is necessary) of the argument that we need
sees the end of the analysis, there being no such end, but because He knows
the principle which combines the concepts to be analyzed (i.e. the principle of
perfection). It is like our using mathematical induction to give a finite proof of
a truth concerning an infinite totality” (Ishiguro 1990, p. 195).
22
Galileo 1989, pp. 107–109.
23
Leibniz 1989, p. 26, Leibniz 1961, IV, p. 425.
24
Ibid.
Jonathan Westphal
226
infinite proof sequences for every truth is false, for Leibniz, but if it
were true, how would it follow that identities such as “Caesar is a
rational animal” are not necessary truths? Hawthorne and Cover’s ar-
gument is that for Leibniz “s is F” is “s is a possible F.” The possibility
of F requires an analysis. But the analysis will be infinite. I have also
suggested that in some cases either the analysis of possibility termin-
ates short of infinity, or it is unnecessary: the two cases are the reductio
proof and the object known empirically to exist.
(d) There also remains the case of objects, mathematical and logical,
that only enter into restricted or necessary relations. Hawthorne
and Cover have not included the vital role of the definition in
their discussion. One might think that one could by their argu-
ment show that “A triangle is a three-angled closed plane figure
made by joining three non-collinear points by straight line seg-
ments” is contingent. No doubt some senses of “figure” have an
infinite analysis, but in geometry “figure” has a finite definition:
any set of points in a plane. So triangle and then figure as well
as the other four concepts in the concept of a triangle as defined
above have finite analyses, as do all mathematical and logical
terms. They are like “single-criterion” concepts;25
or they might
be called “finite-criterion” concepts. The mathematical or logical
term, as Leibniz writes, “se peut distinctement expliquer.” This is
incidentally for Leibniz why terms for secondary qualities can be
made intelligible, and why, when they are, we can call them pri-
mary qualities.26
Certainly Hawthorne and Cover are right to suggest that the infinite
analysis doctrine of contingent truths must accomplish two things, or
two things at least. “It will (i) explain why the proof of any contin-
gent claim of the form ‘s is F’ must work through the whole infinite
complex that is contained in the concept of s, and it will do so (ii)
without making it the case that every statement of the form ‘s is F’ is
contingent.”27
25
The idea of the “one-criterion concept” is Hilary Putnam’s. See e.g.“Is Semantics
Possible,” Putnam 1975, p. 141, and “The Analytic and the Synthetic,” ibid.,
p. 68.
26
Leibniz 1981, book II, ch. 8, p. 130, Leibniz 1961, V, p. 116.
27
Hawthorne and Cover, 2000, p. 156.
Leibniz and the Lucky Proof 227
227
Nevertheless, it seems odd, obviously wrong even, that the infinity
of the contingent is linked merely to the need for consistency, and not
directly to infinite complexity as such. The infinity of the contingent
has a much deeper and wider role in Leibniz’s conception of the re-
lation between the contingent and the necessary. The finite and the
mathematical can be grasped by a finite mind in such a way that it is
completely clear, so that there is nothing in it that is not clear. The con-
tingent, on the other hand, contains unresolved elements that do not
become clear short of infinity. That seems to be the essential point of
the conception of the infinity of the contingent, however matters stand
with the Lucky Proof.
Hawthorne and Cover give their own very interesting account of
why the analysis of the complete individual concept should be finite in
the case of mathematical subjects but infinite in the case of contingent
real entities. They frame their analysis with Leibniz’s concept of a bal-
ance, on which the infinitely many “micro-inclinations” to which the
monad is subject are weighed. Short of infinity one will be unable to
determine which way the balance will tip, and whether the predicate
Fs or ~Fs will turn out to be true. So we have here an account of why
an analysis must proceed forever.28
“Leibniz’s best answer would have
been ... that ‘sinned’ decomposes to a disjunction of the infinite sets of
micro-inclinations that would each suffice for sinning.”29
An advantage of Hawthorne and Cover’s account is that it links the
logical side of Leibniz’s doctrine to several important elements in the
metaphysical side of infinite divisibility and composition in a helpful
way that seems fully Leibnizian. Yet they write,“Now in a sense this is
clearly a speculative reconstruction of Leibniz’s view.”30
Besides, there
is a shorter and simpler logical argument, equally Leibnizian, for the
conclusion that the Lucky Proof is not valid. I cannot see anything
in it that is inconsistent with Hawthorne and Cover’s argument or
with Leibniz’s metaphysics of the infinity of the monad. Furthermore,
this argument is already Leibniz’s own, as we can already know from
his metaphysics of identification and individuation, and so there is no
need for a ‘speculative reconstruction’.
28
Ibid., section 3 ff.
29
Ibid., p. 162.
30
Ibid., p. 162.
Jonathan Westphal
228
When we perform an analysis on s, Adam, for example, the reason
we cannot reach an end of the predicates in a finite time, or even an
infinite one (as there is no end) is that there are an infinite number of
predicates. The constructor of the Lucky Proof seeks just one predicate
(“the first human,” for example) and finds it, by chance, at the top of
the list of Adam’s predicates. What the Lucky Proof objection then
asks is a question about the list of predicates. Why do we need to con-
tinue to consider them all, of course in the end failing, unless we have
the mind of God, since we already have the one we are after? One pos-
sible answer, as we have seen, is that there might be a hidden contra-
diction, and that this will not be discovered short of infinity. Another is
that a proper proof that the subject indeed has the predicate will need
to deduce the presence of the predicate from further facts about Adam,
plus petites, so to speak, and that the task of sorting through these and
setting them on the balance that determines whether arbitrary Fs or
~Fs cannot be completed.
As I see it the difficulty lies not in a restriction on or some feature of
the predicates of Adam, but in what it takes to understand and refer
to Adam, the subject, in the first place. It is not as though we take the
subject, clearly and distinctly conceived in Leibniz’s sense,31
having it
within our grasp, and then start riffling through the pack of predicates
looking for matching items. We do not clearly and distinctly conceive
the subject; nor can we refer to it specifically through all the possible
worlds containing things like it, since we lack the infinity of the marks
which is the “complete being.”
Consider the very important passage in the Letter to Arnauld of
May 1686 “about My Proposition that the Individual Notion of Each
Person Includes Once and for All Everything That Will Ever Happen
to Him.”32
I have said that all human events can be deduced not simply by assuming
the creation of a vague Adam, but by assuming the creation of an Adam
31
“Knowledge is clear when I have the means for recognizing the thing
represented. Clear knowledge, again, is either confused or distinct. It is confused
when I cannot enumerate one by one marks [nota] sufficient for differentiating
a thing from others, even though the thing does indeed have such marks and
requisites into which its notion can be resolved.”“Meditations on Knowledge,
Truth and Ideas” of 1684, Leibniz 1989, p. 24, Leibniz 1961, IV, p. 423.
32
Leibniz 1989, p. 41–42, Leibniz 1961, II, p. 37.
Leibniz and the Lucky Proof 229
229
determined with respect to all those circumstances, chosen from among an
infinity of possible Adams. This has given Arnauld the occasion to object,
not without reason, that it is as difficult to conceive of several Adams, tak-
ing Adam as a particular nature, as it is to conceive of several mes. I agree,
but when speaking of several Adams, I was not taking Adam as a deter-
minate individual. I must therefore explain myself. This is what I meant.
When one considers in Adam a part of his predicates, for example that he is
the first human, set in a garden of pleasure, from whose side God fashioned
a woman, and similar things conceived sub ratione generalitatis, in a general
way (that is to say, without naming Eve, Paradise and other circumstances
that fix individuality), and when one calls Adam the person to whom these
predicates are attributed, all this is not sufficient to determine the individual,
for there can be an infinity of Adams, that is, an infinity of possible persons,
different from one another, whom this fits ... Therefore we must not con-
ceive of a vague Adam, that is a person to whom certain attributes of Adam
belong, when we are concerned with determining whether all human events
follow from positing his existence; rather we must attribute to him a notion
so complete that everything that can be attributed to him can be deduced
from it.33
If we were to apprehend Adam through the senses, or through the
concept that includes what we know about him, we would not know
which of the infinity of Adams we were apprehending, except that it
is this one.34
But if we are to give an a priori proof of one of his predi-
cates, such as being the first human, we must know which Adam we
are talking about. There is for Leibniz to speak strictly only one Adam.
33
Leibniz 1989, pp. 72–73.
34
This is connected to the importance of the sample in Hilary Putnam’s
theory of reference. “The key point is that the relation sameL is a theoretical
relation: whether something is or is not the same liquid as this may take
an indeterminate amount of scientific investigation to determine,” i.e. in
indeterminate or infinite amount of analysis through all the possible worlds.
See “The Meaning of ‘Meaning,’” Putnam 1975, p. 225. At the end of the
day, of course, for Leibniz there is only one world containing this, something
bearing the relation same to the liquid in front of us. Connecting this as well to
Leibniz’s epistemology, we can see that what goes for the senses also goes for
the restricted or vague Sinn given by a finite number of predicates. “We use the
external senses as a blind man uses his stick, following the comparison used
by an ancient writer, and they allow us to know their particular objects, which
are colors, sounds, odors, flavors and the tactile qualities. But they do not all
us to know what these sensible qualities nor what they consist in.” Leibniz,
“On What Is Independent of Sense and Matter” (1702), Leibniz 1989, p. 186;
Leibniz 1961 VI, p. 499.
Jonathan Westphal
230
Without knowing which of the possible Adams this one is, though
we can refer to him “as a blind man uses a stick,” we do not know in
metaphysical strictness to whom we are referring, and we have not
demonstrated that it is indeed Adam of whom we are predicating
being the first human, or at any rate this Adam, the actual Adam, or
the one in our world.
What the Lucky Prover overlooks is that the Lucky Predicate, which
turns up first on his search list, can be predicated of someone, but for
Leibniz there is no telling who that someone is without the complete
individual concept.The Lucky Proof does not demonstrate the propos-
ition that Adam or indeed anyone in particular, in metaphysical strict-
ness, is the first human, but only that someone or other is, someone
incompletely specified, who resembles our Adam or the actual Adam,
whoever he may be, in certain specified respects, though he fails to
resemble him in others, infinite in number. Since the list of Adam’s
predicates is infinite, so the number of possible Adams and the number
of possible worlds containing someone like Adam, the first human, is
also infinite. We cannot distinguish this Adam, who is the first human
and was buried in the Cave of Machpelah, as per a traditional Jewish
belief, and that Adam, who was not.
The most important point in this is that individuality involves infinity, and
only someone who is capable of grasping the infinite could know the prin-
ciple of individuation of a given thing.35
When we initiate a Lucky Proof, we can be asked whom we mean
by “Adam.” The answer will be that he is the first human, to be found
in Paradise, from whose side God fashioned Eve.... Our subject term
contains three predicates, and the three little dots. We begin to analyze
Adam’s concept, and the first thing we hit on is ‘... is the first human.’
We conclude that ‘Adam is the first human’ is necessary. If “Adam”
were a synonym for “the first human” plus the other two predicates
alone, then following Adams, then ‘Adam is the first human’ would not
be contingent. But “Adam,” unlike “triangle,” has for Leibniz an ines-
capable and complete metaphysical failure of reference, in our mouths,
though not in God’s. It is only synonymous with the description of the
complete individual concept. In the Lucky Proof, we can if we wish
35
Leibniz 1981, pp. 289–290; Leibniz 1961, V, p. 268.
Leibniz and the Lucky Proof 231
231
suppose that “Adam” is just the first human, found in Paradise, from
whose side God fashioned Eve. Yet we are still in no position, short
of infinite analysis, to say that this Adam we are talking about is the
actual Adam, our Adam, the Adam in this world. So we cannot say
that the Lucky Proof has shown that the proposition “Adam is the first
human” (which one?) is not contingent. The word “Adam” is vague.
Some of the Adams, though not all, are the first human. This fact is, I
believe, what blocks Adams’s Lucky Proof, and it is in perfect accord
with Leibniz’s metaphysics and epistemology.
232
12 Divine Necessity and Kant’s
Modal Categories
Nicholas F. Stang
1. Introduction
The Pölitz transcripts of Kant’s lectures from the 1780s1
on rational
theology contain a fascinating discussion of modality:
On this point rests the only possible ground of proof for my demonstration
of God’s existence, which was discussed in detail in an essay I published
some years ago. Here it was shown that of all possible proofs, the one that
affords us the most satisfaction is the argument that if we remove an ori-
ginal being, we at the same time remove the substratum of the possibility
of all things. – But even this proof is not apodictically certain; for it cannot
establish the objective necessity of an original being, but establishes only the
subjective necessity of assuming [annehmen] such a being. But this proof
can in no way be refuted, because it has its ground in the nature of human
reason. For my reason makes it absolutely necessary for me to assume a
being which is the ground of everything possible, because otherwise I would
be unable to know what in general the possibility of something consists in
[worin etwas möglich sey]. (Pölitz RT, Ak. 28:1034)2
The “essay published some years ago” to which Kant here refers is
his 1763 work The Only Possible Ground of Proof in Support of a
Demonstration of the Existence of God (henceforth, OPG). While the
exact interpretation of that work is controversial,3
it is clear that he
there defends an interconnected set of claims about possibilities and
their grounds:
1
Kant lectured on rational theology during the winter semesters 1783–1784
and 1785–1786, and it is unclear which set of lectures is the basis of the Pölitz
transcripts. See Kant (1996), 337–338 for more.
2
In the rational theology lectures, see also Volckmann RT, Ak. 28:1176; and
Danziger RT, Ak. 28:1259. The translation of the Pölitz text is from Kant
(1996), with minor modifications.
3
Cf. Adams (1994); Watkins and Fisher (1998); Chignell (2009), (2012), and
(2014); Stang (2010); Yong (2014); and Abaci (2014).
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 233
233
(1) It is logically possible that p iff p does not entail a contradiction.
This is the definition of logical possibility. (Ak. 2:77)
(2) Not all logical possibilities are real possibilities (Ak. 2:77, 85).
Kant does not explicitly offer a developed theory of what real
possibility is, but it is clear that real possibility is more “meta-
physically robust” than mere logical possibility. He also lays down
certain conditions on it.4
For instance,
(3) If it is really possible that p then some existing being grounds the
fact that it is really possible that p (Ak. 2:78, 79). As with (2), Kant
does not explicitly offer a developed theory of the relation between
real possibilities and their grounds.
(4) All real possibilities must be grounded in a “first” or “highest”
ground of real possibility (Ak. 2:85–87). This first ground of real
possibility is said to exist with absolute real necessity, which Kant
defines to mean, if this being did not exist, nothing would be really
possible (Ak. 2:83).
(5) Since there are real possibilities, there is a first ground of real pos-
sibility (Ak. 2:157). Kant argues that this being has the traditional
divine attributes (simplicity, omniscience, omnibenevolence, etc.)
and identifies it with God.
Of course, Kant’s actual theory is much more complex than that, but
for now this brief outline will suffice.5
In this passage from the 1780s Kant appears to be saying that the
1763 argument does not constitute a proof of the existence of God
or of a first ground of real possibility. Whereas in 1763 Kant argued
that the fact that something is really possible entails that there exists a
ground of all real possibility, he now appears to think that this fact ra-
tionally requires us to seek an explanation of it, and the only rationally
satisfying explanation is that there is a ground of all real possibilities,
so we are rationally required to assume – I want to remain neutral on
exactly what epistemic attitude we are supposed to adopt so I am going
to use the nontechnical term ‘assume’6
 – that there is such a being.
4
One of the most important elements of Kant’s modal theory in OPG, the
principle that real possibility requires a “material element,” is not as important
for understanding the Pölitz passage, so I omit it here. Cf. Ak. 2:77, 79–81.
5
I examine all of these claims in more detail in Stang (2010) and in Stang (2016).
6
I will also sometimes speak of “hypothesizing” this being, or the hypothesis that
there is such a being. I mean this to be synonymous with assuming that there is
such a being.
Nicholas F. Stang
234
This raises a number of questions, including, what is the nature of
this rational necessity, the necessity that we assume an original being?
And what epistemic status does this resulting assumption have, if it is
not known to be true? However, I want to focus on the necessity of the
being that is assumed, which Kant goes on to characterize:
For in addition to the logical concept of the necessity of a thing (where
something is said to be absolutely necessary if its nonexistence would be a
contradiction, and consequently impossible), we have yet another rational
concept of real necessity. This is where a thing is eo ipso necessary if its
nonexistence would cancel all possibility. Of course in the logical sense pos-
sibility always precedes actuality, and here I  can think the possibility of
a thing without actuality. Yet we have no concept of real possibility ex-
cept through existence [Existenz], and in the case of every possibility that
we think realiter we always presuppose [setzen ... voraus] some existence
[Daseyn]; if not the actuality of the thing itself, then at least an actuality in
general which contains the data for everything possible. Hence all possibil-
ities presuppose [voraussetzen] something actually given, since if everything
were merely possible, then the possible itself would have no ground; so this
ground of possibility must itself be given not merely as possible but also as
actual. But it must be noted that only the subjective necessity of such a being
is thereby established, i.e. that our speculative reason sees itself necessitated
to presuppose [vorauszusetzen] this being if it wants to have insight into
why something is possible, but the objective necessity of such a thing can by
no means be demonstrated in this matter. (Pölitz RT, Ak. 28:1036)7
Kant here distinguishes between a “logical” and a “real concept” of
the necessity of a thing. I will focus on the former: a being exists ab-
solutely necessary just in case that being exists, and were it not to
exist, nothing would be really possible. This is the very same defin-
ition of absolutely necessary existence Kant gave in 1763 in OPG (see
(4) earlier).8
He also introduces a concept of “real” possibility and a
principle governing real possibility – if it is really possible that p then
the fact that it is really possible that p is grounded in something that
actually exists – that are familiar from that earlier work (see (3), as
well as Ak. 2:77–78).
7
This crucial text is also cited and discussed in Adams (1994), 182, note 9 on
that page; and Chignell (2007b), 349.
8
Ak. 2:81–83. See Stang (2010) for a discussion of this interpretation of
absolutely necessary existence.
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 235
235
Readers of CPR know that Kant frequently distinguishes between
logical and real possibility and claims that we cannot always infer
from logical possibility to real possibility. However, it is often unclear
what the Critical Kant means by ‘real’ possibility and whether, in fact,
he means one thing, or whether he has a number of distinct notions
of possibility that he simply groups under the heading ‘real’ to distin-
guish them from logical possibility.
In this chapter I am going to argue that in the Critical period Kant
does have a unified theory of real possibility and that this theory has the
same general structure as his pre-Critical theory of real possibility. In
Section 2 I consider what it could mean, within Kant’s Critical system,
to apply modal concepts such as <necessary>9
to a hypothesized being
that cannot be an object of experience; in Section 3 I argue that the
concept of real possibility of which Kant speaks in the Pölitz lectures
is the modal category of possibility and that this is a generalized ver-
sion of the pre-Critical concept of real possibility. It is this concept
that unifies the different kinds of real possibility Kant accepts in the
Critical system. In Section 4 I argue that for each kind of Critical real
possibility there is a corresponding kind of absolute necessity. I con-
clude by identifying which kind of absolute necessity is being discussed
in the Pölitz lectures.
2. Schematized and Unschematized Categories
One important feature of the Pölitz passages quoted earlier is that these
modal concepts – absolutely necessary existence and real possibility –
are being applied beyond the range of experience. We are rationally
necessitated to hypothesize an absolutely necessary being, but no
object of experience is absolutely necessary.10
Without opening the
Pandora’s box of competing interpretations of Kant’s transcendental
idealism, I would like to say a few things about what kind of object we
are hypothesizing.The object we are hypothesizing is what Kant calls a
“noumenenon in the negative sense,” which means “a thing insofar as
9
I follow Anderson (2004) and use italicized expressions flanked by angle
brackets to denote the corresponding concept. E.g. “<necessity>” denotes
the concept corresponding to the English (German) expression “necessity”
(Nothwendigkeit).
10
A559/B587, A561/B589.
Nicholas F. Stang
236
it is not an object of our sensible intuition” (B307).11
I will simply refer
to such objects as “noumena.” Noumena are “supersensible” [über-
sinnliche] because they are not the right kind of thing for us to sense
or experience; because they are not in space and time, we could not
sense them, even if our sense organs were vastly finer, and we cannot
infer their existence from any empirical causal laws.12
In hypothesizing
the existence of an absolutely necessary being that grounds all real
possibility, we are using modal concepts to think about a noumenon.
Although Kant denies that we ‘cognize’ [erkennen] noumena through
the categories, he maintains that we not only may think of them using
the categories but that we must do so. In fact, we cannot think about
any objects without thinking of them under the categories.13
My question in this section is, what are we doing when we apply a
modal category to a noumenon? This is an instance of a larger ques-
tion in Kant’s philosophy: what are we doing when we apply any cat-
egory whatsoever to noumena? In other words: what is the content of
a category when it is applied to noumena?
Although we can (and must) think of all objects under the cat-
egories, there is an important difference in the epistemic status of
these thoughts for objects we can experience (phenomena) and those
we cannot experience (noumena).14
Kant claims that the categories
have ‘objective validity’ when applied to phenomena, but lack it when
applied to noumena.15
Categories as applied to empirical objects have
objective validity in part because they can be schematized, i.e. pro-
vided with a priori rules for application to objects given in experience.
I will henceforth refer to them as “schematized categories.”
11
Some readers will wonder whether any supersensible being could be an object
for us. By “object” here I mean only “object of thought.” I am not claiming
that such beings could be objects in a more substantive sense, e.g. objects of
cognition or of experience. See A105, A108, B137.
12
See A226/B273, and Ak. 8:205. In this chapter, I remain neutral on the
relation between “noumena in the negative sense” and what Kant calls
“things in themselves” [Dinge an sich (selbst)] and, indeed, on whether
“things in themselves” functions referentially as a name for a kind of object,
or adverbially for a way of considering objects (as they are in themselves), as
Prauss (1974) famously argued.
13
A253, Ak. 5:54, 103.
14
On the “one object” interpretation, empirical and nonempirical conceptions of
objects.
15
A93/B126, A111, A128, A239/B298.
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 237
237
Categories applied to empirical objects can be schematized, the cat-
egories in general cannot, and because of this, categories have objective
validity for empirical objects, while categories lack objective validity
for objects überhaupt; consequently, in applying categories to empirical
objects we cognize those objects, but in applying categories to super-
sensible objects (noumena) we do not cognize anything about those
objects. Sometimes, rather than categories as concepts of objects in gen-
eral, I will just talk about “unschematized” categories. The question
from earlier can be rephrased: what are we doing when we think of an
object under the unschematized categories <necessary> or <possible>?
What is the content of such thoughts?
Before going any further in trying to answer that question, I want to
investigate further what is lacking or missing or defective about unsche-
matized categories. The section of the CPR in which Kant goes into the
most detail about the distinction between categories as concepts of em-
pirical objects (phenomena) and as concepts of objects in general is ‘On
the ground of the distinction of all objects in general into phenomena
and noumena.’ It contains the following interesting discussion of the
difference between schematized and unschematized categories:
For every concept there is requisite, first, the logical form of a concept (of
thinking) in general, and then, second, the possibility of giving it an object
to which it is to be related. Without this latter it has no sense, and is entirely
empty of content. (A239/B298)
This is the familiar Kantian point that in order to cognize objects
using some concept we must first be able to prove the real possi-
bility that there are objects falling under that concept.16
The logical
possibility of a concept’s being instantiated consists in that concept’s
being logically consistent (not containing any marks that are mutu-
ally self-contradictory), but logical possibility does not suffice for real
possibility (whatever that is, exactly). Kant here is claiming that the
reason unschematized categories do not have objective validity for
noumena is that we cannot prove the real possibility of noumena fall-
ing under them; we can only prove the real possibility of phenomena
falling under them, so only empirical (schematized) categories have
objective validity.
16
Cf. the footnote to Bxxvi.
Nicholas F. Stang
238
However, Kant goes on in the next paragraph to suggest that unsche-
matized categories – the categories as applied to all objects in general,
empirical as well as nonempirical objects – are defective for cognitive
use by us in a more radical sense:
That this is also the case with all categories [that we cannot use them to
cognize anything about objects in general] however, and the principles spun
out from them, is also obvious from this: That we cannot even give a real
definition of a single one of them, i.e. make intelligible the concept of their
object, without immediately descending to conditions of sensibility, thus to
the form of the appearances, to which, as their sole objects, they must con-
sequently be limited, since, if one removes this condition, all significance,
i.e., relation to the object, disappears, and one cannot grasp through an
example what sort of thing was really intended by concepts of that sort.
(A241/B300 – underlined material added in B edition)
Kant here identifies the lack of objective validity of the categories in
general with our inability to give real definitions of them for all objects
in general (phenomena and noumena). He identifies a real definition of
a category as making “intelligible” [verständlich] to ourselves how it
is really possible for objects to fall under them; this is most naturally
read as meaning that a real definition of a concept reveals not merely
that it is really possible for objects to fall under it, but reveals or makes
comprehensible to us why it is really possible. In his own copy of the
A edition, Kant wrote in the margin of this passage: “we cannot ex-
plain their [the categories’] possibility.” Giving a real definition of a
concept is proving that an object of that concept is really possible by
eliciting the grounds of that real possibility and thereby explaining
that real possibility.
This connection between real definitions and knowledge of the
grounds of possibility is further substantiated in Kant’s lectures on
logic, in which he distinguishes between nominal and real definitions.17
A nominal definition of a concept reveals what we “think” in the con-
cept, the marks we have assembled together to form that concept, what
17
The principal discussions of real and nominal definition, and the associated
notions of real and logical essence, are in the Jäsche Logic (Ak. 9:61, 140–145)
and the transcripts of Kant’s logic lectures (Ak. 24): Blomberg Logic (113–118,
268–273), Vienna Logic (838–840, 913–925), Dohna-Wundlacken Logic (727-
729,756-760), Philippi Logic (408–409, 456–459), Busolt Logic (634–635,
656–660), and Pölitz Logic (535, 573–575).
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 239
239
Kant sometimes calls the logical essence of the concept. Kant thinks
that nominal definitions are relatively trivial for empirical scientific pur-
poses. It may be important to make sure we all mean the same thing by
our words – that we are all using “water” to denote the clear, drinkable
liquid in rivers and lakes – but this does not by itself tell us anything
substantive about water, the stuff to which our concept refers.18
Water
itself, rather than the concept <water>, is the object of a real definition.
This means that when Kant says that real definitions are definitions of
things [Sacherklärungen]19
he does not mean to restrict real definitions
to individual things, which Kant thinks are never susceptible to real
definition;20
real definitions, if they are possible at all, would be of the
generic kinds of individual objects that fall under our concepts. A real
definition reveals the essential inner marks of the object that make it
possible and that explain its other properties. For instance, a real def-
inition of water (if we could give one, which Kant denies) would reveal
the inner properties of water that are essential to it and that explain its
manifest properties (clarity, drinkability, etc.). In doing so, a real def-
inition would reveal not only that water is really possible, but why. It
would reveal the grounds of the real possibility of water.
However, Kant is quite skeptical about our ability to give real defi-
nitions of ‘given’ concepts (as opposed to concepts we make), either
a posteriori given concepts of natural kinds such as water, or a priori
concepts given by the nature of our understanding itself, the categories.
Kant allows that for “given” concepts, both empirical and a priori, we
may be able to analyze the concept to determine a few marks con-
tained in it, although in general we will not be able to analyze the con-
cept fully and thus give a complete nominal definition.
Kant admits that we can give definitions of a sort of the categories
for all objects überhaupt, both phenomena and noumena, and gives a
series of examples of such pseudodefinitions:
If I leave out persistence (which is existence at all times), then nothing is left
in my concept of substance except the logical representation of the subject,
which I try to realize by representing to myself something that can occur
solely as subject (without being a predicate of anything). (A242/B300)
18
Ak. 24:116, 271, 757, 839, 918. Cf. A728/B756.
19
Jäsche Logic §106 (Ak. 9:143); cf. Ak. 24:839, 757.
20
Ak. 24:118, 268.
Nicholas F. Stang
240
From the concept of a cause as a pure category (if I leave out the time in
which something follows something else in accordance with a rule), I will
not find out anything more than that it is something that allows an inference
to the existence of something else. (A243/B301)
No one has ever been able to define possibility, existence, and necessity
except through obvious tautologies if he wanted to draw their definition
solely from the pure understanding. For the deception of substituting the lo-
gical possibility of a concept (since it does not contradict itself) for the tran-
scendental possibility of things (where an object corresponds to the concept)
can deceive and satisfy only the inexperienced. (A244/B302)21
The ‘obvious tautologies’ to which Kant alludes in the third passage
are principles such as that the necessary is that whose nonbeing is not
possible.22
The third passage also tells us what is incomplete in these
putative definitions – it is not that they are false, but that they do not
show that it is really possible for an object to fall under the concept,
much less why. At most they show that the concept is logically con-
sistent. Kant does not deny, for instance, that a cause in general is
something from which the existence of something else follows, but
this principle does not show us what makes it really possible for there
to be a cause. Similarly, it is surely the case that a necessary being is
one whose nonexistence is not possible. But this does not tell us what
would make such a being necessary. Given that Kant has just invoked
the notion of a real definition – and thus implicitly contrasted the
real definition of the categories with mere nominal definitions – it is
natural to think of these as partial nominal definitions. They unpack
conceptual connections between categories (e.g. the interdefinability
of the necessary, the possible, and the contingent) but they make no
progress in making intelligible to us the real possibility that objects in
general fall under these concepts.
3. Real Possibility and the Categories
What does “real possibility” mean here? In the case of mathematical
concepts and schematized categories the relevant notions of real pos-
sibility are constructability in pure intuition and compatibility with
21
Cf. A459/B487 and, especially, A593/B621.
22
This standard interdefinition of possibility and necessity is repeatedly asserted
by Kant in his metaphysics lectures. See Ak. 28: 418, 498, 556, 557, and 633.
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 241
241
the forms of experience (the former may be an instance of the latter),
respectively (A239–240/B298–299). But those notions of real possi-
bility clearly do not apply to all objects in general. When Kant claims
that we cannot give a real definition of a single one of the categories
as concepts of objects in general, which I have interpreted to mean
that we cannot identify the grounds of the real possibility of an object
in general falling under the categories, he, presumably, does not have
these notions of real possibility in mind.
Before continuing, I  want to point out that the modal categories
should be treated slightly differently than the other categories. The
problem of the real definition of <cause-effect>, for instance, is to de-
termine the ground of the real possibility of objects in general standing
in cause-effect relations, i.e. one object being such as to posit the exist-
ence of an object distinct from it. But applying the same scheme to the
problem of the real definition of <possibility> we get that the problem
is to determine the ground of the real possibility of objects in general
being possible. In other words, we get an iterated modality: the ground
of the real possibility of possibility. This is very indirect and artificial.
It is much more natural to think that what we want from a real defin-
ition of the category <possibility> is to determine the grounds of real
possibility of objects in general; no modal iteration is necessary. After
all, possibility is already included in the idea of a real definition of a
concept, so it makes sense that when we arrive at the question of the
real definition of <possibility> itself we do not ask about the grounds
of the real possibility of possibility: we ask about the grounds of real
possibility period. To take a related example, Kant’s complaint about
what he calls the ‘nominal definition’ of necessary existence (A593/
B621)23
 – a being exists necessarily just in case its nonexistence is im-
possible – is not that this fails to tell us what makes a necessary being
possible (iterated modality) but that it fails to tell us, if there is a neces-
sary being, what grounds the necessary existence of that being, i.e. why
it is not possible for that being not to exist. Likewise, what is missing in
our grasp of the category <possible> is an account of what grounds the
possibility of all objects in general – not an account of what grounds
the real possibility of the possibility of all objects in general.
But this means that the question being raised about the nonmodal
categories – e.g. what is the ground of the real possibility of objects in
23
Kant makes the same point in OPG at Ak. 2:81.
Nicholas F. Stang
242
general being causes? – is the same kind of question being raised about
the modal category – what is the ground of the possibility of objects
in general? – only if the notion of ‘real possibility’ involved in the first
question is the same as the notion of possibility involved in the second
question, which is itself the modal category <possibility>. This means
that the sense of ‘real possibility’ involved in a demand for a real def-
inition of the nonmodal categories is the same notion of possibility
involved in a demand for a real definition of the modal category <pos-
sibility>. In other words, the unschematized category <possibility>,
applied to all objects in general, is the sense of real possibility at issue
when Kant denies we have insight into the grounds of real possibility
of objects in general falling under the categories.
The categories, including the modal categories, are concepts we
apply when we think about objects in general. So if the unschematized
category <possibility> (henceforth, <possibility>UC) is a concept of real
possibility, then it must be the highest or most general concept of real
possibility. If there were a more general concept of real possibility than
<possibility>UC then in thinking about that kind of real possibility we
would not be using the unschematized category, and this is impossible;
any thought about objects requires thinking about them under the
categories.
What does it mean that the unschematized category is the most gen-
eral concept of real possibility? First of all, it means that <possibility>UC
is a concept of real possibility, rather than of logical possibility. This
means that <possibility>UC is a different concept from <logical possi-
bility>. Consequently, it is logically possible that they pick out distinct
extensions24
in any given domain; it cannot be determined through
conceptual analysis alone whether, for instance, all and only the prop-
ositions25
about nonempirical objects that are logically possible are
24
Some readers might balk at the idea of modal concepts having “extensions,”
especially given Kant’s claim that “the categories of modality ... do not
augment the concept to which they are ascribed in the least, but rather
express only the relation to the faculty of cognition” (A219/B266). I take this
to mean that the extensions of modal concepts (the “things” to which they
can be correctly applied) are not objects (<possibility> does not pick out a
class of objects, the possible objects, as opposed to the impossible objects).
25
By “proposition” I mean merely the content of a judgment rather than the act
of judging itself. See previous note.
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 243
243
also really possible in the most general sense.26
This, I take it, is Kant’s
point when he repeatedly distinguishes real possibility from logical
possibility, and denies that we can always infer from logical possibility
to real possibility,27
even in the case of nonempirical objects.28
The other thing I mean by claiming that the unschematized category
of possibility is a concept of real possibility is that it is part of the
unschematized category of (real) possibility that a (real) possibility is
grounded in some aspect of actuality. This is what Kant means in the
Pölitz lectures when he writes: “Yet we have no concept of real pos-
sibility except through existence, and in the case of every possibility
which we think realiter we always presuppose some existence” (Ak.
28: 1036).29
I interpret this as a claim about the unschematized cat-
egory of (real) possibility in general, <possible>UC. I take this to be a
partial nominal definition of the category similar to the principle: the
necessary is that whose nonbeing is not possible (A244/B302). This
is why our concept of “real possibility” carries with it the rational
necessity to inquire into the ground(s) of real possibility: in thinking
about noumena we have to think about them using the unschematized
category of (real) possibility and this carries with it the thought that
(real) possibilities for noumena – as for all objects in general – have
grounds in actuality.30
To anticipate slightly, I will argue that Kant implicitly distinguishes
several different kinds of real possibility. What makes them all kinds
of real possibility is that they all instantiate the nominal definition
of the highest concept of real possibility, <possibility>UC; they are all
conceptually distinct from logical possibility and they are grounded in
actuality. More precisely,
26
It is, I take it, a conceptual truth that everything that is really possible is
logically possible.
27
E.g. Bxxvi, A244/B302 (and the footnote added to that page in the B edition),
and Ak. 20:325.
28
E.g. A596/B624. In context, Kant’s point is that we cannot infer that God is
really possible just because the concept <God> is logically consistent. This only
makes sense if real possibility also applies to nonempirical objects, for if it did,
we could conclude that God is not really possible because he is not the object
of any experience.
29
See also Ak. 28:310, as well as Refl. 3931 and 5034.
30
This is only the beginning of such an explanation. My complete story of this
‘rational necessity’ is told in Stang (2016).
Nicholas F. Stang
244
(Real Possibility) For any kind of possibility ᄽ

x p and its associated kind
of necessity ჱ

x p (where ᄽ

x p iff ~ჱ

x~p), ᄽ

x is a kind
of real possibility (and ჱ

x p is a kind of real necessity)
only if
(i) Nonlogicality. It is not a conceptual truth that ᄽ

L p ๖ᄽ

x p
(and it is not a conceptual truth that ჱ

x p ๖ჱ

Lp) and,
(ii) Groundedness. If ᄽ

x p then the fact that ᄽ

x p is
grounded in some feature of actuality.
The subscript “x” indicates the different kinds of possibility; e.g.
“ᄽ

L” refers to logical possibility.
This also shows us how to relate Kant’s Critical theory of real pos-
sibility in general (his theory of <possibility>UC) to his pre-Critical
theory of real possibility. As I explained in the Introduction, in OPG
Kant argues for two principles about real possibility: (i) not all logical
possibilities are real possibilities, and (ii) all real possibilities must be
grounded in an actually existing being. In particular, Kant argues that
all real possibility must be grounded in a substance, God. Kant’s Critical
theory of real possibility in general (his theory of <possibility>UC) is a
generalization of the pre-Critical theory that maintains the same overall
structure. With respect to clause (ii), it generalizes from the specific pre-
Critical doctrine that real possibilities must be grounded in an existing
(causally efficacious) substance the requirement that real possibilities
be grounded in some feature of how things actually are (whether these
are features of substances, or mere forms of experience, for instance).
We can now see that Kant’s claim that we can give real definitions
of the categories only for empirical objects means, in the case of the
modal categories, that we only know the grounds of real possibility
for empirical objects. If p is some proposition, and p is really possi-
ble, then we can know the grounds of the real possibility that p only
if p is a proposition concerning empirical objects only. But empirical
objects have two kinds of grounds: “immanent ones,” i.e. the forms of
experience of cognizing subjects and causal grounds in other empirical
objects, and “transcendent” ones, i.e. noumenal objects that ground
empirical objects by causally affecting subjects and producing the sen-
sory matter of experience.31
We only know the “immanent” grounds
31
Kant talks of phenomena having noumenal grounds at A380, Ak. 4:314–315,
453, 8:203, 205. Elsewhere, he claims that noumena causally affect us, thereby
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 245
245
of real possibility for empirical objects, so the only kinds of real pos-
sibility for which we can give real definitions are those with immanent
grounds.
To illustrate this point, consider two kinds of real (nonlogical) pos-
sibility Kant invokes in CPR without explicitly distinguishing them:
(Formal) It is formally really possible that p iff p it is compatible
with the forms of experience that we experience objects
for which p is true.32
(Empirical) It is empirically really possible that p iff p is compatible with
the natural laws and the past up to time t, where p is the
proposition that alteration E occurs at t.33
For instance, it is formally possible both that I go to the movies
tonight, and that I do not, since either state of affairs is compatible
with the a priori forms of experience. However, if the natural laws
are deterministic, as Kant thinks they are,34
they determine a unique
empirically possible future; so the proposition that I go to the movies
tonight is either empirically necessary or empirically impossible. These
are both kinds of real possibility because both of them are distinct
producing the matter of experience: A190/B235, A387, A494/B522, Ak.
4:289, 4:314, 4:318, 4:451, and 8:215. On my view, noumena are grounds of
phenomena in that they causally affect our minds, producing sensations, which
are synthesized into experience of phenomena. For a defense of the claim
that noumena causally affect us, see the classic Adickes (1924), as well as the
introduction to Ameriks (2003).
32
This is the kind of real possibility Kant defines at A218/B266. It is the
kind of real possibility Kant typically has in mind in CPR when he talks
about “possibility” in general or “real possibility” in particular, e.g. A111
and A127.
33
This is the kind of possibility that corresponds to the kind of necessity Kant
defines at A218/B266 and discusses further at A226–227/B279–280. Those
are discussions of empirical necessity, which is related to what I am calling
“empirical possibility” in the standard way: it is empirically possible that p iff
it is not empirically necessary that ~p. See also Kant’s lectures on metaphysics
(Ak. 28:417, 29:814) and Refl. 4298 and 5177. I am departing from Kant’s
terminology here. Kant typically defines possibility in terms of the possibility
of an object – see his metaphysics lectures (28:410, 543 and 29:811, 960). For
ease of exposition, I have defined possibility in terms of the possibility of a
proposition. These are interconvertible definitions: an object a is possible just
in case the proposition that a exists is possible.
34
A108, A113, A114, A127–128, B165, A159/B198, A216/B263, and
Prolegomena § 36.
Nicholas F. Stang
246
from logical possibility; not all logical possibilities are compatible
with the forms of experience (e.g. the propositions of non-Euclidean
geometry) and many logically possible propositions about the future
are not compatible with the laws and the past up to this moment (e.g.
any logically consistent but false proposition about the future). Both
kinds of real possibility are grounded in actuality: our actual forms of
experience (space, time, and the schematized categories) and the actual
natural laws and past events.
In both cases, we know what grounds real possibility. For instance,
we can construct a triangle in pure intuition and thereby know why it
is formally possible: it is compatible with our spatial form of intuition.
Likewise, by coming to know the natural laws we come to know not
merely that various actual events are empirically possible but why; we
come to know why they are continuations of the past that are compat-
ible with those laws. But we do not know the noumenal (nonimma-
nent) grounds of the real possibility of empirical objects, because we in
general do not know the noumenal (nonimmanent) grounds of the real
possibility of objects. So we only know one “half” or “side” of the real
possibility of empirical objects. And we cannot give a real definitions
of <possibility>UC for all objects überhaupt because we do not know in
general the grounds of the real possibility of objects. We only know the
immanent grounds of real possibility for empirical objects.
However, we can think of the noumenal grounds of the real possi-
bility of objects, even for these kinds of real possibility (formal, em-
pirical) that apply only to empirical objects. For instance, a series of
events that is different from the series of actual events is compatible
with our forms of experience, if it is a series of law-governed alterations
in permanently existing and reciprocally interacting substances.35
Consequently, it is formally possible. Likewise, such a series of nonac-
tual events is empirically impossible because it is not a continuation of
the past that is compatible with actual laws (since these laws are de-
terministic). But there is another kind of real possibility we might ask
about: does this nonactual empirical series have a noumenal ground?
To make this more concrete, could we be noumenally affected so that
35
I will leave unanswered here whether it is compatible with the forms of
experience that these events be governed by natural laws different from the
actual laws. The question of the modal status of natural laws for Kant is
difficult; I address it in Stang (2016).
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 247
247
we would experience this nonactual empirical series? It is compatible
with my forms of experience that I receive a completely different set
of sensory matter, and thus have an experience with the same form as
my actual experience but a different matter, but that is not the ques-
tion. What is at issue is a question about the noumenal ground of the
real possibility of my experiencing a different empirical series. I take
it that is what Kant has in mind in the “Postulates of empirical think-
ing in general” when he writes “whether other perceptions than those
which in general belong to our entire possible experience and there-
fore an entirely different field of matter can obtain cannot be decided
by the understanding, which has to do only with the synthesis of that
which is given” (A231/B283). It is not something we can know; we
do not know the noumenal grounds of real possibility, even of the
real possibility of propositions exclusively about empirical objects.
This is the notion of real possibility that I have called “noumenal1” in
Figure 12.1. I also think this is the notion of real possibility involved in
Kant’s theory of transcendental freedom and his reconciliation of our
freedom in action with the empirical necessity of all of our actions, but
I do not have the space to defend that claim here.36
Finally, for propositions involving noumena (as well as empirical
objects) we might ask whether they are really possible,using the unsche-
matized category of (real) possibility, <possibility>UC.37
In doing so, we
would be thinking about a kind of real possibility whose grounds must
be noumenal, because noumena ground empirical objects, and not vice
versa (so empirical objects cannot be among the grounds of the real
possibility of noumena or any state of affairs involving noumena). We
cannot in principle know what the grounds of this kind of real possi-
bility would be. This is the notion of real possibility that I have called
“noumenal2” in Figure  12.1. Some readers might be skeptical that
Kant accepts any such notion of real noumenal possibility. However,
note the following claims Kant makes in the Pölitz lectures:
36
I argue for this in Stang (2011), 459–460 and in greater detail in Stang
(forthcoming-a).
37
Kant seems to be applying modal concepts directly to noumena – rather
than merely considering noumena as putative grounds of the possibility of
empirical objects – at Refl. 5184, 5723, and 5177. I also think that this kind
of possibility is involved in Kant’s resolution of the Fourth Antinomy, but I do
not have space to defend that claim here.
248
Concepts of possibility
Logical possibility Real Possibility = unschematized category of possibility for all objects in general
- Must have a ground in (unschematized) actuality
- Interdefinable with (corresponding kind of, though not absolute) real necessity
Real Possibility for Empirical Objects = category
of possibility applied to phenomena
Where the actual ground of real possibility is ‘immanent’:
(Formal) It is formally possible that p iff it is compatible with the
forms of experience that we experience objects of which p is
true. (Ground = forms of experience)
(Empirical) It is empirically possible that p iff p is compatible with
the laws and the past up to time t, where p is the proposition that
E occurs at t. (Ground = laws and the past)
Real Possibility for Non-Empirical Objects = category
of possibility applied to noumena
(Noumenal2) It is noumenally possible2 that p just in case p
concerns noumena and there is a noumenal ground of the
possibility that p.
Where the actual ground of real possibility is
‘transcendent’:
(Noumenal1) It is noumenally possible2 that p iff p
concerns only phenomena and there is a noumenal
ground of the possibility that p.
(Noumenal) It is noumenally possible that p
iff there is a noumenal ground of the
possibility that p.
Figure 12.1 Kant’s concepts of possibility.
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 249
249
If we remove an original being, we at the same time remove the substra-
tum of the possibility of all things.... My reason makes it absolutely neces-
sary for me to assume a being which is the ground of everything possible
... otherwise I  would be unable to know what in general the possibility
of something consists in.... A thing is eo ipso necessary if its nonexistence
would cancel all possibility ... in the case of every possibility which we think
realiter we always presuppose some existence ... hence all possibilities pre-
suppose something actually given. (Ak. 28:1034–1036–underlining by NS)
Kant’s repeated emphasis that the absolutely necessary being must be
hypothesized to ground the real possibility of “all” things, or real pos-
sibility “in general,” is naturally read as meaning that the absolutely
necessary being grounds the real possibility of both phenomena and
noumena. This only makes sense if there is at least one concept of real
possibility that applies to noumena, what I have called noumenal2 real
possibility.38
Finally, noumenal1 and noumenal2 real possibility are species of a
single conception of real possibility, which I have relabeled noumenal
real possibility simpliciter in Figure 12.1: the concept of any kind of
real possibility grounded in noumena. We cannot give a real definition
of this kind of possibility, for we do not know the noumenal grounds
of real possibility.
4. Absolutely Necessary Existence
To return to the original passage from the Pölitz theology lectures,
I am now in a position to offer my interpretation of what Kant means
by “real possibility” there: noumenal real possibility, real possibilities
for all things insofar as those real possibilities have noumenal grounds,
which we think through the unschematized category of (real) possi-
bility, <possibility>UC. The reason “real possibility” there means “nou-
menal real possibility” is that Kant claims we must hypothesize an
absolutely necessary being to ground all such real possibilities and,
as I pointed out at the beginning of Section 2, an absolutely necessary
being must be a noumenon (no phenomena are absolutely necessary).
So the real possibility at issue in the Pölitz text is grounded in nou-
mena; it is noumenal real possibility, the genus of which noumenal1
38
The Pölitz lectures are not the only place where Kant discusses what I am
calling “noumenal2 possibility”; see A255/B310.
Nicholas F. Stang
250
and noumenal2 real possibility are species. But Kant’s primary concern
in that passage, and the jumping-off point for our whole discussion,
was his invocation of the notion of “absolutely necessary existence”
and his Critical reinterpretation of the 1763 argument for the exist-
ence of an absolutely necessary ground of real possibility, or, as we can
now identify it, of noumenal real possibility.
The first thing we need to understand is what “absolute necessity”
means in the Pölitz text. Fortunately, it means the same thing it does
in OPG. Consider these two passages, the first of which is from Pölitz,
the second of which is from OPG:
In addition to the logical concept of the necessity of a thing (where some-
thing is said to be absolutely necessary if its nonexistence would be a contra-
diction, and consequently impossible), we have yet another rational concept
of real necessity. This is where a thing is eo ipso necessary if its nonexistence
would cancel all possibility. (Pölitz RT; Ak. 28:1036)
Something may be absolutely necessary either when the formal element
of all that can be thought is cancelled by means of its opposite [the ‘logical
concept of the necessity of a thing’ – NS], that is to say, when it is self-
contradictory; or alternatively, when its non-existence eliminates the ma-
terial element and all that data of all that can be thought. (OPG; Ak. 2:82)
The “data of all that can be thought,” in the context of OPG, is a refer-
ence to real possibility. Consequently, I interpret “absolute necessity”
in both texts as follows:
(1) It is absolute necessary that p =def were it not the case that p, nothing
would be really possible.
The right-hand side of this definition is a counterpossible conditional:
it says that per impossibile if p were false, nothing would be really pos-
sible. This is how I interpret Kant’s talk of the “cancellation” of possi-
bility in Pölitz (quoted previously) and the “elimination’’ of possibility
in OPG. Earlier in the same paragraph in OPG Kant writes, “When
I cancel all existence whatever and the ultimate real ground of all that
can be thought therewith disappears, all possibility likewise vanishes”
(Ak. 2:82). I take this to be clear support for the counterpossible inter-
pretation of absolute necessity in (1).39
39
I further defend this interpretation in Stang (2010).
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 251
251
One natural question is whether absolute necessity, so defined, can
be simply identified with real necessity, i.e.
(2) It is absolutely necessary that p =def it is really necessary that p.
It cannot; if it were, by the interdefinition of real necessity and real
possibility, this would entail that:
(3) It is absolutely necessary that p iff it is not really possible that ~p.
Given the definition of absolute necessity from earlier, (1), and the
principle that if it is really possible that ~p then there is a ground of
the real possibility that ~p, this would entail that:
(4) If there is no ground of the real possibility that ~p then (if it were the
case that ~p, nothing would be really possible).
But this cannot be right, because if ~p simply lacks a ground of real
possibility, it does not follow that its nonobtaining would cancel all
real possibility. For instance, if I do not have a transcendentally free
will, then, in the relevant sense of possibility, the possibility of omitting
an act I actually commit lacks a ground of real possibility; it does not
follow that were I to have done otherwise, nothing would be really
possible! My actions do not have that exalted status; only God does.
This is a short argument to the effect that the concept of absolute ne-
cessity invoked in the original Pölitz passage is not interdefinable with
the concept of real possibility (which I have identified with the unsche-
matized category of possibility). But recall how Kant gets to that con-
cept of absolute necessity: it is part of the concept of real possibility
that real possibilities have grounds in actuality. But reason requires me
to think of things as unified, to impose in thought a unity that I do not
know to obtain. This gives me reason to think that there is a single
unified ground of real possibility. While I am not attempting to recon-
struct Kant’s reasons in the 1780s for claiming that we are rationally
necessitated to hypothesize such a first ground of real possibility, this
short sketch does suffice to make an important point. Whereas Kant
had argued in 1763 in OPG that real possibility could not be collect-
ively grounded by a plurality of distinct grounds, he now claims less
ambitiously but more plausibly that it is rationally unsatisfactory if
Nicholas F. Stang
252
there are a plurality of distinct grounds of real possibility, none of which
has priority over any others. The most rationally satisfactory concep-
tion of modal reality is one on which there is a unique ground of real
possibility – or at least a “first” ground, one that grounds the grounding
of real possibility in “lower level” grounds, such that the nonexistence
of that first ground would cancel all real possibility. So rationally we
have to hypothesize such a being, because it is part of the most ration-
ally satisfactory explanation of why anything is really possible.
If my interpretation is correct up to this point, we should expect
that – because quite generally we are required to hypothesize an abso-
lutely necessary first ground of real possibility of all objects in general –
for each lower level kind of real possibility, we should hypothesize an
absolutely necessary (in some sense) first ground of that kind of real
possibility for all objects of the relevant sort. Thus, for each lower-level
kind of possibility, we should expect to find some absolutely necessary
principle p such that
(1*) It is absolutely necessaryx (absolute-ჱ

x) that p =def were it not the case
that p, nothing would be really possiblex (ᄽ

x).
The subscript x refers to the different kinds of possibility, from earlier.
For instance, we should expect that there is some p such that the right-
hand of this definition is true:
(1F) It is absolutely formally necessary (absolute-ჱ

F) that p =def were it not
the case that p, nothing would be formally really possible (ᄽ

F).
We cannot say that the proposition p will be the proposition that the
relevant first ground of real possibility exists, for not all kinds of real
possibility have existing grounds (e.g. formal possibility – see earlier
discussion); but we can say that p will be the proposition that the
relevant first ground of real possibility (whatever it is) is actual or
obtains (or something of that sort). And in the case of “immanent”
real modalities – modalities with immanent grounds – we should ex-
pect that we can know what this absolutely necessary first ground of
real possibility is, for these are precisely the kinds of real possibility for
which we can identify the grounds.
And this expectation is satisfied, at least in the case of formal possi-
bility. Kant identifies space as the absolutely necessary first ground of
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 253
253
formal possibility for outer objects and explicitly compares space in
this respect to the rational idea of God as the absolutely necessary first
ground of real (noumenal) possibility:
All reality must be completely given, and so some actuality is prior to pos-
sibility, just as space is not merely something possible, but the ground of all
possible figures. (Refl. 4119, Ak. 17:424)
From this it follows only that the ens realissimum must be given prior to
real concepts of possibility, just as space cannot be thought antecedently as
possible, but as given. But not as an actual [wirklich] object in itself, rather
as a merely sensible form, in which alone all objects can be intuited. (Refl.
6290, Ak. 18:558)40
These texts suggest that some proposition about space will make the
right-hand side of (1F) true. However, it is not clear which propos-
ition about space this is. In OPG, the absolutely necessary proposition
is that God exists. This will not quite work for space, because space
does not exist in the same way that causally efficacious substances do;
space is a form of empirical object, not a substance in its own right (see
Refl. 6324). The absolute formal necessity of space consists, then, not
in the fact that space exists absolutely formally necessarily, but in the
fact that it is absolutely formally necessary that we experience outer
objects in space. If this is correct, then, per impossible, were it the case
that we did not experience outer objects in space, then no outer ob-
ject would be formally possible. It is hard to know how to evaluate
counterpossible conditionals like this. I have argued elsewhere that we
should evaluate claims like this by applying the following test: without
appeal to the relevant p can we explain facts about the given kind of
real possibility?41
Applying this to space and formal possibility, we
should ask, without appeal to space, can we explain facts about the
formal possibility of outer empirical objects? It is a pillar of Kant’s
Critical theory of experience that we cannot. Therefore, for Kant,
the representation of outer objects in space is absolutely formally
necessary. Space is the first ground of the formal possibility of outer
40
In the second passage, I take Kant’s point to be that space does not exist as
a substance, but as a form in which objects can be intuited. So he here uses
“wirklich” in exactly the opposite sense of Refl. 6324, discussed previously. See
also Refl. 4515, 4570, 5723, and 6285, as well as Ak. 28:1259.
41
Stang (2010).
Nicholas F. Stang
254
objects.42
For further confirmation of my view I would need to search
for evidence that something plays the role of an absolutely necessary
first ground of real possibility for the other kind of “immanent” real
possibility I distinguished earlier: empirical possibility (likewise, for
any other kinds of immanent real possibility). I argue elsewhere that
the absolutely necessary first ground of empirical possibility is the ac-
tual laws of nature and the past series of events, but I do not have the
space here to go into that.43
I began by asking what we are doing when we use (unschematized)
modal categories to think about noumena. I think we can now an-
swer that question, as follows: we are applying the most general con-
cept of real possibility, the unschematized category of possibility, of
which the following are conceptual truths: (i) it is conceptually distinct
from logical possibility, (ii) real possibilities are grounded in actuality,
and (iii) it is interdefinable with real necessity. There are several dif-
ferent kinds of real possibility, lower-level species of the genius, (real)
<possibility>UC: formal real possibility, empirical real possibility, nou-
menal real possibility, etc.These conceptual truths (i)–(iii) also apply to
each of these lower-level kinds of possibility. For each lower-level kind
we also have the idea of a first ground of real possibility of that kind
that exists with absolute necessity with respect to that kind (as defined
previously). With respect to some of these kinds of real possibility, we
know what their grounds are, and we can identify an absolutely ne-
cessary first real ground. For instance, we know that space, time, and
the categories are the grounds of formal real possibility, and that space
is absolutely formally necessary. But we do not know what grounds
the real possibility of objects in general; in particular, we do not know
any of the noumenal grounds of real possibility. For reasons I have not
gone into in this chapter, we are rationally required to hypothesize that
among the noumena there is such an absolutely necessary first ground
of all noumenal real possibility. But we do not know whether such a
being exists, and we can only have a quite indeterminate concept of it,
and how it grounds real noumenal possibility.
42
One would expect Kant to say similar things about time. However, on the
basis of my overview of the relevant texts, I conclude that he more frequently
draws the comparison between space and God as first grounds of (formal and
noumenal, respectively) possibility.
43
Cf. Stang (2016).
Divine Necessity and Kant’s Modal Categories 255
255
5. Abbreviations for Works of Kant
A/B Kritik der reinen Verunft, Ak. 3  & 4.  Cited by page
number in 1st edition of 1781 (A)  and 2nd edition of
1787 (B). Translations from Kant (1997).
Ak. Kant (1900–). Cited by volume and page number (e.g.
Ak. 29:1034).
CPR Kritik der reinen Verunft, Ak. 3  & 4.  Cited by page
number in 1st edition of 1781 (A)  and 2nd edition of
1787 (B). Translations from Kant (1997).
OPG Der einzig mögliche Beweisgrund zu einer Demonstration
des Dasein Gottes, Ak. 2:62–163. Translation: The only
possible ground of proof in support of a demonstration
of the existence of God in Kant (1992).
Pölitz RT Philosophische Religionslehre nach Pölitz, Ak. 28:989–
1126. Translation:  Lectures on the Philosophical
Doctrine of Religion in Kant (1996).
Volckmann RT Natürliche Theologie Volckmann nach Bambach, Ak. 28:
1127–1226.
Danziger RT Danziger Rationaltheologie nach Bambach, Ak. 28:
1227–1319.
Refl. Kants handschriftlicher Nachlass (‘Reflexionen’) in Ak.
14–18. Cited by four-digit number, and volume and page
number in Ak.
Where no translation is listed, translations are my own.
256
13 Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
1. Introduction
Necessity is a touchstone issue in the thought of Charles Peirce, not
least because his pragmatist account of meaning relies upon modal
terms. In contrast to the highly influential positivist currents in twen-
tieth century philosophy in which “fact-stating” is paramount and put
in the indicative mode, Peirce famously advised us to clarify the mean-
ing of our terms using “would-bes,” not “will-bes” (CP 5.453; 5.457,
1905). Peirce’s pragmatic maxim is that we must look to the practical
effects of our concepts, and the practical effects he is concerned with
are those that would occur under certain circumstances, not those that
will actually occur. This effectively translates every meaningful term
into a set of hypothetical conditionals. Thus, for instance, the fact that
a table is hard means (among other things) that if I were to rest a din-
ner plate on it, the plate would not fall through to the floor (Misak
2013, 29ff; Hookway 1985).
Peirce thought deeply about necessity in all its aspects, and this is
one of the areas of his work with as-yet-untapped insights. Discussions
of necessity show up from his earliest philosophical writings based
on Kant’s logic and its table of 12 categories (one row of which is, of
course, explicitly modal) to the end of his life, when he was working
out a forest of distinctions in semiotics. His thoughts on modality also
span a multitude of philosophical areas – informing his work on math-
ematics, logic, metaphysics, philosophy of science, and ethics.
His views on the topic have some intriguing features. His modal
epistemology understands logical form as essentially structural, thus
requiring representation by iconic or diagrammatic signs. Peirce made
good on this commitment, developing the Existential Graphs, a dia-
grammatic logical notation, which is still understudied by mainstream
logicians. His metaphysics differs from that of many nineteenth cen-
tury peers in flatly denying “necessitarianism” (determinism) and
Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity 257
257
arguing for real chance. He also distinguished between a kind of ne-
cessity that corresponds to the compulsion given by one billiard ball to
another (which we might refer to in Peircean terms as a “Secondness
Necessity”) and a kind of necessity that corresponds to a real uni-
versal (“Thirdness Necessity”), whereas in contemporary philosophy
the two are routinely conflated.
Peirce’s views on necessity also evolved through his life. It has been
argued (Fisch 1967; Lane 2007) that although Peirce was always
firmly opposed to nominalism, his scholastic realism became more
“extreme,” leading him to commit to at least some nonactual reality.
In what follows, we shall give a snapshot of Peirce’s important and
complex thoughts about necessity.
2. Pragmatism, Modality, and Truth
Peirce is best known for his pragmatism and the view of truth he
derives from it. Truth, for Peirce, is linked to what human inquirers
would believe – truth is what is “indefeasible” or would best stand up
to all experience and reasoning, were we to investigate the matter as
far as we fruitfully could. Peirce says, “If Truth consists in satisfaction,
it cannot be any actual satisfaction, but must be the satisfaction which
would ultimately be found if the inquiry were pushed to its ultimate
and indefeasible issue” (CP 5.569, 1901; 6.485, 1908). Peirce was a sci-
entist as well as a philosopher and logician, and this experimental spirit
led him wholeheartedly to embrace fallibilism: the idea that a thinker
must be “at all times ready to dump his whole cart-load of beliefs, the
moment experience is against them” (CP 1.55, 1896). He held that all
of our beliefs form a corrigible whole, with none of them earmarked
as certainly true, and all of them subject in principle to overthrow by
experience, if we are willing to make sufficiently far-reaching revisions
through our system of belief. C. I. Lewis is an explicit follower of Peirce
on this point, and Quine is an implicit follower.
Yet how does this model fit with the idea of necessary truth, which
is generally thought of as constituting certain and unrevisable know-
ledge? How can one “experiment” in logic and mathematics? Surely
these sciences must be a priori? The concern deepens when it is noted
that Peirce argued that there are real possibility and real necessity
in the world (see §5), and that he had sophisticated modal notions
at work in his exact logic. One might wonder how Peirce can hold
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
258
together such metaphysical and logical researches and a pragmatist
epistemology.
This challenge can be answered on a number of levels. The first is
(somewhat ironically) pragmatic. For Peirce, as for Lewis and Quine,
the necessity found in mathematical or logical truths is just the extent
to which we find no reason to revise them. He explicitly addressed one
supposed necessary truth of logic: the principle of bivalence (for any
p, p is either true or false). Peirce argues that this is something we have
to assume if we are to go on with a practice that is of great importance
to us. To say that bivalence is a regulative assumption of inquiry is not
a claim about special logical status (as a “logical truth”). Rather, the
principle is taken to be a law of logic by a “saltus” – an unjustified
leap (NE 4: xiii). Our reason for making such assumptions is that if
we do not make them, we will “be quite unable to know anything of
positive fact” (CP 5.603, 1903). It appears that here Peirce is arguing
for bivalence as a kind of necessary presupposition for other beliefs we
wish to hold. But this is an unusually weak kind of necessary presup-
position, for at the same time he distinguishes his approach from that
of the transcendentalist:
A transcendentalist would claim that it is an indispensible “presupposition”
that there is an ascertainable true answer to every intelligible question.
I used to talk like that, myself; for when I was a babe in philosophy my bot-
tle was filled from the udders of Kant. But by this time I have come to want
something more substantial. [CP 2.13, 1902]
A second level on which we might address the challenge of consist-
ency within Peirce’s thinking is a semiotic one. Viewed from the per-
spective of inquiry, our beliefs are all fallible, but the expression of any
given belief can be decomposed and analyzed in terms of Peirce’s theory
of signs. According to this theory, different kinds of signs with different
functional roles – and thereby different modal purport – work together
to compose any given proposition. Peirce believed that the necessarily
true dimension of our thinking is conveyed by a particular kind of
sign: the icon, one example of which is the diagram. Peirce addresses
the question about fallibilism and necessary inference as follows:
When we talk of deductive reasoning being necessary, we do not mean,
of course, that it is infallible. But precisely what we do mean is that the
Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity 259
259
conclusion follows from the form of the relations set forth in the premiss.
Now since a diagram ... is ... in the main an Icon of the forms of relations in
the constitution of its Object, the appropriateness of it for the representation
of necessary inference is easily seen. [CP 4.531, 1906]
But in a radically original move, Peirce claims that iconic signs can
be experimented on, just as the physical world can be. The objects
of these experiments should not be understood as objects in Plato’s
heaven, which would be rather mysterious, but merely the most gen-
eral structural features of ordinary real world objects:
Although mathematics deals with ideas and not the world of sensory experi-
ence, its discoveries are not arbitrary dreams but something to which our
minds are forced. [Peirce 2010, 41]
All deductive reasoning, even simple syllogism, involves an element of
observation; namely, deduction consists in constructing an icon or diagram
the relations of whose parts shall present a complete analogy with those of
the parts of the object of reasoning, of experimenting upon this image in
the imagination, and of observing the result so as to discover unnoticed and
hidden relations among the parts. [CP 3.363]
In the next section we say more about Peirce’s modally inflected theory
of signs, first presenting its grounding in his philosophical categories.
3. Peirce’s Modalized Semantics
3.1 Three Categories
A full understanding of any area of Peirce’s thought requires famil-
iarity with his three categories, which (in line with their derivation
and ordering) he dubbed Firstness, Secondness, and Thirdness. Each
of these categories, Peirce argued, is present in everything that appears
before the mind or is experienced. In his early career he derived them –
in the spirit of Kantian logic – from the structure of the proposition,
whereby a predicate (First) and its subject (Second) are united by a
copula (Third). The key paper here is “On a New List of Categories,”
in which Peirce was proud that he had reduced Kant’s table of 12 by
a factor of 4. Later in life he kept the same categories but pushed the
derivation of them deeper, into phenomenology and mathematics, the
latter being for Peirce the most fundamental science of all.
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
260
It is important to note that Peirce’s categories are not properties but
modes of being. What this means is that we cannot actually pull them
apart or imagine a situation in which one or two stand alone. They are
distinguished from one another by the Aristotelian and then Scholastic
method of abstraction or “prescission,” in which we may distinguish
different elements of a concept by attending to those elements and
neglecting others. Postulating such high-level structural features of
being is a project somewhat unfamiliar in post-Quinean analytic phil-
osophy, where one is encouraged to believe that reality is exhausted by
a list of existent entities and their intrinsic properties.
A First is something simple, monadic: a quality of feeling, image,
or mere possibility. It is indescribable:  “It cannot be articulately
thought: assert it, and it has already lost its characteristic innocence.
... Stop to think of it, and it has flown!” (CP 1.357, 1890). The dif-
ficulty of pinning down a category that is “a special suchness” is not
lost on Peirce (CP 1.303, 1894). It is perhaps helpful to focus on
the idea that Firstness “comes first”:  it is “predominant” in being,
in feeling, and in the ideas of life and freedom (CP 1.302, 1894).
Even more importantly, given the continuity of Peirce’s metaphysics
with his logic of relations, a First is singular: “a pure nature ... in it-
self without parts or features, and without embodiment” (CP 1.303,
1894). The First is a relatum prior to any relation, that which makes
relations possible.
A Second is a dyadic element: the duality of action and reaction. It
is the category that “the rough and tumble of life renders most famil-
iarly prominent. We are continually bumping up against hard fact”
(CP 1.324, 1903) and hence have revealed to us “something within
and another something without” (CP 2.84, 1902). But as with the first
category, this is all we can say of our encounters with hard fact. Any
articulation or thought of what we experience takes us into the third
category – the triadic realm of experience proper, which involves in-
terpretation, signification, intention, and purpose realized across time.
As soon as we try to describe our encounters with the world, thought
and signs are involved. Any perception that we can think of ourselves
as having is a perceptual judgment, something that requires, in Peirce’s
terms, “mediation” by some general concept. For instance, when I see
a yellow chair, I see it as yellow, as a chair (CP 7.619–630, 1903).
These categories infuse and inform Peirce’s thinking about mo-
dality in a host of ways. Indeed, the categories are full of modal
Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity 261
261
notions – the description of Firstness invokes possibility, the descrip-
tion of Secondness mentions mechanical necessity as a key example,
and the description of Thirdness corresponds to a kind of semantic or
intentional necessity that unites all instances “with the same meaning”
(so that, for example, if we understand the concept “white,” we know
that certain other things must also receive the label).
3.2 Triadic Sign Theory
Peirce puts his triadic categories to work in structuring his theory of
signs, along a number of dimensions. First, the structure of represen-
tation itself is triadic, always involving a sign, an object, and an in-
terpreter. By including both an object and an interpretation as a vital
component of every sign, Peirce unites insights from traditions cur-
rently opposed under the labels “realism” and “antirealism.”
Second, the relation between a sign and its object can take three
forms, corresponding to icons, indices, and symbols. Icons are signs
that represent their objects by virtue of a similarity or resemblance –
a portrait is an icon of the person it portrays, a map is an icon of
a certain geographic area, and, in exact logic, a diagram is an icon
of validity’s key forms. Peirce notes of the icon that it “represent[s]
relations in the fact by analogous relations in the representation” (CP
3.641, 1902); thus, representing structure is one of the icon’s greatest
strengths (Stjernfelt 2007, 49–116, Legg 2008, 207). Indices are signs
that point to their object by “being really connected with it” (W 2,
56, 1867) – a pointing finger, a demonstrative pronoun such as “this”
draws the interpreter’s attention to the object. Smoke, for instance, is
an index of fire. A symbol is a word, proposition, or argument that
depends on conventional or habitual rules; a symbol is a sign “because
it is used and understood as such” (CP 2.307, 1901). It has the same
effect from interpreter to interpreter.
This set of sign-types plays an important role in structuring living
thought. Symbols in their role as habits established by convention
pick out general concepts. Indices in their role as unmediated point-
ers pick out specific individuals (and locate us in the real world at a
particular place and time). Icons in their role of conveying structure
might be said to represent logical form. In “What Is a Sign” (EP 2,
4–10; 1894), Peirce explained these unique and mutually enabling
roles as follows:
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
262
Suppose a man to reason as follows: The Bible says that Enoch and Elijah
were caught up into heaven; then, either the Bible errs, or else it is not
strictly true that all men are mortal. What the Bible is, and what the historic
world of men is, to which this reasoning relates, must be shown by indices.
The reasoner makes some sort of mental diagram by which he sees that his
alternative conclusion must be true, if the premise is so; and this diagram is
an icon or likeness. The rest is symbols; and the whole may be considered
as a modified symbol.... The art of reasoning is the art of marshalling such
signs, and of finding out the truth.
4. Peirce’s Modal Epistemology
So far we have explored a little of how for Peirce all representation has
modal purport. We now discuss Peirce’s ideas about how philosophers
should gather and evaluate modal knowledge in a deliberately focused
manner.
4.1 Information-Relative Account
From his first published papers in 1867, Peirce analyzed modality
in terms of states of information, or what is known (Morgan 1979;
Lane 2007). A proposition is necessarily true if contained in – and
possibly true if consistent with – some subject’s state of informa-
tion. This epistemic approach contrasts with contemporary modal
semantics according to which a proposition is necessarily true if true
in all possible worlds and possibly true if true in at least one possible
world. It is worth noting the way in which the latter account decou-
ples entailment from provability in principle. This allows a greater
externalism (and thus, arguably, realism) into modal epistemology
(Legg 2012, 6); but at the same time it challenges our ability to
know modal truths (since if we do not know them by proving them,
how might we know them?).
4.2 Kinds of Modality: Designated States of Information
Peirce used his information-relative approach to define different kinds
of modality in terms of the kind of information the subject is postu-
lated to have (their “designated state of information”). For instance,
in 1893 he distinguished:
Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity 263
263
• essential or logical modality, where what is known is “nothing, ex-
cept the meanings of words, and their consequences”
• substantial modality, where what is known is “everything now
existing, whether particular fact or law, together with all their
consequences”
• physical modality, where the subject is “thoroughly acquainted with
all the laws of nature and their consequences, but ... ignorant of all
particular facts”
• practical modality, which involves “imagining ourselves to know
what the resources of men are, but not what their dispositions and
desires are”
• mathematical and metaphysical modality, which involves imagining
perfect knowledge in those areas
The first two, he notes, “are of special interest to the logician” (CP
4.66–67, 1893). The first appears to correspond to what we would
regard today as logical necessity (i.e. tautology) plus analyticity, while
the second corresponds to the actual, at a given time.
4.3 The “Modal Shift”
There are indications that from about 1896 onward, Peirce was
working towards a greater realism in his modal epistemology. Lane
2007 has argued that his thinking evolved from a pure information-
relative account toward an account in which we do not discern modal
facts merely via inference from a given state of information. However,
Peirce does not replace the information-relative account with the kind
of externalism (frequently accompanied by metaphysical realism)
seen in contemporary modal semantics. Rather, he thinks that the cer-
tain necessary truths are accessed through a kind of direct perception:
It is not that certain things are possible because they are not known not to
be true, but that they are not known not to be true because they are, more
or less clearly, seen to be possible. [CP 6.367, 1902]
According to this account, we discern modal facts via some kind of
unmediated intellectual vision of a “world of ideas” that is “but a frag-
ment of the ideal world” (Lane 2007, 563). Peirce writes that with
respect to this ideal world we are “virtually omniscient,” and that by
inspecting it one might be able to determine that a given proposition is
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
264
impossible although the laws of logic do not show that it contains any
contradiction. Peirce was here pursuing a particular example: whether
two collections might both be sufficiently large that neither could be
mapped into the other (CP 3.526, 1896; cited in Lane 2007, 561).
He ended up deciding that the answer to this question could not be
proven, but ultimately only “seen.”
This new development in Peirce’s modal epistemology separates out
a “positive” sense of possibility from his previous “negative” sense of
“not provable that not p in information state S.” Lane argues that
this shift was accompanied by an embrace of a new (“Aristotelian”)
conception of real possibility. Peirce calls this “the great step that was
needed to render pragmaticism an intelligible doctrine” (MS 288, 129,
1897; cited in Lane 2007, 551–552). How does real possibility render
pragmaticism intelligible? We noted in our Introduction that the prag-
matic maxim may be understood to translate every meaningful term
into a set of hypothetical conditionals. But in order to obtain a co-
herent account of meaning, these conditionals must be subjunctive.
In the early (1878) “How to Make Our Ideas Clear,” Peirce had
suggested that the meaning of “This diamond is hard” is in part “If
scratched, it will resist.” This entails that “there is absolutely no diffe-
rence between a hard thing and a soft thing so long as they are not
brought to the test.” If we imagine, then, “that a diamond could be
crystallized in the midst of a cushion of soft cotton, and should remain
there until it was finally burned up” (W 3: 266, 1878), there is no truth
of the matter about that diamond’s hardness. Peirce was later anxious
to correct his mistake:
But I desire to express ... that in those original papers I fell into a griev-
ous error. Looking into the future and thinking of what would take place,
I overlooked the great truth that the future, as living, always is more or less
general, and I thought that what would be could be resolved into what will
be. [MS 289, 17–18]
Peirce’s modal shift provides the epistemology for us to know
“would-bes.”
5. Peirce’s Logic
Peirce was not only the most logically proficient of the founders of
pragmatism, but one of the great logicians of the nineteenth century.
Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity 265
265
Among the enormous number and variety of his contributions, he
invented a quantified, sound, and complete first-order logic in alge-
braic form independently of and at the same time as Frege1
(a devel-
opment that grew from more than a decade’s preparatory work in
the logic of relations),2
discovered the Sheffer stroke decades before
Sheffer, experimented with many-valued logics, and made significant
advances in the logic of statistical reasoning. Possibly his most ori-
ginal contribution, and the one of which he was most proud, was his
Existential Graphs (EG).
5.1 Overview of the Existential Graphs
In the EG Peirce sought a logical notation that would
afford a method (1) as simple as possible (that is to say, with as small
a number of arbitrary conventions as possible), for representing propos-
itions (2) as iconically, or diagrammatically and (3) as analytically as pos-
sible. [CP 4.561n]
They were presented to the world in 1896, when Peirce was 57, al-
though he had been working on them for the previous decade and a
half. The Alpha graphs cover propositional logic, the Beta extension
covers first-order predicate logic with identity, and the Gamma exten-
sion covers modal notions, abstractions, and a metalanguage for talk-
ing about the graphs themselves.
The EG have yet to receive significant attention in mainstream
logic, for a range of reasons. Peirce was almost entirely locked out of
academic philosophy, underread, and underappreciated in his life-
time. The EG have been seen as one of the least accessible areas
of his work:3
indeed, his penchant for expressing his thoughts in
technical language was the source of considerable tension between
Peirce and his fellow pragmatists, James and Dewey (Misak 2013).
And finally, once an algebraic, stepwise4
approach became dominant
1
“On the Algebra of Logic: A Contribution to the Philosophy of Notation” (1885).
2
See, for instance, “Description of a Notation for the Logic of Relatives, Resulting
from an Amplification of the Conceptions of Boole’s Calculus” (1870).
3
Although John Sowa writes, “Peirce’s existential graphs ... are the simplest,
most elegant, and easiest-to-learn system of logic ever invented” (Sowa 2011).
4
See Legg 2012 and 2014 for a discussion of how Peirce’s diagrammatic proofs
differ from “stepwise” proofs.
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
266
in the new logic, Peirce’s diagrammatic system appeared unfamiliar
and cumbersome.5
It thus remained buried, except to a few select
logicians, during and after Peirce’s lifetime. It is only since Don
Roberts published his book on the EG in 1973 that they have been
available to a wider (if still specialized) audience.6
John Sowa also
deserves mention for introducing artificial intelligence researchers
to “Conceptual Graphs,” which derive from the EG.
Peirce asks us to think of the graphs as an inquiry between two in-
dividuals, or between one’s current and future selves (MS 450, 3; MS
650). The inquiry starts with much that is taken for granted – a Sheet
of Assertion that represents the universe of discourse. The Graphist
then inscribes the graph, and the Interpreter draws inferences from
what is inscribed, according to the rules of the system. They both see
the results. Sometimes Peirce says that the Graphist is an ordinary
logician or inquirer, and Grapheus is the creator of the universe of dis-
course, who also makes continuous additions to it from time to time
(CP 4.431). Such ideas are now being worked out in Dialogical Logic,
which understands a proof as equivalent to a “winning strategy” in a
two-person, zero-sum game.7
Thus, Peirce’s way of thinking about his Existential Graphs and
their status in inquiry is of a piece with his pragmatist view of inquiry
as conducted against a body of background belief, with an aim to set-
tle belief by learning from the surprise of experience, leading to more
successful action and thought.
5.2 Alpha
All Alpha Graphs consist merely of the Sheet of Assertion (a blank
page), proposition letters, and two operators: conjunction, represented
implicitly by writing proposition letters side by side, and negation, rep-
resented by a simple closed curve called a cut. Any well-formed part
5
See Quine 1934a for the expression of this opinion.
6
The material still awaits full publication. The first volume of Peirce’s
chronological papers appeared in 1982. The most recent appeared in
2009, with a projected twenty-three more to follow, including much of the
Existential Graphs.
7
For a lucid introduction to this area of logic, see Rückert 2001. For a rich
treatment of its philosophical implications, see Marion 2009. One of the first to
develop the idea that Peirce had covered this ground was Hilpinen 1982.
Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity 267
267
of a graph is a subgraph. The conditional is represented by two nested
cuts in a “scroll.” (Figure 13.1).
The proof rules depend crucially on whether the area in question is
surrounded by an odd or even number of cuts (linking with “turn tak-
ing” in game-theoretic semantics and dialogical logic):
1. Insertion. In an odd-numbered depth, any subgraph may be inserted.
2. Erasure. In an even-numbered depth, any subgraph may be erased.
3. Double Cut. A pair of cuts with nothing in between may be: i)
inserted in, or ii) erased from, any subgraph.
4. Iteration/Deiteration. Any subgraph may be: i) “iterated inward,”
into a cut within the scope of the area in which it appears, or ii)
if such a subgraph might have been obtained by such iteration, it
may be erased.
John Sowa argues that Peirce’s system is especially elegant, by proving
Frege’s first axiom, a ๖(b ๖a), in five steps (Figure 13.2):
5.3 Beta
The beta graphs add only lines of identity that attach to the alphabetic
portion of the graphs (at as many argument slots as are required), ren-
dering them predicates rather than propositional variables:
In this way the Alpha graphs are revealed as a special case of the
Beta Graphs (and propositional as a special case of predicate logic)
where the “relations” have zero adicity (Peirce called these medads)
(Sowa 2011).
Unattached ends of lines of identity serve as quantifiers, with their
interactions with the cuts allowing scope distinctions (Figure 13.3).
The lines of identity may themselves be negated, producing a more ele-
gant treatment of exact number statements than standard approaches
using “=” (Figure 13.4):
~P P ⊃ Q P ∨ Q
P P Q P Q
Figure 13.1 Alpha graphs: negation, implication, and conjunction.
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
268
The proof rules are those of Alpha with some extra permissions
concerning the line of identity.
5.4 Gamma
What are today referred to as “the Gamma Graphs” consist of a
wealth of fragments of a number of systems. Peirce never finished
these, although his letters to Lady Welby8
show he was pushing hard
to do so toward the end of his life. With regard to what we have now,
as Roberts says, “It is occasionally difficult to be sure of just what
Peirce was up to” (1973, 64). The rather cumbersome machinery he
worked with includes sheets of assertion, tints, cutouts, and bits of
Blank
1
a
3i
3i
4i 1
a
a
b
a
a
Figure 13.2 Alpha graphs: proof of (a ๖(b ๖
 a)).
[Sowa 2011, 368–369]
loves loves
Someone loves someone Someone loves himself/herself
Figure 13.3 Beta graphs: existential quantification.
There are not two Ps There is exactly one P
P
P
P P
Figure 13.4 Beta graphs: numeric quantification.
8
See the letters compiled in Hardwick (1977).
Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity 269
269
metal and fur. We therefore confine our discussion to a few simple
steps Peirce took.
5.4.1 Change in Sheet of Assertion
The greatest shift in Gamma concerns reconceptualizing the Sheet of
Assertion from “simply a universe of actual existent individuals, and ...
facts or true assertions concerning that universe”(CP 4.512, 1903). Now
Peirce planned to use two sides of the Sheet (recto and verso), also tack-
ing sheets together. A top sheet might represent “a universe of existent
individuals” and true propositions about them. The sheets underneath,
which he cut out parts of the top sheet to expose, “represent altogether
different universes with which our discourse has to do”(CP 4.514,1903).
These shifts may themselves give rise to further shifts:
At the cuts we pass into other areas, areas of conceived propositions which
are not realized. In these areas there may be cuts where we pass into worlds
which, in the imaginary worlds of the outer cuts, are themselves repre-
sented to be imaginary and false, but which may, for all that, be true. [CP
4.512, 1903]
It seems that Peirce began to struggle with the two-dimensional limita-
tions of the standard sheet of paper:
The entire universe of logical possibilities might be conceived to be mapped
upon a surface. Nevertheless, if we are going to represent to our minds the
relation between the universe of possibilities and the universe of actual ex-
istent facts, if we are going to think of the latter as a surface, we must think of
the former as three-dimensional space in which any surface would represent
all the facts that might exist in one existential universe. [CP 4.514, 1903]
5.4.2 Modal Context
One key new symbol Peirce introduced on the Gamma graphs was the
modal context, signified by a broken cut, which corresponds to “pos-
sibly not P” (Figure 13.5):9
Peirce developed rules for this new operator that allow derivation of
“g is true” from “g is necessarily true”; “g is possible” from “g is ne-
cessary”; and “Every Catholic must adore some woman” from “There
9
The exposition that follows is drawn from Pietarinen 2006a, 349.
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
270
is a woman, whom every catholic must adore” (CP 4.566).10
However,
the manipulations Peirce envisioned for modal logic are problematic
in the state in which he left them.11
5.5 Varieties of Modality
5.5.1 Systems
A question currently of some interest among logicians is whether
Peirce would have taken a stand on the many modal logic systems
developed in the twentieth century, starting with the pioneering work
of C. I. Lewis. Would he have had a preference? For instance, does the
“epistemic” nature of his understanding of modality lead him to de-
velop a version of S4?
It seems likely that Peirce meant the EG to be more flexible than
that. Just as we would not expect a proof system such as semantic tab-
leaux to take a position on this question, neither should we expect the
EG. Thus Van Den Berg 1993 has worked out Gamma Graph systems
for K, T, S4, and S5. (See also Braüner 1998 for a simpler version of
S5, which draws graph-based analogs of standard Gentzen rules.) On
the other hand, Pietarinen 2006a, 350 notes that Peirce’s own descrip-
tion of the rules for the broken cut seems to rule out S5. Meanwhile,
Zeman has devised a way to model accessibility relations between
worlds in terms of Peirce’s tinctures, using an R-G-B (red-green-blue)
model of colors to place them in a partial ordering that enables S4 as
its basic system (Zeman 1997b, 23; see also Zeman 1997c). Finally, it
Possibly not P
◊~P
Necessarily P
P
Possibly P
◊P
Possibly necessarily P
◊ P
P P P P
Figure 13.5 Gamma graphs: the broken cut.
10
These transformations are well explicated in Øhrstrøm 1997.
11
For one thing, they allow one to prove that for any q, it is necessary that q. He
worried about the rule that allowed one to infer “There is a man x, such that if
x is bankrupt, then x must commit suicide” from “There is a man x and a man
y, such that if x is bankrupt, then y must commit suicide.” Peirce in 1906 called
this permission “quite out of place and inacceptable” (CP 4.580).
Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity 271
271
has been noted that at other times Peirce experimented with a specific
sign (or “selective”) in arrow form:
A B
to represent a relation between two states of information that looks to be
some form of accessibility (Pietarinen 2006a, 352; see also Roberts 1973).
5.5.2 Multimodality
As well as its rich structure of interrelated modal systems, modal logic
divides into “kinds,” such as temporal, epistemic, and deontic logic, the
relationship among which is still far from well developed. It seems that
Peirce was also planning to explore this issue in Gamma using his differ-
ent colors and textures, but did not get far. Although Øhrstrøm has writ-
ten,“There is ...no indication in his works of a study of the ways in which
various kinds of modality may interact with one another” (Øhrstrøm
1997), a beginning has been made in Pietarinen 2006a, 350–351.
5.6 Peirce and Possible Worlds Semantics?
It has become popular in some circles to suggest that Peirce anticipates
contemporary possible worlds semantics, even claiming that the latter
“must be considered a rediscovery of something Peirce did a century
ago” (Zeman 1997, 19; see also Pietarinen 2006a). Weak reasons to
object to this include the fact that the connection of influence does
not exist (logicians such as Saul Kripke and Ruth Barcan Marcus did
not find inspiration in Peirce) and that Peirce rarely uses the expres-
sion “possible world,” although it had been in use for a long time and
he certainly knew his history of philosophy. On one of the very few
occasions he does use it, he says, “We only wildly gabble about such
things” (CP 6.509).
A thorough treatment of this question might usefully separate a lo-
gical from a metaphysical issue. The former asks whether in any of his
logical analyses Peirce saw fit to quantify over sets of propositions.
This he surely did (as we will see in the next section). The latter asks
whether he might have considered such analyses to have existential
import, for instance, in the sense of D. Lewis 1986, who argues that a
plenitude of individual possible worlds exists concretely. This is much
less likely, because the individualized nature of Lewis’s possibilia, and
their in-principle spatiotemporal disconnection from the actual render
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
272
the theory a rather extreme form of nominalism by Peirce’s lights.
Toward the end of his life Peirce made the intriguing remark that
modality is not, properly speaking, conceivable at all, but the difference, for
example, between possibility and actuality is only recognizable much in the
same way as we recognize the difference between a dream and waking ex-
perience. [CP 4.553ff, c. 1906]
5.7 Conditionals
How best to analyze the truth-conditions of the rich tapestry of “if ...
then ...” usage in ordinary language is a deep matter that continues to
engage logicians and philosophers. Peirce’s writings on this topic re-
flect its difficulty, raising a number of tangled issues that he only grad-
ually clarified through his career. Two important and related issues12
are whether to understand conditionals as de inesse or “ordinary” and
as Philonian or Diodoran.
5.7.1 Consequentia de Inesse
Peirce referred to material implication as a consequence de inesse. He
notes that “such a proposition is altogether true or altogether false”
(CP 4.376), essentially concerning only what happens here and now.
So for instance, if I assert, “If I eat ice cream then grass is red,” and
I am not eating ice cream, then my assertion is true. As noted by bewil-
dered first-year logic students worldwide, this seems to miss an im-
portant problem. Peirce here can be seen as entering the fray that later
would play out in the work of Russell, C. I. Lewis, Quine, and Barcan
Marcus.
Peirce contrasted de inesse conditionals with what he sometimes
called “ordinary” conditionals, for their greater approximation to
common usage, and sometimes called “hypotheticals,” in homage to
Kant. The latter pertain to what happens not just here and now, but
across some “range of possibilities.” This allows the ordinary condi-
tional to be“sometimes”or“possibly”true across the set. Such quanti-
tative judgments require quantifiers, and as others have noted (Zeman
12
Some commentators run these issues together, e.g. Zeman 1997a. However, a
good prima facie case for separating them is made in Lane 2007, 556n.
Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity 273
273
1997a), it was when Peirce developed his own quantification theory in
1885 that he made progress defining the ordinary conditional.13
5.7.2 Philonian or Diodoran?
At the same time Peirce was considering an issue that traces back to
a dispute in Stoic logic between Philo and his teacher Diodorus over
whether the antecedent of a conditional has existential import:
Philo held that the proposition “if it is lightening it will thunder” was true if
it is not lightening or if it will thunder and was only false if it is lightening
but will not thunder. Diodorus objected to this.
Peirce notes his own preferences:
Most of the strong logicians have been Philonians, and most of the weak
ones have been Diodorans. For my part, I am a Philonian; but I do not think
that justice has ever been done to the Diodoran side of the question. [NE
4,169, 1898]
In order to “fit him [the Diodoran] out with a better defense than he
has ever been able to construct for himself,” once again, Peirce draws
on a quantified analysis of the conditional: “namely, that in our or-
dinary use of language we always understand the range of possibility
in such a sense that in some possible case the antecedent shall be true”
(NE 4, 169).
Peirce’s mature theory of the conditional thereby resolves both
issues at once. It goes beyond the material conditional in consider-
ing not just the here and now but a range of possible scenarios. It
answers the Diodoran worry insofar as in order to decide the truth of
a conditional it evaluates only possible scenarios where the antecedent
is true. This would seem to have anticipated to some degree the truth-
functions for the counterfactual conditional in, for example, D. Lewis
1973, although what Peirce would have had to say about the problem
faced by Lewis of defining “nearness” across the evaluation set is an
interesting question.
13
Peirce himself admits this at CP 2.349. See CP 3.374 for an early discussion
drawing on algebraic notation.
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
274
6. Peirce’s Modal Metaphysics
Peirce was a naturalist in the broad sense that he held that the only
way to find out what there is in the world is scientific inquiry (in a
broad sense of science that means any inquiry that takes experience
seriously). But he rejects any naturalism that gives ontological priority
to matter or physicality – like all the pragmatists, he wants to consider
whether value, generality, necessity, chance, etc., might be part of the
natural world. His answer is yes to all of the above.
In phenomenology and logic Peirce showed the irreducibility of the
three categories (as concepts, to one another). In metaphysics he con-
siders their reality. Since the three have been shown to be mutually
irreducible, it is possible to affirm or deny the reality of all of them
independently. Peirce dubbed the doctrine of real Firstness Tychism,
and real Thirdness Synechism. He devoted much less time explicitly to
defending real Secondness – presumably because it is generally taken
for granted by philosophers – but at one point refers to it as Anancism
(CP 6.202, 1893).
6.1 Tychism
Recall that Firstness represents “what comes first.” Peirce’s Tychism
holds that there “is an element of real chance in the universe.” A key
paper here is “The Doctrine of Necessity Examined,” published in
1892. Here Peirce examines and rejects “the common belief that every
single fact in the universe is precisely determined by law” (CP 6.36,
1892), which he calls necessitarianism (today’s “determinism”). He
does not deny that there are natural laws, but holds that they are vio-
lated in infinitesimal degree on sporadic occasions.
He considers a series of arguments for necessitarianism and rejects
them all. First is the claim that it is a “postulate” of scientific reason-
ing. This is incorrect because in science, to “postulate” a proposition
“is no more than to hope it is true.”He then considers whether necessi-
tarianism may be established empirically (“by observation of nature”).
This is dubious because of the claim’s apparent exactitude (deviations
from natural law are zero), whereas scientists know that the strictest
measurements “yet fall behind the accuracy of bank accounts” (CP
6.44, 1892). He also considers the argument that chance is inconceiv-
able, to which he answers, essentially,“Try harder.” Or perhaps chance
Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity 275
275
is unintelligible, since the hypothesis of indeterminism is not explana-
tory. Here Peirce argues that on the contrary, real chance explains the
growth of variety in the universe in a way mechanical law never could:
The ordinary view has to admit the inexhaustible multitudinous variety
of the world, has to admit that its mechanical law cannot account for this
in the least, that variety can spring only from spontaneity, and yet denies
without any evidence or reason the existence of this spontaneity, or else
shoves it back to the beginning of time and supposes it dead ever since.
[CP 6.59, 1892]
It is worth noting a certain subtlety of this view within Peirce’s
information-state analysis of modality. Recall that an important sense
of modality for Peirce is substantial modality: what is necessary or
possible according to “everything now existing ... together with all
their consequences.” Peirce’s Tychism holds that there is no present
substantial contingency, but there is future substantial contingency, as
laws of nature “swerve” across time (Lane 2007, 559). This differs
interestingly from today’s 4D, “tenseless” metaphysics of contingency.
6.2 Anancism
In §3.1 Secondness was defined in terms of “action and reaction.”This
category gives rise to a kind of necessity that is manifested in brute
forcefulness (for instance, between billiard balls, pace Hume). Peirce
tosses brickbats at other philosophers – most notably Hegel – for not
recognizing real Secondness – which he sometimes refers to as “the
outward clash.”14
6.3 Synechism
We saw that Thirdness pertains to our seeing a yellow chair as yel-
low: a general concept that in order to honor its meaning must be
extended to all relevantly similar instances. Peirce’s argument for real
Thirdness attempts to show that we live in a universe that is genuinely
intelligible – that the ways in which we extend our predicates give us
at least some predictive power. In his 1903 Harvard lectures, Peirce
14
See Misak (forthcoming).
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
276
made a particularly vivid and dramatic case for this. He held a stone
in the air in front of his audience and challenged them to admit that
they knew that when he dropped it, the stone would fall, rather than
flying upwards
Suppose we attack the question experimentally. Here is a stone. Now I place
that stone where there will be no obstacle between it and the floor, and I will
predict with confidence that as soon as I let go my hold upon the stone it will
fall to the floor. I will prove that I can make a correct prediction by actual
trial if you like. But I can see by your faces that you all think it will be a very
silly experiment. [CP 5.93, 1903]
He pointed out that “it would be quite absurd to say that ... I can so
peer into the future merely on the strength of any acquaintance with
any pure fiction” (CP 5.94, 1903). He concluded that his audience pos-
sessed knowledge of an “active general principle,” exerting influence
on physical objects. Peirce thought that such a commitment to gen-
eral principles should be understood as a form of Scholastic realism
or realism about universals, and that the kind of influence exerted
by such universals was different from the “efficient causal biff” man-
ifested by one individual billiard ball striking another (although of
course the two coexist: both real Secondness and real Thirdness are
required to build a full picture of reality).
7. Conclusion: Issues for Further Work
It should be clear from this snapshot of the many things Peirce said
about the many aspects of necessity that there is grist for a number of
mills. Epistemologists might want to explore Peirce’s iconic approach
to knowledge of necessity, since it offers an interesting alternative to
the current landscape. It might allow us to move beyond a certain
tradition (deeply influenced by Hume, and then the logical positivists)
of throwing one’s hands up at modality as a major skeptical problem;
and either taking a eliminativist or projectivist stance toward it, or
embracing mysterious metaphysical realisms such as D. Lewis 1986.
Formal logicians might to want to continue the work of excavat-
ing  – using modern tools and conceptions  – both Gamma graphs
and Peirce’s analysis of the conditional. The task is not easy because
Peirce’s logic is so finely sifted with the rest of his philosophy, but could
be hugely rewarding. Metaphysicians might want to explore Peirce’s
Charles Sanders Peirce on Necessity 277
277
denial of necessitarianism, especially in the light of certain recent
developments in physics. Synechism, too, might be worth a new look,
especially by those who are frustrated with the twentieth century’s
founding of metaphysics on set theory, since Peirce claimed that true
“generals” or universals are not reducible to the extension of any set.
It is unsurprising that the two early twentieth century philosophers
most heavily influenced by Peirce were also philosopher–logicians –
C. I. Lewis and Frank Ramsey. Ramsey’s view of laws as rules with
which we meet the future is explicitly drawn from Peirce. Lewis
attributes to Peirce many ideas he used in founding modal logic for
the twentieth century (e.g. C. I. Lewis and Langford 1959). And like
Peirce, Lewis is first and foremost a pragmatist. We have a certain
amount of freedom in our choice of a set of logical rules – freedom
within the constraints of hard facts about deducibility that need to be
captured by a logic. Edwin Mares in Chapter 14, this volume, reminds
us that Lewis took a priori truths to be true partly because of stipula-
tions we make and that logical truths are both a priori and analytic.
Necessity is thus to be interpreted as an epistemological operator.
But at the same time we have seen that Peirce is also a realist about
modality. In this chapter we offer a brief overview of how he sought to
combine the two into one harmonious position. The attempt is com-
plex, and we have merely gestured at it here. But it is important to
see the magnitude of Peirce’s ambition. He wanted to put forward an
account of necessity on which our actual practices are taken seriously,
which can be fully formalized and clarified, and which allows for real
chance, direct forceful interactions between individuals, and intelli-
gible patterns across reality as a whole. He wanted to combine ideas
from current antirealist and realist theories with the original thought
that “generals” are real, but not existent. Some may think that Peirce
was reaching for the impossible, but here we have tried to go some
distance toward showing how he might have succeeded.
8. A Note on Citations
In-text references to the works of Charles Sanders Peirce are in the
following form:
The Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce: CP n.m, date; where
n is the volume number and m is the paragraph number.
Catherine Legg and Cheryl Misak
278
The Writings of Charles S. Peirce: A Chronological Edition: W n, m,
date; where n is the volume number and m is the page number.
The Essential Peirce: EP n, m, date; where n is the volume number
and m is the page number
The New Elements of Mathematics: NE n, m, date; where n is the
volume number and m is the page number.
References to the Charles S.  Peirce Papers at Houghton Library,
Harvard University, are cited as MS n, m, date; where n is the manu-
script number and m is the page number.
279
279
14 The Development of C. I. Lewis’s
Philosophy of Modal Logic
Edwin Mares
1. Introduction
C. I. Lewis is sometimes accused of taking a purely syntactic approach
to logic. His favourite logics, S2 and S3, are sometimes claimed to be
mere collections of axioms without representing any coherent notion
of logical necessity, possibility, or deducibility (Anderson and Belnap,
1975, p 117). Lewis did, however, say a great deal about the meaning
of the modal operators. In this chapter I examine what Lewis actu-
ally says about the modal operators and his philosophy of logic more
generally and argue that there is much more to these systems, S2 and
S3 in particular, than mere collections of axioms. I claim that certain
of the features of these logics that are often criticized are in fact well
motivated by his epistemological and semantical views.
I do not claim, however, that Lewis had a well-developed semantics
of modality when he first put forward his logic of strict implication in
1911. Most of his remarks on semantical issues occur much later than
that. Which, if any, of his later views he had in mind when he origin-
ally constructed his modal logic is impossible to tell. He does not make
any remarks about this either in his published writings or (as far as
I know) in the manuscripts in his Nachlass.
Moreover, his philosophical views changed, in some ways rather
radically, over the course of his career. In his PhD thesis and his early
philosophical writings, he is a Kantian idealist, but he adopts a form
of pragmatism in the 1920s that has important consequences for his
views about modality. In his more mature writings – especially in the
1940s and later – the influence of Kant is much less pronounced and
his metaphysical views seem more realist. These more realist meta-
physical views are reflected in his theory of meaning and his phil-
osophy of logic.
We see Lewis’s philosophy of logic develop along with his other
philosophical views. In the 1910s, Lewis presented his modal logic
Edwin Mares
280
largely as a response to classical logic. In the 1920s he provided an
epistemological interpretation of modal logic. In the mid-1930s, he
attempted to link his logic of strict implication with the notion of a
tautology from Wittgenstein’s Tractatus. In the 1940s, this connection
took a more metaphysical and algebraic cast.
The structure of this chapter is as follows. After reminding the
reader of certain central features of Lewis’s logical systems, I examine
the evolution of his philosophy of logic in three phases:
1. The Deducibility Phase (1911–1920). This phase was marked by
the original formal development of Lewis’s philosophical logic,
his initial criticisms of classical logic, and his proposal for a logic
of strict implication as a means of formalizing the notion of
deducibility.
2. The Epistemological Phase (1920–1935). In this phase, the role
and interpretation of logic were largely epistemological. Necessity
was understood in terms of what can be known a priori. The cen-
tral role of strict implication was to give closure conditions for
theories or sets of beliefs.
3. The Metaphysical Phase (1935–1964). In this final phase, Lewis
adopted a more complicated ontology of meaning. The logical
relationships between statements and between other phrases were
understood in terms of relations between their intensions.
I look at the development of Lewis’s logical and, in particular his
semantical ideas, through these three phases to see how he interprets
his theories of strict implication. The reason this is interesting is that
Lewis’s preferred logical systems have largely fallen out of favour with
logicians, especially after the introduction of modern possible world
semantics, for reasons that I discuss in Section 2. I argue that Lewis has
good reasons for accepting certain of the controversial features of his
logics. In the epistemological phase of his philosophical development,
Lewis constructs a conventionalist theory of logic and of necessity.
This conventionalism motivates his rejection of necessitation. In his
metaphysical phase, Lewis tempers his conventionalism with a more
absolutist and realist metaphysics of meaning. But there are still con-
ventionalist elements in his philosophy of logic and these can be used
to explain his retention of the logic S2, and his continued rejection of
S4 and S5.
The Development of C. I. Lewis’s Philosophy of Modal Logic 281
281
2. The Formal Evolution of Lewis’s Logics
This is a brief section on the formal development of Lewis’s logics.
A more complete version is given by William Parry (Parry, 1968).
Lewis first presents a logic for strict implication in his “Implication
and the Algebra of Logic” (1912). There he introduces the idea of de-
fining implication in terms of an intensional disjunction. An intensional
disjunction,‘p or q’, is true if and only if, if p were false, then q would be
true (p 355). Lewis did not analyze the subjunctive mood of intensional
disjunctions; nor does he formalize the logic of intensional disjunction.
Lewis gives slightly different formalizations of the logic of strict impli-
cation in (1913b) and (1914), but he claims that his first “complete”
presentation is in the Survey of Symbolic Logic (1918). That system,
however, collapses into classical logic, as Emil Post showed. Lewis cor-
rects the system in (1920), where it becomes what we know today as
S3. Until at least 1927, Lewis maintains that this logic is the logic of
strict implication. Circa 1930, Lewis uses Oskar Becker’s (1930) rules
and postulates, as well as some of his own, to formulate five different
logical systems, which he calls S1, S2, S3, S4, and S5. These are pre-
sented in appendix II of Symbolic Logic (1959, pp 500–502).
From their initial presentation, Lewis adopted very different atti-
tudes towards his different logics. He was always disparaging towards
S4 and S5. In the appendix in which he formulates the logics, Lewis
says that whereas S5 (and classical logic) may appeal more to math-
ematicians, the weaker systems are of more interest to those who wish
to study reasoning (1959, p 502).
In appendix II of Symbolic Logic, Lewis gives the following axioma-
tization of his weakest logic, S1. He begins by defining the connectives
in terms of ◊, ฏ
, and ෺
. In particular p ຃q is defined as ~◊(p෺~q). The
axioms for S1 are:
• (p෺

q) ຃
 (q෺

p);
• (p෺

q) ຃
 p;
• p ຃
 (p෺

p);
• ((p෺

q)෺

r) ຃(p෺
(q෺

r));
• ((p ຃q) ෺(q ຃r)) ຃(p ຃
 r);
• (p ෺(p ຃q)) ຃
 q.
The rules are modus ponens for strict implication, adjunction, uniform
substitution, and the replacement of strict equivalents.
Edwin Mares
282
Lewis developed S1 as an emergency measure. He would adopt S1
if S2 turned out to contain a version of the transitivity of implication
that is too strong. After it was shown that S2 did not contain that ver-
sion of transitivity (1959, pp 503–514), Lewis never discussed S1 in
print again.
S2 results from the addition of the axiom ◊(p ෺q) ຃◊p to S1. By
the time that he and Langford wrote Symbolic Logic, S2 had become
Lewis’s choice for the logic of strict implication. Lewis’s change in
preference from S3 to S2 seems to have taken place some time between
1927 and 1932. In his notes for a lecture to students at Columbia
University in 1927, the logic of strict implication is still presented as
S3.1
The reason for his rejection of S3 is related to the transitivity of
strict implication. Lewis thinks that the strong form of transitivity is
problematic. The strong form is (p ຃q) ຃((q ຃r) ຃(p ຃r)), and this is
derivable in S3. Suppose that p ຃q, then according to S3, (q ຃r) ຃(p
຃r). On Lewis’s view, it is not really the case that p ຃r follows from q
຃r, but rather that p ຃q and q ຃r together entail p ຃r (1959, p 496).
S3 results from the addition of (p ຃q) ຃(ฏ
◊q ຃~◊p) to S2. Adding
the axiom ჱ

p ຃ჱ

ჱ

p to S3 yields S4 and adding Becker’s Brouwersche
axiom – p ຃ჱ
◊p – to S4 gives us S5.
One feature of S1, S2, and S3 that causes problems when we attempt
to give them semantics is their rejection of the rule of necessitation, ๵
A ය๵ჱ

A. One reason for this rejection is Lewis’s interpretation of
the turnstile, ๵
. He understands the turnstile to be an assertion sign.
‘๵A’ merely says that A is asserted. It does not say that A is neces-
sarily true. To say ‘๵

ჱ

A’ is to assert that A is necessarily true. As I shall
argue, Lewis’s mature view is that the axioms of S2 are true, but not
necessarily true.
3. The Deducibility Phase
My main interest is in the development of Lewis’s philosophy of logic
in his epistemological and metaphysical phases. In this section I set
the stage for the epistemological and metaphysical phases with a brief
exposition of Lewis’s philosophical position prior to 1920 and the
role of logic in it. In this period, Lewis identifies himself as an idealist
1
C. I. Lewis, Columbia Lectures on Symbolic Logic, Stanford University Library,
Department of Special Collections, M174, Box 20, folder 20–21, 1923–1927.
The Development of C. I. Lewis’s Philosophy of Modal Logic 283
283
(1912b).2
This idealism seems to be a form of Kantianism in which the
knowing subject constructs the world from sensations. Lewis never ex-
plicitly ties his logic to his idealism, and it is not clear that he had any
serious connection between the two in mind.
In his earliest papers on logic, Lewis does not present his theory of im-
plication as an element in a grand philosophical project. Rather, Lewis
says that his logic of strict implication is a way of“bringing the meaning
of implication into accord with that of ordinary inference and proof”.3
It is the ordinary notion of a valid inference, as it is used in particular
in science and mathematics that Lewis wishes to capture in his system.
Lewis motivates his system of strict implication by contrasting it
with classical logic. He claims that classical logic does not formalize a
real notion of deducibility at all (1913, p 242). Consider a typical the-
orem of classical propositional logic, (p ෺q) ๖p. This statement only
tells us that either the antecedent is true or the conclusion is false. It
does not tell us that the consequent follows from the antecedent. Of
course, one might point out that classical logicians do not merely assert
theorems; they assert that they are theorems, in particular, by prefixing
them with a turnstile: ๵(p ෺q) ๖p. But for Lewis, the turnstile is just
an assertion sign. Prefixing a formula with a turnstile merely says that
one is asserting it. What we need is a way of saying that, even if the
antecedent does not happen to be true, if it were true than the conse-
quent would be true. This is exactly what the strict implication (p ෺q)
຃p is meant to express (1917, p 355).
In Lewis’s published writings and from the very few items in his
Nachlass from this period, Lewis said very little about the meaning of
the modal operators or about how he chose the axioms that he did for
his system of strict implication. I move on now to the epistemological
and metaphysical phases of his career to examine the positions that he
held then.
4. The Epistemological Phase
Upon his return to Harvard from Berkeley in 1920, Lewis shared an
office with the unpublished papers of C. S. Peirce. Lewis claims that
2
For a detailed discussion of Lewis’s idealism, beginning with his PhD thesis, see
Murphy 2005.
3
Letter to Josiah Royce, 15 October 1911, Papers of Josiah Royce, Harvard
University Archives, box 122, folder 44.
Edwin Mares
284
reading these influenced him in part to abandon Kantian idealism and
adopt a version of pragmatism (1968, p 16). Likewise, in the 1920s he
began to develop a pragmatic view of logic.
In his epistemological period, Lewis adopts the aim of trying to
find the structures that we do in fact use to understand experience
instead of those that necessarily underlie experience. For this reason,
Lewis says that his conceptual pragmatism is not a “transcendental”
philosophy but rather a “reflective” one (1929, ch 1). Unlike Kant,
Lewis thinks that the concepts that we use to interpret the world
are not fixed. For example, our concept of cause has changed over
time and differs from culture to culture. Some cultures think that
the stars or planets can affect our lives or that talismans can affect
events that occur at some distance in space or time. Lewis says that
we use the word ‘cause’ to express both their concept and our own,
but that these concepts really have little in common (1929, pp 234–
235). Lewis applies his conceptual relativism to logic. He holds that
we have a certain amount of freedom in our choice of a set of logical
rules. In holding this position, Lewis is clearly a pluralist about logic
in the contemporary sense. But, as we shall see in Section 4.3, he
thinks that this pluralism has limits.
Lewis’s voluntarist pluralism about logic dovetails with two other
positions that Lewis holds. He claims that all a priori truths are true
because of stipulations that we make. This is a form of convention-
alism about the a priori that is familiar to many of us from the lo-
gical positivists. Moreover, all a priori truths, according to Lewis, are
analytic. In fact, he holds that all logical truths are both a priori and
analytic. He interprets ‘ჱ
A’ as saying that A is a priori. In his epis-
temological phase, then, Lewis holds that necessity is to be interpreted
as an epistemological operator. It allows us to sort true sentences into
those that are empirical and those that are a priori. As we shall see, this
treatment of necessity commits Lewis to the view that certain logical
theorems are contingent and empirical.
The epistemological phase is epistemological in other respects. In
this period, Lewis thinks of logic as a whole and strict implication in
particular as having an epistemological role. As I set out in Section
4.1, Lewis thinks that a central role of formal logic is to set out closure
conditions for theories or belief sets. As we shall see, examining this
function of logic helps us to understand the nature of the a priori
in Lewis.
The Development of C. I. Lewis’s Philosophy of Modal Logic 285
285
4.1 Systems and Worlds
A central function of a logic, at this point in Lewis’s thought, is to
provide closure principles for systems. In order to understand what a
system is, we need to delve a bit more into the epistemological views
that Lewis holds at this time.
In “Facts, Systems, and the Unity of the World” (1923) Lewis puts
forward a Kantian constructivist theory of systems and possible worlds.
Although Lewis rejects the synthetic a priori by the early 1920s, his
philosophy is still very Kantian. In this paper, he considers the universe
to be a construct from experience and our beliefs about experience.
The universe itself is an idea in the Kantian sense of an ideal goal; it is
what we want to construct in forming beliefs.
A system is what is represented by a theory or ideal belief set.
A system is a particular sort of set of facts. A fact is an extra-linguistic
entity. Lewisian facts need not be true. A possible world is a negation
complete and consistent system. For each world w and fact F, either F
is in w or the negation of F is in w, but not both.4
A system is a set of facts that is closed under the true strict impli-
cations and under conjunction. Thus, if ๵A ຃B and A is in a system
s, then B is also in s. Moreover, if A and B are in s, then A ෺B is in
s. Since (A ෺B) ຃A and (A ෺B) ຃B are both theorems of all of Lewis’s
logics, we can strengthen the conjunction condition to say that A ෺B
is in s if and only if A and B are both in s, for all systems s.
We can derive from any of Lewis’s modal logics that any statement
A that is necessarily true, B ຃A for any statement B. Thus, all neces-
sary truths are true in all systems. In his notes for a series of lectures to
students at Columbia University in 1923, Lewis explicitly links neces-
sity and possibility to his notion of a system:
A proposition is possible if it is true in some system or state of
affairs.
A proposition is necessary if it is true in every system.
Two propositions are consistent if they are jointly true is some system.5
4
In Mares 2013, I construct a model theory from Lewis’s theory of systems and
worlds for his logic S2.
5
C. I. Lewis, Columbia Lectures on Symbolic Logic, Stanford University Library,
Department of Special Collections, M174, box 20, folder 20–21, 1923–1927.
Edwin Mares
286
We can derive from these clauses that p ຃q if q is in every system that
contains p.
At first glance, these clauses do not seem to fit with Lewis’s other
logical views. They seem to characterize the logic S5.6
At this stage
Lewis had not yet formulated S5, and he still accepted S3. But Lewis
does not seem to be constructing an indexical semantics in the sense
of Kripke semantics. He is telling us what it is for a proposition to be
actually necessary or possibly true. He is not telling us what it is for a
proposition to be necessarily or possibly true in an arbitrary system,
but only in the actual world.
In his 1927 lectures at Columbia, the semantic role of systems is
largely replaced by that of possible worlds. In his lecture notes he
writes:
To be genuinely possible or self-consistent, a proposition or situation or
system must be compatible with one or other of every contradictory pair of
propositions.
This is to say, it must be true of a ‘conceivable world’ W, and that:
1. If p is in W, and p ຃q,¬q is not in W. 2. If p is not in W, ¬p is in W. 3. If p
and q are in W, p෺
q is in W.
The actual is not the only such conceivable world. There are as many as
there are mutually incompatible but self-consistent systems.
These are infinite in number. Every two conceivable worlds have some-
thing in common. Meaning of ‘necessary’,‘possible’,‘impossible’ and ‘incon-
sistent’, in terms of the set of all conceivable worlds. Meaning of ‘implies’
in terms of the set of conceivable worlds. The nature of inference. Contrast
with material implication.7
In these notes, Lewis uses possible worlds instead of systems as the
central elements in his theory of meaning for the modal connectives.
But there appears in both these views about meaning to be a serious
problem about circularity. Lewis defined systems and worlds in terms
of the true strict implications and promised a theory of meaning of
the modal connectives including implication in terms of systems or
worlds.
6
See Sedlar 2009.
7
C. I. Lewis. Columbia Lectures on Symbolic Logic, Stanford University Library,
Department of Special Collections, M174, box 20, folder 20–21, 1923–1927.
The Development of C. I. Lewis’s Philosophy of Modal Logic 287
287
This circularity, however, may not be vicious. The true implica-
tions need to be set in order to determine the class of worlds. Lewis
claims that the meaning of these implications is determined by the
set of worlds. He is not saying directly that the truth conditions of
statements that include those connectives are determined by the set of
worlds. If Lewis has a truth-conditional theory of meaning, then the
circle is complete, and vicious.
A vicious circle can be avoided here if we view Lewis as having
a pragmatic, rather than a truth-conditional, theory of meaning.
According to the pragmatic theory of meaning, a concept or propos-
ition gets its meaning from the way in which it is verified or assimi-
lated into the life of one’s mind. For Lewis, one of the important
modes of assimilation is the way in which a concept or proposition
is used by an agent to justify, impel, or constrain him or her to do
particular actions. In this case, the use of the modal propositions is to
constrain the agent to construct worlds of certain sorts. For example,
if one holds that A is true, then she is constrained to construct only
worlds in which A is true.
Although Lewis might have avoided a vicious circle in his theory of
meaning by rejecting a truth-conditional theory of meaning, he still
needed a theory of truth conditions for modal statements. In the next
section, I examine what Lewis said about truth and modality in his
epistemological period.
4.2 Analyticity, the A Priori, and Necessity
According to Lewis, what is necessarily true is what is a priori and
what is a priori is what is analytically true. In the 1920s, Lewis is
a conventionalist about analyticity. Thus, what is necessarily true is
determined to be so by convention. In various works in the 1920s,
such as “A Pragmatic Conception of the A Priori” (1923) and Mind
and the World Order (1929), Lewis sets out a conventionalist theory
of analyticity.
A priori truths are chosen by us in the sense that we can stipulate
definitions of terms. Like his contemporaries, the logical positivists,
Lewis rejects the synthetic a priori. He holds that the only truths that
we can know a priori are also analytic. We even choose the axioms of
our logic. In doing so we define the logical connectives. As we shall
see, Lewis does not mean that we produce an implicit definition of the
Edwin Mares
288
connectives by devising a logical theory. Rather, we associate the con-
nectives with ways of applying them. I will explain this at some length
in Section 4.3.
There are restrictions on what can count as a definition. Definitions
cannot determine the nature of possible experience. By adopting a def-
inition, we cannot determine what can or cannot be perceived (1923b,
p 233). This view of definitions has difficulties. Clearly, because of
adoption of a particular definition of ‘bachelor’ we cannot perceive
any married bachelors. For Lewis, this is just a matter of how we talk
or think about what we perceive. We can distinguish between what
we actually perceive and how we think about it by means of a form
of philosophical analysis (1926, p 240). For Lewis, thinking about ex-
perience requires that we have categories and concepts, but these con-
cepts and the analytic links between them are for us to choose (Misak
2013, pp 192–196).
Among the analytic truths are the truths of pure mathematics. Here
we see Lewis abandon his attachment to Royce’s philosophy of math-
ematics and adopt Russellian logicism (1929, pp 244–251]. Lewis
thinks that the truths of pure mathematics are theorems of logic and
that the logical truths are analytic. What Lewis means by the “logical
truths” here, however, is not straightforward. Let us consider the asser-
tion of one axiom, rewritten slightly:
๵ჱ((p ෺q) ๖
 p)
This is an axiom of S1, S2, and S3. For Lewis, (p ෺
q) ๖
p is a theorem
of logic, and is analytic. But the axiom itself, ჱ ((p ෺q) ๖p), is not
analytic. It is an empirical truth. It tells us that (p ෺q) ๖p is stipulated
as an analytic truth. We stipulate (p ෺q) ๖p to determine, in part, the
meanings of ෺and ๖
.
Moreover, the necessitation of this axiom, viz. ჱ

ჱ((p ෺q) ๖p), is
not a theorem of the logic. In other words, the logic does not assert
that this axiom is analytic.
So, in effect, Lewis claims that all the truths of logic are analytic
but denies that the axioms of logic are analytic. Surely the axioms
of his logics are logical truths. In order to make sense of his holding
both these views, we have to distinguish between two senses of ‘lo-
gical truth’ in Lewis. The axioms of a logic together with the rules
determine a set of analytic logical truths in a strict sense, but need not
The Development of C. I. Lewis’s Philosophy of Modal Logic 289
289
themselves be logical truths in this sense. That is, if ჱ

A is a theorem of
S2, then A is a logical truth in the strict sense but ჱ

A itself may not be
a logical truth in the strict sense.
As we saw in Section 3.1, the turnstile for Lewis is only an assertion
sign. It does not tell us that what follows the assertion sign is a logical
truth in the strict sense. The assertion sign does not stand only before
statements that are necessary, analytic, or a priori. Some of the theo-
rems of logic are, for Lewis, contingent, synthetic, and a posteriori.
4.3 Lewis’s Pluralism
As I said, Lewis in the 1920s and early 1930s was a conventionalist
about logic. His pluralism in the 1920s was quite extreme. Although
Lewis realized that it is a precondition of rational discussion that
the discussants apply and appeal to the same rules of inference, he
claimed that there were no facts that determine which rules of infer-
ence. He said:
It is easy to define “rationality” in one’s own terms. But that can only lead
to the familiar conclusion, “All the world is strange save thee and me – and
thee’s a little strange.” With respect to our ideals, we all of us stand in the
egocentric predicament; we can only assert our own and hope for agree-
ment. (1921, p 379)
Here Lewis said that it was legitimate for different people to adopt
different rules of inference.
Lewis retained a form of logical pluralism in the early 1930s, but
it is less radical. He kept the view that different logical systems can
be equally correct. He also maintained that the choice of a logic is
a pragmatic matter. What was new in the writings of the 1930s, es-
pecially Symbolic Logic and “Alternative Systems of Logic” (1932),
was that each logical system he considered is given a different inter-
pretation. In (1932), Lewis considered three logics. Classical logic is
understood as the logic of truth and falsity. Łukasiewicz three-valued
logic is understood in epistemic terms: a statement is given the value
1 if it is known to be true, 0 if it is known to be false and 0.5 if it is
neither known to be true or false. In different logical systems, the lo-
gical connectives were given different meanings. Parry’s four-valued
logic had the values 1, 2, 3, and 4. Lewis read 1 as ‘necessarily true’,
Edwin Mares
290
2 as ‘is true but not necessary’, 3 as ‘false but not impossible’, and 4
as ‘impossible’.
In Lewis’s position of the early 1930s, it was no longer clear that the
dispute between logical systems is a real dispute at all. Lewis says that
‘a “system of logic” is nothing more than a convenient collection of
such concepts [negation, disjunction, conjunction, etc.], together with
the principles to which they give rise by the analysis of their meaning’
(1932, p 401). We can view Lewis’s position in this period as a pre-
cursor to Quine’s later view that when people adopt alternative logical
systems, they are not in direct dispute with classical logic; rather, they
“only change the subject” (Quine 1970, p 80). But in choosing a logic,
one is choosing a basic structure for all of her systems (her theories
and her set of beliefs). And this can only be done on the basis of the
pragmatic virtues of the different logics.
Once we give an interpretation of this sort to the connectives of a
logic, we understand how to apply the logic to determine the truth or
falsity of its sentences, determine the validity of its inferences, and so
on. That we are able to do this is essential for Lewis. As a pragmatist,
Lewis thinks that in order for anything to be a proper concept, we
must know how to apply it. As we shall see when we discuss his later
theory of meaning in Section 5.2, Lewis does not think that the appli-
cation of a concept exhausts its meaning, but its ability to be applied
is essential to its having meaning.
Despite Lewis’s pluralism, he thinks that there are fixed facts about
deducibility. He says that “there must be a truth about deducibility
which is not relative to this variety and difference of systems and their
relations”(1959, p 236). In chapter 8 of Symbolic Logic, Lewis defends
both pluralism and the view that there is a single correct system of
deducibility.
Within a logical system certain formulas entail other formulas. For
example, it is a fact that in classical logic any proposition entails every
instance of the law of excluded middle. In Ł3, on the other hand, it is
not the case that, for propositional variables p and q, p entails AqNq
(‘q or not-q’ in Polish notation). These facts about what entails what
in a given system are themselves in some sense true absolutely. On
Lewis’s view, we can represent these two facts using strict implication.
That is, p ຃(q ෻ฏ

q) obtains but p ຃(AqNq) is fails. Note that the
principle of excluded middle is represented using different notation in
classical logic and in Ł3. This is needed to prevent contradiction (see
The Development of C. I. Lewis’s Philosophy of Modal Logic 291
291
Lewis and Langford 1959, p 242n). In this way, we can represent the
implications of all logics within one logical framework (Lewis and
Langford 1959, p 244).
Lewis, however, never attempted to formulate a theory of strict
implication that captures the implications of all logical systems. To
do so might have been rather tricky or even impossible if he allowed
formulas that mix notation from different systems. It is known that
adding new notation to a logic does not always lead to a conserva-
tive extension of the original logic. If we restrict our formation rules,
however, to bar the mixing of notations from system to system, what
we get is, in effect, many different theories of strict implication – one
to capture the notion of deducibility for each of the original logics.
Even in the logic of strict implication, however, there is some room
for convention. Consider one of Lewis’s favourite principles, ((p ຃q)
෺(q ຃r)) ຃(p ຃r). Theorems like this, with nested strict implications,
are not forced on the logic of deducibility by the base logic. The fish-
hook does not belong to the vocabulary of the base logic and so its
consequence relation cannot tell us which implications are deducible
from which. Where do these theorems originate? The only answer that
Lewis can give is that they result from the notion of deducibility that
we choose to express with the fishhook. In other words, they arise
from convention.
5 The Metaphysical Phase
In the 1940s, Lewis adopted a much more elaborate ontology. As we
shall see, he adopted an ontology of intensions and attributes. How
much distance there was between this more elaborate metaphysical
view and his earlier Kantian constructivism is somewhat controversial.
Whether Lewis thinks that abstract objects, such as attributes of indi-
viduals, are mental constructs or mind-independent, I do not know.
Moreover, nothing that I say in what follows depends on taking a side
in this issue. I only claim that Lewis’s theory of meaning in his meta-
physical phase has many more commitments. The status of the elem-
ents of meaning is not important to what I say.
Lewis needed a metaphysics of meaning, at least in part, to explain
his views about strict implication. The idea that there are facts of the
matter about what is deducible from what raises a question: on what
features of reality are these facts based? In the period from 1935 until
Edwin Mares
292
almost the end of his life, Lewis addressed this question in a series of
works, some of them still unpublished. This turn in Lewis’s thinking is
marked by his 1935 manuscript, “A Note on Strict Implication.”
5.1 “A Note on Strict Implication”
The manuscript “A Note on Strict Implication” dates from 1935. It has
both Lewis and Langford as authors, but in a note Lewis claims that
Langford’s contribution was “nominal.” It was withdrawn by Lewis
from Mind after the proofs had been sent to him. His reasons for with-
drawing the paper are not important to my present purposes, since
none of them is related to his commitment to the central position of
that paper.
In constructing a metaphysics of meaning, “A Note” belongs
squarely to Lewis’s metaphysical phase. He used a structure of inten-
sions as the basis for his theory of meaning for the modal connectives.
A statement A is necessarily true, according to this view, if and only if
the intension of A is the same as the intension of some tautology. By
‘tautology’ here, Lewis meant a truth functional tautology, which he
interpreted following the Tractatus as a statement that is true in all
possible situations.
An intension (which is also called a “connotation”) is here taken to
be a universal, a property of some sort. Lewis said:
“Socrates is a man” implies “Socrates is an animal” because the connota-
tion of “man” includes the connotation of “animal”. Connotations are (in
the language of the older logic) universals; and any relation of connotations
as such is a universal relation. If q is deducible from p, this is because an
analysis of the meanings of the propositions p and q will reveal a universal
relation of connotation or intension.
As we shall see in Section 5.3, in his later work he continues to think
of a certain sort of meaning as a property. In his later works, he claims
that a sentence signifies a property of worlds. But he does not say in “A
Note” what sorts of properties are expressed by sentences.
As I have said, a statement is necessarily true if its connotation is the
same as that of some tautology. Formally, this is written:
ჱ

A = ූ

θ ූ

x(A = (ฏ

θx෻

θx))
The Development of C. I. Lewis’s Philosophy of Modal Logic 293
293
On this theory, a strict equivalence, A = B, holds if and only if A and
B have the same intension. Except in certain special cases, such as
when A and B are the same sentence, it is a contingent matter as to
whether A and B have the same intension. It depends on which inten-
sions speakers attribute to them. Let us say that we have chosen to at-
tribute to p the same intension as a tautology, ฏq ෻q. The choice that
we have made determines that ჱ

p is true, but it is a contingent mat-
ter that we have made this choice. Thus, it would seem that whereas
ჱ

p is true, ჱ

ჱ

p is false. This gives us a counterexample to the S4
axiom, ჱ

p ຃ჱ

ჱ

p.We can use similar reasoning to show that the rule
of necessitation fails.
5.2 The Theory of Meaning in the 1940s and 1950s
In the 1940s, Lewis develops the ideas of “A Note” into a more elab-
orate metaphysics of meaning. The central distinction that Lewis
draws with regard to meaning is between linguistic meaning and sense
meaning. The linguistic meaning of a phrase is given by the relation-
ships that phrase has to other phrases. The sense meaning of a phrase
is a rule that allows us to apply that phrase to things.
Linguistic meaning is the more important notion for logic, but we
need to understand sense meaning too, since Lewis thinks that it is
more basic (1946, p 141). The sense meaning of a phrase is rather like
a Kantian schema. It is a rule that allows the mind to apply a con-
cept to things and events in experience. Lewis gives the example of
the concept of a chiliagon, a 1,000-sided figure. We cannot picture a
chiliagon accurately, but we can imagine counting the sides of a figure
and coming up with 1,000. We know a rule for determining whether a
thing is a chiliagon. This is the sense meaning of the word ‘chiliagon’
(1946, p 134).
Lewis’s solution to the empiricists’ problem of abstract objects
involves sense meaning. Berkeley was right that we cannot have an
image of a triangle in general, but we can understand a rule that allows
us to determine whether or not a shape is a triangle (ibid.).
The sense meaning of a word or phrase determines a relationship be-
tween that word or phrase and its extension.As in Lewis and Langford
2014, the extension of a word or phrase in manner that it is required
to understand sense meaning does not only contain actual things, but
also contains merely possible things as well. In order to understand
Edwin Mares
294
a meaning rule fully, we need to take into account not only how the
phrase applies to actual things, but to any conceivable thing. For ex-
ample, ‘centaur’ has a sense meaning: “We should recognise a centaur
if we saw one” (1946, p 137).
Turning to linguistic meaning, Lewis’s notion of an intension or con-
notation from “A Note” became bifurcated in Analysis into two con-
cepts: the idea of signification and the notion of an intension (1946,
p 39). An intension here is a set of linguistic expressions. In the inten-
sion of a sentence A are all the sentences that follow from A. In the
intension of a predicate φxˆ are all the predicates that are analytically
contained in φxˆ. For example, in the intension of ‘is a dog’ are ‘is a
mammal’ and ‘is an animal’. The signification of an expression is an
attribute. The signification of a predicate is a property of things. The
signification of a statement is a property of worlds (1946, p 52).
The addition of the notion of signification in particular to Lewis’s
theory of meaning gave it a strong realist cast and is in sharp contrast
with his earlier conventionalism. Logical systems, if they are adequate,
express pre-existing relationships between attributes. Lewis said:
Until symbols have fixed and specific meanings, a relation of them conveys
no relation of meanings; and as soon as the meanings attaching to sym-
bols are fixed, the question whether a relation of symbols expresses truth
depends upon the relation of the meanings expressed. Also, there would be
these relationships of meanings which hold, whether they be verbally sym-
bolized or not, and irrespective of the manner of their symbolic representa-
tion. Thus the conventions of language determine no analytic truth but only
how it may be expressed. (1946, p 156)
Analyticity, a priority, and necessity are not determined merely by
choices. They are determined at least in part by relationships in the
universe of meanings. This sounds very Fregean, and not very much
like the Lewis of the 1920s.
Despite Lewis’s deemphasizing of the role of convention, he still
maintained that convention played a role in semantics. He still thought
that statements of necessities express what were in part conventional
truths. ‘ჱ

A’ said that ‘A’ signified an entity of a particular kind. The
fact that the entity was of the kind that determined an analytic truth
was not a fact of convention. But the fact that ‘A’ signified this entity
was conventional. Thus,‘ჱ
A’ still represented a truth that was (in part)
conventional.
The Development of C. I. Lewis’s Philosophy of Modal Logic 295
295
In an appendix to the second edition of Symbolic Logic (1959), Lewis
set out an algebraic semantics that captured much of the theory of mean-
ing of “A Note” (2014) and Analysis (1946).The base of this semantics
was a Boolean algebra.The technical details of Boolean algebras are not
important for us here.What is important is that they have a top element,
1, and a bottom element, 0. They may have other elements as well. All
tautologies were given the value 1 and all contradictions were given the
value 0. ჱ

A is true if and only the value of A is 1. ◊A is true if and only if
the value of A is not 0. And so on. Unfortunately, this semantics did not
provide a way of calculating truth-values for nested or iterated modal
formulas, and its publication so close to the appearance of Kripke’s
semantics caused it to be overlooked by the logic community.
5.3 Use and Mention
The fact that Lewis treated the truth conditions for modal statements
to include both conventional and non-conventional elements raises the
question about whether he was guilty, as Quine claimed, of confusing
use and mention.
Lewis did not view modal statements as telling us merely about the
metaphysical status of some extra-linguistic entity such as a prop-
erty. On the other hand, modal statements were not, in his metaphys-
ical period, merely about linguistic convention. We can represent the
modal operators as operators on properties. We can say, for instance,
that ჱ

P if and only if any predicate that signifies P will be neces-
sary because P is contained in every other property. But thinking of
necessity as a property of properties in this way is rather contrived.
Similarly, thinking of necessity as a predicate of predicates is fully pos-
sible but overemphasizes its linguistic aspects. In attempting to capture
both linguistic and non-linguistic facts by means of the modal opera-
tors, facts about both the expressions that appear behind the operators
and what these expressions mean are indicated by modal statements.
This makes the semantics of modal statements complicated, but it does
not seem to constitute a confusion of any kind.
6 Conclusion: Evaluating Lewis’s Semantic Views
It is clear that Lewis’s semantical programmes have significant positive
and negative aspects. I will treat the negative aspects first.
Edwin Mares
296
I see the central failings of Lewis’s semantics as technical. First, al-
though in his epistemological period Lewis has a metaphysics of sys-
tems and possible worlds he does not postulate semantically salient
relationships between them. In particular, Lewis does not discover
the sort of accessibility relations that are of central importance to
modern possible world semantics. Without accessibility relations or
some similar device, Lewis cannot give a semantics that accounts for
nested modal operators. Second, a closely connected point, but per-
haps a more important one, is that Lewis makes no attempt in his epis-
temological period to give any sort of truth or containment condition
for modal formulas in non-actual worlds or systems. I think it is fair
to say that Lewis does not really grasp the full notion of an indexical
semantics in its modern sense.
Similarly, in his metaphysical period, although Lewis adopts a rather
elaborate metaphysics of meaning, he does not provide a treatment
of the meaning of sentences with nested modal operators. Although
Lewis makes some suggestions concerning an algebraic semantics, he
realises that these remarks are inadequate and he does not even point
to a way to solve the problem of nested modalities.
These failings, however, are tempered by the fact that Lewis’s sug-
gestions concerning the meanings of the modal operators can be used
as the basis for a coherent formal semantics. For example, I have taken
Lewis’s views from his epistemological period and constructed a class
of models that characterises S2 (Mares 2013).
In Lewis’s epistemological phase, the purpose of the system of strict
implication is to give us rules for the closure of our theories. These lo-
gical norms are chosen by us. Even in Lewis’s metaphysical phase, we
see that there is room for convention and conventions still define the
meanings of the modal operators. This conventionalism may not at the
moment seem acceptable to most philosophers. But Lewis’s work does
raise the possibility that much of our current debate about the choice
of alternative logics is at least in part an argument about a decision
we need to make rather than about a fact of the matter. I think this is
likely true.
Moreover, in modern terms, logicians since Lewis have tended to
treat linguistic conventions as constraints on models rather than as
elements that appear within models. Carnap, for example, treats his
meaning postulates as helping to define linguistic frameworks, which
in turn define possible worlds models. For Carnap and more modern
The Development of C. I. Lewis’s Philosophy of Modal Logic 297
297
semanticists, linguistic conventions are true at every world within
those structures that model those conventions. Lewis’s view encour-
ages us to think in about conventions very differently.
Lewis’s view, however, does more than force us to confront con-
vention. Rather, his early work attempts to combine an interesting
form of a Kantian constructive approach to epistemology with formal
logic, and the later work attempts to place a slightly more realist cast
on the epistemology while retaining a similar place for formal logic.
In my opinion, both of these projects seem promising and should
be updated and developed using more contemporary logical and
epistemological tools.
The negative aspects of Lewis’s semantical thinking, then, concern
his place in the history of formal semantics. Lewis is not a plausible
candidate for the title of “inventor of possible world semantics”; his
use of possible worlds is solidly prefigured by Leibniz, Peirce, Russell,
and Moore. The positive aspects of Lewis’s semantical theory relate
to the philosophical interpretation of the modal logic and its role in
epistemology and the theory of meaning. In my opinion, it is the philo-
sophical aspects that are more important right now. Logicians have
discovered possible worlds semantics. But we can always use more
philosophies of logic.
298
15 Carnap’s Modal Predicate Logic
Max Cresswell
1. Introduction
Why did Carnap want to develop a modal logic? Here I think we have
to note the influence of Wittgenstein’s Tractatus. In his philosophical
autobiography Carnap writes:
For me personally, Wittgenstein was perhaps the philosopher who, besides
Russell and Frege, had the greatest influence on my thinking. The most
important insight I gained from his work was the conception that the truth
of logical statements is based only on their logical structure and on the mean-
ing of the terms. Logical statements are true under all conceivable circum-
stances; thus their truth is independent of the contingent facts of the world.
On the other hand, it follows that these statements do not say anything
about the world and thus have no factual content. (Carnap 1963, p. 25)
Wittgenstein’s account of logical truth depended on the view that every
(cognitively meaningful) sentence has truth conditions (Wittgenstein
1922, 4.024).1
Carnap certainly appears to have taken Wittgenstein’s
remark as endorsing the truth-conditional theory of meaning. (See, for
instance, Carnap 1947, p. 9.) If all logical truths are tautologies, and
all tautologies are contentless, then you do not need metaphysics to
explain (logical) necessity.
1
“To understand a proposition means to know what is the case if it is true.
(One can understand it, therefore, without knowing whether it is true.) It is
understood by anyone who understands its constituents.”
The research involved in this paper was begun between September and December
of 2010, when I held a residential Fellowship at the Flemish Institute for
Advanced Studies (VLAC) of the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science
and the Arts, on a project with Dr A. A. Rini, called ‘Flight from Intension’,
investigating early attempts to produce a semantics for modal logic without using
any intensional entities. The research is also supported by a Marsden grant with
E. D. Mares and A. A. Rini on a natural history of necessity.
Carnap’s Modal Predicate Logic 299
299
The truth-conditional theory of meaning was crucial to the Vienna
Circle. In particular, you need to be able to provide truth-conditions in
advance of whether you judge a statement to be true or false. This is the
point that Carnap seems to have felt Tarski and Quine never appreciated:
I discovered that in these questions, even though my thinking on seman-
tics had originally started from Tarski’s ideas, a clear discrepancy existed
between my position and that of Tarski and Quine, who rejected the sharp
distinction I wished to make between logical and factual truth. (Carnap,
1963, p. 36)
In his autobiography (Carnap 1963, p. 62) Carnap makes the link
with modality explicit:
After defining semantical concepts like logical truth and related ones, I pro-
posed to interpret the modalities as those properties of propositions which
correspond to certain semantical properties of the sentences expressing the
propositions. For example, a proposition is logically necessary if and only if
a sentence expressing it is logically true.
On that basis, Carnap proposed a semantics for modal logic.2
Not
all philosophers were sympathetic to this project. In Quine 1953b, W.
V. Quine distinguishes three grades of what he calls ‘modal involve-
ment’. The first grade he regards as innocuous. It is no more than
the meta-linguistic attribution of validity to a formula of non-modal
logic. In the second grade we say that where α is any sentence then ႒

α
is true iff α itself is valid – or logically true. On pp. 166–169 Quine
argues that while such a procedure is possible it is unilluminating
and misleading. The third grade allows free variables to occur in the
scope of modal operators, and it is this grade that Quine finds objec-
tionable. The aim of this chapter is to look at Carnap’s attempts to
produce a modal logic which can survive Quine’s criticisms.
Wittgenstein’s theory does seem to presuppose metaphysics. But
one point which becomes clear very quickly to anyone working on the
Tractatus is that the way to see what that metaphysics is to look at
2
See Carnap 1946, Carnap 1947 pp, 173–177 and Carnap 1963 pp. 889–905.
Modal logic is also discussed on pp. 250–260 of Carnap 1937. It does seem
that Carnap felt that you could only make sense of the logical modalities by
understanding them as ‘quasi-syntactical’ (1937, pp. 246 and 250).
Max Cresswell
300
the structure of what Russell called a ‘logically perfect language’, which
reflects the structure of the world (Russell 1918, p. 197). So suppose
that we begin with this language, and instead of asking whether it
reflects the structure of the world, we ask whether it is a useful language
for describing the world. From Carnap’s perspective (Carnap 1950), one
might describe the matter in such a way as this: Given a language L we
may ask whether L is adequate, or perhaps merely useful, for describ-
ing the world as we experience it. It is incoherent to speak about what
the world in itself is like without presupposing that one is describing it.
What makes L a Carnapian equivalent of a logically perfect language
would be that every possible world can be described by what he called
a ‘state description’. But if we are describing the world, we are already
using a language, and then one might say that what passes for ‘meta-
physics’ is in reality no more than the description of a language.
2. Carnap’s Non-Modal Predicate Logic
Although Carnap’s modal propositional logic is not without interest
(see Cresswell 2013) the purpose of this chapter is to look at his modal
predicate logic. In preparation for this I shall first set out the fundamen-
tals of Carnap’s non-modal predicate logic, based on the 1946 article.
One of the points at issue between Quine and Carnap arises when we
introduce definite descriptions into the language. In my view the ques-
tion of how to interpret descriptions can only be addressed if we are
already clear about the semantics of a predicate logic without them,
and that it only muddies the waters if they are introduced too soon.
I shall therefore initially concentrate on the 1946 paper, where these
are not involved. In setting out the semantics found in Carnap’s 1946
paper for first-order (non-modal) predicate logic, I shall avoid his use of
German letters, which make his work difficult for current readers, and
will use a more standard labelling of his axioms and rules. I shall base
my presentation of Carnap’s logic on ๸and ๖rather than on Carnap’s
~, ෻and ‘.’.3
For quantifiers I use ී

x in place of (x), and ූ

x in place of
(ූ

x). Carnap’s language of FL (first order logic) contains a denumer-
able infinity of individual variables and constants, which can be referred
3
The other truth functions are all definable in terms of ๖and ๸
. in particular α
෻β may be defined as (α ๖β) ๖β, ~α as α ๖๸and α ෺β as ~(~α ෻~β). Carnap
takes ~, ෻and ‘.’ (෺
) as primitive, but for the points made here these differences
do not matter.
Carnap’s Modal Predicate Logic 301
301
to simply as ‘variables’ or ‘constants’. Carnap uses the term ‘matrix’
for a (well-formed) formula (wff), and the term ‘sentence’ for closed
wff, i.e., wff with no free variables, When it comes to interpreting FL
Carnap assumes denumerable domains. For this reason he is able to
represent a domain by a denumerable set of individual constants – a
distinct constant for each individual. The presence of constants enables
atomic sentences such as ϕab. Truth and falsity in FL are relative to a
state-description (Carnap 1946, p. 50, and 1947, p. 9). Formally, a state-
description s for a language L is a set of atomic sentences or their nega-
tions, such that for every n-place predicate ϕ of L, and every n-tuple of
constants a1,…, an either ϕa1…an ෛs or ~ϕa1…an ෛs.This way of talking
highlights the fact that state-descriptions represent possible worlds.4
If
s is any state description, I write s ၙα to mean that α is true in s and
s ၜα to mean that α is false in s. The truth of a sentence α in a state-
description s may be defined formally by the following valuation rules:
[Vϕ] s ၙϕa1…an iff ϕa1…an ෛ
 s
[V=] s ၙa = b iff a and b are the same constant
[V๸
] s ၜ
 ๸
[V๖
] s ၙα ๖β iff s ၜα or s ၙ
 β
[Vී
] s ၙී

xα iff s ၙα[a/x] for every constant a, where α[a/x] is α with a
replacing every free x.
s ၙα means that α is true in s. Carnap does not speak of truth in a
state-description, but speaks of the range of a sentence – which is a set
of state-descriptions. Thus, we may either say that s ၙα, or say that s
is in the range of α. Where we say that s ၙα, Carnap will say that s is
in the range of α. Carnap’s ‘rules of ranges’ (p. 50) then become our
truth-valuation rules [Vϕ]–[Vී
], allowing for our adoption of ๸and ๖
as the primitive truth functional operators.
3. Carnap’s 1946 Modal Predicate Logic
We may extend L to a modal language LM. LM is simply the modal
predicate language which extends L by the addition of the (monadic)
4
Carnap’s phrase in 1946, p. 50, is that a state description ‘represents a possible
specific state of affairs’. There is of course a serious problem in this way of
looking at matters. If a state-description represents a possible world, how can
we tell whether the state-description for one language represents the same
possible world as the state-description for another language?
Max Cresswell
302
necessity operator ჱ
, and the formation rule that if α is a wff then so
is ჱ

α. The idea behind Carnap’s account of modality is that ჱ(which
he writes as N) is to be interpreted in such a way that ჱ

α is to be true
iff α is valid – or, as Carnap puts it, iff α is L-true. We shall make this
precise as follows. Where s is a state-description [Vϕ]–[Vී
] shew how
to extend ၙto all LPC wff. To extend ၙto all wff of L M we add the
condition
[Vჱ

MFL] s ၙჱ

α iff sಿၙα for every state-description sಿ
.
Say that a wff is C-valid iff it is true in every state-description, when ၙ
satisfies [Vϕ]–[Vී
] and [Vჱ

MFL]. One result is that if α is S5-valid then
α is C-valid. However, (quantified) S5 is not complete for C-validity.
This is because, where α is a wff of FL – i.e., a non-modal wff – ~ჱ

α
is C-valid iff α is not valid. This feature of Carnap’s modal predicate
logic makes it unaxiomatisable.5
4. Analyticity
Part at least of Quine’s objections to modal logic stems from his rejec-
tion of the analytic/synthetic distinction.6
As we have seen, this rejec-
tion was, in Carnap’s mind, a crucial point of difference between him
and Quine and Tarski. For Carnap’s views on analyticity we can look
at a number of sources. All these postdate Carnap 1946 and 1947, and,
except for Carnap 1963, do not deal with modal logic. For that reason
the application of the later ideas to modal logic must be somewhat con-
jectural. Carnap 1963 replies to Quine’s attack on analyticity.This reply
occurs just after the section (pp. 889–899) where he has been expound-
ing his latest conception of the logic of modalities. While Quine can
accept that Carnap may have defined a formal concept which he calls
‘analyticity in L’, where L is a formal language, Quine cannot accept
that there is any intuitive natural language concept which can be the
explicandum (Carnap 1963, p. 919). Carnap actually agrees that it is
necessary to provide such if his account of analyticity is to have any
genuine content, and that it is legitimate for Quine to demand that
5
For more on the details of the completeness of Carnap’s predicate logic see
Cresswell 2014.
6
For this rejection see especially Quine 1953c.
Carnap’s Modal Predicate Logic 303
303
there be an empirical criterion for intensional notions in natural lan-
guage. But he claims that it is not difficult to shew that one can be
given. He alludes to the fact that empirical linguists have little trouble
in making claims about the meanings of words and phrases:
It seemed rather plausible to me from the beginning that there should be an
empirical criterion for the concept of the meaning of a word or phrase in
view of the fact that linguists traditionally determine empirically the mean-
ings, meaning differences, and shifts of meanings of words, and that with
respect to these determinations they reach a measure of agreement among
themselves which is often considerably higher than that reached for results
in most of the other fields of the social sciences. Quine’s arguments to the
effect that the lexicographers actually have no criterion for their determin-
ations did not seem at all convincing to me. (Carnap 1963, p. 919f)
He follows this up on p. 920 of Carnap 1963 by addressing the black-
ness of ravens:
Let us suppose that two linguists study the natural language L as used by the
person X. Let us suppose that L consists of some English words and English
sentences, among them the following sentence:
(S1) ‘All ravens are black’.
We assume that the two linguists agree on the basis of previous experi-
ments that X uses the words ‘all’ and ‘are’ in the ordinary sense, and that X
has repeatedly affirmed the sentence S1; and hence presumably regards it as
true. Now the first linguist states the following hypothesis:
(5) ‘The sentence S1 is analytic in language L for person X.’.
The other linguist denies this hypothesis. In order to obtain evidence rele-
vant for (5), the linguists say to X: ‘Mr. Smith told us that he had found
a raven which is not black but white, and that he will show it to you to-
morrow. Will you then revoke your assertion of S1?’ Let us consider the fol-
lowing two of many possible responses by X:
(6) ‘I would never have believed that there are white ravens; and I still do
not believe it until I see one myself. ln that case I shall, of course, have to
revoke my assertion’.
(7) ‘There cannot be white ravens. If a bird is not black, then I just would
not call it a raven. If Mr. Smith says that his raven is not black, then (assum-
ing that he is not lying or joking) his use either of the word ‘raven’ or of the
word ‘black’ must be different from my use’.
It seems obvious to me that a response like (6) would be disconfirming
evidence for hypothesis (5), while a response like (7) would be confirming
Max Cresswell
304
evidence for it. Thus it is clear that (5) is an empirical hypothesis which can
be tested by observations of the speaking behavior of X. (Carnap 1963,
p. 920, example numbers are Carnap’s)
For Carnap the most important feature of analytic sentences is that
they are non-contingent – they have no empirical content. So what
these conditions shew is that we are talking about a class of sentences
whose lack of empirical content depends on the meaning of particular
words. It is the way ‘raven’ and ‘black’ are being used which deter-
mines whether S1 is contingent.
One point which seems clear from Carnap’s discussion of his ex-
amples is that he takes it to be obvious that it makes sense to speak of
how a person would apply a word in circumstances different from the
actual circumstances. That is to say, Carnap is accepting that modal
locutions can have definite truth values.This acceptance does not com-
mit him to any metaphysical account of modality, but it does distin-
guish his position from that of Quine. It is for this reason that I began
the chapter by stressing the importance Carnap attached to the diffe-
rence between him and Quine in this respect. Carnap may not have
an answer to where necessity comes from, but he certainly accepts
that it is a phenomenon which can be formally studied and formally
structured.
5. Meaning Postulates
We had better not attribute to Carnap the acceptance of what he would
undoubtedly regard as dubious entities such as possible worlds – or at
least not without some way of shewing how to reconcile such entities
with the views on ontology found in Carnap 1950.7
The place to look
would seem to be in Carnap 1952, where the notion of a meaning
7
On pp. 64–68 of Carnap 1947, Carnap discuses a view of C. I. Lewis which
uses non-actual individuals. (Unfortunately it is a view which links non-actual
possibilia with impossibilia as if they were susceptible of the same treatment.)
Characteristically Carnap concedes that such a view is probably capable of a
consistent formalisation, so the question is solely about its utility. He argues
that his own view handles the required cases, and so a view such as Lewis’s is
not necessary, and because of its strangeness is therefore probably not useful.
The closest he comes to the argument that ‘there are no such things’ is when he
refers to the intuition that an X and an actual X are no different.
Carnap’s Modal Predicate Logic 305
305
postulate is introduced. Meaning postulates do not appear in Carnap
1946 or 1947 so we must do some conjectural reconstruction.
How can meaning postulates lead to a modal semantics? In Carnap
1952 (p. 222) Carnap is concerned to allow a logic in which sentences
such as
(1) If Jack is a bachelor, then Jack is unmarried
or
(2) All ravens are black
can be displayed as non-contingent. Since neither (1) nor (2) will come
out as L-true according to Carnap’s usual definition – since they will
not be true in all state-descriptions – a theorist who wants either of
them to be analytic needs to add it as a meaning postulate. With R for
‘is a raven’ and B for ‘is black’ we get for (2),
(3) ී

x(Rx ๖
 Bx)
Carnap is concerned to argue that it is up to the theorist to stipulate
which sentences are to be regarded as analytic. So it is up to the the-
orist whether to include (3) or not. The theorist who thinks (2) to
be a matter of meaning will, while the theorist who thinks it is not
will not. Imagine a theorist who has a language with predicates refer-
ring to various ornithological features and is concerned to establish
which of the interpretations for this language actually match up with
the facts. The theorist knows in advance that all ravens are black, so
there is no point in considering interpretations which do not satisfy
(3). Adopting (3) could then help cut down the search time. But this
in no way makes (3) necessary in any sense other than that its truth
is not at issue. That is why Carnap had to take up Quine’s challenge
to give an empirical criterion for analyticity, because he has to be able
to distinguish a theorist who stipulates (3) to be analytic from one
who requires it merely to be true. Whether Carnap has adequately met
Quine’s challenge is not my question. It is enough that we can see how
he thinks that he has. In a sense this is simply the theorist stipulating
how the language is to be understood. In a formal language a meaning
postulate will be a wff of that language. In his paper Carnap is not
explicit about just which formal languages he has in mind, though
Max Cresswell
306
none of his examples involves modal languages, and indeed his aim of
explaining modality in non-modal terms would make this plausible.8
Given a set of meaning postulates Carnap (p. 225) describes a wff as
L-true with respect to that set of meaning postulates iff it is ‘L-implied’
by the conjunction of the meaning postulates, which is to say that it is
true in all state-descriptions which satisfy the meaning postulates.9
Let
∏ be a set of (non-modal) LPC sentences, and call a state-description
a ∏-description if every wff in ∏ is true in it. Where s is any state-
description [V႒

MFL] is replaced by
(4) s ၙჱ

α iff sಿၙα for every ∏-description
Say that α is C∏-valid iff s ၙα for every ∏-description. Obviously if
α is a member of ∏ then ჱ

α is ∏-valid. Say that α is CM-valid iff α is
C∏-valid for every set ∏ of meaning postulates. It is an open question
(as far as I am aware) whether the standard S5 modal predicate logic
is complete for CM-validity.
6. De Re Modality
Although Quine objects to analyticity per se, his harshest criticism of
modal logic is reserved for de re formulae. What can be said on the
basis of Carnap 1946 to answer Quine’s complaints about 9 and the
number of planets?10
The example occurs in Quine 1943, pp. 119–
121, but Quine repeats versions of this argument many times, most
famously perhaps in Quine 1947, 1953a, 1953b and 1960. It goes
like this:
(5) 9 is necessarily greater than 7
(6) The number of planets = 9
8
For problems which arise if modal operators are allowed in meaning
postulates see Cresswell 2013, p. 62f.
9
This does have the consequence that not all state-descriptions are permitted,
so that the state-descriptions no longer have the metaphysical power of
the elementary propositions of the Tractatus. This links with the problem
mentioned in footnote 4. It also means that, unlike Wittgenstein, Carnap
cannot help himself to an atomistic account of logical possibility. In turn that
means that he has to take modality as primitive. As I suggest in this chapter,
maybe this is something he would be comfortable with.
10
Recall that when Quine was writing Pluto counted as a planet and there were
indeed held to be nine of them. We will assume that in this discussion.
Carnap’s Modal Predicate Logic 307
307
therefore
(7) The number of planets is necessarily greater than 7
Quine’s original argument was couched in terms of definite descrip-
tions, and Smullyan 1948 shewed that paying careful attention to scope
provides an answer to arguments put this way.11
Carnap 1946 does not
introduce definite descriptions into his language, and I shall present
the argument in a formalisation which only uses the resources of that
paper. It will also simplify the discussion to use a predicate O, where
Ox means ‘x is odd’, rather than the complex predicate ‘is greater than
7’. This will enable us to avoid reference to ‘7’, which is of no relevance
to Quine’s argument. P means ‘is the number of the planets’, so that Px
means ‘there are x-many planets’. With this in mind we may take ‘9’ to
be an individual constant, and use O and P to express (5) and (6) by
(8) ჱ

O9
(9) ූ

x(Px ෺
 x = 9)
One could account for (8)  by adding O9 as a meaning postulate,
though from some remarks on p. 201 of Carnap 1947 it seems that
Carnap might have regarded both O and 9 as complex expressions
defined by the resources of the Frege/Russell account of the natural
numbers and their arithmetical properties. It also seems that he might
have treated the numbers as higher-order entities referred to by higher-
order expressions. If so then the necessity of arithmetical truths such as
(8) would derive from their analysis into logical truths. In our expos-
ition we shall take the numerals as individual constants, and assume
somehow that O9 is a logical truth, true in every state-description, and
that therefore (8) is true.
11
Note that Smullyan’s invocation of scope assumes that we can make sense of
quantifying in. Quine 1969, p. 338, is correct that if Smullyan thought that
this justifies quantifying in, then Smullyan’s argument is question-begging. But
of course Smullyan’s aim was simply to answer Quine’s arguments against
quantifying in. Quine himself in fact sums this up by saying:
My objection to quantifying in to non-substitutive positions dates from 1942. In
response Arthur Smullyan invoked Russell’s distinction of scopes of descriptions
to show that the failure of substitutivity on the part of descriptions is no valid
objection to quantification. (loc cit.)
Max Cresswell
308
In this formalisation we are ignoring the claim that the description
‘the number of the planets’ is intended to claim that there is only one
such number. So much for the premises. But what about the conclusion?
The problem is where to put the ჱ
. There are at least three possibilities:
(10) ჱ

ූ

x(Px ෺
 Ox)
(11) ූ

xჱ
(Px ෺
 Ox)
(12) ූ

x(Px ෺
 ჱ

Ox)
We first show that (10) and (11) do not follow from (8) and (9).
Since (8) is true in every state-description it is sufficient to find a state-
description s which satisfies (9) but satisfies neither (10) nor (11). Let s
and sಿbe two state-descriptions in which in s, P is true only of 9, and in
sಿP is true only of 6. s clearly satisfies (9), since both P9 and 9 = 9 will
be in s. But if c is odd, then Pc is not in sಿand if c is not odd, then Oc is
not in sಿ
, and so ූ

x(Px ෺Ox) fails in sಿ
, and so (10) fails in s. (A similar
argument works for (11).) In contrast to (10) and (11), (12) does fol-
low from (8) and (9). But there is no problem here, since (12) says that
there is a necessarily odd number which is such that there happen to
be that many planets. And this is true, because 9 is necessarily odd, and
there are 9 planets. All of this should make clear how the phenomenon
which upset Quine can be presented in the formal language of the 1946
article. Quine thought that the only answer to his objections was to es-
pouse ‘essentialism’. He also characterised essentialism as ‘the adoption
of an asymmetrical attitude to different ways of specifying the same
object’ (Quine 1969, p. 339). One can see a difference between being
odd and being the number of the planets. Let Ox mean that x is odd,
and let Px mean that there are x many planets. The intuition at work
here is that the predicate O satisfies the condition
(13) ී

x(Ox ๖
 ჱ

Ox)
but the predicate P does not satisfy the condition
(14) ී

x(Px ๖
 ჱ

Px).
In the argument (8)(9)(12) we need the premise ჱ

O9. This is a con-
sequence of the principle (13). There is no analogous principle for P.
That is to say, the formula
Carnap’s Modal Predicate Logic 309
309
(15) ූ

x(Ox ෺
 ჱ

Px)
is not true according to the 1946 semantics, since in fact ჱ

Pa is not
true for any constant a, since it is not true for 9, and even Pa is not
true for any a other than 9. So (15) is false in the state-description
which represents the actual world. There is certainly an asymmetry
here, but it is an asymmetry between two kinds of predicate, and says
nothing about how the subject is identified. Furthermore, it is the
very same number which satisfies ჱ

Ox and Px, but does not satisfy
ჱ

Px, That a number x is odd or even is not a contingent matter, but
whether or not there are x planets is. Quine may disagree, by claim-
ing that there is no coherent distinction between predicates such as
O which hold or fail to hold by necessity, and predicates such as P
which hold or fail to hold contingently; but that cannot be used as an
argument against essentialism. If, pace Quine, we assume that there
is such a difference between a number’s being odd or even, and there
being that many planets, then we have a phenomenon to account for,
and our present task is to consider how Carnap’s later views might
account for it.
7. Meaning Postulates and De Re Modality
I have suggested that (8) could be guaranteed by postulating O9 as a
meaning postulate. So let us see how the method of meaning postu-
lates can help in addressing Quine’s problem about de re formulae.
Reflect carefully on what a meaning postulate does. In adopting (3) as
a meaning postulate we are stating that it is analytic – that is to say, it
is in part constitutive of the meanings of the predicates R and B that
they are so related that (3) is true. This is indicated by the response
attributed to X in the quotation provided above:
There cannot be white ravens. If a bird is not black, then I just would not
call it a raven. If Mr. Smith says that his raven is not black, then (assuming
that he is not lying or joking) his use either of the word ‘raven’ or of the
word ‘black’ must be different from my use.
The claim is that a sentence like
(16) All ravens are black –
Max Cresswell
310
whether regarded as a sentence in English, as in (16), or an interpreted
sentence of LPC, as in (3) – is analytic, is a legitimate tool in partially
specifying the meanings of the terms in it. That is not to say that (16)
or (3) is itself a statement about language. It is the metalinguistic claim
that they are analytic which makes a statement about language.
Carnap’s examples of bachelors and ravens concern facts which
constrain meanings in terms of relations between two predicates. But
one could argue that the crucial fact about meanings is that they relate
words and things. And indeed, if we look at p. 238 of Carnap 1955
we see that one of the options for eliciting a judgement about whether
anything is a ‘pferd’ is for the theorist to
point toward a thing and then describe the intended modification in words,
e.g.: ‘a thing like this one but having one horn in the middle of the fore-
head’. Or, finally, he might just point to a picture representing a unicorn.
Then he asks Karl whether he is willing to apply the word ‘pferd’ to a thing
of this kind.
This seems to imply that one can constrain what is meant by a predi-
cate by specifying not only what things it does apply to, but also what
things it would apply to.
As we have seen, in Carnap’s 1946 predicate logic members of the
domain are uniquely denoted by individual constants. While this may
appear to make it a linguistic matter what individual is pointed to, we
can, I think, easily construe a constant as merely standing in for an in-
dividual. Quine characterises essentialism as privileging certain ways
of referring to an individual, and he might be supposing that the use of
an individual constant is one of these privileged ways; but there seems
no problem in construing a language-user as referring to a particular
thing, and as claiming that a predicate ϕ is being used in such a way
that it has to apply to that thing.
Let us apply this to (8). There are two ways of requiring (8) to be
true. One is to assume, as I suggested Carnap may have wanted to
do, that (8) is guaranteed in some way by the Frege/Russell account
of number. The other is to add O9 as a meaning postulate. For if O9
is one of the meaning postulates, then ჱ

O9, and therefore a de re wff
ූ

xჱ

Ox, will be true in every state-description which respects those
postulates. What this second way of handling the matter amounts to
could be held to reflect some such position as this:
Carnap’s Modal Predicate Logic 311
311
By ‘odd’ I mean a predicate, which, among other things, applies to 9. If Mr.
Smith says that 9 is not odd, then (assuming that he is not lying or joking)
his use of the word ‘odd’ must be different from my use.
The treatment of the oddness of 9 by meaning postulates, unlike the
procedure of accounting for it in terms of the Frege/Russell analysis
of number, can apply to any predicate in which its application to an
individual follows from the meaning of the predicate alone. In this
treatment, while the theorist may adopt O9, the theorist will, presum-
ably, not wish to adopt P9, since the theorist will, presumably, not take
it to be part of the meaning of ‘is the number of planets’, that there
be any particular number of planets. That is to say, in the case of the
predicate P, even if there should be n planets, so that n in fact satisfies
P, the theorist is not going to say, ‘If someone says that there are not n
planets that person means something different from what I do by the
predicate P.’
In treating
(17) 9 is odd
as a meaning postulate we are taking it to be analytic, and in doing
so we are perhaps stretching the meaning of ‘analytic’, but we are still
claiming that its truth is in some sense a consequence of the meaning
of the word ‘odd’. In this particular case the constraint involves just
that one predicate, but of course there are many predicates such as P
of which there may be nothing to which they apply solely in virtue of
their meaning. In fact, cases such as (17) are not Carnap’s standard
examples of meaning postulates. In examples such as (1) and (2) the
meaning postulate imposes a constraint on a connection between sev-
eral predicates. One can see this as adopting a holistic approach to
meaning. (2) would say that you so use the words ‘raven’ and ‘black’
that when you apply ‘raven’ to something you will also apply ‘black’
to it. Carnap’s description of what it is to claim that they are analytic
ensures that it is a consequence of the way these predicates R and B are
being used that any time there is an individual a to which R is applied,
then B can also be applied to a, and this is so whatever the world may
happen to be like. Note that although this has been stated in terms of
possible worlds, there is no claim here that such entities as ‘worlds’
appear in Carnap’s ontology. All that can be claimed is what Carnap
Max Cresswell
312
claimed – that there are non-contingent sentences – sentences whose
meaning alone guarantees their truth. So, in place of talking about
the acceptance of a formula such as (3), which raises issues about the
status of ‘logical’ symbols such as ීor ๖
, we can simply say that, as
far as speaker X is concerned, every state-description of L compatible
with X’s use of ‘raven’ and ‘black’ would be such that if Ra is in it, so
is Ba. In other words, X’s linguistic usage is such as to disallow any
state-description which contains Ra but not Ba. More generally one
could regard a speaker as saying something like this:
The way I use the words of my language is such that thus and such a state
description is not ruled out.
Of course the usage of any particular speaker, or even a total linguistic
population, will not be sufficient to determine a precise set of allow-
able state-descriptions; but that is simply the general fact that lan-
guage use underdetermines the model theory. What can be said is that
a class of state-descriptions determines an S5-model, in which the class
of logically necessary truths is the same throughout the model, and so
provides a standard semantics for quantified S5 modal logic, including
de re formulae.
8. Individual Concepts
Although I suggest that something like what has been said in the last
section might enable Carnap’s 1952 paper to answer Quine’s com-
plaints about de re modality, it seems clear that Carnap had not
availed himself of it in the 1947 book, and I shall now look at the
modal logic presented in Carnap 1947. Carnap 1947, p. 193f cites the
argument (5)(6)(7) from Quine 1943 discussed earlier. Carnap does
not appear to recognise any potential ambiguity in the conclusion and
characterises (7) as false. Carnap does not consider (12), and on p. 194
simply says:
“we obtain the false statement [(7)]”
In Carnap’s view the problem with Quine’s argument is that it assumes
an unrestricted version of what is sometimes called ‘Leibniz’ Law’:
Carnap’s Modal Predicate Logic 313
313
I2 ී

xී

y(x = y ๖(α ๖β)), where α and β differ only in that α has free x in 0
or more places where β has free y12
In the 1946 paper this law holds in full generality, as does a conse-
quence of it which asserts the necessity of true identities.
LI ී

xී

y(x = y ๖ჱ

x = y)
Carnap 1947 holds that I2 must be restricted so that neither x nor y
occurs free in the scope of a modal operator. In particular the follow-
ing would be ruled out as an allowable instance of I2:
(18) x = y ๖(ჱ

Ox ๖
 ჱ

Oy)
In order to explain how this failure comes about and solve the prob-
lems posed by co-referring singular terms, Carnap modifies the seman-
tics of the 1946 paper. The principal difference from the modal logic
of the 1946 paper, as Carnap tells us on p. 183, is that the domain
of quantification for individual variables now consists of individual
concepts, where an individual concept i is a function from state-
descriptions to individual constants. Where s is a state-description we
shall let is denote the constant which is the value of the function i for
the state-description s. Carnap is clear that the quantifiers range over
all individual concepts, not just those expressible in the language.
Using this semantics it is easy to see how (18) can fail. For let x have
as its value the individual concept i, which is the function such that is
is 9 for every state description s, while the value of y is the function
j such that, in any state description s, js is the individual which is the
number of the planets in s, i.e., js is the (unique) constant a such that Pa
is in s. (Assume that in each state-description there is a unique number,
possibly 0, which satisfies P.) We then assume that x = y is true in any
12
In this schema and in what follows we are allowing formulae with free
variables as theorem schemas. This is in line with the revised semantics of
Carnap 1947, p. 183f, in which Carnap relativises truth to an assignment of
values to the individual variables, and so we may call a formula valid iff it is
true in every state description with respect to every assignment (of individual
constants) to its variables. State-descriptions, however, still consist of a
collection of atomic sentences, with no free variables, which includes either α
or ~α for every atomic α.
Max Cresswell
314
state-description s iff, where i is the individual concept which is the
value of x, and j is the individual concept which is the value of y, then
is is the same individual constant as js. In the present example it hap-
pens that, when s is the state-description which represents the actual
world, is and js are indeed the same, for in s there are nine planets,
making x = y true at s. Now ჱ

Ox will be true if Ox is true in every
state-description sಿ
, which is to say if isಿ satisfies O in every sಿ
. Since isಿ
is 9 in every state description, then isಿ does satisfy O in every sಿ
, and so
ჱ

Ox is true at s. But suppose sಿrepresents a situation in which there
are six planets. Then jsಿ will be 6 and so Oy will be false in sಿ
, and for
that reason ჱ

Oy will be false in s, thus falsifying (18). (It is also easy to
see that LI is not valid, since it is easy to have is = js even though i ≠ j.)
The difference between the modal semantics of Carnap 1946
and Carnap 1947 is that in the former the only individuals are the
genuine individuals, represented by the constants of the language L.
In the proof of the invalidity of (18) it is essential that the semantics
of identity require that when x is assigned an individual concept
i and y is assigned an individual concept j that x = y be true at a
state-description s iff is and js are the same individual. And now
we arrive at Quine’s complaint (Quine 1953a, p. 152f). It is that
Carnap replaces the domain of things as the range of the quanti-
fiers with a domain of individual concepts. Quine then points out
that the very same paradoxes arise again at the level of individual
concepts. Thus for instance it might be that the individual concept
which represents the number of planets in each state-description is
identical with the first individual concept introduced on p. 193 of
Meaning and Necessity. Carnap is alive to Quine’s criticism that or-
dinary individuals have been replaced in his ontology by individual
concepts. In essence Carnap’s reply to Quine on pp.  198–200 of
Carnap 1947 is that if we restrict ourselves to purely extensional
contexts then the entities which enter into the semantics are precisely
the same entities as are the extensions of the intensions involved.
What this amounts to is that although the domain of quantification
consists of individual concepts, the arguments of the predicates are
only the genuine individuals. For suppose, as Quine appears to have
in mind, we permit predicates which apply to individual concepts.
Then suppose that i and j are distinct individual concepts. Let ϕ be
a predicate which can apply to individual concepts, and let s be a
state-description in which ϕ applies to i but not to j but in which is
Carnap’s Modal Predicate Logic 315
315
and js are the same individual. We now have two options depending
on how = is to be understood. If we take x = y to be true in s when is
and js are the same individual, then if x is assigned i and y is assigned
j we would have that x = y and ϕx are both true in s, but ϕy is not.
So that even the simplest instance of I2
I2ϕ x = y ๖(ϕx ๖
 ϕy)
fails, and here there are no modal operators involved. The second
option is to treat = as expressing genuine identity. That is to say x = y
is true only when the individual concept assigned to x is the same indi-
vidual concept as the one assigned to y. In the example we have been
discussing, since i and j are distinct individual concepts, if i is assigned
to x and j to y, then x = y will be false. But on this option the full ver-
sion of I2 becomes valid, even when α and β contain modal operators.
This is just another version of Quine’s complaint that if an operator
expresses identity then the terms of a true identity formula must be
interchangeable in all contexts.
9. Conclusion
In this chapter I have attempted to shew that Carnap’s modal logic has
a way of responding to Quine’s criticisms if you use features of his later
work in ways in which he himself did not. This applies particularly to
the use of meaning postulates in accounting for de re modality, rather
than using Carnap’s own device of individual concepts. Why then
did Carnap not take the former way out? My conjecture is this. The
response I have argued available to Carnap is one which ignores defi-
nite descriptions. In dealing with the problems in primitive notation
one is in effect opting for a Russellian solution rather than a Fregean
solution. A  large amount of Carnap 1947 is concerned to defend
Carnap’s own take – the method of intension and extension – on a
broadly Fregean account of the various paradoxes of reference. In fact
on p. 35 of 1947 he actually criticises Russell’s theory of descriptions
on the ground that it allows the very scope distinctions which many of
us see as its glory. Carnap’s distinction between intensions and exten-
sions makes good sense when applied, for example, to sentences and
predicates, whose intensions are functions from indices to truth values
or sets of n-tuples of individuals. But in the case of individual concepts
Max Cresswell
316
the values are individuals themselves, and if you are to answer Quine
by restricting α and β in I2 to non-modal wff, then you have to accept
a domain of quantification which admits individual concepts, yet at
the same time restricts the arguments of the predicates to the genuine
individuals which are the arguments of those concepts.13
13
A recent critical account of Carnap’s use of individual concepts occurs in
Williamson 2013, pp. 46–60. See also the discussion in Heylen 2010.
317
317
Abaci, U., 2014, “Kant’s Only Possible Argument and Chignell’s Real
Harmony,” Kantian Review 19(1), 1–25.
Abaelard 1970, Petrus Abaelardus, Dialectica, 2nd ed., ed. L. M. De Rijk,
Assen: Van Gorcum, Tract. II.2, 191–210.
2010, “Petrus Abaelardus, Glossae Super Peri Hermenias,” in Corpus
Christianorum Continuatio Mediaevalis 206, ed. K. Jacobi and C. Strub
Brepols: Turnhout, cap. 12, 391–433.
Ackrill, J. L., 1963, Aristotle’s Categories and De Interpretatione, Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
Adam, Ch and P. Tannery, 1964–1976, (AT), Oeuvres de Descartes, 11 vols.,
Paris: J. Vrin.
Adams, M. 1973, “Did Ockham Know of Material and Strict Implication,”
Franciscan Studies 33, 5–37.
Adams, R. M., 1994. Leibniz: Determinist, Theist, Idealist, Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
2000, “God, Possibility and Kant,” Faith and Philosophy 17, 425–440.
Adams R. M., and N. Kretzmann, 1983, Ockham, William, Predestination,
God’s Foreknowledge and Future Contingents, tr. with intro by M. M.
Adams and N. Kretzmann 2nd edition, Hackett Classics.
Adickes, E., 1924, Kant und das Ding an Sich, Berlin: Pan Verlag.
Alexander of Aphrodisias, 1883, On Aristotle’s Prior Analytics, ed. M.
Wallies, in Diels, 1882–1909, Vol. 2.1.
1892, On Fate. ed. I. Bruns, Supplementum Aristotelicum, Vol. 2.2, Berlin:
Reimer.
1991, On Aristotle’s Topics. ed. M. Wallies, in Diels 1882–1909, Vol. 2.2.
Allais, L., 2004,“Kant’s ‘One World’: Interpreting Transcendental Idealism,”
British Journal for the History of Philosophy 12, 655–684.
Allison, H., 1983, Kant’s Transcendental Idealism, New Haven, CT: Yale
University Press. (2004). Revised and Enlarged Edition.
Bibliography
Authors have been referred to by surname and initials except in the case of
some historical figures up to the early modern period.
Bibliography
318
1994, “Causality and Causal Laws in Kant:  A  Critique of Michael
Friedman” in Parrini, P. (1994), 291–307.
Allwein, G. and Barwise, J., ed., 1996, Logical Reasoning with Diagrams,
Oxford University Press.
Ameriks, K., 1982, “Recent Work on Kant’s Theoretical Philosophy,” The
Philosophical Quarterly 19, 1–24.
2003, Interpreting Kant’s Three Critiques. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Ammonius,1897,AmmoniusinAristotelisDeInterpretationeCommentarius,
ed. A. Busse, in Diels, 1882–1909, Vol. 4.5.
Anderson, A. R., and N. D. Belnap, 1975, Entailment: Logic of Relevance
and Necessity, Vol. I. Princeton University Press.
Anderson,R.L.,2004,“ItAdds UpAfterAll: Kant’s Philosophy ofArithmetic
in Light of the Traditional Logic,” Philosophy and Phenomenological
Research 69, 501–540.
Angelelli, I., 1979, “The Aristotelian Modal Syllogistic in Modern Modal
Logic,” in Konstruktionen versus Positionen II (P. Lorenzen zum 60.
Geburtstag), ed. K. Lorenz, Berlin: de Gruyter, 176–215.
Anselm of Canterbury, 1936, “Ein neues unvollendetes Werk des hl.
Anselm von Canterbury,” Beiträge zur Geschichte der Philosophie und
Theologie des Mittelalters 33(3), 23–48.
1968, Anselmi Cantuariensis Archiepiscopi Opera Omnia, ed. F. S. Schmitt,
Stuttgart: Friedrich Fromann Verlag.
Anstey, P. R., 2011, John Locke and Natural Philosophy, Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
(forthcoming) “Locke and non-propositional knowledge.”
Aquila, R., 1979, ““Things in Themselves:  Intentionality and Reality in
Kant,” Archiv Fur Geschichte der Philosophie 61, 293–307.
Aristotle, 1985, The Complete Works of Aristotle:  The Revised Oxford
Translation, ed. Jonathan Barnes, 2  vols., Princeton, NJ:  Princeton
University Press.
1994, Posterior Analytics, Translated with an Introduction and
Commentary by Jonathan Barnes, Oxford, Clarendon Press, 2nd ed.
1998, Aristotle, Metaphysics, trans. and with an introduction and commen-
tary by Stephen Makin, Clarendon Aristotle Series Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
2009, Aristote, Topiques tome I, livres I-IV ed. Jacques Brunschwig, Paris:
Les belles lettres.
Arnauld, A. and P. Nicole, 1996, Logic or the Art of Thinking, trans. J. V.
Buroker, Cambridge University Press.
Arnim,J. von,StoicorumVeterum Fragmenta,Vols.I-IV.Leipzig:Teubner.1902.
Ashworth, E. J., 1974, Language and Logic in the Post-Medieval Period,
Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Bibliography 319
319
Astroh, M., 2001, “Petrus Abaelardus on Modalities de re and de dicto,”
Potentialität und Possibilität:  Modalaussagen in der Geschichte der
Metaphysik, ed. T. Buchheim, Stuttgart: Frommann-Holzboog, 79–95.
Averroes (Ibn Rus[d), 1562. Quaesita octo in librum Priorum, in Aristotelis
omnia quae extant opera – Averrois Cordubensis in ea opera omnes, qui
ad haec usque tempora peruenere, commentarii (Venetiis apud Iunctas).
1954, Tah al-tah:  The Incoherence of the “Incoherence,” trans. Simon
Van Den Bergh, 2 vols., Oxford University Press.
Avicenna (Ibn Sına), 1977, Liber de philosophia prima sive scientia divina
ed. S. van Riet, Louvain: E. Peters.
1984, Remarks and Admonitions [Pointers and Reminders] translated
from the original Arabic with an introduction and notes by Shams
Constantine Inati, Toronto: Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies.
2004, The Metaphysics of the Healing, trans. Michael Marmura, Provo,
Utah: Brigham Young University Press.
2011, Deliverance Logic, trans.Asad Q.Ahmed (Oxford University Press).
Bacon, F., 2004, The Instauratio magna Part II:  Novum organum and
Associated Texts, Oxford Francis Bacon, trans. and ed. Graham Rees,
Vol. XI, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Barreau, H., 1978, “Cléanthe et Chrysippe face au maitre-argument de
Diodore,” in Brunschwig 1978, 20–41.
Barrow, I., 1734, The Usefulness of Mathematical Learning, trans. John
Kirby, London: Stephen Austen.
Becker, A., 1933, Die Aristotelische Theorie der Möglichkeitsschlüsse,
Berlin: Junker und Dünnhaupt.
Becker, O., 1930, “Zur Logic der Modalitäten,” Jahrbuch fur Philosophie
und phänomenologische Forschung 11, 497–548.
Beeley, P., 2002. “Leibniz on Wachter’s Elucidarius cabalisticus: A Critical
Edition of the So-Called ‘Refutation of Spinoza.’” The Leibniz Review
12, 1–14.
Beere,J.,2009,Doing and Being: An Interpretation ofAristotle’s Metaphysics
Theta, Oxford University Press [Oxford Aristotle Series].
Beiser, F., 2002, German Idealism: The Struggle against Subjectivism 1781–
1801, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Bennett, J. F., 2000, “Infallibility and Modal Knowledge in Some Early
Modern Philosophers,” in Mathematics and Necessity:  Essays in the
History of Philosophy, ed. Timothy Smiley, Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 139–166.
Bird, G., 1962, Kant’s Theory of Knowledge, London: Routledge & Kegan
Paul.
Blackburn P., and K. Jørgensen, 2012, “Indexical Hybrid Tense Logic,” in
Advances in Modal Logic, London: King’s College, 144–160.
Bibliography
320
Bluck, R. S., 1963, “On the Interpretation of Aristotle, De Interpretatione
12–13,” Classical Quarterly 13, 214–222.
Blumenfeld, D., 1988. “Freedom, Contingency, and Things Possible in
Themselves.” Philosophy and Phenomenological Research 49(1): 81–
101. doi:10.2307/2107993.
Blundeville, T., 1617, The Arte of Logick, London [1st edition 1599].
Bobzien, S., 1986, Die stoische Modallogik. Königshausen & Neumann.
1993,“Chrysippus’ modal logic and its relation to Philo and Diodorus,” in
K. Döring and Th. Ebert (eds) Dialektiker und Stoiker, Stuttgart, 63–84.
1999, “Logic: The Megarics, the Stoics,” in The Cambridge History
of Hellenistic Philosophy, ed. K. ALgra, J. Barnes. J. Mansfeld, M.
Schofield, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 83–157.
2003, “Stoic Logic,” in The Cambridge Companion to the Stoics, ed. B.
Inwood, Cambridge University Press, 85–123.
Bochenski, J. M., 1951, Ancient Formal Logic, Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Boethius, 1877, Commentarii in Librum Aristotelis Peri Hermenias, ed. C.
Meiser, Leipzig: Teubner.
1969, De Hypotheticis Syllogismis, ed. L. Obertello, Brescia: Paidea.
2008,De Syllogismo Categorico,ed.C.ThomsenThörnqvist,Gothenburg:
University of Gothenburg.
Bonitz, H., 1870, Index Aristotelicus, Berlin: Reimer.
Boyle, R., 1999–2000, Works:  The Works of Robert Boyle, ed. Michael
Hunter and Edward B. Davis, 14 vols., London: Pickering and Chatto.
2006, Boyle on Atheism, transcribed by and ed. J. J. MacIntosh, Toronto:
University of Toronto Press.
Brading, K., 2011, “On Composite Systems:  Descartes, Newton, and the
Law-Constitutive Approach,” in Vanishing Matter and the Laws of
Motion: Descartes and Beyond, ed. Dana Jalobeanu and P. R. Anstey,
New York: Routledge, 130–152.
2012, “Newton’s Law-Constitutive Approach to Bodies: A Response to
Descartes,” in Interpreting Newton: Critical Essays, ed. Andrew Janiak
and Eric Schliesser, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 13–32.
Brandon, E. P., 1978, “Hintikka on ἀκολουθεῖν,” Phronesis 23, 173–178.
Braüner, T., 1998,“Peircean Graphs for the Modal Logic S5,” in Conceptual
Structures: Theory, Tools and Applications, ed. Marie-Laure Mugnier
and Michel Chein, Berlin and Heidelberg: Springer, 255–269.
2006, “Hybrid Logic,” The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, http://
plato.stanford.edu/entries/logic-hybrid/.
Brennan, T., 1994, “Two Modal Theses in the Second Half of Metaphysics
Theta 4.” Phronesis 39, 160–173.
Brown, G., 1987. “Compossibility, Harmony, and Perfection in Leibniz.”
The Philosophical Review 96(2), 173–203.
Bibliography 321
321
Brunschwig, J., 1969, “La proposition particulière et les preuves de non-
concluance chez Aristote,” Cahiers pour l’Analyse 10, 3–26.
1978, Les stoïciens et leur logique. Vrin. Second edition 2006.
Buddensiek, F., 1994, Die Modallogik des Aristoteles in den Analytica Priora
A, Hildesheim: Olms.
Burch, R. W., 1994, “Game-Theoretical Semantics for Peirce’s Existential
Graphs,” Synthese 99, 361–375.
Burnyeat, M. F., 1981, “Aristotle on Understanding Knowledge,” in
Aristotle on Science: The Posterior Analytics, Proceedings of the Eighth
Symposium Aristotelicum held in Pisa from September 2 to 15, 1978,
E. Berti, ed., Padua: Antenore, 97-139.
Carnap, R., 1937, The Logical Syntax of Language, London: Kegan Paul,
Trench Truber.
1946, “Modalities and Quantification,” The Journal of Symbolic Logic
11, 33–64.
1947, Meaning and Necessity, Chicago:  University of Chicago Press.
Second edition 1956, references are to the second edition.
1950, “Empiricism, Semantics and Ontology,” Revue Intern de Phil 4,
20–40. Reprinted in the second edition of Carnap 1947, 205–221. Page
references are to this reprint.
1952, “Meaning Postulates,” Philosophical Studies 3, 65–73. Reprinted
in the second edition of Carnap 1947, 222–229. Page references are to
this reprint.
1955, “Meaning and Synonymy in Natural Languages,” Philosophical
Studies 7. Reprinted in the second edition of Carnap 1947, 233–250.
Page references are to this reprint.
1963, “Carnap’s Intellectual Biography,” The Philosophy of Rudolf
Carnap, ed. P. A. Schilp, La Salle, IL: Open Court, 3–84.
Chignell, A., 2007a, “Belief in Kant,” The Philosophical Review 116(3),
323–360.
2007b, “Kant’s Concepts of Justification,” Noûs 41(2), 33–63.
2009, “Kant, Modality, and the Most Real Being,” Archiv für Geschichte
der Philosophie 91(2), 157–192.
2010,“Real Repugnance and Belief aboutThings inThemselves: A Problem
and Kant’s Three Solutions,”in Kant’s Moral Metaphysics, ed. J. Krueger
and B. Lipscomb, Berlin: Walter DeGruyter.
2012, “Kant, Real Possibility, and the Threat of Spinoza,” The Monist
121(483), 635–675.
2014,“Kant and the ‘Monstrous’ Ground of Possibility: A Reply to Abaci
and Yong.” Kantian Review, 19(1), 53–69.
Cicero, 1975, De divinatione; De fato; Timaeus, ed. R. Giomini, Leipzig:
Teubner.
Bibliography
322
1933, On the Nature of the Gods,Academica, trans. H. Rackham, London:
Heinemann.
Conway, A., 1692, The Principles of the Most Ancient and Modern
Philosophy, trans. J. C. (Jodocus Crull?), London.
Cottingham, J., R. Stoothoff and D. Murdoch, trans., 1984–1991, The
Philosophical Writings of Descartes, 3 vols., Vols. I and II, Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1985, and Vol. III,The Correspondence, by
the same translators plus A. Kenny, Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1991.
Cresswell, M. J., 2013, “Carnap and Mckinsey: Topics in the Pre-History
of Possible Worlds Semantics,” Proceedings of the 12th Asian Logic
Conference, ed. J. Brendle, R. Downey, R. Goldblatt and B. Kim
Singapore: World Scientific, 53–75.
2014, “The Completeness of Carnap’s Predicate Logic,” Australasian
Journal of Logic 11, 47–63.
Crivelli, P., 2004, Aristotle on Truth, Cambridge:  Cambridge Universit
Press.
Cudworth, R., 1678, The True Intellectual System of the Universe, London:
Richard Royston.
1996, A Treatise Concerning Eternal and Immutable Morality, ed. Sarah
Hutton, Cambridge:  Cambridge University Press. Circa 1664, 1st
ed. 1731.
Cunning, D., 2014, “Descartes’ modal metaphysics,” The Stanford encyclo-
pedia of philosophy,Spring 2014 ed.,ed.Edward N. Zalta,URL = <http://
plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2014/entries/descartes-modal/>
Curley, E. M., 1984, “Descartes on the Creation of the Eternal Truths,” The
Philosophical Review 93, 569–597.
D’Alembert, J., 1743, Traité de dynamique, Paris.
de Harven, V., 2015,“How Nothing Can Be Something: The Stoic Theory of
Void,” Ancient Philosophy 35, 405-29.
Denyer, N., 1981, “Time and Modality in Diodorus Cronus,” Theoria 47,
31–53.
Descartes, R., 1985. The Philosophical Writings of Descartes, ed. John
Cottingham, Robert Stoothoff, Dugald Murdoch, and Anthony Kenny,
3 vols., Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1996. Oeuvres de Descartes, ed. Charles Adam and Paul Tannery, 11 vols.,
Paris: J. Vrin.
Diels, H., ed., 1882–1909, Commentaria in Aristotelem Graeca, Berlin:
Reimer.
Diogenes Laërtius, 1964, Diogenis Laertii Vitae Philosphorum, ed. H. S.
Long, Oxford Classical Texts, 2 vols., Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Döring, K., 1989,“Gab es eine Dialektische Schule?”Phronesis 34, 293–310.
Bibliography 323
323
Downing, L., 1992, “Are Corpuscles Unobservable in Principle for Locke?,”
Journal of the History of Philosophy 30, 33–52.
Du Moulin, P., 1624, The Elements of Logick, trans. Nathanael De-Lawne,
London: Printed by I. D. for Nicolas Bourne.
Ebert, T. and U. Nortmann, 2007, Aristoteles:  Analytica Priora, Buch I,
Berlin: Akademie Verlag.
El-Rouayheb, K., 2009. “Impossible Antecedents and Their Consequences:
Some Thirteenth-Century Arabic Discussions,” History and Philosophy
of Logic 30, 209–225.
Epictetus, 1916, Epicteti Dissertationes ab Arriano digestae, ed. H. Shenkl,
Leipzig: Teubner.
Erdmann, B., 1878, Kants Kriticismus in der ersten und in der zweiten
Auflage der Kritik der reinen Vernunft, Leipzig: Voss.
Fisch, M., 1967, “Peirce’s Progress from Nominalism toward Realism,” The
Monist 51(2), 159–178.
1986, Peirce, Semeiotic, and Pragmatism, Bloomington, IN: Hilpinen,
Risto (1982, “On C. S. Peirce’s theory of the proposition: Peirce as a
Precursor of Game-Theoretical Semantics), The Monist 62, 182–189.
Fisher, A. R.  J., 2011, “Causal and Logical Necessity in Malebranche’s
Occasionalism,” Canadian Journal of Philosophy 41, 523–548.
Fitting,M.and R.L.Mendelsohn,1998,First-Order Modal Logic,Dordrecht:
Kluwer.
Frankfurt, H., 1977, “Descartes on the Creation of the Eternal Truths,” The
Philosophical Review 86, 36–57.
Frede, D., 1976, “Review of Hintikka 1973,” Philosophische Rundschau
22, 237–242.
1990, “Fatalism and Future Truth,” Proceedings of the Boston Area
Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy 6, 195–227.
2003, “Stoic Determinism” in ed. B. Inwood The Cambridge Companion
to the Stoics. Cambridge University Press. 179–205.
Frede, M., 1974, Die stoische Logik. Vandenhoeck und Ruprecht.
Galileo Galilei, 1989, Two New Sciences, Including Centers of Gravity and
Force of Gravity and Force of Percussion,Toronto,Wall and Thompson.
1992,“Treatise on Demonstration,” trans. William A. Wallace in Galileo’s
Logical Treatises, Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Garland, (Garlandus Compotista), 1959, Dialectica, ed. L. M. De Rijk,
Assen: Van Gorcum.
Garsia, Petrus, 1489, Determinationes Magistrales, Rome.
Gassendi, P., 1981, Institutio Logica, trans. Howard Jones [1658],Assen: van
Gorcum.
Gellius, 1968, Aulus Gellius Noctes Atticae, ed. P. K. Marshall, Oxford
Classical Texts, Vols. 1–2, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Bibliography
324
Gendler, T., and Hawthorne, J., eds. Conceivability and Possibility, Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
Gödel, K., and S. Feferman, 1995. Kurt Gödel: Collected Works. Vol. III.
Unpublished Essays and Lectures, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Goheen, J. D., and J. L. Mothershead, eds., 1970, Collected Papers of
Clarence Irving Lewis, Stanford University Press, (cited as CP).
Gohlke, P., 1936, Die Entstehung der Aristotelischen Logik, Berlin: Junker
und Dünnhaupt.
Gourinat, J-B., 2000, La Dialectique des Stoïciens, Vrin.
Gregory of Rimini, Gregorii Ariminensis OESA Lectura super Primum et
Secundum Sententiarum ed.A.Trapp et al.,Berlin and New York: Walter
de Gruyter.
1981, Tomus I: Super Primum (Dist. 1–6).
1982, Tomus II: Super Primum (Dist. 17–17).
1984, Tomus III: Super Primum (Dist. 19–48).
1979a, Tomus IV: Super Secundum (Dist. 1–5).
1979b, Tomus V: Super Secundum (Dist. 6–18).
1980, Tomus VI: Super Secundum (Dist. 24–44).
1987, Tomus VII: Indices.
Griffin, M. V., 2013. Leibniz, God and Necessity, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Grosseteste, Robert, 1912, Die Philosophishen Werke des Robert Grossetest:
Bischofs von Lincoln, Beitraäge zur Geschichte de Philosophie des
Mittelalters, ed L. Baur, 9, Münster. W.
Hacking, I., 1967, “Possibility,” The Philosophical Review 76, 143–168.
1980, “Proof and Eternal Truths: Descartes and Leibniz,” in Gaukroger,
Stephen, ed., Descartes: Philosophy, Mathematics and Physics, Sussex:
The Harvester Press.
Hankinson, R. J., 1999, “Determinism and Indeterminism” in eds. K.
ALgra, J. Barnes. J. Mansfeld, M. Schofield. The Cambridge History
of Hellenistic Philosophy. Cambridge University Press. 1999. 513–541.
Hanna, R., 2006, Kant, Science, and Human Nature. Oxford University Press.
Hardwick, Charles (ed.), 1977, Semiotics and Signifies: The Correspondence
betweenCharlesS. PeirceandVictoriaLadyWelby.Bloomington: Indiana
University Press.
Hawthorne, J. and J. A. Cover, 2000, “Infinite Analysis and the Problem of
the Lucky Proof,” Studia Leibnitiana XXXII(2), 151–165.
Heylen, J., 2010, “Carnap’s Theory of Descriptions and Its Problems,”
Studia Logica, 94, 355–380.
Hilpinen, R. 1982, “On C. S. Peirce’s Theory of the Proposition: Peirce as a
Precursor of Game-Theoretical Semantics,” The Monist 62, 182–189.
Bibliography 325
325
Hintikka, K. J. J., 1969, Models for Modalities: Selected Essays, Dordrecht:
Reidel.
1973, Time and Necessity:  Studies in Aristotle’s Theory of Modality,
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
1977, Aristotle on Modality and Determinism, in collaboration with U.
Remes and S. Knuuttila, Acta Philosophica Fennica 29.1, Amsterdam:
North Holland.
1997, “The Place of C. S. Peirce in the History of Logical Theory,” in The
Rule of Reason, ed. J. Brunning and P. Forester, Toronto: University of
Toronto Press, 140–161.
Hodges, W., 2010, “Ibn Sına on understood time and aspect (Qiyas 1.3),”
http://wilfridhodges.co.uk/arabic08.pdf.
2012a, “Ibn Sına’s modal logic,” http://wilfridhodges.co.uk/arabic20a.
pdf slide 31.
2012b, Translation of Ibn Rus[d, Mas’ala i.3 p.122, in (Hodges,“Handout
for ‘Necessary and permanent in Ibn Sına’,” http://wilfridhodges.co.uk/
arabic20b.pdf.
2014, Mathematical Background to the Logic of Ibn Sına Draft, http://
wilfridhodges.co.uk/arabic44.pdf.
Hookway, C., 1985, Peirce, London: Routledge.
2008, “Pragmatism and the Given: C. I. Lewis, Quine, and Peirce” in The
Oxford Handbook of American Philosophy, ed. C. J. Misak, Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Horn, L. R., 1973, “Greek Grice: A Brief Survey of Proto-Conversational
Rules in the History of Logic,” Proceedings of the Chicago Linguistic
Society 9, 205–214.
1989,ANaturalHistoryofNegation,Chicago: UniversityofChicago Press.
Houser, N. and D. Roberts, J. Van Evra, eds., 1997, Studies in the Logic of
Charles Sanders Peirce, Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
Huby, P. M., 2002, “Did Aristotle Reply to Eudemus and Theophrastus
on Some Logical Issues?” In Eudemus of Rhodes, Rutgers University
Studies in Classical Humanities, Vol. 11, ed. I. Bodnár and W. W.
Fortenbaugh, New Brunswick: Transaction, 85–106.
Hume, D., 1902, An Enquiry Concerning the Human Understanding, Ed. L.
A. Selby-Bigge, Oxford, Clarendon Press.
Hunter, M., and E. B. Davis, 1999–2000, The Works of Robert Boyle, ed.,
14 vols., London: Pickering and Chatto.
Inwood, B., and L. P. Gerson, 1997, Hellenistic Philosophy, Introductory
Readings, Indianapolis: Hackett. 1988. 1997.
Ishiguro, H., 1990. Leibniz’s Philosophy of Logic and Language, Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Bibliography
326
Jesseph, D. M., 1999, Squaring the Circle: the War Between Hobbes and
Wallis, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
2013, “Logic and Demonstrative Knowledge,” in Peter Anstey, ed., The
Oxford Handbook of British Philosophy in the Seventeenth Century,
Oxford University Press,373–390.
Johnson, F., 1989, “Models for Modal Syllogisms,” Notre Dame Journal of
Formal Logic 30(2), 271–284.
1995, “Apodeictic Syllogisms:  Deductions and Decision Procedures,”
History and Philosophy of Logic 16(1), 1–18.
Kant, I., 1900-, Kants gesammelte Schriften, ed. the Berlin- Brandenburg
(formerly Royal Prussian) Academy of Sciences, Berlin:  Walter de
Gruyter.
1992, Theoretical Philosophy 1775–1770, trans. and ed. D. Walford and
R. Meerbote, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1996, Religion and Rational Theology, trans. and ed., A. Wood and G. di
Giovanni, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1997, Critique of Pure Reason, trans. and ed. P. Guyer and A. Wood,
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Karttunen, L., 1972, “Possible and Must,” in Syntax and Semantics, ed. J.
Kimball, vol. 1, New York: Academic Press, 1–20.
King, C. G., 2014, “Review of Striker 2009,” Gnomon 86, 484–488.
King, P., 2015, “Pseudo-Joscelin:  The Treatise on Genera and Species,”
Oxford Studies in Medieval Philosophy 2, 104–211.
Kneale, M., 1937,“Logical and Metaphysical Necessity,” Proceedings of the
Aristotelian Society. Harrison & Sons, 253–268.
Kneale, W., and M. Kneale, 1962, The Development of Logic. Oxford
University Press. 1962.
Knuuttila, S., 1980, “Time and Modality in Scholasticism,” in S. Knuuttila
ed. Reforging the Great Chain of Being, Dordrecht: Reidel, 163–257.
Kripke, S. A., 1972, Naming and Necessity, Cambridge MA:  Harvard
University Press.
Kung, J., 1978, “Metaphysics 8.4: Can Be but Will Not Be,” Apeiron 12,
32–36.
Lane, R., 2007, “Peirce’s Modal Shift: From Set Theory to Pragmaticism,”
Journal of the History of Philosophy 45(4), 551–576.
Langton, R., 1998, Kantian Humility, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Lear, J., 1979,“Aristotle’s Compactness Proof,” Journal of Philosophy 74(4),
198–215.
Legg, C., 2008,“The Problem of the Essential Icon,”American Philosophical
Quarterly 45(3), 207–232.
2012, “The Hardness of the Iconic Must: Can Peirce’s Existential Graphs
Assist Modal Epistemology?,” Philosophia Mathematica 20(1), 1–24.
Bibliography 327
327
2014, “Things Unreasonably Compulsory”:  A  Peircean Challenge to a
Human Theory of Perception, Particularly with Respect to Perceiving
Necessary Truths,” Cognitio 15(1), 89–112.
Leibniz, G. W., 1875–1890, 1961. Die philosophischen Schriften von
Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, ed. Carl Immanuel Gerhardt, Berlin:
Weidman. [Hildesheim: Georg Olms, 1961, Authors who cite Leibniz
1961 are referring to this reprint]
1903, Opuscules et Fragments Inédits de Leibniz, ed. Louis Couturat,
Paris: Félix Alcan.
1923-. Sämtliche Schriften und Briefe, ed. Deutsche Akademie der
Wissenschaften zu Berlin, Darmstadt and Berlin: Akademie Verlag.
1948, Textes inédits: d’après les manuscrits de la Bibliothèque provincale de
Hanovre. ed. Gaston Grua, 2 vols., Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.
1966, Logical Papers:  A  Selection, ed. G. H.  R. Parkinson, Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
1969, Philosophical Papers and Letters, ed. Leroy E. Loemker, 2nd ed.,
Dordrecht: Reidel.
1981, New Essays on Human Understanding, Peter Remnant and
Jonathan Bennett, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1981a, Theodicy, trans. E. M. Huggard, La Salle: Open Court, 1985.
New Essays on Human Understanding, trans. and ed. Peter Remnant and
Jonathan Bennett, Cambridge University Press.
1985, Theodicy, trans. E. M. Huggard, La Salle, IL: Open Court.
1989, Philosophical Essays, ed. Roger Ariew and Daniel Garber,
Indianapolis: Hackett.
1992, De Summa Rerum: Metaphysical Papers, 1675–76, ed. G. H. R.
Parkinson, New Haven, CT: Yale Univ. Press.
1995, Philosophical Writings, ed. Mary Morris and G. H. R. Parkinson,
London: Everyman.
1996, New Essays on Human Understanding, ed. Peter Remnant and
Jonathan Bennett, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
2006, Confessio Philosophi:  Papers Concerning the Problem of Evil,
1671–1678, ed. R. C. Sleigh, New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
Levinson, S. C., 1983, Pragmatics, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lewis, C. I., 1912, “Implication and the Algebra of Logic,” Mind 21,
522–531.
1912b, “Naturalism and Idealism,” University of California Chronicle,
14, 192–211. Reprinted in Lewis 1970.
1913, “Interesting Theorems in Symbolic Logic,” Journal of Philosophy,
Psychology and Scientific Methods 10, 239–342.
1913b, “A New Algebra of Implications and Some Consequences,”
Journal of Philosophy, Psychology and Scientific Methods 10, 428–438.
Bibliography
328
1914, “The Matrix Algebra for Implications,” The Journal of Philosophy,
Psychology and Scientific Methods 11, 589–600.
1916, “Types of Order and the System Σ,” The Philosophical Review 25,
407– 419. Reprinted in Lewis 1970, 360–370.
1917, “The Issues Concerning Material Implication,” The Journal of
Philosophy, Psychology and Scientific Methods 14, 350–356.
1918, A Survey of Symbolic Logic, Berkeley, University of California
Press, first edition.
1920, “Strict Implication – an Emendation,” The Journal of Philosophy,
Psychology and Scientific Methods 17, 300–302.
1921, “The Structure of Logic and Its Relation to Other Systems,” The
Journal of Philosophy 18, 505–516. Reprinted in Lewis 1970, pp
371–382.
1923, “Facts, Systems, and the Unity of the World,” The Journal of
Philosophy 20, 141–151. Reprinted in Lewis 1970, pp 383–393.
1923b, “A Pragmatic Conception of the A  Priori,” The Journal of
Philosophy 20, 169–177. Reprinted in Lewis 1970, pp 231–239.
1926, “The Pragmatic Element in Knowledge,” University of California
Publications in Philosophy 6, 205–227.
1929, Mind and the World Order: Outline of a Theory of Knowledge,
New York: Charles Scribner and Sons.
1932,“Alternative Systems of Logic,”The Monist 17, 481–507. Reprinted
in Lewis 1970, pp 400–419.
1946, Analysis of Knowledge and Valuation, LaSalle, IL: Open Court.
1955,“Realism or Phenomenalism?,” The Philosophical Review 64, 233–
247. Reprinted in Lewis 1970, pp 335–347.
1968,“Autobiography,”in The Philosophy of C. I. Lewis, ed. P.A. Schilpp,
LaSalle, IL: Open Court, 1–21
1970. Collected Papers of Clarence Irving Lewis, ed. John D. Goheen and
John L. Mothershead, Jr., Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Lewis, C. I., and C. H. Langford, 1932, Symbolic Logic. New York: Dover,
second edition, 1959 [Note: references to Lewis and Langford 1959,
are to the second edition of Lewis and Langford 1932]
2014, “A Note on Strict Implication,” History and Philosophy of Logic
35, 44–49. The manuscript of this article was written before or in 1935.
Lewis, D. K. 1973,“Causation,”The Journal of Philosophy 70(17), 556–567.
1986, On the Plurality of Worlds, Oxford: Blackwell.
Lin, M., 2012. “Rationalism and Necessitarianism,” Noûs 46(3): 418–448.
Locke, J., 1823, The Works of John Locke, 12th edition, 10 vols., London: Tegg.
1975, An Essay concerning Human Understanding, 4th ed., ed. P. H,
Nidditch, Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1975 [1st edition 1690; 4th edition
1700].
Bibliography 329
329
1989, Some Thoughts Concerning Education, eds John W. Yolton and
Jean S. Yolton, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Long, A. A., 1970, “Stoic Determinism and Alexander of Aphrodisias De
Fato (I-Xiv),” Archiv für Geschichte der Philosophie 52, 247–268.
1971,“Freedom and Determinism in the Stoic Theory of Human Action,”
Problems in Stoicism. The Athlone Press. 173–199.
Long, A. A., and D. Sedley, 1987, The Hellenistic Philosophers. Cambridge
University Press.
Look, B. C., 2006. “Some Remarks on the Ontological Arguments of Gödel
and Leibniz,” in Einheit in der Vielheit: Akten des VIII. Internationalen
Leibniz-Kongresses, ed. H. Breger et al., Hanover: Hartmann, 510–517.
(forthcoming) “Leibniz’s Arguments for the Existence of God.” In The
Oxford Handbook to Leibniz, ed. Maria Rosa Antognazza, Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Lovejoy, A. O., “Kant’s Antithesis of Dogmatism and Criticism,” Mind 15,
1906, 191–214.
Lowde,J.,1694,A Discourse Concerning the Nature of Man,London: Walter
Kettilby.
Łukasiewicz, J., 1957, Aristotle’s Syllogistic from the Standpoint of Modern
Formal Logic, 2nd ed., Oxford: Clarendon Press.
1972. On a Controversial Demonstration of Aristotle’s Modal Syllogistic:
An Enquiry on Prior Analytics A.15. Padua.
McCall, S., 1963. Aristotle’s Modal Syllogisms, Amsterdam: North-Holland
Publishing Company.
MacDonald, S., 1993, “Theory of Knowledge,” in The Cambridge
Companion to Aquinas, eds. N. Kretzmann and E. Stump, Cambridge
University Press, 160–195.
MacIntosh, J. J., 1991, “Theological Question Begging,” Dialogue 30,
531–547.
1997, “The Argument from the Need for Similar or ‘Higher’ Qualities:
Cudworth, Locke, and Clarke on God’s Existence,” Enlightenment and
Dissent 16, 29–59.
1998a,“Aquinas and Ockham onTime,Predestination and the Unexpected
Examination,” Franciscan Studies 55, 181–220.
1998b,“Aquinas on Necessity,”American Catholic Philosophical Quarterly
72, 470–503.
2006, Boyle on Atheism, transcribed and edited, Toronto, University of
Toronto Press.
Mackie, J. L., 1974, “De What re Is de re Modality?” Journal of Philosophy
71(16), 1974, 551–561.
McKirahan, R. D., 1992, Principles and Proofs:  Aristotle’s Theory of
Demonstrative Science, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Bibliography
330
Maier, H., 1900, Die Syllogistik des Aristoteles II.1:  Formenlehre und
Technik des Syllogismus, Tübingen: Laupp.
Malcolm, N., 1960. “Anselm’s Ontological Arguments,” The Philosophical
Review 49, 41-62.
Makin, S., 1998, “Aristotle’s Two Modal Theses Again,” Phronesis 44,
114–126.
Malink, M., 2013, Aristotle’s Modal Syllogistic, Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Malink, M., and Rosen, J., 2013, “Proof by Assumption of the Possible in
Prior Analytics 1. 15,” Mind 122, 953–986.
Mancosu, P., 1996, Philosophy of Mathematics and Mathematical Practice
in the Seventeenth Century, New York: Oxford University Press.
Mares, E. D., 2013, “A Lewisian Semantics for S2,” History and Philosophy
of Logic 34, 53–67.
2014, “A Survey of Lewisian Logic: The Development of C. I. Lewis’s
Philosophy of Modal Logic,” (This volume).
Marion, M., 2009, “Why Play Logical Games?,” Logic, Epistemology, and
the Unity of Science 15, 3–26.
Martin, C. J., 2001, “Abaelard on Modality, Some Possibilities and Some
Puzzles,” in Potentialität und Possibilität:  Modalaussagen in der
Geschichte der Metaphysik,Stuttgart,ed.T.Buchheim et al.,Frommann-
Holzboog, 97–125.
2004, “Logic,” in The Cambridge Companion to Abelard, ed. J. Brower
and K. Guilfoy Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 158–199.
2009 “The Logical Textbooks and their Influence,” in The Cambridge
Companion to Boethius, Cambridge:  Cambridge University Press,
2009, 56–84.
Mates, B., 1953, Stoic Logic. University of California Press.
1986. The Philosophy of Leibniz: Metaphysics and Language, Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Menn, S., 1999, “The Stoic Theory of Categories”, Oxford Studies in
Ancient Philosophy, XVII, 215-47.
Mignucci, M., 1969, Aristotele: Gli Analitici Primi, Napoli: Loffredo.
“Sur la logique modale des stoïciens,” in Les stoïciens et leur logique, ed.
J. Brunschwig, Vrin. 1978. 303–332.
Milton, J. R., 2012, “Locke and the Elements of Natural Philosophy: Some
Problems of Attribution,” Intellectual History Review 22, 199–219.
Misak, C. J., 1991, Truth and the End of Inquiry: A Peircean Account of
Truth, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
2013, The American Pragmatists, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(forthcoming). Cambridge Pragmatism: The Influence of Peirce and James
on Ramsey and Wittgenstein, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bibliography 331
331
More, H., 1662, An Antidote Against Atheism, in A Collection of Several
Philosophical Writings of Dr Henry More, London: William Borden,
2nd ed.
Morgan, C. G., 1979,“Modality, Analogy, and Ideal Experiments According
to C. S. Peirce,” Synthese 41, 65–83.
Murphy, M. G., 2005, C. I.  Lewis:  The Last Great Pragmatist, Albany,
NY: SUNY Press.
Newlands, S., 2010. “The Harmony of Spinoza and Leibniz,” Philosophy
and Phenomenological Research 81(1): 64–104.
Newton, I., 1730, Opticks or a Treatise of the Reflections, Refractions,
Inflections and Colours of Light, London: William Innys, 4th ed.
Normore C. G., 1984, “Future Contingents,” in The Cambridge History
of Later Medieval Philosophy ed. N. Kretzmann and J. Pinborg,
Cambridge University Press.
1993, “The Necessity in Deduction: Cartesian Inference and Its Medieval
Background,” Synthese 96, 437–454.
Nortmann, U., 1990, “Über die Stärke der aristotelischen Modallogik,”
Erkenntnis 32, 61–82.
1996, Modale Syllogismen, mögliche Welten, Essentialismus: eine Analyse
der aristotelischen Modallogik, Berlin and New York: de Gruyter.
2006, “Against Appearances True: On a Controversial Modal Theorem
in Metaphysics Theta 4,” Zeitschrift für philosophische Forschung 60:
380–393.
Ockham, William, 1970, Scriptum in Librum Primum Sententiarum
(Ordinatio), in Opera Theologica II, ed. Stephanus Brown, New York:
St. Bonaventure.
1974a, Ockham’s Theory of Terms, Part I of the Summa Logicae, trans-
lated and introduced by Michael J. Loux, Notre Dame, University of
Notre Dame Press.
1974b, Opera philosophica. Vol 1. Summa logicae, St Bonaventure, NY:
Editiones Instituti Franciscani Universitatis S. Bonaventurae.
1978, “Tractatus de Praedestinatione,” in Opera Philosophica II, ed.
Philotheus Boehner, New York: St. Bonaventure.
1980a, Ockham’s Theory of Propositions: Part II of the Summa Logicae,
translated by Alfred J. Freddoso and Henry Schuurman, introduction
by Alfred J. Freddoso, Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press.
1980b, Quodlibeta Septem, ed J. C. Wey, Opera Theologica, Vol. 9, St.
Bonaventure, NY: The Franciscan Institute.
Øhrstrøm, P., 1982, “‘Temporalis’ in Medieval Logic,” Franciscan Studies
42, 166–179.
1997,“C. S. Peirce and the Quest for Gamma Graphs” in Conceptual Struc-
tures: Fulfilling Peirce’s Dream, Berlin and Heidelberg: Springer 357–370.
Bibliography
332
Oppy, G., 1995. Ontological Arguments and Belief in God. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Pacius,J.,1597a,In Porphyrii Isagogen etAristotelis Organum Commentarius
Analyticus, Frankfurt: Heredes Andreae Wecheli.
1597b, In Porphyrii Isagogen et Aristotelis Organum Commentarius
Analyticus, Frankfurt: Heredes Andreae Wecheli.
Parkinson, G. H.  R., 1965, Logic and Reality in Leibniz’s Metaphysics,
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
ed., 1973, Leibniz, Philosophical Writings, trans. M. Morris and G. H. R.
Parkinson, London: Dent.
Parrini, P., ed., 1994, Kant and Contemporary Epistemology, Dordrecht:
Kluwer.
Parry, W. T., 1968, “The Logic of C. I. Lewis,” in The Philosophy of C. I.
Lewis, ed. P. A. Schilpp, LaSalle, IL: Open Court, 15–54.
Partington, J. R., 1961, A History of Chemistry, 4 vols., London: Macmillan.
Pascal,B.1954,“L’Esprit Geometrique,”in Blaise Pascal,Œuvres Complètes,
ed. Jacques Chevalier, Paris: Librairie Gallimard.
Patterson, R., 1995, Aristotle’s Modal Logic: Essence and Entailment in the
Organon, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Patzig, G. 1968, Aristotle’s Theory of the Syllogism, (Translated by J.
Barnes), Dordrecht: D. Reidel.
Peirce, C. S., 1870, “Description of a Notation for the Logic of Relatives,
Resulting from anAmplification of the Conceptions of Boole’s Calculus,”
Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences 9(2), 317–378.
1885, “On the Algebra of Logic:  A  Contribution to the Philosophy of
Notation,” American Journal of Mathematics 7(2), 180–196.
1958–1966, The Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce, Vols. 1–6,
ed. Charles Hartshorne and Paul Weiss, Vols. 7–8, ed. A. W. Burks,
Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press.
1976, The New Elements of Mathematics, Vols. 1–3, ed. Carolyn Eisele,
Berlin: Mouton.
1976a, The Writings of Charles S. Peirce: A Chronological Edition, ed.
Nathan Houser, 6 vols., et al. Indianapolis: Peirce Edition Project,
Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis.
1997, Pragmatism as a Principle and Method of Right Thinking:  The
1903 Harvard lectures on pragmatism, ed. P. A. Turrisi: SUNY Press.
1998, The Essential Peirce: Selected Philosophical Writings, Vol. 2 (1893–
1913), ed. The Peirce Edition Project, Bloomington: Indiana University
Press.
2010, Philosophy of Mathematics: Selected Writings, ed. M. E. Moore,
Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
n.d. Charles Sanders Peirce Papers, Houghton Library, Harvard University.
Bibliography 333
333
Pereboom, D. (2007, “Kant on Transcendental Freedom,” Philosophy and
Phenomenological Research 73, 537–567.
Perelmuter, Z., 2010, “Nous and Two Kinds of Epistêmê in Aristotle’s
Posterior Analytics,” Phronesis 55, 228–254.
Philodemus, 1968, Philodemus: On the methods of inference, ed. P., and E.
De Lacy, Naples: Bibliopolis. 2nd ed., 1978.
Pietarinen, A., 2005, “Compositionality, Relevance, and Peirce’s Logic of
Existential Graphs,” Axiomathes 15(4), 513–540.
2006a, “Peirce’s Contributions to Possible-Worlds Semantics,” Studia
Logica 82(3), 345–369.
2006b, Signs of Logic: Peircean Themes on the Philosophy of Language,
Games, and Communication, Dordrecht: Springer.
Pizzi, C., 2008, “Aristotle’s Cubes and Consequential Implication,” Logica
universalis 2, 143–153.
Plantinga, A., 1978. The Nature of Necessity, Cambridge:  Clarendon
Press.
Plutarch 1976a, De communibus notitiis contra Stoicos. Moralia XIII.2. ed.
H. Cherniss, Cambridge, MA, and London: Loeb.
1976b, De Stoicroum repugnantiis, Moralia XIII.2. ed. H. Cherniss,
Cambridge, MA, and London: Loeb.
Prauss,G.,1974,Kant und das Problem der Dinge an Sich,Bonn: Grundman.
Prior, A. N., 1955, “Diodoran Modalities,” The Philosophical Quarterly 5,
205–213.
1960, “Identifiable Individuals,” Review of Metaphysics, 13, 684–696.
Reprinted in A. N. Prior 1968, ch. 7, 66–77.
1967, Past Present and Future, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
1968, Papers on Time and Tense, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Putnam, H., 1975,”Is Semantics Possible,” Mind, Language and Reality,
Philosophical Papers, Vol. 2, Cambridge University Press.
Quine, W. V. O., 1934a,“Review of the Collected Papers of Charles Sanders
Peirce. Vol. 4. The Simplest Mathematics,” Isis 22, 551–553.
1934b, “Ontological Remarks on the Propositional Calculus,” Mind 433,
473–476.
1943, “Notes on Existence and Necessity,” The Journal of Philosophy 40,
113–127.
1947, “The Problem of Interpreting Modal Logic,” The Journal of
Symbolic Logic, 12, 43–48.
1953a, “Reference and Modality,” From a Logical Point of View,
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, second edition 1961, 139–
159 (references are to the second edition.).
1953b, “Three Grades of Modal Involvement,” The Ways of Paradox,
Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press, 1976, 158–176.
Bibliography
334
1953c, “Two Dogmas of Empiricism,” From a Logical Point of View,
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, second edition 1961, 20–46
(references are to the second edition.).
1960, Word and Object, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1969, “Reply to Sellars,” in Words and Objections, ed. D. Davidson and
K. J. J. Hintikka, Dordrecht: Reidel, 1969, 337–340.
1970, Philosophy of Logic, Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.
Reesor, M., 1965, “Fate and Possibility in Early Stoic Philosophy,” Phoenix
19, 285–297.
1978,“Necessity and Fate in Stoic Philosophy” in The Stoics, ed. John M.
Rist, University of California Press. 187–202.
Reynolds, A., 2002, Peirce’s Scientific Metaphysics, Nashville:  Vanderbilt
University Press.
Rijen, J. van, 1989, Aspects of Aristotle’s Logic of Modalities, Dordrecht:
Kluwer.
Rini,A.A. 2011, Aristotle’s Modal Proofs: Prior Analytics A8-22 in Predicate
Logic, The New Synthese Historical Library 68, Dordrecht: Springer.
2013, “The Birth of Proof: Modality and Deductive Reasoning,” Logic
and Its Applications, ed. Kamal Lodaya, Springer Lecture Notes in
Computer Science LNCS 7750, Springer: Berlin, 34–49.
Rist, J. M., 1969, “Fate and Necessity,” in Stoic Philosophy, ed. John M.
Rist, Cambridge University Press. 112–132.
1978,“Necessity and Fate in Stoic Philosophy,” in The Stoics, ed. John M.
Rist, University of California Press.
Robers, D., 1973, The Existential Graphs of Charles S. Peirce, The Hague:
Mouton.
Rosen, J., and Malink, M., 2012, “A Method of Modal Proof in Aristotle,”
Oxford Studies in Ancient Philosophy 42, 179–261.
Ross, W. D., 1949, Aristotle’s Prior and Posterior Analytics: A Revised Text
with Introduction and Commentary,Oxford: Clarendon Press.Reprinted
with corrections 1957, 1965. Page references to the 1957 printing.
Rückert, H., 2001,“Why Dialogical Logic?,” Essays on Non-classical Logic
1, 165–182.
Russell, B. A. W., 1918, “The Philosophy of Logical Atomism,” in Logic and
Knowledge,Ed R.C.Marsh,New York: Capricorn Books,1955,177–281.
1937. A Critical Exposition of the Philosophy of Leibniz. 2nd ed.,
London: Allen & Unwin.
1976, The Problems of Philosophy, Oxford University Press [1st edition
1912].
Salles, R., 2005, The Stoics on Determinism and Compatibilism, Ashgate.
Sambursky, S., 1959, Physics of the Stoics. Princeton University Press.
Bibliography 335
335
Scanlan, M., 1983, “On Finding Compactness in Aristotle,” History and
Philosophy of Logic 4(1 and 2), 1–8.
Schafer, K., (forthcoming).“Kant’s Conception of Cognition,” In Schafer, K.,
and Stang,N.The Sensible and IntelligibleWorlds: New Essays on Kant’s
Metaphysics and Epistemology, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Sedlar, I., 2009, “C. I. Lewis on Possible Worlds,” History and Philosophy
of Logic 30, 283–291.
Sedley,D.,1977,“Diodorus Cronus and Hellenistic Philosophy,”Proceedings
of the Cambridge Philological Society 203, 74–120.
1982, ‘The Stoic Criterion of Identity’, Phronesis, 27, 255–75.
Seel, G., 1982, Die Aristotelische Modaltheorie, Berlin and New York: de
Gruyter.
Serjeantson, R., 2006, “Proof and persuasion,” in The Cambridge History of
History of Science. Vol. III. Early Modern Science, eds Katharine Park
and Lorraine Daston, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 132–175.
Sextus Empiricus, 1939–1949, Sextus Empiricus, ed. G. Bury, Cambridge,
MA: Loeb.
Sharples,R.W.,1983,AlexanderofAphrodisiasonFate,London: Duckworth.
Shehaby, N., 1973, The propositional logic of Avicenna, Dordrecht: Riedel.
Shin,S.,2002,The Iconic Logic of Peirce’s Graphs,Cambridge MA: MIT Press.
Shin, S., and E. Hammer, 2013, “Peirce’s Deductive Logic,” Stanford
Encyclopedia of Philosophy http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/peirce-logic/
(downloaded September 10, 2014).
Sider, T., 2001, Four Dimensionalism: A Study in Persistence and Ontology,
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Sleigh, R. C., 1990. Leibniz and Arnauld:  A  Commentary on Their
Correspondence, New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
Smith, R. A. 1989, Aristotle: Prior Analytics, Indianapolis and Cambridge:
Hackett.
Smullyan, A. F., 1948,“Modality and Description,” The Journal of Symbolic
Logic 13, 31–37.
Sorabji,R.,1980a,“Causation,Laws,andNecessity”inDoubtandDogmatism,
ed. M. Schofield, M. Burnyeat, J. Barnes. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
1980b, Necessity, Cause, and Blame: Perspectives on Aristotle’s Theory,
Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
1988, Matter, Space and Motion, Ithaca NY: Cornell University Press.
Sowa,J.F.,2008,“Conceptual Graphs,”Foundations ofArtificial Intelligence
3, 213–237.
2011, “Peirce’s Tutorial on Existential Graphs,” Semiotica 186, 347–394.
Stang, N. F., 2010, “Kant’s Possibility Proof,” History of Philosophy
Quarterly 27, 275–299.
Bibliography
336
2011, “Did Kant Conflate the Necessary and the A Priori?” Noûs 45, 3,
443–471.
2012, “Kant on Complete Determination and Infinite Judgment,” British
Journal of the History of Philosophy 20(6), 1117–1139.
2016, Kant’s Modal Metaphysics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
(forthcoming) “Kant’s Transcendental Idealism,” Stanford Encyclopedia
of Philosophy.
Stern, R., 2007, “Peirce, Hegel, and the Category of Secondness,” Inquiry
50(2), 123–155.
Stewart, D., 1805, A Short Statement…, Edinburgh: William Creech, and
Arch. Constable & Co.
Stjernfelt, F. 2007. Diagrammatology: An Investigation on the Borderlines
of Phenomenology, Ontology and Semiotics, Dordrecht: Springer.
Stough, C., 1978, “Stoic Determinism and Moral Responsibility,” The
Stoics, ed. John M. Rist, University of California Press, 1978,
203–232.
Street,T., 2002,“An Outline of Avicenna’s Syllogistic,”Archiv für Geschichte
der Philosophie 84, 129–160.
2004,“Arabic Logic,” in Handbook of the History of Logic. Vol.1. Greek,
Indian and Arabic Logic, ed. Dov M. Gabbay and John Woods, Elsevier,
523–596.
2010, “Appendix:  Readings of the Subject Term,” Arabic Sciences and
Philosophy 20, 119–124.
2013a, “Arabic and Islamic Philosophy of Language and Logic,” The
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Winter 2013 Edition), ed.
Edward N.  Zalta, http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/win2013/entries/
arabic-islamic-language/
2013b,“Avicenna on the Syllogism,”in InterpretingAvicenna: Critical Essays,
ed. Peter Adamson, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 48–70.
2014, “Afdal al-Dın al-Khunajı (d. 1248) on the Conversion of Modal
Propositions,” Oriens 42, 454–513.
Striker, G., 1987, “Origins of the Concept of Natural Law,” Proceedings of
the Boston Area Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy 2, 79–94.
1994, “Assertoric vs. Modal Syllogistic,” Ancient Philosophy 14, special
issue, 39–51.
2009, Aristotle’s Prior Analytics, Book 1, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Stuart, M., 1996, “Locke’s Geometrical Analogy,” History of Philosophy
Quarterly 13, 451–467.
2013, Locke’s Metaphysics, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Thom, P., 1991, “The Two Barbaras,” History and Philosophy of Logic 12,
135–149.
1996. The Logic of Essentialism. An Interpretation of Aristotle’s Modal
Syllogistic, Dordrecht: Boston and London: Kluwer.
Bibliography 337
337
2001, Mediaeval Modal Systems, Aldershot: Ashgate.
2008, “Logic and Metaphysics in Avicenna’s Modal Syllogistic,” in The
Unity of Science in the Arabic Tradition: science, Logic, Epistemology
and Their Interactions, ed. Shahid Rahman, Tony Street and Hassan
Tahiri, Dordrecht: Kluwer-Springer, 283–295.
2010, “Abharı on the Logic of Conjunctive Terms,” Arabic Sciences and
Philosophy 20, 105–117.
2012, “Syllogisms about Possibility and Necessity in Avicenna and Tusi,”
in Insolubles and Consequences, ed. Catarina Dutilh Novaes and Ole
Hjortland, London: College Publications, 239–248.
Thomas Aquinas, 1946, Summa contra gentiles, Romae: Apud sedem com-
missionis Leoninae.
1949, Quaestiones Disputatae de Anima, translated by, J. P. Rowan, St.
Louis and London: B. Herder Book Co.
1952a, 1953, 1954, Questiones Disputatae de Veritate, Questions 1–9
translated by Robert W. Mulligan, S. J., Questions 10–20 translated
by James V. McGlynn, S. J., Questions 21–29 translated by Robert W.
Schmidt, S. J., Chicago, Henry Regnery.
1952b, Quaestiones Disputatae de Potentia Dei, translated by the English
Dominican Fathers Westminster, MD:  Newman Press, 1952, reprint
of 1932.
1962, Expositio libri Peryermeneias, Commentary by Thomas Aquinas
finished by Cardinal Cajetan, translated by Jean T. Oesterle, Milwaukee:
Marquette University Press.
1964–1981, Summa theologiae. Latin text and English translation, intro-
ductions, notes, appendices, and glossaries, London: Blackfriars in con-
junction with Eyre and Spottiswoode.
Van Den Berg, Harmen (1993, “Modal Logics for Conceptual Graphs, in
Proceedings of First International Conference on Conceptual Structures,
Vol. 699 of LNCS, Berlin: Springer-Verlag.
van der Auwera, J., 1996, “Modality:  The Three-layered Scalar Square,”
Journal of Semantics 13, 181–195.
Waitz, T., 1844, Aristotelis organon graece I, Leipzig: Hahn.
Wallace, W. A., 1992, Galileo’s Logic of Discovery and Proof, Dordrecht:
Kluwer.
Wansing, H., 2014, “Connexive Logic,” The Stanford Encyclopedia of
Philosophy (Fall 2014 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = http://
plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2014/entries/logic-connexive/
Watkins, E., and M. Fisher, 1998, “Kant on the Material Grounds of
Possibility,” Review of Metaphysics 52, 369–395.
Watts, I., 1726, Logick, London: John Clark.
Weidemann, H., 2002, Aristoteles: Peri Hermeneias, 2nd ed., Berlin: Akademie
Verlag.
Bibliography
338
2012, “De interpretatione,” in The Oxford Handbook of Aristotle, ed. C.
Shields, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 81–112.
Whitaker, C.W.A., 1996, Aristotle’s De Interpretatione: Contradiction and
Dialectic, Oxford, Clarendon Press.
Williamson, T., 2013, Modal Logic as Matphysica, Oxford University Press.
Wittgenstein, L., 1922, Tractatus Logic-Philosophicus. (Translated by C. K.
Ogden), London: Kegan Paul.
Wolter, A. B., 2003, Selected Essays on Scotus and Ockham, Franciscan
Institute Publications.
Wood, A., 1984, “Kant’s Compatibilism,” in Self and Nature in Kant’s
Philosophy, ed. A. Wood, Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Yong, P., 2014, “God, Totality and Possibility in Kant’s Only Possible
Argument,” Kantian Review, 19(1), 27–51.
Zeman, J. J., 1986, “Peirce’s Philosophy of Logic,” Transactions of the
Charles S. Peirce Society 22, 1–22.
1997a, “Peirce and Philo,” Studies in the Logic of Charles Sanders Peirce,
ed. Nathan Houser, Roberts, D. D., and J. Van Evra, Bloomington:
Indiana University Press, 402–417.
1997b, “Peirce’s Graphs,” in Conceptual Structures:  Fulfilling Peirce’s
Dream, ed. D. Lukose, et al., Berlin: Springer.
1997c, “The Tinctures and Implicit Quantification over Worlds, in The
Rule of Reason, ed. J. Brunning and P. Forster, Toronto: University of
Toronto Press, 96–119.
339
339
Abaci, U., 232n3
Abaelard, P., 125–132, 140
contraposition argument, 127
Equipollence argument, 131
Nominal modes, 119
Abharī, 106, 112
Absolute necessity
Aquinas, 156
Ackrill, J.A., 33n17
Ackrill, J.L., 40n30, 42n35
Actuality and immutability (Ockham),
141
and immutability (Ockham), 141
Adams, M., 147n6
Adams, R.M., 145, 196n3, 219,
220n10, 220n12, 221, 222,
232n3, 234n7
Adickes, E., 245n31
Adverbial modes, 117
Alexander of Aphrodisias, 30n5, 70n1,
76, 76n21, 80n31, 84, 88
Alfarabi, 91
Ameriks, K., 245n31
Ammonius, xii, 39n26, 87n54
Analytic/synthetic distinction, 302
Analyticity, 287–289, 294, 302–304,
309
Anderson, A.R., 279
Anderson, R.L., 235n9
Anselm of Canterbury, xii, 134, 134n2,
211n24
Anstey, P.R., 168n67, 183n16, 184n17,
187n22
Aquinas, Thomas, xiii, 135,
155–160, 170
absolute necessity, 156
conditionals in, 158
necessary existence, 159
necessity of the past, 158
predestination and necessity, 157
self-evident truths, 155
suppositional necessity, 157
Arabic logic, 91–112
Aristotle, 100, 102, 108, 109, 113
and Aqinas on ceasing to be, 159
ascending and descending chains in
a demonstration, 56
circular proof, 52
counterfactual resoning in the
syllogistic, 24
De Caelo, I.12, 35, 37
De Int 12, 33–34
De Int., Boethius on, 114
deductive closure in the
syllogistic, 53
demonstration in Barbara, 54
ekthesis, 65
law of excluded middle, 34, 41
Megarians, 60
Metaphysics Θ 4, 61n6
middle term in a scientific
demonstration, 55
modal conversion, 67
modal syllogistic, 21
necessity syllogistic, 65–68
necessity ‘when these things are so’,
24
Nicomechaen Ethics, 170
‘packing full’ in a demonstration,
55
Posterior Analytics (twinkling
planets), 168
principle of non-contradiction, 34
Prior Analytics, A1, 51
Prior Analytics, A4, 14
Prior Analytics, A6, 21
Prior Analytics, A9, 23
Prior Analytics, A10, 24
Prior Analytics, A13, 29, 31
Prior Analytics, A15, 26, 61
Index
Index
340
Prior Analytics, A30, 54
Prior Analytics, A46, 36
Prior Analytics, B22, 38
realising possibilities, 26
rejected schemas in modal
syllogistic, 23
first figure, 17
second figure, 18
third figure, 11n2
revised square of modal expressions,
45t2.3
Rule ‘R’ in the syllogistic, 61
square of modal expressions,
39t2.2
substitutional view of validity, 12
syllogism, 11
syllogistic and demonstration, 50
syllogistic figures, 16
Topics, 11n1, 34n18, 35n22
twinkling planets, 169
two-sided possibility, 25, 29, 61
Use of counterexamples, 11
X, L, Q, M in syllogisms, 22
Arnauld, A., 169, 169n72, 171,
171n78, 228, 229
Ascending chain (in a demonstration),
56
Ashworth, E.J., 168n66
Astroh, 129n23
Aureoli, P., 135, 140, 141, 143,
144, 145
Aureoli’s principle, 140, 143, 144
and obligatio, 145
Averroes, 91, 100–101, 103, 112, 164
Avicenna
concept of contingent being, 91
concept of necessary being, 91
concept of necessity, 91
descriptional predication, 95
doctrine of the unique Necessary
Being, 91
essence, 98
essential predication, 95
existence of God, 157n13
existence predicate, 98
first-figure syllogism, 96
formalisation, 98–99
hypothetical propositions, 92
necessity of proposition, 92
necessity, descriptional, 95
perpetuity, 93–94, 96, 99, 101
predicative propositions, 92
the Principle of Plenitude, 97
proposition, matter of, 94
proposition, mode of, 94
syllogism, 93, 99
two-dimensional semantics, 98
Axiōmata (Stoics), 73
Axiomatisability, 302
Bachelor, 305
Bacon, F., 154, 168n67, 170, 178,
179, 180
Barbara (syllogism) in scientific
demonstration, 54
Barcan Marcus, R., 271
Barreau, H., 75n18, 89n59
Barrow, I., 172n80
Bayle, P., 161
Becker, A., 29n2, 32n11, 32n13
Becker, O., 281
Beeley, P., 216n33
Beere, J., 30n5
Belnap, N.D., 279
Bennett, J.F., 189n25
Bivalence, 71
Ockham, 140
Stoics, 80
Blackburn, P.R., 115n5
Bluck, R.S., 39n27, 40n30
Blumenfeld, D., 196n3
Blundeville, T., 179n10, 189,
190, 191
Bobzien, S., 73n11, 73n9, 74, 77,
77n22, 83, 88n56
Bochenski, I.M., 77n22
Boethius, xii, 71n2, 74n15, 77n22, 83,
105, 113–124, 155n4
Bonitz, H., 31n6, 32n10
Boyle, R., 159, 159n27, 165–167,
168n67, 171
Brading, K., 180n11
Bradwardine, 145
Brandon, E.P., 39n27, 40n28
Braüner, T., 115n5, 270
Brouwerian axiom, 163
Brown, G., 208n19
Brunschwig, J., 48n43, 73n12
Buckingham, Thomas, 145, 146
Buddensiek, F., 32n12, 32n13
Buridan, J., 123n17, 149n8, 168
Aristotle (cont.)
Index 341
341
Burleigh, W., 123n17
Burnyeat, M., 51n1
Carnap, R., 298–316
analyticity, 304
axiomatisability of modal
predicate logic, 302
meaning postulates, 306
modal predicate logic, 301
possible worlds, 300
satae-description, 301, 302
Caterus, J., 167
Causation in early modern
philosophy, 181
Chain (in a demonstration), 56
Cherniss, H., 81n34
Chignell, A., 232n3, 234n7
Chrysippus, 71n3, 75, 75n18, 81, 86,
89n59
Cicero, 72n6, 75, 77n26, 80n31, 164n47
Circular proof (in syllogistic), 52
Clarke, E., 191
Cleanthes, 71n3, 75, 75n18, 89n59
CM-validity, 306
Compatibilism in Leibniz, 219
Completeness and C-validity, 302
Composite sense, 148
Conceivability
per se possibility, (Leibniz), 199
and possibility, Leibniz, 197
Concepts
individual, 312–315
Conceptual inseparability, 105
conditionals, 171, 253
Aquinas on, 158
Aristotle on, 42n35
14th Century treatments of, 147
Peirce on, 256, 264, 267,
272–273, 276
Contingency, 29, See also two-sided
possibility
Contingency
and truth, Leibniz, 202
Contingent being
Avicenna’s concept of, 91
Contradiction
and obligatio, 137
in Ockham, 136
principle of in Leibniz, 206
Contraposition Argument
Abaelard, 127
Convention, 216
Carnap on, 297
Leibniz on, 200, 215
Lewis on, 280, 287–289, 291,
294, 295
Peirce on, 261
Conversion, modal, 24
Abaelard’s objections, 127
Counterfactual reasoning
in Aristotle’s syllogistic, 24
Cover, J.A., 223–227
Cresswell, M.J., 166, 300, 302n5
Crivelli, P., 73n12
Cudworth, R., 156, 164, 165,
167n62, 178
Cunning, D., 175n1
Curley, E.M., 160n32
C-validity, 302
d’Alembert, J., 180n12
De Caelo, 37
De dicto modality, 99
de Harven, V., 70, 81n33
De Int, 13, 39–46
De re modality, 99, 306–312
fourteenth century, 148
de Rivo, P., 156
Deductive closure (in the
syllogistic), 53
Demonstration
Barbara in, 54
Locke, 184
middle term in, 55
scientific, 168
and syllogistic, 50
Denyer, N., 75n18
Descartes, R., xiii, 159n27, 160,
160n32, 162, 163n44, 167,
175–176, 178n6, 181n13, 186,
194n1, 195n1, 211n24, 215,
215n32
essences, 176
God and necessary truths, 175
knowledge of essences, 178
laws of motion, 181
mathematical truth, 161
modal facts, 180
Descending chain (in a demonstration),
56
Descriptional necessity, 95, 108–111
Descriptional predication, 95, 109
Index
342
Determinate modal propositions, 122
Determinism Stoic, 80
Dewey, J., 265
Diodorus Cronus, 86, 135, 170, 272,
273
master argument, 60, 70, 71n3, 74,
76, 82, 89n59, 90
Diogenes, Laërtius, xii, 71, 71n2, 72,
73, 79, 82, 83, 84, 89
Divided sense (de re modality), 148
Downing, L., 186, 186n19
Du Moulin, P., 168n65, 169n70
Ebert, T., 30n5, 32n11, 35n21, 48n43
Ekthesis, 65
El-Rouyhab, K., 92
Epictetus, 75n18, 79
Epicureans, 80
Episteme (scientific knowldege), 51n1
Equipollence Argument, 124, 131
Essence, 95, 98, 108, 109
Descartes, 176
Real and nominal (Locke), 182
Essential necessity, 108–111
Essential predication, 95, 100,
101, 109
Essentialism, 308, 310
Eternal truths and God (Leibniz), 215
Excluded Middle, LEM, Law of, 34, 41
Existence predicate, 98
Existential graphs, 256, 265–271
Extensional proposition, 102,
107–112
External world, 102
Fatalism, Stoic, 80
Felapton, syllogism, 107
Figures, in Aristotle’s syllogistic, 16
Finite Analysis and necessity in
Leibniz, 219
First-figure syllogism, 96
Fisch, M., 257
Fisher, A.R.J., 181n14, 232n3
Fitting, M., 42n35, 46n41
Formal validity
Ockham, 137
Foucher, S., 201
Frankfurt, H., 160n32
Frede, D., 39n27, 73n11, 77n25,
78n28, 80
Frede, M., 73, 83, 85
Frege, G., 298, 307, 315
Future truth
Stoics, 80
Galileo, G., 169, 169n69, 225n22
Garlandus Compotista, xiii, 116,
116n10, 117
Garsia. See Petrus Garcia
Gassendi, P., 169
Gellius, xii, 72n7, 87, 87n53
Gerson, L., 83n38
God
and logical validity (Ockham), 141
Kant on, 232, 233, 234, 251
necessary existence of, 161, 162–167
and necessary truths, Descartes, 175
omnipotence, 133
power of, 135
Gödel, K., 214n30
Gohlke, P., 32n12
Goselin of Soissons, 116
Gourinat, J-B, 84n43
Grammatical (surface) structure
Abaelard, 125
Gregory of Rimini, 134, 145
Griffin, M.V., 196n3
Grosseteste, Robert, xiii, 134, 134n2, 143
Hacking, I., 149n7, 160n32
Hankinson, R., 74n14, 78, 80n30,
80n32, 89
Hawthone, J., 223–227
Henry of Ghent, 134, 135
Heylen, J, 316n13
Hilpinen, R., 266n7
Hintikka, K.J.J., 31n8, 32n11, 32n12,
32n13, 35n21, 39n27, 40n28
Hobbes, T., 168n67, 196n5, 215
Hodges, W., 95, 96, 98, 101
Hookway, C., 256
Horn, L.R., 47n42, 48n43, 48n44
Huby, P., 29n2
Hume, D., 167
Hypothetical necessity, 157n15
Hypothetical propositions, 92, 312
Ibn Rusd. See Averroes
Ibn Sīnā. See Avicenna
Ideas, agreement of (in Locke), 184
Index 343
343
Identity, idendescernibility of, 312
Immutability, and actuality (Ockham),
141
Impossible antecedent, Ockham, 139
Impossible subjects, 106
Incompatibility, formal properties of,
104
Indemonstrable principles, 54
Individual concept
Leibniz, 230
Individual concepts, 312–315
Individual substance
Leibniz, 203
Infinite analysis
Leibniz, 202–211
Innate principles
Locke’s rejection of, 190
Inseparability
conceptual, 105
Intensional proposition, 102, 103,
107–112
Irvine, W., 221
Ishiguro, H., 196n3, 224n21, 225n21
Iwakuma,Y., 115
James, W., 265
Jenkinson, A.J., 25n6
Jesseph, D.M., 168n67
Jørgensen, K., 115n5
K, modal logic, 270
K, principle of modal logic
in Lebniz, 199
Kant, I., 9, 204, 232–255, 245n33,
256, 258, 259, 272, 279,
283, 284
conditionals, 253
God, 232, 234, 251
noumena, 236
real possibility, 233, 235
schemata, 236, 240, 249
Karttunen, L., 47
katapuknoun, “packing full”, 55
Khūnajī, 106–107, 112
King, C.G., 32n12
King, P., 116n9
Kneale, M., 71n4, 75n18, 77n22,
78n28, 84, 86n52
Kneale, W., 77n22, 78n28
Knowledge of necessary facts, 176
Knuuttila, S., 121n14
Kraal, A., 172n81
Kretzmann, N., 145
Kripke, S.A., 71n5, 271
Lane, R., 257, 262, 263, 264, 272n12,
275
Langford, C.H., 277, 282, 292, 293
Laws of nature
Kant on, 236, 245, 246–247
Peirce on, 263, 274, 275
Ramsey on, 277
17th century, 180
Lear, J., 56n4
Legg, C., 9, 261, 262, 265n4
Leibniz’ Law, 312
Leibniz, G.W., xiii, 157n15, 159,
159n25, 161, 161n34, 161n35,
161n35, 167, 167n63, 178,
178n8, 179, 179n9, 191n30,
194–231, 219n7, 297
analyticity and convention, 215
compatibilism, 219
contingency and truth, 202
convention, 200
definition of necessity and
possibility, 197
God and necessity, 216
hypothetical and absolute
necessity, 200
individual concept, 230
individual substance, 203
K (modal logic principle), 199
kinds of modality in, 218
lucky proof, 222
necessitarianism, 202
necessity and finite analysis, 219
necessity and finite reduction, 205
necessity and possible worlds, 220
per se possibility, 199
possible worlds, 211, 229n34
possibility and conceivability, 197
Principle of Contradiction, 206
Principle of Sufficient Reason, 194,
196, 202n10, 206, 207, 217
and Spinoza, 197
unactualised possibles, 201
Lekta (sayables), 73
LEM. 41. See Excluded middle
Levinson, S.C., 47n42
Index
344
Lewis, C.I., 75n18, 257, 258, 270, 272,
277, 279–297, 304n7
Lewis, D.K., 271, 273, 276
LI, 313
L-implication, 306
Lin, M., 196n4
Locke, J., 164, 168n67, 182–192
agreement and disagreement of
ideas, 184
demonstration, 184
geometrical truths, 187
maxims, 190
modal facts, 182
necessary connections, 184, 185
real and nominal essences, 182
real essence, knowledge of, 186
syllogistic, 184
Logic
Arabic, 98, 100, 102, 106, 107,
110, 111
Logical modality, 136
Logical necessity, 111
Stoics, 71
Logical validity
and God’s power, 141
Long, A.A., 73n8, 73n8, 76n20,
78n28, 81n35, 82n36, 83n38,
84n44, 85, 85n50, 86, 86n51, 88,
89n59
Look, B.C., 197n5, 211n24, 214n30
Lovejoy, A.O., 163n42
Lowde, J., 156, 161n36, 164–165
L-truth, 302
Lucky Proof, Leibniz, 221–231
Łukasiewicz, J., 11n4, 30n5, 289
three-valued logic, 289, 290
M1, M3 (Orléans manuscripts), 115
M1, 115, 116n8, 117, 118, 119, 120,
121, 122, 123, 124, 125,126
M3, 115, 116n8, 117, 118, 119, 120,
121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126,
127, 128
MacDonald, S., 155n5
MacIntosh, J.J., 156n9, 160n31,
164n48
Mackie, J.L., 157n14
Maier, H., 32n13
Malcom, N., 214n30
Malebranche, N., 181
Malink, M., 25n6, 30n5, 31n7, 31n8, 62
Mancosu, P., 171n77
Mares, E.D., 1, 277, 285n4, 296, 316
Martin, C.J., 114n3, 121n15, 130n24,
132n26, 133n1, 145
Master argument (Diodorus Cronus), 60,
70, 71n3, 74, 76, 82, 89n59, 90
Master Gos. See Goselin of Soissons
Master W. See William of Champeaux
Material validity in Ockham, 137
Mates, B., 77n22, 196n3, 205n13
Mathematics as a science, 171
Maxims, Locke’s rejection of, 190
McKirahan, R.D., 177n3
Meaning postulates, 304–306, 309–312
O9 as, 307, 309
Megarians, 60, 70
Mendelsohn, R.L., 42n35, 46n41
Metaphysical modality, 136
Metaphysical necessity, 71
Metaphysical possibility
Ockham, 138
Stoics, 79
Metaphysics
Θ 4, 61n6
Middle term, 16
intrinsic and extrinsic (Ockham), 137
in scientific demonstration, 55
Mignucci, M., 29n2, 32n11, 73n12,
74n13, 83n38
Milton, J.R., 192n31
Miracles, Boyle’s S4 argument for,
165–167
Misak, C., 256, 265, 275n14, 288
Modal conversion, 67
Abaelard’s objections, 127
Modal expressions
revised square of, 45t2.3
Modal facts
Locke, 182
Modal logic
fourteenth century, 147
Principle K, in Leibniz, 199
Modal predicate logic, 301
axiomatisability of, 302
Modal syllogistic, 21
Counterfactual counterexamples, 23
Ockham, 149
Modality
de dicto, 99
de re, 99, 306–312
De re and de dicto, 148
Index 345
345
kinds of in Leibniz, 218
and laws of nature, 180
Leibniz definition of, 197
logical, 136
metaphysical, 136
Modes, nominal and adverbial, 117
More, H., 162, 162n37
Morgan, C.G., 262
Murphy, M., 283n2
Necessary being
Avicenna’s concept of, 91
Necessary connections
in Locke, 184, 185
Necessary existence
Aquinas, 159
Necessary facts
knowledge of, 176
Necessary truths
Descartes, 175
Necessitarianism
Leibniz, 202
Necessity and predestination Aquinas,
157
Avicenna’s concept of, 91
descriptional, 95, 108–111
essential, 108–111
and finite analysis (Leibniz), 219
and finite reduction (Leibniz), 205
hypothetical, 157n15
hypothetical and absolute (Leibniz),
200
Leibniz definition of, 197
logical, 111
logical (Stoics), 71
metaphysical (Stoics), 71
operator, 99
of the past, 75, 139, 156, 158
of the past (Ockham), 141
of proposition, 92
providential (Stoics), 71
and valid inference (Ockham), 141
when these things are so, 24
Necessity Syllogistic, 65–68
Neo-Spinozism in Leibniz, 219
Newlands, S., 196n3
Newton, I., 160n29, 172, 191, 192
Nicole, P., 169, 169n72, 171n78
9, oddness of, 307, 311
Nominal essence
Locke, 182
nominal modes, 117
Non-contradiction, Principle of, 34
Normore, C.G., 134n3, 160n32
Nortmann, U., 30n5, 30n5, 32n11,
32n13, 35n21, 48n43, 68
Noumena, 235–236, 249, 249n38,
254, 254n42
O9
as meaning postulate, 307, 309
Obligatio
and Aureoli’s principle, 145
and contradiction, 137
Ockham, William, xiii, 123n17, 133,
135–153, 155n3, 156n9, 168
actuality and immutability, 141
contradiction and obligatio, 137
contradiction in, 136
extrinsic middle, 137
formal and material validity, 137
impossible antecedents, 139
logical and metaphysical
modality, 136
metaphysical possibility, 138
modal syllogistic, 149
necessity of the past, 139, 141
potentia absoluta and potentia
ordinata, 135
and power of God, 135
S5 modal logic, 142
validity and God’s power, 141
Øhrstrøm, P., 123n17, 270n10, 271
Omnipotent God, 133
Omnitemporal, 100, 101
One-sided possibility, 25, 29
Ontological argument in Leibniz, 213
Oppy, G., 214n30
Orléans manuscripts, 115
Pacius, 32n11, 48n43
Parkinson, G.H.R, 157n15, 196n3,
220, 220n11
Parry, W.T., 281, 289
Partington, J.R., 154n2
Pascal, B., 169n72
Past, necessity of, 75, 139, 141, 156,
158
Patterson, R., 29n2, 32n13
Patzig, G., 11n4, 48n43
Peirce, C.S., 256–278, 283, 297
conditionals, 256, 264
Index
346
existential graphs, 256
laws of nature, 263, 274
possible worlds, 271–272
and systems of modal logic, 270
Perpetuity, 93–94, 96, 99, 101
Petrus Garsia, 154
Pferd, 310
Philo of Alexandria, 74, 76, 77, 272,
273
Philodemus, xi, 85
Philonian conditional
material implication, 87
Philonian Paradox, 77
Philoponus, 32
Pico della Mirandola, 154n2
Pietarinen, A., 269n9, 270, 271
Pizzi, C., 105
Planets
number of, 306, 308, 311
twinkling, 169
Plantinga, A., 209n21
Plato
Republic, 84
Plutarch, xii, 70n1, 77n22, 81, 81n34,
83n42
PNC. See Principle of
non-contradiction
Poiret, M., 161
Porphyry, 111
Port Royal Logic. See Arnauld A., and
Nicole, P.
Possibility
actual and non actual (Garland), 116
and conceivability (Leibniz), 197
Leibniz definition of, 197
metaphysical (Ockham), 138
metaphysical (Stoics), 79
one and two-sided in Aristotle,
25, 29
and opportunity (Stoics), 78
per se, and conceivability
(Leibniz), 199
potentia absoluta, 135
potentia ordinata, 135
and power, 133
two-sided, 25, 61
Two-way, 29
Possible worlds
Carnap on, 300, 301, 304
in Leibniz, 207–211, 219, 229n34
Lewis on, 285, 286, 296, 297
Peirce on, 271, 272
Potentia absoluta
in Ockham, 135
Potentia ordinata
in Ockham, 135
Power
of God, 135
and possibility, 133
Prauss, G., 236n12
Predestination, and necessity
Aquinas, 157
Predication
descriptional, 95, 109
essential, 95, 100, 101, 109
extensional, 102, 109
intensional, 102, 103
Predicative propositions, 92
Principle of contradiction
in Leibniz, 206
Principle of Plenitude, 97
Principle of sufficient reason
Leibniz, 194, 196, 202, 202n10,
206, 207, 217
Prior Analytics
A1, 51
A4, 14, 17, 18
A5,  19nb
A6, 21
A9, 23
A10, 24
A13, 29, 31
A15, 26, 27, 61
A30, 54
A46, 36
B22, 38
Prior, A.N., 75n18, 156
Proposition
extensional, 102, 107–112
hypothetical, 92
intensional, 102, 103, 107–112
matter of, 94
mode of, 94
necessity of, 92
predicative, 92
Stoics, 73
universal, 100
Providential necessity
Stoics, 71
Peirce, C.S. (cont.)
Index 347
347
PSR. See Principle of sufficient reason
Putnam, H., 226n25, 229n34
Quine, W.V.O., 10, 149, 257, 258,
266n5, 272, 290, 295, 298, 300,
302, 302n6, 303, 304, 305, 306,
307, 308, 309, 310, 312, 314
Ramsey, F.P., 277
Ravens
blackness of, 303, 305, 309
Rāzī, 102, 103, 107
Real essence
Locke, 182
Realising possibilities, 26
Reesor, M., 74, 75, 75n17, 77, 77n24,
77n25, 78, 84, 84n43, 88n56,
89n59
Rejected schemas in the modal
syllogistic, 23
first figure, 17
second figure, 18
third figure, 20
Revised square of modal expressions,
45t2.3
Rijen, J. van, 11n4
Rini, A.A., 11n3, 22, 26, 59, 68
Rist, J.M., 77n22, 78n28, 82n36,
88n56, 89n59
Roberts, D., 266
Rosen, J., 30n5, 31n7, 31n8
Ross, W.D., 11n4, 21, 25n6, 29n2,
30n5, 38n25, 48n43
Rufus of Cornwall, 134
Rule R, syllogistic, 61, 67
Russell, B.A.W., 184, 184n17, 196n3,
272, 297, 298, 299, 307, 315
S1, modal logic, 281–282
S2, modal logic, 279, 280, 281, 282,
285n4, 288, 289, 296
S3, modal logic, 279, 281, 282
S4, modal logic, 75n18, 134, 161, 165,
166, 270, 280, 281, 282, 293
S5, modal logic, 134, 142, 147, 214,
214n27, 270, 280, 281, 282, 286
in Boyle’s argument from
miracles, 166
completeness of, 312
quantified, 312
Sambursky, S., 85
Scanlan, M., 56n4
Scientific knowledge (episteme), 51n1
Scotus, John Duns, 134, 135, 143, 144,
145, 147
Second figure
Counterfactual counterexamples, 27
Sedley, D., 73n8, 76n20, 81n35,
83n38, 85, 86, 88
Seel, G., 29n2, 39n26, 40n28, 40n30,
44n38, 46n41, 48n43
Self-evident, truths
Aquinas, 155
Semantical structure in Abaerlard, 125
Serjeantson, R., 176n2
Sextus empiricus, xii, 86, 209
Sharples, R.W., 76n21
Shehaby, N., 93
Sleigh, R.C., 196n3, 197n6, 198n7
Smith, R.A., 11n2, 12, 29n2, 32n11,
48n43
Smullyan, A.F., 307, 307n11
Sorabji, R., 74n13, 76n20, 77n22,
79n28, 81n35, 82n37, 85n49,
89n59, 161n33
Sowa, J., 265n3, 266, 267, 268f13.2
Spinoza, B., 196, 197, 197n5,
197n5, 219
Square of modal expressions, 39t2.2
Stang, N. F., 232n3, 233n5, 234n8,
243n30, 246n35, 247n36,
250n39, 253n41, 254n43
State description, 301, 313
necessity in, 302
truth in, 301
Steno, N., 201
Stewart, D., 172n81
Stjernfelt, F., 261
Stoics
axiomata (propositions), 73
bivalance, 80
bivalence, 71, 80
determinism, 80
fatalism, 80
future truth, 80
implication, 85
lekta, 73
logic, 273
logical necessity, 71
metaphysical necessity, 71
Index
348
metaphysical possibility, 79
mowing argument, 87
necessity of the past, 75
principal cause (intrinsic
capacity), 77
providential ncessity, 71
providential necessity, 88
substance, 81
void, 81
Stough, C., 77n24, 79n28, 85n45
Street, T., 95, 96, 101, 103, 106,
107, 112
Striker, G., 29n2, 31n6, 33n17, 35n19,
49, 68, 77n25
Stuart, M., 183n15
Suárez, F., 186
Substance, 95
individual (Leibniz), 203
Stoics, 81
Suppositional necessity
Aquinas, 157
Surface (grammatical) structure
Abealard, 125
Syllogism, 93, 99
Felapton, 107
first-figure, 96
Prior Analytics A1, 11
X, Q, M, 22
Syllogistic
and demonstration, 50
apodeictic, 21
circular proof in, 52
deductive closure, 53
Locke’s rejection of, 184
Modal, 21
modal (Ockham), 149
modal conversion, 67
necessity, 65–68
in Posterior Aanalytics, 51–59
problematic, 21
Rule R, 61
T, modal logic, 270
Tarski, A., 298, 302
Temporal hypothetical, 123n17
Thom, P., 32n12, 99, 101, 104, 112,
133n1
Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus, 298,
299, 306n9
Truth conditions, 298
Two-dimensional semantics
Avicenna, 98
Two-sided possibility, 25, 29, 61
Unactualized possible, Leibniz, 201
Universal proposition, 100
Universals
Averroes on, 100
Unmarried, 305
Validity
CM-validity, 306
C-validity, 302
formal and material
(Ockham), 137
and God’s power, 141
substotutional view of, 12
Van Den Berg, H., 270
van der Auwera, J., 47n42
Void
Stoic notion of, 81
Voltaire, 207
Waitz, T., 32n10, 32n11, 48n43
Wallace, W.A., 169n69
Wansing, H., 105
Watkins, E, 232n3
Watts, I., 168, 170, 171
Wedderkopf, M., 218, 218n1, 221n13
Weidemann, H., 33n17, 39n26, 39n27,
40n28, 40n30, 41n33, 43n36,
44n37, 44n38, 46n41, 48n43
Whitaker, C.W.A., 40n30, 48n43
William of Champeaux, 116
Williamson, T., 316n13
Wittgenstein, L., 280, 298, 299,
306n9
Wolter, A., 135, 135n4
Yong, P., 232n3
Zeman, J.J., 270, 271, 272, 272n12
Zeno of Citium, 76, 163
Zimmermann, F., 161
∏-description, 306
Stoics (cont.)
