 
the United States they had to “Americanize” it—which says much
about their perception of U.S. culture and their perception of Ja-
pan. As Lawrence Venuti cautions, it is “essential to recognize that
translation in its many aspects—from the selection of foreign texts
to the implementation of discursive strategies to the reviewing and
teaching of translations—wields enormous power in the construc-
tion of national identities and hence can play an important geo-
political role” (). Perhaps this is why so many ethnic writers have
fastened on translation as a trope: it is an example of the powerful
ideological and cultural forces at work within what appear to be
“neutral” language practices. Yet as Simon argues, translation also
“participates in many different ways in the generation of new forms
of knowledge, new textual forms, new relationships to language”
(). Translation is not exclusively about words—it is also a telling
example of the way words and worlds can intersect, clash, and be
remade.
Having established what translation is not, now I will consider
three different formulations of what translation can be. Some theo-
rists see translation as a positive process of cultural exchange and
interchange. Wilhelm Von Humboldt, a well-known theorist, ar-
gues in  that translation is a form of linguistic enrichment:
Translation, especially poetic translation, is one of the most
necessary tasks of any literature, partly because it directs those
who do not know another language to forms of art and human
experience that would otherwise have remained totally un-
known, but above all because it increases the expressivity and
depth of meaning of one’s own language. For it is the wonder-
ful characteristic of languages that, ﬁrst and foremost, each one
accommodates the general needs of everyday life; yet, through
the spirit of the nation that shapes and forms it, a language can
be inﬁnitely enriched. ()
Translation, then, can encourage the growth and expansion of the
target culture’s own language. Translation also preserves works that
might otherwise be lost. Walter Benjamin contends that since “a
translation comes later than the original, and since the important
works of world literature never ﬁnd their chosen translators at the
time of their origin, their translation marks their stage of contin-


ued life” (). For Benjamin, then, translation generates a kind of
literary afterlife. More recently, Yves Bonnefoy has argued that the
best translators understand that translation is not about conquer-
ing but about sympathy (): “What we gain through translation
. . . is the very thing we cannot grasp or hold: that is to say, the po-
etry of other languages” (). These writers focus on translation
as a positive paradigm for cultural and linguistic interaction—an
interaction that enriches both the source and the target culture’s
language and literature.
Throughout this book I will consider other theorists who view
translation as a positive process. Certainly, translation can perform
a beneﬁcial cultural and linguistic function, but seeing translation
as either purely positive or purely negative is somewhat problem-
atic. Like language itself, translation can take on a multiplicity of
roles, and it can perform many different functions, often simulta-
neously. Translation theorists who work with paradigms that are
exclusively positive or negative sometimes ignore this multiplicity.
For example, Eliot Weinberger and Octavio Paz argue that “the re-
lationship between original and translation is parent-child” (). But
is it possible that sometimes the translation becomes the “parent”
and the original text the “child”? Such might be the case for some
writers whose art was recognized only through translation. Edgar
Allan Poe, for example, became more popular in the United States
after his works had been translated into French. And Abraham Ca-
han’s original draft of Yekl—written in English—was not published
in English until after he had translated it into Yiddish and printed
it serially in a Yiddish newspaper.11
In these situations it is difficult
to tell what is the “parent” and what the “child.” Furthermore, an
exclusively positive view of the translated text as the smiling child
or grandchild of the parent text does not help us see the multiple
cultural and linguistic roles translation actually performs.
On the other hand, many recent theorists view translation as
being essentially about colonization and cultural disempowerment,
and these views are also problematic. Translation has certainly been
used in the past to expand particular ideologies or to force vari-
ous “foreign” cultures to conform to “civilizing” inﬂuences.12
Lori
Chamberlain cites a particularly graphic example of this colonial-
 
ist impulse from Thomas Drant, a sixteenth-century translator.
Speaking of his translation of Horace, Drant says:
First I have now done [with Horace] as the people of God were
commanded to do with their captive women that were hand-
some and beautiful: I have shaved off his hair and pared off his
nails, that is, I have wiped away all his vanity and superﬂuity of
matter. . . . I have Englished things not according to the vein
of the Latin propriety, but of his own vulgar tongue. . . . I have
pieced his reason, eked and mended his similitudes, molliﬁed
his hardness, prolonged his cortall kind of speeches, changed
and much altered his words, but not his sentence, or at least
(I dare say) not his purpose. (Chamberlain –)
Translation functions as a kind of violent penetration of the source
text—and yet somehow Drant still feels he has captured Horace’s
“purpose.” Translation also has a long history of being about con-
quest, as Wechsler explains: “Throughout most of classical and
modern history, the translator did whatever he wanted with the
works he translated. This was true of the Romans, who took what
they felt like taking from Greek culture and made it theirs. As
Friedrich Nietzsche wrote, ‘In those days, to translate meant to
conquer’” (). One way of envisioning translation, then, is as a
mechanism of cultural dominance and appropriation.
Even translation theorists who do not explicitly perceive trans-
lation as colonization have a kind of colonialist bent; many para-
digms that appear to be “neutral” still ﬁgure translation as a power
struggle. The translator may choose to have the source text over-
power the target text or vice versa, but one culture or the other will
always dominate. In a well-known essay published in , Fried-
rich Schleiermacher argues the following:
Either the translator leaves the writer alone as much as pos-
sible and moves the reader toward the writer, or he leaves the
reader alone as much as possible and moves the writer toward
the reader. . . . In the ﬁrst case, the translator takes pains, by
means of his work, to compensate for the reader’s lack of un-
derstanding of the original language. He seeks to communicate


to his readers the same image, the same impression that he
himself has gained—through his knowledge of the original
language—of the work as it stands, and therefore move the
readers to his viewpoint, which is actually foreign to them.
If, however, the translation seeks to let its Roman author, for
example, speak as he would have spoken and written as a Ger-
man to Germans, it does not move the author to where the
translator stands; . . . on the contrary, it moves the author
immediately into the world of the German readers and trans-
forms him into one of them. ()
A translator can either turn German into English or force English
readers to “become” German. Schleiermacher’s point is well taken,
but he may replicate another set of binaries. In Schleiermacher’s
model a reader is either German or English, and the translator ei-
ther moves the reader toward the source text or the source text to-
ward the reader. Is there a more dynamic way of conceptualizing
translation? Can a translated text become German/English—or can
the reader be, if but for a moment while reading a text, a “Germen-
glish” person?
One ﬁnal group of theorists attempt to formulate models of
translation that are more dialogic and syncretic as well as more
aware of the way translation can play positive and negative roles,
even simultaneously. From a postmodern standpoint, translation is
able to deconstruct binarisms such as source text versus target text.
I have already referred (by way of Claude Lévesque) to Jacques Der-
rida’s idea that we are all, to some degree, exiles within language.
For Derrida, there is no original, uncontaminated, pure language
that we can speak with ease; there is only a language that makes us
aware of what we lack, of what we have lost. Therefore, there would
be no pure, original text to be translated—only versions of other
texts that are themselves impure, inauthentic. Perhaps this is why,
in The Ear of the Other, Derrida argues that “translation is writing;
that is, it is not translation only in the sense of transcription. It is a
productive writing called forth by the original text” (). Glossing
this statement, Chamberlain argues that “in attempting to over-
throw the binary oppositions we have seen in other discussions of
this problem, Derrida implies that translation is both original and
 
secondary, uncontaminated and transgressed or transgressive” ().
In another text, Derrida contends that something is always left over
when one translates—something that blurs the distinction between
the original text and its translation. Derrida thus exposes the im-
possibility of “the dream of translation without remnants” (“Living
On” ). Such notions of a translated text as both original and sec-
ondary, composed both of speech and of remnants of speech, and
as “speaking” the source culture as well as the translated culture,
attempt to move beyond a binary model of translation toward a
model that foregrounds translation as difference. As another post-
modern theorist, Maurice Blanchot, comments, “Translation is the
sheer play of difference: it constantly makes allusion to difference,
dissimulates difference, but by occasionally revealing and often ac-
centuating it, translation becomes the very life of difference” ().
For Blanchot, translation should not establish hierarchies and bi-
narisms; rather, it should foreground the ambiguity at the heart of
language itself. I am not arguing, of course, that these theorists are
entirely successful in trying to move translation beyond binarism
but simply pointing out that they make this attempt.
How, then, might a translator preserve the remnant that persists
and foreground translation as difference, as a process of being both
lost and found? Translation theorists Lawrence Venuti and Samia
Mehrez have two approaches to this question. Venuti focuses on
a concept of resistant translation—translation that emphasizes the
actual process of translation and refuses to efface cultural differ-
ences. A resistant translation of Pokémon, for example, might have
preserved the sushi of the original and also have left traces of Japa-
nese speech or language in the English speech so that viewers were
aware they were watching a translated text.13
In Venuti’s terms the
“ﬂuent” translation that emerged could only efface cultural differ-
ences and make translation invisible. For Venuti, a resistant transla-
tion makes the translator’s work (more) visible, but it also helps to
“preserve the linguistic and cultural difference of the foreign text
by producing translations which are strange and estranging, which
mark the limits of dominant values in the target-language culture
and hinder those values from enacting an imperialistic domestica-
tion of a cultural other” (). A resistant translation, we might say,
moves toward syncretism: differences in culture and language are


brought together, but they are not resolved or harmonized. Differ-
ence is not covered over or synthesized but allowed to remain.
Samia Mehrez’s critical essays on works of literature written
by postcolonial bilingual writers illustrate a particular translation
practice that can be termed “resistant.”14
Mehrez argues that such
works create a language in between dominant and marginalized
discourses. This newly forged language challenges both indige-
nous, conventional models of literature and the dominant models
of the colonizer. The ultimate goal of this literature is to “subvert
hierarchies by bringing together the ‘dominant’ and the ‘underde-
veloped,’ by exploding and confounding different symbolic worlds
and separate systems of signiﬁcation in order to create a mutual in-
terdependence and intersigniﬁcation” (“Translation” ). By draw-
ing on more than one culture, more than one language, and more
than one world experience within the same text, these writers defy
a notion of “original” text or “original” language.
Mehrez borrows a term from the Moroccan writer/theorist
Abdelkebit Khatibi and calls this practice “radical bilingualism.”
Whereas a bilingual text would use only one language at a time, a
radically bilingual text maintains a constant movement between dif-
ferent languages or even between different layers of the same lan-
guage. Mehrez discusses Khatibi’s novel Amour bilingue as an illus-
tration of conscious radical bilingualism. To take just one example,
on Khatibi’s title page the French title (Amour bilingue) appears in
bold red letters at the top of the page; at the bottom of the page is
its translation, written in Arabic calligraphy (Fata Morgana). Both
titles are “readable” to the non-Arabic (French) speaker, but only
the French title makes sense. The monolingual reader must move
back and forth between these titles, trying to understand them.
Furthermore, the title page contains an Arabic symbol that a non-
Arabic reader could not decipher. The title page thus undermines
expected hierarchies between dominant and minority discourses,
between the translator and the translated. Mehrez postulates that
such texts force the readers to become bilingual, as well as show-
ing the presence of one language within another (“Translation”
). This is a capacious metaphor for translation: translation can
be a form of radical bilingualism and can encourage the reader to
think/speak/read in more than one voice. Most important, transla-
 
tion as radical bilingualism refuses to privilege one language over
another or one culture over another but focuses instead on transla-
tion as a constant migration of language from one system of signs
to another system—from systems of signs that are also, paradoxi-
cally, shown to be contained within each other.
As I illustrate in the next section, the ethnic writers discussed
sometimes become trapped in a binary conceptualization of transla-
tion. But some of these writers—such as Cherríe Moraga and Susan
Power—call on notions of translation that show characters speak-
ing two (or more) languages at once or that force the reader to be-
come a translator. This form of radical bilingualism dismantles the
line between the translator and the reader, between the dominant
language and the “disempowered” one(s).
Before we begin the next section, two other concerns relevant
to this study must be assessed. The ﬁrst has to do with the role of
gender in translation. Both linguistically and culturally, women fre-
quently are portrayed as the connecting link, the mediator, between
the ethnic and the American, and in the texts I discuss, it is most
often female characters who are the translators. What occurs when
a woman (such as Maxine Hong Kingston) attempts to translate
from a parent culture or tongue that appears to devalue women?
Numerous translation theorists have discussed this issue, arguing
that women translators must learn to speak through and against
the translated text and to use their translations to make alterations
in constructs of gender.15
Writers such as Kingston and Moraga use
translation to contest and revise the dominant cultural scripts they
encounter both as “minorities” and as women. In the next chapter
I discuss in greater detail the concept of a resistant feminist trans-
lation practice that works to deterritorialize and decontextualize a
source text perceived as containing negative messages about gender
and race. In the works discussed in this book, women are placed
under a strong imperative to translate and mediate, an impera-
tive that they sometimes resist and sometimes reconﬁgure. African
American women writers, in particular (as demonstrated in Chap-
ter ), use the trope of translation to claim an empowered speech,
and they thereby counter a long tradition in many African Ameri-
can works written by men (from Frederick Douglass onward) in
which the assertion of voice is associated with an identity as a “free


man.” For many women characters, translation offers a way of re-
vising social scripts of both race and gender that have made it dif-
ﬁcult for them to claim an authorized cultural voice.
At times in Kingston’s The Woman Warrior, however, the nar-
rator states that she cannot translate Chinese culture, not only be-
cause of her gendered relationship to it but also because it is fun-
damentally untranslatable—it is too alien and strange in content to
make a successful transition to the “American” world. As I explain
in the next chapter, the notion of “untranslatability” is not viable;
anything can be translated, if the translator wants to ﬁnd a way to
translate it. Of course, something is lost in translation, but as Rush-
die suggests, something is also gained. So, as Bonnefoy states, it is
only when “a work does not compel us [that] it is untranslatable”
(). Characters who refuse to translate are often avoiding the in-
tercultural and interlingual demands that translation entails. And
they are implying that the parent culture does not compel them or
that it lacks usable “cultural capital”—material value in the new
world they inhabit. Translation is always possible, even when the
translated item/text does not exist in the target culture. As Roman
Jakobson argues, “We never consumed ambrosia or nectar and have
only a linguistic acquaintance with the words ‘ambrosia,’ ‘nectar,’
and ‘gods’—the name of their mythical users; nonetheless, we un-
derstand these words and know in what contexts each of them may
be used” (). Any experience or object is conveyable in some form
in any existing language—provided the translator wants to strive to
convey it.
From this summary, it should be apparent that translation theo-
rization viviﬁes many crucial debates about ethnic heritage, lin-
guistic identity, and cultural struggle. So it should not surprise us
that the trope of translation has also preoccupied ethnic writers
from a wide range of backgrounds. The book begins with David
Wong Louie’s Pangs of Love (), Fae Myenne Ng’s Bone (),
and Maxine Hong Kingston’s The Woman Warrior (), because
these writers have a very clearly formulated stance in relationship
to the question of how one transmigrates tongues and transcodes
ethnicity. These three Chinese American texts demonstrate that
translation can occur only when the translator respects and values
the source text—the parents’ world and language—and interacts
 
with it in a positive and “writerly” way. In Chapter  I examine
two post–World War II Japanese American novels that also portray
translation’s connection to formulations of ethnic identity—John
Okada’s No-No Boy () and Cynthia Kadohata’s The Floating
World (). After the forced internment of thousands of Ameri-
can citizens of Japanese descent in camps euphemistically called
“relocation centers,” writers struggled to re-create a productive re-
lationship between the ethnic and the American. In these texts it is
only by living in translation—in the spaces and gaps between racial
and linguistic identities—that characters are able to transcode their
ethnicity and ﬁnd the ancestral voice they need to survive.
Chapter  takes up these concepts in Native American literature,
beginning with N. Scott Momaday’s House Made of Dawn (), a
novel in which the main character, Able, suffers because he has lost
a viable relationship to his native language and the ability to trans-
late it. I then discuss Leslie Marmon Silko’s Ceremony (), a work
in which the protagonist, Tayo, does learn to translate and tell his
story. Most important, Tayo learns how to speak English in such
a way that he conveys Native American values and meanings; he
becomes, in short, a radical bilingual who transmigrates his native
tongue and English. Susan Power’s The Grass Dancer () por-
trays another character who becomes a radical bilingual—Red Dress
—an individual from the past who speaks both Dakota Sioux and
English simultaneously, transforming both languages. In Sherman
Alexie’s novels Reservation Blues () and Indian Killer (), the
relationship to the indigenous tongue has become even more tenu-
ous. In these books few individuals from the Spokane tribe speak
the language or are even interested in learning it. Reservation Blues
implies that one can maintain a connection to the Native American
culture and transcode ethnicity without the language, but Indian
Killer shows the dire consequences of removal from the land and
the language: alienation, violence, and death.
Chapter  is concerned with the subject of intralingual transla-
tion (translation within a language or between dialects) in several
works by African American women writers. Toni Morrison’s Tar
Baby () and Danzy Senna’s Caucasia () both feature light-
skinned heroines who can “pass” in various ways (linguistically or
socially) as white; in both novels heroines lose their connection to


their families and ethnic communities when they no longer trans-
late between African American Vernacular English and Standard-
ized English. Sherley Anne Williams’s Dessa Rose () and A. J.
Verdelle’s The Good Negress () also detail struggles between an
enfranchised, written language and a vernacular, oral tongue. In
fact, Dessa Rose is fundamentally about a translation struggle. Who
will tell Dessa’s story: the white man Nehemiah, who wants to
write it in Standardized English that effaces Dessa’s subjectivity
and agency, or Dessa herself, who insists on speaking, singing, and
signfyin’ her story? Similarly, The Good Negress stages a conﬂict
between African American Vernacular English and Standardized
English when the young heroine is encouraged to give up her
southern dialect in favor of “the king’s English”—standardized,
“proper” English. Yet both texts ﬁnally move toward hybridized
dialects that entail a continual process of exchange and transla-
tion between African American oral discourse and Standardized
English. Through this exchange ethnicity is transcoded, and both
tongues are transmigrated.
In Chapter  I discuss four Chicano/a writers: Richard Rodri-
guez, Nash Candelaria, Cherríe Moraga, and Abelardo Delgado.16
Many critics have argued that Richard Rodriguez is an assimila-
tionist who turns his back on the Mexican Spanish tongue, but
in his autobiographical trilogy—Hunger of Memory (), Days of
Obligation (), and Brown ()—Rodriguez uses English op-
positionally, thus exposing its faults, as well as its fault lines. Once
again English is transmigrated, but Spanish also undergoes change
in this process. In Nash Candelaria’s novel Memories of the Alham-
bra (), the question of translation is negotiated through a father
and son; while the father struggles to be “purely” Spanish (rather
than Chicano or Mexican American), the son struggles to recover a
Mexican Spanish language he has never been taught. The son does
ﬁnally learn to translate, and in so doing he transcodes his ethnicity
and accepts his status as a Chicano. These texts are written primar-
ily in English, with a small amount of Mexican Spanish included.
Cherríe Moraga’s Loving in the War Years () and Abelardo Del-
gado’s Letters to Louise (), on the other hand, use both Spanish
and English. Moraga and Delgado codeswitch in their texts—that
is, they move from Spanish to English—but they also create a third
 
dialect that creatively fuses Mexican Spanish and English and in-
cludes terms such as “mexicatessen” and “los slow ones.” Through
these fusions they move toward a new form of language that ex-
ceeds both Spanish and English, and they create a more dialogic
concept of ethnic identity.
In Chapter  I examine debates over language policy in order
to comprehend the current situation of multilingualism and cul-
tural translation in the United States. “Official” language policy (as
reﬂected by the curtailment of bilingual education and the passage
of “English Only” legislation) is contrasted with the ongoing bilin-
gualism of some contemporary ethnic communities and the work
of performance artists such as Guillermo Gómez-Peña, who con-
stantly stages scenes of cultural translation. I contend that in the
United States today there is an unofficial realm of multilingualism
and translation that undercuts official language policy. This unoffi-
cial realm of multilingualism and translation constructs a sociolin-
guistic space where languages divide to conga and the concept of
the “native speaker” is renovated. In this unofficial realm, ethnicity
is still being transcoded and tongues are still being transmigrated.
The conclusion of the book returns to a topic discussed in this
chapter—the idea of a transethnic trope speciﬁc to ethnic Ameri-
can literature. Undergirding this trope is a fascination with moving
beyond certain kinds of impasses, certain kinds of gaps that haunt
cultural translation and ethnic discourse itself. What ﬁnally is lost
in translation? And what is found? What happens to the “untrans-
latable” remnant about which Derrida has theorized? I develop the
metaphor of the “lost-and-found space” of translation; a lost-and-
found space allows for loss, recuperation and recovery, and ﬁnally
the continual exchange and reformulation of diverse and often di-
vergent cultural and linguistic entities. At one point in Ng’s novel
Bone, the main character, Leila, becomes frustrated with her moth-
er’s Chinese speech. “She had a world of words that were beyond
me” (), Leila comments. But Leila does learn to translate. By
realizing that the “gap” is a productive opportunity for transcod-
ing ethnicity and transmigrating tongues, Leila succeeds in trans-
lating her mother’s world and her mother’s words. The remnant
may be preserved, then, within the notion of the “gap,” or lacuna,
in the text, within the lost-and-found space in discourse and in


language itself. Translation sometimes replicates divisions between
languages and cultures, and translation can reinforce numerous bi-
narisms that have kept individuals disempowered: high culture over
“low” culture, civilized nations over “savage,” Anglo-Americans
over all “minorities.” Yet translation foregrounds the hope of a cre-
ative fusion and ﬁssion between languages and cultures that does
not destroy differences but rather creates something new precisely
out of these differences and out of an acknowledgment of the “gap”
or “loss” that haunts translation and all discourse. Postmodern the-
orists have argued that we are all alienated from language, that we
are all “lost in translation.” Yet the works discussed in this book
offer productive ways of acknowledging this loss but also of ﬁnding
ourselves in and through translation—ways of locating a mode of
cultural voice that renovates the racial and linguistic politics of the
textual and actual worlds we inhabit.

An Impossible Necessity
Translation and the Re-creation of Linguistic
and Cultural Identities in the Works
of David Wong Louie, Fae Myenne Ng,
and Maxine Hong Kingston
The transformations that take shape in print, that take the formal
name of “translation,” become their own beings, set out on their
own wanderings. Some live long, and some don’t. What kind
of creatures are they?—Eliot Weinberger and Octavio Paz,
Nineteen Ways of Looking at Wang Wei
   story of David Wong Louie’s collection Pangs of
Love, the English-speaking narrator tries to communicate with his
mother, who speaks mostly Chinese and has learned only a few En-
glish phrases from the television she watches constantly. But the
protagonist fails: “I know what I want to say in English. My mind’s
stuffed full with the words. I pull one sentence at a time from the
elegant little speech . . . and try to piece together a word-for-word
  

translation into Chinese. Yielding nonsense” (). “Poetry,” Robert
Frost has said in a famous formulation, “is what gets lost in transla-
tion,”1
and some authors have argued that the poetry of any literary
form is decimated by translation. The narrator of “Pangs of Love”
seems to share the view that translation of his “elegant little speech”
is impossible. And so mother and son remain locked in separate lin-
guistic and cultural worlds.
Yet, eventually, some of the characters in Louie’s collection learn
to translate. To some, translation may seem “impossible” in a pure
sense—but it is also absolutely necessary. Susan Bassnett observes
that while some theorists perennially lament translation’s impossibil-
ity, still, “in spite of such a dogma, translators continue to translate”
(). This formulation of translation as “an impossible necessity”
enables an understanding of the linguistic and cultural reconcili-
ation enacted by certain works of contemporary Chinese Ameri-
can literature. In these works, the words of the foreign language
or “source text” (the various dialects of Chinese) literally must be
translated into the new tongue or “target text” (American English)
so that parents and children, ﬁrst and second generation, can com-
municate with each other. As a symbolic trope in these texts, how-
ever, translation evokes the concept of a crossing of borders, a per-
meation of barriers erected between what seem to be separate and
contradictory cultural and linguistic entities.
Louie’s Pangs of Love, Fae Myenne Ng’s Bone, and Maxine Hong
Kingston’s The Woman Warrior portray the difficulties of transla-
tion, of reaching across borders that appear to be impenetrable by
language, by cadences, by culture.2
Second-generation characters
in these texts all confront what appear to be irresolvable translation
dilemmas, and they articulate the sense that Chinese culture and
language (which are initially conﬁgured as “foreign” and “other”
for the second generation) are untranslatable. To succeed as trans-
lators these characters must move from a literal to a metaphori-
cal understanding of the process of translation. Following Roland
Barthes’s theory that some texts are more writerly than readerly,
translation theorist Willis Barnstone speaks of writerly translations
that involve an active participation with the source text. A writerly
translation would be creative and imaginative, rather than passive,
literal, and constrained; it might also evoke the notion of coauthor-
   
ship (). In these Chinese American texts, then, the characters
must become writerly translators who understand how their dual
and at times conﬂicting cultural heritages as Chinese Americans can
be mediated and transcoded. Through acts of writerly translation
the protagonists learn to transcode the source text—the parents’
linguistic and ethnic heritage—and disarticulate Chinese ethnic-
ity from a discourse that labels it alien and useless in the “modern”
world of the United States. They also learn to transcode the “target
text,” their own cultural and linguistic horizons as “Americans”;
they must understand themselves as Chinese Americans possessed
of multiple ethnic heritages. These characters ﬁnally realize that
it is precisely their divergent cultural/linguistic heritages that en-
gender the ability to produce new meanings, new stories, writerly
translations that break down the binary opposition between the
ethnic and the American, enriching and ﬁnally re-creating both
cultural terrains.3
    employ the trope of transla-
tion in their works, this trope is extremely pronounced in Asian
American literature. Perhaps this is because, as Shih-Hsiang Chen
observes in a discussion of Chinese-to-English translation, the ex-
treme differences between these languages focalize the question of
“the translator as creator” (). Chinese, in particular, is a language
with a high degree of syntactic ambiguity (Aaronson and Ferres
). The various dialects of the Chinese language differ from those
of English in numerous ways. Bernhard Karlgren reports an aver-
age of ten different word meanings corresponding to each Chinese
syllable in a small dictionary; therefore, Chinese words (depend-
ing on how a word is deﬁned) may have three to sixteen times as
many meanings as English words (). Also, as Doris Aaronson
and Steven Ferres explain, word meanings in Chinese are radically
polysemous; homographs for a word such as “wen,” for example,
can mean such diverse things as “hear,” “smell,” or “news” (). In
Chinese, function words, prepositions, and articles are often omit-
ted, and pronoun forms are few and optional. This leads Aaronson
and Ferres to conclude that “the extent to which context deter-
mines the exact meaning will be far greater in Chinese than in En-
  

glish” (). Therefore, an ability to understand context is required
to disambiguate, to create a meaningful translation of a particular
word, sentence, or phrase.
Chinese American writers such as Louie, Ng, and Kingston of-
ten conﬁgure the difficulties inherent in Chinese-to-English trans-
lation as both linguistic and cultural problems of context sharing
between generations. “Pangs of Love” and “Inheritance,” two short
stories from Louie’s collection, demonstrate that given the extreme
differences between the linguistic systems of China and America,
language can easily function as a barrier between what is Chi-
nese and what is American. Yet these stories also point toward the
healthy context sharing and interpermeation of cultures that the
trope of “translation,” in its broadest sense, evokes.
The title story, “Pangs of Love,” depicts a literal breakdown in
communication that symbolizes a more problematic loss of genera-
tional and cultural connection. The narrator cannot tell his mother
that his American girlfriend, Amanda (or Mandy), has left him
for a Japanese man, and his brother (called Bagel) cannot tell his
mother that he has no intention of marrying a Chinese woman be-
cause he is homosexual. Gaps between the language of the mother
(Cantonese Chinese) and the children (American English) seem at
ﬁrst glance to be the source of these characters’ inability to com-
municate. The protagonist informs the reader, “My mother has
lived in this country for forty years and, through what must be a
monumental act of will, has managed not to learn English” ().
For his part, the narrator speaks little Chinese: “Once I went to
school, my Chinese vocabulary stopped growing; in conversation
with my mother I’m a linguistic dwarf ” (). The mother and son
inhabit the same physical space (they share an apartment), yet they
are trapped in separate linguistic terrains, and little genuine con-
versation occurs.
Although these examples seem to illustrate a literal problem in
translation (the sons speak mostly English, the mother only Chi-
nese), they actually represent a metaphorical problem, symbolic of
these characters’ refusal to cross the borders that separate the seem-
ingly contradictory cultural terrains of America and China and to
transcode the corresponding ethnic identities these terrains repre-
sent. Willis Barnstone suggests that translation includes the no-
   
tion of transportation (), so when the narrator calls his mother a
“linguistic dead-end street” () he implies that her refusal to learn
English signiﬁes an unwillingness to transport herself to an Ameri-
can context; she views Americanness as a negative ethnicity and
refuses to transcode it. Her insulation from American culture is
so complete that she “seems out of place in a car, near machines,
a woman from another culture, of another time, at ease with nee-
dle and thread, around pigs and horses” (). Mrs. Pang embodies
the traditions of the Chinese past, dreaming her son will marry “a
Chinese girl who will remember [her] grave and come with food
and spirit money” (). These values have become transmuted in
the United States, yet she fails to comprehend this. Therefore, there
is little communication, as her ﬁnal words in the story demonstrate:
“How can I be your mother if nobody listens to what I say?” ().
First- and second-generation individuals remain in their separate
and mutually inaccessible cultural universes, and the binary divi-
sions between languages and cultures, between what is “Chinese”
and what is “American,” remain intact.
As Octavio Paz has argued in a famous formulation: “Each civi-
lization, as each soul, is different, unique. Translation is our way
to face this otherness of the universe and history” (). Yet neither
Mrs. Pang nor her sons can face “this otherness of the universe
and history,” this otherness of the world they do not inhabit, or
refuse to inhabit. Clearly, Mrs. Pang sees “otherness” in her sons’
world. For example, with tears in her eyes she asks the narrator
about Bagel’s lifestyle: “Ah-Vee-ah, all the men in this house have
good jobs, they have money, why don’t they have women? Why is
your brother that way?” (). Here Mrs. Pang does try to translate
her sons’ world into terms she can understand. But as Paz also ar-
gues, a successful translation must be an act of love and participa-
tion, reﬂecting both a respect for the source text and a desire to
share the source text with the world (). Mrs. Pang has no respect
for her sons’ world, calling the narrator a “crazy boy” when he tells
her Mandy no longer loves him () and calling Bagel a “hammer-
head” when he tries to explain that he does not want a girlfriend
(). Mrs. Pang desires comprehension of her sons’ lives, but her
lack of respect for their choices and perspectives impedes a success-
ful transmission of information, a successful translation.
  

Yet if Mrs. Pang fails as a translator because she cannot par-
ticipate in her sons’ world, her sons also fail because they devalue
her world. The narrator describes his interactions with his mother
as “putting in time” (), as if he is on a chain gang. He also calls
conversation with her “a task equal to digging a grave without a
shovel” (), an entombment for which he lacks both the language
and the patience. Albrecht Neubert and Gregory Shreve explain
that “if a translation is to succeed, there must be a situation which
requires it. There must be a translation need. Many academic ex-
amples of so-called ‘untranslatability’ are actually examples of texts
for which a receptive situation does not exist” (). Similarly, to il-
lustrate the idea that there is no such thing as “untranslatability,”
Willis Barnstone uses the examples of the translation of Moby-Dick
in Poland (where there is no whaling industry) and of the bibli-
cal translation of the phrase “lamb of God” for Eskimos who had
never seen a lamb. In each case, the translator invented words or
found analogies within the culture that made these “untranslatable”
words coherent for his or her respective audiences (). “Untrans-
latability,” then, is a product not of words but of an unmotivated
situation. Because the narrator of “Pangs of Love” does not see any
need to translate his mother’s world, he fails as a translator. Al-
though “love” appears in the story’s title, the love and receptive
motivation that might enable translation are ﬁgured as conspicu-
ously absent from the text.
Louie also demonstrates that translation is a matter of moti-
vated situations, rather than linguistics per se, through the narra-
tor’s former girlfriend. Although she is an English-speaking Anglo-
American, she manages to communicate with Mrs. Pang: “[Mandy]
spoke Chinese, a stunning Mandarin that she learned at Vassar, and
while that wasn’t my mother’s dialect Mandy picked up enough
Cantonese to hold an adult conversation, and what she couldn’t
bridge verbally she wrote in notes” (). Beyond “bridg[ing] ver-
bally” the barriers that appear to separate her language from Mrs.
Pang’s, Mandy also manages to cross the borders between their two
cultures: Mandy and Mrs. Pang “conspired together to celebrate
Chinese festivals and holidays, making coconut-ﬁlled sweet-potato
dumplings, lotus-seed cookies, daikon and green onion soup, tiny
bowls of monk’s food for New Year’s Day” (). Unlike the narrator,
   
then, Mandy is receptive to Mrs. Pang’s worldview and diligently
translates their cultural and linguistic differences into positive signs
of intercultural connection. Louie’s text therefore demonstrates that
language can be either a bridge between cultures or a barrier; trans-
lation can either maintain or destroy cultural divisions. Louie does
not hold to a monolithic view of translation; he sees the multiple
social, cultural, and linguistic functions it can serve.
Through the character of Mandy, the story also illustrates that
translation should be a writerly process of actively and imagina-
tively bridging gaps between languages and cultures. Yet this lesson
is not transmitted to the narrator, who cannot succeed as a trans-
lator both because he refuses to transcode his mother’s Chinese
culture and because he remains trapped by a readerly conceptu-
alization of translation. The narrator’s translations are literal and
constrained, as the “transcription” of his translation process quoted
at the beginning of the chapter shows. In trying to “piece together
a word-for-word translation into Chinese” (), the narrator takes a
literal approach to the process of translation. Rather than thinking
metaphorically about how he might convey his sentiments, he be-
comes formulaic and simplistic: “I abandon this approach and opt
for the shorter path, the one of reduction, simplicity, lowest com-
mon denominator” (). The narrator sees translation as a reduc-
tion, rather than an expression, of his experience, and ultimately he
conveys nothing. The narrator also constantly devalues his mother
and his mother’s Chinese traditions, seeing them as “alien” and
“other.” Consequently, he never transcodes them or disarticulates
them from the negative cultural baggage with which they are asso-
ciated in the United States. The narrator seems to long to become
“American,” and so translation as trope functions in this text to
show how tongues are not transmigrated, how ethnic identity is not
transcoded, when the ethnic remains separated from and devalued
by the American.
Louie’s story “Inheritance,” on the other hand, depicts Chi-
nese American characters who engage in a more positive, active,
and metaphorical process of translation, for the central character,
Edna, moves from a readerly attempt to translate her mother’s life
to a writerly one. She also moves beyond seeing her metaphorical
“inheritance” as a Chinese American in a purely negative light;
  

ﬁnally, she ﬁnds a way to transcode this ethnicity. Edna’s deceased
mother (who initially is the strongest representative of Chinese tradi-
tions) seems to have been lost in translation. Indeed, Edna wonders
if her bitter and reclusive mother has transmitted anything positive:
“Had I inherited my mother’s hand, which was warm only after
she hit her little girl, which for comfort reached for angry ﬁstfuls
of her child’s hair?” (). As in “Pangs of Love,” language at ﬁrst
seems to be the source of the problem. Edna explains: “Once my
sister started school and infected our home with English, I stopped
learning Chinese, and after that my mother . . . who masterfully
avoided linguistic accommodation of any form—spoke to me as
to a little child” (). Yet the mother’s refusal to learn English—
her avoidance of “linguistic accommodation”—also reﬂects her cul-
tural identity: she lets her husband, Edsel, “negotiate this American
life for her” (), staying at home to perform traditional Chinese
ceremonies she does not explain to Edna (). She sees American-
ness itself as negative and refuses to transcode it, opting instead for
a “pure” Chinese identity. Once again, parent and child inhabit the
same physical space but remain in separate linguistic and cultural
terrains.
What cannot be translated may be lost in a kind of cultural and
linguistic silence, an isolation or physical death that betokens a
more symbolic loss. Edna’s mother does not explain the Chinese
traditions or her own life to her daughter, and so Edna has no ac-
cess to them as an adult. However, Louie depicts the necessity for
adaptation and some degree of linguistic and cultural accommoda-
tion through Edna’s father, who does begin transcoding his ethnic
identity in ways that his daughter eventually comprehends. Edsel
is described as being “very old-world Chinese” (), but after the
death of his wife and his other children, he begins to communicate
with his only surviving child. His conversations reﬂect an adapta-
tion to the American world in which he and Edna live: “He started
to talk to me a lot—something Chinese fathers aren’t predisposed
to do. . . . He pronounced us friends and demanded that I call him
Edsel, straying again from Chinese-father orthodoxy” (). Ed-
sel does not abandon “traditional” Chinese values, for he pressures
Edna to have a large Chinese wedding and give birth to many chil-
dren. Yet, to ﬁnd a translation between his daughter’s universe and
   
his own, he adapts his language and behavior to the new world she
inhabits. Edsel is willing to engage in a metaphorical translation of
his own system of values into his daughter’s world, and he is willing
to transcode his own ethnic identity as “Chinese” so that it is not
separate from the Americanized context his daughter inhabits. Lan-
guage therefore becomes a symbolic bridge that allows a syncretic
fusion and permeation of cultures.
Edna’s mother, on the other hand, refuses translation of the seem-
ingly binary opposite cultures of China and America to the very
day of her death. Louie demonstrates this symbolically through the
character of Mrs.Woo, an elderly woman who reminds Edna of her
deceased mother. Like Edna’s mother, Mrs. Woo speaks no En-
glish and is purely Chinese, castigating Edna for being “not quite
the real thing, neither Chinese nor American” (). The protago-
nist can ﬁnd no response to Mrs. Woo’s vision of “cultural purity”;
Edna believes that if she “said what was on my mind in the lan-
guage I thought it in, that would simply conﬁrm what [Mrs. Woo]
thought” (). Standing in for Edna’s dead mother, Mrs. Woo il-
lustrates symbolically that Edna has found no way of communicat-
ing with her mother, of translating her maternal inheritance. Edna’s
incomprehension of her mother causes her to see her inheritance
negatively: “How could I be sure that I’d tamed my hand, that I’d
taught it to be patient and soothing? For years I feared my mother
in myself, for things do run in the family. We died young; who
could guarantee the safety of my children?” (). Who can guar-
antee that Edna will not be lost in translation to her children, just
as her own mother was lost?
Louie portrays Edna as having stark options: she must either
learn to translate her mother’s life or face the possibility of her own
death. After Mrs. Woo’s children send her to a nursing home, Edna
wanders into Mrs. Woo’s apartment. She turns on all the stove’s gas
burners and thinks, “All I wanted was warmth. One match now
and I could solve every problem” (). Faced with her inability to
understand her maternal legacy, Edna considers suicide—she con-
siders being lost in translation. Yet Edna does not kill herself. In-
stead, she ﬁnds a more writerly notion of translation that allows her
to transcode her ethnicity and transmigrate her mother’s tongue.
Edna has been thinking rather literally of what she inherited—her
  

mother’s hands, her mother’s cruelty, her mother’s linguistic and
cultural rigidity—but she must think more metaphorically. Look-
ing out the window of this American apartment, Edna imagines see-
ing “limestone mountains in mist, birds in wooden cages, women
in rice paddies whose legs were spread wide. Scenes of South China
I knew from calendars Edsel hung in our home,” and she realizes
that “this was the mystery wound in my DNA, this the very color
of my genes, this my inheritance” (–). Edna’s heritage is not
just her mother’s bitterness, lack of cultural accommodation, and
violence but the entire history of China as well. Edna inherits a vi-
sion broader than the limited perspective her mother’s life has given
her: “I looked out at the yard again, but now, instead of the smallest
things, I saw over impossible distances” (). Despite her moth-
er’s recalcitrance, Edna ﬁnally translates her heritage into some-
thing vast and powerful, rather than something constricting and
painful.
Edna also apprehends that her inheritance encompasses not just
her mother’s rigidity and lack of accommodation but also her fa-
ther’s ﬂexibility and willingness to change, to be a “friend” to his
child. In so doing, she transcodes the meaning of Chinese ethnicity
itself. After looking out Mrs. Woo’s window, Edna goes upstairs
and watches her sleeping father. In the story’s ﬁnal words—“My fa-
ther” ()—Edna recognizes that her inheritance is not a readerly,
literal translation of her mother’s life but a writerly, metaphorical
inheritance from both parents, and indeed from all of China. Ed-
na’s translation of her own life and of her parents’ also renders the
binary oppositions of parent/child and China/America inoperative,
for the story’s ﬁnal image ﬁgures Edsel as a child, “smacking his
lips, tasting his mouth, making funny noises, as he rubbed his eyes
with the backs of two small ﬁsts” (). Edsel is both Edna’s father,
pressuring her to have a “traditional” Chinese marriage, and her
child, sucking his thumb in her American apartment. Moreover,
Edna’s writerly translation of her inheritance breaks down opposi-
tions in another sense, affirming an identity that is neither purely
Chinese nor purely American. Finally, both Edna and Edsel are
Chinese Americans who have learned to synthesize their dual heri-
tages and create new cultural and ethnic identities for themselves.
As cultural translators, they move beyond binarism, beyond either/
   
or dualisms into a more capacious understanding of how transla-
tion can syncretize worlds and words. They transcode the meaning
of their ethnicity so that it can function positively in the new world
of America, and in so doing they become Chinese American.
In both of Louie’s stories, translators must attempt to cross bar-
riers not only of culture and language but also of gender. The male
protagonist of “Pangs of Love” attempts (and fails) to translate
his mother’s worldview. In “Inheritance” Edna ﬁnally succeeds in
translating between her paternal and maternal inheritances, and
Edsel can only translate between his daughter’s world and his own
when he strays from “Chinese-father orthodoxy” () and has real
conversations with her. Yet the burden of translation is not shared
equally by the male and the female characters. In both stories women
(Edna and Mandy) make stronger attempts than any of the male
characters to mediate between cultures, to move beyond a binary un-
derstanding of languages and worldviews. Perhaps this should come
as no surprise since, as numerous translation theorists have pointed
out, translation is often viewed as a “feminized” or subservient pro-
fession. In the works I discuss in this book, women often suffer real
physical or psychological impairment, sometimes resulting in death,
when their translations fail. “Inheritance” suggests that Edna’s in-
ability to translate is life threatening, and as Kingston’s and Ng’s
texts also demonstrate, for female characters translation is often
about their very survival. Kingston and Ng investigate more exten-
sively than Louie how gendered familial relations—and a parent/
ethnic culture that is itself seen as devaluing women—inﬂect trans-
lation difficulties, but in Louie’s texts gender plays a role, and
women characters most often bear the heaviest burdens as transla-
tors, as the links between divergent worldviews. And the need for
syncretic and writerly, resistant translations that transcode ethnic-
ity is all the more pressing when the “source” text (or parent/ethnic
culture) is one that appears to devalue women.
Neubert and Shreve describe translation as an attempt to cross
both linguistic and extralinguistic (social and cultural) frontiers
(). This concept is operative in “Inheritance”; for example, Edsel
must learn to bridge both linguistic and cultural gaps separating
his world from his daughter’s. Ng’s central character in Bone, Leila
Fu, shares this concept of translation as a crossing of both linguis-
  

tic and cultural frontiers. As an actual translator for a school in
San Francisco’s Chinatown, Leila’s job is about “being the bridge
between the classroom teacher and the parents,” about “getting the
parents involved, opening up a line of communication” (). Leila
can converse in both English and Chinese, yet she also recognizes
situations in which the Chinese attitudes conveyed by the use of
Chinese prohibit translation: “I use my This Isn’t China defense.
I remind them ‘We’re in America.’ But some parents take this to
heart and raise their voices. ‘We’re Chinese ﬁrst, always’” (). Leila
stops the argument there, for, like Mrs. Pang and Edna’s mother,
these parents employ language to refuse a compromise between
Chinese and American cultures rather than to create a bridge be-
tween them. And Leila sees and understands this refusal for what
it is: not a literal inability to translate but a metaphorical one, a
symbolic refusal to begin crossing cultural divisions, transcoding
ethnicity, and transmigrating tongues.
In her own life, Leila claims to be unable, literally, to translate
some of her feelings: “I have a whole different vocabulary of feeling
in English than in Chinese, and not everything can be translated”
(). She also suggests that her parents have this problem; about her
mother she says, “She had a world of words that were beyond me”
(). But Leila can, in fact, translate her mother’s “world of words”:
“Mah grunted, a huumph sound that came out like a curse. My
translation was: Disgust, anger. There’s power behind her sounds.
Over the years I’ve listened and rendered her Chinese grunts into
English words” (). Leila has discovered how to decode the meta-
phorical meanings behind her mother’s Chinese grunts, to trans-
late them into a language that crosses the barriers between Chinese
and English. Leila has also learned to ﬁnd linguistic transmigra-
tions between her mother’s world and her own, as the following
exchange about Leila’s husband, Mason, demonstrates:
“What?” I was too upset to stop. “What?” I demanded
again. “You don’t like Mason, is that it?”
“Mason,” Mah spoke his name soft, “I love.”
For love, she used a Chinese word: to embrace, to hug.
I stepped around the boxes, opened my arms and hugged
   
Mah. I held her and took a deep breath and smelled the dried
honeysuckle stems, the bitter ginseng root. ()
Leila translates her mother’s Chinese term for “love” into an En-
glish word that is meaningful to herself and her readers, and the
translation is both literal (from the Chinese word to the English
meaning) and metaphorical (from the world of China, ginseng, and
the mother to the world of the daughter). The Chinese word for
“love” that Leila’s mother uses is thus transmigrated into the En-
glish language. Leila’s mother feels angered that her daughter has
married without the traditional Chinese wedding banquet, and
Leila feels defensive about her choice of an American marriage in a
city hall with only her sister as witness. Yet the word Leila’s mother
uses for “love” acts as a bridge between the two women, a transla-
tion that encourages, rather than inhibits, communication. This
translation allows a crossing between the daughter’s modern world
of America and the mother’s traditional world of China and shows
that mother and daughter are compromising rather than remaining
on opposed sides of a cultural divide.
Ng’s main character speaks more Chinese than do Louie’s char-
acters, yet this is only part of her success as a translator. As Neubert
and Shreve explain, translation is a constructed (or learned) com-
petence (), an active process of problem solving that must be ac-
quired (). Since “Chinese appears to be a more context-sensitive
language than English,” a context of shared experiences and knowl-
edge is necessary (Aaronson and Ferres ). Leila is a successful
Chinese-to-English translator, then, both because she actively
problem-solves in order to translate difficult words and sounds and
because she is willing to understand and transcode her mother’s
cultural context. As a child, Leila hated the responsibility of trans-
lation: “What I hated most was the talking for Mah and Leon, the
whole translation number. Every English word counted and I was
responsible. I went through a real resentment stage” (). Yet Leila
grows away from her resentment, although her statement on this
subject is still somewhat tentative: “I’m over that now, I think”
(). As an adult, Leila does not resent translating, and she shares
her parents’ context in order to bridge her world and theirs. Leila
  

also has a respect for her parents and for the Chinese culture that
is completely absent in any of the second-generation characters in
“Pangs of Love.” For example, after the suicide of Leila’s sister Ona,
Leila’s mother can only be consoled by the Chinese “sewing ladies”
who “knew all the necessary rituals to get through this hard time”
and who succeed in “plucking the pain out” (). Leila recognizes
that these women have an art valuable to her own life: “Bringing
the right foods was as delicate as saying the right words. The sew-
ing ladies knew, in ways I was still watching and learning from, how
to draw out Mah’s sadness and then take it away” (, emphasis
added). According to John Felstiner, “translation acts not merely
to convey or extend but to regenerate tradition” (), and one can
observe this regeneration occurring in Bone. Translation grants tra-
dition new life: the ways of the Chinese sewing ladies will continue
to be meaningful in new contexts and new historical frameworks.
Furthermore, in this passage ethnicity itself is transcoded. It does
not represent something alien, foreign, other, and separate from the
American (as it does in “Pangs of Love”) but something positive,
useful, and part of the American context and world. The Chinese
sewing ladies, after all, exist in America (in an American China-
town), not in the “alien” or “foreign” ethnic world of China.
Yet translation is a two-way street, as Neubert and Shreve ex-
plain: “Translation is motivated by a common desire to cross that
frontier. The source language . . . user and the target language . . .
user want to communicate with one another” (). In “Pangs of
Love,” Mrs. Pang sees no value in her sons’ world, and at times in
Bone, Leila’s mother also seems unwilling to share in her children’s
world and selﬁsh in her insistence that they adapt to hers. Nina
(Leila’s youngest sister) complains that her parents “have no idea
what our lives are about. They don’t want to come into our worlds”
(). Nina believes her parents, like Mrs. Pang, are stuck in their
traditional ways: “We keep on having to live in their world. They
won’t move one bit” (). Nina’s statements have a certain degree of
truth, but they are somewhat hyperbolic; change on the part of the
parents is occurring slowly. Leila’s stepfather, Leon, for example,
rejects the “traditional” Chinese view that sons are of more value
than daughters, saying that “ﬁve sons don’t make one good daugh-
ter” (). Like Edsel in “Inheritance,” Leon strays from “Chinese-
   
father orthodoxy,” and Leila’s ability to translate the parent culture
may be enabled by change in its gender structure and change in
gendered family relations. Similarly, despite its nontraditional, non-
Chinese ceremony, Leila’s mother accepts her daughter’s marriage
to Mason. Earlier, Leila’s mother had also accepted Leila’s decision
to live with Mason before marriage, reacting with tolerance and
understanding: “‘Give it a test.’ She nodded, and then muttered,
almost to herself, ‘Remember to have a way out’” (). Both Leila’s
mother and father demonstrate a certain ﬂexibility in their cultural
beliefs, a willingness to transcode and adapt Chinese traditions of
gender and marriage so that they can function in new ways in the
child’s “American” context.
Communication and translation are enabled, then, by willing-
ness to transcode ethnic identity. The novel also suggests that
those who cannot ﬁnd a compromise between their two cultures
may not survive; like Edna’s mother or Mrs. Pang, they may be
lost in translation. Ona, the middle daughter, commits suicide,
and one of the catalysts of her death is an inability to translate be-
tween disjunctive worldviews. Shortly before her death, Ona falls
in love with Osvaldo Ong, the son of her parents’ business partner.
When Osvaldo’s father embezzles the business’s money, however,
Ona’s father, Leon, forbids her to see Osvaldo. According to Leila,
Leon reverts to a Chinese “old-world” view that sees women—or,
more speciﬁcally, daughters—as property controlled by the father:
“When things went sour, Leon got dangerously old-world about
his control over Ona” (). But Ona has grown up in the “new
world” of America, and she believes that she has the right to choose
her own romantic partner and to be self-deﬁned. She continues to
see Osvaldo until her father forcibly ejects her from the family’s
home in Chinatown. Ona is not comfortable, however, in a world
that is completely American, as Leila explains: “Ona told me about
how she felt outside Chinatown. She never felt comfortable . . . she
never felt like she ﬁt in” (). Ona is thus part American and part
Chinese in her belief system, but she is unable to transcode either
culture; they remain as separate and inassimilable linguistic and
cultural terrains in her psyche.
As the middle child, Ona should be in a perfect position to syn-
cretize the world of her Chinese parents and the world of America.
  

Nina, the rebellious younger child, looks down on her parents’ cus-
toms and ﬂees three thousand miles to New York. Leila, the duti-
ful oldest daughter, has trouble leaving her parents to live her own
life. Ona can ﬁnd comfort in neither of these extremes: oscillat-
ing between them, she is ultimately destroyed by the tug-of-war
between America and China. Ona cannot ﬁnd a translation be-
tween new-world and old-world values, between her desire to have
a life of her own and her need for paternal acceptance, between
Leon’s deﬁnition of her as a dutiful daughter and her own need
to be self-deﬁned. Ona also cannot discover a language to bridge
these conﬂicts, and so she falls into a silence and invisibility that
foreshadow her eventual suicide: “Ona got used to keeping every-
thing inside, to holding the seeds of herself secret from us, and we
got used to her shadowy presence” (). And because Ona’s fam-
ily cannot translate her life back into words, she seems to be lost in
translation, as Leila explains: “Ona has become a kind of silence in
our lives. We don’t talk about her” (). Literally, the family does
not speak of Ona, but more metaphorically they refuse to translate
her life out of the void of death and silence and back into the living
world of language.
Yet Leila eventually tells Ona’s story. Therefore, the novel should
be construed as a breaking of the silence surrounding Ona’s life,
and Leila’s narration of the novel must be read as an attempt to en-
sure that Ona is not lost in translation. Leila tells us that “Ona was
a counter” who “counted off the days till Leon was coming home”
and then counted “out ninety-nine kisses to keep him safe” ().
Ona counts, and Leila’s narrative recounts her life in language that
lives and breathes with Ona’s very personality: “Ona had always
been the forward-looking one. She was always excited about the
next day, the tomorrow. . . . Ona wanted to be a smart old goddess.
She wanted to be a seawoman and sail the world, to see everything
Leon saw” (); “If Ona were here, she would count the living; Ona
would tell us that there are more living than dead” (). Although
her parents insist on keeping secrets, a deeper cultural wisdom
stresses the need for articulation; Leila remembers the advice of the
sewing ladies: “Talk. Talk good things and urge the sadness away”
(). If Ona is to be a living presence, rather than a dead relic, her
life must be translated back into active language, into a living story.
   
In the end, it is the power of storytelling that the novel endorses:
“Family exists only because somebody has a story, and knowing the
story connects us to a history” (). Leila’s recounting of Ona’s life
breaks down the barrier between the past and the present, between
her parents’ Chinese silence about the shameful suicide and Leila’s
own need for expression, between an Ona who is lost in translation
and an Ona who is living, breathing, and counting. It also breaks
down the barriers between an “old-world” patriarchal view of Ona
as a silent and passive possession and a “new-world” view of Ona as
a self-deﬁned American individual. In Leila’s translation of Ona’s
life, Ona is both a sweet daughter, counting out kisses for her fa-
ther, and a salty sailor, sailing the world. Leila creates a writerly
translation of Ona’s life that mediates not only between the Chi-
nese and American but also between a silent, passive “text” that is
forgotten in the past and an active, spoken one that is re-created in
the present.
In each of the works discussed so far, storytelling plays a cen-
tral role in intergenerational communication and in translation it-
self. For what is elided, speciﬁcally, when no translation occurs,
are the stories: the stories of the parents’ culture, the stories of the
children’s world, and the stories of the syncretic reconciliation that
translation might enact between them. The parent culture (ﬁgured
here as the ethnic) is often silenced or forgotten when the children
(ﬁgured here as the American) cannot translate it into comprehen-
sibility. However, in its most active and writerly sense translation
has the capacity to push the ethnic back into language, into cul-
tural circulation, into stories, when it is in danger of being lost in
a void of silence, of unintelligibility. In these works, storytelling
and translation are therefore closely and crucially interlinked: both
function as potential conduits between not only China and Amer-
ica but also the silenced and the spoken, between what is lost in the
void of the past and what lingers in present cultural memory and
circulation. Storytelling becomes crucially embedded, then, within
the larger discursive enterprise of translation.
This concept of storytelling as a translation between not only
China and America, but also the silenced and the spoken, under-
lies Maxine Hong Kingston’s The Woman Warrior. Like Bone, the
book begins with the breaking of silences about a suicide: Kings-
  

ton’s protagonist is told to be silent about her aunt’s death, but she
insists on writing about it (, ). By imagining and writing a more
positive story for this woman, Kingston creates a translation of her
aunt’s life that crosses the borders between the Chinese injunction
to be silent about this shameful suicide and her American need for
a myth of ancestral strength.4
Throughout the novel, however, the
protagonist is preoccupied with a series of seemingly irresolvable
translation paradoxes: How can she translate the patriarchal Chi-
nese stories she hears about her ancestors into a positive cultural
legacy that she can use in the difficult world of America (“Unless I
see [my aunt’s] life branching into mine, she gives me no ancestral
help” [])? How can she incorporate a sexist Chinese language into
her own writing in a way that does not debilitate her (“There is a
Chinese word for the female I—which is ‘slave.’ Break the women
with their own tongues!” [])? How can she transcode false cul-
tural myths about a China she has never seen into a meaningful
and useful cultural legacy in America (“What is Chinese tradition
and what is the movies?” [])? Facing such paradoxical problems,
Kingston is sometimes tempted to conclude that her Chinese heri-
tage is untransportable and even disabling—that it is not worth
transcoding or disarticulating from the discourse of the alien, the
foreign, the other. Yet the movement toward a resolution of these
translation dilemmas is the plot of The Woman Warrior, for as the
protagonist shifts from a readerly to a writerly translation process,
she apprehends that her conﬂicting cultural heritage actually en-
ables the ability to produce unique translations that break down
the divisions between cultures, translations that ﬁnally transcode
and reanimate both cultural and linguistic terrains.
An analysis of the text’s movement toward a more positive and
writerly process of translation must begin with the question of
Kingston’s own silences and of how these silences coincide with
problems in the translation of her cultural and linguistic identity.
Gender plays a clearer role in Kingston’s translation problems than
in Louie’s or Ng’s texts, and as I argue later, Kingston’s protago-
nist does eventually develop a feminized and resistant practice of
translation. Initially, however, she seems stymied by the difficulties
that race and gender impose. To use Louie’s term, “Chinese-father
orthodoxy” deﬁnes Kingston’s identity as silent and passive; how-
   
ever, she cannot completely accept the individualism of an Ameri-
can identity, an American “I.” Both King-Kok Cheung and David
Leiwei Li have noted Kingston’s problematic conceptualization of
the word “I” (Cheung, Articulate Silences; Li, “Naming”). Yet this
difficulty is one of translation, for the Chinese feminine “I” is sex-
ist and demeaning, while the American “I” is too slippery for her
to grasp: “How could the American ‘I,’ assuredly wearing a hat like
the Chinese, have only three strokes, the middle so straight?” ().
Literally, Kingston cannot transcode the English “I” into terms she
can understand as a Chinese living in America. But she adamantly
rejects the female Chinese character for “I,” claiming that it offers
her no positive linguistic or cultural identity but only an identity
as a “slave” ().5
Thus Kingston’s silence and lack of “I”dentity are
not a product of either her Chinese or her American heritage. In-
stead they are produced by the interplay of both heritages and by
her inability to ﬁnd a meaningful transcoding of these two linguis-
tic and cultural terrains and the divergent conceptions of femininity
they seem to promote. This point is also made in terms of Kings-
ton’s own problems with language: at times her silences are ﬁgured
as the product of being a “Chinese girl” (), while at other times
they are linked to a desire to be “American-feminine” (, ). In
fact, Kingston’s muteness is created by gaps between the linguistic
and cultural systems she has access to and by her lack of facility in
bridging these gaps through a meaningful translation that takes ac-
count of both linguistic and cultural universes. Therefore, the strug-
gle in the book is to open up these silences, translate them, break
them into language and into stories. Kingston’s own body is some-
times ﬁgured as a text; in the mythological episode “White Tigers,”
for example, her parents carve words on her back that report the
crimes against her family (–). Yet Kingston struggles in the
book not to be a text, an icon of the divided, marked, scarred eth-
nic American body/self, but rather to speak a text that transcodes
this body/self into a new entity.6
Kingston must learn to engage in a writerly process of trans-
lation that re-creates the scripts of cultural and gendered identity
and voice that have silenced and disempowered her, and she must
use her translations to speak through and against derogatory con-
structs of race and gender. Yet like Leila in Bone, as a young girl
  

Kingston resents the process of translation, and she refuses the
problem solving that translation of necessity entails. For example,
when a druggist erroneously sends medicine to her family’s home
(an omen of bad luck) and Kingston must ask for candy (or “sweet-
ness”) to amend this evil omen, she does not even try to translate
this custom, to make it comprehensible to the druggist. Instead,
she demands some “sample candy,” which the druggist initially re-
fuses to give to her:
“We don’t give sample candy, young lady,” he said.
“My mother said you have to give us candy. She said that is
the way the Chinese do it.”
“What?”
“That is the way the Chinese do it.”
“Do what?”
“Do things.” I felt the weight and immensity of things im-
possible to explain to the druggist. ()
Instead of translating or transcoding the custom, she resorts to re-
peating the same words, words that explain little: “That is the way
the Chinese do it.” Her failure underscores the underlying ethnic
conﬂict: the second generation is alienated from the ﬁrst genera-
tion’s traditions, lacking both the language to explain these cus-
toms and the respectful motivation necessary to create a successful
translation of them. Kingston is afraid that her mother will make
her “swing stinky censers across the counter, at the druggist” or
“throw dog blood on the druggist” (). Chinese ethnicity is here
portrayed as baggage that cannot—and should not—be transcoded
or disarticulated from a discourse that would label it foreign, other,
or savage. Kingston’s mother, for her part, refuses to participate in
her daughter’s world or even to acknowledge the difficulties of her
daughter’s position, saying callously, “You just translate” (). Al-
though one critic has argued that in Kingston’s writing the process
of translation is “transparent” because Kingston tends “to smooth
away the linguistic ruptures resultant from intertextual/intercul-
tural transposition” (Huang –), it should be clear that here
and elsewhere Kingston foregrounds the very arduous and visible
process of intercultural translation in which her protagonist is ex-
pected to engage.
   
These problems of/in translation are compounded by the fact
that the heritages of the ﬁrst and the second generation are con-
ﬁgured as disjunctive and inaccessible. The parents speak Chinese
and hide their real names from authorities and from their children.
They also conceal the meaning of their Chinese heritage; repeat-
edly, Kingston makes the point that parents will not explain many
of the Chinese customs to their ghostlike, “barbarian” children
(, –). The immigrants also denigrate American culture and,
by extension, the world their children inhabit: “They called us a
kind of ghost. Ghosts are noisy and full of air; they talk during
meals. They talk about anything” (–). The parents, then, see
little of value in “the American” and refuse to transcode it, main-
taining instead a “pure” Chinese ethnic identity. For their part, the
children mostly ignore their parents’ customs, speaking in English
() and refusing to translate. When Kingston’s maternal aunt,
Moon Orchid, asks a child what he is reading about, he responds:
“I don’t know the Chinese words for it” (). This could be read
as a literal statement of an inability to disambiguate, but the fact
that the “child’s” vocabulary includes sophisticated Chinese words
such as those for “thermometer” and “library” belies this literal in-
terpretation of the incident. If translation is a learned competence
(Neubert and Shreve ), it seems clear from these examples that
the process of learning has stopped.
Yet, as do Ng and Louie in their books, in The Woman War-
rior Kingston suggests that those who do not learn this process
of translation run the risk of ending up insane, dead, or isolated.
Like Louie and Ng, Kingston also implies that women, in particu-
lar, bear the heaviest burden as translators and stand to suffer the
greatest losses when their translations fail. The stories of Moon
Orchid and of Crazy Mary demonstrate this point. At the urging
of Kingston’s mother, Moon Orchid comes to the United States
prepared to reclaim the husband who moved there thirty years ago.
But Moon Orchid’s husband has remarried and become extremely
Americanized. He considers Moon Orchid untransferable, saying,
“She’d never ﬁt into an American household. . . . [She] can barely
talk to me” (). Indeed, Moon Orchid’s cultural alienation is so
great that she cannot ﬁt herself into the American world at all, and
she eventually goes insane and dies in a mental institution.
  

Moon Orchid’s insanity takes a peculiar form from the point of
view of language and translation theory. As her insanity progresses,
she claims that she understands other immigrants—the Mexicans:
“This time, miraculously, I understood. I decoded their speech. I
penetrated the words and understood what was happening inside”
(). Moon Orchid’s claim demonstrates a point translation theo-
rists and the texts discussed so far have detailed: shared experience,
rather than language facility itself, enables translation. But does
Moon Orchid actually understand the Mexican immigrants? Has
she penetrated through their dialect to a pure language bound to-
gether by commonalties, a pure language hidden beneath the bab-
ble of impure tongues? This episode raises a question central to
translation theory: are all languages tied together by a universal,
underlying language, as translation theorists such as Paz () have
wondered? If so, then the translator might seek to recover this com-
mon, underlying language. As a translator, Moon Orchid seems to
ﬁnd a pure language that undergirds all language, and in the men-
tal institution she repeats this idea when she discusses the other
inmates: “We understand one another here. We speak the same lan-
guage, the very same” (). Of course, Moon Orchid is insane,
and she dies shortly after making this statement. Through the ex-
ample of Moon Orchid, then, Kingston rejects the notion of a lo-
catable reine sprache—a pure language that underlies all languages.
If such a language exists, Kingston seems to say, it is a language of
insanity, one that cannot survive in a real-world social context. The
novel also indicates that what control Moon Orchid does achieve
over her language through her “translations” exists only in a fan-
tasy; she retreats into an imaginary, pure language that cannot sur-
vive in the real world of disjunctive and imperfect translations and
tongues.
The connection between insanity, untranslatability, and the re-
treat into a “pure” language no one can understand is also alluded
to in the story of Crazy Mary, another recent Chinese immigrant,
a story Kingston herself fears replicating. Mary’s family leaves her
in China when she is a toddler, and by the time they have enough
money to send for her she is twenty years old and completely in-
sane. Like Moon Orchid, Mary speaks a “pure” language all her
own, composed mainly of “growls” and “laughs” (), a language
   
no one can translate. And like Moon Orchid, Mary’s insanity and
her “pure” language seem to have been produced by cultural and
linguistic alienation; as Kingston notes, “Their other children, who
were born in the U.S., were normal and could translate” (, em-
phasis added). But insanity and lack of translation are not just a
problem for recent Chinese immigrants; Kingston fears insanity
herself. Kingston talks to people in her head, drops dishes, picks
her nose while cooking, wears wrinkled clothes, limps, and has a
mysterious illness. Although some of this behavior is affected, she
wonders if this could be the onset of insanity: “Indeed I was get-
ting stranger every day”; “I did not want to be our crazy one” ().
Through her adoption of these odd mannerisms, she resists being
married off in what she sees as “traditional” Chinese fashion. Yet
her refusal to transcode her parents’ heritage into something use-
ful in her own life exposes her to the risk of becoming like Crazy
Mary and Moon Orchid: untranslatable, insane—caught in a fan-
tasy world of one’s imagination, trapped in a linguistic universe of
one’s own, using a pure (yet insane) language.
Kingston comments early in the book that she “could not ﬁg-
ure out what was [her] village” (); does she belong in a Chinese
world, or does she belong in an American one? Ultimately, Kings-
ton uses language to break down this division, stating, “My job
is my own only land” (). On a literal level, this statement refers
to the fact that in an agricultural society, a peasant without land
had no food and work. Literally, Kingston’s job (writing) is the
equivalent of land: it gives her food and work. But Kingston is
not in the agrarian, rural world of China; she is in the urbanized,
industrial world of the United States. This statement must there-
fore be translated as a symbolization of the way that Kingston’s
writing helps her mediate her disjunctive cultural heritage, trans-
code her ethnicity, and ﬁnd place: when Kingston writes, she ﬁnds
her “own only land” by breaking down the binary oppositions that
have disabled her. In the same passage, Kingston comments that
nobody has “united both North American and Asia” but that as
“a descendant of eighty pole ﬁghters, I ought to be able to set out
conﬁdently, march straight down our street, get going right now”
(). Through her writing, Kingston breaks down the oppositions
that separate North America and Asia, syncretizing and transcod-
  

ing her dual and at times conﬂicting cultural heritage as a Chinese
and an American in order to create something new.7
Translation has been characterized as a search for correspon-
dences between a source text and a target text, but such corre-
spondences can be found only when the translator believes the
source text has something useful and relevant to communicate. To
transfer this analogy to Kingston’s own struggle, she must value her
parents’ culture before she can translate it into her own life, before
she can ﬁnd correspondences. In an episode in her later volume
China Men, Kingston ﬁnds herself conversing ﬂuently and easily in
Chinese with her paternal aunt, and she comments, “I was speak-
ing well because I was talking to her; there are people who dry up
language” (, emphasis added). Kingston senses a love, respect,
and tolerance on the part of her aunt, which enables her ability to
translate. Similarly, when Kingston compliments her aunt on her
English, the aunt responds that her children refuse to talk to her:
“They shout at me and tell me I’m too stupid to understand. They
hardly come home, and when I ask them what they’re doing, they
say I’m dumb” (China Men –). Both women possess a trans-
lating consciousness—the ability to intertwine words and worlds.
And in China Men, Kingston’s and her aunt’s mutual respect regen-
erates and interanimates their ability to ﬁnd points of connection
and of correspondence.
Despite some negative feelings between mother and daughter,
this mutual respect is also present in The Woman Warrior, and it
enables Kingston’s ﬁnding of correspondences between her own
world and her mother’s. Kingston realizes that she and her mother
share the gift of storytelling and that all her life she has been in the
presence of a great power, her mother “talking-story” (–). And
her mother ﬁnally realizes that she needs her daughter, saying: “I
want you here, not wandering like a ghost from Romany” ().
But Brave Orchid (Kingston’s mother) does also accept, ﬁnally, her
daughter’s choice of a distant domicile, saying: “The weather in
California must not agree with you. . . . Of course, you must go,
Little Dog” (). Brave Orchid’s use of the nickname “Little Dog”
is highly signiﬁcant, demonstrating a protective and loving care for
her daughter. As Kingston explains, “Little Dog” is an “endear-
   
ment,” “a name to fool the gods” () since both Kingston and
her mother were actually born in the Chinese year of the dragon.
At other times in the book Kingston misconstrues her mother’s
use of Chinese customs and traditions, but here she understands
this endearment, this translation of her status. In Chinese tradi-
tion, people born in the year of the dragon are said to be powerful,
energetic, and strong, and Kingston here takes pride in the Chi-
nese heritage she shares with her mother: “I am really a Dragon,
as she is a Dragon. . . . I am practically a ﬁrst daughter of a ﬁrst
daughter” (). The term “Little Dog” also functions as a blessing
from her mother, as a linguistic entity through which the mother
and daughter achieve peace. When Kingston’s mother uses this
term, Kingston feels “a weight lifted from me. The quilts must be
ﬁlling with air. The world is somehow lighter” (–). As in Bone,
a Chinese term and its English translation (“Mason I love,” “Little
Dog”) suggest cultural compromise, intergenerational reconcilia-
tion, and transmigration of the Chinese tongue into English, rather
than the “drying up” of language.
The translation of “Little Dog” is also a writerly translation that
makes both Kingston and her mother active participants in the
creation of meaning. Like Edna and Leila, Kingston must learn
to be a writerly translator or she will be unable to create such suc-
cessful translations. In one chapter, for example, Kingston literally
translates her mother’s statement that she is ugly, but her readerly
translation fails to take account of the Chinese cultural context
in which, as Kingston’s mother explains, “that’s what Chinese say.
We like to say the opposite” (). Some of Kingston’s translations
of Chinese ideographs also rely on a literal translation. About the
word for mountain, for example, she comments that it “look[s] like
the ideograph ‘mountain’” (). Kingston cannot translate certain
words, such as Sit Dom Kuei (a kind of ghost) because she seeks
a literal, uncontextualized dictionary deﬁnition of them: “I keep
looking in dictionaries under those syllables. ‘Kuei’ means ‘ghost,’
but I don’t ﬁnd any other words that make sense” ().8
Yet Kingston sometimes ﬁnds more writerly and contextualized
translations. She ﬁnds multiple meanings for the phrase used to
refer to immigrant children, “Ho Chi Kuei.” Kingston translates
  

“kuei” as “ghost,” but ho and/or chi are more confusing and could
mean: “‘centipede,’ ‘grub,’ ‘bastard carp,’ ‘chirping insect,’ ‘jujube
tree,’ ‘pied wagtail,’ ‘grain sieve,’ or ‘casket sacriﬁce’” (). How-
ever, Kingston rejects these translations because she ﬁnds them
irrelevant to the way “Ho Chi Kuei” is used, to the term’s social
context. Instead, she begins a more writerly process of translation:
“Perhaps I’ve romanized the spelling wrong and it is Hao Chi Kuei,
which could mean they are calling us ‘Good Foundation Ghosts.’
The immigrants could be saying that we were born on Gold Moun-
tain and have advantages. Sometimes they scorn us for having had
it so easy, and sometimes they’re delighted” (–). Kingston has
moved from a literal examination of the word’s meaning to a more
metaphorical way of translating and transmigrating it; she is now
striving to apply it to her own life and to her interactions with her
relatives. In so doing, she asserts control over the process of transla-
tion, actively participating in it and transcoding her parents’ ethnic
heritage. More important, this writerly process of translation al-
lows Kingston to create a positive cultural legacy for herself, one
in which the prior generation does not disparage the children’s ex-
perience. According to Lorraine Dong and Marlon Hom, phrases
such as “hu-ji,” “hu-ji hauh,” “hu-ji doi,” and “hu-ji nui” are all new
terms created out of the Chinese experience in the United States
that refer to Chinese Americans (, ). Dong and Hom translate
“hu-ji,” for example, as “product/son of the earth,” a term “usu-
ally but not always derogatorily used by the older generation for
the younger” (). Similarly, “hu-ji hauh” means literally “a native
head” (), again perhaps a pejorative term for the younger genera-
tion. By disregarding such negative translations of the phrase “Ho
Chi Kuei” and creating a more positive reading of it, Kingston de-
constructs the pejorative way her generation has been construed,
creates a more positive relationship to her parental culture and lan-
guage, and promotes the permeation of cultures that translation in
its most metaphorical sense engenders. In the end, then, through
translation she transcodes the meaning of the parent culture’s eth-
nicity so that it signiﬁes something positive that can grant her an-
cestral strength.
Kingston also suggests that such a writerly process of transla-
tion enables this ability to break down the disjunctions between
   
her Chinese and American heritage: “I like to look up a trouble-
some, shameful thing and then say, ‘Oh is that all?’ . . . It drives
the fear away and makes it possible someday to visit China, where
I know now they don’t sell girls or kill each other for no reason”
(). It may seem odd that the act of looking up words such as
“Sit Dom Kuei” generates confusion about China, while the act of
looking up other words drives away fear and creates an acceptance
of this world. But in this latter instance of using the dictionary,
Kingston searches in a less literal way and ﬁnds a more writerly
and metaphorical process of translation that allows her to allay her
fears and be more accepting of her Chinese heritage. After all, “Hao
Chi Kuei” () (which Kingston translates as “Good Foundation
Ghost”) may be Kingston’s invention, her transcoding of the nega-
tive term Ho Chi Kuei into something positive and meaningful
in her own world. Like all good translations, “Good Foundation
Ghost” gives voice to the source text while also allowing for the
translator’s creative, inventive, and artistic point of view. Hao Chi
Kuei, in opposition to Ho Chi Kuei, reﬂects a compromise and
even a peace between the world of the Chinese immigrants and that
of their American offspring.
A writerly process of translation also helps Kingston mediate
the conﬂicting gender roles she has inherited as a Chinese Ameri-
can. Looking up words and translating them makes it possible for
Kingston, as previously noted, to understand that China is not a
land where they “sell girls [and] kill each other for no reason” ().
And yet Kingston still ﬁnds herself confronting an antagonistic
source culture—a culture that appears to devalue women and in-
cludes maxims such as “‘girls are maggots in the rice’” and “‘it is
more proﬁtable to raise geese than daughters’” (). Discussing the
role of gender in translation, Carol Maier argues that “the transla-
tor’s quest is not to silence but to give voice, to make available texts
that raise difficult questions and open perspectives. It is essential
that as translators women get under the skin of both antagonistic
and sympathetic works. They must become independent, ‘resisting’
interpreters who do not only let antagonistic works speak . . . but
also speak with them and place them in a larger context by discuss-
ing them and the process of translation” (). In the chapters “No
Name Woman,” “White Tigers,” and “Song for a Barbarian Reed
  

Pipe,” Kingston portrays antagonistic myths from Chinese culture,
but she also slowly learns how to transcode these myths—to speak
through them and against them so that they give her “ancestral
help” as a woman and as a Chinese American.
In “No Name Woman” Kingston ﬁrst imagines the antagonis-
tic story—the story of a woman who is forced into marriage, raped
while her husband is away, and then silenced “as if she had never
been born” (). But this is not a story that Kingston ﬁnds helpful:
“Unless I see her life branching into mine, she gives me no ances-
tral help” (). To ﬁnd “ancestral help” in this story, then, Kingston
begins to retranslate it. She sees her aunt as a woman who perhaps
was in love, who perhaps stood at the mirror and “combed indi-
viduality into her bob” (). Most important, Kingston gives voice
to her aunt’s silenced life. Her mother explicitly tells her that “you
must never tell anyone . . . what I am about to tell you” () and
“don’t tell anyone you had an aunt” (). Yet Kingston does tell
the story, translating it out of silence into language: “I alone de-
vote pages of paper to her” (). In this text, however, Kingston is
unable to formulate a resistant translation. She does tell the story,
and she does attempt to revise it, but in the end she remains faith-
ful to the outlines, at least, of the source text. Perhaps this is why
Kingston describes her aunt as “forever hungry” and waiting “si-
lently by the water” to pull Kingston down into the well (). The
ghost is still hungry because Kingston has not written a text that
nourishes it, that gives it life and substance.
In “White Tigers,” on the other hand, Kingston becomes more
of a feminist and resistant translator. As an author, Kingston has
been accused of being unfaithful to the original version of the myth
of Fa Mu Lan, but her response is insightful in terms of how she
views her translation of it: “Sinologists have criticized me for not
knowing myths and for distorting them: pirates correct my myths,
revising them to make them conform to some traditional Chinese
version. They don’t understand that myths have to change, be use-
ful or be forgotten. Like the people who carry them across the
oceans, the myths become American. The myths I write are new,
American” (“Personal Statement” ). Kingston takes the story
of Fa Mu Lan out of its original context and rewrites it. Such deterri-
torialization, decontextualization, and contamination of a source
   
text may be emblematic of a feminist practice of translation (see
Flotow-Evans ). Kingston also seems to have explicitly feminist
goals in her adaptation of this myth, as her statements indicate: “I
take the power I need from whatever myth. Thus Fa Mu Lan has
the words cut into her back; in traditional story, it is the man, Ngak
Fei the Patriot, whose parents cut vows on his back. I mean to take
his power for women” (“Personal Statement” ).9
In Barbara Go-
dard’s performative theory of feminist translation, “Translation . . .
is production, not reproduction” (). Such a goal seems to be at
work in “White Tigers.” Kingston does not so much mistranslate
the myth as retranslate it—not reproduce the myth but actually at-
tempt to produce it in a new way.
In Kingston’s new translation of the myth of Fa Mu Lan, the her-
oine can lead her people in successful battles (), give birth (),
and slay the baron who makes demeaning comments about women
(). She can then return home and become an example of “perfect
ﬁliality” (). Kingston’s story, then, portrays a woman who can
“have it all”: who can be both man and woman, heroic warrior and
dutiful daughter, a legend and a mother/wife. But there is some-
thing hyperbolic about this translation, as Kingston well knows.
And, most problematic, it does not ﬁt with her own life; like the
story of No Name Woman, it does not give her “ancestral help.”
Back in the United States, Kingston still feels that “my American
life has been such a disappointment” and that “I could not ﬁgure
out what was my village” (). Although she recognizes that “the
swordswoman and I are not so dissimilar” (), Kingston ends this
piece with the words of the crimes ﬂowing off her skin: “The re-
porting is the vengeance—not the beheading, not the gutting, but
the words. And I have so many words—‘chink’ words and ‘gook’
words too—that they do not ﬁt on my skin” (). Kingston has tried
to become a resistant translator who can perform the source text so
that it is given a feminist emphasis, but from this ending it appears
that she herself cannot avoid “becoming” the source text—an icon
of the divided and scarred ethnic, feminine self. The source text
has not, in short, been transcoded.
In the text’s concluding chapter, “Song for a Barbarian Reed
Pipe,” however, translation ﬁnally enables a transcoding of Kings-
ton’s understanding of Chinese cultural and gender structures that
  

is effective in the American world Kingston inhabits. In this chap-
ter, writerly, resistant translation produces a positive fusion be-
tween two seemingly dissociated and contradictory cultures, as
well as a productive reconsideration of gender roles. On the cul-
tural level, the last chapter reﬂects a syncretic reconciliation be-
tween the Chinese and the American, the mother’s world and the
daughter’s. Because a translation gives voice to both the source text
and the translator’s unique perspective, some translation theorists
argue that it should be viewed as coauthored. According to Barn-
stone, then, translation is “the work of two artists, or a double art”
().10
Literally, Kingston’s ﬁnal chapter is the product of at least
two artists (Kingston and her mother), as Kingston states: “Here is
a story my mother told me. . . . The beginning is hers, the ending,
mine” (). In a more metaphorical sense, however, this chapter is
also collaborative, a double art, for Kingston translates her moth-
er’s story while also revising and rewriting it so that it can be her
own. Calling herself “an outlaw knot-maker” (), she twists this
traditional story of Chinese culture into a new and unique Chinese
American design.
The original Chinese story is based on the life of Ts’ai Yen, the
ﬁrst great woman poet of China. Ts’ai Yen was captured by an
invading army in ..  and then spent twelve years in “barbar-
ian” lands. Finally, she was rescued and returned to her own land,
leaving her two children behind. As Cheung explains, then, “The
Chinese version highlights the poet’s eventual return to her own
people, a return that reinforces certain traditional and ethnocentric
Chinese notions” (“‘Don’t Tell’” ). The original version also em-
phasizes separation between not only the “barbarian” and the “Chi-
nese,” but also the mother who returns to China and the children
who remain in the foreign land. Kingston’s retelling of this story
does not avoid the idea of cultural and linguistic dislocation, for she
tells us that Ts’ai Yen’s “barbarian” children do not speak her lan-
guage and even make fun of their mother’s speech (). However,
Kingston’s version suggests that translation overcomes this separa-
tion. When Ts’ai Yen hears the “barbarian music,” she begins sing-
ing Chinese songs that cross the barriers between cultures: “Ts’ai
Yen sang about China and her family there. Her words seemed to
   
be Chinese, but the barbarians understood their sadness and anger.
Sometimes they thought they could catch barbarian phrases about
forever wandering” (). The songs also function as a bridge be-
tween the mother’s language and the children’s: “Her children did
not laugh, but eventually sang along when she left her tent to sit by
the winter campﬁres” (). In Kingston’s version of the story, Ts’ai
Yen ﬁnds a way of bridging the barriers between the new “barbar-
ian” world and the old world of China, the world of the children
and the world of the mother.
Read on a metaphorical level, “A Song for a Barbarian Reed
Pipe” suggests that Kingston has found a way of deconstructing the
binary oppositions that separate mother and daughter, China and
America—a way of transcoding Chinese ethnicity and transmigrat-
ing the Chinese tongue into English. Kingston says that Ts’ai Yen
“brought her songs back from the savage lands, and one of the
three that has been passed down to us is ‘Eighteen Stanzas for a
Barbarian Reed Pipe,’ a song that Chinese sing to their own instru-
ments. It translated well” (). In choosing to conclude her work
with “It translated well,” Kingston suggests the symbolic meaning
of translation as a trope for cultural syncretism and intergenera-
tional conjunction. Although the process is fraught with conﬂict,
in this story and in the book as a whole Kingston creates a trans-
lation that allows her to break down some of the barriers between
East and West, as well as to take strength from the interplay and
interpenetration between her disjunctive cultural and linguistic ter-
rains. She does not, then, as Yunte Huang claims, eradicate differ-
ences between texts or cultures “in order to create a unitary text”
() but, rather, allows differences between the mother and the
daughter, China and America, and the East and the West to remain
and even to power and animate her text and her translations.
This story also breaks down the distinctions between male and
female and between active and passive that Kingston ﬁnds in Chi-
nese legends, thereby facilitating her ability to locate “ancestral
strength” in her Chinese culture. Successful translators sometimes
pillage, and it should be noted that, in a sense, Kingston pillages
the story of Ts’ai Yen, reconstructing its gender biases so that the fe-
male poet can serve as a more active and resistant model for Kings-
  

ton’s own process of translation. The original version of this story
emphasizes the sadness of the mother’s leave-taking:
The seventeenth stanza. My heart aches, my tears fall.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Now I think again and again, over and over,
Of the sons I have lost.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I will never know them again
Once I have entered Chang An.
I try to strangle my sobs
But my tears stream down my face. (Ts’ai Yen )
The poem is a mournful catalogue of what the author has lost:
her homeland, her children, her identity. Moreover, in the original
version, Ts’ai Yen is passive, carried from one place to another, co-
erced into marriage, raped, and then forcibly separated from her
children. Kingston’s text recognizes that on a literal level Ts’ai Yen
remains passive: “After twelve years . . . Ts’ai Yen was ransomed
and married to Tung Ssu so that her father would have Han descen-
dants” (). But on the level of language and translation, Kings-
ton’s Ts’ai Yen is active, pursuing communication with the “barbar-
ian” culture and with her own children, bringing “her songs back
from the savage lands” and translating them into Chinese (). In
Kingston’s version, the pillaged (Ts’ai Yen) becomes not precisely a
pillager but certainly someone willing to integrate herself actively
into another culture and then “borrow” its cultural artifacts when
she leaves. This is a form of translation that Kingston respects, one
which begins to break away from a strictly gendered notion of ac-
tivity and passivity in Chinese women. Indeed, Ts’ai Yen is both
active and passive. As Barbara Johnson might say, Kingston has
been able to translate a difference between men and women (male
= active versus female = passive) into a difference within (Johnson,
Critical Difference ). And while not denying the poet’s passive
traits, Kingston highlights the activity of Ts’ai Yen’s character and
writing as the grounds on which translation is enabled. The more
active understanding of Ts’ai Yen that Kingston achieves through
   
her translation, then, enables a breaking down of binarisms not
only between East and West, parent and child, and the Chinese
and the American but also between the feminine and masculine.
Kingston portrays the antagonistic source text, but she also trans-
codes it through a resistant process of translation.
Kingston’s The Woman Warrior also adds a new idea to the trope
of translation, one that can be read backward into the other two
texts. The songs of Kingston’s Ts’ai Yen do not merely translate
“barbarian” music into Chinese or make Chinese words under-
standable to “barbarians.” In fact, Ts’ai Yen’s syncretic product com-
bines the two languages, the two worlds, even the two genders, pro-
ducing a new entity—a dynamic, regenerative, resistant song. As
I have argued, however, Kingston’s text seems to demonstrate that
there is no such thing as a pure and universal language, and we
could extend this to say that there is no such thing as a pure and
universal story, an original Ur-text that precedes all other texts.
There are only stories that are versions of other stories, words that
are translations of other translations. Therefore, as Paz says, “origi-
nality in a given translation is untrue in that no text is entirely
original because language itself, in its essence, is already a transla-
tion.” Yet, even so, “all texts are original because every translation is
distinctive. Every translation, up to a certain point, is an invention
and as such constitutes a text” (translated in Barnstone ). Each
act of translation, then, is old and new, repetitive of past texts/
traditions and a new text/tradition in its own right.
In the end it is this capacity for being both old and new, of the
past and of the present, that gives translation its power as a trope.
In Chinese American texts such as Pangs of Love, Bone, and The
Woman Warrior, translation breaks down the binary oppositions
between past and present, ﬁrst-generation and second-generation
experiences, between the Chinese and the American, between a si-
lenced story and a spoken reality, and, sometimes, between the fem-
inine and the masculine. Translation ﬁnally produces an evolving,
ﬂuid, intergenerational, intercultural text. As Neubert and Shreve
note, translation can play a signiﬁcant role in cultural change; trans-
lation can liberate by creating “new paradigms and new ways of
living” (). It is this dynamic, intercultural growth between and
  

across nations and time frames that translation, in all its metaphor-
ical senses, ultimately engenders. The works of Louie, Ng, and
Kingston express both the difficulties of translation as well as the
necessity of constructing a new interlinguistic and intercultural
heritage to constitute Chinese American identity—a heritage in
which the Chinese and the American interanimate and ﬁnally re-
create each other.
Finding a “Home” in Translation
John Okada’s No-No Boy and
Cynthia Kadohata’s The Floating World
tas-key-tehhh
wrong language
the line of white heels
in half
moons over my head
fade away . . .
hellllllllllp
still
wrong language
I will come up for air
in another language
all my own.
—Mitsuye Yamada,
“Drowning in My
Own Language,”
in Camp Notes
and Other Writings

  “”  

 ’  “Drowning in My Own Language”
() movingly articulates the struggle of Japanese Americans liv-
ing in the wake of World War II—after the forced internment of
Japanese American citizens in U.S. prisoner of war camps—to ﬁnd
a language of their own. Somewhere between Japanese and En-
glish (both ﬁgured as “wrong language[s]”) there must be “another
language / all my own.” In this new language, Japanese American
individuals will come up for air, ﬁnding a mode of translation that
creates a home in the interstices between languages and cultures.
I argued in the previous chapter that contemporary Chinese
American writers such as Louie, Ng, and Kingston sometimes de-
pict the failure of translation, yet as a whole their works formu-
late a practice of writerly translation that creates transcoded ethnic
identities and transmigrated tongues. This process is much more
conﬂicted for Japanese American writers in the wake of World War
II. During World War II approximately , Japanese Ameri-
cans were rounded up and shipped to “relocation” centers. Two-
thirds of these individuals were American citizens. This action was
taken even though the U.S. government had commissioned stud-
ies showing that these individuals posed no threat and were loyal
to the U.S. government.1
Several years later this loyalty would be
tested when Japanese American men were asked to ﬁght for the
United States and put in jail as “No-No boys” if they refused.
Historian Roger Daniels argues that these events marked a
profound rupture: “The relocation was and is the central event in
Japanese American history, the event from which all other events
are dated and compared. ‘Before the war’ and ‘after camp’ are the
phrases that provide the essential periodization of Japanese Ameri-
can life” (). For Japanese Americans the relocation also represented
a sharp break between a sense of self as belonging to the new cul-
ture and a sense of self as irrevocably alien. As one Nisei (second-
generation Japanese American) writes, “Suddenly, I became an ex-
plicit Jap, a beast, a lecherous threat to white womanhood, a person
without ethics, totally devious and sneaky, ugly, and hated. . . . It
was Jap, Jap, Jap, and it permeated popular radio shows, newspa-
pers, government pronouncements” (Mass ).2
Or as John Okada
phrases this in his preface to No-No Boy, “As of that moment, the
  “”   
Japanese in the United States became . . . animals of a different
breed. . . . Everything Japanese and everyone Japanese became de-
spicable” (vii). The break is so profound that for many years in-
dividuals were unable to confront their feelings about it. Repres-
sion, denial, and blaming the self for the government’s behavior
are all characteristic psychological aftereffects (Mass –). And
many Japanese American writers do not write directly about the
internment. Authors such as Toshio Mori, Valerie Matsumoto, and
Lonny Kaneko tend to depict this displacement through metaphors
and elisions, through gaps and silences.3
In this chapter I examine two novels that probe this gap, this
rupture, this silence—John Okada’s No-No Boy () and Cynthia
Kadohata’s The Floating World (). I have chosen these novels
because in them translation struggles between the ethnic and the
American are structured in a similar manner but also because the
thirty-two-year gap that separates them illustrates how histori-
cal and cultural ethos contribute to processes of transcoding eth-
nicity and transmigrating tongues.4
Both novels examine a simi-
lar set of translation questions ubiquitous for Japanese Americans
in the s and s: How can one inhabit a transcoded, syn-
cretic identity when part of this identity (the “American” side) has
been denied, while the other part (the “Japanese” side) has been
denigrated? Where is the space/place where one can be both Japa-
nese and American in a culture that forces one to choose, a culture
within which one is either Japanese or “American” but not both?
Okada’s work, written shortly after World War II, probes the idea
that translation might be of use in reconciling the dilemma faced
by Ichiro, the protagonist, but ultimately, this idea is not brought
to textual fruition. As André Lefevere has observed, translation can
be allied with cultural capital, and what gets translated has much
to do with what is considered to be socially valuable and creden-
tializing speech.5
In the novel’s time period (s) Japanese eth-
nicity was still devalued. Okada portrays a character who never
quite learns how to transcode his Japanese ethnicity or disarticu-
late it from the racist discourse of the “Jap,” and one who mostly
abandons (rather than transmigrates) his ethnic tongue. The novel
does present certain characters who undermine cultural binarisms
through their practices of translation, but they remain peripheral
  “”  

ﬁgures who only hint at a future hope for the transcoding of eth-
nicity and the transmigration of tongues—a hope that goes unreal-
ized within the text.
In The Floating World, Cynthia Kadohata retrieves this hint of
hope, using translation to suggest that the conﬂict between being
Japanese and American can be reﬁgured and transcoded in produc-
tive ways. Both The Floating World and Kadohata’s second novel,
In the Heart of the Valley of Love, make few direct references to the
internment.6
Yet especially in The Floating World the internment
is, as literary critic Yuko Matsukawa has suggested, “the unwrit-
ten center” of the text.7
Like Okada, then, Kadohata is concerned
with whether translation allows Japanese Americans to repair the
schisms in subjectivity caused by the war and to transcode their
ethnicity. Kadohata is also concerned with whether translation can
create a home: a bricolaged space of placement in displacement.
And like Okada’s novel, Kadohata’s begins in the s. Of course,
Kadohata’s novel is published in the s when Japanese Ameri-
cans (for better or worse) have assumed the mantle as America’s
“model minority,” so the transcoding of ethnicity has become less
arduous; Japanese ethnicity now has “cultural capital.” Yet this is
only part of the reason that Kadohata’s text deploys the trope of
translation to renovate ethnic identity. Another part of the novel’s
positivity in utilizing this trope is that Kadohata learns from a text
such as No-No Boy about how binarisms are structured in this time
period and about how ethnicity is devalued, and also because she
retrieves the hint of hope embodied by his text—a hint of hope that
ﬁnally does reside in translation. Indeed, in The Floating World it
is only by living in translation that individuals can ﬁnd the “ances-
tral strength” they need to survive and to make a space for them-
selves in the world. I would suggest, then, that by returning to this
time period Kadohata both pays homage to and rewrites the tex-
tual and linguistic translation dilemmas of the earlier novel and
the earlier time period. What is important for Kadohata is that
individuals maintain a “translating consciousness”—the ability to
see the world as composed of multiple and intersecting identities,
languages, and cultural frames of reference. Such a consciousness
can ultimately transmigrate the Japanese tongue to a space within
the English language—a space where the discourse of the “Jap” no
  “”   
longer functions to derail the processes of translation, as it does in
No-No Boy.
  ’ “The Travelers,” one character comments: “We
Nisei are . . . like the seeds in the wind” ().8
During World War
II, Japanese American communities in the United States were forc-
ibly destroyed, and this dislocation continued after the war’s end.
Some communities rebuilt, but literature from this time period
portrays a continual pattern of movement. Is this because, as one
of my students argued recently, “a moving target can’t be hit”? In
the wake of World War II, did Japanese Americans feel that the
only safe space was a no-home, a not-place, a ﬂoating world? Or,
to interpret this theme of movement more positively, did these in-
dividuals actually ﬁnd place through movement? And how do ques-
tions of translation play into this search for “home,” a search which
is surely allied with the attempt to ﬁnd an ethnic identity and a
voice that move beyond the binary choice of being either Japanese
or American?
In the novels I discuss, there are often contradictory formula-
tions of home. Some individuals seek an originary home—a place
where the self was not always-already displaced. And some individ-
uals try to ﬁnd home in an assimilative sense of being “American.”
Both these strategies fail. To ﬁnd home, individuals must realize
that there is no place where they are not already displaced. But
language—and more speciﬁcally translation itself—is one way to
formulate a renovated sense of home. Language can create what
Salman Rushdie has called an “imaginary homeland.” “My job is
my own only land” (), Kingston’s protagonist comments in The
Woman Warrior. For Kingston’s protagonist her job—writing—
creates and even re-creates her land, an imaginary homeland that
transcodes past and present, where she has been and where she is,
the ethnic and the American. It is this re-creative, imaginary power
of translation that both Okada’s and Kadohata’s novels reach to-
ward in their formulations of home.
No-No Boy is ﬁlled with a nervous energy that often takes the
form of both a geographic migration and a linguistic displacement
that bespeaks the characters’ sense of homelessness. Literally, no
  “”  

one in this book can sit still. “Pa,” Ichiro notes, is incessantly mov-
ing as if “his trousers were crawling with ants” (). Ichiro himself
is constantly on the move. He returns (by bus) to Seattle after two
years in a relocation center and two years in prison; he walks to
his house, walks to a friend’s house with his mother, rides the bus
past the university he once attended, is driven around in his friend
Kenji’s car, drives Kenji to Portland, drives Kenji’s car back, walks
around some more, and delivers Kenji’s car to Kenji’s family. The
novel ﬁnally ends with Ichiro still roaming the streets, chasing after
the meaning of America: “He walked along, thinking, searching,
thinking and probing, and, in the darkness of the alley of the com-
munity that was a tiny bit of America, he chased that faint and il-
lusive insinuation of promise as it continued to take shape in mind
and heart” (). Perhaps we can see in this constant migration a
strategy of placement—of ﬁnding home in and through movement.
But the novel seems to belie this notion through the character of
Kenji. Kenji urges Ichiro to face his problems: “The kind of trouble
you’ve got, you can’t run from it. Stick it through. Let them call
you names. . . . They just need a little time to get cut down to their
own size. Then they’ll be the same as you, a bunch of Japs” ().
Go home and face your problems, Kenji counsels—but what ex-
actly is home in this context?
Interestingly, certain characters also employ a refusal to translate
to maintain illusionary conceptualizations of home. For example,
Ichiro’s mother sees Japan as her home. She plans to return with
her family to Japan someday (, , ), and she and her husband
“still feel like transients even after thirty or forty years in America”
(). So, of course, she does not learn to translate between Japanese
and English. This is a way of preserving her dream of home, as the
narrative voice notes about the Issei (ﬁrst-generation immigrants
from Japan) in general: “They rushed to America with the single
purpose of making a fortune which would enable them to return
to their own country. . . . They continued to maintain their dreams
by refusing to learn how to speak or write the language of America”
(–, emphasis added). Both Ichiro and the narrative voice criti-
cize this attitude. For example, Ichiro recalls how his mother once
destroyed a phonograph he had borrowed because she did not like
his American records, and the narrative voice comments: “He justly
  “”   
felt after all these years that she had been very unfair” (, em-
phasis added). From the narrative point of view, Ichiro’s anger and
hostility toward his mother—even after her death—is “just.” Mrs.
Yamada is trying to prevent American culture and the sounds of
the English language (the records) from infecting her Japanese
home. Apparently this goal is one that the narrative voice considers
unreasonable.
Nor is Mrs. Yamada successful in this goal. Both her sons adopt
American English and refuse to speak Japanese. Linguistically, then,
they attempt to be “American” and to locate their homes in this new
geographic and linguistic terrain. Moreover, throughout the novel
Ichiro longs to ﬁnd home by becoming “American.” In a long medi-
tation, Ichiro wonders: “Where is that place they talk of and paint
nice pictures of and describe in all the homey magazines? Where is
that place with the clean, white cottages surrounding the new, red-
brick church with the clean, white steeple, where the families all
have two children, one boy and one girl, and a shiny new car in the
garage and a dog and a cat and life is like living in the land of the
happily-ever-after? Surely it must be around here someplace, some-
place in America. Or is it just that it’s not for me?” (). Rushdie
comments that America can deprive you of your own dreams and
replace them with a commodiﬁed version of the dominant soci-
ety’s mass-produced fantasies (). Although Ichiro does see the
ﬂaws in this American discourse of the home, he also spends much
of the novel longing for it and longing to be “American.” But be-
cause he did not ﬁght in the war, he feels he is not “American”:
“I made a mistake and I know it with all the anguish in my soul.
. . . Am I really never to know again what it is to be American?”
(–). Throughout the novel Ichiro regrets his decision not to
ﬁght in the war (, , ) and longs to be a true “American” who
fought for America (, , , ).
In reading these passages, I ﬁnd it difficult to decide where
Okada himself stands. Is he critical of individuals who translate
themselves into “Americans” and adopt an American discourse of
the home in which everyone (so the story goes) lives “happily ever
after”? Or does he feel that this is a normal process: immigrants
sink their roots into the soil and adopt the languages and identities
of the new homeland, forgetting their native tongue and its values?
  “”  

I read Okada as being most interested in depicting the contradic-
tory ideologies running rampant in America during the postwar
time period, rather than in judging them. Ichiro himself is caught
up in these contradictory ideologies: understanding why he did not
ﬁght but also wishing he had; wanting to ﬁnd a home in Amer-
ica as an American while also realizing the limitations of America
for one who is not white (); longing to speak and think like
an “American” even as he subconsciously laments the loss of the
mother tongue. Furthermore, in this particular historical context,
dilution, hybridity, or the inhabiting of a nonbinary identity are
seen as weaknesses, rather than strengths. “I wish with all my heart
that I were Japanese or that I were American. I am neither” (),
Ichiro tells Kenji. Ichiro also feels he has let the two warring sides
of his identity destroy him. As he tells Kenji: “Me, I’m not even a
son of a bitch. I’m nobody, nothing. Just plain nothing” ().
Looking, then, more closely at the novel’s translation problem,
we can see that (like the works discussed in Chapter ) the language
gap between the generations, as well as between the ethnic and the
American, is abundantly clear: “[Ichiro’s] parents, like most of the
old Japanese, spoke virtually no English. On the other hand, the
children, like Ichiro, spoke almost no Japanese. Thus they com-
municated, the old speaking Japanese with an occasionally badly
mispronounced word or two of English; and the young, with the
exception of a simple word or phrase of Japanese . . . resorting al-
most constantly to the tongue the parents avoided” (). Studies
have shown that in situations where an individual has access to two
languages, the code or language one speaks has more to do with
social network than with generational status (Milroy and Wei ).
And children who speak English rather than an ethnic tongue may
do so not because they are second- or third-generation individuals
but because the ethnic tongue represents a “dispreferred” or disfa-
vored language (Milroy and Wei ). In No-No Boy the younger
generation’s social network is composed of other individuals who
speak English, and the dispreferred language is Japanese. This in-
dicates that the children are attempting to formulate an identity as
“pure” Americans. The parents, for their part, maintain a linguistic
and cultural identity as Japanese by refusing to learn English. Nei-
  “”   
ther parent nor child, then, has begun the process of transcoding
ethnicity.
Translation is portrayed as being crucially necessary to bridge
these linguistic and cultural gaps, but the burden is placed on the
older generation. Kenji’s father remembers hearing a lecture in the
camps by a young Japanese American sociologist. The sociologist
argues that the parents do not know their children: “How many of
you are able to sit down with your own sons and daughters and en-
joy the companionship of conversation? How many, I ask? If I were
to say none of you, I would not be far from the truth. . . . Change,
now, if you can, even if it may be too late, and become companions
to your children” (). To understand their children the older gen-
eration must learn to converse in English, but no mention is made
of the children learning more Japanese to understand their parents.
In the novel as a whole, many of the characters see assimilation into
American English as a strength and indeed a necessity. Japanese
ethnicity is to be discarded rather than transcoded or renovated.
Furthermore, codeswitching is often presented as a weakness.
Three types of language are represented in this book: a pure Japa-
nese, a kind of discordant Japanese inﬂected by English words or
discursive patterns, and a standardized American English. These
languages are written in English, but they each have their own dis-
tinctive syntactic patterns. Ichiro’s mother appears to speak a kind
of pure and formal Japanese, constructing sentences such as: “If
you have come to doubt your mother—and I’m sure you do not
mean it even if you speak in weakness—it is to be regretted. Rest
a few days. Think more deeply and your doubts will disappear.
You are my son, Ichiro” (). Ichiro’s father also speaks Japanese
(), but his language contains American English words and is of-
ten portrayed as being grammatically incorrect: “Ya, Ichiro, you
have come home” (); “Mama is gone to the bakery” (); “Ya, four
is best; a whole case, better. Sonagabitch, I’m thirsty. Sonagabitch,
cold too. Plenty cold” (; see also , , ). Pa appears to be
able to codeswitch, but when he does so he sounds foolish. After
falling down in the street while hurrying home to drink his liquor,
he says, “Okay. . . . Everything okay. Just fall” in “halting English”
to the inquiring faces clustered around him (). Some bilinguals
  “”  

speak of infecting English with the values and discursive patterns
of other languages. For instance, according to Coco Fusco, a per-
formance artist and writer such as Guillermo Gómez-Peña (dis-
cussed in more detail in Chapter ) is “very interested in subverting
English structures, infecting English with Spanish, and in ﬁnding
new possibilities of expression within the English language that
English-speaking people don’t have” (). But of course, this can
work in the opposite direction: the ethnic language can also be-
come infected—or even taken over—by English. Words such as
“ya” (yes) and “sonagabitch” (son of a bitch) are evidence that Pa’s
Japanese has been “infected” by English. The result, from Okada’s
point of view, is not a hybrid or transmigrated language of strength
but a dialect that sounds broken, foolish, and diluted.
Has the younger generation been more successful at infecting
English with other languages? For the most part, the Nisei speak
an Americanized English that does not appear to contain any traces
of the ethnic tongue. For example, in refusing a job from Mr. Car-
rick, Ichiro says: “You’ve no apology to make, sir. You’ve been very
good. I want the job. The pay is tops. I might say I need the job,
but it’s not for me” (). This polite speech includes American
colloquialisms (“the pay is tops”) and complex grammatical con-
structions characteristic of someone who is perfectly comfortable
speaking English. English is clearly Ichiro’s “home” tongue. The
Japanese language, on the other hand, is alien, as the following quo-
tation shows: “His father had described the place to him in a letter,
composed in simple Japanese characters because otherwise Ichiro
could not have read it. The letter had been purposely repetitive
and painstakingly detailed so that Ichiro should not have any dif-
ﬁculty ﬁnding the place. . . . The Japanese characters, written sim-
ply so that he could read them, covered pages of directions as if he
were a foreigner coming to the city for the ﬁrst time” (, emphasis
added). Metaphorically, Ichiro is a “foreigner” in the Japanese lan-
guage, lost in the simple Japanese characters. This image graphi-
cally depicts his linguistic and cultural estrangement from the eth-
nic world.
Even more problematic, because he allies Japanese language and
the ethnic identity it represents with his mother, he has little desire
to transcode this ethnicity or transmigrate this tongue. Ichiro feels
  “”   
that his mother is a “stranger” () and that her “sharp, lifeless” lan-
guage () is not his. In fact, the Japanese tongue may function as
a kind of “bad mother” for Ichiro. Claude Lévesque discusses the
Quebecois writer who writes in English yet continues to cherish
a dream of fusion with a maternal tongue “that will refashion an
identity for him and reappropriate him to himself” (). But the
dream of fusion with the maternal tongue is, of course, illusionary,
for no language is capable of undoing the lack that exiles us from
the mother, the lack that actually produces subjectivity and speech
proper. Lévesque goes on to argue that “the maternal tongue could
therefore only be the language of the bad mother . . . that is, of
the mother who has always already weaned her child, who keeps
her distance” (). Ichiro thinks he recalls a time when he spoke
a language that fashioned an identity for him and fused him with
his mother: “There was a time when I was your son. There was a
time . . . when you used to smile a mother’s smile and tell me sto-
ries. . . . I was the boy in the peach and you were the old woman
and we were Japanese with Japanese feelings and Japanese pride and
Japanese thoughts” (). Ichiro blames his mother for his cultural
confusion and sees her as a bad mother; the tongue she speaks is
therefore a bad mother tongue. Yet he fails to realize that his sense
of exile is not only due to her inﬂuence but also inherent in the na-
ture of language itself. There would always come a time when he
would be exiled from the mother and the mother tongue. Ichiro
cannot learn to translate, then, because he does not understand the
problematic nature of language, of speech, and of the dream of fu-
sion with a perfect and nourishing tongue.
Ichiro often refuses to engage in a dialogue with this tongue,
with this culture, and with its values. As discussed in Chapter ,
translation is possible only when the translator respects and val-
ues the parent’s culture and wishes to transcode it rather than dis-
card it. Ichiro can speak some Japanese () but still feels that he
will never be able to communicate meaningfully with his parents.
Kenji speaks of a time when Ichiro will “want to talk to [his par-
ents]” and they will talk “all through the night,” to which Ichiro
responds: “It won’t ever happen to me” (). In many places in the
novel, it is clear that Ichiro feels he has little to learn from his par-
ents. A linguistic or cultural identity as a Japanese American ap-
  “”  

pears to provide little, if any, usable cultural capital. On another
level, the translation problem of this novel has to do with Ichiro’s
failure to ﬁnd a home in any language. Ichiro is estranged from the
bad mother tongue and its identity. Yet because he did not ﬁght in
the war he also feels cut off from the “American” world of English.
So Ichiro lacks an empowered voice within both discursive terrains
and within both ethnic identities.
Translation might resolve this dilemma, but as indicated above
it is the parents who bear the burden of translating themselves into
English-speaking Americans to communicate with their children.
For example, Kenji and his father communicate well with each
other (, ), and this has much to do with the fact that Mr.
Kanno has ﬁnally allowed himself to become, to some degree, an
assimilated, English-speaking “American.” Ichiro also believes that
if his father was more like Mr. Kumasaka (the father of the dead
soldier Bob), Ichiro might be able “to pour out the turbulence of
his soul” to Mr. Kumasaka (). Recalling that Ichiro envied Mr.
Kumasaka’s comfortably furnished home, we must conclude that
what would enable Ichiro to communicate with Mr. Kumasaka is
not his language facility but his ability to adapt to America. Mr.
Kumasaka, in other words, has mostly abandoned his Japanese eth-
nicity and tongue and translated himself into an English-speaking
American, and for Ichiro this not only enables but even creates the
grounds for communication. In this context translation becomes as-
similation: the language and identity of English takes over you and
remakes you as an “American.” And translation seems to affirm,
rather than deconstruct, the binary divisions between languages
and cultures. One is either Japanese or American; one speaks either
Japanese or English. Those who speak both languages and attempt
to reside in both categories of identity—such as Pa—are seen as
weak, diluted, or foolish.
Does the novel present an alternative to this assimilative and
colonizing view of translation? Given the time period, it seems logi-
cal that the novel is pessimistic on this subject. Yet there are (to use
Okada’s own phrase) “insinuation[s] of promise” () about what
the future might hold. One such glimmer of hope lies in the ﬁnal
scene of the novel in which Bull, a rabidly pro–United States Japa-
  “”   
nese American man who has fought in the war, cries over the death
of Freddie, a no-no boy: “Then he started to cry, not like a man in
grief or a soldier in pain, but like a baby in loud, gasping, beseech-
ing howls” (). Bull’s ability to see that he and Freddie are not
so different may be a sign that the binary divisions between being
Japanese and being American are breaking down and that the pro-
cess of transcoding Japanese ethnicity has begun. And perhaps the
binary divisions between languages are breaking down. Bull’s cry
is not so much language as something before language—something
that may return to the presymbolic babble of the child. Bull be-
comes “an infant crying in the darkness” (), and Okada perhaps
signiﬁes that language itself may be rejuvenated out of such mo-
ments of crisis. Language returns to its origin in sounds, in baby
talk, in babble, and out of this return a new language can be born.
Another glimmer of promise lies in the idea that some people
(including Ichiro) do see the need to cross barriers of language and
culture through translation. Mr. Carrick, for example, speaks a little
Japanese, which he learned from some Japanese friends (). And
it is no coincidence that Mr. Carrick offers Ichiro a way back into
“the real nature” of the United States ()—which in this speciﬁc
context refers to a country where cultural and linguistic diversity
is appreciated rather than assimilated. Another man—Mr. Mor-
rison (the director of the Christian Rehabilitation Center where
Ichiro seeks work)—also recognizes the importance of being multi-
lingual and multicultural. After speaking a few phrases of Japanese,
Mr. Morrison comments: “Only way to get to know the people is
to learn the language, I say. I learned it and I got to know them”
(). Like Carrick, Morrison realizes the value of attempting to
translate between languages and cultures; he realizes that without
doing so, true understanding cannot occur. These two characters
move beyond the assimilative notion of translation—translation as
acculturation.
Some characters in this book do, of course, endorse the idea that
translation and multilingualism is unnecessary—that becoming
“American” and speaking American English is the only cultural
capital, the one path to success. Yet Ichiro knows this is not the
“solution” to his problems. “Tell me, Mother, who are you? What
  “”  

is it to be Japanese?” (), Ichiro thinks at one point. And he con-
tinues this meditation about his mother’s life, which is also his plea
for communication and translation:
Tell me about the house in which you lived and of your father
and mother, who were my grandparents, whom I have never
seen or known because I do not remember your ever speaking
of them except to say that they died a long time ago. Tell me
everything and just a little bit and a little bit more until their
lives and yours and mine are ﬁtted together, for they surely
must be. . . . Begin from the beginning when your hair was
straight and black and everyone was Japanese because that was
where you were born and America was not yet a country be-
yond the ocean where fortunes were to be made or an enemy to
hate. Quick, now, quick, Mother, what was the name of your
favorite school teacher? ()
Earlier, Ichiro seemed to long for an illusionary fusion with a
mother tongue, but here he works more productively to engage
in a dialogue with this tongue. Numerous individuals have criti-
cized the novel’s assimilationist stance and its rejection of all things
Japanese. Gayle Sato argues, for example, that “recovery of ‘Ameri-
can’ identity is enacted through a rejection of ‘Japanese’” and that
“the plot of No-No Boy boils down to a single rhetorical gesture—
Ichiro’s reaffirmation that he is ‘American’” (, ).9
In this pas-
sage from the novel, however, a different perspective emerges, if
but for a moment, as Ichiro attempts to gain ancestral strength by
understanding and transcoding his mother’s world so that it signiﬁes
something positive rather than representing only negative cultural
baggage he must discard. And in the face of her silence he is even
willing to be a writerly translator who can engage actively and crea-
tively with the source text. This active type of translation could al-
low Ichiro to ﬁt his life into his parents’ life, to see how he might
be interconnected with his parents’ Japanese heritage through pro-
cesses of transcoding. Okada postulates that it is individuals like
Ichiro (individuals who reside in a kind of middle ground between
identities and languages) who have the potential to become trans-
lators. Ichiro does not realize this potential, but the novel gestures
  “”   
to a future in which translation and multilingualism—rather than
monolingualism and assimilation—might be possible.
In teaching No-No Boy, I have found that students often re-
act hostilely to it, which has always puzzled me. But perhaps this
has something to do with the novel’s uncompromising nature. It
provides only brief hints about how one might create a transcoded
identity or transmigrate the ethnic tongue into English. It reﬂects
—rather than resolves—the contradictory ideologies of “America”
and being “American” in the postwar time period. As Jinqi Ling ar-
gues, while the novel appears to tell the story of the “prodigal” son
who recognizes his errors and embraces the promise of “America,”
within this conventional form Okada creates “a protagonist who
fails to piece together his fragmented past” ().10
The novel also
illustrates how we are caught up in binary thinking—thinking that
may ﬁnally destroy us—yet it offers little to undermine this binary
way of thinking. So many of the characters die: Ma kills herself,
Freddie is literally cut in half in a car accident, and Kenji dies from
a wound that eats him up from inside.
Ichiro survives, but in the end what has he learned? Perhaps only
that the middle ground is the place from which translation and
a transcoded ethnic identity might emerge. Those who chose to
inhabit only one identity—like Kenji, the patriotic American, or
Freddie, the rebel no-no boy, or Mrs. Yamada, the “pure” Japanese
—are killed off by the narrative. Ichiro is caught in the middle
ground between languages and cultures, between being “Ameri-
can” and being Japanese, in the no-man’s-land of being “nobody.”
Yet he survives. Perhaps in this middle ground, this borderland be-
tween languages and cultures, Ichiro will at last ﬁnd a home in and
through translation. And this, ﬁnally, is John Okada’s insinuation
of hope.
 -  after the end of World War II, Cyn-
thia Kadohata’s The Floating World returns to an earlier time period
(the s and s) to reﬁnd or reinvent the glimmer of hope pres-
ent in a novel such as No-No Boy. Hybridity and the inhabiting of
multiple positions of ethnic identity simultaneously become a kind
of power in this text, rather than a source of weakness. Of course,
  “”  

because Kadohata writes out of a postmodern sense of the world
and identity as irrevocably fractured, it is much easier for her to
depict an individual ﬁnding home in hybridity and in a fragmented
subjectivity. Yet both Okada and Kadohata believe that hope lies in
the in-between space, in the middle ground, represented by transla-
tion. And for both writers hope lies in individuals who possess, or
who might come to possess, a translating consciousness.
In “Translation and Literary History,” G. N. Devy discusses
individuals who possess this consciousness. Devy argues that “if
we accept the structuralist principle that communication becomes
possible because of the nature of signs and their entire system, it
follows that translation is a merger of sign systems. Such a merger
is possible because systems of signs are open and vulnerable” ().
Translation exploits the instability and openness at the heart of lan-
guage. And the translating consciousness sees the potential open-
ness of language systems; in so doing it brings closer together sign
systems that are seen as materially different. Devy points out that
in India and many other nations, “several languages are simultane-
ously used by language communities as if these languages formed
a continuous spectrum of signs and signiﬁcance” (). The trans-
lating consciousness sees the source language and the target lan-
guage not as separate linguistic registers but “as parts of a larger
and continuous spectrum of various intersecting systems of verbal
signs” (). Olivia, the narrator of The Floating World, possesses
this translating consciousness. She is interested in the differences
and similarities between languages, but she is also interested in cre-
ating a voice that can move comfortably between languages as if
they were part of a continuous spectrum of verbal signs. She trans-
migrates the Japanese tongue into English, but she also sutures
these two languages together to create new interpretations of her
world and of the languages themselves.
This transmigration of languages is the only way to create
“home.” Home is not found in a physical space, as the novel makes
abundantly clear, or in physical migrations. Olivia’s family con-
stantly moves from place to place, and when Olivia ﬁnds an apart-
ment it sits next to a freeway so that “from the kitchen window you
could see cars ﬂickering between the hedges” (). Throughout
the novel Olivia is in love with the road, with travel, and with dis-
  “”   
location and relocation, and she lyrically describes them: “Once we
started traveling, a part of me loved that life. . . . I remember how
ﬁne it was to drive through the passage from morning to noon to
night” (). In The Floating World characters sometimes speak of
a time long ago, before a home had been lost: “With all the older
people I knew, even my parents, I occasionally saw the ﬁerce ex-
pression as they exclaimed over something that had happened years
ago, losses in a time and place as far removed from my twelve-year-
old mind as the dates in a schoolbook” (–). What exactly are
these losses? Are they the losses of a home, a business, and a safe
space, because of internment? This remains unclear, but what is ap-
parent is that the older generation remembers and longs for a time
when they were not displaced—when they had not lost that some-
thing that made them placed and stable.
Nevertheless, the novel intuits that there is no such stable place
—there is only placement in displacement, home in the spaces be-
tween languages and cultures. Olivia ﬁrst learns this lesson from
her maternal grandmother, Hisae Fujiitano. When the family is
on the road, Hisae tells them they are traveling in “ukiyo,” or the
ﬂoating world. The ﬂoating world is “the gas station attendants,
restaurants, and jobs we depended on, the motel towns ﬂoating in
the middle of ﬁelds and mountains. In old Japan, ukiyo meant the
districts full of brothels, teahouses, and public baths, but it also
referred to change and the pleasures and loneliness change brings”
(–). This passage is crucial for several reasons. First, Hisae is able
to take a term for the districts of Japan and transmigrate it so that
it signiﬁes something meaningful and useful in the new American
world she and the family move through. Second, that she names it
in Japanese (“ukiyo”) while still applying it to the American con-
text indicates that Hisae is interested in moving between languages
and cultures, as well as in ﬁnding points at which cultural differ-
ences break down and can be remade. Hisae, in fact, injects Japa-
nese words into the English language—words such as “ukiyo” (),
“hakujin” (), and “shimeru” ()—and then translates them for her
granddaughter: “ﬂoating world,” “white people,” “to close.” And
Olivia inherits this translative, injective, or even infective power
from her grandmother. For example, Olivia redeﬁnes “ukiyo” for
herself: “For a long time, I never exactly thought of us as part of
  “”  

any of that [ukiyo]. We were stable, traveling through an unstable
world while my father looked for jobs” (). For Olivia, ukiyo be-
comes a symbol of stability in instability, of placement in displace-
ment. Ukiyo also becomes a symbol of how one can move between
languages in such a way that their differences are undermined.11
As in Louie’s story “Inheritance,” a central question this book
probes is what children learn from their ancestors. Hisae is a cruel,
vindictive woman, and her grandchildren often hate her. But she
possesses a unique ability to transmigrate herself and her world
and to make a home in between languages and cultures. And this
is precisely what Olivia inherits. Hisae owns “a valise in which she
carried all her possessions, but the stories she told were also pos-
sessions” (). Olivia believes these fantastic stories, and after the
death of her grandmother she inherits the responsibility of telling
them: “When she was gone my brothers begged me to tell them the
stories again” (). As we have seen, storytelling and translation are
often allied. Of course, to retell her grandmother’s stories Olivia
must retranslate them. What seems most crucial, however, is that
the grandmother functions as a key ﬁgure for how Olivia learns
to intermesh her Japanese heritage with her present reality as an
American. The Japanese heritage is not discarded, then, but rather
transcoded through processes of translation.
For without translation, this ethnic heritage will be lost. And
some of it has already been lost. In discussing names, for instance,
Olivia relates that at the start of World War II, the public schools
made Hisae’s children anglicize their names: “Satoru, Yukiko, Ma-
riko, Haruko, and Sadamu became Roger, Lily, Laura, Ann, and
Roy.” Now “their original names are just shadows following them”
(). The original names are no longer a lived reality—but they
persist, enunciated in language ﬁrst by Hisae and then by Olivia.
Some parts of the heritage are lost, but some parts are strengthened
when Olivia takes over the role of storyteller, of translator. And
unlike Ichiro, Olivia sees and values her connection to the older
generation. For example, she says that her grandmother’s name is “a
name sort of partway between mine and those of my ancestors” ().
Symbolically, the grandmother stands in a middle space between
Japan and the United States, and Olivia learns to value this middle
  “”   
space and take up the role of cultural mediation, translation, and
transcoding.
Like Hisae, Olivia possesses the ability to move between lan-
guages and to translate in order to remake her world and her iden-
tity. Hisae is an Issei—she moved to the United States when she
was a girl (). For Olivia, she represents a connection to Japan and
the world of the “past.” Yet it is crucial that Hisae is also ﬂuent in
two languages. Not only does she translate words such as “ukiyo”
into English for her grandchildren, but she also keeps a diary in
two languages: “I got her opinion through her diaries, small parts
of which were in Japanese” (). While it might be postulated that
she writes parts of her diaries in Japanese so that her grandchil-
dren will not be able to read them, I would argue exactly the op-
posite. By writing parts of the diary in Japanese, Hisae encourages
her granddaughter to understand them—to become a translator.
Codeswitching, as I contend in Chapter , can be mystifying but
also beckoning, especially to a curious, nosy, multilinguistic char-
acter such as Olivia.
And Olivia is intrigued by this codeswitched discourse, as she
relates: “Translating [the diaries] was difficult—my mother did all
the hard parts. . . . But the project was well worth my time. It was
good for me to have someone to consult with” (). The diaries,
then, link the three generations of women—the grandmother, the
mother, and the daughter—in an interlingual and intergenerational
act of communication and translation. Olivia is clearly a writerly
translator who understands, as Derrida has phrased it, that trans-
lation is not transcription but a productive writing called forth
by the original text (Ear ). Like Kingston’s protagonist, Olivia
also sees translation as collaboration and coauthorship. In this con-
text, translation is a linguistic act that undermines binarisms such
as self versus “other,” past versus present, and the ethnic versus the
American.
The translation of Hisae’s diaries is mentioned at numerous
points in the novel (, , , , , , ). Thus it is important
to consider what Olivia learns from these diaries. First, she learns
the value of adaptation and even of instability. The grandmother,
Olivia ﬁnds, grows less certain of herself with age (); the diaries,
  “”  

then, are about growth, change, and the value of uncertainty. She
also learns about her grandmother’s life in Japan () and about the
beauty and power of this world. And she learns about sex, for her
grandmother is a woman who had three different husbands and
seven lovers (). For Olivia, the diaries convey important knowl-
edge about her ethnic heritage as well as information she can use
in her present life. Through their translation, Olivia therefore at-
tempts to ﬁnd a link to her past ethnic heritage but also to create
a future for herself in which she can be both ethnic and American.
The diaries are also described as changing over time: “Some of the
diary pages started to change and warp, as if they were alive, grow-
ing” (). This image suggests that the diary is not a stable artifact
of Japanese language and culture but something that can transmute
and transform itself to adapt to a changing reality. The diaries be-
come an important symbol for the creative and generative nature of
translation, much like Leslie Marmon Silko’s almanac in Almanac
of the Dead, which I discuss in the next chapter.
Finally, and most important, from these diaries Olivia learns to
mediate and transcode differences between racial, linguistic, and
cultural identities. The following statement about their translation
illustrates how this transcoding impulse works: “And I liked the
two languages, Japanese and English, how each contained thoughts
you couldn’t express exactly in the other. For instance, because you
didn’t use spaces between words in the same way in English and
Japanese, certain phrases—such as ‘pure white’ or ‘eight slender ob-
jects’ or ‘how many people’—seemed to me like only one word in
Japanese. Seeming to use only one word changed slightly the mean-
ing of what I was saying. It made me think about what exactly was
pure white and not merely white” (–). Initially, Olivia is inter-
ested in thinking about the differences between languages, “how
each contained thoughts you couldn’t express exactly in the other.”
Two words (such as “pure white”) become one in Japanese, caus-
ing Olivia to reﬂect on what the English words “pure white” might
really mean. Finally, Olivia’s concept of “pure white” is no longer
purely Japanese or American; it is both. Or rather, the process of
translating between the languages has caused Olivia to situate her
understanding of particular terms within two intersecting language
systems. Olivia has developed, in short, a translating consciousness
  “”   
that treats the source language text and the target language text
“as parts of a larger and continuous spectrum of various intersect-
ing systems of verbal signs” (Devy, “Translation and Literary His-
tory” ). This translating consciousness lets her see not only how
languages intersect but also how racial identities intersect and may
be remade and transcoded. It is no coincidence that in the above
passage Olivia is thinking about “what exactly was pure white and
not merely white” (). In the United States, a land of immigrants,
is anyone “pure white”? And as a Japanese American, is she “pure
white,” “merely white,” or not “white” at all? This passage about the
translation of the grandmother’s diaries breaks down not only lin-
guistic identities but also cultural and racial ones.
Olivia’s ongoing struggle to translate these diaries therefore
speaks to her need to understand and deconstruct the categories of
race and identity that inscribe her. Without translation, these cate-
gories rigidify or become assimilative, as in No-No Boy. Hisae ap-
pears to speak both Japanese and English, and her daughter Laura
speaks English with a Japanese accent. But Olivia’s parents are glad
that their daughter’s English is uninﬂected. “If you couldn’t see her,
you wouldn’t even know she was Japanese” (), they say proudly.
When Olivia speaks to strangers, she feels she is taunting them
with her perfect English: “See, I can talk like you, I was trying
to say, it’s not so hard” (). Language is used here for domina-
tion and also homogenization—Olivia’s perfect English allows her
to efface her ethnic identity. The translation of the grandmother’s
diaries stands in opposition to this type of communication, for it is
clearly about transcoding racial and ethnic heritage and also about
investigating and undermining divisions between languages and
cultures.
Furthermore, from her grandmother Olivia learns to create a
home in translation—a ﬂoating linguistic and cultural world. Given
the historical background of this novel, such a revised concept of
home is logical. The novel is set in the s and s when, as
Olivia notes, “it could be . . . hard for Japanese to get good jobs”
(). The narrative implies that well after the end of World War II,
Japanese Americans still face discrimination (a fact that historical
research has corroborated). The family lost their houses during the
war and they do not seem to have recovered a ﬁrm sense of home,
  “”  

a ﬁrm sense of who they are and where they ﬁt in this American
world. Olivia’s maternal grandparents abandon their boarding-
house in San Francisco and move to Hawaii at the start of the war
(, ). Perhaps they move to avoid internment; in Hawaii the Japa-
nese American population was too large a segment of the workforce
to be conveniently evacuated.12
Olivia’s own father appears to have
been interned during the war and then drafted, although the novel
is not deﬁnitive on this subject. We do learn, however, that the fa-
ther, who is known as Charlie-O, worked in the ﬁelds of California
as a child and then lived in Los Angeles “before the area became a
ghost town during the war” (). We are also told that Charlie-O
was in the army during the war, where he learns how to let his
hands, and not his heart, “feel for [him]” (). It seems likely, then,
that Charlie-O and his family were in the camps during the war
and that Hisae’s family moved to Hawaii to avoid internment.
The war therefore represents a rupture in the family’s psyche
and in their concept of home, a break that has been difficult to
overcome. The older generation exclaims ﬁercely over “something
that had happened years ago,” “losses in a time and place” long past
(–). It is logical to assume that these losses have to do with the
internment. And the legacy that the older generation passes on to
the children is one of fear: “My parents had taught me many things
they hadn’t meant to teach me and I hadn’t meant to learn. One of
those things was fear, their ﬁrst big fear, during the war” (). The
internment is only mentioned once explicitly: “Some of my parents’
friends used to live on the east side of , but when the war started,
there was a law that Japanese had to move west of the highway, so
they packed up all their things and moved across the street. The
next year they were interned” (–). The “they” here is not very
speciﬁc, but the point Kadohata makes has to do with the effect of
the internment—the way it bred fear in all Japanese Americans, a
fear that was passed down to the next generation. And this is a fear
of ethnicity itself—a fear of actually being Japanese, rather than a
“pure American.”
Yet the grandmother is never described as possessing this fear.
After all, it is Hisae who describes ukiyo to Olivia and who applies
this Japanese term to the American landscape, using her translation
to ﬁnd placement in her displacement and to transcode her iden-
  “”   
tity. And as an adult, Olivia ﬁnds home in such displaced, trans-
planted, translated spaces. For example, her apartment next to the
freeway gives Olivia “that old feeling [that I liked] of being dis-
placed and safe at the same time” (). Eventually Olivia resides
in the postmodern and surreal landscape of Los Angeles, where she
is amazed at “how all those varied worlds out there coexisted, in-
cluding the world I lived in, and the world that in the future would
touch me” (). From Hisae, Olivia learns to allow for the exis-
tence of multiple homes, multiple time frames, and multiple lan-
guages. The novel also considers—and rejects—several more tradi-
tional ideas of home, as well as several more traditional deﬁnitions
of “American” identity. For example, in one scene in the novel the
family visits model homes. Like Ichiro’s concept of the perfect
white house, these homes seem beautiful but unattainable: “Each
house was more beguiling than the one before. The last one had
splendid white carpets, and chairs I thought were so old they were
made before Obāsan was born” (). The parents are impressed by
all this luxury, but Hisae does not even bother to take off her shoes
before entering the houses (). Hisae knows that such American-
ized homes are not for her family. Eventually the family creates a
home where “intricate lace curtains hung in all the windows, but
none of the curtains matched, and baskets, statues, and pottery sat
in every corner. Nothing matched yet it all matched” (). This im-
age suggests that home is found in hybridity, in bricolage, in place-
ment amid displacement—not in a stable, model, perfect “Ameri-
can” home. Clearly, home is an analogy for an American identity
that involves acceptance of hybridity, difference, multiculturalism,
and multilingualism. Everything does not have to “match.”
Kadohata’s novel participates in a discourse of postmodernism
in which we are all displaced linguistically (alienated from lan-
guage) and geopolitically (our homes have been lost, or perhaps
they never existed). But it adds to this discourse by providing the
perspective of an individual who is forced out of an old home and
an old language because of race but who still manages to transcode
her ethnic identity and transmigrate the words of the ethnic tongue
into English. Rushdie has argued that displaced individuals must,
“of necessity, make a new imaginative relationship with the world,
because of the loss of familiar habitats” (). For Kadohata, racial
  “”  

and linguistic identities play into this search for a ﬂoating world
and offer productive occasions for the retheorization of home and
voice. And this is ﬁnally the lesson that the grandmother teaches:
how to ﬁnd a home in change and the pleasures of change and
instability; how to ﬁnd speech in the gaps between being “pure
white” and something else; and how to use translation practices to
create a hybrid, bricolaged, multilingual Japanese American subjec-
tivity and voice.
In No-No Boy Ichiro never translates his mother’s story, her his-
tory, or her legacy, and he cannot transcode the lives of the Issei
and the Nisei in a way that provides ancestral strength. So it is
not surprising that even at the end of No-No Boy, Ichiro remains
displaced and homeless. He has not learned to live in translation,
and he has not found an identity/voice that enables his survival,
although the novel does gesture to a moment in the future when
this might occur. Conversely, Olivia learns to value translation and
her ethnic heritage. Her grandmother’s diaries and the stories of the
ethnic “past” teach lessons about how to survive in the present mo-
ment and provide important emotional and psychological capital.
Through translation Olivia ﬁnds a shifting but viable ethnic iden-
tity and voice—a voice that speaks to the fact that she can make
her home in the ﬂoating world, in the gaps and spaces between lan-
guages and cultures. Like Mitsuye Yamada, Olivia will not drown
but will come up for air in another language all her own—a trans-
migrated voice that can renovate the language of hegemony.
Translation as Revelation
The Task of the Translator in the Fiction
of N. Scott Momaday, Leslie Marmon Silko,
Susan Power, and Sherman Alexie
Translation keeps putting the hallowed growth of languages
to the test: How far removed is their hidden meaning from
revelation?—Walter Benjamin, “The Task of the Translator”
“   the canyon. His return to the town had been
a failure, for all his looking forward. He had tried in the days that
followed to speak to his grandfather, but he could not say the things
he wanted; he had tried to pray, to sing, to enter into the old rhythm
of the tongue, but he was no longer attuned to it. And yet it was
there still, like memory” (). In this early passage from N. Scott
Momaday’s House Made of Dawn (), Abel, a young Jemez Pueblo
man, struggles to connect to his culture and identity through recov-
ery of his native tongue. This language would allow him to pray and
would show “him whole to himself” (). Yet for the majority of the
novel Abel fails to translate his English thoughts back into his native
tongue. The language is there, but he cannot reach it.

  

When the novel ends, a wounded, battered Abel is running in
the snow. Under his breath he begins to sing, but this is an equivo-
cal moment: “There was no sound, and he had no voice; he had
only the words of a song. And he went running on the rise of the
song. House made of pollen, house made of dawn. Qtsedaba” ().
Does Abel learn to translate? “House made of pollen, house made
of dawn” are in italics, which might lead us to believe that they are
spoken in a Native American tongue, and the ﬁnal addition of the
word “Qtsedaba” supports such a reading. But what of Momaday’s
telling us that “there was no sound, and he had no voice”? Is Abel
translating, or is he dying of exhaustion, alone and unheard, in the
frigid landscape? Has Abel learned to pray? Has he reached revela-
tion? And what does it mean to pray in an oral language that is,
quite literally, disappearing from the face of the earth with each
succeeding generation?
I begin with these questions about House Made of Dawn because
they illustrate the dilemma present in all the novels I will discuss
in this chapter—the dilemma of how one can translate and ﬁnd
revelation in a language that is rapidly being extinguished by social
and cultural forces. Momaday’s House Made of Dawn and The Way
to Rainy Mountain () debate a series of ideas about translation
that another early writer—Leslie Marmon Silko—will revise and
reformulate in her novel Ceremony () and return to in Almanac
of the Dead (). More recently, writers such as Susan Power, in
The Grass Dancer (), and Sherman Alexie, in Reservation Blues
() and Indian Killer (), have continued to wrestle with these
issues. It is not my intention to discuss all these works in detail, but
I will argue that in them, translation struggles signify conﬂicts not
only of Native American identity but also of cultural survival. I will
focus on two interrelated aspects of this struggle: the innovative
methods these writers formulate to enable the survival of a native
tongue through transmigration of it into English, and the connec-
tion between translation and revelation. In “The Task of the Trans-
lator,” Walter Benjamin argues that “translation keeps putting the
hallowed growth of languages to the test: How far removed is their
hidden meaning from revelation, how close can it be brought by
the knowledge of their remoteness?” (). For many of these Native
American writers, translation is about a leap of faith that enables
   
the character to speak a sacred language, a language he or she may
not previously have known. Through translation a kind of cultural
voice is recovered that transcodes ethnicity, but at its most pure
this voice does put “the hallowed growth of languages to the test.”
This sacred voice reveals the hidden structure of the world, the hid-
den intermeshing of humanity, nature, and the sacred forces that
vivify the world and all things in it.
I do not mean to suggest, however, that a Judeo-Christian un-
derstanding of revelation can encompass these writers’ ideas. In-
deed, these texts criticize Christianity and even the most sacred
revelatory text, The Revelation of Saint John the Divine. In Moma-
day’s House Made of Dawn, for example, John Big Bluff Tosamah
argues that after preaching “In the beginning was the Word,” Saint
John should “have stopped” since “there was nothing more to say”
(). Native American writers, then, reclaim the sacred power of
the word without explicitly allying the word with the Word, with
Christianity or a speciﬁc divinity. Benjamin, too, focuses in his es-
say on the sacred power of the word rather than the Word, arguing
that “it is the task of the translator to release in his own language
that pure language which is under the spell of another, to liberate
the language imprisoned in a work in his re-creation of that work”
(). For Benjamin, capturing the “eternal life of works” (–) has
more to do with understanding the resonances and interconnec-
tions between linguistic systems and less to do with ﬁnding a di-
vine Truth, a divine Word.1
For Momaday, Silko, Power, and Alexie
the word is an emblem of the interconnections between humanity
and the world’s spirit rather than a sign of the Christian “God’s”
power.
Of course, in many Native American cultures the word is also
sacred in and of itself; language is extremely powerful and does
create reality.2
However, the works I discuss span a thirty-year time
period in which recovery of “the word” shifts away from a concern
with retrieval of a homogeneous language system or dialect toward
something more metaphorical. While an earlier writer such as Mo-
maday is interested in literal recovery of the oral native language,
later writers are more concerned with transmigrating values and
ideals of the native language into spoken and written English so
that English itself is changed. In discussing why he writes in En-
  

glish, Salman Rushdie states: “Those of us who do use English do
so in spite of our ambiguity toward it, or perhaps because of that,
perhaps because we can ﬁnd in that linguistic struggle a reﬂection
of other struggles taking place in the real world, struggles between
the cultures within ourselves and the inﬂuences at work upon our
societies. To conquer English may be to complete the process of
making ourselves free” (). Later writers do attempt to “conquer
English” and also (in Gustavo Pérez Firmat’s terms) to “conga” En-
glish (Life ) through various translation strategies. In Silko’s Cere-
mony English becomes a kind of palimpsestic, hybrid discourse;
Susan Power employs a radical bilingualism in which two distinct
voices are spoken at once; and Sherman Alexie turns to a kind of
violent revelatory discourse as a way his characters “translate” a Na-
tive American language they may never have learned. Over time,
then, there is less interest in translation’s literal ability to recover
“the word” and more interest in how, on a metaphorical level, it
might allow two or more discourses to coexist in a sometimes un-
easy alliance, a sometimes violent syncretism.
Linguistic Recovery in N. Scott Momaday’s
House Made of Dawn and The Way to Rainy Mountain
Many critics have argued that House Made of Dawn primarily de-
picts Abel’s successful struggle for voice.3
Yet the novel also con-
cerns the larger question of how a variety of Native American in-
dividuals within Euro-American culture learn to translate between
their native language and the dominant one and transmigrate values
and terms from indigenous cultures into the English language and
context. When Abel is compared with these individuals, he must be
seen as only partially successful in ﬁnding voice. I will argue in this
section that Abel’s conception of translation is limited by a focus
on the recovery of a pure and untainted tongue. When Momaday
returns to these questions in The Way to Rainy Mountain, he illus-
trates a more ﬂexible methodology for translating Native American
cultures and languages and for transcoding ethnicity.4
In House Made of Dawn Abel returns to his home among the Je-
mez Pueblo after ﬁghting in World War II only to ﬁnd that he has
   
lost his connection to his culture and language. Abel is an orphan;
his mother has died, and he never knew his father, who was from
another tribe (perhaps Navajo). The ﬁgure of the “mixed-raced” or-
phan who does not know his or her place within the culture will
reappear in several of these texts as an embodiment of a particular
translation problem. It is difficult enough to translate when one can
speak to one’s relatives, as Kingston illustrates in The Woman War-
rior. But what if the parents are gone, dead, or of unknown racial
heritage? How can ethnicity be transcoded when it was never really
known? Abel’s grandfather Francisco tries to teach his grandson
about the language and culture, but Abel cannot avail himself of
this ancestral help.
One problem lies in the speciﬁc way Abel structures his trans-
lation dilemma. Abel seeks to recover a pure language that bears
no traces of other languages. In a ﬂashback from his childhood,
Abel describes this language: “He remembered the prayer, and he
knew what it meant—not the words, which he had never really
heard, but the low sound itself, rising and falling far away in his
mind, unmistakable and unbroken” (, emphasis added; see also
–, –). Interestingly, this pure language transcends the
words themselves: “He knew what it meant—not the words . . . but
the low sound itself.” Abel struggles, then, to gather the threads
of his “fallen” language into a uniﬁed, unbroken tongue: “He was
alone, and he wanted to make a song out of the colored canyon,
the way the women of Torreón made songs upon their looms out of
colored yarn, but he had not got the right words together. It would
have been a creation song; he would have sung lowly of the ﬁrst
world, of ﬁre and ﬂood, and of the emergence of dawn from the
hills” (). Colored yarn on a loom is gathered together, woven into
a picture, a uniﬁed song, by the weaver. As an image of language
this passage seems to suggest an illusionary unity which might have
existed when language was ﬁrst “created” (hence Abel’s reference
to “a creation song”) but which is not possible in the contempo-
rary context. Nonetheless, Abel wants to rebuild himself through
this language’s unbroken harmony: “Had he been able to say it,
anything of his own language—even the commonplace formula of
greeting ‘where are you going’—which had no being beyond sound,
no visible substance, would once again have shown him whole to
  

himself” (). Abel attempts to recover a pure language of authen-
tic and whole selfhood.
Momaday’s novel implies, though, that such a strategy of lin-
guistic recovery is not viable. As Bernard Selinger argues, the novel
reﬂects “ambivalence about the likelihood of acquiring wholeness
and authority” (). The attitudes toward language expressed in
the text also reﬂect this ambivalence—there is no pure language
that will restore unbroken selfhood. And so like Ona in Ng’s Bone,
Abel becomes stranded between languages and cultures. He cannot
recover the native language he has lost, but he also has difficulties
expressing himself in English. With his friends Ben Benally and
Milly, for example, he is always described as silent or as lacking the
English words to express his painful experiences (, , , ,
, ). Ben describes this scenario of being caught between lan-
guages: “And they [white social workers] can’t help you because
you don’t know how to talk to them. They have a lot of words, and
you know they mean something, but you don’t know what, and
your own words are no good because they’re not the same; they’re
different, and they’re the only words you’ve got” (). Although
Ben says his words are “no good,” by speaking them Ben does at
least attempt to translate Abel’s situation into language.
Unlike Ben, Abel has little interest in expressing his thoughts in
English. For example, when he is put on trial for murdering an al-
bino man named Juan Reyes, Abel observes that “word by word by
word these men were disposing of him in language, their language,
and they were making a bad job of it” (). Abel sees English as a
foreign and fallen tongue: their language. At ﬁrst he tries to defend
himself in this tongue, but then he gives up: “He sat like a rock in
his chair, and after a while no one expected or even wanted him to
speak” (). Killing Juan Reyes may be an attempt to ﬁnd “voice”
through violence and to remove something Abel perceives as “im-
pure” from the culture (the albino man, who is of Jemez Pueblo
descent but white skinned). But the search for voice through vio-
lence is often unsuccessful, as my discussion of Indian Killer will
show. Furthermore, Abel constructs a binary opposition between
the “foreign” tongue (English) and the “pure” native tongue—a bi-
nary that he cannot transcode. Seeking a pure and authentic native
   
tongue, he is unable to undertake the intercultural, interlinguistic
burdens of translation.
What Abel fails to realize—and what Momaday makes abun-
dantly clear—is that in the contemporary world, languages are
never pure but rather fallen and broken, “tainted” with traces of
other languages. Yet there can be strength in this brokenness. For
example, the people of Abel’s town have absorbed aspects of Euro-
American culture and language without losing their own identities.
The narrative voice tells us that “the invaders were a long time in
conquering [the people of the town]; and now, after four centuries
of Christianity, they still pray in Tanoan to the old deities of the
earth and sky. . . . They have assumed the names and gestures of
their enemies, but have held on to their own, secret souls; and in
this there is a resistance and an overcoming, a long outwaiting”
().5
The people of the town assume “the names and gestures of
their enemies”—a linguistic and social transformation—yet they
hold on to their own “secret souls.” As Momaday tells us in The
Way to Rainy Mountain, in many Native American cultures the
name is sacred, so it is highly signiﬁcant to take on the enemy’s
names. This is accommodation of a sort, but it may function as
a form of resistance. In a discussion of linguistic hybridity, Homi
Bhabha argues that “resistance is not . . . the simple negation or
exclusion of the ‘content’ of an other culture. . . . It is the effect of
an ambivalence produced within the rules of recognition of domi-
nating discourses as they articulate the signs of cultural difference
and reimplicate them within the differential relations of colonial
power” (“Signs” ). The signs of Euro-American culture—its
names and customs—are reimplicated, rearticulated in the context
of the traditional Tanoan language. This produces ambivalence,
but also a kind of power that emerges from linguistic hybridity,
from broken and scattered languages.6
Indeed, the townspeople’s language is not pure but a mixture
of dialects. Abel’s grandfather Francisco describes hearing this lan-
guage: “Out of the doorways he passed came the queer, halting
talk of old fellowship, Tanoan and Athapascan, broken English
and Spanish” (). In this mixture of tongues there is power; after
all, it is the Euro-American languages (English and Spanish) that
  

are described as “broken.” I discuss Francisco’s role as a translator
later, but here I want to note that unlike Abel, he sees language
as scattered and fallen rather than whole. The translator does not
gather or unify language but speaks and embodies its brokenness.
Athapascan, one of the languages Francisco mentions, is itself a
family of Native American languages including Chippewa, Hopi,
and Navajo. In Cree, the word “ahthapskaaw” means “there are
reeds here and there.” This sentence illustrates that any spoken lan-
guage is composed of multiple other languages. Language is a scat-
tering, not a gathering, of reeds, of discourses.
Benjamin postulates that “pure language” is not an original, un-
broken tongue but the totality of all linguistic systems: “Rather,
all suprahistorical kinship of language rests in the intention un-
derlying each language as a whole—an intention, however, which
no single language can attain by itself but which is realized only
by the totality of their intentions supplementing each other: pure
language” (). Translation, then, can push us closer to pure lan-
guage, but it cannot actually create it. Translation “thus ultimately
serves the purpose of expressing the central reciprocal relationship
between languages” (). There can be a kind of strength and a
resistance in looking for reciprocity between languages, between
different discursive systems; for Benjamin, this is how we move to-
ward (but yet do not attain) “pure language.” But Abel refuses to
look for reciprocity between languages—to ﬁnd points of conver-
gence and divergence, points where transmigrations might occur.
Instead, he sits outside language, locked into his silence.
Yet as I have indicated, other individuals in House Made of Dawn
do ﬁnd ways of transcoding their ethnicity and transmigrating
their tongues. I want to look more closely at these individuals and
at the discursive landscape of the book before returning to the nov-
el’s ending. First, it is crucial to note that House Made of Dawn is
a multilingual text—and a text that refuses to separate languages
and cultures into neat compartments. Consider, for example, Fran-
cisco’s meditations on food: “He smelled the odor of boiled cof-
fee, and was good. He cared less for the sweet smell of piki and
the moist, broken loaves of sotobalau, the hot spicy odors of paste
and posole” (–). None of the “foreign” words in this list are
italicized; we might say, then, that none of the words are “othered”
   
typographically and that languages are therefore allowed to mingle
without separation. The number of culturally inﬂected words in
this passage also is signiﬁcant: “piki,” “paste,” “posole,” and “so-
tobalau” would all be somewhat foreign terms to many Anglo-
American readers. Yet these words do not come from one culture
but from (at least) three: Spanish, Native American, and English.
Momaday does not translate these terms for his reader, leaving the
reader who knows only English to struggle with these unfamiliar
dialects. Finally, in this passage, it is (again) English that is broken:
“He smelled the odor of boiled coffee, and was good.”
I dwell on this passage because it emblematizes the way lan-
guages mix and mingle in the book as a whole. The text is written
in English, of course, but speckled with words from several other
languages (Tanoan, Navajo, Spanish, French, Latin): dypalon ();
piñones (); yahah (); teah-whau (); cacique (, ); arroyo ();
Bahkyush (); Angelus (); hombre (); soutane ();  -
 (); kiva (, , , , , ); Padre (); Dîné (), In
principio erat Verbum (); Tai-me (, ); peyote (–); Ä’poto
Etódă-de K’ádó (); culebra (, ); Tségihi (); ketoh (,
, ); concho (); najahe (); Ei yei (); Ei yei (); Esdzá
shash nadle (, ); Dzil quigi (); mesas (, , ); Yeí bichai
(); vigas (, ); diablo blanco (); ayempha (); mucho frió
(); muchacho (); and Qtsedaba (). Some of these words are
italicized and some are not, but very few are translated. This is not
an exhaustive list, but I am exhausted after typing it, ﬁnding um-
laut and other accent marks, looking up words, searching through
several different dictionaries—but surely not as exhausted as Abel is
from negotiating this thicket of language, this multilingual world
of words. Yet Momaday demonstrates how crucial this negotiation
is. The world is not unilingual, and only by negotiating its multi-
lingualism can we ﬁnd our relationship to language and become
effective translators.
Momaday also shows that “separate” languages are actually imbri-
cated in each other. A word such as “peyote,” for example, has roots
in Spanish, Mexican, and Native American cultures and has now
passed into the “English” language so that most English speakers
would not need to look it up. And the word “cacique” has meanings
in both Spanish and Native American cultures. Languages mix and
  

mingle, creating and re-creating each other. This is particularly ap-
parent in the speech of Abel’s grandfather Francisco.7
Francisco of-
ten speaks in a blend of Tanoan and Spanish (, ); he also speaks
enough English to communicate with Abel after the war, when
Abel can no longer speak his native tongue. Francisco is an effec-
tive translator who ﬁnds the language to tell his grandsons the oral
stories of the culture: “These things he told to his grandsons, care-
fully, slowly and at length, because they were old and true, and
they could be lost forever as easily as one generation is lost to the
next, as easily as one old man might lose his voice, having spoken
not enough or not at all” (). On his deathbed, Francisco tries
desperately to communicate with Abel: “Still [Abel] could hear the
faintest edge of his grandfather’s voice . . . going on and on toward
the dawn. . . . The voice had failed each day, only to rise up again in
the dawn” (). But Abel cannot hear his grandfather’s words: “He
listened to the feeble voice. . . . His mind was borne upon the dying
words, but they carried him nowhere. . . . The words ran together
and were no longer words” (–). Does Abel eventually learn to
translate his grandfather’s memory into some language, whatever
that language might be?
The answer to this question—and to the question of what lan-
guage Abel might eventually speak—can only be understood by
looking at two other translator ﬁgures in the book: Tosamah and
Ben Benally. Tosamah, a Kiowan preacher who may (or may not)
be a stand-in for Momaday, criticizes the Revelation of St. John, but
he also preaches about the power of words and about the fundamen-
tal link between translation and revelation. Discussing his grand-
mother, for example, Tosamah says: “You see, for her, words were
medicine; they were magic and invisible. They came from nothing
into sound and meaning. They were beyond price” (). Language
is an instrument of “creation” and “magic.” By telling the oral stories
of her culture, by translating them so that Tosamah can understand
them, Tosamah’s grandmother brings him closer to something “sa-
cred and eternal” (), something “timeless” (). Through the link
to his grandmother and her stories, Tosamah ﬁnds revelation.
Yet this revelation is not achieved through a pure language. Like
Francisco, Tosamah’s grandmother speaks a language that syncre-
tizes cultures. The grandmother is described as a “Christian,” yet
   
she never forgets “her birthright” ()—the spirit of her culture.
She is also described as sometimes praying in a language Tosamah
does not know: “I believe [her prayers] were made of an older lan-
guage than that of ordinary speech” (). Still, she does make her-
self understood to her grandson, and he passes on her stories (in
English) to his followers (the group of Native Americans from vari-
ous tribes who attend his religious services). Like his grandmother,
then, Tosamah demonstrates a linguistic hybridity and an ability to
transmigrate stories into a new tongue so that they are not lost. Fur-
thermore, the two sermons Tosamah preaches—“The Gospel Ac-
cording to John” () and “The Way to Rainy Mountain” ()—in-
dicate his interest in moving across and between languages and in
ﬁnding points of convergence and divergence between the Bible and
his grandmother’s stories, between English and Kiowan, between
Native American and Anglo-American cultures and religions.
Tosamah is not, of course, a perfect character. He berates Abel,
calling him a “longhair” () and contributing to his downfall.
Tosamah may preach about the sacred power of the word and
about the need for syncretism and transmigration of tongues, but
it is unclear if Abel absorbs—or is even present to hear—these les-
sons. It is Abel’s friend Ben who offers Abel a more positive way
to transmigrate his culture and ﬁnd a mode of voice. Ben also has
something Abel is not given in the novel—a ﬁrst-person voice with
which to tell his stories (–). He also has some knowledge of
his own Navajo language and culture, as the following passage re-
veals: “I used to tell him about those old ways, the stories and the
sings, Beautyway and Night Chant, I sang some of those things,
and I told him what they meant, what I thought they were about”
(). Ben here attempts the intercultural and interlinguistic tasks
that translation entails, transmigrating his culture to a new context
(English) so that Abel can understand it. He also relates the songs
and prayers in a language composed of both his original tongue
(Navajo) and English:
Tségihi.
House made of dawn,
House made of evening light,
House made of dark cloud,
  

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Restore my feet for me,
Restore my legs for me,
Restore my body for me,
Restore my mind for me.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
As it used to be long ago, may I walk.
Happily may I walk.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
In beauty it is ﬁnished. (–)
Ben’s use of the word “Tségihi” demonstrates that he knows at least
some language from his culture. Ben’s speech, like the title of Mo-
maday’s book, is taken from the anthropologist Washington Mat-
thews’s  translation of the Navajo Night Chant (see Bierhorst).
Ben’s translation of this song into English for Abel, then, may be
a translation of a translation rather than “authentic” speech. My
point here, however, is that Ben is engaged in a process of inter-
cultural translation and transmigration of tongues and that he at-
tempts to teach this process to Abel. The goal again is not recov-
ery of “pure” or “authentic” speech or an Ur-text but connection
with a prior tongue which might itself be transmigrated, multilin-
gual, or fallen but which still contains wisdom and knowledge that
preexists the hegemony of Euro-American culture and language.
Most important, Ben encourages Abel to join in the song: “And we
were going together on horses to the hills. . . . We were going to
sing about the way it always was. And it was going to be right and
beautiful” (). Benjamin argues that translation is not “the ster-
ile equation of two dead languages” but has “the special mission of
watching over the maturing process of the original language and
the birth pangs of its own” (). By translating the songs (which
may themselves be translations of other songs) and encouraging
Abel to sing them, Ben extends the life of the songs, allowing them
to mature and grow and change in a new context.
Like Tosamah, Ben is not faultless; at times he seems all too will-
ing to forget his culture, to assimilate and forget “the old ways” ().
But Ben does teach Abel the value of adapting to the present real-
   
ity while keeping some hold on the “home” culture and language.
Does Abel ﬁnally absorb the lessons of Ben, Tosamah, and Fran-
cisco? And so we have circled back to the starting point of this
chapter, Abel’s Dawn Run. It is crucial, of course, that Abel enters
into this ritual, the Dawn Run, which has been described to him
by Francisco. And it is crucial that he is singing: “House made of
pollen, house made of dawn. Qtsedaba” (). In this sentence there
are words taught to him by Ben that belong to the Navajo culture
and prayers (“house made of pollen, house made of dawn”), but
there are also words from other languages. Qtsedaba traditionally
marks the end of a story in the Jemez Pueblo culture, and Dypaloh,
which opens the text, is the traditional beginning (Evers ). Abel
has incorporated the lessons he has learned from the other transla-
tors and is now moving between languages. And perhaps Abel does
ﬁnd revelation through this translation: “Pure exhaustion laid hold
of his mind, and he could see at last without having to think. He
could see the canyon and the mountains and the sky. . . . He was
running, and under his breath he began to sing. . . . And he went
running on the rise of the song” (). The song sustains Abel, al-
lowing him to see past the pain of his present reality into a future
that might hold more hope.
However, I have difficulty believing that Abel has ﬁnally learned
to translate. First, I am troubled by the phrase “There was no
sound, and he had no voice” (). What are we to make of this
comment, placed almost as the very last words of a novel that, in
excruciating detail, charts Abel’s struggle for voice? I am also con-
cerned that Abel is wounded and battered both emotionally and
physically when he makes this Dawn Run. Before the run, he tells
the local priest that his grandfather is dead—perhaps Abel imag-
ines that he will be unable to bury the body. Does Abel believe he
will die in this Dawn Run? The text is somewhat ambiguous, but
again I believe this undercuts a reading of Abel’s struggle for voice
as wholly successful. Finally, and most important, I would like to
know that someone hears Abel’s song. Although Susan Scarberry-
García argues that Abel is “reintegrated within his culture” (), we
never see Abel telling his story to his own people. And in a book
that emphasizes the importance of passing on oral traditions in
  

some form, it is extremely problematic that Abel has no listener for
the song that he sings. So the novel concludes where it begins, with
Abel alone, running in the snow, possessing only a voice with no
sound, a story with no listener. The ending of House Made of Dawn
ﬁnally suggests that Abel has not yet become a translator—an in-
dividual capable of transforming and transmitting his history, his
memory, and his culture.8
Perhaps this is why Momaday returns to a number of these is-
sues in The Way to Rainy Mountain. Like House Made of Dawn, this
text emphasizes the importance of language to identity: “The way
to Rainy Mountain is preeminently the history of an idea, man’s
idea of himself, and it has old and essential being in language” ().
Throughout this short collection, Momaday also stresses the ne-
cessity of connecting with the native culture through its tongue.
For example, Momaday tells the story of two twins who are saved
from a giant because they know a word taught to them by grand-
mother spider, “thain-mom” (above my eyes). When the giant sets
ﬁres around the twins, they repeat this word, and “the smoke re-
mained above their eyes” (). As Momaday comments, words are
powerful talismans: “A word has power in and of itself. It comes
from nothing into sound and meaning; it gives origin to all things.
By means of words can a man deal with the world on equal terms.
And the word is sacred” (). From the example of his grandmother,
who tells this story, Momaday learns that words from the Kiowan
language can be used to confront “evil and the incomprehensible”
().9
Momaday recovers these words in his text and shows they are
necessary for survival.
But in The Way to Rainy Mountain, Momaday does not focus
only on recovery of language, as Abel does in House Made of Dawn.
The Way to Rainy Mountain also shows the necessity of moving
between languages. Momaday uses certain Kiowan words in this
text, but he also tells the stories in English. He thereby translates
and preserves both the stories and aspects of the language. Fur-
thermore, he emphasizes that although the language has undergone
some loss, the culture can still be preserved: “The verbal tradition
by which it [the story of the Kiowan people] has been preserved
has suffered a deterioration in time. What remains is fragmentary:
mythology, legend, lore, and hearsay—and of course the idea itself,
   
as crucial and complete as it ever was. That is the miracle” (). The
language may suffer deterioration (“what remains is fragmentary”),
but the culture endures. Furthermore, the Kiowan culture can still
be recovered by the translator’s memory: “Yet it is within the reach
of memory still, though tenuously now, and moreover it is even
deﬁned in a remarkably rich and living verbal tradition which de-
mands to be preserved for its own sake” (). The language is pre-
served by the translator’s memory, and the culture endures, even
when it is transmigrated to a new social and linguistic context.
In The Way to Rainy Mountain, Momaday does what Abel cannot
—he translates the stories and language of his culture. Momaday
thereby transmigrates the traditions, making them live and breathe
in another tongue. Benjamin argues that the life of the original text
attains in translation “its ever-renewed and most abundant ﬂower-
ing” (). It is this ﬂowering that Momaday sets in motion in The
Way to Rainy Mountain through his translation of his culture’s sto-
ries. And it is this ﬂowering that Abel seems only on the verge of
beginning when he sets out on his fateful Dawn Run, toward life or
death, toward silence or voice.
Palimpsestic Translation in Leslie Marmon Silko’s
Ceremony and Almanac of the Dead
As discussed in the introduction, in an earlier era of translation
readers knew multiple languages. A Roman reader therefore might
translate a Greek text into Roman as a meditation on the original
poem or play and its language. Consequently, as Susan Bassnett ar-
gues, “the Roman reader [who could also read Greek] was gener-
ally able to consider the translation as a metatext in relation to the
original. The translated text was read through the source text” ().
I am interested in using this idea of languages being read through
each other to approach the trope of translation in Leslie Marmon
Silko’s Ceremony. If translation is viewed as an exercise in allow-
ing one text (or language) to be read (or spoken) through another,
then Ceremony’s resolution becomes clearer. In effect, language be-
comes a kind of metaphorical palimpsest. A “palimpsest” is a text
that has been written over and on throughout the course of history,
  

with fragments of earlier, imperfectly erased writing still visible.
“Dominant” and “marginal” texts/languages exist in a dialectical
relationship—a relationship in which they are read through and
against each other.
What if we view language not as a space in which one discourse
(the dominant one) wipes out or perhaps writes out the “marginal”
one but a space where remnants of many languages exist in a dia-
lectical tension? House Made of Dawn shows the multilingualism of
the contemporary world, but for Silko the translator’s goal is not
only speaking several languages but also showing the palimpsestic
nature of language itself. In Ceremony Tayo’s translation difficulties
parallel those of Abel. Yet Silko’s novel rewrites Momaday’s both
in its focus on linguistic hybridity (the imbrication of languages
within each other) and in its concern with the role the listener or
the community plays for the translator. And both Ceremony and
Silko’s more recent novel, Almanac of the Dead, suggest a strong
connection between translation and revelation—between ﬁnding
points of reciprocity and connection between “different” linguistic
systems and the worlds these linguistic systems create.10
Like Abel, Tayo (the protagonist of Silko’s novel Ceremony) re-
turns from ﬁghting in World War II and experiences great difficulty
connecting to his Laguna culture and language. Tayo is an orphan
of “mixed blood,” as Abel is. Like Abel, Tayo has an older relative
who tries to teach him the customs and language of his culture.
And most important, like Abel, Tayo struggles to understand his
native tongue and to reconcile it with the English-speaking world
he and his friends (fellow war veterans) now inhabit. Tayo initially
feels he has no voice, telling a white doctor: “He can’t talk to you.
He is invisible. His words are formed with an invisible tongue,
they have no sound” (). If we compare this sentence with one of
the last lines of Momaday’s House Made of Dawn—“There was no
sound, and he had no voice” ()—we can see that Silko is allud-
ing to Abel’s dilemma. Yet Silko also revises Momaday’s text. For
one thing, although Tayo is not ﬂuent in his native tongue, he re-
tains some knowledge of it: “[Ku’oosh] spoke softly, using the old
dialect full of sentences that were involuted with explanations of
their own origins, as if nothing the old man said were his own but
all had been said before, and he was only there to repeat it. Tayo
   
had to strain to catch the meaning, dense with place names he had
never heard. His language was childish, interspersed with English
words, and he could feel shame tightening in his throat; but then
he heard the old man describe the cave” (). Tayo strains to under-
stand the elder’s language, but he also struggles to express himself,
even if he feels ashamed by his “childish” language. “The impera-
tive is the telling,” as Silko comments in an essay. “It is imperative
to tell and not to worry over a speciﬁc language” (“Language and
Literature” ).11
Tayo does not refuse the interlingual burdens of
translation that “telling” entails. Furthermore, Tayo does not seek a
pure language but rather the ability to move between languages, to
mesh and mingle them. Early in the novel he makes the rather sar-
donic comment: “I’m half-breed. I’ll be the ﬁrst to say it. I’ll speak
for both sides” (), but later he comes to realize that there is power
in speaking for “both sides” or for many sides—there is power in a
plurality of tongues.
This does not mean that Tayo has an unproblematic relation-
ship to language. Before he can become a translator he must come
to terms with the nightmarish linguistic babble that entangles him.
When Tayo dreams, he hears voices in Spanish, Japanese, and Keres
(the language spoken by the Laguna people), “rolling him over and
over again like debris caught in a ﬂood” (). This ﬂood of language
threatens to overwhelm him: “He could hear Uncle Josiah calling
him. But before Josiah could come, the fever voices would drift
and whirl and emerge again—Japanese soldiers shouting orders to
him . . . and he heard the women’s voices then; they faded in and
out until he was frantic because he thought the Laguna words were
his mother’s, but when he was about to make out the meaning of
the words, the voice suddenly broke into a language he could not
understand” (). Tayo has never known much about his mother,
and he longs to hear her voice, believing (like Ichiro in No-No Boy)
that he can perhaps “refashion an identity for him and reappropri-
ate him to himself ” (Derrida, Ear ) by fusion with the mother
tongue. But the mother tongue is overwhelmed by “a language he
cannot understand”—the babble of contemporary speech. For Tayo
this babble means that “the world had come undone” (), and he
struggles to survive in this vertiginous, discursive landscape.
Silko indicates, however, that with the advent of Anglo-Ameri-
  

cans and their language, the traditional Native American world has
in fact been altered. The natural world and its names are changed
by contact with English: “But the ﬁfth world had become entan-
gled with European names: the names of the rivers, the hills, the
names of the animals and plants—all creation suddenly had two
names: an Indian name and a white name” (). Language is here
conﬁgured as a tangle, but in this tangle English threatens to over-
whelm the native tongue: “Now the feelings were twisted, tangled
roots, and all the names for the source of this growth were buried
under English words, out of reach. And there would be no peace
and the people would have no rest until the entanglement had been
unwound to the source” (). Is it, then, the translator’s job to un-
tangle language, to trace it back to its source? What is the task of
the translator in confronting this linguistic babble?
While some characters—such as Auntie—appear to believe their
job is untangling language (), the overall vision of the book im-
plies something rather different. The native language is changed
by contact with English, and the task of the translator is to make
something positive of this change. Silko stresses that contact with
other languages can lead to growth and development of a culture
and its language. Oral stories, for example, are powerful medicine,
as the opening poem illustrates: “You don’t have anything / if you
don’t have the stories. / Their evil is mighty / but it can’t stand up
to our stories” (). But oral stories are not static; rather, they are
always growing and changing: “And in the belly of this story / the
rituals and the ceremony / are still growing” (). Thus the task of
the translator is not only speaking the oral stories but also allow-
ing the stories to “ﬂower” (as Benjamin might put it) in another
language. And the translator plays an important role in the evolu-
tion of the story, for she or he can either resist or assist the story’s
growth and transmigration. Betonie, a nontraditional Navajo medi-
cine man, teaches Tayo that “things which don’t shift and grow are
dead things” (), and Tayo applies this idea to stories. Looking
around at the natural world, for example, he sees “a world made
of stories, the long ago, time immemorial stories, as old Grandma
called them,” but also notes that this world of stories is “alive, al-
ways changing and moving” (). Translation, oral storytelling, and
ceremony are intermeshed in Silko’s novel, and she illustrates that
   
in all these activities, change and growth are productive and useful
—a necessary part of adaptation to the contemporary world.12
Silko’s text also implies a movement toward a hybrid discourse
in which Native American languages can be heard through English
and in which English is also used to further Native American sto-
ries. In explaining why his grandmother encourages him to learn
English, Betonie tells Tayo: “She said ‘It [the ceremony] is carried
on in all languages now, so you have to know English too’” ().
There is no simple binary, here, in which Native American lan-
guages signify truth, insight, and selfhood, while English is equated
with duplicity, delusion, and lack of identity. Unlike Abel, then,
Tayo brings languages together so that the story, the language, the
ceremony can grow and can be pushed toward revelation. Benjamin
argues that “in the individual, unsupplemented languages, meaning
is never found in relative independence, as in individual words or
sentences; rather, it is in a constant state of ﬂux” (). However, ac-
cording to Benjamin, translation brings languages into contact with
each other so that “languages continue to grow . . . until the end
of their time” (); translation “catches ﬁre on the eternal life of
the works and the perpetual renewal of language” (). Tayo must
sometimes speak in English—this is part of the modern world, the
modern ceremony. But he must also ﬁnd ways of transmigrating
and embodying the oral Laguna language and culture through his
speaking of English; he will thereby push his own language and cul-
ture toward renewal and eternal life.
Fortunately, Tayo observes several individuals who teach him
how this translation task might be achieved. Descheeny, Ts’eh, and
Betonie show Tayo that cultural and linguistic hybridity are use-
ful and indeed powerful forces in these processes of translation
and transmigration. Betonie’s grandfather Descheeny, for example,
speaks both Spanish and Navajo (). Descheeny’s wife, who is
Mexican, hears in his cabin “all these language I never heard be-
fore” (). And both Descheeny and his wife realize that this lin-
guistic hybridity is empowering: “This is the only way. . . . It can-
not be done alone. We must have power from everywhere. Even
the power we can get from the whites” (). It is unclear if this
statement is spoken in Spanish, Navajo, or English, but certainly it
describes the power that can come when languages are allowed to
  

collide and collapse, when the discourse of the “master” is rearticu-
lated within the spaces of another discursive domain.
Of course, Tayo’s status as a “half-breed” allows him to em-
body the changes that occur through literal hybridity, as several
characters imply () and as several critics have discussed.13
But I
am most interested in how linguistic hybridity becomes empower-
ing for Tayo as a translator. The hunter Tayo meets, for example,
speaks English, but he also knows songs from the Laguna culture
and the Jemez or Zuni (). Ts’eh, the hunter’s sister or wife (this
is never made clear), has a sister married to a Navajo, another sister
who lives in Flagstaff, and a brother in Jemez ().14
Through these
two characters Silko points toward a kind of geographic, cultural,
and linguistic mixing that is powerful, productive, and part of the
ceremony itself—the ceremony that will, ultimately, banish “witch-
ery” from the world.
But it is only from Betonie that Tayo learns to speak palimpsesti-
cally. As James Ruppert argues, Betonie is able to “translate West-
ern and Native discourse into the new ceremonies and ceremonial
vision,” and so he is “the ideal person to effect the cure of Tayo and
to help him mediate the [Western and Native] discourses” (“Dia-
logism” ). But how does this mediation and translation work on
the linguistic and even lexical level? Betonie normally speaks “good
English” (), although he also knows Navajo (). Yet Betonie
not only codeswitches between these languages but also allows the
Native American tongue to be heard through the English one. In
a crucial passage, Betonie uses an English word but signiﬁes Na-
tive American values: “There was something about the way the old
man said the word ‘comfortable.’ It had a different meaning—not
the comfort of big houses or rich food or even clean streets, but the
comfort of belonging with the land, and the peace of being with
these hills” (). Betonie gives the word a “special meaning” (),
inﬂecting it with Native American values. He translates in such a
way that the “marginal” discourse is not sutured over but rather is
allowed to coexist with the dominant one. In fact, it is a bit unclear
in this sentence what is the marginal meaning of the term “com-
fort” and what is the “dominant” one. Certainly, in the modern
world Anglo-Americans appear to be enfranchised both culturally
and linguistically, but as Betonie points out, “This hogan was here
   
ﬁrst. It is the town down there [in Gallup] which is out of place.
Not this old medicine man” (). While we might be tempted to
say that the Native American meaning of the word “comfort” is out
of place in the dominant landscape/discourse, Betonie’s statement
undercuts this binary.15
We can see Betonie mastering the dominant
language so that he takes up his rightful place in it, but also so that
he can destabilize English through a practice of linguistic transmi-
gration in which the “marginal” discourse begins to overturn the
enfranchised one.
Tayo sees the value of this linguistic transmigration, which helps
him make sense of (but not necessarily unwind) the linguistic bab-
ble in which he is caught. Tayo appears to believe, initially, that he
must choose between languages and cultures—that he must believe
either in the white world of science and linguistic factuality or the
Native American world of ritual and oral stories. Yet what Tayo ﬁ-
nally accomplishes is a complicated transcoding of his ethnic iden-
tities: “He knew what white people thought about the stories. . . .
He had studied those books, and he had no reason to believe the
stories any more. . . . But old Grandma always used to say, ‘Back in
time immemorial, things were different, the animals could talk to
human beings and many magical things still happened.’ He never
lost the feeling he had in his chest when she spoke the words, as she
did each time she told them stories; and he still felt it was true, de-
spite all they had taught him in school—that long ago things had
been different” (–). In a discussion of Native American litera-
ture, Cheryl Walker postulates that “perhaps the only way to avoid
being captured by the reductivism of hegemony is by preserving
the oxymoron: that is, the contradiction implied by two incompati-
ble discourses within which it becomes clear there are gaps and
ﬁssures one cannot dismiss” (xv). Tayo does not choose between
the white books of science and the Native American oral stories;
rather, he struggles to hold on to both realms of knowledge, both
cultural “stories.” In so doing he begins the process of transcoding
identities so that he can be both “American” and Laguna. For it is
only by seeing how these linguistic and cultural identities intersect
that Tayo can survive. The stories that seem dichotomous do ﬁt to-
gether: “He cried the relief he felt at ﬁnally seeing the pattern, the
way all the stories ﬁt together—the old stories, the war stories, their
  

stories—to become the story that was still being told” (). The
white stories (“their stories”), Tayo’s grandmother’s and Ku’oosh’s
stories (“the old stories”), and the new stories (“the war stories”)
do ﬁt together to become a story that Tayo can build. Contact be-
tween different discursive systems allows the story to grow—but
only if the translator sees, and does not dismiss, differences. Dif-
ferences are, then, incorporated into the processes of transcoding
identity and transmigrating tongues.
Furthermore, ﬁnding contact points, “contact zones” in/of lan-
guage, enables translation and revelation. After the encounter with
Betonie (which is an encounter with the multiple possibilities of
language), Tayo recovers the ability to pray and ﬁnd revelation:
“He repeated the words [to the sunrise song] as he remembered
them, not sure if they were the right ones, but feeling they were
right, feeling the instant of the dawn was an event which in a sin-
gle moment gathered all things together—the last stars, the moun-
taintops, the clouds, and the winds—celebrating this coming. The
power of each day spilled over the hills in great silence. Sunrise. He
ended the prayer with ‘sunrise’ because he knew the Dawn people
began and ended all their words with ‘sunrise’” (). As Ben does
in House Made of Dawn, Tayo speaks the prayers in some form of
language so that they are not lost.
Yet Tayo cannot be a translator until he ﬁnds an audience. This
is the step Abel never reaches—reintegrating the individual’s story/
experiences with the community’s: “It took a long time to tell them
the story; they stopped [Tayo] frequently with questions about the
location and the time of day; they asked about the direction she
had come from and the color of her eyes” (). As Tayo tells the
story of his encounter with Ts’eh and the she-elk, he knits himself
back into the community and into its traditions. The community
responds by incorporating his story into theirs:
They started crying
the old men started crying
“A’moo’ooh! A’moo’ooh!”
You have seen her
We will be blessed
again. ()
   
Silko does not specify the language in which Tayo tells his story,
so we must presume that, like his earlier speech, it is a blend of En-
glish and Keres. But Tayo no longer feels ashamed of his blended
speech. Telling of his encounter with Ts’eh in English and the La-
guna language does not obscure the older story but allows it to
shine through. “A real translation is transparent,” Benjamin notes;
“it does not cover the original, does not block its light” (). Tayo
ﬁnally learns to move between discursive systems in a ﬂuent and
even ﬂuid way—keeping the languages open so that through con-
tact with each other they can grown and change. Thus the oral sto-
ries of the Laguna “past” continue to live and ﬂower and grow in
another written/spoken form, in another discursive landscape that
they enter and alter.
Silko’s text as a whole also points to this ﬂuent, and even ﬂuid,
form of translation. Like House Made of Dawn, Ceremony con-
tains numerous interspersed words with origins in other languages:
Ts’its’tsi’nako (), Y volveré (, ); mesas (, , ); Iktoa’ak’o’ya
(); arroyo (, ); A’moo’oh, a’moo’ohh” (); K’oo’ko ();
Ck’o’yo (, , , , , ); Pa’caya’nyi (, ); piñons (,
, , , ); cantina (); Ka’t’sina (); menudo (); piki
bread (); hogan (, ); chongo (); e-hey-yah-ah-na ();
Pa’to’ch (, ); Kaup’a’ta (, , , ); heheya (); cer-
ros (, ); kiva (, ); and so on. Unlike Momaday, however,
Silko rarely italicizes these words, and she frequently translates
them for the reader; we are told, for example, that “cerros” are “gen-
tly rounded hills of dark lava rock” () and that “Ts’its’tsi’nako”
means “thought-woman” (). Ceremony aims for a sense of linguis-
tic ﬂuidity and ﬂuency—a sense that the translator and reader move
between cultures and languages to “write” texts that allow these
cultures and languages to grow and expand in productive ways. But
Silko does not render this process invisible. In fact, in Ceremony she
emphasizes translation, as she will also do in Almanac of the Dead,
where she gives literal translations of songs with the embedded note
“[Translation]” (Almanac ). In Ceremony, Silko similarly em-
phasizes the visible process of translation: “[Ts’its’tsi’nako] is sit-
ting in her room / thinking of a story now / I’m telling you the
story / she is thinking” (). Many translators speak of foreground-
ing the role of the translator so that readers are made aware of the
  

presence of another individual who is writing, and rewriting, the
source text. Here and elsewhere Silko makes her readers see the
translative process of linguistic and cultural modiﬁcation she un-
dertakes as the author of this written text.
Translation and revelation are also crucial themes of Almanac of
the Dead, yet here too we can see a focus on language not as “pure”
but as a contact zone between peoples and cultures. Two twin sis-
ters named Lecha and Zeta attempt to translate the Almanac of the
Dead—a collection of texts that have been handed down to Native
Americans, generation after generation. Lecha and Zeta are given
these texts by their grandmother, an old Native American (Yaqui)
woman named Yoeme. The almanac is comprised of notebooks that
appear to be in a code that the twins must decipher (); they are
also multilingual texts containing various Native American glyphs
and dialects, as well as Spanish and Latin (). Throughout much
of the novel, Lecha’s project is translating these notebooks: “The
old notebooks are all in broken Spanish or corrupt Latin that no
one can understand without months of research in old grammars.
Lecha has already done translation work, and her notebooks con-
tained narratives in English” (). Adding English to these multi-
lingual notebooks, as Lecha does, is seen as enhancing them ().
Like the grandmother’s diaries in The Floating World, the note-
books form a changing, constantly evolving, multilingual text that
asks the reader to meditate on language and translation. Yoeme
tells her grandchildren that “you must understand how carefully
the old manuscript and its notebooks must be kept. Nothing must
be added that was not already there. Only repairs are allowed, and
one might live as long as I have and not ﬁnd a suitable code” ().
Yet when Lecha adds her own stories to the almanac (in English),
Yoeme nods with approval. Thus “repairing” the almanac means
not so much rewriting it but writing it. The stories Lecha adds are
what Derrida would call a productive form of writing called forth
by the original text (Ear ). Translation of the almanac allows it
to ﬂower and evolve in a new cultural context. Translation also fur-
thers multilingualism, enabling languages and cultures to coexist
in a dialectical tension with each other. Translating and even read-
ing these notebooks is an entry into the problematics of multilin-
   
gualism, one that illustrates the need for linguistic hybridity and
ﬂuidity.
The notebooks therefore emblematize the process of translation,
but they also emblematize language itself. Language seems hege-
monic but is actually made up of multiple other discourses, as the
notebooks illustrate:
For hundreds of years, guardians of the almanac notebooks
had made clumsy attempts to repair torn pages. Some sections
had been splashed with wine, others with water or blood. Only
fragments of the original pages remained, carefully placed
between blank pages; those of ancient paper had yellowed,
but the red and black painted glyphs had been clear. . . . The
pages of ancient paper had been found between the pages of
horse-gut parchment carried by the fugitive Indian slaves who
had ﬂed north to escape European slavery. . . . There was
evidence that substantial portions of the original manuscript
had been lost or condensed into odd narratives which operated
like codes. . . . Here and there were scribbles and scratches. . . .
Whole sections had been stolen from other books and from
the proliferation of “farmer’s almanacs” published by patent-
drug companies and medicine shows. . . . Not even the parch-
ment pages or fragments of ancient paper could be trusted;
they might have been clever forgeries, recopied, drawn, and
colored painstakingly. (–)
Composed of the language of the past and present, blood and wine,
forgeries and “authentic fragments” (but are they really “authen-
tic”?), oral and written stories, blank pages and glyphs, Spanish,
English, Latin, and several Native American dialects, the alma-
nac notebooks embody the palimpsestic nature of language itself.
There is no pure, authentic text here, no pure and authentic lan-
guage that can be “recovered.” There are only stories that overlap
with other stories, languages that overlap with other languages.16
More insistently than Ceremony, Almanac of the Dead implies that
language is broken and that we cannot recover an “authentic” story
of it through translation. In Almanac of the Dead there is no “orig-
inal” or “uncontaminated” story, no “pure language” to be “re-
  

claimed.” Rather, “pure language” and a “pure story” as such exist
only in a dialectical context of multilingualism. And the translator
must always attempt both to “capture” the prior text and to create
something new that transcends the prior texts, that puts to question
whether the prior text can even be accessed.
For Silko, the translator does not seek “authenticity” through
his or her translations. However, he or she does seek some form of
revelation, some form of “truth.” This may seem paradoxical, but
Silko nonetheless insists that translation of the almanac notebooks
reveals truth: “The almanacs had warned the people hundreds of
years before the Europeans arrived. . . . Without the almanacs, the
people would not be able to recognize the days and months yet to
come, days and months that would see the people retake the land”
(Almanac ). Encoded into the almanac is the overlapping story
of the past and the future. And translation enables this story, this
revelation, to occur: “Through the decipherment of ancient tribal
texts of the Americas the Almanac of the Dead foretells the future
of all the Americas. The future is encoded in arcane symbols and
old narratives” (Almanac ). Translation of these texts reveals and
indeed creates the revelation of “truth.” But truth is multifaceted
and multilingual. And in the past as in the present, truth exists
only in the web and tangle of discourse, of contradictory narratives
and languages. In Ceremony Tayo must both connect to and ex-
pand the stories of his people, their linguistic and cultural worlds.
But in Almanac this role is even weightier: the translator recovers
and creates the stories that will be the future—the stories that will
lead to “truth” and revelation.
Radical Bilingualism in Susan Power’s The Grass Dancer
So far in this chapter, I have discussed a gradual movement beyond
the literal meanings of “translation.” Susan Power’s more recent
novel The Grass Dancer continues this expansion. Quite literally,
it encourages bilingualism through a character named Red Dress.
Born in the past (), Red Dress continues to be heard by her an-
cestors in the present moment. Even more paradoxically, she speaks
Dakota and English, simultaneously: “I could swear she spoke in
   
English and Dakota simultaneously” (); “Charlene couldn’t be
sure if the language was English or Sioux” (); “‘I have seen you
dancing,’ Red Dress said in two languages, two distinct voices”
(). When I teach this novel I frequently ask my students to think
about whether it would be possible to speak in two languages at
once without producing babble. What would such a double tongue
sound like? I often get baffled looks from my students, but perhaps
this is part of Power’s point. Locked as we are in our unilingual
ways of thinking, it is hard to imagine how one could speak two
languages at once. But don’t we often do this? Here I am speaking
the language of the academic, but I am also trying to draw in read-
ers less familiar with jargon, such as my students. Can I succeed in
speaking two (or more) languages at once? More important, how
does this attempt to speak two languages at once cause me to re-
ﬂect on language itself—on its power structures and on how it is
made up of imbricated and overlapping discourses that appear to
be separate but are not?
On a literal level it may be impossible to imagine Red Dress’s
discourse, but metaphorically this radical bilingualism functions in
a crucial way in Power’s text. “When the words of the master be-
come the site of hybridity—the warlike song of the native—then we
may not only read between the lines, but even seek to change the
often coercive reality that they so lucidly contain,” maintains Homi
Bhabha (“Signs” ). In Power’s text, the “warlike song of the na-
tive” (Dakota) literally becomes part of the master’s discourse (En-
glish), and language becomes a space of hybridity, resistance, and
change. So, as in Silko’s text, language is a space that makes mani-
fest the ambivalence of the process of linguistic colonization. Fur-
thermore, Red Dress’s radical bilingualism teaches her descendants
to translate in the contemporary moment—to speak the intersig-
nifying, intercritical stories that constitute the history of linguistic
encounter and resistance in the United States. Eric Cheyﬁtz dis-
cusses a practice of translation that “would not be a mode of repres-
sion of languages (within a language) by a master language” be-
cause “there would be no master language” and “there would be no
native speakers.” Rather, “all speakers exist in translation between
languages, which is where we all exist” (). Power’s novel demon-
strates that we exist between languages—but also that this location
  

can become a source of empowerment and even revelation.17
In this
text, then, a radical bilingualism that creates tension and exchanges
between languages is a crucial aspect of any translative activity, of
any power the translator might achieve to transmigrate tongues
and transcode ethnicity.
The text is also attentive to how translation can actually erase
indigenous languages. More insistently than either Momaday or
Silko, Power illustrates that since the early days of contact between
Euro-American invaders and the indigenous peoples of the Ameri-
cas, translation was often used in attempts to efface the native
tongue. David Murray affirms that in the early days of encoun-
ter “the great bulk of language learning and translation was being
carried out by Indians, this reﬂecting, of course the wider situ-
ation, in which Indians were also the ones involved, willingly or
otherwise, in cultural translation” (). Power’s character Charles
Bad Holy MacLeod embodies this idea of an enforced translation
that annihilates indigenous languages and customs. Educated at
the missionary school in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, Charles returns to
the reservation “with twenty books and a head full of education
. . . but he didn’t remember one story about his tribe. He didn’t re-
member one honor song” (–). Charles has to translate himself
into an “American” and into the English language; in so doing he
abrogates his prior identity as a Dakota Indian and expunges his
knowledge of the tribal language. In , when Charles returns,
there are still people who can teach him his language, but by 
(when the novel opens), translation of the language has become
more difficult. Charlene, a teenager, listens to a Dakota song and
has difficulty understanding it: “The men launched enthusiastically
into the chorus, and it took Charlene a moment to translate the
lyrics into English; she was becoming less proﬁcient in the Dakota
language after so many years of school” (). For individuals such
as Charlene living in the contemporary moment—when assimila-
tion is encouraged and the native tongue is devalued—translation
from the Dakota language becomes a central problem.
In the novel as a whole, then, Red Dress is an emblem of how the
native tongue can be preserved in the past and the present; when
she dies in , she insists on becoming an instrument of both cul-
tural and linguistic memory: “So many of [the words] slipped away,
   
beyond recall. I am a talker now and chatter in my people’s ears un-
til I grow weary of my own voice. I am memory, I tell them when
they’re sleeping” (). Her radical bilingualism creates a contact
zone between English and the native tongue that continually re-
makes English, the language of colonization and conquest. It is
from within this contact zone that a liberatory practice of trans-
lation might emerge. Yet Red Dress moves through several stages
in her translation practices. In  she learns English from a mis-
sionary, Father La Frambois, but then refuses to be baptized, to be
bribed by “stories of heaven and eternal life” (). She writes her
Christian name—Esther—but fashions the E with dramatic ﬂour-
ishes, “curved into the shape of a lush bear heavy with winter fat”
(). On the lexical terrain, Red Dress insists on inscribing her
own vision of nature into the letters that are supposed to reﬂect her
conversion to the white man’s religion and language. On a broader
level, she continues to speak in “a voice of my own” (). For ex-
ample, when Father La Frambois asks her to translate his words to
her tribe, expecting her to “be [his] voice” and the agent of “[her]
people’s salvation” (), she turns his message of religious dam-
nation into a sermon about his respect for her people. Father La
Frambois’s plan to secure converts is foiled by Red Dress’s resistant
mode of translation. Like many actual Native American transla-
tors, she is an equivocal link between the world of the whites and
her people’s world.18
Lawrence Venuti notes that translation can ei-
ther affirm or transgress, construct or critique, ideologies and dis-
cursive values of “foreign” cultures. The translator can, through
an ethics of translation, choose to make the translated text a place
where “a cultural other” is manifested and understood, or she or he
can make the translated text a place where the values of the transla-
tor’s own culture are narcissistically affirmed (Venuti , ). Clearly,
Red Dress’s ﬁrst translations function through a “domesticating”
mode that transgresses the values of the source text, rendering it
unintelligible.
But Power’s text as a whole points to another method of trans-
lation that may be more useful in the long run—a method that
works not through an abrogation or refusal of the oppressor’s lan-
guage and worldview but through an appropriation and hybrid-
ization of it, a combination of it with the language and worldview
  

of the Sioux. Red Dress eventually adopts a form of radical bilin-
gualism in which she speaks both English and Dakota, allowing
their differences to remain. Translation therefore becomes a space
of productive cultural collision, a space of transculturation. Pérez
Firmat uses the term “transculturación” (Cuban Condition ) to
describe an activity that emerges from the spaces of translation and
denotes a “liminal zone of ‘impassioned margin’ where diverse cul-
tures converge without merging” (Cuban Condition ).19
Accord-
ing to Anuradha Dingwaney, “Transculturación, insofar as it des-
ignates the space within which the dominant language and culture
is rewritten, inﬂected, subverted by the ‘subaltern,’ functions as a
form of resistance” (). In my understanding of this term, trans-
culturación acts as the space where the oppressor’s language and
worldview is not so much denied but rather appropriated, inﬂected,
subverted, and rewritten from within.
In Red Dress’s translations, the trace of what is disavowed (the
Native American language and worldview) is not repressed but re-
peated as something different—as something still existing within
the discursive terrain. Hearing Red Dress speak English and Da-
kota “simultaneously,” Calvin Wind Soldier notes that “the part of
the voice speaking Dakota was low, from deep in the throat, and
the part speaking English was breathy and high, the s sounding
like a hiss” (). What has been repressed—the snake, the “sav-
age,” the hiss—is still contained within the discourse (within En-
glish, in fact), repeated rather than suppressed. Furthermore, a sub-
altern discourse—the low voice of the Dakota people—works from
within the structures of the dominant discourse to undermine it.
Red Dress’s mode of discourse is therefore an example of linguistic
hybridity. According to Bhabha, colonialist discourse references a
process of splitting that can be exploited: a splitting between the
mother culture and its bastards, the self and its doubles, where “the
trace of what is disavowed is not repressed but repeated as some-
thing different” (“Signs” ). Therefore, “hybridity is a problematic
of colonial representation and individuation that reverses the effects
of the colonialist disavowal, so that other ‘denied’ knowledges enter
upon the dominant discourse and estrange the basis of its authority
—its rules of recognition” (“Signs” ). In Red Dress’s speaking,
   
the denied, low voice of Dakota decomposes the authority of the
master’s discourse, of English itself.20
In her ﬁnal incarnation, Red
Dress shows the interdependency between English and Dakota, the
discourse of colonization and the subaltern. She neither synthesizes
these languages nor domesticates one in favor of the other; rather,
she lets both of them speak through her, allowing their different
discursive demands to come into contact, to collide and become
interdependent. The words of the Dakota language do not actually
slip away but are translated into the radical bilingual discourse Red
Dress creates, which “belongs” neither to the colonizer nor to the
colonized.
Metaphorically, the text also presents a practice of translation
that sutures English and Dakota together in syncretic formulations
that allow linguistic and cultural oppositions to remain in tension
with each other within new discursive conﬁgurations. In a dream
Red Dress sees herself becoming “the uneasy voice of the grass”
(). The symbolism surrounding “grass” in this novel is complex,
but on one level grass represents language or (more precisely) the
differences but also the overlaps between languages. Speaking to
another woman, Red Dress says: “Koda—friend—look at this sul-
len brown grass, dispirited because winter is coming to punish it. This,
to me, is English. It is little pebbles on my tongue, gravel, the kind of
thing you chew but cannot swallow. Dakota is the lush spring grass
that moves like water and tastes sweet” (). This passage seems to
separate the two languages, yet in the earlier vision in which Red
Dress becomes the “uneasy voice of the grass,” each step she takes
“leaves a stunted patch of pale, dry grass, struggling to grow” ().
This natural symbolism points not to a division between languages
—English (dry grass) and Dakota (green grass)—but to a cycle of
exchange. Green grass fades with the seasons, becoming the brown
grass of fall. Yet it leaves behind seeds that eventually become new
grass. The symbolism surrounding the voice of the grass suggests
a process whereby languages (English and Dakota) can be syn-
cretized and both tongues can be transmigrated. In so doing, the
translator ﬁnds his or her identity and place within a multilingual
world, a contact zone of language and culture.21
On the lexical terrain the text’s discourse also mirrors this syn-
  

cretism. Some words from Dakota are present in the text, trans-
literated into English: waštunkala (, , ); Wakan Tanka (,
, ); Unči (, ); unšika (, ); Yuwipi (, , , , );
heyo’ka (, , , ); Yuwipi (, , ); Iho! (Iho!) (); Topa.
(Topa.) (Topa.) (); wateča (); winkte (); Šunka Sapa ();
Takoja (, , , , ); wožapi (); Tunkašida (, );
Wanaǧi Tačanku (, , ); Čuwignaka Duta (, ); Ini
Naon Win (); Atewaye (); Ohan (, ); wašičuns (, ,
); Ina (); wičaǧadata (); Tanke (, ); Šunka Wakan
Wanaǧi (); Čanwapekasna Wi (); mazaska (, ); Koda
(); Waniyetu Wi (); Tanke (); tatanka (); unči ();
Tunkašida (); Mosquito Wičaša (); Tunkašida Wakan Tanka
(); hanbdeč’eya (, ); Hau (, ); Iyotiye wakiye ().
Most of these words are translated; for example, we are told that
“Iktomi” is “the tricky spider” (), that “heyo’ka” is a sacred clown
(), and that “wožapi” is a berry pudding (). Power uses native
words less frequently than does either Silko or Momaday. On the
other hand, Power works hard to show that the language has not
slipped away and to bring it to life for contemporary readers.
Power’s text also contains more fused constructions and sen-
tences—more syntactic units that actually show a hybrid discourse
at work within the English language. For example, the protago-
nist’s friend Frank Pipe has the nickname of “Mosquito Wičaša”
—Mosquito Man (). This nickname syncretizes language to pro-
duce a new code that is neither Dakota nor English but both. Red
Dress, in particular, tends to use syncretic constructions. In the
following sentence, for example, Red Dress moves back and forth
between English and Dakota in a seamless fashion: “The warriors
nodded, breathing, ‘Ohan,’ and several of the women trilled the
wičaǧadata cry of approval” (). Red Dress also tends to em-
bed translations of Native American words into her English sen-
tences: “It was early October, Čanwapekasna Wi, the moon when
the leaves rustle” (), or “By November, Waniyetu Wi, the winter
moon, Fanny could not be persuaded to go on long walks” ().
Even more radically, a contemporary character, Frank Pipe, actu-
ally alternates between English and Dakota:
   
“Tunkašida Wakan Tanka, my friend is ready for the
[Dakota] [English]
hanbdeč’eya. He wants to send you his voice.” ()
[Dakota] [English]
As explained in the introduction, linguists have argued that speak-
ers who switch codes in a grammatically correct manner may cre-
ate a third language that transcends the two discourses of which
it is composed. Looking at Frank Pipe’s sentences we can see that
although he alternates codes, the sentence is still grammatically
correct. Frank moves beyond bilingualism toward a syncretic new
mode of translation that transmigrates Dakota into English and in
so doing changes English itself.
In the contemporary moment, then, characters like Frank Pipe
must learn to employ syncretism and the radical bilingualism of a
translator such as Red Dress. Yet Frank Pipe is a peripheral charac-
ter, and the principal struggle of the novel centers on whether the
protagonist (Harley) can incorporate his ancestor Red Dress’s les-
sons about translation into his own life in the contemporary mo-
ment. Harley’s mother, Lydia, at ﬁrst seems to be another guide in
this process, someone who could teach him to translate. As a young
woman, Lydia had the ability to formulate a syncretic linguistic
and cultural identity. She is Christian yet she remembers the old
ways; she speaks English but is also ﬂuent in Dakota: “I was Lydia,
the good girl who confessed every Wednesday and took Commu-
nion each Sunday, Lydia who spoke ﬂuent Dakota to the elders
while Evelyn stumbled through ‘Hello’ and a few simple phrases.
As my mother was fond of saying, I was the good from both sides”
(–). But after her husband and adopted son are killed by
a racist drunk driver who believes they are “Indian ghosts” (),
Lydia becomes entirely silent: “And so I have become another per-
son, the one who sits on her tongue. I answer to Lydia, but when I
think of myself, I use another name: Ini Naon Win. Silent Woman”
().22
Power emphasizes that, like Abel’s, Lydia’s silence is not
empowering. Harley, for example, feels that his mother is “being
slowly erased by some spectral ﬁnger” (). Furthermore, Lydia’s
silence—not her language—is being passed on to her son: “The
  

dark silence that had blossomed inside [Harley] as a small child had
both expanded and compressed, become a leaden weight branching
everywhere, even to his ﬁngers” (). Lydia’s silence functions as
a metaphor for the silencing of her people by Euro-American cul-
ture. And the silence—not the story—grows inside the people.
Lydia’s silence causes Harley to be somewhat disconnected from
the traditions of the Dakota; he appears to associate his ethnic-
ity with something from the past that honors his relatives, but not
with something that might be useful to him in the present as he
struggles to take his place within a modern, “American” cultural
context. Lydia does not help Harley to understand how his ethnic-
ity might be useful, how it might be transcoded in such a way that
it serves him in the present moment. Like Abel and Tayo, Harley
teeters on the verge of alcoholism and self-destruction. And like
Abel and Tayo, at times Harley appears to see the traditions as hol-
low, performing them in such a way that they are undermined: for
example, he performs a grass dance but he is drunk, his makeup is
smeared, and he barely remembers the steps ().
Therefore it is no coincidence that Harley learns to translate
and transcode his ethnicity only when he recovers the legacy of
his great-great-great aunt, Red Dress. Toward the end of the novel
Harley agrees to go into the vision pit—to engage in a three-day
ritual of fasting and prayer designed to give the individual ancestral
help. At ﬁrst, Harley feels that he cannot pray, but he does make
the effort: “‘I don’t know how to pray,’ Harley mumbled, but he
dismissed the idea. I will learn, he told himself. . . . But now he was
alone on Angry Butte, beneath the face of the sky. ‘I have to stand
up for myself,’ he said aloud. He tried a tentative prayer: ‘Tunkašida
Wakan Tanka, you know everything, you made my heart. Let me
look into it for the ﬁrst time.’ Harley taught himself to pray from
a hole in the ground” (). Interestingly, Harley prays in English
and Dakota: “Tunkašida Wakan Tanka, you know everything.”
While this is not actual bilingualism (the words of the Dakota lan-
guage are not written in Dakota in the text but transliterated into
English), this metaphorical bilingualism does move Harley beyond
his previous monolingualism and enables encounters with a num-
ber of his dead relatives, including his grandmother, his father, and
the brother he has never known.23
Finally, Red Dress visits Harley,
   
who actually hears (and understands) her two tongues: “Iyotiye wa-
kiye, echoed in Harley’s ears. I am sad” (). The vision pit con-
cerns reconnecting with the ancestors but also with the ancestors’
ability to translate and make a place between languages. When
Harley’s ancestors ask him if he is ready for an adventure, he an-
swers in Dakota but then translates: “‘Hau,’ Harley answered in
Dakota. Yes” (). Harley allows languages to coexist in a dialec-
tical tension with each other—a tension that translation embodies
but does not destroy.
Harley also ﬁnds revelation through such methods of transla-
tion. Earlier, other characters had this experience. Frank Pipe, for
example, eventually learns to speak ﬂuently in Dakota and to be
“in the spirit”: “Frank Pipe expressed himself in Dakota, ﬁnding
the words so effortlessly his grandfather nodded. Harley’s pulse
quickened. His friend was in the spirit, and the sight of it moved
Harley, gave him a spark of hope” (). Yet for Harley revelation
is not only about speaking Dakota “effortlessly.” It entails ﬁnding
his place in his history and community and in the languages that
constitute his identity. And it also involves transcoding ethnicity,
for Harley must eventually demonstrate not only that he under-
stands the traditions but that he can perform them as well. When
Harley’s ritual in the vision pit concludes, his mother and friends
return singing a song “supported by the voices of the community”
(). Like Silko, Power emphasizes the translator’s reintegration
into the community. But Harley also hears a “powerful new voice
that was unfamiliar.” At ﬁrst this voice upsets Harley: “Who was
this unknown singer? He became a little angry, thinking to himself
that after such an ordeal as the hanbdeč’eya, it wasn’t right to bring
outsiders into the circle” (). Then Harley realizes who is sing-
ing: “Harley listened carefully, his hands curled into ﬁsts, and it
was only as the song neared its end that he realized the truth: What
he heard was the music of his own voice, rising above the rest”
(–).
It is crucial in this ﬁnal scene that Harley ﬁnds “the music of his
own voice” and participates in this ritual. And it is crucial that he
now seems familiar with the Dakota tongue, as evidenced by his
use of the word hanbdeč’eya and his singing of what is (in all prob-
ability) a Dakota song. Yet Power ﬁnally does not specify what lan-
  

guage is spoken, what discourse enunciates “the music of his own
voice.” Aided by Red Dress and his community, Harley has ﬁnally
learned to transcode his ethnicity and transmigrate his tongue. The
hybridized, transliterated discourse that Harley eventually speaks
engenders the collision and collusion of worlds and words that is
translation. Translation therefore becomes a space where one na-
tion does not write another “out” but rather is written and rewrit-
ten from within.
Violence as Voice in Sherman Alexie’s
Reservation Blues and Indian Killer
Like those of Silko and Power, Sherman Alexie’s novels Reserva-
tion Blues and Indian Killer continue to move beyond literal con-
cepts of “translation.” The earlier novel, in fact, implies that the
language itself is not necessary for preservation of the culture. In
Reservation Blues almost no one speaks the language of the Spo-
kane tribe, but certain individuals embody the linguistic values of
the culture by transmigrating them into spoken English and into
music. In this novel Alexie suggests that the indigenous language is
not the point—what matters is transmigration of the cultural values
into English, into new songs and stories. “Y’all need to play songs
for your people. They need you” (), one character tells Thomas
Builds-the-Fire, and Thomas proceeds to turn his stories into a
music that transmigrates his people’s culture.
Yet Reservation Blues does not end happily. Perhaps this should
lead us to question whether Alexie is satisﬁed with the idea that one
can “translate” without knowing the language. Alexie’s next novel,
Indian Killer, illustrates more darkly the problematics of linguistic
dispossession through John Smith, an orphaned Native American
deprived of any knowledge of his culture and language. As an adult
John Smith becomes violent and dreams of killing a white man.
Indian Killer raises the question, then, of what happens when an
individual is completely unable to translate. In Lost in Translation,
Eva Hoffman comments that “linguistic dispossession is a suffi-
cient motive for violence, for it is close to the dispossession of one’s
self. Blind rage, helpless rage is rage that has no words—rage that
   
overwhelms one with darkness. And if one is perpetually without
words, if one exists in an entropy of inarticulateness, that condition
itself is bound to be an enraging frustration” (). Indian Killer
posits chillingly that for the voiceless, violence may become a way
of brutally transmigrating a kind of cultural voice.24
In Reservation Blues three young Spokane men (Thomas Builds-
the-Fire, Junior Polatkin, and Victor Joseph) team up with two Flat-
head women (Chess and Checkers Warm Water) to form a band.
Aided by a guitar from the legendary blues singer Robert Johnson
and Big Mom, a local Spokane semideity who has helped many
rock stars, the band, Coyote Springs, is almost successful. But after
a disastrous recording session in New York City, the group returns
to the Spokane reservation in disgrace. Eventually, Junior kills him-
self, Victor goes back into an alcohol-induced haze, and Chess,
Checkers, and Thomas leave the reservation for jobs in Seattle. As
they leave, however, they take their cultural traditions with them,
as exempliﬁed by the shadow horses accompanying them: “In the
blue van, Thomas, Chess, and Checkers sang together . . . with the
shadow horses: we are alive, we’ll keep living. Songs were waiting
for them up there in the dark. Songs were waiting for them in the
city” ().
This passage and the novel as a whole imply that the culture and
traditions of Native Americans can be translated only when they are
transformed and transcoded. Thomas is the reservation storyteller,
but no one listens to him: “Thomas shared his stories with the pine
trees because people didn’t listen” (). Thomas’s stories—told in
English because only a few elders on the reservation remember
the tribal language (, )—have both a physical and a linguis-
tic presence: “Thomas Builds-the-Fire’s stories climbed into your
clothes like sand, gave you itches that could not be scratched. If you
repeated even a sentence from one of those stories, your throat was
never the same again. Those stories hung in your clothes and hair
like smoke, and no amount of laundry soap or shampoo washed
them out. Victor and Junior often tried to beat those stories out of
Thomas, tied him down and taped his mouth shut. . . . But none
of that stopped Thomas, who talked and talked” (). The stories
transform the languages of others, so that “your throat was never
the same again.” And they creep into people’s dreams and minds.
  

But Alexie is careful to indicate that despite their power, Thomas’s
stories do not heal: “More than anything, [Thomas] wanted a story
to heal the wounds, but he knew that his stories never healed any-
thing” (). Thomas and the other members of his tribe devalue his
stories, seeing them as useless in the modern world.
The translation problem of this novel, then, revolves around
how Thomas can transform his stories so that they do heal—and
whether these stories can be effective without any connection to
the indigenous language. Splashed across the backdrop of the novel
is the history of the linguistic colonization of the Spokane: “My
braids were cut off in the name of Jesus / To make me look so white
/ My tongue was cut out in the name of Jesus / So I could not speak
what’s right” (). However, enunciated here in music—in the song
“My God Has Dark Skin” that the band Coyote Springs sings—is
also a story of linguistic resistance:
I had my tongue cut out by these black robes
But I know I’ll speak ’til the end
I had my heart cut out by the black robes
But I know what I still feel
I had my eyes cut out by the black robes
But I know I see what’s real. ()
This song speaks to the need to recover the language—not to let
the tongue be cut out by the black robes (or priests). A kind of
resistance inheres in this refusal to stop speaking the indigenous
language.
But in the contemporary moment this form of resistance does
not operate. The parents are mostly dead, gone, or alcoholics, so
they cannot pass on the language and traditions. Moreover, the
dominant culture has denied Native Americans their language.
Three commandments from Thomas’s ironic “The Reservation’s
Ten Commandments as Given by the United States to the Spokane
Indians” explicitly mention this subject of linguistic colonization:
. Honor your Indian father and Indian mother because I
have stripped them of their land, language and hearts. . . .
. You shall not murder, but I will bring FBI and CIA
   
agents to your reservation and into your homes, and the most
intelligent, vocal, and angriest members of your tribes will
vanish quietly. . . .
. You shall not give false testimony against any white men,
but they will tell lies about you, and I will believe them and
convict you. (–, emphasis added)
The (potential) translator has not fallen into silence, as happens to
Lydia in The Grass Dancer. Rather, the translator has been brutally
stripped of her or his own language and simultaneously deprived
of any empowered presence within the dominant discourse, within
the language of hegemony.25
Furthermore, in the contemporary moment the translator ap-
pears to have lost contact with the indigenous tongue that might
offer an alternative basis for linguistic empowerment. Thomas, for
example, recalls that his mother sang “traditional Spokane Indian
songs” (). Yet he himself cannot ﬁnd the words to save his people:
“He knew the words to a million songs: Indian, European, Afri-
can, Mexican, Asian. He sang ‘Stairway to Heaven’ in four different
languages but never knew where the staircase stood. He sang the
same Indian songs continually but never sang them correctly. He
wanted to make his guitar sound like a waterfall, like a spear strik-
ing salmon, but his guitar only sounded like a guitar. He wanted
the songs, the stories, to save everybody” (). Here Alexie offers
a possible “solution” to the translation problem: transmigration of
the Spokane stories into music as an alternative form of “language”
that undercuts the dominant discourse. Alexie also points to a
hybrid multilingualism—Thomas can sing in four different lan-
guages, he knows the words to a million songs. Yet he does not
know how to sing the Indian songs “correctly.” And he cannot save
his people through his multilingual songs and stories. In the end he
does not transmigrate the native tongue into English through his
music. Why?
To answer this question we must look closely at how Thomas’s
multilingual, musical stories are received and at the band’s own mo-
tivation. When Thomas hears Robert Johnson singing the blues, he
realizes that the blues are an “ancient, aboriginal, indigenous” lan-
guage (). Yet the Spokane refuse to claim this language: “Those
  

blues created memories for the Spokane, but they refused to claim
them. Those blues lit up a new road, but the Spokane pulled out
their old maps” (). Symbolically, the Spokane refuse to hear the
alternative possibility offered by the indigenous language. Similarly,
Coyote Springs is described as singing “a tribal music” that “might
have chased away the pilgrims ﬁve hundred years ago” (–).
Their music is a blend of Native American, Spanish, and English
words, a fusion of blues, country, and rock styles. Like the blues, it
calls upon sources of power that are lodged in the communal past.
The music functions as a trickster that can both free and empower.
According to Gerald Vizenor, the “tribal trickster is a liberator and
healer in a narrative, a comic sign, a communal signiﬁcation and a
discourse with imagination” ().26
Yet, as Vizenor goes on to sug-
gest, the trickster can liberate only when the audience materializes
its relationship with it: “The trickster narrative situates the partici-
pant audience, the listeners and readers, in agonistic imagination:
there, in comic discourse, the trickster is being, nothingness and
liberation” (). In Alexie’s novel, music is a trickster that can lib-
erate, but the listeners must be a participant audience, actively con-
testing the discourse, creating and constructing it as they listen. Yet
ﬁnally, the audience does not receive the music’s message. Instead,
Thomas is ostracized from his tribe for associating with individu-
als from another tribe (Chess and Checkers). As with the blues,
then, the Spokane people do not follow the “new road” lit up by the
music.
Another problem lies in the band itself. Victor and Joseph want
to become famous so that they can sleep with white women, and
even Thomas says that he sings because he wants “all kinds of
strangers to love me” (). When he is invited to New York, Vic-
tor makes clear his goal: “We’re going to be rock stars. . . . And
we won’t have to come back to this reservation ever again. We’ll
just leave all of you [jerks] to your [awful] lives” (). Perhaps the
band fails, then, because it has no larger goals; as Thomas says in a
dream, perhaps they need to have “something better in mind” ().
A music that is of the people and for the people, such as Big Mom’s,
“created and recreated the world daily” (). But Coyote Springs’
goals of leaving the reservation and obtaining wealth, fame, and the
love of white women are in conﬂict with their need to sing songs
   
“for their people”—their need to create a tribal music that can both
endure and transmigrate native stories into the English language.
Finally, though, the most difficult problem with the new music
Coyote Springs creates is that it is all too quickly co-opted by the
dominant culture. When the aptly named Phil Sheridan and George
Wright, of Calvary Records, lure Coyote Springs to New York for an
audition, the band self-destructs. By using the names of two gener-
als from history who destroyed the Spokane and other Indian tribes
(Sheridan and Wright), Alexie connects the contemporary context
with that of the past. In both time periods the indigenous language/
voice is co-opted and destroyed. Coyote Springs exits the record stu-
dio in shame, leaving their instruments behind. When they return to
the reservation, they ﬁnd themselves ostracized and impoverished.
Overall, then, the band’s music is destroyed by individualistic prob-
lems but also by larger social concerns: the inability of the people
to appreciate the music, and the way the dominant culture all too
quickly co-opts and undermines the music’s power of subversion.
But is the music and the possibility of transmigration that it of-
fers destroyed altogether? As I suggested earlier, although Thomas,
Chess, and Checkers leave the reservation, they leave with the mu-
sic, with the shadow horses to which they are singing. They thus
preserve the possibility of the transmigration of the native tongue
in music. In a dream the three learn a new song taught to them by
Big Mom: “Big Mom taught them a new song, the shadow horses’
song, the slaughtered horses’ song, the screaming horses’ song, a
song of mourning that would become a song of celebration: we
have survived, we have survived. They would sing and sing, until
Big Mom pulled out that ﬂute built of the bones of the most beau-
tiful horse who ever lived. She’d play a note, then two, three, then
nine hundred, nine thousand, nine million, one note for each of
the dead Indians” (). Revelation—such as it exists in this novel
—is achieved only through respect for Big Mom and the song she
teaches. Big Mom knows the tribal language and songs, and she
functions as a linguistic and cultural link to the past, ensuring
that “none of the Indians . . . would forget who they are” ();
in short, she is a positive ﬁgure of translative activity. She is not,
as Louis Owens claims, “a cartoonish character” (Mixedblood Mes-
sages ) but rather an important source of cultural knowledge, an
  

important link to the Spokane community that existed in the past
and that might continue in the present.27
Those who disregard her
advice—as do Victor and Junior—cannot survive. But those who
connect with the linguistic and musical legacy of resistance that
she represents survive to sing new songs, to tell new stories that
transform and transmigrate the language and stories of the past.
As Chess, Checkers, and Thomas leave the reservation, they cling
tightly to the manes of the shadow horses running alongside the
blue van. Alexie implies that the language and the legacy of the past
will not be lost but will become part of the present-tense story these
characters will transmigrate into the modern, urban world.
 Reservation Blues, Thomas maintains a tenuous connection to
the native language through Big Mom. He thereby preserves a
potential ability to translate stories and an ability to sing songs
and prayers in the Spokane language or hybridize these songs and
prayers with English. Indian Killer’s ironically named Native Amer-
ican protagonist, John Smith, has no such link, for he is an orphan
who does not even know what tribe he is from, let alone this tribe’s
language. He therefore can only dream of translating between a
native tongue and English. John eventually commits an act of vio-
lence to ﬁnd voice, but he is probably not the novel’s title character,
the so-called Indian Killer. The Indian Killer appears to be a Na-
tive American ritualistically scalping white men in Seattle. Whites
retaliate by staging their own acts of violence against Native Ameri-
cans or other dark-skinned individuals. Violence is present in all
the novels I have discussed in this chapter, but Indian Killer is
certainly the bloodiest. Does this blood originate in a translation
problem? How can the ripped roots of the Native American tongue
shed so much blood? And at what point does this blood itself be-
come a kind of language? John Smith considers these questions as
he contemplates killing a white man: “Which white man had done
the most harm to Indians? [John Smith] knew that priests had cut
out the tongues of Indians who continued to speak their tribal lan-
guages. He had seen it happen. He had gathered the tongues in his
backpack and buried them in the foundation of a bank building.
He had held wakes and tried to sing like Indians sing for the dead.
   
. . . He wanted to see fear in every pair of blue eyes” (–). John
does not know the language of his tribe, yet he wants to “sing like
Indians sing for the dead” (). His act of violence and the violence
of this novel as a whole translate the silence of the past into some-
thing that can bleed and yet bloom in another cultural moment.
In the contemporary moment, however, the native language ex-
ists only in vestigial and tenuous forms. For example, Native Ameri-
cans greet each other with the phrase, “What tribe you are?” (,
, , ). Although spoken in English, this sentence appears to
be inﬂected by another syntax, another grammatical system. In a
discussion of the use of nonstandard English by Native Americans,
Guillermo Bartelt argues that “non-standard English monolingual-
ism does not necessarily imply total acculturation to mainstream
American values” (), a point that Alexie’s novel aptly reﬂects. En-
glish is broken here, but in a way that is consistent and conscious—a
way that reﬂects the presence of other linguistic traditions sutured
over by the dominant discourse. The indigenous language also con-
tinues in the elder generation who has not quite lost touch with it.
For example, an older character—Sweet Lu—appears to know the
Navajo language (). The Indian Killer (whoever he is, which is
never made clear) also appears to know some Native American lan-
guage; he is described as silently singing an “invisibility song” ()
and as teaching other Native Americans songs and dances from the
past ().28
And ﬁnally, Father Duncan, a Spokane who has be-
come a Jesuit priest, sings “traditional Spokane songs and Catholic
hymns” () as he rocks John to sleep. Father Duncan also tries to
create a syncretic identity but is torn apart by this attempt. Pointing
to stained glass windows that depict Jesuits being slaughtered by
Native Americans, he tells John: “You see these windows? You see
all of this? It’s what is happening inside me right now” (). I will re-
turn to Father Duncan’s role as a translator, but it is signiﬁcant that
although he knows both Spokane and English and inhabits both
the dominant and the marginalized culture, he is unable to trans-
late between them or transcode his ethnicity. The novel as a whole
indicates, then, that although indigenous native languages persist
in vestigial forms, very few people are actively translating them in
the contemporary moment.
Into this discursive landscape comes John Smith, an individual
  

who never had the opportunity to learn his native tongue. And yet,
John is no more comfortable speaking English. Like Abel, English
almost seems to be a foreign language to John. Unlike Abel, John
continually struggles—and fails—to express himself in English:
“John . . . wanted to talk, to ﬁnally speak. To tell them about Fa-
ther Duncan and the desert, the dreams he had of his life on a res-
ervation. . . . But there was no language in which he could express
himself” (). Over and over, the text dwells on John’s silences, on
his inability to ﬁnd his place within English.29
In several fascinat-
ing passages, however, John dreams of learning a native language.
In a chapter titled “How He Imagines His Life on the Reservation,”
John has the following fantasy: “John’s grandparents are very tradi-
tional people and are teaching John the ways of his tribe. Ancient
ways. John is learning to speak his tribal language. Sometimes, the
whole family plays Scrabble using the tribal language. This is much
more difficult and John always loses, but he is learning. There are
words and sounds in the tribal language that have no correspond-
ing words or sounds in English. John feels the words in his heart,
but it is hard to make his mouth work that way” (). Here John
appears to be understanding the worldview implicit in the tribal
language—he is feeling the language in his heart. This gives him a
certain power: “John is too young for school, but is smart enough
to read books. . . . John sometimes pretends that all of the diffi-
cult words, the big words with their amorphous ideas, are simple
and clear. A word like democracy can become rain instead. That
changes everything. John can read a phrase from his history book
and change it to ‘Our Founding Fathers believed in rain’” ().
John uses his knowledge of both tongues to create resistant trans-
lations of English, translations that undermine and critique hege-
monic values. Our founding fathers, it seems, did not believe in
democracy, and John’s imagined mastery of both English and the
indigenous language allows him to aggress this idea in English.
This chapter also contains a scene in which John’s imagined fam-
ily plays Scrabble in English, but since there are no E tiles left in the
set they let any other letter ﬁll in for E.” This works well, accord-
ing to John: “It has worked well. It is diplomatic. Near the end of
a game, when John’s rack is ﬁlled with difficult letters, Q, Z, K, he
can always pretend they are all E tiles” (). On a very basic lexical
   
level, Alexie shows John’s family taking control of English, bend-
ing its rules and syntax to support their own meanings. Cheyﬁtz
argues that in the “revolutionary situation,” as opposed to the co-
lonial one, “the native speaker masters the master’s language . . . to
take possession of it, or more precisely, take up his rightful place
in it. . . . The revolutionary native speaker demonstrates that the
master’s language has its origin not in the master but in the politi-
cal needs of any people who must speak it” (–). By quite liter-
ally changing the rules of the “language game,” John’s family assert
their place within the discourse that has attempted to silence them
but that they still must speak. In another passage John tells stories
to his imagined family that both transcode and transmigrate native
culture: “He invents ancestors. He speaks the truth about grandfa-
thers and grandmothers. He convinces his family that Shakespeare
was an Indian woman” (). John ﬁnds ancestral strength by speak-
ing the truth about his relatives and by reinventing ancestors (as
Kingston does in The Woman Warrior). But John’s translation fan-
tasy also usurps the authority of English, convincing his family
that Shakespeare “was an Indian woman.” In these passages John’s
ethnicity is also transcoded, in that it functions assertively to cre-
ate sources of strength and wisdom that preexist Euro-American
imposition of hegemonic values.
Yet this is a fantasy. In the “real world” of Seattle, John feels in-
creasingly remote from any ethnicity or tribal tongue, and so his
anger intensiﬁes: “All the anger in the world has come to my house.
. . . I can feel it between my teeth. Can you taste it? I hear it all the
time. All the time the anger is talking to me” (). John’s anger is
something he can feel in his mouth, between his teeth: quite liter-
ally, it has become his tongue. Dispossession of language is an en-
raging situation, as Hoffman points out, but the muteness might
trans-mute, translate itself into a kind of bloody voice. Indeed,
John does ﬁnally “solve” his translation problem through an act
of violence. He selects as his victim a white novelist—Jack Wilson
—who has claimed to be Native American and has published nov-
els about a detective known as Aristotle Little Hawk. Throughout
the text, Wilson is posited as an individual who steals the voice of
Native Americans and in so doing commits a kind of transgression
against them. As a Spokane woman named Marie Polatkin com-
  

ments: “Books like Wilson’s actually commit violence against Indi-
ans” (). John responds to Wilson’s violent voice with a violence
of his own: “John slashed Wilson’s face, from just above his right
eye, down through the eye and cheekbone, past the shelf of the
chin, and a few inches down the neck” (). Through this action
John ﬁnds a mode of voice, telling Wilson: “No matter where you
go . . . people will know you by that mark. They’ll know what you
did. . . . You’re not innocent” (). In inscribing Wilson with this
mark, John Smith turns him into a walking text recording white
linguistic aggression against Native peoples.
This action frees John, but it does not save him. He hurls him-
self off a skyscraper just moments after saying these words. So the
translation problem of this novel is not “resolved” by John’s aggres-
sion against Wilson. Does the novel offer any other resolution of
this problem? Indian Killer is a bleak and violent text, and I am
uneasy with the idea that it might suggest a “resolution” to linguis-
tic dispossession. But it does show that John’s act of ﬁnding voice
through violence is not an isolated event. As a Spokane man, Reg-
gie Polatkin, comments: “Maybe the question should be something
different [from whether the Indian Killer is an Indian]. Maybe you
should be wondering which Indian wouldn’t do it. Lots of real In-
dian men out there have plenty enough reasons to kill a white man”
(). The Indian Killer, Reggie implies, is not an isolated phenom-
ena. The novel’s end also suggests that such gruesome violence will
grow: “The killer sings and dances for hours, days. Other Indians
arrive and quickly learn the song. . . . The killer dances and will
not tire. The killer knows this dance is over ﬁve hundred years
old. . . . The killer never falls” (). This image unites the killer’s
violence with the ﬁve-hundred-year history of linguistic disposses-
sion in the United States and suggests that other Indian Killers will
emerge if no steps are taken to restore the language that was taken
away. This image also implies that such actions of violent voice will
spread and in fact become the only hope of revelation: “A dozen
Indians, then hundreds, and more, all learning the same song, the
exact dance. . . . With this mask, with this mystery, the killer can
dance forever. The killer plans on dancing forever. The killer never
falls” (). Unlike John Smith, the Indian Killer communicates
his violent voice to others, teaching others the dance and the songs
   
of the indigenous culture that will eventually destroy the whites.
The Indian Killer, then, is one of the few individuals who actually
can transcode ethnicity and transmigrate tongues; in so doing, he
ﬁnds a voice of revelation—albeit a violent one.
The novel also rejects several other, less violent potential trans-
lators. One of John’s friends, Marie Polatkin, attends school in Se-
attle and critiques courses on Native American literature taught by
Anglo-American instructors who fail to understand the group of
people they claim to represent. Marie wields her tongue quite hand-
ily in English, but she has never learned her tribal language, Spo-
kane. Her parents refuse to teach her Spokane because “they felt
it would be of no use to her in the world outside the reservation”
(). Since Marie does not dance or sing traditionally and she can-
not speak the language, she feels “less than Indian” (). Although
Marie is a very strong character, she seems caught in a binary in
which one speaks English and adapts to the dominant culture (but
becomes “less than Indian”) or one speaks the native language and
remains isolated on the reservation. She cannot be a translation ﬁg-
ure who draws on the strength of the ancestral language because,
like John Smith, she never learns this language.
Father Duncan’s problem is more complex. He is a Jesuit priest
of Spokane descent who one day vanishes mysteriously in the des-
ert. As mentioned earlier, before his disappearance he was able to
translate. Indeed, the text implies that Father Duncan is seeking
revelation through translation when he disappears: “Father Dun-
can must have been on a vision quest in the desert when he walked
to the edge of the world and stepped off. Did it feel good to dis-
appear? Perhaps Duncan, as Indian and Christian, had discovered
a frightening secret and could not live with it. Perhaps Duncan
knew what existed on the other side of the desert. Maybe he was
looking for a new name for God” (–). This passage appears to
imply that translation actually destroys Duncan; when he ﬁnds a
new name for God, he cannot live. Furthermore, the text portrays
his multilingualism as disempowering: “Father Duncan kneeled in
the sand and prayed, or laughed, or cried, or maybe he did all three
simultaneously. Duncan, wanting to be heard by every version of
God, prayed in English, Latin, and Spokane, a confusing and pain-
ful mix of syntax, grammar, and meaning” (). In House Made of
  

Dawn, Ceremony, and The Grass Dancer, multilingualism is positive
—a way of breaking English apart and inﬂecting it with other val-
ues. But Father Duncan’s multilingualism is a “painful mix of syn-
tax, grammar, and meaning.” Like John Smith, Father Duncan re-
mains debilitated by language—even though he can translate.
In the end, then, only the Indian Killer ﬁnds revelation through
translation. In rejecting every other translator ﬁgure and every
other instance of positive bilingualism, Alexie strongly rewrites the
prior texts I have discussed as well as his own novel Reservation
Blues. Alexie suggests that in the past as in the present, translation
and violence are irrevocably linked. For those who have been dis-
possessed of their language, violence may be the only effective way
of translating experiences. And this violence will reach out into
the dominant culture, destroying whatever lies in its path. Wilson,
the white novelist who has found his voice by usurping a Native
American identity, is harmed by John Smith, and the Indian Killer
kills several white men. The violence will grow, and the voice will
become stronger.
Yet by suggesting that both whites and Native Americans are
implicated and interlinked by a history of linguistic violence, In-
dian Killer presents a cautionary lesson about our past and about
our future. “The killer can dance forever” (), the novel tells us
in its closing lines. But it is our responsibility to see that the killer
does not dance forever, that the killer “ﬁnds bread and blood in
other ways” (). Kurt Spellmeyer reminds us that when we speak
about the politics of language, what is really at stake is “a dialec-
tic of loss and recovery, concealment and awareness, powerlessness
and power on a scale so intimate and ordinary that our ‘politicized’
profession characteristically overlooks it” (). But we must not
overlook this—nor should we allow our students or colleagues to
overlook this. We must speak this history of linguistic and cul-
tural genocide. We must teach this history. Above all we must en-
sure that it is not forgotten. By recognizing the history of linguistic
genocide that is the legacy of the United States, we may begin to
alter this legacy, counteracting or at least amending the cycle of vio-
lence and silence. Alexie insists that the reader render this painful
and violent story into a lesson about our own world and about how
we as a culture have achieved our sanctioned social voice.

Learnin—and Not Learnin—
to Speak the King’s English
Intralingual Translation in the Fiction
of Toni Morrison, Danzy Senna,
Sherley Anne Williams, and A. J. Verdelle
When Missus Pearson talk, sound to me like some other
language. . . . She tell me . . . that I live in a country where English
is spoke and I don’t know how to speak it. . . . If I could learn to
speak English, I could become more important. . . . Nobody will
ever understand you, nobody who can help you rise, unless you can
speak the language of the nation. . . . Missus Gloria Pearson say
the only thing she want me to think about is learnin to speak
the king’s English.—A. J. Verdelle, The Good Negress
So you ask, why does the vernacular persist? It is because it feeds
into a whole alternative set of identities and purposes that speakers
find rewarding and valuable.—“Holding on to a Language
of Our Own: An Interview with Linguist John Rickford”
 ’ 

   controversy erupted when the Oakland, Cali-
fornia, school board unanimously passed a resolution requiring
all schools in the district to participate in the Standard English
Proﬁciency (sep) program. Begun in , sep was a statewide edu-
cational initiative that had been used effectively at Prescott Ele-
mentary School. The program emphasizes that Black English is a
rule-governed form of communication and that this language can
be used to help children learn to read and write in Standardized
English.1
Contrary to media assertions, then, the Oakland school
board was not recommending the teaching of “Ebonics” per se,
nor were they claiming that students should be encouraged to use
Ebonics in all situations.2
The sep program emphasized the need
to understand and teach the differences between African American
Vernacular English and Standardized English—and the need to en-
courage students to move between these discourses in appropriate
situations.
Although the ensuing debate in the media concerned many com-
plex educational issues, part of this debate entailed the subject of
translation: whether (and how) African American children should
be taught to translate between African American codes and a more
standardized and formal English. In reading over accounts of this
controversy, I have noticed that numerous teachers who were in-
volved speciﬁcally described the movement between “Ebonics” and
Standardized English as one of translation. For example, in dis-
cussing her teaching practices, Carrie Secret explains that “when
writing, the students are aware that ﬁnished pieces are written in
English. The use of Ebonic structures appears in many of their ﬁrst
drafts. When this happens I simply say, ‘You used Ebonics here.
I need you to translate this thought into English’” (, emphasis
added; see also , ). In discussing the use of African American
literature in the classroom, Hafeezah AdamaDavia Dalji similarly
states: “This is what I love about African and African-American
writers. They write in Ebonics and Standard English, so students
learn to translate the Ebonics to Standard English and the Stan-
dard English to Ebonics. They learn too that the African language
is beautiful and that no language is superior or inferior. Language
is just a vehicle for you to learn and get around in your environ-
 ’  
ment and to express yourself ” (, emphasis added; see also ).
It is not my purpose in this chapter to discuss the Oakland contro-
versy in detail, but I do want to suggest that the shift between Afri-
can American discourses and Standardized English is a translative
activity.3
A translation perspective on African American literature
examines how texts manipulate codeswitching (the movement back
and forth between different dialects or languages within the same
linguistic unit), but also how thematically and formally these texts
fuse discourses to create a new mode of language.4
The novels examined in this chapter—Toni Morrison’s Tar Baby
(), Danzy Senna’s Caucasia (), Sherley Anne Williams’s Dessa
Rose (), and A. J. Verdelle’s The Good Negress ()—all em-
phasize the complex linguistic situation of contemporary African
Americans and the need for translation between African American
discourses and the dominant language (Standardized English).5
In
these novels, many characters are encouraged to give up the ver-
nacular, “improper” language they speak. Some characters make
this transition, but often dire consequences result, such as the
loss of family, community, love, or home. Other characters learn
Standardized English but also retain the vernacular tongue. They
thereby move beyond binarisms and codeswitching toward a third
language, a translative discourse in which aspects of the vernacular
and the dominant discourse are both incorporated. In these texts,
then, ethnicity is transcoded, and the ethnic language is transmi-
grated through the generation of linguistic hybridity. These novels
also indicate that both languages undergo signiﬁcant change and re-
vision when they are brought together by translative activities.
All the contemporary novels discussed in this chapter are by
women writers, and most feature female characters who struggle
to become translators and to speak a syncretic discourse that fuses
Standardized English and African American Vernacular English,
the written and the oral, the language of mastery with a “minor-
ity” discourse. Of course, texts from an earlier time period by male
writers—such as Charles Chesnutt’s The Conjure Woman () and
Langston Hughes’s “Jesse B. Simple” stories (–)—also employ
vernacular speech. And some more recent texts—such as Claude
Brown’s Manchild in the Promised Land (), John Edgar Wide-
man’s Damballah (), and Charles Johnson’s Middle Passage ()
 ’ 

—allude to struggles between an enfranchised language and a dis-
enfranchised, vernacular code. Although these texts (and many
others) foreground the role of the vernacular, they do not empha-
size the role of the translator or the question of translation, and so I
do not discuss them here. For example, in Charles Johnson’s novel
Middle Passage, the African American narrator, Rutherford Cal-
houn, embarks on a kind of reverse middle passage to Africa on
board a slave ship. In Africa the captain of the ship buys a group of
Africans known as the Allmuseri who speak a language described
as “not so much like talking as the tones the savannah made at
night, siffilating through the plains of coarse grass, soughing as dry
wind from tree to tree” (). They also have a written language,
Rutherford tells the reader, “of such exquisite limpidity, tone col-
ors, litotes, and contrapletes that I could not run my eyes across
it from left to right, without feeling everything inside me relax”
(). To understand this written language (which consists of pic-
tograms), you have to “look at the characters . . . as you would an
old friend you’ve seen many times before, grasping the meaning
—and relation to other characters—in a single intuitive snap” ().
To comprehend the language, in short, one has to take on the full
role of the translator—to understand not just denotative meanings
but also connotative and contextual ones. This would seem to be
a difficult project, yet Rutherford and the rest of the crew com-
municate easily with the Allmuseri. How does Rutherford learn to
translate? What difficulties does he encounter as a translator? Al-
though Johnson raises the issue of linguistic difference in the text,
he does not confront what might be lost in translation and what
might be gained.
On the other hand, the female writers I discuss in this chapter
dwell almost obsessively on the difficulties of translation. I would
hypothesize that there are several reasons contemporary African
American women writers foreground this struggle more than
male writers. First, as discussed in the introduction and Chapter
, women are more frequently ﬁgured as translators, as mediators
between divergent and often contradictory languages and cultures.
African American women writers use their status as translators to
undermine disabling binary oppositions such as white over black;
empowered, Standardized English over disempowered, vernacu-
 ’  
lar dialect; and also male over female. Second, African American
women, by virtue of their race and their gender, have a doubly
dispossessed relationship to the dominant discourse, to Standard-
ized English. Indeed, in two out of the four texts discussed below,
women struggle with men who want to translate their stories and
their identities for them—who want to claim power over a “text”
that is “silent” because of both its feminine and its racialized status.
A powerful trope is written into African American literature from
its very beginnings in which to seize the word is to claim “man-
hood” and an identity as a “free man.”6
But what does the woman
who seizes language become? I suggest here that the trope of trans-
lation replaces the trope of seizing the word to claim “manhood.”
Lastly, for these women writers, translation sometimes offers an
alternative to hierarchical formulations of linguistic conﬂict pres-
ent in many texts by male writers, formulations in which a self
ﬁnds voice by “othering” a nonsubject of a different (and presum-
ably lesser) racial or gendered status. In the texts I examine, trans-
lation can create, instead, a space in between self and “other,” male
and female, black and white, Standardized English and African
American discourses—a space where these terms can be under-
mined, hybridized, or re-created. The trope of translation is preva-
lent in contemporary African American women’s writing, then,
because “the imperative to translate” is doubly inﬂicted on, and in-
ﬂected for, these women writers and the characters they create.
Translation Themes: Toni Morrison’s Tar Baby
and Danzy Senna’s Caucasia
The two novels I discuss in this section feature light-skinned hero-
ines who can and do pass in various ways (socially or linguistically
or both) for white. Both texts therefore employ translation between
Standardized English (se) and African American Vernacular En-
glish (aave) as a substantive trope integral to their main charac-
ter’s formulation of an identity and voice. I begin with a novel that
explicitly questions whether African American languages can be
preserved for individuals who inhabit a modern, urbanized, Anglo-
centric world. Although Morrison’s Tar Baby is somewhat pessimis-
 ’ 

tic on this subject, it is worth examining because it tells us much
about why individuals give up vernacular speech. As linguist John
Rickford indicates, the vernacular is crucial to preserving uncon-
ventional subject positions: “So you ask, why does the vernacular
persist? It is because it feeds into a whole alternative set of identities
and purposes that speakers ﬁnd rewarding and valuable” (). So
what does it mean when the vernacular is lost?
Jadine, of Morrison’s Tar Baby, appears to be quite comfortable
inhabiting the modern world and speaking the dominant discourse,
se. She is a light-skinned fashion model educated in Paris; her aunt
and uncle work for a wealthy white man who has funded her career.
She is ﬂuent in French as well as in Standardized English. In short,
Jadine represents the fully assimilated African American woman.
Perhaps her lover Son is too harsh when he calls her a “little white
girl” (), but his statement has a ring of truth. In her way of speak-
ing, acting, and thinking, Jadine has become “white.” But Jadine
admits to being “run out of Paris” by the sight of a beautiful, dark-
skinned African woman who makes Jadine feel “lonely and unau-
thentic” (). Morrison suggests through this incident that Jadine
has abandoned, rather than transcoded, her blackness and that nega-
tive consequences result from this rejection of racial identity.
Jadine’s inability to translate between African American lan-
guages and Standardized English emblematizes this conﬂict over
the transcoding of racial identity. In a crucial scene in the novel,
Jadine goes to Eloe, Florida, with Son. In this rural town in the
South, she discovers that she cannot speak the language: “She said
yes . . . but she didn’t understand at all, no more than she under-
stood the language he was using when he talked to Soldier and
Drake and Ellen and the others who stopped by . . . no more
than she could understand . . . the news that some woman named
Brown, Sarah or Sally or Sadie—from the way they pronounced
it she couldn’t tell—was dead. . . . Jadine smiled, drank glasses of
water and tried to talk ‘down home’ like Ondine” (, ). Here
Morrison sets up a stark contrast between the “white” world of ur-
ban sophistication that Jadine usually inhabits and Son’s southern
black world, and she sets up a stark contrast between the languages
that are used in each domain. Jadine leaves Eloe, ﬁnally, because
she considers it “rotten and more boring than ever. A burnt-out
 ’  
place” (). In Eloe there is a past but no future, and Jadine needs
“air, and taxicabs and conversation in a language she understood”
(). Jadine does not value aave or the world it embodies, and she
therefore abandons it.
As the linguists Ralph Fasold and Walt Wolfram point out,
there are many African Americans “whose speech is indistinguish-
able from others of the same region and social class” (). In other
words, not all African Americans speak aave, nor am I suggesting
here that they must or should. Yet in Tar Baby, Morrison clearly
uses Jadine’s employment of se, of “white” English, to suggest that
the identity she has adopted is also white. And Morrison also il-
lustrates that there are grave social consequences to this linguistic/
social identity: isolation, displacement, and the inability to ﬁnd a
community. Morrison also establishes that Jadine chooses not to
translate between languages or to create a third code that syncre-
tizes them. Throughout the novel, Jadine mocks African Ameri-
can Vernacular English and the world it represents; she refuses, in
short, to disarticulate it from the discourse of racism. When Son
tries to explain Eloe’s values to her, she mockingly sings, “Ooooo,
Ah got plenty of nuffin and nuffin’s plenty fo meeeeeee” (). She
associates the vernacular with poverty, with a life that goes no-
where, that is uncultured and even unlettered. In the above pas-
sage, she does attempt to “talk ‘down home,’” but this attempt is
rather halfhearted. Eventually Jadine returns to the world of high
fashion, to the white world of cloisonné and money in which she
was at ease, if not entirely contented.7
And she reverts to the lan-
guage she loves: Standardized English, a language that (from Mor-
rison’s formulation of this conﬂict in this particular novel) appears
to cut her off from her “ancient properties” (), leaving her adrift
in the modern world.
Set in opposition to Jadine is Son, who initially appears to be
somewhat more ﬂexible in his choice of language and identity and
also more capable as a translator. Son is allied with the possibili-
ties of aave to remake and undermine Standardized English. He
often uses aave, especially when he wants to manipulate whites. In
the following conversation with a white man—Jadine’s patron Va-
lerian Street—Son uses aave to explain how he came to be in the
bedroom of Valerian’s wife late at night, hiding in a closet: “Yes, sir.
 ’ 

I uh thought I smelled oyster stew out back yesterday. And it got
dark early, the fog I mean. They done left the kitchen and I thought
I’d try to get me some. I couldn’t run out the back door so I run
through another one. It was a dinin room. I ran upstairs into the
ﬁrst room I seen. When I got in I seen it was a bedroom but thought
it belong to the one y’all call Jadine. I aimed to hide there till I could
get out” (, emphasis added). I have italicized parts of speech that
employ typical aave linguistic features such as dropped word end-
ings (“dinin room”); pronouns used in apposition to the noun sub-
ject of the sentence (“get me some food”); use of “done” for com-
pleted action (“they done left”); doubled present-tense verbs to
emphasize a continuous state (“aimed to hide”); present verb tense
used to emphasize a progressive (“I seen”); and irregular but con-
sistent conjugations of past-tense verbs (“I run through another
one”). These are all features of aave, but one suspects that here Son
is playing into Valerian’s idea of him as illiterate and perhaps stu-
pid. To use terms researched by Thomas Kochman, Son may be
“shucking and jiving,” which refers to “transactions involving con-
frontation between blacks and ‘the Man.’ . . . It is language be-
havior designed to work on the mind and emotions of the author-
ity ﬁgure to get him to feel a certain way or give up something
that will be to the other’s advantage” (). Through this linguistic
performance Son convinces Valerian that there is a logical reason
he has been hiding in Valerian’s house for several weeks; further,
he convinces Valerian to give him food, clothing, and shelter and
to avoid reporting him to the police. Roger Abrahams comments
that in African American communities “the ability with words is
as highly valued as physical strength” (Deep Down ), and one
can certainly here see why. Son uses vernacular language to gain
Valerian’s trust and ﬁnancial support and to talk his way out of a
difficult situation.
Son also appears to speak a less vernacularized discourse with
Jadine (“Hey. I was saying good morning to you” []) and an even
deeper version of aave when he is in Eloe, Florida (“Old Man, you
one crazy old man” []). Morrison illustrates, as numerous lin-
guists have pointed out, that aave is not one language but many
and that each of its dialects can be used in different situations and
different contexts to communicate and empower speakers.8
Son is
 ’  
ﬂuent in the many dialects of aave, and he can translate between
them. Yet he is not ﬂuent in se and at times needs Jadine to trans-
late it for him. In fact, Jadine and Son’s ﬁrst sustained encounter
concerns her translation of a written French text—a magazine arti-
cle about her modeling career—into Standardized English for Son.
But Jadine also has to translate the parts of this article written in se
before Son understands:
“What does it say?” He put the magazine ﬂat on the desk
turned at an angle so she could read and translate the text. . . .
Jadine leaned over and translated rapidly the important parts
of the copy. . . .
“Right here it says ‘fast lane.’ What’s that about?” [Son
asks].
“Oh, they’re trying to be hip. It says, ‘If you travel as Jadine
does in what the Americans call the fast lane, you need elegant
but easy-to-pack frocks.’” (, emphasis added)
Morrison illustrates that Son is a foreigner within not only French
but also English—he does not know the meaning of “fast lane.” In
this scene of translation, Jadine appears to take on the role of trans-
lator, helping Son to master the master’s language.
And yet this passage also bespeaks a struggle between Jadine
and Son over who will control their relationship and whose lan-
guage will be utilized—in other words, who will translate whom.
The novel sets two translation ﬁgures and two discourses in op-
position to each other and narrates the destruction that results.
Son, in fact, expects Jadine to learn his language—and he expects
to teach her to translate herself into a “black” woman. He rejects
an elder’s advice about Jadine and about “yellow” women: “Yallas
don’t come to being black natural-like. They have to choose it and
most don’t choose” (). Son only responds: “She’s not a yalla, . . .
just a little light” (). But the advice that the older man, Gideon,
gives Son has little to do with skin color per se and more to do with
racial identity: Gideon suggests that individuals like Jadine (light-
skinned, urban, educated, and schooled in se) must actively choose
to be African American and that many do not. Son ﬁrst denies this
advice and then later believes he can force Jadine to embrace her
“blackness”: “He saw it all as a rescue: ﬁrst tearing her mind away
 ’ 

from that blinding awe. Then the physical escape from the planta-
tion” (). Son believes he will rescue Jadine from the white man’s
world, from mental and emotional slavery, from “the plantation.”
He believes he will enable her to transcode her ethnicity so that it
signiﬁes something positive and empowering.
Son also believes he will rescue Jadine from the language of the
whites. He wants to “blow with his own lips a gentle enough breeze
for her to tinkle in” (). He wants to give her, in short, a language
that will move her, that will cause her to “tinkle” like a wind chime.
Yet as the continuation of this quote makes clear, Son teaches Jadine
his language to keep her within his control: “He would have to be
alert, feed her with his mouth if he had to, construct a world of
steel and down for her to ﬂourish in” (). What is this “world
of steel and down”? Isn’t this a cage where Jadine, like a pet bird,
will be lovingly fed by Son’s language, his mouth, his tongue even,
but also kept imprisoned so that she cannot ﬂy away? So Son “in-
sists on Eloe” ()—he insists that this small southern town is the
center of the world. And “regarding her whole self as an ear,” Son
“whispered into every part of her stories of icecaps and singing ﬁsh,
the Fox and the Stork, the Monkey and the Lion, the Spider goes
to Market” (). Obviously, many of these stories are Afrocentric;
for example, the tale of the monkey and the lion is the story of the
Signifying Monkey, and Spider is a traditional trickster ﬁgure in
West African culture.9
Yet by pouring these stories into Jadine’s ear
and into her “whole self,” Son attempts to forcibly transcode her
ethnic identity from “yalla” or “white” to “black” and to transform
her into a woman who knows her “ancient properties” () and
speaks the vernacular.
But Son fails, and Jadine returns to New York alone. Eventu-
ally, their relationship disintegrates. What is apparent, then, is that
Morrison’s novel sets up a number of binary oppositions, such as:
Euro-American languages versus AAVE and its dialects
(SE, French)
Jadine Son
Individualism, isolation Community, fraternity
Sterility Fertility
 ’  
Money Poverty
“Success” “Failure”
The present or future The past
“White” identity “Black” identity
Education Illiteracy
As discussed in Chapter , these are the kinds of binarisms pres-
ent in John Okada’s No-No Boy, and like No-No Boy, Tar Baby re-
fuses to mediate these binarisms. Part of the problem lies in Jadine
and Son themselves. Neither character is willing to compromise, to
move between worlds, or to move between languages and identi-
ties.10
So these two ﬁgures remain on opposite sides of a linguistic
and cultural divide. Each seeks to annihilate the other’s differences,
to be an abrogating translator who refuses the other’s worldview.
Alan Rice has explicated how Morrison’s novel uses signifying and
the vernacular to reclaim a “‘tainted’ language” (), but I do not
think Morrison’s inquiry ends here. Through the linguistic contest
between Son and Jadine, she indicates that both the “tainted” lan-
guage (se) and the vernacular tongue must be reclaimed, combined,
and hybridized to produce something that changes both codes. Nei-
ther Son nor Jadine is willing to translate between their favored lan-
guage and the disenfranchised code in order to produce something
new. So when the text ends, Jadine ﬂees back into the urban, “white”
world of modeling, while Son appears to ﬂee back into the world of
his ancestors, the African American rural world of the “past.”11
Interestingly, Morrison sets a large part of the novel on a small
Caribbean island called Isle des Chevaliers, which is off the coast
of Dominique (or Dominica). Jadine’s patron has a home there, and
it is on this island that Jadine and Son ﬁrst meet. Perhaps in setting
part of the action in a space that is neither African nor American, in
a world between cultures, Morrison intends to introduce the possi-
bility of an intermediary discourse that can transcend some of these
binarisms. After all, many Caribbean countries have a pidgin or a
creole language created by the fusion of different languages (such
as African and French or English and French). In fact, the official
language of Dominica today is English but a French-based creole
is still spoken, especially in outlying villages. Yet in the novel none
 ’ 

of the indigenous characters speak this creole. Thérèse Foucault,
for example, has lived in Dominica all her life, and she speaks
some English as well as the “the French of Dominique” (), an
uncreolized French. The novel’s setting, then, gestures toward the
idea of an “in-between” space where languages could be revised or
reinvented, but none of the characters in the novel appear to realize
the potential of creolized or hybridized languages.
As mentioned in the introduction, other novels by Morrison
touch on issues of translation, although she does not investigate
these issues as extensively as in Tar Baby. In these other novels there
is, as well, some hope that individuals can create new, hybridized
languages or ﬁnd the “word shapes” (Beloved ) to translate and
tell their stories, to cross linguistic divides. For example, in Song
of Solomon, Milkman learns how to ﬂy—to transcend materialism
and “whiteness”—only when he goes to the South, recovers the ver-
nacular, oral story of his African ancestor Solomon and the songs
of the ﬂying Africans, and fuses them with his history in the pres-
ent-tense moment, as an African American. And in Beloved, Paul
D. and Sethe do share their stories, or parts of their stories, de-
spite the “forest” () that springs up between them. Sethe is also
ﬁnally rescued from the past by the women of her town, whose
song searches “for the right combination, the key, the code, the
sound that broke the back of words” (). Like Bull’s cry at the end
of No-No Boy, the women’s song suggests a return of language to
its roots in pure sound and a rebirthing that perhaps offers the po-
tential for a new language. Such a rebirth is never achieved by Son
or Jadine in Tar Baby. Ultimately, they fail to become translators
between aave and se, and they fail to transcode themselves out of
their enclosed, limited, monolingual worlds.
Like the others examined in this chapter, Morrison’s novel de-
picts translation as an intralingual and even an intracultural prob-
lem. Tar Baby does not, on the face of it, enunciate a conﬂict be-
tween a white society that tries to force its language down the
throat of the “other” and an ethnic tongue, as has been the case in
many other texts discussed in this book. Rather, this conﬂict occurs
between two individuals within the African American community
—Jadine and Son—and between the languages that this commu-
nity might speak. Tar Baby, like Caucasia, also raises the question
 ’  
of what race/language the lighter-skinned individual will choose.
In such works discussed in Chapter  as Ceremony and House Made
of Dawn, it is the “mixed-breed” individual who inhabits a middle
ground between languages and cultures and who therefore has more
need to become a translator and (perhaps) more facility at bridg-
ing languages and cultures. I suggest here that the light-skinned
African American individual sometimes takes up a similar role. She
or he can choose to “be” white and speak in se; sometimes she or
he can even choose to pass. Or the individual can refuse se and
embrace a “black” identity. But texts such as Tar Baby and Cau-
casia impute that there needs to be a third option—a way the light-
skinned individual can be both black and white and can hybridize
se and aave to produce a new code that moves beyond the notion
of the “separation” and compartmentalization of languages and ra-
cial identities.
These issues are foregrounded in Danzy Senna’s Caucasia, which
concerns two sisters—Birdie and Cole Lee—who are separated when
their white mother ﬂees Boston because she fears she will be impli-
cated in a political crime. The father, Deck, who is African Ameri-
can, keeps the darker-skinned daughter (Cole) with him, and the
mother (Sandy) takes Birdie (who is light enough to pass for white)
with her. After a number of years of passing as a white, Jewish girl
named Jesse Goldman, Birdie resolves to ﬁnd her sister, and the
novel ends with their reunion. As we will see, Birdie is extremely
skillful at adapting herself linguistically and socially to the envi-
ronments she inhabits. But is Birdie perhaps too good at translat-
ing? Does she eventually lose her own voice? Birdie is very aware
of subtleties of language—of accents, dialects, and vernaculars. She
struggles to connect this knowledge to herself as a racial individual
and to understand the link between “self” and discourse.
I alluded above to the fact that in Tar Baby, many languages
are present (French, English, slang, African American vernacu-
lars, and so on) but that Son and Jadine seem to reduce this num-
ber to only two. Birdie is more aware of what Werner Sollors calls
the multilingualism of America, and she pays careful attention not
only to the various dialects she hears but also to the way these dia-
lects sound—to the various accents present in English. She learns
this skill from her mother, who “was prejudiced against three ac-
 ’ 

cents in the world: the German accent, the white Southern accent,
and the Boston accent. All three made her suspect a person of great
evil” (). Accent is here somewhat humorously correlated with
identity, although Sandy’s statement is meant to be read as slightly
paranoid, a feature of her personality in the novel in general. In
the United States, however, anyone with a “white” or Euro-Ameri-
can accent appears to feel that he or she has the right to claim
“American” identity. Irish American girls from Roxbury, for ex-
ample, tell Cole to “go back to the jungle, darkie. Go wash your ass.
Go, you little culahd biscuit” (). By italicizing these words, Senna
clearly indicates they are spoken in an accent, in a kind of “foreign”
dialect. Yet in the hierarchy of accents in the United States, it ap-
pears the Irish American individual’s accent is marked (or rather in
this scene marks itself ) as “American,” whereas the African Ameri-
can individual, even one who speaks standardized, unaccented En-
glish, is construed as foreign, a “darkie” from the “jungles” of Af-
rica.12
Interestingly, one of aave’s most distinctive and frequently
commented-on features is its patterns of accent, stress, and pronun-
ciation (for example, “police” rather than “police”; “truf” instead of
“truth”; “axe” for “ask”; and so forth). Senna here overturns a com-
mon binary about accents: aave (and other ethnic discourses) are
accented, marked, stressed, and emphatic, while “white” English
is unaccented, unmarked, unstressed, and unemphatic.13
Through
Birdie, Senna notes the discursive and pronunciation diversity that
exists within white English.
Senna also uses her character to indicate how accents inscribe
social identities as “American” or “foreign,” as “empowered” or “dis-
empowered,” as “literate” or “illiterate.” Chameleon-like, Birdie be-
comes very adept at imitating accents in order to ﬁt in. When she
wants to be accepted as a “wasp,” she speaks in an imitation of this
dialect: “Sometimes, when I was with the Marshes, I would secretly
imagine I was the daughter they never had. And sometimes I got
carried away with my fantasy and would start talking differently,
affectedly, trying to imitate Libby’s long nasal drawl, and using ex-
pressions I had heard Nicholas use, as if they were my own” ().
Accent here allows Birdie to “pass” into a new identity, a new ver-
sion of herself. And with the “townie” girls Birdie meets in New
 ’  
Hampshire, she uses language as a badge of power but also a mask
of her “true” self: “I talked the talk, walked the walk, swayed my
hips to the sound of heavy metal, learned to wear blue eyeliner and
frosted lipstick and snap my gum. And when I heard those inevi-
table words come out of Mona’s mouth, Mona’s mother’s mouth,
Dennis’s mouth—nigga, spic, fuckin’ darkie—I only looked away
into the distance” (). She remains calm about racist jokes and
remarks because she believes that her real self is “hidden beneath
my beige ﬂesh,” “preserved, frozen solid” ().
Earlier in her life, when Birdie was at an Afrocentric school
called Nkrumah, she learned to speak aave and to translate be-
tween aave and se. Here, too, Senna indicates that Birdie is a care-
ful observer of languages but also that these languages, and the
identities that go along with them, must be learned and performed.
For example, in the following scene, Cole teaches Birdie and herself
how to translate between se and aave:
“We talk like white girls, Birdie.” She picked up the maga-
zine she had been reading, and handed it to me. “We don’t talk
like black people. It says so in this article.”
I glanced at the article. The heading read, “Black English:
Bad for Our Children?”
The magazine was Ebony. . . .
Cole continued: “They have examples in here. Like, don’t
say, ‘I’m going to the store.’ Say, ‘I’m goin’ to de sto’.’ Get it?
And don’t say, ‘Tell the truth.’ Instead, say, ‘Tell de troof.’
Okay?” ()
As we will see, this scene reverses many episodes in The Good Ne-
gress, where the young heroine is instructed out of aave. Here, Cole
and Birdie must be instructed into what is supposed to be “their”
language. Cole’s father also tries to teach Cole his version of Black
English—a politicized black power dialect. But only Birdie picks
this up: “‘Salaam Aleikum,’ I greeted my father one afternoon as I
clambered into his car. Another time I kissed him good-bye on the
check, saying, ‘Stay black, stay strong, brotherman’” (). Birdie
excels at picking up new dialects and the new identities that she be-
lieves these dialects confer. Like Olivia in The Floating World (dis-
 ’ 

cussed in Chapter ), Birdie possesses a translating consciousness
that “exploits the potential openness of language systems” (Devy,
“Translation and Literary Theory” ).
To be a social success at Nkrumah, Birdie must speak aave and
change herself into someone who is “black.” This is not easy for a
child who looks so “white” that her father is once almost arrested
for “kidnapping” her (–). Birdie wears her straight hair in a
tight braid to mask its texture, buys hoops for her ears, and dresses
like her “black” sister. But to translate herself into a “black” iden-
tity, she also must master the language: “I stood many nights in
front of the bathroom mirror, practicing how to say ‘nigger’ the
way the kids in school did it, dropping the ‘er’ so that it became
not a slur, but a term of endearment: nigga” (). Later in her life
Birdie thinks about speaking aave to an audience of Nkrumah stu-
dents and has even decided on a series of titles for her talk: “What
White People Say When They Think They’re Alone,” “Honkiﬁed
Meanderings: Notes from the Underground,” or “Let Me Tell Ya
’bout Dem White Folks” (). Birdie considers herself both a lin-
guist and a translator—she carefully studies dialects (“what white
people say”) but also the power dynamics correlated with speciﬁc
languages and linguistic identities. Wahneema Lubiano comments
that the African American “vernacular is perfectly constituted to
undermine ironically whatever dominant language form it employs.
In other words, it stands in deconstructive relation to the domi-
nant language whether by using the dialect and syntactical struc-
ture of ‘black English’ or by subverting standard English dialect”
(). Whether Birdie uses aave or se, she subverts the power dy-
namics implicit within these languages by moving back and forth
between them, and Senna is clearly signifying on and mocking the
white tradition of linguistic empowerment through se.
At times Birdie is also a translating link between “whiteness”
and “blackness.” For example, when Cole grows closer to her fa-
ther and does not want to speak to her mother, Birdie acts “as the
go-between, shouting out messages between them like a translator
of foreign tongues” (). Interestingly, in this construction Birdie
marks herself as a “foreigner” in both tongues—the “white” tongue
of the mother and the “black” tongue of the sister. The translator
is a link between divergent tongues and cultures, but this is fre-
 ’  
quently an uncomfortable position; Birdie appears to be homeless,
a foreigner lacking a language of “selfhood.” She asserts that she
learns the art of “changing” at Nkrumah, a skill that would later
become second nature to her: “There I learned how to do it for real
—how to become someone else, how to erase the person I was be-
fore” (). Senna asks us to consider what identity—if any—the
translator has. As she translates herself to a new language/identity,
does she disappear?
It could be argued that, like Tar Baby, Senna’s text constructs a
number of binarisms:
AAVE versus SE
Father Mother
“Black” identity “White” identity
Cole Birdie
Yet Senna’s text continually undermines such oppositions. Birdie’s
African American father, Deck, for example, is a Harvard-educated
professor more comfortable speaking se than aave. And Cole, as il-
lustrated above, actually has to learn aave, a language in which the
“white” Birdie becomes more ﬂuent. Furthermore, Birdie’s ability
to continually master and adapt herself to new languages and iden-
tities suggests that such a binary separation of language and identity
is arbitrary rather than real or absolute. Most radical, however, there
is also a language in this text that the two girls speak together
which might undermine the binary division of aave versus se and
which might combine these languages. Called “Elemeno,” Cole and
Birdie invent and speak this language when they are young. Senna
suggests that Elemeno has the ability to cross thresholds between
languages and cultures and to be (at least imaginatively and in pri-
vate) a hybrid language which allows for “transculturación,” a zone
of “impassioned margin” where diverse cultures converge without
merging (Pérez Firmat, Cuban Condition ).
This language is described at the start of the book, and it is
constantly associated with Cole: “Before I ever saw myself, I saw
my sister. When I was still too small for mirrors, I saw her as the
reﬂection that proved my own existence. . . . The face was me and
I was the face and that was how the story went. . . . We even spoke
 ’ 

our own language. Cole insists that it began before I was born,
when I was just a translucent ball in my mother’s womb” (). Ini-
tially, this seems to be a preoedipal language associated with an
undifferentiated stage of infantile oneness. Later, however, after
Birdie has learned to distinguish herself from Cole, the language
continues to grow: “Later we perfected the language in our attic
bedroom. . . . It was a complicated language, impossible for out-
siders to pick up—no verb tenses, no pronouns, just words ﬂoating
outside time and space without owner or direction. . . . My father
described the language as a ‘high-speed patois.’ . . . My grand-
mother said . . . we spoke in tongues. Cole and I just called it ‘Ele-
meno’ after our favorite letters in the alphabet” (). But Elemeno
is not merely a language; it is also a culture, a place, and a people.
Cole tells Birdie that the Elemeno people “could turn not just from
black to white, but from brown to yellow to purple to green, and
back again. She said they were a shifting people, constantly chang-
ing their form, color, pattern, in a quest for invisibility” (). Like
Birdie, then, the Elemenos can change color and language. In a
book highly sensitive to language and what it represents for par-
ticular formulations of ethnic identity, we might say that Elemeno
initially represents a language of camouﬂage, one that allows the
subject to assume a new identity but in so doing to perhaps “disap-
pear” into this new identity and surroundings.
Yet once Birdie is separated from Cole, Elemeno becomes a way
of preserving the “old” identity Birdie once had as a sister to an
African American sibling, Cole. As the novel progresses, Birdie
comes to associate Elemeno with Africanness, and with an iden-
tity as an African American. Birdie is fascinated by a West African
god, Exu-Elegba (which Gates speaks of as the “Signifying Mon-
key”), who represents, Birdie says, “potentiality and change” ().
From a book on Candomblé (a Brazilian/West African religion),
Birdie learns that this god is “a trickster, always shifting his form,
always at the crossroads” (), and his face seems to Birdie “amor-
phous, unﬁnished” (). Exu-Elegba is clearly an analogy for Bird-
ie’s own constantly unﬁnished, constantly transforming, constantly
in-process identity. Like the Elemenos, Exu-Elegba may disappear
into his surroundings, as Birdie sometimes seems to. No wonder,
then, that Birdie prays to this god in Elemeno: “I whispered under
 ’  
my breath a little prayer that I made up. A prayer in Elemeno. A
prayer to Exu, the God of Change, the God of Potential” ().14
Elemeno starts as a language of transformation of self, then, yet
it eventually becomes a language of self and racial reclamation, a
language that allows ethnicity to be transcoded. Elemeno is also
a language that allows for the self to be continually shifting, but still
located or perhaps “placed” by familial and racial bonds. Speaking
Elemeno connects Birdie to “the real story of my father and sis-
ter” and means that Cole can remain “clear as sunlight” in Bird-
ie’s memory (). When Birdie ﬁnally decides to ﬁnd her sister, to
stop being Jesse Goldman and return to being Birdie Lee, she re-
peats a pattern of words under her breath, words she no longer un-
derstands but whispers just the same, words in Elemeno: “kublica
marentha doba. lasa mel kin” (). Elemeno, then, appears to be the
tentative link to her sister as well as a link to a racial (and not invisi-
ble) subject position Birdie might inhabit.
When Birdie and Cole are reunited, it is not surprising that Cole
speaks in “broken Elemeno,” which Birdie at ﬁrst does not under-
stand. But, gradually, Senna tells us:
Then it began to come back to me.
simapho. nooli stadi. beltin caruse mestiz jambal. kez
wannaba. fello mao-tao burundi. simapho. ki wo fela.
We talked about where each of us had been. ()
Elemeno is no longer a pure, preoedipal language: it is now broken
and fractured by knowledge and loss. But it can still speak where
each woman has been—metaphorically and actually. And, ﬁnally,
the language allows Birdie to claim her own face, her own racial
identity—to make a choice at last about what she will “be.” Shortly
after this reunion with Cole and Elemeno, Birdie sees a “cinnamon-
skinned girl with her hair in braids” looking out a bus window and
is able to say that “she was black like me, a mixed girl” (). Birdie
is able to claim her status as both “black” and “mixed” speciﬁcally
through a reunion with Elemeno and with her sister Cole (who,
it should be noted, is also described as “cinnamon-skinned” []).
Like many works of passing by African American writers, Caucasia
ﬁnally suggests that racial identity is not biological or essential but
a choice one makes.15
Birdie chooses to be “black” and to claim this
 ’ 

as a somewhat stable identity, even as she enunciates that she is also
“mixed.” Birdie claims, then, an identity-in-process, but also one
that sees her race as more than a ﬁction. Birdie’s father, Deck, in-
sists that “race is a complete illusion, make-believe. It’s a costume”
(), to which Birdie responds: “If race is so make-believe, why
did I go with Mum? You gave me to Mum ’cause I looked white.
You don’t think that’s real? Those are the facts” (). Somewhere
between the theory that race is a total social ﬁction and the idea of
essentialism (race as biological), Birdie claims that race does mat-
ter, it does count, it does signify. And Elemeno symbolizes a lan-
guage that allows Birdie to claim a self-in-process that is also, still,
a racial self.
I have suggested that Elemeno is a language that ﬁnally allows
Birdie to reconnect with and transcode her “blackness.” And yet
what are we to make of the fact that the very name itself—Elemeno
—is composed of letters from the English alphabet? Furthermore,
many of the words spoken by the girls in Elemeno sound like a cor-
ruption of Standardized English: “wannaba” could be “wannabe”
or “want to be”; “simapho” could be “simple”; “mel kin” could be
“my kin.” Therefore, although Elemeno is associated with Cole,
with Africa, and with a racial identity, it may also be created by
a corruption, bastardization, or creolization of English. Elemeno
may be a language that transmigrates both an African tongue and
English; symbolically, it may be the hybrid discourse located some-
where between hegemonic, standardized language and ethnic dis-
course. Elemeno may be the language of translation, mediation,
and transformation that Son and Jadine were unable to ﬁnd. Per-
haps Elemeno brings English into contact with other cultures so
that it can be transformed. And perhaps it creates, in Homi K.
Bhabha’s notion, a “third space,” a space in between where Birdie
and Cole may “elude the politics of polarity and emerge as . . .
[their] selves” (Location of Culture, –). What is clear, however,
is that it is a private and familial language that eventually allows
Birdie to claim a public racial identity. Through the semimythical
language of Elemeno, she translates between her blackness and her
whiteness, ﬁnally creating a self that takes account of both racial
heritages.
 ’  
Hybrid Translation Forms: Sherley Anne Williams’s
Dessa Rose and A. J. Verdelle’s The Good Negress
I turn now to two novels that embed the topic of translation into
the very form and languages the texts speak: Sherley Anne Wil-
liams’s Dessa Rose and A. J. Verdelle’s The Good Negress. Both novels
are, quite literally, novelistic hybrids. Mikhail Bakhtin argues that
“the novelistic hybrid is an artistically organized system for bring-
ing different languages in contact with one another, a system having
as its goal the illumination of one language by means of another,
the carving-out of a living image of another language” (). For
Bakhtin, hybridization is a contestatory activity, having as its goal
the setting of different voices against each other so that authorita-
tive discourse can be unmasked. Dessa Rose and The Good Negress
set se and aave against each other to undermine the power of the
dominant discourse, but they also indicate the difficulty of separat-
ing the “language of mastery” from the “marginal,” oral, vernacu-
lar discourse. Both texts translate se, then, not only to contain or
undermine its power but also to show that the power of both se and
aave must be harnessed to create individuals who can navigate the
multiple linguistic terrains of their worlds, transcode ethnicity, and
renovate the language of hegemony.
In Dessa Rose, Williams takes two separate historical incidents
and unites them to create “the other history” (x). In  a pregnant
African American woman helped lead an uprising on a coffle (a
group of slaves chained together for transport); she was sentenced
to death, but her hanging was delayed until after the birth of her
baby. In North Carolina in , a white woman was reported to
be giving sanctuary to runaway slaves on her isolated plantation.
These two women never met, but Williams’s novel is a ﬁctional
rendering of what might have happened if they had. The novel be-
gins when the slave woman, whom Williams names Dessa Rose,
is interviewed by a white man, Nehemiah Adams, for a book he is
writing on slavery called The Roots of Rebellion in the Slave Popula-
tion and Some Means of Eradicating Them (or Roots). Nehemiah is
a parody of the white, male, racist historian, determined to get his
“story” by any means. But Dessa tells her story in a roundabout
fashion that Nehemiah (called Nemi) cannot follow, and she is lib-
 ’ 

erated by other slaves before he can get “the facts” (). Dessa takes
shelter with a white woman named Miss Rufel (or Ruth), and even-
tually she and Dessa become friends and engineer a permanent lib-
eration of the slaves who have sought refuge on Ruth’s plantation.
Dessa’s son is born during the course of the narrative, and at the
end Ruth goes east and the slaves ﬁnd safe haven in the American
West.
The novel’s primary linguistic questions center on who will
translate Dessa’s story: the white, male historian (who would like
to write it in se, in “factual,” direct English) or Dessa herself or her
representative (who would like the story to contain elements of oral,
vernacular expression). Yet Williams constantly undermines such
a separation of languages. This is apparent even from the opening
“Author’s Note,” in which Williams speaks of feeling “outraged by
a certain, critically acclaimed novel of the early seventies that trav-
estied the as-told-to-memoir of slave revolt leader Nat Turner” (ix).
Williams and many other critics believe that the novel spoken of
here (William Styron’s The Confessions of Nat Turner) served as a
false translation of the “original” Nat Turner narrative. But Wil-
liams’s point also concerns written Standardized English: “Afro-
Americans, having survived by word of mouth—and made of that
process a high art—remain at the mercy of literature and writing;
often, these have betrayed us. I loved history as a child, until some
clear-eyed young Negro pointed out, quite rightly, that there was
no place in the American past I could go and be free” (ix–x). His-
tory, language, “fact,” and writing often betray and imprison Af-
rican Americans, who survive by orality, by word of mouth, by
the vernacular. However, this formulation is quickly undermined
by Williams’s own writing of a novel that is “ﬁction” but also “as
true as if I myself had lived it” (x). The writing of the novel allows
Williams to claim a summer in the nineteenth century (x), that is,
to recover a piece of African American history. Since parts of the
novel are written in se, se and writing do not always betray African
Americans. When combined with other forms of language, se and
written language can help speak “the other history” (x).
How is it that Williams’s use of se and writing can speak Af-
rican American history, while Styron’s betrays it? Perhaps this has
something to do with the different kinds of translations—of the
 ’  
past, of history, and of language—that each writer employs. I read
Williams’s text as endorsing a mode of translation that is ﬂexible,
multimodal, and dialogic, and Styron’s text (as read by Williams)
as employing an abrogating, colonizing, univocal mode of transla-
tion. These contrasts between modes of translation are also the-
matized by the struggle between Dessa and Nemi with which the
novel opens. Nemi constantly attempts to contain and reduce Des-
sa’s voice and story. He sees her as a “nigger wench” and wants to
get the “facts of the darky’s history” () out of her by whatever
methods are necessary, including punishment, torture, and starva-
tion. But he fails to understand that Dessa’s “loquacious, round-
about fashion” () of telling her story is actually part of the story’s
meaning.
Certainly Dessa avoids responding directly to Nemi’s questions
to shield those who have escaped, yet she also has another agenda.
In these early encounters, Dessa struggles to be a resistant transla-
tor of her experience rather than a translated text. By narrating her
story, she attempts to translate it out of silence and into meaning-
fulness: “She saw the past as she talked, not as she had lived it but
as she had come to understand it. . . . She had lost Kaine, become
a self she scarcely knew, lost to family, to friends. So she talked”
(). Although Nemi thinks he controls the situation and the terms
of the translation, he does not. Dessa answers in a roundabout
way, sings and hums when asked a direct question, and constantly
makes the translation practices serve her purposes. She exercises a
great deal of critical literacy, even playing with Nemi and signify-
ing on him: “Talking with the white man was a game; it marked
time and she dared a little with him, playing on words, lightly cap-
ping, as though he were no more than some darky bent on bandy-
ing words with a likely-looking gal” (). Dessa’s ability to signify
grants her a kind of power over the white man and enables her
to turn Nemi’s questions back upon themselves so that no factual
information is obtained. As Geneva Smitherman and many other
linguists have shown, signifying, playing the dozens, and language
games are integral to African American communities. Such games
are not “mere” entertainment; they also confer power and status.16
Smitherman argues that indirection and ambiguous meanings were
also a way that slaves spoke in the oppressor’s language but still
 ’ 

maintained their own identity (“Black Language” ). Dessa gains
power and control over Nemi through signifying, but she also re-
tains her own mode of voice through this linguistic practice. But
Nemi only sees Dessa’s indirection as a ﬂaw in her speech.
Nemi also fails to understand another aspect of the African
American vernacular—the call-and-response messaging sometimes
contained in songs. So Nemi thinks that Dessa’s singing is mere
entertainment when in fact she uses songs to ask and get answers
to her questions about when she will be liberated from her jail cell
(). Nemi is totally surprised by Dessa’s escape, for example, but
Dessa has been forewarned in a song the white man hears but fails
to understand, a song that tells her that “the Lawd have called you
home” ().
The initial scenes of the novel, then, appear to undermine ex-
pected binarisms:
SE versus AAVE
Nemi Dessa
Power Powerlessness
Written discourse Spoken, oral discourse
Direction Indirection
Speech Songs, chants
Fact Dreams, emotions, “ﬁction”
But I am most interested in how the actual language and form of
the novel also undermine such binarisms. Williams seeks a lan-
guage like Senna’s Elemeno—one that can translate between black
and white, past and present, oral and written, se and aave. But,
more realistically than Senna, Williams illustrates how such a lan-
guage might sound and what it might look like, as well as how it
might undermine oppositions.
First, it must be noted that in Williams’s novel both whites
and blacks appear to speak various vernacular dialects; for exam-
ple, Ruth and Hughes (a white slave driver) speak in a southern,
vernacular discourse.17
So the opposition of “proper,” Standard-
ized English = white and “improper,” vernacular English = black
is complicated. Second, a number of oral elements of language are
added into the written text of the novel, such as songs (), call-
 ’  
and-response (), and choruses of voices rather than one speaker
(). The binary of se = written and aave = oral is therefore also
undermined. Further, there is a constant and ﬂuid switching back
and forth between se and aave and, moreover, slippage between
who speaks what discourse. In the initial scenes of the novel, for
example, Nemi mainly employs se and Dessa uses aave. Yet his
recounting of these incidents in his journal shows Nemi actually
codeswitching between se and aave: “‘I kill white mens,’ her voice
overrode mine, as though she had not heard me speak. ‘I kill white
mens cause the same reason Masa kill Kaine. Cause I can.’ [says
Dessa]. It had been an entrancing recital, better in its way than a
paid theatrical [comments Nemi]” (). The subtle intertwinement
in this passage of se and aave, and of Nemi and Dessa’s discourse,
speaks to Williams’s larger thematic message: the disempowered
voice sometimes does speak for itself, overriding the dominant dis-
course. Interestingly, it is probable that Dessa never makes these
statements, that Nemi has misconstrued her words. But even in his
misconstrual Nemi mixes his discourse with Dessa’s, and his lan-
guage is not pure and uncorrupted; even in the white man’s fantasy
of blackness, of otherness, and of what blackness “speaks,” the ver-
nacular, minority discourse cannot be separated from Standardized
English.
Later in the novel, it becomes apparent that Nemi’s se has
slipped into the vernacular discourse and, further, that at times
Dessa manipulates the dominant discourse better than Nemi does.
In a crucial scene toward the end of the novel, Nemi ﬁnds Dessa
and wants to prove she is an escaped slave by having her disrobe
and show her scars. “Ware the goods!” (which translates as “Be-
ware of the goods!”) shouts Dessa to the sheriff, knowing that this
is what is said on a coffle when a pretty woman is being protected
from rape so that she can be sold as a “fancy trade” (). Dessa
here manipulates and employs the discourse of slavery, but in the
scene as a whole her language is at least as “proper” as Nemi’s, as
the following conversation shows:
“I belongs to Miz Carlisle,” I said, “staying down to the
hotel. I takes care of her baby, Clara—. . . .”
“That’s all a lie, sheriff. . . . When I caught up with her she
 ’ 

swore she belonged to some Suttons. This a dangerous criminal
and I want her held.”
“Master, I never seen this master before in my life.”
“The one I wants got scars all over her butt. . . . Let’s have
that dress off; let her prove she ain’t the one.” (, emphasis
added)
As indicated by my italics, both Dessa and Nemi speak vernacular
English; moreover, as the scene goes on, Nemi’s language becomes
less and less “proper” (). It seems, then, that rather than trans-
lating Dessa’s story, Nemi has been translated by her. Crucially, his
speech, the discourse of the “master,” has also been changed, trans-
lated, transmigrated, by its encounter with the vernacular, “im-
proper” dialect. Nemi is no longer the empowered, white subject
who speaks se but is, quite literally, a half insane, deranged, dirty,
unkempt white man who speaks a language that even the white
sheriff ﬁnds confusing.
There are many other examples of how the novel constantly
shifts discourses and undermines the binary of empowered, se
speech over unempowered, aave dialect. But I wish to stress that
not all these examples are negative. Ruth and Dessa, for exam-
ple, mingle words and languages at the end of the novel: “Maybe
we couldn’t speak so honest without disagreement, but that didn’t
change how I feel. ‘Ruth,’ ‘Dessa,’ we said together; and ‘Who was
that white man—?’ ‘That was the white man—’ and stopped. We
couldn’t hug each other, not on the streets, not in Acropolis, not
even after dark; we both had sense enough to know that. The town
could even bar us from laughing; but that night we walked the
boardwalk together and we didn’t even hide our grins” (). Dessa
narrates this passage but, most crucially, her narration not only
moves back and forth between se and aave but also represents
Ruth’s voice; Ruth’s language, in other words, is not translated into
Dessa’s. A mode of translation is employed here that is polyvocal
and dialogic—a mode of translation that does not contain the story
but releases it.18
I have been discussing how Dessa Rose is a novelistic hybrid on
the level of its speech patterns, but I now want to turn brieﬂy to
two other aspects of its formal hybridity: its genre, and its ﬁnal nar-
 ’  
ration of the creation of the text as text. I have already noted that
the novel is composed of both se and aave, songs, chants, dreams,
choruses of voices, and multiple points of view (Ruth’s, Nemi’s,
Dessa’s, and so forth). There is a kind of bricolage of narrative dis-
courses here, as well as a bricolage of genres. The novel employs and
makes references to aspects of the slave narrative genre. At times it
also reads like a classic tale of female bonding and even a romance
(a “bodice ripper”). At other times it reads like a “road novel,” es-
pecially when the slaves go “on the road” to earn the money that
will allow them to go west by selling themselves into slavery and
then escaping. The novel reﬂects a strange fusion, or even stew, of
genres. But how exactly does this novel come to be “told”? Initially,
we know, Nemi is determined to write Dessa’s story, but his book
falls to pieces when he waves it in front of the sheriff to “condemn”
Dessa:
“Here,” he say, shaking it in my face. Clara reached for the
book and knocked it out his hand. The pages wasn’t bound in
the cover and they fell out, scattering about the ﬂoor. Nemi
started grabbing the papers. . . .
“Nemi, ain’t nothing but some scribbling on here,” sheriff
say. “Can’t anyone read this.”
Miz Lady was turning over the papers in her hand “And
these is blank, sheriff,” she say. ()
Quite literally the master’s book, the “master’s pieces,” are under-
mined, deconstructed, rendered impotent by this scattering. In this
scene Dessa clutches some of Nemi’s pages in her hand. I hypoth-
esize that when Dessa does ﬁnally tell her story, she incorporates
Nemi’s translation of her story into the narrative that she creates.
Therefore, the ﬁnal text that is Dessa Rose is told by Dessa but it
contains the master’s voice, Nemi’s “facts,” the master’s forms and
language, even as it undermines them.
Even more important, Dessa’s oral narrative is preserved within
the conﬁnes of written discourse. The book narrates its own con-
struction as a text on its ﬁnal pages, when Dessa states: “I hopes I
lives for my people like they do for me, so sharp sometimes I can’t believe
it’s all in my mind. And my mind wanders. This why I have it wrote
 ’ 

down, why I has the child say it back. I never will forget Nemi trying
to read me, knowing I had put myself in his hands. Well, this the child-
rens have heard from our own lips” (). Dessa never learns to read
and write, so she does not have the written language to record her
own story. But she does want her tale to be preserved as an antidote
to “Nemi trying to read me.” So she has her child Mony write it,
but she also has him read (or rather “say”) it back to her: “This why
I have it wrote down, why I has the child say it back.” Certainly, as
Marta Sánchez argues, Dessa “critically appropriates the language
of the dominant culture to subvert its power” (). But does Dessa’s
“black English become the very center of culture” (Marta Sánchez
), and does Williams therefore dismiss “the legitimizing power of
official discourse,” as Andrée-Anne Kekeh claims ()?19
Which is
privileged here: the oral telling of the tale in aave, or the literate
writing of it in a variety of languages? The oral, vernacular story
and the written discourse that is Dessa’s history exist in a tenuous
balance together in the text that ﬁnally is Dessa Rose.20
Hybridity here is not only (or not exclusively) contestatory;
rather, literary hybridity becomes a way of taking power from dif-
ferent sources. I think it is important that Williams ﬁnally refuses
to choose between se and aave but suggests that they can exist to-
gether, in something like a peaceful coexistence, in a person, in a
text, and perhaps even in a world. “Linguistic differences cannot be
dealt with in the same manner in which Americans have come to
terms with racial or religious differences,” comments Joseph Mag-
net (). Linguistic differences should not simply be annihilated
or translated out of existence. Texts such as Williams’s recoup the
“other” stories and the “other” languages that are overwritten by
the dominant narrative, the dominant language. Yet such texts also
show the ﬂowering and growth of the oral and vernacular language
within written English. The language of hegemony is therefore
both undermined and re-created through transmigration of the
ethnic tongue.21
The best translators, it seems, both undermine the dominant dis-
course and utilize the power of all the languages to which they have
access. This is clearly the case in A. J. Verdelle’s novel The Good
Negress. After the death of her father, Denise, the young African
American heroine of this novel, is transplanted from Detroit to her
 ’  
grandmother’s house in Virginia so that her mother can work full-
time. After ﬁve years in the South, Denise is moved back to Detroit
when her mother needs help caring for the baby she is having with
her second husband. By this time Denise has fully adopted aave,
and in terms of the linguistic conﬂicts she faces, she almost seems
to have come from a foreign country: “When [my teacher] Missus
Pearson talk, sound to me like some other language” (). Denise
continues: “She tell me . . . that I live in a country where English
is spoke and I don’t know how to speak it. . . . If I could learn to
speak English, I could become more important. . . . Nobody will
ever understand you, nobody who can help you rise, unless you can
speak the language of the nation” (–). Intralingual transla-
tion struggles are foregrounded in the text, as Denise attempts to
move from her southern, “cakky-lakky” () language—which is
not considered to be English—to the language which is supposed
to be spoken in the North (“the king’s English”). Furthermore, as
in the other novels discussed, translation also takes on metaphori-
cal signiﬁcance as a valence or register for ethnic identity. In a
discussion of the Ebonics controversy, James Collins claims that
“standard English is perceived as ‘the language of business,’ and as
acquirable stuff that allows the possessor to advance in the great
chain of being; it has no memory of group, no burden of history.
Like a state church, it is open to all, requiring only of the hereto-
fore non-standard speaker that she come alone, with no group and
no history” (). Denise initially attempts to translate between her
teacher’s social identity for her (in which she forgets her group his-
tory as an African American) and her own sense of who she is. In
The Good Negress, however, a true intralingual, syncretic, transmi-
grated voice is eventually enacted; Denise does not simply pick be-
tween the languages available to her but, like Dessa, creates a new
code through hybridization and translation. And certainly this new
code enables the renovation of ethnic identity, the disarticulation
of blackness from the discourse of racism.
In Siting Translation, Tejaswini Niranjana argues that transla-
tion can produce “strategies of containment. By employing certain
modes of representing the other—which it thereby also brings into
being—translation reinforces hegemonic versions of the colonized”
(). Applying this idea to Verdelle’s novel, we might say that De-
 ’ 

nise is initially expected to learn Standardized English because only
through its mastery can she obtain a status as an individual who is
no longer (or at least not entirely) colonized. Translation also ini-
tially entails assimilation to hegemony and hegemonic language.
Denise’s African American teacher, Missus Pearson, tells her that
“learning to speak proper English is absolutely necessary for all
Americans. . . . People come to America thousands at a time, and
they would give an arm to have the opportunity to learn rules of
English grammar and pronunciation, to learn to speak proper En-
glish” (). Denise is here portrayed as an immigrant who must
give up her own language in order to become an empowered citizen
of the new nation.
Missus Pearson also continually refers to Denise’s need to learn
“the king’s English” (). Of course, in the United States there has
never been a king, so what does this phrase mean? If Denise mas-
ters “the king’s English,” will she become a royal subject—part of
the colonizing nation, rather than the colonized? This seems to be
Missus Pearson’s logic. So over and over again, she tells Denise that
her southern dialect is atrocious (), not English (, ), and
just plain “Wrong. Wrong. Wrong” (). Pearson also claims that
Denise’s “separate speech” is “difficult . . . to understand” ()—
conveniently ignoring the fact that members of Denise’s family and
speech community seem to have little problem with it. Mastery of
se also means conformity to a white norm of African American
identity. Missus Pearson tells Denise that “if [she] could learn to
speak English, [she] could become more important” and that “no-
body who sounds dumb will ever be important” (). “Sounding
dumb” and speaking the vernacular are equated. More problematic,
transcending the vernacular is equated with transcending one’s ra-
cial position. Pearson has very speciﬁc ideas about what kind of life
Denise will make for herself, and she disapproves of Denise’s after-
school job at a store, telling her: “You will never get over being col-
ored. You have no business down to that store. . . . They got you
in there cleaning toilets, making you a good little negress” ().
In another context, the psychiatrist Frantz Fanon argues that “the
negro of the Antilles will be proportionately whiter . . . in direct
ratio to his mastery of the French language” (), adding, “In every
country of the world there are climbers, the ones who forget who
 ’  
they are and, in contrast to them, the ones who remember where
they came from” (). Pearson is clearly a “climber” who wants
to forget who she is and who wants to make Denise forget where
she came from (a rural, southern, African American community).
In Pearson’s formulation, ethnic identity (being “colored”) is some-
thing one “gets over” if one wishes to succeed within hegemonic
discourse and culture.
Yet the above passage suggests that Pearson has not transcended
her race (as she would like to believe she has) or the “improper”
speech of her race. “You have no business down to that store” she
states, and Denise notes that “the fault in her English was like a
chasm in the ground” (). When Pearson is upset, the “improper”
speech she thought she had eradicated returns, like a “chasm in
the ground,” along with the improper ethnic self. Another way of
reading this scene is that Denise’s “improper” vernacular discourse
has infected and inﬂected Pearson’s “proper” English. So while the
master discourse attempts to assert control, it ﬁnds that it is con-
trolled and changed by its progressive and continuing struggle with
the “minority” discourse. Unconsciously, Denise may use her im-
proper language to resist the master’s mastery and infect Pearson’s
discourse with unruly vernacular elements.
Consciously, however, Pearson’s ideology holds sway over De-
nise throughout the early sections of the novel, and language be-
comes, in effect, her religion: “Gloria Pearson has given me ten
years’ worth of spelling words—I go from one set to the next, and
I am never idle. I am so grateful that she taught me to try to match
the English language to what I was trying to say. Making a match
between what I wanted to say and what is permitted in English is
the closest thing I had then to religion” (). Collins reminds us
that “standard English is available to many only through a complex
reworking, a struggle, a cultural transformation, a personal disori-
entation and remaking of self” (), and here we can see Denise
struggling to remake her language and transform her ethnic iden-
tity. Denise also begins using se in the same way that Missus Pear-
son uses it: to contain the power of nonhegemonic discourses. For
example, she listens to her friend Josephus (another individual from
the South) and translates his discourse into Standardized English,
thereby losing its meaning: “In my head I repeat after him the way I
 ’ 

repeat after Missus Pearson, and I make the words have beginnings
and endings in my head on account a Josephus don’t say them. So
then I realize that I’m not really paying attention to what Josephus
say” (). The culture of Standardized English, argues Michael Sil-
verstein, is “aggressively hegemonic” (). In making Josephus
sound just like Missus Pearson, Denise dominates his language
with the language of the standard, the language of hegemony.
However, Denise ultimately refuses to be dominated by the lan-
guage of the standard and moves toward a more disruptive concept
of translation. For example, when Pearson tells her that the other
kids are making fun of her southern dialect, Denise thinks to her-
self: “I don’t know why they say southern Negroes don’t know how
to talk. They may not talk North-like but they—we—talk” ().
Denise sees the validity of the vernacular as a form of speech not
accounted for by the standard. She also comes to see the limitations
in Pearson’s way of looking at the world, as the following passage
illuminates:
“Denise, why do the two of you run away every day?”
“We ain’t run away, Missus Pearson,” I say. “We jes runnin.”
She doesn’t correct me, but I hear in my English where I’m
wrong. Not only that but I ain’t said much a nothing. Her
authority and corrections a my English all the time make me
tend not to say what I might say from my head, since I know
she probably won’t let me ﬁnish my thought. She dismisses us,
and I think to myself that her question ain’t answered. Children
just run, where there’s space to, is how I answer her question
in my head. Me and J, we are careful not to run that day. But
this and her later noise about Clara let me know that children
are not what she knows about or really cares enough about to
understand. ()
Initially Denise thinks that she “ain’t said much a nothing,” but she
then realizes that Pearson’s schooling actually means that she can-
not “say what I might say from my head.” Furthermore, Denise can
answer Missus Pearson’s question for herself, and in answering it
she begins to see that Missus Pearson does not really know—or care
about—children. What begins as a statement of her own linguistic
ﬂaws, then, ends as an indictment of the teacher’s ﬂaws and those
 ’  
implicit in this “language of mastery” (). Kenji Hakuta’s research
has demonstrated that bilingual children seem to be superior in
“metalinguistic ability”: the ability to “think ﬂexibly and abstractly
about language” ().22
In the above passage, Denise clearly dem-
onstrates metalinguistic ability by questioning Pearson’s language
and (more important) the social and educational ramiﬁcations of
this language. Denise also notes that “Miss Pearson is very particu-
lar bout whitepeople and they ways” (). Denise comprehends
that Pearson is not only trying to make her speak Standardized
English but also trying to transcode her racial identity so that she
“gets over being colored.” In a very real sense, Denise resists be-
coming the person Pearson wants her to become, an individual like
Jadine in Tar Baby who forgets the black vernacular and the alterna-
tive subject positions it offers.
Between this language of mastery, this language of “being some-
one” that Pearson encourages, and her own “cakky-lakky” dialect
(which is dismissed), Denise eventually ﬁnds a hybrid language
that allows the disempowered discourse—the vernacular—to enter
upon the dominant discourse and renovate it. Bhabha deﬁnes hy-
bridity as “a problematic of colonial representation . . . that reverses
the effects of colonialist disavowal, so that other ‘denied’ knowl-
edges enter upon the dominant discourse and estrange the basis of
its authority” (“Signs” ). Verdelle’s text is structured as a novel-
istic hybrid, containing as it does both the dominant discourse (as
presented by Pearson) and a vernacular one (as presented by Denise
and characters from the South). The novel sets these different dis-
courses against each other to unmask the authority of the domi-
nant discourse. As in Dessa Rose, however, Verdelle’s novel formally
works toward an uneasy, but peaceful, coexistence between “the
king’s English” and the “minority” discourse.
There are three ways in which hybrid languages operate in this
text. First, hybrid languages operate on the lexical level—on the
level of words. We notice quickly that Denise is a creative manipu-
lator of language. For example, Denise describes leaving the break-
fast table in the following vernacular and very creative mode: “I
tore away from the table, my arms heavy like they was wet and
wrung out. They swung very late behind my hurly-burly hurt” (,
emphasis added). Yet just a few sentences later, she switches into
 ’ 

more standardized English: “Disbelief is an emotion, you know.
Like an ocean and its major pulse, it can overtake. It can blind your
eyes and block your ear canals. It can knock you to a depth” ().
This page is certainly an artistic hybrid in terms of how it moves
between dialects, meshing elements of colloquial, oral speech with
written and formalized literary codes. Denise also continually in-
vents words, such as “sliver-wigglers” (), a term she uses to de-
scribe people who come late to church and must slip into the pews
without disturbing anyone. Denise evokes a performative, visual,
poetic language. Her description of her grandmother’s “beetlebug
wig” (), for example, is one many of my students claim they can
actually “see” in their mind’s eye.
Denise also continually introduces oral elements—such as call-
and-response—into the written speech of the book. For example,
she says: “Sometimes God just bring you (clap) exactly what you
need” (). And in a longer description of a sermon, we see this
call-and-response in greater detail: “Sit down and linger with Your
Lord and Savior. He (clap) gave everything for you. Rest your feet,
and talk (clap) with Jesus. . . . Sit down with Your Father, sit down,
with Your Father. Sit (clap), down (clap, clap) in Your Father’s
House” (). We can hear the rhythms and sounds of the minister,
of the African American church, enclosed as they are in claps, in
calls-and-responses, in parentheses that (as my students also point
out) actually look like a pair of clapping hands. Denise also lets us
listen to the songs of the African American church through typo-
graphical keys and cues about their sound: “Eventually the organ
man . . . leads the ﬂock back to the quiet from the heat of the inter-
lude. Hush, now hush. (This is my story, this is my song)” ().
Yet when it suits her narrative purposes, Denise codeswitches
to a language that is grammatical and standardized. In describing
her family’s reaction to their father’s death she employs a mature
and almost lyrical voice. This is a voice Missus Pearson would cer-
tainly be proud of, though it is stamped with Denise’s own imprint:
“We all stood at the graveside where my daddy’s coffin lay. Oh, the
postures of children at the graves of their father! They make small
hooklike outlines—thin bodies, bent heads. They think they are
like soldiers because they give so superhumanly to stand there, but
 ’  
anyone can see their hearts and shoulders ﬂutter, their little wills
shake” (). On the lexical level itself, then, this book constantly
migrates back and forth between vernacular speech forms and more
standardized ones, as well as between inventing languages and ma-
nipulating the language that is already enfranchised. Smitherman
comments that currently an emerging sense of bilingual conscious-
ness is apparent among middle-class African Americans who em-
ploy “a developing level of linguistic experimentation as they incor-
porate the Ebonics ﬂava into dialogue and discourse” (Talkin That
Talk ). Smitherman calls this “a new linguistic form, reﬂecting
a dynamic blend of traditional and innovative language patterns”
(). Denise experiments imaginatively with language, incorporat-
ing aave but also creating a new linguistic form, a hybrid oral-
poetic-vernacular-yet-written translative discourse that is her own.
Second, like Dessa Rose, the novel is hybridized in genre. On the
surface, Verdelle’s novel can be read as a standard literary form—
a bildungsroman detailing a young girl’s growth into maturity.
Yet Verdelle introduces a number of nonstandard elements into this
standard literary genre such as a recipe for making a pie (), letters
(), hymns (), sermons (), poems (), and even Denise’s
sentence-parsing diagram (), which takes up almost a full page
of the text and (quite literally) shows Standardized English being
deconstructed, broken down into its component parts. The book’s
form indicates that the world is made up of multiple kinds of texts
that coexist in something like an uneasy tension. Furthermore, tra-
ditional concepts of a bildungsroman’s temporal sequence are vio-
lated by this novel, which is nonlinear, achronological, and pieced
together out of bits and fragments of memory. In fact, the form of
the book does not mirror a Euro-American concept of time as lin-
ear and straightforward but rather the piecing together of meaning
through storytelling that is more traditional in oral, African, and
African American cultures. Denise comments that memory does a
“circle dance—steadily, deviously, protectively—in the head” (),
and this description is the best we are given of the book’s form and
of why it is structured as it is. Denise also states that she has to lis-
ten “to get the pieces of the story . . . so that if I told the story my-
self, it would be as full as thick soup” (). The genre of the book,
 ’ 

then, dialogizes the standard literary form of the bildungsroman by
introducing the oral and nonlinear structures of memory, storytell-
ing, and even improvisational cooking.
Thus Verdelle’s text is quite literally double-voiced in the sense
that Henry Louis Gates uses this term: Its “literary antecedents are
both white and black novels, but also modes of ﬁguration lifted
from the black vernacular tradition. . . . It speak[s] in standard Ro-
mance or Germanic languages and literary structures, but almost
always speak[s] with a distinct and resonant accent, an accent that
Signiﬁes (upon) the various black vernacular literary traditions”
(xxiii). Verdelle signiﬁes on the form of the bildungsroman, but
she also signiﬁes on the black vernacular tradition—a tradition that
might not acknowledge the importance of a voice such as Missus
Pearson’s. While this book is clearly a speakerly text—a text that
privileges “the representation of the black speaking voice” (Gates
)—it also dialogizes this voice, incorporating other voices into it
so that the ﬁnal voice and form of the novel are heterogeneous and
multivocal.
Finally, hybridity also exists on the level of the main character
and the voice she manifests and achieves as a translator and story-
teller. At times Missus Pearson appears to be Denise’s role model,
her “voice.” Yet Denise has a stronger role model/voice in her ma-
ternal grandmother, who lives in the South and teaches her a pow-
erful kind of critical literacy. Denise’s grandmother tells her the
story of her own grandmother, a woman called Gibraltar Jones who
emphasized learning to “watch and remember . . . to witness” ().
Gibraltar was a respected griot and was also apparently gifted with
foresight. She has certainly not mastered written Standardized En-
glish, but she is still empowered. Through the story of Gibraltar,
Denise learns a lesson about the value of other kinds of critical lit-
eracy. Denise also describes her grandmother’s folk, vernacular in-
structions as “the bedrock” that is “under her skin” and as powerful
“lectures” () that propel her:
Learn verses from the Bible and say them over meals. Sweep the
house from front to back every other day, and sweep the room from
ceiling to floor if you walk through a web. Wash all windows and
walls in spring. Honor your grandmother and respect your elders,
 ’  
period. Go to sleep giving thanks to the Lord. Rise with
humility, anticipating service. Do your schoolwork, read when
asked—letters, news, instructions that came with packages.
Be a good child, be a good daughter, never lie or steal. Come
home before dark, don’t track dirt in the house. And always,
always close the gate. ()
These lectures and the story of Gibraltar are contrasted in this book
with the more formal “lectures” of Missus Pearson, and all these
voices become components in the identity and voice Denise even-
tually articulates, the translative discourse she eventually employs.
But in the end, Verdelle indicates that neither the grandmother
nor Missus Pearson is sufficient as a role model. Missus Pearson,
for example, tolerates prejudice against darker-skinned African
Americans (), while the grandmother sometimes imitates whites
and sees them as superior to most African Americans (). So De-
nise must dialogize and hybridize these role models to produce a
new mode of voice and practice of translation. Denise ﬁnally real-
izes that she possesses a composite identity created from the world
around her, but also from her own imagination: “There was a big
window at the end of the school hallway. It was tall and wide. It
was big enough for me to stand in. I ran down the hall toward the
pale gray of that window light, my feet clap clapping on the dark
and polished wood. I thought it was school that had made me, but
it wasn’t. It wasn’t Miss Gloria Pearson either. It wasn’t Margaret
[her mother] with all of her controls. I was made by the insistence
that I cut the teetering pumpkin. Just by that sliver of window
in the wide building of the days” (–). Denise is made by the
power of memory to preserve images from the past (“the teeter-
ing pumpkin”) and create new images for the future (the “sliver
of window in the wide building of the days”). But to create a “win-
dow” tall enough to stand in, an identity that expresses rather than
compresses self, she must exercise her own imaginative powers. She
must “make” herself by moving beyond the identities and voices
that surround her.
Since the novel is told after Denise has “mastered” standardized,
written English and gone on to study at the Hampton Institute to
become a teacher (, ), Denise could presumably have chosen
 ’ 

to speak, narrate, or write it in se. Or as a form of resistance to the
language of the standard, to Missus Pearson, and to getting “over”
being “colored,” she could have employed aave. But what Verdelle
shows Denise doing is combining and hybridizing languages, se
and aave, as well as the oral and the written. The use of oral, ver-
nacular forms within Denise’s written text reﬂects, then, not vesti-
gial “imperfections” but an accomplished literary-linguistic style.
Furthermore, this is a deliberate choice Denise makes and a delib-
erate construction of her identity. As Donald Rubin claims, “rhe-
torical choices help writers construct the social identities they wish
to project in given writing episodes. . . . Written language reflects
and conveys a writer’s social identity, but it also constructs or instan-
tiates it” (). Verdelle depicts Denise meshing languages to produce
a new mode of language that mirrors, even as it creates, her new
version of selfhood, of a transcoded ethnic identity as an African
American.
In the fertile and cross-pollinated space of translation, Denise
formulates a mode of language that allows her to transmigrate the
vernacular and renovate Standardized English. This new mode of
language is not the language of the “nation,” but it is one that can
be understood clearly—a poetic and oral language: “I have to take
my mind to think on something soothing. Even as I stumble up the
road. I recall myself learning. I remember when that sky opened
up. . . . I reach to where the freedom is” (). Denise has not elimi-
nated all aspects of southern dialect, as the ﬁrst sentence illustrates.
But she has also mastered—and moved beyond—the king’s En-
glish: “I remember when that sky opened up. I feel the new sen-
sation of lightness over my head. I explore this endlessness that
seems to be a part of the whole thing” (). Denise has shaped a
new mode of language, yet she has also demarcated a new identity
for herself. She will not be a “good negress” continually swabbing
toilets, nor will she “get over” being “colored,” being Southern and
African American. Language, as Ludwig Wittgenstein has said,
is a “form of life” (). Denise eventually ﬁnds a language not of
mastery or assimilation to the dominant norm but one that inter-
meshes discourses in order to adapt and remake them. Translation
is a trope for the way a monologic view of language or identity can
be transcended by a hybrid and syncretic language. But transla-
 ’  
tion also produces an identity or a voice or even a work of art that
represents something entirely new. Like Denise’s window of light,
translation allows us to see the selves and voices we are made up of,
as well as to move beyond them into the wide building of the days,
into voices and identities that are uniquely our own.
   throughout this chapter that a translation per-
spective makes visible the innovative ways that African American
writers manipulate the multiple discourses present in the world, en-
abling us to see the creation of new languages. In an essay on code-
switching in Dakar, linguist Leigh Swigart makes a similar point,
in a different context. She describes “a ﬂuid and unmarked switch-
ing between Wolof and French” () that she calls “Urban Wolof.”
Swigart argues that this is a new language with distinct purposes
and uses and a particular and powerful social status. She also con-
tends that this language must be taken seriously by linguists and
the dominant society.
The idea of the “seriousness” of hybrid discourses returns me
to the Ebonics debate in the United States with which I began this
chapter. The media reduced this controversy to a binary choice:
either students are taught Ebonics or Standardized English; either
they are prepared for life by mastery of the dominant discourse or
left in illiteracy and poverty. But such writers as Morrison, Senna,
Williams, and Verdelle teach us that Standardized English is just
one code, among many, that African American individuals must
speak and master. Furthermore, Standardized English is not sepa-
rate from African American Vernacular English—they are both
contained within our discursive system, within this thing we call
“English.” The works discussed in this chapter also illustrate that
when diverse languages intersect and commingle, the language of
both the “minority” and the “majority” may undergo signiﬁcant
transformation. “This is the oppressor’s language / yet I need it to
talk to you,” bell hooks entitles one of her essays.23
But is English
the oppressor’s language, after all? Just who has mastered whom,
and at what cost? For all these writers, English is a multilingual
space of both contestation and copresence—a space in which aave
and se mingle, translate, and, perhaps ﬁnally, re-create each other.
The Reader as Translator
Interlingual Voice in the Writing
of Richard Rodriguez, Nash Candelaria,
Cherríe Moraga, and Abelardo Delgado
Chicanos do not function as constantly choice-making speakers;
their language is a blend, a synthesis of the two into a third.
Thus they are interlingual, not bilingual. The codes are not separate,
but intrinsically fused.—Juan Bruce-Novoa, Chicano Authors
   of this book, I have examined writers
who employ the trope of translation to transcode cultural and eth-
nic identity and characters who move toward new formulations of
voice that transmigrate languages and transcend binary conceptu-
alizations of the relationship between the ethnic and the American.
Chicano/a (Mexican American) literature, on the other hand, en-
gages in a more radical translational enterprise because it asks, and
at times even forces, not only the character or writer but also the
reader to assume a primary role in these processes of translation.1
In the other texts discussed, of course, a reader sometimes encoun-
ters “foreign” words that she or he must decipher. Many Chicano/a

    
works, however, contain sentences, paragraphs, and even entire
sections written in Mexican Spanish; quite literally, then, a non-
Spanish-speaking reader must become a translator if she or he hopes
to gain meaningful access to these texts.2
Moreover, while a writer
such as Maxine Hong Kingston tells her readers at the end of The
Woman Warrior that the story of Ts’ai Yen “translated well” because
she has done much of the work of translation and even re-creation
for us, Chicano/a writers ask the reader to do more of the arduous
metaphorical work of translation: to struggle not only with words
we do not know but also with textual dilemmas of social and cul-
tural identity that are sometimes left purposefully unresolved.
Yet these writers do not indicate that the readers, or the char-
acters themselves, must understand only Spanish to become adept
at this translational enterprise. Finally, both readers and characters
are asked to move toward an interlingual voice. According to Juan
Bruce-Novoa, interlingualism is the mixing of two languages so
that they “are put into a state of tension which produces a third, an
‘inter’ possibility of languages” (“Dialogical Strategies”  n. ).
For Bruce-Novoa, bilingualism implies moving from one language
code to another, while interlingualism implies the constant tension
of two (or more) languages at once. I will illustrate that in Richard
Rodriguez’s autobiographical trilogy—Hunger of Memory (),
Days of Obligation (), and Brown ()—and in Nash Can-
delaria’s Memories of the Alhambra (), interlingualism is cre-
ated primarily through the linguistic matrix of English. In Cher-
ríe Moraga’s Loving in the War Years () and Abelardo Delgado’s
Letters to Louise (), on the other hand, both Spanish and En-
glish are used to create an interlingual discourse that moves toward
a new mode of voice and a renovated sense of ethnicity.
I will also argue something that critics such as Bruce-Novoa and
others have not: that interlingualism is created speciﬁcally within,
and by, a discourse of translation.3
One reason these writers turn
to the trope of translation is because of the long and complicated
history of the relationship between English, Spanish, and indig-
enous languages and cultures in Spain, the United States, and Mex-
ico. Mexican Spanish speakers in the United States (as discussed
in the next chapter) have remained a somewhat stable bilingual
community; Chicano/a authors could therefore use an ethnic lan-
   

guage (Spanish) and still have a readership. Indeed, many of the
foundational texts by Chicano/a writers have strong bilingual and
Spanish-language roots.4
Nevertheless, for many of these writers
Spanish is not a pure, untainted mother tongue; in fact, it was
brought to Mexico by Spanish conquerors and eventually used to
displace indigenous languages and peoples. Thus, as Oscar Zeta
Acosta phrases this in The Autobiography of a Brown Buffalo (),
“My father is an Indian from the mountains of Durango. Although
I cannot speak his language . . . you see, Spanish is the language
of our conquerors. English is the language of our conquerors.” But
then Acosta states, “Now what we need is . . . a name and a lan-
guage all our own” ().
I contend that one way to produce this new language is through
translation and linguistic fusion, rather than simply choosing one
language over another or codeswitching between them.5
Even writ-
ers who seem to be somewhat uninterested in presenting Spanish
in their texts employ the trope of translation and create interlin-
gual texts that translate Mexican Spanish into English and English
into Mexican Spanish. Rodriguez uses English oppositionally, dia-
logizing it so that its faults, as well as its fault lines, are uncovered.
Candelaria uses English but suggests that Mexican Spanish must
be brought back into the linguistic matrix. Moraga codeswitches
and fuses languages, indicating that her “mother tongue” is a syn-
cretic blend of Spanish and English that exceeds the languages of
which it is comprised. And Delgado produces a new tongue that
is more than the sum of the parts—a mestizaje discourse in which
terms are neither Spanish nor English but both, simultaneously. In
the texts, both English and Spanish are transmigrated through the
trope of translation. All these works also insistently employ transla-
tion practices and metaphors to draw both Spanish-speaking and
non-Spanish-speaking readers into an interlingual zone of meaning
where languages can be fused, syncretized, and re-created.6
Finally,
these texts insist that we become writerly translators within their
interlingual zones of meanings so that we can write our way to a
future in which multilingualism and linguistic diversity are the val-
ued norm rather than the abrogated exception.7
    
English as the Matrix of Interlingualism: Translation Struggles
in the Writing of Richard Rodriguez and Nash Candelaria
In an essay on Chicano/a prose style, Willard Gingerich asks, “How
does one represent honestly, authentically, and fully a Spanish or
bilingual experience only in the alien language of the dominant so-
cial and economic class? What compromises are inevitable and what
stylistic strategies can be employed to minimize or outwit those com-
promises? How does one manipulate the matrix language (English)
to express the experience of the core language (Spanish) especially
considering that the latter is itself often a dialect (caló, ‘border’
Spanish, regional dialect, etc.) deeply buried within the matrices
of Mexican and Castilian Spanish?” (, emphasis added). As dis-
cussed in Chapter , a character such as Betonie in Leslie Marmon
Silko’s Ceremony uses English in such a way that it does express
Native American values and ideals. Do writers such as Candelaria
and Rodriguez illustrate that the matrix of the English language
can be dialogized, can be undermined and subverted by an opposi-
tional voice that uses hegemonic discourse against itself and trans-
migrates Spanish values into the English language? And what role
does translation play in this process?
Rodriguez has been attacked as the minority spokesperson for
conservative political interests in the United States (Flores , Sal-
dívar ), and many literary critics have commented negatively on
his stance toward language and identity, his writing style, his views
on Americanization, and his attitude toward his community.8
The
persona he presents in his writing certainly seems at times to be an
individual who, like Jadine in Tar Baby, turns away from the alter-
native language and the possibilities of nonhegemonic subjectivity
it might offer.9
Yet in both Hunger of Memory and Days of Obliga-
tion there is a subtext that constantly subverts this hegemonic mes-
sage from within its own ideological and lexical boundaries, and in
his recent work, Brown, this subtext is foregrounded as Rodriguez
accepts American English’s multilingualism. In fact, in all three
works Rodriguez uses English oppositionally so that it is dialog-
ized. Mikhail Bakhtin comments in The Dialogic Imagination that
“a word, discourse, language or culture undergoes ‘dialogization’
   

when it becomes relativized, de-privileged, aware of competing deﬁ-
nitions for the same things. Undialogized language is authorita-
tive or absolute” (). English, as it is written by Rodriguez, is
not authoritative or absolute. Indeed, in Brown he asserts that there
is power in language that “forms at the border of contradiction,”
in language that has the ability to “express two or several things at
once” (xi). Rodriguez’s works dialogize English by incorporating
aspects of a “minority” language and voice.
Rodriguez is also not the complacent, colonized subject.10
Alfred
Arteaga remarks that “autocolonialism, in the extreme, requires the
other’s adoption of the hegemonic discourse. . . . The other as-
similates both discourse and the relationships it systematizes, so
to the degree the discourse suppresses, the autocolonist effaces or
denigrates him/herself from within. In the endeavor to mimic the
monologue of power, the other harmonizes with it and suppresses
difference” (, emphasis added). In his dominant text, Rodriguez
attempts to suppress difference, but in his subtext he continually
reasserts and reinstates difference. He describes himself not as an
autocolonized subject but as a Caliban ﬁgure who has “stolen their
books” and now “will have some run of this isle” (Hunger ). Rod-
riguez’s ﬁrst two works, in particular, contain a dialogue between
a complacent, colonial, English-speaking, assimilated subjectivity
and a postcolonial, unruly, and multilingual one.
Turning, then, to Rodriguez’s ﬁrst two works, it is apparent that
the dominant text does attempt to assimilate discourse (English)
and the relationship it systematizes (power over an ethnic “other”).
In particular, Rodriguez emphasizes that Spanish is a disempow-
ered, private dialect that must be abandoned in order to formulate
an empowered, public, “American” voice; furthermore, ethnicity is
not transcoded but discarded as one becomes “American.” He dis-
cusses this many times in Hunger of Memory and Days of Obliga-
tion, so here I will simply give two examples:
The social and political advantages I enjoyed as a man result
from the day I came to believe that my name, indeed, is Ric-
heard Road-ree-guess. . . . I celebrate the day I acquired my new
name. (Hunger )
    
Women, usually women, stood in front of rooms crowded
with the children of immigrants, teaching those children a
common language. For language is not just another classroom
skill, as today’s bilingualists would have it. Language is the
lesson of grammar school. And from the schoolmarm’s achieve-
ment came the possibility of a shared history and a shared fu-
ture. To my mind, this achievement of the nineteenth-century
classroom was an honorable one, comparable to the opening of
the plains, the building of bridges. Grammar-school teachers
forged a nation. (Days )
In these passages Rodriguez accepts English, but he also accepts its
ideology, one in which to be named in English is to attain subjec-
tivity, one in which the genocide of millions of indigenous people
can be euphemized as “the opening of the plains.” The common
language of the United States, Rodriguez appears to believe, must
be English, taught in the classroom, where it displaces Spanish and
all other languages in order to create “culture” (Days ). And like
Missus Pearson in The Good Negress (discussed in Chapter ), Rod-
riguez articulates the idea that speaking English, being an Ameri-
can citizen, and “getting over” one’s race are fundamentally and in-
herently interconnected.
Mexican Spanish, on the other hand, represents the language of
ethnicity, the family, and the home. The sounds of Spanish mean his
parents are recognizing him as “someone special, close, like no one out-
side. You belong with us. In the family. (Ricardo)” (Hunger ). When
Rodriguez and his family speak Spanish, they can play with lan-
guage: “Excited, we joined our voices in a celebration of sounds. . . .
Some nights, no one seemed willing to loosen the hold sounds had
on us. . . . We pieced together new words by taking, say, an English
verb and giving it Spanish endings. . . . Tongues explored the edges
of words, especially the fat vowels. And we happily sounded that
military drum roll, the twirling roar of the Spanish r. . . . Voices
singing and singing, rising, straining, surging, teeming with plea-
sure that burst syllables into fragments of laughter” (Hunger ).
This is one of the few truly joyful passages in Rodriguez’s ﬁrst two
works, and Spanish clearly represents an Edenic realm of familial
   

bonding and pleasurable linguistic and social interaction. The fam-
ily also exercises a power over English here (“We pieced together
new words by taking, say, an English verb and giving it Spanish
endings”) similar to the fantasy of power over English present in
Sherman Alexie’s Indian Killer when John Smith dreams of his life
on the reservation. Yet, like John Smith’s, this fantasy of power over
English is only an illusion. As soon as Rodriguez and his brothers
and sisters master English, they appear to assimilate to the oppres-
sive and colonialist logic with which it is so often imbued.
Further, as Rodriguez becomes an “American citizen” and mas-
ters English (while simultaneously losing his Spanish), the special
feeling of closeness he had with his family diminishes. Worse yet,
a new quiet grows in his home: “The family’s quiet was partly due
to the fact that, as we children learned more and more English, we
shared fewer and fewer words with our parents. Sentences needed
to be spoken slowly when a child addressed his mother or father.
. . . The young voice, frustrated, would end up saying, ‘Never mind’
—the subject was closed” (Hunger ). Yet, as Rodriguez later com-
ments, this is more than a “literal silence” (Hunger ). In becom-
ing “American” the child has left behind the Mexican parent and
the possibility of transcoding ethnicity, of formulating a Mexican
American identity. He or she has also left behind the possibility
of bilingualism, of maintaining both languages, or of interlingual-
ism (preserving a tension between languages). Rodriguez forgets
his Spanish, or rather, he becomes unable to speak it: “I’d know the
words I wanted to say, but I couldn’t manage to say them” (Hun-
ger ). In accepting his subjectivity as an assimilated, English-
speaking American, then, he appears to lose his ability to translate
between English and Spanish.
Yet is the ability to translate Mexican Spanish lost? In fact, the
subtextual themes of the ﬁrst two books articulate another strategy
of identity and voice. In Days of Obligation, Rodriguez meditates
on Cortés, Mexico, and the indigenous population, making the fol-
lowing comment: “Postcolonial Europe expresses pity or guilt be-
hind its sleeve, pities the Indian the loss of her gods or her tongue.
But let the Indian speak for herself. Spanish is now an Indian lan-
guage. . . . In something like the way New York won English from
London after World War I, Mexico City has captured Spanish. . . .
    
I take it as an Indian achievement that I am alive, that I am Catho-
lic, that I speak English, that I am American” (Days –). This
passage suggests that both the Mexican and the Indian ingest the
language of the colonizer not to be overtaken by it but to over-
take or assimilate it to his or her own subjectivity and ideology. In
Mexico City, Rodriguez learns that Europe has been lying when it
claims to have conquered the indigenous “other”: “Europe’s lie. . . .
Each face looks like mine. . . . Where, then, is the famous conquis-
tador? We have eaten him, the crowd tells me, we have eaten him
with our eyes” (Days ).11
Ingesting the conqueror and his language
and then using it in one’s own way, for one’s own ends and goals, is
a strategy that resists assimilation. Like Francisco in House Made of
Dawn (discussed in Chapter ), Rodriguez expresses the idea that
one takes in the oppressor’s language yet keeps one’s own soul/
persona/culture.12
This passage suggests that the ideology of the
ethnic culture can be transmigrated into the English language and
into an American subjectivity.
If we look more closely at how Rodriguez translates in these two
books, then, we can see traces of this subversive transmigration.
In Days of Obligation, when his Mexican driver asks (in English)
whether he speaks Spanish, he does not respond (). His goes
to Mexico to make a ﬁlm for the bbc in which he will be a “pre-
senter,” not a translator. He does not want to take on the role of the
“Indian guide, a translator—willing or not—[who] facilitates[s]”
conquest—the role of someone like Marina/La Malinche, Cortés’s
Aztec mistress who aided in the conquest of Mexico (Days ).13
In
both works he comments that people tell him how bad his Spanish
is: “Pocho then they called me. . . . (A Spanish dictionary deﬁnes
that word as an adjective meaning ‘colorless’ or ‘bland.’ But I heard
it as a noun, naming the Mexican American who, in becoming an
American, forgets his native society)” (Hunger ); “The Mexican
American who forgets his true mother is pocho, a person of no ad-
dress, a child of no proper idiom” (Days ). On the surface, pas-
sages such as these indicate that Rodriguez cannot translate, that
he cannot ﬁnd the words (in Spanish or in English) to express his
consciousness as a Mexican American. Yet the fact that he has here
provided excellent, writerly, thoughtful translations of the word
“pocho” should alert us that perhaps he is protesting too much.
   

Rodriguez can translate, but he retains control over his translations
by insisting that they do not function as translations often function
—to facilitate the oppressor’s conquest of a nation or a tongue. He
translates, then, by seeming not to translate.
Another, more intimate example of this translation-by-not-
translating is present in Hunger of Memory, when Rodriguez’s
grandmother scolds him for playing with a “gringo” friend. When
the friend wants to know what his grandmother says, he does
not explain: “I started to tell him, to say—to translate her Span-
ish words into English. The problem was, however, that though I
knew how to translate exactly what she had told me, I realized that
any translation would distort the deepest meaning of her message:
It had been directed only to me. The message of intimacy could
never be translated because it was not in the words she had used but
passed through them. So any translation would have seemed wrong;
her words would have been stripped of an essential meaning” ().
The grandmother’s words are protective, a warning against the An-
glo boy, a drawing close of Richard (Ricardo) in her own proper
idiom. But how do we, the readers, know this? Rodriguez has not
translated his grandmother’s words in a literal, readerly way to his
friend, but he has translated them in a writerly, contextual way
for the attentive reader. So we do understand the message of inti-
macy that passes “through” the Spanish words and into the reader’s
consciousness.
Two other examples of Rodriguez’s writerly translations display
his oppositional use of English. Both are from Days of Obligation,
suggesting that Rodriguez has more fully developed his translation
methodologies by the time he writes this second book. On the level
of national politics, Rodriguez provides a translation/meditation
on the meaning of the border in which the word undergoes dia-
logization (in Bakhtin’s terms) because it becomes relativized, de-
privileged, and aware of competing deﬁnitions for the same things.
In San Diego, Rodriguez states, “people speak of ‘the border’ as
meaning a clean break, the end of us, the beginning of them” ().
Yet “in Mexican Spanish, the legality takes on distance, even pa-
thos, as la frontera, meaning something less ﬁxed, something more
akin to the American ‘frontier’” (–). La frontera is not a ﬁrm
break but a new realm of cultural and linguistic mixing. As Glo-
    
ria Anzaldúa comments, “The U.S.-Mexican border es una herida
abierta [is an open wound] where the Third World grates against
the ﬁrst and bleeds. And before a scab forms it hemorrhages again,
the lifeblood of two worlds merging to form a third country—a
border culture” (). Which concept does Rodriguez endorse: the
border as ﬁrm division, or the border as new, miscegenated fron-
tier? Rodriguez actually chooses both, infecting the English con-
cept of the border with the Mexican Spanish meaning of frontera
and the Mexican meaning of frontera with the American idea of
border. As he says, “The border is real enough; it is guarded by
men with guns,” but Mexicans “incline to view the border without
reverence, referring to the American side as el otro cachete, the other
buttock” (Days ). Finally, the meaning is neither purely Span-
ish nor purely American but both, and also more than both—
Rodriguez has formulated a new concept of the border that tran-
scends the sum of its parts, the two discourses of which it is com-
prised. In short, he has transmigrated the meaning of both terms.
As he says elsewhere, “The border is a revolving door” (Days ).
Rodriguez’s writerly translation of this term is not meant to clarify
or resolve its meaning but to create a dialogue between its multi-
ple and sometimes contradictory aspects. The differences between
Mexico and the United States and their politics and languages in-
tersect in this term (border/la frontera) but then are left in tension
with each other in the new, syncretic construction that Rodriguez
creates.
Similarly, on a more personal level, when Rodriguez translates
the different versions of “you” in Spanish—tú versus usted—into
English his goal is not so much resolution between his Anglo and
Mexican cultural inheritances but “irresolution, since both sides
can claim wisdom” (Days xvii–xviii). As in many romance lan-
guages, in Spanish there are two forms of the pronoun “you.” “Tú,”
as Rodriguez explains, is “the intimate voice—the familiar room in
a world full of rooms. Tú is the condition, not so much of know-
ing, as of being known; of being recognized” (Days ). Usted, on
the other hand, is “the formal, the bloodless, the ornamental you
. . . spoken to the eyes of strangers. . . . Usted shows deference to
propriety, to authority, to history. . . . Usted is the language outside
Eden” (Days ). This distinction between an Edenic, close, fam-
   

ily language (what we might call the tú world) and one of alien-
ation and formality (the usted world) may sound familiar; indeed,
in Hunger of Memory this is the exact differentiation made between
Spanish (the world of the family and closeness) and English (the
world of public yet isolated individuality). What was a difference
between languages has, in Barbara Johnson’s terms, become a dif-
ference within languages (Critical Difference ). For English too
contains the possibility of intimacy, of closeness, as Rodriguez else-
where asserts: “I began to distinguish intimate voices speaking
through English. . . . I began to trust hearing intimacy conveyed
through my family’s English” (Hunger ). Either language can be-
come a realm of both usted and tú.
But Rodriguez chooses to use English to express a possible rec-
onciliation between the Edenic language world and the world out-
side the garden: “If one could learn public English while yet re-
taining family Spanish, usted might be reunited with tú, the future
might be reconciled with the past” (Days ). Tantalizingly, Rod-
riguez appears to suggest that in the United States it might be pos-
sible to reach a compromise between tú and usted, the language
of the private and the public, of the ethnic and the American, of
the self and the “other.” Yet such a reconciliation is not reached in
this work, and he is left with irresolution: “I end up arguing about
bilingualism with other Mexican Americans. . . . I play the heavy,
which is to say I play America” (Days ).
This does not mean that Mexican Spanish disappears in Days of
Obligation but rather that English becomes miscegenated, “besot-
ted” (in Rodriguez’s own terms [Days ]) with specks, linguistic
ﬂecks, of the “other.” Mexicans have forced Anglo-Americans to
use their language, “to speak Spanish whenever they want their
eggs fried or their roses pruned” (). By force of numbers, Rodri-
guez also tells us, “Mexicans have taken over grammar-school class-
rooms” (). Thus the Southwest is now “besotted with the culture
of tú ” (). The tú, Mexican Spanish–speaking world is no longer
a product or export of Mexico—it has become part of the United
States. We have seen the “other,” and it is U.S. (US).
Mexican Spanish also keeps returning to Rodriguez as an entity
that he would reject yet cannot completely deny. Perhaps this is why
he begins Days of Obligation with a graphic image of his persona
    
vomiting out the Spanish he has ingested: “I am on my knees, my
mouth over the mouth of the toilet, waiting to heave. It comes up
with a bark. All the badly pronounced Spanish words I have forced
myself to sound during the day, bits and pieces of Mexico spew
from my mouth, warm, half-understood, nostalgic reds and greens
dangle from long strands of saliva. I am crying from my mouth in
Mexico City” (xv). Although Rosaura Sánchez claims that Rodri-
guez here attempts to “expurgate the Spanish texts that he had been
force-fed during his stay in Mexico” (), the image is more com-
plicated. Indeed, he has not been “force-fed” the language but has
fed it to himself: “All the badly pronounced Spanish words I have
forced myself to sound.” This suggests that Rodriguez still wants
the language—he is crying both for and from the mother tongue,
Spanish. Yet in this book he cannot keep the language down—it
constantly rises in his throat, threatening to choke off his American
English.
Finally, then, the linguistic/social identity he shapes for himself
through translation in these ﬁrst two works must be read as neither
Mexican nor American but an uneasy dialectic between both.14
In
Hunger of Memory Rodriguez claims he is American (), but in Days
of Obligation he sees the world with “Mexican Eyes” (). When
these two works are read in coordination, as mediations on each
other, he becomes Mexican American. Yet in becoming Mexican
American he does not lose the distinctive and disjunctive aspects of
either his identity or the two seemingly oppositional cultures and
languages from which he derives. Instead, he opts for a constantly
shifting argument between self and “other,” and for a hunger of loss
and memory that refuses to disappear into the English he has mar-
shaled to suggest his assimilation.
In the last work in this trilogy, Brown, Rodriguez’s contradic-
tions have not disappeared, but he does narrate a compromise be-
tween Mexican Spanish and American English in which he accepts
his role as a multilingual subject and translator. The book’s title is a
meditation on race and the meaning of his “brownness,” yet he notes
that brown “is not a singular color . . . but a color produced by care-
less desire, even by accident; by two or several [races].” Brown, he
tells us, “bleeds through the straight line, unstaunchable—the line
separating black from white, for example. Brown confuses.” Brown
   

undoes binary oppositions between self and “other,” colonizer and
colonized, the subject and the object. What does it mean then, he
wonders, to “write brownly” (xi)? A brown voice will undermine
the separation between the ethnic tongue and the assimilated dis-
course. Furthermore, this brown voice will exist within the inter-
lingual, miscegenated terrain that is American English itself.
In his earlier two works, Rodriguez often separates the ethnic
tongue (Spanish) from the “American” one (English), but in Brown
Rodriguez accepts that this separation is an illusion. African Ameri-
cans, he notes, “took the paper-white English and remade it,” just
as the Irish and the Welsh took English and “wadded it up, rigma-
rolled it, rewound it into a llareggub rap, making English theirs”
(). A brown voice must take note of this ethnicization of English
—and also be aware that the assumption of public English, a public
voice/persona as an “American” writer, does not necessarily entail
denial of the ethnic tongue. Rodriguez cannot imagine himself as a
writer “without the example of African slaves stealing the English
language, learning to read against the law, then transforming the
English language into the American tongue, transforming me, res-
cuing me” (Brown ). His public persona as a speaker and writer is
not only indebted to the nuns described in Hunger of Memory who
force him to learn English but also to African and African Amer-
ican writers who help him conceptualize how the ethnic tongue
(in this case, Spanish) could be remade speciﬁcally from within the
parameters of English itself.
Thus by the time Rodriguez writes the third work, American
English is not “pure.” It is also not a “common language” that
displaces all the other tongues and cultures it comes into contact
with, as it was at times in Days of Obligation. Rather, English itself
is multilingual, as Rodriguez comments in a stunning metaphor
about the American tongue:
Americans do not speak “English.” Even before our rebellion
against England, our tongue tasted of Indian—succotash, suc-
cotash, we love to say it; Mississippi, we love to spell. We speak
American. Our tongue is not something slow and mucous that
plods like an oyster through its bed in the sea, afearing of taint
or blister. Our tongue sticks out; it is a dog’s tongue, an organ
    
of curiosity and science. . . . Our lewd tongue partook of every-
thing that washed over it; everything that it washed—even a
disreputable history. (Brown –)
American English is a radically miscegenated “dog’s tongue” changed
by its interaction with other languages and dialects. It stands be-
tween worlds and is constantly remade by an interaction between
languages, between tongues. It cannot and should not be kept
pure: “Those Americans who would build a fence around Ameri-
can English to forestall the Trojan burrito would turn American
into a frightened tongue, a shrinking little oyster tongue, as French
has lately become.” English itself is omnivorous and so is always
inﬂected and infected with the “other,” with the voices of many.
Furthermore, the country, like its language, is bilingual or even tri-
lingual and has learned to “communicate in at least two voices . . .
three in Eurasian San Francisco” (), where Spanish, English, and
Chinese are spoken. The United States is, then, multilingual both
within its “official” language (American English, the omnivorous
“dog’s tongue”) and within its semiofficial communications: “Press
ONE if you wish to continue in English” ().
In Brown, Rodriguez’s conceptualization of English has clearly
changed; he now understands it to be a curious, miscegenated,
transmigrated, multilingual discourse that coexists with other mul-
tilingual and transmigrated discourses in the United States. Trans-
lation between languages is not, then, such a heavily inﬂected issue
for Rodriguez, although he does occasionally take it up as a sub-
ject. For example, he comments that the word “culture” in Ameri-
can English “means exactly the opposite of the Spanish word”
(). Culture, in American English, “pivots on a belief in the in-
dividual freedom to choose, to become a person different from her
past” (). In Spanish, however, culture means something more
like blood. Culture unites rather than separates people: “Culture
in Latin American Spanish is fated. Culture in American English
yields to idiosyncrasy” (). As in his earlier works, Rodriguez
translates these terms in oppositional and contradictory ways but
then refuses to shape a resolution between these divergent transla-
tions. In all three works, then, translation is an oppositional meth-
odology for dialogizing English.
   

Yet by the time he writes the third book, Rodriguez has resolved
some of the questions he raised in the earlier books about transla-
tion and his own mode of voice, as well as about his linguistic and
cultural inheritance. In Hunger of Memory Rodriguez attempts to
be purely “American” and to speak an untainted English that cuts
him off from his Spanish tongue and the realm of the home and
family. In Days of Obligation he narrates an uneasy dialectic be-
tween English and Spanish, most clearly alluded to in the many
metaphors of the ingestion and vomiting out of both Spanish and
English. Finally, in Brown he resolves this dialectic by suggesting
that there are many ways to translate and to speak “brownly.” Cer-
tainly one of these ways is by using, yet also refashioning, English,
so that English becomes interlingual, miscegenated, brown, and in-
ﬂected by Mexican Spanish, by ethnicity itself.
  , Nash Candelaria uses English as the
primary instrument of translation and interlingualism, as his pri-
mary linguistic matrix. But unlike Rodriguez he validates—both
textually and through his characters—the ability to speak the par-
ent tongue. Candelaria’s text also contains more words and conver-
sation in Mexican Spanish, and the non-Spanish-speaking reader is
therefore brought more directly into the struggle to translate and
to be interlingual. In many works discussed in this book so far, the
translation struggle was manifested thorough discursive and lin-
guistic conﬂicts between a mother and a daughter, and in many
texts women carried the heaviest burdens as translators. Interest-
ingly, then, in Candelaria’s novel the translation struggle is split
between two men—a father and his son; the father maintains the
ethnic tongue but lacks a viable sense of ethnic identity, while the
son eventually transcodes his ethnicity as a Chicano but must ﬁnd
the language to translate and articulate this knowledge. I will ar-
gue, then, that the father’s problem of ethnic deﬁnition is played
out through the son’s struggle for linguistic identity and that only
literal and metaphorical acts of translation can enable growth and
survival of the ethnic culture.
Memories of the Alhambra tells the story of Jose Rafa and his son,
Joe. (No Spanish-language accent marks and punctuation are used
    
in Candelaria’s novel.) Jose, the father, speaks Spanish ﬂuently and
is able, on a literal level, to translate between Spanish and English
(, ). Yet on a cultural and metaphorical level he is unable to
translate—to transcode his Spanish, Mexican, and American heri-
tages and formulate a viable sense of ethnic identity and a transmi-
grated voice. Jose constantly struggles, instead, to deﬁne himself
as ethnically “pure.” “I’m glad I’m not a Mexican” (), he com-
ments to his wife after a roundup of illegal Mexican immigrants.
He repeats the phrase many times throughout the novel: “‘No soy
Mejicano [I am not Mexican]’” (, ). Since the Rafa family
originally came from Spain and has been living in Albuquerque,
New Mexico, for over three hundred years, Jose considers himself
Spanish or American but not Mexican or Indian. He eventually
embarks on a long voyage to Mexico and then to Spain to “prove”
his racial purity. However, in Spain he discovers that Spaniards do
not look like him (“dark complexioned”) but like Anglos ().
Later he has a dream in which he takes the role of Don Quixote,
ridding the countryside of “Indian dogs” (), only to realize that
the people he murders have his family’s faces and his own. Un-
consciously, then, Jose recognizes that he cannot separate himself
from the Indian and the Mexican. In another dream he is told by
a Spanish man, “You have the chance in the New World to bring
them together—Spanish, Indian, Anglo” (), yet when he awak-
ens, he insists: “I am Spanish. A son of conquistadors. Maybe we
can get together with the Anglos, but with the Indian dogs—never”
(). Consciously, he still tries to claim a “pure” identity and aban-
don the taint of Mexican or Indian ethnicity.
Such a claim is difficult, of course, given the actual history of
conquest, invasion, and miscegenation between Spain, Mexico, and
the United States, a history that Candelaria integrates into the
novel. Mexico’s Aztec and Indian populations were conquered by
Spaniards such as Cortés in –. Cortés and his men, however,
consorted with Indian women (such as Marina, an Aztec woman
also known as “La Malinche”) to father a mestizo race of indi-
viduals; often the children and fathers of the original Indian race
were murdered, and mestizo individuals were preserved.15
Mexico
revolted from Spain in the early nineteenth century (–) and
then was colonized again just a few years later, this time by the
   

United States. With the  Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, areas of
what we now call the United States (including California, Nevada,
Arizona, Utah, New Mexico, and half of Colorado) went from be-
ing Mexican territories to being part of the United States.16
Thus
in various times in its history, Mexico has been Indian, Mexican,
Spanish, and Anglo controlled, and many different racial groups
have fought and mingled within its geographic spaces.
Furthermore, even Spain itself was never a pure ethnic region, as
Jose discovers when he converses with Senor Benetar, who is Span-
ish but of Moorish descent. The song, “Memories of the Alham-
bra,” or “Recuerdos de la Alhambra,” which Senor Benetar hears
while conversing with Jose, reminds Benetar of when “his people
ruled this country [Spain]” (). This song—from which the novel
takes its title—represents a possible indoctrination for Jose into a
more sophisticated and multilayered, not to mention multilin-
guistic, concept of ethnic identity. As A. Robert Lee argues, the
song illustrates that “Spanish racial purity, quite as much as its
Hispano-American off-shoots, has been an illusion from the start”
(). In one of his ﬁnal reﬂections, Jose appears to accept multi-
racialism and that he might be a “Mestizo child of the Old World
and the New” (). But then “a heavy weight seemed to sit on
Jose’s chest” () and he dies of a heart attack. It is easier for Jose to
perish than to accept himself as mestizo, multiracial, or Mexican.
Like his father, the son initially appears to be unable to engage
in either the literal or metaphorical work of translation and also un-
able to transcode his ethnicity. For example, in the following pas-
sage (narrated when he is a young boy), Joe is quizzed in Spanish by
his more ﬂuent cousins in Los Rafas, New Mexico, and is unable to
respond:
“Es verdad que no puedes hablar espanol? [Is it true that you
can’t speak Spanish?]” the oldest boy asked.
Joe ﬂushed. Here it came. The outsider. The one who was
different. When Joe did not answer, the boys elbowed one
another in the ribs and smiled knowingly. The anger was hot in
Joe’s chest.
“Es verdad? [Is it true?]” another continued. “No puedes?
[You can’t?]”
    
“I thought you were going swimming,” he ﬁnally said. They
all laughed and jeered. It was the wrong answer.
“No puedes. No puedes [You can’t. You can’t],” came the
singsong taunt.
“Some kind of Mexican you are,” his oldest cousin said.
“Can’t even speak the language.”
“It’s Spanish,” Joe said. “Not Mexican. . . . Whatever I am,
I’m the same as you!” Joe said.
“Oh, no you’re not,” they taunted. “You’re from California
and you can’t speak Spanish. No puedes.” (–)
Joe is unsure whether he is Spanish or Mexican or American or all
three, and his language reﬂects this confusion. Could he answer
his cousins in Mexican Spanish, even with a simple “Sí” or “No”?
Could he codeswitch between the languages, as they do? What is
clear is that Joe is unable, or perhaps unwilling, to translate. Just
a moment before this he has heard his father and uncles debating
their ethnic status. “Tell me,” says one brother to another, “are you
a Mexican or aren’t you?” This uncle ﬁnally concludes that the fam-
ily is “a new race. Not Mexican. Not Spanish anymore. More than
just American. We’re New Mexicans” (–). But what language
does the “New Mexican” speak? In college, Joe feels like a “betrayer
of la raza [the race]” because he speaks “pidgeon Spanish” and is an
“Anglicized Chicano—which was almost nothing at all” ().
Nevertheless, Joe eventually claims his status as Mexican and
Chicano and accepts the intercultural burdens of both literal and
metaphorical translation; in so doing he transcodes his ethnicity
and ﬁnds an interlingual, transmigrated voice. At a crucial turn-
ing point in his life, Joe is approached by a Chicano man on his
college campus who asks: “Eres Mejicano? [Are you a Mexican?]”
(). Joe’s initial impulse is to respond, “Hell no! I’m an American,”
but then, seeing the “nervous brown hand clasping and unclasp-
ing around a textbook,” Joe responds, “Si” (). Joe translates this
man’s question not as a literal one about where he is from but as
a more metaphorical attempt to ascertain ﬁliation, brotherhood.
With this translation, which is a writerly interpretation of the ques-
tion, Joe feels that “the bogeyman that had hung over his father for
his entire life, and over Joe for so many years, had disappeared with
   

that simple word: yes” (). Further, by answering this question
in Spanish, Joe allies himself with “El Chicano” (), though this
does not mean he cannot have other affiliations: “Yes, he thought.
American. Mexican. Human. Ape descendent son of God. Yes. Yes.
Yes” (). Metaphorically, Joe’s three “yeses” reﬂect his acceptance
of the three parts of his ethnic heritage: the Anglo, the Spanish, and
the Mexican/Indian. Joe is no longer “agringado” (), as his father
and others have called him, but multiracial.
As Joe comes to accept his multiracial heritage, his ability to
translate expands. For example, he struggles to decipher his father’s
notebooks, to translate their Spanish (). And when he goes to
Spain to take home his father’s dead body, he speaks Spanish, as be-
comes apparent only after a conversation with a Spanish bookseller
has gone on for some time:
“Senor Gomez?” The man nodded. “I am Joe Rafa.”
. . . “I’m sorry, senor. You look familiar, but—”
“You may have spoken to my father, Jose Rafa.”
“Ah . . . ‘Passengers to the Indies.’ We were to meet in
Seville. But where is Senor Rafe?”
“He’s dead.”
. . . “I’m sorry, senor. It must be a terrible shock for you and
your family. . . . You resemble your father very much. I was
confused when you walked in.”
Joe nodded. Embarrassed, he said, “Senor Gomez. Could
you speak slower. My Spanish is not too good.” (–)
Senor Gomez and Joe continue their conversation in Spanish. At
an earlier age Joe refused or was unable to translate and to answer
Spanish questions in the Spanish language, but here he does both, if
a bit hesitantly. So unlike Jose, who dies with his ethnic conﬂict un-
resolved, Joe appears to resolve—or at least come to terms with—his
ethnic identity through both literal and metaphorical acts of trans-
lation. He ﬁnds the language to translate between Spanish and En-
glish, but more metaphorically he also learns to mesh the different
parts of his cultural and racial heritage—the Anglo, the Mexican,
and the Spanish. In so doing he translates himself into a multira-
cial, multilingual individual.17
Candelaria’s text also indicates lexically that for characters and
    
readers, translation—both within English and between English and
Spanish—is crucial to ethnic identity and voice. Candelaria’s text
includes many Spanish words, and although Candelaria sometimes
translates phrases for the non-Spanish-speaking reader (“‘Eres Me-
jicano?’” “‘Are you a Mexican?’” []), he often uses contextual
translation, asking the reader to decipher the meaning of terms
from their context.18
For example, when a man keeps crying out
in pain “Mi cabeza! . . . Mi cabeza!” (–) and is ﬁnally offered
some “aspirina” for his “chingada of all headaches,” an attentive
reader will likely translate “cabeza” as “head” and “chingada” as
the swear word it is. Furthermore, Candelaria includes linguistic
constructions that fuse English and Spanish, such as “mexicates-
sen” (), “Frijoles Flats” (), “senor Headache” (), “grandfather-
chingada of all headaches” (), and “El Chicano” (). Both
Spanish-speaking and non-Spanish-speaking readers must work to
explicate the meanings of these unusual, creative terms, but Can-
delaria does encourage us to do the work, to translate.
English is, then, Candelaria’s main linguistic matrix, but to
make sense of the text’s discourse, the reader must grapple with
another linguistic matrix. Candelaria also transmigrates Spanish
into English, where it begins to renovate the language of hege-
mony; both languages undergo change as new terms are invented.
Through contextual translative situations and through his inclu-
sion of Mexican Spanish words, Candelaria asks his readers to enter
into a zone of interlingualism and translation. In Memories of the
Alhambra, then, we have not yet found the new language to which
Oscar Zeta Acosta alludes, but we are clearly on our way toward
this language.
Mestizaje Discourse as the Matrix of Interlingualism:
Translation Struggles in the Writing
of Cherríe Moraga and Abelardo Delgado
In Borderlands/La Frontera: The New Mestiza, Gloria Anzaldúa
comments on a desire on the part of Chicano/a individuals to ﬁnd
a language that transcends the sum of its parts: “For a people who
are neither Spanish nor live in a country in which Spanish is the
   

ﬁrst language; for a people who live in a country in which English
is the reigning tongue but who are not Anglo; for a people who
cannot entirely identify with either standard (formal, Castilian)
Spanish nor standard English, what recourse is left to them but to
create their own language? A language . . . with terms that are nei-
ther español ni inglés, but both. We speak a patois, a forked tongue,
a variation of two languages” (). I have already alluded to the ap-
pearance of this forked tongue in the brief discussion of Candelar-
ia’s fused constructions (“grandfather-chingada of all headaches,”
“mexicatessen,” and so forth), but Moraga and Delgado include a
great deal more of this new tongue. Furthermore, they consistently
employ what I term “mestizaje translation strategies” so that both
languages become the site of interlingualism.
I am using the term “mestizaje” here instead of “mestizo/a” to
indicate that this translative discourse is both something new and
something that is always evolving and changing. In “Cut Throat
Sun,” Jean-Luc Nancy elucidates this term: “Mestizaje is always a
very long, vast and obscure story. It is such a slow process that no
one can see it happening. A single mestizo does not make for mes-
tizaje. It takes generations. . . . For the end result is as new and as
different as if another ‘raza,’ another people had been produced out
of thin air. . . . So in the end, what we call ‘mestizaje’ is the advent
of the other. The other is always arriving, and always arriving from
elsewhere” (–). In both Moraga’s Loving in the War Years and
Delgado’s Letters to Louise, there is a hybrid, mestizaje discourse
that mirrors a kind of formal innovativeness, a refusal to fulﬁll
readers’ expectations of the text. And by encouraging the reader
to actualize the text, to make meaning of it as writerly translators,
both Moraga and Delgado push the reader into the category of the
mestizaje, someone who, as Jean-Luc Nancy says, is “on the very
border of meaning” ().
In Memories of the Alhambra Joe learns to translate, but we are
never told the details of this linguistic transition. In Loving in the
War Years, on the other hand, Moraga details the pain of learning
to translate, as well as the anguish of confronting her denial of
sexuality, which Moraga allies with her Chicana language and her
mother’s body. Like Rodriguez, Moraga ultimately views transla-
tion as a way of setting up a dialogue, an argument, between the
    
various sides of herself: the Anglo and the Mexican, the white and
the Spanish, but also the male and the female, the straight and the
gay. “What is my responsibility to my roots: both white and brown,
Spanish-speaking and English?” she asks, and then responds: “I am
a woman with a foot in both worlds. I refuse the split. I feel the
necessity for dialogue. Sometimes I feel it urgently. But one voice is
not enough, nor two, although this is where dialogue begins” ().19
Ultimately, she refuses to be simply bilingual (two voices are not
enough), instead ﬁnding through translation a mestizaje voice. She
therefore demonstrates what Gingerich has argued: that in Chi-
cano texts voice is found not through the calculated mastery of two
separate and distinct languages but by “the inventive and often pre-
carious spanning of an officially disparaged, linguistic free-ﬁre zone
between them” (). I will argue that translation is a primary meta-
phor and practice for moving beyond “the split” between Spanish
and English which Moraga experiences—and that translation al-
lows her to fuse and mesh discourses so that a new mode of voice
can be birthed from this linguistic struggle.
In the various poems, essays, and stories that comprise Loving
in the War Years, Moraga describes a poetic persona who is initially
stripped of her Spanish language and Chicana color. As the white-
looking (“la güera” or “fair-skinned”) daughter of a Mexican Amer-
ican mother and an Anglo American father, her family attempts
to “bleach me of what color I did have” (). A great deal of this
bleaching has to do with language, for Moraga’s mother refuses to
teach her daughter Spanish (). As much as possible, ethnicity and
the ethnic language are to be cast off, not transcoded. As evidenced
in several of the texts I have analyzed in this volume, this trope in
which a parent refuses to teach an ethnic language to the child for
fear it will hinder the child in the Anglo world occurs frequently.
Yet Moraga adds to this trope by suggesting that in being deprived
of her mother’s tongue, she is also cut off from her sexuality and
her emotions: “I am ‘born American.’ College English educated,
but what I must admit is that I have felt in my writing that the En-
glish was not cutting it. ¿Entiendes? [Understand?] That there is
something else, deep and behind my heart and I want to hold it hot
and bold in the hand of my writing and it will not come out sound-
ing like English. Te prometo. No es inglés [I promise you. It isn’t
   

English]” (). Spanish, sexuality, and true emotion—the ability
to “hold” what is “hot and bold in the hand of my writing”—are
interconnected.
Yet it is not Spanish per se that allows Moraga to recover her
sexuality and proper idiom but the possibility of birth and rebirth
of language, voice, and body that she uncovers in her attempts to
speak and translate Spanish. Moraga then takes this possibility of
rebirth into the interlingual zone—into a syncretic, transmigrated
tongue composed of both Spanish and English. She describes a re-
birth of language through translation in poems such as “It’s the
Poverty” and “For the Color of My Mother” and continues it in her
essay “A Long Line of Vendidas [Traitors].” In these stanzas from
“It’s the Poverty,” for example, she fears a monstrous rebirth of her
mother’s ethnic voice in herself:
Words are a war to me.
They threaten my family.
To gain the word to describe the loss,
I risk losing everything.
I may create a monster,
the word’s length and body
swelling over my mother, characterized.
Her voice in the distance
unintelligible illiterate.
These are the monster’s words. ()
Reading these stanzas in terms of a dilemma of translation, we
might say that Moraga wishes to recover her mother’s tongue, which
will allow her to describe how she originally lost this tongue—she
wishes “to gain the word to describe the loss.” But she fears recov-
ery of this mother’s tongue, this mother’s voice, which has been
called “illiterate” and “unintelligible” by the dominant Anglo so-
ciety. She fears translation, in short. She risks “losing everything”
to gain the ability to translate the creative and aleatory voice of the
mother, of the mother tongue. No wonder, then, that words are “a
war” to her.
“For the Color of My Mother” alludes to this creative yet fearful
    
rebirth of the mother’s original tongue in the daughter’s translated
voice even more strongly. Here Moraga describes how her mouth
splits open:
at two
my upper lip split open
clear to the tip of my nose
it spilled forth a cry that would not yield
. . . the gash sewn back into a snarl
would last for years. ()
This is an arresting image of the deconstruction of the mouth/
voice that recurs in later sections of the text. But perhaps more in-
teresting, she allies this split in the mouth/voice with a split in her
mother Elvira’s abdomen:
at forty-ﬁve, her mouth
bleeding into her stomach
the hole gaping growing redder
ﬁnally stitched shut from hip to breastbone
an inverted V
Vera
Elvira
I am a white girl gone brown to the blood color of my mother
speaking for her. (–)
Since the daughter’s and mother’s experiences of being split open
are constantly allied and paralleled, Moraga will both speak for
her mother and speak as her mother. The daughter will translate
the mother’s story, and translation might metaphorically heal the
split in the mother’s belly, the gash in the daughter’s voice/mouth.
Other women come to Moraga and cradle the mother’s silence,
even as they nod to her as if to say, “Speak for us, speak of us.” But
still she fears this bloody process of birthing and rebirthing one’s
“own” language, of learning how to translate and transmigrate a
language of the mother/self.20
It is not until almost the end of the book that she confronts this
issue, in the last words of the essay “A Long Line of Vendidas,” and
   

it is not coincidental that she comes to terms with this struggle
through an actual practice of translation.21
Here, once again, Mo-
raga imagines her mouth splitting open: “In recent months, I have
had a recurring dream that my mouth is too big to close; that is,
the outside of my mouth, my lips, cannot contain the inside—teeth,
tongue, gums, throat. I am coming out of my mouth, so to speak.
The mouth is red like blood; and the teeth, like bones, white. The
skeleton of my feelings clattering for attention. . . . La boca [the
mouth] spreads its legs open to talk, open to attack” (). This
is a striking image that combines the linguistic, the ethnic, and
the sexual aspects of Moraga’s struggle to translate. Quite literally
the tongue (the mother tongue?) appears to be breaking free from,
and birthing itself out of, the prison of the body, the white teeth
and bones, which are also clearly meant to emblematize the prison
of white language. But here Moraga refuses the fear of translation
—of speaking both the mother’s story and the daughter’s, of speak-
ing both the Anglo text of assimilation and asexuality and the Chi-
cana text of subversion and lesbianism. She ends this essay in the
following way:
“My mouth cannot be controlled. It will ﬂap in the wind
like legs in sex, not driven by the mind. It’s as if la boca [the
mouth] were centered on el centro del corazón [in the middle
of the heart] not in the head at all. The same place where the
cunt beats.
And there is a woman coming out of her mouth.
Hay una mujer que viene de la boca. ()
The last two lines of the essay are translations of each other and
puns on the several senses (sexual and otherwise) of the word
“come.” Yet because both are in italics, it is difficult to tell which
is the enfranchised text or language and which the disenfranchised
one. This ﬁnal passage also blurs the boundary between mind and
body, intellect and emotion, voice (which is supposed to be con-
trolled and rational) and sexuality (which is supposed to be un-
controlled and emotional). Furthermore, by stating in this essay
that “the Mouth is like a cunt” (), Moraga both sexualizes her
voice and vocalizes her sex. As Yvonne Yarbro-Bejarano comments,
“‘mouth’ and ‘sex’ merge, both represented as organs of speech and
    
sex” (). Both organs speak the mother’s and the daughter’s story,
the Anglo and Chicana narrative that constitutes Moraga’s linguis-
tic and ethnic inheritance. Both organs, in short, become instru-
ments of translation.
Numerous critics have argued that Moraga’s “true voice”—her
true tongue—is Spanish.22
Yet I contend that Moraga’s text depicts
not only a recovery of the mother’s tongue but also a rebirthing of
language through the process of translation so that its binarisms
are undermined. Hegemonic and “minority” discourses become im-
bricated within each other through linguistic fusion and through
translation; her true tongue, then, is a transmigrated, syncretic,
translative discourse. Moraga recalls that she has disowned the lan-
guage of her mother—“the sound of my mother and aunts gossip-
ing—half in English, half in Spanish—while drinking cerveza [beer]
in the kitchen” (, emphasis added). So what her translations re-
cover is this mélange, this mixture, this mestizaje discourse. In her
own speech, “the Spanish sounds [are] wrapped around the English
like tortillas steaming in ﬂour sacks” (). In this image, it initially
seems that the tortillas would be analogous to the Spanish sounds
and the English would be the ﬂour sacks, but the Spanish sounds are
actually described as being wrapped around the English, so it is
ﬁnally unclear which is the external, wrapping discourse and which
the internal, intrinsic one. This is something more than “simple”
codeswitching, for the codes have become metaphorically fused
so that it is impossible to tell where one leaves off and the other
begins.
Fluid and grammatically correct intrasentential (within the sen-
tence) codeswitches indicate, as research by linguists has shown,
that Chicano/a bilingual speakers who codeswitch utilize not two
separate languages but one in which the grammars of the differ-
ent languages are functionally and intrinsically meshed and inte-
grated.23
Some linguists have argued, in fact, that such codeswitch-
ing shows the presence not of two separate tongues but rather the
creation, through fusion, of a new language.24
In Moraga’s text,
such a meshing of tongues to create a new syncretic voice can be
seen in the book’s ﬁnal poem. I will quote it in its entirety (with
my translations in brackets on the right side of the page) so that the
reader can see its codeswitches:
   

¿qué puedo decirte in return [what can I tell you in return]
stripped of the tongue
that could claim lives
de ostras perdidas? [of the others we have lost?]
la lengua que necesito [the tongue I need
para hablar in order to speak
es la misma que uso is the same I use
para acariciar to caress25
tú sabes. you know.]
you know the feel of woman
lost en su boca [lost in her
amordazada muzzled mouth]
profundo y sencillo [profound yet simple
lo que nunca what never
pasó passed
por sus labios through her lips]
but was
utterly
utterly
heard. ()
This poem is clearly preoccupied with ﬁnding voice—with free-
ing the tongue, the muzzled mouth. However, the poem reaches
toward an “unmuzzled tongue” that is not entirely in Spanish or in
English but in both linguistic realms. Donna Haraway calls Mora-
ga’s language a “self-consciously spliced language,” a hybrid of the
conqueror’s tongues (). But I am arguing here that it is some-
thing more than spliced—that (like many translations) it is some-
thing new that transcends and exceeds the two languages of which
it is comprised.26
For when translated into English, no matter how
effectively, this poem loses some of its linguistic power. This is not
because the poem is untranslatable but because the meaning of the
poem—its search for voice—lies not in the individual, unsupple-
    
mented languages but in their commingling, in their ﬁssion and
fusion; the poem’s meaning can therefore be articulated only as a
transmigrated, syncretic, interlingual mode of discourse.
In this poem Moraga also reaches toward something that is
perhaps utopian but also extralinguistic. How can a word, after all,
“never pass through her lips” but be “utterly heard”? The poem
leaves the idea of the extralinguistic voice in tension with the other
voice it (and the work as a whole) has marshaled: a reborn, hybrid-
ized, mestizaje discourse in which English and Spanish intermix
and inmix, enriching each other’s meanings. The mestizaje voice
presented here is always in the process of transforming itself, of
becoming something new, something that ﬁnally might escape the
constraints of language itself. And so the mestizaje woman’s subjec-
tivity and language are always in process. She represents a woman
who is constantly “coming out of her mouth” in a continual process
of birth and rebirth, of being split open and from this split repair-
ing to a new w/hole.
More than either Rodriguez or Candelaria, Moraga also pushes
—indeed, forces—the non-Spanish-speaking reader into the evolv-
ing interlingual zone through translative practices. In the ﬁrst edi-
tion of the book (published in ), she includes a glossary at the
end that translates some (but not all) her Mexican Spanish terms. By
including the glossary at the end of the book (rather than, for exam-
ple, translating the words at the bottom of the page), she asks the
non-Spanish-speaking reader to ﬂip back and forth (physically) be-
tween Spanish and English. Quite literally, a non-Spanish-speaking
reader might rewrite the text in his or her own idiom (most prob-
ably English), but in so doing this reader might add a number of
the Mexican Spanish words that Moraga repeats (such as mujer)
to his or her vocabulary. And by not including all her words in the
glossary, Moraga perhaps prompts her non-Spanish-speaking read-
ers to look them up in a Spanish dictionary or consult a Spanish
speaker. In the second edition of the book (), she eliminates
the glossary entirely, asking the reader to do even more of the ardu-
ous work of translation.27
According to Gary Keller, codeswitches
may be unfathomable and even mystifying to monolingual readers
but also “beckoning,” inspiring us “to travel that extra distance into
   

the writer’s home turf, an aesthetic bilingual idiolect” (). By not
translating her Spanish words in the codeswitches, Moraga asks the
reader to travel the extra distance in her own mestizaje tongue.28
Furthermore, like the writers described by Samia Mehrez in my
introduction, Moraga asks her readers to develop a radical bilin-
gual practice of translation that moves back and forth between lan-
guages to produce (or “write”) the meanings of the text. For ex-
ample, the book’s cover contains the following words: “Loving in
the War Years: Lo que nunca pasó por sus labios.” Obviously, the
English phrase, while being somewhat metaphorical, presents no
problem of translation for the reader who speaks only English, but
the Spanish phrase does. Even after the English-only reader man-
ages a literal translation of this phrase as “that which never passes
through her/our lips,” something will be lost in translation unless
the reader meditates on the pun Moraga is making in the Spanish
subtitle between lips (of the mouth) and labia (lips of the vagina).
Here, as elsewhere, Moraga connects voice and sex. Furthermore,
since labia in Spanish is also a colloquial term meaning something
like “glibness,” there may be an additional meaning embedded in
the subtitle: she writes about what never passes through (is trans-
mitted by) our glibness, about what can never be spoken without
serious voice or words. How is this subtitle connected to the domi-
nant title? The reader must mediate on how, during the war years,
loving is silent yet present, spoken between the interstices and gaps
of words, between the interstices and gaps of language and touches.
From Moraga’s point of view, the Chicana lesbian feminist is always
in the war years, always in danger of having her voice/passion si-
lenced. We cannot be glib about this need for expression, despite
the war, despite the silencing. What never seems to pass through
our lips must, ﬁnally, pass through our lips; it must ﬁnd voice and
articulation in some linguistic mode, some discursive zone, and
some physical expression. Thus the line in Moraga’s text between
dominant and disempowered discourses, between reader and writer,
and between the translator and the translated text, becomes some-
what permeable. The reader can only actualize Moraga’s text if she
or he is willing to become (at least temporarily) a bilingual and
even interlingual writerly translator. Moreover, both Spanish- and
English-speaking readers are encouraged to meditate on language:
    
on its puns, its interstices, and its plastic possibilities—as well as
limits—of expression.
There are two other ways in which Moraga encourages the
reader to develop an interlingual translating consciousness. Like
Candelaria, she uses contextual translation, as in the following ex-
ample: “After months of separation, we are going to visit my mamá in
the hospital. Mi tía me dice, ‘Whatever you do, no llores Cherríe. It’s
hard on your mother when you cry.’ I nod, taking long deep breathes,
trying to control my quivering lip” (). It is perfectly obvious from
this passage that someone says to Moraga, “Whatever you do, no
tears.” Words such as “me dice” and “llores,” then, can be easily
translated contextually by a non-Spanish-speaking reader. But what
about “tía”? We have no clues from the passage about whether this
is a sister, a grandmother, or a friend—and yet the word is repeated
four times in this short journal entry (–). And the word is not
included in the glossary in the ﬁrst edition. Once again, Moraga’s
contextual translations do only part of the work for the reader, the
reader-as-translator.
Finally, the hybrid form of Loving in the War Years—its collage-
like mixture of poetry, prose, and stories—asks the reader to move
between different kinds of discourse (the ﬁctional, the autobio-
graphical, the historical, the mythical, the poetic, and so on) to
produce meaning. As often as Moraga describes herself as “crack-
ing open” (), she also cracks open linguistic registers normally
kept separate. She includes journal entries (iii), letters (), and po-
etry () in her essays—ﬁction, in other words, in her nonﬁction.
Even within the ﬁctional modes she blurs genres. For example, her
short story “The Warbride” ends with a kind of unpoem: “With
you, it’s supposed to be different and I guess it is when the beat
of your hand against my bone / isn’t worked against the beat of
the water ﬂooding memory / against the walls of my heart beat-
ing fast / against the ﬂash of boys beating off, inside me” (). The
slash marks between phrases are in the original text, as if Moraga
wanted to end the story with a lesbian love poem but cannot quite
reach this juncture, this slash. Which is the poem, which the story?
Which the text, which the subtext? The genres merge and blur and
evolve together in new directions, and the reader is asked to move
between them in a linguistic free-fall zone with few boundaries
   

and markers. “The combining of poetry and essays in this book,”
Moraga comments, “is the compromise I make in the effort to be
understood. In Spanish, ‘compromiso’ is also used to mean obli-
gation or commitment” (vi). Form itself in this phrase becomes a
compromise, a translation, but also an obligation and a commit-
ment. The reader must commit to the formal and linguistic de-
mands this text makes and be willing to move into a new interlin-
guistic, intergenre zone of meaning through translation practices.
Although Moraga claims at one point that she is “tired of these
acts of translation” (), it should be clear from what I have said
that Moraga is fully engaged in a translation struggle. Loving in the
War Years is a difficult text, one obsessed by language, by voice, by
the tongue. But what animates Moraga is a deep and abiding love of
language. “I want the language,” she cries. “I want . . . [to] feel my
tongue rise to the occasion of feeling at home” (). Finally, how-
ever, Moraga does not ﬁnd a pure Spanish tongue that makes her
feel “at home.” Instead, she discovers a practice of translation that
wraps the Spanish sounds around the English until they cannot be
disentangled—a constantly evolving mestizaje discourse that draws
the reader into the interlingual zone, into her world of translation.
    discussed so far in this chapter, I have
explicated a struggle in the second generation to recover Mexican
Spanish so that the protagonists can translate between the eth-
nic tongue and English; I have also argued that readers are asked
to participate in this translation struggle, in this recovery and re-
creation of voice and self. But Santiago Flores, the poet-activist-
hero of Abelardo Delgado’s epistolary novel Letters to Louise, does
not struggle to recover Spanish. He is a balanced bilingual speaker/
writer who masters and maintains both English and Mexican Span-
ish. Flores ﬂuidly and ﬂuently codeswitches between languages,
while also teaching the monolingual reader to translate. Moreover,
he creates his own unique discourse that transmigrates both Span-
ish and English and constitutes his mode of voice. The creation of
this language is not, as it is in Loving in the War Years, a monstrous
and frightening process but rather a joyful birth meant to liberate
and re-create languages, Spanish and English, as well as the sub-
    
jects of these languages, the writer and the reader. In the end, the
reader becomes a producer not only of a translation of a particular
word but also of the translated text itself.
Delgado’s novel is set up as a series of letters that Santiago Flores
writes to someone named Louise. We never learn who Louise is
—we presume she is female, but whether she is Mexican Ameri-
can, Anglo, or anything else is never clear. The letters (written over
three summer months) describe Flores’s travels, his troubles with
his wife and girlfriend, his childhood in Mexico and Texas, and
his education. They also explicate his growth as a translator. At
the age of twelve Flores moves from Mexico to the United States,
where he describes his “gringa” teacher “patiently pumping English
into us” (), into him and his other Chicano carnales (brothers,
friends). The process of acquiring English is not difficult for Flores
(“I began to pick up the language quickly” [], “school work was
a breeze” []), and it does not displace his Spanish. Always clever
with words, Flores’s high school writing is “a source of self-esteem,
of pride” (), and he inﬂects this English writing with his own
brand of Chicano humor (). But Flores wants to do more than
merely inﬂect English with Mexican Spanish. He compares the let-
ters he writes (as an adult) to Louise with a pregnancy: “I guess my
forty-four-year-old pregnancy is showing labor pains. I want to give
birth to something, but what is that something?” (). This birth
is then allied with language itself: “Words in English and Spanish
rattle their tin cups on the cell bars of my brain, like rioting pri-
soners. Words that all at once want to scare, to change, to warn,
and to form poem-prayer-song” (). Flores wants to use his lan-
guages (Spanish and English) to create an interlingual “poem-
prayer-song”—in short, to give birth to a new language.
As his name indicates, Santiago Flores is a kind of savior ﬁgure
as well as a poet, but an irreverent one. Yet he claims he is not a
translator. Meeting a Mormon missionary in an airport, for exam-
ple, Flores is irritated by his insistence on translation:
“Sir, will you mind translating this for me—”
“Sir, what does ‘te quiero’ mean?—”
“Sir, would you mind answering a million questions I
have—”. . .
   

I did comply with the translation of a poem called “Artás.”
Something I seldom do, translate. (–)
Is it true that Flores seldom translates? He does, in fact, trans-
late quite frequently, but his translations are so embedded into the
text that at times they go unnoticed. For example, he translates the
“many cuentos [tales] my bedridden blind great-grandmother, An-
drea Flores, used to tell me” () into English, and he also recounts
his grandmother’s Mexican stories, such as the one she tells about the
origins of peyote (–). Like Kingston, Flores respects the story-
tellers who have gone before and the traditions and languages of the
earlier generations. Since his grandmother and great-grandmother
are dead, he struggles to transmigrate their oral Mexican stories into
written English so that they can ﬂourish in a new context.
Before discussing Flores’s speciﬁc translation strategies, how-
ever, it is important to note several aspects of the linguistic matrix
he creates, which is not exactly English or Spanish. Like Olivia in
Kadohata’s The Floating World (see Chapter ), Flores possesses a
translating consciousness that sees the world as composed of a mul-
titude of codes, discourses, and languages, all of which are imbri-
cated in each other, and so the novel as a whole actually contains
many languages. There is a kind of formal Mexican Spanish, used
when his grandmother and mother speak, and a more modernized
Americanized Spanish, used when Flores and his friends converse.
There is caló (or slang) and “bureaucratic English” (), which
Flores must master to write grants. And there is also a bilingual
discourse he uses in his poems (). Furthermore, codeswitches be-
tween Spanish and English and entire sentences or passages writ-
ten in Spanish occur on almost every page of the novel.29
Certainly,
Delgado’s text presents a challenge to the non-Spanish-speaking
reader. Can such a reader enter the text’s linguistic zone?
But the text draws such a reader into this zone through its trans-
lation strategies. I translate Delgado’s Spanish in notes rather than
in the body of this chapter to demonstrate my claim that even a
non-Spanish-speaking reader can translate these passages contextu-
ally, at least to some extent. Flores’s intrasentential codeswitches are
often very smooth and unﬂagged:
    
I had a padrino sort of on the crazy side. This was way back
in Boquilla. He used to get drunk. Cuando se le pasaban las
copas he used to be extra generous with his Godchild Santiago
and I would get pesetas and tostones.30
We had then un es-
cusado de loyo31
and the paper shortage to wipe our butts with
was as I’ve described it before. Well, the memory I have of my
crazy Padrino Julián is that he used to wipe his butt with one
and ﬁve peso bills, at times even veinte,32
and throw them out.
We would then look for these bills, wash them and iron them,
and spend them. He knew we did this and this encouraged him
to do it again the next time he got drunk. ()
These codeswitches are so seamless that a Spanish-speaking reader
might not be entirely aware of them. Furthermore, since none of
the Spanish words are italicized, the languages ﬂow more easily into
each other. The codeswitches present more of a challenge for a non-
Spanish-speaking reader, but much of the Spanish in this passage
can be contextually understood. For example, “padrino” is not ini-
tially translated, but when we learn later that Santiago is this man’s
“godchild,” its meaning as “godfather” becomes clear. Another hu-
morous example of translative codeswitching is provided when
Flores recounts how his mother liked to dress him as a girl when he
was young and how once “some señoras asked,—es hombrecito o
mujercita,” whereupon “I raised my dress and showed the inquisi-
tive veijas, who giggled at my daring” (). Non-Spanish-speaking
readers can easily discern that “es hombrecito o mujercita?” means
“are you a boy or a girl?” and also comprehend the young boy’s
daring response. Delgado’s novel makes very effective use, then, of
intrasentential codeswitching and contextual translations to draw
in monolingual readers.
Yet there are times when Delgado also relies on explanative
translation, telling readers, for example, “duendes” are the “souls of
mischievous children who die as children” (); “vela” is “a candle
which we pasted to the wall with its own melted wax” (); “arino-
lina” is “a sort of cow feed” (); “Te hago un niño” means “I make
you a baby” (); and “culebras” are the “meeting of two storm
fronts” (). “Chavala,” he says, is “an old Chicano word now sel-
dom used meaning ‘little girl,’” so “Mi chavala” means “My girl”
   

(). “Zaguán,” on the other hand, is a Mexican word meaning
“an entrance to the house with a sort of shelter to each side” ().
Sometimes, too, Flores explains his linguistic puns and jokes and
even the meanings of the same word in different dialects of Span-
ish. When a woman from Caracas explains that the Caraguians use
the word “cuchara” (or spoon) as the term for the “female sex or-
gan,” he makes a contribution by saying that New Mexicans refer
to a sort of cookie as “panocha,” while people in Texas or Mexico
think of it as the same as “cuchara” (vagina). So Flores is confused
in Colorado when he is offered “panocha”: “Since I had been with-
out a woman for many months I didn’t think her offer was merely a
cookie” (–). Delgado enlightens the monolingual reader about
the various meanings of the Spanish term, but he also demonstrates
that even Spanish speakers, using their own tongue, sometimes
mistranslate and misunderstand. In other words, both monolingual
and bilingual readers have an encounter with interlingualism.
Far more often than he uses contextual or explanative trans-
lation, however, Flores uses what I term “storytelling translation”:
stories that non-Spanish-speaking readers can translate, by their
logic and sequence of events, even if they cannot translate all their
language. Consider, for example, this early incident:
[My mother] can giggle and make fun of almost anything,
word, or phrase. I didn’t think it so funny one morning in
Chihuahua. It was in December. She knew I was looking for-
ward to Christmas and Santo Clos, who by then had obviously
inﬁltrated our Mexican culture.
I must have been busy in my fantasy world of paper cutouts,
my favorite pasatiempo of my early years, when I heard my
mother excitedly call to me.
—Mijo . . . mijo . . . Santiaguito, ven, mira, hay vien Santo
Clos. . . .33
Down the street a fat Chicano with white hair and white
beard herded a couple of burros with some sacks. . . . I ran fast
down the half a cuadra that separated me from San Nicols,
as he was also called. I stopped him by pulling on his worn
chaleco. He seemed very irritated at the little mocosito seeking
his attention. His look of anger was ignored in my enthusiasm
    
in having the unique experience of sharing a word with such an
important character.
—¿Usted es Santo Clos?—came the feeble and excited ques-
tion from my throat.
—Yo soy Guadalupe Jiménez Rodríguez, un arriero. No esté
Chingado. ()34
Even if a reader does not understand the exact wording of Guada-
lupe Jiménez Rodríguez’s reply to the pesky “mocosito,” he or she
will certainly be able to translate the gist of it. This example uses
humor and storytelling translation to gently draw the non-Spanish-
speaking reader into the Mexican Spanish language and world. A
reader’s (potential) resistance to translation is undermined by such
passages, and we may ﬁnd, without even quite realizing it, that we
have become translators.
At other times, however, the non-Spanish-speaking reader is
not treated so gently, and she or he must actively struggle to make
sense of the story and its language. The following incident that
Flores recounts about his early school days shows the difficulty of
this struggle:
This bato would always pester me. Me cantaba por chingazos.
I would ignore him. I told him, sí hombre, tú ganas. Ya estuvo,
and would walk away. One day I was all dressed up at a party
with two or three girls when again he asked me to go y darnos
en la madre. Yo le contesté, Pos’ aquí está suave, pa’ que vamos
pa’ fuera y le puse dos cambronazos y lo senté. He had a lot
of friends and they soon jumped me. My friend Felipe tried
to get me out of the mess. Someone le aterrizó un patadón
and that brought all his brothers and cuñados into the act. Se
armó la bronca. Felipe y yo left very quietly. I knew that guy
would try to get me later, so rather than live in fear of that day
I sought him out the very next day. I found him y le dije, mira,
aquí estoy dame unos fregazos, get it out of your system y ya,
que no? To my surprise he said he no longer quería any pedo
conimogo y ha murió.—He went on to say how escamado he
had been that day but that he would rather face it than live in
fear. (–)35
   

This passage uses a great deal more codeswitching than the previ-
ous one, and more codeswitching than used by any of the other
writers discussed. What we have here is a codeswitched, inter-
lingual, syncretic discourse. The passage does, of course, present a
challenge to the non-Spanish-speaking reader. It might also present
a challenge to some Spanish-speaking readers, since it contains col-
loquial expressions, slang, and many words that cannot be found
in a Spanish-to-English or Mexican Spanish-to-English dictionary.
Despite these challenges, Delgado constructs the passage so that
readers can follow its action. We know that the narrator has a con-
frontation with a bully and his friends, and later when he takes
on the bully by himself, the bully backs down. How do readers
know this? They know not from the literal words of the passage but
because they have translated the overall context, the overall story
being told. We must actualize this text, actively birth and translate
ourselves into this story—into its language and its world. We are
enriched, both linguistically and personally, if we do so. If not, the
text remains alien, foreign, babble.
Delgado’s novel also uses fused linguistic constructions to teach
the reader to translate and to push the reader into a mestizaje lin-
guistic matrix. Consider, for example, his description of the readers
at school “who struggle and call letters and words but seldom read a
sentence straight” as “los slow ones” (). Is “los slow ones” a Span-
ish or English term? Certainly it is both, and also more than both,
for the humor and aptness of this term comes precisely from its
combination of Spanish and English. Similarly, at one point when
he reﬂects on how quickly his life is passing by and his own death,
Flores comments, “It takes so much courage to face los condenados
tic tics of life” (). The clock is ticking faster, condemning us all
to oblivion. He describes old friends as “ghost carnales I hadn’t seen
in a chingo of time” (). The term “carnale” has been used often
enough in Delgado’s book and in enough contexts that an attentive
reader would translate it not literally (as a carnal person) but more
metaphorically, as a brother or friend.36
And so the phrase “ghost
carnales” acquires great resonance for someone who understands
the meaning of aging, even if she or he does not speak Spanish.
Delgado also uses words that have come into Spanish speciﬁcally
because of its interaction with English, words that therefore could
    
be understood by non-Spanish-speaking readers, such as “lonches”
() (meaning lunches) and “pasatiempo” () (meaning diversion
or pastime).
Faced with this challenging text, a non-Spanish-speaking reader
has several choices: learn to translate some (although not all) of
the words, ignore the words he or she does not understand, or stop
reading. Given the compelling nature of Flores’s voice, I think most
readers will make the choice to translate. But if a reader refuses to
translate, does this mean that Delgado’s message is lost? Not ex-
actly, because exposure to the world’s multilingualism and multi-
culturalism is also a main goal. As Delgado himself comments
in an interview, “to write using natural bilingual style is a very
vivid affirmation that we are here, that we are alive and well, think-
ing and writing in both idiomas [languages], and that there are
many like us out there in the mythical Aztlán who also think and
talk and write as we do” (). Furthermore, a certain exposure to
“unintelligibility”—to a difficulty of translation—may also be cru-
cial to the text’s meaning. In a compelling essay on “unintelligibil-
ity” in multicultural literature, Reed Dasenbrock argues that this
literature “offers us above all an experience of multiculturalism, in
which not everything is likely to be wholly understood by every
reader” (). The work a reader is asked to do when encounter-
ing a different mode of expression is crucial to a book’s meaning,
and the book may actually have been written to make the reader
do the work. Discussing Rudolfo Anaya’s novel Bless Me Ultima,
Dasenbrock comments, “The reader is thrown into a world of
Spanish without translation or cushioning, and even the monolin-
gual reader moves toward a functional bilingualism, an ability to
understand the world of the novel” (). As the reader moves to-
ward functional bilingualism, however, he or she does not come
to understand everything about the text’s world or language. Thus,
the differences of this culture and its language are signaled and
left present in the text, even as the monolingual reader moves to-
ward functional bilingualism and biculturalism. I would argue that
most readers—even Spanish-speaking ones—when reading Delga-
do’s text (which contains much more Spanish than Anaya’s) will
struggle to make sense of its languages. And this struggle with
multilingualism is crucial to the text’s overall themes: the attempt
   

to birth a new mode of language, and the many languages already
present in the United States.
A ﬁnal way Delgado asks readers to translate the novel and con-
struct its meaning is through the mystery surrounding Louise.
Flores constantly makes enigmatic comments about Louise, telling
us (for example) that she is a ﬁgment of his imagination (), that
she is not real (), but also that she is an address he has picked
out of a telephone book (). At the end of the novel, Flores claims
that two of his letters return to him (). Where are the rest of the
letters? How does this text come to be published? Does he actually
send these letters, in the ﬁrst place? If not, how is it that some of
them come back to him? And why don’t they all come back? Does
Louise retype the letters and publish them herself, as Flores sug-
gests that she do at one point in the novel? Or is Louise entirely a
ﬁction?
I would suggest that Delgado embeds questions such as these
into his text to make the reader a more active and writerly trans-
lator and producer of textual meaning. In a sense, we (the read-
ers) are Louise—the intended audience for the letters. As intended
readers we can choose (or not choose) to translate (receive, accept,
understand, put forward) these letters. The reader, in a way, must
publish the text—decide how it goes from being letters to a book
we are holding in our hands. The reader must, then, actualize the
text—bring it into being through metaphorical and writerly trans-
lation of its ambiguities and its complex language. Like Moraga,
Delgado blurs the line between reader and writer, author and char-
acter, the translated text and the translator. As we struggle with this
text, with the mystery of who Louise is and how the text comes to
exist, as well as with its interlingual mestizaje discourse, we our-
selves once again take up the task of the translator. We can resist
this task, of course, but we cannot fail to be changed by our en-
counter with the interlinguistic space of translation that Delgado’s
novel so vividly portrays.
   immigrant adaptation to the United States, two
metaphors are prevalent: the United States is a “melting pot” where
distinct immigrant cultures and languages are melted away (assimi-
    
lation), or it is a “salad bowl” where individual elements (cucumber,
lettuce, tomatoes, and the like) remain distinctive (isolation). But
I cannot read Delgado’s text—or any of the other texts discussed
in this chapter, for that matter—in terms of either of these meta-
phors. The process these texts describe of languages constantly be-
ing brought into dialogue and tension with each other, as well as
constantly reshaping each other into new formulations, is much
more complex and dialectical than either image suggests. And there
are certainly more than two options, both for the characters within
the text and for the readers of these works. Translation offers a
supple trope that moves beyond this either-or choice, along with
a ﬂuid illustration of how languages and cultures can be brought
together and fused without losing their distinctive elements. Trans-
lation also demonstrates that the concepts of the American and
the ethnic can be renovated and transcoded through a creative,
interlingual tension between these categories and the tongues they
habitually employ. It is precisely this tension that produces a new
mode of language that transcends the sum of its parts.
It is not coincidental, then, that each of the texts discussed in this
chapter asks readers to also become translators, multilingual and
dialogical readers. For it is only “los slow ones”—the readers who
can barely call out a sentence—who do not see the multilingual-
ism of the United States. As Arteaga comments, the United States
is “the site of polyglossia, where multiple national languages inter-
act. English is neither the sole nor original language.” Yet, Arteaga
continues, “U.S. American culture presents itself as an English-
language culture; it espouses a single-language ethos; it strives very
actively to assert a monolingual identity” (). The books discussed
in this chapter, however, insist that readers become aware that the
United States is a multilingual, multicultural society. These texts
move toward a language of translation, subversion, and re-creation
that forces readers into a productive dialogue with the multilin-
guistic story that constitutes the true history of language struggle
in these United—and fortuitously disunited—States of America.
Cultural Translation
and Multilingualism in and out
of Textual Worlds
English has been the most important unifier of our country for the
last 200 years—it’s a symbol of being American, right up there with
the flag, “The Star Spangled Banner,” the Pledge of Allegiance. . . .
You’re free to come here and you’re free to make a life for yourself.
. . . You’re coming here to be an American. Being an American
means you’re going to have to speak English.—Valerie Rheinstein,
spokeswoman for U.S. English, in Jodi Wilgoren,
“Divided by a Call for a Common Language”
We are people of the gaps. Only we know the gaps are where
life really is.—Alfredo Véa, La Maravilla
   , the Brown County Board of Supervisors in Green
Bay, Wisconsin, passed an “English Only” resolution making En-
glish the official language of county government. It joined eleven
other Wisconsin counties and twenty-seven states in adopting En-

  
glish as its “official” language. “Though the movement has gained
strength in recent years as part of a backlash against growing num-
bers of immigrants, it has taken on particular force since Sept. ,
fueled by patriotic fervor and fears about an uncertain economy,”
reports Jodi Wilgoren in the New York Times. The irony of the situa-
tion, of course, is that part of the reason  and  intelligence
failed to detect the September  plot is that they had few transla-
tors who knew both Arabic (a widely spoken language) and En-
glish. States have increasingly disbanded university language pro-
grams that teach “esoteric” languages, and students in the United
States are encouraged to believe that learning a second language is
not a useful skill—that English is a lingua franca that will get them
by in many, if not all, situations. And it will, up to a point. But the
value of learning a second language or maintaining a ﬁrst one has
never been wholly utilitarian, and the importance of keeping eth-
nic and foreign languages alive in the United States—rather than
attempting to eradicate them through English Only legislation or
the abandonment of bilingual education—has never been purely a
matter of governmental functioning. Complicated ideological is-
sues undergird the attempt to eradicate multilingualism and the
possibility of translation. In this chapter I examine how individu-
als have been able to resist this culture’s English Only imperative,
and what enables the survival of ethnic tongues and the ability to
translate.
As Alfred Arteaga argues, the United States presents itself as
aggressively monolingual (). Consideration of English Only leg-
islation and federal and state support for bilingual and “foreign”
language education is one way of assessing the status of multilin-
gualism in the United States, yet another level of multilingualism
and translation exists on the personal, performative, and corporate
level. I begin this chapter by examining “official” U.S. language
policy as represented by support for bilingual education and legal
initiatives for and against multilingualism. I then contrast these
initiatives with “unofficial” language policy: What people do in
their day-to-day lives, how individuals speak or translate (or fail
to translate), what languages corporations and companies employ
to sell products or explain services, and how performance artists,
writers, and novelists preserve multilingualism and the power of
 

cultural and linguistic translation. On the one hand, “official” U.S.
language policy implies that, as Valerie Rheinstein suggests, “being
an American means you’re going to have to speak English” (Wil-
goren), but on the other, more and more individuals are “people of
the gaps” who create from their multilingualism and translations
new forms of language and new ways of life. Perhaps English Only
initiatives are futile attempts to stem a rising tide of U.S. multilin-
gualism. What is clear, however, is that the tension between the
official and the unofficial realms of language policy and usage ani-
mates many of the debates surrounding multilingualism in art, pol-
itics, and society, and that a zone of borderized, translated, trans-
coded, and transmigrated languages and ethnicities persists in spite
of, or perhaps precisely because of, this tension.
Official U.S. Language Policy: Language Loss
The ﬁrst signiﬁcant area to be assessed is bilingual and foreign
language education in the United States today, for without these
types of education, the ability to translate is more likely to be im-
periled by language loss. The United States has increasingly de-
emphasized the teaching of “foreign” languages. According to Lucy
Tse, only one in six students in U.S. colleges enrolls in more than
two years of language study (); one result is that the cia has been
unable to meet its demands for translators (). And recent initia-
tives in some states, such as California and Pennsylvania, have dis-
banded many long-standing bilingual education programs in favor
of English immersion. From a legal standpoint, it is unclear at this
juncture whether students who speak a ﬁrst language other than
English—students with Limited English Proﬁciency, commonly
known by the unfortunate name “lepers”—have a right to instruc-
tion in their native tongue. And yet countless studies have shown
that bilingual education, when it is carefully planned, long term,
and supported by teachers, families, and communities, is the best
way to encourage students to learn English while maintaining their
mother tongue and the ability to translate.1
What, then, has led to
the abandonment of bilingual education in many school districts?
One clear cause is the popular (mis)conception that bilingual
  
education has failed to create individuals ﬂuent in English and the
parent tongue and that speaking a ﬁrst language other than En-
glish and preserving the potential to translate will only hamper
individuals in their adaptation to U.S. society. For example, a New
York Times headline on the front page of its  February  issue
states that “only  percent of Hispanic students earn a four-year
college degree by age , the lowest rate of any group. A study says
culture or language often stand [sic] in the way” (a). But Mireya
Navarro, author of the article itself (on page a), which contains
the headline “For Hispanics, Language and Culture Barriers Can
Further Complicate College,” never discusses how language en-
ables or disables college success, instead citing factors such as tight
family networks, early pregnancy, the need to contribute to family
income, poor secondary schooling, lack of role models, and pov-
erty. The actual report—by Richard Fry of the Pew Hispanic Cen-
ter (phc)—only mentions language issues in the context of “for-
eign born Latinos.”2
Nonetheless, the implication of the New York
Times headline is clear: bilingualism and lack of ﬂuency in English
is a problem for Hispanics, one that “causes” them to be unable to
ﬁnish college and (by extension) prosper in U.S. society. Articles
such as these fuel the popular (mis)conception that bilingual edu-
cation has been a “failure” and that the ability to translate should
not be maintained.
Yet research has shown the converse. Students who have a high
degree of literacy in their mother tongue manifest higher levels of
literacy in English, as well as greater cognitive functioning; bilin-
gualism has also been shown in numerous studies to enhance meta-
linguistic awareness, creativity, independent thinking, and concept
formation (Soto –). One qualiﬁcation must be made: bilingual
education promotes English literacy skills when it is presented
as additive (rather than subtractive) in focus—that is, when it is
geared to the maintenance and enhancement of the ﬁrst tongue
while the second is added and when it is phased in over a num-
ber of years.3
The current U.S. policy of English immersion used
(for example) in California favors a “subtractive” approach to bi-
lingual education in which the child’s mother tongue is displaced
as quickly as possible by English; often the capacity to translate is
then quickly lost as well. But “additive bilingualism” (also known
 

as “language maintenance”) has been shown to increase English
literacy and certain metalinguistic abilities. “Subtractive bilingual-
ism,” on the other hand, is associated with low self-esteem, parent-
child conﬂict, and the diminishment of literacy. Certainly works
such as “Pangs of Love” (discussed in Chapter ) and Indian Killer
(discussed in Chapter ) illustrate that when children displace the
mother tongue with English and cannot translate, dire interper-
sonal consequences result. And these interpersonal consequences
can lead to racial and ethnic violence.
The belief that bilingual education does not work, however, has
been clearly implanted in the public’s mind. One reason for this
may have to do with the types of bilingual education advocated.
English immersion, which usually asks the students to stop using
the mother tongue in schools in one year, sometimes leads to the
mastery of English, yet it also often destroys the ability to use the
mother tongue and causes other negative consequences. “Quick
exit” bilingual education (as it is sometimes called), then, does not
work (Cummings ). A similarly negative effect has been found
in “transitional” bilingual education. In these programs, the stu-
dent is allowed to use the mother tongue for a certain stipulated
period of time (usually two or three years) while he or she learns
English. But after this time period, the student is expected to tran-
sition completely to courses taught only in English. This type of
education also has adverse results; the transition to an English Only
curriculum is jarring, and the mastery of English is no better than
with English immersion programs. Furthermore, since in most
cases it takes at least six years to master a new language thoroughly,
the students involved in this type of program may become what
Pérez Firmat characterizes as nilingües: individuals with ﬂuency
in neither English nor the mother tongue (Life ), people who
are “homeless in two languages” (Life ). The public and the me-
dia may tend to confuse these two types of bilingual education—
immersion and transitional—and conclude that bilingual educa-
tion does not work. And both methods do fail. Therefore, immer-
sion is usually chosen, since it is cheaper and requires less teacher
training.4
Yet there is a third type of bilingual education that is more effec-
tive: language maintenance. In this type of learning, the curricu-
  
lum is typically divided between English and the mother tongue
at ﬁrst in something like a / percent or / percent split
(i.e.,  percent of the subject material is taught in English, while
 percent is taught in Spanish). Gradually, over time (six years or
more), the proportion of classes taught exclusively in English is in-
creased but the second language is always part of the curriculum.
With such an approach a student who enters school speaking (but
not writing) Spanish would eventually learn to write it, while also
mastering English. In other words, the ability to translate would
be maintained. In some programs, English-speaking students are
also encouraged to become bilingual; these “two-way” programs in
which all students have instruction in two languages and sometimes
even in the process of translation have excellent educational results.
Many studies demonstrate that maintenance bilingual education is
the most effective form of bilingual education.5
In addition, cer-
tain immigrant communities throughout the history of the United
States have maintained schools of their own (either during the day
or after school) to teach the native tongue. Hebrew schools, Chi-
nese schools, and (more recently) Korean schools have attempted to
impart the values and language of the parent culture and the ability
to engage in linguistic or cultural translation, with no dire educa-
tional consequences to the students’ learning of English.
If bilingual education and bilingual literacy enables, rather than
disables, learning English, why has it been such a contentious sub-
ject? As noted above, some individuals may compare immersion
bilingual education with transitional bilingual education and con-
clude that they are both equal, but the third alternative—language
maintenance bilingual education—is not considered. Of course,
these programs are costly, but is this the reason for the dislike? In
fact, the reasons may be more ideological than economic. As Marc
Shell comments, language is often a test for race (), and when
people speak of abolishing bilingual education, they are trying to
eradicate the presence of something they perceive as foreign, alien,
other, and racialized. Language minority populations are often
viewed negatively (Soto ), particularly when they are not from
European countries. And since their language is viewed negatively,
as something to be eradicated, preserving the language or the capa-
bility for translation is not seen as an important or vital goal.
 

In the course of my research I spent some time observing a com-
munity of Russian Jewish immigrants who live in Cleveland. Most
spoke English relatively well and used it in public, but they clearly
preferred to use Russian in private. The children of this immi-
grant group—who were either born here or arrived before the age
of ﬁve—were bilingual, and the expectation of the parents was that
they would remain so. In some cases the children acted as trans-
lators for the parents. The oldest generation—most of whom had
immigrated in their s—spoke no English. Yet the multilingual-
ism and translative ability of this community of affluent, highly
educated, and (it needs to be stated) Caucasian immigrants was
never challenged. In Hunger of Memory, Richard Rodriguez reports
that nuns came to his house and demanded that his parents speak
only English at home; his parents, who had only a high school edu-
cation, quickly obeyed. I cannot imagine this happening to this
highly educated and literate group of Russian immigrants, and if it
had they would likely not have complied. Immigrant groups from
Europe have generally had more control over the preservation of
the mother tongue, while the bilingualism or multilingualism of
immigrant groups who are racialized is perceived as more problem-
atic, more disruptive of the social fabric of the United States. Of
course, education levels and class inﬂuence the treatment of “mi-
nority” languages, but race is always a salient and crucial character-
istic that impinges on which languages are valued and deemed to
be worthy of preservation and translation.
One reason for the dislike of bilingual education, then, is cer-
tainly race, along with the fact that the largest immigrant groups
currently speak a language that is not viewed as having high social
prestige—Spanish. As Lourdes Diaz Soto comments, bilingualism
can be viewed as a national “problem” or a cultural resource (–),
yet Americans currently fear bilingualism and bilingual education
(xvii). Political and economic uncertainty also typically have con-
tributed to fear of multilingualism, as Susan Dicker argues: “At
moments in U.S. history in which economic and/or political inse-
curity plague the nation, immigrants and American-born minority-
language speakers serve as targets for the fear and anger felt by
English-speaking Americans. Allowing non-English languages to
ﬂourish appears to jeopardize the status quo of the dominance of
  
English and those who speak it” (). Thus the fear exists that the
“alien” other will rip the social and economic fabric of the United
States with a foreign and disruptive babble that the dominant soci-
ety cannot translate. Yet most immigrants do quickly adapt to the
linguistic situation of the United States and master English. Of-
ten the mother tongue is forgotten in three generations and some-
times even two: typically the ﬁrst generation speaks primarily in
the mother tongue, the second is bilingual, and the third speaks
mainly English. Ninety-seven percent of the people in the United
States, according to Geoffrey Nunberg, speak English well, “a level
of linguistic homogeneity unsurpassed by any other large nation in
history” (). And many can no longer translate or even function
in a multilingual context (Nunberg ). The United States has no
need to fear becoming, in Theodore Roosevelt’s words, a hetero-
glot boardinghouse, and yet it does fear this. And so it attempts to
eradicate minority languages.
The reality of the situation is that good bilingual schools can
create literate, intelligent, multilingual citizens whose translative
skills help them function efficiently in a transnational world com-
munity—a world community that is itself most often multilingual.
Lily Wong Fillmore, a noted expert on bilingual education, argues
that “second language learning does not result in the loss of the pri-
mary language everywhere. But it does often enough in societies
like the United States and Canada where linguistic or ethnic diver-
sity is not especially valued. Despite our considerable pride in our
diverse multicultural origins, Americans are not comfortable with
either kind of diversity in our society” (“When Learning” ). A
good bilingual education policy focused on maintenance could
lead the United States into the new millennium (Soto xvii). Such
a policy would give students additional channels for voice (Wiley,
Literacy ) and additional cognitive resources (Kwong ). Bilin-
gualism and translation enable cognitive growth and should be en-
couraged and valued.
It might seem that the English Only movement takes the United
States in the wrong direction in terms of preservation of multi-
lingualism and the capacity for translation, yet the debates sur-
rounding these initiatives and the formation of a countermovement
known as “English Plus” have perhaps served a positive social func-
 

tion in that they have forced individuals, communities, government
groups, teachers, and others to reﬂect on the value of multilingual-
ism in the United States.6
Nunberg argues that English Only ini-
tiatives have functioned primarily as a way of registering symbolic
displeasure with immigrants and multiculturalism (), and it is
perhaps no coincidence that one prominent English Only founder
has expressed racist views against Hispanics. The ideological un-
derpinnings of the English Only movement are indeed insidious.
Languages rights are part of human rights, and the genocide of a
language is often allied with the genocide of a people (Rhydwen
).7
English Only initiatives attempt to kill “foreign” languages
and cultural and linguistic translation capabilities; with this loss, a
way of life and a symbolic means of identity construction for many
ethnic peoples may also be destroyed.
Furthermore, there are certainly many instances in the past when
languages have been lost. James Crawford’s statistics demonstrate
that today, most “Native American languages are becoming endan-
gered species” ();  percent of indigenous languages are now
considered “moribund.” Language loss in the United States has oc-
curred within all ethnic groups. In an extensive study of language
shift in the United States, well-known sociologist Calvin Veltman
argues that “all American language minorities in all regions of the
United States exhibit high levels of anglicisation . . . [and] strong
willingness to accommodate their language behavior to that of the
American environment. They are not only disposed to learning the
English language, and to learning it well; they are disposed to mak-
ing English their principal language of use, while many go still fur-
ther and abandon the use of their mother tongue” (Language ).
According to Veltman, the vast majority of the native-born genera-
tion eventually “abandons the minority language” (Language )
and, one would postulate, the ability to translate. Some people to-
day claim that Hispanics have been slow to abandon their mother
tongue, but that is not precisely the case. Continued immigration
from Mexico, Cuba, and other Spanish-speaking countries has made
it seem as if these immigrant groups persist in speaking Spanish.
However, evidence indicates that native-born Hispanics have ad-
opted English more rapidly, and in greater numbers, than in the
past (Veltman, “Mosaic” ). Most Hispanics can translate between
  
English and Spanish at this point, but it is very unclear whether
this will be the case in the future (Valdés ). “Spanglish” is also
a creative style of communication in which Spanish and English
are mixed, but several inﬂuential studies have suggested that even
Spanglish is abandoned over time and that the third generation of
Hispanics will speak mainly English.8
It is clear that given the current situation and U.S. policies,
multilingualism and the possibility of translation are in danger.9
Without translation, ethnicity cannot be transcoded, and tongues
cannot be transmigrated. According to Crawford, language death
does not happen in privileged communities but rather “to the dis-
posed and disempowered, peoples who most need their cultural re-
sources to survive.” We should care about preventing language ex-
tinction, then, because of the “human costs to those most directly
affected” (Crawford ).10
But there are also social costs: some
studies suggest that multilingual societies are generally more toler-
ant of diversity and have lower levels of ethnic strife (Varennes ).
The attempt to translate between languages may in and of itself
foster an appreciation for how diverse languages function and for
how different languages can become powerful social and cultural
resources.
The United States now has a choice: to foster linguistic diversity
and the ability to translate, or to persist in seeing “foreign” lan-
guages as a problem that must be eradicated. In fact, some states
have already taken positive steps. Several states have passed legisla-
tion requiring foreign language instruction from elementary grades
through high school, and some states require foreign language ﬂu-
ency for graduation from secondary schools (Ricento ). New
Mexico and Hawaii have declared themselves officially bilingual,
and four states (New Mexico, Washington, Oregon, and Rhode
Island) and a multitude of local communities have passed English
Plus ordinances. The English Plus movement is dedicated to the
idea that ﬁrst tongues should be preserved as English is added to
the linguistic repertoire.11
The number of states that have passed
these ordinances is small, but evidence shows that when English
Plus initiatives are presented in response to English Only ones,
voters do not favor English Only in as large numbers. This sup-
ports a point that Lily Wong Fillmore has also made: at this junc-
 

ture in U.S. history, we can either emphasize language shift (loss
of languages other than English) or language maintenance (“When
Learning” ). Furthermore, at the current moment, English Only
has numerous opponents (Edwards –) and little binding legal
force, so opportunities to preserve multilingualism and the ability
to translate are present.12
What interventions have been staged? Some groups have pro-
posed adding to the U.S. Constitution a Cultural Rights Amend-
ment (cra) that would protect the rights of immigrant and minor-
ity groups to engage in their own cultural practices. Perhaps what
the United States needs, however, is not a cra but an lra—a Lan-
guage Rights Amendment, modeled on that of other nations and
geared to protecting the multilingualism of its citizenry:
Whereas the genocide of a language eradicates a people’s
way of conceiving of the world and interacting with each other;
Whereas language rights have been universally accepted as a
human right by the United States and other un nations;
Whereas languages should be preserved as an important
symbolic and cultural resource, rather than eradicated;
The United States therefore affirms that linguistic minorities
in the United States have the right to keep their ﬁrst tongues
while acquiring English and other languages.
The United States also resolves to promote bilingualism,
multilingualism, and translation skills among all students and
the population as a whole by whatever means are available,
including English as a Second Language (esl) programs, main-
tenance bilingual education, and reinforcement of funding in
higher education for language study.
The United States also resolves to value the linguistic
diversity of it population and to protect and enhance linguistic
diversity by whatever methods are possible and productive.
Such an amendment might eventually lead to an effective bilin-
gual education program for all students that would make bilingual-
ism the norm and increase the ability to value other cultural tra-
ditions.13
Furthermore, as numerous individuals have pointed out,
most of the world is multilingual (Dicker ), so a political re-
orientation in which multilingualism and translation are valued is
  
worth working for. It is clear, however, that in the official realm of
language policy, such a reorientation has not yet occurred.
Unofficial U.S. Language Policy:
Language Maintenance and Translation
Because of the factors listed above, many people give up their mul-
tilingualism and become unable (metaphorically and actually) to
translate between cultures and languages. Yet other alternatives
are present in the subversive and transcultured realm of what I call
“unofficial language policy.” Unofficially, many parts of the United
States are now bilingual or, as Richard Rodriguez points out in
Brown, trilingual. It is rare these days to call a local or a national
business—phone companies, utilities, corporations, nonproﬁt agen-
cies, and so forth—and not be given the option of hearing infor-
mation in Spanish. My Puffs tissue box has Family Cold Tip #
(Conseil anti-rhume # / Consejo para los Resfríos Familiares #)
to “strengthen your immune system by getting extra rest, proper
nutrition, and moderate exercise” written in three languages: En-
glish, French, and Spanish. The Tonight Show, with Jay Leno, now
has Spanish subtitles which come on automatically and which the
viewer must turn off if she or he does not wish to see them. Multi-
national corporations and corporate America appear to be adapting
themselves to an unofficial bilingualism in the United States that by
its very nature advocates an English Plus stance. Furthermore, the
vast majority of the literature I have discussed in this book—both
ﬁctional and nonﬁctional—promotes an English Plus agenda rather
than an English Only one and deploys the trope of translation as
an actual or metaphorical practice for creating multilingualism. In
this section, I focus on speciﬁc ethnic communities that have main-
tained their bilingualism or the capability to translate. They illus-
trate how the United States can come to value its “native” tongue,
which is not English Only but English Plus: Spanglish, Ringlish,
Franglais, Portinglês, Yinglish, Italgish, and Konglish.14
It is worth noting here that in the past, certain groups, when
given the chance, have done an excellent job of preserving or creat-
ing bilingualism by unofficial means. As Nessa Wolfson explains,
 

the official policy of the United States in the early part of its history
was to destroy all Native American languages and cultures ().15
Susan Power illustrates in The Grass Dancer (discussed in Chapter
) that when native individuals were removed from their tribe and
educated in missionary schools, they quickly forgot how to trans-
late between English and the native tongue, and studies show that
“official” U.S. government policy did have this result. The Chero-
kee people, however, developed a written form of their language
and then, in the early nineteenth century, established a system of
bilingual education in Oklahoma. The education led to high levels
of literacy in both the Cherokee language and English; in fact, the
Cherokee educated under this method had a higher rate of literacy
in English than the English-speaking populations of neighboring
Texas and Arkansas (Wolfson ). Unfortunately, at this point the
U.S. government decided to dismantle the bilingual schools and
send the students to all-English boarding schools away from their
reservations (Dicker –). The literacy rate of the Cherokees in
English then declined rapidly, and the mother tongue was almost
lost. This example illustrates that bilingualism and translation can
be effectively promoted on the grassroots, community level—but
only in the face of a benign (rather than adversarial) government
policy.
Perhaps such a benign attitude is seen in the current treatment of
Chinese Americans. As Xiao-huang Yin points out, since the s
there has been a renaissance in the United States of Chinese publi-
cations written in Chinese, and Chinese-language journals, news-
papers, and works of ﬁction have proliferated (). Furthermore,
the Chinese immigrant community and Chinese Americans have
a very strong history of language maintenance. In , for exam-
ple,  percent of Chinese Americans spoke Chinese at home; this
ﬁgure includes both immigrants to the United States and the native
born (Paisano ). There are a number of reasons for this: there has
been a steady inﬂux of immigrants over the past two hundred years;
residential patterns (living in or near immigrant communities) have
encouraged language maintenance; and intermarriage has been low.
Cultural forces have also contributed to the maintenance of Chi-
nese: “The Chinese culture places high value on group support and
interaction; social organizations hold the Chinese together and re-
  
mind them of their roots. The extended family also works as a unit,
with older members caring for the young and passing down knowl-
edge of culture and language” (Dicker ; see also Wong and Lopéz
– and Xia). Another factor is certainly the rising sociopoliti-
cal and socioeconomic status of the Chinese, both in the United
States and in the People’s Republic of China (prc). Many studies
indicate that Chinese-language maintenance is highest among the
most ﬁnancially successful Chinese Americans. Furthermore, as
Sau-Ling Cynthia Wong and M. G. López point out, the business
successes of “Greater China” (usually deﬁned as the prc, Taiwan,
and Hong Kong) and of “diasporic Chinese” with their network
of transnational capital have created attractive job opportunities
for Chinese American bilinguals (–). During the s bilin-
gual Chinese Americans sometimes found better job opportunities
in Asia than in the United States, and this certainly contributed to
maintenance of the Chinese language.
In addition to these social and economic factors, however, over
which cultures may have little or no control, there is a ﬁnal factor:
the role of Chinese-language schools. Kingston describes attending
these schools in The Woman Warrior (discussed in Chapter ), and
perhaps this is how she attains her ability to translate her moth-
er’s Chinese language and stories. Chinese schools typically teach
Chinese language, history, and culture to American-born children.
Wong and López document that enrollment in these schools rose
in the s and s and that Chinese-language maintenance ap-
pears to have acquired a positive connotation for society, Chinese
immigrants, and Chinese American children (). Like the exam-
ple of Cherokee bilingualism, it becomes clear that schools run by
the community can have a positive impact on language mainte-
nance and translation facility. Similar examples of successful com-
munity efforts to preserve the parent tongue and culture through
education are found among Korean American second-generation
individuals (Min ), Romanians (Roceric –), and Russian
American immigrants (Hinkel ).
What the Chinese, Russian, Romanian, and Korean American
communities appear to possess is social and economic capital; they
have the ﬁnancial ability to set up private schools and send their
children there and the basic understanding of how education might
 

protect, rather than destroy, their culture and language. What of
impoverished communities who lack this economic or social capi-
tal? Several recent studies have indicated that cultural capital—the
ability to see the ethnic culture as conveying valuable knowledge
and support—is also important in language maintenance and trans-
lation skills. A case study in Canada conducted by Bonny Norton,
for example, compares women from different communities, some
of whom maintained their language and some of whom did not. In
particular, she highlights the contrast between Mai (a woman from
Vietnam) and Katarina (a woman from Poland). In Mai’s family
the younger children assimilated rapidly into English monolingual-
ism, while the older generation did not. The older generation, who
could not communicate with their children, experienced depres-
sion and eventually moved out of the family household to work
as live-ins for other families. Finally, the fabric of family life was
destroyed: “In Mai’s extended family, I observed a breakdown of
social relationships and a situation in which parents had difficulty
conversing with their children.” In Katarina’s family, however, the
child was “learning English with no loss of her mother tongue”
().
Norton argues that these differences have less to do with eco-
nomic or material resources and more to do with cultural and sym-
bolic ones: “Over time, Mai’s brother grew to believe that Viet-
namese people did not share equality with White Canadians and
that the Vietnamese language had little value in Canadian society”
(). Katarina, on the other hand, always felt that it was imperative
that her daughter maintain Polish; as Norton explains, “the Polish
language meant more to Katarina than a link to the past—it was an
essential link to her future and her identity as a mother” (). Pol-
ish was not a denigrated language, and Katarina never felt stigma-
tized for her ethnic heritage. She also saw the need to engage in acts
of linguistic and cultural translation, for without these acts her cul-
ture would be lost to her daughter. Certainly, economic factors play
into language maintenance, but other factors are equally salient. If
a language is denigrated by society or by individual speakers of the
language (parents or children), it is unlikely to survive.
A similar ﬁnding is presented by Min Zhou and Carl Bankston,
  
who demonstrate that an ethnic culture and language can be either
a source of “social capital” or a source of shame, depending on how
the dominant culture views the ethnic group and on how members
of this group promote or prohibit the ethnic language. Zhou and
Bankston cite a number of studies that indicate that “ethnic group
membership and retention of original culture patterns can create
sources of adaptive advantages . . . ; ethnicity may be utilized as a
distinct form of social capital” (). They deﬁne social capital as
“systems of social networks inherent in the structure of relations
among persons within a collectivity” (). More important, per-
haps, social capital within the family and the community generate
human capital in the second generation. In other words, close fam-
ily and community relationships within an ethnic group can allow
both the preservation of language and culture and a higher social
status, level of economic wealth, or educational attainment.
To test these ideas, Zhou and Bankston examine the Vietnam-
ese American community of Eastern New Orleans using census
data, newspaper reports, interviews, and a survey of Vietnamese
youth attending a neighborhood public school. In this second-
generation population of high school students, they found that
“Vietnamese students display high levels of ethnic involvement on
all of our indicators. Over  percent spoke Vietnamese at home;
 percent of them reported that they were able to read and write
Vietnamese well; over half of them unequivocally identiﬁed as Viet-
namese rather than Vietnamese American or American;  percent
reported that their close friends were mostly Vietnamese; and 
percent said that they were likely to marry someone of Vietnam-
ese origin” (). Despite the low socioeconomic status of this im-
migrant group, the second generation maintained a high degree of
ethnic involvement and language to form what Zhou and Bankston
term “a coherent complex of immigrant culture” (). The rea-
sons for this maintenance of language and culture are complex, but
Zhou and Bankston theorize that the ethnic culture provides so-
cial capital that facilitates the adaptation of Vietnamese children to
American schools and society. The ethnic culture can foster ideals
such as commitment to a work ethic, to educational success, and to
the ethnic community. Ethnicity and maintenance of ethnic lan-
 

guage are therefore seen as contributing to success in the United
States, rather than inhibiting it, despite external negative views of
ethnicity and the Vietnamese tongue.
These studies illustrate a point I have made throughout this
book: maintenance of ethnic heritage and language clearly con-
nects to social issues (how particular races are viewed and socio-
economic status), but individual and cultural values are implicated
in powerful ways as well. Recall that in some of the literary texts
I have discussed, the characters finally make a choice to learn to
translate, but this choice is made only after the characters decide
the ethnic heritage is worth transcoding—that it provides impor-
tant social, cultural, or human capital. Such a decision goes against
what Thomas Ricento calls the dominant national language pol-
icy in the United States. According to Ricento, “the idea that the
maintenance of immigrant and indigenous languages and cultures
is intrinsically valuable, let alone that it makes social or economic
sense, is a relatively alien notion for most native, and even assimi-
lated, Americans” (–). Certainly, negative policies on the part
of government or social stigmatization of particular ethnic groups
contributes to language loss. But in the unofficial realm of lan-
guage policy, it is also clear that individuals sometimes choose to
resist these negative ideas and to see their ethnic language and cul-
ture as valuable, as worthy of translation and transmigration.
What enables this choice? Certainly access to good bilingual
education programs and the parents’ ability to continue to use the
ethnic tongue in the home are crucial, as case studies conducted
by Heloisa Souza on Brazilian children indicate. One study done
among a very vulnerable population also illustrates that ethnic pride
can be crucial in language maintenance. Lourdes Diaz Soto spent
nine years observing bilingual Puerto Rican American families in
a town in Pennsylvania. She highlights in particular certain “suc-
cess stories”—families that prospered economically, educationally,
or socially. One feature these families shared was a desire to raise
bilingual children: “The families described a dialectical relation-
ship between the home language and the home culture. As families
faced the challenge of initiating a home learning environment capa-
ble of encouraging and enhancing linguistic and cultural learning,
they described how they implemented a variety of approaches. The
  
families with a background in education, for example, advocated
a ‘one parent–one language’ approach [in which one parent spoke
Spanish to the children at all times while the other spoke English]
and initiated this bilingual approach at birth” (). Language was
crucially connected to the ability to be “proud of the Puerto Rican
heritage” and aware of “cultural and historical accomplishments” of
Puerto Ricans (). The families also felt that the schools needed
to model ways of encouraging linguistic and cultural integrity (–
). Some of these changes involve ﬁnancial resources (that is, im-
plementing effective bilingual education programs), but others are
cognitive: shifting how the schools think about the children’s bilin-
gualism. Spanish speakers in the United States as a whole are ex-
tremely vulnerable to language loss; they sometimes lack the socio-
economic resources of other immigrant populations, and Spanish is
clearly perceived as a dispreferred language. Yet these success sto-
ries indicate that families can sometimes still promote bilingual-
ism and a bicultural identity for the children.
Translation itself is one of the ways that tolerance and respect
for linguistic diversity can be encouraged. As argued in the dis-
cussion of the Ebonics controversy, in schools translation can be a
way teachers ask students to shift between languages without aban-
doning languages and to see languages as distinct resources. Katy
Mei-Kuen Kwong, a Cantonese bilingual high school teacher who
works in the public school system of Malden, Massachusetts, also
uses translation in her classes. She documents a number of peda-
gogical beneﬁts to the bilingual education program used, in which
some subjects (math, science, and social studies) are taught in Can-
tonese, while students also take English as a Second Language
courses: transfer of previous skills, learning English faster, easier
student adjustment to the new environment, and students devel-
oping a healthy bicultural identity and taking pride in their native
language (). Translation is used by Kwong to promote some of
these skills: “My students are also learning special skills, such as
translation. The ability to translate from English to Chinese and
vice versa improves students’ metalinguistic awareness, strengthens
their understanding of the structure of both languages, and devel-
ops translation skills that they may use in a future career” ().
Even small interventions that promote translation can have good
 

results. Lucy Tse discusses a program in which librarians at an eth-
nically diverse school added non-English-language books to the li-
brary holdings and encouraged teachers to use them in their class-
rooms. Some teachers began having their non-English-language
students read and translate poems and stories from these books
for their monolingual classmates. These translation exercises bene-
ﬁted both groups of speakers; the non-English language was vali-
dated, while monolingual children gained access to “a whole world
they didn’t know about” (). Tse concludes that “this program not
only promoted heritage language development, but also brought
about school validation of the students’ linguistic and cultural
backgrounds” (). Multiethnic literature, in and of itself, can pro-
mote such conﬁdence and pride through translation. When I teach
Moraga’s Loving in the War Years in my ethnic literature classes, I
often ask students who speak Spanish to translate phrases for the
class. This gives them a source of pride and a level of “expertise”
that many of them do not normally experience in their day-to-day
interactions with faculty, students, and the general public.
Translation and multilingualism have not, then, been eradicated
from U.S. culture; they persist in an unofficial realm of corpora-
tions, speakers, parents, educators, and communities that value and
promote diverse linguistic backgrounds. Artists also preserve mul-
tilingualism through the creation of border zones and border lan-
guages and through transmigration of music, art, and discourse.
This preservation of multilingualism and the possibilities of trans-
lation to remake the dominant discourse are evident in the perfor-
mance videos and works of the artist/activist Guillermo Gómez-
Peña. Indirectly, Gómez-Peña revises the concept of the “native
speaker” and the native speaker’s voice. I conclude the chapter with
a brief assessment of this term as presented and renovated in Chang-
rae Lee’s novel Native Speaker ().
Translation and the Performance of the
Unofficial Multilingualism of the Border Zone
So far in this chapter I have explicated a tension between the “offi-
cial” (public, legislative, educational, and governmental) zone of
  
language policy, which favors monolingualism, and the “unoffi-
cial” (private, communal, artistic, and social) realm of language
usage, which favors multilingualism. These tensions are both em-
bodied and to some extent dismantled in the performance art of
Guillermo Gómez-Peña.16
Gómez-Peña creates texts and videos
that unofficially endorse multilingualism, but he also tries to stage
at least half of his multilingual performances in public spaces—
restrooms, elevators, sidewalks, and even borders themselves (such
as the border between Mexico and the United States); he thereby
attempts to enter the official (public) zone of language policy with
his works and indeed to dismantle the line between the public and
the private, the official and the unofficial, the “minority” language
and the dominant discourse. Three texts in particular document
Gómez-Peña’s work as a cultural translator: the collections War-
rior for Gringostroika () and The New World Border: Prophecies,
Poems and Loqueras for the End of the Century (), and the per-
formance video Border Brujo (). I will center my discussion of
these very diverse and multilayered works around three concepts:
the role of art and the artist as a cultural translator, the nature
and necessity for a “borderized” future and a border aesthetic, and
the role of multilingualism and translation in creating the so-called
New World Border.
As I have already hinted, Gómez-Peña’s work effectively strad-
dles the line between politics and art, the private and the public,
and the language of hegemony and the “disenfranchised” voice of
the “minority” artist/cultural translator. In  Gómez-Peña sat
on a toilet in a public restroom in California and read “Spanglish
poetry” (New World ); he wanted to “bring performance and lan-
guage into unusual contexts, and to disrupt people’s sense of the
quotidian” (New World ), as I am sure he did. By introducing
Spanglish into a public zone, he embodies but also undermines the
tension between public and private spaces and the languages nor-
mally utilized in these spaces. Spanglish itself is a hybrid tongue—a
mixture of Spanish and English, the minority language and the
language of hegemony, the public discourse of the nation and the
private discourse of the (Spanish) home. Introducing this hybrid
public/private discourse into a space that is both public and private
(a bathroom is usually private but a public restroom is not nec-
 

essarily a “room of one’s own”) undermines multiple separations
“traditionally” made in culture. Such a scene both stages and un-
dermines the tension between “official” language policy and the
“unofficial” zone of multilingualism. Gómez-Peña views his per-
formance art as a strategy of “social communication” and “cultural
translation” (Warrior ).
In performance pieces such as this, Gómez-Peña in fact creates a
border zone between language realms. He also gives artists/activists
a central role in political and social change on the linguistic bor-
der: “Border artists use experimental techniques and performance-
derived practices to intervene directly in the world” (Warrior );
“Thousands of artists of color in the United States, Canada, and
Europe are currently crossing different kinds of borders. And as
they do it, they are making a new kind of art, an art of fusion and
displacement that shatters the distorting mirrors of the ‘Western
avant-garde’” (Warrior ). Artists and cultural translators create
new kinds of art that move toward a future in which the border will
not necessarily disappear but will be constantly changing, evolving,
and moving. The border, then, is a space of translation, syncretism,
critique, and multilingualism, a malleable “intellectual laboratory”
(Warrior ). Gómez-Peña also presents the border as a new linguis-
tic and social frontier, or frontera: “[Border culture] also means hy-
brid art forms for new contents-in-gestation . . . ; an art against the
monolingües. . . . But it also means to be ﬂuid in English, Spanish,
Spanglish, and Ingeñol, ’cause Spanglish is the language of border
diplomacy” (Warrior ). Spanglish is “the language of border di-
plomacy” because it both embodies and undermines tensions be-
tween the “dominant” culture and the “marginal” one, the domi-
nant discourse and the “disempowered” one. Later I discuss in more
detail the fundamental role translation and multilingualism play
in/at the border, especially in terms of the creation of new art
forms, but here I want to note that the border is (or rather can be)
the space for new art forms and “ﬂuid” languages, new forms of
identity, new interactions between the “self ” and the “other,” and
new communications between the various versions of the self that
the performance artist and the individual confront and manipulate
daily. It is important too that those who watch and engage with
Gómez-Peña’s works become border crossers themselves and part
  
of border culture and its languages: “The so-called dominant cul-
ture is no longer dominant. Today, if there is a dominant culture,
it is border culture. And those who still haven’t crossed a border
will do it very soon. . . . As you read this text, you are crossing a
border” (Warrior –). Through the text and the performance
of the text the reader crosses geographic, cultural, and linguistic
borders that parallel the constantly shifting borders of the world
outside the text.
As a performer and writer, Gómez-Peña constantly employs
multilingualism and translation, speaking or writing in English,
Spanish, Spanglais, French, and Nahuatl and in tongues. The video
Border Brujo, for example, ends (unlike the text published in War-
rior for Gringostroika) with Gómez-Peña speaking in tongues and
then descending into a moody silence. The video itself is often
ﬁlmed in close-up and makes Gómez-Peña’s mobile, multilingual
mouth and tongue a strong component and even a character in
the narrative or perhaps disnarrative of Border Brujo, the border
witch or sorcerer, who “unfolds into ﬁfteen different personae, each
speaking a different border language” (Warrior ). So the loss of
the voice at ﬁlm’s end disorients the viewer as we confront (in si-
lence) the ﬁnal persona of the ﬁlm. What Gómez-Peña attempts to
translate and perform in the video is the loss of his “original” lan-
guage and culture. But out of this loss emerges new, more experi-
mental and multilingual languages and cultures. Out of the loss
comes “a proposal for new creative languages” (Warrior ), as he
says in another essay—languages that will reﬂect both the loss and
the gain of living on borders and in translation. Like some of the
communities discussed in the prior section of this chapter, then,
Gómez-Peña remains committed to the possibilities of multilin-
gualism and translation, and like the writers discussed in previous
chapters, he is committed to the transmigration and re-creation of
both the “mother” tongue and hegemonic discourses.
To embody this renovation and transmigration of language,
Gómez-Peña codeswitches and fuses languages to illustrate that
new modes of discourse can be created by the interplay of dialects
and tongues. Codeswitching is sometimes used for humor and
sometimes to draw the (monolingual) reader into the text and teach
him or her to translate, as in the following clever multilingual puns:
 

“Don’t worry, be Hopi” and “Selena forever reina” (New World ).
Codeswitching and language mixing also create bridges between
writer and reader, Chicano/a and Anglo, Chicano/a and Spanish:
“Bon soir rrazza. Bienvenue a esta mamada. . . . Such a paradox:
A Mexican speaking bad English, and a Chicano speaking awful
Spanish, two confused generations onstage, in search of an impos-
sible bridge, an original image, a glimpse of hope . . . c’est dom-
mage!” (New World –). This passage, with codeswitches and
mixes between Spanish, Spanglish, English, and French, also thema-
tizes the idea that discourse can become “an impossible bridge . . . a
glimpse of hope” between different peoples and languages. Gómez-
Peña uses translation, codeswitching, Spanglish poetry, and even
“Ingleñol,” which Gómez-Peña describes as “made-up English”
(Warrior ), to create links between the dominant culture and the
“suppressed” one. Most radically, The New World Border includes
a glossary, but it does not translate Spanish to English (or vice
versa) but rather borderizes and transmigrates both languages. The
“Glossary of Borderismos” contains words such as “gringostroika”
(a fusion of Russian and Spanish), deﬁned as “a continental grass-
roots movement that advocates the complete economic and cultural
reform of the U.S. Anarcho-capitalism,” and “Funkahuatl” (a com-
bination of English, Spanish, and Nahautl), deﬁned as “the Aztec
god of funk and night life” (). Spanglish or Ingleñol terms such
as “el othercide” (New World ) or “waspbacks” (New World )
are also invented by Gómez-Peña, who himself constantly renovates
and transmigrates tongues.
The reader or watcher of a Gómez-Peña work of art is constantly
forced, then, to translate, to cross borders, and to move toward
a multilingual zone. For example, in the performance work “The
New World Border,” from which Gómez-Peña’s later book takes
its title, performed with Roberto Sifuentes, Sifuentes’s character
keeps asking for a translation of Gómez-Peña’s Spanish and Span-
glish, which Gómez-Peña refuses. Finally, according to the program
notes, members of the audience begin to answer in response to
Sifuentes’s repeated demands for “Translation please!” (). Au-
dience members become translators and also part of a multilin-
gual society, if but for a moment. In another performance piece
from this collection, “The Last Migration: A Spanglish Opera (in
  
progress),” Gómez-Peña also incorporates the process of transla-
tion: “Dear audience: / in order to continue this performance, /
I demand a translator, de ya! / is there anyone out there in perfor-
mance limbo / who speaks German with a Mexican accent?” (New
World ). After calling for a translator, the persona then asks the
audience to become the translator, by saying “out loud” with the
performer:
México es California
Marruecos es Madrid
Pakistan es Londres. . . .
Centroamérica es Los Angeles. . . .
your house is also mine
your language mine as well
& your heart will be mine
one of these nights. (–)
Quite literally, the audience is asked to speak Spanish, but more
metaphorically, they are asked to make a number of border cross-
ings as they take on the role of cultural translator: from Spanish
to English, from the “new world order” to the “new world bor-
der,” from the language of the “self” to the language of the “other,”
from the unofficial realm of multilingualism to the official realm
of public discourse. These types of languages and spaces implode
into themselves, as they are rendered permeable by the processes of
translation.
The audience is also asked, at other times, to take on roles of
translation and even coauthorship. Addressing the audience in the
performance piece “: The Re-Discovery of America,” for ex-
ample, Gómez-Peña asks:
are you a citizen of this time & place
or are you still clinging to a dying order?
are you willing to dialogue?
or are you going to shoot me after the show?
are you ready to co-write with me the
next chapter? (Warrior )
Elsewhere in this piece, the audience is encouraged to “fuck Offi-
cial English” (). In a clever pun, Gómez-Peña implies that the
 

“official” language must be both destroyed and miscegenated (if
we interpret “fucking” in its most literal sense as intercourse). In
this passage we are also encouraged to join the author/performer in
coauthorship and performance of the multilingual, miscegenated
self, the multilingual, hybrid, and translating voice, as we “cowrite”
the next chapter of the show/our future with Gómez-Peña.
For Gómez-Peña, this multilingual, hybrid, translating voice
must also exist on a national level. He believes that the arts can
move the United States toward a multilingual future. Gómez-Peña
acknowledges that the United States is officially monolingual but
unofficially multilingual: “Unlike the images on tv or in commer-
cial cinema depicting a monocultural middle-class world existing
outside of international crisis, contemporary U.S. society is funda-
mentally multiracial, multilingual, and socially polarized. So is its
art” (Warrior ). The artists’ multilingualism and cultural transla-
tions are meant to change the individual and U.S. culture, as this
excerpt from “Border Brujo” expresses:
I speak Spanish therefore you hate me
I speak in English therefore they hate me
I speak Spanglish therefore she speaks Ingleñol
I speak in tongues therefore you desire me
I speak to you therefore you kill me
I speak therefore you change. (Warrior )
Continuing encounters with the unofficial multilingualism of the
United States can lead to hate, violence, and even mystiﬁcation of
the “other”: “I speak Spanish therefore you hate me.” But they can
also lead to growth and expansion, not just of the individual but of
the “official” culture as well: “I speak therefore you change” ().
In passages such as these, a process of transcoding has occurred
in which both English and Spanish, the dominant culture and the
marginalized one, the “other” and the “self ” are miscegenated, ren-
ovated, and transformed. This concept can be applied to a reader
or watcher who encounters a text or performance by Gómez-Peña.
Perhaps she or he is transcultured, transcoded, transformed into
someone who can appreciate the linguistic diversity of the United
States, of its multiple speakers and polyglot tongues. And perhaps
she or he is no longer ashamed of the many languages spoken and
  
can engage in acts of cultural translation. Perhaps she or he will
move from an English Only to an English Plus ideology.
Given the transcultured and transcoded multilingualism of
texts such as those by Gómez-Peña, we must also reconsider what it
means to be a native speaker. Does being a “native speaker” mean
speaking one language, two, or even three? Is it speaking with or
without an accent? Can a native speaker still translate? In Chang-
rae Lee’s novel Native Speaker the main character, Henry, a Korean
American, has attempted to perfect his English, to lose all traces
of accent that might have been transferred to him by his Korean
American ﬁrst-generation father. Yet Henry ﬁnds that the loss of
tongue and the loss of the capacity for translation lead not to visi-
bility but to invisibility. In the novel he is a spy (literally) and (less
literally) a thief of language, of others’ identities and voices, be-
cause he has obliterated his own identity and voice. His wife, a
speech therapist, accuses him of being “surreptitious,” a “B+ stu-
dent of life,” an “illegal alien,” a “traitor,” and, worst of all, a “false
speaker of language” (–). Having forgotten his mother tongue
and believing that only individuals born in the United States can
be “native speakers,” Henry is left a niligüal—an invisible, barely
present presence, trapped in meaningless language that his wife
calls “the Henryspeak” ().
Through a long and painful process of self-scrutiny, however,
Henry changes and grows during the course of the novel, and he
renovates his attitudes about race, ethnicity, and language. Most
important, after the death of his father, Henry comes to accept that
“native speakers” are accented, multilingual, and vibrant: “We listen
to the earnest attempts of their talk, the bits of their stilted English.
I know I would have ridiculed them when I was young: I would
cringe and grow ashamed and angry at those funny tones of my
father and his workers, all that Konglish, Spanglish, Jive. Just talk
right, I wanted to yell, just talk right for once in your sorry lives.
But now, I think I would give most anything to hear my father’s
talk again, the crash and bang and stop of his language, always hur-
tling by. I will listen for him forever in the streets of the city” ().
Henry grows into an appreciation for the translated, multilinguis-
tic tongue that is the true voice of the United States. In short, the
concept of the “native speaker” is transcoded into something that
 

does not exclude ethnicity, and the ethnic tongue is transmigrated
to a place within English so that English itself undergoes change.
Henry knows that he will listen “forever in the streets of the city”
and the nation for this multilingual voice, the unofficial but vibrant
voice of the native speaker as it has been redeﬁned and transcul-
tured in the United States.
What I have emphasized in this chapter, as well as in this book,
is that although the dominant language policy tries to suppress
this transcoded, multilingual voice, authors, artists, activists, and
speakers constantly insist on its presence and value. Today there are
many “Philomelan members of America’s various ‘ethnic’ and ‘ra-
cial’ groups,” as Marc Shell puts it (), who feel as if they have no
tongue. There are also, as Pérez Firmat argues, many “niligües”—
individuals comfortable in no language (Life ). And, ﬁnally,
many individuals can no longer translate at all, either on a linguis-
tic or cultural level. But there are also many people who insist on
an English Plus ideology and, moreover, people who renovate and
transmigrate English and their native tongue through their mul-
tilingual translation practices. The translator can choose to make
English a place of hegemony and monolingualism/monocultural-
ism, or he or she can attempt to re-create English and in so doing
give voice to the many tongues of the United States. The transla-
tor can renovate the idea of the “native speaker” and create a future
in which languages “divide to conga,” free-fall toward (but never
quite reach) a new world border.
At this juncture, individuals and institutions in the United States
have a choice: to foster the transmigration of tongues and that abil-
ity to translate, or to continue destroying ﬁrst tongues and “foreign”
languages in favor of some hegemonic and very unrealistic con-
ception of the perfect “native speaker.” As educators, readers, and
speakers we can become cultural translators and advocates for the
multilingualism of the United States as well as its art forms. Most
individuals living in the United States today do not understand its
long history of language loss. Works such as Loving in the War Years
or Gómez-Peña’s books and videos allow us to access this history
and foster an appreciation for linguistic diversity and transmigra-
tions, while works such as Native Speaker, Hunger of Memory, or In-
dian Killer enable an understanding of the personally and socially
  
debilitating consequences of language loss and the alienation of un-
transcoded ethnicity. Multilingualism in the United States may be
wiped out in the next twenty years or it may ﬂourish in a border
zone where languages divide to conga, where the ﬁssion and fu-
sion between languages in translation produce new ways of speak-
ing and new forms of identity. Finally, then, what I am arguing is
that by valuing, speaking, and teaching this history of language
loss and gain, we may renovate the language of hegemony and be-
come agents in the promotion of multilingualism and the produc-
tive possibilities of translation.
Conclusion
Lost and Found in Translation
How many today live in a language that is not their own?
Or no longer, or not yet, even know their own and know
poorly the major language that they are forced to serve? This is
the problem of immigrants, and especially of their children, the
problem of minorities, the problem of a minor literature, but
also a problem for all of us: how to tear a minor literature away
from its own language, allowing it to challenge the language
and making it follow a sober revolutionary path? How to
become a nomad and an immigrant and a gypsy in relation to
one’s own language?—Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari, Kafka
  ’  ﬁlm Lost in Translation, Bill Murray
plays a washed-up and jet-lagged Anglo-American actor named Bob
Harris who travels to Japan to make television commercials pro-
moting a Japanese whiskey called Suntory. In one of the ﬁlm’s most
memorable scenes, the director instructs Bob Harris in Japanese for
several minutes before his ﬁrst “take” for the commercial. When
the Japanese interpreter translates this speech, however, all she says
is, “He want you to turn and look in camera. Okay?” to which
Harris responds, “Is that all he said?” “He wants you to say it with
intensity” is all that the translator responds, after a long colloquy
 
with the director. Obviously, something is being lost in translation
—but what? And can it ever be recovered? Should it be recovered?
And what do moments such as these—which appear to signal the
ﬁssures between cultures and languages, the ineffectiveness of
translation—symbolize textually, culturally, and linguistically?1
Throughout this book I have argued that the trope of transla-
tion is fundamental to ethnic American authors’ efforts to trans-
code ethnicity so that it signiﬁes something positive, an identity
contained within the discourse of Americanness, and also to trans-
migrate an ethnic tongue so that it is not excluded by the lan-
guage of hegemony, by English itself. I have contended, then, that
translation as trope often concerns preservation and re-creation—
preservation of ethnic tongues within English so that both lan-
guages change and evolve together, and re-creation of both eth-
nic and “American” identities. I have also argued that these texts
frequently gesture simultaneously to gaps in language, to a lacuna
within the text which signiﬁes that something is lost in transla-
tion, even while something is gained. Translation does not ame-
liorate cultural and linguistic differences, although at times it may
attempt to move beyond them and create a syncretic new mode of
voice and an interethnic American identity. Nonetheless, in this
conclusion I think it appropriate to investigate what may be lost in
translation, what cannot be recovered, and what the trope of trans-
lation may efface by rendering ethnic discourse into English.
“I saw the language shrivel, and though I held out my hands to
catch the words, so many of them slipped away, beyond recall. I am
a talker now and chatter in my people’s ears until I grow weary of
my own voice” (Power ). As argued in Chapter , Red Dress’s
character in Susan Power’s The Grass Dancer is an agent of linguis-
tic preservation and translation, but still a great deal of the Dakota
language vanishes. In the last chapter, I cited research suggesting
that the vast majority of native languages are endangered (Craw-
ford ) and indeed that language loss in the United States has
occurred within all ethnic groups (Veltman, Language ). By the
third generation, most ethnic groups have “given up” their mother
tongue. There are exceptions, but perhaps the trope of translation,
by translating these ethnic tongues into English, promotes language


loss—and the idea, as seen in Coppola’s ﬁlm, that translation marks
and encourages, rather than amends and ameliorates, cultural and
linguistic divides.
Through the organization of this book, I have traced an increas-
ingly multilingual approach to the trope of translation on both the
lexical and the thematic level. Lexically, the authors of the Chi-
nese American and Japanese American works I discussed in the be-
ginning chapters of the book analyzed how Chinese and Japanese
ethnic traditions and terms were translated into English, but the
books included very few actual Asian words. The Native Ameri-
can texts discussed in Chapter  included more words from tribal
languages, but these words were always transcribed and transliter-
ated into English; no actual characters or glyphs from the native
language were included. However, the texts I discussed in Chap-
ters  and  became increasingly multilingual. An author such as
A. J. Verdelle shows a character not only ﬂuently codeswitching
between African American Vernacular English and Standardized
English but also inventing new words that mix these discourses
and are her own creations, such as “sliver wigglers” () or “bee-
tle bug wig” (). As I discussed in Chapter , authors such as
Cherríe Moraga and Abelardo Delgado include a large propor-
tion of Spanish in their texts, thereby forcing the non-Spanish-
speaking reader to become a translator. Delgado fuses languages
to create new terms, such as “los slow ones,” but he also indicates
that the remodeling of language he depicts is one in which the
“minority” and “majority” language both are changed; both En-
glish and Mexican Spanish undergo revision in his text. And,
ﬁnally, an author such as Gómez-Peña (discussed in Chapter )
includes a glossary that does not translate Spanish into English but
rather borderizes and transmigrates many tongues by introduc-
ing terms such as “gringostroika,” “Funkahuatl” “el othercide,” or
“waspbacks.”
On a more thematic level, authors of works discussed in this
book’s ﬁrst chapters mainly implied that there were two languages
being used (English and the ethnic tongue) while those in later
chapters illustrated an expansion and ampliﬁcation of linguistic
matrixes and codes. For example, in House Made of Dawn Fran-
cisco mixes English, Spanish, and several native languages, and in
 
Tar Baby Son manipulates the various dialects of the vernacular and
of Standardized English. Furthermore, the authors I discuss in later
sections of this book imply that the more codes and languages one
knows and manipulates, the more empowered an individual can
become. Birdie Lee in Danzy Senna’s Caucasia, for example, mas-
ters many dialects of English and several different codes of aave in
order to adapt to, and gain authority within, the various locations
she inhabits. There is no pure language of empowerment in these
texts and no one language of hegemony. Languages are imbricated
and wrapped around each other, and the most powerful speakers
move ﬂuently and ﬂuidly in an interlingual and multilingual realm
of discourse. Through this book’s organization, I have emphasized
a movement toward forms of multilingualism that are increasingly
complex and challenging to monolingual readers. The writers dis-
cussed in the earliest sections of this book, it must be noted as
well, do most of the arduous metaphorical work of translation for
the reader, while writers discussed in Chapters , , and  ask and
even force the reader to become a translator, to integrate himself or
herself into the text and its translative dilemmas and move toward
functional bi- or multilingualism.
Yet even in the texts analyzed in Chapters , , and , Standard-
ized English still constitutes the main linguistic matrix of com-
munication, while ethnic discourses are (quite literally) a minor-
ity language in the text; even as multilingual a writer as Abelardo
Delgado rarely includes passages where more than a third of the
words are in Spanish or Spanglish.2
Richard Rodriguez insists that
American English itself is multilingual, and I will repeat here his
thoughts on this subject:
Americans do not speak “English.” Even before our rebellion
against England, our tongue tasted of Indian—succotash, suc-
cotash, we love to say it; Mississippi, we love to spell. We speak
American. Our tongue is not something slow and mucous that
plods like an oyster through its bed in the sea, afearing of taint
or blister. Our tongue sticks out; it is a dog’s tongue, an organ
of curiosity and science. . . . Our lewd tongue partook of every-
thing that washed over it; everything that it washed—even a
disreputable history. (Brown –)


Our “lewd tongue” is multilingual and curious. It reaches out and
sucks up other languages—but at what cost, one must wonder. En-
glish has so often been an agent of colonization and domination, as
bell hooks and others have pointed out. Anglo-American writers,
as I argued in my introduction, employ the trope of translation to
focalize this process of language loss and colonization. For ethnic
writers, when does conga-ing become conquering? When does the
dance of fusion between languages and codes become a dance of
destruction or an elegy for what has been lost and cannot be recov-
ered? Has a “Germenglish” identity/voice been achieved in these
texts? Or have these writers, through their deployment of the trope
of translation, actually facilitated English’s ability to absorb the
ethnic tongue and undermined the creation of subject positions
that could resist this absorption?
I have pointed out that it is imperative to recognize translation’s
potential both to deconstruct and to reconstruct binarisms, and
in this book I have included texts such as Louie’s “Pangs of Love,”
Alexie’s Indian Killer, and Morrison’s Tar Baby in which binarisms
are not dismantled and translation is ultimately refused or proven
to be unviable. Coppola’s ﬁlm functions in a similar way: it marks
the limits of translation, the absolute alterity of another culture and
language. For the writers I have considered, however, some com-
monalties exist among translators who can dismantle binarisms and
undermine hierarchies between “minority” and “dominant” dis-
course. Writerly, active, resistant translation is valued in these texts
over translation that is readerly, passive, or complicit. The “scandal
of translation,” as Lawrence Venuti has noted, is that it often ef-
faces itself and attempts to seem politically “neutral” when every
act of translation, and every translator, has an ideological agenda
(). The texts discussed in this book emphasize the need to fore-
ground the process of ideological and lexical translation—to render
it visible, rather than invisible. The most effective translations are
also polyvocal and dialogic, and they allow the voice of the “other”
to speak through the voice of the translator. In Sherley Anne Wil-
liams’s Dessa Rose, Dessa translates Ruth’s words into her own dis-
course, but even within this translation she lets Ruth speak—she
does not summarize or paraphrase her words but quotes them ver-
batim in a ﬁrst-person voice. She therefore allows for the coexis-
 
tence of multiple voices and modes of discourse. Through an eth-
ics of translation these writers often portray the translated text as
a space where a cultural “other” is made manifest and comprehen-
sible. Many of these writers emphasize a mode of translation that is
not abrogating and that does not transgress cultural differences.
Successful translators often inhabit a middle space between cul-
tures and languages. They are often interlingual border dwellers,
liminal ﬁgures who reside literally or metaphorically between eth-
nic identities. This is a precarious but productive position. In Fae
Myenne Ng’s Bone, Ona (the middle child) cannot negotiate this
precarious space and so becomes lost in translation. More posi-
tively, in Leslie Marmon Silko’s Ceremony, Tayo (who calls him-
self a “half-breed”) says he will speak for “both sides” and ﬁnds
in his mixed-race, mixed linguistic heritage a mode of storytell-
ing and translation that moves beyond his prior linguistic impasse.
Individuals with multiple ethnic affiliations and multiple ethnic
languages—such as Birdie in Caucasia—are often shown to be ca-
pable of negotiating the thicket of multilingualism and of preserv-
ing and reconﬁguring the ethnic language so that it both has a place
within, and remodels, Standardized English. Even a text as pessi-
mistic as John Okada’s No-No Boy insists that hope (such as it is)
for a movement beyond binarisms resides in the middle ground, the
middle space of language and ethnic identity that Ichiro so uncom-
fortably inhabits. The middle ground, the border between cultural
and linguistic identities, is the space from which the most produc-
tive translation practices can emerge. And it is precisely from this
middle space that change may occur, as the “American” becomes
infused with traditions and ideologies from other cultures, and En-
glish becomes a multilingual space of transmigration and transla-
tion, of contestation and resistance. In this middle space ethnicity
itself also becomes transcoded and transformed into a source of not
only cultural capital but also social and human capital, a source of
psychological empowerment.
Still, questions remain. Does English absorb the ethnic lan-
guage? Just how much does English change in this process? When
we speak of language loss, is it enough to say these tongues have
been “translated” into English? Is the untranslatable remnant pre-
served within the gap or lacuna in the text, or is it simply lost in


translation? Numerous authors have spoken eloquently on this sub-
ject, arguing that the de facto use of English does not mean one
must succumb to English monolingualism; the “minority” writer
can force English to become a multilingual and even nomadic
language. “To conquer English may be to complete the process
of making ourselves free,” argues Salman Rushdie (). Silko de-
scribes her family’s use of English as oppositional and positive: “I
come from a family which has been doing something that isn’t ex-
actly Standard English for a while. I come from a family which,
basically, is intent on getting the stories told; and we will get those
stories told, and language will work for us” (“Language and Lit-
erature” ). Using English against itself, against the grain, and
against the standard, changes it and grants authority to the indi-
viduals who speak it. Edouard Glissant tellingly argues that “lack”
does not reside in the ignorance of a language but in the “non-
mastery . . . of an appropriated language” (). To avoid English
might be to exhibit a lack, while mastering and reappropriating it
demonstrates a kind of ﬂuency within the “master’s” codes, which
are no longer precisely the master’s. Translation as trope, through
its amassment of a series of language skills (bilingualism, intralin-
gual translation, storytelling, codeswitching, and so forth) may be
the most incisive way that an individual can exhibit simultaneously
both appropriation/mastery of English and also its undermining
and reconstruction.
Furthermore, as Rushdie argues, there is ambiguity in the use of
English that reﬂects struggles taking place in the real world, strug-
gles between the cultures within individuals and societies. Through
the trope of translation, English can be made to reﬂect the ongoing
struggle between “minority” and “majority” discourses, between
the disenfranchised code and the language of hegemony. Formally,
as well, the interjection of ethnic language within dominant lit-
erary forms (such as the bildungsroman, the coming-of-age story,
the epistolary novel, the autobiography, the detective novel) trans-
gresses these forms and both revises and revitalizes them. Michelle
Cliff comments that in her writing she uses the forbidden language
of her ancestors but that she also must mix in “the forms taught us
by the oppressor, undermining his language and co-opting his style,
and turning it to our purpose” (). Translation as trope works
 
formally to allow the introduction of nonstandard speech forms
within the “master’s texts,” the master’s pieces, the master’s literary
forms. Through this practice, the forms themselves are remodeled
and remade.
Translation as trope also allows English to be not rejected, not
denied, but written and rewritten from within through the inser-
tion of an unruly, multilingual, ethnic discursive presence that is
both strange and estranging. Lexically, then, as Guillermo Bartelt
argues, “non-standard English monolingualism does not necessar-
ily imply total acculturation to mainstream American values” ()
—English can be transgressed or aggressed from within its own lin-
guistic conﬁnes. What tribe you are? Do you speak Ebonics? aave?
se? Ingleñol? Spanglish? Ringlish? Franglais? Portinglês? Yinglish?
Italgish? Konglish? Can English be broken here? Gilles Deleuze
and Félix Guattari ask, “How many today live in a language that
is not their own? Or no longer, or not yet, even know their own
and know poorly the major language that they are forced to serve?”
(). Perhaps the question seems obvious, but they go on to an-
swer it in a way that turns the problem back onto the monolingual
reader or speaker: “This is the problem of immigrants, and espe-
cially of their children, the problem of minorities, the problem of a
minor literature, but also a problem for all of us: how to tear a mi-
nor literature away from its own language, allowing it to challenge
the language and making it follow a sober revolutionary path? How
to become a nomad and an immigrant and a gypsy in relation to
one’s own language?” (). The writers I have discussed deploy the
trope of translation to challenge English lexically and to force it
into a “revolutionary path,” a recognition of the multilingualism
of our world and our culture. And they also encourage monolin-
gual, Anglo-American readers and speakers to become nomads and
immigrants in relation to their own language—whatever that may
be. By becoming translators themselves, such speakers may lose an
illusionary entity, their “own” tongue—Standardized English, the
language of consensus—but gain the poetry and freedom of other
tongues, of linguistic innovation and transmigration. Translation,
as I argued in Chapter , can function as a form of radical bilin-
gualism that encourages the reader to think/speak/read in more
than one voice. The reader may come to see “different” systems of


signs as open, revisable, and implicated within each other. “Mono-
lingual” readers may come to possess a translating consciousness
that sees systems of signs as porous and permeable.
Through translation as trope, readers may also come to sense
that “their” language is not really “theirs.” In Monolingualism of the
Other, Derrida argues that it is possible to be monolingual and
still speak a language that is not one’s own; elsewhere he implies
that this is a universal condition, a condition caused by the exile
from the mother that creates lack and subjectivity proper. We are
always-already alienated from language, from a “mother tongue,”
even if (or perhaps especially if ) we are “monolingual.” Transla-
tion as trope may force readers to realize that, as Derrida phrases
it, “Yes, I have only one language, yet it is not mine” (). Derrida
also argues here that “the master does not possess exclusively, and
naturally, what he calls his language” (); rather, through cunning
actions of cultural usurpation, colonization, and force, he comes to
make others share his belief that the language is his own. Transla-
tion as trope often reveals these cunning acts of appropriation and
control which naturalize the idea that the dominant language “be-
longs” to the master.
It is possible, then, to be monolingual and still speak a lan-
guage that is not one’s own, a language of alienation and exile. And
translation as trope may force the master to admit that, as Derrida
phrases it, “my ‘own’ language is, for me, a language that cannot
be assimilated. My language, the only one I hear myself speak and
agree to speak, is the language of the other” (Monolingualism ).
Translation puts to question what is the master’s language and what
is the language of the “other,” both for the “minority” discourse
speaker and the “majority” one. When translation mixes codes and
also undermines them, it illustrates that in the end there is no ab-
solute language of hegemony and no absolute mother tongue; all
languages exist in relationship to each other, and all speakers ap-
propriate languages that are not really (nor ever were) their “own.”
I argued in Chapters  and  that there is no “pure” or “authentic”
mother tongue that can be recovered through translation—that
words and songs are always translations of other words and songs,
translations of previous verbal and written texts. And in Chapters 
and  I posited that the language of hegemony is not separate or iso-
 
latable from the vernacular or ethnic discourse. Finally, then, trans-
lation as trope undermines fundamental and much cherished ideo-
logical constructs within culture regarding hegemonic language
itself: who owns it, who is empowered by it, and whether it exists
“apart” from “minority” discourse.
Nevertheless, as Derrida also argues and Coppola’s Bob Har-
ris would certainly acknowledge, translation sometimes fails: “The
miracle of translation does not take place every day; there is, at
times, a desert without a desert crossing” (Monolingualism ). As
I have stressed through this book, something may be lost in trans-
lation when the “desert crossing” does not occur. And something
is also certainly found when translation does occur. I mean to sig-
nal a pun, here, that has lain buried in my text until this moment,
a pun that concerns the lost-and-found space itself. In the English
Department at Kent State University where I teach, there is a lost-
and-found that functions both as a sort of holding space and an un-
official lending exchange. Sometimes I misplace an umbrella and I
think it is gone permanently—I can’t ﬁnd it anywhere in my house
or car, the two usual locations in which my umbrella typically re-
sides. But then I recall leaving it in a classroom one day, and when
I check the lost-and-found it is there, still, miraculously, several
weeks or months after I ﬁrst lost it. The lost-and-found functions
as a temporary way station, a place marker that holds my items un-
til such a point as I choose to reclaim them (or not). Yet this space
also allows for exchange and circulation of various items. On one
particular sunny day I left my sunglasses at home and had to walk
across campus for a meeting with a dean. In the lost-and-found I
discovered a pair of lime green wraparound sunglasses with mir-
rored lenses—the kind typically worn by ﬂashy bicyclists with simi-
larly ﬂashy matching outﬁts. They looked nothing like mine, nor
did they match the black suit I was (as usual) wearing for the meet-
ing with the dean, but I wore them nonetheless. I must have looked
like a strange hybrid of a professor/biker as I strolled across cam-
pus in my borrowed glasses. When I was done, I returned these
glasses to the lost-and-found. I wonder about other individuals who
might borrow (or keep) these same sunglasses, who might borrow
(or keep) my items or the possessions of others. Pens, sweaters,
keys, notebooks, papers, and even toys jam the lost-and-found in


my department, a jumble of items that may have once had original
owners but that now exist in a sort of permanent limbo of redemp-
tion and reclamation, a perpetual cycle of both exchange and loss.
Where is the lost-and-found, we ask, if we have left something
somewhere? Where, indeed, but in translation? Translation as trope
ﬁnally constellates a lost-and-found—a locale that holds items/
languages until such time as they can be reclaimed, exchanged, or
claimed by another user/speaker.3
The lost-and-found of transla-
tion represents a site of simultaneous linguistic loss and gain, of re-
duction and reimplication of codes, of both the destruction and the
resurrection of language. In the end we cannot say whether transla-
tion as trope promotes the loss or preservation of ethnic language,
for surely it must do both, simultaneously. What we can say is that,
as utilized by the writers discussed in this book, translation acts as
a lost-and-found for language, for ethnicity, and even for culture.
In translation, the characters who have “forgotten” their mother
tongue may ﬁnd or retrieve it, and the culture that has denied its
own multilingualism may be forced to acknowledge it. Of course,
some items are never reclaimed in the lost-and-found of transla-
tion, while others take on new life and new owners, creating hy-
brid entities like the professor/biker in lime green sunglasses strid-
ing across campus on a sunny day. The writers discussed in this
book encourage us to situate ourselves as speakers, teachers, and
readers within this lost-and-found space of translation. Translation
certainly teaches us that what is lost may one day be found and
that what is found may one day be lost. Yet translation as trope
also may allow the emergence of new conﬁgurations of language
and new constructions of American identity—conﬁgurations in
which we are each implicated in a perpetual cycle of debit and ex-
change, of redemption and reclamation, of being lost and found in
translation.
Notes

. Of course, as Pérez Firmat also points out through the examples
of Desi Arnaz and Gloria Estefan, the conga can also degenerate into
an art form that merely reproduces stereotypes about Cuban culture
and makes it palatable for an American audience. See Life on the Hy-
phen –, –.
. Throughout this book I use the term “American” (in quotes) to
refer to a person who predominantly identiﬁes himself or herself with
a white, Anglo-Saxon, monolingual culture. I use American (without
quotes) to refer to people who inhabit the United States.
. Support for translation as producing a new work of art can be
found in Gress  and Barnstone –. G. N. Devy also discusses this
idea in “Translation Theory: An Indian Perspective” (). Benjamin
dissents (–).
. In translation theory, “source text” refers to the text to be trans-
lated and “target text” refers to the translation.
. As Monica Heller observes, codeswitching sometimes works to
maintain “the separation of languages in different domains” (Intro-
duction ). This is not to deny that codeswitching can dismantle the
boundaries between languages in some circumstances. In this book,
however, I have used “translation” rather than “codeswitching” be-
cause I see it as a more capacious term for the attempt to ﬁnd a new
mode of language and identity that goes beyond dualism and “either/
or” paradigms. When characters codeswitch in such a way that they
combine elements of both languages in a syncretic fashion, I have used
the term “translation.” For example, in Chapter  I argue that Cher-
ríe Moraga codeswitches in order to create a syncretic third language
which is made up of both English and Spanish but which also exceeds
these two languages. I examine the topic of codeswitching in more de-
tail in Chapters  and .
. Willis Barnstone speaks of “writerly” translations (), borrow-
ing this term from Roland Barthes. I will discuss the concept of “writ-
erly” translation more extensively in Chapter .
. For discussion of translation in American and Chinese Ameri-
can literature, see Huang. The only author Huang discusses that I
consider is Kingston, and he reaches very different conclusions from
mine (see Chapter ), mainly because Huang consistently argues that
“translation involves . . . a process in which multiple readings of the
‘original’ text are reduced to a version that foregrounds the translator’s
own agenda” (). But see my comments later in the introduction, fol-
lowing Venuti’s line of argument, on how translation can either affirm
or transgress differences.
. One notable exception to the paucity of criticism on transla-
tion has been Jewish American literature, which has been discussed
more extensively in terms of this topic. See, for example, the essays
by Taubenfeld and Wirth-Nesher. There have also been studies that
deal mainly with translation in Anglo-American and British literature,
such as Eric Cheyﬁtz’s The Poetics of Imperialism: Translation and Col-
onization from The Tempest to Tarzan ().
. For literal discussions of the translation of Native American lit-
erature, see the essays in On the Translation of Native American Litera-
tures, edited by Brian Swann. Closest to my discussion of translation
in Native American literature is David Murray’s book Forked Tongues:
Speech, Writing, and Representation in North American Indian Texts,
which examines “the complex and various ways in which the process
of translation, cultural as well as linguistic, is obscured or effaced in a
wide variety of texts which claim to be representing or describing Indi-
ans” (). However, Murray’s excellent and wide-ranging study contains
only brief discussions of contemporary Native American ﬁction, such
as works by Silko and Momaday. See also Arnold Krupat’s The Voice in
the Margin and “Postcoloniality and Native American Literature” for
discussions of translation in Native American literature.
. For discussion of the impossibility of literal translation, see Bi-
guenet and Schulte x, Rabassa , and Barnstone . For support for
translation as a process of ﬁnding metaphors, see Barnstone . On
the subject of choice and freedom of interpretation in translation, see
Rabassa . Barnstone () and Honig () both discuss translation as
coauthorship.
. For an excellent essay on the translation of Yekl, see Taubenfeld.
. For examples of translation as an exercise in the conscious and
   –

controlled usurpation of a culture’s authority, see Lefevere’s essay. For
discussion of translation as a weapon, see Bassnett .
. Venuti does not discuss “Pokémon.”
. I discuss Mehrez’s ideas in more detail in Chapter .
. Theorists who have discussed the role of gender in translation
include Chamberlain, Díaz-Diocaretz, Godard, Levine, and Maier
and Massardier-Kenney.
. In this book, I generally use the term “Chicano/a” (rather than
Mexican American) to connote the formation of a new political, so-
cial, linguistic, and literary identity that is more than the sum of its
parts. For more on this term, see Chapter .
 
. In Robert Frost: A Backward Look, Louis Untermeyer quotes
Frost as stating, “You’ve often heard me say—perhaps too often—that
poetry is what is lost in translation” (). Also, in an unpublished note-
book from  to , Frost deﬁnes poetry as “that which tends to
evaporate from both prose and verse when translated” (Dartmouth,
MS ).
. Unless otherwise noted, all references to these authors are to
these texts and will be cited parenthetically within the chapter here-
after.
. My usage of “Chinese American” follows Bonnie TuSmith, who
deﬁnes it not as “a ‘bicultural’ dualism of either/or possibilities” but
rather “a new entity which is neither Chinese nor European” (“Liter-
ary Tricksterism” ). Nonetheless, I would also emphasize, as several
critics have before me, that Chinese American identity, like all identi-
ties, is always in process, changing, and evolving. This new identity
does not dissolve or homogenize differences between the Chinese and
the American but allows them to remain in tension with each other in
the new syncretic construction.
. Hereafter, I use “Kingston” as shorthand for the protagonist of
The Woman Warrior. The protagonist of the text is a semiautobio-
graphical character who has some relationship to the author’s own life
but who should not be equated with the author.
. As Cheng Lok Chua notes, the Chinese “I” is a very assertive
word, having its etymology in the radicals meaning “human being”
and “sword”; therefore, “to say ‘I’ in Chinese is to imply that one is
a human being with a sword, hence a swordsman or swordswoman”
   – 
(). However, Chua does not discuss why Kingston makes this state-
ment about the equation of woman and slave in the feminine “I.”
. Both Cheung (Articulate Silences –) and Li () mention
translation with reference to the ending of “A Song for a Barbarian
Reed Pipe,” but neither discuss it in the novel as a whole.
. These are only some of the binary oppositions that Kingston
breaks down in her text. Cheung argues that the text upsets “the oppo-
sition between women and men, East and West, fable and fact, orality
and chirography, talking and listening, (re)vision and history” (Articu-
late Silences ), to which might be added self and “other,” univocal
and multivocal, past and present, and autobiography and ﬁction.
. Kingston’s translations (or “mistranslations”) of speciﬁc words
such as “kuei” have been attacked by critics such as Benjamin Tong
and defended by others such as Sau-ling Cynthia Wong (see “Auto-
biography”). See Huang and Dong and Hom on this subject as well.
. For more on the subject of Kingston’s transformations of this
myth, see Sau-ling Cynthia Wong’s essay “Kingston’s Handling of Tra-
ditional Chinese Sources.”
. Barnstone also calls translation a double art because of the “col-
laboration of two (three, four) artists, who have joined their arts” ().
Since Kingston’s mother probably retells a story that was told to her,
we can see this concept of the interplay of two (or three, or four) artists
at work. Indeed, by the end of the work, Kingston’s voice is multivocal
and cannot be distinguished explicitly from the voices she translates
(her mother’s, Ts’ai Yen’s, No Name Woman’s, etc.). For other critics
who have discussed the double-voiced or multivocal discourse of the
novel, see King-Kok Cheung, who argues that “many chapters of her
autobiography are in a sense collaborations between mother and daugh-
ter” (“‘Don’t Tell’” ).
 
. A secret government investigation, headed by the journalist Cur-
tis B. Munson before Pearl Harbor, found that “there is no Japanese
‘problem’ on the Coast. There will be no armed uprising of Japanese.
. . . For the most part the local Japanese are loyal to the United States
or, at worst, hope that by remaining quiet they can avoid concentra-
tion camps or irresponsible mobs. We do not believe that they would
be at the least any more disloyal than any other racial group in the
United States with whom we went to war” (quoted in Weglyn –).
   –

. Throughout this chapter, I will use the following traditional terms
to designate the different generations of Japanese Americans: “Issei,”
who are born in Japan and move to the United States; “Nisei,” indi-
viduals who are second-generation Japanese Americans (born in the
United States); and “Sansei,” the children of Nisei, third-generation
Japanese Americans.
. See, for example, Hisaye Yamamoto’s “The Legend of Miss Sa-
sagawara,” Toshio Mori’s “The Travelers,” Valerie Matsumoto’s “Two
Deserts,” and Lonny Kaneko’s “The Shoyu Kid.” All these stories are
set during the period of the internment or shortly thereafter yet deal
with it in oblique, metaphorical ways. For discussions of the silence
surrounding internment, see Takaki  and Streamas –.
. For other Japanese American writers who detail the problems
of identity caused by the internment, see Yoshiko Uchida, Desert Ex-
ile: The Uprooting of a Japanese American Family; Hisaye Yamamoto,
Seventeen Syllables; and Monica Sone, Nisei Daughter. For an analysis
of this subject, see Lawson Inada’s statement that “in the turmoil and
uncertainty of the camps, the very strength of a people—their sense of
identity and community, their sense of worth—was called into ques-
tion. . . . It was as if the term ‘Japanese-American’ no longer signiﬁed a
viable whole but denoted an either/or situation, a double bind” ().
. Lefevere’s argument can be found in Bassnett and Lefevere, Con-
structing Cultures . John Guillory similarly deﬁnes cultural capital
as “linguistic capital, the means by which one attains to a socially cre-
dentialed and therefore valued speech” (ix).
. I do not discuss Kadohata’s next novel, In the Heart of the Val-
ley of Love, a dystopia set in the year  that traces the movements
of Francine, a nineteen-year-old part Japanese American woman. I do
want to note, however, that although this novel is set in the future, the
events seem suspiciously similar to those which occurred on or around
December ,  (after the bombing of Pearl Harbor): people disap-
pearing mysteriously, random violence, businesses taken over by the
government, the rationing of supplies, paranoia, a fear of anyone alien
(especially the Japanese), and a sense that the government is no longer
conducting itself in a rational manner.
. Matsukawa, telephone conversation, October .
. For a vivid description of how internment affected children’s
sense of home, see Yoshiko Uchida’s comment that “whenever the
children [in Tanforan, a relocation center] played house, they always
stood in line to eat at make-believe mess halls rather than cooking and
   – 
setting tables as they would have done at home. It was sad to see how
quickly the concept of home had changed for them” ().
. For other views of the novel as assimilationist, see Sumida and
McDonald. But for more sympathetic views, see Inada and Yogi.
. Ling also comments that “the ending reﬂects the conﬂicting
concerns of the author, the reader, and the cultural establishment, con-
cerns that imply the author’s conscious use of literary strategies in or-
der to be heard—and perhaps also his unconscious conformity to the
cultural conventions of his time” ().
. None of these words are italicized, which also makes for a
smoother transition between English and Japanese, graphically and
lexically implying that these languages are not entirely separate or
“different” from each other.
. A small number of Japanese in Hawaii were interned, but the
majority were kept under scrutiny but not relocated. For more on this
subject see Ogawa and Fox.
 
. For a critique of Benjamin’s ideas, see de Man.
. For a discussion of the power of language in Native American
culture, see Schubnell –.
. For positive readings of Abel’s struggle for voice, see Schubnell
, –; Scarberry-García ; Evers ; and Waniek . Scarberry-
García, in particular, argues that Abel is fulﬁlling a ceremony that will
allow him to ﬁnd his “inner wind” or breath or nilch’i (). Yet if Abel
has found his nilch’i, why is he described as singing “under his breath”
at the novel’s end? Harold McAllister, on the other hand, argues that
Abel is just on the verge of ﬁnding voice; when Abel joins the runners,
this “signiﬁes not a resurrection, not a completed assimilation into his
culture, but the beginning of forty days of penance” (). See also
Bernard Selinger’s argument that Abel is “not quite speaking” () and
Robert Nelson’s statement that Abel has not yet succeeded in “convert-
ing healing vision into a verbal version of it” ().
. There has been little discussion of the subject of translation
in House Made of Dawn. Guillermo Bartelt considers the text’s pre-
sentation of American Indian English (spoken or written dialects of
English inﬂected by Native American speech patterns), arguing that
“Momaday is certainly aware of the potential of non-standard English
in his ﬁction and seems to have a sophisticated knowledge of linguistic
   –

details of Indian English varieties” (). James Ruppert brieﬂy men-
tions translation, contending that Momaday translates oral and tribal
discourse into the form of the novel so that they can interrogate the
dominant system of language (Mediation ). Momaday himself has
discussed his ideas on translation; see “The Man Made of Words” (,
) and the interview with Charles Woodard titled “Wordwalker.”
. Tanoan is a family of Native American languages including those
of the Kiowa and other tribes in New Mexico and Arizona.
. For a more detailed discussion of hybridity, see Young. Michael
Raymond argues that House Made of Dawn depicts a “pervasive cul-
tural diversity” and that “meaning in contemporary life comes when
one ﬁnds his sense of place by recognizing and living within that large
and diverse context” (). Alan Velie also discusses the positive value
of cultural pluralism (–). However, neither Velie nor Raymond
discusses linguistic pluralism and its power.
. Louis Owens makes a similar point about Francisco, arguing that
“he subverts the language of the Church by assimilating it into his in-
digenous cosmology” (Other Destinies ). Bernard Selinger contends
that Francisco is a better model for Abel than Tosamah or Benally
because Francisco continues to practice both Native American and
Christian rituals while “gently subverting both orders” ().
. The ending of House Made of Dawn has excited great contro-
versy. For positive readings, see Evers ; Hogan ; Owens, Other
Destinies –; Raymond –; Trimmer ; McAllister ; Rup-
pert, Mediation –; and Velie . For readings that focus on the
novel’s negative or ambivalent overtones, see Kroeber ; Hanson ;
Larson ; and Selinger . My reading is closest to that of Selinger,
who argues that Abel remains in an in-between space by “not quite
running with the runners at the end, [and] by not quite speaking”
(). However, I do not believe that Abel has yet realized the power of
this in-between space, so I disagree with Selinger’s statement that Abel
becomes “a menace to authority and control” ().
. Momaday’s grandmother was Kiowan, as was his father, and
both spoke the tribal tongue. His mother was Cherokee and Anglo-
American. Momaday was born among the Kiowas in Mountain View,
Oklahoma, but grew up on various Navajo reservations in New Mex-
ico and Arizona. Given this familial and geographic background, it
should come as no surprise that House Made of Dawn values linguistic
and cultural hybridity rather than “purity” in racial, linguistic, or cul-
tural identity.
   – 
. Several critics have touched on the subject of translation in Cere-
mony. See Taylor’s “Silko’s Reappropriation of Secrecy” (–) and
“Repetition as Cure” (); see also Ruppert’s “Dialogism” (). El-
len Arnold discusses Silko’s translation of the oral tradition into writ-
ten words that are simultaneously re-created (). Silko herself has
discussed her translation of oral stories into written texts, using the
broad meaning of translation that I have been discussing: “Obviously,
some things will be lost because you’re going from one medium to an-
other. And I use translate in the broadest sense” (Silko, “Background”
).
. As Silko explains, among the twenty Pueblo groups there are at
least six distinct languages; this may be the reason why “what particu-
lar language was being used wasn’t as important as what a speaker was
trying to say” (“Language and Literature” ).
. Since numerous critics have discussed Silko’s adaptation of oral
traditions in the form and themes of Ceremony, I will not dwell on this
point. For discussion of this topic, see Brill de Ramírez and Zamir.
. For discussions of the “mixed-blood” or hybrid individual/
culture in Ceremony, see Sequoya –; Zamir –; Owens,
Mixedblood Messages ; and Arnold –. John Peacock discusses
“inter-tribalism,” arguing that the novel includes syncretic “inter-tribal,
Laguna-Navajo” solutions to conﬂicts (). Silko describes her own
familial background as hybridized: “Laguna, Mexican, white. . . . All
those languages, all those ways of living are combined, and we live
somewhere on the fringes of all three” (quoted in Rosen ).
. Several critics have argued that Ts’eh is an embodiment of
Ts’its’tsi’nako, Thought Woman, Grandmother Spider. As Paula Gunn
Allen explains, “All tales are born in the mind of Spider Woman, and all
creation exists as a result of her naming” (). Tayo’s encounter with
Ts’eh may represent, then, an encounter with language itself—with its
powers of creation and rejuvenation. Still, it is crucial that Silko does
not indicate that this is an original or uncorrupted or even pure Native
tongue. Apparently, Ts’eh and Tayo converse in English (although this
is never made clear), again illustrating Silko’s idea that the telling, not
the language per se, is crucial.
. Paul Taylor makes a similar point about Ceremony as a whole:
“It is clear that in the translation of Indian cultural experience into the
English literary idiom two ontologies as well as two cosmologies ex-
ist, and that the Indian writer conjoins received images and meanings
of English words with his own distinct image and word-making tradi-
   –

tions” (“Silko’s Reappropriation” –). See also Ellen Arnold’s argu-
ment that in the course of Ceremony, “the word, language itself, passes
through the same processes of deconstruction and reconstruction, de-
territorialization and reterritorialization, as Tayo himself” ().
. See also Paul Taylor’s argument that the almanac notebooks are
quite literally palimpsests that “‘write over’ the almanac that steered
the European destroyer to the plunder and rape of the ‘New World’”
(“Silko’s Reappropriation” ). For a brief discussion of “anti-imperial
translation” in Almanac of the Dead, see Krupat’s “Postcoloniality and
Native American Literature” (–).
. In this sense, Power’s text parallels developments in actual Na-
tive American language communities. According to Bartelt, there is
now a well-documented trend toward the use of nonstandardized En-
glish within Native American communities; this language functions
as a marker of ethnicity and bridges “the gap between traditional and
mainstream cultures” ().
. An ability to fathom the language of the alien “other” was cru-
cial to the Euro-American process of colonization, as James Axtell
explains (–). Rather than learning the native tongues, the colo-
nizers often relied on translators, and it was crucial to ﬁnd a reliable
one. Many native translators foiled incursions into Native American–
controlled territories; however, colonization was sometimes enabled by
a Native American convert/translator (Axtell ).
. Pérez Firmat explicates and expands the meaning of transcultu-
ración in the writing of Fernando Ortiz. See also Pérez Firmat’s discus-
sion of “critical criollism,” which is a translational enterprise in which
the translator wants to “inﬂect, rather than efface, European culture”
(Cuban Condition ). Mary Louise Pratt also discusses transcultura-
tion in Imperial Eyes (–).
. But for a different perspective, see Neil Wright’s assertion that
Red Dress’s speaking in two languages in the contemporary moment
represents “mere accommodation to a present and perhaps temporary
reality” ().
. Red Dress’s bilingual discourse creates a “contact zone” by de-
picting relations of interaction rather than separation. Mary Louise
Pratt argues that “a ‘contact’ perspective emphasizes how subjects are
constituted in and by their relations to each other. It treats the rela-
tions among colonizers and colonized . . . [in terms of] copresence,
interaction, [and] interlocking understandings and practices” ().
. There are complicated reasons for Lydia’s silence; she believes
   – 
that her voice has actually caused the death of her adopted son and
husband, so she will not unleash “the killing voice” (). However,
Power makes clear that the drunk driver who kills her husband and
son emblematizes white dislike for Native Americans: “He could hear
voices mixing with the wind, mocking voices speaking a language un-
familiar to him. Sioux, he guessed. . . . It was the old enemy rising up
to challenge him. These goddamn Indians, they never quit” (). Meta-
phorically, if not actually, then, Lydia’s silence is engendered by racism
and an almost apocalyptic war against Native Americans.
. Transliteration involves writing a word in a foreign language
into English without translating it. For example, in many temples He-
brew prayers and songs are transliterated into English so that people
who do not read the Hebrew alphabet can still participate in the ser-
vices by singing the transliterated songs, written in English.
. There has been no critical discussion of translation and its fail-
ure in either Reservation Blues or Indian Killer. However, an issue of
Studies in American Indian Literatures (. []) devoted to Alexie’s
ﬁction contains an article by P. Jane Hafen discussing music in Reser-
vation Blues and an article by James Cox discussing the novel’s subver-
sion of popular cultural narratives.
. Several critics argue that Alexie’s writing perpetuates stereotypes
of Native Americans and presents no critique of the dominant culture.
Louis Owens, for example, claims that Alexie “reinforces all of the ste-
reotypes desired by white readers” and that non-Indian readers come
away from his novels believing that “no one is really to blame but In-
dians” for Native American self-destructiveness (Mixedblood Messages
–). Gloria Bird argues that alcoholism and drinking are “sensa-
tionalized” () in Reservation Blues while “the core of native commu-
nity” () is omitted. Elizabeth Cook-Lynn believes that Reservation
Blues does not present “art as an ethical endeavor or the artist as [a]
responsible social critic” (). However, this passage from Thomas’s
journal clearly does blame Euro-American culture for cultural and lin-
guistic genocide against Native Americans. Furthermore, in both the
novels I discuss, Alexie illustrates that current problems of the Spo-
kane and other Native American groups (rage, alcoholism, poverty,
and despair) must be connected to the long and bloody history of the
colonization of indigenous peoples in the United States.
. For more on the role of blues music, see Hafen .
. Alexie has said in an interview that Big Mom is modeled on his
maternal grandmother, Etta Adams, who died when he was eight. “She
   –

was one of the great spiritual leaders of the Spokane tribe; . . . in her
last days thousands came to pay their respects” (Marx ). This hardly
sounds “cartoonish” to me, nor do I think that she is represented as
such in the text. Of course, as with many of Alexie’s characters, there
is a degree of humor in her depiction. See also Hafen’s comment that
Big Mom is “genetic memory” (). Unlike Owens and Cook-Lynn,
Hafen provides a positive reading of Reservation Blues, as does James
Cox.
. It seems clear that John Smith is not the Indian Killer, for the
killer is seen leaving Seattle after John Smith’s death. Any number
of other individuals could be the Indian Killer: Jack Wilson, Reggie
Polatkin, Harley Tate (who disappears), or even Father Duncan. The
Indian Killer could also be a mythical ﬁgure from the past—a ghost
dancer, for example, or even Wovoka, the leader of the ghost dance
movement, who was also known as Jack Wilson.
. John’s silence is mentioned repeatedly; see, for example, pages ,
, , , , , , , , and .
 
. Throughout this chapter I use the term “Standardized English”
rather than the more common term “Standard English” to denote that
something has been done to this language to make it the standard, to
make it “proper.” “Standardized English” (or se), as I use this term, is
the grammatically correct language of “consensus” normally taught in
schools. For a discussion of some of the features of se, see Walt Wolf-
ram’s Dialects and American English. African American Vernacular En-
glish (aave) is also a rule-governed, fully formed, learned system of
communication, but it is generally not taught in schools. Although
aave is generally a “dispreferred” language, in this chapter I show that
many African American writers indicate that it has a crucial role to
play in formulations of voice and identity. For a detailed and nontech-
nical discussion of some of the features of aave, see Fasold and Wolf-
ram, “Some Linguistic Features of Negro Dialect”; see also Smither-
man, Talkin That Talk (–), and Wolfram’s Dialects and American
English.
. “Ebonics” as a term was created by a group of African Ameri-
can scholars at a conference in ; these scholars wanted to deﬁne
black language from a black perspective and so created the term from
“ebony” and “phonics.” According to Geneva Smitherman, the term
   – 
“U.S. Ebonics” is used interchangeably with Black/African American
Vernacular English. For more on this term and its history, see Smither-
man’s Talkin That Talk (–) and Robert Williams’s Ebonics: The
True Language of Black Folks.
. For a longer discussion of this controversy and its political and
ideological meanings, see Collins.
. A codeswitch can occur in one sentence (“I left my umbrella at
home and it rained but c’est la vie in Ohio”) or between sentences, as
is often the case with bilingual Spanish-English speakers, who may
move between Spanish and English at various points in a conversation.
For a general discussion of the linguistic and political signiﬁcance of
codeswitching, see Heller, “The Politics of Codeswitching and Lan-
guage Choice.” Heller argues that codeswitching can either “acquiesce
to or resist relations of power” () and that it can be part of a “pro-
cess of ethnic mobilization which is characterized less by social trans-
formation than by a realignment of the relations of power between
ethnic groups” ().
. For a brief discussion of what a dialect is and whether aave
should be considered a dialect of English or a separate and different
language, see Rickford. This is a complex question which I can sum-
marize here only by saying that even among linguists there is no ac-
cepted deﬁnition of what a dialect is and that most deﬁnitions turn
out to have a more political than pragmatic meaning. Smitherman ar-
gues that whether aave is considered a dialect or a language depends
on how language is deﬁned: “If one considers only words, grammar,
and sound as the essence of language, then Black speech data might
tend to look more like a dialect of white English. If one also considers
the history and social rules that govern the use, production, and inter-
pretation of the words, grammar, and sound, then Black speech data
more nearly resembles a different language” (“Black Language” ).
There are two reasons that I describe aave as a language in this
chapter. First, as Smitherman also points out, in the popular mind,
languages have high social status and dialects do not. Second, I be-
lieve, like Smitherman, that aave is not just related to speciﬁc fea-
tures of syntax but is also an expression of African American ideology
(“Black Language” ). Smitherman also deﬁnes Ebonics or aave as
“an oppositional way of speaking,” a “counterlanguage” (Talkin That
Talk ). It is also worth noting that aave is not a bastardized or cor-
rupted version of English but probably the result of contact between
African and European language systems; during this contact European
   

words were grafted onto African language patterns and vice versa, so
that both the European and African languages were transformed. For
a good discussion of the origins and history of aave, see Dillard; see
also Davis and Dalby.
. The most famous example of this is Frederick Douglass’s 
Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave, Written
by Himself, in which Douglass states: “You have seen how a man was
made a slave; you shall see how a slave was made a man” (). In Dessa
Rose, Sherley Anne Williams quotes part of this statement directly,
which suggests that she is in dialogue with the often male-centered
slave narrative tradition.
. Jadine’s fondness for money versus Son’s poverty raises the issue
of what relationship class differences play in linguistic conﬂicts. I do
not mean to imply here that class plays no role in who does (or does
not) speak the vernacular and has no impact on language conﬂicts.
Most linguists who have studied this issue, however, conclude that
race, rather than class, is a stronger determinant of whether an individ-
ual speaks aave or another tongue inﬂuenced by an ethnic language.
William Labov’s research, for example, demonstrates that “there are
discontinuities between middle class and working class speech in the
American sociolinguistic pattern. But the chief breaks are between
ethnic groups in our large cities. The English of Puerto Rican and
Mexican Americans clearly shows the effect of the Spanish substra-
tum and is certainly a different subsystem from others. The language
of Negro speakers in ghetto areas is much more different from that of
the surrounding white community than we normally ﬁnd in dialect-
contact situations” ().
. Furthermore, aave is not static but changes over time. For dis-
cussion of these changes, see Stewart.
. For more on the trope of the Signifying Monkey, see Gates and
Kochman. This ﬁgure also comes up in Caucasia. For information
and tales featuring Anansi, the spider trickster, see Abrahams’s Afro-
American Folktales.
. In discussing Jadine and Son, Morrison herself comments that
both these characters are “sort of wrong” in their views (“Interview”
). Although such critics as James Coleman and Evelyn Hawthorne
tend to see Son as a source of value in the novel, others such as John
Duvall argue that Jadine is right to reject his demands.
. For a good discussion of the novel’s ending and its use of the Tar
Baby myth, see Werner.
   – 
. Accents are one aspect of dialect, but certainly not the only one.
For more on the differences between accents and dialects, see J. C.
Wells, who argues that a difference between varieties of English (or
dialects) may involve “syntax, morphology, lexicon, and pronuncia-
tion,” while a difference of accent “involves only pronunciation” (). It
is sometimes difficult to separate accents from dialects, but my point
here is that Birdie knows that “English” is not monolithic but com-
posed of many discourses, accents, and dialects.
. For discussions of patterns of pronunciation of aave, see Smither-
man, Talkin and Testifyin –; Fasold and Wolfram, “Some Linguis-
tic Features” –; and Labov.
. According to Gates, this trickster ﬁgure has different names
in different geographic regions: he is called Esu-Elegbara in Nigeria,
Legba in Benin, Exú in Brazil, Echu-Elegua in Cuba, and Papa Legba
in Haiti (). Birdie consistently uses the Afro-Brazilian spelling, “Exu-
Elegba.”
. See especially in this regard James Weldon Johnson’s The Auto-
biography of an Ex-Colored Man (), Jessie Fauset’s Plum Bun (),
and Nella Larsen’s Passing ().
. See Smitherman (“Black Language” –) for a discussion of
the value and uses of signifying. Smitherman deﬁnes signifying as “in-
direct language used to tease, admonish, or disparage” (). See also
Gates and Kochman.
. For discussion of differences between African American Vernac-
ular English and a southern dialect, see Fasold (“The Relation between
Black and White Speech in the South”) and Wolfram (“The Relation-
ship of White Southern Speech to Vernacular Black English”). Both
argue that although there is overlap, aave has some unique features
not possessed by southern, white vernacular English. Fasold, however,
believes these differences are “relatively few and rather subtle” (),
while Wolfram argues that there are considerable differences, espe-
cially in the use of the variant “be.”
. See also Ashraf Rushdy’s point that conﬂicting theories of “read-
ing” are employed in Dessa Rose—that there is a mode of reading “in
which an individual attempts to master another” and “a form of read-
ing in which two individuals come to a mutual understanding of each
other; this is reading as dialogue” (). I would argue that in this pas-
sage Dessa and Ruth engage in the second form of reading—reading
as dialogue.
. For a longer discussion of clues that Dessa tells the entire story,
   –

see Marta Sánchez –. As I do, Sánchez believes that “although
two-thirds of the story is told in third person, at novel’s end readers
discover that Dessa has been telling her story all along. . . . Dessa is
‘author’ of the book” ().
. For discussion of the value of oral communication in African
American communities, see Kochman and Smitherman (especially
Talkin and Testifyin, chap. ).
. See also Marta Sánchez’s argument that Williams undermines
strict boundaries between “writing” and “orality” (). Mae Hender-
son and Nicole King also discuss the role of the oral and the vernacular
in Dessa Rose.
. See also Catherine Snow, whose research demonstrates that
metalinguistic skills such as “recognizing that words have no intrinsic
connection to the objects they refer to” typically emerge several years
earlier in bilingual children when compared with monolingual ones.
Thus bilingual children are more likely to be aware of “formal aspects
of the linguistic system” and “the arbitrariness of the linguistic code”
().
. This is a quote from a poem by Adrienne Rich called “The
Burning of Paper Instead of Children.” See also Teaching to Transgress,
in which hooks clariﬁes that it is not English per se that she ﬁnds op-
pressive: “I know that it is not the English language that hurts me, but
what the oppressors do with it, how they shape it to become a territory
that limits and deﬁnes, how they make it a weapon that can shame,
humiliate, colonize” ().
 
. I use the term Chicano/a rather than Mexican American to in-
dicate the formation of a new political, social, linguistic, and literary
identity that is more than the sum of its parts. The term has roots in
political movements that emphasize the reclaiming of Mexican and
Indian heritages, an awareness of exploitation and marginalization,
and the use of linguistic reservoirs in English, Spanish, and other lan-
guages, as well as bilingualism (Rebolledo ).
. It could be argued that some dialects of African American Ver-
nacular English are interlingual as well, because they incorporate “for-
eign” words. In a s study, for example, linguist Lorenzo Turner
demonstrated that over four thousand words from many different Af-
rican languages were discovered in Gullah. Yet the aave presented in
   – 
most texts by African American writers on the whole does not include
African words but rather synthesizes aave with se, as I argued in the
previous chapter.
. The most extensive study of the use of Spanish and English in the
works of Chicano/a writers is Ernst Rudin’s Tender Accents of Sound:
Spanish in the Chicano Novel in English. Rudin reaches some conclu-
sions similar to mine, arguing that the “Chicano author [is] a transla-
tor between cultures” (x) and that the Spanish-language elements in
texts “constitute one of the most salient and revealing markers of these
processes of translation” (xi; see also ). However, Rudin aims more
than I do to catalogue and describe the use of Spanish in a wide vari-
ety of Chicano/a novels, and he rarely considers how these Spanish-
language elements affect reading practices or force the reader to be-
come a translator. For other critics who have discussed Chicano/a liter-
ature’s bilingualism, multilingualism, or interlingualism, see Arteaga,
Bruce-Novoa, Gingerich, and Keller. None of these critics, however,
focus on the texts I write about here or reach the same conclusions re-
garding the status and use of practices and metaphors of translation.
. For example, Tomás Rivera writes his early work “. . . y no se lo
tragó la tierra / . . . and the earth did not part” () in Mexican Span-
ish and then collaborates on its translation and presentation in a bi-
lingual text that contains side-by-side translations. Another early Chi-
cano writer, Rolando Hinojosa, begins writing his novels in the s
in Mexican Spanish and then changes to English in the s, even
retranslating some of his earlier works.
. Codeswitching is the use of two different languages within one
communicative episode. For more deﬁnition and discussion of code-
switching, see the introduction and Chapter .
. I have only a limited reading knowledge of Spanish, yet I have
been consistently drawn into the interlingual zone of the text. I argue
throughout this chapter that one aim of many Chicano/a texts is to
teach the reader to become a translator who understands the inter-
relationship between different languages. With this goal in mind, all
translations of Mexican Spanish words in this chapter are my own un-
less otherwise noted and are based on my rudimentary reading knowl-
edge of Spanish, as well as my use of several different Spanish-language
dictionaries. Translations are set off in brackets from the texts them-
selves.
. As I explained in the introduction and in Chapter , a “writerly
translator” actively participates with the ethnic culture and language,
   –

struggles to understand its complexities, and refuses to take a passive
and literal approach to its meaning. Such a translator does not deny
contradictions between languages and cultures but uses them in his
or her translation practices to create new formulations of identity and
voice.
. Lora Romero argues, for example, that Rodriguez isolates him-
self from his community (–), and Ramón Saldívar contends that
Hunger of Memory presents “an uncritical celebration of the autono-
mous individual” (). Rosaura Sánchez calls Days of Obligation con-
voluted, inane, and circular (); solipsistic (); nonsensical and con-
descending (); and reactionary, frivolous, disingenuous, and cliché
ridden (). Sánchez’s main concern centers on her belief that Rodri-
guez constructs essentialistic binaries in which America is constantly
elevated over Mexico () and that he sees assimilation as inevitable
(). Jerzy Durczak similarly faults Rodriguez for having fully accli-
mated to English (–, ) and assented to assimilation (). Sev-
eral critics have presented more neutral or positive readings of Rod-
riguez. Laura Fine argues that Rodriguez’s autobiographies “enact a
simultaneous and paradoxical drama of self-assertion—the claiming
of multiple identities—and self concealment” (), while Norma Alar-
cón argues that his work demonstrates, perhaps unwittingly, that “to-
talizing self-construction is elusive” (“Tropology” –). For other
essays that persuasively argue that Rodriguez subverts the process of
Americanization, see Hunsaker and Browdy de Hernandez.
. In Rodriguez’s and Moraga’s works there is a construction of
an autobiographical persona who may or may not be the same as the
author of the text. Rather than constantly using the term “autobio-
graphical persona,” I will simply use the author’s last name, but I do
not mean to imply that the persona presented in the writing is uncon-
structed or is necessarily the same as the “real person” who writes the
text.
. Browdy de Hernandez also argues that Hunger of Memory “rep-
resents a double-voiced response to the dilemma of the marginal post-
colonial subject” (). However, she believes that Rodriguez fails “to
recognize the signiﬁcance of the ambivalence that comes across so
clearly in Hunger of Memory” ().
. According to Norma Alarcón, Rodriguez “plays here with a
Mexican idiom applied to those who look too directly at another:
‘Comérselo con los ojos’” (“Tropology” ).
. In a  interview, Rodriguez states this even more bluntly:
   – 
“Maybe what is happening in the Americas right now is that the In-
dian is very much alive. I represent someone who has swallowed En-
glish and now claims it as my language, your books as my books, your
religion as my religion—maybe this is the most subversive element of
the colonial adventure” (“New, New World” ).
. There is much controversy about why Marina helped Cortés colo-
nize the people of Mexico. She may have believed him to be Quetzal-
coatl, the feathered serpent god, and she may also have been sold into
slavery by her own mother and eventually given to one of Cortés’s
soldiers. What is clear is that with Cortés she had a son and that this
child and other mestizos, rather than the children of the indigenous
population, were allowed to ﬂourish. In Days of Obligation Rodriguez
aligns himself with Malinche, with the translator-as-betrayer, while in
Loving in the War Years Moraga (like numerous other Chicana femi-
nists) attempts to rethink this legacy of woman-as-betrayer. Malinche
also makes a brief appearance in Candelaria’s Memories of the Alham-
bra (), suggesting that the ﬁgure of the translator-as-betrayer haunts
the consciousness of the interlingual Chicano/a writer.
. As Steven Hunsaker comments, “Rodriguez forms identity not
by accepting wholesale any one world view but through the slow ac-
cretion of inﬂuence from disparate and often contradictory sources”
().
. For more on how the population became miscegenated, see Ar-
teaga (–), who explains that the “conquistador father” destroyed
“the native culture and native body” so that he could “infuse his own”
(). This conquest began with the mass slaying of Indian men, the
elimination of Native children, and the rape of Indian women ().
Within the ﬁrst century of colonization, disease and deliberate de-
struction reduced the indigenous population from  million to  mil-
lion ().
. In  the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo ended twenty-two
months of warfare between Mexico and the United States. In the
treaty, Mexico gave almost half of its territory to the United States.
Given the choice of becoming a citizen of the United States or migrat-
ing south, most Mexicans accepted U.S. domination and so became,
in the most literal sense, Mexican Americans (Paredes ).
. It is certainly not true, then, that Joe opts for assimilation and
“carries the idea of being American to its extreme” (), as Marvin
Lewis claims. But for a different point of view, see Lattin –.
. Here is a partial list of Spanish phrases in Memories of the Alham-
   –

bra: velorio (); que lastima, su padre (); muy barato, joven, hom-
bre (); chula, ranchitos, Frijoles Flats (); posole, momentito, mexi-
catessen, a sus ordenes (); senor (, , , , ); Mejico ();
policia, gato, “Paso por aqui,” “Pues no. No mas paso por aqui” ();
Museo Nacional De Antropologia, raza suffrida (); Norteamericano
(, ); Mejicano, raza, frijoles (); tortillas and frijoles (); bolillo
(); “Soy raza, campadres! Soy raza,” loco, gringo, que loco (); “La
tursta es muy malo,” “que tal” (); cantina, pulque, chinga, Hijos
de la chingada (); gringo (); viejitas, centavo (); manana, can-
tina (); cerveza, hombres, pistola, “mi cabeza,” la politica, loco ();
“Mi cabeza!,” “Que dolor!,” aspirina (); senor Headache, postola,
policia, Hijos de la chingada (); baille, patrona (); frijoles, tor-
tilla, gatittos (); “Pelea!” (); madrina y padrino (); sanctuario
(); raza suffrida (); a la chingada (); “Es verdad que no puedes
hablar espanol?,” “no puedes” (); “no puedes” (); “Hasta la vista,”
politicos (); “Eres Mejicano?,” “Si” (); tienda, momento (); si,
primo, abrazzo, mi hijo, “No habla espanol. Es agringado,” padrino
(); abrazzo (); raza (, ); ranchito (); tus naglas, tus pechos
(); “Hablas espanol?” (); “Catolicos? Si. Somos Catolicos” ();
tia (); posole, sopaipillas (); policia, los chotas (); chota ();
Surumatos, Mejicanos, Chingados (); corazon (); pobres ();
que demonio (); si senor (, ); siesta, numero cinco, baso pro-
fundo, adios (); churros, numero cinco, Calle de Los Libreros ();
Recuerdos de la Alhambra (); morisco (); barrio, mi vida ();
serapes (); Mejico (, ); parador (); No soy Mejicano, Bib-
lioteca Nacional (); no soy Mejicano (); biscochitos (); ba-
bosa ().
. All page numbers refer to the ﬁrst edition () of Loving in the
War Years. In  Moraga published an expanded edition of this text
that added four new essays to the end of the text but left the ﬁrst 
pages of the original virtually unchanged. Since most readers are fa-
miliar with the  edition, I have chosen to use the pagination from
the ﬁrst edition rather than that of the second.
. If, as Norma Alarcón argues, in Chicana women’s writing
“women may have a voice on the condition that they speak as moth-
ers” (“Making Familia” ), this image becomes even more interest-
ing. See also Arteaga’s argument that for Moraga reproduction occurs
in an act of the tongue, not the phallus ().
. For discussion of La Malinche’s presentation in “A Long Line of
Vendidas,” see Yarbro-Bejarano – and Sternbach.
   – 
. See, for example, Romero  n.  or Allatson .
. Several linguistic studies have demonstrated that Spanish-to-
English codeswitchers do not have two separate language grammars
but one in which the grammars of the two different languages are
functionally integrated; see Lipski; Pfaff; and Poplack, “Sometimes I’ll
Start.” These studies have also shown that intrasentential codeswitch-
ing is not random but rule-governed behavior with syntactic con-
straints. Poplack goes so far as to argue that “speakers with the greatest
degree of bilingual ability (‘true’ bilinguals) most favor intra-sentential
code-switching” (“Sometimes I’ll Start” ).
. See, for example, Swigart.
. Translation of this stanza is taken from Yarbro-Bejarano 
n. .
. But for a different point of view, see Paul Allatson’s argument
that in this poem, “an emphatic, authoritative coming to voice in Span-
ish of lesbian desire is proclaimed, although the effect is muted by the
English of the last lines” ().
. Most major elements of the ﬁrst edition remain unchanged,
with the exception of the removal of the glossary and the addition of
the four new essays and some new footnotes. However, there are some
changes in wording. For example, instead of the English word “cunt,”
used several times in the ﬁrst edition, in the second edition Moraga
substitutes the Spanish word “chocha” (, ) or “vagina” (), which
means roughly the same thing in Spanish and English. Since Moraga
usually allies her sexuality with her Spanish identity, the change from
“cunt” to “chocha” seems logical, but the change to the more techni-
cal term “vagina” (“It’s as if la boca had lodged itself en el centro del
corazón. . . . The same place where the vagina beats” [, second edi-
tion]) seems jarring in this passionate conclusion to “A Long Line of
Vendidas.” See Loving in the War Years (Cambridge, Mass.: South End
Press, ).
. There has been some controversy about the audience for code-
switched and interlingual discourse. While some literary critics argue
that codeswitching draws the monolingual reader into dialogue with
the multilingual text (Arteaga ) and encourages the monocultural
reader to develop a bicultural sensitivity (Dasenbrock ), one lin-
guistic analysis of codeswitching states that it is intended “for a bi-
lingual audience, an audience more typical of the majority of Chi-
cano communities” (Penﬁeld and Ornstein-Galicia ). My view is
that codeswitched, interlingual Chicano/a literary texts generally are
   –

intended to speak to bilingual audiences and to monolingual readers/
speakers.
. Ernst Rudin identiﬁes Abelardo Delgado and Raymond Barrio
as the authors of Chicano novels in English “who use Spanish most ex-
tensively and with many different functions” (). For an interesting
discussion of the divided self/divided language in Delgado’s poetry,
see Bruce-Novoa, Introduction –.
. [When he was drinking] he used to be extra generous with his
Godchild Santiago and I would get [small change; dimes and quar-
ters].
. “Escusado de loyo,” according to Walter Corbella, is a spoken
representation of a Spanish phrase, “escusado del hoyo,” which means
a hole in the ground used for a bathroom, or an outhouse. According
to Corbella, in spoken Spanish there is a tendency to move the ﬁnal
“l” in “del” to the next word when it begins with a vowel, so that “es-
cusado del hoyo” becomes “escusado de loyo” (the h in “hoyo” is silent)
(written communication,  December ). This is an example of
how Delgado creates a language not only in between Spanish and En-
glish but also in between the spoken and the written—he represents
oral language’s speech patterns within the written text, as a writer such
as Verdelle does as well (see Chapter ).
. “Veinte” means “twenty.”
. “Little one . . . little one . . . Santiaguito, see, look, here comes
Santa Claus!”
. “Are you Santa Claus? . . . / I am Guadalupe Jiménez Rodrí-
guez, a mule driver. I’m not that fucker.”
. My nonliteral translation of this paragraph is as follows: “This
idiot would always pester me. He loved to seek me out to go at it
[ﬁght]. I would ignore him. I told him, OK, man, you win. I get it al-
ready and would walk away. One day I was all dressed up at a party
with two or three girls when again he asked me to go ﬁght outside in
a ditch. I replied to him, Since you are a smooth one, I know if I go
out there I’ll have to ﬁght a lot of your asshole brothers, for sure. He
had a lot of friends and they soon jumped me. My friend Felipe tried
to get me out of the mess. Someone landed a good kick on that guy
and that brought all his brothers and relatives into the act. He fought
very wildly. Felipe and I left very quietly. I knew that guy would try
to get me later, so rather than live in fear of that day I sought him out
the very next day. I found him and I said, look, here I am, without
any other business, get it out of your system right now, why don’t you?
   – 
To my surprise he said he no longer wished any conﬂict with me and
wanted it to end. He went on to say how frightened he had been that
day but that he would rather face it than live in fear.”
. María Herrera-Sobek states that “carnal” is a term meaning
“brother” and belongs to the pachuco argot ().
 
. Bilingual education programs need community support to be
effective (Brisk ), as well as support at all other levels—from teach-
ers, administration, and family (McKay ).
. Richard Fry’s report “Latinos in Higher Education: Many En-
roll, Too Few Graduate” actually states that “the PHC report shows
that . . . by some measures a greater share of Latinos are attending
college classes than non-Hispanic whites. However, most are pursu-
ing paths associated with lower chances of attaining a bachelor’s de-
gree. Many are enrolled in community colleges, many also only attend
school part time, and others delay or prolong their education but fail
to earn a degree.”
. For bilingual education “success stories,” see Ricento’s discus-
sion of the Oyster Bilingual School in Washington, D.C., and public
schools in Brooklyn, New York, and San Diego, California.
. Bilingual education programs often fail because they are poorly
planned, unsupported by the teachers or the community, or lacking
in economic resources (Dicker –). Lily Wong Fillmore argues as
well that “a close examination of bilingual education where it has per-
formed poorly will often show the extent to which it has been sabo-
taged from within by people who were supposed to make it work”
(“Against” –).
. According to numerous experts in this ﬁeld, maintenance bilin-
gual education is the best method for increasing literacy in both En-
glish and the mother tongue (see Dicker , , –; McKay –
; Varennes –; Thomas and Collier; and Ramirez, Yuen, and
Ramey). Research also demonstrates that there are ways to create good
bilingual schools (Brisk , ) and that when bilingual education is
well planned it is highly effective (Wiley, Literacy ). For summa-
ries of these studies see Wiley’s Literacy and Language and Varennes.
According to Varennes, most studies conclude that a refusal to edu-
cate students in the mother tongue leads to poor educational results, a
sense of psychological inferiority, and ethnic conﬂict ().
   –

. See also James Crawford’s argument that “the English Only
movement sounded the alarm bells that energized Indian leaders in
the s to adopt policies designed to promote the use of ancestral
tongues in government and schools” (); eventually Congress passed
laws (in  and ) to protect indigenous languages and autho-
rized grants for this purpose ().
. For more discussion of language rights in international treaties
and charters, see Varennes.
. In a  Los Angeles Times news report, Robin Fields comments
that “nationally, those between  and  years old who speak Spanish
at home are almost % less likely than they were in  to speak
little or no English. The drop was nearly % in California, where the
portion of bilingual children almost drew level with the national rate.
Similarly, the portion of Asian school-age children who spoke little or
no English dropped % nationally and % in California. . . . ‘People
worry about Latinization of America, but this shows the Americani-
zation of Latinos’ said Dowell Myers, director of the Demographic
Futures Project at USC.”
. See Terrence Wiley’s statement that “English has been the domi-
nant language of the United States since its founding, and there ap-
pears to be little reason to assume that its status will be eclipsed in the
foreseeable future. U.S. Census data indicate that, in , there were
approximately  million speakers of languages other than English in
this country—.% of the total population. Only . million (less
than %) of this group did not speak any English at all. Based on these
data, it is clear that English is overwhelmingly the majority language”
(“Myths”).
. For more on the consequences of language loss, see Fishman.
. For more on the English Plus movement, see Vickie Lewelling’s
article and the core statement of beliefs at <<http://www.cal.org/
resources/digest/lewell.html>>.
. On the legal implications of the “Official English” movement,
see Miner.
. See Ricento – for more on the idea of a national bilingual
language policy.
. In some sense the United States has always been multilingual,
as Werner Sollors points out: “For much of multilingual America has
used the ‘hybrid tongues,’ or, as one could also say, the ‘melting glots’
of Franglais, Portinglês, Yinglish, Italgish, Spanglish, and so forth”
(“How German Is It?” ). See also Heinz Kloss, The American Bi-
   – 
lingual Tradition, in which the author documents that in the United
States there has always been legal freedom to cultivate languages and
long-standing bilingual communities. Nonetheless, Kloss argues that
while there have only been isolated cases of oppressive state language
policy, many instances have occurred in which “individuals (including
public school teachers) and groups exerted unofficial moral pressure
upon members of the minority groups, especially children, so as to
make them feel that to stick to a ‘foreign’ tongue meant being back-
ward or even un-American” (). Social attitudes, then, play a strong
role in language maintenance or language shift, as well as in the con-
tinuing presence of bilingualism in the United States.
. For example, in  one report on Indian affairs argued that
peace with plains Indians could be achieved by linguistic genocide:
“In the difference of language to-day lies two-thirds of our trouble. . . .
Schools should be established, which children should be required to
attend; their barbarous dialects should be blotted out and the English
language substituted” (Atkins ).
. Gómez-Peña has received fame and won numerous awards for
his work, including the prestigious MacArthur Foundation Fellowship
in .

. There are several other scenes in Coppola’s ﬁlm where Bob Har-
ris tries and fails to understand Japanese or to translate between En-
glish and Japanese. In a hospital he attempts to have a conversation in
Japanese with an elderly woman but only amuses her when he repeats
her gestures. In a bar he ends up conversing with a Japanese man who
is speaking in French, which Bob Harris translates into English. Ironi-
cally, when Charlotte (Scarlett Johansson) asks him what he is doing,
he says, “My Japanese is getting better and better”—even though he
never speaks a word of it in the entire ﬁlm. Overall, the ﬁlm seems to
mark the alienness of the Japanese language, as well as the alterity of
Japanese culture for American individuals like Bob.
. For example, even the extremely multilingual passage from Del-
gado’s Letters to Louise quoted in Chapter —the passage that describes
the ﬁght after the party when the narrator is young—contains approxi-
mately  words, but only  of them are in Spanish, which means
that only a third of the text is in Spanish or Spanglish. In most other
passages the percentage of Spanish-language words is much lower.
   –

. I will give one example of how languages can exist in a lost-and-
found that allows the (eventual) reclamation of a “dead” language.
For many years, Hebrew was considered a dead language. However, in
the s and the s, Eliezer ben Yehudah almost single-handedly
brought about a rebirth of the language and made it the language of
Israel. Most crucial to his attempts was his dictionary, the ﬁrst volume
of which was published in , in which he created the words neces-
sary to have a modern, living language. Hebrew thus existed for many
years in a lost-and-found space, until ben Yehudah reclaimed it.
    
This page intentionally left blank
Works Cited
Aaronson, Doris, and Steven Ferres. “Sentence Processing in
Chinese-American Bilinguals.” Journal of Memory and Language
 (): –.
Abrahams, Roger D. Deep Down in the Jungle . . . ; Negro Narrative
Folklore from the Streets of Philadelphia. Hatboro, Pa.: Folklore
Associates, .
———, ed. Afro-American Folktales: Stories from Black Traditions in
the New World. New York: Pantheon, .
Acosta, Oscar Zeta. The Autobiography of a Brown Buffalo. San
Francisco: Straight Arrow, .
Alarcón, Norma. “Making Familia from Scratch: Split Subjectivities
in the Work of Helena María Viramontes and Cherríe Moraga.”
Chicana Creativity and Criticism: Charting New Frontiers in
American Literature. Ed. María Herrera-Sobek and Helena María
Viramontes. Houston: Arte Publico Press, . –.
———. “Tropology of Hunger: The ‘Miseducation’ of Richard
Rodriguez.” The Ethnic Canon: Histories, Institutions, and
Interventions. Ed. David Palumbo-Liu. Minneapolis: University
of Minnesota Press, . –.
Alexie, Sherman. Indian Killer. New York: Warner, .
———. Reservation Blues. New York: Warner, .
Allatson, Paul. “‘I May Create a Monster’: Cherríe Moraga’s
Transcultural Conundrum.” Antípodas: Journal of Hispanic and
Galician Studies / (/): –.
Allen, Paula Gunn. “The Feminine Landscape of Leslie Marmon
Silko’s Ceremony.” Critical Perspectives on Native American Fiction.
Ed. Richard F. Fleck. Washington, D.C.: Three Continents Press,
. –.
Ang, Ien. “On Not Speaking Chinese: Postmodern Ethnicity and the
Politics of Diaspora.” Feminism and Cultural Studies. Ed. Morag
Shiach. New York: Oxford University Press, . –.
 

Anzaldúa, Gloria. Borderlands/La Frontera: The New Mestiza. .
San Francisco: Aunt Lute, .
Arnold, Ellen. “An Ear for the Story, an Eye for the Pattern:
Rereading Ceremony.” Modern Fiction Studies  (): –.
Arteaga, Alfred. Chicano Poetics: Heterotexts and Hybridities. New
York: Cambridge University Press, .
Atkins, J. D. C. Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs. th
Cong., st sess., House Exec. Doc. , pt. . Washington, D.C.:
Government Printing Office, . Rpt. as “Barbarous Dialects
Should Be Blotted Out. . . .” Language Loyalties: A Source Book
on the Official English Controversy. Ed. James Crawford. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, . –.
Axtell, James. Imagining the Other: First Encounters in North America.
Washington, D.C.: American Historical Association, .
Bakhtin, Mikhail. The Dialogic Imagination: Four Essays. Ed. Michael
Holquist. Trans. Caryl Emerson and Michael Holquist. Austin:
University of Texas Press, .
Barnstone, Willis. The Poetics of Translation: History, Theory,
Practice. New Haven: Yale University Press, .
Bartelt, Guillermo. “American Indian English in Momaday’s House
Made of Dawn.” Language and Literature  (): –.
Bassnett[-McGuire], Susan. Translation Studies. New York:
Routledge, .
Bassnett, Susan, and André Lefevere. Constructing Cultures: Essays on
Literary Translation. Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters, .
Benjamin, Walter. “The Task of the Translator.” . Trans. Harry
Zohn. Theories of Translation: An Anthology of Essays from Dryden
to Derrida. Ed. Rainer Schulte and John Biguenet. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, . –.
Bhabha, Homi K. The Location of Culture. London: Routledge, .
———. “Signs Taken for Wonders: Questions of Ambivalence and
Authority under a Tree Outside Delhi, May .” “Race,” Writing,
and Difference. Ed. Henry Louis Gates Jr. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, . –.
Bierhorst, John, ed. and comp. Four Masterworks of American Indian
Literature. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, .
Biguenet, John, and Rainer Schulte, eds. The Craft of Translation.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, .
Bird, Gloria. “The Exaggeration of Despair in Sherman Alexie’s
Reservation Blues.” Wicazo Sa Review . (): –.
  
Blanchot, Maurice. “Translating.” . Trans. Richard Sieburth.
Sulfur  (): –.
Bonnefoy, Yves. “Translating Poetry.” Trans. John Alexander and
Clive Wilmer. Theories of Translation: An Anthology of Essays
from Dryden to Derrida. Ed. Rainer Schulte and John Biguenet.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, . –.
Brill de Ramírez, Susan Berry. Contemporary American Indian
Literatures and the Oral Tradition. Tucson: University of Arizona
Press, .
Brisk, Maria Estela. “Good Schools for Bilingual Students: Essential
Conditions.” Lifting Every Voice: Pedagogy and Politics of
Bilingualism. Ed. Zeynep F. Beykont. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard
Education Publishing Group, . –.
Browdy de Hernandez, Jennifer. “Postcolonial Blues: Ambivalence
and Alienation in the Autobiographies of Richard Rodriguez and
V. S. Naipaul.” A/B: Auto/biography Studies . (): –.
Bruce-Novoa, Juan. “Dialogical Strategies, Monological Goals:
Chicano Literature.” An Other Tongue: Nation and Ethnicity in
the Linguistic Borderlands. Ed. Alfred Arteaga. Durham: Duke
University Press, . –.
———. Introduction. Chicano Authors: Inquiry by Interviews. By
Bruce-Novoa. Austin: University of Texas Press, . –.
Candelaria, Nash. Memories of the Alhambra. Tempe, Ariz.: Bilingual
Press/Editorial Bilingüe, .
Chamberlain, Lori. “Gender and the Metaphorics of Translation.”
Rethinking Translation: Discourse, Subjectivity, Ideology. Ed.
Lawrence Venuti. London: Routledge, . –.
Chen, Shih-Hsiang. “Re-creation of the Chinese Image.” The World
of Translation. New York: PEN American Center, . –.
Cheung, King-Kok. Articulate Silences: Hisaye Yamamoto, Maxine
Hong Kingston, Joy Kogawa. Ithaca: Cornell University Press,
.
———. “‘Don’t Tell’: Imposed Silences in The Color Purple and
The Woman Warrior.” PMLA  (): –.
Cheyﬁtz, Eric. The Poetics of Imperialism: Translation and
Colonization from The Tempest to Tarzan. Expanded ed.
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, .
Chua, Cheng Lok. “Golden Mountain: Chinese Versions of the
American Dream in Lin Yutang, Louis Chu, and Maxine Hong
Kingston.” Ethnic Groups  (): –.
 

Cliff, Michelle. “A Journey into Speech.” The Graywolf Annual 5:
Multi-cultural Literacy. Ed. Rick Simonson and Scott Walker.
St. Paul: Graywolf Press, . –.
Coleman, James. “The Quest for Wholeness in Toni Morrison’s Tar
Baby.” Black American Literature Forum  (): –.
Collins, James. “The Ebonics Controversy in Context: Literacies,
Subjectivities, and Language Ideologies in the United States.”
Language Ideological Debates. Ed. Jan Blommaert. New York:
Mouton de Gruyter, . –.
Cook-Lynn, Elizabeth. “American Indian Intellectualism and the
New Indian Story.” American Indian Quarterly . ():
–.
Coppola, Soﬁa, dir. Lost in Translation. Perf. Scarlett Johansson and
Bill Murray. . DVD. Universal Studios, .
Cox, James. “Muting White Noise: The Subversion of Popular
Culture Narratives of Conquest in Sherman Alexie’s Fiction.”
Studies in American Indian Literatures . (): –.
Crawford, James. “Endangered Native American Languages: What
Is to Be Done, and Why?” Language and Politics in the United
States and Canada. Ed. Thomas Ricento and Barbara Burnaby.
Mahwah, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, . –.
Cummings, Jim. “Bilingual Education and Politics.” Education
Digest . (): –.
Dalby, David. “Black through White: Patterns of Communication
in Africa and the New World.” Black-White Speech Relationships.
Ed. Walt Wolfram and Nona H. Clarke. Washington, D.C.:
Center for Applied Linguistics, . –.
Dalji, Hafeezah AdamaDavia. “‘Listen to Your Students’: An
Interview with Oakland High School English Teacher Hafeezah
AdamaDavia Dalji.” The Real Ebonics Debate: Power, Language,
and the Education of African-American Children. Ed. Theresa
Perry and Lisa Delpit. Boston: Beacon Press, . –.
Daniels, Roger. “Relocation, Redress, and the Report: A Historical
Appraisal.” Japanese Americans: From Relocation to Redress. Ed.
Roger Daniels, Sandra C. Taylor, and Harry H. L. Kitano.
Rev. ed. Seattle: University of Washington Press, . –.
Dasenbrock, Reed Way. “Intelligibility and Meaningfulness in
Multicultural Literature in English.” PMLA  (): –.
Davis, Lawrence M. “Dialect Research: Mythology and Reality.”
Black-White Speech Relationships. Ed. Walt Wolfram and Nona H.
  
Clarke. Washington, D.C.: Center for Applied Linguistics, .
–.
Dearborn, Mary V. Pocahontas’s Daughters: Gender and Ethnicity in
American Culture. New York: Oxford University Press, .
Deleuze, Gilles, and Félix Guattari. Kafka: Toward a Minor
Literature. Trans. D. Polan. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota
Press, .
Delgado, Abelardo B. Interview. Chicano Authors: Inquiry by
Interviews. By Juan Bruce-Novoa. Austin: University of Texas
Press, . –.
———. Letters to Louise, via Air Mail. Berkeley, Calif.: Tonatiuh-
Quinto Sol International, .
de Man, Paul. “Walter Benjamin’s ‘The Task of the Translator.’”
The Resistance to Theory. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota
Press, . –.
Derrida, Jacques. The Ear of the Other: Otobiography, Transference,
Translation: Texts and Discussions with Jacques Derrida. Ed.
Christie V. McDonald. Trans. Peggy Kamuf. New York:
Schocken, .
———. “Living On/Border Lines.” Trans. James Hulbert.
Deconstruction and Criticism. Ed. Harold Bloom et al. New York:
Continuum, . –.
———. Monolingualism of the Other; or, The Prosthesis of Origin.
. Trans. Patrick Mensah. Stanford: Stanford University Press,
.
Devy, G. N. “Translation and Literary History: An Indian View.”
Post-colonial Translation: Theory and Practice. Ed. Susan Bassnett
and Harish Trivedi. London: Routledge, . –.
———. “Translation Theory: An Indian Perspective.” Bombay
Literary Review  (): –.
Díaz-Diocaretz, Myriam. Translating Poetic Discourse: Questions on
Feminist Strategies in Adrienne Rich. Amsterdam: Benjamins,
.
Dicker, Susan J. Languages in America: A Pluralist View. Clevedon,
U.K.: Multilingual Matters, .
Dillard, J. L. “A Sketch of the History of Black English.” Black
American English: Its Background and Its Usage in the Schools and
in Literature. Ed. Paul Stoller. New York: Dell, . –.
Dingwaney, Anuradha. “Introduction: Translating ‘Third World’
Cultures.” Between Languages and Cultures: Translation and
 

Cross-Cultural Texts. Ed. Anuradha Dingwaney and Carol Maier.
Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, . –.
Dong, Lorraine, and Marlon K. Hom. “Chinatown Chinese: The
San Francisco Dialect.” Amerasia Journal  (): –.
Douglass, Frederick. Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an
American Slave, Written by Himself. Ed. David W. Blight. Boston:
St. Martin’s, Bedford Books, .
Durczak, Jerzy. Selves between Cultures: Contemporary American
Bicultural Autobiography. San Francisco: International Scholars
Publications, .
Duvall, John. “Descent in the ‘House of Chloe’: Race, Rape, and
Identity in Toni Morrison’s Tar Baby.” Contemporary Literature
. (): –.
Edwards, John. Multilingualism. London: Routledge, .
Evers, Lawrence J. “Words and Place: A Reading of House Made of
Dawn.” Western American Literature  (): –.
Fanon, Frantz. Black Skin, White Masks. Trans. C. L. Markmann.
New York: Grove Press, .
Fasold, Ralph. “The Relation between Black and White Speech in
the South.” American Speech  (): –.
Fasold, Ralph, and Walt Wolfram. “Some Linguistic Features of
Negro Dialect.” Black American English: Its Background and Its
Usage in the Schools and in Literature. Ed. Paul Stoller. New York:
Delta, . –.
Felstiner, John. “‘Ziv, that light’: Translation and Tradition in Paul
Celan.” The Craft of Translation. Ed. John Biguenet and Rainer
Schulte. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, . –.
Fields, Robin. “Foreign-Born Population Reaches  Million.”
Los Angeles Times.  August . <<http://archives.his.com/
population-news/msg.html>>.  November .
Fillmore, Lily Wong. “Against Our Best Interest: The Attempt to
Sabotage Bilingual Education.” Language Loyalties: A Source Book
on the Official English Controversy. Ed. James Crawford. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, . –.
———. “When Learning a Second Language Means Losing the
First.” Early Childhood Research Quarterly  (): –.
Fine, Laura. “Claiming Personas and Rejecting Other-Imposed
Identities: Self-Writing as Self-Righting in the Autobiographies
of Richard Rodriguez.” Biography  (): –.
  
Fishman, Joshua. Reversing Language Shift: Theoretical and Empirical
Foundations of Assistance to Threatened Languages. Clevedon,
U.K.: Multilingual Matters, .
Flores, Lauro. “Chicano Autobiography: Culture, Ideology and the
Self.” Americas Review . (): –.
Flotow-Evans, Luise von. Translation and Gender: Translating in the
“Era of Feminism.” Manchester, U.K.: St. Jerome Publishing, .
Frost, Robert. Unpublished notebook, –. MS . Robert
Frost Collection. Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H.
Fry, Richard. “Latinos in Higher Education: Many Enroll, Too
Few Graduate.”  September . The Pew Hispanic Center.
<<http://www.pewhispanic.org/page.jsp?page=reports>>.
 December .
Fusco, Coco. English Is Broken Here: Notes on Cultural Fusion in the
Americas. New York: New Press, .
Gates, Henry Louis, Jr. The Signifying Monkey: A Theory of African-
American Literary Criticism. New York: Oxford University Press,
.
Gingerich, Willard. “Aspects of Prose Style in Three Chicano Novels:
Pocho; Bless Me, Ultima; and The Road to Tamazunchale.” Form
and Function in Chicano English. Ed. Jacob Ornstein-Galicia.
Rowley, Mass.: Newbury, . –.
Glissant, Edouard. Caribbean Discourse: Selected Essays. Trans. J.
Michael Dash. Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, .
Godard, Barbara. “Therorizing Feminist Discourse/Translation.”
Translation, History, and Culture. Ed. Susan Bassnett and André
Lefevere. London: Pinter, . –.
Gómez-Peña, Guillermo. The New World Border: Prophecies, Poems,
and Loqueras for the End of the Century. San Francisco: City
Lights Press, .
———. Warrior for Gringostroika: Essays, Performance Texts, and
Poetry. St. Paul: Graywolf Press, .
———, perf. Border Brujo. Video. Dir. Issac Artenstein. Cinewest,
.
Gress, Elsa. “The Art of Translation.” The World of Translation. New
York: PEN American Center, . –.
Guillory, John. Cultural Capital: The Problem of Literary Canon
Formation. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, .
Hafen, P. Jane. “Rock and Roll, Redskins, and Blues in Sherman
 

Alexie’s Work.” Studies in American Indian Literatures . ():
–.
Hakuta, Kenji. “Language and Cognition in Bilingual Children.”
Bilingual Education: Issues and Strategies. Ed. Amado Padilla,
Halford Fairchild, and Concepción Valadez. Newbury Park,
Calif.: Sage, . –.
Hall, Stuart. “The New Ethnicities.” Ethnicity. Ed. John Hutchinson
and Anthony D. Smith. New York: Oxford University Press, .
–.
Hanson, Elizabeth I. “N. Scott Momaday: Evocations of Disruption
and Defeat.” American Literature in Belgium. Ed. Gilbert
Debusscher. Amsterdam: Rodopi, . –.
Haraway, Donna. “A Manifesto for Cyborgs: Science, Technology,
and Socialist Feminism in the s.” Coming to Terms: Feminism,
Theory, Politics. Ed. Elizabeth Weed. New York: Routledge, .
–.
Hawthorne, Evelyn. “On Gaining the Double-Vision: Tar Baby as
Diasporean Novel.” Black American Literature Forum  ():
–.
Heller, Monica. Introduction. Codeswitching: Anthropological and
Sociological Perspectives. Ed. Monica Heller. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter, . –.
———. “The Politics of Codeswitching and Language Choice.”
Codeswitching. Ed. Carol M. Eastman. Clevedon, U.K.:
Multilingual Matters, . –.
Henderson, Mae G. “(W)riting The Work and Working the Rites.”
Black American Literature Forum  (): –.
Herrera-Sobek, María. “Mexican American Oral Traditions.”
Teaching Oral Traditions. Ed. John Miles Foley. New York: MLA,
. –.
Hinkel, Eli. “Soviet Immigrants in the Unites States: Issues in
Adjustment.” New Immigrants in the United States: Readings for
Second Language Educators. Ed. Sandra Lee McKay and Sau-ling
Cynthia Wong. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press,
. –.
Hoffman, Eva. Lost in Translation: A Life in a New Language. New
York: E. P. Dutton, .
Hogan, Linda. “Who Puts Together.” Critical Perspectives on Native
American Fiction. Ed. Richard F. Fleck. Washington, D.C.: Three
Continents Press, . –.
  
Honig, Edwin. Introduction. The Poet’s Other Voice: Conversations on
Literary Translation. Ed. Edwin Honig. Amherst: University of
Massachusetts Press, . –.
hooks, bell. Teaching to Transgress: Education as the Practice of
Freedom. New York: Routledge, .
———. “‘this is the oppressor’s language / yet I need it to talk to
you’: Language, a place of struggle.” Between Languages and
Cultures: Translation and Cross-Cultural Texts. Ed. Anuradha
Dingwaney and Carol Maier. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh
Press, . –.
Huang, Yunte. Transpacific Displacement: Ethnography, Translation,
and Intertextual Travel in Twentieth-Century American Literature.
Berkeley: University of California Press, .
Humboldt, Wilhelm Von. “Introduction to His Translation of
Agamemnon.” . Trans. Sharon Sloan. Theories of Translation:
An Anthology of Essays from Dryden to Derrida. Ed. Rainer Schulte
and John Biguenet. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, .
–.
Hunsaker, Steven. Autobiography and National Identity in the
Americas. Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, .
Inada, Lawson Fusao. “Of Place and Displacement: The Range of
Japanese-American Literature.” Three American Literatures: Essays
in Chicano, Native American, and Asian-American Literature for
Teachers of American Literature. Ed. Houston Baker Jr. New York:
MLA, . –.
Jakobson, Roman. “On Linguistic Aspects of Translation.” .
Theories of Translation: An Anthology of Essays from Dryden
to Derrida. Ed. Rainer Schulte and John Biguenet. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, . –.
Johnson, Barbara. The Critical Difference: Essays in the Contemporary
Rhetoric of Reading. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press,
.
———. “Taking Fidelity Philosophically.” Difference in Translation.
Ed. Joseph Graham. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, . –.
Johnson, Charles. Middle Passage. . New York: Scribner, .
Kadohata, Cynthia. The Floating World. New York: Ballantine, .
———. In the Heart of the Valley of Love. New York: Penguin, .
Karlgren, Bernhard. Sound and Symbol in Chinese. Hong Kong:
Hong Kong University Press, .
Kekeh, Andrée-Anne. “Sherley Anne Williams’ Dessa Rose: History
 

and the Disruptive Power of Memory.” History and Memory in
African-American Culture. Ed. Geneviève Fabre and Robert
O’Meally. New York: Oxford University Press, . –.
Keller, Gary D. “The Literary Stratagems Available to the Bilingual
Chicano Writer.” The Identification and Analysis of Chicano
Literature. Ed. Francisco Jiménez. New York: Bilingual Press/
Editorial Bilingüe, . –.
King, Nicole R. “Meditations and Mediations: Issues of History and
Fiction in Dessa Rose.” Soundings .– (): –.
Kingston, Maxine Hong. China Men. . New York: Random, .
———. “Personal Statement.” Approaches to Teaching Kingston’s The
Woman Warrior. Ed. Shirley Geok-lin Lim. New York: MLA, .
–.
———. The Woman Warrior: Memoirs of a Girlhood among Ghosts.
. New York: Random, .
Kloss, Heinz. The American Bilingual Tradition. . Washington,
D.C.: Center for Applied Linguistics; McHenry, Ill.: Delta
Systems, .
Kochman, Thomas. “Toward an Ethnography of Black American
Speech Behavior.” Afro-American Anthropology: Contemporary
Perspectives. Ed. N. E. Whitten and J. F. Szwed. New York: Free
Press, . –.
Kroeber, Karl. “Technology and Tribal Tradition.” Narrative Chance:
Postmodern Discourse on Native American Indian Literatures. Ed.
Gerald Vizenor. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press,
. –.
Krupat, Arnold. “Postcoloniality and Native American Literature.”
Yale Journal of Criticism  (): –.
———. The Voice in the Margin: Native American Literature and the
Canon. Berkeley: University of California Press, .
Kwong, Katy Mei-Kuen. “Bilingualism Equals Access: The Case
of Chinese High School Students.” Lifting Every Voice: Pedagogy
and Politics of Bilingualism. Ed. Zeynep F. Beykont. Cambridge,
Mass.: Harvard Education Publishing Group, . –.
Labov, William. The Study of Nonstandard English. Washington,
D.C.: National Council of Teachers of English, .
Larson, Charles. American Indian Fiction. Albuquerque: University
of New Mexico Press, .
Lattin, Vernon E. “Time and History in Candelaria’s Memories of the
Alhambra.” Contemporary Chicano Fiction: A Critical Survey. Ed.
  
Vernon E. Lattin. Binghamton, N.Y.: Bilingual Press/Editorial
Bilingüe, . –.
Lee, A. Robert. “Chicanismo as Memory: The Fictions of Rudolfo
Anaya, Nash Candelaria, Sandra Cisneros, and Ron Arias.”
Memory and Cultural Politics: New Approaches to American Ethnic
Literature. Ed. Amritjit Singh, Joseph Skerrett, and Robert
Hogan. Boston: Northeastern University Press, . –.
Lee, Chang-rae. Native Speaker. New York: Riverhead, .
Lefevere, André. “Translation: Its Genealogy in the West.”
Translation, History, and Culture. Ed. Susan Bassnett and André
Lefevere. London: Pinter Press, . –.
Lévesque, Claude. “The Exile in Language.” The Ear of the Other:
Otobiography, Transference, Translation; Texts and Discussions with
Jacques Derrida. Ed. Christie V. McDonald. Trans. Peggy Kamuf.
New York: Schocken, . –.
Levine, Suzanne Jill. “Translation as (Sub)version: On Translating
Infante’s Inferno.” Rethinking Translation: Discourse, Subjectivity,
Ideology. Ed. Lawrence Venuti. London: Routledge, . –.
Lewelling, Vickie. “Official English and English Plus: An Update.”
ERIC Digest. ERIC Clearinghouse on Languages and Linguistics.
May . EDO-FL--. –. <<http://www.cal.org/resources/
digest/lewell.html>>.  December .
Lewis, Marvin A. “The Urban Experience in Selected Chicano
Fiction.” Contemporary Chicano Fiction: A Critical Survey. Ed.
Vernon E. Lattin. Binghamton, N.Y.: Bilingual Press/Editorial
Bilingüe, . –.
Lewis, Philip E. “The Measure of Translation Effects.” Difference in
Translation. Ed. Joseph Graham. Ithaca: Cornell University Press,
. –.
Li, David Leiwei. “The Naming of a Chinese American ‘I’: Cross-
Cultural Sign/iﬁcations in The Woman Warrior.” Criticism 
(): –.
Ling, Jinqi. “Race, Power, and Cultural Politics in John Okada’s
No-No Boy.” American Literature  (): –.
Lipski, John M. Linguistic Aspects of Spanish-English Language
Switching. Tempe: Center for Latin American Studies, Arizona
State University, .
Louie, David Wong. Pangs of Love: Stories. New York: Plume, .
Lubiano, Wahneema. “The Postmodern Rag: Political Identity
and the Vernacular in Song of Solomon.” New Essays on Song
 

of Solomon. Ed. Valerie Smith. Cambridge, Eng.: Cambridge
University Press, . –.
Magnet, Joseph. “Language Rights as Collective Rights.” Perspectives
on Official English: The Campaign for English as the Official
Language of the USA. Ed. Karen Adams and Daniel Brink. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter, . –.
Maier, Carol S. “A Woman in Translation, Reﬂecting.” Translation
Review  (): –.
Maier, Carol S., and Françoise Massardier-Kenney. “Gender in/and
Literary Translation.” Translation Horizons: Beyond the Boundaries
of Translation Spectrum. Ed. Marilyn Gaddis Rose. Binghamton,
N.Y.: Center for Research in Translation, .
Marx, Doug. “Sherman Alexie.” Writing for Your Life #3. Ed. Sybil
Steinberg and Jonathan Bing. Wainscott, N.Y.: Pushcart Press,
. –.
Mass, Amy Iwasaki. “Psychological Effects of the Camps on Japanese
Americans.” Japanese Americans: From Relocation to Redress. Ed.
Roger Daniels, Sandra Taylor, and Harry Kitano. Rev. ed. Seattle:
University of Washington Press, . –.
McAllister, Harold S. “Incarnate Grace and the Paths of Salvation
in House Made of Dawn.” South Dakota Review . ():
–.
McDonald, Dorothy Ritsuko. “After Imprisonment: Ichiro’s Search
for Redemption in No-No Boy.” MELUS . (): –.
McKay, Sandra Lee. “English Language Learners and Educational
Investments.” New Immigrants in the United States: Readings for
Second Language Educators. Ed. Sandra Lee McKay and Sau-ling
Cynthia Wong. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press,
. –.
Mehrez, Samia. “The Subversive Poetics of Radical Bilingualism:
Postcolonial Francophone North African Literature.” The Bounds
of Race: Perspectives on Hegemony and Resistance. Ed. Dominick
LaCapra. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, . –.
———. “Translation and the Postcolonial Experience: The
Francophone North African Text.” Rethinking Translation:
Discourse, Subjectivity, Ideology. Ed. Lawrence Venuti. London:
Routledge, . –.
Milroy, Lesley, and Li Wei. “A Social Network Approach to Code-
Switching: The Example of a Bilingual Community in Britain.”
One Speaker, Two Languages: Cross-Disciplinary Perspectives on
  
Code-Switching. Ed. Lesley Milroy and Pieter Muysken. New
York: Cambridge University Press, . –.
Min, Pyong Gap. “Korean Americans’ Language Use.” New
Immigrants in the United States: Readings for Second Language
Educators. Ed. Sandra Lee McKay and Sau-ling Cynthia Wong.
Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, . –.
Miner, Susan. “Legal Implications of the Official English
Declaration.” Language and Politics in the United States and
Canada: Myths and Realities. Ed. Thomas Ricento and Barbara
Burnaby. Mahwah, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, .
–.
Momaday, N. Scott. House Made of Dawn. . New York: Harper,
.
———. “The Man Made of Words.” Indian Voices: The Native
American Today; Convocation of American Indian Scholars. San
Francisco: Indian Historian Press, . –.
———. The Way to Rainy Mountain. Albuquerque: University of
New Mexico Press, .
———. “Wordwalker.” Interview. Ancestral Voice: Conversations with
N. Scott Momaday. By Charles L. Woodard. Lincoln: University
of Nebraska Press, . –.
Moraga, Cherríe. Loving in the War Years: Lo que nunca pasó sus
labios. Boston: South End Press, .
Mori, Toshio. “The Travelers.” “The Chauvinist” and Other Stories.
Los Angeles: Asian American Studies Center, . –.
Morrison, Toni. Beloved. New York: Plume, .
———. “An Interview with Toni Morrison.” By Bessie W. Jones
and Audrey Vinson. The World of Toni Morrison: Explorations in
Literary Criticism. Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall Hunt, . –.
———. Tar Baby. New York: Plume, .
Murray, David. Forked Tongues: Speech, Writing, and Representation
in North American Indian Texts. Bloomington: Indiana University
Press, .
Nabokov, Vladimir. “Problems of Translation: Onegin in English.”
Theories of Translation: An Anthology of Essays from Dryden
to Derrida. Ed. Rainer Schulte and John Biguenet. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, . –.
Nancy, Jean-Luc. “Cut Throat Sun.” An Other Tongue: Nation
and Ethnicity in the Linguistic Borderlands. Ed. Alfred Arteaga.
Durham: Duke University Press, . –.
 

Navarro, Mireya. “For Hispanics, Language and Culture Barriers
Can Further Complicate College.” New York Times,  February
, A.
Nelson, Robert. Place and Vision: The Function of Landscape in
Native American Fiction. New York: Peter Lang, .
Neubert, Albrecht, and Gregory M. Shreve. Translation as Text.
Kent, Ohio: Kent State University Press, .
Ng, Fae Myenne. Bone. New York: Harper Collins, .
Niranjana, Tejaswini. Siting Translation: History, Post-structuralism,
and the Colonial Context. Berkeley: University of California Press,
.
Norton, Bonny. “Investment, Acculturation, and Language
Loss.” New Immigrants in the United States: Readings for Second
Language Educators. Ed. Sandra Lee McKay and Sau-ling
Cynthia Wong. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press,
. –.
Nunberg, Geoffrey. “Speaking of America: Why English-Only is
a Bad Idea.” The Workings of Language: From Prescriptions to
Perspectives. Ed. Rebecca S. Wheeler. Westport, Conn.: Praeger,
. –.
Ogawa, Dennis M., and Evarts C. Fox Jr. “Japanese Internment and
Relocation: The Hawaii Experience.” Japanese Americans: From
Relocation to Redress. Ed. Roger Daniels, Sandra Taylor, and
Harry Kitano. Rev. ed. Seattle: University of Washington Press,
. –.
Okada, John. No-No Boy. . Seattle: University of Washington
Press, .
Owens, Louis. Mixedblood Messages: Literature, Film, Family, Place.
Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, .
———. Other Destinies: Understanding the American Indian Novel.
Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, .
Paisano, Edna L., ed. We the American . . . Asians. Washington, D.C.:
Bureau of the Census, .
Paredes, Raymund. “The Evolution of Chicano Literature.” Three
American Literatures: Essays in Chicano, Native American, and
Asian-American Literature for Teachers of American Literature. Ed.
Houston Baker. New York: MLA, . –.
Paz, Octavio. Interview. The Poet’s Other Voice: Conversations on
Literary Translation. Ed. Edwin Honig. Amherst: University of
Massachusetts Press, . –.
  
Peacock, John. “Unwriting Empire by Writing Oral Tradition:
Leslie Marmon Silko’s Ceremony.” (Un)writing Empire. Ed. Theo
D’haen. Amsterdam: Rodopi, . –.
Penﬁeld, Joyce, and Jacob Ornstein-Galicia. Chicano English: An
Ethnic Contact Dialect. Amsterdam: Jon Benjamins Publishing
Company, .
Pérez Firmat, Gustavo. The Cuban Condition: Translation and
Identity in Modern Cuban Literature. Cambridge, Eng.:
Cambridge University Press, .
———. Life on the Hyphen: The Cuban-American Way. Austin:
University of Texas Press, .
Pfaff, Carol. “Constraints on Language Mixing: Intrasentential
Code-Switching and Borrowing in Spanish/English.” Language
 (): –.
Poplack, Shana. “Contrasting Patterns of Codeswitching in Two
Communities.” Codeswitching: Anthropological and Sociolinguistic
Perspectives. Ed. Monica Heller. New York: Mouton de Gruyter,
. –.
———. “Sometimes I’ll Start a Sentence in Spanish y termino en
español: Toward a Typology of Code-Switching.” . The
Bilingualism Reader. Ed. Li Wei. New York: Routledge, .
–.
Power, Susan. The Grass Dancer. . New York: Berkley, .
Pratt, Mary Louise. Imperial Eyes: Travel Writing and
Transculturation. New York: Routledge, .
Rabassa, Gregory. “No Two Snowﬂakes Are Alike: Translation as
Metaphor.” The Craft of Translation. Ed. John Biguenet and
Rainer Schulte. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, .
Ramanujan, A. K. “On Translating a Tamil Poem.” The Art of
Translation: Voices from the Field. Ed. Rosanna Warren. Boston:
Northeastern University Press, . –.
Ramirez, David J., Sandra D. Yuen, and Dena Ramey. Final Report,
Longitudinal Study of Structured English Immersion Strategy,
Early-Exit and Late-Exit Transitional Bilingual Education
Programs for Language-Minority Children. San Mateo: Aguirre
International, .
Raymond, Michael W. “Tai-me, Christ, and the Machine:
Affirmation through Mythic Pluralism in House Made of Dawn.”
Studies in American Fiction  (): –.
Rebolledo, Tey Diana. Women Singing in the Snow: A Cultural
 

Analysis of Chicana Literature. Tucson: University of Arizona
Press, .
Rhydwen, Mari. “Language Loss, Our Loss.” The Workings of
Language: From Prescriptions to Perspectives. Ed. Rebecca S.
Wheeler. Westport, Conn.: Praeger, . –.
Rice, Alan. Radical Narratives of the Black Atlantic. New York:
Continuum, .
Ricento, Thomas. “National Language Policy in the United States.”
Language and Politics in the United States and Canada: Myths and
Realities. Ed. Thomas Ricento and Barbara Burnaby. Mahwah,
N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, . –.
Rickford, John. “Holding on to a Language of Our Own: An
Interview with Linguist John Rickford.” The Real Ebonics Debate:
Power, Language, and the Education of African-American Children.
Ed. Theresa Perry and Lisa Delpit. Boston: Beacon Press, .
–.
Roceric, Alexandra. Language Maintenance within an American
Ethnic Community: The Case of Romanian. Grass Lake-Jackson,
Mich.: Romanian-American Heritage Center, .
Rodriguez, Richard. Brown: The Last Discovery of America. New
York: Viking, .
———. Days of Obligation: An Argument with My Mexican Father.
New York: Penguin, .
———. Hunger of Memory: The Education of Richard Rodriguez.
. New York: Bantam, .
———. “The New, New World: Richard Rodriguez on Culture
and Assimilation.” Interview with Virginia I. Postrel and Nick
Gillespie. . Reason Magazine Online. <<http://reason.com/
Rodri.shtml>>.  December .
Romero, Lora. “‘When Something Goes Queer’: Familiarity,
Formalism, and Minority Intellectuals in the s.” Yale Journal
of Criticism  (): –.
Rosen, Kenneth, ed. Voices of the Rainbow: Contemporary Poetry by
American Indians. New York: Viking Press, .
Rubin, Donald, ed. “Introduction: Composing Social Identity.”
Composing Social Identity in Written Language. Hillsdale, N.J.:
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, . –.
Rudin, Ernst. Tender Accents of Sound: Spanish in the Chicano Novel
in English. Tempe, Ariz.: Bilingual Press/Editorial Bilingüe,
.
  
Ruppert, James. “Dialogism and Mediation in Leslie Silko’s
Ceremony.” Explicator  (): –.
———. Mediation in Contemporary Native American Fiction.
Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, .
Rushdie, Salman. Imaginary Homelands: Essays and Criticism,
1981–1991. London: Granta, .
Rushdy, Ashraf H. A. “Reading Mammy: The Subject of Relation in
Sherley Anne Williams’ Dessa Rose.” African American Review 
(): –.
Saldívar, Ramón. Chicano Narrative: The Dialectics of Difference.
Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, .
Sánchez, Marta E. “The Estrangement Effect in Sherley Anne
Williams’ Dessa Rose.” Genders  (): –.
Sánchez, Rosaura. “Calculated Musings: Richard Rodriguez’s
Metaphysics of Difference.” The Ethnic Canon: Histories,
Institutions, and Interventions. Ed. David Palumbo-Liu.
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, . –.
Sato, Gayle K. Fujita. “Momotaro’s Exile: John Okada’s No-No Boy.”
Reading the Literatures of Asian America. Ed. Shirley Geok-lin
Lim and Amy Ling. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, .
–.
Scarberry-García, Susan. Landmarks of Healing: A Study of House
Made of Dawn. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press,
.
Schermerhorn, Richard. Comparative Ethnic Relations: A Framework
for Theory and Research. New York: Random, .
Schleiermacher, Friedrich. “On the Different Methods of Trans-
lating.” . Trans. Waltraud Bartscht. Theories of Translation:
An Anthology of Essays from Dryden to Derrida. Ed. Rainer Schulte
and John Biguenet. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, .
–.
Schubnell, Matthias. N. Scott Momaday: The Cultural and Literary
Background. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, .
Secret, Carrie. “Embracing Ebonics and Teaching Standard English:
An Interview with Oakland Teacher Carrie Secret.” The Real
Ebonics Debate: Power, Language, and the Education of African-
American Children. Ed. Theresa Perry and Lisa Delpit. Boston:
Beacon Press, . –.
Selinger, Bernard. “House Made of Dawn: A Positively Ambivalent
Bildungsroman.” Modern Fiction Studies . (): –.
 

Senna, Danzy. Caucasia. New York: Riverhead, .
Sequoya, Jana. “How (!) Is an Indian?: A Contest of Stories.” New
Voices in Native American Literary Criticism. Ed. Arnold Krupat.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, . –.
Shell, Marc. “Babel in America; or, The Politics of Language
Diversity in the United States.” Critical Inquiry  (): –.
Silko, Leslie Marmon. Almanac of the Dead. . New York:
Penguin, .
———. “Background to the Story: A Leslie Marmon Silko Inter-
view.” By Kim Barnes. “Yellow Woman”: Leslie Marmon Silko.
Ed. Melody Graulich. New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press,
. –.
———. Ceremony. New York: Penguin, .
———. “Language and Literature from a Pueblo Indian
Perspective.” English Literature: Opening Up the Canon. Ed.
Leslie Fiedler and Houston Baker Jr. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins
University Press, . –.
Silverstein, Michael. “Monoglot ‘Standard’ in America:
Standardization and Metaphors of Linguistic Hegemony.” The
Matrix of Language: Contemporary Linguistic Anthropology. Ed.
Donald Brenneis and Ronald Macaulay. New York: Harper
Collins, . –.
Simon, Sherry. “The Language of Cultural Difference: Figures
of Alterity in Canadian Translation.” Rethinking Translation:
Discourse, Subjectivity, Ideology. Ed. Lawrence Venuti. London:
Routledge, . –.
Smitherman, Geneva. “Black Language as Power.” Language and
Power. Ed. Cheris Kramarae, Muriel Schulz, and William M.
O’Barr. Beverly Hills: Sage, . –.
———. Talkin and Testifyin: The Language of Black America.
Detroit: Wayne State University Press, .
———. Talkin That Talk: Language, Culture, and Education in
African America. London: Routledge, .
Snow, Catherine. “Rationales for Native Language Instruction:
Evidence from Research.” Bilingual Education: Issues and
Strategies. Ed. Amado Padilla, Halford Fairchild, and Concepción
Valadez. Newbury Park, Calif.: Sage, . –.
Sollors, Werner. Beyond Ethnicity: Consent and Descent in American
Culture. New York: Oxford University Press, .
  
———. “How German Is It? Multilingual America Reconsidered.”
Not English Only: Redefining “American” in American Studies. Ed.
Orm Øverland. Amsterdam: Vrije Universiteit Press, . –.
———. “National Identity and Ethnic Diversity: ‘Of Plymouth
Rock and Jamestown and Ellis Island’; or, Ethnic Literature and
Some Redeﬁnitions of ‘America.’” History and Memory in African-
American Culture. Ed. Geneviève Fabre and Robert O’Meally.
New York: Oxford University Press, . –.
———, ed. Multilingual America: Transnationalism, Ethnicity,
and the Languages of American Literature. New York: New York
University Press, .
Soto, Lourdes Diaz. Language, Culture, and Power: Bilingual Families
and the Struggle for Quality Education. Albany: State University of
New York Press, .
Souza, Heloisa. “Language Loss and Language Gain in the Brazilian
Community: The Role of Schools and Families.” Lifting Every
Voice: Pedagogy and Politics of Bilingualism. Ed. Zeynep F.
Beykont. Cambridge: Harvard Education Publishing Group,
. –.
Spellmeyer, Kurt. “‘Too Little Care’: Language, Politics, and Em-
bodiment in the Life-World.” Rhetoric in an Antifoundational
World: Language, Culture, Pedagogy. Ed. Michael Bernard-Donals
and Richard R. Glejzer. New Haven: Yale University Press, .
–.
Sternbach, Nancy Saporta. “‘A Deep Racial Memory of Love’: The
Chicana Feminism of Cherríe Moraga.” Breaking Boundaries:
Latina Writing and Critical Readings. Ed. Asunción Horno-
Delgado et al. Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press, .
–.
Stewart, William A. “Continuity and Change in American Negro
Dialects.” Black-White Speech Relationships. Ed. Walt Wolfram
and Nona H. Clarke. Washington, D.C.: Center for Applied
Linguistics, . –.
Streamas, John. “The Invention of Normality in Japanese American
Internment Narratives.” Ethnicity and the American Short Story.
Ed. Julie Brown. New York: Garland, . –.
Sumida, Stephen. “Japanese American Moral Dilemmas in John
Okada’s No-No Boy and Milton Murayama’s All I Asking for Is My
Body.” Frontiers of Asian American Studies: Writing, Research, and
 

Commentary. Ed. Gail Nomura et al. Pullman: Washington State
University Press, . –.
Swann, Brian, ed. On the Translation of Native American Literatures.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, .
Swigart, Leigh. “Two Codes or One? The Insiders’ View and the
Description of Codeswitching in Dakar.” Codeswitching. Ed.
Carol M. Eastman. Clevedon, U.K.: Multilingual Matters, .
–.
Takaki, Ronald. Strangers from a Different Shore: A History of Asian
Americans. New York: Penguin, .
Taubenfeld, Aviva. “‘Only an “L”’: Linguistic Borders and the
Immigrant Author in Abraham Cahan’s Yekl and Yankel der
Yankee.” Multilingual America: Transnationalism, Ethnicity, and
the Languages of American Literature. Ed. Werner Sollors. New
York: New York University Press, . –.
Taylor, Paul Beekman. “Repetition as Cure in Native American
Story: Silko’s Ceremony and Momaday’s The Ancient Child.”
Repetition. Ed. Andreas Fischer. Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag,
. –.
———. “Silko’s Reappropriation of Secrecy.” Leslie Marmon Silko:
A Collection of Critical Essays. Ed. Louise K. Barnett and James
L. Thorson. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, .
–.
Thomas, W. P., and V. P. Collier. “Language-Minority Student
Achievement and Program Effectiveness Studies Support Native
Language Development.” NABE News . (): , .
Tong, Benjamin. “Critic of Admirer Sees Dumb Racist.” San
Francisco Journal,  May , .
Trimmer, Joseph. “Native Americans and the American Mix: N.
Scott Momaday’s House Made of Dawn.” Indiana Social Studies
Quarterly . (): –.
Ts’ai Yen. “From  Verses Sung to a Tatar Reed Whistle.” Women
Poets of China. Trans. and ed. Kenneth Rexroth and Ling Chung.
New York: New Directions, . –.
Tse, Lucy. “Why Don’t They Learn English?”: Separating Fact from
Fallacy in the U.S. Language Debate. New York: Teachers College
Press, .
Turner, Lorenzo Dow. Africanisms in the Gullah Dialect. .
Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, .
TuSmith, Bonnie. All My Relatives: Community in Contemporary
  
Ethnic American Literatures. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan
Press, .
———. “Literary Tricksterism: Maxine Hong Kingston’s The
Woman Warrior: Memoirs of a Girlhood among Ghosts.” Anxious
Power: Reading, Writing, and Ambivalence in Narrative by Women.
Ed. Carol J. Singley and Susan Elizabeth Sweeney. Albany: State
University of New York Press, . –.
Uchida, Yoshiko. Desert Exile: The Uprooting of a Japanese American
Family. Seattle: University of Washington Press, .
Untermeyer, Louis. Robert Frost: A Backward Look. Washington,
D.C.: Reference Department, Library of Congress, .
Valdés, Guadalupe. “Bilingualism and Language Use among Mexi-
can Americans.” New Immigrants in the United States: Readings for
Second Language Educators. Ed. Sandra Lee McKay and Sau-ling
Cynthia Wong. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press,
. –.
Varennes, Fernand de. Language, Minorities and Human Rights. The
Hague: Martinus Nijhoff, .
Véa, Alfredo. La Maravilla. New York: Plume, .
Velie, Alan R. Four American Indian Literary Masters: N. Scott
Momaday, James Welch, Leslie Marmon Silko, and Gerald Vizenor.
Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, .
Veltman, Calvin. “The American Linguistic Mosaic: Understanding
Language Shift in the United States.” New Immigrants in the
United States: Readings for Second Language Educators. Ed. Sandra
Lee McKay and Sau-ling Cynthia Wong. Cambridge, U.K.:
Cambridge University Press, . –.
———. Language Shift in the United States. Berlin: Mouton
Publisher, .
Venuti, Lawrence. Introduction. Rethinking Translation: Discourse,
Subjectivity, Ideology. Ed. Lawrence Venuti. London: Routledge,
. –.
Verdelle, A. J. The Good Negress. . New York: Harper, .
Vizenor, Gerald. “Trickster Discourse: Comic Holotropes and Lan-
guage Games.” Narrative Chance: Postmodern Discourse on Native
American Indian Literatures. Ed. Gerald Vizenor. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press, . –.
Walker, Cheryl. Indian Nation: Native American Literature and
Nineteenth-Century Nationalisms. Durham: Duke University
Press, .
 

Waniek, Marilyn Nelson. “The Power of Language in N. Scott
Momaday’s House Made of Dawn.” Minority Voices: An
Interdisciplinary Journal . (): –.
Wechsler, Robert. Performing without a Stage: The Art of Literary
Translation. North Haven, Conn.: Catbird Press, .
Weglyn, Michi. Years of Infamy: The Untold Story of America’s
Concentration Camps. New York: Morrow Quill, .
Weinberger, Eliot, and Octavio Paz. Nineteen Ways of Looking at
Wang Wei: How a Chinese Poem Is Translated. Wakeﬁeld, R.I.:
Moyer Bell, .
Wells, J. C. Accents of English. Vol. . Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge
University Press, .
Werner, Craig. “The Briar Patch as Modernist Myth: Morrison,
Barthes and Tar Baby As-Is.” Critical Essays on Toni Morrison.
Comp. Nellie McKay. Boston: G. K. Hall, . –.
Wiley, Terrence G. Literacy and Language Diversity in the United
States. Washington, D.C.: Center for Applied Linguistics;
McHenry, Ill.: Delta Systems, .
———. “Myths about Language Diversity and Literacy in the
United States.” <<http://www.ericdigests.org/–/myths.
htm>>.  December .
Wilgoren, Jodi. “Divided by a Call for a Common Language.” New
York Times,  July , A.
Williams, Robert L., ed. Ebonics: The True Language of Black Folks.
St. Louis: Institute of Black Studies, .
Williams, Sherley Anne. Dessa Rose. . New York: Berkley, .
Wirth-Nesher, Hana. “The Languages of Memory: Cynthia Ozick’s
The Shawl.” Multilingual America: Transnationalism, Ethnicity,
and the Languages of American Literature. Ed. Werner Sollors. New
York: New York University Press, . –.
Wittgenstein, Ludwig. Philosophical Investigations. Trans. G. E. M.
Anscombe. Oxford: Basil Blackwell, .
Wolfram, Walt. Dialects and American English. Englewood Cliffs,
N.J.: Prentice Hall, .
———. “The Relationship of White Southern Speech to Vernacular
Black English.” Language . (): –.
Wolfson, Nessa. Perspectives: Sociolinguistics and TESOL. Cambridge,
U.K.: Newbury, .
Wong, Sau-ling Cynthia. “Autobiography as Guided Chinatown
Tour? Maxine Hong Kingston’s The Woman Warrior and the
  
Chinese-American Autobiographical Controversy.” Multicultural
Autobiography: American Lives. Ed. James Robert Payne. Knox-
ville: University of Tennessee Press, . –.
———. “Kingston’s Handling of Traditional Chinese Sources.”
Approaches to Teaching Kingston’s The Woman Warrior. Ed.
Shirley Geok-lin Lim. New York: MLA, . –.
Wong, Sau-ling Cynthia, and M. G. López. “English Language
Learners of Chinese Background: A Portrait of Diversity.” New
Immigrants in the United States: Readings for Second Language
Educators. Ed. Sandra Lee McKay and Sau-ling Cynthia Wong.
Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, . –.
Wright, Neil. “Visitors from the Spirit Path: Tribal Magic in Susan
Power’s The Grass Dancer.” Kentucky Philological Review  ():
–.
Xia, Ningsheng. “Maintenance of the Chinese Language in the
United States.” Bilingual Review/La Revista Bilingüe . ():
–.
Yamada, Mitsuye. Camp Notes and Other Writings. New Brunswick:
Rutgers University Press, .
Yarbro-Bejarano, Yvonne. The Wounded Heart: Writing on Cherríe
Moraga. Austin: University of Texas Press, .
Yin, Xiao-huang. “Redeﬁning Chinese-American Sensibility:
A Sociohistorical Study of Chinese Language Literature in
America.” Not English Only: Redefining “American” in American
Studies. Ed. Orm Øverland. Amsterdam: Vrije Universiteit Press,
. –.
Yogi, Stan. “‘You Had to Be One or the Other’: Oppositions and
Reconciliation in John Okada’s No-No Boy.” MELUS  ():
–.
Young, Robert J. C. Colonial Desire: Hybridity in Theory, Culture and
Race. London: Routledge, .
Zamir, Shamoon. “Literature in a ‘National Sacriﬁce Area’: Leslie
Silko’s Ceremony.” New Voices in Native American Literary
Criticism. Ed. Arnold Krupat. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, . –.
Zhou, Min, and Carl L. Bankston. “Social Capital and the
Adaptation of the Second Generation: The Case of Vietnamese
Youth in New Orleans.” The New Second Generation. Ed.
Alejandro Portes. New York: Russell Sage Foundation, .
–.
This page intentionally left blank
Index
, –; as “dispreferred”
language, ,  (n. ); and
discourse of racism, ;
and Rodriguez’s Brown, ;
and codeswitching, ;
deﬁnition of,  (n. ); as
language or dialect, –
(n. ); and class,  (n. );
as interlingual, – (n. ).
See also Ebonics
Alarcón, Norma,  (nn. , ),
 (n. )
Alexie, Sherman: and necessity of
translation, ; relationship to
native language, ; and power
of language, ; and revelatory
discourse, . See also Indian
Killer (Alexie); Reservation
Blues (Alexie)
Allen, Paula Gunn,  (n. )
Almanac of the Dead (Silko),
– passim; and generative
nature of translation, ;
and translation as revelation,
, , , ; and literal
translation, ; and oral lan-
guage, ; and translation as
palimpsest, ,  (n. ); and
linguistic hybridity, –
Ambiguity of language, , ,

“American”: deﬁnition of, ,
 (n. ); interarticulated
subject positions within, .
Aaronson, Doris, –, 
Ability to translate: and bi-
lingual education, , ,
, –; consequences
of loss of, ; and Russian
Jewish immigrants, ; and
multilingualism, , ; and
abandonment of minority
language, ; and language
policy debates, , –,
; and community-run
schools, , ; and cultural
capital, 
Abrahams, Roger, 
Acosta, Oscar Zeta, , 
Active translation, , . See also
Writerly translation
African American literature: and
trope of translation, –;
and African American women
writers, –, , –; and
codeswitching, ; and “free
man” identity, . See also
Morrison, Toni; Senna, Danzy;
Verdelle, A. J.; Williams,
Sherley Anne
African American Vernacular
English (): relationship
to Standardized English,
–, , , –, , ;
translations between African
American discourses and
Standardized English, , ,
, , –, , –,


“American” (continued): See also
Assimilation of “American”
identity
American Indian English, ,
– (n. ),  (n. )
Anaya, Rudolfo: Bless Me Ultima,

Ang, Ien, , 
Anglo-American literature: and
trope of translation, , –,
; and white translator
ﬁgure, –
Anzaldúa, Gloria, –, –
Arnold, Ellen,  (n. ), 
(n. )
Arteaga, Alfred, , , , ,
 (n. ),  (n. )
Asian American literature, .
See also Chinese American
literature; Japanese American
literature
Assimilation into “American”
identity: and translation, , ,
, ; and parent language,
; and Power’s Grass Dancer,
, ; and Okada’s No-No
Boy, –, , , , –,
; and Kadohata’s Floating
World, ; and Momaday’s
House Made of Dawn, ; and
Morrison’s Tar Baby, , ;
and Verdelle’s Good Negress,
, ; and Rodriguez’s Hun-
ger of Memory, , , ; and
Rodriguez’s Days of Obligation,
–, ,  (n. ); and
immigrant adaptation to U.S.,
–
Authentic identity, 
Autocolonialism, 
Axtell, James,  (n. )
Bakhtin, Mikhail, , –, 
Bankston, Carl, –
Barnstone, Willis, –, , 
(n. ),  (n. )
Bartelt, Guillermo, , ,
– (n. ),  (n. )
Barthes, Roland, ,  (n. )
Bassnett, Susan, , , 
Beloved (Morrison), –, 
Benjamin, Walter: and preserva-
tion of works, –; and
growth of languages, , ,
, , , ; and pure
language, , ; and transpar-
ent translation, ; and Paul
de Man,  (n. )
Ben Yehudah, Eliezer,  (n. )
Bhabha, Homi, , , , ,

Bierhorst, John, 
Bilingual education: and lan-
guage policy debates, , ,
; and English immersion,
, , , ; and ability
to translate, , , ,
–; support needed for,
,  (nn. , ); failure of,
–, ; and language
maintenance, – pas-
sim,  (n. ); transitional
bilingual education, , ;
economic resources for, ,
, ,  (n. ); “two-way”
programs, ; and racialized
immigrant groups, , ;
and community-run schools,
, , ; fear of, ; and
Cherokee people, , 
Bilingualism: role of, ; radical
bilingualism, , –, , ,
–, , –; expecta-
tion of, ; and language policy
debates, ; and discursive
patterns of other languages,
; and metalinguistic ability,
, , , ,  (n. );
 
and middle-class African
Americans, ; interlingualism
distinguished from, ; and
Mexican Spanish speakers in
U.S., –; and Chicano/a
literature, ,  (n. );
and Rodriguez’s Hunger of
Memory, ; and Rodriguez’s
Days of Obligation, ;
functional bilingualism, ;
additive bilingualism, –;
subtractive bilingualism, ;
fear of, –; and unofficial
language policy, –; and
Chinese Americans, –;
and cultural capital, , ;
and Vietnamese Americans,
, –
Binarism: dismantlement of,
; and power struggles, ;
and translation theory, , ,
, ; and ethnic American
literature, , ; and cultural
translation, ; and ethnic
identities, –; and Kings-
ton’s Woman Warrior, , , ,
 (n. ); and Okada’s No-No
Boy, –, –, , ,
; and Kadohata’s Floating
World, , ; and Momaday’s
House Made of Dawn, ; and
Alexie’s Indian Killer, , ;
and African American women
writers, –; and Morrison’s
Tar Baby, –, ; and
Senna’s Caucasia, , ; and
Williams’s Dessa Rose, , ,
; and Rodriguez’s Brown,
; and Moraga’s Loving in the
War Years, 
Bird, Gloria,  (n. )
Black English. See African Ameri-
can Vernacular English ()
Black Like Me (Griffin), 
Blanchot, Maurice, 
Bless Me Ultima (Anaya), 
Blood Meridian (McCarthy), ,

Bone (Ng), – passim; and
source text, –; and lost-
and-found space of transla-
tion, –; and translation
struggles, , ; and crossing
borders, –, , ; and
generational identities, ,
, ; and transmigrating
tongues, –; and gender, ,
, ; and lost in translation,
–, , ; and breaking of
silence, –; and Kingston’s
Woman Warrior, –
Bonnefoy, Yves, , 
Border Brujo (Gómez-Peña), ,

Border zones, –. See also
Crossing borders
Boyle, T. C.: The Tortilla Cur-
tain, , 
Browdy de Hernandez, Jennifer,
 (n. )
Brown, Claude: Manchild in the
Promised Land, 
Brown (Rodriguez), –
passim; and transmigrating
tongues, ; and interlingual-
ism, , , ; and dialogiz-
ing of English, , , ;
and multilingualism, –,
, 
Bruce-Novoa, Juan, , , 
Cahan, Abraham, 
Call-and-response, , 
Candelaria, Nash: and transcod-
ing ethnicity, ; and Mexican
Spanish within linguistic
matrix, . See also Memories
of the Alhambra (Candelaria)


Caucasia (Senna), – passim;
and intralingual translation,
–; and translation between
African American discourses
and Standardized English,
, , , , –; and
transcoding racial identity,
–, –, , –; and
linguistic hybridity, , –,
; and multilingualism, ,
; and dialects, –, ,
,  (n. ); and translat-
ing consciousness, ; and
“Elemeno,” –; and third
space, ; and transmigrating
tongues, 
Central Intelligence Agency
(), , 
Ceremony (Silko), – passim;
and transmigrating tongues, ,
, –, , , , –
(n. ); and radical bilingual-
ism, ; and translation as
revelation, , , , ;
and translation as palimpsest,
, –, , ; Momaday’s
House Made of Dawn compared
to, , , ; and multilin-
gualism, , ; and untan-
gling language, –; and
oral storytelling, –, ,
; and storytelling, –,
–, , ,  (n. );
and linguistic hybridity, –;
and transcoding ethnicity, ,
; and ﬂuent translation,
; and foregrounding role of
translator, –; Morrison’s
Tar Baby compared to, 
Chamberlain, Lori, –
Chen, Shih-Hsiang, 
Cherokee language, 
Chesnutt, Charles: The Conjure
Woman, 
Cheung, King-Kok, , , 
(nn. , , )
Cheyﬁtz, Eric, , , 
Chicano/a literature: and inter-
lingualism, , , , 
(n. ); and reader as translator,
–,  (nn. , ). See also
Candelaria, Nash; Delgado,
Abelardo; Moraga, Cherríe;
Rodriguez, Richard
China Men (Kingston), , 
Chinese American literature: and
trope of translation, ; and
writerly translations, –,
. See also Kingston, Maxine
Hong; Louie, David Wong;
Ng, Fae Myenne
Chinese immigrants, –
Chinese language, –, , ,
–, – (n. )
Chinese schools, , 
Chua, Cheng Lok, – (n. )
Class: and African American
Vernacular English, ; and
language differences, ; and
Morrison’s Tar Baby, ,
 (n. ); and Ebonics, ;
and treatment of “minority”
language, ; race versus class
in language preference, 
(n. )
Cliff, Michele, 
Codeswitching: role of, , ,
 (n. ),  (n. ); and Pow-
er’s Grass Dancer, , ; and
dual identities, ; and syncretic
reconciliation, , –, ,
 (n. ); and Moraga’s Loving
in the War Years, –, –,
– (n. ); and Delgado’s
Letters to Louise, –, ,
–, ; and Okada’s No-No
Boy, –; and Kadohata’s
Floating World, ; and Silko’s
 
Ceremony, ; and African
American literature, ; and
Williams’s Dessa Rose, ; and
Verdelle’s Good Negress, ;
and Candelaria’s Memories of
the Alhambra, ; intersenten-
tial codeswitching, , –,
 (n. ); and Gómez-Peña,
–; and African American
Vernacular English, 
Coleman, James,  (n. )
Collins, James, 
Collision/collusion between
languages and cultures, , ,
–, 
Confessions of Nat Turner, The
(Styron), , , 
Conga, the: as metaphor for
translation processes, , , , ,
, , , , ,  (n. )
Conjure Woman, The (Chesnutt),

Cook-Lynn, Elizabeth,  (n. )
Coppola, Soﬁa, –, , ,
,  (n. )
Corbella, Walter,  (n. )
Cortés, Hernán, , , , 
(n. )
Crawford, James, , , ,
 (n. )
Crossing borders: and Louie’s
Pangs of Love, , , ; and
Ng’s Bone, –, , ; and
Kingston’s Woman Warrior,
, –; and Okada’s No-No
Boy, ; and Senna’s Caucasia,
; and Moraga’s Loving in the
War Years, ; and Gómez-
Peña, –, , , 
Cultural Rights Amendment
(), 
Cultural translation: and ethnic
American writers, –; and lan-
guage policy debates, ; and
binarism, ; and performance
art, , , , . See also
Trope of translation
Cummings, Jim, 
Dakota language, , , ,
– passim
Dalji, Hafeezah AdamaDavia,
–
Damballah (Wideman), 
Daniels, Roger, 
Dasenbrock, Reed, 
Days of Obligation (Rodriguez),
– passim; and trans-
migrating tongues, , ,
–; and interlingualism,
; and empowered “Ameri-
can” voice, , ; and dia-
logized English, , –,
, , ; and assimilation
of “American” identity, –,
,  (n. ); and translation-
by-not-translating, –; and
rejection of Mexican Spanish,
–; and oppositional
cultures and languages, ;
and Marina/La Malinche, 
(n. )
Dearborn, Mary, 
Deleuze, Gilles, , 
Delgado, Abelardo: and code-
switching, –; and trans-
migrating tongues, ; and
multilingualism, , 
(n. ). See also Letters to Louise
(Delgado)
DeLillo, Don: White Noise, 
de Man, Paul,  (n. )
Derrida, Jacques, , –, , ,
, , 
Dessa Rose (Williams), –
passim; and translation
struggle, ; and oral language,
, , , , , , ;


Dessa Rose (continued): and
translation between African
American discourses and
Standardized English, ,
, –, , –; and
language of hegemony, , ,
, ; as novelistic hybrid,
, –; and storytelling,
–, , , ; and sig-
nifying, –; and call-and-
response messaging, ; and
transmigrating tongues, ;
and multilingualism, –;
and male-centered slave narra-
tive tradition,  (n. )
Devy, G. N., , , 
Dialects: and multilingualism, ;
and translator’s effectiveness,
; and Momaday’s House Made
of Dawn, , ; and accents,
–,  (n. ); and Senna’s
Caucasia, –, , , 
(n. ); and Williams’s Dessa
Rose, , ; and southern
white dialect, ,  (n. );
deﬁnition of,  (n. ). See also
Intralingual translation
Díaz-Diocaretz, Myriam, 
Dicker, Susan, , , , 
Differences: politics of difference,
–; play of equivalence and
difference, ; and similarities
in languages, ; translation
as difference, ; and resistant
translation, –; and Kings-
ton’s Woman Warrior, ; and
translation’s role,  (n. );
class differences,  (n. )
Dingwaney, Anuradha, 
Dominant discourse. See Hege-
monic discourse
Dong, Lorraine, 
Double voice, , ,  (n. )
Douglass, Frederick, ,  (n. )
Drant, Thomas, 
Dual identities, 
Durczak, Jerzy,  (n. )
Duvall, John,  (n. )
Ebonics, , , , , ,
– (n. ). See also African
American Vernacular English
()
Edwards, John, 
English language: transcription
into, –; and Gómez-Peña,
; changed by contact with
ethnic language, –, ,
, , , , , , ,
; transmigrating values into,
, , ; ambiguity in use
of, , ; oppositional use
of, , –, –, ,
; dialogizing of, –,
–, , , ; power
over, ; and Rodriguez’s
Brown, , ; Limited
English Proﬁciency, ;
Hispanics’ adoption of, –,
 (n. ); and absorption of
ethnic language, –. See
also Language policy debates;
Standardized English ()
English language immersion, ,
, 
Equilibrium between cultures
and languages, 
Ethnic American literature: trope
of translation in, –, , –
passim; and double voice, ;
and binarism, , 
Ethnic conﬂicts, , 
Ethnic group: deﬁnition of, 
Ethnic identities: and trope of
translation, , ; and impera-
tive to translate, ; language
interlinked with, ; dialogic
concepts of, ; and binarism,
 
–; and Okada’s No-No
Boy, ; and bicultural dual-
ism,  (n. )
Ethnicity: transethnicity, , ,
–, ; and politics of differ-
ence, –; and bilingualism,
–. See also Transcoding
ethnicity
Evers, Lawrence J., 
Failure of translation: and Moma-
day, ; and Morrison’s Beloved,
; and Louie’s Pangs of Love,
; and Chinese American
literature, ; and Alexie’s
Reservation Blues,  (n. );
and Alexie’s Indian Killer, 
(n. )
Fanon, Frantz, –
Fasold, Ralph, ,  (n. )
Federal Bureau of Investigation
(), 
Felstiner, John, 
Ferres, Steven, –, 
Fidelity/inﬁdelity in translation,
, 
Fields, Robin,  (n. )
Fillmore, Lily Wong, , –,
 (n. )
Fine, Laura,  (n. )
Floating World, The (Kadohata),
– passim; and transcoding
ethnicity, , , –, –,
, , –, ; and transla-
tion struggles, ; and trans-
lating consciousness, , ,
–, ; and transmigrating
tongues, –, , –, ,
,  (n. ); and creation of
home, –, , –, , ;
and multilingualism, , ,
; Senna’s Caucasia compared
to, –
Flores, Lauro, 
Flotow-Evans, Luise von, 
Fluent translation, , 
Foreign language education, ,
, 
Frost, Robert, ,  (n. )
Fry, Richard, ,  (n. )
Fusco, Coco, 
Fusion of languages: and interlin-
guistic language, ; fusion of
African American Vernacular
English and Standardized
English, , ; and creation of
new words, , ; and remak-
ing of both “minority” and
dominant discourse, ; and
creation of third dialect, –;
and translation perspective,
, ; and Native American
literature, –; and creation
of new mode of language,
, , , ; and pidgin
or creole languages, –;
as alternative to choosing
one language, ; fusion of
Spanish and English, , ,
, , , –, , ;
and imbrication of hegemonic
and “minority” discourse, ;
fusion of Russian and Spanish,
; and destruction of lan-
guage, . See also Hybridity,
linguistic
Gates, Henry Louis, , , 
(n. )
Gender: and women’s role as
mediator, , , ; and
empowered speech, –; and
translation, –; and Louie’s
Pangs of Love, , ; and Ng’s
Bone, , , ; and Kingston’s
Woman Warrior, –, ,
–; and African American
writers, –


Generational identities: and
trope of translation, ; com-
munication between different
generations, , , , ; and
Louie’s Pangs of Love, , ,
–, , ; and Ng’s Bone,
, , ; and storytelling, ;
and Kingston’s Woman War-
rior, , , –, , , ;
and Okada’s No-No Boy, –,
, ; and Kadohata’s Floating
World, , –, , ; and
Momaday’s House of Dawn, ;
and Delgado’s Letters to Louise,

Ghost dance,  (n. )
Gingerich, Willard, , 
Glissant, Edouard, 
Godard, Barbara, 
Gómez-Peña, Guillermo: and
cultural translation, ; and
English language structures,
; and native speaker concept,
; and multilingualism, ,
, , , –; and pub-
lic/private discourse, –;
and border zone, –, ,
, ; and codeswitching,
–; and language policy
debates, –
Good Negress, The (Verdelle),
– passim; and oral
language, , , –, ,
; and intralingual transla-
tion, , ; and Standardized
English, ; and translation
between African American
discourses and Standardized
English, , , , –,
, –, , –; as
novelistic hybrid, , –;
and transcoding racial identity,
, –, , , –;
and transmigrating tongues,
, ; and linguistic hybrid-
ity, –, ; and call-
and-response messaging, ;
Rodriguez’s Days of Obligation
compared to, 
Grass Dancer, The (Power),
– passim; and radical
bilingualism, , , , –;
and storytelling, , ; and
resistant translation, , ;
and syncretic reconciliation,
, –; and translation as
revelation, , , ; and
linguistic hybridity, , ,
, ; and transmigrating
tongues, , , ; and
transcoding ethnicity, , ,
, ; and silencing of voice,
–, – (n. ); rela-
tionship to native tongue, ;
and linguistic preservation, 
Griffin, John: Black Like Me, 
Guattari, Félix, , 
Guillory, John,  (n. )
Hakuta, Kenji, 
Hall, Stuart, –
Haraway, Donna, 
Hawaii, ,  (n. )
Hawthorne, Evelyn,  (n. )
Hebrew language,  (n. )
Hebrew schools, 
Hegemonic discourse: relation-
ship to disenfranchised
discourse, –; and transmi-
gration of Spanish values, ;
and autocolonialism, ; and
Moraga’s Loving in the War
Years, ; and Gómez-Peña,

Heller, Monica,  (n. ), 
(n. )
Hinkel, Eli, 
Hinojosa, Rolando,  (n. )
 
Hispanics: and English language
adoption, –,  (n. ).
See also Chicano/a literature
Hoffman, Eva, , 
Hom, Marlon, 
Home: as realm of Spanish lan-
guage in Moraga’s Loving
in the War Years, ; ﬁnding
home in translation, , , ,
; in Okada’s No-No Boy, ,
–, , , ; in Kadoha-
ta’s Floating World, , –,
– passim; and assimilation,
; contradictory formulations
of, ; Rushdie’s “imaginary
homeland,” ; translation as
renovation of, , ; refusal
to translate and, ; home
in-between languages and
cultures, , ; lost homes,
; home in hybridity, ; as
realm of Spanish language in
Rodriguez’s Hunger of Memory,
, ; being homeless in
two languages, ; home
language, –; and intern-
ment of Japanese Americans,
– (n. )
hooks, bell, , ,  (n. )
Horace, 
House Made of Dawn (Momaday),
– passim; relationship
to native language, , –,
, ; and translation as
revelation, , , , ;
and oral tradition, , , ;
and pure language, , –,
, , ; and struggle for
voice, , , , –, ,
 (n. ); and transmigrating
tongues, , –, –,
; and transcoding ethnicity,
, , , ; and languages
as broken, –, ; and
multilingualism, –, ,
, –,  (n. ); and
linguistic hybridity, , ,
–,  (n. ); Silko’s
Ceremony compared to, ,
, ; Morrison’s Tar Baby
compared to, ; Rodriguez’s
Days of Obligation compared
to, ; and American Indian
English, – (n. )
Huang, Yunte, , ,  (n. )
Hughes, Langston: “Jesse B.
Simple” stories, 
Hunger of Memory (Rodriguez),
– passim; and transmi-
grating tongues, , ; and
interlingualism, , ; and
dialogized English, , ,
, ; and Mexican Spanish,
–, ; and assimilation
of “American” identity, , ,
; and translation-by-not-
translating, ; and opposi-
tional cultures and languages,
; and English-speaking
demands, ; and language
loss, ; and autonomous
individual,  (n. ); and
double voice,  (n. )
Hunsaker, Steven,  (n. )
Hybridity, linguistic, , , ,
, , , , 
Identities: cultural identities, ;
dual identities, ; authentic
identity, ; and social catego-
ries of race and ethnicity, .
See also Assimilation of “Ameri-
can” identity; Ethnic identities;
Generational identities; Racial
identities
Immigrant adaptation to U.S.,
–, , , , , ,



Imperative to translate, , ,
–
Indian Killer (Alexie), –
passim; relationship to native
language, , ; and transla-
tion as revelation, , , ,
; and violence as voice, ,
–, –, –, ;
and transcoding ethnicity, ,
, ; and identity of Indian
Killer character, , , 
(n. ); and transmigrating
tongues, , ; and power
over English, ; and language
loss, –; and Wovoka or
ghost dance movement, 
(n. ); and silence in text, 
(n. )
Interlingualism: and Chicano/a
literature, , , , 
(n. ); bilingualism distin-
guished from, ; deﬁnition
of, ; and Rodriguez’s
Hunger of Memory, , ;
and Rodriguez’s Brown, ,
, ; and Candelaria’s
Memories of the Alhambra,
, , , , ; and
Moraga’s Loving in the War
Years, , , , , ,
, ; and Delgado’s Letters
to Louise, , , , –,
; and African American
Vernacular English, –
(n. )
In the Heart of the Valley of Love
(Kadohata), ,  (n. )
Intralingual translation: deﬁ-
nition of, ; role of, , –;
and Morrison’s Tar Baby,
–, . See also Dialects
Jakobson, Roman, 
Japanese American internment,
–, , , ,  (n. ),
– (nn. , , , )
Japanese American literature, ,
. See also Kadohata, Cynthia;
Okada, John
“Jesse B. Simple” stories
(Hughes), 
Jewish American literature, 
(n. )
Johnson, Barbara, –, , 
Johnson, Charles: Middle Passage,
, 
Kadohata, Cynthia: and transcod-
ing ethnicity, ; In the Heart
of the Valley of Love, , 
(n. ). See also Floating World,
The (Kadohata)
Kaneko, Lonny, 
Karlgren, Bernhard, 
Kekeh, Andrée-Anne, 
Keller, Gary, –
Khatibi, Abdelkebit, 
Kingsolver, Barbara: The Poison-
wood Bible, , 
Kingston, Maxine Hong: China
Men, , ; and devaluation
of women, , , ; and
source text, –; and transla-
tion struggles, , ; and
women as translators, ; and
writerly translation, ; and
storytelling, ; Huang on,
 (n. ); and protagonist of
Woman Warrior,  (n. ).
See also Woman Warrior, The
(Kingston)
Kloss, Heinz, – (n. )
Kochman, Thomas, 
Korean Americans, 
Korean schools, 
Krupat, Arnold, 
Kwong, Katy Mei-Kuen, , 
 
Labov, William,  (n. )
Laguna language, , , 
Language: and translation con-
ﬂicts, ; as bridge or barrier, 
Language diversity: politics of, 
Language loss, , , ,
–, 
Language of hegemony: renova-
tion of, , , , , ; and
trope of translation, , ,
–; and Native American
literature, ; and Alexie’s
Reservation Blues, , –,
,  (n. ); and Williams’s
Dessa Rose, , , , ;
and Verdelle’s Good Negress,
, ; and Candelaria’s
Memories of the Alhambra, ;
and Gómez-Peña, ; and
language policy debates, 
Language policy debates: and
multilingualism, , , ,
, –, , –;
official policy versus unofficial
policy, , , –, –;
and English Only movement,
–, , –, ,
,  (n. ); and foreign
language education, , ,
; official policy, –; and
English Plus movement, ,
, , ; unofficial policy,
–; and Native American
languages, ,  (n. ),
 (n. ); and Gómez-Peña,
–
Language Rights Amendment
(), 
Lee, A. Robert, 
Lee, Chang-rae: Native Speaker,
, –
Lefevere, André, , 
Letters to Louise (Delgado),
– passim; and codeswitch-
ing, –, , –, ;
and interlingualism, , ,
, –, ; and mestizaje
translation strategies, ,
–, , ; and transmi-
grating tongues, –; and
reader as translator, –,
, –, ; and oral
language, ; and storytelling
processes, , –, ; and
fused linguistic constructions,
–; and multilingualism,
–, ,  (n. )
Lévesque, Claude, , , 
Lewis, Philip, 
Li, David Leiwei, ,  (n. )
Limited English Proﬁciency
(), 
Ling, Jinqi, ,  (n. )
Literal translation: and transla-
tion theory, –; and Louie’s
Pangs of Love, ; and Ng’s
Bone, ; and Kingston’s
Woman Warrior, ; and Silko’s
Almanac of the Dead, ; and
Silko’s Ceremony, ; and
Candelaria’s Memories of the
Alhambra, 
Lopéz, M. G., 
Loss and gain of translation, ,
, 
Lost-and-found space of transla-
tion, –, –,  (n. )
Lost in translation: and failure of
translation, ; and poetry, ;
and Ng’s Bone, –, , 
Lost in Translation (ﬁlm), –,
, , ,  (n. )
Louie, David Wong: and source
text, –; and necessity of
translation, ; and translation
struggles, , ; and writerly
translation, . See also Pangs
of Love (Louie)


Loving in the War Years (Moraga),
– passim; and code-
switching, –, –,
– (n. ); and interlingual-
ism, , , , , ,
, ; and idea of mother
tongue, , ; and mestizaje
translation strategies, , ,
, , ; and dialogue,
–; and sexuality and
Chicana language, –,
–,  (n. ); and
translation struggles, –,
; and transcoding ethnicity,
; and translation dilemma,
; and transmigrating
tongues, , , , ;
and lesbianism, , , ,
 (n. ); second edition of,
,  (n. ); and reader as
translator, –, , ,
– (nn. , ); and radical
bilingualism, ; hybrid form
of, –; and Marina/La
Malinche,  (n. )
Lubiano, Wahneema, 
Magnet, Joseph, 
Maier, Carol, 
Manchild in the Promised Land
(Brown), 
Marina/La Malinche, , 
(n. )
Matsukawa, Yuko, 
Matsumoto, Valerie, 
Matthews, Washington, 
McAllister, Harold,  (n. )
McCarthy, Cormac: Blood Merid-
ian, , 
Mehrez, Samia, , , 
Memories of the Alhambra
(Candelaria), – passim;
and transcoding ethnicity, ,
–,  (n. ); and inter-
lingualism, , , , ,
; and translation struggles,
, ; and Marina/La
Malinche, ,  (n. ); and
transmigrating tongues, ,
, ; and fusion of English
and Spanish, 
Metaphorical translation: and
Kingston’s Woman Warrior,
, , , ; and translation
theory, –; and Louie’s
Pangs of Love, –, –;
and Ng’s Bone, , , ;
and Candelaria’s Memories of
the Alhambra, , ; and
Moraga’s Loving in the War
Years, , ; and Delgado’s
Letters to Louise, ; and
reader as translator, 
Mexican American literature.
See Chicano/a literature
Middle Passage (Johnson), , 
Milroy, Leslie, 
Min, Pyong Gap, 
Mixed-race individuals: and lan-
guage/identity choice, –,
, ; and place within eth-
nic culture, ; and translation
problems, ; in Momaday’s
House Made of Dawn, ; in
Silko’s Ceremony, , , ;
in Morrison’s Tar Baby, ,
, ; and linguistic hybrid-
ity, ; in Senna’s Caucasia,
, ; and power of speak-
ing for both sides, 
Momaday, N. Scott: and failure
of translation, ; relationship
to native language, , ; and
power of language, ; family
background of,  (n. ).
See also House Made of Dawn
(Momaday); Way to Rainy
Mountain, The (Momaday)
 
Moraga, Cherríe: and gender
issues, ; and codeswitching,
–, ,  (n. ); and
construction of autobiographi-
cal persona,  (n. ). See
also Loving in the War Years
(Moraga)
Mori, Toshio, , 
Morrison, Toni: Beloved, –,
; and intralingual transla-
tion, –; on characters in
Tar Baby,  (n. ). See also
Tar Baby (Morrison)
Mother: mother-daughter rela-
tionships in Kingston’s Woman
Warrior, –, , , –,
–; in Ng’s Bone, , –;
mother-son relationships in
Louie’s “Pangs of Love,” , –
; mother-daughter relation-
ships in Louie’s “Inheritance,”
–; in Okada’s No-No Boy,
–, –, –, ; “bad
mother” and language failure,
; in Moraga’s Loving in the
War Years, – passim
Mother tongue: and postmodern
theory, ; in Okada’s No-No
Boy, , , , –; “bad”
mother tongue, ; in Silko’s
Ceremony, ; Spanish as
mother tongue for Chica-
nos/as, ; and Moraga’s
Loving in the War Years, ,
–, – passim; and
Rodriguez’s Days of Obligation,
; and sexuality, –; and
bilingual education practices,
– passim; advantages of
maintaining, ; displacement
or loss of, –, , ;
and immigrant groups from
Europe, ; and Cherokee,
; and Gómez-Peña, ;
“authentic” mother tongue,
; and monolingualism, ;
recovery of, 
Multiculturalism: feasibility of, ;
and refusal to translate, ; and
Okada’s No-No Boy, ; and
Kadohata’s Floating World, ;
and Delgado’s Letters to Louise,
; pride in, ; dissatisfac-
tion with, 
Multilingualism: feasibility
of, ; role of, ; and refusal
to translate, ; and Power’s
Grass Dancer, , , ; and
language policy debates, ,
, , , –, ,
–; and Okada’s No-No
Boy, , ; and Kadohata’s
Floating World, , , ;
and Momaday’s House Made
of Dawn, –, , ,
–,  (n. ); and Silko’s
Ceremony, , ; and Silko’s
Almanac of the Dead, –;
and Alexie’s Reservation Blues,
; and Alexie’s Indian Killer,
; and Senna’s Caucasia, ,
; and African American
Vernacular English related
to Standardized English, ;
and Chicano/a literature,
; and Rodriguez, ; and
Rodriguez’s Brown, –,
, ; and Candelaria’s
Memories of the Alhambra, ,
; and Delgado’s Letters to
Louise, –, ,  (n. );
and reader as translator, ,
; and performance artists,
, –; fear of, –;
value of, ; and tolerance of
diversity, ; support for, ;
and unofficial language policy,
, , – (n. );


Multilingualism (continued):
and Gómez-Peña, , ,
, , –; and crossing
borders, ; and Lee’s Native
Speaker, –; and trope of
translation, ; and language
loss, ; and Williams’s Dessa
Rose, –
Munson, Curtis B.,  (n. )
Murray, David, ,  (n. )
Myers, Dowell,  (n. )
Nabokov, Vladimir, 
Nancy, Jean-Luc, 
Native American languages: and
translator’s role in colonization,
,  (n. ); and pure lan-
guage, , ; and linguistic
hybridity, ; varieties of, ,
 (n. ); heard through
English, , ; and language
loss, , , ; and Ameri-
can Indian English, , –
(n. ),  (n. ); and language
policy debates, ,  (n. ),
 (n. ). See also Cherokee
language; Dakota language;
Laguna language; Navajo
language; Spokane language
Native American literature:
and trope of translation, ;
and translation as revelation,
–; and transmigrating
tongues, –. See also Alexie,
Sherman; Momaday, N. Scott;
Power, Susan; Silko, Leslie
Marmon
Native Speaker (Lee), , –
Navajo language, , , , ,
, 
Navarro, Mireya, 
Nelson, Robert,  (n. )
Neubert, Albrecht, , , , ,
, 
New World Border, The (Gómez-
Peña), , , 
Ng, Fae Myenne: and source
text, –; and translation
struggles, , ; and women
as translators, ; and writerly
translation, . See also Bone
(Ng)
Nietzsche, Friedrich, 
Niranjana, Tejaswini, 
No-No Boy (Okada), – pas-
sim; and transcoding ethnicity,
, , , –, –, , ;
and transmigrating tongues,
, , , –, ; and
translation struggles, , ;
and formulations of home,
–, ; and assimilation of
“American” identity, –, ,
, , –, ; and mother
tongue, , ; and hope for
translation, –; and middle
ground, , ; Morrison’s Tar
Baby compared to, 
Norton, Bonny, 
Nunberg, Geoffrey, , 
Okada, John: and transcoding
ethnicity, ; and Japanese
American internment, –.
See also No-No Boy (Okada)
Oral language: and African
American literature, ; and
Native American literature, ;
mingled with written speech
forms, ; and Williams’s
Dessa Rose, , , , ,
, , ; and Verdelle’s
Good Negress, , , –,
, ; disappearance of, ;
and Momaday’s House Made of
Dawn, , , ; and stories,
; and Silko’s Ceremony, ,
, , ; and Silko’s Al-
 
manac of the Dead, ; fusion
with written speech, ; and
Morrison’s Song of Solomon,
; growth within English,
; and poetic language, ;
and Delgado’s Letters to Louise,
; and Momaday,  (n. );
and Silko,  (nn. , ); and
African American communi-
ties,  (n. )
“Other”: and discourse of rac-
ism, ; and discourse of the
“American,” ; and transcoding
ethnicity, ; and transmigrat-
ing tongues, , ; and
multilingualism, ; and
translated text, 
Owens, Louis, ,  (n. ), 
(n. )
Paisano, Edna L., 
Pangs of Love (Louie), – pas-
sim; and source text, –, ;
“Pangs of Love,” –, –,
, , , , ; and failure
of translation, –, –, ;
and untranslatability, –, ;
“Inheritance,” , –, ,
; and transcoding ethnicity,
–, , –, , ; and
gender, , 
Parent culture: rejection of, . See
also Generational identities
Parent language: and assimilation
of “American” identity, 
Paz, Octavio, , , , , 
Peacock, John,  (n. )
Pérez Firmat, Gustavo, , , ,
, , , ,  (n. ), 
(n. )
Performance artists: and multi-
lingualism, , –
Pew Hispanic Center (), 
Poe, Edgar Allan, 
Poems and Loqueras for the End of
the Century (Gómez-Peña), 
Poisonwood Bible, The (King-
solver), , 
Pokémon, –, 
Politics: of language diversity,
; and translation depicting
power struggles, ; racial and
linguistic politics, . See also
Language policy debates
Poplack, Shana, ,  (n. )
Postcolonial bilingual literature,

Postcolonial writing and criti-
cism, 
Postmodern theorists: and
translation process, , , ,
; and exiles in language, ,
, 
Power, Susan: and radical bi-
lingualism, , , , ; and
power of language, . See also
Grass Dancer, The (Power)
Power struggles: translation de-
picting, , –; and binarism,
; translation as, –; and
Senna’s Caucasia, ; and
codeswitching,  (n. )
Pratt, Mary Louise,  (nn. ,
)
Puerto Rican Americans, 
Pure language: Derrida’s view
of, ; and insanity, ; in
Kingston’s Woman Warrior, ;
and Walter Benjamin, , ;
and Momaday’s House Made of
Dawn, –, , ; deﬁnition
of, ; movement toward, ;
and Silko’s Ceremony, ; and
Silko’s Almanac of the Dead,
–
Racial identities: and trope
of translation, ; and


Racial identities (continued):
Morrison’s Tar Baby, ,
–, –, ; and Sen-
na’s Caucasia, –, –,
, –; and Verdelle’s Good
Negress, , –, , ,
–
Racialized immigrant groups,
, 
Racism, discourse of: and ethnic
as “other,” ; and African
American Vernacular English,
; and Verdelle’s Good
Negress, ; and English Only
movement, 
Radical bilingualism: and Power,
, , , ; and Power’s Grass
Dancer, , , , –; deﬁ-
nition of, –; and reader as
translator, –; and Silko’s
Ceremony, ; and Moraga’s
Loving in the War Years, ;
and translating consciousness,
–
Ramanujan, A. K., 
Raymond, Michael,  (n. )
Reader as translator: and radical
bilingualism, –; and
Chicano/a literature, –,
 (nn. , ); and Candelaria’s
Memories of the Alhambra,
, ; and Moraga’s Loving
in the War Years, –, ,
, – (nn. , ); and
Delgado’s Letters to Louise,
–, , –, ; and
multilingualism, , ; and
metaphorical translation, 
Readerly translations: and Louie’s
Pangs of Love, , ; and
Kingston’s Woman Warrior, 
Reading, mode of, –, 
(n. )
Refusal to translate: and as-
similation, ; and illusionary
concepts of home, 
Remnants left over after transla-
tion, –, , –
Reservation Blues (Alexie), –
passim; relationship to native
language, ; and transcoding
ethnicity, , ; and transla-
tion as revelation, , ;
and transmigrating tongues,
, , , ; and role of
music, –; and language of
hegemony, , –, , 
(n. ); and Big Mom charac-
ter, –, – (n. )
Resistant feminist translation, ,
–
Resistant translation: and
assimilation, ; and Power’s
Grass Dancer, , ; and trans-
ethnicity, ; and translation
theory, , –; deﬁnition of,
–; and Kingston’s Woman
Warrior, , –, ; and
Alexie’s Indian Killer, ;
and Williams’s Dessa Rose, ;
and Verdelle’s Good Negress,
; valuing of, 
Rheinstein, Valerie, , 
Rhydwen, Mari, 
Rice, Alan, 
Ricento, Thomas, , 
Rickford, John, , ,  (n. )
Rivera, Tomás,  (n. )
Roceric, Alexandra, 
Rodriguez, Richard: and ne-
cessity of translation, ; and
transmigrating tongues, ,
, – (n. ); and op-
positional use of English, ,
–, –, ; critics on,
,  (n. ); and construc-
tion of autobiographical
persona,  (n. ). See also
 
Brown (Rodriguez); Days of
Obligation (Rodriguez); Hunger
of Memory (Rodriguez)
Romanians, 
Romero, Lora,  (n. )
Roosevelt, Theodore, 
Rubin, Donald, 
Rudin, Ernst,  (n. ),  (n. )
Ruppert, James, ,  (n. )
Rushdie, Salman, , , , , ,
, 
Rushdy, Ashraf,  (n. )
Russian American immigrants,

Russian Jewish immigrants, 
Saldívar, Ramón, ,  (n. )
Sánchez, Marta, ,  (n. )
Sánchez, Rosaura, ,  (n. )
Sato, Gayle, 
Scarberry-García, Susan, , 
(n. )
Schermerhorn, Richard, 
Schleiermacher, Friedrich, –
Secret, Carrie, 
Selinger, Bernard, ,  (n. ),
 (nn. , )
Senna, Danzy: and intralingual
translation, –. See also
Caucasia (Senna)
Shell, Marc, , 
Shreve, Gregory, , , , ,
, 
Sifuentes, Roberto, 
Signifying, –,  (n. )
Silko, Leslie Marmon: and radical
bilingualism, ; and power
of language, ; on Native
American languages, , 
(n. ); and oppositional use of
English, ; on translation,
 (n. ). See also Almanac
of the Dead (Silko); Ceremony
(Silko)
Silverstein, Michael, 
Simon, Sherry, , , 
Smitherman, Geneva, –, ,
– (n. ),  (n. ), 
(n. )
Snow, Catherine,  (n. )
Sollors, Werner, , , , , 
(n. )
Song of Solomon (Morrison): and
linguistic hybridity, ; and
oral language, 
Soto, Lourdes Diaz, , , ,
, 
Source text: effect of translation
on, , ; deﬁnition of, , 
(n. ); and writerly transla-
tions, , , , ; and trope
of translation, ; and double
voice, ; translator as reader
and writer of, ; and balancing
of translation, ; and transla-
tion as power struggle, , ;
translator’s respect and value
for, –, , , , ; and
devaluation of women, ;
correspondence with target
text, ; and transcoding
ethnicity, ; and translating
consciousness, ; translated
text read through, ; and
resistant translation, 
Souza, Heloisa, 
Spanglish, , , , , ,

Spellmeyer, Kurt, 
Spokane language, , , ,

Standard English Proﬁciency
() program, 
Standardized English (): rela-
tionship to African American
Vernacular English, –,
, , –, , ; and
Okada’s No-No Boy, ;


Standardized English () (con-
tinued): changed by contact
with ethnic language, –,
, , , , , , ,
, ; translations between
African American discourses
and Standardized English,
, , , , –, ,
–, , –; and
accents, –; Williams on,
; as language of consensus,
 (n. ). See also English
language
Storytelling: and Power’s Grass
Dancer, , ; and Morrison’s
Beloved, ; and Ng’s Bone,
; and Kingston’s Woman
Warrior, –, , , –,
,  (n. ); and Kadohata’s
Floating World, , ; and
Momaday’s House Made of
Dawn, , , , ; and
Momaday’s Way to Rainy
Mountain, , ; and Silko’s
Ceremony, –, –, ,
,  (n. ); and Silko’s
Almanac of the Dead, ,
–; and Alexie’s Reservation
Blues, –, , , ;
and Alexie’s Indian Killer,
; and Morrison’s Tar Baby,
; and Williams’s Dessa
Rose, –, , , ; and
Verdelle’s Good Negress, ,
, ; and Delgado’s Letters
to Louise, , –, 
Strange and estranging transla-
tions, 
Styron, William: The Confessions
of Nat Turner, , , 
Subjectivities: and transethnicity,
; empowered subjectivity, 
Swan, Brian,  (n. )
Swigart, Leigh, 
Syncretic reconciliation: and
trope of translation, ; and
Power’s Grass Dancer, ,
–; and codeswitching,
, –, ,  (n. ); and
transcoding ethnicity, –;
attempted movement toward,
; and Anglo-American
literature, ; and resistant
translation, –; and Louie’s
Pangs of Love, ; and Ng’s
Bone, –; and generational
identities, ; and Kingston’s
Woman Warrior, –, ,
, ; and Momaday’s House
Made of Dawn, –; and
Morrison’s Tar Baby, ; and
Rodriguez’s Days of Obligation,
; and Moraga’s Loving in
the War Years, , –; and
Delgado’s Letters to Louise, ;
and crossing borders, 
Tar Baby (Morrison), –
passim; and trope of transla-
tion, ; and intralingual
translation, –, ; and
translation between African
American discourses and Stan-
dardized English, , , ,
, ; and assimilation of
“American” identity, , ;
and transcoding racial identity,
, –, –, ; and
syncretic reconciliation, ;
and manipulation of African
American discourses, –,
; Okada’s No-No Boy com-
pared to, ; and in-between
space, –; and linguistic
hybridity, , , ; Rodri-
guez’s works compared to, ;
and class differences,  (n. )
Target text: effect of translation
 
on, ; deﬁnition of, , 
(n. ); and trope of translation,
; and double voice, ; and
cultural negotiation, ; and
balancing of translation, ;
and translation as power
struggle, –; correspon-
dence with source text, ; and
translating consciousness, 
Taylor, Paul, – (nn. , )
Tong, Benjamin,  (n. )
Tortilla Curtain, The (Boyle),
, 
Transcoding: deﬁnition of, –
Transcoding ethnicity: and trope
of translation, –, , –, ,
; and Kingston’s Woman
Warrior, , –, , , , ,
–; and discourse of racism,
; and syncretic reconciliation,
–; emphasis on, ; and
Okada’s No-No Boy, , ,
, –, –, , ; and
Kadohata’s Floating World, ,
, –, –, , , –,
; and Alexie’s Reservation
Blues, , ; and intralingual
translation, ; and Candelar-
ia’s Memories of the Alhambra,
, –,  (n. ); and
Louie’s Pangs of Love, –, ,
–, , ; and Ng’s Bone,
, , ; and Momaday’s
Way to Rainy Mountain, ,
–; and Momaday’s House
Made of Dawn, , , ,
; and Silko’s Ceremony, ,
; and Power’s Grass Dancer,
, , , ; and Alexie’s
Indian Killer, , , ; and
Moraga’s Loving in the War
Years, ; and interlingual ten-
sion, ; and transmigrating
tongues, ; and Lee’s Native
Speaker, –; and language
policy debates, 
Transculturación, , , 
(n. )
Transethnicity: and trope of
translation, , ; commonali-
ties as, –; and remnants of
translation, 
Translating consciousness: and
Kadohata’s Floating World, ,
, –, ; and openness
of language systems, ; and
Senna’s Caucasia, ; and
Delgado’s Letters to Louise,
; and radical bilingualism,
–
Translation and assimilation, ,
, , 
Translation and gender, –
Translation as merger of sign
systems, 
Translation as palimpsest, , ,
–, , , ,  (n. )
Translation as revelation: and
Power’s Grass Dancer, , ,
, ; and Momaday’s House
Made of Dawn, , , , ;
and Silko’s Ceremony, , ,
, ; and Silko’s Almanac of
the Dead, , , , ; and
Alexie’s Indian Killer, , ,
, ; and Native American
literature, –
Translation conﬂict, 
Translation dilemmas: and Kings-
ton’s Woman Warrior, , ;
and Momaday’s House Made of
Dawn, ; and Moraga’s Loving
in the War Years, 
Translation need, , , 
Translation paradoxes, 
Translation process, –
Translation struggles: transcrip-
tion into English, –; and


Translation struggles (continued):
Kingston’s Woman Warrior, ,
, ; and play of equivalence
and difference, ; and plot’s
movement, ; and Williams’s
Dessa Rose, ; and writerly
translations, ; and Ng’s Bone,
, ; and Kadohata’s Floating
World, ; and Okada’s No-No
Boy, , ; and Candelaria’s
Memories of the Alhambra, ,
; and Moraga’s Loving in the
War Years, –, 
Translation theory: and transla-
tion as new work of art, ;
and importance of translation
process, –; and translation
as positive process, , ,
–; and translation as
negative process, , , –;
and translation as not only
about language, , –;
and resistant translation, ,
–; and interpretation of
literary text, –; and literal
transfer of meaning, –;
and translation as derivative,
feminized art, ; and transla-
tion as creative and interpretive
act, , ; and multiple roles
of translation, ; and models
of translation, –; and
radical bilingualism, –;
and women translators, ; and
gender in translation, –,
; and shared experience, 
Translator as evil, 
Translator’s mission: and coloni-
zation, –, 
Transliteration, , , 
(n. )
Transmigrating tongues: and
trope of translation, , , ;
and Kingston’s Woman War-
rior, , ; and Power’s Grass
Dancer, , , , ; and
Silko’s Ceremony, , , –,
, , , – (n. );
and anti-imperial impulse,
; and Rodriguez’s Days of
Obligation, , , –; and
Rodriguez’s Hunger of Memory,
, ; and Louie’s Pangs of
Love, ; and Ng’s Bone, –;
and Okada’s No-No Boy, , ,
, –, ; and Kadohata’s
Floating World, –, ,
–, , ,  (n. ); and
Native American literature,
–; and Momaday’s House
Made of Dawn, , –,
–, ; and Momaday’s
Way to Rainy Mountain, ,
–; and Alexie’s Reservation
Blues, , , , ; and
Alexie’s Indian Killer, , ;
and Senna’s Caucasia, ; and
Williams’s Dessa Rose, ; and
Verdelle’s Good Negress, ,
; and “other,” , ; and
Candelaria’s Memories of the
Alhambra, , , ; and
Moraga’s Loving in the War
Years, , , , ; and
Delgado’s Letters to Louise,
–; and transcoding ethnic-
ity, ; and Gómez-Peña, ,
, ; and language policy
debates, 
Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo,
,  (n. )
Trope of translation: in ethnic
American literature, –, ,
– passim; and transcoding
ethnicity, –, , –, , ;
and transmigrating tongues,
, , ; parameters of, ;
and transethnicity, , ; and
 
language of hegemony, , ,
–; and multicultural and
multilingual identities, ;
and syncretic reconciliation,
; and theorization of ethnic
literature, ; and negotiation
between cultural and linguistic
identities, ; emphasis on, ;
and ethnic conﬂicts, , ;
and unofficial language policy,
; and language loss, –;
and multilingualism, ; and
literary forms, –; and
appropriation and control, ;
and linguistic loss and gain, 
Tse, Lucy, , 
Turner, Lorenzo,  (n. )
TuSmith, Bonnie, ,  (n. )
Uchida, Yoshiko, – (n. )
Unintelligibility, 
Untranslatability: and remnants
of translation, –, ,
–; and Kingston’s Woman
Warrior, , ; and Louie’s
Pangs of Love, –, ; and
translation need, 
U.S.-Mexican border, –, 
Valdés, Guadalupe, 
Varennes, Fernand de, 
Véa, Alfredo, 
Velie, Alan,  (n. )
Veltman, Calvin, , 
Venuti, Lawrence, , , , ,
 (n. )
Verdelle, A. J.: and intralingual
translation, ; and Stan-
dardized English, ; and
codeswitching, . See also
Good Negress, The (Verdelle)
Vernacular speech: and Hughes’s
“Jesse B. Simple” stories, ;
and Brown’s Manchild in the
Promised Land, –; and
Johnson’s Middle Passage,
–; and Wideman’s Dam-
ballah, –; and gender,
–; reason for persistence
of, ; and Morrison’s Tar
Baby, , , , ; and
Morrison’s Song of Solomon,
; and Senna’s Caucasia, ;
and undermining of dominant
discourse, ; and Williams’s
Dessa Rose, , , – pas-
sim, , – passim, ,
 (n. ); and Verdelle’s Good
Negress, , ; and hybridity,
; and sounding “stupid,”
; and alternative subject
positions, ; not separate
from language of hegemony,
–; and class,  (n. )
Vietnamese Americans, ,
–
Vizenor, Gerald, 
Von Humboldt, Wilhelm, 
Walker, Cheryl, 
Warrior for Gringostroika
(Gómez-Peña), , –,
, , 
Way to Rainy Mountain, The
(Momaday): and translation
as revelation, ; and transmi-
grating tongues, , –; and
sacredness of names, ; and
words as talismans, 
Wechsler, Robert, , , 
Wei, Li, 
Weinberger, Eliot, , , 
Wells, J. C.,  (n. )
“White” English: and accent,
; linguistic diversity of, ,
 (n. ); remade by African
Americans, ; and black
speech data,  (n. )


Whiteness: and Morrison’s
Tar Baby, ; and Senna’s
Caucasia, , , ; and
materialism, ; and Ameri-
can identity, ; translating
between whiteness and black-
ness, , 
White Noise (DeLillo), 
Wideman, John Edgar: Dam-
ballah, 
Wiley, Terence, ,  (n. )
Wilgoren, Jodi, , , 
Williams, Sherley Anne: and
translation struggle, ; on
Standardized English, . See
also Dessa Rose (Williams)
Wittgenstein, Ludwig, 
Wolfram, Walt, ,  (n. )
Wolfson, Nessa, –
Woman Warrior, The (Kingston),
– passim; and rejection
of parent culture, –, ;
and transcoding ethnicity, ,
–, , , , , –; and
translation dilemmas, , ;
and transmigrating tongues, ,
; and translation struggles, ,
, ; and trope of translation,
; and untranslatability, ,
; and source text, –;
and storytelling, –, ,
, –, ,  (n. );
and writerly translations, ,
–, –, ; and narrator’s
silence, –; and gender,
–, , –; and genera-
tional identities, , , –,
, , ; and madness, –;
and pure language, –, ;
and transcoding of Chinese
myths, –; and imaginary
homeland, ; and reinventing
ancestors, ; and translation
for readers, ; and Chinese
schools, 
Wong, Sau-ling Cynthia, , 
(n. )
Wovoka,  (n. )
Wright, Neil,  (n. )
Writerly translation: and source
text, , , , ; deﬁnition
of, , ,  (n. ); and
transethnicity, ; and Barthes,
,  (n. ); and Chinese
American literature, –,
; and Barnstone, –, 
(n. ); and Louie’s Pangs of
Love, , , ; and Ng’s Bone,
; and Kingston’s Woman
Warrior, , –, –, ;
and Okada’s No-No Boy, ;
and Kadohata’s Floating World,
; and Chicano/a literature,
; and Rodriguez’s Days of
Obligation, , –; and
Rodriguez’s Hunger of Memory,
; and Moraga’s Loving in the
War Years, ; and Delgado’s
Letters to Louise, ; valuing
of, ; role of writerly trans-
lator, – (n. )
Xia, Ningsheng, 
Yamada, Mitsuye, , , 
Yarbro-Bejarano, Yvonne,
–
Yekl (Cahan), 
Yin, Xiao-huang, 
Zhou, Min, –
