TYPES OF MORPHOLOGICAL OPERATION 15
constructions which are not possible or which are unproductive in English. In Italian,
as in other Romance languages, we can form what is generally regarded as a com-
pound out of a verb with its object, as in portalettere 'postman', literally 'carries let-
ters'. In some languages we seem to be able to create compound words out of whole
phrases, as in the French cessez-le-feu 'cease fire' in which the noun feu 'fire' is
modified by a definite article, and the verb component cessez 'cease' is in the impera-
tive form.
One of the more intriguing phenomena in the world's morphologies is that of
incorporation. We speak of incorporation when a word (typically a verb) forms a
kind of compound with, say, its direct object, or adverbial modifiers, while retaining
its original syntactic function. For true incorporation to occur, there must be a
paraphrase using the same morphemes in which the incorporated roots surface as
independent words. Chukchee provides a wealth of examples:
1.19 a) T;:,-pelark;m qoraiJ;:,.
I -leave reindeer
'I'm leaving the reindeer.'
b) T;:,-qora-pelark;:,n.
In 1.19b, which means the same as 1.19a and uses the same roots, the root qora
'reindeer' has been incorporated by the verb to form a single word. This is evident
from the fact that the 1st pers. sg. subject agreement prefix ta- precedes the root qora.
The structure of the word is thus something like 'l-am-reindeer-leaving'. In other
cases (e.g. in 1.20 below) we can tell that a root has been incorporated because it
undergoes vowel harmony. This means that the vowels of certain roots will change
under the influence of vowels of other morphemes. This process doesn't extend
beyond the boundaries of a single word, so it serves as a phonological way of distin-
guishing between a word and a phrase. Much more complex examples are possible,
in which a verb incorporates more than one root. In example 1.20, the roots jaa,
racwan and melgar, as well as the verb root maraw, can all form independent words.
(For good measure, the word milger which shows up here in a harmonized variant,
melgar, is a noun-noun compound originally, meaning 'fire-bow'):
1.20 T;:,-jaa -racw;:,IJ -melgar-maraw;:,rk;:,n.
I -from a distance-compete-gun -fight
'I am fighting a duel.'
All three of these phenomena have excited the interest of theoretical linguists. I
shall be discussing cliticization in some detail in chapter 9, and incorporation figures
in chapter 7. The whole of chapter 8 is devoted to theories of compounding.
1.3.4 Morphological formatives: morphemes as rules
It is not uncommon to find that an affix conditions a phonological change in the base
to which it attaches. On occasions we find that, as the language has evolved, the
phonological form of the affix itself has withered away over time and left as its only
trace the phonologically conditioned allomorphy of its base. When this happens, the
phonological alternation (i.e. the change in shape shown by the base morpheme)
.,..
I
16 THE DOMAIN OF MORPHOLOGY
takes over the function of the original affixation. Superficially, at least, a morpheme
as a 'thing' has been replaced by a morpheme as a rule.
In this section we will look at five examples of morphemes which are realized as
phonological alternations. The phonological processes they involve are stress
(English), vowel length (Rausa), tone (Chichewa), apophony, or ablaut, i.e. a
change in the vowels of the root (Arabic), and (consonant) mutation, i.e. word-initial
alternations in consonants (Nivkh). We will then discuss a sixth case in which there
is neither a surface morpheme nor a phonological change, morphological conversion.
Look at the data set in 1.21, in which an acute accent indicates position of main
stress:
1.21 a) contrast b) contrast
increase increase
import fmport
purport purport
torment torment
transport transport
All the (a) examples are verbs and all the (b) examples are nouns. What seems to be
happening here is that position of stress is used as a derivational device to signal the
syntactic category of the word. In the case of perfect we see the same thing happening
with an adjective-verb pair.
Rausa, a Chadic language of Northern Nigeria, has elements, reminiscent of
English auxiliaries, which appear before verbs to signal tense/aspect (i.e. the time at
which and manner in which something takes place). The completive aspect markers
are illustrated in 1.22 (doubled vowels are long, i.e. 'aa' = [a:]):
1.22 naa kaawoo 'I have brought'
kaa kaawoo 'you (sg.) have brought'
yaa kaawoo 'he has brought'
taa kaawoo 'she has brought'
an kaawoo 'one has brought'
mun kaawoo 'we have brought'
kun kaawoo 'you (pl.) have brought'
sun kaawoo 'they have brought'
When these markers appear in relative clauses, in topicalized clauses, or after certain
complementizers, however, they assume a special 'relative' form, shown in 1.23 (a
grave accent indicates low tone and absence of accent indicates high tone):
1.23 abln da na kaawoo
abln da ka kaawoo
'the thing which I have brought'
'the thing which you (sg.)
ya kaawoo etc.
ta kaawoo
aka kaawoo
muka kaawoo
kuka kaawoo
suka kaawoo
TYPES OF MORPHOLOGICAL OPERATION 17
In the indefinite 3rd sg. form and the plural forms we see the aspect markers suffixed
with -n in the normal form and with -ka in the relative form. But in the other
person/number forms a long vowel alternates with a short vowel. These data suggest
that for these forms it is the length of the vowel itself which indicates whether the
markers are in the relative form.
Arabic verbs fall into a number of different classes (often referred to by the Hebrew
term binyanim, singular binyan) based around a single triconsonantal root sequence.
For instance, the sequence k-t-b forms the following eight classes of verb form, given
their traditional numbering here (doubled constants are pronounced as geminates
and doubled vowels are long; the alternations of length and the appearance of other
consonants will be discussed in chapter 5: 14
1.24 Binyan
I katab 'write'
II kanab 'cause to write'
III kaatab 'correspond'
IV ?aktab 'cause to write'
VI takaatab 'write to each other'
VII nkatab 'subscribe'
VIII ktatab 'write, be registered'
X staktab 'write, make write'
From the glosses it is clear that the basic meaning of the root is to do with writing.
The different binyanim represent for the most part derivational classes (such as
'causative' or 'reciprocal'), though this is not systematic across all verbs.
Arabic also has a rich set of inflectional verbal classes. The table in 1.25 gives some
of these for the eight binyanim of 1.24 ('Pftv.' ='perfective', 'Impf.' = 'imperfec-
tive', 'Act.'= 'active', 'Pass.'= 'passive'; for present purposes it doesn't matter what
these terms mean):
1.25 Pftv. Pftv. Impf. Impf.
Act. Pass. Act. Pass.
I katab kutib aktub uktab
II kanab kuttib ukattib ukattab
III kaatab kuutib ukaatib ukaatab
IV ?aktab ?Uktib u?aktib unktab
v takattab tukuttib atakattab utakattab
VI takaatab tukuutib atakaatab utakaatab
VII nkatab nkutib ankatib unkatab
VIII ktatab ktutib aktatib uktatab
From 1.25 it is immediately apparent that the aspect (i.e. the Pftv. and Impf.) and
voice (i.e. Act. and Pass.) categories are associated with different sequences of vowels
(ignoring vowel length), given in 1.26:
1.26 Perfective Active
Perfective Passive
Imperfective Active
Imperfective Passive
(a)-a-a
(u)-u-i
u-a-i or (a)-a-a-i
u-a-a-(a)
rr
18 THE DOMAIN OF MORPHOLOGY
To be sure, not all the Imperfective Active forms fit the two schemas suggested, but
for the other forms the fit is very good. Moreover, this impression is strengthened
if other binyanim and other inflectional categories which I have omitted here are
added. .
Here, then, we have a morphological system in which the sequence of vowels rep-
resents a morphological category. Similar alternations between vowels in different
morphological categories are found in Indo-European languages, including English.
Thus, a miniature version of the Arabic pattern is shown by its translation (given in
broad phonemic transcription in 1.27). The verb sing provides an extra dimension:
1.27 a) rait
b) sii)
rout
saI)
ritn
I
SAI) SOI)
'write'
'sing'
Chichewa, spoken predominantly in Malawi, is typical of the Bantu languages in
that syllables may bear one of two tones, High (marked with an accent, · ) or Low
(unmarked) (though some vowels may bear both at once~ forming a falling tone, - ).
Its verb morphology is also typical in that an intrinsitive verb form includes
(amongst other things) a prefix agreeing with the subject and a tense/aspect marker.
For instance, the form ndi-nd-f6tokoza 'I explained' has the structure shown in 1.28:
1.28 ndi -mi f6tokoza
1sg.SUBJ-PAST-explain
There is a rich system of tenses and aspects in Chichewa. A sample is presented in
1.29 for the 1sg. form of the verb:
1.29 ndi-mi-f6tokoza simple past
ndi-na-f6t6koza recent past
ndf-mi:-f6t6koza remote past
ndi-ku-f6t6koza infinite/progressive
ndf-ma-fotok6za present habitual
ndi-ma-f6t6koza past habitual
ndi-dza-f6tokoza future
As is evident, the tone pattern over the whole of the verb depends on the
tense/aspect. In most cases this is accompanied by a change inthe affix, but some
forms, such as the simple and recent past, or the present habitual and future, are
distinguished solely by tone. It appears that tone is therefore part of the tense/aspect
morpheme (as Mtenje, 1987, from whom these data are taken, explicitly argues).
Nivkh (sometimes called Gilyak in the older literature) is a genetically isolated lan-
guage of Siberia, spoken in the Amur basin and on theisland of Sakhalin. The Nivkh
consonant inventory includes voiced, voiceless and as~irated plosives, and voiced and
voiceless fricatives. A number of grammatical and morphological relations are sig-
nalled (in part, at least) by consonant mutation. For instance, a voiceless plosive
alternates with a voiced plosive and an aspirated plosive alternates with a voiceless
fricative. Nouns can be formed from verb roots by suffixation, but this is also often
accompanied by mutation, as in the examples of 1.30: 15
TYPES OF MORPHOLOGICAL OPERATION 19
1.30 Verbs Nouns
Rovq 'draw (e.g. water)' qovs 'scoop'
rAtt 'scrape' tAts 'scraper'
vutic! 'sweep' putis 'broom'
xuvq 'hoop' k'uvs 'hoop'
xac! 'support' q'as 'pillar'
faq 'put on knee-piece' p'aq 'knee-piece'
A similar set of alternations is found within verbs: transitive and intransitive pairs
will often be related solely by mutation, as in example 1.31:
1.31 Transitive Intransitive
rAI)ZAlAq 'weigh' tAI)ZAlAq 'weigh'
xavuq 'warm up' q'avuq 'warm up'
yesqoq 'burn something' kesqoq 'burn oneself
SAUq 'remove' t'Auq 'come off'
VAkzq 'lose' pAkzq 'get lost'
~aq 'bake' t'aq 'bake'
zoq 'bend' toe! 'bend'
The Nivkh case seems to be like that of other languages exhibiting mutation, in
which the original set of alternations seems to have been the result of phonological
changes induced by pre:fi.xation, compounding or whatever. The phonological aspect
then becomes divorced from the morphological process (for example, by attrition of
the conditioning prefix), leaving the phonological alternation as the sole vestige.
Once the phonological alternation has been thus morphologized, however, it is free
to assume an independent life of its own, and may be employed to express other mor-
phological or grammatical relationships. This is true of Nivkh, in which, for
example, mutation is found on nouns with a possessive affix, transitive verbs taking
an overt direct object, heads of compound nouns, and in reduplication. Used with
adjectives it can signify an intensive. As with other mutation languages, however,
there remains a rather complex relation between purely grammatical conditioning
factors and phonological conditioning factors.
The astute reader looking at the glosses to the examples of Nivkh transitive and
intransitive verb pairs in 1.31 will have noticed that in English a lot of transitive and
intransitive verb pairs have exactly the same form. This is not always true; for
I
example, some verb pairs are related by ablaut similar to that illustrated for irregular
verb forms in 1.27: lie - lay, fall - fell (a tree). Nonetheless, it is very frequently
the case that a transitive and intransitive verb show no difference in shape. This
phenomenon is actually more widespread in English. Consider the verb-noun and
noun-verb pairs in 1.32:
1.32 a) to cut a cut
to run a run
to stand a stand
to ring a nng
to walk a walk
i
~
!
I
I
u
I
~ \·.
" .
" '...
20 THE DOMAIN OF MORPHOLOGY
b) a hand
an orbit
a nng
a grandstand
to hand
to orbit
to ring
to grandstand
It seems from these data that we can freely use a noun as a verb and vice versa despite
the fact that English has a variety of affixes which do the same job.
Another instance of this occurs in the data of 1.33-5:
1.33 a) The chicken was killed (by Harriet).
b) The chicken is freshly killed (*by Harriet).
c) A freshly killed chicken.
1.34 a) This vase was broken (by Dick).
b) This vase is completely broken (*by Dick).
c) A completely broken vase.
1.35 a) The manuscript was written badly (by Tom).
b) The manuscript is badly written (*by Tom).
c) A badly written manuscript.
In these data we find that the passive participles which surface in the (a) examples
are being used as adjectives in the (b, c) examples. Since the passive participle is gen-
erally regarded as an inflectional form of the verb we have another case of a word
which shifts its allegiance from one syntactic category to another without undergoing
any formal change.
There have been two approaches to the theoretical description of morphology of
this sort. One is to say that we are allowed to 'convert' a noun to a verb or vice versa,
or a participle to an adjective, by simply relabelling it. The other is to say that the
change of category is the effect of attaching an affix, but that the affix happens to be
phonologically null, a zero morpheme in other words. The first approach is referred
to as (morphological) conversion, while the second is called null or zero affixation.
Morphological conversion is a kind of process, though not a phonological one.
Here, the morpheme is a rule (usually formalized as a rule which changes the·label-
ling from 'Noun' to 'Verb' or whatever). Zero affixation, on the other hand, is
intended to be just like any other form of affixation. Here, the morpheme responsible
is clearly a thing, though a ghostly one, These notions aren't incompatible with each
other in general. It is possible for a grammatical theory to include both types of
description. Indeed, one linguist (Lieber, 198lb) has argued that the data of 1.32
should be handled by morphological conversion, while the data of 1.33-5 illustrate
zero affixation. However, it is possible to imagine a theory which was unable to
countenance one or other of these possibilities, at least within one language. 16
1.3.5 Summary
The examples of morphemes-as-things and morphemes-as-rules that I have given in
§§1.3.3-4 are not meant to imply definitive analyses. Some linguists have claimed
that all morphological uperations should be regarded as rules; others have insisted
that where possible, in cases in which it seems as though a rule is used as a mar-
FUNCTIONS OF MORPHOLOGY-MORPHOSYNTAX 21
pheme, the data should be reanalysed in such a way that the underlying process is
triggered by a morpheme-as-a-thing. For instance, confronted with initial consonant
mutation, such a linguist might well propose that at some abstract underlying level
there is a prefix or other formative which exerts its phonological influence and then
disappears, leaving the mutation as its only trace. In that case, at the underlying level
the morpheme would be represented by the 'abstract' prefix, and the phonological
alternation would just be an example of phonologically conditioned allomorphy.
The moral is that a simple description of the surface facts doesn't necessarily con-
stitute a full description, and so a superficial description doesn't always permit any
theoretical inferences to be drawn. It is only in the context of an explicitly articulated
theory of grammar that a set of data can reveal its full significance. More importantly,
it is only within the framework of an explicit theory that we can hope to explain why
the data pattern the way they do, by linking otherwise unconnected facts to each
other, through a more abstract theoretical intermediary. This point will be illustrated
on innumerable occasions throughout the book.
1.4 Functions of morphology - morphosyntax
In §1.3.1 we distinguished derivational morphology, by which new words are formed,
from inflectional morphology. Derivational operations typically create a word of a
different syntactic class from that of the base, but will also add further elements of
meaning. For instance, the affixes -erf-or and -ation both turn verbs into nouns, but
-erf-or creates nouns with the meaning of an agent or instrument, while -ation creates
an abstract noun (cf. creator, creation). Inflectional operations leave untouched the
syntactic category of the base, but they too add extra elements. These are elements
of meaning (for example, tense, aspect, mood, negation and so on) and also gram-
matical function. For instance, an inflectional operation may turn an intransitive verb
into a transitive one, or an active verb form into a passive one (though some morpho-
logists would regard such alternations as derivational morphology). The two most
widespread and important types of grammatical function served by inflection are
agreement (or concord) and government.
In very many languages there are constructions in which inflectional morphology
is used to show that two words or phrases belong to the same grammatical category.
We have seen that, in Russian, nouns inflect for number, gender and case. An adjec-
tive modifying a noun has to agree with it for these categories. Some examples of
this are given in 1.36-8 using the adjective bol'soj 'large, big, grand', a masculine,
feminine and neuter noun, and three of the twelve case/number categories:
1.36 teatr 'theatre' masculine
a) bol,s-oj teatr
b) bol's-omu teatr-u
c) bol's-ix teatr-ov
nominative singular
dative singular
genitive plural
1.37 cerkov' 'church' feminine
a) bol's-aja cerkov' nom. sg.
b) bol's-oj cerkvi dat. sg.
c) bol's-ix cerkvej gen. pl.
l,l
:,\
~
22 THE DOMAIN OF MORPHOLOGY
1.38 mesto 'place' neuter
a) bol's-oje mest-o nom. sg.
b) bol's-omu mest-u dat. sg.
c) bol's-ix mest gen. pl.
In a language in which nouns are marked for case we often find that some verbs
have to be followed by an object in one case form while other verbs have to be fol-
lowed by an object in a different case form. We say then that the verb governs a par-
ticular case. Prepositions, too, often govern a particular case, sometimes expressing
slight differences of meaning by difference in case selection. Very commonly, a pos-
sessor phrase (like the boy's in the boy's coat) shows up ln a special case (usually called
the genitive). Russian provides some typical examples of these phenomena:
1.39 a) direktor zavod-a
1.40
1.41
director factory-GENITIVE SG
'the director of the factory'
... prinjal nov-yj kollektiv
received new collective-ACCUSATIVE SG
' ... receive the new collective'
b) ... pomogal nov-omu kollektiv-u
helped new collective-DATIVE SG
'... helped the new collective'
c) ... rukovodil nov-ym kollektiv-om
new collective-INSTRUMENTAL SG
'supervised the new collective'
a) ot Ivan-a
b) k lvan-u
c) s Ivan-om
d) ob Ivan-e
'from Ivan- GEN~TIVE'
'to(wards) Ivan - DATIVE'
'with Ivan- INSTRUMENTAL'
'about Ivan - PREPOSITIONAL'
a) vojti v komnat-u 'to go in(to) the room-ACCUSATIVE'
'to sit in the room-PREPOSITIONAL'
b) sidet' v komnat-e
While it is common for a possessor to appear in a genitive case form (or to be
marked by a preposition, as in the coat of the boy), in a good niany languages
possession is marked by an agreement process. This means that the translation of coat
(the possessed noun) in the boy's coat would be marked by means of inflections indi-
cating, say, the person, number, or gender of the possessor (the boy). In some
languages we see both types of marking simultaneously. This gives rise to construc-
tions which read literally: Tom his-brother or of-Tom his-brother. Turkish (like many
Ural-Altaic languages) provides examples of the construction. In 1.42 I have given
the possessive inflection for a noun:
1.42 ev-1m
ev-m
ev-1
'my room'
'thy room'
'his room'
eV-lffilZ
eV-llllZ
ev-leri
'our room'
'your room'
'their room'
FUNCTIONS OF MORPHOLOGY-MORPHOSYNTAX 23
In 1.43 we see a possessive phrase in which the possessed (house) agrees with the pos-
sessor (director) and the possessor is in the genitive case:
1.43 mudur-un
director-GEN
ev-1
house-POSS
'the director's house'
Languages generally have ways of altering the relationship between a verb and its
arguments (that is, its subject and its object(s)). These are grouped under the heading
of voice or valency changing relationships in traditional grammar. 17 In many
languages such relationships are signalled by inflections borne by the verb.
A common example is the passive voice (as opposed to the active voice). In
English this is expressed by a mixture of syntax and morphology: a separate auxiliary
is used (the verb to be) and a separate verb form, the passive (or past) participle (cf.
the glosses in 1.45 below). In some languages, however, the passive patterns with the
rest of the verbal inflectional paradigm, so that a verb in the passive has its own set
of person and number inflections, distinct from the active voice. A classic example
is Latin:
1.44 amare 'to love'
Active Present Passive Present
Sg. Pl. Sg. Pl.
1 amo amamus amor amamur
2 amas amatis amaris amaminf
3 amat amant amatur amantur
1.45 a) Milites puellam amant.
soldier-NOM pl. girl-ACC sg. love-3 pl.
'The soldiers love the girl.'
b) Puella a militibus amatur.
girl-NOM sg. by soldier-ABLATIVE pl. is-loved
'The girl is loved by the solders.'
In many languages the marking of subjects and objects follows an ergative pattern.
In this, one and the same marker (which might be a noun case ending or verb agree-
ment) is used for the subject of an intransitive verb and for the direct object of a tran-
sitive verb, while a separate marker distinguishes the subject of a transitive verb. If
case markers are used by the language, the first is called the Absolutive CABS) and
the second the Ergative (ERG). If we represent 'transitive subject' as ST, 'intransitive
subject' as S1, and direct object as 0, we can represent the distinction between
nominative-accusative languages and ergative-absolutive languages schematically as
in 1.46: 18
1.46 a) NOM
ST
s1
ACC.
0
b) ERG
ST
ABS
s1
0
I
I
24 THE DOMAIN OF MORPHOLOGY
Chukchee is an ergative language, as we can see from 1.47:
1.47 a) dtldg-e l?unin ekdk.
father-ERG saw son-ABS
'The father saw the son.'
b) Ekdk kdtgdntatg?e.
son-ABS ran
'The son ran.'
Now, the passive serves to promote the direct object to a subject and to demote the
subject to an optional adjunct (or adverbial) marked by a preposition, or by an
oblique case. (An oblique case in this book is any case which is not direct, i.e. which
is not either Nominative or Accusative, or Ergative or Absolutive.) Ergative
languages often have a voice in which the direct object is demoted to an optional
adjunct in an oblique case while at the same time the ST of the transitive construction
becomes a S1 in the Absolutive. This is referred to as the antipassive construction.
One way of doing this in Chukchee is by using the prefix ine-. The demoted direct
object may appear in the Dative, Locative, or Instrumental case depending on the
verb, as seen in 1.48-50:
1.48 Gdm t -ine-tejk -drkdn (orw et;}).
l-ABS 1sg.-AP-make-PRES (sledge-DAT)
'I am making a sledge.'
1.49 ?aacek-dt ine-gdnrit-drkdt qaa-k
boy -ABS PL AP-guard-PRES PL reindeer-LOC
'The boys are guarding the reindeer.'
1.50 Muri m;}t-ine-ret -~rk~n kimit?-e.
we-ABS 1pl.-AP-carry-PRES load-INSTR
'We are carrying the load.'
A good many languages have a morphological causative, a device for creating a
verb form meaning 'to cause X to Verb' from a form 'X Verbs'. 19 Chukchee has a
number of causative affixes, which regularly attach to intransitive verbs, and in a few
cases to transitives. The commonest is the prefix r- (rtJ- before a consonant), often co-
occurring with a suffix -w, -et, or -t)et. In the examples given in 1.51-3 an intransitive
verb, with markers showing agreement with the subject, becomes transitive, agreeing
in addition with the object. In 1.54 a transitive verb has been causativized. These
examples also show the effects of certain phonological rules, which are independent
of the affixes themselves. The gloss '3sg.f3sg.' means 'agreement with 3sg. subject
and 3sg. object' (recall that verbs agree with their objects in Chukchee).
1.51 a) eret-g?i
fall-3sg.
'He fell.'
b) r- eren -nm
CAUSE-fall -3sg.f3sg.
'He dropped it.'
FUNCTIONS OF MORPHOLOGY-MORPHOSYNTAX 25
1.52 a) p?a-g?e b) r;)- p?a-W -nen
dry-3sg. CAUSE-dry-CAUSE-3sg.f3sg.
'It dried.' 'He dried it.'
1.53 a) cimet-g?i b) r;)- c1me -w -nm
break-3sg. CAUSE-break-CAUSE-3sg.f3sg.
'It broke.' 'He broke it.'
1.54 a) ln1-nin b) r;)- l?u -nen -mn
see-3sg.f3sg. CAUSE-see-CAUSE-3sg.f3sg.
'He saw it.' 'He showed it.'
Since causatives are transitive, they can undergo antipassivization, as in 1.55:
1.55 r;)- l?u -net;) -tku-g?i
CAUSE-see-CAUSE-AP-3sg.
'He showed (something).'
In point of fact, this way of forming causatives is lexically restricted in Chukchee,
and is not productive. (The productive way of forming causatives is to use a verb cor-
responding to the English 'make', as in 'to make someone do something'.) Neverthe-
less, in languages such as Turkish, Japanese, Malayalam and the Eskimo group of
languages, pretty well any verb can form a morphological causative, and in many
cases it is possible in theory freely to form causatives of causatives ('to make A make
B do something').
The Malaya-Polynesian languages exhibit a great variety of voice type construc-
tions, traditionally called focus constructions. 20 In these, direct objects, locatives or
instrumentals become subjects. The different voices are marked by affixes on the
verb, including infixes and reduplication (see §1.3.3), as well as particles marking
NPs. Here are some examples from Tagalog (infixes are indicated by slashes as /INF/
in 1.56-8):
1.56 a) Ako ay b-um-abasa ng aklat.
I PTCL read/INFfread PTCL book
'I am reading the book.'
b) Ang aklat ay b-in-abasa ko.
PTCL book PTCL readfiNFfread I
(lit.: 'The book is being read by me.')
1. 57 a) Siya'y s-um-usulat sa akin. (from sulat)
he-PTCL writefiNFfwrite PTCL I
'He is writing to me.'
b) Ako ay s-in-usulat-an niya.
I PTCL writefiNFfwrite-AFF he
(lit.: 'I am being written to by him.')
- I
!
'!
I
'i
;i
I
~
'
I
.. \
26 THE DOMAIN OF MORPHOLOGY
1.58 a) Babayad ako ng salapi
pay-FUT I PTCL money
'I shall pay in cash. '
b) I -babayad ko an salapi.
AFF -pay-FUT I PTCL money
(lit.: 'Cash will be paid-in by me.')
The categories discussed so far tend to interact in fairly obvious ways with syntax.
Other verbal inflectional categories have little or no syntactic function but encode
grammaticalized aspects of meaning. The most common of these are the categories
of tense and aspect, mood, and modality. 21
Tense broadly means reference to the time of an event or state. English, for
instance, distinguishes a past tense and a non-past tense. A common aspectual dis-
tinction is between an action that is completed (completive or perfective aspect) and
one that is ongoing or unfinished or a state which has no end point (imperfective).
Some of the Rausa and Arabic forms seen in the previous section express such
categories. It is very common for tense and aspect to be combined into a single
inflectional system (see, for instance, the Chichewa examples cited in 1.29).
In Indo-European languages, the term 'mood' usually refers to the categories of
indicative mood (used to state facts of which the speaker is relatively confident), the
imperative mood, used to issue commands, the subjunctive mood, used in questions
or statements of which the speaker isn't so sure (for example, in subordinate clauses
to verbs like doubt or fear), the conditional mood, for hypothetical propositions, and
the optative mood, which indicates a wish. In some languages, however, there is
a separate verb paradigm used in interrogative sentences, and many languages distin-
guish a variety of types of imperative (often referred to as jussives). Modality
includes not only possibility, obligation, necessity and so on but also commsmly
desideratives (translating the English 'to want to do ... '). Many languages have rich
sets of inflections for expressing different modalities and degrees of modality, of a
kind conveyed by means of auxiliary verbs and adverbs in Indo-European languages.
Many languages have verb inflections indicating the extent to which the speaker can
personally vouch for the truth of his statement (evidentiality). It is not uncommon
to find negation is an inflectional category of the verb. A number of languages of Asia
and of MesoAmerica have a complex set of honorifics to express politeness and to
indicate the speaker's perception of the relative social status of himself and his
interlocutors.
The Japanese examples in 1.59 illustrate several of these categories:
1. 59 Verb root kak-fkai- 'write'
a) kak-u present tense 'write, writes', etc.
b) kak-e-ba conditional 'would write'
c) kak-oo hortative 'let's write'
d) kak-i-tai desiderative 'want to write'
e) kak-e-ru potential 'can write'
f) kak-a-nai negative 'not write'
g) kai-tara conditional 'if someone writes'
h) kak-i-soo 'look as if someone will write'
i) kak-i-masu honorific
FUNCTIONS OF MORPHOLOGY-MORPHOSYNTAX 27
This list by no means exhausts Japanese verbal inflection. Many of these affixes can
be combined with each other to produce much more complex forms.
The richest and most involved inflectional systems are found with nouns and
especially with verbs. In addition to these parts of speech, of course, many (though
not all) languages have a category of adjective, which will often have similar inflec-
tional properties to nouns. We have seen this for Russian: adjectives agree with their
nouns for number, gender and case. An inflectional form peculiar to adjectives is fre-
quently found, that indicating comparison, as in the positive, comparative, and
superlative forms: long-longer-longest. This, however, is far from universal. Some
languages have more complex comparison, including for example, special inflections
for equatives (as long as).
The inflectional categories of nouns, verbs and adjectives we have seen so far are
in a certain sense prototypical. However, it is extremely common for nouns to adopt
what appear to be verbal inflections, verbs nominal inflections, and adjectives either
sort of inflection. Several of these are of no little theoretical importance.
In English we can use nouns and adjectives along with verbs such as be or become
to form predicates referring to the subject (as in Tom is a linguist, Tom became drunk).
In Chukchee, when nouns and adjectives are used predicatively in this fashion, they
agree in person and number with the subject of which they are predicated:
1.60 a) ~np;macg;m 'old man'
b) Muri ~np~nacg;;)-more.
we old men -1pl.
'We are old men.'
1.61 G;;)m n -ermej -g~m.
I ADJ-strong-1sg.
'I am strong.'
In Enets (and in other Samoyedic languages of northern Siberia) nominals used
predicatively may also inflect for tense:
1.62 'I am a mother'
'you are a mother'
'she is a mother'
v:3od'
y:dos'
y:s'
'I was a mother'
'you were a mother'
'she was a mother'
The most important (and frequent) cases of inflectional categories appearing with
the 'wrong' class of words are participles and gerunds. A participle is an adjectival
form derived from a verb. In English we have a present participle (in -ing) and a past
participle (the -en form), as in a performing seal or a broken vase. I have already illus-
trated participial forms for Russian verbs. The participles given in examples 1._10-11,
§1.3.1, are all inflected like adjectives and the present participle active and the two
passive participles can be used attributively (i.e. can modify a noun within a noun
phrase, like performing and broken in the examples just cited). Other languages
exploit a fuller range of verbal inflectional categories in their participles and in many
cases participial constructions are the usual or only way of expressing the equivalent
of an English relative clause (such as 'the house that Jack built').
A gerund is a verb inflected like a noun (and is often called a verbal noun). Its
i
i
l
28 THE DOMAIN OF MORPHOLOGY
use in many languages is to form adverbial clauses and sentential complements
(clauses used as direct objects to verbs such as say or think). Chukchee provides
abundant exemplification.
Chukchee nouns appear in nine case forms. The declension of the singular of
kupren 'net' is shown in 1.63 (notice that the Ablative, the Dative/Allative and the
Comitative II cases condition vowel harmony):
1.63 Absolutive kupre-n
Ergative/Instrumental kupre-te by means of
Locative kupre-k at, on, in, ...
Ablative kopra-jpd from
Allative kopra-gtd to/towards
Orientative kupre-gjit according to
Comitative I ge-kupre-te together with
Comitative II ga-kopra-ma together with
Designative kupre-nu in capacity of
Just as with Russian, these case forms are used where in English we would often have
a preposition governing a noun, as implied by the glosses in 1.63.
Like the Russian case system, the Chukchee cases are also often used with a less
concrete meaning for more-or-less grammaticalized function. For instance, the basic
meaning of the Allative case is motion towards an object, but it is also used to mark
the recipient (say, of a gift or of a communication). In this use it resembles the Dative
case of Indo-European languages such as Russian. Even more abstractly, it can be
used with the meaning 'for the purpose of'. Thi~. is the meaning of the case ending
when it is attached to a verb stem rather than a noun. The result is a gerund of pur-
pose, meaning 'to order to ... '. On the other hand, when we add the Ablative ending,
whose basic meaning is 'away from', we form a causal gerund, 'because (of) ... '.
(The semantic association is similar to that found in the causal use of out of, as in
He insulted her out of spite).
Several of the other case endings appear equally with verb stems to form a variety
of other gerunds. The examples 1.64-6 are of gerunds interpreted as cotemporaneous
with the matrix verb:
1.64 Wak?o-gt::J, t::Jtaalg::Jlat::Jk.
sitting-down, !-looked-around
'While I was sitting, I looked around.'
1.65 Qlawdlte ::JtW;}tko-ma, I)ew::Jsqetti n::Jmigciretqinet.
the-men hunting, the-women work
al)qacorm::Jk.
on-the-shore
'While the men are out (at sea) hunting, the women work on the shore.'
1.66 dtlon, ga-g;:mtaw-ma, kulil?::Jr?ug?i.
he runnmg cried-out
'As he was running, he cried out.'
FUNCTIONS OF MORPHOLOGY-MORPHOSYNTAX 29
In 1.67 the action expressed by the gerund precedes that of the main verb:
1.67 R;)jul?;)t pelq;)ntet-;)k IJalw;)l?ep;), I)eW;)sqetti
the-herdsmen having-returned from-the-herd, the women
cajpatgnt.
brewed-tea
After the herdsmen returned from the herd, the women brewed the tea.'
In 1.68-70 the gerund has a causal interpretation, while in 1.71 it has the meaning
'to the extent that', 'in relation to':
1.68 ?aacek opcatko-jpd ermekw?i.
the-boy having-practised-weight-lifting became-strong
'By practising weight-lifting, the boy became strong.'
1.69 Tumg;)tum pinkutku-te ejmekw?i r;)rkagt;).
the-comrade by-jumping approached the-walrus
'Jumping, the comrade approached the walrus.'
1.70 ;)tla em-?elere-te IJaakagt;),
the-mother, through-missing the-daughter,
ldgiqupqetg?i.
greatly-became-thin
'Through missing her daughter so much, the mother lost a lot of weight.'
1.71 I)eW;)sqete rint;)-gjit utt;)t?ul ?;)tt?;)n n;)penr;)tkoqen.
the-woman throwing the-stick the-dog ran-off
'Wherever the woman threw the stick, the dog ran after it.'
Example 1.72 is a minimal pair, in which the same Orientative case ending -gjit is
attached to a noun stem 1.72a and a verb stem 1.72b:
1.72 a) Migcir;)-gjit n;)m;)ng;)kwanmore.
according-to-our-work they-pay-us
'They pay us according to our work.'
b) Migciret;)-gjit n;)m;)ng;)kwanmore.
according-to-the-way-we-work they-pay-us
'They pay us according to the way we work.'
So far we have discussed the major lexical categories of noun, verb and adjective.
In a few languages (for instance, the Celtic group) we find prepositions inflecting.
Certain common prepositions in Welsh inflect for person and number, for instance,
as can be seen from 1.73: 22
1.73 am 'about' yn 'in' gan 'with'
lsg. amdanaf ynof gennyf
2sg. amdanat ynot gennyt
3sg. masc. amdano ynddo ganddo
.'
30 THE DOMAIN OF MORPHOLOGY
3sg. fern.
lpl.
2pl.
3pl.
arndani
arndanorn
arndanoch
arndanynt
ynddi
ynorn
ynoch
ynddynt
ganddi
gennyrn
gennych
ganddynt
To round off our discussion, we'll note that in certain languages complementizers
(often referred to by their more traditional name of subordinating conjunction) may
inflect. In English (and other European languages) cornplernentizers occur at the
beginning of subordinate clauses, serving to indicate the type of subordinate clause.
Thus, the word that in Tom thinks that Dick loves Harriet introduces the subordinate
clause Dick loves Harriet, which functions as the complement (effectively the direct
object) of the verb think.
West Flemish (a language spoken in Belgium, often regarded as a dialect of Dutch)
has a cornplernentizer da(n), which is cognate to the English that. An example of its
use is shown in 1.74:
1.74 Kpeinzen da Valere goa rnoeten.
!-think that Valere go look
'I think that Valere will go and look.'
Unlike their English counterparts, however, the Flemish cornplementizers agree with
the subject of their clause. Thus, we find examples such as 1.75 (taken from a
grammar of West Flemish currently being prepared by Liliane Haegeman):
1.75 a) Kpeinzen dan-k (ik) goan rnoeten.
that-! (I) go look
b) da-j (gie) goa rnoeten.
that-you (sg.) (you) go look
c) da-se (zie) goa rnoeten.
that-she (she) go look
d) da-me (wunder) goan rnoeten.
that-we (we) go look
e) da-j (gunder) goa rnoeten.
that-you (pl.) (you) go look
f) dan-ze (zunder) goan rnoeten.
that-they (they) go look
g) dan Valere en Pol goan rnoeten.
that Valere and Paul go look
Although the full pronoun forms (ik, gie, zie, and so on) are optional, the inflections
on the cornplernentizer are obligatory. Notice, too, that the complernentizer shows
agreement with the subject whether that subject is a pronoun, is left unexpressed,
or is a full-noun phrase, as in 1.74 and 1.75g. In particular, notice that in 1.74, where
we have a singular noun as subject, the cornplernentizer is da, whereas when the
subject is plural (as with the conjoined nouns in 1.75g) the complernentizer is dan.
:'
EXERCISES 31
1.5 Summary
This completes our survey of the commoner morphological phenomena. We've seen
that words have a readily identifiable structure, allowing us, in the simplest cases, to
analyse words into their component morphemes. The morphemes themselves, how-
ever, appear in a variety of guises, and this variation is called allomorphy. Some types
of allomorphy represent one of the main interfaces between morphology and the rest
of grammar, namely, the morphology-phonology interface.
We then drew the traditional distinction between inflection, in which morphology
alters the form of a given word, and derivation, in which we construct new words
(typically on the basis of old ones). We surveyed the different ways in which mor-
phology can manifest itself. Superficially, at least, there seem to be two types of mor-
phological phenomenon. On the one hand morphology can be regarded as the
concatenation of objects (as in affixation, compounding and cliticization). On the
other hand we can sometimes view it as the operation of rules or processes, for
instance, phonological process such as ablaut or consonant mutation, or morpho-
syntactic processes such as morphological conversion.
Finally, we surveyed the functions that morphology can typically subserve. Here
we saw the second great interface, that between morphology and syntax.
It must be stressed that, although I have appealed to a number of traditional theor-
etical notions such as that of 'morpheme' or the distinction between inflection and
derivation, some of these notions are currently the subject of intense debate. More-
over, there are .some morphologists who regard all morphology as essentially the con-
catenation of things, and others who prefer to view it as essentially the operation of
processes. Whether these distinctions are genuine or merely superficial will have to
await further research. What I have presented here is a theoretically more-or-less
neutral descriptive overview of the kind of categories which linguists often discuss.
In the rest of the book we will see how linguists have attempted to construct general
theories which seek to account for the great variety of morphological structures
encountered in the world's languages and at the same time to develop a theory of the
interface between morphology and the rest of grammar, that is, to account for the
way that morphology interacts with other components, particularly the lexicon,
phonology and syntax.
EXERCISES
1.1 Derivational affixes in English. Some derived words consist of an affix
attached to a stem which is itself a word, i.e. a free morpheme (e.g. (i)). In other
cases the stem is a bound morpheme (e.g. (ii)).
(i) Word+ affix
(ii) Root + affix
[[read] ver] N
[[elektris] Aity] N
(The root electric- never appears as a word on its own.)
; .
l
I
r
I.
I'
\!
i
!i
II
32 THE DOMAIN OF MORPHOLOGY
For each of the nine relationships given below provide two affixes (prefixes or
suffixes) which express that category relationship (other than the -er and -ity examples
given above). Choose your affixes such that one attaches to free morpheme roots and
the other to bound morpheme roots. For each affix give (at least) two words con-
taining that affix with the given function. That is, provide 18 affixes and (at least) 36
words.
A--+N
A--+V
A--+A
[Note that not all of these are category changing]
[Hint: Try looking through a book or newspaper and analysing all the words you
suspect of being derivationally complex. You might be surprised at how many there
are.]
1.2a Determine what conditions the allomorphy of the English -Z plural
morpheme.
Collect as many different examples of words taking each type of plural allomorph
as you can and write them down in phonetic transcription. Then analyse your data
to see what phonological properties of a word condition the choice of each allomorph.
1.2b Determine the conditioning of the allomorphy which is shown by the past
tense and 3 pers. sg. pres. indicative regular verb inflections of English and the
allomorphy of the possessive marker ('apostrophe s').
*1.3 If you have followed a course in generative phonology, determine the
underlying form of the -Z plural morpheme and write a series of rules to generate
the three allomorphs. Do you need to appeal to extrinsic rule ordering?
1.4 There are about two hundred irregular ('strong') verbs in English. List as
many of them as you can. On the basis of the allomorphy they exhibit and the kinds
of affixes they take, determine what sort of subgroups they fall into.
1.5 Take a pocket-sized dictionary of English and collect all the words beginning
with im-fin-. Check whether im-fin- is a morpheme for each of your words. For
instance, comparing input with output, throughput, you should conclude that in- is a
morpheme, whereas you should find it considerably harder to find evidence that
in- is a morpheme in inane.
(i) How many distinct (homonymous) im-fin- morphemes are there?
(ii) Why is input misspelled (as imput) so often?
EXERCISES 33
(iii) What other allomorphs of im-fin- are there? How do they relate to the different
im-fin- morphemes you have already identified?
1.6 Consider carefully the words in (i-iii). To what extent do the words in a given
list contain the same morpheme?
(i) analysis, anabasis, anachronism, analogy, anaconda, anabaptist, anarchy,
anarak.
(ii) nominal, nominate, gnomic, nomic, nomenclature, noun,
(iii) pedal, peduncle, pediform, p(a)ederast, p(a)edagogue, prop(a)edeutic, peddle,
pedant.
..
*1.7 Phonaesthemes. Do the words in lists (i-ii) contain a common morpheme?
If so, how are each of the words to be segmented; if not, why not?
(i) glisten, glister, glitter, glimmer, glint, glare, glaze, gleam, glow.
(ii) sneer, sneeze, sniff, sniffle, snoop, snooty, snore, snorkel, snot, snout.
*1.8 Outline arguments for and against analysing the following lists of words as
all contain a common morpheme. [ Use a dictionary which includes etymologies.]
(i) nose, nostril, nasal, pince nez.
(ii) host, hostel, hotel, table d'hote, maitre d'hotel, ostler.
(iii) morpheme, morphology, isomorphic, morphotropic, morphine.
*1.9 An important tool for the morphologist is a dictionary. As everyone knows,
a dictionary is a list of words in alphabetical order, together with other information
about each entry, such as its part of speech, its meaning, its pronunciation (if it isn't
regular) and other bits of information (such as its etymology, if you're lucky). Using
whatever reference books you can find, explain why this simple characterization is
an oversimplification for languages such as the following. How does lexicographic
practice in these languages overcome the problems posed?
American (or British) Sign Language; Modern Standard Arabic; Palestinian Arabic
(or Cairene, Lebanese, Moroccan, Tunisian, Gulf, etc.); (Mandarin) Chinese;
Navajo; Swahili; Tagalog; Welsh (or Irish or Gaelic).
1.10 A very simple exercise on aspect and 'Aktionsart' in the Naukan dialect of
Asiatic Eskimo (Menovscikov, 1975). [Pronunciation: as in IPA except that g = [y],
s= Ull.
34 THE DOMAIN OF MORPHOLOGY
aglukata:quq
agluqixta: quq
aglugjawxapixta:quq
ku:jma:quq
ku:jmaiW:ffaquq
qavaiqaxtuq
iiiJaxtaquq
iiiJaxtaga:taquq
aglumsuxe:naquq
agluka:quq
tinluxpiquq
aglukii]a:waquq
aglugaxquffa:quq
aqu)gaquq
aqujviluxtaquq
ka:susaffa: xiiquq
ka:suqatamajaxtuq
aglui)ura:quq
qavavre: xtuq
aglufqara:quq
qiipixta:quq
qiipixquffaquq
agluvriHa:quq
iglixtiksa:ga:quq
iglixtikjo:ffaquq
qavamse:quq
qavaxiiqja:quq
qavajaxtuq
qavato:xtuq
aglunani:ffaquq
iglixtipixtaquq
qavaruga:quq
agluso: xaquq
agluxtuga:quq
aglupa:quq
begins to work
again begins to work
begins to work intensively
is swimming (towards something)
swims (habitually)
suddenly fell asleep
nngs
rings intermittently
works constantly
works with intermittent stoppages
knocks
works for a long time
works quickly
wanders about
walks back and forth
will come early
he came more than once
he works for the first time
he fell asleep again
rarely works
makes holes in something
makes holes in various places
works with difficulty
walks very slowly
scarcely drags oneself along
dozes
sleeps fitfully
almost fell asleep
has fallen asleep at last
stops working
walks a lot
sleeps soundly
does pretty good work
works carelessly
works in a haphazard manner
1.11 In (i-xii) you will find a set of sentences in Hungarian with an English trans-
lation. Identify the morphemes of Hungarian used in these examples and characterize
their meaning or grammatical function. Certain of the grammatical morphemes
exhibit allomorphy. Describe this allomorphy and describe what conditions it.
[Assume the transcription is IPA.]
(i) a nju:l a fy: ben yl.
'The rabbit is sitting on the grass.'
(ii) a la:nj a boltba medj.
'The girl is going into the shop.'
(iii) braun u:r berlinb0:l be:dbe utazik.
'Mr. Brown is travelling from Berlin to Vienna.'
(iv) la:slo: a busban yl.
'Laszlo is sitting in the bus.'
(v) a vara:3lo: kives edj njulat a kalapbo:l.
'The magician pulls a rabbit from the hat.'
(vi) zolta:n megmadjara:zza a filmet a n0:nek.
'Zoltan explains the film to the women.'
(vii) a katona Jopronbo:l dj0:rbe djalogol.
'The soldier is marching from Sopron to Gyor.'
(viii) pet0:fi ja:noJ a ko:rha:zban dolgozik.
'Janos Petofi works in the hospital.'
(ix) a vara:3lo: megmutatja a njulat a djereknek
'The magician shows the rabbit to the children.'
(x) a kalap a sekre:njben van.
'The hat is in the wardrobe.'
(xi) gusta:v a pe:nzt a ne:met u:rnak adja.
'Gustav gives the money to the German gentleman.'
(xii) magda a boltbo:l j0n.
'Magda is coming from the shop.'
EXERCISES 35
1.12 Esperanta tradukeksercico. Here are nine sentences in Esperanto (an Indo-
European language created by Dr L. Zamenhof in the last century), together with
a fairly free translation into English.
(a) Provide a short morpheme dictionary of Esperanto on the basis of the data, by
listing all the morphemes you can find and giving their meaning or their grammatical
function.
(b) Translate the five sentences of English numbered (i)-(v) into Esperanto.
It may help to know that Esperanto has no irregular morphology.
[Pronunciation guide: g = [c\)], c = [ts], c =[t.f], h = (x], s = [J], u = [w];
otherwise as in IPA]
1 La alta knabo malsanigis.
'The tall boy fell ill.'
2 Cu li grandigis la grandecon de la dormejo?
'Did he increase the size of the dormitory?'
3 Ankau malaltaj knabinoj povas esti belaj.
'Short girls, too, can be beautiful.'
4 Mia patro estas sana car li ne trinkas vinon.
'My father is healthy because he doesn't drink wine.'
5 La bonaj monahinoj volis pregi en la pregejo.
'The good nuns wanted to pray in church.'
6 Lerni la esperantan lingvon estas facila.
'It's easy to learn Esperanto.'
7 Mi vidis sian onklon en la trinkejo.
'I saw her uncle in the bar.'
;
!
--
36 THE DOMAIN OF MORPHOLOGY
8 La beleco de la lingvo estas gia facileco.
'The beauty of the language is its simplicity.'
9 Cu vi konas miajn onklojn?
'Do you know my uncles?'
(i) Did her aunt know my mother?
(ii) His health deteriorated.
(iii) The boys can also learn difficult languages at school.
(iv) The monks adorned the church.
(v) Does your mother want to put the boys to sleep?
2
Basic Concepts and Pre-generative
Approaches
Introduction
This book is intended neither as an exhaustive survey of the literature nor as a
detailed history of the development of theories of morphology. Nonetheless, in order
to understand many of the questions currently on the research agenda it is necessary
to be aware of some of the classical problems and classical solutions to them (as well
as the problems with those solutions).
In this chapter we begin with the ways linguists have classified languages according
to their morphological systems, in other words, with morphological typology. In
section two we take a critical look at three crucial notions in morphology, that of mor-
pheme, word and lexicon. We discover that each of these concepts hides a vast,
uncompleted research project in itself. The third section gives an overview of the
principal issues that concerned the structuralist theories of morphology which
preceded generative theories. First, we examine three structuralist (pre-generative)
approaches to word structure, each of which has found reflection in more recent the-
ories of morphology within generative grammar. Then, we look at the interface
between morphology and phonology, otherwise known as morphophonernics, mor-
pho(pho)nology, phonomorphology (as well as other terms). Here we note a number
of problems with some of the earlier structuralist approaches, as well as setting out
some of the basic phenomena which a generative theory would have to deal with.
2.1 Morphological typology
Linguists like to classify languages according to various criteria, and one of these is
morphological structure. According to a traditional typology, morphological systems
38 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
fall into four groups: isolating, agglutinating, (in)flectional, and polysynthetic. An
isolating language is one with very little morphology (except compounding) in which
separate grammatical concepts tend to be conveyed by separate words and not by
morphological processes. Chinese is a familiar example, Vietnamese is the proto-
typical isolating language. In an agglutinating language we tend to find long, poly-
morphemic words in which each morpheme corresponds to a single lexical meaning
or grammatical function. Languages such as Hungarian and Turkish are the para-
digm examples. The Turkish word evleriden means 'from their house' and can be
glossed 'house-PLURAL-POSSESSIVE-ABLATIVE'. Even the components '3rd
person possessive' and 'plural', which are fused together in the English word their,
are separated in the Turkish form. Inflectional languages are like agglutinating
languages and unlike isolating languages in that words are typically polymorphemic.
However, the formatives which make up the words often fuse together several dif-
ferent meanings or functions, especially in the inflectional paradigms (hence, the
commonly used term fusional). Languages such as Latin or Russian provide
examples of inflectional languages. We saw in chapter 1 that the -omu ending of the
adjective bol'somu 'large (masc.fneut. dat. sg.)' codes gender, case and simulta-
neously (together with the fact that the word is an adjective). Finally, the polysyn-
thetic languages are those which, like Chukchee, permit processes such as noun
incorporation, so that a single word can encode a meaning which would require a
fairly elaborate sentence in many other languages.
This typology, though sanctioned by tradition, has been criticized for being both
incoherent and useless. It is useless. because nothing of any interest follows from
classifying languages in this way (cf. Anderson, 1985a). It is .incoherent for several
reasons. First, it is obvious when we look at varieties of languages that we are dealing
with a continuum rather than four discrete types. For example, even the most
agglutinative language will show elements of fusion. Worse, there are many
languages for which the typology just doesn't seem relevant. Thus, English has very
little inflection and therefore resembles the isolating languages with regards to inflec-
tional categories, but it would probably be thought of as agglutinating with respect
to derivational categories, while synthetic compounds such as horseriding in Harriet
spends her weekends horseriding suggest a limited degree of polysynthesis!
Another problem is that the typology begs important questions about the relation
between morphology and syntax. In particular, it says virtually nothing about the
nature of compounding in languages or about the way this relates to syntactic pro-
cesses. For instance, in some respects German and French are alike in being (moder-
ately) inflectional languages. Yet the two languages have almost complementary ·
systems of compounding. French compounds are almost exclusively reflections of
syntactic, phrasal structures. For instance, we have a great many of the type porte-
parole 'spokesman', literally 'carries word', consisting of a verb plus its object, and
we· also frequently find whole phrases becoming compounds, as in the example cited in
chapter 1, cessez-le-feu 'cease fire'. This sort of thing is as marginal in German as it
is in English. The 'typical' German compound is a Noun-Noun compound, and this
type is rather rare in French. The fourth problem with the traditional typology con-
cerns polysynthetic languages, which fit rather badly into the classical scheme. As a
matter of fact, all the standard examples of polysynthetic languages would also be
called agglutinating. Polysynthesis is actually a type of compounding, but corn-
MORPHOLOGICAL TYPOLOGY 39
pounding doesn't figure in the traditional typology. Thus, we have one language type
which should probably be properly included in another. And again, if we take a poly-
synthetic language like Chukchee we find that in many respects it has an
agglutinating derivational system and to some extent an agglutinating inflectional
system. However, we also find a good deal of fusion in the person/number inflections
of verbs, so here we would have to call the language (partially) inflectional. The same
is true of a number of other so-called polysynthetic languages.
If the traditional classification is so bad why mention it? The reasons are twofold:
first, it is still often referred to in the descriptive (and some of the theoretical) litera-
ture, so readers should at least be familiar with the terminology. More important,
there is concealed in the typology the assumption that agglutination is the primary
type of word formation and that other types are 'deviations' from this. Specifically,
the distinction between agglutination and the fusional morphology typical of inflec-
tional languages forms the core of the typology, and it lies at the heart of much
theorizing about the nature of inflection and about morphological structure in gen-
eral. Indeed, the very concept of the morpheme tends to presuppose that all mor-
phology is agglutinative, at some level of abstraction. It is therefore worth examining
the concepts of 'agglutinative system' vs. 'inflectional system' in more detail.
To begin with we should not~ that the distinction only makes any real sense if we
distinguish inflection from derivation, and then it only applies with any force to
inflectional morphology. This is partly for terminological reasons, partly for largely
covert and seldom discussed theoretical reasons. A typical derivational morpheme,
say, an affix, has the function of creating a word out of another word, as when the
suffix -ness creates the noun happiness from the adjective happy. We tend to think
of such affixes as conveying a single meaning or having a single function, though in
a sense this is misleading. It is not uncommon for the derivational morphemes of a
language to convey several aspects of meaning. For instance, -ness creates abstract
nouns, not just any kind of noun. Some languages have causative affixes which
convey different types of causation (for instance, compulsion as opposed to permis-
sion). At the same time, we frequently find lots of different morphemes being used
for essentially the same purpose. For instance, the process of nominalizing a verb in
English can be effected by such suffixes as -(at)ion, -ment, -al, -ance as well as others.
Now, when a derivational morpheme conveys a compound meaning we don't speak
of fusion. This is generally because we don't usually regard the set of meanings con-
veyed by derivation as forming a paradigmatic system. The characteristic of inflec-
tional paradigms is that we have a small number of independent categories (e.g. case,
number and gender in Russian adjectives) and a large number of words for which
these categories are conjointly relevant. In other words, the case/number/gender
system forms a kind of cluster of categories which keeps recurring throughout the
grammar of the language. Since the categories are nonetheless distinct we might
expect them all to be conveyed in exactly the same way, that is, we might expect one
morpheme for each category and each category to be realized by just one morpheme.
This is the ideal agglutinating system from which inflectional systems are felt to be
deviations. 1 Yet, in a sense, we would be equally justified in regarding the variety
of English nominalizing su:ffi..xes as deviations from agglutination. This tends not
to be done, because the real reason for the distinction itself lies in how inflectional
paradigms are viewed, not in the theory of morphology as a whole.
~
II
I!
!j
I
I
I
~i·.[·I
!
40 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
2.2 Morphemes, words and the lexicon
2.2.1 Morphemes and allomorphy
The notion of the morpheme introduced in the first chapter is not without its diffi-
culties. The problem posed by fusional inflecting morphology is particularly acute,
since in such cases it seems as if one and the same morph has a multiplicity of func-
tions or meanings, and classical morphemic doctrine demands that there be only one
meaning per morpheme (excepting accidental cases of homonymy). This is something
we'll discuss in more detail later in the chapter. There is- ~another important
manifestation of the form-function problem for the notion 9( the~morpheme as the
minimal unit of meaning. In a sense, it is the opposite of that posed by fusion.
A. familiarly drastic example is provided by horticulture. In 2.1. we have a
(non-exhaustive) list of compound nouns in English referring to types of berry:
2.1 blueberry
raspberry
loganberry
blackberry
strawberry
cranberry
At first sight the meanings of these compounds seem to be determined composi-
tionally, that is, by simply adding together the meanings of the parts (e.g. blue
+berry). This is not obviously true, however, of strawberry and clearly untrue of
raspberry. The example cranberry poses particular difficulties. The cran- formative
must contribute something to the meaning of the whole, since a cranberry is a specific
type of berry (different from a loganberry, for example). But what does cran- mean?
For the majority of English speakers there are no other words which make use of this
'morpheme', so it is important to give a principled answer.
A morpheme such as the cran of cranberry has neither meaning nor grammatical
function, yet it is used to differentiate one word from another. In other words, it is
an example of a form which lacks a meaning of its own, an ultimate example of a
deviation from the one--{)ne correspondence between form and function. One conclu-
sion that can be drawn from this is that the notion of 'morpheme' should be defined
in terms of the constituents of words and relationships between word forms, and not
in terms of meanings (much in the way that syntacticians discusses the well-
formedness or- sentences without appeal to meaning). Morphemes such as cran are
not actually a rarity (we'll see more examples from English in chapter 3). Their
theoretical significance has earned them a technical name: cranberry morpheme.
Our next problem concerns the notion of 'allomorph' (though it is one which tends
to get ignored in the literature). Recall that we discussed the phonologically condi-
tioned allomorphy of the plural ending in English. Now, we could say that plural
allomorphy was far more extensive than this. Consider the plural forms in 2.2:
2.2 oxen teeth
formulae cherubim
criteria memoranda
mafiosi schemata
indices cnses
"1
I
I
MORPHEMES, WORDS AND THE LEXICON 41
The grammatical category signalled in these words is the same in each case, namely
'plural', but the means used is different. In oxen we have a rare vestigial -en affix;
in formulae, criteria and memoranda we have a Greek or Latin plural ending replacing
what might be thought of as a singular ending -a, -on, or -um. Schemata shows a more
complex example of a Greek plural. I earlier analysed indices as indice +s, but, given
the existence of these other latinate plurals, I could just as easily have given the more
traditional analysis of indic+es, in which case we would no longer be dealing with the
addition of -s to the stem but of a different formative, -es. Are all these allomorphs
of a single morpheme? If so, what reasonable theory of allomorphy will allow us to
say that the vowel ablaut of teeth and the -im of cherubim bear the same relation (of
allomorphy) to each other as the different pronunciations of the -Z plural morpheme
bear_to each other?
The English plural case suggests that it might be better to talk of grammatical cat-
egories and their exponents (i.e. the linguistic material that expresses those cate-
gories) rather than of morphemes and their allomorphSf ~n chapter 10 we will discuss
similar cases from derivational morphology in English, and in chapter 11 we consider
specific proposals for separating off morphemes and their allomorphs from the
meanings and grammatical functions they realize. We will explore further problems
associated with the doctrine of the morpheme in further chapters. In a sense the
question of what morphemes are is a key question in morphology, and different the-
oretical approaches are often most sharply contrasted in the way they tackle the pro-
blem.
2.2.2 The nature of words
The whole of chapter 1 was concerned with words, their formation and their inflec-
tions, yet we have not explained what a word is and how one is to be recognized.
This is far from being a trivial question; indeed, it is one of the most difficult and
important problems in morphological theory. This is not so much because theorists
interested in morphology have contributed explicitly and self-consciously to the long-
standing debate on the definition of wordhood, but rather because at every turn
theoretical decisions tend to hang on what is understood by the notion 'word' and
related concepts such as 'word formation', 'lexicon', and so on.
One way to try to define wordhood is in terms of other linguistic constructs, such
as phonology, syntax or semantics. When such criteria are developed for individual
languages they may be quite successful, though finding a set of criteria which will
work universally, for all languages, is an entirely different matter.
There are very few semantic properties of words which will distinguish them from
morphemes or phrases. However, in some cases a semantic criterion can be useful.
Consider the meaning of tea in the examples 2.3:
2.3 a) a pound of tea
b) a teapot
We might ask if these two expressions are single words. An important consideration
would be how the component tea in each expression is interpreted. In 2.3a tea refers
to a particular kind of stuff and the meaning ofthe whole expression contains the
meaning tea in a fairly direct way (it is determined compositionally). This is not the
42 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
case with 2.3b. There is no sense in which the tea in teapot actually makes reference
to the stuff tea in determining the reference of the whole expression.· For instance,
if we found someone referring to a packet of coffee using expression 2.3a, we would
say they had made a mistake: tea doesn't mean 'coffee'. But if someone tried to make
coffee in a teapot we couldn't seriously accuse them of making a semantic error.
Moreover, we can refer back to the tea in 2. 3a using an anaphoric device such as a
pronoun, as in He took the pound of tea and put two spoonfuls of it into a teapot. This
is impossible in the case of teapot: we couldn't say He took the teapot and poured it
into the cup meaning He poured the tea into the cup. We say that words tend to be
referentially opaque in that it is impossible to 'see inside' them and refer to their
parts. A related term is anaphoric island: we cannot refer to the tea of teapot using
an anaphor because words tend to be anaphoric islands. Anaphoric islandhood is a
special case of a more general property of words: lexical integrity. The general
pattern is for no syntactic process to be allowed to refer exclusively to part of words.
In some languages, word boundaries are marked (or at least hinted at) by phono-
logical phenomena such as the span of vowel harmony, the position of stress or
phonotactic constraints2 which make reference to word boundaries (such as a ban
on word initial or word final clusters). These criteria define for us a notion of phono-
logical word for the language. We effectively appealed to this notion when we
assumed earlier that Chukchee incorporation forms words and not some sort of
tightly bound syntactic unit, on the grounds that the incorporated material undergoes
vowel harmony, and the span of vowel harmony is the word.
These criteria have to be applied with great care, however. The main problem is
circularity. In Finnish, vowel harmony is bounded by the word (i.e. roots, plus
derivational and inflectional suffixes). However, in compound words such as
piiiikaupunki 'capital (city)' we find that each component defines its own harmony
span (the vowel i is neutral with respect to harmony, while ii belongs to a different
harmony set from a and u and therefore shouldn't co-occur with them). Stress also
serves to demarcate words in Finnish: it always falls on the first syllable of the word.
In compounds we find a single main stress falling on the first syllable of the com-
pound, suggesting that the compound is, after all, a single word. Which phonological
criterion do we choose?
Another problem is illustrated by Czech. In this language stress always falls on the
first syllable of a word. However, a monosyllabic preposition before an unmodified
noun will usually attract stress to itself. In this way we obtain examples 2.4 (where
stressed syllables are printed in bold):
2.4 a) ten still
b) na ten still
c) na stul
'that table'
'onto that table'
'onto the/a-table
If the phonological criterion were considered overriding we would have a curious
situation in which 2.4a were two words, 2.4b three words, but 2.4c only one word.
This presumably would mean we are forced to say that na is a preposition in 2.4a, b,
but a prefix (or at least part of a compound) in 2.4c. This would be unsatisfactory,
for the only difference in behaviour is with regard to stress.
It is cases such as these that have led phonologists working on the problem of
'prosodic domains' to stress the mismatch between formal characterizations of word-
MORPHEMES, WORDS AND THE LEXICON 43
hood and the notion of 'phonological word' (cf. Nespor and Vogel, 1986, for
example). Thus, while phonological criteria for wordhood constitute a fascinating
research question for the phonologist they generally provide at most one of a number
of sometimes conflicting criteria for the morphologist.
Rules of syntax as generally conceived take words as their smallest unit and
compose them into phrases and ultimately sentences. In most theories, such rules
don't operate on parts of words. We implicitly appealed to this criterion when we
denied word status to 2.4c on the grounds that Czech rules of phrase structure allow
the determiner ten to intervene between the preposition and its complement. Related
to this criterion is that of the minimal free form: a word is the smallest unit that can
exist on its own.
There are two constructions which pose difficulty for syntactic criteria, and both
compromise the criterion because they beg the question of what constitutes a
syntactic process.
The first is compounding. When two words (as opposed to roots) are compounded
each is a minimal free form by definition. But is the resulting compound a word? If
we regard the compounding process as essentially syntactic (as we are at liberty to
do), then the answer is presumably 'no'; if compounding is a morphological process
the answer will be 'yes'.
The second problem is posed by clitics. These are not minimal free forms by defini-
tion, and they cannot therefore stand alone. The morphological entities they attach
to are words. However, what is the status of the result? If we say that, for instance,
the French expression donnez-les-moi is itself a word, then we are in effect claiming
that cliticization is part of word formation and that elitics are really affixes. But if it
isn't a word, what is it? This is a particularly hard question to answer given that
nothing may intervene in the position of the dashes. A slightly different problem is
posed by the Latin clitic conjunction -que, meaning 'and'. It appears to form a new
word since, for instance, it attracts word stress to the preceding syllable. Sentences
2.5a and 2.5b are therefore synonymous:
2. 5 a) Puellae et ptierf canunt.
girls and boys sing
'The girls and the boys are singing.'
b) Puellae puerfque canunt
The problem is that, when -que is used to coordinate two sentences, any word of any
syntactic category can be its host provided it is the second word of its clause. We can .
continue 2.5a, b with either of 2.6, for instance:
2.6 a) ... canuntque feminae.
smg -que women
'and the women are singing.'
b) ... haecque canunt feminae.
these -que sing women
'and these women are singing.'
Even if we were to concede that French pronominal clitics are really affixes and that
donnez-les-moi is an inflected verb form, we would have difficulty stating what kind
44 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
of affix -que might be, given that there are absolutely no morphological constraints
on its attachment, only a syntactic constraint.
A final criterion we might propose as a property of words relates to the first,
semantic, criterion we discussed. I mentioned that the meaning of a phrase tends to
be determined compositionally from the meaning of its component words. However,
the meaning of words is not always determined compositionally. In some cases it is
the word as a whole which bears the meaning, and the relationship between the
meaning of the parts and the meaning of a whole word can be obscure. For instance,
we may know the meanings of broad and cast, and may even be able to perceive an
etymological relationship between these two words and the word broadcast, but that
wouldn't help us understand the precise meanings that broadcast can take. The
limiting case of this is found with words containing cranberry morphemes.
This doesn't give us a criterion for wordhood, however, since there are objects
which look like phrases and which behave syntactically like phrases but whose
meaning is not determined compositionally. These are the idioms, such as take
advantage ofor kick the bucket (in the sense of 'die'), as well as phrasal verbs (colloca-
tions of verbs plus particle). There is nothing in the meanings of put, up, and with
which shows that put up with means tolerate. Nor does slow up mean the opposite of
slow down. Such phrases have a lexicalized meaning, that is, their meaning has to be
listed in the dictionary as an idiosyncratic fact about the whole expression, much as
the meaning of cat has to be listed as an unpredictable fact about the sequence of
phonemes fkatf.
Moreover, if we take lexicalized meaning as a criterion for wordhood it tends to
contradict other criteria in a serious way. One result of this is a class of the so-called
bracketing paradoxes. Consider 2.7a:
2. 7 a) transformational grammarian
This expression is normally taken to mean 'someone who practices 2.7b':
2.7 b) transformational grammar
It could in principle mean 'a grammarian who is transformational' though this
reading isn't the one that initially springs to mind (except to punsters). Now, if
we think about the meaning of the affix -ian then the way the meaning of 2.7a is
constructed can be represented as in 2. 8a.:
2.8 a) [[transformational grammar] -ian]
The bracketing indicates that -ian meaning 'person who practices something' applies
to (or 'takes within its semantic scope') the whole of the expression transformational
grammar. But this semantic bracketing contradicts the bracketing implied by the
conventional word divisions, namely that of 2.8b:
2. 8 b) [[transformational] [grammarian] ]
In other words, we would like to say that syntactically 2.7a is composed of the words
transformational and grammarian as in 2. 8b, but semantically it is composed of
MORPHEMES, WORDS AND THE LEXICON 45
transformational grammar and -ian as in 2.8a, hence the 'paradox'. I shall discuss
bracketing paradoxes further at various points in the book and especially in
chapter 10.
Not only are there considerable difficulties pinning down any universally applicable
notion of 'word', it appears that even when we restrict ourselves to morphological
criteria within a single language we find that the term itself covers a multitude of sins,
which need to be carefully distinguished.
If we look back to the declension of the Russian adjective bol'soj we find that the
word appears in a variety of forms. Yet in a sense each of those forms is itself a word.
We can call the latter word forms and use a special term such as lexeme for the more
general sense. It is sometimes convenient to represent lexemes in upper case, so that
we can say that bol'simi is a form of the lexeme BOL'SOJ.
Our Russian lexeme provides an example of another ambiguity inherent in the term
'word'. Russian adjectives display syncretism, that is, a single inflected form may
correspond to more than one morphosyntactic description. For example, the dat. and
instr. case forms of the fern. sg. are always identical. This means that a word form
such as bol'soj requires more than one (in point of fact, six) separate morphosyntactic
descriptions. But in this sense, the one word form (of a single lexeme) represents six
different words. We might say that these are morphosyntactic words.
The notion of 'morphosyntactic word' is only coherent within a particular view of
the organization of inflection. What about the plural forms of the adjective? Although
nouns have different inflections in the plural depending on their gender, Russian
adjectives never distinguish gender in the plural. Does that mean that each of the
plural forms of BOL'SOJ is actually three homophonous morphosyntactic words?
This seems counterintuitive. The reason is that for adjectives, at least, there is never
an opposition between genders in the plural. We only want to discern homophony
between word forms when there is some chance that another lexeme will have
different word forms for those morphosyntactic categories. Since the gender distinc-
tion is neutralized in the plural for all adjectives, this situation can never come about.
In fact, the situation is more complex than this. Recall that the word form bol'soj
represents six different morphosyntactic categories. Now it happens that no Russian
adjective distinguishes between the oblique case forms in the feminine singular.
What this suggests is that there is only one morphosyntactic category of 'oblique
case' for the feminine, with one marker, namely -oj. Therefore, there is only one
morphosyntactic word corresponding to this category. It is still homophonous, how-
ever, with the masculine direct case forms. Moreover, this is not morphologically
determined homophony (i.e. syncretism): the reason for the homophony is phono-
logical. Russian adjectives which are stressed on the ending take the form -oj in the
masculine direct cases, but if the stress falls on the stem they take the form -ij. The
feminines still take -oj in oblique cases, however, even if it is unstressed. The relevant
forms of the two adjectives are contrasted in 2.9, with stress indicated by an accent:
2.9 Masc. nom.facc.
a) malen'kij
b) bol'soj
Fern. oblique
malen'koj
bol'soj
Since the homophony of bol'soj is conditioned phonologically (in terms of stress
placement), it is accidental homophony as far as the morphology is concerned. We
46 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
can therefore legitimately say that bol'soj (though not, presumably, malen'koj)
represents two (at least) separate morphosyntactic words.
This discussion would be little more than a terminological exercise were it not for
the fact that it has repercussions for the definition of morphosyntactic categories.
Traditionally, students of Russian have said that BOL'SOJ has the usual six case
forms in the feminine singular but that four of them are identical. Why is it not cus-
tomary to say that the adjective simply doesn't have separate genitive, dative, instru-
mental and prepositional forms? Apart from the fact that it would make it difficult
to draw tables in textbooks of Russian, this would actually cause complications else-
where in the grammar. Recall that the reason for having all these case forms in the
first place is so that the adjective can agree with the noun it modifies. Feminine nouns
have different forms for the oblique cases. When confronted with two NPs such as
in 2.10 it seems easier to reflect the fact that the adjective agrees with the noun for
gender and case by saying that bol'soj is both the genitive and the dative form, just
as we say it's the masculine nominative form in 2.11:
2.10 a) bol's-oj kosk-
fern. gen fern. gen.
'of a large cat'
b) bol's-oj kosk- e
fern. dat. fern. dat.
'to a large cat'
2.11 bol's-oj stol
masc. nom. masc. nom.
'a large table'
It wouldn't be impossible to label the elements of 2.9 as in 2.12, however, and
indicate that the genitive and dative cases are members of the larger set of oblique
cases by means of a rule such as 2.13:
2.12
2.13
a boiS- oj
fern. obl.
b) boiS- oj
fern. obl.
[
gen.l
~at. => [obl.]
mstr.
prep.
kosk-i
fern. gen.
kosk-e
fern. dat.
This would just require a more sophisticated theory of morphosyntactic categories
and of agf@ement than is usual in traditional grammar. Nonetheless, it illustrat~s how
even an apparently innocuous notion ~ike 'word' can have ramifications throughout
the grammar.
The question of how best to represent inflectional morphosyntactic categories was
an important issue in pregenerative theories of morphology, and it has recently been
foregrounded in the generative research literature. I shall devote some discussion to
it in chapter 6.
MORPHEMES, WORDS AND THE LEXICON 47
2.2.3 The lexicon
The term lexicon means simply 'dictionary', and a dictionary is a list of words
together with their meanings and other useful bits of linguistic information. A dic-
tionary such as the Complete Oxford English Dictionary will not only give the spelling
of each of its entries, but will also provide information such as the first attested use
of a word, its etymology (that is, historical derivation) and possibly other infor-
mation. In linguistic theory, a dictionary, or lexicon, is a more modest affair. It is
usually taken to represent information about (i) the pronunciation, (ii) the meaning,
(iii) morphological properties and (iv) syntactic properties of its entries. Under the
heading of morphological properties there might be included such facts as which
morphological class a word belongs to, for example whether it is a 1st conjugation
or a 2nd conjugation verb, masculine or feminine gender noun and so on. The syn-
tactic information will include the syntactic class of the item and, for instance,
whether it is a transitive verb or an intransitive verb. As a bare additional minimum
the lexicon must contain any idiosyncratic information about its entries. For
example, the plural form, men, of man, which cannot possibly be predicted from any
of the properties of the word, must in some way or other be represented in the lexical
entry.
All linguists are agreed about this much. However, beyond this matters become
more complex. There are several questions connected with the nature of the linguistic
lexicon which we will discuss in great detail throughout this book. In this section we
will touch on one of those, namely, the question of what exactly is listed in the
lexicon.
One approach is to say that the lexicon contains only the information that is com-
pletely idiosyncratic. This, for instance, is the approach taken by the American struc-
tural15ts, following the lead of Bloomfield (1933). Any property of a word which can
be predicted from, say, the phonology or the syntax, wiH therefore be excluded from
the lexicon. As we will see, generative linguists typically assume that a grammar has
to include a set of rules for constructing words out of morphemes, that is, a set of
word formation rules. For many theorists, such rules are housed in their O'YI1if!de-
pendent component of the grammar, and Work by selecting morphemes from ~he
-r-exicon and combining them. On such an approach~ then, all the lexicon need contain
is alist of morphemes. In this type of theory the job of the morphologist is to extract
as much redundant information as possible from the structure of words and write
that information into the word formation rules.
Not all linguists are happy with this approach (for reasons which will be discussed
' ', in greater depth in chapter 3). The most obvious problem is that the meaning of a
·.word isn't always predictable from the meaning of its morphemes. And in some cases
the final pronunciation of a word can't be predicted from the phonological form of
.its component morphemes. Therefore, another approach is to say that the lexicon
·contains a list of complete words, rather like the Oxford English Dictionary.
The problem now is to decide what we mean by 'word'. Even restricting ourselves
to the lexeme, it is easy to show that by adopting a fairly inclusive definition we
obtain the result that for many, if not all, languages, the lexicon will be infinitely
large.
This can be seen by considering the formation of compound nouns in English. If
we say that a compound such as film society is itself a word (and not a phrase) then
"ill
1:'
~!t.:
l.!.
48 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
--"'~.'..
we will also have to say that expressions such as those in 2.14 are words:
2.14 a) student film society
b) student film society committee
c) student film society committee scandal
d) student film society committee s~andal inquiry
e) etc.
Clearly there is no linguistically principled limit to the lengths to which we can go
in producing such compounds (as readers of newspaper headlines will be aware). The
reason is that a compound noun can be formed by adding a noun to another com-
pound noun. This 'self-feeding' property of the compounding rule is known as
recursion. As a result, compound nouns are, in principle, infinitely long, and there
are, in principle, infinitely many of them. In other languages, word formation pro-
cesses such as affixation are recursive, so for them we would not even have to adopt
the possibly contentious assumption that compounds are words in order to reach this
conclusion.
-==? If we don't like the idea of an infinitely long dictionary containing infinitely long
words then we can try drawing a distinction between potential words and actual words.
An actual word could be defined as any word form that some speaker has been
observed to use. This style of definition is fraught with technical difficulty, but let's
suppose that such a distinction can be drawn. Then we would say that the linguistic
lexicon is a list of actual words. Such a list is sometimes referred to as the permanent
lexicon. We can contrast it with the (unbounded) list of potential words (which is
often referred to as the conditional lexicon or potential lexicon). If we sharpen our
characterization of 'actual word' to mean just those attested words with which most
of the speech community is familiar, then we won't have to bother about the;. thou-
sands of compound nouns that are used by newspaper subeditors and which· never
get used again.
One way of achieving this result is to restrict the permanent lexicon to a list of lex-
emes. In that wa~w~ wi~l_JlOt include (regular) compounds, because these can be
regarded as just concateriations of lexemes formed by rule. Moreover, we also avoid
a problem which is posed by languages with rich inflectional systems, in which a
single lexeme may therefore correspond to a great many word forms (and morphosyn-
tactic words). A drastic example of this problem is that presented by the language
Archi, spoken in the Daghestan mountains in the USSR, and described in great
detail by Kibrik et al. (1977). In their preface the authors point out that the morpho-
logical system of the language is such that a regular verb is capable of appearing in
over a million different forms. Even accounting for the fact that some of these are
analytical constructions involving auxiliary verbs, this still means that an average
speaker might go through his life without hearing certain grammatically impeccable
forms of certain words. Therefore, it seems advisable to regard regularly inflected
word forms (including, say, regular plurals in English) as part of the potential
lexicon, and not the actual lexicon. This might even be the best policy in the case
of common-or-garden word forms such as cats, which are attested quite frequently.
The problem of determining what the permanent lexicon consists of (assuming this
is a coherent notion) is related to another important· concept in morphology, that of
productivity. If we look at the word formation resources of most languages we find
I
l
I
STRUCTURALIST THEORIES 49
that some of these are regularly and actively used in the creation of totally new words,
while others have fallen into desuetude with the passage of time, or have been bor-
rowed from elsewhere and are only used in restricted circumstances. A familiar
example of this in English is given by affixes which turn adjectives into nouns. The
suffix -ness can be attached to pretty well any adjective even if there is a more conven-
tionally acceptable alternative. Thus, we might hear people use a word form such as
sterileness (instead of sterility), particularly when using the adjective in its more
general sense, rather than in the specific sense of 'physiologically incapable of produ-
cing offspring'. We say that -ness is a productive affix. We can contrast it with the
affix -th which performs the same role, but only for a handful of words, sometimes
accompanied by other idiosyncratic changes: warmth, strength, health (related histori-
cally to hale and whole). The affix -th is unproductive: it is only ever found with a
limited number of stems and cannot be used to create new words. If a new adjective
enters the language the favoured abstract nominalization of it will almost always be
with -ness, whereas -th will never be used for this purpose. We might even doubt that
-th could be regarded as a genuine morpheme in contemporary English.
Another way of restricting what goes into the lexicon, then, is to say that the
lexicon contains a list of morphemes, and also a list of words formed by unproductive
morphological processes, but does not contain words produced by productive pro-
cesses whose meanings can be determined solely from the meanings of their compo-
nents. This would mean that regularly inflected word forms would not be listed, nor
would regular nominalizations in -ness. As we will see in chapter 3 there remain
interesting problems with the notion of productivity, so the question of what the
lexicon contains can't be said to have been settled. 3
2.3 Structuralist theories
2.3.1 The three models
As the concept of the morpheme was developed in structuralist theories of language,
particularly in America, so word formation came to be viewed as the disposition of
morphemes in a word. Morphology came to be dominated by the metaphor of word
analysis rather than word formation as linguistic theory sought to provide techniques
for decomposing words into their component morphemes. The resulting approach
was dubbed by Hockett (1958a) the Item-and-Arrangement (IA) theory.
From our overview of morphological phenomena in Chapter One it will be evident
that there are many morphological relationships which don't fit neatly into the IA
scheme. Hockett discusses a simple case in some detail, namely the use of ablaut in
the formation of strong past tenses in English verbs, as compared with the regular
formation consisting of affixation of -ed to the basic form (as bake - baked). He
points out that descriptive linguistics up to that time had a variety of means for
describing the fact that took is the past tense form of take, and proceeds to compare
them.
Hockett's list (1958a: 393) goes as follows:
(1) took is a single morpheme < ... >.
f
I
50 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
(2) took is a portmanteau representation of the two morpheme sequence take and
fedf.
(3) took is an allomorph of the morpheme which appears elsewhere as take, plus a
zero allomorph of /edf.
(4) took is a discontinuous allomorph /t ... k/ of take, and an infixed allomorph fu/
of fed/.
(5) took is take plus a replacive morph fu/ +-jeyf (read 'fuf replaces feyf').
This citation is self-explanatory except for the term portmanteau, which in this
context means type of fusion of two morphemes into one (see below).
Hockett objects to solution (5) because it appeals to the idea of a morpheme which
consists of a process of replacement, and this is foreign to the IA approach by defini-
tion. On the other hand, the maximally simple solution (1) is unsatisfactory because,
in effect, it fails to capture the fact that took is the past tense form of take just as baked
is the past tense form of bake. The second solution is able to capture this but has the
disadvantage that it fails to distinguish ablaut from total suppletion of the kind go
- went. Solution (3) attempts to force the ablaut forms into an agglutinating strait-
jacket by equivocation over the notions of 'morpheme' and 'allomorph'. This
solution, in effect, likens the took - take alternation to the stem allomorphy found in
electric - electricity, except that the phonological alternation is caused by an allo-
morph which has no physical realization. Hockett therefore rejects this solution, too.
The option Hockett seems to prefer is that of (4), though he explicitly denies that
this means that the form take is comprised of /t ... k/ plus an infix feyf. However,
this preference is relative to IA theory. As Rocket points out, in a different theor-
etical framework we would expect different solutions to be favoured. Hockett men-
tions one other approach in passing, the Word-and-Paradigm theory, and devotes
much of his discussion to what he sees as the main alternative to IA, the Item-and-
Process (IP) theory.
In an IP account we would distinguish between basic or underlying forms of a mor-
pheme and forms derived after the application of certain processes. Thus, we would
say that bake and take were underlying forms and that two distinct processes_~pply
to them in the formation of the past tense. In the first, the process is affixation of
-ed (or perhaps of the allomorph ftf); in the second the process is phonological in that
the vowel of take is replaced by, or changed into, fuf. This solution to the 'took'
problem is reminiscent of the fifth of Hockett's IA analyses, which he rejected
because of its processual underpinnings.
The IP approach historically precedes the IA approach described by Hockett (its
most extended defence is probably given in Sapir, 1921). Hockett has a number of
quibbles about what exactly is meant by 'process', but on the whole he seems to
believe that both theories could handle these data and similar problems equally well. 4
There remains a class·of phenomena which neither IA or IP seem well equipped
to handle and that is the fusional nature of inflectional systems. The problem is that
both IA and IP are fundamentally agglutinating theories. In IA, in which there is no
distinction between underlying forms and surface forms, all morphology is essentially
agglutinative. Thus, even a form such as took consists of two morphemes whose allo-
morphs are /t ... k/ and fu/ and word formation consists of combining these. In IP
word structure need noc necessarily look agglutinative on the surface, but it is
assumed to be agglutinative at the underlying level. Thus, took is formed from take
~ j
I .
STRUCTURALIST THEORIES 51
plus the ablaut process, and this can be thought of as a base morpheme plus a past
tense process, whose 'combination' results in the change in vowel quality. The
difficulty becomes apparent when we ask how the IA or IP theories would handle the
problem posed by Russian adjectival forms such as bol'somu 'big (masc.fneut. dat.
sg. adjective)'. Here we have four morphemes all realized by a single portmanteau
morph, as in 2.15, (an example of multiple exponence or cumulation):
2.15 LARGE
MASC~T~ADJ
bol's omu
The problem is made more acute by the fact that Russian nouns and adjectives never
distinguish masculine from neuter gender in oblique cases. It is quite unclear how
even a version of Hockett's solution (4) could cope with this in a principled fashion
within the IA framework. But it is equally implausible that we would find a set
of processes operating over underlying forms to express the separate categories of
masculine/neuter, dative, singular and adjective.
In a portmantea~ morph, then, several categories are realized by one surface forma-
tive, an instance of a one-many correspondence between form and function. In
addition, we often find situations in which a single category is realized in more than
one way within a word, that is, when there is many-one correspondence between
form and function. This has been referred to as extended or overlapping exponence.
English strong verbs provide a simple example of this. Most such verbs end in -en
in the past participle. However, many of them also show ablaut, and in certain cases
the vowel of the stem is unique to the past participle form, for instance: write, wrote
but written. The extended exponence of the past participle category can be
diagrammed as in 2.16:
2.16
W~STPT
r-i-t en
It might be open to the IA (or IP) theorist to say that we have a phonological process
of vowel change triggered by the -en affix here. Other cases of multiple exponence
are less easy to handle, however. Matthews (1972) discusses an example from Latin
which is typical of the problems posed by inflecting languages. The 1st sg. ending
of verbs in the active voice is -o: in the Imperfective Present and -i: in the Perfective.
Thus, we have forms such as those in 2.17:
2.17 a) am-o: am-a:-w-i: 'love'
b) mon-e:-o: mon-u-i: 'advise'
c) reg-o: re:k-s-i: 'rule'
d) aud-i:-o: aud-i:-w-i: 'hear'
In the (a, d) examples, the-w- element is a regular marker of the Perfective, and in
52 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
2.17b the -u- marker serves this purpose. In the form re:ksi: the -s- element marks
the Perfective, but this category is also signalled in part by the vowel lengthening of
the root and the gfk alternation. The latter would be regarded as an automatic phono-
logical alternation, though the vowel lengthening is non-automatic and could plaus-
ibly be said to be a partial realization of the category of Perfective. This means that
a mapping from the morphosyntactic categories to their surface realizations for re:ksi:
would look like 2.18:
2.18 RULE PERF 1ST SG
r-e:-k · s
A simple response to this challenge is to bite the bullet and concede that the
relation between morphological form and morphosyntactic function is, in the most
general case, many-many and not one-one. This is the Word-and-Paradigm (WP)
approach to inflectional morphology, :first presented in an articulated form in Robins
(1959), and defended meticulously within a generative framework by Matthews
(1972; cf. also Matthews, 1974). Robins pointed out that there are certain generaliz-
ations which can only really be stated at the level of the whole word. Some of these
have been mentioned in §2.2.2, and others will be discussed in later chapters. He also
pointed out that the notion of 'inflectional paradigm' seems to play some role in
grammatical organization.· Again, we will see detailed exemplification of this later.
His proposal was to revamp a much earlier tradition of word analysis derived from
classical grammarians (some writing 2,500 years ago, such as Pa!fini and Aristotle)
describing classical languages su,ch as Latin, Greek and Sanskrit. 5
The key to the WP approach is our notion of the morphosyntactic word. Each
inflected form has (at least) one morphosyntactic description (for example 'past tense
form' or 'dative singular of the masculine/neuter adjectival form') and the grammar
then makes available paradigms that specify the formatives which correspond to these
categories. In an agglutinating system the correspondence rules will be rather simple,
amounting to one morphosyntactic category per formative and one formative per cat-
egory. But there is no necessity for the categories and the morphological elements
which express those categories to be in a one-one correspondence, as there is in the
IA theory.
A result of this approach is that it is rather a simple matter to describe syncretism.
For instance, the fact that all oblique cases have the same ending in the feminine sin-
gular (namely -oj) can be stated directly in the WP approach, in which the morpho-
syntactic description is separated from the morphological formatives as such. 6 At the
same time the extended or overlapping exponence found in Latin poses no problems,
since, again, we simply have to write our rules in such a way that a given morphosyn-
tactic category for certain lexemes has to be signalled by root allomorphy as well as
by affixation. A potential price for this descriptive luxury is that it would appear poss-
ible to describe any conceivable patterning of data this way, including hypothetical
systems which never seem to occur in real life. This is the kind of property that tends
to arouse the suspicions of generative linguists.
i.
STRUCTURALIST THEORIES 53
In chapters 3 and 6 we will see other potential advantages that follow from being
able to make direct reference to the notion of 'inflectional paradigm'. On the other
hand, in chapters 4 and 5 we will see how changes in assumptions concerning the
relation between morphology and phonology have allowed some theoreticians to
propose basically IP or IA models which can handle some of the problems posed by
inflectional and other types of non-agglutinative morphology.
2.3.2 Morphophonemics
Although I have spoken at various times about the allomorphic realizations of mor-
phemes, my discussion of theories of morphology has been oversimplified in that I
haven't discussed yet the ways in which structuralists linked morphological structure
to allomorphic variation. This connects morphological theory with phonological
theory (what is known in structuralism as 'phonemics'), and for certain schools of
structuralism the result was an intermediate morphophonemic level.
In chapter 1 I mentioned that morphemes may appear in different phonological
shapes because of the effects of general phonological processes. The Engli&h regular
plural suffix is an example of this. This involves a number of phonological complic-
ations, so to illustrate how structuralist theories approached phonologically condi-
tioned variation in its simplest form I'll begin with a relatively unproblematic
example from Russian. The word for 'foam' in the nom. sg. is pronounced [p'en;;,],
where the apostrophe represents palatalization of the consonant. In the dative the
word is pronounced [p'en'i], with palatalization of the [n] and a raising of the stem
vowel from [£] to [e]. In other words, [e] is an allophone, or variant, of the e-
phoneme which occurs whenever that phoneme is both preceded and followed by a
palatalized consonant. This is an example of an automatic alternation, governed
solely by the phonological form of the words concerned, and applying to every word
of the appropriate form in the language. Moreover, the efe distinction is never by
itself contrastive in Russian, that is, there can be no pair of words which differ solely
in that one has fef where the other has fef. In contemporary generative phonology
a situation like this would be handled by taking the fef allophone as basic and
postulating a raising rule applying in the environment of palatalized consonants. In
the tradition of structuralist phonemics we would say that the two allophones of the
e-phoneme occur in complementary distribution: that is, there is one set of environ-
ments where /ef occurs and another entirely distinct set of environments where /ef
occurs. 7
The situation is a little more complex in the case of our second example. In 2.19
we see the genitive singular form (ending -a) of three Russian masculine nouns:
2.19 a) luka 'onion-GEN'
b) luka 'bow-GEN'
c) luga 'meadow-GEN'
Notice that luka means both 'of an onion' and 'of a bow'. This means that we have
a case of homonymy, rather like the homonymy we find in the English word case (as
in suitcase, court case, or genitive case).
Matters get more interesting when we look at 2.20, the nominative/accusative
54 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
forms of these three words:
2.20 a) luk 'onion'
b) luk 'bow'
c) luk 'meadow'
Now we seem to have three homonyms (just as with English case). However, the luk
case is different from the case case. This is because the sudden appearance of a /k/
sound at the end of the word for 'meadow' is the automatic consequence of a general
rule of Russian phonology. There are no voiced obstruents in word final position in
Russian (which is why the English words back and bag sound alike when spoken with
a Russian accent). The second sequence [lug] would therefore be an unpronounce-
able word in Russian (witness what I said about speaking English with a Russian
accent), so where we might expect [lug] we actually hear [luk].
In contemporary (and also in European structuralist) parlance the gfk alternation
illustrated here is a case of neutralization of a phonemic contrast. We again have an
automatic alternation, since it applies to all words of the right phonological shape,
but it destroys a contrast between the gfk phonemes (and between all the voiced/
voiceless pairs in Russian). Neutralizations pose problems for certain IA approaches
to morphology. In the post-Bloomfieldian tradition represented by, for example,
Hockett, statements about morphemes have to be kept distinct from statements
about phonemes. The reasons for this are to do with controversial assumptions about
the way linguistic analysis has to proceed and about the nature of phonological rep-
resentations. In the American structuralist tradition it was·thought that a full pho-.
nemic analysis had to precede a morphological analysis (which in turn had to precede
a syntactic analysis). Why this should be so was never made clear but it had the effect
of placing stringent conditions on the way that grammars could be written. It was
also thought that the phonemic representation of a word should be deducible directly
from its phonetic representation, the so-called biuniqueness requirement (sometimes
encapsulated in a slogan, 'once a phoneme, always a phoneme').
In the case of [p't:nd/p'en'd] there is no problem. Since [e] is a phonologically con-
ditioned allophone of the /t:/ phoneme we can write the two forms in phonemic tran-
scription as fp'endf and /p't:n'd/, on the understanding that purely phonological
principles ef allophony will tell us the precise pronunciation of each vowel. In the
case of the [lug ~ luk] alternation we have a problem. The two variants consist of
different phonemes and the type of entities that consist of different phonemes are
morphs, for example, allomorphs of a single morpheme. Hence, as morphologists we
must set up the two forms flukj and flugj of the stem for 'meadow' and note that
the former occurs when there is no suffix, and the latter when there is. The big
problem here is that the k/g alternation is just as automatic as the E/e alternation and
so it should really be handled by means of a phoJ!ological statement, not a morpho-
logical one. In other words, we have a case which is essentially allophony, but we're
forced by theoretical assumptions to treat it as allomorphy.
A solution favoured by post-Bloom:fieldian structuralists was to set up a further
level intermediate between that of phonemes and morphemes. This was the mor-
phophonemic level and its elements were morphophonemes. Some of these would
bear a direct correspondence to phonemes, namely those which didn't ever alternate,
or those which failed to alternate in a particular word. Others would have an indirect
STRUCTURALIST THEORIES 55
relation to the phonemes which realized them, and these would represent the alter-
nating sounds. The word 'meadow', ending in an alternating consonant, would be
given representations along the lines of 2.21, in which the G represents the
alternating morphophoneme:
2.21 luG 'meadow'
On the other hand, words such as luk, as well as words such as gul 'rumble' and kul'
'type of bag' containing kfg sounds which never alternate, would have represen-
tations such as 2.22, with k and g morphophonemes which are distinct from the G
morphophoneme:
2.22 a) luk
b) gul
c) kul'
'onion/bow'
'rumble'
'type of bag'
Special rules would then state that G corresponds to the phoneme fgf m some
contexts and to Ikl in others.
In the Prague School tradition of structuralism, which followed the ideas of
Trubetskoy and Jakobson, the G of 2.21 would have particular properties, in that it
would be regarded as a bundle of distinctive features characterizing velar plosives,
but not marked for the voicing feature. This feature would then be specified as a
function of its position (whether word final or not). A partially specified phonological
element of this sort is called an archiphoneme. It codes in a rather direct way the
idea that an otherwise distinctive opposition is suspended or neutralized in certain
circumstances.
The American concept of morphophonemics was scmewhat different from this,
however. The biuniqueness requirement meant that phonemes were not allowed to
change into other phonemes. Hence, the concept of neutralization as such was not
part of the theory. Consequently, the concept of neutralization could not be forma-
lized by appeal to the archiphoneme, and the G element of representation 2.21 is not
intended as a phonetic intermediary between Ikl and Igl-it can only be interpreted
as an entirely separate entity.
This type of approach leads to a discrepancy between the generalizations which are
stated about phonemes and those stated about forms of morphemes. This discrep-
ancy becomes really serious when we note that there is a process of voicing assimila-
tion in Russian which can take place either within words (e.g. across morpheme
boundaries) or across words, if the words are, phonologically speaking, clitics. One
such clitic is the conditional morpheme by (pronounced [bi]). This can attach to any
word in the sentence, including a direct object:
2.23 a) lug by uvidel
b) lug by uvidel
c) lug by uvidel
d) lud3' by uvidel
'(he) would see the onion'
'(he) would see the bow'
'(he) would see the meadow'
'(he) would see the ray'
As might be guessed from these data, only a voiced consonant may precede the
voiced lbl of by. Thus, a sequence such as l*lukby/ or f*lutf'byf is unpronounceable
I
j
I
~:
1\
56 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
in Russian. This too, is a general phonological fact about the language. In the case
of the luk - lug alternations illustrated in 2.23a, b, this gives rise to a neutralization
(in the opposite direction to .he neutralization observed in the nom. sg. of the word
for 'meadow'). However, there is no phoneme ld3'1 in Russian. This sound is merely
a voiced allophone of the sound Itf'I which ends the word lutf' (gen. sg. !uti'a) 'ray
(of light)'.
It is obvious to anyone who knows the facts of Russian that the reason for the alter-
nations in 2.23a, b, is the same as the reason for the alternations in 2.23d and the
failure of the opposite alternation in 2.23c. However, the post-Bloomfieldian account
cannot state this. The alternation between [tJ'] and [d3'] is allophonic and must
therefore be stated at the level of phonemes. The alternation between [k] and [g]
is phonemic and therefore must be stated at the level of morphophonemes. The two
levels cannot be 'mixed' because of the biuniqueness restriction. Therefore, the post-
Bloomfieldian has to say that we are dealing with two formally distinct processes. In
other words, the structuralist assumptions prevent us from stating the obvious truth
about the language. This is a rehearsal of Halle's (1959) celebrated refutation of the
structuralist approach.
If the IA insistence of biunique phonemics and static principles of 'arrangement'
of morphemes prevented insightful solutions to problems such as voicing assimilation
in Russian, how well do IP accounts fare? I have used the term 'American structura-
lism' effectively as a synonym of 'post-Bloomfieldian structuralism' hitherto, but in
fact the type of structuralism practised by Bloomfield himself (and also by Sapir and
originally by Nida) was more oriented towards IP analogies than the IA model. The
type of analysis we find in Bloomfield's (1939) analysis ofthe Amerindian language
Menomini illustrates this very well.
Keeping to our Russian example, the way the IP model might have handled this
is as follows. We take one form of the alternating morpheme lug- 'meadow' and
decide to regard one form as basic. This will be the form which appears in the most
contexts, or the most general of the alternants. Then we assume a rule which changes
the lgf phoneme into a /k/ in specific contexts (such as at the end of a word), and
another rule changing /k/into fgf in the voicing assimilation contexts. These two
rules apply in the order of mention, not the other way round. We can also postulate
a different rule which changes a /k/ into a lgl in voicing assimilation contexts. The
upshot is a series of derivations such as those in 2.24:
2.24 luk
NfA
N/A
luk
luka lug
NfA luk
NfA NfA
luka luk
luga luk by
NfA NfA
NfA lug by
luga lug by
lug by
luk by
lug by
lug by
lut;f' by
NfA
luct5' by
luct5' by
Devoicing
Voicing
Output
Since we aren't hidebound by biuniqueness or the need to 'separate levels' we can
account for the alternations observed in a maximally simple fashion, and still keep
sight of the basic generalizations. The idea of a set of 'mutation' rules applying in
a set order to a basic underlying form is, of course, central to generative phonology
(see chapter 4).
The derivational format, then, allows us to capture allomorphic variation which is
phonologically (or phonetically) motivated. In effect, we allow the phonological rules
to 'interfere' with the phonological forms of morphemes. This type of grammatical
EXERCISES 57
organization allows us to dispense with interlevels such as the morphophonemic
level, and the concept of the morphophoneme (though in generative phonology the
concept of the archiphoneme plays an important role). This is one of the most impor-
tant consequences of adopting the Bloomfieldian IP approach: there is no linguistic
level of representation between the morphemic and the phonemic. Thus, morphemes
are comprised of phonemes, and not morphophonemes.
2.4 Summary
This chapter has been concerned with the central concepts of the morpheme, the
word and the lexicon. We saw that the simplest conception of the morpheme, that
of a single form with a single function, encounters considerable difficulties when con-
fronted with the facts. This means that the conceptually simplest type of morpho-
logical system, the purely agglutinating system, is an ideal which is seldom
approached by real morphologies, so much so that one could question whether
agglutination really does represent an ideal in any sense. Having surveyed a number
of form-function problems for the morpheme concept, we also noted that the notion
of 'word' is by no means clear-cut. We have to distinguish four distinct notions (the
lexeme, the word form, the morphosyntactic word, and the phonological word), but
even then there are no universal hard-and-fast criteria for determining wordhood. At
the same time, we noted that the concept of a store of words, a lexicon, hides more
complexity than first meets the eye. Finally, in the third section we saw the way that
pre-generative theories attempted to solve the problems with definitions of the mor-
pheme and related concepts. Having outlined the three models, IA, IP and WP, we
contrasted the IA and IP approaches to certain notorious morphophonemic pro-
blems. We discovered that the IA approach, which attempts to retain at all costs the
idea of a one-one correspondence between form and function, has great difficulty in
providing a satisfactory solution to these problems.
EXERCISES
2.1 Hungarian allomorphy. Consider the data set below. Isolate all the mor-
phemes with their allomorphs, and provide a gloss for each (i.e. a meaning or a gram-
matical function). Which of the allomorphy seems to be conditioned purely
phonologically and which purely morphologically? [Hint: the 3rd sg. possessive form
has two lexically conditioned allomorphs.] What is the rule for forming the possessed
form of a plural noun? [sz = [s], ii = [y] ,6 = [ce], o= [ce:], V=long vowel. All
vowels are pronounced separately] .
Paradigm 1: szoba 'room'
Sg. Pl.
Nom. szoba 'room' szobak 'rooms'
Iness. szobaban 'in a room' szobakban 'in rooms'
Ace. szobat 'room' szobakat 'rooms'
r~
!i
i,
1\
I
I
I
I
I'
i\
,,
L
58 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
Possessed forms
Sg. 1 szobam 'my room' szobaim 'my rooms'
2 szobad 'thy room' szobaid 'thy rooms'
3 szobaja 'his room' szobai 'his rooms'
Pl. 1 szobank 'our room' szobaink 'our rooms'
2 szobatok 'your room' szobaitok 'your rooms'
3 szobajuk 'their room' szobaik 'their rooms'
Paradigm 2: nap 'day' Paradigm 3:. kep 'picture'
Sg. Pl. Sg. Pl.
Nom. nap napok kep kepek
!ness. napban napokban kepben kepekben
Ace. napot napokat kepet kepeket
Possessed forms
Sg. 1 napom napJalm kepem kepeim
2 napod napjaid keped kepeid
3 napJa napJal kepe kepei
Pl. 1 napunk napjaink kepunk kepeink
2 napotok napjaitok kepetek kepeitek
3 napjuk napjaik kepuk kepeik
Paradigm 4 ftirdo 'bath' Paradigm 5 film 'film'
Sg. Pl. Sg. Pl.
Nom. fUrdo ftirdok film filmek
Iness. ftirdoben ftirdokben filmben filmekben
Ace. fUrdot furdoket filmet filmeket
Possessed forms
Sg. 1 ftirdom furdoim filmem filmjeim
2 fUrdod ftirdoid filmed filmjeid
3 ftirdoje ftirdoi filmje filmjei
Pl. 1 ftirdonk ftirdoink filmunk filmjeink
2 ftirdotok furdoitek filmetek filmjeitek
3 ftirdojuk furdoik filmjuk filmjeik
Additional data:
szobamban 'in my room', napjaidat 'thy days (Ace.)', ftird6inkben 'in our baths',
filmjeiteket 'your films (Ace.)'
2.2 Below is a list of nineteen sentences in Czech, written in broad phonemic
transcription, with English glosses. Word divisions are not indicated. Identify the
Czech words and their meanings, and give as much information as you can about
their inflectional forms. [c= [tf ], c = [ts] , s= [J] ]
(i) nejsoudji:fki
'They are not girls.'
(ii) rixlepracovalixlapci.
'The boys worked quickly.'
(iii) ?irinajef?olomouci
'Irina is in Olomouc.'
(iv) ?olomoucjestare:mnjestonamoravje
'Olomouc is an old town in Moravia.'
(v) dji:fkimudalisklenkupiva
'The girls gave him a glass of beer.'
(vi) mu: j?otecpracovalf?ostravje
'My father worked in Ostrava.'
(vii) selrixlek?ivanovi
'He walked quickly towards Ivan.'
(viii) xlapciznalili:du
'The boys knew Lida.'
(ix) tadijemu:jbratr
'Here's my brother.'
(x) ?onjinejsou!ceskoslovensku?aledji:fkisoutam
'They aren't in Czechoslovakia but the girls are there.'
(xi) fsklencejepivo
'There's beer in the glass.'
(xii) ?evaznalatohoxlapcu
'Eva knew that boy.'
(xiii) dalixlapcovidobrouknjihu
'They gave a good book to the boy.'
(xiv) jevbrnje
'He's in Brno.'
(xv) ?evama:ceskouknjihu
'Eva has a Czech book.'
(xvi) ceska:pivasouznamenjita:
'Czech beers are famous.'
(xvii) ?ostravan?olomoucsouceska:mnjesta
'Ostrava and Olomouc are Czech towns.'
(xviii) slimlade:dji:fkik?ostravje
'The young girls walked to Ostrava.'
(xix) novousklenkurozbili
'They broke the new glass.'
EXERCISES 59
2.3 Identify the word boundaries in the following fourteen sentences of Serbo-
Croat. [c = [tJ], s = [J], z= [3], c = [ts], c= [t~], h = [x]; otherwise, assume the
orthography is IPA.]
(i) devojkesumugadale
'The girls gave it to him.'
(ii) videlismogajuce
'We saw him yesterday.'
(iii) znaojedasamjojihdao
'He knew that I gave them to her.'
60 BASIC CONCEPTS AND PRE-GENERATIVE APPROACHES
(iv) knjigesmovamostavilinastolu
'We left you the books on the table.'
(v) predstaviosimuse
'You (masc. sg.) introduced yourself to him.'
(vi) zenesunamprodalecvece
'The women sold us flowers.'
(vii) momcisujojotpevalipesmu
'The boys sang her a song.'
(viii) bogdanimladensutisepredstaviliuuredu
'Bodgan and Mladen introduced themselves to you (sg.) in the office.'
(ix) nastolusuvideliknjige
'On the table they saw the books.'
(x) vecsamimsepredstavio
'I have already introduced myself to them.'
(xi) bogdanjojjedaocvece
'Bogdan gave her the flowers.'
(xii) cvecesteostaviliuuredu
'You (masc. pl.) left the flowers in the office.'
(xiii) juceimjeprodaoknjige
'Yesterday he sold them the books.'
(xiv) zenesumiihpredstavile
'The women introduced them to me.'
*2.4 Describe in detail the criteria you used for solving problems 2 and 3. What
other information might have been useful? What practical difficulties are there in
applying these criteria to the data of 2 and 3?
2.5 Analyse the words in sets (i-iii) into their component morphemes. What
problems do these words present?
(i) conceptual; criminal; managerial; professiorial; residual; tidal.
(ii) anthropocentric; gastro-enteritis; Graeco-Roman; gynocologist; hypothetico-
deductive; misanthropist; misogynist; politico-economic.
(iii) Congolese; Javanese; Mancunian; Panamanian; Peruvian.
2.6 Consider all the regular inflectional categories of English nouns and verbs.
Isolate all the cases in which we regularly find syncretism, i.e. in which single word
forms correspond to more than one morphosyntactic word. Likewise, consider a rep-
resentative sample of irregular ('strong') verbs. Identify situations in which
syncretism (i) occurs for a small class of verbs only; (ii) is found with all strong verbs.
2.7 Analyse the following verb forms from the paleosiberian language Itel'men
(also known as Kamchadal), spoken on the Kamchatkan peninsula. Note that a tran-
sitive verb agrees both with its subject and its direct object in person and number.
EXERCISES 61
What problems do these data pose for a morphemic analysis? What deviations from
strict agglutination are there in these data? To what extent would these deviations
encourage us to regard the system as 'fusional' or 'inflectional'? [Note there are no
reflexive forms in the paradigm, e.g. corresponding to 'I brought me' or 'I brought
us'.]
Stem: ~ntxla- 'bring'
Object
Sg. 1
2
3
Pl. 1
2
3
Sg. 1
2
3
Pl. 1
2
3
1
t~ntxlaxkin
t~ntxlaxkicen
t~ntxlakisxen
t~ntxlakice?n
n~ntxlaxkin
n~ntxlakicen
n~ntxlakisxen
n~ntxlakice?n
Subject (singular)
2 3
~ntxlaxkmiiJ ~ntxlaxkomnen
~ntxlaxkin
~ntxlacgin ~ntxlaciiJnen
~ntxlaxkmi?IJ ;mtxlaxkomnaem
~ntxlakisxen
~ntxlacgi?n ~ntxlacil)ne?n
Subject (plural)
~ntxlaxkmil)sx
~ntxlasxik
~ntxlaxkmi?I)sx
~ntxlaxki?n
n~ntxlaxkomnen
n~ntxlaxkin
n~ntxlagenen
n~ntxlaxkomne?n
n~ntxlakisxen
n~ntxlagene?n
*2.8 Take the processes exemplified in chapter 1 (§1.4: stress, tone, reduplica-
tion, mutation and morphological conversion) and outline a description of them in
IA terms. What are the major empirical and conceptual difficulties? How might a
structuralist linguist attempt to describe such phenomena in terms of morph~me
theory?
*2.9 The masculine instrumental singular form of Russian adjectives is invariably
homophonous with the dative plural form. Can we draw the same conclusions from
this that we drew when considering the feminine singular forms and the plural forms
of Russian adjectives? What sort of criteria would bear on this question?
3
Early Generative Approaches
3.1 Phonology and syntax in the Standard
Theory
3.1.1 The Standard Theory in outline
In the earliest models of generative grammar, morphology as such scarcely existed.
Allomorphic variation was regarded as primarily the result of the operation of phono-
logical rules, and other aspects of word formation (including compounding, deri-
vation and inflection) were handled by rules of syntax. The model was crystallized
in the form of Chomsky's Aspects ofthe Theory ofSyntax (1965), subsequently known
as the Aspects model, or more technically as the Standard Theory. In this theory sen-
tence structures are generated in three stages. In the base component there is a set
of context free phrase structure rules, which generate initial phrase markers
(IPM's or deep structures). The IPMs are then modified by syntactic transforma-
tions. These rules differ from the phrase structure rules, which simply construct the
basic phrase markers, in that they operate on ready-made structures and have the
power to delete, move, substitute or add material. The first of the transformations
is the set of lexical insertion transformations, which insert items from the lexicon
under syntactically appropriate terminal nodes in the IPM. The result after all the
transformations have applied is the syntactic surface structure. Both the IPMs (or
deep structures) and the surface structures are represented in the linguistics literature
by the (in)famous device of the tree diagram.
The meaning and pronunciation of sentences is determined by two interpretive
components. The semantic component reads off the meaning of the sentence from
its deep structure representation. The pronunciation, however, is specified from the
surface structure. This forms the input to the phonological component, a set of
transformational phonological rules. The general picture is schematized in figure 3.1
In many respects, the organization of phonology and the organization of syntax
were very similar in the Standard Theory of Transformational Generative Grammar
- 1
I
i
I
PHONOLOGY AND SYNTAX IN THE STANDARD THEORY 63
Phrase structure
rules
Semantic
j Lexicon : Deep structures
interpretation
Transformational
rules
Surface structures
jPhonologyj
Figure 3.1 The 'classical' model of generative grammar
(TGG) as represented in The Sound Pattern of English (Chomsky and Halle, 1968,
SPE) and Aspects. Both components included a battery of transformational rules
applying to underlying structures to produce a surface form. Theorizing in generative
syntax and phonology at this time was built around an important (though sometimes
tacit) assumption concerning the nature of linguistically significant generalizations.
Put somewhat crudely, whenever a relationship between two linguistic forms could
be discerned, that relationship had to be captured by assuming a common basic form
and deriving each alternation from that underlying form by means of a battery
of transformational rules.. In the general case, the underlying form might be fairly
'abstract' compared with its surface manifestations.
3.1.2 The SPE model of phonology
In the SPE model of phonology a derivation starts from an underlying represen-
tation (UR) which encodes all the information about the pronunciation of a word
which cannot be predicted by rule. This undergoes phonological rules which substi-
tute one segment for another, delete segments, insert segments or alter the order of
segments. The result is a surface representation (SR).
In this model, the root of two words such as divine and divinity are identical,
namely fdivin/, where the vowel/If represents a sound which is not actually heard
in any of the variants of the root which surface, and which is never actually found
in the pronunciation of any word of English. Such a segment is often called an
abstract segment and it is invariably changed into something else by the phonological
rules. This is a species of neutralization, and whenever we have an abstract segment
such as this which never surfaces anywhere in the language we speak of absolute
neutralization.
The SPE model of phonology didn't pay much attention to the problem of building
up morphemes out of phonemes. Rather, the starting point for a phonological deri-
vation is the string of segments constituting the UR. Now, generative phonologists
I
! 64
i~: ...i:
'I'
•I
:~
EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
clearly recognized the fact that there are stable regularities governing the way pho-
nemes are strung togeth-er (i.e. phonotactic constraints; see chapter 2, §2.2.2 and note
2). Moreover, it was also noted that there are regularities governing the structure of
morphemes (sometimes restricted to particular classes of morphemes), known as
morpheme structure conditions, or MSCs. Thus, there are no (native) morphemes
beginning with more than three consonants in English (an example of an MSC which
derives from a phonotactic constraint). In some Mayan languages, on the other hand,
all roots have to have the form CVC, in a number of Semitic languages there are con-
.straints on what kind of phonemes may be combined to form a triliteral root, and,
in Yoruba, nouns (though not other parts of speech) have to be polysyllabic.
These sorts of relationships are captured by lexical redundancy rules. These are
rules which state that the grammar (or lexicon) of English is more 'highly valued' to
the extent that it eschews words or morphemes such as /mpklstragf. They are not
generative rules, however. They don't create any structure (in the way that phrase
structure rules do in syntax), nor do they alter structure (unlike transformations or
certain phonological rules).
3.1.3 Morphosyntax in the Standard Theory
The nature of the Aspects model of syntax determined in large part what kind of
approach could be adopted towards morphosyntax. One important feature of the
model is the nature of lexical entries. In particular, the insertion of words into the
syntactic structures generated by the phrase structure rules is governed by the lexical
properties of certain words. For instance, a transitive verb has to be followed by a
direct object NP. This is formalized in Aspects by the concept of subcategorization.'
We can say, for example, that transitive verbs form a subcategory of the category of
verbs, by virtue of the fact that they must be followed by an NP complement (that'
is, their object) at the stage when lexical insertion takes place. In other words, it is
the presence of the object which gives rise to the subcategory of transitive verbs. We
can therefore say that the object subcategorizes the verb (or that the verb is subcate-
gorized by its object). The way this is formalized in Aspects is to say that the lexical
entry for a transitive verb includes a special symbol (or feature) indicating that the
verb must be followed by an NP. This feature is called the verb's subcategorization
frame. An example, the entry for the transitive verb hit, is given in 3.1:
3.1 hit: [_NP]
The notion of subcategorization will prove very important in some theories of
morphology.
In syntax the assumption of a common underlying source for related structures
meant that an active sentence such as 3.2 had the same deep structure as 3.3a-c,
namely something like 3.4 1•
3.2 Tom gave a rose to Harriet.
3.3 a) Tom gave Harriet a rose.
b) Harriet was given a rose (by Tom).
c) A ros~_ was given to Harriet (by Tom).
.i
PHONOLOGY AND SYNTAX IN THE STANDARD THEORY 65
3.4 s
NP Aux VP
V NP PP
6~
Tom PAST gtve a rose to Harriet
Transformational rules of various kinds would then rearrange the word order and
delete a preposition (to give 3.3a), and add a preposition and auxiliary verb as well
as putting the verb in the past participle form (to give 3.3c). This is a simple illustra-
tion of the way that an important piece of English morphology, namely the passive
participle form of verbs, is the responsibility of a syntactic rule in the Standard
Theory, since it has repercussions for the syntactic organization of the sentence as
a whole.
One of the syntactic phenomena which the transformational component had to
account for is that of agreement or concord. In 3.5 we must guarantee that runs agrees
with its subject by appearing with the-sending, and in 3.6 we must ensure that the
same ending is not present:
3.5 The boy runs.
3.6 Ifyoufwefthe boys run.
This is achieved by assuming that the grammatical person and number of the NPs
the boy or the boys is marked in the tree by a set of syntactic features. These are com-
parable to the distinctive features of phonology. A singular 3rd person nominal such
, as the boy would bear the features [-plural] and (redundantly, since all nouns other
than pronouns are 3rd person in English) [+ 3rd] , while the boys would bear the
feature [+plural] . Then we assume a transformation which copies the features for
person and number from the subject NP onto the verb. This produces a tree of the
form 3.7 for sentence 3.5:
3.7 s
~
NP VP
1\ ~pl~ral]
Det N
I
I I
the boy run
,,
~'!
I
'1,1
I
\
66 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
In chapter 6 we'll see that the use of syntactic features of this sort effectively allows
us to formalize the notion of 'paradigm'. Chomsky himself explicitly argues for a
paradigmatic account of agreement morphology over an Item-and-Arrangement
approach (which he describes as 'clumsy').
So far we have generated a verb marked with a [-plural] feature specification, and
not the word form runs. The final 'spelling-out' of the word form with appropriate
morphology is the job of the phonological component. A tree such as 3.7 could be
sent directly to the phonology since the rule for affixation of the 3rd sg. -sis perfectly
regular. In some cases, however, the syntactic tree passed to the phonology requires
tidying up. Thus, in examples such as that schematically represented in 3.8, in which
we have irregular inflection, we need some way of deriving the correct phonological
representation over and above the information provided by the syntax:
3.8 THE [GOOSE-PLURAL] [BE-PRES] [BE-PROG] [FEED-PAST
PT]
This can be done by means of special rules which specify that the formative
underlying the phonological form of GOOSE (jgu:s/) undergoes a special phono-
logical rule to become fgi:s/, that BE-PRES-PLURAL, the form of be agreeing with
geese, takes the suppletive form fa:f, and so on. Exactly what form such rules take
varies from one analysis to another, depending on whether the linguist regards fgi:s/
as the result of a phonological rule, or as partial suppletion. Where partial suppletion
is involved then one way of fixing up the syntactic representation so that the pho-
nology can produce the right output is to modify the UR of the formatives introduced
by lexical insertion by means of readjustment rules. In SPE these are rules which
adjust the syntactic representation so that the phonological rules can operate cor-
rectly. One common form of readjustment rule is the kind which introduces irre-
gularities into morphophonemic forms, allowing the phonological rules proper to be
stated in a more general form. We will have occasion to speak about the types of
readjustment rule which are of relevance to allomorphy in more detail later in this
chapter and in chapter 4.
What is true of the passive voice morphology and of agreement morphology is also
true of derivational morphology. One example of such morphology of some interest
to grammarians was the nominalizations, such as the word nominalization, the
abstract noun derived from the verb nominalize by affixation of -ation.
If in Aspects sentences with the same meaning were derived from a common
underlying deep structure by means of transformations, then the same should be true
of sentences and their nominalized forms. Consider the relationship between 3.9 and
3.10:
3.9 Tom gave a rose to Harriet.
3.10 a) Tom's gift (of a rose) (to Harriet)
b) Tom's giving of a rose (to Harriet)
From what we have said so far we might expect 3.9 and 3.10 to share at least some
elements of deep structure, even though 3.9 is a full sentence and 3.10a, bare merely
NPs.
CHOMSKY'S 'REMARKS ON NOMINALIZATION' 67
There are, of course, a good many differences between 3.10a and 3.10b. One star-
tling difference is the fact that gift is idiosyncratic morphologically and phono-
logically, while giving is a gerund form, constructed according to perfectly regular
inflectional processes. In addition, not all verbs in English form a nominal along the
lines of gift. For example, the only nominalization we can create for verbs such as
hand,_ send, despatch, are the gerunds. A minimal pair in this respect is offer (which
has offer as its nominalization) and proffer, which has only the gerund.
Both the syntactic and the phonological half of TG had a theory of exceptions to
call upon, however. It was not difficult, therefore, to ignore the differences between
gift and giving and to concentrate on the similarities, particularly the syntactic
similarities. In fact, the phonological component would have little difficulty factoring
out the differences between /gift/ and /giv/ and concentrating on the phonological
similarities. Thus, it seemed that derivational morphology could be handled both
phonologically and syntactically by the machinery independently needed, namely,
the theory of syntactic transformations, the theory of phonological transformations,
and a theory of exceptionality in each domain.
3.2 Chomsky's 'Remarks on Nominalization':
Lexicalist Grammar
3.2.1 Generative Semantics and lexical transformations
Generative grammar developed along two rather different paths from the Standard
Theory established in Aspects. One path was to str.ess the importance of transform-
ations and use this formal device to express as many relationships between linguistic
forms as possible. This led to the appearance of Generative Semantics. The rationale
for these developments, together with much interesting historical background and a
critique of the theory, are presented in Newmeyer (1980), and I shall not discuss
them here. The important points from our point of view are that, in this theory, the
level of deep structure is abolished, or, more accurately, identified with semantic
structure. In the more sophisticated variants of the theory (e.g. Bach, 1968;
McCawley, 1968) the syntactic deep structures of Aspects are replaced by something
resembling representations in logical calculus (formally, a kind of 2nd order predicate
calculus).
The implications this had for morphology were not at first considerable. Inflec-
tional morphology, as we have seen, was regarded as part of the phonological compo-
nent which served to spell out the phonological realizations of syntactic features
(which themselves were distributed by syntactic rules). Derivational morphology was
the result of transformations operating over deep structures in which, for instance,
a nominalization was represented as an underlying sentence. Lees (1960), working
within a theory of generative grammar which predated the Aspects theory, already
derived compounds transformationally from underlying sentences (see Scalise, 1984:
8ff for a review). Thus, the major phenomena of morphology seemed to come under
the purview of syntactic and phon<?logical transformations and the effects of Gener-
ative Semantics seemed to reinforce the trend towards making the major phenomena
of morphology solely the responsibility of syntax and phonology.
j:
·ll,
!:
il
.i
j
I
il
il
'·I'.
!i
:!i
ill
r
.,
'
68 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
In chapter 1 we saw examples of morphological causatives. Generative Semanticists
noticed that a verb such as kill in English could be regarded as a kind of causative.
Thus, it was argued (most famously by McCawley, 1973) that 3.lla is synonymous
with 3.llb:
3.11 a) Tom killed Dick.
b) Tom caused Dick to die.
If this is true, then we would expect them to share a common underlying structure.
In fact, McCawley claimed that sentence 3.12 is three-ways ambiguous, having read-
ings corresponding to 3. 13:
3.12 Tom almost killed Dick.
3.13 a) Tom almost did something, the result of which would have been
Dick's death.
b) Tom did something which almost caused Dick's death.
c) Tom did something to Dick, so injuring him that he almost died.
Therefore, he argued, the underlying form of 3.1la must look something like 3.14
(simplifying McCawley's original representations som~what):
3.14 s
N(\
I VP
Tom(\
V VP
I 1\
CAUSE I \
V VP
1\
BECOME V
1\
NEG NP VP
I I
Dick ALIVE
The adverb almost could then be placed so as to dominate the whole sentence, or
just the VP headed by CAUSE or just the VP headed by BECOME, to obtain
representations corresponding to each of 3.13.
To derive 3.11 from 3.14 a lexical transformation ('Predicate Raising') would take
CHOMSKY'S 'REMARKS ON NOMINALIZATION' 69
the predicate ALIVE and join it to NEG to produce NEG+ ALIVE (='dead'). This
combination would then itself be raised and joined to BECOME to produce 'die',
which would further be raised and joined with CAUSE to become 'kill'. In other
words, Generative Semantics treated even highly idiosyncratic lexical relationships
such as the suppletion between kill and die as effectively underlain by a kind of
'agglutinative' syntax, in which each element of meaning is represented by an
underlying element, such as CAUSE or NEG.
As a theory, Generative Semantics ultimately petered out, but it left its influence
on a number of other approaches within generative grammar. In particular, the idea
of splitting up a word into its semantic constituents, that is, the notion of lexical
decomposition, is a continuing theme in studies of lexical semantics and mor-
phology. 2 We will see that, in more recent treatments of derivational morphology,
ways have been proposed of capturing the relationships noted by Generative Seman-
ticists while remaining within a thoroughly syntactic framework (particularly the
work of Baker discussed in Chapter 7).
3.2.2 Lexicalism
For a variety of reasons having more to do with syntax than morphology, the Gener-
ative Semantics program proved to be antithetical to the basic research programme
which Chomsky inaugurated. The first of Chomsky's replies to Generative Semantics
was 'Remarks on nominalization' (Chomsky, 1970). The primary importance of
this paper for morphology was that it pointed to the need for a separate theory of
derivational· morphology, distinct from the theory of syntactic transformations.
Chomsky's 'Remarks' have been ably summarized in several places (including
Hoekstra et al., 1980, Newmeyer, 1980; Scalise, 1984), so I will present just a brief
resume. Chomsky argued that transformations should capture regular correspon-
dences between linguistic form, and that idiosyncratic information belonged in the
lexicon. This is related to the familiar question of productivity. A syntactic transfor-
mation in the ideal case is supposed to capture productive and regular relationships
between sentences. For instance, with a handful of systematic exceptions, all transi-
tive verbs in English form a passive. Moreover, in this construction, the complement
which is adjacent to the verb in active form always corresponds to the subject of the
passive form. Morphologically, of course, passive participles differ from one another,
but (nearly) all verbs have an identifiable passive participle and this is always identical
in form to the past participle. Finally, the active and corresponding passive sentences
have extremely close meanings. 3 Thus, there is something general and regular about
the passive relation in English. It is therefore an appropriate candidate for a transfor-
mational treatment.
Chomsky contrasted this ideal with the situation found with English nominaliza-
tions of the sort illustrated earlier in 3.10a. He called these derived nominalizations,
since they are traditionally regarded as the result of derivational morphology and ·
therefore contrast with the gerundive nominalizations in -ing, which were regarded
as the result of inflectional processes. 4 The essence of the argument is that derived
nominalizations share many of the properties of words, including monomorphemic
words, while the gerundive nominalizations behave more like syntactic collocations.
Moreover, derived nominalizations are morphologically, syntactically and seman-
tically idiosyncratic, while gerundive nominalizations are regular and transparent.
il,
li
!;
![
:l
I
'.:,
"
[,
70 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
Chomsky capitalizes on these differences to argue that it would be wrong to lump the
two kinds of phenomenon together by deriving both types from a common source
and applying separate batteries of transformations. Only the gerundives can be
derived transformationally. The derived nominalizations are not derived at all (!),
they are listed in the lexicon. Let's now look at some of these differences in turn.
Syntactic differences: all sentences have a gerundive nominalization, but not all
sentences have the expected derived nominalization. More generally, we can say that
gerundives inherit the subcategorization properties of the verb, while this is not gen-
erally true of the derived norninalizations. Thus amusement can't have a direct object
in 3.15c, unlike the gerundive in 3.15b:
3.15 a) Tom amused the children with his stories.
b) Tom's amusing the children with his stories ...
c) *Tom's amusement of the children with his stories ...
Gerundives are modified by adverbials, like verbs, while derived nominalizations
are modified by adjectives, like nouns:
3.16 a) Dick sarcastically criticized the book.
b) D. k' [sarcastically] . . . . h b k
1c s cnt1c1zmg t e oo .
*sarcastic
) D. k' [*sarcastically] . . . f h b k
c 1c s . cnt1c1sm o t e oo .
sarcasuc
Semantic differences: the meaning of the gerundive norninalization is always
derivable compositionally from that of the underlying verb. In fact, it may be a little
misleading to say that a gerundive has a meaning distinct from its verb in the first
place; it is simply a nominal form of the verb, used to name the action, state or
whatever (with perhaps additional aspectual nuances). Derived norninalizations
always seem to add some component of meaning and this is generally unpredict-
able .5 For instance, the meanings of amusement in 3.17 are something like 'the state
resulting from being amused' and 'equipment designed to provide amusement in a
fairground etc.'. In neither case is it a 'pure' nominalization of the verb:
3.17 a) Tom's stories provided endless amusement.
b) The children spent all their pocket money on the amusements.
The gerundive is impermissible in these contexts, 3.18:
3.18 a) *Tom's stories provided endless amusing.
b) *The children spent all their pocket money on the amusing(s).
Morphological differences: a gerundive can be formed from any verb whatever
by adding -ing. Derived nominalizations are formed in all sorts of ways and often
involve drastic allomorphy or suppletion, and in general the morphological means is
CHOMSKY'S 'REMARKS ON NOMINALIZATION' 71
unpredictable. Moreover, as we saw earlier, not all verbs .have derived
nominalizations.
While gerundive nominals are not identical to derived nominals, there are some
important similarities. Some of these will become apparent in later sections. One
morphological similarity is that derived nominalizations are usually derived from a
base which is formally relatable to a corresponding verb. In some cases, it is by
simple affixation to the verb, as with amuse=> amusement. We therefore need a way
of capturing these relations in the absence of transformations.
Another similarity is syntactic. In nominalizations such as those of 3.10 (repeated
here as 3.20) the possessor expression, Tom's, corresponds to the subject of the
corresponding sentence, 3.19:
3.19 Tom gave a book to Harriet.
3.20 a) Tom's giving a book (to Harriet).
b) Tom's gift of a book (to Harriet).
A good many derived nominalizations permit a possessor of this sort to function as
a kind of subject. How is this to be represented?
Chomsky's answer to the first problem was to suggest that a theory of the lexicon
be constructed in which the relevant relationships could be captured by lexical redun-
dancy rules. This was tantamount to a call for a new, generative, theory of mor-
phology. Much of the work which will be described in later portions of this book can
be seen as a response to this call.
Chomsky's reply to the second problem was to have far-reaching significance
throughout the theory of grammar: he proposed a radical revision to the theory of
phrase structure rules. Instead of rules such as 3.21 giving us partial trees such as
those of 3.22, he argued for a general rule schema of the type 3.23, which generates
a structure 3.24:
3.21
3.22
a) S
b) VP
c) NP
d) Det
(a) s
NP
v
(Det)
NP
A
NP VP
VP
(NP) (PP)
N (PP)
(b)
ffi
v NP PP
3.23 a) X"~ SpecX X'
b) X'~ X (YP) (ZP)
NP
ffi
Det N pp
NP
72 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
3.24 X"
Spec
X'
ffi
X YP ZP
In 3.23, X is a variable standing for any major category (N, V, A, P), X" ('X-double
bar') corresponds to XP (i.e. NP, VP, AP, PP, and also S). The X category is the
head of the phrase (and, since it represents a word, that is, since it is a lexical cat-
egory, we call this the lexical head of the phrase). The X' and X" nodes are called
projections from this lexical head. In some varieties of the theory there are at
maximum two bar levels, so that X" represents the maximal projection. (In other
versions of the theory, the maximal projection of certain categories might involve
more bar levels.) The intermediate category X' ('X-bar') is an innovation, since no
such category is systematically provided for in the theory of phrase structure
grammar adumbrated in Aspects (though such a thing isn't ruled out either). It also
provides the name for the new theory: X-bar syntax.
The intermediate X' category is of great importance, for it allows us to draw a par-
allel between a verb heading a verb phrase and governing its complements on the one
hand and a noun heading a noun phrase and governing its complements. Similarly,
we can draw a parallel between the subject of a verb phrase and the determiner of
a noun phrase, as in the examples 3.19, 3.20 above. In 3.19 Tom is the Specifier of
the S category (which is assumed to be a special type of maximal projection) and in
3.20 Tom's is analysed as the Specifier of the NP category. This means that possessor
NPs such as Tom's, as well as possessive pronouns such as my, his, etc., are regarded
as a species of Determiner, similar to the definite and indefinite articles, and the dem-
onstratives as in that hat. It is now a short step to identify the notion of 'Specifier'
with the grammatical relation 'subject' (at least for nouns and verbs).
For syntax, there are many advantages to a theory of this sort and it has been more-
or-less universally accepted as a formalization of phrase structure grammar. The
theory is of importance to morphology because some have suggested that a phrase
structure grammar is the best way to represent word structure, and that means that
we would expect the X-bar schema to be applicable to morphology too. I shall discuss
proposals of this sort in §6.2.
3.2.3 Concluding remarks on 'Remarks'
'Remarks on nominalization' can be thought of as 'Remarks on derivational mor-
phology' since exactly the same arguments apply to most derivational processes.
This is enshrined in a principle formulated by Jackendoff (1972), the (Extended)
Lexicalist Hypothesis. The content of this is that transformations should only be
HALLE'S 'PROLEGOMENA' 73
permitted to operate on syntactic constituents and to insert or delete named items
(like prepositions). This means that they can't be used to insert, delete, permute or
substitute parts of words. This in turn means that they can't be used in derivational
morphology. This principle was adhered to rigidly by the so-called lexicalists (which
soon meant most generative grammarians). Moreover, the Lexicalist Hypothesis
came to be extended by some to the domain of inflection, too (the Strong Lexicalist
Hypothesis).
Another important extension followed, as some of the transformations of the Stan-
dard Theory were abandoned and replaced by non-transformational devices. For
some syntacticians (e.g. Bresnan, 1978; Wasow, 1977) argued that even Passive
should be regarded as a lexical relationship, that is, that it should be formalized as
a lexical redundancy rule. There are many strong arguments for taking this step (par-
ticularly in the case of the 'adjectival' passive) though space doesn't permit me to
rehearse them in this book. One of the consequences of this move was the develop-
ment of a theory of syntax based in the lexicon, Lexical Functional Grammar (LFG).
Even in models which are not as heavily oriented towards the lexicon as LFG, a
good many syntactic relationships formerly realized by transformations are treated as
statements of lexical redundancy. Even where this trend is partial it threatens to lead
to the mirror image of the conceptual problem which Chomsky identified in the
Generative Semantics programme. For if everything were to be handled lexically,
how could we distinguish between derived nominalizations and gerundives?
The saga of nominalizations illustrates vividly the way that changes in sets of
assumptions in one component of grammar (e.g. syntax) will have repercussions for
morphology, a point that will be a recurrent theme as we proceed. We will return
to the questions raised here later in the book. For the remainder of this chapter we
examine the way linguists met Chomsky's call for a theory of generative morphology.
3.3 Halle's 'Prolegomena'
I said in the previous section that Chomsky's 'Remarks' had opened the way to the
development of a generative theory of morphology. However, generative gram-
marians were rather slow to respond to this initiative. One of the earliest, and in
many respects most influential, essays in this field came from a linguist who had for
a long time been Chomsky's collaborator in the development of generative phono-
logy, Morris Halle.
Halle's (1973) programmatic statement begins by asking how grammatical theory
is to answer the following three questions: how does the grammar encode:
(i) the inventory of actually existing words in the language?
(ii) the order in which morphemes appear within words?
(iii) the idiosyncratic features of individual words?
Behind these questions there are a number of (largely) tacit assumptions. These
assumptions will figure in developments to be discussed later and so it is worth
teasing them out before we pro(;eed.
The first question conceals the assumption that we are characterizing the know-
74 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
ledge of the ideal language user, not that of ordinary mortals, who, in general, will
not actually know all the words in their language. However, there is room for con-
fusion here. Generative grammar is concerned with the grammatical systems of
human beings, as represented in the mind of the language user. In Chomsky's more
recent terms (Chomsky, 1986b), it is concerned with internalized language (or !-
language). It does not deal with the language itself, what Chomsky calls externa-
lized language (or E-Language). What we would like to be able to say is that it
doesn't matter what the (fixed) vocabulary of the language is and how many real
language users know what proportion of it, provided we have some way of dis-
tinguishing between existing words and non-words. Nor should it matter to
morphological theory that some speakers might have various archaisms, technical
jargons, loan words and so on in their vocabulary which are missing from the lexicons
of certain other speakers. Where the problem has theoretical significance is when we
then try to draw the additional distinction between actual words and potential words
(see chapter 2).
The second question seems uncontroversial, though in fact we could refine it a
little. Halle observes that the ideal speaker of English knows that the word transfor-
mational has the morphemic composition trans+ form+ at+ ion+ al, and that the
component morphemes come in the order given: any other sequence, say,
*al +ion+ at+ form+ trans, is impossible. However, in many languages it is possible
for morphemes to appear in different orders and for this to be associated with syste-
matic differences in meaning. An example is given by Muysken (1981) in his dis-
cussion of word structure in Ecuadorian Quechua. This language has a causative .
suffix, -chi, meaning 'to cause' or 'to allow', and a reciprocal suffix -naku. They can
occur in either order with respect to each other, with systematic differences m
mearung:
3.25 maqa-naku-
beat REC
ya- chi- _n
DURCAUSE 3
'He is causing them to beat each other.'
3.26 maqa-chi- naku-rka- n
beat CAUSE REC pl. 3
'They let each other be beaten.'
This type of phenomenon is not especially uncommon in highly agglutinative
languages. What it shows is that the grammar must record the significance of mor-
pheme order, whether this means significance for the meaning of the word or
significance for the well-formedness of the word itself.
Halle introduces the question of lexical idiosyncrasy by turning to derived nomina-
lizations in English. Words can.be idiosyncratic in a variety of ways: semantically (by
having some unpredictable aspect to their meaning), phonologically (by being an
exception to a phonological rule) and morphologically. Morphological idiosyncrasy is
illustrated by the data in 3.27-9. Some of these derived nominals are formed from
the suffix -al, some from the suffix -(a)tion (in some variant) and some from either.
3.27 a) arrival, refusal
b) *arrivation, *refusation
HALLE'S 'PROLEGOMENA' 75
3.28 a) derivation, description
b) *derival, *describal
3.29 a) approval, recital, proposal
b) approbation, recitation, proposition
Halle distinguishes derivational morphology from inflection in his 1973 paper, and
he points out that it is not just derivational morphology which exhibits these types
of idiosyncrasy. Inflectional morphology is no less wayward. Halle's nicest examples
are all from Russian.
Russian nouns, it will be recalled, inflect for case. One of these is the Instrumental,
whose basic meaning is 'using noun as an instrument'. For instance, the Instrumental
form molotkom 'with a hammer' is found in Vanja udaril Sasu molotkom 'Vanja hit
Sasha with-a-hammer'. One of the many other uses of the Instrumental occurs with
a lexically restricted set of nouns, including names for seasons, and the words noc'
'night', and den' 'day'. Here the Instrumental can be used to mean 'during'. Thus,
leto 'summer' gives us letom 'during the summer', while den' gives us dn'om 'during
the day'. However, a word like god 'year', or maj 'May', or vtomik 'Tuesday' cannot
be used in the Instrumental with this meaning. This, then, is an instance of semantic
idiosyncrasy in inflection.
Halle offers a somewhat involved example of phonological idiosyncrasy in the stress
system of Russian nouns. I shall illustrate his point with a similar, but slightly sim-
pler, example from Czech declension. Czech feminine nouns ending in -a in the
nominative singular have the declension shown in 3.30a. However, some nouns with
a long fa:/ in the root shorten this in oblique cases in the plural, as seen in 3.30b.
A handful of nouns apply this shortening only in the genitive plural, 3.30c (length
is represented by an acute accent in Czech orthography):
3.30
Nominative
Genitive
Dative
Accusative
Prepositional
Instrumental
a) Sg. Pl.
spniva spnivy
spnivy spniv
sprave spravam
spravu spravy
sprave spravach
spravou spravami
'repair'
b) Sg. Pl.
vrana vrany
vniny vran
vraiie vranam
vranu vrany
vraiie vranach
vranou vranami
'crow'
c) Sg. Pl.
jama jamy
jamu Jam
jame jamam
jamu jamy
jame jamach
jamou jamarm
'pit'
This means that we have a phonological rule of vowel shortening whose application
is governed partly by purely lexical factors. That is, words have to be specially
marked in the grammar in some fashion if they are to undergo this rule. Of this
subset of words, some will have to be marked only to undergo the rule in the genitive
plural, and not in other oblique cases in the plural. Thus, a phonological rule has to
have access to the structure of an inflectional paradigm.
Inflectional morphology is notorious for being morphologically idiosyncratic. It is
very common to find words in a particular inflectional form taking the 'wrong
ending'. The Russian humorist Zoscenko once wrote a short story about the
difficulties a nightwatchman had in ordering a batch of five pokers because he (like
most Russians) didn't know the genitive plural form of the word for 'poker'. (Alas
.~.f..i
I
..
76 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
for students of Russian, nouns modified by numerals greater than 'four' have to go
into the genitive plural.)
On Halle's model, the non-existence of words such as *arrivation or *derival is
interpreted as something idiosyncratic. That is, such words are expected to exist and
thus we need a special explanation for why they don't. This is to regard *arrivation
(and millions of non-words like it) as an accidental gap. This is a conclusion some
have found suspect, because an accidental gap is usually thought of as a 'hole' in a
paradigm, and derivational morphology is not usually considered to operate over
paradigms. In inflection, on the other hand, we encounter quite uncontroversial
examples of accidental gaps. For instance, some Russian verbs lack a 1st pers. sg.
form, even though there is no particularly strong grammatical reason (say, semantic
or phonological) for not having such a form.
The model Halle proposes to answer his set of questions is based on the assumption
that the lexicon consists of a list of morphemes and that these are concatenated by
word fonnation rnles (WFRs). However, these rules overgenerate. In order to account
for the fact that only a subset of the possible morpheme strings are actual or possible
words, Halle first postulates a Dictionary which lists all the occurring word forms.
Idiosyncratic information about words is recorded in rather a brute force fashion by
means of a Filter. This adds idiosyncratic semantic information, adds diacritic mor-
phophonemic features to block phonological rul$S from applying, and marks acci-
dental gaps with the feature [-lexical insertion( This feature doesn't, apparently,
prevent the item from entering the Dictionary, but it does prevent it from being
inserted into syntactic trees by the lexical insertion transformations. This part of the
model is shown in figure 3.2, which includes a box labelled 'Syntax'. This represents .
the route from Dictionary to deep structures which is realized by lexical insertion. ,,
The List ofMorphemes is little more than that, a list. However, its members contain ,
a certain amount of useful information. For instance, a morpheme such as take will
be marked with a morphosyntactic class membership feature such as [+EN] to
indicate that it forms its past participle by adding -en.
A further task of the WFRs in Halle's model is to compose affixes with bound
stems, and record the syntactic category of the output, as shown in examples 3.31:
3.31 [STEM+ant]A: vac+ant, pregn+ant, mendic+ant, ambul+ant
[STEM+ity]N: pauc+ity, prob+ity, credul+ity, serendip+ity
They must also be able to compose affixes with words, taking into account the
syntactic category membership of the input and that of the output, as in 3.32:
3.32 . a) [VERB+ al] A: recital, appraisal, conferral
b) [ADJ +ity] N: serenity, fecundity, obesity
List of
Morphemes
Word
Formation
Rules
Figure 3.2 Halle's (1973) model (simplified)
HALLE'S 'PROLEGOMENA' 77
In addition to indicating the syntactic category of the output word, some WFRs must
add semantic information. For instance, the affix -hood, as in boyhood, changes a con-
crete ([-abstract]) noun into a [+abstract] noun. This is a general property of this
affix, and not just an idiosyncrasy of certain of the words so derived. Therefore, this
fact must be captured by the WFRs, and not in the Filter, for the Filter only adds
unpredictable changes in meaning. Finally, some properties of a word are inherited
when that word is affixed. For instance, the -ing gerundives of English form nomi-
nalizations which retain (some of) the subcategorization characteristics of the verb,
as in the giving ofmoney to charity. In some manner which is not clearly specified, the
WFRs are supposed to effect such inheritance, provided it is a general property of
the affix.
Halle's model is actually more articulated than would appear from figure 3.2. First,
recall that WFRs may combine affixes with words as well as with stems. But the List
of Morphemes doesn't contain any words; they reside in the Dictionary. This means
there must be a loop linking the WFRs with the Dictionary, so that the WFRs can
take words from the Dictionary and add affixes to them.
Halle raises another point which tends to be overlooked in phonological and mor-
phological theorizing, the phonological conditioning of morphological rules. From
this phenomenon he draws interesting conclusions about the nature of WFRs.
There are two ways in which phonological structure can influence word formation.
First, a morpheme may be restricted to combining only with morphemes of a par-
ticular phonological form. Halle himself doesn't discuss this situation specifically,
but a number of examples are given by Carstairs (1987). In Hungarian the 2nd pers.
sg. affix for verbs in the indefinite form of the present tense has two allomorphs, -ol
and -(a)sz. These allomorphs cannot be derived from a common UR by motivated
phonological rules of Hungarian. They are thus like the past participle affix allo-
morphs -en and -ed (spoken vs walked) or the plural allomorphs -z and -en (cows vs.
oxen) in English. However, unlike that of the English examples, the distribution of
the Hungarian affixes is predictable: -ol combines with a stein ending in a sibilant and
-(a)sz appears elsewhere.
The second type of phonological conditioning occurs when the application of a
WFR is determined by the phonological shape of the output of the rule. A familiar
example of this is the inchoative/causative affix -en, which attaches to adjectives to
produce verbs meaning 'become/cause to be Adj' (e.g. red~ redden). Now, this affix
seems to be subject to phonological conditioning of the first type, since it .only
attaches to monosyllabic stems and, moreover, only if they end in an obstruent,
optionally preceded by a sonorant. Thus we observe the data of 3.33:
3.33 a) quicken b) *slowen
redden *greenen
roughen *apten
shorten *laxen
However, there are also examples such as 3.34 in which this restriction appears to
have been violated, for -en has attached to a stem ending in two obstruents, /ft/ or
Jstf:
3.34 soften, moisten, fasten
78 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
The intriguing thing about these examples is that a subsequent phonological rule
applies to delete the /t/. Then the -en is attached to a stern which respects the phono-
logical condition, namely sof-, mois- or fas-. This means that the condition must be
stated as follows: -en attaches to monosyllabic stems which will ultimately end in
(sonorant plus) obstruent after the operation of phonological rules.
In the Standard Theory all phonological rules apply after all syntactic rules. But
the word formation component introduced by Halle strictly precedes the syntax (see
figure 3.2). Therefore, in order to state such phonologically defined constraints on
surface forms it is necessary to allow the phonology to send words back again to the
word formation component.
These two refinements to the model are illustrated in figure 3.3, in which loops from
the Dictionary and from the phonological component to the WFR component have
been added. This is the final form of Halle's model of word formation.
Halle makes a number of important theoretical observations about this model.
First, he says that the WFRs and especially the Filter will have to perform operations
which are unlike those performed by standard transformational rules or phonological
rules. Second, the organization of the morphological component is different from that
standardly assumed in the Aspects model, in which a derivation proceeds in a strictly
sequential fashion from basic form, through intermediate derived forms, to the final
output. In Halle's model, the grammar allows a form to loop back and resubject itself
to processes which it has already had the opportunity to undergo. This permits
certain grammatical processes a 'global' view of the derivation, since, in effect, they
can be triggered or blocked depending on what their later consequences are going to
be. Third, the examples of phonological conditioning on outputs suggest that the ~.
format of the WFRs has to be different from standard transformations. Although he
doesn't formulate the rule in question, Halle says that the grammatical process within"
the WFR component which accounts for the 'soften' examples must have access to-.
the form which is produced by the phonology. This means that some WFRs, at least,
are not just adjoining one morpheme to another, but are a totally different sort of
formal operation, namely, a derivational constraint. In other words, an affixation rule
'conspires' with the phonological component to ensure that the output of the deri-
vation is constrained so as to comply with a certain canonical form.
The conclusions drawn from this are that WFRs might be grammatical processes
of a very different type from those of syntax or phonology. This is seen as an advan-
tage, because it locates all the formally unusual processes in the word formation
component, leaving the rules of syntax and phonology in their standard format.
There are a great many questions left unclear in Halle's model, some of which will
List of
Morphemes
Word
Formation
Rules
Dictionary
Phonology r----------j
Figure 3.3 Halle's (1973) model (final version)
SIEGEL'S LEVEL ORDERING HYPOTHESIS 79
be broached later in the book. However, the purpose of Halle's paper was not to
solve problems so much as to raise central questions in an area which till then had
been largely neglected. The fact that all the questions which Halle raised are still the
subject of intense debate gives an indication of how successful Halle was in this aim.
3.4 Siegel's level ordering hypothesis
An important feature of generative grammar since its inception has been the use of
the mechanism by which rules can be stipulated to apply in a fixed order, that is the
mechanism of extrinsic rule ordering. However, whenever rule ordering has been
invoked it has prompted an adverse reaction in many linguists. One of the more
telling arguments against extrinsic ordering is that it is difficult to see how a child
can learn in which order the rules are supposed to apply. One way in which we can
have our cake and eat it with respect to ordering is to split the grammar into well-
defined and well-motivated blocks, components or modules, and establish an
ordering between the blocks. This strategy will work perfectly whenever all the rules
of the earlier block may or must precede all those of the later block. If the relative
ordering of the blocks can be easily related to some other salient property of the
grammar, then this type of ordering will presumably not pose a learnability problem.
Putting sets of rules or processes together in the same block might be expected to
correlate with other sets of similarities between those processes. This idea was used
by Dorothy Siegel (1979) to capture certain commonalities in the phonological and
morphological behaviour of affixes in English. In SPE a distinction is drawn between
two sorts of affix, 6 associated with different boundaries, + and # . Of these, the
+(morpheme or 'plus') boundary affixes and the #(word or 'cross-hatch') boundary
affixes are the most important for morphological theory. Siegel uses the terms Class
I and Class II respectively to refer to these affixes. She shows that they can be distin-
guished in terms of their phonological properties and their morphological properties.
Commonly cited examples of Class I and Class II affixes are:
Class I suffixes: +ion, +ity, +y, +al, +ic, +ate, +ous, +ive
Class I prefixes: re+, con+, de+, sub+, pre+, in+, en+, be+
Class II suffixes: #ness, #less, #hood, #ful, #ly, #y, #like
Class II prefixes: re#, sub#, un#, non#, de#, semi#, anti#
Phonology distinguishes the two classes of affixes in a variety of ways. The Class
I ( + boundary) affixes trigger and undergo phonological processes while the Class II
(# boundary) affixes are phonologically inert. Most importantly, Class I suffixes may
cause stress shift in the base to which they attach. Class II suffixes never do this (they
are stress-neutral).
3.35 Class I Class II
productive productivity productiveness
fragile fragllity fragileness
Class I affixes may trigger other non-automatic phonological processes, that is, pro-
cesses which depend on precisely which types of morpheme are involved, and are not
80
.·~
EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
simply triggered by all forms having a given phonological composltlon. Class II
affixes may only trigger automatic processes, i.e. those which apply irrespective of
the morphological structure of the word. For instance, the Class I -ity triggers a rule
of Trisyllabic Laxing, one of whose effects is to turn [ai] into [i]; the Class I -y
spirantizes /t/ to Jsf. However, the Class II -ness and Class II -y (a homophone of
Class I -y) don't condition any such changes:
3.36
fatuous
frag [ai] 1
democrat
cat
Class I
fatuity
frag [i] lity
democracy
Class II
fatuousness
catty
Class I affixes may undergo non-automatic phonological processes; Class II affixes
never undergo phonological processes simply as a result of attaching to their base.
An oft-cited example is that of nasal assimilation in prefixes, in which a final Jnf
becomes labial (/m/) before a labial (/p b m/) and a liquid (/1 r/) before a liquid:
3.37 Class I
inedible
but illegal, *inlegal
impossible *inpossible
contain
but complain *compliant
Class II
uneatable
unlawful, *ullawful
unruly, *urruly
non-basic
correct *conrect non-racial
(notice also: coincide *conincide)
Some Class I prefixes attract the stress from the base word to themselves (at least in
some words). This doesn't standardly happen with Class II prefixes:
3.38 a) finite~ infinite
b) marine ~ submarine
There are several ways in which the two types of affix differ morphologically. The
class I affixes appear nearer to the root than the Class II affixes when there are
members of both classes in a word. This is referred to by Selkirk (1982) as the Affix
Ordering Generalization. It is this which rules out sequences of Class II+ Class I
suffixes, as in *hopefulity, and prefixes, as in *irrefillable. Class I affixes may attach
to stems (i.e. bound morphemes). Class II affixes only ever attach to words:
3.39 Class I Class II
re-fer re-fur
flacc-id child-like
in-ept un-fair
tortu-ous motion~less
Notice that the re- of refer is a different morpheme from the re- of re-fur. (The latter
has a meaning, for one thing.)
ARONOFF'S WORD FORMATION IN GENERATIVE GRAMMAR 81
These facts suggest that there are systematic differences between the two sorts of
affix. Siegel shows how we can account for the stress-neutrality of Class II affixes by
assuming that the two types of affixation take place in separate blocks, with Class I
affixation occurring first, and assuming that the stress rules apply between the two
blocks. This gives the model of 3.40:
3.40 Class I 'affixation
Stress rules
Class II affixation
For instance, to derive productivity, we first add together pro, duct, ive and ity (all
Class I). Then we apply the stress rules which tell us that -ity attracts stress to the
previous syllable to give productivity. On the other hand, to derive productiveness, we
first concatentate pro, duct and ive, then we apply the stress rules, to give productive,
and only then do we have the chance to add the Class II suffix -ness, givipg produc-
tiveness. Since the affixation of -ness occurs 'downstream' of the stress rules, we
correctly predict that -ness cannot alter the stress already assigned to productive.
Fallowing the terminology of Margaret Allen (1978), the boxes are more often
referred to as levels (or, more recently, strata). The claim embodied in Siegel's
dissertation is known as the Level Ordering Hypothesis.
Allen (1978) observed that when words are concatenated to form compound words,
as in houseboat, the components of the compound behave rather like Class II affixes,
in that they fail either to condition or to undergo non-automatic phonological rules.
Moreover, such compounds don't seem to accept Class I or Class II affixes: passion
fruit, but not *com+ passion fruit or *passion fruit# y. However, compounds do accept
regular inflections, e.g. [[house boat] s], [[over price] ing], [[emulsion paint] ed].
We can explain these facts if we assume that compounding (of words, at least) takes
place after Class II affixation but before (regular) inflection. This model is known as
the Extended Level Ordering Hypothesis: 7
3.41 Level I (+ affixation)
Stress rules
Level II (# affixation)
Level III (compounding)
Level IV (regular inflection)
The (Extended) Level Ordering Hypothesis is of great importance in the develop-
ment of Lexical Phonology (chapter 4). We will discuss the further fate of the
hypothesis in chapter 6. ·
3. 5 Aronoff's Word Formation zn Generative
Grammar
3.5.1 The model in outline
The model of word formation proposed by Mark Aronoff (1976) marks a watershed
in the development of morphological theory within generative grammar. A good deal
'I
J.!
l'j
\I
82 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
of the work done subsequently is an extension of, or reaction to, Aronoff's theory.
The model shares certain characteristics with that of Halle, most obviously in
assuming the existence of a separate component in the grammar which houses word
formation rules. In addition, Aronoff assumes roughly the same model of syntax
and phonology as Halle, namely the Standard Theory of Aspects as modified in
Chomsky's 'Remarks' (1970). However, Aronoff differs from Halle on a number of
fundamental points. I shall give a brief overview of Aronoff's model, against the
background of Halle's, and then discuss the motivation behind the innovations.
The most important feature of Aronoff's theory is the assumption that word forma-
tion rules operate over words and not morphemes, that is, Aronoff adopts a theory
of word-based morphology. As a consequence, the rules which add affixes to pure
stems in Halle's model have no place in Aronoff's. A number of implications flow
from this assumption and we will therefore be looking at it in some detail. A second
feature is that Aronoff explicitly restricts himself to derivational morphology. This
is because he regards all other aspects of morphology, including cliticization (or 'in-
corporation' 8 ) and inflection, as syntactic. Curiously, no mention is ever made of
compounding, though one presumes Aronoff would have regarded this as syntactic,
too. Finally, Aronoff only considers what can properly be called 'productive' mor-
phological processes. This, too, is an important and rather controversial aspect of his
theory, and requires some closer examination.
The typical operation of a WFR, then, is to take an existing word and add an affix
to it. However, it may turn out that other phonological changes will occur, in the
base, sometimes of a fairly drastic kind. This results in allomorphy which is often
lexically or morphologically governed (i.e. only certain words or morphemes undergo
it) and which in some cases is substantially different from bona fide phonological
alternations.
Aronoff proposes that such alternations be handled not in the phonology but in
the word formation component, by means of special rules called allomorphy rules.
One example discussed by Aronoff is the verb suffix -fy as in, electrify. Words ending
in this suffix (fairly) productively nominalize by taking the affix-ation. However, the
-fy is then replaced by an allomorphic variant -fie. In SPE this alternation is handled
by assuming that the /k/ of -fie is present in URs and that it is deleted before a word
boundary.
3.42 # # elektri + fi:k # # ~elektri + fi: (~elektrifai)
However, Aronoff argues that this is an arbitrary solution. In effect, we are treating
something totally idiosyncratic as though it were formally similar to a regular process
(namely, a genuinely phonological alternation). He concludes that it is better to
regard such cases as partial suppletion, by writing a rule stating that when -ation is
added to the suffix -fy, the latter is replaced by the -fie allomorph.
If word formation is word-based how do we account for the formation of words
such as lubricant? This word is apparently derived by means of a suffix -ant, which
has a relatively transparent meaning (viz. 'someone/something that performs the
action of VERB-ing'). But the verb in question is lubricate. Therefore, word-based
morphology predicts that the form should be *lubricatant. This is not an isolated
example. Nearly all verbs ending in -ate which allow affixation by -ant behave simi-
larly: negociant, officiant. Exceptions are words like injlatant and dilatant. However,
ARONOFF'S WORD FORMATION IN GENERATIVE GRAMMAR 83
interesting!y, in these words the -ate is part of a morpheme (-flate, -late), whereas in
the lubricant case it is a morpheme itself. On the basis of a number of examples like
this from a variety of languages, Aronoff argues that there must be rules which selec-
tively delete certain morphemes which are adjacent to other morphemes. Such a rule
is called a truncation rule. It has the general form of 3.43:
3.43 [[root+A]x+Bly
1 2 3 =>1 0 3
where X and Y are major lexical categories.
Allomorphy rules and truncation rules both have the function of patching up the
phonological form of words which have been produced by WFRs. For this reason
(echoing the terminology of ~PE) they are collectively called adjustment rules
(though the SPE term readjustment rule tends to be used more commonly). They
mediate between the output of WFRs proper and the phonological component
and perform some of the messier phonological operations which are handled by
supposedly phonological rules in SPE.
Each type of readjustment rule performs drastic operations on words. However,
truncation rules are constrained by the schema of 3.43 to delete named morphemes
in the environment of other morphemes. Similarly, Aronoff restricts allomorphy
rules (which in principle could perform any operation whatever). His characterization
is (1976: 98): 'A rule which effects a phonological change, but which only applies to
certain morphemes in the immediate environment of certain other morphemes ... ',
and such rules 'cannot introduce segments which are not otherwise motivated as
underlying phonological segments of the language.' This is a property which is later
to appear (vvithin the framework of Lexical Phonology) under the name of structure
preservatior.. Under Aronoff's overall assumptions, structure preservation
distinguishes allomorphy rules quite sharply from phonological rules proper.
Readjustment rules will be discussed in more depth in Part II, when we explore
the implications of Aronoff's assumptions for phonological theory. Now we turn to
a more detailed examination of the WFRs themselves, before :finally asking what
motivated Aronoff's initial assumptions.
3.5.2 The form and function of WFRs
I have said that Aronoff assumes a word-based morphology: WFRs are defined
solely over words, and those words belong to major syntactic classes (roughly the
'open-ended' lexical classes). Scalise (1984: 40; slightly modified) spells out these
assumptions as follows:
1 The bases of WFRs are words.
2 These words must be existing words. Thus, a possible but non-existent word
cannot be the base of a WFR.
3 WFRs can take as a base only a single word, no more (e.g. phrases) and no less
(e.g. bound forms).
4 Both the input and
5 the output of a WFR must be members of the categories N, V, A.
We will see later that most of these assumptions have been challenged.
'l
!
j
.,
I
.
\..
,;
:!
,,
<i-
i,
84 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
A further important property of WFRs is that they only ever operate over a single
type of syntactically or semantically defined base (the Unitary Base Hypothesis or
UBH). Thus, an affix may attach to members of the category 'abstract noun', or
'transitive verb', but never to a class which can only be defined disjunctively, such
as 'either noun or transitive verb'. There are some apparent exceptions to this, such
as affixes which attach to either nouns or adjectives. However, within the theory of
syntactic features which Aronoff is presupposing it is possible to refer to these as a
natural class, that of 'nominals', defined as either of the two categories bearing the
feature [+ N] . In other cases where a disjunction appears to be necessary, Aronoff
argues that we are dealing with two homophonous affixes, and that this can be seen
in the difference in properties of the affixes, independently of the different bases to
which they attach.
Not only must the base of a WFR be unique but so must the operation (e.g. the
affixation) it performs. This means in particular that a WFR can't add a prefix and
a suffix simultaneously. Nor could a WFR add one affix and delete another affix, or
add an affix and at the same time change a vowel from front to back, or retract the
position of stress.
It will be recalled that the WFRs in Halle's model not only defined the syntactic
category of the output but also added other syntactic and semantic features such as
[+abstract]. In addition they defined the meaning ofthe new word. The same is true
of Aronoff's SFRs. Again, like (some of) Halle's rules, the WFRs will specify the
type of boundary which separates the concatenated affix from its base, as well as
retaining the internal bracketing. A hackneyed example of such a process is the WFR
which attaches the suffix -er to verbs to produce an agentive noun with the meaning
'one who VERB-s'. This can be represented as 3.44 (cf Aronoff, 1976: 50)9:
3.44 [[X] v#er] ]N 'one who Xs habitually, professionally, .. .''
In word-based morphology rules can't combine bound morphemes to each other,
for only words can form the base of a WFR. However, it is clear that there are many
words which, while not formed productively by means of WFRs, nonetheless have
an articulated structure. English speakers know, for instance, that there is some mor-
phological relationship between words such as possible, legible, edible, tangible, prob-
able. Aronoff therefore argues that the WFRs can operate 'backwards' to analyse
such words into components such as [poss + ible] A· In this way we can account for
the intuition that each word contains a component which contributes some sort of
meaning ('such that X can be Y-ed' very roughly), and which determines the syn-
tactic class of the :final word. This component is the morpheme -able. Since the WFR
acts to analyse an existing word and not produce a new one, there is no reason to
expect it to identify a proper major class word base in addition to the suffix. All that
we know about the stem is that it has the form pass-, and in the case of other such
stems we may know a little about its meaning, if it has one, and its allomorphy
properties.
Aronoff's WFRs, like Halle's, are 'once-only' rules: once a word has been formed,
and registered in the dictionary, it can't be unformed. This distinguishes WFRs from
syntactic rules (since there is no obvious sense in which sentences, once constructed,
are stored). Therefore, WFRs are best regarded as lexical redundancy rules. 10
ARONOFF'S WORD FORMATION IN GENERATIVE GRAMMAR 85
3.5.3 Justifying the model
Aronoff departs from Halle's model in a number of respects and each of these
departures requires some justification. The assumptions we will look at here are:
(i) only derivational morphology is properly lexical
(ii) word-based morphology
(iii) the organization of the Dictionary
The essence of Aronoff's model is that WFRs in their productive or synthetic func-
tion create new words by adding morphemes to old words. Moreover, in their func-
tion as redundancy rules they serve to analyse existing words into their component.
morphemes. This means that the morpheme has an important role to play, even in
this theory. However, the notion 'morpheme' does not include the notion 'exponent
of inflectional category', as it does for Halle. Inflectional morphology in Aronoff's
theory is properly a part of syntax, and categories such as 'plural', 'genitive case' or
'subjunctive' are morphosyntactic categories and cannot be regarded as morphemes.
This stance (which is effectively a return to the Aspects position) means that Aronoff
is not troubled by problems which beset the structuralist tradition of morphology.
We have seen that the Item-and-Arrangement approach to inflection has difficulty
handling multiple exponence. This problem arises rather seldom in derivational mor-
phology and so Aronoff can afford to ignore it. Furthermore, neither suppletive
forms nor accidental gaps can occur in derivational morphology given Aronoff's
assumptions (especially the hypothesis that morphology is word-based).
Aronoff offers several arguments for word-based morphology. The most direct
justification is simply that productive processes of derivational morphology don't
seem to operate over anything other than words. Other types ofword formation, such
as acronyms, clippings, blends and so on are not productive in any language
according to Aronoff.
A second piece of evidence is theory internal. The operation of phonological rules
is sometimes sensitive to the internal constituency of words. Aronoff illustrates this
with the example of the contrasting pronunciations of the words prohibition and Pro-
hibition (in American speech, at least). The former, the standard nominalization of
the verb prohibit, is pronounced fprohibiS:Jt/, while the latter, referring to the
period in American history when alcoholic drinks were illegal, is pronounced
fprodbiJ:Jt/· The former is the pronunciation expected if the UR is [[prohi-
bit] +ion], while the latter is what is expected if there are no internal brackets. This
is because the reduction process which turns the syllable -hi- into a schwa is blocked
if that syllable bears any degree of stress. In the nominalized form we first apply
phonological rules, including stress, to the innermost bracketing (the word prohibit),
and then apply those rules to the whole word. This is an example of a cyclic deri-
vation (see chapter 4). On this second pass through the rules the stress on the syllable
-hi- therefore blocks the reduction. However, the lexicalized word 'Prohibition' is
treated as a single unanalyzed word, so the stress rules never get an opportunity to
assign any stress to the -hi- syllable and it duly gets reduced.
Backformations 11 provide more evidence for word-based morphology. If we con-
sider a backformation such as self-destruct within Halle's model, we see it poses
II~IIi i
t·,:
,,
86 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
serious problems. The word is formed from the noun self-destruction. This noun will
be formed from (the URs of) selfand destroy in Halle's system. This means that *self-
destroy is generated as a potential word which is then filtered by receiving the mark
[-lexical insertion]. But if *self-destroy is generated by the WFRs, why does this form
not surface when speakers decide to create the verb corresponding to self-destruction?
In Aronoff's model there is no such problem. The form *self-destroy never existed at
any stage. Moreover, by a principle of least effort, plus the observation of extant
word pairs such as construct-construction, we can understand that any reasonable
strategy for backformation will lead us to self-destruct as the most transparent, while
morphologically possible, source verb for the noun self-destruction.
Perhaps the most powerful support for word-based morphology comes from con-
siderations of meaning. In traditional morphological theory the morpheme was the
'smallest unit of meaning' or, in a different terminological tradition, the 'minimal
sign'. However, it seems clear that morphemes can't constitute the 'minimal sign'
because sometimes, as in the case of cranberry morphemes, they don't have any
meaning. Aronoff strengthens the argument from cranberry morphemes by pointing
out that the phenomenon is fairly widespread for an important portion of the English
lexicon. There are a great many words in English formed from latinate roots and
affixes. Aronoff gives two lists, one for stems (3.45), one for prefixes (3.46):
3.45 X-fer X-mit X-sume X-ceive X-duce
refer remit resume receive reduce
defer demit deceive deduce
prefer presume
infer induce
confer commit consume conceive conduce
transfer transmit transduce
submit subsume
admit assume adduce
permit perceive
3.46 re-X con-X in-X de-X
repel compel impel
remit commit demit
refer confer infer defer
resume consume
receive conceive deceive
reduce conduce induce deduce
The problem for a morpheme-as-minimal-sign theory is to find the meaning of each
of the prefixes and each of the stems. In some cases it is impossible to relate the
meaning of a stem of a word to the meaning of the stem in a different sense of the
same word. For instance, what does -ceive mean in (either of) the two main senses
of conceive? We could try to claim that elements like -ceive aren't 'real' morphemes
in some sense, but this isn't borne out by closer examination. For instance, any verb
formed on -ceive will have a nominalization in which the -ceive part is replaced by
the component -cept. If -ceive is not a morpheme, then the completely systematic
-ceivef-cept alternation cannot be allomorphy. But if it isn't allomorphy, what is it?
1.
I
ARONOFF'S WORD FORMATION IN GENERATIVE GRAMMAR 87
The problem is compounded by the fact that the same argument can be run on all
of these stems. Thus, we must accept that -ceive and their kin are morphemes even
though they don't mean anything.
However, the hypothesis that morphology is word-based hasn't gone uncriticized.
Scalise (1984) provides a good summary of the issues.
In many languages it looks as though roots constitute the basis of word formation
rather than words. This is particularly true of inflecting languages (Scalise suggests
for this reason that we understand the term 'word' to mean 'completed word minus
its inflections'). For instance, in Russian we can add an affix -yv- to a verb root to
give an aspectual meaning of roughly 'to do regularly', as in igr-yv-at' from the verb
igrat' 'to play'. But here we are adding the derivational suffix to a root (and not even
a stem, which in this case would be igra-). There is no verbal word form with the
shape igr. This type of morphology is typical of Russian. Of course, even if we do
interpret 'word' to mean 'word minus inflections', this means we are committed to
finding a principled distinction between derivational and inflectional morphology, a
vexed topic. The incorporation process of Chukchee is likewise defined over roots (or
occasionally stems) and not words, even though incorporation is essentially a form
of compounding. Moreover, even in English, in which the basic form of a word is
typically an uninflected root, we find cases such as cannibalistic which appears to have
been derived from the non-existent word *cannibalist. Such examples suggest that
word formation can be defined over units smaller than the word (i.e. the word can-
nibal, plus the morphemes -ist, and -ic). On the other hand, if we take certain var-
ieties of English compounding into account, it is clear that word formation processes
can include phrases, as in no waiting zone or American history teacher (on the reading
'teacher of American history'). This will be discussed in more detail in chapters 8
and 10.
In Halle's model all potential words are generated from the List of Morphemes
by the WFRs, and those that pass unscathed through the Filter are stored in the
Dictionary. Aronoff dispenses with the List of Morphemes and the Filter, and lists
only (attested) words. This means that words formed by entirely regular, productive
processes are not listed. For instance, Aronoffnotes that pretty well any adjective can
form an adverb by adding the affix -ly. These adverbs are not listed specially, since
their existence, their form and their meaning can be predicted from the WFR which·
creates them.
There is a further reason for rejecting Halle's model of lexical organization.
Semantic idiosyncrasy is introduced by the Filter on Halle's model, which has the
power to add extra clauses in the semantic characterization of a word. This is fine
for cases such as transformation, which acquires added nuances of meaning in the ter-
minology of generative linguistics, but this is not the only kind of semantic flux to
which words are prone. A word left to its own devices will often acquire new usages
which, over time, are likely to become more like new meanings. This is the tradi-
tional concept of polysemy, as exhibited by old favourites such as mouth. This word
may refer (inter alia) to the opening of the buccal cavity or to the point where a river
joins the sea. Sometimes, meanings drift inexorably apart to the point where all
speakers (except etymologists) agree that there are two separate words which just
happen to sound alike (homonymy). The two meanings of bank (river__ and
savings__) used to be examples of polysemy (cognate with the modern word bench)
but they are not nowadays perceived as semantically related.
88 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
The point of this is that Halle's Filter is ill-equipped to account for extreme poly-
semy or frank homonymy. This is going to cause problems precisely when the
semantic representation of a morphologically complex word bifurcates, so that one
of its meanings is (more-or-less) compositional while the other bears no relation to
the meanings of its component morphemes. Aronoff's example of this situation is the
word transmission. The regularly determined meaning is 'act of transmitting', but its
meaning in the technical vocabulary of motor-car engineering is to all intents and
purposes divorced from the source verb transmit. For Aronoff this is not a problem.
On its idiosyncratic readings the word transmission will be listed in the Dictionary.
Once there, it can drift as much as it likes, just as any other lexically listed word
might.
Lexical listing, then, means adding some sort of idiosyncrasy to a word.
Homonymy is an extreme consequence of lexical listing, in the semantic domain. The
very least that can happen when a morphologically complex word is listed is that
some aspect of the process which produced that word fails to be completely general.
This is to say that the rule ceases to be completely productive in some sense. The
notion of productivity is extremely slippery and Aronoff spends some time expli-
cating it. It would be insufficient, for instance, to say that a WFR W1 is more produc-
tive than a WFR W2 simply if it produces more words. This will not be helpful if
W2 applies, say, to adjectives while W1 applies to nouns and it just happens that there
are lots more nouns than adjectives in the language. More sensible is to adopt a
relativized notion of productivity under which we measure the ratio of the number
of bases which undergo the WFR to the number which in principle are permitted to
undergo it.
Aronoff sets up an experiment to investigate productivity. He compares two very
similar affixes, #ness and +ity, and the result of attaching them to a constant set of
· bases, namely those ending in another affix, -ous. This produces four interesting""
reflexes of lowered productivity among the +ity words, distinguishing them from the
#ness words.
The first reflex is phonological. No phonological idiosyncrasy is observed with
#ness words, whereas + ity induces two types of phonological peculiarity which
cannot be attributed to any more general rules of morphophonemics. 12 First, + ity
always attracts the stress to the previous syllable. Thus, we have curious but curiosity.
Second, +ity induces the wholesale loss of the -ous morpheme in some words (a case
of truncation): various-variety.
The first reflex also provides an example of the second reflex: lexical government.
Not all -ous words undergo truncation with +ity, and for most words there is no
way of telling which words do and which words don't truncate (compare nebulous-
nebulosity with credulous-credulity). Therefore, such words have to be marked
lexically to indicate whether they truncate or not.
A third reflex is semantic. All the words of the form Xousness mean each of the
following three things:
3.47 a) 'The fact that Y is Xous', e.g. 'His callousness surprised me'.
b) 'The extent to which Y is Xous', e.g. (again) 'His callousness sur-
prised me'.
c) 'The quality or state of being Xous' e.g. 'Callousness is not a vir-
tue'.
ARONOFF'S WORD FORMATION IN GENERATIVE GRAMMAR 89
Thus, the meaning of the derivate is transparently a composition of the meaning of
the stem and that of# ness. Aronoff calls this 'semantic coherence'. The Xosity words
in some cases have, additionally, idiosyncratic meanings. Some of Aronoff's examples
of idiosyncratic meaning are given in 3.48:
3.48 a) There are several varieties of fish in the pond.
b) They admired his dress, but only as a curiosity.
c) The continuities for next week's episode ...
Finally, let us return to the question of lexical government. We have seen that
+ity affixation is less productive with -ous words than is #ness affixation, and this has
been linked to the fact that +ity affixation affects phonological form, is not seman-
tically 'coherent' and is lexically governed. Lexical government affects productivity
very directly, for it entails that some -ous words simply fail to accept +ity for
completely arbitrary reasons.
However, there is one set of cases in which failure to affix +ity is non-arbitrary and
this is illustrated in 3.49:
3.49 glorious *gloriosity gloriousness
furious *furiosity furiousness
graCIOUS *graciosity graciOusness
fallacious *fallacity fallaciousness
acnmoruous *acrimoniosity acnmoruousness
In each case +ity affixation is disallowed. But this can be linked to the fact that for
each of the adjectives glorious, etc. there already exists a corresponding noun, namely
those of 3.50:
3.50 glory, fury, grace, fallacy, acrimony
In fact, whenever a corresponding underived noun already exists, the +ity form is
impossible. Aronoff assumes that the lexicon eschews complete synonymy between
its entries as far as possible. In other words, there will only be one 'slot' in. the
Dictionary for the noun corresponding to, say, glorious. Since this slot is filled by
glory, there is no room for gloriosity. This phenomenon is referred to as blocking.
Why, then, can gloriousness and its ilk be formed? This is because these words are
generated by fully productive WFRs, unfettered by lexical government. Therefore,
such words are not actually listed in the lexicon. Since they are not listed it is not
possible for their places to have been usurped. Therefore, it is impossible to block
gloriousness. 13
Aronoff's main conclusions concerning productivity can be summarized simply
(1976: -45):
(i) [P] roductivity goes hand in hand with semantic coherence.
(ii) The listing ofthe output of a \VFR in the lexicon leads to a loss in productivity.
These conclusions follow naturally from the assumptions Aronoff makes about the
organization of the lexicon. J
i
! .
90 . EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
3.6 The 'classical' model of generative
morphology: conclusions
To conclude Part 1 of the book I shall summarize the model Halle proposed as a
point of departure for introducing the way morphological theorizing has developed
subsequently. In summary form, the questions Halle raises, implicitly or explicitly~
are the following:
(i) How is the structure of a word represented in a grammar?
(ii) If there is a separate grammatical component for morphology, how does it
interact with other components (the lexicon, syntax, phonology, semantics)?
(iii) What do WFRs apply to (morphemes? words? something else?)?
(iv) What is the format of WFRs and what aspects of linguistic structure do they
have access to?
(v) How are idiosyncrasies in word structure to be accounted for?
(vi) How is the existence of a word represented in the grammar? Is there a distinc-
tion between 'actual' word in a language and 'potential' word?
(vii) Is there a role for the notion 'inflectional paradigm'?
Halle's answer to these questions were:
(i) The structure of words is represented by WFRs.
(ii) The word formation component is effectively a part of the lexicon. This means
that it serves to feed the syntactic component, through the operation of lexical
insertion. The syntactic component is interpreted itself by the semantics and the
phonology. However, the phonology is allowed to feed back into the lexicon.
(iii) WFRs apply both to words and to (bound) stems.
(iv) WFRs have access to, and can alter, syntactic category information, semantic
features, and internal constituent structure.
(v) Idiosyncratic information about a morpheme such as its ascription to a morpho-
logical class is listed with the .morpheme itself. Other idiosyncrasies are added
by a Filter, placed between the WFRs and the Dictionary. Included in its oper-
ations is the function of marking accidental gaps, or non-existent forms which
might otherwise be expected to occur (overgeneration).
(vi) There is a distinction between 'potential' and 'actual' words. The morphology
generates all the potential words, of which a large proportion may be discarded
by the Filter. Words formed by WFRs and not so discarded are all listed in the
Dictionary.
(vii) Morphology must recognize the notion of 'inflectional paradigm'.
These answers have all been the subject of intense debate. As we have seen, claim
(iii) has been rejected by Aronoff, though it is accepted by many other morphologists.
Aronoff, in effect, rejects the claim that WFRs have privileged access to internal con-
stituent structure, claiming that cyclicity effects are a consequence of word-based
morphology. Aronoff also rejects the idea that all words which are well-formed are
necessarily listed (point (vi)).
The very existence of a separate morphological component with WFRs ((i)) has
THE 'CLASSICAL' MODEL OF GENERATIVE MORPHOLOGY 91
been questioned, e.g. by Pesetsky (1985) and by Sproat (198Sa). Ofthose who accept
the claim for a separate component, some have maintained that word formation may
also take place in the syntax (e.g. Baker, 1988a), and Anderson (1982) builds a model
in which much inflectional morphology is constructed in the phonology component.
Borer (1988) and Shibatani and Kageyama (1988) have also rejected the idea that the
morphological component is restricted to the lexicon ((ii)).
Many different theories have been advanced concerning the types of information
that WFRs have access to ((iv)). Of particular importance for phonology is the ques-
tion of internal constituent structure and cyclicity. The theory of Cyclic Phonology
(cf. Mascaro, 1976) and later Lexical Phonology (Kiparsky, 1982a) are based on these
ideas (see chapter 4).
In many ways, the problem of idiosyncrasy ((v)) is one of the core issues in mor-
phology. Different types of idiosyncrasy (purely morphological, morphophono-
logical, morphosyntactic, semantic) have been handled in different ways within
different theories, as we shall see. The idea of an all-powerful Filter has been fairly
unanimously rejected. However, this doesn't mean complete rejection of the idea that
components of a grammar might perform a filtering function of some sort. Finally,
there are divided opinions about the notions of 'actual' and 'potential' words, and
the related issues of 'productivity' ((vi)). These questions become particularly acute
when the domain of morphology is no longer restricted, as in Aronoff's model,
to derivation, but includes such phenomena as inflection, compounding, noun
incorporation, and cliticization.
These are the questions that Halle addressed. Equally interesting, in some
respects, are the questions he doesn't raise. Of the traditional concerns discussed in
chapters 1 and 2 the most obvious omission is discussion of what constitutes a word
in the first place. The notion is simply taken for granted, but it remains no less prob-
lematic, as Di Sciullo and Williams (1987) have stressed more recently. The problem
of wordhood finds reflexes in another question Halle doesn't mention, namely the
status of the distinction between inflection, derivation and compounding. Recall that
many of the conundrums concerning the definition of wordhood centered around
compounds, and they pose a big problem for Halle's model (cf. Booij, 1977). It
should not be surprising that compounds have been the subject of intense research.
Halle explicitly lumps inflection together with derivation and regards them as reflexes
of the same phenomenon, namely affixation. This assumption was explicitly rejected
by Aronoff and a number of morphologists have followed his suit, placing derivation
and inflection in totally disjoint components of grammar. For instance, in Anderson's
Extended Word-and-Paradigm theory (see chapter 6), derivation is lexical, but inflec-
tion is part of the phonological component, fed by the syntax. In those theories which
incorporate Siegel's Level Ordering Hypothesis, less drastic ways are found of separ-
ating the two. Rather curiously, although Halle doesn't distinguish derivation and
inflection, he does suggest (albeit tentatively) that there might be a role for the notion
of 'paradigm' in generative grammar. This idea has been exploited in two subsequent
approaches to inflection, that of Anderson (1982) and that of Carstairs (1987) (as well
as proponents of 'Natural Morphology', such as Wurzel, 1984).
It is likely that one could raise all these questions about Halle's model, and debate
them fiercely, even if everything else in grammatical theory were held constant and
the Standard Theory of Aspects remained unchafl:ged. However, every conceivable
facet of syntax, phonology and semantics has been subjected to scrutiny during the
II
92 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
period of development of generative morphology. Another glance at Halle's model
will remind us that only slight changes in the organization of other grammatical com-
ponents might cause us to completely rethink morphology. Indeed, one of the main
reasons why morphology is a significant domain for contemporary theory construc-
tion is precisely because it is necessary to bear in mind the implications of changes
elsewhere in the overall theory of grammar.
We have already seen one example of this interdependence in the implications for
morphology of the theory of Generative Semantics (a theory which was ultimately
rejected by most generative grammarians). However, other changes, or proposed
changes, remain pregnant with meaning for morphology. For those readers who are
familiar with the relevant concepts from other areas of linguistic theory, the changes
include the following:
thematic roles (6 roles) have to be represented in the grammar (see chapter 6, §6.1.3,
chapters 7, 8)
lexical insertion is performed at S-structure (see chapters 6, 9)
some or all of the traditional (cyclic) syntactic transformations are lexical rules,
relating items listeQ. in the lexicon (see chapters 6, 7)
a generalized movement rule ('Move-alpha') applies at all levels of syntactic struc-
ture, including, perhaps, the lexicon (see chapters 7, 8, 10, 11)
phonological processes applying to words as opposed to phrases take place in the
lexicon (see chapters 4, 9)
phonological representations are 'multidimensional', and not linear as assumed in
SPE (see chapter 5).
Not all these assumptions characterize any given approach to generative grammar,
and some approaches may remain agnostic about some of these proposals. However,
it turns out that each of them will have implications for the construction of a theory
of morphology.
EXERCISES
3.1 Nominalizations in -ing may have idiosyncratic readings. Provide a listing of
as many as possible and compare them with derived nominalizations. Do your
findings affect Chomsky's argument in any way? If so, how?
3.2 Enumerate as many as you can of the morphological devices used to produce
derived nominalizations. Which of these are most likely to show the same sub-
categorization properties as the source verbs (i.e. which take the same set of
complements)?
3.3 Not all derived nominalizations have corresponding verbs. Think of some
examples. How might the existence of such cases affect Chomsky's argument?
I
!
I
i
. •I
j
I
EXERCISES 93
*3.4 The derivation of kill from underlying cause to become not alive is a locus
classicus in the development of Generative Semantics. Take Chomsky's arguments
against a syntactic (transformational) treatment of derived nominalizations and run
them on causatives of adjectives. You will need :first to provide a reasonably represen-
tative compilation of causatives derived from adjective roots. [You will :find it helpful
to consult Chomsky (1970) for the theory, and Marchand (1969) for the data].
3.5 Take a representative sample from the literature of Class I and Class II affixes
(the ones I have cited will do for starters. A useful source ofdata is the affix index
of SPE). Which of them follow all the criteria for membership of their class? Do any
affixes give ambiguous results?
*3.6 Kiparsky claimed that irregular inflection takes place at Level I and that,
given the Extended Level Ordering Hypothesis, we can therefore explain why we
:find irregular plurals inside compounds (the 'teeth marks' cases).
Test out the generality of Kiparsky's claim by (i) constructing a list of all the types
of compound that can be formed from combinations of N, V, A; (ii) examining the
behaviour of irregular inflections for these parts of speech with respect to compound
formation.
*3.7 For the following expressions, indicate the constituent structure which is
implied by their meaning. What implications do your analyses have for morphology
and for the Level Ordering Hypothesis in particular?
transformational grammarian forty-ninth
nuclear physicist lieutenant-colonelcy
workman-like square sectional
sub-postmaster set theoretic
South American re-air-condition
3.8 Aronoff notes that a handful of adjectives fail to form adverbs in -ly, e.g. good.
He suggests that this is because of the existence of well. Explain why this explanation
is at odds with Aronoff's other assumptions.
3.9 For each of the major lexical categories of English (N, V, A) :find two produc-
tive \VFRs which derive the same or another of the categories. (There are three input
and three output categories so you should look for 2 x 9 = 18 different WFRs.)
3.10 Aronoff's list of latinate cranberry morphemes isn't complete. Complete it.
3.11 Aronoff adduces an argument very similar to the argument from -ceive mor-
phemes using the example of the verb stand. This has at least two different syntactic
I'll'·.····.······'
1
''
I!
I.
i
.. l
11
I :1
I
I
I
1\
'I
; I
!1..
l~
94 EARLY GENERATIVE APPROACHES
subcategorizations (as in (1) and (2)) and at least two totally different meanings (cf.
(1), (2) and (3)). Moreover, the same morpheme seems to turn up in yet more senses
when prefixed ((4), (5)):
(1) We stood there for a while.
(2) We stood the chairs in a corner.
(3) I stood it as long as I could, and then I left.
(4) I understood the question
(5) My double-glazing withstood the blast.
However, we seem to be dealing with just one morpheme here, because in each case
it shows the same allomorphy in inflection (stand-stood-stood).
Is this an isolated phenomenon? Investigate it by checking the different meanings
(polysemy or homonymy) of the 200 or so English strong verbs. How could you
check if for the other categories?
3.12 Think of other examples of 'transmission' words. What factors lead to this
situation in language change?
*3.13 The only WFRs which can be used as redundancy rules are those which are
also used as productive rules. Discuss this assumption with reference to the words
in the following two lists:
(i) enlarge, embolden, enrich, embitter
(ii) encumber, enthrall, enchant, encompass, endure, enforce
Is there a WFR at work here? If so, is it productive in any sense? Does it apply in
both sets of words? How do your answers to these questions relate to Aronoff's
theory?
*3.14 Carefully examine Aronoff's arguments in favour of word-based morpho-
logy. Which of them provide additional arguments against Halle's Filter.
3.15 Word formation from stems: how are the words in list (a) formed? Is the
process in any sense productive? To what extent and in what ways do these data
resemble the 'mit' morpheme cases (as in 'commit')? When people (usually scien-
tists) coin words of this type, what governs their choice? Are the constructions of list
(b) actual words? Are they morphologically well-formed? Could they mean anything,
and if so what? Do your answers to these questions support or undermine word-
based morphology? [You may find it interesting to compare the list (a) examples with
N-N compounds of the kind 'sound image', 'blood cell', 'eye probe', 'light meter',
'fingerprint' and the list (b) examples with the nonce formations: 'cell print',
'measure science', 'eye cell', 'blood meter'.]
EXERCISES 95
List (a):
morpheme, lexeme, phoneme, phonaestheme, toneme, chroneme, grapheme
photograph, telegraph, sonograph, micrograph
telegram, sonogram
photometry, telemetry, micrometry, ophthalmometry
telescope, microscope, ophthalmoscope, hydroscope
cytology, haematology
haemocyte, leucocyte, melanocyte, phagocyte
cytophage, bacteriophage
cytolysis, electrolysis, hydrolysis
List (b):
cytograph, metrology, ophthalmocyte, haemometer
*3.16 N-N compounding and productivity; NV conversion:
(a) Two nouns can be compounded more or less without restriction to form a com-
pound noun whose precise meaning will usually depend on pragmatic factors. At the
same time, there are many idiosyncratically formed N-N compounds whose meaning
may be very different from that of their components (e.g. housewife, ladybird), or
which may exhibit phonological idiosyncrasy (e.g. the vowel reduction and cluster
simplification in postman). Furthermore, some discussions of lexical semantics have
hinged on the synonymy of expressions such as optician and eye doctor.
(b) A morphologically simple noun can be used as a verb more or less without
restriction, the precise meaning usually depending on pragmatic factors. At the same
time there are instances of verbs derived by N to V conversion (one of) whose mean-
ing(s) may not be readily derived from that of the base (e.g. to table, to chair, to
carpet), and some which exhibit phonological changes (e.g. to house). Moreover, some
of these words seem to be synonymous in all their uses with pre-existing words (e.g.
to house-accommodate).
Do either of the sets of observations in (a) or (b) pose problems for Aronoff's con-
ception of lexical organization? If not, how are they explained? If so, how might you
modify Aronoff's theory to accommodate (or house?) them?
*3.17 The Unitary Base Hypothesis is an empirical hypothesis which is falsifiable
by finding a single affix which concatenates with two types of base which can only
be characterized disjunctively. At the same time, every WFR yields a unique cat-
egory of word, whose meaning is a compositional function of the meaning of the base.
Assess the empirical import of the UBH by listing a reasonably large collection of
syntactic categories and subcategories and then constructing suitable pseudo-WFRs
with feasible semantics for disjunctions defined over your list. On the basis of your
experiment, to what extent can you derive the UBH from other principles?
PART II
The Morphology-Phonology
Interface
4
Approaches to Allomorphy
Introduction
Our discussion of the morphology-phonology interface opens with the 'classical'
position adopted in SPE. The rest of the chapter charts reactions to various aspects
of the SPE system. The theory of Natural Generative Phonology, which we touch
upon in §4.2, argued for much less 'abstract' and more 'concrete' analyses, playing
down the notions of 'underlying representation' and 'phonological derivation'. In
§4. 3 we trace the development of the highly influential theory of Lexical Phonology,
from its precursors in the early work of Kiparsky, via the notion of Cyclic Phonology.
The next section reviews a different approach to morphophonemics, which empha-
sizes the morphological function of allomorphic variation and questions the assump-
tion that morphophonemically determined allomorphy should be handled in a purely
derivational fashion. In §4.5 we briefly survey the views of Dressler, the most
influential of the Natural Morphologists, who argues for a separation of role types to
reflect function with respect to allomorphy. In the final section we consider the pro-
posals advanced by Zwicky to account for allomorph selection outside the lexicon,
in the syntax.
4.1 The SPE model
We have seen that in the Standard Theory (figure 3.1, chapter 3) the generation of
a sentence starts with a syntactic deep structure. From this a surface structure is
generated by means of transformational rules. This surface structure consists of
morphemes in their underlying phonological form. These forms are then subject to
phonological rules which ultimately specify the pronunciation of those morphemes.
In this model morphology as such plays no role: the order of morphemes is deter-
mined by syntactic rules and the different shapes assumed by morphemes are
accounted for solely by the phonological rules. Only the most drastic types of allo-
100
: 'I
~'l
APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
morphy (i.e. partial or total suppletion) are handled by means of readjustment rules.
In chapter 3 I pointed out that Aronoff (1976) proposed that some of the allomorphy
which was derived by means of highly idiosyncratic phonological rules in SPE should
be handled by means of readjustment rules (especially allomorphy rules) but the
general picture remains the same even on Aronoff's model.
The phonologically based approach is ideally suited to handling automatic alter-
nations, that is, alternations which can be defined purely in terms of the phonological
context. We saw an example of this in §2.3.2, when we compared IA and IP
approaches to neutralization. The famous case of German final obstruent devoicing
is another example worth looking at briefly.
By assuming a general rule which devoices a voiced obstruent word finally, we can
easily account for the alternations of 4.1 by assuming the underlying representations
CURs) of 4.2, since the devoicing rule can only apply to Jbund/, not to Jbund + esj:
4.1
4.2
a) bunt 'colourful'
b) bunt 'union'
a) Jbunt/
b) Jbund/
buntes 'idem. gen. sg. masc.'
bundes 'idem. gen. sg.'
/bunt+ esf
fbund + esf
Languages frequently show allomorphic variation which is non-automatic, but
rather is morpholexically conditioned (i.e. triggered only by specific morphemes,
morphological classes or specific words). This means that it is limited to a particular
class of items or limited to particular morphological contexts. A commonly cited case
is German umlaut. This refers to a phonological process in which back vowels or
diphthongs are fronted. It is represented orthographically by placing a diaeresis .over
the vowel or diphthong umlauted. There are several ways of forming plurals of n~ouns
in German, some of them dependent on the phonological shape of the stem, some
dependent on the morphological class which the noun belongs to (for instance,
whether it is masculine, feminine or neuter in gender). Many nouns undergo umlaut
in the plural (sometimes in addition to receiving an affix such as -e or -er). However,
in general it is not predictable which nouns are umlauted and which not. Thus,
Lauch 'leek' has plural without umlaut, Lauche, while in the word Bauch 'belly' we
see umlaut in the plural, Biiuche. The umlauting alternation is conditioned by the
grammatical category of plural, and not by the -e affix, since we observe exactly the
same thing in words which do not have an affix in the plural, e.g. Onkel 'uncle',
plural Onkel without umlaut, as opposed to Apfel 'apple', with umlaut in the plural,
Apfel. Moreover, a variety of other inflectional and derivational contexts condition
umlaut in this way, again with exceptions for particular lexical items.
It is possible to write a phonological rule which relates back vowels to umlauted
front vowels. Therefore, since the alternation can be described phonologically in the
classical approach we would write a rule of umlaut in the phonology and make sure
it was triggered by particular contexts. In some cases, we could say that a particular
affix triggered umlaut. For instance, it is generally the case that the adjectival affix
-lich and the feminine affix -in umlaut a back vowel stem. Thus, from Bauer 'farmer'
we obtain biiuerlich 'rural', and Biiuerin 'farmer's wife'. However, this is not always
the case, since, for example, Bau 'building' gives us baulich 'architectural' and not
*biiulich.
THE SPE MODEL 101
Since generative phonologists and morphologists never reached a consensus about
how to handle inflectional morphology there was no widely agreed way to handle such
alternations. However, one way would have been to say that certain affixes, including
the plural endings -e and -er and the derivational affixes -lich and -in, were marked
by means of a feature which triggered the phonological umlaut rule, say, [+ U]. The
underlying forms of words like Onkel and Apfel in the plural would be marked with
. an unpronounced feature [+plural] by syntactic inflectional rules, and this feature
could also be associated with the [+ U] feature. Words which failed to undergo
umlaut in these contexts would then have to be marked with an exception feature,
which would override the [+U] umlaut trigger. Notice that on this analysis it is the
failure to undergo umlaut which is regarded as exceptional. Although umlaut is not
an automatic phonological rule, it would be regarded as the regular case on this
analysis. We can call this general approach to non-automatic allomorphy the 'rule
feature' approach.
In the German umlaut case there are grounds for saying, then, that umlaut is the
regular condition. In other cases, it is only a minority of items which undergo a par-
ticular rule. In English, for instance, we observe a vestige of earlier Germanic umlaut
in plural formation in words such as feet, teeth, geese. We can describe this alternation
phonologically as the fronting of a high back vowel to a front vowel. However, it only
applies to these three items: 1 *yeeth isn't the plural of youth, nor is *meese the plural
of moose. In this case, then, it is the roots themselves which have to be marked with
a diacritic feature to trigger 'umlaut' in the plural. A rule of this sort, which is only
undergone by a smaller number of items, is called a minor rule (cf. Lightner, 1968),
and the feature which triggers it is a minor rule feature. In the framework of Aronoff,
it is possible to reanalyse many minor rule alternations not as phonological rules but
as allomorphy rules. However, the general tendency has been to write a phonological
rule wherever possible. Moreover, there aren't any hard-and-fast criteria for distin-
guishing allomorphy rules from minor rules, so the choice has often been decided by
determining which solution provides the neatest grammar overall (with the assump-
tion that one should fall back on allomorphy rules only as a last resort). Furthermore,
the difference between the 'rule feature' approach illustrated by German umlaut, and
the 'minor rule feature' approach is somewhat arbitrary, since there are situations in
which the forms which fail to undergo the rule are roughly as numerous as those
which do undergo it. It then makes no sense to ask which is the regular case and
which the irregular (cf. Kenstowicz and Kisseberth, 1979, for an example of this sort
from Russian stress in verbs).
Classically, generative phonologists have tried to use rule features as sparingly as
possible. The usual tactic when confronted with two forms which look identical on
the surface but which differ in their phonological behaviour is to assume that they
have distinct underlying forms. This phonological difference in UR can then be used
to trigger particular phonological rules in certain environments, say, when the mor-
pheme is next to certain morphemes but not others. In this way, what appears super-
ficially to be morphological or lexical conditioning of a phonological rule is actually
treated as phonologically conditioned allomorphy, of the kind illustrated by
the German bunt - bund case above. Frequently, such an analysis bears a close
resemblance to the presumed historical development.
This solution is available when a given morpheme is regularly associated with some
process, either by triggering it or by undergoing it. Let's look at an example which
'],'
l
~~
102 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
was influential in establishing the SPE approach over its competitors. The Slavonic
languages exhibit complex patterns of alternations in which a vowel seems to disap-
pear. Examples of such vowel-zero alternations are provided in 4.3, 4.4 for different
case forms of Czech nouns:
4.3 a) les lesa 'nom. sg. -gen. sg., forest'
b) pes psa 'nom. sg. -gen. sg., dog'
4.4 a) konzerva konzerv ' 1 . '
nom. sg. - gen. p ., tm can
b) barva barev 'nom. sg. - gen. pl., colour'
In contexts where vowel-zero alternations are found we often find palatalizations of
particular sorts, too. For instance, the diminutive affix -ek has an alternating vowel,
and it also conditions a palatalization of velars, e.g. turning lkl to lei: 2
4.5 a) ptak
b) ptacek
c) ptacka
'bird'
'(dirninutive)'
'(diminutive, gen. sg)'
Some nouns seem to licence a double diminutive formed from -ek + -ek. In this case
the first affix, ending in a velar, is palatalized so that the affixes together take the form
-ecek:
4.6 chvfle
chvilka clivilek
chvilecka chvilecek
'moment'
'nom. sg. - gen. pl.'
'nom. sg. - gen. pl.'
Interestingly, the first e of the compound -ecek affix never alternates, even though
the e of a single -ek and the second e of -ecek do alternate. This on the surface is a
bewildering patterning of data: why do we have some e's which never alternate (as
in les), some which always alternate (as in pes) and others which only alternate when
final in the world (as in -ek)?
The traditional generative solution is a phonological one (reflecting the history of
the process). 3 We assume that the vowel which underlies the alternating e's (but not
the non-alternating e's) is a vowel which only ever appears in URs, never in surface
forms. In fact, Slavicists generally assume there are two such vowels, called 'jers' (or
'yers'). These are high vowels like li i ul but differ from them in having a lax articu-
lation. In the formalism of SPE distinctive feature theory we would say that they bear
the features [+high, -tense]. One of the jers is a front vowel (/lJ) and this triggers
certain palatalizations. The other is a back vowel Cl il).
A jer is either lowered to [e] or deleted depending on the environment. The basic
generalization is that if two jers occur in adjacent syllables, then the one on the left
is lowered. In all other cases, the jer is deleted. The rule is shown informally in 4.7:
4.7 t . c [+high]
[ +high]=> e I o -tense
-tense
0 I elsewhere
NATURAL GENERATIVE PHONOLOGY 103
Thus, in the gen. sg. of pes, i.e. psa, we have a UR fpisaf, and in the nom. sg. of
barva we have the UR fbarivaj. These contain only one jer, which is by definition
last of its sequence, so it deletes. Why then doesn't the same jer delete in the nom.
sg. pes or the gen. pl. barev? We just need to assume that the masc. nom. sg. and
the fern. gen. pl. endings are themselves jers (in fact, back jers). Then the URs for
pes and barev will be fp!st.f and Jbarivij respectively. The first jer in each word meets
the structural description of the lowering part of rule 4.7 and hence it will surface
as [e] just as we require.
There are several important aspects to this approach to vowel-zero alternations.
First, it relies on two 'abstract' underlying segments, the jers (recall that these
undergo absolute neutralization; see §3.1.2 for these terms). In this case we
can justify the abstraction because it allows us to account for palatalizations in a
unified way as well as the vowel-zero alternations (Gussman, 1980, argues this point
at some length). Second, the masc. nom. sg. and fern. gen. pl. 'affixes' are repre-
sented by phonological forms which never surface, because they are never followed
by a morpheme containing a jer. It is as though the entire affix has undergone
absolute neutralization. That is, an abstract phonol<?gical element is being used to
represent a morphological category (i.e. a genderfcasejnumber category).
This latter observation reflects two things: first, the tendency to code morpho-
logical idiosyncrasy in phonological terms where possible; second, the tendency for
generative phonological analyses to maintain agglutinative morphology in URs wher-
ever possible. In other words, at the level of underlying form, the SPE approach to
allomorphy presupposes an Item-and-Arrangement theory of morphology. The
second point to observe is that, whatever the means used to code allomorphy,
whether allomorphy rules, minor rules, diacritically triggered rules, rules triggered
by morphological categories, or abstract phonological rules such as Jer Lowering and
Deletion, the phonological operations are invariably applied after the morphological
operations (i.e. the operations of affixation) .
.We will see later that some affixation processes seem to be sensitive to the phono-
logical form of the stems to which the affixes are attached. The SPE organization will
only permit this if the phonological sensitivity can be stated at the level of UR. There
is no way for an affix to be restricted to stem allom·orphs which have undergone a
phonological rule. Putting this another way, phonologically sensitive affixation cannot
be sensitive to derived allomorphy. We will return to the significance of this
implication later in the chapter.
4.2 Natural generative phonology
For many linguists the basic premises of the generative approach with respect to mor-
phology and allomorphy remained unchanged for the ten years following the publi-
cation of SPE. In particular, the assumption that morphology precedes all phonology
was never challenged. However, two proposals were made by separate groups of
researchers for modifying the highly abstract approach of SPE, and these explicitly
dealt with questions of allomorphy. The first of these modifications was part of a
much wider challenge to the edifice of SPE, namely Natural Generative Phonology
(NGP).
; !
I '
I
I ~~~
I,
'I
I·
!\
104 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
In Natural Generative Phonology (Hooper, 1976), a strong claim is made about
allomorphy, namely that all alternants of a morpheme must be possible surface
forms. This means amongst other things that absolutely neutralized underlying seg-
ments such as jers are excluded. NGP also excluded the possibility of ordering rules
extrinsically with respect to each other. This too had implications for the type of rule
systems which could be written to describe morphophonemics. In practice it meant
much greater morphological conditioning of phonological rules, and this was seen as
a disadvantage by generativists in precisely those cases in which an abstract analysis
seemed to account neatly for a whole range of phonological phenomena.
As far as allomorphy is concerned, NGP returned to a position which was essen-
tially that of structural linguistics, for certain types of allomorphy at least. Consider
a favourite example, the English umlauted plurals such as goose - geese, and man -
men. A generative phonological account of these alternations would take one form as
basic and derive the other by a minor rule. Alternatively, it might postulate some
third form as UR (possibly with an 'abstract', non-occurring underlying vowel) and
derive both singular and plural forms by means of special rules. Hudson (1974), how-
ever, suggested, on the basis of an analysis of the Semitic language Amharic, that the
best way to represent the allomorphy is to set up lexical representations such as 4.8:
4.8 a) g [~J s
In this theory there is no phonological rule deriving the allomorphy, rather the
alternation is stated directly in lexical entries.
This type of approach would fail to distinguish quasi-phonological alternations
such as 4.8 from total suppletion. The problem is that there is still some discerniqle
phonological relationship between the two alternants. The way such relationships are
stated in NGP is through the via-rule (Venneman, 1972). This is a lexical redun-
dancy rule which states that a given derived alternant (say, geese) is related to its
basic alternant, goose, 'via' a relationship such as that shown in 4.9:
4.9 U:-l-i:
a-joe
au-joai
Strictly speaking, we shouldn't speak about a derived alternant: the two forms, gu:s
and gi:s are listed in the lexicon and their relationship is stated by rule 4.9, but there
is no sense in which gi:s is actually derived from gu:s. Via-rules therefore have exactly
the same function as the lexical redundancy rules proposed by Jackendoff (1975).
Indeed, Jackendoff himself suggests that the alternations in English known as the
Great Vowel Shift should be handled by such redundancy rules.
The general philosophy of NGP did not enjoy a wide resonance. Phonologists
argued at great length about whether abstract phonemes were permissible, and
whether rules could be extrinsically ordered or not, often without really settling the
issue. Hudson's original proposals went largely without comment, though his
approach to allomorphy, under the heading of the 'morpheme alternant' theory, was
severely (if rather obliquely) criticized by Kenstowicz and Kisseberth in their text-
book of 1979. Their principal arguments were that (i) abstract analyses are sometimes
necessary; (ii) it is often necessary to distinguish between a basic alternant and
LEXICAL PHONOLOGY 105
derived alternants, in other words it is necessary to postulate an underlying form
from which other allomorphs can be derived; and (iii) the morpheme alternant theory
presupposes that the alternations are idiosyncratic and so cannot handle cases in
which the alternations are the regular case. We will return to these criticisms later.
Natural Generative Phonology didn't attract many followers and the approach
petered out by the end of the 1970s (though some of the principles of the theory, such
as the importance of syllable structure, are now part and parcel of contemporary
phonological theory). There were perhaps two main intellectual reasons for this: first,
a great deal of effort was being expended on the new 'non-linear' approaches to
phonology from 1976 onwards and, second, the relationship between phonology and
morphology was being redefined by Kiparsky and his collaborators.
4.3 Lexical phonology
4.3.1 Kiparsky's Alternation Condition
Historically, the first challenge to the view of allomorphy contained in SPE came
from Paul Kiparsky in a number of papers (some of which form part of the volume
Kiparsky, 1982a, some of which were published as Kiparsky, 1973a). Kiparsky was
originally concerned with highly abstract analyses which made extensive appeal to
absolute neutralization. He argued that in many cases appeal to abstraction was
merely an unilluminating way of coding exceptionality in the guise of regularity by
using phonetic features to do the job of exception features. In an earlier paper (1968;
reprinted in Kiparsky, 1973a, and 1982a) he discussed the now notorious case
of the English velar fricative. In SPE a rule of Trisyllabic Laxing (Shortening) or
TSL is defended. TSL is the rule mentioned in §3.3, which laxes (or shortens) a
tense (long) vowel when it is followed by two short syllables. It is this rule which
accounts in part for alternations such as sane - sanity, divine - divinity, verbose - ver-
bosity, obscene - obscenity. In SPE, Chomsky and Halle note that it fails to apply in
the case of right - righteous. The -eous affix is analysed as disyllabic in underlying
form. Given SPE assumptions we must suppose that the stem is the same in both
words. So why doesn't the laxing rule apply to give a form [ritj;}s]? Chomsky and
Halle offer an ingenious solution. Suppose that the stem vowel is actually short and
that there is some sort of consonant following it which is ultimately deleted but which
serves to lengthen the preceding vowel after the application of TSL. On the grounds
of the economy of the underlying phoneme system, they conclude that the consonant
must be a voiceless velar fricative Jxj (which historically was true, of course, as is
reflected in the current spelling). We therefore have in simplified form derivations
such as 4.10:
4.10 a) b) c) d)
sce:n sce:n + iti rixt rixt + eu:s
ce TSL
1: 1: Pre-x L.
0 0 x-Deletion
al a1 Vowel Shift
);}S Other rules
[sein] [sceniti] [rait] [raitjds] Output
106 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
Notice that this sort of solution crucially appeals to extrinsic rule ordering: 'Pre-x
lengthening' must not be permitted to feed TSL.
Kiparsky, however, argued that such an analysis is unwarranted because there is
no other justification for positing the underlying Jxf than to account for the excep-
tional behaviour of righteous with respect to TSL. In other words, we are guilty of
using phonetic elements purely as exception features. He pointed out that in general
there are no ways of identifying the precise nature of such underlying segments if
only one rule applies to them. For instance, how can we be sure that the consonant
in question is not a laryngeal fricative, or even an underlying click? Such analyses
pose intractible learnability problems when there is absolutely no way open to the
child for figuring out the underlying form. He proposed the Alternation Condition
to constrain derivations. The wording of this condition went through a number of
metamorphoses, some weaker than others. The 'strong' version is given in 4.11 (cf.
Kiparsky, 1982b, 148):
4.11 Obligatory neutralization rules cannot apply to all occurrences of a
morpheme.
Neutralization rules are those which effect a phonological neutralization, i.e.
replace one phoneme with another, as opposed to allophonic rules, which merely
specify in further detail the pronunciation of a phoneme. The Alternation Condition,
then, ensures that, where a morpheme is subject to a neutralization rule, there will
be some allomorph somewhere in the language to which that neutralization hasn't
applied. This has important consequences for the learnability of morphophonemic
rules. Absolute neutralization induces opacity of a particularly strong kind. This is
Kiparsky's technical term describing a situation in which it is impossible to tell
exactly what the UR of a word is from mere inspection of its surface phonological
form. Thus, the language learner confronted with cases of absolute neutralization is
in the same position as the linguist, in that he must analyse the language in some
detail before he can work out the underlying phoneme inventory and hence the URs
of his language.
Given this perspective, one way of viewing the problem with the English velar
fricative in righteous is as follows. On the surface we have a diphthong, Jai/, the
underlying form of which we would normally expect to be a tense vowel. However,
if there was a tense vowel in this position it should have undergone TSL and surfaced
as lax Ji/. The solution sketched in 4.10d creates a tense vowel from an underlying
lax vowel in a fashion which crucially relies on the existence of our abstract velar
fricative. The only reason for postulating the offending segment is to allow the deri-
vation to bypass the effects of TSL (thus inducing opacity in the form of an apparent
exception to TSL). In other words, there is no phonetic motivation for the occur-
rence of Jxf, it merely serves as a rather complicated and misleading alternative to
the statement that righteous is an exception to TSL.
One way of preventing the use of abstract phonetic elements as exception features
in this way and at the same time ensure that the Alternation Condition is respected
is to permit neutralization rules only if they are triggered by a morphological process.
Then what will happen is that there will be two allomorphs of the morpheme con-
taining the neutralized segment: the base allomorph (in which the segment surfaces)
and the morphologically derived allomorph (in which the segment is turned into
LEXICAL PHONOLOGY 107
something else by the neutralization process). In other words, we impose a ban on
absolute neutralizations that also apply to monomorphemic roots. In this case we will
be unable to postulate an Jx/ segment in the UR of right because there is Jx/ in the
surface form of the base allomorph.
This reasoning leads us to the Revised Alternation Condition (cf. Kiparsky, 1982:
152):
4.12 Revised Alternation Condition
Obligatory neutralization rules apply only in derived environments.
The definition of derived environment is given in 4.13 (Kiparsky, 1982b: 152):
4.13 Environment E is derived with respect to rule R if E satisfies the struc-
tural description of R crucially by the combination of morphemes or by
application of a rule.
What 4.13 says is that a neutralization rule is possible if it is fed by affixation (just
as TSL is fed by affixation of -ity in derivation 4.10b). The rider about phonological
rules themselves creating derived environments is necessary because, in keeping with
generative tradition, many processes have to be broken into separate stages in order
to state them as maximally general phonological operations, and it's essential that
these stages be allowed to feed one another in a derivation. As an example, consider
the rule of Jer Lowering discussed in §4.1. A fully accurate generative grammar
might well split this up into two parts where it applies to the back jer Jif, by first
lowering /i/ to a back mid unrounded vowel /Y/ and then fronting this to Je/ (as
Rubach, 1984, proposes for the same process in Polish). Now, the fronting of Jyj to
Jej would be considered an absolute neutralization, but it is possible in Kiparsky's
terms because it would be fed by the jer lowering rule. We may think of this as
indirect triggering of a rule by affixation.
The Revised Alternation Condition is an important stage in the development
of ideas about allomorphy in generative phonology, because it is the first explicit
statement of the role of morphology in phonological derivations.
4.3.2 Cyclic phonology and lexical phonology
In 1976, Joan Mascaro, working primarily on his native Catalan, proposed an
approach to the question of alternations which made crucial use of the notion of
cyclic rule. What he proposed was that rules which effect obligatory neutralizations
should apply in a cyclic fashion, as determined by morphological structure. This
means that the rules which apply only in a derived environment are precisely the
rules which apply cyclically.
The fundamental idea behind theories of cyclic rule application is to permit one
and the same rule to apply more than once in a derivation. Having applied a set of
cyclic rules, we then expand the string over which the rules apply (for instance, by
adding another affix), and then apply the whole rule set to the new string. Each
application of the rule set constitutes a single cycle, and the given string to which
the rules apply is a cyclic domain. However, it turns out to be necessary to ensure
that a rule which applies cyclically can only apply on its own cycle, and cannot return
108 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
to an earlier cycle to reapply. In other words, a cyclic rule can't apply to a subdomain
which is contained within its current domain. In this way we can prevent a rule from
continually reapplying to the same small substring. The principle that prevents this
is the Strict Cycle Condition (SCC), often known as Strict Cyclicity or the Strict
Cyclicity Condition.
A simple example of the operation of the SCC operating in phonology is provided
by Catalan (Mascaro, 1983: 64-5). In 4.14 we see the derivation of the word ruin-
osissim, 'very much in ruins', whose morphological structure is [[ [ruin] oz] isim] .
Each morpheme has underlying stress, which according to Mascaro, is deleted in
certain cases, by a rule of Deaccentuation. An unstressed high vowel following
another vowel is subject to Glide Formation. These rules apply in the order men-
tioned. Derivation 4.14a shows what happens without the SCC - an incorrect pro-
nunciation [*ruynuzisim] is generated. The correct derivation is shown in 4.14b.
Here the SCC blocks the second application of Glide Formation and the correct form
is ultimately given:
4.14 a) b)
Cycle 1
ruin+ oz ruin+ oz
- - - Glide Formation
1 1 Deaccentuation
Cycle 2
ruinoz + isim ruinoz + isim
y BLOCKED ··Glide Formation
0 0 Deaccentuation
u u Other rules
Output:
[*ruynuzisim] [ruinuzisim]
In the theory of Cyclic Phonology developed by Mascaro the SCC is incorporated
by means of a reformulation of the Revised Alternation Condition, given in 4.15:
4.15 a) Cyclic rules apply only to derived representations.
b) A representation is derived with respect to ruleR in cycle j if it results
from the combination of morphemes in j or the operation of a
phonological rule in j.
One of the consequences of this view of phonological rules is that cyclic rules are
unable to apply to monomorphemic items. This means that Velar Softening in
English will automatically be prevented from applying to a word such as king since
there is no derived environment in which it could apply. In the case of king there is
only one morpheme and hence only one cycle. No rule feeds Velar Softening on this
cycle, and no morphological rule applies. Therefore, the environment is non-derived.
Therefore, assuming that Velar Softening is a cyclic rule, it cannot apply to king. 4
As the reader can verify, there is exactly one other circumstance when the SCC
comes into play. This is when two rules are ordered in a counterfeeding relationship.
Suppose we have two rules, A and B. Suppose now that application of A creates a
derived form of the kind that B can apply to. Then, if A precedes B we say the rules
LEXICAL PHONOLOGY 109
are in a feeding order. If the two rules are ordered B < A then B will already have
applied before A and hence A will no longer be able to feed B. This is known as a
counterfeeding order. 5 Given two rules in a counterfeeding order, cyclic application
without the SCC would allow rule B a second bite at the cherry. This is because even
if A counterfeeds B on cycle n, B can apply on cycle n + 1 to the output of rule A
on the previous cycle. The SCC simply blocks this second application of B. This is
exactly the situation illustrated in the Catalan example above, where Glide Formation
corresponds to rule B and Deaccentuation corresponds to rule A.
The Kiparsky-Mascar6 theory of Cyclic Phonology has considerable implications
for the theory of allomorphy. What it implies is that an identifiable class of phono-
logical rules, namely the cyclic rules, are responsible for morphologically conditioned
allomorphic variation. In this way the old distinction between non-automatic alter-
nation (of the electric - electricity kind) and allophony which is conditioned purely
phonologically can easily be drawn, but without special stipulation. Rather, the
distinction is a consequence of the organization of the grammar.
Kiparsky (1982b) considerably extended the compass of Cyclic Phonology in a
remarkable paper which proposed a radically different perspective on the relation
between phonology and morphology. We have been assuming so far that cyclicity is
a stipulated property of rules and that cyclic application is a mode of application
which has to be written into the grammar specially. In an unpublished paper written
in 1979, Pesetsky argued that the effects of cyclicity could be obtained if we assumed
that the battery of cyclic phonological rules applied every time a morphological oper-
ation applied. In other words, he proposed that the process of affixation itself should
be the trigger for the application of rules of phonology, In this way, we would mimic
cyclic application of phonological rules but this would follow from the organization
of the morphology. This insight is·the germ from which grew the theory _of Lexical
Phonology.
What Kiparsky actually proposed was to obtain the effects of cyclicity by intro-
ducing a version of Siegel's Level Ordering into the theory of phonology. Siegel had
appealed to Level Ordering to account for the stress neutrality of Class II affixes.
Kiparsky argued that this model was the key to understanding the operation of all
cyclic phonological rules. His model is presented in figure 4.1. (Kiparsky, 1982b:
132).
In Kiparsky's own words (1982b: 131-2):
Each level is associated with a set of phonological rules for which it
defines the domain of application.... [T] he output of each word-
formation process is submitted within the lexicon itself to the
phonological rules of its level. This establishes a basic division among
phonological rules into those which are assigned to one or more levels
in the lexicon, and those which operate after words have been
combined into sentences in the syntax. The former, the rules of lexical
phonology, are intrinsically cyclic because they reapply after each step
of word-formation at their morphological level. The latter, the rules of
postlexical phonology, are intrinsically noncyclic [exphasis original].
A number of consequences flow from this model, together with certain other
assumptions. Kiparsky (1973b) introduced the Elsewhere Condition as a principle
110 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
Underived lexical items
J Syntax .j .. j Postlexical phonology
Figure 4.1 Kiparsky's (1982a) Lexical Phonology
e
X
c
0
n
governing (in part) the application of rules. It is an important notion, which recurs
throughout morphological theory. Kiparsky's (1982b: 136-7) statement of it is given
in 4.16:
4.16 Rules A, B in the same component apply disjunctively to a form <P if and
only if
(i) The structural description of A (the special rule) properly includes
the structural description of B (the general rule).
(ii) The result of applying A to <P is distinct from the result of applying
B to <P. 6
In that case, A is applied first, and, if it takes effect, then B is not applied.
The crucial notion here is that of disjunctive ordering: either one rule applies, or
the other, bur not both. Thus, the Elsewhere Condition guarantees that the more
specific rule will pre-empt the more general.
The Elsewhere Condition makes it possible to write rules in such a way as to
account for all the least general cases first and then simply state the most general case
in the form 'otherwise, such-and-such'. Another way of putting this is to say that the
condition allows us to capture the notion of default case. For example, suppose we
wish to account for regular plural allornorphy in English. We could state the rule as
'add /z/ and then (i) insert an epenthetic schwa after a sibilant stern; (ii) devoice fzf
to fsf. after a voiceless stern'. The two parts of the rule have to apply in the order
mentioned, because if the rules applied in the opposite order the /z/ would be incor-
rectly devoiced after voiceless sibilants and we would obtain [*diJds] for 'dishes'.
Given the Elsewhere Condition we don't need to state this ordering. The set of
environments in which the epenthesis rule applies is completely contained in the set
~~
I
I
I
I
'1
;
1
i
LEXICAL PHONOLOGY 111
of environments in which the devoicing rule applies. Therefore, the epenthesis rule
is the more specific. Therefore, it will have priority over the devoicing rule and will
pre-empt it. Hence, voiceless sibilant stems will end up with a plural allomorph
which has undergone epenthesis but not devoicing, as required. All we have to state
is: 'epenthesize after a sibilant; otherwise, devoice after a voiceless consonant'. 7
Kiparsky next introduces an ingenious idea concerning the notion 'lexical entry'.
He suggests that a lexical entry such as king or trousers should be regarded as a kind
of degenerate rule (in effect an identity rule) of the form king- king. If this step is
adopted, then a lexical entry will be the most specific kind of rule there is since, by
definition, it only applies to one lexical item. Therefore, it will always be ordered
before any other rule by the Elsewhere Condition. Consider words such as guide or
cook. These words can be either verbs or agentive nouns. However, the usual way
of forming an agentive noun from a verb is to add an affix such as -er to the verb.
We must prevent this since *guider and cooker are either non-existent or have a dif-
ferent meaning. However, let's say that the two nouns are lexical entries in their own
right, and that a lexical entry is a rule applying to one item. Now, this 'lexical entry'
rule is as specific as it can possibly be, since by definition it only applies to one item.
Hence, a more general rule such as affixation of -er will be prevented from applying
to such items by the Elsewhere Condition. In effect, the affixation rule will be pre-
empted by the lexical entry itself. Thus, the theory of Lexical Phonology (with the
Elsewhere Condition) can neatly account for blocking phenomena. Moreover, if we
assume that the result of irregular affixation such as the plural oxen or the past tense
brought is also 'recycled' into the lexicon to form a separate lexical entry, then we can
account for their blocking of regular affixation and the non-existence of *oxens and
*broughted.
The model so far leaves certain questions unanswered. Of particular importance
are these: (i) Why do certain cyclic rules appear to apply in non-derived environ-
ments? (ii) Why do cyclic rules appear to mimic the effects of morpheme structure
conditions (MSCs)? Kiparsky makes particular mention of the English Stress Rule
of Hayes (1982) in connection with the first question. He accepts arguments that this
rule is cyclic, but the obvious problem is that it applies to monomorphemic words
in violation of the Strict Cycle Condition. Question (ii) is simply the persistent
question of the Duplication Problem, which was never satisfactorily resolved in
generative phonology (cf. Kenstowicz and Kisseberth, 1979).
Kiparsky's solution to both these problems relies on a reformulation of the sec
and the introduction -of a notion of underspecifi.cation. 8 He assumes that English
words whose stress can be computed by rule are represented in the lexicon without
any stress marks. In the model of stress that he is adopting (that of Metrical Pho-
nology), stress rules build metrical tree structures which represent patterns of strong
and weak syllables. 9 The details of stress assignment are not important to us here.
What is important is the observation that the stress rules build up a portion of the
phonological representation from scratch, but they don't change a pre-existing rep-
resentation of stress into another representation. That is, the stress assignment rules
are structure-building and not structure-changing rules. This means that we can
regard a word which has not yet been assigned stress as unspecified (or 'under-
specified') for stress. In technical terms, this means that a representation of the word
parent in 4.17a without stress is non-distinct (see note 6) from a representation such
112
'I
I';
Jt~
lM
APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
as 4.17b in which stress is marked:
4.17 a) parent
b) ( \
s w
p a r e n t
To return to the problem of stress rules applying in non-derived environments: the
sec as formulated so far prevents this, and so it prevents the derivation of 4.17b
from 4.17a.
However, Kiparsky has argued that a lexical entry is itself a rule. Since it is a rule
it will be subject to the Elsewhere Condition, and this is how we have accounted for
cases of blocking. How does the lexical entry 'rule' interact with phonological rules?
Consider a word such as nightingale. This word is problematic for SPE because it is
an exception to Trisyllabic Laxing. However, given the assumptions of Cyclic Pho-
nology, Strict Cyclicity prevents TSL applying to it, since it is a monomorphemic
and hence underived item. If both the word nightingale and the rule TSL are actually
rules, then they too will be ordered disjunctively with respect to each other given the
Elsewhere Condition. The nightingale rule is obviously the more specific and hence
will apply first. Part of the rule will be the specification of the first vowel of the word
as tense. This will therefore pre-empt TSL. Thus, we predict that TSL will fail
to apply to nightingale even without the sec. Kiparsky uses this observatipn to
argue that the SCC is actually a consequence of the Elsewhere Condition and the
assumption that each lexical entry is a rule.
There is, however, a crucial difference between the two ways of deriving.c. strict
cyclicity effects. For the Elsewhere Condition only imposes disjunctive ordering
between rules if the output of the rules is distinct. Now consider the lexical rule
introducing the item parent and the stress rule. We have seen that, in the technical
sense, the outputs of these two rules (i.e. 4.17a, b, respectively) are non-distinct.
Therefore, the SCC, reformulated as the Elsewhere Condition, doesn't apply to
them. Thus, Kiparsky ingeniously derives the result that a rule such as stress
assignment can apply to non-derived environments without violating the sec.
The same type of argumentation can be applied to the problem of morpheme struc-
ture conditions. Kiparsky contrasts the case of nightingale, which does not undergo
TSL, with the case of sycamore, which, at the very least, is compatible with TSL.
His way of representing this distinction is to say that TSL can function as an MSC,
providing the tenseness (or length) of the first syllable of sycamore is not specified in
underlying representation. This means that approximate URs for the two words will
be as in 4.18:
4.18 a) ni:tingce:l
b) sikVmo:
The I of 4.18b represents a high front vowel which is unspecified for tenseness.
Hence, representation 4.18b is non-distinct from either of 4.19:
4.19 a) sikVmo: b) si:kVmo:
. '
,,
I
j
LEXICAL PHONOLOGY 113
We may assume that the feature [tense] in the first syllable of 4.18b is given the value
[Otense] (as opposed to [+tense] or [-tense]). By the technical definition of distinct-
ness the feature specification [Otense] is distinct neither from [+tense] nor from
[-tense]. The rule of TSL is now assumed to be able to switch the value [Otense]
to [-tense] in the right phonological environment. In this case it is acting just like
the stress rule in that it does not create a representation which is distinct from the
UR. In other words, form 4.19a is non-distinct from 4.18b, thus the lexical rule
introducing 4.18b and the rule of TSL will not be disjunctively ordered by the Else-
where Condition.
This situation contrasts with the case of nightingale, to which we can now return
in more detail. The tenseness of the initial vowel is assumed to be specified under-
lyingly. Therefore, if TSL were to apply to 4.18a it would produce a representation
which is distinct from that of 4.18a, since 4.18a has a specification [+tense] and TSL
would turn this feature marking into [-tense]. Therefore, the Elsewhere Condition
would come into play, and the nightingale rule would be ordered disjunctively before
TSL, effectively blocking the application of the latter.
We have reviewed in some detail the phonological side of the morphology-
phonology interface in Lexical Phonology. There remain two assumptions concer-
ning word structure which are of importance.
In SPE phonology there were several different classes of affixes, most notably the
' + ' and the ' # ' boundary affix. The phonology could refer specifically to these
boundary symbols, and this allowed SPE to make use of morphological information
in phonological rules, albeit in a somewhat indirect fashion. However, in SPE,
boundaries are treated formally as the same kind of animal as genuinely phonetic seg-
ments, and many phonologists were unhappy with this idea, particularly once the
functions of boundary symbols were taken over by prosodic categories in Prosodic
Phonology (see Booij, 1985a). In Lexical Phonology the boundary symbols are
replaced by a direct representation of constituent structure, a (labelled) br~cketing.
The degree to which words have a constituent structure, and the exact manner in
which it is represented, is still a matter of controversy, which we'll touch on several
times in part III (particularly §6.1.2). For the present we just note that an SPE-type
form such as 4.20a would be simply represented as 4.20b in Lexical Phonology:
4.20 a) [[un# [fastidi + ous] ] #ness]
b) [[un [[fastidi] ous] ]ness]
The phonological differences between the two classes of affix are then accounted for,
as we have seen, by level ordering.
At the end of each level words become phonologically 'inert', in the sense that they
can no longer be affected by cyclic phonological rules. In this regard they are treated
as though they were monomorphemic lexical items. This inertness extends to mor-
phological processes in the lexicon according to Kiparksy. Thus, both phonology and
morphology are blind to the internal structure of words exiting a level. This is cap-
tured by modifying the SPE convention of bracket erasure. Kiparsky (1982b: 140)
adopts the following Bracket Erasure Convention:
4.21 BEC (Kiparsky)
Internal brackets are erased at the end of a level.
114 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
The phenomenon of morphological conversion (or zero-affixation) provides a good
illustration of this. It has often been noted that verbs derived from nouns such as to
ring (a bird) are never 'strong', so that they never show the ablaut-type allomorphy
typical, say, of verbs ending in -ing. Thus, we get contrasts such as rang the bell and
ringed the pigeon. This even happens when the noun is itself derived from a strong
verb, as in the case of to grandstand, whose past tense is regular (they grandstanded
the stadium, not *grandstood). Moreover, the form does not need to be a compound.
The noun hide, meaning 'a specially constructed concealed location for the obser-
vation of wildlife', is derived from the verb hide (by conversion). Now, if we wished
to use the derived noun as a verb (by double conversion) to mean something like 'fit
out a locality with hides', we would say the ecologists hided the forest, not the ecologists
hid the forest.
A regular past tense such as grandstanded contrasts with the strong past tense of
the prefixed form withstood. Kiparsky (1982b) explained this contrast in terms of
level ordering. He assumed that irregular inflection takes place at Level 1, and that
so does verb-to-noun conversion. Noun-to-verb conversion, however, is a Level 2
process, as is compounding. Finally, regular inflection is at Level 3. The derivations
of grandstanded and withstood are then given in Figure 4.2 (Kiparsky assumes that
withstand is a compound.
In this way Kiparsky can use the machinery of level ordering in Lexical Phonology
to render opaque the irregularity of the strong verb stand in the compounded (and
converted) form.
Adopting Siegel's Level Ordering Hypothesis (in whatever variant) imposes strong
constraints on word formation processes, as we have seen. Unfortunately, in" many
respects these constraints are too strong. We'll be discussing a number of problems
with level ordering in some detail at the beginning of chapter 6. One problem noted
from the outset in Lexical Phonology concerns the prediction level ordering Jpakes
about the order of morphemes in complex words. For instance, as we have just seen,
Kiparsky (1982b) assumes that regular inflection takes place after compounding.
grandstand
V > N Conversion:
stand]v -stand]N
l
Compounding:
grand + stand]N
~
N > V Conversion:
grandstand]N -
grandstand]v
~
Regular past tense:
withstood
Past tense:
stand- stood
l
Compounding:
with+ stood
grandstand - grandstand + ed
Figure 4.2 Kiparsky's explanation of grandstanded
Level
1
2
2
3
LEXICAL PHONOLOGY 115
This means that we shouldn't ever find regular plurals inside a compound. However,
we do find precisely such cases, as in parks commissioner and systems analyst. Kiparsky
argues that we can simply say that the plural is a special form (with specialized
meaning) and therefore listed in the lexicon. This means that it can be subject to
compounding just like any other lexical item. However, other lexical phonologists
(notably Mohanan, 1986) argue that, in general, languages will have to be able to
break free of the stringent restrictions imposed by level ordering and allow words
formed in one stratum or level to loop back to the previous stratum, to .undergo
further word formation. Not surprisingly, many linguists regard this as an admission
that level ordering is not the right way to approach the problem of morpheme
ordering.
The commonest cases necessitating a loop involve compounding, and Mohanan
himself discusses the two main types of Malayalam compounding process at some
length in this regard. Compounding poses its own special problems for morphological
theory and chapter 8 is devoted to this topic. Here we'll just note that the level
ordering subtheory of Lexical Phonology is at its least clear when compound
formation is concerned.
A number of different models of Lexical Phonology have been proposed, making
slightly different assumptions about the nature of phonological rules and represen-
tations or morphological processes or the interaction between the two. Pulleyblank
(1986) discusses tone systems (particularly that of Yoruba), Harris (1983) is a lexical
analysis of Spanish stress and syllabification, and Rubach (1984) is devoted to the
segmental phonology of Polish, with detailed discussion of the role of allomorphy
rules, while Mohanan (1986) develops a general theoretical approach with generous
illustration from Malayalam.
An aspect of the theory which is particularly prone to variation is level ordering.
Kiparsky himself has presented a number of different versions of level ordering for
English. A fairly drastic revision is proposed by Halle and Mohanan (1985) in their
model of the segmental phonology of English. They expand the number of levels, or
strata, to a total of four. More significantly, they claim that, of these, only Strata 1
and 3 contain cyclic phonological rules. Strata 2 and 4 contain rules which therefore
do not observe Strict Cyclicity. In addition, they assume that certain 'clean-up' rules
(that is, rules whose sole justification is to readjust the values of certain features after
the rules capturing the main morphophonemic alternations) apply postlexically.
Since the bulk of the rules they postulate fall into Strata 2 and 4 or are postlexical,
this means that most of the rules of English phonology are non-cyclic, bringing Halle
and Mohanan's theory very close to that of SPE.
In an Appendix, Halle and Mohanan provide an account of (nearly) all the strong
verbs in English. This requires them to add a number of diacritically conditioned
phonological rules to their grammar, specific to the strong verb system. Their
analysis represents one extreme of generative approaches to allomorphy, since they
claim that the alternations found in the strong verbs are essentially phonological
(albeit triggered in many instances by morpholexical diacritic features). This even
applies to alternations such as think - thought and bring - brought (which apply only
to these two words).
Halle has now abandoned this analysis of strong verbs (Halle and Vergnaud, 1987:
77). He has also abandoned the assumption that morphology and phonology are con-
nected in a single system, the Lexical Phonology. Rather, he argues that morphology
~'
t
I; I
'.:·\I
I
:.i>! 1'
:':!
:··
116 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
and phonology are separate (though phonology still comprises cyclic and non-cyclic
strata). This separation of phonology and morphology (introduced under the influ-
ence of Sproat's, 1985a, critique of Lexical Phonology) will be discussed in more
detail in chapters 10 and 11.
Kiparsky, too, has revised his attitude to Lexical Phonology (Kiparsky, 1985). In
this later paper, he argues for a different formulation of Strict Cyclicity (one which
doesn't suffer from certain technical flaws marring the original version), and for a
new principle, that of structure preservation. According to this a lexical phonological
rule can't refer to features which aren't distinctive. 10 What this means is that all
lexical phonological rules have to be defined over sets of (underlying) phonemes and
the output must consist of sets of phonemes.
An example adduced by Kiparsky to illustrate the value of this principle is Finnish
vowel harmony. In Finnish, a root with back vowels, fa o uf selects suffixes with back
vowels and a root with front vowels fre 0 yf selects suffixes with front vowels. How-
ever, the front vowels /i e/ are 'neutral': they co-occur with either front or back
vowels. Kiparsky argues that the neutrality of these vowels is connected with the fact
that they lack [+back] congeners: the vowels/ i v/ don't exist in Finnish. Therefore,
the feature [back] is redundant for these two phonemes. Being redundant (i.e. non-
distinctive), it can't be referred to by the vowel harmony rule. Therefore, vowel
harmony is unable to create the two missing back congeners even as allophonic
variants (on the assumption that harmony is a lexical process in Finnish).
On the face of it, structure preservation is a desirable principle of Universal
Grammar, since it limits the types of grammars a child might have to learn. If it can
be defended, the principle will be of importance for .our view of allomorphy. For it
would mean that lexical (or at least, cyclic) phonological rules would be defined
purely in terms of lists of phonemes, just like Aronoff's allomorphy rules (§3.5.1).
It must be said that not all Lexical Phonologists accept the idea of structure
preservation, mainly because there are a few cases in which the neatest phonological
analysis seems to demand the use of non-distinctive features at a cyclic level of the
lexicon (see note 10). But such arguments can be rather difficult to adjudicate, since,
to construct a firm counterexample to the principle of structure preservation, we
would need a fully analysed and motivated underlying phoneme inventory. In prac-
tice this generally means that we would need an analysis of most of the phonology
of the language.
A somewhat different model of Lexical Phonology has been proposed by Geert
Booij and Jerzy Rubach (1984, 1987) (amplifying, in certain respects, on suggestions
made in Kiparsky, 1985). They do not devote much discussion to the problem of
level (or stratal) ordering (though in the earlier paper, Booij and Rubach, 1984: note
14, they explicitly distance themselves from the level ordering approach and propose
to handle affixation in terms of stratal selectional features). Instead, they concentrate
on the organization of phonological rules of different types in the lexicon. They dis-
tinguish between two types of non-cyclic rule: the postlexical rule, which applies after
the syntax to whole phrases, and the postcyclic lexical rule, which applies in the
lexicon (like the cyclic rules) but is not cyclic. In this respect, their proposal is remi-
niscent of Halle and Mohanan's theory, in that in both models some lexical rules are
non-cyclic. However, they explicitly state that the cyclic rules precede the postcyclic
rules in the lexicon and in this respect they differ from Halle and Mohanan. Their
model is diagrammed in figure 4.3 (Booij and Rubach, 1987: 3).
Perhaps the simplest example of a postlexical rule would be that of stress rules in
LEXICAL PHONOLOGY 117
L I List of words/stems I
e
~
X
Morphological Cyclic phonological
1
rules rules
c
l
0
n Postcyclic phonological
rules
t
I Syntactic component I
!
Phonological component
(= postlexical rules)
Figure 4.3 Booij and Rubach's (1987) model
fixed stress languages. For instance, in Czech or Hungarian, the stress always falls
on the first syllable of the word, irrespective of its morphological structure. The
easiest way of accounting for such a situation is to say that the stress rule, while
lexical (since it only applies to the domain of the word), applies after all other
phonological rules (including any which might insert or delete vowels).
Polish provides stronger evidence for this conception of fixed stress rules. The
stress falls regularly on the penultimate syllable, whether in monomorphemic words
or in suffixed versions of those words (stressed syllables are italicized):
4.22 a) interes
b) interesu
c) interesami
d) interesowac
e) interesujfZCY
f) interesuj~cego
'interest (nom. sg.)'
(gen. sg.)
(intr. pl.)
'to interest'
'interesting (masc. nom. sg.)'
(masc. gen. sg.)
However, in certain word forms the stress falls, exceptionally, on the antepenult.
These exceptions can't be defined phonologically and so have to be.marked lexically.
When such an exceptional word is suffixed, either the stress remains on the ante-
penult or it shifts to its regular position on the penult. The basic generalization is
that, in exceptional items, stress is marked to fall on a particular syllable irrespective
of affixation, but that this is overridden if the stress would end up more than three
syllables from the right edge of the word (cf. Hammond, 1989). Two sets of cases
are shown in 4.23 and 4.24:
4.23 a) gramatyka
b) gramatyki
c) gramatyk
d) gramatykami
'grammar (nom. sg.)'
(gen. sg.)
(gen. pl.)
(instr. pl.)
118 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
4.24 a) uniwersytet
b) uniwersytetu
c) uniwersytetami
'university (nom. sg.)'
(gen. sg.)
(instr. pl.)
In gramatyka we can assume that stress is lexically marked on the syllable ma, where
it surfaces in all forms except 4.23d. Here, it is impossible because it would be four
syllables from the end of the word and so the regular stress rule takes precedence.
Likewise, we can assume lexical stress marking on the wer syllable of uniwersytet.
It is not important exactly how these rules are written. The point is that the regular
rule must wait until the end of all affixation processes before applying. In addition,
it applies after the vowel-zero alternations similar to those described earlier in the
chapter for Czech. Therefore, it can't sensibly be regarded as a cyclic rule. However,
the fact that the stress rule is defined over the domain of the word, and that it is
subject to lexical exceptionality, shows that it must be a lexical rule. Hence, we have
a lexical rule which must apply (non-cyclically) after the cyclic rules.
Since postcyclic rules aren't cyclic, we don't expect them to obey Strict Cyclicity,
and so they can apply to monomorphemic (underived) items even if they effect a
change in structure. Apparently, postcyclic rules are not intended to respect struc-
ture preservation either. This means that a postcyclic rule can give rise to segments
or syllable structures which aren't underlyingly contrastive, for example, by creating
a reduced vowel which doesn't appear in the underlying phoneme inventory of the
language.
If the notion of postcyclic lexical rules is substantiated, it would be tempting to
regard them as the first stage in the lexicalization of genuinely phonological (auto-
matic) rules of the phrase phonology. This should have interesting implications for
theories of historical phonological change.
4.3.3 Lexical phonology: summary
Let's now summarize the leading ideas behind Lexical Phonology so as to judge the
importance of its contribution to our understanding of morphology. In structuralist
approaches to morphophonemics it's common to find the notion that a mor-
phophonemic alternation serves, in part, as a signal of a morphological relationship.
For instance, in fhauz;)z/, the plural of 'house', the category of plurality is expressed
partly by the ending and partly by the voicing of the stem final fsf. Lexical Pho-
nology has as one of its aims the formalization of this notation. For in Lexical
Phonology phonological rules are triggered by morphological processes (particularly
affixation). Thus, allomorphy is directly coded as a kind of biproduct of affixation.
This is achieved by the interleaving of the morphological rules with the phonological
rules.
A further important consequence of this interleaving is that it permits certain mor-
phological rules to be sensitive to the derived phonological shape of morphemes. We
saw a number of cases of this in chapter 3. Provided the morphological rule applies
after (that is, in a later stratum than) the phonological rule which gave rise to the
derived allomorphy, there is no difficulty in writing affixation processes which are
sensitive to the derived allomorphy. (Some of the implications of this observation will
be expanded upon, however, in §4.4.)
I
I
MORPHOLEXICAL PHONOLOGY 119
Lexical phonology permits a precise characterization of what counts as a mor-
phophonemic rule. Such rules are lexical redundancy rules, defined over items in the
lexicon. They are thus different in kind from the postlexical rules which apply after
the syntax. The resulting model, especially when it incorporates the notion of struc-
ture preservation, bears a certain resemblance to the structuralist morphophonemic
theories discussed in chapter 2 (cf. Kiparsky, 1985: 114). Although certain phono-
logists working within the SPE tradition had suggested at times that the output of
the phonology might need to be able to feed morphological processes (Gussman,
1980, makes just such a claim for certain facts about Polish word formation), Kipar-
sky's is the first generative model to incorporate the idea as an essential component.
The theory is still a species of generative phonology. The key ideas of SPE are
largely retained, though in greatly modified form where so-called non-linear
approaches, discussed in chapter 5, are introduced into the model. Thus, a phono-
logical component has underlying forms mapped onto surface forms by extrinsically
ordered rul~s defined over natural classes of distinctive features using the SPE
notational conventions. Where two allomorphs of a morpheme bear a phonologically
definable resemblance to each other, it is (often tacitly) assumed, with SPE, that
there is a common underlying form from which both allomorphs are derived by
means of phonological rules.
Although the Level Ordering Hypothesis has played a large role in the develop-
ment of Lexical Phonology, it doesn't seem to be an essential component of the
theory. The model proposed by Booij and Rubach (1984, 1987), for instance, is able
to dispense with the notion completely. What is essential to Lexical Phonology is the
interaction between phonology and morphology and the distinction between lexical
processes and postlexical processes. In the rest of this chapter we'll look at other
attempts to cover the same ground by formalizing the morphology-phonology
interaction in different ways.
4.4 Morpholexical phonology
Having morphological rules intermixed with the phonology as in Lexical Phonology
permits interactions which would otherwise be impossible. In particular, it is possible
for certain phonological rules to feed morphological rules. However, simply allowing
phonological rules to apply before affixation processes still doesn't of itself account
for all the ways in which morphology can restrict phonology. It is still the case that
some lexical phonology rules apply only to certain classes of morpheme, for instance,
only to verb forms, or only to specially marked lexical items such as those etymol-
ogically identified as foreign borrowings. This includes cases in which only a minority
of items in a given class actually undergo the rule, the so-called minor rules. In some
cases minor rules apply not only in a minority of the phonological environments
meeting their structural description but also in a minority of the potential morpho-
logical environments. In this case the rules have to be governed by morphological
features, such as [+strong verb] , [+ 3rd declension], [-indicative] and so on.
A rule may be 'minor' either because only a limited number of morphemes
undergo the rule, or because only a limited number trigger it. 11 As an example of
I
;:.'\
i,!:i I
!!·!
'i
ji
,,
!:
..,
li
II
l ;,
lli
'il
t
120 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
the former type, we might suppose that there was a rule shortening fai, i:/ to fi, ef
in the past tense of certain monosyllabic verbs ending in t/ d, as in bite - bit, hide -
hid, bleed - bled, feed - fed. However, this 'regularity', though it can be stated in
phonological terms (in many brands of generative phonology), only applies to a small
minority of verbs. Even strong verbs of the right shape don't necessarily undergo it
(quite apart from those like cite or cede which have completely regular past tense
forms), witness: fight, ride, smite, stride, write. As an example of a minor rule trig-
gered by a minority of items, consider the stress attraction induced by affixes such
as -ic and -ity in system - systemic and luminous - luminosity. The majority of affixes in
English don't have this effect on stress.
Although Kiparsky doesn't discuss the question in any detail in his later writings
it seems that he would accept that certain phenomena handled by phonological rules
in SPE are better treated as readjustment rules, i.e. truncation rules or allomorphy
rules of the kind Aronoff (1976) describes. Rubach (1984) in his description of Polish
within a Lexical Phonology framework explicitly includes such readjustment rules.
Readjustment rules resemble phonological rules in that they may only apply after at
least one morphological process. In certain cases the morphemes which undergo
them or trigger them will have to be marked with special diacritic symbols in their
lexical entries. This is because phonologically similar morphemes sometimes fail to
condition the alternations. In this respect the readjustment rules are very similar to
minor rules.
However, there is still one essential feature of the phonology-morphology interface
which Kiparsky's model retains from SPE: the first rule of the cyclic segmental
phonology which applies on the first cycle follows at least one rule of morpholQgy.
One consequence of this for morphophonemics is that Lexical Phonology adheres to
the principle that, where there is allomorphic variation, it is only the basic alternant
that appears in underlying form. The other variants are derived allomorphs and are
derived either by readjustment rules, or by (cyclic) phonological rules. What is
excluded is the possibility that two allomorphs of a morpheme may be housed in the
lexicon before any morphological or phonological processes are applied. For instance,
confronted with the fhaus - hauzf allomorphy of the word house, a Lexical Phono-
logist would be obliged to set up an underlying form (presumably fhausf since this
is the form found in the morphosyntactically basic variant) and derive one or both
allomorphs from that form. There is no sense in which we could say that both
allomorphs were underlying.
This assumption is directly challenged by Rochelle Lieber (1980, 1982). We will
discuss her overall model of morphology in much greater detail in chapter 6. For the
present we will look at her theory of allomorphy. Lieber argues that there are cases
in which word formation rules need to have access to derived allomorphs before the
phonology has had chance to derive those allomorphs. This means that the derived
allomorph, as well as its basic form, must be available in the lexicon before the
phonology applies. Hence, it cannot be the case that the allomorphy is the conse-
quence of a phonological rule. Lieber claims that in such cases the allomorphs are
listed in the lexicon and associated by means of a lexical redundancy rule which she
refers to as a morpholexical rule. 12
Listing derived forms of allomorphs in the lexicon, so that they are available before
any morphological processes apply, is a break with the traditions of SPE phonology,
MORPHOLEXICAL PHONOLOGY
and likewise with the assumptions made by Aronoff, or by Kiparsky. In order for
the proposal to be workable, it is necessary that a theory of allomorph selection be
provided. We saw in chapter 3 that in Halle's 1973 model of morphology all mor-
phemes were listed and some special provision had to be made in order to ensure that
we derive words such as conception, retrieval and bereavement, from conceive, retri&:..ve
and bereave and not nonsense such as *conceivement, *retreption or *bereaval. One
straightforward way of doing this is to mark roots with features corresponding to the
affixal morphemes they take, and ensure that the affixes are so marked as to select
just those roots marked with the appropriate feature. Lieber's model of morphology
introduces just such a type of selection (which she calls morphological sub-
categorization, by analogy with the subcategorization of verbs in terms of the
complements they take).
One intriguing possibility is that an affix might be given a lexical marking which
specifies that it selects not a root marked with a particular diacritic feature, but rather
any root of a particular phonological shape. We have already encountered sporadic
examples of phonologically governed allomorph selection of this kind. The inchoative
-en affix, discussed in §3.3, which derives verbs from adjectives, bears a selection
feature ensuring that it attaches only to monosyllabic roots ending in (Sonorant)
Obstruent. If the root doesn't fit this description then the affix won't attach to it.
Carstairs (1987) has discussed a number of cases in which the choice of suppletive
allomorphic variants is determined by phonology. An instance which recurs
throughout the Turkic family of languages is the allomorphy of the Passive mor-
pheme. This takes the form -II after all consonants except /1/ and -In after /1/ and
-n after vowels (where 'I' represents the vowel harmony variants f-i i u y/). In 4.25
we see some examples from Turkish (Lewis, 1967: 149):
4.25 a) Root Passive
yap- 'make' yapil
sev- 'love' sevil
tut- 'hold' tutul
gor- 'see' gorul
b) al- 'take' alin
oku- 'read' okun
Cases in which suppletive allomorphs are selected phonologically can be handled
within the SPE framework because the two allomorphs, being suppletive, by defini-
tion can't share a common underlying form. Therefore, both forms must be listed
in the lexicon before any affixation takes place. What would be very difficult for such
theories would be a case of non-suppletive allomorphy, in which independent phono-
logical rules relate the two allomorphs, and in which the derived allomorph is selected
or itself selects on phonological criteria. The reason this is problematic for the SPE
model is that all morphology precedes all phonology. Therefore, at the stage when
phonologically conditioned selection of a derived allomorph is supposed to be taking
place, the derived allomorph still hasn't been created. Lieber argues that just such
cases exist and that the SPE approach to non-suppletive allomorphy can't be correct.
Lieber (1982) discusses such a case from the Australian language Warlpiri (see
Nash, 1980). Warlpiri verbs have five conjugation classes, each taking a different set
121
i
I
122
~
j
,,,
l '
I
APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
of allomorphs of tense affixes. This is shown in 4.26:
4.26 Warlpiri tense markers
Nonpast Past Imper. Imm. Fut. Pres.
~j
1 (mi) Ja ya (-ka) JU nya
3 ny1 ngu ngka ngku nganya
2 rn1, m rnu ka ku rmnya
4 nJa lku
5 m nu nta nku nanya
Warlpiri has a rule of reduplication (which Lieber assumes is a morphological rule
- see chapter 5 for a detailed discussion of reduplication processes). This rule is
stated informally in 4.27 and exemplified in 4.28:
4.27 Warlpiri reduplication
'Copy the first two syllables (or the first syllable if it has a long vowel) of
a verb to the left.'
4.28 pu-ngka 'hit it (Imper.)' pungka-pungka 'hit it quickly'
Now, several of the forms in the columns of 4.26 are phonologically similar to each
other and it would be tempting in an SPE framework to derive some of them at least
from a common underlying form, subject to minor rules triggered by conjugation
class features. However, the phonological conditioning on the reduplication rule pre-
vents this. In order to work properly reduplication must 'know' the number of syl-
lables in the affix. Therefore, it is not possible to select an abstract underlying
representation of, say, the 3rd conjugation form of the present tense, apply reduplica-
tion in the morphology, and then apply the phonological rule spelling out the precise
shape of the affix. The reduplication rule must already 'know' whether the suffix is
a monosyllable or a disyllable when affixed to a stem such as pu. For in the former
case the whole of the suffix will get reduplicated and in the latter case only its first
syllable will be reduplicated. Marantz (1982) presented a number of similar cases,
again from the interaction of phonological rules with reduplication, to argue the same
point.
Lieber's arguments show that the SPE model is inadequate. However, they don't
necessarily affect Kiparsky's Lexical Phonology. For the morphology-phonology
interaction is the whole point of this model. Cases in which phonology feeds mor-
phology are therefore precisely the sort of evidence we would look for in order to
substantiate this model. It is partly for this reason that the Lieber/ Marantz argu-
ments were largely ignored. However, there is one situation which Lexical Phonology
still rules out, namely, phonologically governed selection of a derived allomorph on
the very first cycle. This is because in Lexical Phonology the first (cyclic) phono-
logical rule has to be fed by a morphological process of some sort in order to satisfy
strict cyclicity. If we can find such a case this would argue in favour of the
morpholexical rules approach (which we may call Morpholexical Phonology).
In Spencer (1988a) I claim that Czech illustrates a case of the sort we need. Czech
has a rich inflectional system and a complex morphophonemic patterning. Czech
1
I
I
MORPHOLEXICAL PHONOLOGY 123
nounshave three genders, two numbers, and seven case forms. Many affixes have two
sets of allomorphs which, following tradition, we can call 'hard' and 'soft'. The soft
affixes tend to begin with front vowels and are found with stems ending in a pala-
tal(ized) consonant. Other sorts of stem take the hard affixes. The hard/soft distinc-
tion isn't purely phonetic: due to historical change an earlier plain vs. palatalized
distinction has been lost for the consonants fs z 1/ and the labials, but stems ending
in these consonants are still morphophonemically either soft or hard (or both in the
case of some stems). In table 4.1 I give the declension of the nouns uhel 'corner', a
hard stem and uhel 'coal', a soft stem. You can see from these paradigms that some
of the endings (though not all) alternate, for instance, the genitive singular has the
form -u for the hard stem and -e for the soft stem.
Let's concentrate on the prepositional plural (also called the locative). This has a
hard allomorph -ech and a soft allomorph -ich. Throughout the language, despite the
wealth of exceptions to virtually every rule in Czech, we find that all soft stem allo-
morphs co-occur with the soft -ich affix allomorph and all hard stem allomorphs co-
occur with the hard -ech affix allomorphs. 13 There is a minor rule of Czech, called
traditionally 'Second Velar Palatalization' (which I shall shorten to 2VP). This has
the effects shown in 4.29, where fcf is IPA [ts] /his [fi) and /SJ is fSf. Orthographic
ch represents IPA [x] , so -ich is [i:x] :
4.29 k- c
g---+z
h---+z
x---+s
This set of alternations in languages like Czech is generally regarded as the result of
a phonological rule in generative studies of Slav morphophonemics. For instance, its
equivalent in Polish is a cyclic rule in Rubach's (1984) lexical phonology of that lan-
guage. One reason for assuming this is that although its occurrence is morpholo-
gically restricted to a small set of affixes, it applies with great regularity even to recent
loans. One of the affixes which triggers it is the prep. pl. desinence -ich. Thus, we
Table 4.1 Czech 'hard' and 'soft' declensions
tihel 'corner' uhel 'coal'
Sg. Pl. Sg. Pl.
Nom. tihel tihly uhel uhle
Gen. tihlu uhlu uhle uhlu
Dat. tihlu uhlum uhli uhlum
Ace. tihel tihly uhel uhle
Voc. tihle! tihly! uhli! uhle!
Prep. tihlu tihlech uhli uhlich
Instr. tihlem tihly uhlem uhli
The accents · and · indicate long vowels; the orthographic dis-
tinction between 'y' and 'i' has no effect on pronunciation in
these forms, it simply reflects the lost palatalization present in
earlier stages of the language.
li j.
i\
~'.
124 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
find the data of 4.30:
4.30 zvuk 'sound' zvucfch
filolog 'philologist' filolozich
prah 'threshold' prazich
hrax 'pea' hrasfch
The standard assumption would be, then, that a form like zvucich is derived as in
4.31:
4.31 fzvuk/ + fichf
fzvuk + fch/
c
[zvucfch]
2VP
Output
Now, the phonemes which result from 2VP, namely, fc z sf are all 'soft'. Thus,
it is to be expected that they co-occur with the soft allomorph of the prep. pl., -ich.
However, there is a serious problem with the derivation in 4.31. For here we find
that zvuk has selected a soft affix allomorph, -ich. But the velar consonants are all
morphophonemically hard, and so would be expected to select hard allomorphs (as
they do elsewhere in the paradigm). We have an inescapable degree of irregularity
here. We would expect to see *zvukech, but such a form is completely excluded.
However, the derivational approach illustrated in 4.31 poses us a serious additional
problem. For the form fzvukf, being a hard stem, has no right selecting a soft suffix
allomorph. This problem is compounded when we realize that the rule of 2VP has
the function of rectifying the fault: it guarantees that our exceptionless surface
generalization will be maintained, despite its having been broken at the level of URs.
If we assume that 2VP is a derivational rule operating after affixation, and hence
after allomorph selection, the generalization about the selectional restrictions on hard
and soft allomorphs becomes a complete accident. However, if we assume that 2VP
is a morpholexical rule, that is, a redundancy rule defined over lexical entries, there
is no such problem. All we have to say is that velar stems (regularly) use the palata-
lized allomorph for the prep. pl. This will automatically mean that the -ich affix allo-
morph will be selected. In effect, we are saying that hard, velar stems shift into the
soft stem category for this one inflectional form (not an uncommon phenomenon in
inflectional systems).
How can we tell when we have a morpholexical rule which looks like a cyclic rule,
and a genuine cyclic rule? The most parsimonious assumption to make is that all
cyclic rules are actually morpholexical relationships. The solution will only be attrac-
tive to the extent that it can capture all the generalizations which a derivational, rule-
based approach can capture. For segmental phonology it isn't difficult to see that the
basic properties of the generative, derivational model are straightforwardly translat-
able into the morpholexical, representational approach. In effect, we just split up the
generative rewriting rule into two parts, the change induced by the rule (i.e. the struc-
tural change) and the context of application (i.e. the structural description). The struc-
tural change (the context free portion), is then the morpholexical rule, while the
context is recorded in terms of selection features defined over the allomorphs created
by the context-free rule. What is impossible in such a system is extrinsic ordering of
ALLOMORPHY IN NATURAL MORPHOLOGY 125
rules. However, this is one of the most controversial aspects of phonological rule
systems. Notice that effects reminiscent of rule ordering can be achieved if we assume
a distinction between lexical and postlexical phonology. Thus, we can have a lexical
rule counterfeeding, or bleeding a postlexical rule. The opportunity for such
apparent ordering interactions increases if we adopt the Booijf Rubach model dis-
cussed in the previous section. For non-segmental morphophonemics the picture is
more complicated, though in Spencer (1988b) I suggest how to treat morphologized
reduplication in Latin in a purely representational version of non-linear phonology
(a static version of one of the approaches discussed in chapter 5).
The morpholexical approach to cyclic phonological rules also has the advantage
that it already entails both structure preservation and (one part of) strict cyclicity
without any stipulation. Morpholexical rules are defined before the phonology, at the
level at which lexical entries are listed. Therefore, they are automatically restricted
to phonemes. Hence, structure preservation is an automatic consequence of the
organization of the grammar. Strict cyclicity as it applies to monomorphernic items
states that a cyclic phonological rule will not apply to a form in an environment which
doesn't trigger an alternation. Morpholexical rules create allomorphs for selection by
morphological processes. Without such selection there is no derived allomorph and
hence we will always observe the effect of the rule only when we see allomorphy
induced by the morphology. But this is strict cyclicity (as it applies to underived
items). In other words, this aspect of strict cyclicity is simply a consequence of the
fact that we are dealing with allomorphy.
It is fair to say that phonologists are generally unwilling to abandon the full
descriptive power of derivational theories of morphophonemics, and especially the
luxury of extrinsic rule ordering, even though such rule ordering, together with
highly abstract underlying forms, would appear to make phonologies unlearnable (cf.
Spencer, 1986). As a consequence, it is unclear whether the morpholexical approach
to phonologically governed allomorphy will ever become popular. However, the fact
that such an idea can be entertained at all within a generative theory gives an
indication of the impact that morphology has made on phonology in recent years.
4.5 Allomorphy in natural morphology
Natural morphology is the term given to an approach to morphology developed by
Dressler, Wurzel, Mayerthaler and their colleagues, which seeks to provide a theory
of what constitutes a 'natural' morphological system, and what laws govern devi-
ations from that natural (or 'unmarked') state. It mustn't be confused with Natural
Generative Phonology, discussed earlier in the chapter (though there are certain
points of similarity). The historical starting point for Natural Morphology is the
theory of Natural Phonology developed by Stampe (1979). We will hear about the
Natural Morphologists' approach to inflection in chapter 6. Here I will briefly sketch
the approach to morphophonemics (or morphonology) developed by Dressler
(1985a, 1985b).
The essence of Natural Morphology is that the most natural type of morphology
is fully 'transparent', in the sense that every morpheme has one form and one
meaning, and every meaning (or grammatical category) corresponds to exactly one
~~
I I
126
: I
APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
form. This relationship is called biuniqueness. One example of a derivation from
biuniqueness is allomorphy. Dressler argues that there are three ways in which mor-
. phemes may end up with variant pronunciations. In one case the variation may be
simply due to automatic Phonological Rules (PRs). For instance, Dressler argues that
the alternation in the English plural suffix between fz s ;;,zf is the result of excep-
tionless ('low-level') phonological rules of epenthesis and voicing assimilation.
Another very familiar example would be the rule in English aspirating isolated
voiceless plosives at the beginning of a stressed syllable. The second type of variation
is caused by Morphonological Rules (MPRs). These, too, are phonological rules, in
the sense that they can be written in a phonological formalism (Dressler uses a
modified version of the standard formalism of SPE). However, unlike PRs, MPRs
are rules which are lexically or morphologically governed. An example would be
English Velar Softening, which always has the effect of relating allomorphs ending
in /k gf to allomorphs ending in fs dJ/, as in electri[k]- electri[s]ity and analo[g]
- analo [£6] y. Since there are exceptions to this alternation it cannot be an automatic
PR: monar[k] - monar[k]y and do[g] - do[g]y. The third type of alternation is
brought about by Allomorphy Rules (AMRs). The alternations in English referred
to collectively as the Great Vowel Shift are said to come under this heading. Thus, ·
the rule of Trisyllabic Laxing (responsible for alternations of the type sane - sanity
mentioned in §4.3.1) would be an AMR.
Dressler's distinctions are valuable as rule of thumb characterizations of different
sorts of process which give rise to allomorphic variation. However, he is careful to
point out that he doesn't intend his typology to define watertight distinctions, so that
the boundaries between the types of rule are fuzzy. Dressler provides a summary of
the general properties of MPRs (1985a: 146ft). In addition to being non-automatic
and morpholexically conditioned, they have the property that they can neutralize
phonological contrasts. For instance, the contrast between /k/ and fsf is neutrafized
by Velar Softening. MPRs have phonemes as their input and their output. In 0ther
words, MPRs cannot be. used to induce purely allophonic variation. This property
is similar to Kiparsky's notion of structure preservation. Like PRs, but unlike
AMRs, the MPRs may be applied in word games, and may be ignored in alphabetic
writing systems. Thus, the /k- sf alternation induced by Velar Softening is not rec-
orded in English orthography, so that the writing system treats this alternation like
a predictable phonological rule. (Some MPRs in English are, however, reflected in
the orthography, for example the voicing alternations in plurals such as wife- wives.)
Like AMRs, but unlike genuine PRs, the MPRs tend not to be applied to neologisms
or to nonsense items in psycholinguistic experiments. Genuine PRs, however, reflect
what is pronounceable in a language and so these rules are applied in such cases. 14
For Dressler, then, MPRs represent a half-way stage between AMRs, the fully
morphologized alternations, which are effectively a type of suppletion, and properly
phonological rules. As has often been observed, the MPRs reflect a stage in historical
development of phonological rules which are becoming morphologized or lexicalized,
but which still retain a certain degree of generality. Dressler claims that MPRs
don't get generalized in historical change, though this can happen in both PRs (as
phonological processes are generalized) and to AMRs (as morphological rules are
generalized).
Compared with the classical model of generative phonology represented by SPE,
the typology offered by Dressler (like that of Natural Generative Phonology) is closer
ZWICKY'S SHAPE CONDITIONS 127
to the traditional structuralist typology. However, there is an important difference
between both these approaches on the one hand, and post-Bloomfieldian structura-
lism as represented by, say, Hockett, on the other. This is the lack of a separate
'morphophonemic level' which characterizes the later forms of American structura-
lism. Thus, although for Dressler MPRs mediate in a certain sense between morpho-
logy and phonology, this doesn't mean that the units in which morphophonemic
alternations are defined are different entities from phonemes.
Dressler's survey of MPRs is a useful compendium of information, though it has
to be admitted that Dressler's aim is to provide a theory of languages rather than a
theory of grammars. In this respect; the theory should perhaps be thought of as a
theory of what Chomsky (1986b) has called '£-language', rather than '!-language'
(cf. §3.3). It is for this reason that he is not too concerned to provide hard-and-fast
criteria for distinguishing the different sorts of rule. As such his approach is very
different in motivation from those deriving from the SPE tradition of generative
grammar, such as Kiparsky's Lexical Phonology, or the theory of Morpholexical
Phonology. The distinction isn't .always apparent since the notational conventions
Dressler and his colleagues use are generally those of generative phonology. More-
over, they make considerable appeal to 'external evidence' in the form of child
language data, psycholinguistic experiments and data from language pathology, sug-
gesting the search for a 'psychologically real' characterization ofthe morphological
system. However, the kind of psychological reality which is at stake is very different
from that which is central to the philosophy of generative grammar.
4.6 Zwicky's shape conditions
In a number of papers Arnold Zwicky has been developing an approach to morpho-
logy which pays particular. regard to the interfaces between morphology and phono-
logy and between morphology and _syntax. In this section I shall outline his views on
allomorphy, with particular reference· to a set of problems which we have hardly
touched on before. Zwicky (1986) distinguishes between Allomorphy Rules, Mer-
phonological Rules and Phonological Rules, rather as Dressler has done. He suggests
that the best way to formalize MPRs and PRs is as generative rules operating over
a base form (UR), as in standard versions of generative phonology. However, for the
AMRs he suggests that derived allomorphs (which are listed in the lexicon) will then
be particular forms, marked to be chosen in particular contexts. The basic allo-
morphs are then chosen by default, an instantiation of the Elsewhere Condition.
AMRs will precede MPRs which will precede PRs. In short, the general overall
picture is broadly that of Lexical Phonology, Morpholexical Phonology and Natural
Morphology (though, of course, with important differences of detail).
Zwicky points out, however, that it isn't just morphemes undergoing word-internal
morphological processes which exhibit allomorphy. One type of allomorphy which
tends to get overlooked is that shown by words such as the English indefinite article
af an. This word has two allomorphs whose choice is governed by the phonological
environment: an appears before a vowel-initial word and a appears elsewhere. How-
ever, unlike the situations we have seen hitherto in which allomorph selection has
,,
II
'II
II![
'II
i
I!
:I
,~·
128 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
been governed by phonology, here the allomorph selection has to take place after syn-
tactic rules have applied. In other words, we are gradually straying from the domain
of morphology proper. The indefinite article allomorphy is a rather troublesome
alternation if we wish to maintain that lexically or morphologically conditioned alter-
nations are limited to the lexicon, for this alternation is certainly lexically conditioned
(it only happens to one word!), yet it seems to take place in the syntax.
We could at least write a phonological rule to describe the a - an alternation. For
instance, we might simply say that there was a lexically governed postlexical rule
deleting the fnf of an before a non-vowel. Indeed, recently there has been an upsurge
in interest in phonological rules which apply to phrasal or syntactic domains (e.g.
Kaisse, 1985, Nespor and Vogel, 1986), so perhaps as morphologists we could carry
on ignoring the problem and leave it to our phonologist colleagues. Nonetheless, the
phonological solution would still be rather upsetting to theories in which all postlex-
ical rules have to be automatic, 'allophonic' rules. However, not all alternations of
this kind even admit of a phonological description. Take the case of the alternation
found in French with adjectives such as beau ([bo]) 'beautiful'. This word has an
irregular feminine stem allomorph, belle ([bel]). However, the same allomorph (but
spelled bel) is also found modifying masculine nouns if the following word begins
with a vowel, un bel hamme, [ebel om], 'a handsome man', not *un beau hamme. We
even see the same happening to an ac'verbial form of the same word in the idiom bel
et bien 'well and truly'. Similar allomorphic variation is shown by the possessive pro-
nouns, man - rna, 'my', ton - ta, 'th~r', and so forth. Thus, we have man pere 'my
father', rna femme 'my wife', man ami 'my friend (masc.)', man amie 'my friend
(fern.)' (with the same pronunciation as the previous example), but rna petite-amie
'my girlfriend'. What we have here is a case of partial suppletion in which allomorph
choice isn't determined until the syntax. 15
Another type of allomorphy determined in the 5yntax is represented by the initial
consonant mutation of Nivkh (Gilyak) (among other languages) discussed in chapter
1. Recall that in Nivkh the initial consonants of words undergo specific phonological
processes such as voicing and spirantization when those words are in specific gram-
matical contexts (e.g. the direct object of a verb). Again, allomorph selection can only
be decided here after the syntax.
Finally, a very common source of such allomorphy is clitics. (Some would say that
the indefinite article allomorphy came under this heading.) The whole of chapter 9
is devoted to the problem of clitics so I'll defer discussion till then.
Zwicky proposes to lump these types of 'external' allomorphy together with other
types of allomorphy in a separate component of grammar called the Shape Compo-
nent. This component contains the lexicon itself, together with separate sets of rules
for inflectional morphology and derivational morphology (Zwicky explicitly distin-
guishes these notions). In addition, this component houses Shape Conditions, those
conditions governing the selection of different allomorphs (or morpheme 'shapes')
postlexically, that is, in the syntax. Hence, it is here that rules governing the distri-
bution of the af an allomorphs is stated, as well as the form of French adjectives, the
different mutated forms of Nivkh words, and so on.
Relatively little attention has been devoted to these types of problems by morpho-
logists, though they offer some of the most intriguing puzzles in the discipline. These
questions exemplify particularly well the thesis that morphology is essentially the
discipline of interfaces, since it is in this area that morphology, phonology and syntax
SUMMARY 129
all meet and interact. Given the complexity of the resulting problems it would be too
sanguine to expect widely accepted solutions to appear overnight, but it does make
this one of the more interesting of present-day research areas.
4.7 Summary
The theme of this chapter has been the interface between morphology and pho-
nology. We have seen how the notion of allomorphy has altered since the publication
of SPE. As morphology has become increasingly important for linguistic theory in
general and phonological theory in particular, so the theoretical devices used to
describe allomorphic variation and alternations have become more diverse. This is in
keeping with a general trend towards the 'modularization' of grammatical theory.
Rather than attempting to cover as many disparate phenomena as possible with a
single apparatus (as was proposed in SPE), linguists· are constructing separate sub-
theories with their own sets of rules, representations and principles, and examining
the way these subtheories interact. Thus, in Lexical Phonology we see first a distinc-
tion drawn between lexical phonology and phrase phonology, and an explicit theory
of the close interaction between the lexical phonology and the theory of morphology.
The recent work of Zwicky illustrates the theme of the modular interaction of
independent (sub)components particularly well.
A number of ideas have been resuscitated from pre-generative theories and given
a generative gloss. The notion of allomorphy itself has been reintroduced, as a
concept distinct from phonology. The notion of phonemic contrast has been empha-
sized in Kiparsky's principle of structure preservation. However, despite the
modular nature of contemporary theories there seems to be one distinction familiar
from pre-generative structuralism which has not re-emerged, namely, the idea of an
independent morphophoneinic level. Morphemes consist of phonemes (or other
phonological entities like tones, stress patterns, and so on). There is no intermediate
level between phonology and morphology. In this respect contemporary theories of
morphophonemics remain true to a Prague School conception rather than the post-
Bloomfi.eldian conception of the subject.
Finally, the early preoccupation with the purely lexical aspects of allomorphy
is gradually being redressed with the rekindling of interest in the problem of
allomorphy at the syntactic level.
However, considerable though the changes in the conception of allomorphy in gen-
erative grammar have been, we have so far told only a small part of the story. For
we have restricted ourselves primarily to allomorphy which takes the form of alter-
nations in the particular segments within a morpheme. However, we know from
chapter 1 that there are rather more drastic types of alternation found in languages,
some of which stretch the very notions of 'morpheme' and 'allomorphy' to their con-
ceptual limits. It is to these types of allomorphy that we turn in the next chapter
when we trace the development of 'non-concatenative' -morphology.
130 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
EXERCISES
4.1 Give the UR for chvilecek and chvilecka and show how to generate the surface
forms using rule 7. What assumptions do you have to make about the application of
the rule to get the derivation to work?
4.2 The Strict Cycle Condition: Rubach (1984) argues that the Polish phonolo-
gical system includes the rules 1-6. Rules 1-5 are cyclic and rule 6 is postcyclic.
(Rubach, 1984, only distinguishes cyclic and postcyclic, i.e. postlexical, rules.)
Cyclic
1) Adjective Strident Palatalization
s, z=>s, z1 il Adj.
2) First Velar Palatalization
k, g, x=>c, z, s f 1, e, J
3) Gliding
i=>i 1 v
4) Nominal Strident Palatalization
s=>s / i] Dim./Aug.
5) Glide Deletion
j=>0/ [s, z, s, z, c} -.,.--,...-
Postcyclic · ·
6) Retraction
i=>y/ {s, z, cl
The cyclic rules ate applied in a specific extrinsically determined order. On the basis
of data sets A, B (given in broad Slavicist transcription), determine what this order
is for rules 1), 2) and 4). Data set A consists of neuter augmentatives formed from
noun stems of any gender. Data set B consists of the nominative fern. sg. of
denominal adjectives. Assume that the UR of the neuter ending is fof, the feminine
ending, fa/ and the Denominal Adjective suffix, /if. Rubach assumes that each mor-
pheme triggers a new cycle. Given this assumption, and given your proposed rule
order, how does data set A provide an argument for the Strict Cycle Condition?
Set A: neuter augmentatives
kapelus 'hat'
noga 'leg'
xwopak 'boy'
gmax 'building'
Set B: Denominal adjectives
byk 'bull'
mys
papuga
mmx
'mouse'
'parrot'
'monk'
kapelusisko
nozysko
xwopacysko
gmasysko
byea
mysa
papuia
mnisa
EXERCISES 131
4.3 What would the explanation be, given the model of Kiparsky (1982b), for the
following contrasts? Give complete derivations.
(i) a) The policemen frang } the doorbells.
b) l*ringed
(ii) a) The policemen [*:ang] the demonstrators.
b) nnged
4.4 'Elsewhere' in morphology: Write a set of informal rules (i.e. in prose) to
account for the following Czech paradigms, making crucial use of the Elsewhere
Condition.
Class A Class B Class C Class D
'to do' 'to suffer' 'to take' 'to be'
Sg. 1 delam trpim beru sem
2 delas trpis bereS' ses
3 dela trpi bere Je
Pl. 1 delame trpfme bereme sme
2 delate trpfte berete ste
3 delajf trpejf berou sou
(Classes A, B are regular classes, Class C is a minor, irregular class, Class D is a
unique irregular verb.)
4.5 Allomorphy in Palan Koryak (Zukova, 1980): Identify the component mor-
phemes in the following paradigm from the Palan dialect of Koryak (a paleosiberian
language spoken in Kamchatka and NE Siberia). What phonological constraints
govern the allomorphy? Write a set of phonological rules to account for these forms.
rpvok 'to begin'
Present Past Future
Sg. 1 tdi)VOtk;;m tdi)VOk tdtai)VOI)
2 I)dvotkdn I)dvojja tai)VOI)d
3 I);}VOtkdn I)dVOJ)a tai)VOI)d
Pl. 1 mdtdI)volatkdn mdtdi)volamdk mdttai)volamdk
2 I)dvolatkdnetdk I)dvolatdk tai)volatdk
3 I)dvolatkdn I)dvolat tai)volaiJ
4.6 Possessed nouns in Welsh. Determine the possessive morphemes and list the
noun root allomorphs shown in the data. Determine what pattern the root allo-
morphy follows, and use this to predict a full set of allomorphs for each noun root.
What is the base form of each root? How might you define the root allomorph classes
in phonological terms? In this allomorphy conditioned purely phonologically, purely
\
I
i
i
I'I
I.:
l
1
'~
132 APPROACHES TO ALLOMORPHY
morphologically, or by a mixture of these? [Note: n\ IJ\ mh indicate aspirated
nasals, an accent indicates stress, otherwise the transcription is IPA.]
ajxdevajdxi 'your sheep' ajxkawsxi 'your cheese'
aJavre 'his goat' ajblentine 'his child'
ajbarnhi 'her opinion' ;:)I)avn 'my goat'
;:)IJaroi 'my garden' ajdevajdhi 'her sheep'
ajxti:xi 'your house' ajflentinhi 'her child'
ajxawshi 'her cheese' ;:)marm 'my opinion'
ajxgavrxi 'your goat' ;:)nevajdi 'my sheep'
dmharseli 'my parcel' ajvajke 'his bicycle'
ajgarohi 'her garden' ;:)nusteri 'my duster'
a)varne 'his opinion' dmajki 'my bicycle'
ajdre:ne 'his train' ;:)I]hawsi 'my cheese'
;:)I]hofii 'my coffee' ajxbarnxi 'your opinion'
ajfarselhi 'her parcel' dn hre:ni 'my train'
aj8i:hi 'her house' ajaroe 'his garden'
a)gawse 'his cheese' ajgavrhi 'her goat'
ajgofie 'his coffee' dn hi:i 'my house'
ajoustere 'his duster' ajxplentinxi 'your child'
5
Nonlinear Approaches to Morphology
Introduction
Morphophonological theory, as we have seen in the previous chapter, has undergone
profound changes since the publication of The Sound Pattern of English. However,
in chapter 4 we saw only part of the story. The development of phonological theory
since the mid-1970s has ushered in even more fundamental changes in mor-
phophonology and morphology in general. The most important development from
our point of view was the theory of Autosegmental Phonology, proposed by John
Goldsmith in his doctoral dissertation in 1976 (for his most recent statement see
Goldsmith, 1990). This was essentially a theory of tone languages (particularly
African tone languages) in which the tonal properties of a word are factored out and
treate<;i separately from the segmental properties. Goldsmith proposed a two-tiered
representation in which tones are associated to tone-bearing segments (usually
vowels, sometimes sonorant consonants) according to certain universal conventions.
The key idea here is that a phonological representation is more than just a sequence
of segments, each with its properties. Rather, it consists of a string of segments,
together with a string of other elements, called autosegments, and a specified
mapping between them. In other words, we have, for example, a sequence of conso-
nant and vowel phonemes, and simultaneously a sequence of tones, together with an
indication of which tones are linked to which vowels. Since we have more than one
'line' of phonological elements, such a representation is often called nonlinear
(though the alternative multilinear is rather more accurate).
In the first section we'll see how the principles of Autosegmental Phonology were
applied by John McCarthy (1979) to the problem of Semitic root-and-pattern mor-
phology to produce what is often called a theory of nonconcatenative morphology,
that is, a 'non-agglutinative' theory. As we saw in chapter 1, root-and-pattern
systems pose serious problems for traditional theories based on the linear,
agglutinative approach to morphology. It's hard to overestimate the importance of
McCarthy's proposals. Every aspect of the theory of morphology and morphophono-
134 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
logy has had to be reappraised in one way or another in the wake of his analysis of
Semitic and other languages. This section overviews McCarthy's original theory,
giving the basic facts in justification of it, and the essentials of the theoretical
machinery McCarthy introduces. In addition, it looks briefly at latter developments
in the theory in relation to Lexical Phonology.
The second section deals entirely with one type of morphophonological phenom-
enon: reduplication. This has excited considerable interest over the past decade,
perhaps mainly because the multilinear approach has opened up possibilities of
analysis which are so much more insightful than the earlier transformational
approaches. As a result, rather arcane facts from 'exotic' languages, which had been
little more than descriptive curios, have assumed a major significance in deciding
between competing, though often rather similar, theoretical models. This explosion
of interest in just a single type of phenomenon is a good example of the way scientific
discovery and the appraisal of empirical facts depends in large part on the theoretical
apparatus at the disposal of the scientific community.
Section three surveys other types of morphological processes in which we need to
separate one aspect of phonological structure from others. We first look at processes
involving the quality of the phonemes in the representation themselves, starting with
morphologically motivated harmony systems (prosodies). Then we see how noncon-
catenative approaches can shed light on a phenomenon known as 'echo-words', on
English strong verbs, and on language games. Next we look at analyses in which the
pattern of consonants and vowels, irrespective of which particular consonants and
vowels they are, can be manipulated by rules of morphology or allomorphy. The
examples we examine are from Yokuts and Czech.
In the fourth section we return to the tonal origins of autosegmental theory and
look at a recent influential account of how to handle tones which seem to function
as morphemes.
The last section looks forward to future developments. We see an example of how
McCarthy's original treatment of Arabic plurals has been modified to gain a more
satisfactory coverage of the data, and touch on a particularly interesting example of
nonconcatenative morphology, that of Sign Language.
5.1 The autosegmental approach to
morphology
5.1.1 McCarthy's theory
For many morphologists the prototypical word formation processes have been
(linear) affixation, of the kind found in agglutinating languages. However, we saw in
chapter 1 that many processes (including some found in Indo-European languages)
do not conform to this Item-and-Arrangement ideal. Quite frequently it appears as
though it is a phonological alternation which is expressing the morphological cat-
egory, and not a morpheme proper. We have seen this for tone, stress, vowel length
and other prosodic characteristics, as well as processes affecting the phonological
makeup of a root such as the initial consonant mutations of Nivkh, or apophony
THE AUTOSEGMENTAL APPROACH 135
(ablaut), found in English forms such as sing ~ sang ~ sung ~ song, in which the
vowel of a root changes. All these types of process pose problems for a simple-minded
version of IA.
The Semitic languages offer a particularly strong challenge to so-called linear
models of word formation. The difficulty which a linear IA theory has with such
languages was used by proponents of the generative form of the Item-and-Process
approach as an argument against IA. However, the classical generative approach is
still at heart an approach based on linear representations, in that URs are still
assumed to take the form of linearly concatenated strings of morphemes. This
assumption has been seriously questioned by a highly influential theory of Semitic
morphology, developed by John McCarthy in his 1979 doctoral dissertation
(published as McCarthy, 1982a).
Recall that, in Arabic, words are commonly formed on the basis of a triliteral root,
a set of three consonants between which are inserted (or 'intercalated') sets of vowels.
In some cases the sequence of vowels itself signifies a grammatical category such as
'perfective active'. Thus, if we take the root ktb 'write', and the vowel sequences of
5.1, we obtain the verb stems in 5.2:
5.1 a) a a
b) u i
c) a u
d) u a
5.2 a) katab
b) kutib
c) aktub
d) uktab
perfective active
perfective passive
imperfective active
imperfective passive
If we say (as I suggested in chapter 1) that the morphological realization (morph)
corresponding, say, to 'perfective passive' is the vowel sequence 5.1b itself, then we
will have a discontinuous root morph k-t-b and a set of discontinuous infixes (and
prefixes) as shown in 5.3:
5.3 a) perf. act. b) perf. pass.
A A
katab kutib
VI VI
write write
The problem, then, is how to ensure that the vowels and consonants appear in the
right order.
A further dimension to this problem is revealed when we look at, say, the perfec-
tive active in more detail. A complete table of verb patterns corresponding to that
given in 1.23, chapter 1, would take the form of 5.4, bearing in mind that in general
a verb would not appear with all of these patterns (this table is based on McCarthy,
1\
,JI
'l'
~~f,l
136
II
)'!
NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
1982a: 134; cf. also the discussion of these phenomena in Goldsmith, 1990, especially
p. 97):
5.4 I katab IX ktabab
II kanab X staktab
III kaatab XI ktaabab
IV nktab XII ktawbab
v takattab XIII ktawwab
VI takaatab XIV ktanbab
VII nkatab XV ktanbay
VIII ktatab
In some cases these have more than the three consonants of the original root. Inspec-
tion of similar forms for different roots would reveal, for instance, that the initial ?-
t- and n- of IV, V, VI, VII are prefixes and the first t of VIII is an infix, as is the
n of XIV. Inspection of other verbal categories with different vocalism reveals that
the shifts in vowel length, as seen in III, VI, IX, are independent of the selection
of vowels. In other words, vowel length itself is part of the binyan, and thus is an
exponent of the morphological categories illustrated in 5.4. The same is true of the
consonant gemination seen in II and V, and of the repetition of the /b/ at the end
of IX, XII, XIV.
How does McCarthy apply the ideas of autosegmental phonology to these data? 1
The first plank in his theory is the notion of a prosodic template (or CV tier or CV
skeleton). This is a representation of a morpheme or word simply in terms of the
string of consonants and vowels which make it up but without any indication of the
precise identity of those consonants and vowels. Phonologists informally use the same
idea when they speak, say, about a closed syllable as a 'CVC syllable'. McCarthy
claims that a specification of CV templates is part of the grammar of Arabic. The lan-
guage specifies eight distinct patterns of CV sequences and these define the basic
(skeletonic) structure of the fifteen binyanim. The eight templates needed to generate
all the forms of 5.4 are given in 5.5 (following McCarthy, I show only the commoner
of the binyanim and ignore the marginal patterns):
5.5 cvcvc I
cvccvc II, IV
cvvcvc III
cvcvccvc v
cvcvvcvc VI
ccvcvc VII, VIII
ccvvcvc XI
ccvccvc XIV
Crucial to McCarthy's theory is the idea that separate identifiable exponents of a mor-
phological category, such as the triliteral root or the vowel sequence, are represented
on separate planes or dimensions of the representation. These planes are usually
called tiers. The CV template is the basic tier of the representation of an Arabic
word. For verbs this tier also conveys morphological information, by indicating
which binyan the word belongs to. The other two tiers consist of ordinary phonemic
THE AUTOSEGMENTAL APPROACH 137
segments, the sequence of root consonants and the vowel sequences. These segments
are called melody elements. They have to be associated to the C and V slots of the
CV template, and this is where the principles of autosegmental phonology make their
appearance.
Ignoring the binyanim with affixes, let us consider patterns I, III, XIV, concen-
trating for the moment on the consonant tier. We'll get the correct forms if we can
associate the melody elements to the C slots in the manner shown in 5.6a-c:
5.6 a) C V C V C b) c v v c v c
k t b k t b
c) C C V V C V C
v
k t b
The representations of 5.6 can be built up from those of 5.7 by means of a simple
set of principles governing the association of melody elements to CV slots:
5.7 a) C V C V C b) c v v c v c
k t b k t b
c) CCV V C V C
k t b
A given melody element on a given tier is attached to a C slot in a one-to-one fashion
from left to right, respecting the Well-Formedness Condition, 5.8 (which I present
here in a simplified form):
5.8 a) Every CV skeletal slot must be associated with at least one melody
element and every melody element must be associated with at least one
appropriate C or V slot.
b) Association lines must not cross.
'Appropriate' in 5.8a means that a consonant melody element links to a C slot and
a vowel element links to a V slot. Application of this procedure to 5.7 will yield 5.9:
5.9
138 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
c) C C V V C V C
~~
k t b
Since there are as many C slots in 5.9a, b as there are melody elements, nothing
further needs to be done with these examples, but the final C slot of 5.9c remains
unlinked. Therefore, we invoke a process of automatic spreading (again from left to
right) to complete the derivation. Thus, we obtain 5.10:
5.10 c c v v c v c
~v
k t b
Finally, we need to attach vowel melody elements to the V slots. The simplest case
is a vocalic melody consisting of just a single element such as the faf of the perfect
active. Again, the vowels occupy their own separate tier, which we can show by
writing them above the CV template. Assuming we have already associated conso-
nants to C slots, all we need do is take a single a element and associate it to all the
V slots, as shown in 5.11:
5.11 a
!I-
I \ '-
I \ "-,
I I '
c c v v c v c
v
k t b
(The use of dotted lines in such representations is meant to convey the idea of associ-
ation in progress, as opposed to association which has already been effected. This
notational ploy has no theoretical status, though.)
When the vocalic melody consists of two elements, the association process is very
similar to that found with consonants. For instance, to generate the perfective
passive, kutib, we need to associate the melody fu if as in 5.12:
5.12 u
c v c v c
I
I
k t b
1
THE AUTOSEGMENTAL APPROACH 139
Matters are complicated slightly by the fact that a sequence of two adjacent vowels,
written as VV in the prosodic template, represents a single syllabic nucleus in the
form of a long vowel. Thus, a skeleton such as CVVCVC with a vowel melody fu if
will give kuutib in which the fuflinks to the first VV sequence, and not *kuitib (which
would be unpronounceable in Arabic).
Notice that it is very important that the vowel and consonant melody tiers be separ-
ated and that the association of consonants and vowels to the prosodic template be
independent. Otherwise, we would end up with crossing association lines as in 5.13,
corresponding to 5.6a, c. This would be true in the case of 5. 13c even if we assumed
that there were two separate a vowels:
5.13 a) *C V C V C
\\XI
k a t b
c) *C C V V C V C
\\VU
k t a b a
Now let us consider the forms with affixes. McCarthy identifies three prefixes ?-
'causative', t- 'reflexive' and n- with no fixed function. ~re have seen that the conso-
nant and vowel melodies have been separated and set on different tiers. This reflects
an important assumption of McCarthy's, namely that every morpheme making up a
word is assigned to a separate tier. This assumption is known as the Morphemic Tier
Hypothesis, and it is crucial to much current work in phonology and morphology. 2
This means that a word with an affix will consist of four tiers: the prosodic template,
the root consonants, the vowels and the affix itself. (It quickly becomes impossible
to notate such representations accurately on two-dimensional paper.) Using the
Greek letter p.. to represent a morpheme and hence to define a morphemic tier, we
can represent the final structure of binyanim IV-VII from 5.4 as 5.14:
5.14 a) J..L b) J..L
I I
a a
~ ~
c v c c v c c vcvccvc
I II/ I \ V/
) k t b t k t b
-
'\V I ~
f-l f-l f-l J..L
'·
:]1'
K
f
'1\
11
-~
a
ff
II
i;',
j. ~
!
140 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
c) I.L d) I.L
I I
a a
~ ~
c v c v v c v c c c v c v c
l \ / / I \ !/
t k t b n k t b
I \V l \V
I.L I.L jl. jl.
Similarly, binyan XIV, with infix -n-, can be represented as in 5.15 (ignoring vowels):
5.15 I.L
I
n
I
c c v c c v c
~~v
k t b
\11
I.L
These· representations result from the association principles already discussed giv.en
the additional proviso that the affix· material is associated before the root melody
(otherwise, the first consonant of the triliteral root would always associate to the fiirst
C slot of the template, and there would be no prefixes in the language).
There remain a few troublesome cases. One ofthese is representation 5.14b, corre-
sponding to binyan V. Given the principle that association is left-to-right and one-to-
one, we would expect this to take the form *takatbab (rather like the binyan IX form,
ktabab), and yet 5.14b has a geminated t. The same applies to binyan II. The second
problem is that the reflexive affix t appears as an infix in binyan VIII not as a prefix.
McCarthy deals with these hiccups by means of two phonological rules. These
illustrate quite neatly the way the phonology and morphology interact in non-linear
approaches to morphophonemics. The second ca·se is the simplest. McCarthy
assumes a rule of Eighth Binyan Flop which dissociates the t prefix and moves it one
position to the right on the skeleton:
5.16
c
t
I.L
[refl]
Eighth Binyan Flop
c c c
~t
I.L
[refl]
I'
f
l
I
THE AUTOSEGMENTAL APPROACH 141
This is by now a standard nonlinear formulation of a rule of metathesis (i.e. a process
in which adjacent elements are interchanged).
The first case is dealt with by a rule erasing one of the association lines (delinking)
in the binyan Il and V forms. We may represent this as in 5.17:
5.17 Second, Fifth Binyan Erasure
c v C]II,V
+
[ ]
1-L
[root]
By convention, delinking is followed by respreading from the left. The derivation of
kattab is shown in 5.18:
5.18 c v c c v c
\\V Erasure =====>
k t b
\~\c/ Automatic Spreading
k t b
c v c c v c
~V/
k t b
A great many analyses in phonology nowadays appeal to this type of compound rule
consisting of dissociation followed by automatic reassociation.
Before we briefly consider other aspects of Arabic root-and-pattern morphology
let's take stock of what has been achieved. We have adopted the assumption that
Arabic word structure separates out consonant and vowel melodies, and a CV skel-
eton or prosodic template. Each of these three is regarded as (the exponent of) a
single morpheme or morphological category (such as 'binyan') and each of these
exists on its own tier. Given these assumptions, together with the two· special rules
5.16, 5.17, many of the more recalcitrant features of the morphology of the Arabic
verb system have now the automatic consequence of completely general principles of
phonological and morphological organization.
l
·
..~.·i
:
.
1
:!
I
1
:1.•
i:
IIi
\It
ll:
rr.
r
.~·
'..·.1.·!11
ii
1
1
1
'·i'!
'I
·!
i l
'i
!:I
142 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
Nouns in Arabic, like verbs, exhibit complex patterns of root-and-pattern morpho-
logy, which is most obvious when we look at plural formation. Arabic nouns form
their plurals in one of two ways: either addition of a suffix (the 'sound plural') or by
a change in the CV skeleton and change in the vocalism (the 'broken plural'). The
sound plurals are simply examples of concatenative affixation of a familiar kind. It
is the broken plurals which are of interest to us.
McCarthy provides 5.19 amongst his examples of broken plurals. (The symbol /9/
represents a voiced pharyngeal continuant, and JHJ its voiceless congener):
5.!9 a) quadriliteral roots
maktab makaatib
miftaaH mafaatiiH
b) quinqueliteral roots
'office'
'key'
9ankabuut 9anaakib 'spider'
9andaliib 9anaadil 'nightingale'
c) triliteral roots: CVVCV(V)C
Jaamuus jawaamiis 'buffalo'
xaatam xawaatim 'signet'
These plural forms all have a template of the form CVCVVCVC or CVCVVCVVC,
the length of the final vowel being the same as that of the final vowel of the singular
form. In all the plurals the final vowel is i and the preceding vowels are always a.
In the (b) forms the final consonant of the singular fails to appear in the plural, while
in the (c) forms an extra consonant w appears in the middle of the word.
These observations can be accounted for if we assume that the broken plural for
this class of nouns is defined by the template 5.20a and the vocalic melody 5.20b:
5.20 a) CVCVVCV(V)C b) a
vf..L
[plural]
We then assume that the derivation begins by associating the i of 5.20b with the
rightmost vowel position. The rest of the vowel and melody and the consonant
melody are then associated left-to-right as usual:
5.21 a) a b) a
c v c v v c v v c c v c v v c v c
m f t H 9 n d 1 b
w ~
f..L f..L
THE AUTOSEGMENTAL APPROACH 143
a 1 a 1
1\ I
c v c v v c v v c cvcvvcvc
m f t H 9 n d 1 b
v ~
f.L f.L
a 1 a
~ 1\ ~I
c v c v v c v v c c v c v v c v c
~~~~
m f t H
~\I/
9 n d 1 b
w ~
f.L f.L
mafaatiiH 9anaadi1
Notice that the prosodic template has only four C slots. Therefore, there are insuffi-
cient slots for all the five consonants of the quinqueliteral roots. Since the consonants
associate in one-to-one fashion from left to right, this means that the final consonant
remains unassociated. By general (universal) convention, any melody element which
fails to associate by the end of the derivation is deleted (Stray Deletion/Erasure).
McCarthy accounts for the insertion of a w in the (c) examples by means of a
special rule which associates w with the second C slot of the template. This rule
applies after root consonants have been associated to the template. In autosegmental
theory it is assumed that it is universally impossible for a slot to be associated with
two melody elements from different morphemic tiers. Therefore, when the w is
inserted it automatically causes the association between its slot and the root conso-
nants to be severed (by automatic delinking). McCarthy assumes that this process is
taken further and that all the consonants to the right of the w are reassociated. The '
derivation of xawaatim is shown in 5.2lc, ignoring the vocalism:
5.21 c) C a C aa C . i C
', \ I ,.--"
' \ I ,.-
", ' v"'
x t m
\V
w
I
I
I
f.L
C a C aa C i C
~\V
x t m
\V
f.L
144
'i
':;
NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
w
I
CaCaaCiC
~\V
x t m
\V
w
I
C a C
~X
,_.,
aa C i C
/ /'
/ /
/ / /
/ /
t m
\V
w
I
C a C aa C i C
~.//
x t m
\V
,_.,
xawaatim
5.1.2 Some theoretical consequences of McCarthy's approach
McCarthy's adoption of the theory of Autosegmental Phonology has allowed him to
formalize the notion of a discontinuous morpheme such as the triconsonantal roots
of Semitic. This effectively means that he can provide an IA analysis of root-and-
pattern, nonconcatenative morphology, but one on which the items are arranged in
a multidimensional space and not a linear string. This is a big advance over earlier
generative theories of such phenomena, which were obliged to appeal to complex
transformational rules to modify the phonological structures of words and which
therefore had great difficulty extracting what was similar about the various patterns
observed. However, the main disadvantage to the transformational treatments was
that they made use of descriptive devices which were extremely powerful. The
formalisms that were capable of handling Arabic verb patterns would have been
equally capable of describing all manner of alternations which are totally unattested
in the world's languages and which most linguists would regard as somehow univer-
sally impossible.
Let's illustrate this conceptual point with a hypothetical example (modifying
l
I
THE AUTOSEGMENTAL APPROACH 145
McCarthy's own discussion of this matter somewhat). Consider the way we might
formalize broken plural formation for the quadriliteral and quinqueliteral roots dis-
cussed in the previous subsection. We need to write a rule which will derive the
plurals shown in 5.22 from corresponding singular forms:
5.22 a) miftaaH~mafaatiiH
b) 9ankabuut~9anaakib
Recall that the CV sequence of the broken plural is CaCaaCi(i)C irrespective of the
vowels of the singular. The consonants are determined by the root itself. A simple
transformation to handle this is given in 5.23 (ignoring the length alternation in the
final vowel in the plural):
Actually, this is a shorthand version of something which would be rather more
complex in a properly formalized grammar. This rule correctly captures the vocalism
of the plural and also the fact that the final consonant is omitted from the plural in
the case of quinqueliteral roots. It also correctly reflects the fact that the consonants
themselves remain in the same order as the singular, even though their position
relative to the vowels might change.
There are problems with this formalism, however. First, it doesn't adequately
capture the fact that the consonant sequence of the plural remains identical to that
of the singular form. Strictly speaking, a rule such as 5.23 would have the same status
as a rule such as 5.24, in which the consonants are reordered in a random fashion:
Yet rules such as 5.24 are unheard of in phonological systems (though similar things
do occur in word games and other extralinguistic phenomena).
What we need is some way of extracting out the root consonant sequence in both
singular and plural form and ensuring that this sequence isn't specifically mentioned
in the rule. This is because the sequence itself doesn't change and therefore serves
as part of the context for the structural change of the transformation. However, this
would mean taking a representation something like 5.25, in which the consonants
and vowels are separated, and adding a further rule to slot the vowels into the right
positions with respect to the consonants in both singular and plural form (as in
5.25a, b respectively): 3
5.25 a) cl c2 c3 c4 (Cs) +VI Vz (V3)~Cl Vt c2 c3 v2 c4 v3 Cs
b) Ct C2 C3 ~ (Cs) +a aa i~Ct a C2 aa C3 i C4
However, we again have the problem that the transformational rule is a very
powerful formal device. If we are permitted to write a rule which can position vowels
in some order with respect to a string of consonants, there is still going to be nothing
to stop us writing a rule such as 5.24. Indeed, if anything, such a rule would appear
to be simpler. Moreover, we haven't really solved the problem of representing the
invariance of the consonantal root with rules like 5.25.
I
I
146 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
Another example of this type of formal, conceptual problem is illustrated by the
verb binyanim. Recall that binyan XI has the form CCVVCVC, so that we get the
word form ktaabab from the root ktb. Again, this could be represented by a rule such
as 5.26:
5.26
This rule has an interesting deficiency. It correctly states that the last two consonants
are identical to the last consonant of the root. However, this is treated as a formal
accident. It could just as easily have been the first two consonants. Worse, we could
just as readily have written rules such as 5.27 using this formalism (or its more
sophisticated variant along the lines of 5.24):
5.27 a) Ct Vt C2 V2 C3=>C1 C3 VtVt C2 V2 C3
b) Ct Vt C2 V2 C3=>Cr C2 VtVt Ct V2 Cr
By checking through .these rules you will find that they produce forms such as
kbaatab and ktaakak from katab. Now, forms, such as this would be impossible to
derive using the machinery of autosegmental phonology. This is because the only way
to achieve such a result is by allowing crossing association lines. For instance, the
representations implied by 5.27 would be 5.28 (ignoring vowels):
5.28 a) C C aa C a C b) C C aa C a C
'\1J
w
k t b
w
J-1 J-1
kbaatab ktaakak
In addition, 5.28 would violate the principle that all melody elements get associated
if there is an appropriate slot available. The fact that the /b/ of tpe root is repeated
in ktaabab is an automatic consequence of the universal principles of (left-to-right)
association in McCarthy's analysis. Therefore, this is the form we would expect from
three root consonants and four C slots. Anything else would be highly marked and
would require a good deal of justification on the part of the analyst. However, on the
transformational account, such a result is no more or less expected than a host of
alternatives which simply aren't attested in the world's languages.
What this means is that the autosegmental formalism allows us to build elements
of a theory of markedness (or 'naturalness') into the theory by constraining the types
of structures that can be generated by the formalism. Research over the past ten years
suggests that the structures permitted by the theory are more or less those and only
those which tend to recur throughout the languages of the world.
The device that makes transformational theories of morphology too powerful is, of
course, the transformation. With the limited exception of phonological rules of
metathesis (which seems to require some sort of transformational treatment in virtu-
!1
(
I
THE AUTOSEGMENTAL APPROACH 147
ally everybody's theory), McCarthy makes no appeal whatever to transformational
rules. Consequently, he is able to take the step of banning transformations altogether
from morphology proper by formulating principle 5.29 (which formally limits
morphological rules to at most context-sensitive rewriting rules4 :
5.29 Morphological Transformation Prohibition (MTP) ·
All morphological rules are of the form A ---+ B/ X, where A, B and X are
(possibly null) strings of elements. (McCarthy, 1982a: 201)
The next set of theoretical points McCarthy makes concerns the relationship
between morphology and the lexicon. McCarthy accepts Halle's contention that the
lexicon contains all word forms including inflected words. Morphological rules, then,
function as redundancy rules to parse (that is, analyse) existing lexical entries,
though they can also be used generatively to construct neologisms. He pictures the
lexicon as a set of tree structures with each tree representing a single root from which
other sterns or word forms are derived. A typical structured lexical entry for Arabic
then looks (in part) like 5.30 for our familiar triliteral root k-t-b:
5.30 ktb
katab kitaab kuttaab
rnaktab kattab kaatab ktabab kitaabat
takaatab
Unpredictable aspects of morphology or rnorphophonernics (such as idiosyncratic
meanings for certain forms, or special allornorphy) are notated by diacritics on the
root node. If a derived form exhibits its own special behaviour then it is furnished
with its own set of diacritics, in which case it becomes the root node of another lexical
entry tree. Notice that in general the nodes of the lexical entry tree represent roots
and sterns, not necessarily whole words. In this respect, McCarthy doesn't adhere to
Aronoff's word-based morphology. ·
In his original dissertation, McCarthy pointed out that nonconcatenative systems
such as Arabic seem to pose serious problems for models such as Lexical Phonology.
This is because Lexical Phonology is built on the idea that morphologically complex
words are formed by affixation from simpler words or roots, but, once word forma-
tion processes have applied in a given stratum or level, the resulting word form is
treated as an unanalysed word. This, recall, is the consequence of bracket erasure.
The question now arises of what corresponds to bracket erasure in a ·noncon-
catenative theory. The key problem here is that in nonconcatenative morphology
there is no obvious sense in which a derived form can be said to 'contain' its source.
I.
'
·;
I·
i'
II
! '
r·
I.
1:
'
'
.i
'I
,I
I
'
'i
I
!
·I
I
'I'
148 NONLINEAR APPR0ACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
Therefore, it is difficult to give an interpretation to the notion of cyclic word
formation and hence the cyclic operation of lexical phonological rules.
McCarthy illustrates this with the root d-r-s 'study'. This gives rise to the following
derivatives (amongst many others):
5.31 Binyan I
daras 'to study' gerund: dars
occupation: darraas 'student'
Binyan II
darras 'to teach' gerund: tadriis
While we might consider the gerund of daras to be derived from the basic verb form
by deletion of the second vowel (conditioned, say, by a zero gerund affix)l there is
no way that tadriis can be said to contain darras as a proper subpart. Similarly, it is
difficult to see how the form darraas 'student', can be analysed as 'daras +some-
thing'. This is because darraas is related to daras by two processes of gemination.
In the autosegmental theory this is handled by assigning to darraas an appropriate
CV template. This is much more reminiscent of treating a morpheme as a rule than
as an object. The conclusion McCarthy draws is that lexical relatedness is a much
more complicated matter than would appear from the inspection of concatenative
morphologies. 5
McCarthy (1986) offers a programmatic, but intuitively very plausible, answer to
the question of how nonconcatenative morphology is to be reconciled with Lexical
Phonology. Recall that in Semitic-type languages such as Arabic and Hebrew, pho-
nological representations corresponding to individual morphemes reside on separate
tiers. However, when a word in one of these languages is actually uttered, it is pro-
nounced as a linear string of segments. Therefore, by th~ time a multitiered phono-
logical representation is phonetically interpreted it must have been linearized.
McCarthy refers to this process as Tier Conflation. A simple graphical represen-
tation of the process is shown for a Classical Arabic word such as yaktubna 'they
(fern.) are writing'. This has the underlying form 'S.32a, in which each morpheme,
y- 'imperfect prefix', -na '3pl. suffix', a u 'imperfect active vocalism' and ktb (root),
sit on distinct tiers (I've illustrated the suffix -na with consonant and vowel melody
elements on the same tier, since there's no evidence for separation of C and V
elements in suffixes as opposed to roots):
5.32 a) 1-l 1-l 1-l
I /\ 1\
y a u n a
c + v c c v c + c v
k t b
\V
1-l
'1
:I
'
iJ
I
l
THE AUTOSEGMENTAL APPROACH 149
To derive the surface form, we associate the consonants and vowels to the CV
skeleton in the familiar way and then we 'fold together' the consonant and vowel
melodies onto a single tier, as in 5.32b:
5.32 b) J.L J.L
I 1\
y n a
I I I
c + v c c v c + c v
I I I I I
a k t u b
Then we perform the same operation with the remammg, morphologically
determined, tiers containing the affixes. This gives us the final form, 5.32c:
5.32 c) C V C C V C C V
I I I I I I I I
y a k t u b n a
Although McCarthy isn't very explicit about how exactly tier conflation operates,
he unambiguously claims that tier conflation is the same process as bracket erasure.
Remember that he assumes that, in any language, distinct morphemes reside on dis-
tinct tiers in underlying representation. Therefore, even in concatenative morpho-
logical systems which make use solely of conventional affixation and compounding,
we will need the tier conflation operation. Therefore, Semitic languages are seen to
be just like other types of languages except that for them consonant and vowel
sequences can constitute morphemes, and therefore, these, too, will be subject to tier
conflation.
This perspective solves most of the problems of accommodating nonconcatenative
morphologies to Lexical Phonology. It also makes some interesting predictions. For,
in Lexical Phonology, bracket erasure takes place at the end of each level or stratum.
Therefore, there are phonological rules which precede it and others which follow it
on the next level, and still others, namely the postlexical rules, which always follow
bracket erasure. McCarthy argues that there are phonological rules in languages such
as Semitic which must be sensitive to the pre-conflation structure, and other types
of rules which must be insensitive to this structure, and which therefore follow the
tier conflation operation. Moreover, the pre-conflation. rules have the properties of
cyclic lexical rules, while the post-conflation rules have the properties of postlexical
rules (and, perhaps, postcyclic rules, on the model of Booij and Rubach, 1987). It
would take us too far into phonological theory to discuss McCarthy's reasoning in
detail. Suffice it to say that the phonological arguments give good grounds for saying
that bracket erasure and tier conflation are one and the same. 6
~1
I
',I
,I 150
I
l''
NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
5.2 Reduplication
In chapter 1 we saw examples of reduplication from the Philippine language Tagalog.
Here they are again:
5.33 sulat
magpasulat
basa
'write' su-sulat, mag-sulat-sulat
'make someone write' magpa-pa-sulat
'read' mam-ba-basa
We can see that one reduplication process reduplicates the first CV of the root, while
another reduplicates the whole root. In magpapasulat it appears that part of the prefix
has been reduplicated (to the right).
If we look at reduplication throughout the world's languages we encounter what
at first seems to be a great variety of types. The reduplication can take place to the
left of the root, as a prefix, to the right, as a suffix, or inside the root, as an infix. The
material reduplicated can be a whole word, a whole morpheme, a syllable or sequence
of syllables, or simply a string of consonants and vowels which doesn't form any par-
ticular prosodic constituent (i.e. syllable, foot, morpheme, etc.). Other variations on
reduplication patterns will be mentioned as we proceed. Some characteristic
examples o~ these reduplication types are given in 5.34-5.42:
5.34 Agta (Marantz, 1982: 439)
a) bari 'body'
b) mag-saddu 'leak (vb)'
c) ma-wakay 'lost'
d) takki 'leg'
e) ulu 'head'
barbari-k kid-in 'my whole body'
mag-sadsaddu 'leak in many places'
ma-wakwakay 'many things lost'
taktakki 'legs'
ululu 'heads'
5.35 Madurese (Marantz, 1982: 451)
a) buwaq-an 'fruit' waq-buwaqan' 'fruits'
5.36 Dakota (Broselow and McCarthy, 1983: 29)
5.37
5.38
a) ksa ksaksa 'to cut'
b) h<}ska h<}skaska 'to be tall'
c) xap-a xap-xap-a 'to rustle'
Palan Koryak (Zukova 1980: 42-3)
a) liiJ lii)-liiJ 'heart'
b) wiru wiru-wir 'seal'
c) jii)e jiiJe-jiiJ 'mist'
d) mdtq mdtq-mdt 'fat'
e) tdrg tdrg-tdr 'meat'
Classical Greek (Goodwin,
a) ly:o: 'I release'
b) thy:o: 'l sacrifice'
c) grapho: 'I write'
1894)
lelyka 'I have released'
tethyka 'I have sacrificed'
gegrapha 'I have written'
REDUPLICATION 151
5.39 Yoruba (Marantz, 1982: 449)
5.40
5.41
a) l9 'to go' lil9 '(nominalization)'
b) dim 'to be tasty, sweet' didim '(nominalization)'
YidinY (Marantz, 1982: 453)
a) qimurU 'house'
b) gindalba 'lizard'
qimuqimurU 'houses'
gindalgindalba 'lizards'
Samoan (Broselow and McCarthy, 1983: 30)
sg. pl.
a) taa ta-taa 'strike'
b) nofo no-nofo 'sit'
c) moe mo-moe 'sleep'
d) alofa a-lo-lofa 'love'
e) maliu ma-li-liu 'die'
5.42 Temiar (Broselow and McCarthy, 1983: 39)
a) k5w 'to call' kwk5w 'simulfactive)'
b) sbg 'to lie down, marry' sgbg '(simulfactive)'
Reduplication has excited a good deal of interest from generative phonologists and
morphologists in recent years (following in large part from the impet~s given to the
subject by Wilbur's (1973) dissertation). This is because reduplication appears to be
fundamentally nonconcatenative and hence it has important implications for auto-
segmental theories of phonology and morphology. A further interest is in the inter-
action between reduplication and other rules of morphology and phonology.
Reduplication processes are of peculiar interest to morphophonology because
reduplication itself has a morphological and a phonological aspect. Teasing these
apart is a significant challenge to current theories.
McCarthy (1982a) discussed reduplication in Semitic and other languages in some
detail. We begin, however, with the theory of Marantz (1982), which itself is based
on McCarthy's proposals, and which has had a considerable impact on subsequent
research into reduplication.
Within a linear phonological framework, reduplications of the kind cited above
would have been handled by means of (a set of) transformational rules which would
have had the effect of copying a string from the root to the left, to the right, or in the
middle of the root. This is the analysis adopted, for instance, for Tagalog by Carrier
(1979), and, following her, Lieber (1980). It is also the type of analysis adopted by
Aronoff (1976; 73ff). We saw in the previous section that McCarthy's thesis contains
arguments that such transformational ways of handling nonconcatenative morpho-
logy would appeal to rules having the formal power to perform any conceivable
rearrangement of the segments of a root. Now, we have seen a fair variety of types
of reduplication, but this variety is nothing like what would be expected on a
transformational theory. Marantz therefore proposes that reduplication is essentially
affixation but that what is affixed is a CV skeleton, or prosodic template. The pho-
nemic content of the reduplicative affix is then obtained by copying the complete
phoneme melody of the root and linking it to the affi.xal CV template respecting the
principles of association familiar from autosegmental phonology. Taking the first set
I
l
ll
1\
L
ill
•.11.
!1!
ill
! ;
'f1
il
!I
i
·:
,,
I
'i
!
152 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
of examples above from Agta, Marantz proposes the derivation in 5.43:
5.43 Agta reduplication taktakki 'legs' (Marantz, 1984)
takki takki takki
\1\1\~l\l IIIII
eve + cvccv eve + cvccv
taktakki
IIIII\II
C VC C VC C V = taktakki
Marantz imposes four conditions on the linking of melody tier to prosodic
template. These are paraphrased in 5.44:
5.44
Condition A: Melody consonants link to C slots and melody vowels link
to V slots.
Condition B: Linking is strictly one-to-one; no multiple links are
allowed.
Condition C: CV slots may be prelinked to specific phonemes. Pre-
linking takes precedence over autosegmentallinking from
the root melody.
Condition D: (i) directionality of linking: either the leftmost melody
phoneme links with the leftmost appropriate CV slot and
linking proceeds from left-to-right; or, the rightmost
melody phoneme links with the rightmost appropriate CV
slot and linking proceeds right-to-left. In the unmarked
case, linking proceeds towards the root, i.e. left-to-right for
prefixes, right-to-left for suffixes.
(ii) Linking is 'melody driven' in the sense that the associ-
ation algorithm starts with a melody phoneme and then
tries to fi.nd an appropriate CV slot, not the other way
around.
In accordance with autosegmental principles, any melody elements or prosodic
template slots left unassociated at the end of the derivation are deleted by convention,
as in the case of the melody phonemes -ki in derivation 5.43.
Condition A is illustrated in the derivation of example 5.34e, shown in 5.45a:
5.45 Agta ululu 'heads'
a) u l u u l u b) *u l u u l u c) *u l u u 1u
II \II III III ~\ I\\
eve + vcv eve+ vcv eve+ vcv
= ululu = *uluulu = '~wululu
REDUPLICATION 153
If melody elenients could associate to the wrong type of slot then we would expect
derivations such as 5.45b. Ifa single melody element were allowed to link to two
distinct slots in violation of Condition B, we might expect a derivation such as 5.45c
(assuming that the vocalic element linked to a C slot is here interpreted as the corre-
sponding glide, Jwf, as is common in the autosegmental literature).
These Agta examples also illustrate Condition D(ii). Ifassociation were template-
driven then we would expect a derivation such as 5.45d:
5.45 d) *u 1u ulu
II I\\ = *luulu
eve+ vcv
Finally, even respecting Condition D(ii), if association were from right-to-left we
would expect derivation 5.45e:
5.45 e) *u 1u ulu
II III = *luulu
eve+ vcv
The Greek and Yoruba examples illustrate Condition C, which permits melody
elements to be prelinked or preassociated in lexical representations, before the oper-
ation of the usual association procedures. Marantz's analysis of Yoruba lilo. is shown
in 5.46:
5.46 lo lo lo lQ lo
I 1 II I II
cv~cv + cv cv + cv~lilo
,-1 I .
f f
The vowel of the phoneme melody is unable to associate to the V slot of the
reduplicative affix because that slot is already preassociated to the Jif vowel. Marantz
also mentions cases where a V slot is associated not with a completely specified
phoneme but with a distinctive feature, which modifies the character of the vocalic
melody element which is associated to that slot by reduplication. (This analysis pre-
supposes some form of underspecification for melody elements, though Marantz isn't
explicit about this.)
The Agta examples show that the reduplicative prefix template is simply a sequence
eve irrespective of the syllable structure of the root. The YidinY data show that it
is possible for a sequence of syllables to be reduplicated irrespective of the CV struc-
ture of the syllables. Notice that the syllable divisions (indicated by a period) of
examples 5.40 are those of 5.47:
5.47 a) qi.mu.rU
b) gin.dal.ba
154 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
In each case it is the first two syllables, qi.mu and gin.dal, that are reduplicated, even
though the CV templates would be CVCV and CVCCVC respectively. Marantz
assumes that affixation of a particular CV template is the norm and that syllable
reduplication is a rarity. However, Levin (1983) argues that there are many cases
which are ambiguous between syllable affixation and CV affixation and that we should
regard such cases as instances of syllable reduplication. This point of view seems
more consonant with the current received wisdom amongst phonologists on syllable
structure.
The Marantz model has been extended by Broselow and McCarthy (1983), with
certain changes, to accommodate cases where the reduplicative affix is an infix. (Such
cases were dealt with only cursorily by Marantz.) The basic idea behind their treat-
ment of infixing reduplication is the same as that which underlies prefixing and
suffixing reduplication: a CV template is infixed into the root, the root melody is
copied, and then its elements are mapped right-to-left or left-to-right depending
on the language. For example, in the Temiar examples in 5.42 we assume that
association is right-to-left as in derivation 5.48 for sgl:Jg:
5.48 s 1 J g s 1 J g
I I I I I I I
c c v c :::=:=:;:. c + c + c v C =====> sgbg
I
I
I
sbg
Since an infix is neither a prefix nor a suffix, directionality must be stipulated
separately for each language. Note that Broselow and McCarthy differ slightly from
Marantz in that they assume that the reduplicative affix is a separate morpheme and
hence, according to the Morphemic Tier Hypothesis, that it has its own tier.
One of the claims Broselow and McCarthy make is that in some cases only a portion
of the root melody is copied, namely that which forms a metrical foot constituent.
A foot is a sequence of syllables beginning with a stressed syllable and followed by
zero or more unstressed syllables, up to, but not including, the next stress. In
Samoan, stress falls on the penultimate syllable. Thus, the foot in Samoan will
consist of the last two syllables of the word. The derivation they assume for alolofa
is given in 5.49, where 'F' stands for 'foot':
5.49 1of a
F F I I F
(\ A
I I
(\
I I
I I
(J (J (J (J (J (J (J
I I lT (J
IAA I AA I I I
AA
I I
vcvcv ~ v + cv + cvcv ===> v + cv + cvcv alolofa
II III I II II I I\ II
a l of a a lofa a l of a
Broselow and McCarthy argue that their solution to the problem is superior to that
implied in Marantz's account. First, they have a principled reason for copying just
(
REDUPLICATION 155
the lofa part of the phoneme melody (namely, because that is the foot). If the whole
phoneme melody were copied we would get the wrong result, viz. *aalofa. Second,
they claim that Samoan infixation is really a kind of prefixation, namely prefixation
to a foot. From this it follows that the unmarked direction of association will be left-
to-right, and, indeed, this is the direction of association.
There have been a number of amendments and refinements to the proposals of
Marantz and of Broselow and McCarthy. Ter Mors (1983) argues that the Marantz
account can be generalized and simplified by assuming that the CV template affixa-
tion rule takes the form 'Affix to X', where X is a variable which can stand for either
side of the root, or either side of a prosodic constituent such as a foot, or either side
of any other element, such as 'the first consonant in the root'. What is then copied
is just that portion of the phoneme melody corresponding to the X portion. The deri-
vation for the Samoan cases is essentially that of Broselow and McCarthy, but that
for Temiar is slightly different, namely 5.50:
5.50 Temiar: prefix C to medial consonant position.
s 1J g s 1 J g s bg 1 'J g
IIII III I I III
ccvc ===> c + c + eve c + c + eve
'-----y-J
X
Here the portion of the melody copied is l:Jg because this is the 'X' of the affixation
rule. The direction of association is the marked direction, since the infix is effectively
a prefix yet linking is right-to-left. (Broselow and McCarthy make no predictions
concerning the markedness of direction in cases such as Temiar.)
Ter Mors's analysis provides a neat way around difficulties which are encountered
in Broselow and McCarthy's approach. For instance, consider the following data
from the Austronesian language Nakanai:
5.51 a) haro
b) velo
c) baharu
hararo
velelo
bahararu
'days'
'bubbling forth'
'widows'
Again, stress is penultimate in this language and we have another case of prefixation
to a foot, this time of a VC affix. However, if we adopted the same analysis as that
for Samoan we would derive entirely the wrong results, as shown in 5.52:
5.52 bahararu 'widows'
F h a ru
(\
I I
I I
Cf <J I I
AA I I
I I
cvcvcv cv + vc + cvcv - *baarharu
IIIIII II IIII
baharu ba haru
156 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
The problem, of course, is that the infixed -ar- is on the wrong side of the Ihi or bah-.
The derivation needed by Broselow and McCarthy is 5.53, in which the foot is
broken up by the infix:
5.53 F aru
A ;;
cr a I I
(J
A~A ::
cvcvcv ~ eve + vc + vcv ===>eve + vc + vcv
111111 Ill II\ III III
baharu bah aru bah aru
Broselow and McCarthy justify this analysis by pointing out that the phonotactics of
the language don't permit consonant clusters. Therefore, infixing VC before CVCV
is impermissible and it has to be infixed after bah-, as shown. However, Broselow and
McCarthy are not now able to analyse this case as an example of prefixation to a pro-
sodic constituent. Rather, we have a case of infixation within a prosodic constituent.
In addition, the derivation only works if the phonemic copy is restricted to the -am
sequence. Again, we would get the wrong result if the melody of the whole foot were
copied and associated left-to-right.
Ter Mors argues that we need simply stipulate affixation of VC to the sequence
-VCV #. Then, all the Cs and Vs end up in the right place, and we automatically
predict that only the last three phonemes of the melody will be copied, i.e. -am, for
this is the 'X' of the 'Affix-to-X' rule. 7
5. 3 Further applications of nonconcatenative
morphology
5.3.1 Alternations affecting melody elements
In principle any morphological operation which appeals to discontinuous mor-
phemes, or to morphophonemic proc.esses which can be analysed as the spreading or
delinking of autosegments, is susceptible to an analysis akin to that seen in §§5.1 and
5.2. In addition, the concept of a root template has proved valuable in a number of
languages other than those of the Semitic family. In this section we will look at some
of the phenomena that have been discussed in the more recent literature, so as to give
some flavour of the wide applicability of the nonconcatenative mode of analysis.
The classic cases in which a discontinuous stretch of material serves to signal a
grammatical or lexical contrast are harmony systems. The commonest of these are
probably vowel harmony systems and nasal harmonies. In Terena, an Arawakan lan-
guage of Brazil (Bendor-Samuel, 1966), we find examples of both types. In general,
the language uses only oral vowels Ii e o a ul and its only nasal consonants are Im
nl. However, in words referring to the first person we find that in those without
obstruents all the vowels are nasalized, while in those which contain obstruents all
1. I
NONCONCATENATIVE MORPHOLOGY 157
the vowels from the left are nasalized up to the first obstruent, which itself becomes
a prenasalized stop (i.e. a type of complex segment notated as mb nd, Dg, in which the
stop element is preceded by a homorganic nasal element:
5.54 a) emo?u 'his word'
b) em()?ii 'my word'
5.55 a) owoku 'his house'
b) owfiiJgu 'my house'
5.56 a) piho 'he went'
b) mbiho 'I went'
In an autosegmental treatment this can be formalized by assuming a feature [+nasal]
as an autosegment representing the 1st person morpheme. Vowels are not specified
for this feature (there are no nasalized vowels underlyingly, so nasalization is not lex-
ically contrastive). A word in the 1st person form, such as 5.54b, is represented as
a combination of the base form (essentially identical to 5.54a) and the [+nasal] auto-
segment. This is a floating autosegment, that is, it is not associated with any par-
ticular segment slot in underlying representation. We can therefore represent this UR
as 5.57a. Association proceeds from left to right in the customary manner, and the
autosegment links to any vowel and skips any sonorant consonant. In the case of
5.54b this means that all the vowels of the word are nasalized, as shown in 5.57b:
5.57 a) 1st b) lsr
I I
[+ nas] [+ nas]
/1',
/- I "'-
/ I '-
em o 1 u emo.?u
When the [+nasal] autosegment encounters an obstruent, however, its progress is
blocked and the autosegment 'coalesces' with the stop to form a complex segment,
the prenasalized stop. Complex segments of this sort are usually analysed as single
skeletal slots which are doubly linked to opposite values of a single feature, in this
case [nasal]. The derivation of 5.55b will therefore be as in 5.58 (where I have
indicated the double linking on the prenasalized stop / Dg/, for clarity):
5.58 a) 1st b) 1st
1
[+nas] [ +nas] [-nas]
/1\
1!\\A
/I I\
/ I
/ I I \
/ I I \
0 w 0 g u 0 w 0 !Jg u
158 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
Finally, in 5.56b, the autosegment doesn't get past the first segment, so none of the
vowels are affected, and the only reflex of the 1st person morpheme is the in'itial
prenasalized stop.
/ Terena also illustrates a very interesting morphological use of umlaut. 8 While in
Germanic languages umlaut is usually a morphophonemic concomitant of affixation
or compounding, in Terena it has the character of a morpheme, much like the
nasalization just discussed, in that it signals the 2nd person category. Simplifying
somewhat, we may say that in words beginning with one of the four vowels other
than /i/, the 2nd person form begins with /i/ (which is written as 'y' in these tran-
scriptions). In words beginning with a consonant, the first vowel in the word other
than /il is replaced with a 'palatal', umlauted congener, so that /a o/ are replaced by
/e/, while /e u/ are replaced by /i/. This is illustrated in 5.59-5.61:
5.59 a) otopiko
b) yotopiko
5.60 a) kurikena
b) kirikena
5.61 a) piho
b) pihe
'he cut down'
'you cut down'
'his peanut'
'your peanut'
'he went'
'you went'
Phonologically, the process is rather more complicated than nasalization, but our
brief description shows that the principle is essentially the same.
An intriguing example of nonconcatenative morphology in which consonants and
vowels seem to behave as independent morphemes has been the subject of analysis
by McCarthy (1982b). He describes the formation of echo-words in Gta?, a South
Munda language of India. In this language, different vowel patterns are productively
associated with modifications of the meaning of a given root. For instance, from
the words kiton, 'god', and kesu, 'wrapper worn against the cold', we can form the
echo-words of 5.62 and 5.63:
5.62
5.63
katan
kitin
kitan/katon
kutan
kasa
kisi
kesa/kasu
kusa
'being with powers equal to kiton'
'being smaller, weaker than kiton'
'being inferior in status to kiton'
'being other than kiton (e.g. spirits, ghosts etc.)'
'cloth equivalent to kesu in size and texture'
'small or thin piece of cloth'
'large piece of thick cloth, torn or worn out, serving as
a kesu'
'any other material usable against cold'
Finally, a little nearer home, I have suggested (Spencer, 1988b) that ablaut
alternations in so-called strong verbs in ·Germanic languages such as English should
be analysed in multilinear terms. For instance, the base form of a verb such as sing
would be represented as 5.64a, with an underspecified vowel slot:
{:
I
..
NONCONCATENATIVE MORPHOLOGY 159
5.64 a) s I]
\
c v c
A lexical redundancy rule defined over verbs marked in the lexicon as belonging to
c ....... ',+"' ,,,.l,.? ('
a particular 'strong' class would then tell us that the preterite was signalled by faf,
the past participle by fuf and the base (default) vowel was /if. This means that
structure-building redundancy rules would create for us a complex, multidimensional
lexical representation of the form 5.64b (in which I have conflated the consonant
melody elements and ·skeletal slots for typographical convenience):
5.64 b) [PRET]
I.
a
I
s v I]
!1/1.
\
[PAST PT]
When a form of the verb sing is selected for lexical insertion, this complex entry is
accessed from the lexicon, and the correct morphological form (base form, preterite
or past participle) is then constructed by the process of tier conflation. Thus, if we
wish to select the past participle forl!l, we collapse representation 5.64b into 5.64c:
5.64 c) s 11. IJ
I I \
c v c
In effect, we are assuming that English exhibits a very limited version of the Semitic
root-and-pattern morphology.
The last example in this subsection is an example of ex_tralinguistic evidence which
bears on the nature of morphophonemic representation, namely, certain types of lan-
guage game. McCarthy (1982b), Yip (1982) and a number of others have investigated
word games from the point of view of nonconcatenative morphology, and shown that
in many cases they can best be regarded as operations over multidimensional rep-
resentations, even in languages which do not usually make much reference to such
representions in the morphology proper.
McCarthy (1982b) argues that a language game in Hanun6o, a language of the Phi-
lippines which is not usually associated with root-and-pattern morphology, appeals
160 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
to the notions 'root melody' and 'root template'. Some examples of the game are
given in 5.65:
5.65 a) rignuk
b))b)aw
c) katagbu?
nugrik
I)a:biw
kabugta?
'tame'
'nick'
(no gloss given)
The game is played by swapping the first and last consonant + vowel melody elements
of the root. Since the prosodic template is not affected this means that vowel length
is not affected by this transposition. Thus, the first vowel of bi:yaw remains long in
ya:biw. The ka- or katagbu? is a prefix and this is why it fails to participate in the
transposition. This is explicable on McCarthy's theory since the prefix and the root
sit on different tiers, and it is only the root melody that is transposed in the game.
5.3.2 Alternations affecting the CV skeleton
I
In most of the analyses just discussed we have seen cases in which a morphological · :
or lexical category is signalled by a particular type of melody, akin to the triliteral
consonantal root in Semitic. However, the independence of the CV prosodic template
has also been used to explain morphological alternations outside of Semitic. 9
In the Yawelmani dialect of the Yokuts language of California (Archangeli, 1983)
we find that the CV template of a verb root depends in certain cases on the affix that
is attached to the root. There are six templates for regular verbs, show in 5.66:
5.66 al) eve
bl) cvvc
cl) cvcvv
a2) CVCC
b2) cvvcc
c2) CVCVVC
Certain affixes ('Class 1 affixes') don't affect the shape of the verb root, while others
('Class 2 affixes') select one of the templates in 5.66. In regular cases the underlying
templates for a verb root are taken from the list in 5.66, too.
Consider the examples in 5.67 (modified from Archangeli, 1983: 386, abstracting
away from other morphophonemic processes):
5.67 luk'l- 'bury'
luk'l-t 'was buried'
luk'uul-wsiil 'cemetery'
luk'l-iixok' 'remain buried!'
huluus 'sit'
huluus-hn 'sat'
huluus-wsiil 'place for sitting'
huls-iixok' 'remain seated!'
Archangeli argues that the affixes -t and -hn are Class 1. Any root which receives these
affixes appears in its basic form. In the case of 'bury' this is the 5.66a2 form, CVCC,
in the case of 'sit' it is the 5.66c2 form. On the other hand, the affixes -wsiil and -iixoo
(the form -iixok' is a further affixed form of this) are Class 2 affixes selecting templates
5.66c and 5.66a respectively. In the case of the root huluus- the fact that affixation
by -wsiil induces selection of the (c) template is obscured by the fact that the (c) tem-
plate is in any case the basic or default template for this verb root. However·, the root
luk'l has an (a) type basic template, and therefore has to change its template to a (c)
type when affixed by -wsiil. Contrariwise, -iixoo selects the 5.66a template. This has
NONCONCATENATIVE MORPHOLOGY 161
no effect on the (a) type root luk '1-, but forces the reselection of the template in the
case of the (c) type root huluus-.
Notice that there is a significant difference between the Yokuts case and the Semitic
root-and-pattern morphology. In Semitic, a particular CV template signals a morpho-
lexical category such as 'binyan VIII' or 'plural'. In Yokuts this is true to a much
more limited extent, in that a template is associated with the base form of each verb.
But when a non-basic template is selected by a Class 2 affix, then the new template
does not signal the new morphological category in and of itself, it is simply a mor-
phophonemic concomitant of the affixation process. In this respect it is a template
allomorph. In a sense, therefore, the CV skeleton is part of the lexical entry for each
verb root. We might draw an analogy with a typical vowel harmony language such
as Hungarian, Turkish or Chukchee. In Hungarian, affixes have two forms, one with
back vowels, the other with front vowels. Roots with back vowels select the back
vowel allomorph and roots with front vowels select the front vowel allomorph. How-
ever, while most current analyses of vowel harmony try to account for this alternation
by means of a phonological rule (for example, autosegmental spreading of a feature
[+back] or [-back]), there is no way that the different templates can be derived from
a single source. Rather, the morphology of the language has to make each template
available for a given verb.
The idea of root template selection has not been pursued as much as the other
aspects of nonconcatenative morphology, though it would seem to be a promising
way of analysing phenomena which involve segment deletion or insertion, particu-
larly when this is morphologically or lexically governed and can't be ascribed to
general phonological rules or phonotactic constraints.
Consider, for instance, the vowel-zero alternations in Slavic exemplified in §4.1.
The traditional generative approach has been to assume 'abstract' underlying high
lax vowels, called 'jers' (which we can represent by the symbol #),which either get
vocalized to fef, fof or fa/ (depending on the language) or are deleted. In the basic
pattern, when we encounter an unbroken string of syllables containing jers (i.e. with
no full vowel intervening), we lower all but the rightmost jer to the appropriate mid
or low vowel. The remaining jer then deletes. Thus, in Polish, from an underlying
form fcuk # r # c# k # f (simplifying somewhat) with a string of four consecutive jers
we obtain [cukerecek] . 10
A particular problem is posed by vowel-zero alternations in prefixes in these
languages. In the case of Polish we find the following situation. Prefixes ending in
a consonant (such as pod- or roz-) end in fef when prefixed to one of thirty or so verb
roots. Thus, in Polish, from roz-, 'apart', and br, 'take' we obtain the form rozebrac
'to take apart'. This can be analysed by assuming that the consonant final prefixes
actually end in a jer (i.e.froz#/) and that the verb root contains a jer (/b#r/). The
underlying form of the prefixed verb therefore contains a succession of jers (/roz #
b # r acf). Given our rule it is not surprising that the prefixal jer vocalizes and the
jer of fb # rf deletes, and so we end up with rozebrac, as predicted. In finite forms,
a full vowelled allomorph of the verb root is selected, bior, so that the UR for the
1sg. form is froz# bior c;/. Since it is solitary, the prefix jer now deletes to give us
rozbiorf. Corresponding forms in Russian behave in a similar fashion.
In many cases the facts concerning prefixes are rather more complex than this,
which has led to a number of ingenious phonological solutions being proposed (e.g.
by Rubach, 1984). However, in Czech, the morphemes concerned are rather less
''
tl
162 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
well-beha·:~d than in Polish. Here, we find that analogical levelling and other his-
torical processes have occurred to obfuscate the original phonological conditioning
so that the choice of prefix allomorph (with or without vowel) is largely determined
lexically, or is subject to free variation. However, there is a residuum of phono-
logical regularity here, since when vowel-zero alternations do occur, it is always the
standard jer vowel, found elsewhere in the language, which shows up. Some
examples are given in 5.68-5.70. (Similar examples could be cited from Slovak,
Sorbian and Serbo-Croat.) In Slovene, Macedonian and Bulgarian, the alternations
in prefixes have been lost entirely, so consonant final prefixes never have vowel final
allomorphs):
5.68 a) roze-brat 'to take apart (inf.)'
b) roze-beru '1sg.'
5.69 a) roze-slat 'to send away (perfective, inf.)'
b) roze-sflat 'ibid. (imperfective, inf.)'
(cf. roz-stifkat 'to spray')
5.70 a) roze-psat 'to write out (perfective, inf.)'
b) roz-pfsat 'ibid. (imperfective, inf.)'
or roze-pfsat
The example rozstifkat shows that we are not dealing with a phonologically deter-
mined form of epenthesis here, since we don't find the raze- allomorph of the prefix
preceding the sti- cluster, even though we do find roze- appearing before a singleton
fsf in rozesilat. What has happened is that the originally phonological vowel-zero
alternations have gradually become lexicalized.
We could, of course, simply list each prefixed form separately as an unanalysed
word in the lexicon of Czech, and deny that there was any redundancy to capture.
Ultimately, this may be how such forms are stored in the mind of the Czech speaker,
and only careful linguistic and psycholinguistic research would settle that question.
However, assuming that there is a linguistic regularity to be captured here, and
bearing in mind the fact that the quality of the vowel, when it appears, is phono-
logically predictable, we can describe this situation by saying that particular verb root
allomorphs select particular prefix allomorphs. The basic redundancy statement is
that root allomorphs which themselves alternate will (almost invariably) select the
vowelled prefix alternant. In other cases, it will depend on the individual words. The
vowelless alternant can be represented as the melody frozf and the template fCVCf
(i.e. the default representation). However, the vowelled prefix alternant can be given
the melody frozf but this time the template fCVCVf. When this template is selected,
the spare vowel is spelled out according to the default rules of the language (in the
case of Czech /ef, in the case of Serbo-Croat, /a/, in the case of Slovak as fef or fof
depending on the previous consonant, and so on).
If this analysis of vowel-zero alternations is correct, we have a case of a template
allomorph being selected not by a particular morpheme, but by a particular allo-
morph of a morpheme. This is slightly different from the situation with Yokuts
described by Archangeli. It will be interesting to see, therefore, the extent to which
such phenomena can successfully be analysed in terms of prosodic template selection.
TONES AS MORPHEMES 163
5.4 Tones as morphemes
In chapter 1 we saw examples in which a tone or tone pattern appeared to function
as a morpheme, signalling a morphosyntactic category such as tense. In this section
we look at recent proposals for handling such phenomena within the theory of auto-
segmental morphophonemics. 11 The examples are all taken from Pulleyblank (1986),
a very influential theory of the phonology and morphophonology of tone in African
languages. To some extent this brings Part II of the book full circle, since Pulley-
blank's monograph is a detailed investigation of the morphophonology of tone within
the framework of Lexical Phonology.
In Tiv, a member of the Benue-Congo group of languages, there are two tones,
High, a, and Low, a (which are conventionally abbreviated to H, L respectively).
Verb stems in the language may be mono-, di-, or tri-syllabic, and may be marked
lexically as inherently High or inherently Low toned. In addition, the language
exhibits a phenomenon of no little interest to tonologists, downstep. This is a slight
lowering of a H tone when preceded by an L tone under certain circumstances. It
is conventionally notated by an exclamation mark, !.
In 5.71 we see the paradigm for six representative verbs in the Recent Past (this
tense form also induces ablaut of certain types of stem, so that the underlying
segmental representations of 'came', 'went' and 'heard' are va, dza, and ungwa
respectively):
5.71 Recent Past
high tone stem low tone stem
ve H dze H
'came' 'went'
6ng6 HH vende LH
'heard' 'refused'
yevese HHL ngohoro LHL
'fled' 'accepted'
At first sight it may not seem as though there is much pattern to these data. However,
we can discern that the high tone stems all begin with a H tone, while the low tone
stems begin with a L provided they have more than one syllable. Moreover, it is
apparent that the second syllable of the word form is always H toned.
Pulleyblank analyses these data by making the following assumptions (for which
he provides independent motivation in most cases). First, we assume that the lexical
representation for a verb stem contains a single tone autosegment, H or L, but that
it is not associated with a specific vowel. In other words, we assume that the tone
is a floating autosegment, much like the [nasal] and [palatal] autosegments of Terena
discussed in §5.3.1. Thus, for yevese and ngoh6ro we have the URs shown in 5.72:
5.72
Next, we assume that the Recent Past morpheme is represented as a floating H in
the form of a suffix. Thus, the URs of the tense forms corresponding to lexical entries
II
164 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
5.72 will be 5.73:
5.73
Pulleyblank claims that initial assignment of lexical tone is a lexical, indeed cyclic,
process. However, he argues for a different association convention from that assumed
in the earlier literature on autosegmental phonology (including that dealing with
tones). In his original analysis of root-and-pattern morphology in Semitic, McCarthy
followed Goldsmith's original model of tone and assumed that a melody element
would automatically spread to the right to associate to unoccupied skeletal slots, in
the absence of any language particular constraint against this. Pulleyblank, however,
denies that spreading is an automatic (i.e. universal) process. Instead, he claims that
in the general case a tone element only links to a single unassociated slot. Hence,
spreading will only occur in certain languages, where it must be specially stipulated.
Given the representations in 5.73 we can almost derive the correct forms. A partial
derivation for each is shown in 5.74:
5.74 a) b)
Cycle 1
Cycle 2
In each case, the final vowel is left without a tone. In general in this language, it turns
out that when there is no way of specifying a tone value as a lexical property or the
result of a morphophonological rule, that value is L. In other words, we can assume
a default tone assignment rule, which assigns L to any untoned syllable at the end
of a derivation. Since there are no more morpholexically determined tones to assign,
and since every syllable in Tiv has to bear some tone, the final syllables in each of
our two cases must receive the default value, L. Thus, corresponding to the forms
shown in 5.71, we end up with the representations in 5.75:
5.75 a) yevese
Ill
b) ngohoro
\II
HHL LHL
You should be able to check that these assumptions give the correct results for the
disyllabic stems, too. To derive the monosyllabic stems we need to make one further
assumption (which, in fact, we've already seen in our discussion of Arabic broken
plurals). This is that an unassociated melody (here, tonal) autosegment gets erased
TONES AS MORPHEMES 165
at the end of the derivation ('Stray Erasure' or 'Stray Deletion'). This, together with
the fact that only one tone may associate to a given vowel in Tiv, accounts for the
monosyllabic forms.
5.76 shows the paradigm for the General Past tense for our six verb stems:
5.76 General Past
high tone stem low tone stem
!va !H dza L
'came' 'went'
!ungwa !HL vende LL
'heard' 'refused'
!yevese !HLL ngohoro LLL
'fled' 'accepted'
Here we see a slightly simpler situation. The low tone stems just have L tones
throughout, while the high tone stems all begin with a downstepped H, and any other
syllables are L. Pulleyblank argues that downstep is the result of a floating L auto-
segment preceding the downstepped H. Accordingly, we just need to posit a floating
L autosegmental prefix as the General Past morpheme. Thus, the URs for !yevese and
ngohOro will be 5.77:
5.77
The derivation proceeds very straightforwardly: on the first cycle we have association
of the lexical tone, then we have (in any order) downstep, and Default Low Tone
Assignment. (Check the derivations for each of the six verb forms in 5.74.)
Finally, let's look at the Past Habitual tense forms, where we will see the interac-
tion of the cyclically applied association conventions with a morphotonemic rule. The
paradigm is given in 5.78:
5.78 Past Habitual
high tone stem low tone stem
!vaan !HHL !dzaan !HHL
'used to come 'used to go'
!ungwan !HHL vendail LHL
'used to hear' 'used to refuse'
!yevesen !HHHL ngoh6r6il LHHL
'used to flee' 'used to accept'
The first point to notice is that this tense form is signalled by a suffix -n, and not
solely by tone alternations. Moreover, this suffix always bears L. The second point
is that all the forms beginning with a H have this H downstepped. This suggests that
the Past Habitual is signalled by two morphemes, one a floating L prefix (as in the
General Past), and the other a L -n suffix. However, matters are rather more complex
than in the previous two paradigms, since we must also assume that there is a floating
I
1
1
166 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
H suffix between the stem and the -n suffix. (We'll ignore the vowel length
alternations in the monosyllabic stems.)
However, this still doesn't account for some of these forms. How do we explain
the sequence of two Hs in the middle of the polysyllabic forms? The key to this
mystery is a general lexical rule of Tiv, called H Spread. This rule spreads a H tone
to the right if the next vowel is associated to a L tone (provided this L toned vowel
is not the final vowel in the word). It is formulated in 5.79:
5.79
v
Since there are no lexical contour tones in Tiv (i.e. no vowels can be associated with
more than one tone in the lexical phonology), association to the H tone automatically
means delinking from the L tone, which is then left floating.
We can see how this all works if we look at the derivations of !yevesen and ngoh6r6n
shown in 5.80 (URs) and 5.81 (cyclic derivations):
5.80 a)
5.81 a)
[L [ [ [~vese]H] ~]]
yevese
I
I
I
I
H
yevese
' "'
H
yevese
'
H
' '
H
n
""L
b)
b)
[L [ [ [~gohoro]H] ~]]
ngohoro
I
I
I Cycle 1
I
L
ngohoro
'
"' Cycle 2
' '
L H
ngohoro n
Cycle 3
L
n
H Spread
L H L
PROSPECT 167
n ngohoro n
I I
yevese
I I
I I
I I
L H L L L H L
!yevesen ngoh6r6n Output
The case of Tiv tense forms provides a striking illustration ofthe way in which the
autosegmental approach to morphophonemics permits us to fractionate out those
aspects of complex alternations which are constant and thereby capture the generaliz-
ations underlying the patterns of data. Like the analyses of Semitic discussed earlier
in the chapter, Pulleyblank's treatment of tone offers a way of dealing with what
appears to be a complex set of morphophonemic processes realizing a morphosyn-
tactic category, and represent this as the realization of an underlying set of mor-
phemes. In the case of the tonal alternations discussed here we end up with an
analysis in which the morphological structure of underlying forms is actually closer
to the common-or-garden concatenative, affixal kind.
An important feature of these analyses, and one which has been partly responsible
for the enormous interest shown in autosegmental morphophonemics in recent years,
is the fact that very simple conventions seem to govern such apparently disparate
phenomena as root-and-pattern morphology in Semitic and morphosyntactic tonal
alternations in African languages. This is very important because it suggests that
there are deep, universal properties of phonological and morphological represen-
tations which can be stated at a relatively abstract level of description. Given the
generality and abstractness of these properties, they can't be directly linked to
purely phonetic (acoustic or physiological) aspects of the speech system but must
presumably be mental attributes, in other words, properties of the language faculty.
5.5 Prospect
This chapter has been concerned with the basic ideas behind so-called nonlinear
approaches to morphology and morphophonemics. Of necessity we've had to limit
our discussion and concentrate on those aspects of most significance for under-
standing morphological theories. Development of ideas in this area is proceeding
hand in hand with developments in phonology, and keeping track of these is beyond
the scope of the book. In this concluding section I shall just mention one or two
current growth points which have implications for morphology.
An interesting question at present hotly debated is the nature of the CV skeleton.
It is widely assumed nowadays that the skeleton consists just of positions, or timing
slots, unmarked for features which would distinguish consonants from vowels (e.g.
Kaye and Lowenstamm, 1981, Levin, 1983, Lowenstamm and Kaye, 1986). These
are often referred to as X slots, timing slots or points. In this respect the skeleton
or template indicates simply the number of segments, and perhaps the position of
rhyme heads (syllable nuclei). One of the principal motivations for this move is that
II
L
'.
!
i
II
IIli
I
l
jt
l\
168 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
it permits a process of association to associate vowels to consonant positions and con-
sonants to vowel positions. We may associate a vowel element to an unspecified slot
which later rules will specify as a consonant position. The result will then be a glide,
such as fil or fwf. On the other hand, a vowel may spread to a neighbouring slot
which is already occupied by a consonant, which subsequently dissociates. The result
would be a lengthening of the vowel (because it is attached to two slots), a phenom-
enon known as compensatory lengthening (see the papers in Wetzels and Sezer,
1986, for a survey). More recent variants of these ideas take syllable structure into
account and attempt to make use of universal or language specific redundancies to
predict properties of the skeleton (as, for instance, in widely disseminated but as yet
unpublished work by McCarthy and Prince, as well as the rather different Govern-
ment approach associated with Kaye, Lowenstamm, Vergnaud, and others).
The theories of reduplication proposed by Marantz, Broselow and McCarthy, Ter
Mors and a number of other linguists remain controversial, and a great many issues
are far from settled. In part, this is because approaches to reduplication rely heavily
on certain assumptions governing phonological representations, and so changes in
phonological theory are likely to have important consequences for accounts of
reduplication. The replacement of the CV skeleton with a sequence of X slots is a
good example of this. This idea was first explored systematically in the context of
reduplication in an unpublished, but widely cited paper by Juliette Levin (1983). 12
A question which is likely to have important repercussions for morphophonological
structure is the extent to which it is possible to account for reduplication and root-
and-pattern type morphology in terms of manipulation of the melody separately from
the skeleton. For instance, Clements (cited by Hammond, 1988) argues that it is not
possible. He claims that we must analyse reduplication by associating the
reduplicative CV affix template to the CV template of the stem, not to just its
(reduplicated) melody. In other words, we transfer the melody of the stem to the CV
template of the affix, through the CV template of the stem itself. This allows us,
amongst other things, to transfer information about vowel and consonant length if
we wish. Using this 'transfer' approach we would derive the Agta example 5.43 cited
earlier in discussion of Marantz's theory in the manner of 5.82:
5.82 a) stem t a k
I I !\ I
c v c c v
b) stem plus 'parafix' (corresponding to reduplicative prefix)
t a k
I I A I
c v c c v
c v c
PROSPECT 169
c) derivation: association of parafix to stem skeleton (not melody)
t a k
II A I
c v c c v
I I
I I
I I I
c v c
d) linearization of parafix (into prefix)
t a k
II A I
c v c - c v c c v
I I I
t a k
The virtue of this approach is that it allows a given melody element, for example,
a set of vowel features, to be copied by the reduplication rule irrespective of its associ-
ation in the stem form. Mtenje (1988) has argued that this approach is necessary to
account for tonal patterns in reduplication in Bantu.
Hammond (1988) argues that it is the best way of accounting for certain details in
the formation of Arabic broken plurals, which we have seen earlier in this chapter.
Consider the examples in 5.83:
5.83 a) su?buub sanabiib 'shower of rain'
b) nuwwaar nawaawur 'white flowers'
c) maktab makaatib 'office'
d) miftaaH mafaatiiH 'key'
The problems here are that the length of the-final vowel in the plural is the same as
that of the final vowel in the singular, and the consonant that spreads in the plural
in 5.83a, b is the same consonant that has spread in the singular. What this suggests
is that the plural formation rule 'knows' more than just the consonantal melody
pattern of the singular (as suggested in our earlier discussion). It must also know
something about the pattern of association of melody to skeleton in the singular and
copy certain aspects of that. Otherwise, how would we prevent. the generation of
incorrect forms such as *Sa?aa?iib, *?'lawaariir, *Sa?aabib, *makaatiib and so on?
The derivations Hammond proposes are illustrated in 5.84-5.87. First, we assume
a plural template consisting of a CV skeleton and the characteristic plural melody
[a i], 5.84 (notice that this template has a long final vowel, represented by two V
slots):
5.84 c v c v v c v v c
a
We then associate this template by transfer to the skeleton of the singular. The
170 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
derivation for sa?aabiib is shown in 5.85:
5.85 s ) b
I 1/\
CuCCuuC
I I"-"-'-'-
II"'-"-""
I I I "-, "-, "-, ",
cvcvvcvvc
vv
a
s ) b
I 1/\
CuCCuuC
Ill~~~~
cvcvvcvvc
vv
a 1
For this to work, Hammond assumes a special rule for the plural which pre-links the
fif element to the final two vowel slots. I have written the vowels on the CV tier to
make the autonomy of the consonant melody more clear. We now assume that the
melody association of the plural overrides that of the singular. This gives us 5.86 as
our final representation:
5.86 s ) b s ) b
I 1/\
CuCCuuC
ltl ~~~==>
cvcvvcvvc
\f v
(\
cvcvvcvvc
\jl~
a a
cvcvvcvvc
Ill VI VI
sa2 a bib
Similarly, to derive makaatib from maktab we have derivation 5.87:
5.87 m k t b m k t b
I II I I II I
c a C C a c C a C C a C
I I " ' '
Ill~~
I I "' "' '
"""" "
I I I
'
cvcvvcvvc cvcvvcvvc
\j/ v \}/ v
a a
PROSPECT 171
The last vowel slot is associated to the /if melody of the plural template, but Ham-
mond's idea is that it is not 'licensed', so to speak, by the template of the singular.
This is because the singular template only has one vowel slot in this position. There-
fore, we have to do something about the final V slot which is unlinked to the singular
template, and Hammond proposes a rule deleting it. In this way, we can account for
the fact that the final vowel of the plural is the same length as that of the singular
(though it must be admitted that this is only one technical solution to the problem,
and it doesn't preclude other, more satisfactory solutions within the same overall
framework). The result is the desired representation, 5.88:
5.88 c v c v v c v c
Ill VIll
mak a tib
This 'transfer' approach has not passed uncriticized. Aronoff (1988a) has argued
that such a device is unnecessary and undesirable in the case of reduplication (though
his alternative relies on a theoretical device which itself doesn't enjoy universal
favour).
We conclude this prospect with a brief mention of research that promises to throw
light on the structure of languages which might appear rather different from those
we have discussed hitherto, namely the sign languages. By 'sign languages' I mean
the languages which have evolved amongst communities of the deaf and which are
learnt naturalistically by children brought up in signing environments. 13
In sign languages we have a number of 'phonological' dimensions which can be
manipulated to create morphological structures. The principal ones are: the hand-
shape, the place where the sign is made, and the movements involved (if any). In
addition, signs may be made with one or two hands, and in a few cases the orientation
of the hand (e.g. palm up or palm down) is distinctive. The point for students of non-
concatenative morphology is that the nature of signing permits these phonological
elements to be combined simultaneously and not just sequentially. A well-known
instance of this concerns inflection. Certain types of verb sho~ a form of agreement
with a direct object. The verb 'give' or 'hand to', for instance, will have a different
handshape depending on the thing given. In BSL 'give a glass' has a handshape
similar to that of a hand grasping a glass (technically a Chand), while in 'give a book'
the handshape resembles that of a hand grasping a book (technically an angled C
hand). The iconicity of these examples is a little misleading, for we are not dealing
with mime in any sense here, but rather something that is linguistically defined. The
resulting system is akin to the predicate classifier systems of the Athapaskan
languages (such as Navajo; see McDonald, 1983), in which a transitive verb stem
takes different forms depending on whether the direct object is flat, or round, or long
and rigid and so on.
There has been a certain amount of interest amongst students of sign languages in
formalizing descriptions of their phonology and morphology. An intriguing set of
suggestions for using a nonconcatenative approach comes from Liddell and Johnson
(1986). It must be admitted that this line of research is in its infancy. For one thing,
it is difficult to apply the methodology of analysis of spoken languages to signing
because it isn't clear what constitutes a phoneme, a syllable, a segment, a morpheme
172 NONLINEAR APPROACHES TO MORPHOLOGY
and so on in these languages. (A number of Liddell and Johnson's assumptions are
criticized by Padden and Perlmutter, 1987, for example.) However, as we have seen,
in many respects this merely puts sign languages at the edge of a continuum of
descriptive complexity, since in many cases some of these traditional linguistic
notions are very difficult to apply to spoken languages, too.
Quite apart from the immense intrinsic interest that sign languages present to lin-
guists, there will be very important implications if it turns out that the universal prin-
ciples of grammar postulated for spoken languages are equally valid for sign
languages, but not, say, for other, artificially constructed, communication systems.
This is because we would then have evidence for linguistic principles of organization
which are independent of the medium of expression. This would make those princi-
ples even more general and abstract, and even less dependent on phonetic form than
suggested at the end of the previous subsection. Thus, the comparative study of sign
language morphophonology and spoken language morphophonology could in prin-
ciple provide some of the strongest evidence for an autonomous language faculty in
the sense of Chomsky.
5.6 Summary
In this chapter we have seen how McCarthy's application of autosegmental theory to
problems of root and pattern morphology in Semitic have led to an upsurge of
interest in 'nonlinear' or 'multilinear' phenomena in mqrphology. This has had
interesting, in some respects ironic, consequences. On the one hand, morphology is
no longer the detailed study of 'well-behaved' agglutinating languages plus attempts
to fit other, 'deviant', language types into the agglutinating strait-jacket. On the
other hand, McCarthy's nonlinear techniques have allowed morphologists to take
phenomena which used to be uncontroversially processual and analyse them in terms
of often rather abstractly represented morphemes sitting on separate tiers and com-
bined in an essentially IA fashion. In particular, many cases which might have earlier
been cited as good instances of morphemes taking the form of rules or processes can
be reanalysed in this representational format. This is true of Semitic ablaut,
reduplication and tone morphophonemics. But whether that means that all morpho-
logical processes can be reanalysed as things remains to be seen. Furthermore, many
linguists are still suspicious about some of the technical devices that have to be
appealed to in nonconcatenative analyses, and it is often asked whether such analyses,
while seemingly representational, aren't really sneaking in processes by the back
door.
If these questions are ever settled it will not be in the near future.
EXERCISES.
5.1 Below is a list of numbers in Modern Standard Arabic along with the words
for the corresponding fractions. To what extent is there a regular relationship
EXERCISES 173
between the two forms? How might the cardinals and corresponding fractions be
related to each other in a theory of nonconcatenative morphology such as that of
McCarthy?
2 ?i6naan 1/2 niSf
3 ealaaea 1/3 eule
4 ?arba9a 1/4 rub9
5 xamsa 1/5 xums
6 sitta 1/6 suds
7 sab?a 1/7 sub9
8 eamaaniya 1/8 eumn
9 tis9a 1/9 tus9
10 9asra 1/10 9usr
5.2 Provide a derivation for:ihe Palan Koryak data in 5.37. How do these data
relate to Marantz's Conditions?
5.3 Below are data from a child Rosey (Grunwell, 1987, Spencer, 1984). Write a
set of rules to account for her productions, on the assumption that she hears the adult
form accurately, and that her own pronunciations are the result of a set of rules
applying to the adult surface form, treated as an underlying representation. (You will
need to assume rules that serve to remove structure from the underlying form, in
addition to rules of a more conventional nature.) Use the model of reduplication
proposed by Marantz (1982).
1 bobo 'bottle'
2 fefe 'feather'
3 fifi 'finger'
4 lele 'letter'
5 lili 'little'
6 muru 'middle'
7 bebe 'paper'
13 .Ae.Ai: 'elephant'
8 buhi:
9 do.Ai:
10 muhi:
11 bi.Ai:
12 dehi:
14 hihi:
'budgie'
'dolly'
'monkey'
'pinney'
'telly'
'indian'
5.4 Pulleyblank doesn't explain how to derive the monosyllabic low stem Past
Habitual form !dzddfz. What additional assumption does he need to generate this
form? (Continue to ignore the vowel length alternation.)
•5.5 Given the data from §5.4, is it necessary for Pulleyblank to assume that each
tone belongs lexically to an affix? In other words, is there a nonconcatenative analysis
of Pulleyblank's Tiv data in which the entire tone pattern of the verb could be repre-
sented as a separate morpheme? How would this relate to McCarthy's claim that tier
conflation is a generalization of bracket erasure?
PART III
The Morphology-Syntax Interface
6
Later Generative Theories
Introduction
In this chapter we look at some of the theoretical proposals which have followed the
groundwork laid by linguists such as Halle, Siegel, Aronoff and Kiparsky, and we
also examine in more detail some of the issues introduced earlier, especially in part I.
The first section opens with a number of questions about the validity of level (or
stratal) ordering. Despite its considerable influence, and despite the key role it has
played in the development of Lexical Phonology, the various versions of the Level
Ordering Hypothesis have encountered scepticism from a number of quarters (in-
cluding some Lexical Phonologists). Next, we look at alternative ways of viewing
word structure and constraints on affixation, introducing the notion that words have
their own constituent structure and their own head-dependency relations. Finally,
we briefly survey some of the basic issues surrounding the question of inflectional
morphology (as a prelude to the discussion culminating in §6.5).
Section two is a survey of two highly influential approaches to word structure based
on constituent structure, and incorporating the generative device of a phrase struc-
ture grammar. Much of the technical apparatus presented in this section has been
presupposed by other researchers, and without a solid understanding of the prin-
ciples of these theories it will be difficult to understand much of what is currently
being written on morphological theory.
In section three we briefly make the acquaintance of the notion of syntactic affix-
ation, itself not new in generative grammar, but an idea which is being exploited
increasingly by researchers interested in the morphology-syntax interface.
The fourth section looks at something of a morphological cinderella: the idea that
certain complex morphological systems can best be described in terms of 'position
classes'. This is of interest for three reasons. First, it is a set of descriptive problems
which morphological theory has tended to ignore but which will eventually have to
be rediscovered if justice is to be done to the facts of language. Second, very similar
descriptive problems are encountered in clitic systems, which we'll discuss in chapter
i
I'
!
I
~~
.I
·I
h
l
178 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
9. And third, some of the theoretical problems posed by position class morphologies
are also encountered with inflectional systems.
This then leads us into section five, in which we look at a number of works which
have tried to take seriously the notion of 'inflectional paradigm'. Since a number of
the authors reviewed earlier in the chapter deny the role of such a notion in linguistic
theory, it is of no little interest to see how different species of generative grammar
attempt to handle the problem.
We will continually meet with a number of general questions during the course of
this chapter. One of the more important issues is: where in the grammar do morpho-
logical processes take place, or morphological well-formedness constraints apply? In
particular, is morphology essentially a property of the lexicon (as in the theories
of Williams and Lieber, as well as Lexical Phonology) or is morphology split across
different components (as one might expect in latter-day 'modular' theories of
grammar)? According to the Strong Lexicalist Hypothesis, morphology is a
thoroughly lexical phenomenon, and word structure, while perhaps similar in some
respects to sentence structure, obeys different principles. Such morphologists, then,
have to account for the fact that certain aspects of word structure are nonetheless
accessible to syntactic rules, for example, rules of agreement. In other words, such
linguists have to explain how the morphology interfaces with the syntax.
Many (though not all) linguists agree that some regular morphological processes,
specifically derivational processes, are performed in the lexicon, where they can
interact in particular ways with listed lexical items. However, many believe that con-
ditions on inflectional morphology have to be stated at a different level of represen-
tation, after the syntax. Such linguists, then, subscribe to the Weak Lexicalist
Hypothesis. The accessibility of word structure to syntactic rules such as agreement
is easily explained, for such rules turn out to have been part of the syntax all the time,
and not essentially morphological. The problem for such theoreticians is to account
for the commonalities and interactions between the syntactic aspects of word struc-
ture and the morphological and lexical aspeets. In other words, they have to explain
how the syntax interfaces with the morphology.
Related to the nature of lexicalism and the extent to which morphological theory
is the theory of the lexicon or of something else is the question of basic distinctions
such as derivation and inflection. For some, especially those who espouse Weak Lexi-
calism, it is important that this distinction be drawn. For others, notably the Strong
Lexicalists, it is equally important to show that the distinction is spurious. This, in
turn, has important implications for the notion of 'paradigm'. Those that appeal to
a derivation-inflection distinction (the so-called split-morphology hypothesis) tend
to incorporate some notion of paradigm into their models. Those that do not accept
the distinction equally deny the status of the paradigm. This issue is not restricted
to the nature of inflection, however. In part IV we will see that paradigmatic aspects
of lexical organization have recently been (re)applied to derivational morphology and
other aspects of lexical relatedness.
Cross-cutting these discussions will be the extent to which word structure
resembles sentence structure. Ironic though it might seem, the proponents of Strong
Lexicalism have tended to analyse words as comprised of discrete morphemes con-
catenated to form constituents, just as words form phrases in syntax. Moreover, the
notion of headedness, which is very important in X-bar theories of syntax, has been
incorporated into such theories of word structure. This has meant that- such theorists
.U
BASIC ISSUES 179
have been committed to an essentially Item-and-Arrangement view of morphology (if
we abstract away from morphophonological processes), and it is for this reason that
they stress the syntagmatic ('horizontal') aspects of word structure at the expense of
the paradigmatic ('vertical') aspects.
6. 1 Basic issues
6.1.1 Problem's with level ordering
Despite the impact which Siegel's level ordering thesis had on the development of
morphology and especially on Lexical Phonology, not all linguists were convinced of
its correctness. Almost as soon as it was proposed a series of difficulties were exposed,
which have ultimately caused many morphologists and even certain Lexical Phonol-
-ogists to reject the idea. A convenient summary of some of the more important
objections has been provided by Aronoff and Sridhar (1983, 1987).
The central theme of level 9rdering is that Class I affixation takes place before Class
II affixation, and that Class II affixes are therefore external to Class I affixes (the Affix
Order Generalization, or AOG). We have seen (§4.3.2) that the extended version of
this thesis, that enshrined in the Extended Level Ordering Hypothesis, encounters
problematical instances in which regular plural inflection seems to occur both before
and after compounding (as in a form such as systems analyst). This had to be handled
by means of a 'loop' in Lexical Phonology. To this we could add cases in which an
entire phrase is compounded. This happens fairly regularly in West Germanic
languages, such as German, Dutch and Afrikaans and also to some extent in English
(car-of-the-month competition). Here we need to loop the syntactic component of the
grammar into the lexicon, an even more drastic violation of the assumptions of level
ordered morphology. 1
A perhaps more serious difficulty is that there is a host of exceptions even to the
unexte_nded version of the AOG. In other words, there are cases in which Class I
affixes occur external to Class II affixes. There are four theoretical possibilities, shown
schematically in 6.1-6.4:
6.1 root-II-I
6.2 I-II-root
6.3 [II-root] -I
6.4 I-[root-II]
Of these, we encounter types 6.1 and 6.3. The other cases don't seem to be attested
(possibly because there are so few Class I prefixes which have a meaning and can
therefore be used extensively in word formation).
Aronoff (1976) was the first to record exceptions of the first sort. In a word such
as organization we have a Class II suffix -ize inside a Class I suffix -ation. Other
examples (Aronoff and Sridhar, 1983, 1987) are words ending in -ability and -istic.
I
i
''
180 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
One worrying aspect of these counterexamples is their productivity: the 'illicit' Class
I affix -ation is the commonest way of nominalizing a derived verb ending in -ize.
Likewise, the -ity is the standard way of nominalizing adjectives in -able.
An interesting example of this problem is provided by West Greenlandic (Jenkins,
1984). For example, suffixes regularly induce consonant assimilation when attached
to consonant .final stems, as shown in 6.5a:
6.5 a) qanik-li-voq
approach-become-more-3sg
==> qanillivoq
'gets closer'
We would regard these as class II affixes. However, there are some suffixes, such as
-ler, which induce consonant deletion instead, as seen in 6.5b:
6.5 b) qanik-ler-poq
approach-begin-3sg
==> qanilerpoq
'begins to approach'
These would presumably be regarded as Class I affixes. Unfortunately, it is possible
for the deleting ('class I') affix to appear outside the more regular ('class II') affix if
the meaning dictates, as in 6.6:
6.6 qanik-li-ler-poq
'begins to get closer'
==> qanillilerpoq
The 6.3 type of exception has spawned a large literature, and it is readily illustrated
by a celebrated example, ungrammaticality. This word contains a Class I suffix, -ity,
and a Class II prefix un-. Therefore, on level ordering grounds we would expect the
word to have the structure of 6.7:
6.7
un [grammatical ity]
However, there is a problem, because the result of affixing -ity to grammatical pro-
duces a derived noun, grammaticality, yet the prefix un- only ever attaches to adjec-
tives, never nouns (with the whimsical exception of Orwell's unperson, which is in
any case a word of the language Newspeak, not of English). Therefore, on syntactic
selection grounds we would assign the word the structure of 6.8:
6.8 N
~~
~~ ~
[un grammatical] ity
BASIC ISSUES 181
For reasons which will be obvious, problematic constructions such as these are
known as bracketing paradoxes (cf. §1.2.3; chapter 10).
The next set of problems with level ordering centres not so much around
counterexemplification, but around the limited explanatory range of the hypothesis.
While it accounts for the basic relative ordering of stress-neutral and stress-sensitive
affixes, it fails to account for restrictions between affixes within one class or the
other. Thus, one of Halle's (1973) most important seminal questions remains largely
unaddressed by the Level Ordering Hypothesis. The fact that level ordering has
nothing to say about this means that the hypothesis is in danger of being undermined
by a principled account of such data which doesn't need to invoke level ordering.
The problem has been discussed from precisely this point of view by Fabb (1988a).
He points out that there are severe restrictions on affix ordering in English which
have nothing to do with levels. His argument is disarmingly simple. Taking 43 com-
monly occurring English suffixes, he points out that there is a theoretical maximum
of 1849 possible pairings. Some of these will be impossible because affixes select only
certain syntactic categories and yet they themselves belong to certain categories.
Thus, an affix which takes an adjective stem such as -able won't appear after a noun
affix such as -ness or -ity. Add to this some of the phonological restrictions mentioned
in chapter 4 and the theoretical maximum is reduced to 614. By dividing the original
43 suffixes into class I and II Fabb computes that level ordering further restricts the
number of combinations to 459. However, the number of attested combinations is
about SO. Therefore, there must be other restrictions operative.
~What Fabb found is that there are four groups of suffixes. One group attaches to
any word of any form of the right category. These are the genuinely productive, free
suffixes and they are -ness, -able and deverbal -er (as in driver).
Members of the second group fail to attach to a word which is already suffixed.
This is quite a large group, 29 of the 43, and it includes class I affixes, such as -ous
and -ify as well as class II such as -hood and -ish.
Group 3 consists of six suffixes which attach either to a bare unsuffixed stem or to
just one other particular suffix. These are listed in 6.9:
6.9 -10n-ary
-1on-er
-ist-ic
-ific-atory
-enc-y
revolutionary (noun and adjective)
vacationer
modernistic
modificatory
residency
Now, an affix pair such as -ionary has the same selection restrictions as -ion. Moreover,
whenever a word can be formed with -ion there is one we can form with -ionary.
Finally, the meaning of the doubly affixed word is derived from the meaning of -ary
plus that of -ion. Therefore, we want to be able to say that -ary is productively affixed
to -ion, not that we are dealing with some kind of idiosyncratic compound affix. 2
Fabb argues that we can account for these cases by assuming that the outer suffix
is permitted to attach not only to words but also (exceptionally) to another suffix.
This means that the morphological structure of such a word is [modern [ist ic]],
even though the semantic structure is [[modern ist] ic] . In other words we have a
semantically induced bracketing paradox.
182 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
The final group is rather interesting because it consists of (mainly latinate) suffixes
which attach to stems ending in some, but not all, suffixes of the right category. For
instance, -ity combines with -ive, -ic, -al, -an, -ous, -able, as in sensitivity, publicity,
grammaticality and so on. There are a number of ways of capturing these restrictions,
though the small number of combinations involved make ·it seem easier just to list
those combinations which are permitted.
Finally, there are more subtle problems with level ordering, and particularly
Kiparsky's interpretation of the Extended Level Ordering Hypothesis, centring
around some of the theoretical claims to which it commits the morphologist. Booij
(1987) argues that Kiparsky is committed to the view that it is only morphemes that
are listed in the lexicon. In other words, Kiparsky is obliged to reject Aronoff's word-
based model. This entails that Kiparsky ·is unable to distinguish actual from potential
words by appeal to the grammar. For the grammar, which represents the ideal
language user's competence, or knowledge of the language, will generate all the
complex words that WFRs are capable of generating in theory, and which of these
turn out to be actual words will be a matter for performance. This means that
Kiparsky will have no way of accounting for the effects described by Aronoff, which
seem to demand that complex words can themselves be the base of a word formation
process. Booij enumerates a number of more-or-less serious problems that this
approach brings with it,- ofwhich I shall mention just some of the more important.
On a morpheme-based view of the lexicon it is difficult to avoid treating non-
productive processes as though they were productive and this gives rise to some very
counterintuitive analyses. Booij cites a Dutch case. A corresponding English example.
would be this: in English we ·can add affixes such as -,(u)al, and -ive to latinate stem~
to form adjectives from verbs. A root such as -ceive in perceive will take both of these
suffixes (with slight, though unpredictable, difference in meaning): perceptive, percep-
tual. However, other words based on -ceive may only take one or the other suffix:
conceive, conceptual, *conceptive (despite the existence of contraceptive!) vs. receive,
receptive, *Teceptual. Kiparsky's position would commit him to the view that the
. absence of *conceptive and *Teceptual is merely a matter of performance, since he is
unable to mark the whole word receive, conceive or perceive for the suffix(es) it
accepts.
Booij also discusses a number of problems related to historical change in one way
or another, and all confirm the general picture, which is a commonplace in diachrqnic
studies of phonology and morphology, that lexicalization plays an important role in
the course of change. Some of these will be mentioned later in the chapter when we
discuss inflectional paradigms.
A rather more interesting set of cases which bring to prominence the role of the
word in word formation concerns so-called paradigmatic word formation, where the
term 'paradigmatic' is applied to derivation rather than inflection. The idea that
derivational morphology might be defined in terms of paradigms, while in a sense tra-
ditional, is not something which is generally accepted by contemporary morpholo-
gists, and I shall be reviewing some of the evidence ·in favour of such a position in
part IV. An example of what is meant will suffice to explain why such a phenomenon
crucially relies on the notion of 'existing word'. The word meaning 'sailor who serves
in a submarine' is submariner. This is correctly pronounced (i.e. by submariners
themselves) with antepenultimate stress, submariner, to rhyme with mariner (though
BASIC ISSUES 183
dictionaries permit the pronunciation submariner, rhyming with marina, presumably
a landlubber's spelling pronunciation). Now, submariner cannot be the result of any
regular word formation process. It is a result of the systematic connection that links
the (existing, actual, permanently stored) words marine, mariner and submarine. In
chapter 10 we'll see that in fact it's just a very specific example of an extremely
general process.
6.1.2 Constituent structure in morphology
Some of the misgivings about level ordering have motivated the development of
alternative views of word structure. In this section we look at a number of leading
ideas that have played a prominent role in theory construction.
One assumption that has been prevalent, particularly as far as compounds and
derivational morphology is concerned, is that complex words have a hierarchical con-
stituent structure which can be represented by tree-diagrams of a familiar sort. For
instance, a word such as indecipherability might be associated with the tree structure
in 6.10a or equivalently the labelled bracketing in 6.10b:
6.10 a)
~
v
h
N
in de cipher able ity
b) [N [Ain [A [vde [Ncipher]] able]] ity]
This type of diagram or labelled bracketing is a representation of the derivational
history of the word. We begin with the noun cipher from which we create the verb
decipher by prefi.xation of de-, which in turn produces the adjective decipherable and
so on. As we will see, the most popular theories of morphology would all assign just
such a structure to the word.
However, there is something misleading about this picture. For, in general, the
internal make-up of a word is opaque to morphological processes, or, in other words,
word formation processes tend to be blind to the derivational history of the base on
which they are operating. For instance, we tend not to find morphological rules along
the lines 'add affix X to an adjective only if it is derived from a noun'. Another way
of thinking of this is to say that affixation is sensitive only to the properties of the
node immediately adjacent to the affix. In other words, an affix may be sensitive to
184 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
the properties of the X node in 6.11 but not to any of the internal nodes, Y, Z etc:
6.11 w
X
y
II
aff + [[... [...]]...]
The phenomenon of morphological conversion (or zero-affixation) provides a good
illustration of this. We saw in §4.3.2 that verbs derived from nouns by conversion
never conjugate as strong verbs. This was illustrated with a hypothetical example in
which we took the verb hide, converted it to a noun (as in the ecologists observed the
bird from a hide) and then reconverted that noun to a verb (to hide a forest). If we
do this, the new verb behaves like a regular verb (the ecologists hided the forest). It is
as though the past tense formation rule were oblivious to the fact that the base hide
is 'really' a strong verb. This contrasts with the behaviour of prefixed strong verbs
such as withstand, which continue to conjugate like their simplex base verbs
(withstood).
Lexical Phonology has a number of ways of capturing such behaviour. Recall that
Kiparsky accounted for the conversion facts by appealing to level ordering. Strong
past tenses are formed at Level 1, noun-to-verb conversion takes place at Level 2 and
regular past tense formation occurs at Level 3. Therefore, by the time the converted
noun hide is formed from the verb (in Level 2) it is too late for the strong past tense
rule to apply. In other instances, a phonological or morphological rule may fail to
apply (or fail to be blocked) because bracket erasure has applied, thus rendering the
complex word indistinguishable from a simplex word.
An alternative approach is possible, however, which retains the complete structure
of the complex word. Returning to our conversion example, suppose we say that the
vowel alternations in hide - hid, stand - stood are governed by a readjustment rule
triggered when an abstract affix PAST is attached to a verb root marked with a
feature (say, [+ablaut]), as shown in derivations 6.12:
6.12 a) v
(\
hide PAST====> hid ·
[+ablaut]
b) v
(\
stand PAST===> /stud/
[+ablaut]
BASIC ISSUES 185
Suppose we also assume that conversion is achieved by the addition of a phonetically
null affix, i.e. that conversion is really zero-affixation (see §1.5.) 3 We can now con-
trast 6.12 with the regularly formed past tense form grandstanded. The derivation is
shown in 6.13:
6.13 v
v
N
~
A N
(\
grand stand f5 Z PAST Igrandstanded/
[+ablaut]
In the derivations 6.12 the PAST morpheme is attached directly to a V node which
exhaustively dominates the strong verb root. In a labelled bracketing there would be
only one bracket between the two morphemes. In 6.13, however, the PAST mor-
pheme is attached to a V node which is separated from the strong verb root by other
affixes (namely, the two tokens of the zero affix). Thus, the PAST morpheme is not
attached directly to the strong verb but to something which properly contains the
strong verb. The same is true of the hided example, 6.14:
6.14 v
v
N
~~
hide .9' ~ PAST ==> /haided/
[+ablaut]
What we can say, then, is that the ablaut rule fails to apply when the triggering mor-
pheme, PAST, is not adjacent to the strong root itself but to some other category.
In other terms, we can say that the ablaut rule is unable to apply across more than
one bracket. This is essentially the idea behind the Adjacency Condition, due orig-
inally to Siegel (1977) and taken up by Allen (1978) (see Scalise, 1984, chapter 8 for
detailed discussion). What it says is that an affixation process can be made sensitive
to the content of an internal morpheme only if that morpheme is the one most
recently attached by a morphological rule. Intuitively, it prevents a morphological
'
i .
186 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
process from looking into the internal structure, or the derivational history, or
morphologically complex words.
By assuming that affixation induces constituent structure and by imposing the
Adjacency Condition, we can account for why the past tense of doubly converted hide
comes out as hided, or why the past of to grandstand is grandstanded. However, we
still have to deal with violations of Adjacency, such as withstood. In Kiparsky's
analysis this word arises from prefixation of stood by with, so there is no problem.
But if we are to take constituent structure seriously, then this leads to an incorrect
analysis: semantically speaking, withstood is the past tense of withstand. In fact,
withstood has nothing at all to do with stood if we take meaning into consideration.
This implies that the constituent structure of withstood should be 6.15:
6.15 v
v
~
p v
I I
[[with [stand]] PAST]
[+ablaut]
But in that case the PAST morpheme must be able to see inside the complex word
withstand in order to condition the allomorphy on stand, in violation of the Adjacency
Condition. Given that there are a great many such prefixed strong verbs, this is not
just an isolated phenomenon.
Williams (1981a) provided a somewhat different solution to the adjacency problem.
He noted that the counterexamples to the Adjacency Condition have in common the
fact that the offending affixation operation fails to change the syntactic category. In
a sense, then, the prefix in withstand is rather like a modifying element rather than
a genuine derivational morpheme. Williams proposed, for this and other reasons,
that a crucial concept needed to explain these structures is that of a head. He argued
that we should regard the verb root, stand, as the head of withstand, where 'head'
means more-or-less what it means in syntax. One of the syntactic properties of heads
is that any feature marked on the head of a construction will percolate up to the
dominating node, in other words, that properties of heads are inherited by the con-
structions of which they are the head. This means in effect, that a complex verb such
as withstand will be treated as a strong verb just like its head, i.e. stand. This is pic-
tured in 6.16, once in tree form, once in labelled bracket form (with [+A] being the
[+ablaut] feature).
6.16 a)
p
I
with stand
[+ablaut]
v
[+ablaut]
1\
p v
I I
with stand
[+ablaut]
BASIC ISSUES 187
b) [with [stand] [+AJ]:::. [with stand] [+AJ
When we attach the PAST morpheme to withstand it can trigger the ablaut process
because it is now adjacent to the percolated [+ablaut] feature.
Williams further argued that all words are headed, and that the head is the right-
most morpheme of the construction (the Righthand Head Rule, or RHR). This has
a number of immediate consequences. First, in a word such as cats the plural affix
is the head of the word. Second, by virtue of the RHR all suffixes are heads and
no prefixes (or, presumably, infixes) are heads. Third, morphemes which can be
heads (i.e. roots and suffixes) must be assigned to a syntactic category. This is
because the head of a construction determines its syntactic category, and so must
itself belong· to a syntactic category. This means that the structure of the word cats
will be that of 6.17:
6.17 Npl.
~
N Npl.
I I
cat s
The concept of head easily carries over into compounds, where the RHR explains
two salient facts about most compounds. First, the syntactic category of a compound
is determined by its rightmost member; second, the meaning of a compound is con-
tained in the meaning of its rightmost member. To appreciate the first point note
that, in examples such as 6.18, the compound is respectively a noun, adjective and
verb, irrespective of the category of its first member:
6.18 a) houseboat; blackbird; undercurrent; swearword
b) breastfeed; underplay .
c) canary yellow; dark blue; overripe
To appreciate the second point, notice that a houseboat is a kind of boat (and not,
for instance, a kind of house), to breastfeed is to feed (in a particular fashion), 'over-
ripe' means 'ripe (to an excessive degree)'. Allen (1978), borrowing earlier psycholin-
guistic terminology, described this by saying that a compound such as houseboat
stands in an ISA relation to boat (in that a houseboat 'isa' boat).
With the concept of head we can reinterpret the Adjacency Condition. Williams,
in fact, replaces the condition altogether with his Atom Condition. This states
(1981a: 253; 'afx' means 'affix'):
6.19 Atom Condition
'A restriction on the attachment of afx to Y can only refer to features
realized on Y.'
This amounts to the restriction that an affixation process can be sensitive only to
features borne by the head of the base. This is a slightly different condition from the
Adjacency Condition, which says, in effect, that affixation may be sensitive only to
the 'most recently attached' morpheme (cf. Williams, 198la: 254).
188 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
~. The operation of the Atom Condition is illustrated further by another set of syste-
~ matic exceptions to the Adjacency Condition. We have seen that English has a large
class of 'latinate' suffixes, which are derived historically from Latin (or Greek) and
which only co-occur with Latin or Greek roots. For instance, the nominalizing suffix
-ion cannot be used with native (Germanic) verb roots (*breaktion), only Latinate
ones (deduction). Assuming that deduce is formed by prefixing de- to duct, we predict
by the Adjacency Condition that further suffixation will not be sensitive to idiosyn-
cratic features of the root morpheme duce - duct. However, it can be argued that
the choice of nominalizing suffix is indeed determined by duct. For example, other
prefixed forms of this root behave in exactly the same way: reduction, production,
introduction (or, even worse, reintroduction). We could also add Williams's own
example conduct - conduction (with a different root allomorph in the verb form).
Likewise, when such prefixes are attached to a different root, that root may select a
different suffix or suffix allomorph. For example, the root pose forms (some of) its
nominalizations in -ition, giving us pairs such as depose - deposition, propose -
proposition, compose - composition. All these facts show incontrovertibly that it is the
root which selects the suffix, even after prefixation.
Let's assume that the latinate roots bear morpholexical features such as [+ion]
indicating which nominalizing suffixes they take. For a morphologically complex
word such as deduction, this implies the derivation 6.20:
6.20
v
{\
1 r
v
[+ion]
de duce ==> de duce ===>
[+ion] [+ion]
N
~
V N
[+ion]
de duct
[+ion]
lOll
Notice, too, that the root allomorphy of duce, which is comparable to that of stand
in withstood, can be understood in the same way, as the percolation of an allomorphy
feature to the top of the entire verb. In effect, we could say that the prefixed verb
deduce inherits the allomorphy of its head, the root.
The concept of head is not unproblematic. The Righthand Head Rule itself em-
bodies an extremely strong universal claim about word structure, which on the face
of it is simply wrong. A main effect is to prevent prefixes from being heads, yet in
de-adjectival or denominal verbs such as ennoble or decipher we have just such a
prefixal head. Moreover, Williams's theory predicts that all inflectional affixes will be
heads (because they determine the category of the complete word). Therefore, the
RHR predicts there will be no languages in which inflections are prefixes. However,
there are a great many languages in which inflections can be prefixes (not to mention
other non-suffixes such as infixes, ablaut process, tone shifts, accent rules or initial
consonant mutations).
Not all words are headed in Williams's theory. Thus, while compounds in English
BASIC ISSUES 189
are generally right-headed, the word pickpocket is an unheaded compound, or an
exocentric compound (note that it doesn't refer to a kind of pocket). Another head-
less construction for Williams is morphological conversion. Williams rejects a zero-
affixation analysis and instead argues for a rule which simply relabels a noun as a verb
or whatever. All such relabellings are then said to give rise to headless constructions.
Later, we will see a number of difficulties with the head concept in morphology.
Despite these problem areas, the idea that words are headed remains extremely
influential.
The idea that words have their own constituent structure has been predominant,
to the extent of being taken for granted in some circles. However, it is not a necessary
assumption, and in §§6.4-5 we will see approaches in which constituent structure
plays a less prominent role or no role whatever. An important point to bear in mind
is that the concept of constituent structure only makes sense if we assume that word
formation is essentially the linear agglutination of morphemes. This means that
constituent structure is a problematic notion if we take into serious account such
things as nonconcatenative morphology and phonological processes serving as
morphemes.
There are also internal problems with a thorough-going application of constituent
structure analysis even to agglutinating morphologies. When we consider the nature
of constituenthood in syntax, we find that there are various properties of word
sequences which can be explained if we assume those sequences have the familiar
hierarchical structure of phrases (though even for languages like English not all lin-
guists are absolutely convinced by the need for constituents). However, many of
these properties involve phenomena such as movement or deletion. Now, inmor-
phology we simply don't find constituents moving or deleting in the same sort of
way. If we enumerate all the arguments for assigning a constituent .structure to most
complex words formed by affixation (as opposed to compounding) we find that there
is remarkably little positive evidence in favour of constituenthood. In fact, given the
existence of things such as bracketing paradoxes (see chapter 10), we often encounter
strong evidence against it. So if we take a complex word such as Turkish falt~tmlma­
malzymz~ 'they say that he ought not to be made to work', do we really want to say
that it has the hierarchical structure of 6.21 rather than a flat structure such as 6.22?
6.21
<;:alL~ ttr d rna malty mt~
WORK CAUS PASS NEG OBL INFER
·, I
. I
190 LATER GENERATIVE THEORlES
6.22 a)
~alL~ tLr
b)
w
d rna malLy mL~
w
rna malLy mL~
Those familiar with recent debate in metrical phonology will know that exactly this
sort of question has been asked about metrical accounts of stress systems which imply
constituent structure for which there is no motivation. Halle and Vergnaud (1987)
have argued for a general theory of stress which includes only the bare minimum of
information about constituent structure, by bracketing two adjacent syllables into a
binary constituent, one of whose members is the head. Perhaps a compromise of this
sort will ultimately be needed for morphological theory.
6.1.3 Argument structure
One of the most important questions in syntax and morphology concerns the valency
of verbs, that is, what kinds of complements a verb takes. In the Aspects model of
syntax, valency is represented by subcategorization frames (see §3.1.3). However, it
became clear as syntactic theory developed that the more semantic aspects of valency
were also important for syntax. In this fashion the theory of thematic roles was
developed (also called theta roles or (} roles, and also frequently referred to as
semantic roles). The tally of theta roles assumed in grammar differs from one theory
to the next. However, most theories assume the following:
Agent (Ag) - the (usually animate) instigator of an action.
Instrument (Instr) - (self-explanatory).
Patient (Pat) - entity undergoing an action.
Goal (Go) - end point of motion in concrete or abstract sense.
Source (So) - starting point of motion in concrete or abstract sense.
Location (Loc) - (self-explanatory).
Benefactive (Ben) - person on behalf of whom action is carried out.
Experiencer (Exp) - (passive) recipient of a sensation or mental experience.
Theme (Th) - entity undergoing motion or in a certain state.
Many authors conflate Patient and Theme roles, making this something of a default
semantic role. I shall use the term Theme for both roles. Not all linguists distinguish
between Goal and Benefactive roles.
BASIC ISSUES 191
In many cases the particular semantic role of a NP will be marked by a preposition,
case ending or other device. However, this is not always the case, and we frequently
fi.nd differing roles assigned to subjects. This is illustrated in 6.23, where the subject
has the role of Agent (6.23a), Theme (6.23b, c) and Instrument (6.23d):
6.23 a) Tom opened Harriet's door (with his key).
b) Harriet's door opened.
c) Harriet's door was opened (by Tomfby Tom's key).
d) Tom's key opened Harriet's door.
The sentences of 6.23 could all be describing the same event, even though the subject
of each is different. By referring to theta roles we can abstract away from the syntactic
differences and capture the semantic similarity by saying that in each case there is
an event which we can represent schematically as in 6.24:
6.24 OPEN (Tom, door, key)
I I I
Agent Theme Instr.
We will refer to Tom, door and key as arguments of the verb (or predicate) open, and
6.24 will be called a representation of the argument structure of that predicate. For
many linguists, labels such as 'Theme' or 'Goal' are at best convenient general
purpose mnemonics, whose implied semantic classifi.cation shouldn't be taken too
seriously. Most generative grammarians would agree that what is most important
about semantic roles is that they should be associated with the argument structure
of the verb.
A more abstract representation of argument structure would simply list variables
in a particular order to serve as slots for NPs such as Tom or key, as shown in 6.25a
(the angled brackets mean that the list x, y, z is ordered). Where we also name the
theta roles associated with each argument, as in 6.25b, we call the representation a
theta grid (in practice, the terms 'argument structure' and 'theta grid' are often used
interchangeably):
6.25 a) OPEN (x, y, z)
b) OPEN (Ag, Th, Instr)
Williams (198lb) was the fi.rst to propose that argument structure played an impor-
tant role in morphology. He drew an important distinction between two types of
argument, the external argument and internal arguments. A predicate (in English
this means a verb or adjective) may have at most one external argument, and any
number of internal arguments, but not all predicates have an external argument.
When it is present in the argument structure the external argument always appears
as the subject. Moreover, if there is an Agent, then, with certain important excep-
tions, it will always be the external argument (and hence always surface as the sub-
ject). Williams indicates the external argument by underlining it. Thus, a
notationally more accurate version of 6.25b would be 6.25c:
6.25 c) OPEN (Ag, Th, Instr)
192 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
Williams argued that many alternations in the syntactic valency of a verb are the
result of rules affecting the argument structure of the verb. For instance, in 6.23b,
no Agent is implied or stated. As a result, the Theme becomes the subject. In 6.23c
we have a passive form of the verb in which the Agent role is implied (and can be
realized by means of a by-phrase), but this role doesn't become the subject, a position
which is again taken by the Theme. Finally, in 6.23d we see that the Instrument has
usurped the position of subject and, again, no Agent is implied.
Alternations such as these will be the subject of the whole of chapter 7 and much
of chapter 8, so we shan't dwell on them here. Instead, we'll look at other morpholo-
gical processes which seem to appeal to argument structure. Consider the examples
of 6.26-6.30:
6.26 a) Tom read a book to the children.
b) This book is readable.
c) *Tom is readable.
d) *The children are readable.
6.27 a) These books can fit on this shelf.
b) *These books are finable (on this shelf).
6.28 a) Tom knows how to swim.
b) *Tom is swimmable.
6.29 a) employ someone
b) employee
6. 30 a) The factory is modern.
b) They modernized the factory.
The examples of 6.26-6.28 show that -able affixes to transitive verbs to give an
adjective which is predicated of the Theme argument of the original verb. It cannot
be predicated of the Agent (6.26c, 6.28b) nor can it be predicated of the Theme of
an intransitive verb (6.27b) or a non-Theme argument of a transitive verb, such as
a Goal (6.26d). Similarly, in 6.29 the affix -ee4 has taken a transitive verb and created
a noun referring to the Theme argument.
The example of -ize affixation is slightly more complex. Here we see a predicate,
the adjective, which has a single (external) Theme argument, as shown in 6.31a. The
affix creates a (causative) verb which has a new external argument, an Agent, and an
internal Theme argument corresponding to the verb's original argument, as shown
in 6.3lb:
6.31 a) MODERN (Th)
b) MODERNIZE<Ag, Th)
Williams (1981b) argues that the two processes represented by -able/ ee and -ize
affixation basically exhaust the morphological rules which operate on argument struc-
ture. (Rules such as passive pose some problems here, but we'll leave discussion of
these until the next chapter.) He analyses these rules as (i) externalization of an
BASIC ISSUES 193
internal argument, and (ii) internalization of an external argument. Thus, -able affix-
ation has the effect shown in 6.32 (what exactly happens to the Agent argument is
a matter of some controversy, as we'll see in chapter 8):
6.32 read (Ag, Th) ~readable (Ag, Th)
Internalization has two stages. It is probably easiest to think of these as, first,
addition of a new external argument, and then demotion of the old external argument
to internal position. General theoretical considerations (deriving from Williams's
(1980) theory of predication) prevent a predicate from having two external argu-
ments, so in a sense we are talking about the addition of an argument here, rather
than simply internalization. The process is represented schematically in 6.33:
6.33 modern (Th) ~modernize (Ag, Th =Th)~modernize (Ag, Th =Th)
The notation 'Th = Th' indicates that the new Theme is identical to the old Theme,
and hence captures the semantic relationship between 6.30a and 6.30b.
6.1.4 The nature of inflection
The nature of inflectional morphology is one of the most problematic areas of mor-
phological theory and one on which there is perhaps more disagreement than any
other aspect. We have seen that inflection is traditionally regarded as change in the
grammatical or morphosyntactic form of a word (or lexeme) as opposed to derivation,
which is the formation of a new lexeme from another lexeme. Derivation, therefore,
typically changes the syntactic class membership of the word, say, adjective to noun;
inflection is not supposed to change class membership. Inflection creates forms of
words which have a syntactic function in, say, agreement or government. Inflectional
affixes are attached more peripherally to the stem than are derivational affixes.
Inflectional morphology often organizes itself into paradigms, while this is not so
obviously true of derivation.
The difficulty for a general theory of morphology is that pretty well every claim in
the previous paragraph has been questioned. For instance, the creation of participles,
gerunds and infinitival forms of verbs seems to involve a change of category, and yet
the traditional, and in many respects most motivated, view is to regard them as part
of the inflectional paradigm of the verb, not as a species of derivational morphology.
Even if we were to relax the category membership clause, we can't always recognize
inflection by its significance for syntactic rules of agreement and government.
This is because in many cases morphology which looks inflectional realizes gram-
matical categories which aren't reflected in rules of agreement and government. One
obvious example of this occurs when inflectional processes realize arbitrary, purely
morphological categories such as conjugation class.
Assuming that we can identify inflectional morphology in a given language we will
usually find that inflectional affixes are external to derivational ones. This is logical
since we have to have our lexeme (by derivational processes) before we can have a
set of inflectional forms of it. Bybee (1985) argues that this follows from a more
general principle under which affixes which are more 'relevant' for the meaning of
a given stem, for instance, causatives on verbs, appear nearest to the stem, while
194 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
affixes which are least relevant, such as person/number affixes, appear furthest from
the stem. This seems to be the case as a rule of thumb, but even this generalization
is problematic. Nonconcatenative morphology makes the notion 'external to' rather
difficult to interpret, and even in some linear morphological systems there are occa-
sional reports of derivational affixation appearing externally to syntactically relevant
inflectional affixation (e.g. Rice, 1985).
Although inflection is typically associated with paradigmatic organization, there is
a good deal of debate over the nature of paradigms, and in many respects the notion
itself is no less obscure than that of 'inflection'. One symptom of this is that a
number of morphologists are exploring the idea that derivational morphology can
best be thought of in terms of paradigmatic organization.
Some of these problems are illustrated by Spanish conjugation. Spanish verbs fall
into three conjugations, each with its characteristic 'theme' vowel, which appears
immediately after the root. Consider the imperfect tense paradigm for the verb hablar
'to speak' in 6.34:
6.34 Sg.
1 habl-a-ba
2 habl-a-ba-s
3 habl-a-ba
Pl.
habl-a-ba~mos
habl-a-ba-is
habl-a-ba-n
We could analyse this by saying that the 1st conjugation theme vowel, -a-, is followed
by the 1st conjugation imperfect marker -ba-, following by person and number
desinences. It is only the person/number endings that are relevant for syntax (in
agreement processes). This might suggest that we should analyse the theme vowel
and the -ba- formative as non-inflectional affixes, i.e. as derivational. This is the tra-
ditional assumption for the theme vowel (though it could be questioned). However,
the imperfect is a morphosyntactic category (one of tense) and not a lexical category
(like abstract noun), so this is a counterintuitive :solution for this affix.
There is one characteristic property of inflectional paradigms which might appear
to distinguish them from systems of derivational morphology. Recall in §2.2.2, we
discussed syncretism in Russian adjective forms. A dramatic example of this is found
in the plural, where the three-way gender system of the singular is completely neutra-
lized. This can be described in a number of ways. Zwicky (1985a), for example,
argues for rules of referral, which effectively allow us to say 'the masc., fern. and
neut. forms in the plural of adjectives are identical'. Similar rules could be written
· for the syncretism of oblique case forms in the fern. sg. of adjectives. Any theory of
inflection (or of morphology as a whole) which failed to make allowance for such
phenomena would be sadly deficient. 5
The most frequently cited cases of syncretism are, of course, from inflectional affix
systems. But it's important to realize that the phenomenon isn't restricted to this.
For instance, stems can undergo syncretism, too. Thus, in Spanish the stem form of
a verb in the present subjunctive form is identical to the stem form used for the lsg.
present indicative form (with four highly irregular suppletive exceptions; Spencer,
1988a). And in Russian, you can form the present participle of any verb by deleting
the-tending of the 3pl. (imperfective) present and adding -sc-. The Spanish case can
be handled by a rule of referral, provided it can refer to stem allomorphs marked with
features such as [lsg. pres. indic.]. The Russian participle case is somewhat bizarre,
BASIC ISSUES 195
since it involves forming an inflectional (or derivational?) form from a stem plus half
an affL-x. It's not clear (to me at least) how linguistic theory ought to handle such a
case (provided there's no way of analysing the decapitated 3pl. form as a bona fide
stem).
Lastly, one might argue that syncretism (like suppletion) is found in derivation,
only not as often and not so obviously. A possible example is provided by English
stative adjectives, such as broken in a broken promise. These are invariably formed
from the past participle of the verb (see chapter 7 for further discussion). (Of course,
this participle is itself invariably homophonous with the past participle used to form
the perfect.) Stem syncretism in derivation is actually very common, though it isn't
described in such terms. It occurs whenever the stem allomorph for a given WFR
is systematically identical to the stem allomorph for another WFR. A simple example
of this is found in the formation of Russian agentive or instrumental nouns from verb
stems by the suffixation of -tel', as in pisatel' 'writer' from pisat' 'to write', and
nositel' 'bearer' from nosit' 'to carry'. Notice that, although such observations might
tend to undermine the distinction between inflection and derivation, what they tend
to support is the idea that the organization of both types of morphology is to some
degree paradigmatic.
Russian provides another example of the fuzziness of the inflection-derivation dis-
tinction. One of the long-standing problems of Slavic linguistics is how to treat the
aspectual distinction in verbs. In a languages such as Russian nearly all verbs come
in aspectual pairs. One form expresses the perfective aspect (indicating completed or
single action) and the other expresses the imperfective aspect (indicating incomplete,
continuous or repeated action). For simple verbs it is usually the case that the perfec-
tive is derived morphologically from the imperfective, by prefixation (6.35) or by
change of the theme extension added to the stem (6.36). (The -t' ending is that of
the infinitive):
6.35 Imperfective Perfective
a) delat' s-delat' 'do'
b) pisat' na-pisat' 'write'
c) prosit' po-prosit' 'ask'
d) pit' vy-pit' 'drink'
e) bastovat' za-bastovat' 'go on strike'
6.36 a) rdat' resit' 'solve'
b) kivat' kiv-nut' 'nod'
Occasionally, the imperfective is derived from the perfective, usually by addition of
a suffix:
6.37 da-va-t' dat' 'give'
A few aspectual pairs are formed suppletively:
6.38 a) brat'
b) klast'
c) govorit'
vzjat'
polozit'
skazat'
'take'
'place'
'say'
196 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
It is undoubtedly the case that aspect is grammaticalized in Russian. The question
arises as to whether it is an inflectional category or a derivational one. Since (pretty
well) all verbs form aspectual pairs we might be inclined to say that the distinction
is inflectional. The fact that some pairs are suppletive, a characteristic of inflection,
supports this. Another indication that aspect is an inflectional category comes from
syntax. Both aspectual forms conjugate for person and number. Thus, from example
6.3Sa we derive delaju and sdelaju '1st sg.'. The imperfective form delaju means 'l
am doing, do (in general)', that is, it has a present tense interpretation. However,
the perfective form sdelaju has future tense meaning, 'I shall do (once)'. Now, we
can form a future from the imperfective, using the auxiliary verb byt' 'to be' and the
infinitive to get budu delat' 'I shall be doing'. It is impossible to use this auxiliary
with the perfective aspect (*budu sdelat') ·showing that the aspectual category is
important for syntax. Following, say, Anderson's (1982) characterization of inflection
as morphology which is relevant to syntax, this would make aspect inflectional.
The problem is that several of the morphological means for expressing pure perfec-
tivity are also used with other verbs to express what are often called Aktionsarten
(the plural of 'Aktionsart', or mode of action. See Comrie, 1976: 6, note 4, for dis-
cussion of this term). Thus, verbs frequently take prefixes to modify their meaning
(often corresponding to English prepositions). In 6.39 we see some of the verbs
derived from pisat' 'to write':
6.39 a) po-pisat'
b) s-pisat'
c} vy-pisat'
d) za-pisat'
'do a bit of writing'
'copy'
'write out, .excerpt'
'note down, record'
There are several reasons why we would want to regard this type of word formation
as derivational. First, the meaning of the derived word is different from that of the
stem. In some cases the meaning of the whole is derived more-or-less compositionally
from the stem and the prefix (for instance, vypisat' from vy- which means 'out').
However, in other cases the meaning is partly or fully lexicalized, as in zapisat'.
Moreover, we can use the prefixed verb as the base for further derivation. For
instance, from zapisat' we derive zapis' 'a recording', zapiska 'a note' and so on.
Nonetheless, as we have seen in 6.35, each of these prefixes can be ·used with 'pure'
perfective meaning.
Since prefixation creates a new verb we expect this verb to form an aspectual pair.
In fact, each of 6.39 is perfective and forms its imperfective by means of a suffix -yv-:
popisyvat', spisyvat', and so on. This is where the descriptive problem begins. For
the type of prefixation shown in 6.39 almost invariably causes the verb to become
perfective. The verb can then be rendered imperfective by suffixation or by changing
the stem extension, as in ugovorit', 'to persuade (perfective)', ugovorivat', 'to try to
persuade (imperfective)', derived from the verb govorit', 'to say'. An imperfective so
formed is called a Derived or Secondary Imperfective. But if the perfective/imperfec-
tive distinction is inflectional, this means that we have a derivational process which
is simultaneously inflectional, a contradiction in terms.
The upshot of the discussion is this. Aspect is grammaticalized (and not just lexi-
calized) in Russian and it is expressed by affixation (and other morphological
THE CONSTITUENT STRUCTURE OF WORDS 197
processes). Moreover, aspect can be said to have relevance for the syntax. But if we
regard this as implying that aspect is inflectional then we seem forced to say that
Aktionsart prefixation is also inflectional, though by other criteria it would clearly be
derivational. 6 For the moment we will simply note this as typical of the sort of
conceptual problem raised by the inflection/derivation distinction.
Russian aspect provides an example of what appears at .first sight to be inflectional
morphology behaving like derivational morphology. Likewise, we can have instances
of what is apparently derivational morphology behaving like inflectional morphology.
One notorious such case which is frequently discussed in the theoretical literature is
that of the diminutive. Many languages have productive and wide-spread diminutive
formation processes, often involving a whole set of affixes. In Spanish one of these
affixes is -it-. This is usually attached to a noun, to produce a noun, so the diminutive
induces no category change. Indeed, in most cases the diminutive is even 'trans-
parent' to the gender of the noun to which it attaches. A masculine noun appears
with the ending -ito while a feminine noun appears with the ending -ita. So the
diminutive doesn't even affect the morpholexical class of the word.
Russian provides an especially intriguing version of the same problem. One of the
innumerable diminutive endings of some productivity in Russian is -sa. One way of
forming a diminutive with this suffix is to add it to the stressed syllable of a name
minus its coda. Thus, from Pavel (Paul) we derive Pasva and from Maria, Masa, and
from Aleksandr (masculine) and Aleksandra (feminine) we derive Sasa. The -a ending
is typical of feminine nouns, and a diminutive so formed always takes the case
endings typical of a feminine noun. However, when the noun enters into agreement
processes it behaves the way its source would have behaved. So Pasa takes masculine
agreements, while Masa takes feminine agreements, and the agreements of Sasa
depend on whether it is the name of a boy or a girl. This poses enormous problems
for a definition of inflection because we have an affix which is irrelevant for syntax,
since it is the base which determines agreement and not the affix, but which never
changes the syntactic category of the base, though it does determine its morpho-
logical class membership (i.e. which declensional class the noun will join). It thus
seems to fall exactly midway between inflection and derivation.
Faced with these and other kinds of conundrums, many linguists have chosen to
abandon the distinction between inflection and derivation. 7 A more positive reason
for this choice is the fact that there never seems to be a principled morphological dis-
tinction between the two types of morphological process, in the sense that the mor-
phological devices of affixation, phonological processes and so on are just as likely to
be used for derivation as for inflection. Nonetheless, a number of attempts have been
made in recent theories to motivate and define the Q.istinction, and in some theories
it is very important that the distinction be drawn.
6.2 The constituent structure of words
In §6.1.2 I said that constituent structure and headedness have come to play an
important role in models of word formation. The proposal that words have internal
198 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
constituent structure implies that there must be the equivalent of a constituent struc-
ture or phrase structure grammar (psg) to generate those structures. In this section
we look in some detail at two, closely related proposals.
6.2.1 Psg approaches
Edwin Williams and Lisa Selkirk independently proposed that word structure be
accounted for by a context free phrase structure grammar. The most detailed set of
proposals has been given by Selkirk (1982) so I shall base this subsection on her expo-
sition. A leading idea is that the grammar needs to be able to represent general fea-
tures of word structure in a language. For instance, Selkirk claims that it is necessary
to have a direct representation in the grammar of the fact that a language is, say,
exclusively suffixing. For this to be possible it is necessary to be able to identify a
category of suffix (or at least 'affix which follows its stem'). This means that the
grammar will contain a rule such as N ~ N + aff where the 'affix' slot can be filled
by items such as -dom or -less. This differs from the theory of Aronoff in which such
affixes are all introduced by their own WFR.
The psg approach in the form proposed by Selkirk is designed solely for strictly
concatenative morphology, i.e. suffixing, prefixing and compounding (it can also
handle conversion). Without extra assumptions, it cannot account for infixation or
reduplication, or for Semitic 'root-and-pattern' type morphology. Nor can it cope
directly with any morphology which takes the form of a phonological process, such
as tone shifts or mutation.
The type of psg Selkirk assumes is a variant of X-bar syntax (see §3.3.2). This
defines the structures of W(ord)~syntax. The 'maximal projection' is identical to the
zero level projection in S(entence)-syntax, i.e. the lexical category, or Word. Selkirk
argues that the only other categories needed ar~Root and Affix, though only the cat-
egory of Root falls within the X-bar hierarchy proper. W-syntax differs from S-syntax
in that the R(oot) level category can't dominate the W level category.
This means we can't have structures comparable, say, to V' dominating NP in
syntax. It also prevents syntactic phrases from appearing inside words. Like syntactic
expressions, elements of W-syntax belong to syntactic categories (N, V, A, P).
The rules of W-syntax are housed in the lexicon. This comprises a Dictionary of
free morphemes together with a list of bound morphemes. These two lists constitute
the Extended Dictionary. The .Extended Dictionary and the word formation rules
make up the word structure component or the morphological base. No distinction of
principle is drawn between inflection and derivation. Moreover, compounding is
regarded as a morphological (i.e. lexical) rather than syntactic phenomenon. Thus,
the overall conception of morphology is more Hallean than Aronovian. However,
there is no place for inflectional paradigms in Selkirk's system. 8 As usual, the WFRs
are regarded as essentially redundancy rules defined over the permanent lexicon, but
which can also be used to create novel words.
Commitment to an X-bar model means that in the typical case a morphologically
complex word will have a head, which will have the same syntactic category as its
mother. Other features (morphological features, diacritics of various sorts and so on)
may percolate up the word tree. In this section I concentrate mainly on Selkirk's
treatment of affixation, saving compounding for chapter 8. Selkirk's X-bar schema
THE CONSTITUENT STRUCTURE OF WORDS 199
is given in 6.40:
6.40 a) xn~ ...
b)
c)
d)
ym xaf
yaf xm
xm yaf
xaf ym
where X, Y are syntactic categories, 0 > n > m
Rules a, c refer to suffixes, and b, d refer to prefixes. In the a and d cases the affix
is the head, in the b, c cases the base is the head. In English the value of n, mare
Word and Root.
A concrete instantiation of this schema for English affixation is given in 6.41:
6.41 a) Suffixation:
xn ~ yn xaf
b) Prefixation:
xn ~ yaf xn
where n stands for Word or Root.
The nonexistence of suffixes forming adjectives from adjective roots, or forming
verbs from verb roots, is assumed to be accidental. For the small class of (idiosyn-
cratically) category-changing prefixes in English (e.g. en-rage, de-bug) Selkirk
assumes the rules of 6.42:
6.42 a) Ar ~ Aar yr
b) yr ~ yar {Nr, A r}
c) V ~ yaf {N, A}
Those affixes which attach to Words are identified with Class II ('neutral') affixes,
while those concatenating with Roots are essentially the Class I ('non-neutral')
affixes. Which affix belongs to which set is accounted for by assuming that affixes
have subcategorization frames which state the category type to which they affix (i.e.
W or R) and the category itself (i.e. N, V, A). The category membership of the whole
word is that of the affix. This fact is derived from the principle of headedness
together with a percolation convention: the affix is the head and its syntactic feature
set percolates to the top of the word tree.
Selkirk disputes the claim of the Affix Ordering Generalization, on which level
ordered morphology is based. The aspect which she accepts, however, is the gener-
alization that Class I affixes may not appear outside compounds, the Compound Affix
Ordering Generalization (CAOG). This is a consequence of the fact that Roots
are always generated 'inside' the Word level, while (native) compounding is defined
over Words. Thus, no affix subcategorized for a .Root could ever appear outside a
compound.
A final point to make about Selkirk's system is that it represents a Strong Lexicalist
model, in that it categorically excludes word formation by means of syntactic
transformation, an issue which will become important in later chapters. This is
I
l
I
II
I
I
I
!
l
200 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
enshrined in 6.43, the Word Structure Autonomy Condition (1982: 70):
6.43 No deletion or movement transformation may involve categories of both
W-structure and S-structure.
This rules out, amongst other things, any syntactic analysis of inflection, such as the
Affix Hopping analysis of English verb inflection (see §6.3 below), or the head move-
ment analysis (e.g. Pollock, 1989), as well as being completely incompatible with the
head movement (incorporation) analysis of valency changing operations such as
causatives and passives proposed by Baker (1988a) (see §7.4). The condition can also
be related to Selkirk's assumption that inflectional affixes are not different from
derivational affixes, and that the inflection/derivation distinction has no theoretical
status.
Although inflectional affixes in this theory can't be distinguished in terms of their
form from derivational affixes, they do behave somewhat differently according to
Selkirk. She points out that the convention governing percolation assumed by
Williams, namely, that features percolate from heads, will not account satisfactorily
for certain types of inflectional system. Consider a language in which, say, person and
number are signalled by two different suffixes. It doesn't matter for the sake of the
argument whether we assume the constituent structure of the inflected word to be
'layered', as in 6.44a, or 'flat' as in 6.44b:
6.44 a) V b) v
~
V2 aff
~ [l3num]
V2 aff
~
V aff aff
[apers] [l3num]
[a pers]
In either case the ordinary assumptions about percolation and headedness fail to
account for how both sets of features can percolate. In 6.44b we would have to
assume that one of the affixes was the head, say, the number affix. Its features would
percolate, but then how would the person feature percolate, given that percolation
comes only from heads? Adopting structure 6.44a is to no avail; although the person
feature can percolate to the level of V2, after that its rise is blocked, since again the
number affix is now the head and only its feature will be permitted to percolate to
the top of the tree.
Selkirk's solution (also adopted by Di Sciullo and Williams as the notion
relativized head) is to modify the percolation conventions, by effectively introducing
the idea of underspecifi.cation into morphological feature theory. She distinguishes
between those nodes which bear a mark for a morphosyntactic feature, F, that is,
those which bear the specification [+F] or [- F] , and those left unmarked for that
feature. The revised Percolation Convention is given as in 6.45 (1982: 76), where
[uF] means 'not marked for feature F':
THE CONSTITUENT STRUCTURE OF WORDS 201
6.45 a) Ifa head has a feature specification (aE], ex -;t! u, its mother node must
be specified (aFi] , and vice versa.
b) If a non-head has a feature specification (,BFj], and the head has the
feature specification (uFj], then the mother node must have the
feature specification (,BFj] .
What this means is simply that feature specifications can percolate from non-heads
provided there is no marking for that feature elsewhere. (The revision resembles
Lieber's Feature Percolation Convention III discussed below.) Given this, the base
can be a head and an inflection a non-head. Though Selkirk fails to make this obser-
vation, it also means that no inflectional affix need be assigned a syntactic category.
Since inflections don't change category, an affix unmarked for any category will
permit the category features of the base to percolate to the top node.
One advantage Selkirk claims for her system is that it codes in a direct form the
notion of 'position class' for inflectional affixes (see §6.4). Thus, the structure of the
Spanish imperfect forms discussed in §6.1.4, such as habldbamos 'we were speaking',
could be generated by a rule such as 6.46, stating that the tense suffix precedes
person/number suffixes:
6.46 V- Vr Vaf Vaf
(tense] (p/n]
This rule captures directly the inflectional structure of these Spanish verb forms
(though it would have to be made more sophisticated to cope with all verb forms in
the language). In other frameworks, including that of Lieber, this is only achieved
indirectly.
A good many of Selkirk's ideas are retained in other psg-based frameworks.
Zwicky's (1985a) model, for instance, captures position class information in roughly
the same manner as 6.46. At the same time, changes in the theory of phrase structure
grammar have led to an enrichment of Selkirk's model in various ways, particularly
those associated with the theory of Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar (GPSG)
and its decendants (see Gazdar, Klein, Pullum and Sag, 1985). The highly articulated
feature system (under which features can take other features as values) is potentially
of considerable importance in capturing the notion of morphological subclasses. For
instance, if we wish to identify those strong verbs in English which have the vowel
fa/ in the past tense we could set up two features, say, (STRONG] and (A-PAST],
and capture the fact that all the (A-PAST] verbs are also strong verbs by stipulating
in a redundancy rule that (A-PAST] is a value of (STRONG]. Hence (ignoring the
redundancy statement), a verb such as sing would receive the feature marking
(STRONG (A-PAST]] (cf. Spencer, 1988b: 629).
Another important innovation in psg theories is the separation of information about
linear order from information about constituency, or immediate domination. This is
potentially of considerable significance for morphology, given that linear adjacency
is very important in morphological systems, while solid evidence for constituenthood
is hard to come by. A number of morphologists are therefore working with models
which do not require specification of the kind of hierarchical organization captured
by a psg. In practice this often means using finite state grammars, which have the
mathematical property of generating a smaller class of languages than the phrase
i
I
L
I
je
,;
I
III
I
~
202 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
structure grammars. An enormous effort is being devoted to such work in the
field of computational linguistics, where choice of formalism has engineering
consequences of some moment.
6.2.2 Lieber's 'Organization of the Lexicon'
The second major lexical approach which embodies a constituent structure grammar
for words is that of Rochelle Lieber (1980). Now, in Government-Binding theory,
phrase structure rules as such are all but superfluous. The fact that a transitive verb
is followed by an NP is already reflected in the fact that the verb is subcategorized
to take an NP. Therefore, in GB theory we allow verbs to be freely followed by NPs,
and if the verb takes such a complement then the subcategorization restriction is met,
and if not there will be a violation of the subcategorization frame (technically, viola-
tion of the Projection Principle; see chapter 7). Lieber's theory of morphology devel-
oped the same sort of idea independently of its application to syntactic theory. In her
system, all morphemes, bound or free, are listed in the lexicon with information such
as their syntactic category membership. Affixes are additionally provided with a sub-
categorization frame which states what other categories they must attach to. For
instance, the English morpheme -hood will have the subcategorization frame of 6.47:
6.47 hood: [[ [A], [N] } __] [N, +abstract]
This states that the affix attaches to an adjective or a noun and that the result is an
abstract noun. Similarly, the plural affix -z has the frame 6.48:
6.48 z: [[N] ___]; [N, +plural]
The effects of the Adjacency or the Atom Conditions are achieved by permitting
subcategorization frames to relate morphemes only to sisters, thus making subcate-
gorization frames strictly local. This means that frames such as those of 6.49 will be
ill-formed:
6.49 a) X: [[ [... Y] Z] __
or [[ [... Y] ] ]
b) X: [ [Z [Y ...]]]
or [ [ [Y ...] ] ]
It should be obvious that the subcategorization frames replace the WFRs of
Aronoff's theory. Instead of a rule introducing the affix hood we simply concatenate
hood with another morpheme or concatenation of morphemes and filter out the result
if it violates the subcategorization frame. In syntax the old phrase structure rules are
reflected in the principles of X-bar syntax. In Lieber's morphology the phrase struc-
ture rules of Selkirk and Williams maintain a ghostly presence in the form of a
minimal phrase structure grammar, which generates unlabelled trees corresponding
to possible word structures. These trees have nodes with at most two branches.
Lexical entries, the stems and affixes, are inserted under the terminal nodes of these
trees and they determine the labelling of the whole tree by percolating their morpho-
THE CONSTITUENT STRUCTURE OF WORDS 203
syntactic features upwards. This is accomplished by means of four Feature Perco-
lation Conventions. These are of some importance because similar conventions have
been adopted by a number of subsequent theorists.
The first two conventions are:
FPC I: The features of a stem are passed to the first dominating non-branching
node.
FPC II: The features of an affix are passed to the first dominating node which
branches.
A stem is defined as a morpheme which lacks a subcategorization frame, and an affix
is a morpheme with a subcategorization frame.
In 6. SO we see how these conventions can account for a word such as falsehoods:
6.50 a)
==:> ('morpheme insertion')
b)
===>(FPC I, FPC II)
false hood s
[A] [N] [N, +PL]
c)
===> (FPC II)
A
G.t
[A]
d) N [+PL]
false hood s
[A] [N] [N, +PL]
204
!I
I.'
II
I
i
II
ll~·
LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
The effects of these two FPCs, then, are to create structures such that (i) affixes
'know' whether they are attaching to a stem of the right category; (ii) the most
recently attached affix will be the head of the word.
Two more FPCs are needed. FPC IV will be discussed in connection with com-
pounding in chapter 8. FPC III accounts for the situation in which a formative has
no features of its own to assign. This occurs with affixes such as counter and with dim-
inutives (see §6.1.4). The syntactic category of a word formed with counter is pre-
cisely the category of the word it attaches to. Thus, we have examples such as counter-
sign (verb), counter-example (noun), counter-intuitive (adjective). The lexical entry for
counter will include a subcategorization frame allowing it to attach to any verb, noun
or adjective but will not specify its own syntactic class membership. The third FPC
then allows such a structure to be labelled by taking the label of the word to which
counter has attached:
FPC III: If a branching node receives no features by FPC II then it is labelled by
the next lowest labelled node.
The derivation for counter-sign is therefore as in 6.51:
6.51
counter
v
sign
[+V]
counter
v\)
v
sign
[+V]
It will be obvious from examples such as 6.47-6.48 that inflectional affixes and
derivational affixes are treated exactly the same. Lieber accepts the arguments that
there are no purely morphological differences between the two sorts of affix. She
stresses, for example, that inflectional and derivational affixes admit the same sort of
allomorphy. Moreover, stems to which affixes attach don't distinguish between
inflectional and derivational affixation. English provides examples of this. The noun
house has an irregular plural stem allomorph with a final voiced fricative, fhauzf.
However, this stem allomorph is also used as the verb stem allomorph, to house. The
differences which are observed in the behaviour of derivational and inflectional form-
atives arise from the interaction of fully formed words and the syntax. One conse-
quence of this perspective is that there is no room for the notion 'inflectional
paradigm' in Lieber's system.
Another feature of Lieber's system is that she claims to have a way of representing
the notion of 'lexical class', for example, '3rd conjugation' or '5th declension',
without resort to diacritic markers (such as [+3rd conjugation]), at least when there
is overt marking of class members, say, by means of a theme vowel. Suppose we con-
sider the members of the Latin 1st conjugation, whose stems end in -a. These stems
SYNTACTIC AFFIXATION 205
with themes will all be related to those without by a morpholexical rule along the
lines of 6.52 (see §4.4, for the notion of 'morpholexical rule' in this sense):
6. 52 Co V Co - Co V Co a
In Lieber's system the mere fact that stem allomorphs are so related is sufficient to
define their class membership. What this means is that, if a rule of grammar or the
subcategorization frame of an affix selects 1st conjugation stems with a theme vowel,
then instead of selecting a stem marked [+1st conjugation] it will look for a stem
allomorph ending in the phoneme faf. In this way, reference to the arbitrary diacritic
feature is replaced by reference to phonological form. If this were true of all
languages there would never be any need for such morpholexical diacritics.
Unfortunately, the argument isn't quite as strong as it looks. There are obvious
cases when a diacritic is still necessary, namely, when there is no phonological marker
of class membership. Thus, French nouns still have to be marked [± masc.] in the
lexicon. But even for the Latin cases Lieber discusses, it turns out that the subcate-
gorization frames of certain inflectional affixes have to refer to entities labelled
[±Theme Vowel] in order to prevent the affixes from attaching in the wrong order.
Moreover, in the most general case this can't be specified in purely phonological
terms. In the verb system of Spanish, where there is a very similar pattern of roots
and theme vowels, the fa/ theme vowel has to be marked as such to ensure that a-
conjugation inflectional suffixes attach only to genuine a-stems and not to a verb root
from another conjugation which just happens to end in the vowel fa/ (such as caer
'to fall'). Again, in Czech much allomorphy is determined by whether or not the stem
belongs to a palatalized or a non-palatalized set (see the discussion in chapter 4). This
is largely definable in phonological terms, but there are three consonants which
formed palatalized and non-palatalized pairs in the medieval language, but for which
the phonological distinction has now been lost, fs z lf. Roots ending in one of these
consonants may belong to either of the two allomorphy classes (and some vacillate
between both) (cf. Spencer, 1988a). This situation cannot be described in purely
phonological terms (unles.s resort is had to unmotivated phonological abstraction).
This case is especially telling because much of the allomorphy is definable in phono-
logical terms. It is therefore not like the French gender case, which Lieber could
safely ignore on the grounds that it doesn't affect alloinorphy.
Lieber's claims about allomorphy have had less impact than her model of word
structure and lexical organization. Nonetheless, she raises important questions about
allomorphy (some of them reviewed in chapter 4) which remain largely unresolved.
6. 3 Syntactic affixation
The models of morphology we've discussed so far in this chapter have all fallen
within the lexicalist camp. However, since the earliest days of generative grammar
it has been usual to assume that inflectional morphology is an aspect of syntax. Recall
that Aronoff's monograph paid almost no attention to inflection, regarding this as
outside the domain of morphology proper. For many generativists, inflection remains
in the syntax.
1
I
I
l
I
I
\
1:
I
206 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
\When we investigate inflectional morphology, as with many aspects of morpho-
logical structure, we have to ask ourselves two separate questions: (i) in what way are
inflectional systems organized? and (ii) how does inflectional morphology interact
with other aspects of grammar (particularly phonology and syntax)?
We'll be looking at the first question, that of the internal organization of inflec-
tional systems, in §6.5 when we discuss the notion of the inflectional paradigm. The
second, 'interface', question poses particularly acute problems for contemporary
theories of morphology. First, inflectional morphology is tightly enmeshed with
phonology. It is not uncommon for inflectional processes to take the form (super-
ficially at least) of phonological operations, and, even when we have relatively
agglutinating affixation, it is very common to find inflections inducing and under-
going a bewildering variety of allomorphic and morphophonemic processes. We have
seen a good many examples of this in part II of the book, so I shan't provide further
illustration here.
The second interface, with syntax, brings problems of a different kind. When
linguists discuss such syntactic phenomena as subject-verb agreement or the govern-
ment of certain cases by prepositions, they frequently speak of inflection in an
ambiguous fashion. To take a concrete example, consider the celebrated rule of Affix
Hopping found in Chomsky (1957), and still regarded by many generative linguists
as the basis on which to explain the tense/aspect morphology of English. A generic
version of this rule is illustrated in 6. 53 (the technical details of the process differ in
a great many ways from author to author):
6.53 a) Tom ED+ (HAVE+ EN)+ (BE+ ING) +see. Harriet~
b) Tom (HAVE+ ED)+ (BE+ EN)+ (see+ ING) Harriet
'Tom had been seeing Harriet. '
Here, the past participle affix, -EN, and the present participle affix, -ING, are gener-
ated in underlying structure together with their corresponding auxiliary verbs,
HAVE and BE. In order to formalize the fact that the perfect auxiliary is followed
by the past participle form of the next verb, and the progressive auxiliary is followed
by the present participle form of the next verb, we 'hop' these affixes onto the imme-
diately following verb form. The same process applies to the tense marker, -ED.
The problem comes when we interpret this movement metaphor as referring to
'actual' morphemes. No harm is done if we take the morpheme transcribable as /ifJ/
and attach it to the morpheme fsifJ/ to produce fsifjifJ/. However, we obviously
encounter serious difficulties taking a morpheme fdf (or f;mf) and attaching it to
/havf, fsifJ/, or /breik/. The drastic allomorphy which afflicts the strong verbs of
English, all the way down to suppletion, means that we must separate the purely syn-
tactic properties of these affixes from their morphophonological properties. The
interface problem here, then, amounts to the problem of ensuring that the phonolo-
gical forms provided by rules of allomorphy and phonology are matched up with
morphosyntactic categories (like tense and aspect) so that a phonological form such
as /had/, /SAfJ/, or /brouk;mf can correspond to a morphosyntactic representation
such as HAVE+EN, SING+EN, or BREAK+EN.
In a lexicalist theory agreement and government phenomena of this kind are
handled by some sort of feature matching process. The syntax includes rules which
distribute morphosyntactic features such as [past participle] throughout the syntactic
SYNTACTIC AFFIXATION 207
representation. At the same time the lexical representation of inflected word forms
includes an indication of their featural properties. Thus, the form fSArJ/ will bear a
feature characterizing it as the past participle of 'sing'. At lexical insertion, the fea-
tures borne by the inflected word form then have to match the feature content of the
syntactic node into which the word form is inserted. The interface between the mor-
phology and syntax is thus represented as the shared vocabulary of morphosyntactic
features. An explicit theory of agreement along such lines is found in Lapointe
(1981).
In a syntactic approach to inflection the need for two sets of features is obviated,
since the features which govern word structure are those provided by syntactic rules.
However, this would not in itself be sufficient reason for rejecting a lexicalist
approach. In fact, if this were all that were at stake it would be difficult to distinguish
the two types of model. The reason many grammarians reject Strong Lexicalism is
because they believe that inflectional morphology (and some derivational morph-
ology) gives rise to word structures which reflect specifically syntactic principles. We
can't discuss such principles in great detail in this chapter; the next two chapters will
provide illustrations of the sort of claims I have in mind.
For the present it is sufficient to appreciate that in GB syntax the well-formedness
of sentences is governed by sets of constraints whose effects are to rule out ungram-
matical sentences. In other words, the older approach, under which a set of rules gen-
erates all and only the grammatical sentences, has been drastically modified. In
current theory, the rule system is very simple and very free and generates a good
many structures which are not part of the language. However, most of these struc-
tures violate one or other of the constraints and so they are 'filtered out'. Put in other
words, current syntactic theory is 'overgenerating'.
One of the key assumptions of this approach is that the rules and constraints can
operate over several different levels of syntactic organization. GB theory distinguishes
D-structure and S-structure, and two interpretive representations, Logical Form
(LF), and Phonological Form (PF). Syntactic principles such as government operate
over the first three of these. Some linguists believe that certain such principles hold
at the level of PF, too (e.g. Kaisse, 1985, Aoun, Hornstein, Lightfoot and Weinberg,
·1987). This is a key feature of Government Phonology, in which syntactic notions,
such as government and the licensing of empty elements, pervade the theory (Kaye
and Lowenstamm 1981, Kaye, Lowenstamm and Vergnaud, 1985, Charette, 1989).
Given these trends, it is legitimate to ask if the syntactic principles operate over
parts of individual words. Such a move has certain desirable effects, as we shall see,
for there are intra-word relationships which very much resemble the syntactic
relationships between phrases, and if this resemblance is not accidental then we must
ensure that the same set of syntactic principles account for both.
The aspects of word structure which are generally cited as the result of syntactic
rules rather than lexical rules are regular inflections. This has given rise to the split-
morphology hypothesis. One of the earliest and staunchest proponents of this
approach is S. R. Anderson, whose theory is discussed in §6.5. Other writings in
defence of the hypothesis include Scalise (1984, 1988) and Perlmutter (1988).
Recently, Badecker and Caramazza (1989) have added psycholinguistic evidence
(from an Italian aphasic patient) to the arguments in favour of splitting inflection and
derivation. 9
Scalise (1988) has provided a convenient summary of the arguments for distin-
)
208 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
guishing derivational morphology from inflection. More generally, Fabb (1984:
~' in a thesis which explicitly argues for syntactic affixation, summanzes the dif-
ference between syntactically governed morphology and lexical morphology in the
following terms (paraphrased somewhat): a syntactic word-formation process is (i)
productive; (ii) its output is predictable in all its properties; (iii) it takes syntactic
constituents as its input; (iv) the parts of the word formed by the process bear some
kind of syntactic relation and respect syntactic well-formedness principles. 10 Most
linguists would say that conditions (i) and (ii) are necessary conditions for syntactic
affixation; it would appear that Fabb and other GB syntacticians regard (iii) and (iv)
as sufficient conditions. Less explicitly, Fabb characterizes a lexical word-formation
process as one whose output must be listed, or whose output undergoes lexical
processes.
One rather interesting aspect of the syntactic affixation hypothesis is that it doesn't
apply just to inflection, and is therefore wider than the split-morphology hypothesis.
Fabb argues that some derivational affixes may be syntactic, and this is a suggestion
that Roeper (1987, 1988) and Sproat (1985a) have made. More spectacularly, Baker
(1988a) has claimed that a whole host of morphological processes which affect gram-
matical functions (such as subject and object) are the result of syntactic processes.
These claims will be discussed in the next chapter. In a sense, the claim that morpho-
logical processes are the consequence of the syntax is the most direct way of account-
ing for the morphology-syntax interface, and this is no doubt one of the reasons for
its appeal among~t theoreticians. One of the threads which will be running through
the third part of this book will be the extent to which the concept of syntactic
affixation is valid.
6.4 Template morphology
The view that complex words have a constituent structure, at least in the case of con-
catenative morphologies, has been very influential. However, there are many
languages with rich morphological systems for which there is little evidence for this
degree of structure. Typically, in such languages we find that the verb consists of a
stem together with a set of obligatory affixes and a variety of optional ones. What is
striking about such languages is that it is difficult or impossible to analyse the for-
mation of such complex words as the addition of affixes one by one to a stem. Rather,
we seem to find that each affix has its position in the string and optional affixes are
slotted into this string, at the appropriate point in the sequence, as required. Many
languages of the Americas seem to be of this character, and in the American struc-
turalist tradition descriptions often made use of position classes to define the order in
which the affixes appear.
Navajo, an Athapaskan language of New Mexico, is typical of this kind. Navajo
morphology is almost exclusively prefixing, and following tradition the position of
the stem on the far right is labelled X and the positions of the prefixes are labelled
in descending order from right to left from IX to I. The precise meaning of the gram-
matical terminology used for labelling the prefixes is irrelevant for our present con-
cerns (and in any case it is fairly arbitrary). 11 In examples 6.54-6.56 we see some
TEMPLATE MORPHOLOGY 209
Navajo verbs, together with an analysis into separate morphemes at a more abstract
level of structural analysis and an indication of the position of each morpheme:
6.54 naam1oshteel
'that I might bring him again'
naana-0 -0 -sh -1 -teet
I IV VII VIII IX X
SEMELITERATIVE +DO+ OPT+ lsg. + CL +STEM
6.55 naadefnfilteeh
'we (3 +) are again carrying him along'
naa-da -0 -yf-nf-ii -1 -teeh
I III IV VII VIII IX STEM
SEMELIT. + DIST +DO+ PROG (compound pref.)
6.56 biih dfneeshniit
'I will stick my head into it'
(biih) di -ni -yi -sh -0 -nii1
(into-it) VIb VIc Vld VIII IX X
+ lduopl. + CL +STEM
FUT + CL + PROG + lsg. + CL + STEM (Prog)
Young and Morgan's (1980) description of the Navajo verb includes ten basic
positions or orders, shown in 6.57:
6.57 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X
TH ITER DIST DO SUBJ TH MODE/ASP SUBJ CL STEM
(The abbreviations mean theme, iterative, distributive, direct object, subject,
modef aspect, classifier.) Positions I and VI are split up into sub-positions. For
instance, we have seen three separate position VI prefixes in exa.mple 6.56.
Positions which are obligatory are X, the stem, IX, the classifier, VIII, for the
subject agreement marker, and VII the mode prefix. In a transitive verb, Position IV,
the object prefix position, must be filled. Any of these positions except the stem pos-
ition can be occupied by a null morpheme. For instance, the 3sg. direct object prefix
in Position IV of examples 6.54-6.55 is expressed as zero. If all the prefixes are null
and the verb form is thus monosyllabic, then a meaningless prefix yi- is added to
make sure the verb is disyllabic.
The cover term thematic prefix covers a variety of adverbial, aspectual and 'Aktion-
sart' prefixes (indicating the manner in which an action is carried out). Position V
is occupied by the obviative subject pronoun, which may refer to people in general,
or to 'someone'. The Position VIII subject is a subject agreement marker of any
person or number. The classifier is an element which sometimes has a purely idiosyn-
cratic, lexical function and at other times affects the transitivity of the verb stem.
In practice it can be rather difficult to analyse a Navajo verb because, in addition
to zero morphs, we have to contend with phonological rules which assimilate or com-
pletely delete certain formatives in certain phonological environments. In addition,
just to make the whole thing a little more interesting, there is a variety of metathesis
210 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
rules which reverse the relative order of pairs of prefixes under certain well-defined
conditions.
Another complicating factor, typical of this kind of system, is that there may be
non-local dependencies holding between pairs of positions. What this means is that
a particular prefix in one position may require a certain type of prefix in another pos-
ition (or a particular stem allomorph) to which it is not strictly adjacent. In other
words, we may find discontinuous dependencies, analogous to the dependency
between the components of a circumfix, or that between a verb and particle in phrasal
verbs such as look the answer up. A number of thematic prefixes from Positions I and
VI form discontinuous compound prefixes, for instance. Many thematic prefixes
from both these positions co-occur only with certain of the aspectual prefixes of
Position VII. In addition, some of the thematic prefixes select certain sorts of verb
stem (and vice versa).
Example 6.55, repeated here as 6.58, illustrates two cases of such discontinuous
dependencies:
6. 58 mi:idefnfilteeh
'we (3 +) are again carrying him along'
n:i:i-da -0 -yf-nf-ii -1 -teeh
I III IV VII VIII IX STEM
SEMELIT. + DIST +DO+ PROG (compound pref.) + ldpl.
+CL+ STEM
The first is seen between the compound Progressive prefix yi-ni in position VII, and
the Distributive prefix -da-, position III. The Distributive prefix specifically selects
the yi-ni- prefix. The second is a case of stem allomorph selection. A given verb stem
in Navajo comes in a variety of shapes which are used for different aspects. In
6.55--6.58 we see that the usual stem allomorph for the verb 'carry', namely teei,
seen in 6.54, is replaced by the Momentaneous Imperfective stem teeh. Again, it is
the Distributive prefix da- which is responsible for this selection.
In example 6.56, repeated here as 6.59, the VIc prefix -ni- is a generic classifier
meaning 'roundish object' (here referring more specifically to the speaker's head):
6. 59 biih dfneeshnii1
'I will stick my head into it'
(biih) di -ni -yi -sh -0 -nii1
(into-it) VIb VIc VId VIII IX X
FUT + CL + PROG + lsg. + CL +STEM (Prog)
It comes between the compound prefix di-yi which is a compound of an inceptive
prefix -di- and the Progressive Mode prefix -yi-. The stem -niii is the Progressive
allomorph of a stem meaning 'to initiate the free movement of a solid roundish
object'.
All the examples cited so far illustrate some of the complex morphophonemic alter-
nations which take place when morphemes are concatenated, as you can see by com-
paring the segmented 'underlying forms' of the affix strings with the surface forms.
We haven't yet seen a case of metathesis, however. This is illustrated in example
TEMPLATE MORPHOLOGY 211
6.60:
6.60 badi'nf'~
'I loaned it (a solid roundish object) to him'
ba-'a -di -ni -0 -'?~
I IV VIa VII IX X
ba-di-' -ni -0 -'~
The -'a- position IV prefix, which means 'something', is placed unexpectedly
between VIa and VII position prefixes. It then undergoes regular phonological
reduction to j?j after a vowel and before Jnj. Of course, one could think of this as
simply putting an affix in a p.osition not defined by the template order. However,
there are two reasons for regarding this as morphological metathesis. First, this
happens under specific (apparently morphological) conditions. Second, the affix
placed in the 'wrong' order is displaced only by one position. The -'a- suffix in 6.60
would never be found, say, between positions VII and IX, since this would involve
skipping over two filled positions. It seems better then to think of this process as
involving the interchange of two affixes, -'a- and -di-. (Metathesis in general in
phonology and morphology seems always to involve the interchange of two strictly
adjacent elements.)
Navajo exhibits a second type of discontinuous dependency, which makes it a little
reminiscent of non-concatenative systems. Example 6.61 illustrates this phenom-
enon, sometimes called 'interrupted synthesis':
6.61 yashti'
'I talk'
ya-sh -0 -ti'
I VIII IX X
Here the Position I Theme (Adverbial) element yd- means 'to do with talking', and
it only co-occurs with verb stems which mean something to do with speech. On the
other hand, the stem -ti' only appears in company with the prefix yd-. Thus, we have
a kind of discontinuous verb stem. The effect is a kind of morphological idiom, the
morphological equivalent of an expression such as wreak havoc. Since the Position I
prefix and the stem are as far apart as they can be, we could in principle find the com-
ponents of this idiom separated by a good many affixes. Such formations obviously
pose problems for a concatenative approach to Navajo morphology in which affixes
are just added from right to left, because we then need some additional mechanism
to guarantee that Position I is occupied by yd- just in case the stem is that of a verb
like say.
Finally, Navajo abundantly illustrates a phenomenon which is very familiar in
inflectional paradigms of the more familiar kind but which tends to be ignored by
those who adopt a 'morphemes as things' approach. This is the phenomenon of affix
homophony. There are two kinds which are commonly found.
In the first we have a single formative which conveys slightly different meanings
depending on its position. Obvious examples of this, familiar from a good many
languages, concern pronoun affixes. In Navajo, a pronominal affix such as shi- will
212 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
refer to an indirect object, direct object or subject depending whether it appears in
position I, IV or VIII. A more subtle example concerns a collection of ni- prefixes,
all having a terminative or completive aspectual meaning, but with different nuances
and usages, and which appear in positions I, VI and VII depending on their func-
tion. This type of homophony may best be thought of as a kind of polysemy, or (in
the case of the pronominal affixes) as instances in which position contributes some
well-defined component of meaning, much as word order in English syntax can con-
tribute to meaning.
The second type of homophony occurs when we have a single morph with several
unrelated meanings, in other words when we have genuine affixal homonymy. Again,
this is amply illustrated in Navajo, particularly as a result of phonological attrition
of affixes which were originally distinct. Amongst the functions of the ubiquitous yi-
prefix are 3rd person object, Progressive Mode marker, a Semelfactive marker (indi-
cating 'to do something once'), and a thematic element relating to the passage of
night. This type of homonymy is reminiscent of the affixal homonymy found in
classical inflectional paradigms of the sort we surveyed in chapter 1.
A problem which is sometimes posed by languages of this type (though not, as far
as I know, by Navajo itself) is that the relative order of certain affixes may not be
immutably fixed but may depend on the presence of surrounding affixes. This gives
rise to what Grimes (1983: 6-7) calls 'cycles' of affixes. He gives an interesting
example from a Colombian language, Tucano. In 6.62-6.64 we see schematic cases
of verb suffixation in this language:
6.62 ROOT-si'n -ti -TENSE
-want to-NEG-
6.63 ROOT-ti -ca' -IMPER
-NEG-EMPH-
6.64 ROOT-ca' -si'n -mi -TENSE
-EMPH-want to-3MASC
Assuming that the morpheme order isn't determined by semantic scope (as was the
case, for instance, with the Quechua examples 3.25-3.26 from chapter 3), we have
here an instance of morpheme order being influenced by very specific morpho-
logical environments. This kind of thing, if found to be more widespread, would
cause serious problems for any theory of affixation based solely on a phrase
structure grammar approach. It would also make it more difficult to analyse template
morphology as a strictly linear phenomenon.
The problem of template morphology has not been widely discussed in the gener-
ative literature. One of the few contributions to debate the problem is Simpson
and Withgott (1986). 12 They distinguish template morphology from morphology
which implies a constituent structure (which they call layered morphology). Some of
the criteria they use to distinguish template morphology from layered morphology
are given below.
(i) Zero morphemes are prevalent m template morphology but not m layered
morphology.
TEMPLATE MORPHOLOGY 213
(ii) Layered morphology g1ves nse to headed structures, template morphology
doesn't.
(iii) Layered morphology is constrained by some principle of Adjacency, template
morphology isn't.
(iv) Layered morphology doesn't permit an 'inner' morpheme to be chosen on the
basis of what an 'outer' morpheme will be; template morphology permits this
kind of 'lookahead'. 13
We have seen most of these illustrated in the Navajo examples. Point (i) simply
reiterates the fact that in order to make the template analysis work it is necessary to
analyse absence of an overt marker in a given slot as a zero morph. We'll discuss this
point in a little more detail in the next section when we talk about inflectional para-
digms. Point (ii) reflects the fact that the whole template contributes equally, so to
speak, to the structure of the word. There is no sense in which the morphosyntactic
category of the word is determined by the last affix to be added. Points (iii) and (iv)
encapsulate the cases of discontinuous dependency and 'interrupted synthesis' which
languages like Navajo illustrate.
Simpson and Withgott argue that, typologically speaking, the differences between
template morphologies and layered morphologies are sufficient to warrant distin-
guishing between the two types in morphological theory. Very interestingly, they
point out that very similar templatic properties are found in clitic systems in a variety
of languages. This will be the subject of chapter 9, so I shall simply mention here
that ever since Perlmutter's (1970) study of clitic order in Spanish, Serbo-Croat,
Warlpiri and other languages, the question of how to account for the order of clitics,
as well as other aspects of cliticization, has been a largely unsolved problem for
generative grammar.
From our point of view the main interest of the possibility of template morpho-
logies is twofold. First, it is necessary to distinguish a separate type of system with
its own set of principles? Second, if the first question is answered positively, how
does this separate type relate to other types?
Not all linguists are happy about adding a new morphological type to the universal
inventory if this means adding a new set of grammatical devices to handle it. Speas
(1984) for example, argues that Navajo prefixation can be handled by means of stan-
dard machinery in GB theory. Unfortunately, a key set of assumptions she makes
(borrowed from the proposals of Pesetsky, 1985) have been largely abandoned by
morphologists (see chapter 10; also Sproat, 1984), and in any case it is far from
obvious how her approach would work for the clitic cases which I shall describe in
chapter 9. Moreover, as we have seen, the introduction of constituent structure into
morphology, which is assumed by alternatives to template morphology, is not
without its own problems. So it looks as though template morphology may be with
us to stay. 14
A very interesting aspect of template morphologies is that they introduce an
element of paradigmaticity into the morphological system. When we look at the lay-
ered, Item-and-Arrangement theories of Williams, Selkirk, Lieber and others, we
find that morphological relationships are defined syntagmatically. That is, any change
in the structure of a word is defined in terms of the addition of an affix (at some level
of abstraction), and co-occurrence restrictions on combinations of affixes are deter-
mined in 'horizontal' terms, for example, by guaranteeing that one type of affix is
. \
214 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
subcategorized to follow only certain types of stem. In particular, there is no direct
way to represent the fact that one affix excludes another affix in this kind of approach.
To take an obvious example, in a language which has different person/number
endings on verbs, there is no direct statement of the fact that selection of the 1sg.
affix precludes selection of t}:l.e 2sg., 3sg. and so on.
In a paradigmatic approach to word structure we would find a way of stating
directly that the person/number affixes enjoy a paradigmatic, or 'vertical', relation-
ship to each other. In order words, a formal theory which appealed to the notion of
paradigmatic relationship would have a way of stating that there are (say) six
person/number endings and that a given verb chooses exactly one of them. This para-
digmatic aspect is built into the template model. Although in principle it would be
possible to find a language in which every slot in a template could be filled by one
and only one affix, this does not seem to happen. In practice, we always find that the
slots are really columns, representing paradigmatic choices of affixes. For instance,
if we home in on a partial version of our Navajo template we see the following picture
(for those interested in minute detail, the whole template is given in Young and
Morgan, 1980: 107):
6.65 IV VII VIII XI STEM
shi 1 shi 0
m Yl m 1
bi m 0 d
Yl Sl 11 1
ha/ho 0 0
'a
nihi
The prefixes in columns IV and VIII represent pronominal affixes marking various
person/number categories. The markers in position VII are the Modal and Aspectual
markers, again mutually exclusive. Finally, the position IX markers are classifiers
which in part determine transitivity and other grammatical and lexical aspects of the
verb stem. The important point is that in each column one affix will exclude each of
the others.
To summarize briefly, then, the template approach gives a direct solution to two
problems. It provides us with an entire string of formatives over which to state the
long-distance dependencies characteristic of languages like Navajo, and it allows us
to capture paradigmatic relationships very naturally. On the other hand, introducing
the template concept into generative grammar leaves us with the question of how to
formalize the notion, and how to accommodate it into a principled universal theory
of word structure.
6. 5 Approaches to inflection
6.5.1 Basic issues
In this section we look at the basic problems we face in attempting to describe an
inflectional system. A very good account of what needs to be done is given by Zwicky
APPROACHES TO INFLECTION 215
Table 6.1 Fragment of paradigm for parlare 'to speak'
Infinitive: parl-a-re 'to speak'
present indicative present subjunctive imperfect indicative
Sg. Pl. Sg. Pl. Sg. Pl.
pari-o parl-iarno pari-i pari-iarno 1 pari-a-v-o pari-a-va-rno
2 pari-i pari-a-te parl-i parl-i-ate 2 pari-a-v-i pari-a-va-te
3 pari-a pari-a-no parl-i parl-i-no 3 parl-a-v-a parl-a-va-no
(1985a), discussing German inflection. I shall summarize some of the basic points he
raises using a fragment of Italian verbal morphology, since this illustrates some,
though by no means all, of the commoner problems. The data are given in table 6.1
and represent the commonest and most productive of the conjugational paradigms.
This fragment of morphology isn't fully agglutinating, and, in fact, shows a
number of the characteristics of inflectional systems discussed in chapters 1 and 2.
Nonetheless, there are certain regularities that are immediately apparent. For
example, the lpl. ending consistently ends in -mo, and the imperfect indicative is
marked by -v(a). Moreover, the distinction between persons is neutralized in the sin-
gular forms of the present subjunctive. At the same time, there are certain deviations
from strict agglutination. For instance, we find a theme vowel -a- in the imperfect
and half of the present indicative forms, much as in the Spanish example from §1.4.
However, this vowel is lacking in the lsg., lpl. and 2sg. forms. It looks as though
the verb uses a different theme vowel, -i-, in the subjunctive, but this vowel also
appears before the -amo of the lpl. present indicative form. (In fact, the lpl. ending
turns out to be -iamo for both the present tense forms: indicative and subjunctive,
in all three conjugations.)
In addition to these deviations from agglutination there are further intriguing
descriptive problems. For instance, how do we relate the recurrent lpl. formative
-iamo to its truncated cousin -mo in the imperfect? Is the subjunctive form parliate
to be segmented as parl-i-a-te or parl-i-ate or something else, given that we have
parlino and not *Parliano? Far from being the exception, these sorts of puzzle are
typical of inflectional systems.
Once we have decided on how to segment inflected words, the parsimonious way
to describe much of the system will be to present all the exceptional cases first and
then say that 'elsewhere', such-and-such happens. For instance, the -a- theme occurs
through much of the paradigm (including a good many forms not given), while the
-i- formative is characteristic of the subjunctive in this class, so one possibility would
be to say that the theme vowel for the subjunctive is -i- and it is -a- in other forms
(i.e. elsewhere). A number of theoretical approaches have made use of this notion
of the 'elsewhere case', familiar from phonology (after Kiparsky, see chapter 4).
Van Marle (1985) claims that use of elsewhere statements should be regarded as a
hallmark of paradigm systems.
It is also noticeable from these data that formatives corresponding to particular
morphosyntactic categories tend to occur in a particular form. For example, the
imperfect marker precedes the person/number (P/N) markers (just as in our cognate
Spanish example in §6.1.4). Again, there are different ways of capturing this. In the
psg approaches discussed in §6.2 the ordering would either be the result of linear
216 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
ordering statements in the phrase structure rules, or would be handled by the
wording of subcategorization statements. Similarly, in the position class or template
models discussed in §6.4, the formative order would be directly stipulated. However,
other possibilities are open.
In the rest of this section we will examine some of the more influential answers to
these and other questions, and we'll take a more detailed look at the properties of
inflectional paradigms. For the purposes of the section, then, it will be necessary to
abandon the scepticism of authors such as Lieber and accept the idea of a paradigm
as an object of description. To the extent that this perspective allows us to throw
additional light on the nature of inflectional morphology, this will provide us with
evidence that the notion of 'paradigm' isn't superfluous.
6.5.2 Anderson's 'Extended Word-and-Paradigm' theory
Stephen Anderson (1977, 1982, 1984a, 1986, 1988b; see also the papers in Thomas-
Flinders, 1981) has developed an approach to inflection which takes as its point of
departure the Word-and-Paradigm model of Robins, Matthews and others described
in chapter 2. He regards the problems of multiple exponence which we saw in
that chapter as evidence against the morpheme concept in inflectional morphology.
He proposes to incorporate paradigms into a generative grammar by generating them
by means of a specially constructed set of rules (in effect, extending earlier proposals
of Matthews, 1972). These rules, called morpholexical rules by Anderson (and not
to be confused with Lieber's polysemous term) specify how a given morphosyntactic
category, such as 'dative plural' or '3sg. imperfect subjunctive' is to be spelled out
in phonological form. The resulting system is known as the Extended Word-and-
Paradigm model (EWP).
Anderson's specific analyses use binary morphosyntactic features. The feature
specifications [+me] and [+you] indicate 1st and 2nd person forms, while 3rd
person forms are [-me, -you]. For familiar Indo-European pronoun systems a
redundancy rule would specify that [+me] entails [-you] and [+you] entails
[-me] , so when one of these features bears a positive value the other needn't be spe-
cified. A concrete example would be the feature sets for the Italian verb forms parlo
'I speak' and parlavano 'they were speaking', shown in 6.66 (where the specification
{+indic] in 6.66b reflects the fact that there is also an imperfect subjunctive form
which we haven't discussed):
6.66
a) [+me l b) -me
-pl
-you
+indic
+pl
+indic
+pres_
+imperf
The morpholexical rules will take the representations in 6.66 and provide all the
desinences, viz. -o, and -no. The stem will be provided by the lexicon, by other mor-
pholexical rules, or by the output of phonological rules applying to an earlier stage
in the derivation.
Let's think of our simple Italian example in terms of a morphological template, or
APPROACHES TO INFLECTION 217
sequence of position classes, such as described in §6.4. Disregarding certain diffi-
culties with the 1/2 sg., we would say that there is a root position, a theme vowel,
an optional imperfect formative and the P/N endings, in that order. We have also
seen that the exact form of the lpl. ending depends on the tense form. This is shown
in 6.67:
6.67 root + 1
a
+2
va
0
+3
0
1
0
mo,1amo
te
no
At this point we must make our first theory-internal choice, by deciding which of
these formatives are to be regarded as inflections proper. Clearly, the P/ N
desinences in order + 3 are inflectional. The -va- formative poses the problems
mentioned in the introduction to this section, so let's suppose it is an inflectional
morpheme. The theme elements are often regarded as derivational, stem-forming
suffixes, which would suggest that their presence should be accounted for by other
rules (namely, derivational rules in the lexicon). However, in a certain sense these
theme vowels are part of the paradigm and interact with other, genuinely inflectional,
suffixes in complex ways. Therefore, we shall assume that it is our morpholexical
rules which introduce the theme vowels. (Platt, 1981, makes the same assumption for
another Romance language, Medieval Provenc;:al.)
We now need a grammar which will put these affixes in the right order, linking
each word form with the right morphosyntactic characterization. In 6.68-6.70 we see
a short grammar fragment sufficient to generate the forms indicated in 6.67, using
our morphosyntactic feature system, and ignoring other forms not mentioned in our
fragment in table 6.1:
6.68 i) [+subj]
/X/~ /X+ if
ii) ;x;~;x+a/
6.69 [+imperf.]
/X/~ fX +va/
6.70 i)
[+you J v)
+pl. [+youl
+subj.
+pl.
JX/ ~ JX +ate/
/X/-> /X+te/
ii)
[+me J
vi) [+pl.)
+pl.
/X/-> /X+ no/
- imperf.
/X/-> /X+ iamo/
218 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
iii)
[-pl. l
vii) [+me]
+subj.
JXJ~JX+of
JXJ ~ JXJ
iv)
[+mel
viii) [+you]
+pl.
JXJ ~/X+ if
JXJ ~ JX + mof
The rules are to be interpreted as stating that a rnorphosyntactic feature set is realized
as a particular morphophonological operation. In the present case the operation
happens always to be the addition of a set of segments to the right of the rnor-
phophonological form generated so far (represented by 'X'). This is therefore the
format for representing suffixation.
These rules are applied in two conjunctively ordered blocks. In other words, the
rules in 6.68 apply to roots taken from the lexicon. Thus, if we are forming
parlavano, we will start with X= parl and then add -a to it by rule 6.68ii. This stern,
parla, then becomes input to the rules in 6.69 (giving parlava-) and finally the rules
of 6.70 apply to the output of 6.69 to add the 3pl. desinence, giving parlavano. This
ordering of blocks has the effect of reconstructing the three position classes in 6.66.
Within a block the individual rules are disjunctively ordered. Hence, when one
rule in a block has applied we skip all the others and move on to the next block of
rules. The rules within the block are all written on the assumption that Kiparsky's
Elsewhere Condition holds. That is, if several rules 'compete' for application, it is
the most specific which wins out, just as in our prose descriptions at the beginning
of this section. This disjunctive organization captures the paradigmatic nature of the
system, with disjunctive ordering capturing the notion of mutually exclusive
affixation. This means that there is no need to specify an ordering for rules extrin-
sically, in this example, at least. However, Anderson makes it plain that, in other
cases, he believes that extrinsic rule ordering might be necessary.
If you compute the full feature representation of all the forms of table 6.1 and
follow through the derivations of each form, a number of important points will
become apparent. First, there is no explicit mention of 3rd person in 6.70vi. This
is the default person specification: if the form is neither 1st nor 2nd person, it
can only be 3rd person, therefore there is no need to state this explicitly in the rule.
This is a simple illustration of the way rules can be parsimoniously written to take
advantage of the 'elsewhere' principle.
On the other hand, there is no rule at all realizing the 3rd singular forms. In many
inflectional systems, 3rd person singular is the default PJN specification. In Italian,
as in many other languages, it receives no special marker. In other words, it is repre-
sented by a zero morph. Given the rules as written, nothing will happen when a 3sg.
specification is encountered, so the final form will be that of the stern which has been
generated by rules 6.68-6.69. This is one of a number of ways of capturing the idea
of a zero rnorph.
The singular forms of the subjunctive also illustrate a zero rnorph, this time for all
three persons. This type is generated rather differently, however. The singular of the
subjunctive is not a default case, rather it is a set of specifications whose realization
has to be explicitly stated. This is done in our fragment by stating that the inflected
APPROACHES TO INFLECTION 219
form is identical to the stem form. In other words, we make explicit what is implicit
in the previous case of a zero morph.
An obvious point about these rules (and the tabulation in 6.67) is that they generate
incorrect forms. Specifically, the 1/2 sg. forms appear as *Parlao, *Parlai, *Parlavao,
*Parlavai. Likewise, we generate the forms *Parlaiamo, *Parliiamo for the lpl.
present indicative and subjunctive. There are several ways permitted by the theory
for handling this. Anderson's most popular solution seems to be to assume a phono-
logical rule wherever feasible. In the present case, this would delete a (theme) vowel
before any 'block 3' desinence beginning with a vowel. This is the third way of
representing a zero morph (here the zero theme vowel): we generate it and then get
rid of it. Notice that none of the three ways of generating zero morphs makes any
reference to zero forms as such.
My analysis of the Italian fragment is not meant to be definitive (it would have to
take into account the entire Italian conjugation system to be that); rather it illustrates
the way a theorist might go about describing an inflectional system in the EWP
framework. Approaches which are in many respects similar (such as, say, Zwicky's)
would in certain cases adopt different solutions. For instance, with a different
feature system, we might be able to write a rule of referral for the singular of the sub-
junctive stating directly that the person distinction is neutralized, forming a single
morphosyntactic category of 'subjunctive singular', thereby treating this as a case of
'systematic inflectional homonymy', or syncretism.
The EWP model was developed to handle much more complex types of inflection
than Indo-European conjugation. In table 6.2 we see a small portion of the conju-
gation system of Georgian. 15 Transitive verbs agree with both the subject and the
direct object. In the glosses in table 6.2 the subject P/N is shown first, then that of
the object. Thus, v-xedav-t means 'Ifwe see him/them'. Note that 'you' stands for
Table 6. 2 Transitive conjugation in Georgian
Verb root xedav 'see'
Subject lsg. 'I' lpl. 'we' 2sg. 'thou' 2pl. 'you'
Object
me m-xedav m-xedav-t
thee g-xedav g-xedav-t
him v-xedav v-xedav-t xedav xedav-t
us gv-xedav gv-xedav-t
you g-xedav-t g-xedav-t
them v-xedav-t v-xedav-t xedav xedav-t
Subject 3sg. 'he' 3pl. 'they'
Object
me m-xedav-s m-xedav-en
thee g-xedav-s g-xedav-en
. him xedav-s xedav-en
us gv-xedav-s gv-xedav-en
you g-xedav-t g-xedav-en
them g-xedav-t xedav-en
220 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
2pl. and 'thee' for 2sg. The gaps in the conjugation system are systematic: they arise
wherever the subject would have the same person as the object (i.e. a reflexive form).
These forms show characteristics which are typical of conjugational systems of this
kind. Although there are correspondences between form and function, these are not
straightforward. For instance, the marker of 3pl. subject is always -en; the usual
marker of 3sg. subject is the suffix -s; in most cases, whenever there is a 2pl. form
as subject or object, the suffix -t appears. However, the -t desinence overrides the -s
desinence in the 3sg.-2pl. form g-xedav-t and the -en desinence overrides the -t
desinence in the 3pl.-2pl. form gv-xedav-en. Moreover, the prefix v- appears to syste-
matically represent the 3rd person object, but only when the subject is 1st person.
Thus, our paradigm exhibits a variety of deviations from strict agglutinative organiz-
ation and shows complex dependencies between one morphosyntactic category and
another. However, in one respect the system seems similar to the simple Italian case
described earlier: there appears to be at most one prefix slot and one suffix slot for
the subject/object markers. This again suggests columns of mutually exclusive
affixes, which in the EWP model suggests blocks of disjunctively ordered rules.
At the level of morphosyntactic features there is an obvious descriptive problem in
distinguishing subject agreement from object agreement. The most direct way is to
have features such as [+subject] , [+object] in the morphosyntactic representations.
Anderson eschews this, however, because he is presupposing a Government-Binding
approach to syntax on which grammatical relations such as 'subject' and 'object' are
derived notions and not primitive. A subject is defined as the NP daughter of S and
a direct object as the NP daughter ofVP (or V'). He therefore incorporates this struc-
tural definition into his morphosyntactic feature representations, by a notational
device of 'layering'. This means that one set of features can appear inside another
set of features. 16 The representation for 'he sees me' is shown in 6.71:
6.71
[
-me [+me]]
-you -you·
-pl. -pl.
The morpholexical rules which spell out these features are made sensitive to this
layering. Thus, the rules accounting for the data of table 6.2 appear as in 6.72-6.73
with the 'X' inside feature sets being a variable over sets of morphosyntactic features:
6.72 a) [X [1st sg.]]
/X/~ fm+Xf
b) [X [1st]]
/X/~ fgv + Xf
c) [X [2nd]]
/X/~ fg + Xf
d) [1st]
/X/~ fv + Xf
6.73 a) [1st sg. [2nd pl.]]
/X/~ /X+ t/
b) [3rd pl.]
fXf ~ fX+ enf
c) [(X) [2nd pl.]]
/X/~ /X+ t/
d) [pl.]
/X/~ /X+ t/
e) [3rd]
/X/~ /X+ sf
Rule system 6. 72 provides the prefixes and system 6.73 provides the suffixes. !he
two blocks of rules are unordered with respect to each other. 17 (For ease of
APPROACHES TO INFLECTION 221
deciphering I have resorted to features such as [1st sg.] rather than [+me, -pl] .)
The fact that the variable over subject features is in parentheses in 6.73c means that
we may omit the subject feature layer, in which case the features for [2nd pl.] will
be the only layer of features and will hence itself refer to subject features. Hence, the
-t suffix may signal [2nd pl.] not only for objects but also for subjects. 18 .
Having witnessed the mechanics of the EWP model we are in a position to examine
its theoretical underpinnings.
For Word-and-Paradigm theorists the most important feature of inflectional
systems is their tendency towards non-agglutination, manifested as overlapping
exponence and fusion. Anderson therefore argues that these problems indicate a fun-
damental flaw in the whole of the Item-and-Arrangement approach to inflection. He
rejects the view that inflectional formatives are 'morphemes' in the sense of affi.xal
objects attached to stems. Although his morpholexical rules look rather like affixation
rules (similar to the WFRs of Aronoff) they are in fact intended as essentially phono-
logical rules and they are ordered amongst phonological rules proper in the PF com-
ponent. In other words, Anderson presses the view that inflectional morphemes are
processes and not things. This means that there is no principled difficulty in
assimilating the 'morphemes as rules' data of chapter 1 into his system. Anderson's
system is thus diametrically opposed to the psg models of Selkirk, Williams or
Lieber, in which morphemes are objects, stored in the lexicon and concatenated by
rules.
On the other hand, Anderson regards derivational morphology in much the same
way that Item-and-Arrangement lexicalist theorists view it. That is, derivational pro-
cesses take place in the lexicon and are basically affi.xational. 19 This means that
Anderson accepts the split-morphology thesis. He therefore rejects the Strong
Lexicalist Hypothesis and regards the morphosyntactic aspects of inflection as essen-
tially syntactic in nature. Indeed, he explicitly defines inflectional morphology as
'what is relevant to syntax' (Anderson, 1982: 587; cf. 1988b). In other words, rules
of syntax distribute morphosyntactic features, such as those for agreement or govern-
ment, onto words. The inflectional rule system therefore has to apply after the
syntax, in the PF component. This position resembles that of Lexical Phonology,
which also permits phonological rules to be interspersed among morphological rules.
However, there is a significant difference, in that, for Anderson, all mor-
phophonemic processes affecting inflection must occur after the syntax (i.e. postlex-
ically), whereas, in Lexical Phonology, inflectional processes will be handled in the
lexicon if they belong to a lexical stratum. (Admittedly, there is some vagueness in
EWP here, since clearly lexical conditioning of inflectional forms, such as suppletion,
will still have to be handled in the lexicon.) Lest we should fall into the trap of over-
simplifying this issue, Anderson (1988b) makes it clear, however, that the real ques-
tion is not 'where does inflection happen?' but rather 'where is morphophonological
well-formedness defined for inflection and where is morphosyntactic well-formedness
defined?' In common with a growing number of theorists, he adopts the view that
the answers to each of the latter two questions will be different.
In somewhat simplified form the overall organization of grammar envisaged by
EWP is that of figure 6.1 (the full model is given in Anderson, 1982: 594).
Despite the upsurge of interest in inflectional morphology and the morpho-
logy-syntax interface generally, Anderson's model has not met with whole-hearted
approval amongst generative linguists. Jensen and Stong-Jensen (1984) argue that all
j ~
I
i i
t 1
222 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
Syntax Lexicon: derivational morphology
(Move-~, government
agreement) Lexical insertion (of stems)
~ /
I Surface structures
I
!
IPhonology including inflection J
Figure 6.1 Anderson's model of grammar
of Anderson's examples can be reanalysed on a morphemic basis within the overall
framework of Lieber's theory. To give a brief example, let's consider how they gen-
erate Georgian verb forms. They employ a similar feature system to Anderson, and
appropriate his idea of the layered features to express subject and object relations.
However, instead of rewriting certain feature values as formatives, they associate
each formative (i.e. each affix) with an underspeci:fi.ed feature set. By using the
Feature Percolation Conventions (plus certain other plausible assumptions) they
claim they can reanalyse the entire system reported by Anderson.
To see how their reanalysis works we consider how the form gxedavt 'I see you
(pl.)' is generated. The affixes have the lexical entries of 6.74 (using Anderson's
notational conventions to ease· comparison):;· · · · ' ·
6.74 a) g- :
b) -t2:
[ [+you]]
[+me [+pl]]
These code the fact that g- signals a 2nd person object (of either number) while -t2
signals 1st person subject acting on plural object. (There is a homophonous mor-
pheme, -tl, with a different feature characterization in Jensen and Stong-Jensen'.s
analysis.) When affixed to a verb root each of these affixes percolates its own features
to the dominating node. This is shown in 6.75:
6.75
g
[ [+you]]
v
Vroot
xedav t2
[+me [pl.]]
Default rules specify the remaining unmarked features with the negative value to give
6.76:
APPROACHES TO INFLECTION 223
6.76
r+me l-me JJ
-you +you
-pl. +pl.
v
Vroot
g xedav t2
[ [+you]] [+me [+pl.]]
What we see here is an analysis which is very similar to that of Anderson, except
that the feature percolation is bottom-up in the case of Jensen and Stong-Jensen's
analysis, while it is top-down in Anderson's case. As a result, it is not entirely clear
where the difference really lies, at least for those aspects of inflection which retain
an agglutinating character. For Anderson, formatives such as g- and -tare not mor-
phemes, they are merely exponents of morphosyntactic feature sets. For lexicalists,
on the other hand, these affixes will be morphemes but their 'meaning' will be a col-
lection of morphosyntactic features. The key here seems to be the systematic use of
features to capture the function of morphological material, rather than other aspects
of the overall architecture of the theories under comparison. The most important
potential difference between the two approaches would be in their handling of devi-
ations from agglutination. Here, Jensen and Stong-Jensen argue that we are often
dealing with allomorphy statements, and that different aHomorphs of roots and affixes
would be listed together with a featural characterization of what categories they (par-
tially) realize (see, for instance, their discussion of Old English inflection for further
details of this).
The principal difference between the two approaches can't really be decided on just
a handful of competing analyses, because it concerns fundamental assumptions about
the nature of the language faculty. Anderson's model retains the assumptions of the
Standard Theory that regularity should be captured by isolating common underlying
forms of morphemes and applying a battery of rules to account for the variation those
morphemes show in various contexts. For Jensen and Stong-Jensen (in keeping with
by far the dominant tendency in generative phonology and syntax), rules are replaced
by a combination of general principles of grammatical organization (the principles
of Universal Grammar) and specific information encoded in more complex sets of
underlying representations. In other words, the specific and idiosyncratic
components of a rule are extracted and written into the representations themselves.
Anderson, however, retains the notion of rule as an important part of UG, along
with principles of rule organization, particularly rule ordering and other types of
interaction. Anderson's emphasis on rule systems is very clear in his review of the
history of phonology (Anderson, 1985c), in which the development of phonology is
taken as the development of a theory of phonological rules from an earlier theory of
phonological representations. A number of generative phonologists seem to regard
phonology as essentially processual, or rule based, while syntax is essentially repre-
sentational (for instance, Bromberger and Halle, 1989, endorsed, it would seem, by
Chomsky, MS). For those that regard phonology as essentially representational, the
224
'
. :II
l'. 1.
LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
question is whether morphology is distinct from phonology and syntax in being pro-
cessual. For those who regard phonology as processual the question is whether mor-
phology is more like phonology or like syntax. Given that morphology has an
interface with both domains and also may well have it own principles of organization,
there can be no a priori answer to any of these questions.
Where does this leave the paradigm? If the lexicalist stance is taken then the para-
digm will remain an epiphenomenon of the morphosyntactic feature system, and
therefore of no intrinsic interest. But this presupposes that lexicalists can answer the
various criticisms that have been levelled against the Item-and-Arrangement
approach to morphology (including some that we'll discuss in chapter 11). On the
other hand, to have a firm argument in favour of the existence of paradigms, what
we really need is evidence that linguistic processes make appeal to a level of represen-
tation which includes paradigms. Simply providing a mechanism for generating para-
digms doesn't of itself prove the need for them. In the next two subsections we'll
look at some attempts to justify the paradigm as a representational entity.
6.5.3 Paradigms as systems
In several places I have suggested that morphologists tend to regard the 'ideal'
morphological system as one which is completely agglutinative, whose affixation
processes are associated with a completely compositional semantics, which lacks
homonymy in its affixes, which doesn't have allomorphy other than that dictated
by automatic phonological processes, and which doesn't divide up its lexicon into
arbitrary, morphologically defined inflectional classes.
This 'state of nature' of the archetypical morphological system has been elevated
to the status of a theoretical construct in the theory of Natural Morphology proposed
by Mayerthaler (1981) and developed in various ways by Dressler, Wurzel and their
colleagues (see §4.5). Deviations are regarded as 'unnatural', so that there will
tend to be a pressure towards regression to the primeval state, for instance, in his-
torical change, in child development, in speech errors and language disorders. This
is to say that Natural Morphologists assume something like Jakobsen's (1968)
approach to universals of language, in which the most natural, or least 'marked',
phenomena are the most universal (and will tend to be the most widespread in
languages of the world).
Natural Morphologists also follow Jakobsen in assuming that certain morphosyn-
tactic categories are 'simpler' than, or prior to, others. For example, 'singular' is a
basic category, while 'plural' is in some sense derived. Hence, the natural way of sig-
nalling the plural is to take a form which conveys the singular and do something extra
to it. For instance, we might add an affix, or mutate the first consonant. Such a
process is iconic (because 'more' semantically is represented by 'more' morpho-
logically). Affixation is more iconic than consonant mutation because affixation
actually makes the plural form longer than the singular. (Presumably, the most iconic
would be full reduplication.) Some morphological processes are non-iconic. The
plural sheep of sheep is a case in point. This will also be true of suppletion. On the
other hand, if the more complex category is represented by a simpler form, then we
have a counter-ionic process. Subtractive morphology is an example of this. A fre-
quently cited example is the genitive plural of feminine and neuter nouns in -af-o in
Russian, which are formed without any affixation at all: kniga 'book', knig, and mesto
APPROACHES TO INFLECTION 225
'place', mest. The principle that semantically more implies morphologically more is
called constructional iconicity. Natural Morphologists claim that historical changes
will occur in the direction of less iconic to more iconic. 20
The object of study in Natural Morphology is languages and not grammars, so that
a detailed examination of the claims of its adherents would take us beyond our brief,
namely, morphology in generative grammar. However, many of the issues addressed
by Natural Morphologists are of importance to generative linguists. In addition to
posing problems for generativists, inflectional paradigms, on the face of it, violate
most naive naturalness conditions. In this subsection we shall therefore look briefly
at a carefully constructed theory of inflection proposed by Wolfgang Wurzel, a lin-
guist who has been highly influential, both in generative linguistics and within the
Natural Morphology school, specifically his 1984 monograph.
Wurzel accepts the broad validity of the Natural Morphology perspective but
points out that it oversimplifies the situation with inflection. This is because the uni-
versal tendencies summarized by the principle of constructional iconicity can be over-
ridden by language particular factors. Wurzel observes that in a language with any
degree of morphological complexity there will be stable, productive inflectional
classes, alongside semi-productive ones, alongside moribund, 'irregular' classes, gen-
erally historical relics. For instance, in English, regular plurals are formed by
affixation of -z. Certain types of Latin or Greek derived words form their plurals in
-i, -ae, -a and so on. One word, ox, now forms its plural by adding -en (though this
used to be the productive form at an earlier stage of the language). The stable systems
are the productive ones, in the sense that, other things being equal, loan words and
newly coined words will enter those systems, and words in non-productive classes
will tend to migrate towards the productive ones, but not vice-versa.
Inflectional paradigms in a given language obey their own sets of principles, what
Wurzel calls system-defining structural properties (SDSP). Sometimes these are
determined by non-morphological factors such as phonology or meaning. Wurzel lists
six properties that make up the SDSPs of an inflectional system:
(i) the set of morphosyntactic categories; -·
(ii) whether inflection is defined over the base form of a word or over a bound stem;
(iii) whether several categories are fused into one marker or whether the system is
strictly agglutinating;
(iv) whether there is syncretism;
(v) what type of morphological markers are used (prefixes, suffixes, infixes, ablaut,
consonant mutation etc.);
(vi) whether there are morphological classes (for example, arbitrary gender classes,
conjugations, declensions).
The extept to which the forms in a paradigm conform to the SDSPs of that inflec-
tional class determines the degree of system congruity. The assumption is that there
is a pressure on inflectional systems to be congruent (i.e. 'regular').
A simple example of an SDSP in Russian is this: masculine nouns tend to end in
a consonant, feminines in -a and neuters in -o. Here we have a partly semantic, partly
grammatical criterion linked to morphology. Wurzel provides a nice example of our
Russian SDSP at work in explaining the shape of certain loans from German. The
feminine nouns Buchse ([byxsd]) 'beech', and Hulse ([hylzd]) 'shell' were borrowed
226 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
as buksa and gil'za. Here, the gender of the originals influenced which inflectional
class the words should enter. Since the productive feminine class ends in -a the two
loans were furnished with this suffix and entered the most stable of the feminine noun
classes.
In addition, inflectional systems often respect paradigm structure conditions
(PSC). These are implicative regularities of the kind 'if a member of the paradigm·
has affix x in the genitive then it has affix y in the dative'. A simple example of a PSC
from English is this; if a strong verb has an irregular past participle then it has an
irregular past tense. Where a language has a lot of inflectional classes or subclasses
the PSCs will often play an important role in identifying those classes. For instance,
in Czech there is a subclass of neuter nouns with 'soft' stems which take an extension
-et- in oblique cases in the singular and -at- in all cases in the plural. Thus, beside
the normal case more 'sea'' more 'gen. sg. '' more 'nom. pl.'' we have kure 'chicken''
kurete 'gen. sg. ', kurata 'nom. pl.'. The biconditional, that the -et- extension in the
singular implies the -at- extension in the plural, and vice versa, is one of the PSCs
of Czech nouns.
Sometimes a language will have competing PSCs for a paradigm. In English (as in
German, Wurzel's example), 'la:tinate' plural formation, for example, addenda,
phenomena, formulae, concerti, conflicts with the general rule for English plural for-
mation, so that a number of borrowed words have purely native plural forms (for
instance, electron, spatula, mulatto). This can be interpreted as the influence of a
dominant PSC for plural formation, which sometimes supersedes the non-dominant
PSCs, and which often attracts members of the non-dominant subclass (as in formulas
and concertos). Wurzel defines a notion of inflectional class stability in terms of adher-
ence to the dominant PSCs. A class which is system congruent and also stable in this
technical sense will be productive, for example, it will attract new words, loans and
often, members of non-productive classes.
A central assumption guiding this approach is that stable morphological systems
don't change of their own accord. Change comes from essentially three sources:
unstable morphological classes change (into more stable ones); phonological changes
affect the shape of morphological markers, thereby indirectly changing otherwise
stable systems; and large influences of loan words (especially from closely related
languages) may upset the morphological balance of a system. Since historical mor-
phological change goes beyond our brief, we won't discuss these phenomena in any
detail. However, it should be borne in mind that such questions are not irrelevant
to generative grammar.
This picture of inflectional morphology is very useful for providing us with an over-
view of the type of paradigmatic systems encountered. Has it helped us in our quest
for the paradigm? This depends on how paradigms behave in historical change,
language acquisition,·and other aspects of language use. Wurzel's typology of inflec-
tional systems has made it clear that the traditional notion of paradigm is a conflation
of SDSPs and PSCs (perhaps amongst other factors). It may ultimately turn out that
these different factors tend to respond in a concerted fashion to shifts in the structure
of the language. In that case, there will appear to be a 'conspiracy' between disparate
factors to maintain the paradigm. This would give us evidence for the autonomous
existence of paradigms. We might then wish to build a theory in which they are
represented as structured lists of items in the mind. On the other hand, it might turn
out that there is no such evidence of concerted action, and that individual rules and
APPROACHES TO INFLECTION 227
properties change of their own accord, perhaps in accordance with distinct prin-
ciples. In that case, the paradigm concept would be no more than an epiphenom-
enon after all, and would not enjoy an autonomous existence. At the current state of
play, the evidence Wurzel presents, while suggestive, doesn't adjudicate between the
two possibilities. In the final subsection we'll look at a further attempt at
individuating the paradigm.
6.5.4 Paradigm economy
The final contribution to the study of inflection we'll discuss doesn't form part of a
global theory of grammar. Rather, it is a set of observations on the nature of inflec-
tional paradigms which is compatible with a number of different theoretical models.
Our starting point will be a question about allomorphy. We know that it is typical
for inflecting languages to have arbitrary morphological categories, such as conju-
gational or declensional classes. These are defined in terms of the affixes which they
employ to signal the different morphosyntactic categories. Recall our discussion of
Russian conjugation in chapter 1. There, we saw that there are basically two ways
of conjugating a Russian verb, in other words, we can say there are two distinct verb
paradigms. Two questions arise out of this. The first is: 'How do we determine the
number of paradigms?' The second is: 'What limits are there on the number of
paradigms a language is likely to have?'
These and related questions concerning the allomorphy of inflectional affixes have
been addressed by Andrew Carstairs in a number of publications, an overview and
synthesis being Carstairs (1987). In addressing these questions Carstairs appeals to
the notion of inflectional paradigm in a crucial fashion. To answer our two specific
questions we'll follow him in considering Hungarian verb inflections. A sample of
relevant cases is shown in table 6.3 (slightly modified from Carstairs's own account).
If we collect together all the different endings which signal the six person/number
categories we end up with the list in 6.77:
6.77 Sg. 1 ok, ok, em
2 ol, el, sz, esz, asz
3 0, ik
Pl. 1 unk, link
2 tok, tok, tek, etek, otok
3 nak, nek, enek, anak
As things stand, we have 21 different affixes for our six person/number categories.
The maximum number of distinct combinations we could produce, and hence the
maximum number of conjugation classes in Hungarian (given these data), would be
3 x 5 x 2 x 2 x 5 x 4 = 1200. However, it turns out that there are only two different
conjugation classes represented here. How do we restrict the number of possible
paradigms?
A knowledge of the morphophonemics of Hungarian helps us to understand most
of this variation. First, we have vowel harmony. Verb stems with back vowels (olvas,
mond) select back vowel suffixes such as -ok, -unk and -nak, while (most) verbs stems
with front vowels select front vowel suffixes, such as -ok, -iink and -nek. Second, con-
sonant clusters of three members are split up by an epenthetic vowel (whose identity
i I
I :'
tt
228 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
Table 6.3 Hungarian conjugation ('Present Indefinite')
Stem olvas- iil- esz- ert-
'read' 'sit' 'eat' 'understand'
Sg. 1 olvas-ok iil-ok esz-em ert-ek
2 olvas-ol iil-sz esz-el ert-esz
3 olvas iil esz-ik ert
Pl. 1 olvas-unk iil-iink esz-iink ert-iink
2 olvas-tok ul-tok esz-tek ert-etek
3 olvas-nak iil-nek esz-nek ert-enek
['s' = [f], 'sz' = [s], 'ii' = [y], '6' = [a:], V=long vowel].
mond-
'say'
mond-ok
mond-asz
mond
mond-unk
mond-otok
mond-anak
depends in part on morphosyntactic factors rather than purely phonetic factors).
Thus, we have ulsz but mondasz, esznek but ertenek. Third, in the 2sg. form a stem
ending in a sibilant takes -ol (back vowel stem) or -el (front vowel stem). However,
any other stem takes -sz, -esz or -asz (where the vowel is added to split up clusters
and the exact choice of vowel is determined by vowel harmony).
Given these phonological constraints, we can see that there are severe limits on
the distribution of the affixes. The combinations are shown in 6.78 (where I've
represented vowel harmonic variants as just the back vowel variant):
6.78 non-ik ik
Sg. 1 ok om.
2 olf (a)sz ol
3 0 ik
Pl. 1 unk unk
2 (o)tok (o)tok
3 (a)nak (a)nak
It is clear that there are only two conjugations (called in traditional Hungarian
grammar the 'ik' and the 'ikless', or 'non-ik' conjugations). The differences are in
the singular only, where the 1st person of the ik-conjugation has -om (in more formal
styles, at least), the 2nd person only has the -ol form, and the 3rd person ends in -ik.
Carstairs uses this sort of procedure to determine what constitutes a paradigm,
given all the allomorphs of the morphemes which signal the categories of the para-
digm. One contentious question here is whether we should lump together verbs such
as mond- and olvas- even though they differ in several of their forms. In onesense,
we might want to say that they represent distinct paradigms even though the differ-
ences are phonologically predictable. In another sense, they are examples of 'the
same thing', and so we might want to say they belong to the same paradigm. To over-
come this definitional problem, Carstairs reserves the option of applying the narrow
characterization of 'paradigm', under which these two verbs would represent dif-
ferent paradigms, and introduces the notion of macroparadigm. This is a collection
of paradigms which are distinct in phonologically, morphosyntactically or seman-
tically predictable ways (like the four non-ik verbs, olvas-, ul-, ert- and mond-) or any
paradigm which can't be conflated in such a manner with another paradigm. Since
APPROACHES TO INFLECTION 229
the distinction between the ik-verbs and the non-ik verbs is purely morphological and
can't be predicted on any other basis, this means that these two sets of verbs belong
to different macroparadigms (and hence, a fortiori, to two different paradigms).
We have, then, situations in which stems in principle have a free choice as to which
affix to take for a given morphosyntactic category (in the· sense of combination of
morphosyntactic features such as '3pl. preterite'). It ·is this which permits the for-
mation of distinct paradigms. However, we have yet to answer a question. Ignoring
the 2sg. forms, we noted that both the lsg. and 3sg. forms have a choice of
desinence. Would it then be possible to find a language (or a dialect of Hungarian)
with a similar set of affixes, but in which we had more than one distinct paradigm?
For instance, could we find the pattern illustrated hypothetically in 6.79?
6.79 A
1 ok
3 0
B
ok
ik
c
om
0
D
om
ik
In this case we have four paradigms, making full use of the combinatoric possibilities
opened up by the alternative affixes.
Carstairs argues that such a system would not be tolerated in a natural language,
in that it would violate a universal principle, the Paradigm Economy Principle. Con-
sider a situation in which there are several distinct affixes for a set of morphosyntactic
feature combinations. For instance, some combinations might have just one affix,
others three; still others might have six distinct affixes. Clearly, there will be some
combination or set of combinations of features which will have the largest degree of
variation. Suppose for simplicity's sake that there is exactly one. Carstairs argues that
the number of (macro)paradigms found in the language won't exceed the number of
different affixes for the feature combination with the greatest variety of affixes. In our
Hungarian example there are two combinations with maximal variation, the lsg. and
3sg. forms, and these have two distinct affixes each. Hence, there can be only two
different paradigms.
The Paradigm Economy Principle brings into sharp relief an important fact about
inflectional systems, namely, that they are far more constrained than would be
expected without such a principle. To be sure there are apparent counter-examples
(a number of which Carstairs reanalyses at some length). As far as I'm aware no one
has tried to provide an explanation for the phenomenon in generative terms. It's
possible, of course, that there is no properly linguistic explanation. It might simply
be, given processing constraints on children acquiring language, that morphological
systems always tend to shift towards a situation consonant with the Paradigm
Economy Principle, without the principle itself being an inherent feature of the
language faculty. Certainly, if the principle is valid, most generativists would want
it to follow- from some deeper properties of Universal Grammar.
Perhaps the most interesting implication of work such as this is that, if it captures
a linguistic universal, and if it can be shown that that universal must form part of
the human language faculty, then it is difficult to see how linguistic theory will be
able to do without the notion of 'paradigm' (in one form or another). Carstairs's work
therefore presents a challenge to those who would maintain that the paradigm is a
mere epiphenomenon, with no autonomous role in Universal Grammar.
i!
,,
!I
230 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
6.6 Summary
We shall close this chapter with a brief summary of the most important ideas that
have emerged in the theories we've been reviewing. Perhaps the most important shift
is the greater emphasis on syntax as a model for morphology. In chapter 4 we saw
the introduction of labelled bracketing to replace segment-like boundary symbols.
This manoeuvre naturally leads to the idea that words have their own constituent
structure. From this it is a short (though not unproblematic) step to assume that one
ofthe constituents is the head and that the whole structure obeys something like the
principles of X-bar syntax. Add to this a thorough-going featural analysis of morpho-
syntactic properties and we have a view of word formation very different from that
of Halle or Aronoff.
Syntax also plays an important role in the approaches based on syntactic affixation,
in which the interface between the morphology and syntax is represented as the oper-
ation of essentially syntactic, rather than morphological, rules. This viewpoint is con-
troversial. Strong Lexicalism of roughly the kind Halle espoused is still a defensible
position. On the other hand, a good many morphologists have adopted a Weak Lexi-
calist position, or 'split-morphology' approach, by distinguishing (syntactic) inflec-
tion from (lexical) derivation. We will see that some linguists have argued that syntax
is even implicated in derivational processes.
This set of questions has relevance for the autonomy of morphology. Here we have
seen essentially two positions, differing with respect to attitudes to the mor-
phology-syntax interface. On the one hand we can argue that there is a separate
morphology component (possibly a subcomponein of the lexicon itself). The inter-
action between morphology and syntax is then described in terms of a common
vocabulary expressing an overlap in the two domains. This is the position adopted
by Strong Lexicalists. On the other hand, we can argue that apparent redundancy
or duplication of information between morphology and syntax should be excised.
Since we need syntax anyway, the autonomy of morphology must suffer, so that the
interface between morphology and syntax is here expressed by an encroachment of
syntax into morphology. This is the basic tenent of syntactic affixation and
approaches labelled Weak Lexicalism, or the split-morphology hypothesis. On this
view, morphology will be autonomous only as a set of (lexical) redundancies, and we
shall see later that some theoreticians have argued that morphology has no autonomy
and that the lexicon is simply a list of idiosyncratic forms.
Finally, there remain a host of unresolved questions which don't relate to the key
issues I've just identified. One of these is the status of inflectio~al paradigms. Lexi-
calist models such as those of Halle (1973) and Williams (1981a) claim to be able to
accommodate the notion of paradigm. However, for other lexicalists, such as Lieber
(1980), the paradigm is a mere side-effect with no theoretical status. At the same time
Weak Lexicalism permits the paradigm to play a role (Anderson, 1982) but doesn't
demand this.
Another issue which is resolveq in different ways by different authors is the ques-
tion of whether morphological relationships are to be handled as agglutinative
affixation or whether we should accept that some morphemes are, after all, processes
and not things. This question depends crucially on other aspects of representation,
notably as regards morphosyntactic and morphophonemic features and as regards the
EXERCISES 231
reliance we put on nonconcatenative approaches to morphology. The strong pressure
towards representational models in generative linguistics gives stronger impetus to
advocates of the 'morphemes as things' and Item-and-Arrangement. But there
remain unresolved problems here, in the form of recalcitrant pockets of processual
morphology which make it difficult to accept a purely representational theory.
Many of these issues and related questions will be taken up in the subsequent
chapters and I shall attempt an informed overview of current theoretical trends in the
final chapter in part IV.
EXERCISES
6.1 Explain the non-existence of *grandstood, *rang the pigeons and so on, given
the Atom Condition and the assumption that conversion produces headless construc-
tions.
6.2 Analyse the following Swahili words (taken from Ashton, 1944) into compo-
nent morphemes. Provide a gloss for each morpheme. What governs the linear
ordering of the morphemes? What assumptions would you have to make in order to
explain this ordering in terms of level ordered morphology?
wamewaona
wametuona
mwamona
aliniona
nilimwona
atatuona
tutamwona
'they have seen them'
'they have seen us'
'you see me'
'he saw me'
'I saw him'
'he will see us'
'we will see him'
*6.3 For Lieber the paradigm is a derivative notion which plays no role in
linguistic theory. Assuming that the claims of Carstairs's Paradigm Economy Prin-
ciple are true, how might we try to accommodate this within Lieber's framework?
Begin by determining what the equivalent of a paradigm would be for Lieber, and
then rewrite the Principle as a constraint on the form of lexical entries for affixes.
Does your solution compromise Lieber's basic assumptions and claims in any way?
(You may find it useful to take the Latin data of exercise 6.15 as a starting point.)
6.4 Assume that there is a principle of word structure stating that all nouns must
be marked for number in English. Use this, together with Lieber's Percolation Con-
ventions and her subcategorization frames, to write a different derivation for
falsehoods from that suggested in §6.2.2, making crucial use of FPC III. Supposing
this alternative to Lieber's derivation is viable, what might this tell us about the
lexical entries for inflectional affixes?
·ffi.·ill
ll\11
•.l:.:
"I:
iH
I!i:~
I
I
232 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
*6.5 Discuss Feature Percolation Conventions I, II, with respect to English words
such as cytoplasm and phenomenal. What are the lexical entries for each component?
Are there any difficulties with Lieber's original set of assumptions? If so, how might
they be overcome within her theory?
6.6 Provide a 'position class' analysis of the data from Exercise 2.1 (chapter 2).
Be careful to state all dependencies.
*6.7 Provide an analysis of the data from Exercise 2.1 (chapter 2) in Lieber's
framework, by identifying all the affixal morphemes and providing them with
subcategorization frames. Ensure your analysis accounts for all the dependencies.
6.8 Itel'men verb forms. Volodin (1976) distinguishes a transitive and an intransi-
tive conjugation. Some verb stems follow either conjugation, for instance, gilkes 'to
drink (intr.)', giles 'to drink something (tr.)'. The antipassive is a special intran-
sitivized form of the verb (see §1.4; chapter 7). A number of morphophonemic pro-
cesses are evident from these data, the most important being: insertion of a glide fwf
between two vowels; truncation of a morpheme final vowel (usually before a vowel);
epenthesis of a vowel (usually before a cluster); assimilation of voicing (e.g.
fsf ~ fzf ).
Identify all the morphemes in the following data and provide a position class
analysis. [c = [tf]]
amp~lsxena?l'kes 'to bite all the time (antipassive)'
anan'cpa?l'kes 'to teach (antipassive)'
an'cpalas 'to teach someone a little'
an'cpatal 'to go and teach someone'
gilatakes 'to go and have a drink'
ilwsal'qzomil)sx 'you wanted to listen to me'
kopsxenkes 'to stumble repeatedly'
nowalakes 'to eat a little, snack (intr.)'
nowalatakes 'to go and have a snack'
omtsxenalas 'to lengthen something (e.g. rope) slightly by tying onto it'
omtsxenes 'to tie something up continually'
tgilal'qzokicen 'I wanted to drink something'
t'ilwsal'qzocen 'I wanted to listen to him'
~mpxalas 'to nick something'
~mpxasxenes 'to cut something several times'
*6.9 Write a phrase structure grammar fragment after Selkirk (1982) to generate
the data of the previous exercise. What additional descriptive devices, if any, do you
need to capture all the facts?
EXERCISES 233
*6.10 TWhat devices does generative grammar make available for describing the
case of 'cycles' discussed by Grimes (illustrated in 6.41-6.43) within the framework
of Lieber's theory of affixation? What are the advantages and disadvantages of these
methods?
6.11 Possessive affixation in Moksha Mordvin (Feoktistov, 1966). Below is. a
selection of the case forms of the basic and possessed forms of the word alaia,
'horse', in Moksha Mordvin, a Uralic language spoken in Western Russia. Analyse
these data into component morphemes. Give an informal, prose description of the
structure of these paradigms. Comment on the problems these data might pose for
the various approaches to inflection outlined m this chapter ([s = [J], c = [ts],
n' = [Jl] ]).
'horse' 'horses'
Nom. alasa alasat
Gen. alasan'
Dat. alasandi
Abl. alasada
!ness. alasasa
El. alasasta
Ill. alasas
'my horse' 'my horses'
Nom. alasaze alasane
Gen. alasazen' alasanen'
Dat. alasazendi alasanendi
Abl. alasadon
!ness. alasason
El. alasaston
Ill. alasazon
'thy horse' 'thy horses'
Nom. alasace alasatne
Gen. alasacen' alasatnen'
Dat. alasacendi alasatnendi
Abl. alasadot
!ness. alasasot
El. alasastot
Ill. alasazot
'his horse' 'his horses'
Nom. alasac alasanza
Gen. ala~anc alasanzon
Dat. alasancti alasanzondi
Abl. alasadonza
!ness. alasasonza
El. alasastonza
Ill. alasazonza
I
..,
:..·\,j
'!
,,·l
.II
1
1
1
I
II'
,..,
l'i
234 LATER GENERATIVE THEORIES
'our horsefs' 'your horse/s' 'their horse/s'
Nom. alasan'ke alasante alasasna
Gen. alasan'kon' alasanten' alasasnon
Dat. alasan'kondi alasantendi alasasnondi
Abl. alasadonk alasadont alasadost
!ness. alasasonk alasasont alasasost
El. alasastonk alasastont alasastost
Ill. alasazonk alasazont alasazost
6.12 Fahnrich (1987), in a descriptive grammar of Georgian, suggests that the
transitive verb morphology is essentially agglutinating, with the following analysis:
(i) Subject markers Object markers
Sg. 1 v- m-
2 g-
3 -s
Pl. 1 v- -t gv-
2 -t g- -t
3 -en
He implies that -t is a plural marker, and further states that, when a non-null object
and subject affix are adjacent, the subject affix truncates. Can this analysis provide
the basis for a grammar generating the fragment of conjugation in (i)?
In (ii) we see the conjugation pattern for imransitive verbs and transitive verbs
when they don't explicitly reference an object. Is this what would be predicted on
Fahnrich's analysis? Is this what is predicted by the analysis of Anderson and of
Jensen and Stong-Jensen?
(ii) Sg. Pl.
1 v- v- -t
2 -t
3 -s -en
•6.13 Take the six system defining structural properties identified by Wurzel and
take one of the following theories of morphology: Di Sciullo and Williams (1987),
Selkirk (1982), Lieber (1980) or Anderson (1982). Which of the SDSPs finds direct
reflection in that theory? Which of them finds indirect reflection, and how? Which
of them is ignored? How does the theory of your choice capture Paradigm Structure
Conditions (if at all)?
6.14 Chukchee verbal inflection. Identify the roots and affixes in the following
verb paradigms from Chukchee. To what extent do the paradigms exhibit agglutina-
tion and to what extent are they fusional? Write a set of realization rules within
Anderson's EWP framework to generate these paradigms.
EXERCISES
Paradigm I (intransitive)
t;}k;}tg;mtatg?ak I ran ffi;}tk;}tg;}ntatm;}k we ran
k;}tg;}ntatg?e thou rannest k;}tg;}ntatt;}k you ran
k;}tg;}ntatg?e he ran k;}tg;mtatg?at they ran
Paradigm II (transitive)
I left somebody thou left ... he left ... Subject
Object
enapelag?e enapelag?e ... me
t;}pelag;}t napelag;}t ... thee
t;}pelag?an pelag?an pelanen ... him
pelatkog?e napelamdk ... us
t;}pelat;}k napelat;}k ... you
t;}pelanat pelanat pelanenat ... them
we left ... you left ... they left ...
enapelat;}k napelag;}m ... me
ffi;}tpelag;}t napelag;}t ... thee
ffi;}tpelag?an pelatk;} napelag?an ... him
pelatkot;}k napelamdk ... us
ffi;}tpelat;}k napelat;}k ... you
ffi;}tpelanat pelatk;} napelanat ... them
*6.15 Despite its name, the Extended Word-and-Paradigm theory makes very
little crucial reference to the notion of paradigm itself. How would the concept of
paradigm be incorporated in EWP explicitly as a primitive notion, and why would
this be necessary? Illustrate your answer by providing an EWP-type analysis for the
following (highly selective) Latin data (based on Greenhough et al., 1983), showing
noun declension. [Note x = [ks], the macron over a vowel indicates length.]
Nom.
Voc.
Ace.
Gen.
Dat.
Abl.
Nom.
Voc.
Ace.
Gen.
Dat.
Abl.
arnica '(girl) friend'
Sg. Pl.
arnica amicae
arnica amicae
amicam arnicas
amicae amicarum
amicae amicis
arnica amiCIS
dux 'leader'
Sg. Pl.
dux duces
dux duces
ducem duces
ducis ducum
dud ducibus
duce ducibus
amicus '(boy) friend'
Sg. Pl.
amicus amici
amice amici
amicum arnicas
amiCI am1corum
amico amiCIS
amico amiClS
lacus 'lake' dies 'day
Sg. Pl. Sg. Pl.
lacus lacus dies dies
lacus lacus dies dies
lacurn lacus diem dies
lacus lacuum dieT dierum
lacui lacibus dieT diebus
lacu lacibus die diebus
235
7
Grammatical Relations
Introduction
Our first view of the morphology-syntax interface will be the morphological expres-
sion of valency. In the survey of functions of morphology in chapter 1 I mentioned
the phenomenon of voice, in which the argument structure of a predicate (such as
a verb or adjective) is altered by affixation. This chapter begins with a much more
detailed overview of such phenomena. We start with constructions in which valency
is (or can be) reduced. We look at the great variety of passive constructions found
in theworld's languages, and constructions which are often genetically related to the
passive, such as the middle voice, and reflexives, as well as a comparable construction
found primarily in ergative languages, the antipassive. Then we survey valency
increasing constructions, such as causatives, applicatives and possessor raising.
After this fairly detailed tour of the data we turn in §7.2 to theoretical accounts of
valency changing. The theoretical apparatus we'll look at comes primarily from
Government Binding theory and includes subcategorization, theta marking and Case
assignment. We then summarize briefly the transformational theory of syntactic pas-
sives, which remains highly influential, though by no means universally accepted,
within GB theory. Finally, we review a concept which is of great importance for
several theoretical approaches to theories of valency changing, the Unaccusative
Hypothesis.
In the next three sections we look at three specific models of valency changing. In
these sections we again see both a complex interplay and a tension between lexical
and syntactic approaches. In §7. 3 I present the essentials of an intricate theory of
valency changing which combines something of each approach, that of Marantz
(1984). This theory helps set the theoretical scene for the next two approaches. §7.4
outlines Baker's syntactic theory, in which regular and productive valency changing
processes are seen as the result of a rule of lexical incorporation, a generalization of
the noun incorporation process we met in languages such as Chukchee in chapter 1.
OVERVIEW OF THE PHENOMENA 237
This is contrasted with the approach of Williams (as summarized most recently in Di
Sciullo and Williams, 1987), with a heavy lexicalist bias.
7.1 Overview of the phenomena
We have already seen examples of morphological processes which make reference
to the argument structure of a predicate. The affixation of -able in English turns
a transitive verb into an adjective with the meaning (roughly) 'such that can be
verb-ed'. For instance, the two place predicate read ('x reads y') becomes a one place
predicate readable ('y is readable'). Conversely, it is possible to take an adjective (i.e.
a one place predicate) such as red, and turn it into a verb (which can be used
transitively, as a causative, or intransitively, as an inchoative) i.e. redden.
Cases such as these are regarded as indubitably derivational morphology because
words from one syntactic class are created from words of another. However, in many
languages we fmd a number of morphological processes which affect the argument
structure of predicates (chiefly verbs) but which turn a verb of one valency type into
a verb with another. These are the traditional voice alternations, the most famous of
which is the Passive. By adding the passive morpheme 1 to a transitive verb we obtain
a verb with one argument less. Thus, the transitive verb break in 7.1 becomes the
intransitive, passive form broken in 7.2:
7.1 Dick broke the vases.
7.2 The vases were broken (by Dick)-.
These sentences illustrate what we might call the 'canonical' passive construction:
the active subject, Dick, is demoted and becomes an optional oblique phrase or
adjunct (the by-phrase); the active object is promoted to become the subject with all
the usual properties of subjects (such as subject-predicate agreement, in English); the
verb appears in a special morphological form. It is common to fi.nd the NP the vases
and Dick in both 7.1 and 7.2 referred to as the 'logical object' and 'logical subject'
respectively, while Dick and the vases are the 'grammatical subjects' of 7.1, 2 and
the vases is the 'grammatical object' of 7.1. Sentence 7.2, being passive and hence
intransitive, has no grammatical object.
In languages with morphological case, the new subject is usually marked with the
case characteristic of subjects (e.g. the nominative), while the adjunct often appears
in an oblique case. Thus, in Russian we see alternations such as 7.3-7.4:
7. 3 Kolxoznik ubil utjonka.
farmer-NOM killed duckling-ACC
'The farmer killed the duckling.'
7.4 Utjonok byl ubit (kolxoznikom).
duckling-NOM was killed (farmer-INSTR)
'The duckling was killed (by the farmer).'
238 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
The English passive is an analytic or periphrastic construction, in that it requires
an auxiliary verb be (or get) for its formation. The participal form itself is not unique
to the passive. With a different auxiliary, have, it forms the perfect tense/aspect form,
and used on its own it is a stative or resultative adjective (A broken vase, The vase
is completely broken). In many languages, however, the passive is formed purely
synthetically, by some morphological process such as affixation, not requiring any
kind of auxiliary. Not infrequently, such types of passive enter into a paradigmatic
opposition with other voice forms. Even within one family such as Indo-European
we find a great variety of forms.
Latin had two ways of forming the passive, a synthetic form for the imperfective
aspect and an analytic form for the perfective. In chapter 1 (example 1.44) we saw
the active and passive conjugations of a typical Latin verb. In 1.45, repeated here
as 7.5, we see an example of the synthetic passive. This can be contrasted with the
analytic construction shown in 7.6:
7. 5 Puella a militibus amatur.
girl-NOMsg. by soldiers love-3sg.PASS
'The girl is loved by the soldiers.'
7.6 Puella a militibus amata est.
girl-NOMsg. by soldiers love-PAST PARTJFEM/NOMsg. be-3sg.
'The girl wasjhas been loved by the soldiers.'
As can be seen from 7.5 and 1.44 the synthetic passive form seems to involve a
formant in -(u)r though the passive paradigm is essentially fusional, and cannot be
said to derive through simple addition of a passive affix. In a more strongly 'ag-
glutinating' language it is often easier to isolate a specifically passive morpheme. The
Altaic languages are characteristically agglutinating. In Yakuts, for instance, a Turkic
language spoken in Eastern Siberia, the passive can be formed by adding the suffix
-ilin (whose vowels undergo vowel harmony depending on the vowels of the stem).
Examples are given in 7.7-7.9 (abstracting away from morphophonemic changes),
taken from Xaritonov (1963):
7.7 Saala muostata kobiioriinen sab-ilin-i-bit.
hall floor carpets cover-PASS-PERF-3sg.
'The hall floor has been covered with carpets.'
7.8 Biir taabirin taaj-ilin-t-ta.
one riddle s.olve-PASS-PAST-3sg.
'One riddle was solved.'
7.9 Ehigi sarsiarda citaRa ataar-ilin-a-Rit.
you/pl. in-the-morning to-Chitu send-PASS-PRES-2pl.
'You are being sent to Chitu in the morning.'
Notice that in Latin the passive morpheme -(u)r (where it is identifiable as such and
isn't fused) occurs outside the other verb endings (tense/aspect and person/number),
while in Yakuts the passive morpheme is closer to the verb root than the inflectional
OVERVIEW OF THE PHENOMENA 239
endings proper. This makes the Yakuts passive element look more like a derivational
affix than an inflectional one.
The passive in English is capable of reducing the valency of ditransitive verbs,
making them appear (mono)transitive. In other words it can take a verb with two
objects, direct and indirect, and produce a verb with only one object, as in 7.10:
7.10 a) Tom gave Harriet a rose.
b) Harriet was given a rose (by Tom).
Not all languages allow arguments other than direct objects to be passivized. How-
ever, some allow other types of participant, including even adjuncts, to be promoted.
A number of the languages of the Malaya-Polynesian group illustrate this. In
Malagasy (Keenan, 1976), a language of Madagascar, there is a complex voice system
in which the verb appears in one of three different 'passive' forms depending
on whether an active direct object, indirect object, or adverbial is being pro-
moted. (Similar facts have been described for Philippine languages such as Tagalog,
Ilokano, Cebuano and a good many others.) Note that in Malagasy the usual order
of constituents is V(ADV)OS:
7.11 a) Manasa lamba amin ity savony ity Rasoa
wash clothes with this soap this Rasoa
'Rasoa is washing clothes with this soap.'
b) Anasan dRasoa lamba ity savony ity
wash-PASS by-Rasoa clothes this soap this
'This soap is being used to wash the clothes by Rasoa.'
Lit.: 'This soap is being washed the clothes with by Rasoa.'
7.12 a) Mitoetra amin ity trano ity izahay
live in this house this we(ex.)
'We live in this house.'
b) Itoerana nay ity trano ity
live-PASS we this house this
'This house is lived in by us.'
In each case so far the valency of the verb has been reduced by one, from 3 to
2 or from 2 to 1. In some languages· intransitive verbs can also be passivized, with
the result that valency is diminished from 1 to 0. In this case we find suppression
of the subject, but no promotion of the complement because there isn't one. The
resulting construction is often called an impersonal passive. Examples 7.13-7. 15 are
respectively German, Polish and Latin:
7. 13 Es wurde getanzt.
It became dance-PASS
'People danced/were dancing.'
7.14 Bylo chodzone.
was-NEUTER-sg. walk-PASS-NEUTER-sg.
'People were walking about.'
240 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
7.15 Curritur.
run-PASS/ 3sg.
'People run.'
Note that 7.13 typically has the gloss given, in which es is nonreferential. This means
it cannot refer back to a previously mentioned lexical noun such as 'tango' to mean
'the tango was danced' (which would be an example of a canonical passive). The sub-
ject, es, is an 'expletive' (similar to the it of It seems that Tom has left). German (like
English and French) is not a null subject language, and so the subject position must
be filled by a meaningless pronominal, or 'dummy', element. In 7.14 we see that the
passive participle and the auxiliary agree and take the neuter singular form (typical
for languages with gender and number distinctions). Polish and Latin are null subject
languages, so that they do not require an overt subject.
In all the examples of the passive so far we have seen that a verb promotes one of
its complements (if it has any) to the subject position, after the subject is suppressed.
However, even when the subject is suppressed with a transitive verb, it is not always
the case that the complement is promoted. In some languages a complement can
remain in place and be case marked as a direct object, even though the verb is now
in the passive form and not the active. The Ukrainian examples in 7.16 are from
Sobin (1985):
7.16 a) Zbudovali cerkvu v 1640 roc'i.
they-built church-ACC in 1640 year
'They built the church in 1640.'
b) Cerkvu bulo zbudovano v 1640 roc'i.
church-ACC was-NEUTfsg. built-PASSJNEUTfsg. in 1640 year
'The church was built in 1640.'
This transitive passive is optional and a passive similar to the Russian or Latin
periphrastic passive is also found, as in 7.16c:
7.16 c) Cerkva bula zbudovana v 1640 roc'i
church-NOMJFEMJsg. was-FEMfsg. built-FEMJsg. in 1640 year
'The church was built in 1640.'
In example 7.16b the verb has retained its ability to assign accusative case to the
object after passivization, just as if it were active (cf. 7.16a). In languages with rich
case morphology it isn't uncommon to find verbs which assign a case distinct from
that normally assigned to direct objects. For instance, the Latin verb inuideo, 'I
envy', assigns dative rather than the customary accusative case. Normally, when a
language has verbs assigning a specific case of this sort ('Inherent Case'; see §7.2
below) the verb doesn't form a passive. However, Latin is an exception to this, and
so we find passives such as 7.17 (from Keenan and Timberlake, 1985), in which the
direct object of the active form retains its inherent dative case markings. Notice that
the passive verb fails to agree in person and number with the object, indicating that
no promotion to subject has taken place:
i
l
7.17 Mihi inueditur.
I-DAT envy-PASSJ3sg.
'I am envied.'
OVERVIEW OF THE PHENOMENA 241
In the examples of passives seen so far, the morphosyntactic process which signals
passivization has been affixation of the verb. However, many languages have con-
structions which resemble passives in many respects except that the verb is in its
active form and the passive meaning is conveyed by the addition of a clitic pronoun
which otherwise functions as a reflexive, with the same meaning as the -selfpronouns
in English. 2 The Romance languages provide well-known examples of this, and it is
often referred to by its traditional French term of se-moyen construction:
7.18 Cette racine se mange.
this root REFL eats
'This root is edible.' (French)
7.19 I dolci al cioccolato si mangiano in questa pasticceria.
the sweets to chocolate REFL eat in this confectioners
'Chocolates are eaten in this store.' (Italian)
Similar examples can be found in German and in Slavic:
7.20 Solche Sachen sagen sich nicht oft.
such things say REFL not often
'Such things are not often said.' (German)
7.21 Etot zavod stroit-sja kollektivom inostrannyx raboCix.
this factory build-REFL collective of-foreign workers
'This factory is being built by a foreign workforce.' (Russian)
7.22 To se nedela.
that REFL not-do-3sg.
'That isn't done.' (Czech)
7.23 Cz~sto si~ s!yszy o wypadkach.
often REFL hear-3sg. about accidents
'One often hears about accidents.' (Polish)
7.24 Tuk se prodava xljab.
here REFL sells bread
'Bread is sold here.' (Bulgarian)
Just as morphological passives may have language particular idiosyncrasies, the
_same is true of reflexive passives. Many languages disallow an agent phrase with
reflexive passives. This is true in Romance, and is largely true of most of the Slav
languages. However, this does not distinguish the two sorts of passive, because there
are some languages in which morphological passives cannot take agent phrases (e.g.
242 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
Latvian, Urdu, Seri; cf. Comrie, 1977) and, as is evident from the Russian example
7.21, there are languages in which a reflexive passive can co-occur with an agent.
We also saw that in some languages passive morphology doesn't preclude marking
the underlying direct object with the accusative case characteristic of objects of active
verbs. In Polish, for instance, the same is true of the reflexive passive:
7.25 Otwiera siy kas~ o 6smej .
opens REFL ticket office-ACC at eight
'The ticket office opens at eight.'
Finally, we have seen that a morphological passive can be used impersonally, for
example with intransitive verbs. Exactly the same is true of reflexive passives in some
languages. Thus, alongside examples such as German 7.12 we have 7.26 (Perlmutter
and Postal, 1984):
7.26 Es tanzt sich gut hier.
it dances REFL good here
'There is good dancing here. '
Examples 7.27-7.29 come from Polish, Czech and Serbo-Croat respectively
(Ruzicka, 1986):
7.27 Zosta1o siy myzatk<ii.
became REFL married-woman-INSTR
'One became a married woman.'
7.28 Tancovalo se az do nina.
danced REFL up until morning
'People were dancing until the morning.'
7.29 U klubu se pevalo i igralo.
at club REFL sang and played
'There was singing and playing at the club.'
There is an interesting construction in English which might appear to exemplify
the passive of an intransitive verb. This is the pseudo-passive, formed from prepo-
sitional verbs. A prepositional verb is an intransitive verb followed by a prepositional
phrase which permits Preposition Stranding. This means that the passive construc-
tion can treat the NP complement of the preposition as a kind of direct object and
promote it to subject, leaving the preposition behind, as in examples 7.30-7.32:
7.30 a) Someone has slept in my bed.
b) My bed has been slept in (by someone).
7.31 a) Someone is pointing at me.
b) I don't like being pointed at (by anyone).
7. 32 a) The competitors skied under the bridge.
b) The bridge was skied under (by the competitors).
j
OVERVIEW OF THE PHENOMENA 243
Not all verbs allow this. In particular, the unaccusative verbs 3 (see §7.2.3) never
form pseudo-passives. This can be illustrated with the contrast between 7.30-7.32
and 7.33-7.35:
7.33 a) Many people are sleeping in London.
b) *London is being slept in (by many people).
7.34 a) The signpost points towards a hill.
b) *A hill is being pointed towards (by the signpost).
7.35 a) Trolls existed under the bridge.
b) *The bridge was existed under by trolls.
Other types of intransitive verb which cannot be passivized in English (or the
majority of languages) include Raising-to-Subject verbs (7.36) and passives them-
selves (7.37). This ·is generally true even in languages, such as ·Polish and German,
which permit impersonal passives:
7.36 a) It seemed that he was a hero.
b) *It was seemed by him to be a hero.
7.37 a) Harriet was kissed by Dick.
b) *There was been kissed by Harriet (by Dick).
A number of theoretical analyses of passive have been proposed which would have
the effect of excluding such constructions as 7.36, 7.37 universally (see §7.2.2 on the
1-AEX). It is therefore interesting that there are lailguages in which such construc-
tions are possible. Timberlake (1982) and Keenan and Timberlake (1985) (see also
Baker, 1988a) report a number of examples from Lithuanian of exactly this sort (I
omit tone and length markings in these examples):
7.38 Kur mus gimta, kur augta?
where we-GEN bear-PASSJNsg. where grow-PASSJNsg.
'Whete were we born, where did we grow up?'
(tit.= 'Where was there being born by us, where being grown?')
7.39 Jo pasirodyta esant didvyrio.
he-GENJMsg. seem-PASSJNsg. being hero
'He seemed to be a hero. '
(Lit.= 'By him it was seemed to be a hero.')
7.40 To lapelio buta vejo nupusto.
that leaf-GEN/Mfsg. be-PASS/NfNOMsg. wind-GEN
blow-PASS/MfGENsg.
'The leaf was getting blown down by the wind.'
(Lit. = 'By the leaf there was getting blown down by the wind.')
Finally, it should be pointed out that there are some languages which have con-
structions which have been analysed as passives but which involve neither a PASS
I
l..
244 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
verbal affix, nor a reflexive, nor any other type of morphological device except for
a marker of the agent phrase. This has been argued for Achenese (or better Acehnese)
by Lawler (1977) and Perlmutter and Postal (1977) for example, where the verb
agrees with the underlying subject even if it surfaces in an agent phrase (though see
Durie, 1988, Lawler, 1988, for more recent discussion of this particular case).
7.41 a) Gopnyan ka gi-com Ion.
she PERF AGR-kiss me
'She kissed me. '
b) Lon ka gi-com le-gopnyan.
I PERF AGR-kiss by-her
'I was kissed by her. '
Perlmutter and Postal (1977) also cite examples 7.42 illustrating the fact that in
Mandarin Chinese the only overt signal of passive is the 'preposition' (or coverb) bei
marking the agent:
7.42a)
b)
Zhu laoshi pfye- le wo-de kaoshl.
Zhu Prof. mark-ASP my test
'Prof. Zhu marked my test.'
Wo-de kaoshl bel Zhu laoshi pfye-le.
My test by Zhu Prof. mark-ASP
'My test was marked by Prof. Zhu.'
Given that the passive has played such an important part in theorizing about mor-
phosyntax, it is interesting to speculate why languages should have such a construe-
~tion. One important functional motivation comes from syntax. In many languages
syntactic constructions such as relative clauses or control of PRO are permitted only
with reference to subjects and not other grammatical functions. In such cases a
language will need a device for promoting objects to subject position to inc~ease the
domain over which such rules operate. Another important functional motivation con-
cerns topic-comment articulation ('functional sentence perspective'). In English, for
example, one of the functions of the passive is to take a direct object out of a
relatively focal position into the position of a topic, i.e. subject position. Much of the
Prague School literature on topic-comment structure took the English passive as a
paradigm example of this phenomenon. The relative frequency of passive in English
compared to its scarcity in Slav languages was linked to the fact that Slav languages
have free word order and therefore don't need a syntactic ordering device like passive
to put objects in topicalized position.
An interesting and influential viewpoint on the functional motivation of passive
universally has been presented by Shibatani (1985). He points out that passive con-
structions are often associated with a good many other effects. In some languages the
passive construction acquires a 'potential' meaning, of the kind Force may be used to
open this door. We often observe passives used to convey a spontaneous event (The
tree fell down), but in addition we :find (for instance, in Japanese) the passive being
used as part of the honorific system (as when in English a waiter will say Are you being
served? rather than Is anybody serving you?). He also points out that it is unlikely that
object topicalization is the primary universal function of prototypical passive con-
j
OVERVIEW OF THE PHENOMENA 245
structions, since in the Philippine languages we have focusing constructions (which
topicalize non-subjects) and also a passive construction.
Shibatani therefore suggests that the principal function of passive is to defocus the
Agent. This will prototypically also have the effect of reducing the valency (since the
Agent is no longer explicitly mentioned), and since surface subjects are usually
obligatory syntactically (even if represented by a null pronoun), this will generally
mean that the Patient will be promoted to subject.
Finding functional motivation for a set of constructions is only half the story, of
course. We must also construct a theory which will explain precisely why the struc-
tural patterns we observe come about, rather than other conceivable patterns com-
patible with the functional motivation we have discerned. Structurally, the
'canonical' passive voice is an alternation affecting transitive verbs, which is usually
signalled by special morphology, and in which the active subject is demoted to an
adjunct, while the object is promoted to subject. There are deviations, however, from
all of these characteristics in constructions which linguists would generally call 'pas-
sive'. The central structural facts to be accounted for are summarized below:
(i) the suppression of the subject ('agent defocusing')
(ii) the promotion of a complement or adverbial
(iii) the implicit realization of the subject theta role (e.g. by an agent phrase)
(iv) case marking of complements
(v) the relation between personal and impersonal, and morphological and reflexive
passives.
There are two constructions which are closely related to the passive, both of which
are called the middle voice in many descriptive sources. One of these types of middle
voice is illustrated for English in example 7.43:
7.43 a) Bureaucrats bribe easily.
b) These clothes wash readily.
c) The book reads fluently.
d) The car steers badly.
(In English it is difficult to obtain a middle reading without the adverbial.) The
important property of the middle is that the grammatical subject is a notional or
logical object, just as in -the passive. In other words, it is not the bureaucrats who
are doing the bribing, rather it is some unspecified agent acting on the bureaucrats.
Apart from the fact that middle verbs have active and not passive morphology,
there is an important difference between English middles and passives. Although in
both constructions there is an 'understood' notional subject, or implicit argument,
it is only in the passive that this agent can be expressed (as in 7.44) or can control
the PRO subject of an infinitival purposive clause (as in 7.45; cf. Manzini, 1983):
7.44
7.45
a) *Bureaucrats bribe easily by managers.
b) Bureaucrats are often bribed by managers.
a) *Bureaucrats bribe easily [PRO to secure government contracts].
b) Bureaucrats are often bribed [PRO to secure government
contracts] .
246 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
A construction similar to the middle is illustrated in 7.46-7.47:
7.46 a) Dick broke the vase.
b) The vase broke.
c) The vase was broken (by Dick).
7.47 a) Harriet hung the clothes on the line.
b) The clothes hung on the line.
c) The clothes were hung on the line (by Harriet).
Examples 7.46b-7.47b are sometimes called anticausatives because the transitive
form has roughly the meaning 'cause X to V', where V is the intransitive form.
Examples such as 7.46b are sometimes linked to inchoatives, that is, a verb derived
from an adjective meaning 'to become Adj.' or 'to begin to be Adj.', cf. 7.48:
7.48 a) The sky brightened (became bright(er)).
b) Harriet's face reddened.
Actually, it might be more consistent to relate 7.46a, b to 7.46d, and call the adjec-
tival use of the passive participle in 7.46d an 'anti-inchoative':
7.46 d) The vase is broken.
Example 7.47b would often be regarded as a stative because it refers to a state and
not an event like 7.46b. Both types of alternation in 7.46-7.47 can be thought of as
resultatives. That is, 7.46b can be conceived of as a result of 7.46a, while we can
think of 7.47b as the result of 7.47a. However, some linguists would draw a distinc-
tion between a resultative proper (e.g. 7.46) and a stative such as 7.47. Matters are
complicated somewhat by the fact that, although we have explicitly mentioned agents
responsible for breaking or hanging in 7.46a, 47a, an agent is not necessary. Thus,
we can say things such as 7.49-7.50. We certainly don't want to say that 7.50 presup-
poses that someone (even God!) actually hung the cherries on the branches, and in
7.49 we explicitly deny that any agent was involved:
7.49 The vase just broke of its own accord.
7.50 Cherries hung from the branches.
I referred earlier to Romance passive constructions involving a reflexive element
(sefsi). In different Romance languages these reflexive constructions have different
properties. Since a number of linguists have drawn explicit comparisons recently
between uncontroversially morpholexical processes affecting argument structure and
the reflexive constructions of Romance, it will be useful to summarize the salient
facts. I give here a brief overview of data from Italian, which has a rich set of such
constructions, basing my account on Manzini (1986).
We have a straightforward reflexive/reciprocal construction, illustrated in 7. 51.
Here i bambini is the subject and si is the direct object:
i
J
OVERVIEW OF THE PHENOMENA 247
7.51 a) I bambini si lavano.
The children si wash-3pl.
'The children wash themselves.'
b) I bambini si parlano.
The children si talk-3pl.
'The children talk to each other.'
In 7.52 we see again the middle/passive use of si. In this (homophonous) construction
the children are not the ones doing the washing (though they still get washed):
7.52 I bambini si lavano (volentieri).
The children si wash (willingly)
'The children wash willingly.'
Example 7. 53 illustrates the impersonal si, generally translated by something like
'one'. In 7.53a the children are the direct object, but this time it is the si which func-
tions as the subject, and the verb agrees with it in number. Examples 7.53b, c, d illus-
trate this use of si with an unaccusative verb, the copula, and with a passive. (The
copular verb ein 7.53c, d shows singular agreement, while the predicative adjective
nervosi and passive participle invitati show plural agreement. These are default agree-
ment markers, used in impersonal constructions. Italian is odd in using singular
number as its default assignment for verbs, and plural as its default for adjectives):
7. 53 a) Si lava volentieri i bambini.
Si wash-3sg. willingly the children
'One willingly washes the children.'
b) Si va volentieri.
Si go-3sg. willingly
'One willingly goes.'
c) Si e facilmente nervosi.
Si be-3sg. easily nervous
'One is easily nervous.'
d) Si e invitati volentieri.
Si be-3sg. invited willingly
'One is invited willingly.'
Finally, in 7.54 we see an interesting use of si cliticized to the passive participle:
7.54 gli unici bambini lavatisi.
the only children washed-si
'the only children who washed themselves'
The curious thing about this construction is that the use of a restrictive modifier of
this kind is limited to passive participles and unaccusative past (perfect) participles.
Thus, lavati in 7.54 cannot be a transitive perfect participle but has to be a passive
form. In this construction, then, we seem to have a reflexive element which remains
as the object of a passive participle.
The English middle shares many features with the passive, particularly in that the
248
li
GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
logical object appears as the grammatical subject. The reflexive passive discussed
earlier can often be translated either by English passives or by middles, so it is not
surprising that linguists often lump together the two constructions as more-or-less
equivalent. The second type of construction which is traditionally called the middle
has somewhat different properties. This is exemplified by Ancient Greek, which dis-
tinguished active, middle and passive voices (though the middle and passive were
only distinguishable in a couple of tense forms). The basic meaning of the middle
seems to have been that of a subject acting in his own interests. Goodwin (1894) illus-
trates the difference with sentences 7.55, pointing out what 7.55b would properly be
said of the law-maker himself:
7.55 a) Ho de:mos tithetai nomous.
The people make-MID-PRES laws-ACC
'The people make laws for themselves.'
b) Tithe:si nomous.
he-makes-ACT laws-ACC
'He makes laws.'
The middle voice is also widely used in Greek as a reflexive or reciprocal. Thus,
we have contrasts such as 7.56 (Barber, 1975):
7.56 a) Louo: ta imatia.
I-wash-ACT the clothes-ACC.
.'I wash the clothes. '
b) Louometha.
We-wash-MID
(i) 'We wash ourselves.' (ii) 'We wash each other.'
Barber's very interesting discussion of the Greek middle suggests a basic (and
chronologically prior) distinction between the active voice on the one hand and the
media-passive voice on the other. The media-passive, then, can be thought of as the
set of forms in which the subject is acted upon in some way, whether by himself
(reflexive), by the object he himself is acting on (reciprocal), some possibly unspeci-
fied agent (passive), or in a more indirect way by benefiting specifically from his own
actions (middle).
We have seen that many languages use constructions with reflexive pronouns or
clitics to express alternations corresponding to the passive voice. In many languages
reflexives and reciprocals form a separate voice category of their own. The Altaic
languages present well-known examples of this. Let's return to Yakut for examples.
A transitive verb in Yakut can be made reflexive by affixation of -n to vowel stems
or -in (with vowel harmony variants) to consonant stems:
7.57 Min timnii uunan suu-n-a-bin.
I cold water-INSTR wash-REFL-PRES-lsg.
'I wash myself with cold water.'
In this usage the verb is intransitive since the direct object is effectively the -n suffix,
just as the reflexive pronoun in Romance and Slavic languages functions as the object.
...1
OVERVIEW OF THE PHENOMENA 249
However, there is a commoner use of the reflexive which makes it look rather like
the Ancient Greek middle voice:
7.58 a) Ot tiej-e-bin.
hay carry-PRES-lsg.
'I am carting hay. '
b) Ot tie-n-e-bin.
hay carry-REFL-PRES-lsg.
'I am carting hay for myself.'
In 7.58b the verb remains transitive since the object, hay, is retained. The reflexive
affix has a 'middle of interest' function. This function is also found amongst reflexive
clitics in a number of languages. Thus, we would translate 7.58b into Czech as 7.59:
7.59 Vozfm si seno.
I-cart REFl hay
Although the reflexive suffix can assume the full role of direct object, in specially
emphatic contexts it can also co-occur with an explicit reflexive pronoun direct object
(comparable in many respects to 'clitic doubling' constructions. See chapter 9):
7.60 Kini bejetin xajRa-n-a-r
he self-ACC praise-REFL-PRES-3sg.
'He praises himself.'
7.61 Op-pun tie-n-e-bin.
hay-SELF/lsg. cart-REFL-PRES-lsg.
'I am carting my own hay.'
7.62 Ot-un bejete tie-n-e-r.
hay-SELF/3sg. SELF cart-REFL-PRES-3sg.
'He is carting his own hay.'
A further similarity between the reflexive voice and reflexive clitic systems is
revealed when we look more carefully at the passive voice in Yakut. As is usual in
Turkic languages, the passive - il in formative is only found with consonant final
stems. With vowel final stems (and certain others) we find the suffix -n. This means
that verb stems ending in a vowel have homophonous forms for the reflexive and the
paSSIVe.
In the Romance and Slavic clitic systems, as well as the Greek middle voice, the
reflexive form is often homophonous with the reciprocal form. In Yakut these two
functions are kept separate, for like other Turkic languages it has a distinct reciprocal-
cooperative voice. This is expressed by the suffix -s, for vowel final stems, and -Is
(where /I/ represents vowel harmony variants --i, -i, -u, -u) for consonant final stems.
The basic meanings are 'to do to each other' (reciprocal) and 'to do together with
someone' or 'to help someone to do' (cooperative). In some cases the suffix is doubled
to become -sis. There is a tendency for this pleonastic suffix to be interpreted as the
250 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
reciprocal rather than the cooperative voice. The cooperative isn't possible with
passivized, stative or unaccusative verbs.
In 7.63-7.66 we see examples of the reciprocal voice, and in 7.67-7.69 the co-
operative voice. Note in 7.66 that the reciprocal refers to an indirect object rather
than a direct object:
7.63 Kor-us-n1-ler.
see-RECIP-PAST-3pl.
'They saw each other.'
7.64 Bil-is-ti-ler.
know-RECIP-PAST-3pl.
'They recognized each other. '
7.65 Suruj-s-a-llar.
write-RECIP-PRES-3pl.
'They correspond.'
7.66 Ies ber-s-e-ller.
loan give-RECIP-PRES-3pl.
'They give each other loans.'
7.67 Kini miexe ot tiej-is-te.
he mefDAT hay cart-COOP-PAST/3sg.
'He helped me to cart the hay.'
7.68 Kiniler miexe ot tiej-is-ti-ler.
they me/DAT hay cart-COOP-PAST-3pl.
'They helped me to cart the hay.'
7.69 ORolor bari ita-s-ti-lar.
children all cry-COOP-PAST-3pl.
'The children all burst out crying (at once).'
Like the reflexive, we find the object 'doubled' in some cases, with both cooper-
ative and reciprocal uses. (In 7.71 the cooperative suffix is realized as -h-, which is
the usual morphophonemic variant of /s/ intervocalically):
7. 70 Bari xardarita sonunu bil-ler-s-e-ller.
all reciprocally news know-CAUSE-RECIP-PRES-3pl.
'They all tell each other the news.'
7.71 Biirge ulele-h-e-r.
together work-COOP-PRES-3sg.
'He works together (with someone).'
The various reciprocal pronouns and adverbials found in these constructions can also
be used on their own, with a verb in the active voice, as in 7.72-7.73:
.li
OVERVIEW OF THE PHENOMENA 251
7.72 Biirge biiltiiii-biin.
together hunt-1sg.
'I hunt together (with someone).'
7. 73 Beje-bejelerin xolunnara-llar.
each-other ball out-3pl.
'They ball each other out.'
So far we have seen cases in which a verb loses its subject and in which the object
is promoted to subject position. In this way a transitive verb becomes (more like) an
intransitive verb. A large number of ergative languages can detransitivize verbs by
suppressing the direct object role. This type of process, which we were introduced
to in chapter 1, §1.4, is usually referred to as the 'antipassive' construction. In so~e
languages (for instance, Dyirbal and Chukchee) this construction is found to the
exclusion of passive. Just as many languages permit the suppressed subject in a
passive construction to be optionally expressed by an adjunct, so in many languages
the suppressed direct object surfaces as an oblique case marked NP. However, not
all languages have antipassives which permit this. For example, in the Mayan
language Tzotzil, the object is implicit in the meaning of the construction but can't
be overtly expressed (Aissen, 1987). The antipassive construction is shown sche-
matically in 7.74, where -AP refers to a notional antipassive affix:
7.74 a) NP1
Erg.
SUBJ
b) NP2
Abs.
SUBJ
v
V-AP
NP2
Abs.
OBJ
(NP1)
Obl.
ADJUNCT
Chukchee is interesting in that it has two distinct antipassive morphemes, a prefix
ine- and a suffix -tku, with subtly different semantic effects (Skorik, 1977).
7.75 a) GJmnan tJ-tejkJ-rkJn orwoor.
I-ERG 1sg.SUBJ-make-ASPJ3sg.OBJ sledge-ABS
b) GJm t-ine-tejkJ-rkJn (orw-etJ).
l-ABS 1sg.SUBJ-INE-make-ASP sledge-DAT
'I am making a sledge. '
7. 76 a) GJmnan tJ-retJ-rkJn tekicg-Jn.
I-ERG lsg.SUBJ-carry-3sg.OBJ meat-ABS
b) GJm tJ-retJ-tku-rkJn (tekicg-e).
l-ABS lsg. SUBJ-carry-TKU-ASP meat-INSTR
'I am carrying the meat.'
In each case we see that the demoted object can be expressed optionally by a NP in
an oblique case: Instrumental, Locative or Dative. The choice of surface case in
which the optional object (or the 'ch6meur' of Relational Grammar) appears is a
lexical property of individual verb stems.
t•' 252
!'I!
GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
We have concentrated so far on operations which eliminate or otherwise neutralize
one of the arguments of a predicate. There are also operations which increase the
valency of a verb. The most researched ofthese is the causative construction. We will
also look briefly at applicative (or applied verb) constructions, and possessor raising.
It is not difficult to think of English verbs derived from adjectives or nouns which
seem to have a causative component in their meaning. 4 For instance, we might be
tempted to interpret a sentence such as Tom bottled the beer as 'Tom caused the beer
to be in bottles'. Likewise, Tom cleaned the bottles seems to mean 'Tom caused the
bottles to be clean'. Interesting though such constructions are, most research effort
has been devoted to accounting for the morphology and syntax of causative verbs
formed from other verbs. There are two types of construction to examine. The first
is the derivation of a transitive causative from an intransitive verb (i.e. a monadic
predicate). This is most similar to the causatives derived from, say, adjectives.
Schematically, such a causative relates sentences of the form 7.78a to sentences of the
form 7.78b, where V' represents the causative form of the verb V. In languages
which distinguish surface subjects from surface objects, NP1 will be a subject in
7.78a and an object in 7.78b:
7.78 a) NP1 V =>
b) NPo V' NP1
We have seen constructions superficially similar to 7.78b in the anticausatives such
as 'break'. However, English also has genuine causatives of this type formed by con-
version from unergative and unaccusative verbs. A selection is illustrated in examples
7.79-7.81:
7.79 a) Fido walked.
b) Harriet walked Fido in the park.
7.80 a) The tree fell.
b) Dick felled the tree.
. 7.81 a) The boat sank.
b) Tom sank the boat.
More interesting is what happens when we form acausative from a transitive verb.
Let's assume for simplicity that we have a language with surface case marking which
distinguishes Nominative for subjects, Accusative for objects and Oblique for other
NPs. We find that there are essentially three varieties of causative construction in
those languages which can retain all the _participants of the original verb. These are
illustrated schematically in 7.82-7.84:
NP1 V
Nom.
NPz =>
Ace.
7.82 NPo V' NP1 NPz
Nom. Ace. Obl.
'I
-1
OVERVIEW OF THE PHENOMENA 253
7.83 NPo V' NPr NPz
Nom. Ace. Ace.
7.84 NPo V' NPz (NPr)
Nom. Ace. Obl.
Type 7.83 is rather uncommon, though it has been reported in, for instance, a
number of Bantu languages. Type 7.82, in which the underlying subject becomes the
direct object of the causative, is more common, but the most frequently encountered
construction is probably that represented in 7.84, in which the old object remains the
object and the old subject becomes an optional adjunct.
Examples of these types of construction are given below:
7.85 Ha na'-taitai ham [i ma'estru] [ni esti na lebblu].
3sg.SUBJ CAUSE-read us-OBJ the teacher OBL this PTCL book
'The teacher made us read this book.' (Chamorro)
7.86 Maria a-li-m-lip-isha Johni pesa kwa watoto.
Mary she-PAST-him-pay-CAUSE John money to children
'Mary made John pay the money to the children.' (Swahili)
7.87 Di~<;i mektub-u miidiir-e irnzala-t-ti.
dentist letter-ACC director-DAT sign-CAUSE-PAST
'The dentist made the director sign the letter.' (Turkish)
Another type of valency-affecting process which increases the number of arguments
of the verb is applicative formation or the applied verb construction, originally best
known from Bantu languages but now recognized in a variety of languages
throughout the world. In this construction an oblique argument (such as a Benefac-
tive) becomes a direct object. In some languages this is a very regular process.
Although the usual target for promotion to direct object status is a Benefactive
(or Malefactive), there are languages in which the process can affect other types of
argument or adjunct such as Locatives or Instrumentals. Example 7.88 is Bahasa
Indonesian, taken from Chung (1976); examples 7.89-94 are Ainu, from Shibatani
(1990). (I use the gloss APPL throughout in these examples to refer to the applied
affix):
7.88 a) Saja mem-bawa surat itu kepada Ali.
I TRANS-bring letter the to Ali
'I brought the letter to Ali.'
b) Saja mem-bawa-kan Ali surat itu.
I TRANS-bring-APPL Ali letter the
'I brought Ali the letter.'
7.89 a) Huci matkaci orun upackuma.
grandmother girl to tell/old/stories
b) Huci matkaci ko-packuma.
grandmother girl APPL-tell/old/stories
'Grandmother told old stories to the girl.'
254 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
7.90 a) Poro cise ta horari.
big house in live
b) Poro cise e-horari.
big house APPl-live
'He lives in a big house.'
7.91 a) A-kor kotan ta sirepa-an.
lsg.-have village to arrive
b) A-kor kotan a-e-sirepa.
lsg.-have village lsg.-APPL-arrive
'I arrived at my village.'
7.92 a) Newa anpe orowa tumi-ne.
that thing from war-become
b) Newa anpe o-tumi-ne.
that thing APPL-war-become
'From that thing, the war began.'
7.93 a) tek ari kar-pe
hand with make-thing
'things made with the hands'
b) tek-e-kar-pe
hand-APPL-make-thing
'hand-made goods'
7.94 a) pone tura kuykuy
bone with bite
b) pone ko-kuykuy
bone APPL-bite
'bite (something) together with a bone'
Next I consider the phenomenon of possessor raising. There are a number of
languages in which a process represented schematically as 7.95 is regularly observed:
7.95 a) Dick stole Harriet's sandwich.:)
NOM GEN ACC
b) Dick stole Harriet the sandwich.
NOM ACC ACC
Here a possessor NP insiqe an object NP has been 'raised' so as to become the direct
object. The original direct object becomes a secondary object.
A live example is given in 7.96 from Chichewa (Baker, 1988a). Notice that in this
example the applied affix is implicated:
7.96 a) Fisi a-na-dy-a nsomba za kalulu.
hyena SP-PAST-eat-ASP frsh of hare
b) Fisi a-na-dy-er-a kalulu nsomba.
hyena SP-PAST-eat-APPL-ASP hare frsh
'The hyena ate the hare's frsh.'
OVERVIEW OF THE PHENOMENA 255
Finally, it will be recalled from chapter 1 that many languages have a process
(usually called 'incorporation') in which an argument such as a direct object can
be fused with the verb to form a single morphological complex. In a number of
such languages the resulting compound verb is intransitive (as can be seen from the
verbal morphology itself or from surface case assignment). Thus, in Chukchee, when
a verb incorporates its object, the subject is assigned Absolutive, not Ergative, case
and the verb receives intransitive agreement affixes, as shown in 7.97 (note that the
verb root (and future prefix) in 7.97b have undergone vowel harmony as a result of
incorporating the root wala-):
7.97 a) Morg;:man mJt-re-mne-I)Jnet walat.
we-ERG 1pl.SUBJ-FUT-sharpen-3pl.OBJ knives
'We will sharpen our knives.'
b) Muri mJt-ra-wala-nma-g?a.
We-ABS 1pl.SUBJ-FUT-knive-sharpen-1pl.SUBJ
'We will do some knife-sharpening.'
In this case we might want to regard incorporation as a kind of valency reduction
(and we will see later in the chapter that this idea has been taken up in a rather dif-
ferent guise).
In several languages it has been reported that noun incorporation of this kind can
'feed' possessor raising. There is limited evidence of this happening in Chukchee.
Thus, examples such as 7.98-7.99 have been attested (Skorik, 1948):
7.98 T-re-wilu-cwitku-gJt.
1st.SUBJ-FUT-ear-cut-2sg.OBJ
'I'll cut your ears off.'
7.99 NJ-pilgJ-cwi-qin peneel?Jn.
3pl. SUBJ-throat-slit-3sg.OBJ corpse-ABS
'They slit the corpse's throat.'
The verb in both these examples is inflected transitively, in 7.98 agreeing with the
(understood) 2nd sg. possessor of the ears, and in 7.99 agreeing with the raised pos-
sessor 'corpse', which duly appears in the Absolutive. (Had it remained a genuine
possessor it would have received a special possessive affix.)
A number of syntactic relationships have been reported which I have not included
in this list, most obviously, inversion, in which a subject becomes an indirect object.
This has received a certain amount of discussion in terms of grammatical function
changing in the Relational Grammar literature (e.g. Harris, 1984), and Belletti and
Rizzi (1988) discuss a related phenomenon from a GB standpoint. However, in
general, GB students of grammatical functions would seem' to agree with Baker
(1988a: chapter 8, note 5), who argues that inversion should not be regarded as typo-
logically related to the valency changing operations we have discussed hitherto.
Recall, too, that Anderson (1982, 1984a) proposed a purely morphological analysis
of Georgian inversion (see chapter 6, Note 18).
256 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
7.2 Theoretical preliminaries
7.2.1 Representing grammatical relations
There have been several proposals for coding grammatical relations such as 'subject'
or 'indirect object' in a grammar, and each of these has found reflection in theories
of morphology. The simplest and most direct way is to make explicit reference to the
relations theJUselves. This is the position adopted in Lexical Functional Grammar
and also in Relational Grammar. This way of approaching the problem is relatively
recent in generative grammar, however, and it is rejected by linguists working within
the Government-Binding framework.
The traditional generative approach was to define grammatical relations in struc-
tural terms, as properties of phrase markers. Thus, a subject is defined as that NP
which is the immediate constituent of the sentence (notated [NP, S]) and a direct
object is the NP immediate constituent of VP. It was to capture the idea that certain
verbs require complements of certain types that Chomsky (1965) introduced the
notion of strict subcategorization.
In current GB theory, strict subcategorization is replaced by appeal to the
argument structure of the verb (cf. §6.1.3). This makes sense, for instance, when we
consider a verb such as put. In the Aspects model, this verb would be subcategorized
by the frame in 7.100:
7.100 put: __ NPPP]
However, this fails to indicate that the PP which is selected by the verb has to be
a locative PP. Thus, the sentences in 7.101 represent violations of the argument
structure of put even though they respect the subcategorization frame in 7.100:
7.101 a) *Tom put the eggs for Harriet.
b) *Tom put the eggs inside five minutes.
Moreover, 7.100 fails to explain why put can be followed by a pro-form or even an
adverb in certain circumstances, provided they refer to locations, as in 7.102:
7.102 a) Tom put the eggs there.
b) Tom put the eggs inside.
A solution to this problem is to say that put selects arguments which bear a particular
theta role, namely a theme and a location. The lexical entry for a verb then includes
not a subcategorization frame but a theta grid, of the form (Agent, Theme,
Location). Note that I have included the theta role of the subject here (but see below
for more on this).
The last way of representing grammatical relations is through the notation of Case
marking. We know from chapter 1 that verbs in some languages mark their argu-
ments with particular cases. Typically, we find one of two situations, defining
so-called nominative/accusative languages and ergative languages. These are
summarized in 7.103:
7.103
THEORETICAL PRELIMINARIES 257
a) Nominative-Accusative marking:
Intransitive subject: Nominative Case
Transitive subject: Nominative Case
Direct Object: Accusative Case
b) Ergative marking:
Transitive Subject:
Intransitive Subject:
Direct Object:
Ergative Case
Absolutive Case
Absolute Case
Many languages with nominal case marking also mark other complements and
adjuncts with special cases, functioning much as prepositions in languages such as
English. Commonly, a language will have a special case (Dative) for the Indirect
Object, and also common is a special case for means, manner or agent (Instrumental
case).
The nominative/accusative system tends to be regarded as the 'canonical' case
system in generative grammar (a fact which is perhaps not unconnected with the fact
that none of the languages in which linguistics is commonly written is an ergative
language!). It therefore forms the basis for a theory of Abstract Case, which plays
an important role in Government-Binding Syntax. Chomsky (1981, 1986b) argues
that all NPs must be assigned an Abstract Case by a Case assigner (essentially a verb
or a preposition). Any overt (i.e. non-empty) NP which fails to receive such a Case
violates a Case Filter, which renders the sentence ungrammatical. It would take us
too far afield to discuss all the intricacies of Case theory (or the Case module) in GB
theory. I summarize here some of the more important facts.
Nominative (or subjective) Case is assigned by a tense element in Infl (Infl means
roughly the position of auxiliary verbs in languages such as English). This means that
a non-tensed clause such as an infinitival is unable to assign a Nominative Case to
its subject. Therefore, an infinitival can surface with an overt subject NP only if there
is some other way for that NP to receive Case. In some instances this will be from
the matrix verb, provided that verb belongs to a special class of Exceptional Case
Marking verbs, capable of ..assigning Accusative Case to the embedded subject.
Hence, we have a contrast between 7.104a in which we find expect, an ECM verb,
and 7.105a, with try, which doesn't have this exceptional property. As the (b)
examples show, both verbs permit a non-overt (empty) subject NP (PRO):
7.104 a) Tom expected [Harriet to stay]
b) Tom expected [PRO to stay]
7.105 a) *Tom tried [Harriet to stay]
b) Tom tried [PRO to stay]
In other instances the infinitival complement is introduced by a prepositional com-
plementizer for, which is able to as'sign (presumably Oblique) Case to the infinitival
subject, as in 7.106:
7.106 Tom arranged [for [Harriet to stay] ]
Chomsky (1986b) argues that there are two different ways of assigning Case. Nomi-
258 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
native and Accusative Case is typically assigned as a function of surface configur-
ations, and therefore different NPs can receive these Cases depending on the
operation of movement rules. This is Structural Case assignment and it is a property
of S-structure. However, in some situations it appears that a given verb assigns a par-
ticular Case as a lexical property. In many languages, for instance, it is observed that
certain verbs assign Dative and not Accusative to their direct objects. An oft-cited
example here is German helfen, 'to help'. Similarly, in Russian the verb zelat',
'wish', assigns Genitive Case, the verb pomoC', 'help', assigns Dative and upravljat',
'control', assigns Instrumental Case (cf. chapter 1, §1.4). This is Inherent Case
assignment, a property of D-structure which cannot be altered by any type of
syntactic rule.
We can see, then, that there are four distinct ways of saying that hit is a transitive
verb. We can say it takes a DIRECT OBJECT argument, that it is subcategorized )
by an NP, that it selects a Theme complement and that it assigns Accusative Case.
In GB theory only the last two of these options is available, since direct reference to
grammatical relations is excluded, and since subcategorization is derived from princi-
ples of semantic selection (essentially Theta theory). Nonetheless, this leaves the GB
syntactician with three choices in describing changes in transitivity in terms of
general grammatical properties. They can be represented as changes of theta marking
properties, or of Case marking properties, or a combination of these two.
7.2.2 Transformational theories of Passive
Having seen how grammarians have represented argument structure, we now turn to
the ways in which changes in argument structure have been represented. In the
Aspects model, a frequently discussed transitivity alternation was the English Passive.
This alternation was the result of a special, complex transformation. It operated over
a D-structure which corresponds to the active form of the sentence, except that it was
furnished with a triggering feature attached to a Manner Adverbial Phrase. This
feature triggered the transformation, as illustrated in simplified form in 7.107. It was
assumed that the transformation also added the appropriate auxiliary verb and put
the lexical verb into the passive participle form. Notice that here the morphological
change undergone by the verb in receiving the passive participle affix is viewed as
something akin to inflection.
7.107 a) s
~~~~
NP Predicate-Phrase
1\ ""1
Det :-.,-
1 --------·-/-------------
\' ::\P .\L.mncr
! ~"'- I
Dct ::\
the farmer kill the Jucklmg bv Passive
b) s
~
)';p Predicate-Phrase
A //~
Det l': VP
~
\' ,\l.<mncr
/~p
I I\
I D~t \
I
the duckling be kill + en bv the farmer
THEORETICAL PRELIMINARIES 259
With the advent of Chomsky's (1970) 'Remarks on nominalization' (§3.2),
relationships that had to be handled transformationally in the Standard Theory could
now be handled by means of a lexical redundancy rule. Applied to passive alter-
nations, this would mean that an active sentence and a corresponding passive sen-
tence would not be related syntactically, although the corresponding verb forms
would be related morphologically. This sort of lexical approach to valency changing
operations is characteristic of a number of theories of syntax (most notably Lexical
Functional Grammar). The passive construction and its associated morphology is
effectively regarded as a species of derivation on such an approach.
The syntactic (transformational) approach and the lexical approach needn't be in
opposition. A theory which permits both lexical and transformational rules leaves
open the possibility that one language may have a lexical passive (with all the hall-
marks of lexical rules: exceptionality, non-productivity, semantic and morphological
idiosyncrasy and so on) while another has a fully syntactic passive. Indeed, it is not
inconsistent to argue that one and the same language could have the two sorts of pas-
sive, and this is exactly what is claimed by Wasow (1977). For instance, a sentence
such as 7.108 is ambiguous. Either we interpret it as a syntactic (or verbal) passive,
as in 7.109a, or we interpret it as an adjectival passive, with stative or resultative
meaning as in 7.109b:
7.108 The vase was broken.
7.109 a) Someone broke the vase.
b) The vase was in a broken state.
As transformational grammar developed, rules such as Passive illustrated in 7.107
were split into their components, until ultimately there remained only one transfor-
mational rule, Move-Alpha. For transformational grammar the important aspect of
the Passive rule was the promotion of the object by raising it to the position of the
subject. The subsequent demotion of the subject was regarded as a spin-off of object
promotion. In later formulations of Passive, a 'short' passive (lacking an adjunct by-
phrase) was generated from aD-structure with an empty subject position into which
the object moves. Later, even the 'long' passives (i.e. those which have a by-phrase)
were generated this way, with the by-phrase generated in D-structure, just like
any other adverbial phrase. Thus, the more recent syntactic accounts of Passive
have retained the idea that object promotion to subject position is the core of the
alternation.
Chomsky's (1981) GB analysis of English passive uses Theta theory and Case
theory to motivate the promotion of the object. The argument structure (theta grid)
of a typical transitive verb such as kick will have two positions, (Agent, Theme). The
Theme role is that of an internal argument, assigned to the direct object by the verb
itself. The Agent role is that of the external argument, assigned from the whole VP
to the subject. In addition, the verb will license the assignment of two structural
Cases, Nominative (through Infl) to the subject, and Accusative to the object.
Chomsky assumes that the addition of passive morphology to a transitive verb (the
-en affix) has two related effects: it 'absorbs' the external theta role, which can there-
fore no longer be assigned to any NP, and at the same time it 'absorbs' the Accus-
ative Case associated with the verb. There is a general tendency for verbs which do
260 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
not assign an external theta role to fail to assign Accusative Case. This observation
is known as Burzio's Generalization. A good deal of research effort has been devoted
to investigating and trying to explain this generalization.
An obvious question is how well the other cases of valency changing can be fitted
into any of these theoretical schemas. This will be the subject of much of the rest
of this chapter. Before we look at this research, there is anoJher phenomenon of
theoretical importance which must be discussed, the 'Unaccusative Hypothesis'.
7.2.3 The Unaccusative Hypothesis
The Unaccusative Hypothesis was first advanced within the theory of Relational
Grammar (see Perlmutter and Postal, 1984, and, for historical commentary, Pullum,
1988). This hypothesis states that there are two types of intransitive verb. The first
has a subject perceived as actively initiating or actively responsible for the action of
the verb, such as run, talk, resign. These are known as unergative verbs. It is usually
assumed that subjects are assigned an external argument by such verbs, namely the
thematic role of Agent. The second type has subjects which lack this active partici-
pation, and they include verbs such as arrive, die, fall. These verbs are the unac-
cusative 5 verbs and in many languages they are distinguished from unergative verbs
syntactically or morphologically. For example, in some languages (including Italian
and Danish) unergative verbs form their perfect tense with the verb to have while the
unaccusative verbs use to be. At the theoretical level it is generally assumed that uner-
gatives have an underlying subject but no object, while unaccusatives have an
underlying object (which becomes a surface subject later in the derivation of the sen-
tence) but no underlying subject. In GB theory the D-structures for Tom ran and Tom
arrived would thus be 7.110 and 7.111 respectively:
7.110 s 7.111 s
~ ~
NP Infl' NP Infl'
~ ~
Infl VP Infl VP
I ~
v V NP
Tom
I I I
arrived Tom
ran
Theories which accept the Unaccusative Hypothesis therefore have to have some
mechanism for guaranteeing that Tom in 7.111 becomes the subject. The standard
assumption in GB theory is that unaccusative verbs, and in general any verbs which·
fail to assign an external theta role, also fail to assign Accusative case to an object pos-
ition. This is another instantiation of Burzio's Generalization. Therefore, in 7.111,
Tom will fail to be assigned Case unless it moves to the subject position (where it will,
of course, receive Nominative from the Infl position).
An important observation (first discussed in detail by Perlmutter and Postal, 1984)
is that unaccusative verbs cannot generally be passivized. In the framework of
THEORETICAL PRELIMINARIES 261
Relational Grammar this follows from the !-Advancement Exclusiveness Law (1-
AEX), which states that no more than one argument can be advanced to subject pos-
ition in the course of a derivation. Amongst other things this law prevents the
formation in English of pseudo-passives (i.e. passives derived from prepositional
verbs such as those exemplified in 7.30-7.32) from unaccusatives. Thus, alongside
the grammatical 7.32b we have the ungrammatical 7.35b (repeated here as
7.112-7.113):
7.112 The bridge was skied under by the competitors.
7.113 *The bridge was existed under by trolls.
This contrast is accounted for in Relational Grammar in the following way. The
passive form 7.112 is generated by a rule which promotes the object to subject, and
demotes the old subject to an adjunct (a 'c):l6meur'). This means that the passive
transformation of Aspects is largely retained. Thus, the underlying structure for
7. 112 is something like 7. 114:
7.114 s
~
NP VP
~
v pp
~
The competitors skied under the bridge.
Since the preposition is associated with the verb (in some manner), the NP the bridge
is treated like an object for the purpose of passive and is therefore promoted to obtain
7.112.
Example 7.113, however, is ruled out by the 1-AEX for the following reasons. By
the Unaccusative Hypothesis the underlying structure must be something like 7.115
(very schematically):
7.115 s
~
NP VP
v NP pp
~
existed trolls under the bridge.
To form a passive it is necessary to promote an object and thereby demote a subject.
This means that trolls must be raised to subject position before passive can apply.
However, in that case we will have had two distinct NPs, trolls and the bridge, raised
262 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
to subject position in the course of one derivation, in violation of the 1-AEX. Hence,
7.113 is underivable.
GB theory has different ways of excluding such derivations. We will see some of
these later in the chapter, especially in §7.4.
7.3 Marantz's theory
7.3.1 Introduction
Theories such as Relational Grammar and Lexical Functional Grammar made great
headway in revealing patterns in the way that languages manipulate grammatical
relations, but the topic wasn't seriously broached within a Chomskyan framework
until Alec Marantz's thesis in 1981 (later revised and published as Marantz, 1984).
Marantz adopts a model of syntax which owes considerably to Government-Binding
theory but which departs from it in a number of important details. In addition,
Marantz's overall framework is highly elaborated, so a small change in one part of
the theory would have repercussions throughout. This makes it difficult to compare
his system with other approaches. I shall therefore give a basic outline of Marantz's
theory, concentrating on the implications for morphological theory and hence omit-
ting a good deal of very interesting syntactic theorizing.
In Marantz's model there are three main levels of syntactic representation, logico-
semantic structure (1-s structure), syntactic structure (s structure) and surface
structure, together with a lexicon of roots and affixes, whose lexical entries contain
information about argument structure, transitivity, the semantic roles assigned and
so on. The levels are constructed independently and related to each other for a given •
sentence by means of a mapping principle which guarantees that crucial aspects of
structure, specifically those relating to grammatical relations, are automatically pre-
served from one level to the next. This means that the theory is not derivational: we
don't start with a D-structure and then transform it into an S-structure. Instead, the
grammar provides lists of structures at the three levels and the mapping principles
determine which set of structures correspond to each other.
We can visualize the three levels of representation very roughly by taking an
example like Tom gave Fido a bone (ignoring irrelevancies like tense). The 1-s, sand
surface structures would be something like 7.116a---<:::
7.116 a) [Tom-Agent [GIVE (Fido-Goal, bone-Patient)]]
b) [Tom [give Fido bone]]
SUBJ I.O. D.O.
c) S
~
NP VP
~
V NP NP
D
Tom gave Fido a bone
MARANTZ'S THEORY 263
These are misleading representations in that it is only at surface structure that
elements receive a linear ordering; the 1-s and s structure representations are defined
purely in terms of constituency (immediate dominance). Marantz actually writes 1-s
and s structures as trees, so that 7.116a, b would both be very similar to 7.116c.
The level of 1-s structure corresponds more-or-less to GB's level of theta structure;
surface structure is GB's PF ('Phonological Form'). An important feature of 1-s
structure is that every element with an argument structure has a separate represen-
tation at 1-s structure, even if it ultimately gets represented by a bound morpheme
in surface structure. In the case of some constructions, this gives the appearance of
'lexical decomposition', superficially reminiscent of the proposals of Generative
Semantics (§3.2.1). However, in GB theory there is no counterpart to Marantz's s
structure. The 1-s and s levels, at which semantic relations and syntactic relations are
defined, are universal. Languages differ in how they represent the abstract s level
grammatical relations (i.e. whether by word order, case marking, agreement or
whatever).
The most important mapping in Marantz's theory is that between 1-s structure and
s structure. This is achieved by principle M (for 'Mapping'), a deceptively simple
principle, which nonetheless has far-reaching implications. Essentially what it states is
that, where 1-s constituents bear a logico-semantic relation to each other, then cor-
responding s constituents bear a syntactic relation to each other. In concrete terms,
Fido in 7.116a bears a logico-semantic relation to give, namely being its first
(internal) argument. Therefore, the s structure counterpart to Fido will bear some
syntactic relayon to the s structure counterpart of give, namely. that of an object. (In
traditional grammar it is called the indirect object, though Marantz would regard it
as a direct object, for reasons which will become clear presently.) In the case of Tom,
we have a NP which is the logical subject of the verb at 1-s structure, but it doesn't
bear any syntactic relation to the verb at s structure. This is because we assume that
a syntactic (s structure) subject is the subject of a VP, not of a verb. Therefore, the
principle M is so written as to allow a syntactic relation between the NP Tom and
the phrase headed by the verb, i.e. the VP. The upshot of principle M is that every
element in 1-s structure will get represented somehow in s structure (and ultimately
in surface structure by virtue of language particular 'mapping rules'). Moreover, the
canonical mappings between elements at these different levels is determined by a
single universal principle, not by a specific set of rules.
Marantz is careful to distinguish two notions which tend to be conflated in other
varieties of grammatical theory, namely, that of predicate-argument structure and
that of semantic (theta) role assignment. For instance, the verb give takes two
internal arguments corresponding to the traditional direct and indirect object. This
is true of both 7.117a and 7.117b:
7.117 a) Tom gave a bone to Fido.
b) Tom gave Fido a bone.
In 7. 117a a bone is a direct argument and receives the theta role of Patient directly
from the verb. Fido gets its theta role indirectly from the preposition. In 7.117b,
however, Fido now corresponds to a direct argument of the verb and therefore
behaves like a direct object, receiving its theta role from the verb. However, a bone
receives its theta role indirectly by virtue of a special structural position (that of the
264 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
'second object'. Notice that the tradition of description by which Fido would be an
'indirect object' in both sentences isn't applicable here).
This means that the lexical representation of the verb in these two cases is slightly
different. That for· 7.117a is 7.118a, in which the direct argument (italicized) is the
Patient; that for 7.117b is 7.118b, in which the direct argument is the Goal:
7.118 a) give (Patient, Goal)
b) give (Patient, Goal)
At the syntactic level a transitive verb, say, is an argument taker, which takes syn-
tactic arguments (e.g. a direct object NP) to form a VP (corresponding to the pre-
dicate phrase at 1-s structure). However, such an NP can only serve as the syntactic
argument of a verb if it receives a syntactic role, for example from the verb itself.
A verb which assigns a syntactic role is marked with a feature value [+transitive] .
Since this feature is part of the s structure representation and independent of 1-s
structure it is in principle possible for an NP to be an internal argument to a
[-transitive] verb and hence not to receive a syntactic role from that verb. This cor-
responds to a situation in which, in GB terms, a lexical item takes a complement but
does not assign that complement Abstract Case. This, of course, is just what we find
with unaccusative verbs. Similarly, a transitive verb may assign a syntactic role to an
NP (assign Abstract Case) without taking that NP as a syntactic argument. This is
exemplified by Exceptional Case Marking constructions such as Tom believes Dick
to be a liar. Here Dick is the object of believe (in a certain sense) but isn't an argument
of that verb, and there is therefore no entailment that Tom believes Dick. Finally,
not all predicates form a predicate phrase at 1-s structure capable of taking a subject
(or assigning an external argument). Those that do are lexically marked [+log sub] ,
and those that don't are marked [-log sub]. An unaccusative verb is therefore not
only [-transitive] but also [-log sub], while an unergative verb is [-transitive,
+log sub]; By Burzio's generalization [-log sub] verbs (verbs which fail to assign
an external argument) are also [-transitive] in the unmarked situation.
7.3.2 Affix-mediated alternations
To exemplify Marantz's approach in detail we turn first to his analysis of the regular
(syntactic) passive alternation. Marantz assumes that regular processes of this sort
must be mediated by regular morphology (which we describe by the cover term
'affixation'). An affixation process can't change the arguments of the verb root itself,
but it can add arguments of its own, or alter the way the verb's arguments are
expressed. This entails that affixation can't reduce the number of arguments (though
it can prevent an argument from surfacing). In the passive alternant the logical object
becomes the syntactic subject, while the logical subject, if expressed, is realized as
a syntactic modifier phrase (the by-adjunct).
The key to Marantz's analysis is the observation that a passive participle is basically
like an unaccusative verb. Unaccusative verbs bear a feature matrix indicating that
they (a) cannot take an object ([-transitive]) and (b) do not assign a semantic role to
an external argument ([-log sub]). Therefore, we may assume that the passive affix,
-en, simply has the effect of imposing these feature values on the active verb stem.
By principle M, this will mean that the only way for the logical object to be expressed
MARANTZ'S THEORY 265
is as a syntactic subject, while the logical subject can't be directly expressed as a
syntactic argument.
Marantz follows Lieber (1980; cf. §6.2.2) in assuming that affixes are lexical items
which have subcategorization frames indicating the category to which they attach, as
well as other inherent features. We therefore give -en the lexical entry 7.119:
7.119 -en: ]v ___, [-log sub] [-transitive]
-~
This affix may only be attached to stems bearing the features [+log sub) [+ transi-
tive], that is, to transitive verbs. This is a consequence of a general principle, the No
Vacuous Application Principle (NVAP), which states that an affix marked with a
given feature value cannot attach to a stem marked with the same value. Amongst
other things this will automatically prevent -en from attaching to unaccusative verbs
or to passive participles.
We still have to ensure that the passive participle bears the features of the affix and
not those of the root. The affix is the head, so, by Lieber's conventions, its features
will percolate to the top node. If they conflict with those of the root they will there-
fore override the root features. In 7.120 we see the results of attaching -en to the verb
gzve:
7.120 v
[-log sub] [-transitive]
v
give (theme, goal)
[+log sub] [+transitive]
en
[-log sub] [-transitive]
Suppose that we take the form of give in which the theme is the direct argument.
Then this argument will correspond to the logical object at 1-s structure. Since the
verb has received the -en affix, the derived verb is marked [-log sub] and hence it
cannot co-occur with a logical subject. Thus, we are able to insert the participle given
into an 1-s structure such as 7. 121:
7.121 s
I
VP
~
v NPI pp
~ ~~P,
g1ven an apple to Harriet
266 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
In 7.121 the verb has NP1 as its logical object. By principle M, in the s structure
to which 7.121 corresponds, NP1 must bear a syntactic relation to the verb or the
VP. From 7.120 we know that given is intransitive and so the s structure represen-
tation cannot contain a logical object. On the other hand, since the verb is [-log sub] ,
there is no syntactic subject to correspond to a logical subject. Thus, in an s structure
representation, the position of the subject is free to be occupied by something else.
Since English makes no provision for an alternative way of relating 7.121 to an s
structure, this means that the logical object has to correspond to a syntactic subject
in order to be expressed at all and in order to bear a relation to the verb or the VP.
Thus, the only s structure representation possible for 7.121 is 7.122:
7.122 s
~
NP1 VP
~
v pp
1\
P NP2
I I
an apple g1ven to Harriet
How can we account for the impersonal passives found in Dutch, German, Polish,
Czech and a variety of other languages? Recall that these are passives of unergative
verbs (i.e. intransitive verbs which assign an external theta role), with glosses such
as it was danced (by the girls). If the passive morpheme had the same feature character-
ization as -en in 7.119 then the NVAP would prevent it from attaching to a verb
which was already [-transitive]. Marantz therefore suggests that in languages such as
Dutch the passive morpheme just has the [-log sub] value. Since it is unmarked for
the feature [transitive] this permits the affix to be attached to an intransitive stem.
If nothing else were said, this would mean that the passive of a transitive verb would
lack a logical subject (external theta role) but would remain transitive, predicting the
occurrence of sentences such as (it) was built a church-ACC (by the workmen). In
Dutch this is impossible, so Marantz assumes the operation of a redundancy rule
7.123 (which effectively states Burzio's generalization):
7.123 [-log sub]=> [-transitive]
(Presumably, this rule is lacking in a language like Ukrainian, which permits logical
objects of passives to surface with objective case marking.)
Marantz discusses at some length the phenomenon of lexical reflexivization, which
we saw illustrated by Yakuts in examples 7. 58ff. Here, a transitive verb alternates by
regular morphological process with a verb form of reflexive meaning. Marantz argues
that the reflexive morpheme is essentially identical to the English -en morpheme, in
that it bears the features [-log sub] [-transitive], and that it bears an additional
feature stipulating that the object is coreferential with the subject.
A third morpheme which lacks its own argument structure but which modulates
MARANTZ'S THEORY 267
the realization of a verb's arguments is the antipassive affix. The antipassive construc-
tion is repeated notionally in 7.124 (assuming ergative surface case marking, where
OBL stands for Oblique Case):
7.124 a) Tom-ERG killed the bear-ABS.
b) Tom-ABS killed-AP (the bear-OBL).
What happens here is that the derived verb retains its ability to license a logical
subject (Tom), but it becomes intransitive, so that the logical object can only be
licensed in the manner of an indirect argument (e.g. by oblique case marking). This
is easily accounted for by assuming that the antipassive affix bears the feature value
[-transitive]. Such an affix can only attach to [+transitive] verbs (by the NVAP),
and in practice this means it only attaches to [+log sub] verbs (assuming Burzio's
generalization).
7.3.3 Morphological merger: causatives
In 7.125 we see the canonical form for a causative construction.
7.125 s
~
NPo
causer
VP
~
v s
causative
verb/affix
lower proposition
~
NP1 VP
causee lower predicate
Tom made Harriet
v
lower verb
eat
NP2
laZe'
the apple
This is the surface form of the causative in many languages, of course (e.g. English).
However, in many others the causative elements appears as a regular morphological
operation, so that in those languages we are dealing with an affix-mediated operation.
In that case we obtain a surface form looking like 7.126:
7.126 Tom eat-CAUS Harriet the apple
NPo NP1 NP2
We saw in examples 7.82-7.84 that the surface marking of the arguments varies from
language to language. In addition to this variation, it is now widely accepted that
268 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
there are basically two types of causative construction, which I shall call (for reasons
which will become apparent) monoclausal and biclausal. The principal differences
between the two types are visible only when transitive verbs are causativized. We
then find that the monoclausal type of causative can be characterized schematically
in the following fashion:
(i) The causee (NP1) appears as an oblique or indirect object, not as the direct
object of the verb. If the language has verb-object agreement, the derived verb
will agree with NP2, not NP1.
(ii) If the lower object (NP2 ) is a reflexive it may only take the matrix subject, NP0,
as antecedent, not the underlying lower subject, NP1.
(iii) If the causative is passivized, NP2, and not NP1, is promoted to become the
matrix subject.
Remaining schematic, we can represent these facts. m pseudo-sentences
7.127-7.129:
7.127
7.128
7.129
Tom eat-CAUSE the apple to-Harriet.
a) Tom watch-CAUSE himself to-Harriet.
'Tom made Harriet watch him.'
b) *Tom watch-CAUSE herself to-Harriet.
'Tom made Harriet watch herself.'
a) The apple eat-CAUSE-PASS to-Harriet (by-Tom).
'The apple was made to be eaten by Harriet (by Tom).'
b) *Harriet eat-CAUSE-PASS the apple (by Tom).
'Harriet was made to eat the apple (by Tom).'
In the biclausal causatives we find the following properties:
(i) The causee (NP1) appears as the direct object of the derived matrix verb; the
lower object, NPz, appears either as a 'frozen' 2nd direct object or receives an
oblique case marking. If the language has verb-object agreement the derived
verb will agree with NP1, not NPz.
(ii) If the lower object (NP2) is a reflexive it may only take the causee, or lower sub-
ject, NP1, as antecedent, not the matrix subject, NP0 .
(iii) If the causative is passivized, the causee, NP~, and not the lower object, NP2,
is promoted to become the matrix subject.
Again, we can represent this type of construction using the schematic examples
7.130-7.132:
7.130
7.131
Tom eat-CAUSE Harriet (of) the apple.
a) Tom watch-CAUSE Harriet (of) herself.
'Tom made Harriet watch herself.'
b) *Tom watch-CAUSE Harriet (of) himself.
'Tom made Harriet watch himself.'
7.132
MARANTZ'S THEORY 269
a) Harriet eat-CAUSE-PASS (of) the apple (by Tom).
'Harriet was made to eat the apple (by Tom).'
b) *The apple eat-CAUSE-PASS Harriet (by Tom).
'The apple was made to be eaten (by) Harriet (by Tom).'
As can be seen from the English glosses to the hypothetical examples in
7.127-7.132 the English analytic causative with make patterns like a biclausal causa-
tive. Syntactically, such analytic causatives are usually analysed as having a biclausal
structure even at surface structure, as in 7.125. However, the lower subject behaves
in many respects like the 'direct object of make. For example, it passivizes and
appears in the object case form if it is a pronoun (Tom made herf*she eat the apple).
In other words, make is an Exceptional Case Marking verb. It is a hallmark of
syntactic approaches to causatives (such as Marantz's, or Baker's) that the causative
morpheme is regarded as an ECM predicate.
We now need to know two things: how to represent morphological causatives of
each type, and how to distinguish the two types.
To answer the first question we must relate the 1-s structure in 7.125 to a morpho-
logical structure in which the causative verb is represented as an affix. In Marantz's
theory this is achieved through a process of merger, to give a representation such as
7.133:
7.133 s
~
NP0 VP
~
V* NP1 NPz
~v (\
\ I U
Tom made eat Harriet the apple
The matrix (causative) verb has been combined with the lower verb to form a derived
causative, V*. This has two objects and its argument structure is that of 7.134. Recall
that make represents an affix in 7.134, and that it is therefore the head of the stem
as a whole. Since the causative affix will transitivize an intransitive verb, it must be
furnished with the features of a transitive verb, as shown in 7.134:
7.134 make-eat
(make (X eat (Patient))
[+log sub, +transitive]
make (Caused)
[+log sub, +transitive]
eat (Patient)
[+log sub, +transitive]
'
\':
....
270 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
The make predicate takes a proposition as its argument, notated in 7.134 as 'Caused'.
This argument structure is combined with that of the non-head, eat, where 'X' is a
variable standing for the subject of eat.
To answer the second question we look at two cases discussed in some detail by
Marantz, Malayalam and Chi-Mwi:ni.
Malayalam, a Dravidian language of Southern India, represents the monoclausal
type of causative. The causative affix is -ik'k'-f-icc- and an example of its use is given
in 7.135:
7.135 a) Kuni annaye nuUi.
child-NOM eiephant-ACC pinched
'The child pinched the elephant.'
b) Amma ku~~iyekkor:t~g annaye ~uHiccu.
mother-NOM child-INST elephant-ACC pinch-CAUSE-PAST.
'Mother made the child pinch the elephant.'
Notice that the causee appears in an oblique case while the lower object remains in
the accusative. The 1-s representation for this sentence is given in 7.136, where for
ease of deciphering I have imitated the word order of English (recall the linear order
is in any case irrelevant at 1-s structure):
7.136 s
NPo
Amma -k'k'-
rr.other CAUSE
ku~~iye
child
nulli
- ..
pinch
annaye
elephant
The derived causative verb stem, nullik'k '-, will have a lexical structure given in
7.137:
7.137 nullik'k'-
- ..
('cause' (X 'pinch' (Patient))
nulli
'pinch' (Patient)
-k'k'-
'cause' (Caused)
The crucial assumption is that merger takes place at the 1-s level with monoclausal
causatives. Intuitively, we might say that this makes the monoclausal causative closer
MARANTZ'S THEORY 271
to an ordinary transitive verb, and hence it shows fewer remnants of its biclausal
past. The post-merger 1-s representation corresponding to 7.136 is given in 7.138.
This will presumably be essentially the s structure, too, so that, syntactically, the
causative in Malayalam behaves as though it were a single clause.
7.138 s
~
NP0 VP
~
V NP1 NPz
1\
v v
I I
Amma !!uJFk'k'- ku~~iye aanaye
mother pinch-CAUSE child elephant
An example of a biclausal causative construction is presented by the Bantu
language, Chi-Mwi:ni. An illustration is given in 7.139:
7.139 Mwa:limu wa-andik-ish-ize wa:na xati.
. .
teacher OBJ-write-CAUSE-T/A children letter
'The teacher made the children write a letter.'
Marantz assumes that merger does not take place until s structure in Chi-Mwi:ni.
Therefore, the 1-s structure will remain essentially that of 7.125. Marantz represents
the ECM construction as a kind of notational Raising-to-Object, in which the lower
subject is represented simultaneously as the object of the matrix verb while remaining
represented as the subject of the embedded verb. This means that the s-structure of
7.139 will be 7.140. (Since the English verb make is an ECM verb in its causative
use, 7.140 will also correspond to the s-structure of the English sentence The teacher
made the children write a letter):
7.140 s
NPo VP
v s
~
VP
A
V NP2
I I
Mwa: limu -ish- wa:na wa:na anqik- xari
teacher -CAUSE- children children wnte letter
272 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
Merger takes place at s-structure, mapping representation 7.140 into 7.141, super-
ficially similar to the 1-s level post-merger structure of the Malayalam causative:
7.141 s
NPo VP
v
A
V CAUSE
I I
Mwa:limu wa-ansJ.ik-ish -1ze wa:na xa!i.
teacher OBJ-write-CAUSE-T/A children letter
We have yet to see how these two types of derivation explain the differences
between the two causatives. Let's consider biclausal causatives first. For this we need
to refer back to diagram·7.140. The causative predicate takes a direct object (because
it is a Raising-to-Object, or ECM predicate). The lower verb, too, takes a direct
object. After merger, then, we might expect there to be two direct objects. However,
the syntactic properties of the affix take precedence ·over those of the root in
Marantz's theory, so that the object of th~derived verb is the object of the causative
at pre-mergers-structure. By contrast, in the case of the monoclausal construction,
the causative predicate doesn't take an object, so the object of the derived verb will
be that of the root. In this way we obtain the contrasting constructions illustrated in
7.130 and 7.127.
On the assumption that the Binding Theory applies at s-structure, we have an
explanation for the reflexives contrast. A reflexive will be coreferential with the
nearest appropriate antecedent in subject position. In the case of biclausal causatives,
the nearest such antecedent for a reflexive NP2 is the lower subject, NP1. Hence, the
data of 7.131. However, since merger has already taken place by s-structure in the
case of monoclausal causatives, the only possible antecedent will be the matrix sub-
ject, as in 7.128. Finally, if the causative predicate in a biclausal construction is
passivized, this will turn that predicate into a Raising-to-Subject verb. Therefore, it
is the lower subject which is passivized, not the lower object. In other words, we find.
the data of 7.132 for the same reason that we have example 7.143a and not 7.143b,
corresponding to 7.142:
7.142 Tom expected Harriet to eat the apple.
7.143 a) Harriet was expected (by Tom) to eat the apple.
b) *The apple was expected (by Tom) Harriet to eat.
On the other hand, in the case of the monoclausal construction it is the object of the
l
~I
i
•..I
MARANTZ'S THEORY 273
lower verb, NP2, which becomes the object of the derived verb, and hence it is this
argument which passivizes, as we saw in 7.129.
7.3.4 Morphological merger: applied verbs
There is one further valency changing operation for which Marantz provides an
explicit account, namely the applied verb construction (the theory has little to say
about Possessor Raising or Noun Incorporation). This is similar to the causative con-
struction in that it increases surface valency. I shall not discuss Marantz's account
in great detail because the basic principles are very similar to those required for
understanding causatives.
In an applied verb construction we have an affix on the verb which fulfils the same
role as a preposition in an analytic construction. This means that the affix and the
preposition have the same argument structure. The applied affix can then start life
at 1-s structure as a kind of underlying preposition, and merge with the verb, just as
the causative affix merges with the verb.
Chi-Mwi:ni again provides us with an illustration. In 7.144 we find a verb with two
surface objects:
7.144 Hamadi 0-wa-pik-il-ile wa:na cha:kuja.
Hamadi SUBJ-OBJ-cook-APPL-T/A children food
'Hamadi cooked food for the children.'
The prefixes on the verb root -pik- coreference the subject Hamadi and one of the
objects, wa:na, respectively. The suffix -ile is a tensefaspect marker, and -il- is the
applied affix. The 1-s representation of 7.144 will be 7.145:
7.145 s
~
NPI VPI
~
VPz PP
~ ~
V NPz P NP3
I I I I
Hamadi -pik-
Hamadi cook
cha:kuja -il- wa:na
food APPL children
Merger in the case of applied verbs takes place only at 1-s structure, so the s structure
representation will be 7.146:
274 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
7.146 s
~
NPI VPI
~
V+P NP2 NP3
/\
v p
I I
Hamadi -pik- -il- cha:kuja wa:na
Like the causative affix, the applied affix can transitivize intransitive verb roots, so
the lexical representation of the affix will be that of 7.147. Combined with a transitive
verb such as 'cook' this will give us 7.148:
7.147
7.148
-il-: ]v ___ 'for' (Benefactive), [+transitive]
-pik-il-
('cook' (Patient) 'for' (Benefactive))
[+log sub] [+transitive]
-pik-
'cook' (Patient)
[+log sub] [+transitive]
-il- APPL
'for' (Benefactive)
[+transitive]
The applied affix is the head in this lexical structure, so the [+transitive] feature
which percolates will be that corresponding to the element which assigns the Benefac-
tive semantic role. Hence, it is the Benefactive which becomes the derived direct
object proper of the new verb. The Patient argument then becomes some kind of
indirect argument. What this means is that it is the derived Benefactive argument
which behaves like a true direct object: for instance, only the Benefactive can become
the subject if the derived verb is passivized, the object prefix refers to the Benefactive
not the Patient and so on. This is exactly the situation, of course, with the English
gloss, in the form Hamadi cooked the children some food. In the English sentence it
is the children, not the food which behaves like the direct object. In both languages
the indirect argument, some food, receives its syntactic role (or Abstract Case
marking) from its structural position as daughter of VP.
Descriptively, we often refer to the alternations represented by these English sen-
tences (and already illustrated above in 7.117) as the result of Dative Shift. The name
is taken from the terminology of earlier models of transformational grammar in which
Tom gave Fido a bone would be derived by the transformation of 'Dative Shift' (or
'Dative Movement') from a structure underlying Tom gave a bone to Fido. The
Dative Shift alternation is very reminiscent of the Chi-Mwi:ni applied verb construc-
tion. There is an important difference, however, on Marantz's theory. As we saw in
the introduction to this section, Marantz provides Dative Shift verbs such as give
with two distinct argument structures, linked by redundancy rule. Hence, the alter-
I
;
\
BAKER'S INCORPORATION THEORY 275
nation is represented solely in lexical entries, not by a general (syntactic) process of
merger as in the case of Chi-Mwi:ni applied verbs. It might be asked whether it is
possible to treat Dative Shift as a kind of applied verb construction. As we will see,
this is explicitly argued for by some.
7.4 Baker's incorporation theory
7.4.1 The basic principles
Of the theories of grammatical relations which stress syntactic explanation over mor-
phological explanation, perhaps the most radical is that proposed by Mark Baker in
his 1985 PhD dissertation (published as Baker, 1988a). Baker's starting point is
unusual: an analysis of noun incorporation (NI) 6 in terms of syntactic movement
(Move-Alpha) operating over lexical categories rather than maximal syntactic projec-
tions. He argues that regular NI submits to the same principles that other movements
in syntax obey. (For this purpose 'syntax' means the theory of movement proposed
by Chomsky, 1986a, the so-called Barriers model.)
Baker considers passives, antipassives, causatives, applied verb constructions (ap-
plicatives) and pdssessor ascension (or possessor raising). He succeeds in constructing
an elaborate but tightly argued theory around the startling, but extremely simple,
idea that all of these phenomena are instances of incorporation of lexical categories
by a lexical head. In most cases the incorporating element is the main verb. In all
cases the incorporated element is itself the head of its phrase.
I shall illustrate Baker's approach toNI first, showing how it accounts for possessor
ascension in Nl languages. In 7.149 we have a schematic sentence in which the direct
object has been incorporated, stranding its possessor for good measure. The pos-
sessor then becomes the derived direct object of the compound verb spear-steal. The
D-structure source for 7.149 is shown in 7.150 and in 7.151 we have the represen-
tation of 7.149 after incorporation has taken place. Notice that there is a trace (ei)
of the moved noun in the position· formerly occupied by that noun. It is a general
assumption in GB theory that Move-Alpha leaves such a trace, and that it must be
coindexed with the moved element it corresponds to. The possessor NP, Tom, being
stranded, has assumed the position of derived object.
7.149 a) Dick stole Tom's spear. =>
b) Dick spear-stole Torn.
7.150 s
~
NP VP
~
V NP
~
NP N'
I
Dick stole
276 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
7.151
NP
Dick
s
VP
~
V NP
1\ ~N'
N v I
stole Tom
N
I
e·I
Now let's turn to causatives. In a morphological causative construction such as that
schematized in 7.152, the causative affix, CAUSE, is represented in D-structure as
a verb taking a clausal complement, 7.153. The lexical verb, fall, in this complement
clause is then incorporated by the matrix causative predicate, as in 7.154:
7.152 Harriet fall-CAUSE the vase.
'Harriet dropped the vase.'
s
~
7.153
NP VP
~
V S'
I
s
Harriet
~
NP VP
6~
the vase
BAKER'S INCORPORATION THEORY 277
7.154 s
~
NP VP
~
V S'
1\ l
Harriet V V ~
NP VP
falli CAUSE
v
I
the vase e·1
Applicatives are the result of Preposition Incorporation. A notional applied verb
as in 7.155 is derived from D-structure 7.156, as shown in 7.157:
7.155 Harriet danced-APPL Tom.
'Harriet danced for Tom.'
7.156 s
~
NP VP
~
v pp
~
P NP
I
Harriet danced Tom
7.157 s
NP VP
~
v pp
~ ~
V P P NP
I I I I
Harriet danced FORi ei Tom
'
' .
li l
278 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
The antipassive construction results when the object position is occupied by an NP
which happens to be morphologically a bound affix. In order to form a morpho-
logically acceptable string the affix must incorporate onto the verb (stem). In other
respects, it behaves like a normal NP argument. Hence, the antipassive is just a
special case of NI.
7.158 Tom killed-AP.
'Tom killed (something).'
7.159 s
~
NP VP
~
V NP
I
Tom killed
7.160
Tom killed e·I
Perhaps the most ingenious implementation of the incorporation thesis is the
analysis of passives. Baker assumes that the passive morpheme, -EN, is a nominal,
just like the antipassive morpheme, but that it is generated in the position of Infl (I),
as though it were an auxiliary verb. In the Barriers model, verbs receive tensefaspect
and agreement morphology as the result of being raised into the I node. In the passive
voice, this node contains, in addition to normal inflectional elements, the -EN mor-
pheme. This incorporates the verp, but at the same time receives the subject theta
role that the verb would normally assign. This is illustrated in 7.161-7.163:
7. 161 The vase broke-EN.
'The vase got broken.'
7.162
7.163
BAKER'S INCORPORATION THEORY 279
s
~
NP I'
~
I VP
\ ~
EN V NP
16
broke the vase
s
NP I'
~
the vasci
I VP
(\
brokei EN
v
I
e)
NP
I
e·1
Finally, Baker argues that NI can take place withgut overt syntactic movement.
In this case the noun undergoes Abstract Incorporation, so that it is linked to the
verb as though incorporation had taken place (a process also called Reanalysis).
Syntactically, the results are exactly those of genuine incorporation. In particular, the
reanalysed noun can no longer function as the head of its phrase, and this role can
be taken over by, say, a possessor NP, just as in 7.149. The result is the phenomenon
of possessor ascension again, this time without overt NI. In 7.166 I have notated
Reanalysis using an asterisk:
7.164 a) Dick stole Tom's spear. =:>
b) Dick stole Tom the spear.
280
f'
GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
7.165
7.166
s
~
NP VP
~
V NP
~
NP PP
Dick
1\ np
~I I
stole the spear of Tom
s
~
NP VP
~
V* NP
~
NP N*
I I
Dick stole Tom spear
Baker argues that all the other types of incorporation we have just reviewed may
too be realized in the form of Reanalysis. 7 Thus, he claims that the Romance causa-
tive construction is an example of Abstract Verb Incorporation. The idea of Abstract
Preposition Incorporation is used to account for pseudopassives in English (see
examples 7. 30-7. 32). Baker argues that, in a sentence such as This bed has been slept
in (by someone), the preposition has been reanalysed as part of the verb, without
actually being incorporated in the way the true applied affix is. This means that
the complement of the preposition, this bed, becomes a derived object which can
subsequently undergo passivization.
In what sense do these structures conform to syntactic principles? The :first point
to note is that incorporation respects the Head Movement Constraint (HMC). This
constraint (originally formulated by Lisa Travis), states that a lexical item such as a
verb may only incorporate those words which it properly governs. For our purposes,
proper government is the relation between a theta role assigner such as V or P and
the position to which it assigns a theta role (for instance, its NP complement). 8
This is straightforward for NI, antipassive, passive and applicatives, though for
causatives we will need to add to our account to show how they respect the HMC.
The HMC rules out a great many types of incorporation which are not attested. The
most important types of incorporation which are prohibited by the HMC are incor-
poration of subjects by verbs and incorporation from adverbials, that is, non-theta
marked adjuncts. Subjects can't be incorporated because a verb only governs a
position if it c-commands that position, and it is the subject which (asymmetrically)
(.
BAKER'S INCORPORATION THEORY 281
c-commands the verb. It is impossible to incorporate from adverbials because an
adverbial is not theta marked and non-theta marked positions constitute a 'barrier'
to government in Chomsky's (1986a) Barriers model. Hence, the adverbial's phrasal
node (AdvP, PP, NP etc.) would be a barrier and would prevent the verb complex
from governing the trace of the incorporated lexical item.
Baker also argues that when, say, a verb incorporates a preposition, then the
complex derived verb governs anything which was governed by the incorporated
element before it became incorporated. Thus, in 7.157 the verb complex dance-for
governs Tom because for governs Tom in 7.156. This principle is the Government
Transparency Corollary. (Baker actually derives this from other assumptions.)
Given these assumptions, all the traces in the incorporation structures we have seen
will be (properly) governed. On the other hand, in a good many unattested types
of incorporation we would have traces which would fail to be (properly) governed.
This failure constitutes a violation of a very general principle, the Empty Category
Principle (ECP). Baker's theory therefore links the impossibility of certain types of
incorporation with other, apparently unrelated, syntactic phenomena, which lends
considerable theoretical interest to his proposals.
This is the core of Baker's theory. In the next sections we will examine each of
these analyses in some more detail to see how he deals with the complexities of some
of these constructions.
7.4.2 PF identification
/ We have seen how Baker relates morphologically complex constructions to
underlying representations in which affixes figure as fully fledged lexical heads. A key
idea here is that constructions, or parts of constructions, which show the same theta
role (predicate-argument) relations should have the same underlying representation.
For instance, consider a language in which the verb drop has the structure of a regu-
larly formed causative, as in our notional sentence Harriet CAUSE-fall the vase.
Baker argues that we must represent in underlying structure the fact that the vase
bears the same semantic role to the complex verb CAUSE-fall that it bears to the
simple verb fall. Moreover, this underlying structure must represent the fact that
Harriet caused a situation to come about, described by the proposition the vase fell.
Baker therefore follows Marantz in adopting a type of lexical decomposition analysis.
For this purpose he proposes a principle which he calls the Uniformity of Theta
Assignment Hypothesis, or UTAH. This states that whenever a theta role assigner,
say, the verb fall, assigns a particular theta role, such as Theme, but in a variety
of different surface structures, as in the intransitive and causative forms above, then
the D-structure representation corresponding to those surface structures has to
remain the same. In other words, the D-structure for CAUSE-fall has to include a
representation in which fall assigns a Theme role. In effect, the principle helps us
to determine the D-structure of a sentence by inspecting its meaning.
If D-structures for different constructions are to be similar, how do we represent ..
differences in grammatical relations? GB theory doesn't permit direct reference to
grammatical relations. The UTAH implies that we can't capture valency changes by
rules which alter the theta grids (argument structure) of verbs. Strict subcategoriz-
ation is all but replaced in GB theory by theta role assignment, so this leaves us with
i
~ I
'I
;I
·i
;J
:I
il
If
!I
'I
Li•I
I
282 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
Case Theory coupled with incorporation to account for alternations in valency. For
this reason Baker develops an elaborated theory of Case.
One rather obvious observation is that languages have a number of different ways
of realizing Abstract Case. These include word order (as in English), morphological
case marking, and verb agreement. Baker suggests that in talking about Case assign-
ment we should abstract away from these differences and proposes a more general
term, PF Identification (PF for 'Phonological Form').
A number of constructions involving NI point to the conclusion that a noun which
is incorporated doesn't necessarily have to receive the abstract Accusative Case
feature which it would have received had it not been incorporated. The most obvious
of these constructions are possessor raising constructions in, for instance, the
Iroquoian languages. Mohawk verbs don't assign morphological case to their argu-
ments, but they do agree with them for number and gender. In 7.167 the verb bears
a suffix cross-referencing the subject (which at D-structure would be an unaccusative
direct object). (The possessed noun house also agrees with its possessor, Sawatis):
7.167 Ka-rakv ne Sawatis hrao-nuhs-a?.
3NEUT-white POSS John 3MASC-house-SUFF
'John's house is white.'
After NI, however, the predicate rakv no longer agrees with the neuter noun nuhs,
'house', btit with the masculine noun Sawatis, 'John', as in 7.168:
7.168 Hrao-nuhs-rakv ne Sawatis.
3MASC-house-white POSS John
'John's house is white.'
Recall that Sawatis in 7.168 is the derived argument of the verb, following possessor
raising. Therefore, it has been Case marked by the verb (in the form of agreement
shown by the hrao- prefix). The verb no longer agrees with its former argument,
'house'. This would seem to suggest that nuhs is without Case, in violation of the
Case Filter (Visibility). How can this come about?
Baker argues that this means that incorporation is itself a variety of Case marking,
or, more generally, of PF Identification. When a verb which would normally assign
Case to ('identify') an argument incorporates that argument, it may have a Case
feature 'left over', so to speak, which can then be assigned to another NP, such
as a stranded possessor. A similar phenomenon is shown in 7.169, this time with a
transitive verb, the language being the closely related Oneida:
7.169 Wa-hi-nuhs-ahni:nu: John.
AOR-lsg.Sf3MASC-house-buy John
'I bought John's house.' (lit: 'I house-bought John.')
Incorporation is itself, then, a form of PF Identification, and an incorporated noun
need not receive further identification (say, from verb agreement). There is variation
between languages, here, however. In Iroquoian (and in Ainu (Shibatani, 1990)) a
i
BAKER'S INCORPORATION THEORY 283
transitive verb which incorporates its object remains transitive (for example, by still
agreeing with its incorporated object). In the Eskimo languages, NI obligatorily
makes a transitive verb intransitive. Baker interprets this by saying that in Eskimo
the incorporated object still requires the Abstract Case feature. Since the objective
Case is 'absorbed' by the incorporated noun it can't be assigned outside the verb,
hence the verb behaves as though it were intransitive. Baker ingeniously relates this
to the failure of Eskimo to incorporate subjects of unaccusative verbs: unaccusatives
don't assign Case, yet the incorporated noun must receive Case. In addition, Eskimo
verbs can't Case mark stranded possessors. Unfortunately, this picture is muddied
by the existence of languages such as Niuean and Chukchee, in which incorporation
renders the verb intransitive, but where it is possible to incorporate from unac-
cusatives (and marginally in Chukchee to Case mark stranded NPs). Here, Baker says
that the incorporated noun prefers to receive Case but is prepared to waive this privi-
lege if there is none available or if another noun has greater need of it.
Another point about PF Identification is that a Case assigning item, such as a verb
or a preposition, doesn't seem able to mark more than one NP in one and the same
way. Thus, we don't usually find verbs assigning two Nominative Cases and it is very
rare for a language to allow transitive verbs to mark two objects with the same Case.
Baker argues that since incorporation is a form of PF Identification we wouldn't
therefore expect a verb to be able to incorporate more than one of its arguments. This
seems to be generally true.
The next consequence is of some importance when we look at applied verb con-
structions. Baker claims that incorporation doesn't increase the ability of an item to
assign Case, over and above the maximum allowed for that category in the language.
Hence, a verb which incorporates a preposition or another verb will not be expected
to assign more than one structural Case to its complement, because, in general, this
is the maximum allowed in languages. Putting it another way, if basic transitive verbs
in a language only have one genuine direct object (as is generally the case), then Pre-
position Incorporation won't be able to create a verb which takes two genuine direct
objects. Baker refers to this stipulation as the Case Frame Preservation Principle
(CFPP).
7.4.3 Causatives
Given the UTAH, wherever a language relates a verb of valency n to a causative of
valency n + 1 by means of some regular morphological process, we must assume an
analysis in which the causative predicate incorporates the lower verb, V, to produce
a complex predicate, 'cause to V'. Baker adopts essentially Marantz's typology of
causative constructions. Now, Marantz explained the difference in behaviour
between monoclausal and biclausal causatives in terms of the level at which
merger takes place. How then does Baker reconstruct this distinction? To answer this
we must look in slightly more detail at the structure of the clause in the 'Barriers'
framework assumed by Baker.
One of the innovations introduce by Chomsky (1986a) is to assume that both the
Infl (I) and the Comp (C) elements head maximal projections. This gives us a basic
284 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
structure 7.170:
7.170 CP (= S')
~
Spec CP C'
~
C IP(= S)
~
NP I'
~
I VP
~
V NP
The C position is for complementizers such as that or for in English, while the Spec
CP position is for wh-phrases. Assuming that causative predicates take non-finite
clausal (CP) complements (as opposed to IP or VP), this means that the general form
of a causative construction at D-structure will be something like 7.171:
7.171 s
~
NP0 VP
~
V CP
I~
CAUSE Spec C'
CP ~
C IP
~
NPI I'
~
I VP
.~
V NP2
\ ~
Tom made Harriet eat the apple ·
In morphological causatives the matrix CAUSE predicate surfaces as an affix which
has incorporated the lower V. There are two main ways of achieving this, depending
on whether we have a monoclausal or a biclausal type of causative.
In monoclausal causatives we saw that the lower object, NP2, becomes the true
direct object of the causative verb, while the causee (lower subject), NP~, is treated
as an adjunct or obliquely marked secondary object. This result is obtained by raising
"
'
:
BAKER'S INCORPORATION THEORY 285
the whole of the lower VP to the position Spec CP, as in 7.172. From that position,
the verbal head of the lower VP can incorporate into the CAUSE predicate, as in
7.173.
7.172
7.173
s
~
NPo
I
I
Tom
VP
~
V CP
I
CAUSE Spec CP
I
VP
~
V NPz
~·
the apple
s
~
NP0 VP
~-
V' CP
Tom V~
(j \ Spec CP
I
eat-CAUSE
VPi
~
V NPz
I 6
ei the apple
IP
/\
NP1 I'
HaLiet ~
I VP
I
IP
~
NP1 It
! ~
Harriet I VP
I
eI
The VP is able to govern its trace in the embedded sentence under the assumptions
of GB theory. Likewise, the derived causative verb governs into the VP inside the
286 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
Spec CP position. Therefore, this incorporation respects the HMC and is permitted
by syntactic principles.
Turning now to biclausal causatives, the lower subject, NPt, becomes the true
object of the derived causative verb, rather as in ECM constructions with verbs like
believe. What we can assume here is that just the lower V (not the whole VP) is raised
and incorporates into the matrix causative verb. This leaves the lower object, NP2,
stranded in the lower VP, while the lower subject can be Case marked and thus
becomes the new direct object. The V movement takes place in several stages, via
the positions of I and C in the embedded clause as illustrated in 7.174:
s
~
NPo VP
~
V'
Tom
(\
eat-CAUSE
CP
I
C'
~
C IP
I~
e·1 NP1 I'
~~
Harriet I VP
J V~P2
I ~
e1 the apple
Moving the verb successively into I and C positions is the only way in which such
a causative can be generated. The traces form a chain, each member of which is
governed. Therefore, this incorporation respects the HMC, as required.
The lower object, NP2, in 7.174 presents an interesting problem for which Baker
:finds an ingenious solution. In order to be assigned a theta role it must be PF iden-
tified ('made visible') in some way. Yet such an NP is too 'far away' from a suitable
verb to get identified in the usual ways. Baker argues that this NP must therefore
be rendered visible in some fashion before the lower verb is raised. One form of PF
Identification is Noun Incorporation, and, indeed, in S. Tiwa a biclausal causative
of this kind can only be formed if the lower object is first incorporated by the lower
verb. We have also seen that some languages exercise the option of Noun Reanalysis,
a kind of abstract Noun Incorporation without movement. This is what gives rise to
some types of possessor raising constructions. In the next subsection we will see that
Noun Reanalysis is implicated in the Dative Shift alternation, in that languages per-
mitting Noun Reanalysis are precisely those which permit Dative Shift. Baker argues
that the second object of biclausal causatives is made visible in the same way, by
I
BAKER'S INCORPORATION THEORY 287
Reanalysis with the verb. His claims are bolstered by the observation that it is only
languages which have a Dative Shift construction which permit biclausal causatives.
He argues that Chichewa provides a 'minimal pair' with respect to this claim: one
dialect of the language has no Dative Shift and therefore has no Reanalysis, and
therefore permits only monoclausal causatives. Another dialect does have Dative
Shift and hence has the biclausal type of causative.
7.4.4 Applicatives (applied verbs)
Recall that in an applicative or applied verb construction, an argument, such as a
Goal, a Benefactive, a Malefactive or an Instrumental, which is marked with an
oblique case, a preposition or a postposition, becomes a derived direct object. The
old direct object then becomes 'frozen' and ceases to behave like a genuine object.
Baker refers to this patterning as 'Marantz's Generalization'. Again, by manipulating
assumptions about Case Theory (PF Identification) we can provide an account for
these surface transitivity alternations.
We have seen a schematic example of an applicative in 7.156-7.157, in which an
intransitive verb becomes transitive. Let's consider a real example, this time with a
basic transitive verb. In 7.175 we see two sentences from Chichewa (tones omitted):
7.175 a) Mbidzi zi-na-perek-a msampha kwa nkhandwe.
zebras SUBJ-PAST-hand-ASP trap to fox
'The zebras handed the trap to the fox.'
b) Mbidzi zi-na-perek-er-a nkhandwe msampha.
zebras SUBJ-PAST-hand-APPL-ASP fox trap.
'The zebras handed the fox the trap.'
The basic structure of 7.175b is 7.176:
7.176 s
NP1 VP
V' NP2 pp
~ ~
v p p NP3
I I l I
mbidzi perek eri msampha e nkhandwe
I
zebras hand APPL trap fox
By Marantz's Generalization we have the curious fact that NP3 has become the true
object, displacing NP2 . We must explain first how NP3 becomes the object, and
second, how NP2 can be PF identified.
Recall from §7.4.1 that the verb complex V' in 7.176 governs NP3 because the
288 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
incorporated preposition governed NP3 before incorporating (Government Trans-
parency Corollary). Therefore, V' is able to assign its objective Case to NP3 , and, in
fact, V' is the only source of Case marking for this NP. What about NP2? This can
no longer get the verb's Case, because that has to be assigned to NP3 . The solution
is to assume that NPz has undergone prior Abstract Incorporation, or Reanalysis, as
in the case of possessor raising. Then, we predict that NPz will not behave like a
genuine direct object, but rather will be 'frozen', as is the case.
Baker argues that it is not necessary for the P Incorporation process to be repre-
sented formally by affixation of the verb. He claims that the Dative Shift alternation
found in, say, English is the consequence of P Incorporation in which the base
form of the verb and its applied form are homophonous. This means that English
has a zero applied affix, and abstract Noun Incorporation. Hence the structure of a
sentence such as 7.177 is 7.178 (recall that the asterisk represents reanalysis):
7.177 Tom gave Harriet a rose.
7.178 s
NPz
~.
Det Ni*
I I
Tom gave + a rose
pp
A
P NP3
I I
e·I
Harriet
Interestingly, in some languages Dative Shift alternations are only permitted where
genuine Noun Incorporation has taken place. Chukchee is an example (Nedjalkov,
1976):
7.179 a) ~tbg-e akka-gtd qora-IJd tdmnen.
father-ERG son-DAT reindeer-ASS killed-3sg.Sf3sg.O
'The father killed a reindeer for the son.'
b) ~tbg-dn akka-gtd qaa-nm-at-g?e.
father-ABS son-DAT deer-killed-SUFF-3sg.S
· 'Ibid.'
c) dltdg-e ekdk qaa-nmd-nen.
father-ERG son-ABS deer-killed-3sg.Sf3sg.O
'The father killed the son a reindeer.'
d) *dtbg-e ekdk IJaaka-gtd qaa-nmd-nen.
father-ERG son-ABS daughter-DAT deer-killed-3sg.Sf3sg.O
'The father killed the son a reindeer for the daughter.'
Nedjalkov (1976: 199) reports that 7.179d is uninterpretable because it has, in
effect, two benefactives. Note that Chukchee has no overt affixal applicative construe-
BAKER'S INCORPORATION THEORY 289
tion. The Dative Shift construction in Chukchee is therefore just like that in English,
except that we have genuine NI instead of the abstract variety.
7.4.5 Passives and antipassives
The incorporation theory of antipassives is relatively straightforward. Consider the
Chukchee example in 7.180. We assume a D-structure for this in the form of 7.181:
7.180
7.181
G;;1m t-ine-tejk-drk;;Jn orw-et;;J.
l-ABS 1S-AP-make-ASP sledge-DAT
'I am making a sledge. '
s
~
NP VP
~
V NP PP
I
N
I
tejk me (orw)
The oblique argument (corresponding to the active direct object) is optional,
appearing here in the Dative case. Since ine- is morphologically an affix, incorpor-
ation is obligatory. The trace it leaves is properly governed by the verb, as required. 9
This analysis explains, inter alia, why it is that the antipassive construction only
applies to direct objects. If a non-theta marked adjunct or a subject were so incorpor-
ated there would be an ECP violation. It appears that antipassive constructions are
always intransitive. This means that the antipassive morpheme must always be
assigned the verb's structural Case. In this (as in a number of other respects),
antipassive differs from pure NI.
If the antipassive morpheme is generated as a nominal in object position and subse-
quently incorporated into the verb, it is tempting to adopt a similar approach to pas-
sives. However, the argument position which appears to be lost in the passive is that
of the active subject, and this causes a problem for an incorporation analysis. Recall
~hat (genuine) subjects can't undergo NI. This is because the verb doesn't govern the
subi~ct position, so such an incorporation would leave an ungoverned trace. So we
can't assume that the passive morpheme is simply the antipassive morpheme in
subject position.
Baker's solution to this problem is to assume that the passive argument is a
nominal affix, but that, unlike the antipassive, it belongs to a special part of speech
making it somewhat similar to an auxiliary verb. The effect of this is to ensure that
the passive morpheme has the syntactic category of Infl, so that it can only be gener-
ated in that position. In a language such as Chichewa, in which the passive mor-
pheme simply appears on the verb stem, we can assume that the verb then moves
290 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
into the Infl position where it gets associated with the passive affix (as well as various
tense, aspect and agreement markers). This type of V-to-I movement is precisely
what is assumed by many specialists in Germanic syntax, and it has given rise to a
rich literature on the so-called V2 phenomenon.
Verb movement to Infl presumably doesn't literally occur in English, which lacks
the V2 properties of other Germanic languages. Therefore, we may assume Re-
analysis takes place, followed by a special 'Affix Hopping' process (which somehow
is not subject to the ECP). This is diagrammed in 7.182 for the structure underlying
The duckling was killed by the farmer:
7.182 s
NP I'
I·*
1 VP
~
be N
I
-EN
V·*
1 NP pp
I I ~
kill duckling by farmer
The verb has to assign a theta role to the -EN morpheme. Since that morpheme
is external to the VP, it must be the external argument role which is assigned. As
we know, some verbs don't have an external argument role, for instance, the unac-
cusative verbs and Raising-to-Subject verbs. On Baker's analysis this would mean
that such verbs would be unable to form a passive. 10 But this is precisely what is
stated in the !-Advancement Exclusiveness Law (1-AEX) discussed earlier in the
chapter.
We noted that the 1-AEX has exceptions in certain languages, such as the double
passive of Lithuanian. Baker handles these cases by assuming that in such languages
the passive morpheme differs from the passive of, say, English, in that it isn't cate-
gorically a member of Infl. Rather, it is a genuine nominal and thus can be generated
in any NP position, provided it appears under Infl (or affixed to a verb) by surface
structure. The derivation for the Lithuanian example (repeated here as 7.183, and
schematically as 7.184) is then shown in 7.185:
7.183
7.184
To lapelio buta vejo nupusto.
the leaf-GEN/Mfsg. be-PASSJNOM/Nfsg. wind-GEN
blow-PASSfGEN/Mfsg.
(Lit.) 'By that leaf there was getting blown down by the wind.'
Be-PASSt blow-PASS2 (by wind) (by leaf)
BAKER'S INCORPORATION THEORY 291
7.185 a) s
NP
V* NP pp pp
I I
6 ~
PASS2
blow by leaf by wind
b) s
NP
I* VP
e·I
~
be PASS1i
V* NP pp pp
I 6 ~
by leaf by wind
c) s
NP I'
I* VP
pp pp
6 6
by leaf by wind
292 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
d)
NP
e·)
s
I'
I*
1\
be PASSzi
V*
A
blow+ PASS1
VP
pp pp
6 A
by leaf by wind
In 7.185 the asterisk on I and Vindicates abstract V-to-I movement (Reanalysis).
The passive argument in subject position (PASS1) then incorporates into Infl, and
the passive argument in object position fills the vacated subject slot. Next, the PASSt
element moves, by Affix Hopping, onto the lexical verb, while PASS2 moves into the
I node.
The rather baroque analysis illustrates one of the several strengths of Baker's
approach. From very slight alterations in a representation (here, the category of the
PASS morpheme), we get far-reaching consequences, because of the way this change
interacts with general, universally applicable principles.
Before we leave Baker's theory, we turn to Case assignment in passives. In the
standard GB analysis of passives, the verb's underlying complement has to move to
the subject position, because the passive participle doesn't assign a Case, and it is
therefore only in the subject position that the complement can receive Case. Since
the external argument role of the verb necessarily has to be assigned to the passive
morpheme in the passive construction, and can't be assigned to a 'genuine'
argument, we can think ofpassive participles as falling under Burzio's generalization,
according to which verbs which fail to assign an external theta role also fail to assign
an internal Case. However, we've seen passive constructions which constitute
exceptions to this generalization.
Earlier, we identified three ways in which Case interacted with NI: (i) the incorpor-
ated noun never needs Case (e.g. Mohawk); (ii) the noun usually receives Case, but
can relinquish it if another NP needs it in the syntax (Niuean); (iii) the noun always
needs Case (Greenlandic Eskimo). In Baker, Johnson and Roberts (1989) a fourth
situation is described, that of Nahuatl (the language of the Aztecs). Here, an unac-
cusative verb may incorporate its (D-structure) object, showing that the incorporated
noun does not require Case. However, unlike the situation in Mohawk or Niuean,
a transitive verb cannot relinquish its unneeded Case when it incorporates its object.
The simplest hypothesis is that a similar situation holds with passives. Thus, for
each of the four variants of NI we would expect to :find a passive type. Baker et al.
(1989) argue that this is roughly true. (We'll assume that a passive morpheme may
only receive Case from the verb.)
In type (iii) passives, the passive morpheme must receive Case. This will be poss-
ible providing the verb has an internal Case, and providing the verb has undergone
V-to-I movement. The stipulation that the passive element requires (the verb's) Case
BAKER'S INCORPORATION THEORY 293
thus derives Burzio's generalization as it applies to passives. In languages with such
a passive (e.g. English), there will be no impersonal passives and no transitive
passives. English is thus the equivalent of Eskimo.
In a type (iv) passive we would find that an intransitive (Caseless) verb could be
passivized, because the passive morpheme doesn't absolutely require Case from a
verb. However, a transitive verb, which does have Case, would be forced to assign
it to the passive morpheme, and couldn't, say, assign it to a direct object. Therefore,
type (iv) defines a language in which there are impersonal passives but no transitive
passives. This is exemplified by German, which is thus the analogue to Nahuatl.
In a type (ii) passive we would expect the same situation as in type (iv) just
described, and in addition the possibility of assigning the Case of a transitive verb
to a direct object NP if it needed it. In §7.1 we saw examples of Ukrainian and Polish
'transitive passives'. In these constructions the agent takes the form of neuter agree-
ments with arbitrary reference, while the object remains in situ, still marked with
accusative case. We may assume that the passive morpheme receives the external
theta role from the verb but not its Accusative Case, which is instead assigned to the
object. The identification of the passive morpheme is then expressed by the default
neuter singular form (which also serves to express the arbitrary reference). Since
these languages also permit ordinary passives of transitive verbs, Ukrainian and
Polish can be considered equivalent to Niuean.
7.4.6 Conclusions
Baker's theory of valency changing operations represents a radical approach to
morphology. A great mar:y of the regular aspects of morphology are regarded as the
consequence ofprinciples of syntax, and not as morphological phenomena at all. This
is a property which Baker's theory shares with that of Marantz. As we will be seeing
later, some have argued that there is little of general interest in morphology as such,
and that all regularities in word structure are essentially the result of principles of
phonology and syntax. (Baker himself doesn't adopt such an ultra-radical stance.)
Elegant and comprehensive though Baker's theory is, it doesn't solve all the pro-
blems. A closer examination of Baker's analyses would reveal that there are many
areas of uncertainty. Moreover, it is not at all clear what implications Baker's theor-
etical apparatus for valency changing has for the other examples of morpho-
logy-syntax interaction we'll be discussing, namely compounds and clitics. However,
the work both of Baker and Marantz has shown how extremely fruitful it is to look
at the morphology-syntax interface from the perspective of the latter.
While Marantz's theory makes explicit reference to the lexical structure of words
and morphemes, and explicitly adopts a version of Lieber's (1980) framework, Baker
is relatively silent about the purely morphological aspects of the processes he dis-
cusses. In a sense that is a pity, because many of the valency changing processes he
talks about, including NI, get lexicalized in many languages and lose their syntactic
generality. It would therefore be of great interest to know exactly how genuinely
morphological phenomena are handled in such a theory (Baker, 1988b, offers some
very interesting commentary on this question). We'll be taking up these questions
again in Part IV.
One very specific claim is, however, to be found in Baker (1985a). Here, Baker
294 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
advances the Mirror Principle, which states that the order of morphological oper-
ations, as revealed by the order of affixation, is always identical to that of syntactic
operations. We've already seen a reflex of this in the examples from Quechua shown
in chapter 3, examples 3.25-3.26. There, we saw that the order in which reflexive
and causative affixes are attached mirrors the order of reflexivization and causativiz-
ation. Baker argues that productive morphological processes always reflect syntax in
this fashion and attributes this to the essentially syntactic nature of the morphological
processes themselves. The significance of Baker's observations and their implications
have not gone unquestioned, however (Grimshaw, 1986).
As we will discover in the next two chapters, a number of the problems posed by
NI recur in other, more familiar types of compounding, and in pronominal cliticiz-
ation. In chapter 9 we'll find that opinion is divided as to whether to regard, say,
French cliticization as effectively the incorporation of a pronoun into the verb,
leaving a trace, or whether to regard the process as essentially one of affixation. On
the second theory, the elitic/affix would then identify an empty pronoun (referred to
as 'small pro' in the generative literature), an empty category with all the properties
of a real pronoun except that it is phonetically null. In other words, we have a choice
between analysing the French sentence in 7.186 as 7.187a or b:
7.186
7.187
Je le vois.
I him see
'I see him.'
a) Je lei vois ti.
b) Je lei vois proi.
Not surprisingly, a similar analysis of NI can be justified which appe~ls to the p_r;p
empty category and not to the trace of head movement. Rosen (1989) claims that the
morphological compounding process of incorporation is always lexical but that there
are two types of syntactic construction in which it participates. In the first, lexical
compounding of a verb's direct argument fails to satisfy the argument structure of
the verb in the lexicon itself. Hence, a transitive verb remains transitive and takes
a syntactic direct object at all levels of syntactic representation. The identity of the
object is already indicated in the incorporation complex, so for semantic reasons we
would usually only expect an empty category to appear as direct object, that is, pro.
This means that a notional sentence such as Tom deer-hunts would be represented as
in 7.188a:
7.188 a) S
---------------
NP VP
~
V NP
~
N V
I I
Tom hunts
BAKER'S INCORPORATION THEORY 295
Rosen argues that this is the structure found in languages such as Mohawk, in which
the verb remains transitive after incorporation. If we assume that the pro can be
of category N or N', then we can also permit it to be modified by adjectives,
determiners or relative clauses. This then permits modifier stranding and possessor
ra1smg.
On the other hand, Rosen claims, we might also find NI languages in which the
verb's internal argument position is satisfied in the lexicon by the lexical com-
pounding process. In that case, the compounded verb would become lexically intran-
sitive and would fail to project a direct object position in syntactic representation. In
such a language, incorporation structures should behave just like any other intransi-
tive verb and should not permit modifier stranding. 11 Hence, our notional sentence
would receive a structure such as 7.118b:
7.188 b) s
~
NP VP
I
v
~
N V
I I
Tom deer hunts
Rosen's analysis is particularly attractive for Chukchee:. NI in this language gives
intransitive verbs, and, except for a handful of marginal cases of possessor raising
(which arguably should be analysed as something else anyway), it doesn't permit
modifier stranding. Hence, we'd expect it to pattern along the lines illustrated in
7.188b. This would solve a serious descriptive problem which arises if we adopt a
syntactic movement analysis. For in Chukchee the verb can freely incorporate non-
theta marked adjuncts, in violation of the Barriers analysis of the ECP. This, for
instance, is illustrated in a sentence cited in chapter 1 (example 1.20), repeated as
7.189 below (Skorik, 1961: 102), where the verb has incorporated what may well be
an indirect instrumental argument ('gun') together with uncontroversial adverbials:
7.189 T;:,-jaa -racw;:,IJ -melgar-maraw-;:,rk;:,n.
I -distant-compete-gun -fight -PRES
'I am fighting a duel.'
(Lit: 'I fight with a gun competing at a distance.')
Another example is 7.190, with its analytic counterpart, 7.191 (Skorik, 1977: 241):
7.190
7.191
M;:,n -n;:,ki -ure -qepl-uwicwen-mJk.
1pl.IMPER-night-long-ball-play -1pl.
'Let's play ball for a long time at night.'
NJki-te n -ur -?ew mJn -uwicwen-mJk qepl-e.
night-OBL ADV-long-ADV lpl.IMPER-play -1pl. ball -OBL
296 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
Examples such as this can be multiplied ad libitum from Chukchee. The same sort
of behaviour is typical of Chukchee's close relative, Koryak, and it has also been re-
corded in the Australian language Tiwi (Osborne, 1974). If incorporation is purely
lexical this is precisely the pattern of data we'd expect. Interestingly, incorporation
in Chukchee (particularly in the texts collected at the turn of the century, before the
wholesale russi:fication of the language) seems to have been very free and productive,
whilst it is claimed that in Mohawk, where incorporation is supposedly syntactic, it
is rather restricted and lexically governed (Mithun, 1984, 1986).
7. 5 Lexical approaches to valency alternations
7.5.1 Valency alternations in the lexicon
Although Baker's syntactic theory of grammatical function changing covers a good
deal of ground, there are a number of alternations he doesn't treat. Morphologically
mediated reflexivization is one obvious example, a case which Marantz's theory does,
however, handle. There are several examples in the literature of morphological pro-
cesses which affect valency which don't obviously yield to a syntactic analysis (at least
not in terms of incorporation).
In §6.1.3, we saw examples of category-changing affixation (e.g. -able, -ee, -ize)
which referred to argument structure. In addition to these processes, there are mor-
phological operations creating verbs from verbs which affect valency in ways which
can't obviously be accommodated ·in terms of incorporation or head-to-head move-
ment. There are several cases in the literature of prefixation altering the valency of
a verb. A well-known example of this is the prefix out-, which attaches productively
to intransitive verbs (e.g. snore) and creates a transitive verb (e.g. Dick out-snored
Tom). Presumably, this type of alternation must be handled in the morphology and
not by syntactic rules.
A more general observation is due to Carlson and Roeper (1980). They point out
that pre:fixation in general alters the subcategorization (selection) properties of verbs.
In particular, there is a strong tendency for a prefixed verb to admit only NP direct
objects, even if the unprefixed verb selects PPs, sentential complements, adverbial
complements and so on. (This also seems true of verbs formed by suffixation from
nouns and adjectives.) Some examples of this are shown in 7.192-7.195:
7.192
7.193
a) Tom calculated )our time of arrival. }
b) lwhen we would arrive.
c) Tom miscalculated )our time of arrival. }
d) l*When we would arrive.
a) Dick managed
b)
c) Dick mismanaged
d)
)his finances prudently·}
lto make ends meet.
)his finances. }
l*to make ends meet.
'"'
. 7.194
7.195
LEXICAL APPROACHES TO VALENCY ALTERNATIONS 297
a) Harriet believes
b)
c) Harriet disbelieves
d)
a) Tom printed
b)
c) Tom reprinted
d)
)Dick. }
(Dick to be a liar.
)Dick. }
(*Dick to be a liar.
)several posters for Harriet.]
(Harriet several posters.
)several posters for Harriet.]
(*Harriet several posters.
Carlson and Roeper's suggested explanation for this behaviour is the Case Comple-
ment Restriction: all verbs created by a general lexical process assign objective Case,
and thus take a single NP complement (i.e. they are simple transitive verbs). Only
listed verbs can have different subcategorization or selection properties. To the extent
that reflexives, causatives, applied verbs and so on fail to respect this generalization,
we could say that those operations are cases of syntactic word formation rather than
lexical, purely affixational word formation.
Earlier in the chapter we saw two ways in which a transitive verb can have an
intransitive alternant. In 7.43 we saw examples of 'middles', and in 7.46, examples
of 'anticausatives'. In 7.196-7.197 I give a further example of each:
7.196 These jeans wash easily.
7.197 The boat sank.
It has been argued by Keyser and Roeper (1984) that the distinction between two
types of intransitive verb can be explained if the middl.es are derived syntactically
(rather like passives), while the anticausatives (which they refer to as 'ergatives') are
derived lexically. They note that there is a whole host of ways in which these
superficially similar constructions differ. One of the most interesting differences is
that the middle (like a syntactic passive) bears with it an implicit agent, at least as
far as meaning is concerned. Thus, 7.196 implies that someone is washing the jeans.
However, there is no agent implied in 7.197: the boat could have just sunk of its own
accord, without actually being sunk by anyone.
Keyser and Roeper suggest that the middles are formed by a syntactic rule, in
much the same way that syntactic passives are assumed to be formed in the syntax.
The anticausatives, however, are said to be formed by means of a set of lexical
transformations operating over the subcategorization frame of the verb (where 'sub-
categorization frame' has to be understood rather loosely, as it includes the subject
NP position). The transformations map 7.198a into 7.198b:
7.198 a) sink:
b)
[NP [VP __
[NPi [VP __
[NP]]
[ti] ]
The object NP in 7.198a is moved to the subject position, displacing that NP, and
leaving behind a coindexed trace, to indicate where it came from.
Not everyone agrees, of course, that anticausatives should be handled by the lexical
equivalents of noun incorporation. 12 More recently, Fagan (1988) has argued that not
'
298 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
even middles are formed by a movement rule. Rather, she claims that middles result
from two processes. One of these assigns the interpretation 'arbitrary entity' to the
external argument. This accounts for why 7.196 has the meaning People in general
can wash these jeans easily. It is usually assumed that when an argument position is
given a particular interpretation in this fashion by a lexical rule, then that position
can't appear in syntactic structure. This accounts for the loss of the original external
argument. The second process is the externalization of the internal theta role,
explaining why the Theme in 7.196 is the subject. This means that middle formation
is rather similar to its effects to -able affixation (as in These jeans are washable). To
distinguish the middles from the anticausatives such as 7.197, Fagan assumes that
ergative formation is a lexical rule which simply deletes the external argument of a
verb marked [+causative]. (Alternatively, one might want to say that the transitive
alternant was derived from the intransitive by a causative rule taking the form of
conversion, much as we would have to say for Tom walked the dog.)
7.5.2 Williams's theory
In the two syntactically based approaches to valency changing reviewed in §§7.3, 4
we were implicitly assuming that the argument structure or theta grid of the base verb
remained constant during the syntactic derivation. Increases in surface valency were
the consequence of incorporation or merger with other theta role assigners (verbs or
prepositions) and decreases in valency were due to changes in Case assignment or to
incorporation of arguments by predicates. In other words, the theories of Baker and
Marantz adhere to Chomsky's Projection Principle. This states that the argument
structure of a predicate is projected through the syntactic derivation and remairis
unaltered at all syntactic levels of representation. By the Projection· Principle it is
impossible for a verb which is intransitive in the lexicon and at D-structure to acquire
a theta marked direct object of its own accord in the course of the derivation. If this
appears to happen then there must be another theta role assigner at D-structure.
The Projection Principle plays an important role in GB theory and distinguishes
it from a number of other conceivable syntactic theories. However, there is one way
in which it can appear to be subverted, and that is by altering the argument structure
of a verb in the lexicon, before the start of the syntactic derivation. Indeed, this is
exactly the way that Marantz has handled the Dative Shift alternation. He assumes
that Dative Shift verbs are given two argument structures (related to each other by
a lexical redundancy rule). Therefore, the fact that the Dative Shifted alternant
appears to have acquired an extra object is due to· the difference in its argument
structure compared with that of its unshifted homophone.
If we assume that regular and productive alternations, such as English Passive, can
also be represented by lexical redundancy relations, then we are permitted an entirely
different approach to the problem. In §6.1.3, I introduced Williams's lexical
approach to valency affecting operations. In this theory, rules such as passive and
causative are the result of altering the argument structure of the verb at the level of
the lexicon. Let's begin by recalling a simple example. In a case such as breakable,
affixation of a transitive verb creates an adjective whose external argument corre-
sponds to the verb's internal argument (a case of internalization). This is illustrated
in 7.199 (cf. chapter 6, example 6.32; recall that underlining indicates the external
LEXICAL APPROACHES TO VALENCY ALTERNATIONS 299
argument):
7.199 break (Ag, Th)- breakable (Ag, Th)
We can compare this with another deverbal adjective, the adjectival (or stative)
passive form, broken, as in The vase was completely broken. We can assume that affix-
ation (of -EN) has roughly the same effect:
7.200 break (Ag, Th)- broken (Ag, Th)
-- -
This account is adequate for the adjectival passive form, but is insufficient for the
verbal or syntactic passive, in which the passive participle remains categorically a
verb form and not an adjective. Williams (198lb) accepts Chomsky's viewpoint that
the passive participle in this case fails to assign an external theta role. The external
argument remains 'implicit', only capable of surfacing as a by-phrase adjunct. In this
early account the argument structure of the syntactic passive partiCiple is then exactly
that of the basic transitive verb except that it lacks an external argument, indicated
by erasure of the underlying, as in 7.201:
7.201 break (Ag, Th)- broken (Ag, Th)
This analysis correctly represents the passive participle as a type of unaccusative
verb. However, merely providing a representational notation doesn't make it clear
exactly how the two different sorts of passive participle formation process are to be
distinguished.
Di Sciullo and Williams (1987) adopt a slightly different approach to the verbal pas-
sive. They introduce a notion of control of an argument by an affix (not to be con-
fused with the GB notion of Control, in which PRO is controlled by a matrix NP).
This notion bears some similarity to the idea of Baker et al. (1989) who claim that
the passive affix is the element to which the verb assigns its external theta role. The
idea is that an affix may be specially linked to a position in the verb's argument struc-
ture, thereby preventing that argument from being realized as an external NP. For
instance, in the word employer, the -er affix controls the Agent argument of the verb
employ. In this way we can state that an employer is an Agent, and that the activity
he engages in is that expressed by the verb. Moreover, we account for the fact that
no other noun within the NP can express that argument. Thus, Tom, in Tom's
employer or employer of Tom, cannot be the Agent. In like fashion, we can say that,
in employee, the -ee affix controls the Theme argument (so that, in Tom's employee,
Tom is the Agent not the Theme).
To account for the syntactic passive participle, what we now have to say is that the
-EN morpheme controls the external argument. However, this argument can be
expressed, namely, with a by-phrase. Therefore, we must assume that the affix is
somehow linked to that by-phrase (where it occurs) and that the external argument
theta role can be transferred to it. The way Di Sciullo and Williams achieve this is
to assume that the -EN morpheme itself has an argument structure consisting of one
argument, notated as (X). This is linked to a by-phrase if one is present, otherwise
the connection is implicit. Next, we assume that affixation produces a composite
argument structure, which is a combination of the argument structures of the verb
300 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
and of the -EN affix. Hence, the argument structure of the participle broken will be
something like (Xi (Agi, Th) ), where the indexing represents control. Notice that
this lacks an external argument.
To implement this idea, Di Sciullo and Williams borrow a simple algebraic notion
(used quite widely in categorial grammar approaches), namely that of functional
composition. First, we regard an argument structure as a functor. A functor (also
often called a function) is a way of expressing relationships between entities. For
instance, if we wished to notate the idea that y is-the father of x, we could express
the property 'is the father of using a functor, F, and write 'y = F(x) '. We can illus-
trate functional composition by extending our family: let's notate 'y is the mother of
x' as 'y = M(x)' using another functor, M. Let's say we can also write 'z is the
paternal grandmother of x' as 'z = M(F(x)) '. This is possible because F(x) denotes an
individual (say, y) and so our equation is equivalent to 'z = M(y)'. Now, we can
notate this new composite function more simply by adopting functional composition.
We create a new function, G, defined as the result of applying M to F (generally
notated M*F). The new functor, G, is the composition of the two functors, M, F.
Now, we can simply say 'z = G(x)'.
After this digression all we need say now is that argument structures are functors,
and that they can therefore be composed with each other. At the same time we stipu-
late that the -EN argument position controls the verb's external argument. This
means that in a full ('long') passive the by-phrase will correspond to the active sub-
ject. Moreover, this will be true irrespective of the actual theta role which the verb
assigns to the subject. In 7.202-7.203 I show examples of the passive participles of
kill and know (as in The wasp was killed by Tom and The answer was known by Dick):
7.202 7.203
kill know
Di Sciullo and Williams claim that a number of affixes should be regarded seman-
tically as functors, just like the -EN affix (they mention antipassives, applicatives and
causatives in this regard, as well as nominalizations such as completeness and destruc-
tion).
To summarize this approach to passive:
(i) In neither the early nor the later version of Williams's theory does the verb
actually assign its external theta role to the passive morpheme, in the way
proposed by Baker and others.
(ii) In the more recent version, the operation of control 'neutralizes' the external
argument which becomes an implicit argument (specifiable with a by-phrase).
LEXICAL APPROACHES TO VALENCY ALTERNATIONS 301
(iii) Since the verb's original external argument is controlled, and since the -EN affix
has no external argument, the passive form as a whole lacks an external
argument. As a result, there is no longer any specific rule of 'external argument
erasure'.
Compared with the approaches of Marantz or Baker, the proposals which Williams
has advanced are somewhat sketchy and programmatic. However, it seems clear that
in principle a lexicalist account of valency changing can be envisaged even within a
GB-style theory of syntax. I have obviously glossed over a number of important
points, here, particularly as regards syntax. As far as morphology is concerned, the
important point to note is that it is possible to construct a theory in which regular
and productive valency alternations are coded by systematically altering argument
structure in lexical representation. Such a theory involves a weakening of the impor-
tance of the Projection Principle, in the sense that the empirical coverage of that prin-
ciple is narrower. In chapter 11 we'll look at further implications in Williams's
approach for the organization of morphology.
7.5.3 Excursus on adjectival passives (Levin and
Rappaport)
We conclude this look at a lexical analysis of valency changing with an account of
the adjectival passive proposed by Levin and Rappaport (1986). This seeks to derive
nearly all the features of the adjectival passive from general principles of grammar,
and serves as a good illustration of the way that a variety of differences between con-
structions can be reduced to general considerations once we hit on the right formu-
lation of the process and prov_ided we make the right assumptions about basic lexical
structure.
There are two particularly important features which distinguish the adjectival from
the verbal passive: the adjectival passive form is categorically an adjective, not a verb,
and the adjectival passive, unlike the verbal passive, assigns an external theta role.
In other respects the two forms are similar. Levin and Rappaport make the
interesting claim that the second difference is a consequence of the :first, and that
Adjectival Passive Formation (APF) is simply a question of relabelling the passive
participle as an adjective.·
An earlier approach (Wasow, 1977) had claimed that APF had as one of its compo-
nents a subrule which specifically took the Theme of the verb argument structure and
externalized it. This accounts for the fact that it is only direct and not indirect objects
that can be subjects of adjectival passives. For instance, although we can promote the
indirect object Tom of 7.204 to subject position in the verbal passive 7.205a, this is
not possible if the participle is used adjectivally, as in 7.205b; only the direct object
can become the subject (7.205c):
7.204 Dick sold Tom the car.
7.205 a) Tom was sold the car (by Dick).
b) *Tom remained unsold (the car).
c) The car remained unsold.
302 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
There are problems with this proposal, however, because verbs like teach, pay and
serve do allow both direct and indirect objects to become subjects after APF. For
instance, we can speak either of unpaid money or unpaid creditors. Levin and
Rappaport argue that the real generalization is that the argument which can be ex-
ternalized is one which may stand as the sole complement ofthe verb (their Sole Com-
plement Generalization). Thus, the reason for the failure of 7.205b is the non-
existence of 7.206, compared with the possibility of 7.207:
7.206 *Dick sold Tom. (=Dick sold something to Tom).
7.207 a) Dick paid the money.
b) Dick paid the creditors.
Evidence in favour of this comes from the well-known sprayfload verbs. These are
verbs which have two complements, one an affected Theme, the other a Locative,
either of which can appear as the direct object, as in 7.208-7.209:
7.208 a) Tom loaded hay onto the wagon.
b) Tom loaded the wagon with hay.
7.209 a) Harriet stuffed the feathers into the pillow.
b) Harriet stuffed the pillow with feathers.
In the case of load, either the Theme or the Locative may surface as the sole comple-
ment (as in 7.210) but in the case of stuff it is only the Locative that can appear on
its own (7.211):
7.210
7.211
a) Tom loaded the
b)
(hay ] .
Lwagon .
a) Harriet stuffed the
b)
(pillow ] .
L*feathers .
Sure enough, this correlates with the type of subject with which the adjectival passive
can co-occur (7.212-7.213):
7.212
7.213
a) the recently loaded
b)
a) the recently stuffed
b)
(hay ]
Lwagon
(pillow ]
L
*feathers
Levin and Rappaport account for this with a modification of the notion of lexical
theta marking. They adopt Marantz's distinction between directly and indirectly
theta marked complements. Each polyvalent verb has just one directly marked com-
plement, the indirectly marked component being typically marked by a preposition,
a case marker or some other means. For instance, the verb put has a direct comple-
ment, the Theme, and an indirect (but still obligatory) Locative complement. Some
CONCLUSIONS 303
verbs alternate, such as the dative shift verb sell. This therefore has two theta grids,
illustrated in 7.214, in which the italicized theta role is the direct role, and a role in
parentheses is interpreted as optional:
7.214 a) sell: (Theme, (Goal))
b) sell: (Theme, Goal)
('sell a car (to Dick)')
('sell Dick a car')
We could now rewrite the core of the APF rule as 'externalize the direct argu-
ment'. However, Levin and Rappaport argue that this is not necessary. They enu-
merate the six salient·properties of adjectival passives in 7.215:
7.215 a) Affix -en.
b) Change V- Adj.
c) Suppress external role of verb stem.
d) Externalize an internal role.
e) Absorb objective Case.
f) Eliminate direct object position.
Now, suppose we acknowledge that adjectival passives are derived from verbal
passive participles by a rule corresponding to 7.215b. The fact that the source of the
adjective is a passive participle at once gives us 7.215a, c. It is generally acknowl-
edged that all adjectives must assign an external role. Given 7.215c this means that
an external role must be provided, so part of 7.215d is accounted for. However, we
must explain how it is that certain internal roles and nm others get externalized. If
a verb has two internal arguments and if the syntax permits expression of the role
which is not externalized, then either internal role can be externalized. Thus, we find
7.216:
7.216 a) The pillow remained stuffed with feathers.
b) The feathers remained stuffed into the pillow.
If, however, there is no way for an obligatory internal role to surface, then no gram-
matical structure can result. 13 Property 7.215e is a straightforward application of
Burzio's Generalization, while 7.215f is a consequence of the Projection Principle:
since the internal argument has now been externalized it can't surface as a direct
object. Thus, all the properties of 7.215 can be regarded as an automatic result of
7.215b, given certain general principles. Moreover, these also derive the Sole Com-
plement Generalization. That is, then, a good example of the way that current theory
attempts to derive even facts about derivational morphology from independent
principles, without appeal to construction-specific rules. 14
7.6 Conclusions: syntactic and lexical
approaches
The problem of valency alternations has sparked off one of the most interesting of
the specific debates relating to the question 'where's morphology?'. Whatever we say
304 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
about this debate we must ensure that we do justice to the 'interface problem': we
must be able to reflect the fact that valency changing operations have syntactic reper-
cussions, while respecting the close links between these operations and purely mor-
phological or lexical aspects of the phenomena. This means that all approaches are
in a sense a compromise between two competing extremes, the syntactic and the
lexical.
Those who favour a more syntactic approach (especially Baker, and to a large
extent Marantz) put a fair amount of emphasis on a parsimony criterion. If much of
the phenomenology of valency changing can be related to general syntactic principles
then there is no need for anything other than pre-existing theories of syntax. And
when we look at distinctions such as that between monoclausal and biclausal causa-
rives the question arises of how this could possibly be accounted for except by appeal
to syntactic principles.
Those who adopt a more lexicalist stance can point to the fact that apparently syn-
tactic constructions frequently become highly lexicalized as languages develop. At
some point, then, these syntactic processes have to enter the lexicon, so why not
assume that all such processes, where mediated morphologically, are given a single
level at which they are represented, namely the morphological component, or the
lexicon? A related argument, which is not explicitly discussed much in the literature,
concerns semantic drifting in morphosyntactic constructions such as the passive. We
saw in our brief discussion of Shibatani's (1985) account of the core meaning of pas-
sives that the construction often acquires a variety of distinct, if related, meanings.
This process is very reminiscent of the polysemy which affects individual lexical
items. Now, if the construction itself is somehow represented at a single, lex~cal,
level, it is easier to see why it behaves like a single word with respect to semantic
drift. If the effects of the construction are distributed amongst various levels of lin-
guistic representation it is harder to see how this might come about.
A different point (which is explicitly raised, for intance, by Di Sciullo and
Williams, 1987: 63) concerns alternations in argument structure which do not seem
to be the result of syntactic principles. For example, must we say that nominaliza-
tions are syntactic? Is the -able affix added in the syntax? A more subtle question can
be asked of causativization. In many languages which distinguish adjectives from
verbs syntactically, it is nonetheless possible to form a causative verb from an adjec-
tive root using the same morphology as that used to derive causative verbs from (in-
transitive or transitive) verb roots. Indeed, this is true to a limited extent in English
(e.g. redden). We may even causativize nouns in some languages. Does this mean that
such causatives are formed syntactically as a species of verb incorporation, or mor-
phological merger?
One answer to some of these lexicalist objections is to bite the bullet and claim that
nominalization and -able affixation are examples of syntactic affixation after all (as
argued for instance by Fabb, 1984, Roeper, 1987, and in part Sproat, 1985a). This
means a return to the kind of thinking which dominated linguistics before Chomsky's
'Remarks on nominalization'. These suggestions will be discussed in greater detail
in later chapters. Likewise, one way of solving the interface problem in a lexicalist
approach is to cram increasingly more syntactic relationships and dependencies into
lexical representations. Williams (1985, 1987) represents a step in this direction.
On the other hand we might seek a compromise by revising some of our assump-
tions about the architecture of linguistic theory and thereby trying to have our cake
(
'
i
\
I
1
EXERCISES 305
and eat it. That is, we might develop theories of syntax and morphology which are
relatively autonomous and which can thus separately explain phenomena proper to
the separate domains, but which are permitted to interact in well-defined and appro-
priately restricted ways to give just the degree of typological variety in morphosyn-
tactic systems that we observe in the world's languages. To a certain extent this is
adumbrated in Baker's approach (especially his 1988b paper), and it is certainly
implicit to some degree in Marantz's model. In chapter 11 I shall be reviewing more
specific proposals from other authors along these lines.
EXERCISES
7.1 Russian reflexives. Morphologically reflexive verbs end in -sjafs'. In the sen-
tences below are a variety of such verbs, together with a non-reflexive congener,
where it exists. Using the translations provided, classify the morphological reflexives
as far as possible using the categories of §7.1. [Hint: with some verbs the reflexive
element is determined purely lexically, and not grammatically.]
celovat':
celovat'sja:
gret':
gret'sja:
imet':
imet'sja:
kusat':
kusat'sja:
Sluzanka celovala detej.
servant kissed children
'The servant kissed the children.'
Deti celovalis'.
'The children kissed (each other).'
Sluzanka greet sup.
Servant heats soup
'The servant is heating up the soup.'
Sup greetsja sluzankoj.
soup heat by-servant
'The soup is being heated up by the servant.'
Sluzanka greetsja na sol'nce.
servant heat on sun
'The servant is basking in the sunshine.'
Ivan imeet masinu.
Ivan has car
'Ivan has a car.'
v masine imeetsja radio.
In car there-is radio
'In the car there is a radio. '
Sobaka kusaet rebenka.
dog bite child
'The dog is biting the child.'
Eti sobaki kusajutsja.
these dogs bite
'These dogs bite', or 'These dogs are biting each
other.'
306 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
myt':
myt'sja:
naxmurit':
naxmurit'sja:
ostanavlivat':
ostanavlivat'sja:
otkryvat':
otkryt'sja:
potupit':
potupit'sja:
pricesyvat':
pricesyvat'sja:
prodolzat':
prodolzat'sja:
Ostorozno! Eta sobaka kusaetsja.
'Look out! This dog bites.'
Sluzanka moet detej.
servant washes children
'The servant is washing the children.'
Deti mojutsja mylom.
children wash by-soap
'The children are being washed with soap.'
Deti mojutsja.
'The children are washing.'
Ivan naxmuril brovi.
Ivan knit brows
'Ivan knitted his brows.'
Ivan naxmurilsja.
'Ivan frowned.'
Voditel' ostanavlivaet masinu.
driver stops car
'The driver is stopping the car.'
Masina ostanavlivaetsja.
'The car is stopping.'
Masina ostanavlivaetsja milicionerom.
car stop by-policeman
'The car is being stopped by a policeman.'
Ivan otkryvaet dver'.
Ivan open door
'Ivan is opening the door.'
Dver' otkryvaetsja.
door open
'The door is opening.'
Dver' otkryvaetsja milicionerom.
door open by-policeman
'The door is being opened by a policeman.'
Sluzanka potupila golovu.
servant lowered head
'The servant lowered her head.'
Sluzanka potupilas'.
'The servant lowered her head, looked down.'
Sluzanka pricesyvaet rebenka.
servant comb child
'The servant is combing the child's hair.'
Sluzanka pricesyvaetsja.
'The servant is combing her (own) hair.'
Ivan prodolzal lekciju.
Ivan continued lecture
'Ivan continued the lecture.'
Lekcija prodolzalas'.
'The lecture continued.'
\
prosnut'sja:
spat':
spat'sja:
xotet':
xotet'sja:
videt':
videt'sja:
vrascat':
vrascat'sja:
vstrecat':
vstrecat'sja:
zadumyvat':
Ivan prosnulsja.
'Ivan awoke.'
Ivan spit.
Ivan sleeps
'Ivan is asleep. '
Ivanu ne spitsja.
to-Ivan not sleeps
'Ivan can't get to sleep.'
Ivan xotel est'.
Ivan wanted eat
'Ivan wanted to eat.'
Ivanu xotelos' est'
to-Ivan wanted eat
'Ivan felt like eating.'
Oni redko vidjat Ivana.
they seldom see Ivan
'They seldom see Ivan.'
Oni redko vidjatsja.
'They seldom see each other.'
Inzenery vrascali kolesa.
engineers rotated wheels
'The engineers rotated the wheels.'
Kolesa vrasscalis' inzenerami.
wheels rotated by-engineers
EXERCISES 307
'The wheels were rotated by the engineers.'
Kolesa vrascalis'.
'The wheels rotated.'
Sluzanka vstrecala Ivana v gorode.
servant met Ivan in town •
'The servant used to bump into Ivan in town.'
Sluzanka vstrecalas' s Ivanom v gorode.
servant met with Ivan in town
'The servant used to meet up with Ivan in town.'
Ivan zadumyvaet poexat' na jug.
Ivan think travel to south
'Ivan is thinking of going south.'
zadumyvat'sja: Ivan zadumyvaetsja o buduscem.
Ivan think about future
'Ivan is thinking about the future.'
7.2 Marantz does not report cases of applied constructions in which merger
applies at s structure. What would such a construction look like schematically? How
would such a construction differ from that of Chi-Mwi:ni?
7.3 Take Baker's analysis of causatives and explain exactly how it accounts for the
308 GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS
differences between monoclausal and biclausal causatives discussed in §7.3. Does the
analysis explain all the differences?
7.4 Explain exactly what a type (i) passive would look like (§7.4.5).
*7.5 Baker (1988a: 78) claims that synthetic compounds (see chapter 8, §8.3) are
formed lexically and not syntactically. What additional assumptions would Baker
have to make in order to provide an incorporation-based account of synthetic
compounds from (i) actor nominalizations (ii) process nominalizations (iii) passive
participles?
8
Compounds
Introduction
In this chapter we will be looking at proposals that have been offered to acccount for
the phenomenon of compounding. We'll begin §8.1 by briefly overviewing the more
familiar types of compounding processes which tend to be most discussed in the
literature. This will lead us to an in-depth survey of Turkish compounding.
Much of the theoretical work concerning compound formation has been based on
English, and so this is where most of the rest of our data will come from. While this
gives an often misleading bias, it has the virtue of allowing us to concentrate on a
descriptively well understood area. There are two sorts of compounding which have ·~
been the subject of recent debate. The :first of these, primary or root compounding,
is the subject of §8.2, while the second, synthetic or verbal compounding, is
discussed in §8.3.
In many respects compounding represents the interface between morphology and
syntax par excellence. This is particularly true of synthetic compounds. These are
compounds whose head is derived by affixation from a verb, such as truck driver, in
which truck appears to be an argument of the (stem) verb drive. Such constructions
raise a number of questions concerning the morphology-syntax interface, similar to
those we've already seen from our in~estigatipn of grammatical relations,,~
L---~--- ~, _
_...,.-', ./
Syntax can be thought of as the concatenation of words to form phrases. Com-
pounding, however, is prototypically the concatenation.,of words to form other
words. However, we have often no satisfactory, u11equiv~cal way of distinguishing
between a compound word and a phrase. This means that when compounding is a
freely generative process (as it usually is) we are hard put to know whether we are
looking at morphology or syntax or both (or, perhaps, something else). Another way
of expressing this is to say that in looking at compounding processes we are looking
albeit perhaps obliquely, at the problem of how to define the notion of 'word'. For,
as I mentioned in chapter 2, the existence of compound words regularly poses
difficulties even when we wish merely to provide a language-particular definition of
310 COMPOUNDS
wordhood. ifhis question will lie in the background to much of our discussion and
I
will reappear (in a slightly different guise) in chapter 11.
8.1 Overview of compound types
8.1.1 Basic concepts
In this introductory survey, we'll see that compounds have two sets of characteristic
properties. The first set makes compounding resemble syntax, the second set brings
compounding closer to ·word formation. ,·
Compounding resembles syntactic processes in that it is typically recursive. This
was illustrated for English in chapter 2 (§2.2.2) with example 2.44 (repeated-here as
8.1):
8.1 a) student film society
b) student film society committee
c) student film society committee scandal
d) student film society committee scandal inquiry ...
The second point is that compounds have a constituent structure, which in general
is dependent on the way the compound is built up. For instance, we can interpret
8.1a as 8.2a or as 8.2b according to whether we assign it the bracketing of 8.3a or
8.3b:
8.2 a) film society for students
b) society for student films
8.3 a) [student [film society]]
b) [[student film] society]
Again, many would claim that affixation has this property, too, i but as we saw in
§6.1.3, this claim is controversial, and there is little independent evidence for
assigning anything other than 'flat', non-hierarchical structures to affixed words.'
Note that the bracketings in 8.3 are assigned on the basis of meaning. This is possible
because the semantic interpretation of each reading is compositional. This is typical
of sentences, but not so typical of words, as we've seen in the various 'deviations'
from strict agglutination already encountered.
A third aspect of compounding reminiscent of syntax is that the elements of a com-
pound may have relations to each other which resemble the relations holding between
the constituents of a sentence. The three important relations are head-modifier,
predicate-argument, and apposition.
· In endocentric compounds one element functions as the head. This is true of 8.3,
in which society is the head on both interpretations. (A (student) film society is a type
of society). Most English compounds are of this type. The modifier element of a com-
pound has the function of attributing a property to the head, much like the function
of an attributive adjective. For this reason many linguistic novices confronted with
I •
,.
\
OVERVIEW OF COMPOUND TYPES 311
such compounds mistakenly label the first member as an adjective, even though
formally it is a noun.
Not all compounds are endocentric. A compound which lacks a head is called
exocentric. Such compounds are sometimes called bahuvrihi compounds, a term
used by Sanskrit grammarians, which literally means '(having) much rice'. Examples
in English are not common; many of those that do exist are (predominantly) pejor-
ative terms referring to people, such as pickpocket, lazybones, cut-throat. In these com-
pounds we can isolate a predicate-type element (pick, lazy, cut) and an argument-type
element (pocket, bones, throat). However, neither element can be called the head of
the construction.
Predicate-argument relations can be observed in endocentric compounds, too. The
most important case is that of synthetic compounds, which we'll be discussing in
great detail. Thus, a truck driver is someone who drives a truck, so driver is the head
of the compound, which is therefore endocentric. However, the non-head, truck,
functions as a kind of direct object to driver (or drive).
Finally, it is possible for a compound to be a simple conjunction of two elements,
without any further dependency holding between them. The Sanskrit term dvandva
(literally 'two-and-two', meaning 'pair') is used to describe these. Examples in
English are Austria-Hungary, mother-child (as in 'mother--child relationship') and,
perhaps, learner-driver (though some would regard this latter as a member of a further
subclass of appositional compounds). We can liken such compounds to syntactic
phrases of the type Mr Bun, the baker.
In different languages we find differences in the types of categories that can be com-
pounded. Some languages (e.g. English) permit a great variety of noun-headed com-
pounds but also allow compounds headed by adjectives. or (to some extent) verbs.
Other languages may only allow, say, noun-noun compounds, while yet others
permit a greater range than English. We have already seen in chapter 7 how com-
pounds can be headed by finite verbs in incorporating languages. When a verb incor-
porates its object or particular types of adverbial modifier we get the equivalent of
a tensed synthetic compound.
In a number of languages (particularly those of the Far East) we encounter very
rich systems of compound in which there appear to be a variety of endocentric,
exocentric and appositional compound types. Vietnamese provides especially good
examples (Thompson, 1965, is a standard source for this language)) In 8.4 we
see compound verbs formed from a verb and its complement, akin to a synthetic
compound:
8.4 a) lay Vf!
b) lam viec
'marry' (>'take+ wife')
'work' (>'do+ work')
In 8.5 we see examples of agentives with the formative nha (meaning roughly
'person' in this context):
8.5 a) nha a~a ly
b) nha l~ch s&
c) nha khoa hoc
'geographer'
'historian'
'scholar'
In 8.5 llia ly and l~ch sl} are themselves compounds meamng 'geography' and
312 COMPOUNDS
'history', while khoa hqc is a compound of 'subject+ teacher'. Both these types of
compound appear to be left headed. Anderson (1985a) describes a very similar situ-
ation in Mandarin Chinese. Left-headed compounds violate Williams's Righthand
Head Rule (§6.1.2). Interestingly, however, the Vietnamese compounds all seem to
have the structure of syntactic phrases. The question therefore arises as to whether
these represent the same kind of morphological process as that of English com-
pounding. Arguably, what we have here is lexicalization of phrases (akin to English
Jack-in-a-box or forget-me-not) rather than true compounding.
Interesting light is thrown on this question by the Romance languages. The French
'compounding' system, for instance, seems to be in near-complementary distribution
with the compounding system of English. There are two main types of construction.
One is formed from syntactic phrases (complete with function words, and inflected_
lexical items) such as les hors d'oeuvre 'hors d'oeuvre', le cessez-le-feu 'cease.fi.re'
('cease-the-fire'), la mise-au-point 'focus' ('putting-in-focus'). The second type con-
sists of averb followed by its object: le porte-parole 'spokesman' ('carries-word'), le
pince-nez 'pince-nez' ('pinches-nose'). Both these types are highly marginal in
English. On the other hand, the only type of Noun-Noun compound which occurs
in French with any frequency is the appositional type, e.g. homme-grenouille
'frogman' ('man-frog'). The appositional nature of this type is evident from the fact
that the plural is hommes-grenouilles ('men-frogs'), with both parts inflected. Again,
we have a system which looks more like the lexicalization of syntax than a specific,
morphological, compounding process. This has been argued for explicitly by Di
Sciullo and Williams (1987) (see §11)).
The head-modifier, predicat~-argt{l}lent and appositional relations together with
constituent structure all tend ~d'-~ll.gn' compounding with syntax. However, CQm-
------ ----·------"-
pounds also hav~_~_I!_U.mb~roffeatures which makethem resemble words, as we saw
Iii chapter i.-First, compounds are often lexicailz-ed.-Tiiey arethen often- s-ubTeC"t-t~
semantic drift of a kind associated with stored words, which means that their
·_ meaning becomes non-com_12gsitional or eve_n totally idiosygc:r.atic_._ For instance, the
term penk~o longer-has any real li~k i~ p~ns--though-originally it meant the knife
used for cutting quills. This type of drift is characteristic of all types of com-
pounding, including Noun Incorporation. In a related fashion there are often lexical
restrictions on which compounds are permitted, resulting in 'paradigmatic gaps'
which resemble those found in derivational or inflectional affixation. For instance, in
English we can speak of rainfall and snowfall. However, we can't say *hailfall or
*sleetfall.
-· -· A further property which links compounds with the words is that of non-
referentiality. If we look at the non-heads of the compounds illustrated so far, we
fu1d·that they never refer to specific objects. For instance, neither student nor film
in student film society serve to pick out any specific student or .film. This is why these
non-heads can be used attributively. In this respect, constituents of compounds differ
from constituents of sentences. Related to this is the fact that non-heads of com-
pounds typically fail to be inflected. Thus, neither an ex-pickpocket nor any of his
earlier victims could be called a pickedpocket. In this respect, (true) compounds differ
from true syntactic phrases. To be sure, there do exist cases in which compounds are
internally inflected in English, such as teethmarks and systems analyst. However, these
inflections can't generally be used to signal syntactic relationships such as
subject-verb agreement outside the compound, and even inflected elements cease to
(
OVERVIEW OF COMPOUND TYPES 313
be referential inside compounds. Kiparsky (1982a) used this to argue that systems
analyst doesn't constitute a violation of level ordering, in that the plural form is in
some sense lexical.
- ," One property of words which distinguishes them from phrases is morphological
l integrity: their elements can't be split up by other words or phrases,-for exampf~,
by parentheticals. This is generally true of the constituents of compounds.
It is not uncommon for elements of compounds to become so frequently used and
for the compounds they form to become so lexicalized that the element loses its status
as an independent word and becomes a clitic or an affix. For instance, nominal case
endings often start life as postpositions. Likewise, it is the frequent fate of adverbial
or prepositional modifiers to get attached to the beginning of nouns or verbs, and
develop into prefixes. For instance, in Russian it is not uncommon for a verb of
motion to have a prefix which is homophonous with the preposition accompanying
its locative complement, as seen in example 8.6:
8.6 be:Zat' 'to run'
Ja vbezal v komnatu
I in.ran into room
'I ran into the room'
These prefixes have also acquired completely idiosyncratic meaning far removed from
their original prepositional sources, as a result of becoming verbal prefixes. For
instance, za as a preposition has a variety of meanings, including 'behind, beyond',
'after', 'because of', 'on behalf of'. As a prefix it has the meaning of 'behind' with
some verbs (as seen in 8.6) but also conveys the meaning of inception, preparatory
activity, wrapping up, and doing to excess, and it can also be used to mark the purely
grammatical category of perfective aspect. None of these uses has any clear relation
to the prepositional meanings.
Finally, there are often phonological processes that apply to compounds but not to
phrases. A well-known example of this comes from English, where we have the
Nuclear Stress Rule (of SPE) which places main stress on the rightmost constituent
of a syntactic phrase, and the Compound Stress Rule which stresses the left member
of a compound (see below, §8.2). In other languages there are often sets of sandhi
rules which apply to compounds and to no other type of word formation or syntactic
construction. Mohanan (1986) discusses such phenomena in Malayalam.
8.1.2 Compounding in Turkish
Turkish 1 has a particularly rich and informative system of compounding. My
description follows that of Lewis (1967) (with additional data from Lewis, 1953).
First, we consider simple concatenations of words. These tend to be lexicalized. As
we will see there is a somewhat different construction corresponding to English free
compounding. The following types of compound are found: N N, A N, N A, N V,
V V. I have written each element separately to facilitate analysis, though most of
these would be written as one word in the official orthography.
Noun+ Noun:
8.7 ba§ bakan 'head', 'minister'= 'Prime Minister'
314 COMPOUNDS
8.8 orta okul 'middle school'
Adjective+ Noun:
8.9 hiiyiik anne 'great', 'mother'= 'grandmother'
8.10 k1rk ayak 'forty', 'foot' = 'centipede'
Noun+ Adjective:
8. 11 siit beyaz 'milk white'
8.12 'his-hand', 'open' = 'generous'
Noun+ Verb (including participles):
8.13 dal bastl 'branch', 'it pressed'= 'fine and large (of
cherries)'
8.14 yurt sever 'land', 'loving'= 'patriot'
Onomatopoeic word+ Verb:
8.15 §lp sevdi 'plop!', 'he-has-fallen-in-love'= 'impressionable'
Verb+ Verb:
8.16 vurdum duymaz 'I hit', 'it-doesn't-feel'= 'thick-skinned'
Phonologically, these compounds behave like single words, in that they have a
single stress (though they violate vowel harmony, as is common with Ural-Altaic
compounding). Other indications that these are lexical formations are that they often
have non-compositional, sometimes idiosyncratic, meanings, and their components
are non-referential. This type of compounding doesn't seem to be productive in
Turkish.
A much more characteristic construction, the izafet construction, is found in
Turkish, which more closely corresponds to English compounding. In Turkish, at
least, the izafet is signalled by possessive affixes. Recall from chapter 1 (examples
1.42-1.43) that Turkish has two ways of realizing possession. In the first the pos-
sessor is put into the genitive case (cf. Tom's brother or the brother of Tom), while in
the second the possessum (i.e. 'thing possessed') takes possessive agreement markers
coreferencing the possessor for person and number (i.e. 'Tom his-hat'). The genitive
suffix is -In (after consonants) or -nin (after vowels), and the 3rd sg. possessive suffix
is -I (after consonants) or -si (after vowels).
There are two types of izafet, the indefinite and the definite. The indefinite takes
the form Noun+ Noun-poss ('Tom his-hat'). It frequently corresponds to an English
compound (as in 8.17a-d). (The possessive affix is separated by a hyphen for clarity):
8.17 a) yatak oda-s1
bed its-room
'bedroom'
(
,.
(,
J
b) kll1~ bahg-1
sword its-fish
'swordfish'
c) 2000 sene-si
2000 its-year
'the year 2000'
d) ingiliz tarih-i
Englishman his-history
'English history'
OVERVIEW OF COMPOUND TYPES 315
Despite the literal glosses in these examples, it's obvious that the relation between
the elements of these constructions can't sensibly be called that of 'possession'.
Rather, the possessive affix simply marks some sort of attributive relation
between the head and the modifying noun, a relation which is signalled by simple
concatenation in English.
The definite izafet takes the form Noun-gen.+ Noun-poss. ('of-Tom his-hat'). This
construction generally corresponds to the English 'Noun's Noun' or 'Noun of the
Noun', as in 8.18:
8.18 a) uzman-m rapor-u
of-expert his-report
'the expert's report'
b) otomobil-in tekerlekler-i
of-car its-wheels
'the wheels of the car'
c) hafta-nm giinler-i
of-week its-days
'the days of the week'
The attribute-head structure of the indefinite izafet can be seen particularly clearly
from the following set of minimal pairs.
8.19 a) Orhan ism-i
Orhan its-name
'the name "Orhan"'
b) Orhan-m ism-i
of-Orhan his-name
'Orhan's name'
8.20 a) Atatiirk Bulvar-1
Ataturk his-boulevard
'Ataturk Boulevard'
b) Atatiirk-iin ev-i
of-Ataturk his-house
'Ataturk's house'
316 COMPOUNDS
8.21 a) ~oban k1z-1
shepherd his-girl/daughter
'the shepherd girl'
b) ~oban-m klz-1
of-shepherd his-daughter
'the sheperd's daughter'
8.22 a) ordu subaylar-1
army its-officers
'army officers'
b) ordu-nun subaylar-1
of-army its-officers
'the officers of the army'
It's clear that the first element in the (b) examples is being used referentially, while
in the (a) examples it's being used non-referentially.
There are several respects in which the indefinite izafet resembles an English com-
pound while the definite izafet resembles a genitive NP construction. First, a number
of indefinite izafets have become lexicalized ('frozen'):
8.23 a) binba~1 (>bin ba~)
(army) major (lit. 'thousand its-head')
b) denizalu . (> deniz alt)
submarine (lit. 'sea its-underside')
c) hammeli (> hamm el)
honeysuckle (lit. 'lady her-hand')
One of the reasons we know these are lexicalized is because the possessive affix no
longer behaves like a proper affix. For example, it can be followed by the plural -lEr,
which normally precedes the possessive affixes, as in binba~zlar 'majors'. Moreover,
unlike a genuine izafet (definite or indefinite) the word for 'major' can take an extra
possessive in the expression for 'his major', binba~z-sz.
Second, the head of an indefinite izafet can't be modified syntactically. If the heC!cl
does get modified, say by an adjective, then the non-head noun must go into the
genitive and form a definite izafet:
8.24 a) istanbul camiler-i
Istanbul its-mosques
'Istanbul mosques'
b) istanbul-un tarihi camiler-i
of-Istanbul historic its-mosques
'Istanbul's historic mosques'
(cf. English *Istanbul historic mosques)
However, we can form an indefinite izafet if the head is a compound noun:
8.25 Turkiye Buyukel~isi
Turkey its-great-envoy
'the Turkish ambassador'
J
OVERVIEW OF COMPOUND TYPES 317
What these types of case show is that the head of an indefinite izafet has to be a word
level, not a phrase level, category. This distinguishes the indefinite izafet from, say,
an adjectival phrase or determiner in English, which typically modify (X'-level)
phrases.
The third similarity with English compounding is recursion. The indefinite izafet
exhibits two sorts of recursion. In the first, we have a right-branching structure in
which the noun on the left modifies the constituent to its right, giving a structure of
the form [N [N ... [N N-poss] ... ] ] . Only the rightmost noun appears in the
possessive in this type of structure. This is seen in examples 8.26-8.27:
8.26 Curnhuriyet Halk Parti-si
republic people its-party
'Republican People's Party'
8.27 Turk Dil Kurum-u
Turk Language its-Society
'Turkish Language Society' (Lit.: 'Language Society of the Turk')
Unlike their English counterparts, 8.26-8.27 aren't even in principle ambiguous.
They can only be interpreted as [Republican [People's Party]] and [Turkish
[Language Society]], not as the Party for Republican People or the Society for the
Turkish Language.
Left branching is found in the second type of recursive indefinite izafet. In this
construction we have an izafet serving as the non-head of another izafet, to give a
schematic structure [ ... [[N N-poss] N-poss] ... N-poss.] . This is illustrated by 8.28,
which can be contrasted with 8.27, and by a slightly more complex example, 8.29:
8.28 Turk Dil-i Dergi-si
Turk his-language its-journal
'Turkish Language Journal'
8.29 istanbul Universite-si Edebiyat Fakulte-si Turk Edebiyat-I Profesor-u
'Professor of Turkish Literature of the Faculty of Letters of the
University of Istanbul'
The difference in constituent structure between 8.27 and 8.28 is shown in 8.30:
8.30 a) b)
[Turk [Dil Kurum-u]] [[Turk Dil-i] Dergi-si]
Turk language its-Society Turk his-language its-journal
318 COMPOUNDS
In effect, the possessive affix of the izafet construction is a morphological marker of
a right bracket in the constituent structure.
The definite izafet exhibits recursion, to the left:
8.31 Ford-un aile-si-nin araba-s1
of-Ford of-its-family its-car
'Ford's family's car' or 'the car of the family of Ford'
We can also have indefinite izafets inside the defi.nite ones. For instance, in 8.32, the
indefinite izafet aile araba-sz 'family car' (lit. 'family its-car') has been treated as a
single (compound) head noun which is possessed by the noun Ford:
8.32 Ford-un aile araba-s1
of-Ford family its-car
'the family car of Ford'
A more interesting example is found in 8.33:
8.33 Ford aile-si-nin araba-s1
Ford of-its-family its-car
'the car of the Ford family' or 'the Ford family's car'
An illustration of most of these facts is provided by example 8.34:
8.34 Bohemya Kuallar-1 saray-1-nm yeni sakin-i
Bohemia its-kings of-its-palace new its-inhabitant
'the new inhabitant of the palace of the Kings of Bohemia'
Given that the izafet is based on a possessive construction reminiscent of the
English 'Tom's hat' or 'the hat of Tom', we might expect it to behave essentially like
a syntactically formed phrasal construction. However, it is apparent that this is true
only of the defi.nite izafet. The indefinite izafet is much closer to a Germanic-type
rightbranching compound. The non-head loses its referentiality and becomes simply
a modifier of the head, losing at the same time many of its syntactic properties. More-
over, the non-head may only be a word or another indefinite izafet, suggesting that
the indefinite izafet itself is a word level category. The fact that the non-head of an
indefinite izafet may only modify a lexical noun, and not a phrase consisting of adjec-
tive phrase and noun, as shown by 8.24, follows then from the fact that we can't have
phrases inside words (including compound words).
The definite izafet, on the other hand, looks much more like a phrase, with the
possessor NP behaving essentially like the NP possessive determiner marked by
's in English. These facts are summarized in 8.35, which shows schematically the
structure of 8.24, examples of indefinite and definite izafet respectively.
ROOT COMPOUNDS 319
8.35 a) b) NP
~
N NP N'
~ ~
N N
I I
istanbul camiler-i
AdjP N
I I
istanbul-un tarihi camiler-i
Istanbul its-mosques of-Istanbul historic its.:mosques
8.2 Root compounds
The bulk of theoretical discussion of compounding has taken English compounding
as its empirical basis. In 8.36 I list a selection of basic claims and assumptions about
English compounding that have influenced research. Not all researchers have
accepted these, and some of them are oversimplifications (or straightforwardly false):
8.36 a) Compounds are formed from concatenated words, e.g. houseboat.
b) Compounds are formed from concatenated (bound) stems, e.g. erythro-
cyte.
c) (Endocentric) compounds are always rightheaded.
d) Compounds do not include phrases, e.g. *black-as-coal bird, *slightly-
used-car salesman.
e) Only irregular inflection is found within compounds, e.g. teeth-marks
but *nails-marks.
f) Minor categories (function words) are not compounded.
g) All major categories participate in compounding though prepositions
do not head compounds.·
h) Compounds may be either primary (root) or synthetic (verbal).
Primary compounds are simply concatenated words (e.g. houseboat),
synthetic compounds are formed from deverbal heads and the non-
head fulfils the function of the argument of the verb from which the
head is derived (e.g. truck driver 'one who drives a truck').
In this subsection I shall only consider claims 8.36a-g, restricting the discussion
to root or primary compounds. These are, in one sense, easy to account for, since
all we need is a grammatical device which concatenates words (and possibly roots).
Linguists seem agreed that such compounds are directly generated in the base and
not constructed out of structurally distinct underlying forms by means of syntactic
rules. However, despite this apparent straightforwardness, primary compounding
conceals a number of interesting problems.
A major difficulty is in distinguishing compounds from other concatenations, i.e.
from syntactic phrases. The standard assumption is that a true compound of two
elements is stressed on the first constituent (cf. SPE's Compound Stress Rule, CSR)
while a phrase is stressed on the last (major) constituent. Hence, we have blackbird,
but bliick bird. In more complex compounds of the form [A [B C]] we find that the
320 COMPOUNDS
second constituent is stressed and that the stress falls on B. Hence, we have 8. 37 in
contrast with 8.38:
8.37 [student [film committee] ]
8.38 [[film committee] chairman].
Thus, stress will indicate constituent structure and can even disambiguate potentially
ambiguous strings. For instance, given the above rule, a structure such as 8.39a will
be stressed as in 8.39b, while a structure such as 8.40a will be stressed as in 8.40b:
8.39 a)
[government [[pay review ] policy]]
b) government pay review policy
8.40 a)
~
[[government payl [review policy ]]
b) government pay review policy
Sure enough, 8.39b means 'government policy for reviewing pay', while 8.40b means
'policy for reviewing government pay'.
This characterization encounters a number of unsolved problems (some of which
are reviewed by Bauer, 1983). For instance, some expressions take compound stress
while others, apparently identical in structure, take phrasal stress. The most
notorious of these are street names: compounds with Street have compound stress
while those with any other name (Avenue, Road, ...) take phrasal stress (Forty-Second
Street vs. Fifth Avenue, Old Kent Road, Hyde Park Corner). This is not restricted to
public thoroughfares: we have trade wars, Opium wars and the sex war, but the
Hundred Years War and the Second World War.
Claim 8.36a is uncontroversial. However, not all accept claim 8.36b, concerning
what are often called neo-classical compounds (or non-native compounds). In par-
ticular, free compounding of bound stems seems incompatible with the more obvious
interpretations of word based morphology. Scalise (1984: 72ft) discusses this point
in some detail.
In the psg theories of Selkirk and of Williams there is a category below that of
Word in the grammar which corresponds to these bound roots/stems. In the system
of Di Sciullo and Williams (1987) we can generate a compound of the form [Word
Word], with each Word node rewritten as Stem, as shown in 8.4la. Selkirk (1982:
98ff) chooses (tentatively) to designate the stem, which she calls Root, as a recursive
category, she introduces a ps rule, Root ~ Root Root to account for erythrocyte,
giving us 8.4lb:
ROOT COMPOUNDS 321
8.41 a) Word b) Word
~
Word Word
I
Root
I \ ~
Stern Stern Root Root
I I I I
erythro cyte erythro cyte
Claim 8.36c is Williams's Righthand Head Rule for compounds. This appears to
be valid for English, though whether it is universally true depends largely on how
we analyse compounds which mimic syntactic structure, such as the Vietnamese and
French constructions discussed above. It's worth considering the possibility that all
regular left-headed compounding is in reality the lexicalization of syntactic struc-
tures, and not a morphological process at all.
Claim 8.36d has been widely accepted as true for English, though it is not difficult
to think of counterexamples. The famously ambiguous American history teacher is a
case in point. Lieber (1988) draws far-reaching conclusions on the basis of examples
such as car-of-the-month competition and why-does-it-always-have-to-happen-to-me air.
In languages such as Dutch, compounding with phrases seems to be perfectly pro-
ductive (see Botha, 1983, on Afrikaans). Botha dubbed the restriction the 'No Phrase
Constraint'. Hoeksema (1986) points out that this expression violates the constraint
it naines!
Claim 8.36e is counterexemplified by cases such as systems analyst. These have
motivated the introduction of a 'loop' in Lexical Phonology (§4.3.2). The psg
approaches aren't troubled by such facts, which are only problematic for theories
which accept the Extended Level Ordering Hypothesis.
The facts of English relating to points 8.36f, g are conveniently summarized in
Selkirk (1982: 14ff). First, it is evident that only the major lexical categories, N(oun),
V(erb),A(djective) and P(reposition), are productively involved in word formation.
(i\dverbs can be regarded as lexically equivalent to Adi,ectl.yes.) Second, not all poss-
ibfeL--confrgurat!bns of these categories a~e,'attd;!ed!-tsfiaii give examples both of
clearlileX.icalized compounds ((a) examples) and also of more-or-less compositionally
formed compounds ((b) examples) where possible.
Nouns are the most productive class of possible heads, compounding with N, A, ~­
p and, rather unwillingly, with V. 2
8.42 N N
a) housewife, penknife, dressing gown
b) salad dressing, party frock, shopping list
AN
a) blackbird, bighead, well-wisher, happy hour
b) postal order, nervous system, medical officer
PN
a) overcoat, outhouse, inroad
b) down trend, underpass
VN
swearword, rattlesnake
322 COMPOUNDS
Adjectives also head compounds with N, A, P, but not with V. It is particularly
difficult to think of A A compounds with compound (initial) stress:
8.43 N A
a) trigger-happy, world-weary, bird-brained, earth-shattering
b) water soluble, girl crazy, class conscious
AA
a) rough-cut, well-formed, good-looking, worldly-wise
b) icy cold, bright pink, dark blue
PA
a) off-white, ongoing, inborn
b) over-explicit, underripe
8.44 p v
a) oftload, overlook, up-stage
b) overfeed,, underexploit, overcook
,- ..' :·<c l..-(?1
In considering this list we must be careful to distingu:'ish genuine compounds,
formed by concatenating two words, .fro~p a~p~~~nt compounds such as babysit,
,.-- r·· _. (_.·· .. ··. . ' • -·-- - ·----
air-condition, and bartend. These are baC:kformations, and this represents a rather
different source of word formation frmii-regiilar conCatenation. Selkirk argues, quite
reasonably, that the very productive class of Verb + Particle nouns of the form push
up, turn off, blow out, come on are derived by zero-formation or morphological conver:-
sion. - ct ·_
There are a number of purely empirical difficulties even at this stage of analysis.
Since many words appear in homophonous noun-verb _pairs it is not always possible -
to be sure which category a word belongs to. Thus, although swearword seems to be
a V N compound, what-about password: is pass an Nor V? Also, it can be difficult
' to know whether we are dealing with a compound or a phrase when the structure of
both is similar, as is the case with A N compounds.
A further problem concerns the generality of the patterns observed. For instance,
although there are quite a few P V compound verbs, and although it is fairly obvious
that some of these formations are productive (especially the over- and under- com-
pounds), how do we account for the fact that only a small number of prepositions
form compounds, and that some (e.g. from, at, of) never do? In general, the problem
of productivity (in its various senses) is not raised in the theoretical discussions of
root compounds, though it would appear to have a bearing on whether compounding
patterns should be accounted for simply by a psg or by some other device (e.g. sub-
categorization frames for those words or roots which enter into compounds, or some
kind of lexical redundancy rule approach for cases of non-productive lexicalized
compounds).
It remains for us to see how the patterns of root compound given in 8.42-8.44
can be generated on the theories discussed in chapter 6. There are two approaches
___ "which have received particular attention in the theoretical literature, the psg
· approach exemplified by Williams and Selkirk (which I shall conflate here in favour
of Selkirk's exposition), and the feature percolation theory of Lieber. We start with
Selkirk's theory.
ROOT COMPOUNDS 323
Selkirk (1982: 16) proposes the psg given in 8.45:
8.45 a) N---+ {N, A, V, P} N
b) A-+ {N,A,P} A
c) V--+PV
This generates the desired structures directly. There are still some puzzles, for
instance, 'bracketing paradoxes' such as bird-brained. This is a problem in that it
seems to be derived by idiosyncratic affixation to the N N compound bird brain.
(There is no verb to brain meaning 'to possess a brain' from which the past participle
could be derived.) Selkirk adverts to Williams's (1981a) theory of lexical relatedness
to account for such cases. (I provide my own solution in chapter 10.) The fact that
compounds emerge as right-headed is a stipulated property of the rule system as
Selkirk presents it (though in principle she could appeal to a general principle like
Williams's Righthand Head Rule).
Lieber's three Percolation Conventions, discussed in §6.2.2, are insufficient to
label the trees of compounds. For this reason she introduces a fourth convention:
8.46 Feature Percolation Convention IV
In compound words in English features from the righthand stem are
percolated up to the branching node dominating the stems.
We can label the trees associated with a compound such as blackbird in the following
way. FPC I labels the non-branching nodes, as in 8.47a. Then, FPC IV labels the
whole compound, guaranteeing its right-headedness, 8.47b:
b) +N~
+~_)
8.47 a)
c+A
black black bird
Lieber argues that it is necessary to adopt a language-particular formation on the
grounds that there are languages which have left-headed compounds. 3 Thus, FPC IV
differs from the first three, which are universal, and it differs from Williams's
Righthand Head Rule, which is also intended to be universal. A question not
addressed by Lieber is how the grammar knows it is dealing with a compound. One
way would be to say that FPC IV has access to the subcategorization information of
the components, so that, if free morphemes are concatenated, FPC IV comes into
play.
What are the lessons to be drawn from this survey? The first observation is that
the descriptive machinery used to account for the facts of 8.36a-g is generally
speaking just that, namely descriptive. There has been little attempt in recent gen-
erative literature, for example, to explain why prepositions can't head compounds,
or why function words aren't compounded.
One particularly interesting, but largely unexplored, question is what governs the
324 COMPOUNDS
differences in root compounding between languages. For example, in Slavic
languages compounding is relatively poorly developed. Thus, we don't find expres-
sions such as London taxi driver translated into Russian as compounds. Instead, we
would have either 8.48 or 8.49, depending on the meaning:
8.48 voditel' taksi iz Londona
driver of-taxi from London
8.49 voditel' londonskogo taksi
driver of-london (adj.) taxi
On the other hand, Slav languages are rich In relational adjectives, such as london-sk-
ij in Russian, which are poorly represented in English (see §11.2). Even when we
have a relational adjective we tend not to use it, often preferring a compound instead.
Thus, we would talk about the Manchester telephone system rather than the Mancunian
telephonic system. Given the current emphasis on language variation (or 'parametriza-
tion') in generative studies, it's surprising that the topic of variation in compounding
strategies hasn't been taken up in any detail.
There have been attempts at explaining such observations as 8.36c or e. However,
there is still disagreement as to whether inflection really is found inside compounds.
One of the reasons for this disagreement is the lack of agreement either that there
is a principled distinction between inflection and derivation, or, if there is such a
distinction, how exactly it is to be drawn.
Finally, not all the root compound type~ foqp.d in English can properly be said to
be producti~e. The question of what governs productivity and whether it's necessary
to distinguish productive from non-productive compounding types has not been
discussed extensively in the theoretical literature.
8.3 English synthetic compounds
Introduction
->-According to claim 8.36h, there is a significant difference between the root com-
pounds we've just reviewed and synthetic compounds. However, there remains the
difficulty of deciding what constitutes a synthetic compound. All commentators agree
that expressions like truck driver have an interpretation as a synthetic compound,
namely 'one who (regularly or habitually) drives a truck'. For some observers this
is the only reading. 4 Likewise, everyone seems to concur that gerunds and participles
in -ing form synthetic compounds (truck driving). Some writers (e.g. Selkirk, 1982,
Sproat, 1985a) claim that other forms of nominalization represent synthetic com-
pounds, too (e.g. slum clearance), though this is disputed by others (for instance,
Fabb, 1984) and yet others simply ignore the question. Most observers include com-
pounds formed on passive participles as types of synthetic compound (hand-made,
moth-eaten). A minority of theorists (notably Selkirk, 1982, Roeper, 1987) would
include compounds based on adjectives (machine-readable).
There are a number of properties shared by synthetic compounds which must be
ENGLISH SYNTHETIC COMPOUNDS 325
explained. If we take 8.50 as our prototypical synthetic compounds, we must explain
why the verb's (direct) internal argument is satisfied by the non-head. In other
words, we must explain the relationship between 8.50 and 8.51:
8.50 a) truck driver b) truck driving
8.51 drive a truck
Likewise, for those linguists who also relate the (a) examples in 8.52-8.54, in which
the non-head represents an adjunct, to the (b) examples, we must explain how a syn-
thetic compound can take such an adjunct as non-head:
8.52 a) fast-acting b) act fast
8.53 a) pan-fried b) fry in a pan
8.54 a) moth-eaten b) eaten by moths
What has to be explained here is that the non-head must be a word which could
appear immediately after the verb in the corresponding verb phrase. Thus, although
we can say quick-fried (from fry quickly) we can't say *quick-driver (from drive a truck
quickly).
Explanation of these facts must also account for the second property, namely, that
it is impossible for the non-head to function as the subject of the verb: *child driver
(on the reading 'child who drives'), *girl-swimming, *'Z-Veather-changing.
The third property is that the heads of such compounds (i.e. driver, acting, fried)
inherit the argument structure of the verb itself. These arguments can then be
expressed by PPs within the NP, as an alternative to synthetic compounding. For
example, corresponding to 8.50, we can have a driver of trucks and the driving of
trucks.
Finally, it is generally the case that the range of structural types of synthetic com-
pound in a language ls no different from the range of root compounds. Since many
linguists believe root compounds are generated lexically this might suggest that
synthetic compounding is a lexical process. On the other hand, one could argue that •
both synthetic and root compounding are syntactic processes (as Lieber, 1988, now
does). Or we can propose that certain aspects of synthetic compound formation are
lexical, while other aspects are the result of syntactic processes.
Restricting ourselves to 'core' cases of synthetic compounding, there are a number
of ways to go abo~t accounting for the first three properties. One dimension along
which accounts have differed is how they define 'complement of a transitive verb'.
The possibilities have included appeal to strict subcategorization frames, direct refer-
ences to grammatical relations, and appeal to operations on argument structure, or
egrids (§6.1.3).
Orthogonal to this is the question of whether synthetic compounding is essentially
lexical or essentially syntactic. This brings us back to the topic of the last chapter:
valency and morphological structure. In a syntactic theory, the fact that the non-head
serves as an argument of the verb can be accounted for by pre-existing syntactic prin-
ciples (provided we ensure that the verb stem can govern its complement in the com-
(------
--::.--_-
:i
li
:d:
326 COMPOUNDS
pound). All we then need do is explain how the argument structure of the verb stem
can be satisfied outside the deverbal nominal in phrases like driver of trucks. In a lex-
icalist theory, in which truck driver is simply the concatenation of truck and driver,
we have to account for argument inheritance by driver in the case of the compound,
as well as in the case of driver of trucks.
8.3.1 Roeper and Siegel (1978)
The first serious attempt to account for synthetic compounds in the grammatical
framework which led from Chomsky's 'Remarks on nominalization' was that of
Roeper and Siegel (1978), whose article formed the basis for much subsequent
debate. Their idea was that the syntactic parallel between the compound and the
corresponding verb phrase should be represented directly by incorporating aspects
of the syntactic structure into the lexical representation of the compound. The
parallelism noted in examples 8.50-8.54 forms the basis of Roeper and Siegel's
central generalization, their First Sister Principle:
8.55 First Sister Principle:
All verbal compounds are formed by incorporation of a word in first sister
position of the verb.
Roeper and Siegel proposed deriving 8.50 and the (a) forms of 8.52-8.54 from an
underlying lexical representation which resembles the (b) forms. This can be
achieved by means ofa transformational rule. However, for Roeper and Siegel the ,,
synthetic compounding rule applies in the lexicon. Therefore, they needed to
propose a new device, the lexical transformation.
The technical details of Roeper and Siegel's proposal, are fairly involved. I shall .·
simplify matters by showing the essential steps in the derivation of"a compound such
as pan-fried. There are three main operations (plus two other tidying up processes
which I shall ignore). First, we affix -en to the verb, by a special Affix Rule, simulta·
neously creating a slot to the left of the verb which the non-head will ultimately
occupy. The verb is represented as followed by a PP complement in lexical represen-
tation, even though this PP is an adjunct:
8.56 fry [... [...)NP )pp~
[[...] +fry+ -en] [... [...]NP ]pp
The next step is Subcategorization Insertion, in which a word is inserted into the
subcategorization slot, PP:
8.57 [[ ...] +fry+-en] [... [...]NP]PP~
[[...] + fry + -en] [. .. [pan] N ]
Finally we need a rule to move pan into the compound non-head position, by the
Compound Rule, 8.58:
8.58 [[...] +fry+ -ed] [pan] N~
[[pan] N +fry+ -ed]
ENGLISH SYNTHETIC COMPOUNDS 327
Almost every aspect of Roeper and Siegel's formulation was criticized (a conve-
nient summary of some of these criticisms is found in Borha's, 1983, review). Most
observers have expressed misgivings about the nature of the lexical transformations,
which are a unique and powerful addition to grammatical theory, and therefore sus-
picious. At the empirical level, for instance, this transformational device raises the
question why it is that certain compounds are not found. Thus, despite the existence
of Adv V and Adj V combinations of the type fast-acting, good-looking, and stupid-
sounding, this type of compound isn't formed productively with all verbs. That is,
we don't observe *beautifully dancing, nor can we have *good-looked or *Stupid-
sounded. Furthermore, if we can derive pan-fried from something resembling fried-in-
a-pan, why can't we derive *bird-sounding from an underlying structure similar to
sounding-like-a-bird?
In a sense, the details of these criticisms are no longer important. The key point
is that Roeper and Siegel highlighted the First Sister generalization, and also the dual
nature of synthetic compounds, as partly lexical and partly syntactic.
8.3.2 Selkirk (1982)
From the lexicalist standpoint it is suspicious that Roeper and Siegel should need a
battery of lexical transformations in order to construct N N or N A structures which
have to be directly generated anyway for root compounds. In a theory such· as
Selkirk's, in which morphological structure is accounted for solely by phrase struc-
ture ru1es, we can account automatically for the identity of structure between syn-
thetic and root compounds because the structures for both types are generated
directly by the same set of rules. This also permits Selkirk to widen the database by
including examples such as 8.59, formed from suffixes other than the three discussed
by Roeper and Siegel:
8.59 Nouns
slum clearance
self-deception
troop deployment
trash removal
Adjectives
water-repellent
self-destructive
machine-readable
disease-inhibitory
In Selkirk's theory, it is only when the non-head of the compound satisfies the
head's argument structure that we have a case of synthetic compounding. Roeper and
Siegel's example of pan-fried would therefore not be considered a synthetic
compound by Selkirk, given that pan serves as an adjunct. Moreover, provided the
verb stem of the head is not obligatorily transitive, for instance, eat, then a com-
pound formed from it (for instance, tree eater) will be ambiguous between the syn-
thetic compound reading and a root compound reading (cf. note 4). Thus, Selkirk's
nonce form, tree eater, can mean 'one who eats trees' where eat is understood tran-
sitively and gives rise to a synthetic compound. However, it can also be interpreted
as a root compound, with a meaning such as, say, 'one who eats in trees' (where eat
has to be understood intransitively).
Grammatical functions, such as subject and object, are primitive (i.e. undefined)
terms in Selkirk's theory, and so they can be referred to directly. The facts of
328 . COMPOUNDS
synthetic compounding can therefore be captured by rule 8.60 (1982: 32):
8.60 Grammatical Functions in Compounds
Optionally, in compounds, (i) a non-head noun may be assigned any of
the grammatical functions assigned to nominal constituents in syntactic
structure, and (ii) a non-head adjective may be assigned any of the gram-
matical functions assigned to adjectival constituents in syntactic structure.
To rule out compounding of subjects (*girl-swimming), Selkirk resorts to brute force
(1982: 34) by means of 8.61 (which I shall call the Subject Restriction):
8.61 The SUBJ argument of a lexical item may not be satisfied in compound
structure.
Now let's turn to the inheritance problem. Given a phrase such as 8.62, and given
that a compound like tree eater is (we'll suppose) ambiguous, we would expect 8.63
to be a possible compound, with a meaning such as 'one who eats pasta in trees' (the
whimsical choice of these examples is Selkirk's):
8.62 eater of pasta in trees
8.63 *tree eater of pasta
The ungrammaticality of 8.63 is a corollary of the First Sister Principle, but that
principle has no explanation for why 8.64 is also poor:
8.64 *pasta eater in trees
The generalization seems to be that, given a choice, the verb's argument will always
be satisfied inside rather than outside the compound. Since a compound is allowed
only one non-head, this means that it is impossible to form compounds on heads
derived from verbs with more than one obligatory argument, as 8.65 indicates
(though not all linguists regard 8.65a as grammatical):
8.65 a) the putting of cats in the well
b) *Cat putting (in the well)
c) *Well putting (of cats)
Selkirk's alternative to the First Sister Principle as an explanation of these facts is
her First Order Projection Condition (FOPC, 1982: 37):
8.66 All non-SUBJ arguments of a lexical category Xi must be satisfied within
the first order projection of xi.
The first order projection of a category is simply the category that immediately
dominates it, whether in word structure or in syntactic structure proper. In example
8.67 we have a violation of the FOPC:
ENGLISH SYNTHETIC COMPOUNDS 329
8.67 NP
I
N'
~
N3 PP
~ ~
N 2 N 1 P NP4
I I I I
tree eater of pasta
In 8.67, N1, eater, has a non-SUBJ argument, which is represented by NP4, pasta.
However, the first order projection of N1 is N3 and the only other element inside this
projection is N2, tree, which is not the argument of eater. Hence, the representation
is ill-formed. By contrast, in 8.68 the first order projection of N1 is N':
8.68 NP
I
N'
pp pp
~
P NP4
I 6
I
I
eater of pasta (in trees)
Within this projection we do indeed find the non-SUBJ argument of the deverbal
noun, ('pasta'), so the construction is permitted.
8.3.3 Lieber (1983)
If we don't code the valency of deverbal heads in terms of subcategorization frames
or by direct reference to grammatical functions, the principal alternative is to refer
to the argument structure or theta grid of the verb. This is at the heart of Lieber's
(1983) approach to synthetic compounding.
In 8.69 we see the constituent structure of truck driver analysed as a root com-
pound. This has essentially the same structure as village postman:
8.69 N
~
N N
r\
truck drive er
'330 COMPOUNDS
However, according to Lieber, this can't be the structure ofthe synthetic compound.
Lieber assumes that a verb's argument structure is a kind of feature, subject to perco-
lation. She also assumes that percolation is not possible to a dominating node of a
different syntactic category. Therefore, the argument structure of the verb is unable
to percolate to the N node of driver. Therefore, there is no way in which truck can
receive the Theme role from drive: this role is 'trapped' inside the deverbal head.
In Lieber's theory, concatenation of morphological elements is constrained only by
subcategorization requirements on morphemes. The -er suffix needs to att~ch to a V
node, and words are freely compoundable. This means that a structure such as 8.70
will be legitimate, even though there is no source verb *to truck drive:
8.70 N
v
~
N V
I I
truck drive er
In 8.70, drive governs and hence assigns a theta role to its complement, so this
represents the structure of the synthetic compound. Notice that this structure is
an example of a bracketing paradox, because the morphophonological constituent
structure is [[truck] [driver]] while the morphosyntactic constituent structure is
[[truck drive] er].
In the synthetic compound, 8.70, the non-head truck has to be interpreted as the
object of drive. In Lieber's theory this follows from a stipulation which she calls the
Argument Linking Principle. This has two parts, the first of which says that, when
a verb appears in a structure as sister to a potential complement, it must be able to
assign ('link') all its internal arguments.
Since the distinction between root and synthetic compounds is simply due to the
difference in constituent structure, the structure associated with a synthetic com-
pound should be available to any compound formed by adding a suffix to a verb. This
means that we must also find structures such as 8.71-8.72 corresponding to strange-
sounding and hand-woven:
8.71 a) A b) A
~
A A v
(\
strange sound ing
~
A V
I I
strange sound mg
I
ENGLISH SYNTHETIC COMPOUNDS 331
8.72 a) A
~
b) A
N A v
r\ ~
N V
I I
hand weave en hand weave en
The (b) cases are synthetic compounds corresponding to the First Sister examples
in which the first sister is an adjunct. In particular, hand-woven is exactly comparable
to pan-fried. Lieber calls such adjuncts semantic arguments and accounts for them
with the second part of the Argument Linking Principle. This states that in the
(b) configurations of 8.71-8.72, the non-head must be a semantic argument (i~e.
interpretable as Locative, Manner, Agentive, Instrumental, or Benefactive).
The putative source for handwoven, namely, the verb handweave, does, in fact,
exist (it is a backformation, like babysit). In the active voice it is transitive, and must
therefore be able to link its internal argument. Lieber says that this is possible
because the compound verb will always form the head of a VP in the syntax. Hence,
the argument structure of the verb will be able to percolate as far as the VP node and
the internal argument will therefore be linked to the syntactic direct object of that
VP, just as with any other transitive verb. The internal argument needn't therefore
be satisfied within the compound itself. This is illustrated in 8.73:
8.73 VP
~
V NP
~I\
I I U
hand weave the cloth
The two parts of the Argument Linking Principle capture some of the content of
the First Sister Principle, in that an internal argument will be the first sister of a verb,
and an adjunct with the force of a 'semantic argument' will frequently correspond
to a first sister. The restriction to internal arguments has the effect of ruling out
compounding of subjects (if we ignore unaccusative verbs).
However, a number of criticisms have been raised against Lieber's approach.
Perhaps the most serious objection is levelled by Botha (1983) and Sproat (198Sa)
concerning the inheritance problem. Recall that Lieber's distinction between root
and synthetic compounding hinges on the claim that percolation of argument struc-
ture is blocked by a change in category. But if this is the case, how can the argument
structure percolate beyond the N node of driver or eating in expressions such as a
driver oftrucks or the eating ofpasta? This sort of flaw makes it very difficult to accept
Lieber's proposals as they stand. However, this doesn't oblige us to abandon the idea
of implicating argument structure in our theory of synthetic compounding.
332 COMPOUNDS
8.3.4 Di Sciullo and Williams (1987)
The lexicalist theory developed by Williams appeals to operations on argument struc-
ture to account for all the valency properties of verbs. Recall that Selkirk effectively
split the First Sister Principle into her FOPC and the Subject Restriction. To account
for FOPC violations such as *tree eating of pasta, Di Sciullo and Williams (1987)
stipulate that internal argument structure cannot pass beyond the first projection.
This is effectively a restatement of Selkirk's FOPC.
The Subject Restriction is argued to be a property of predication theory as it
applies to external arguments. The external argument role has to be assigned by a
maximal projection, usually a VP, the typical recipient being the subject of the
sentence. But maximal projections are not permitted inside compounds, so the
external argument cannot be assigned there. It therefore has to be satisfied outside
the compound, as when we say Tom is a trnck driver. Here the external argument of
drive is ultimately assigned to Tom (having percolated in the VP node).
Di Sciullo and Williams locate responsibility for the inheritance problem with the
affixes which form synthetic compounds, namely, -er, -ing, -en, and presumably -ion,
-ance and so on. They contrast the members of the minimal pair in 8.74:
8.74 a) baker of bread
b) *bake-man of bread
They claim that this contrast shows that it must be some property of the suffix -er
which permits the argument structure of bake to be satisfied externally to the noun
by the PP of bread.
Technically, there are a number of ways of making the PP complement of bread
accessible to the argument structure of bake in 8.74a, while denying such access in
8.74b. Among the possibilities are these: (i) the -er suffix is in some sense 'trans-
parent' to the verb's internal argument and allows it to pass through; (ii) the internal
role is somehow given to the suffix which then passes it on to the complement;
(iii) the combination of verb stem and suffix has a composite argument structure
including the internal argument of bake (even though baker is a noun and not a verb)
and the Theme component of this composite can therefore be assigned to bread in
8.74.
The solution adopted by Di Sciullo and Williams is the third of these. First, they
claim that affixes such as -er have their own grid, representing a 'referential' role,
notated by R. Certain affixes, namely those which yield synthetic compounds, are
semantically functors. This means that their own theta grid can act as a function
taking the verb stem theta grid as a value. The result is a composite theta grid, which
is a property of the whole word. A simplified representation of 8.74a will be 8.75:
8.75 N'
NP
N <<A,Th>R>
~
bake<A,Th> er<R>
D
(of) bread
ENGLISH SYNTHETIC COMPOUNDS 333
The composite theta grid for the N baker, <(A, Th)R) shows that (A, Th) has
become the 'value' of the theta grid (R).
A noteworthy feature of this solution to the thematic inheritance problem is that
it is not, strictly speaking, the verb's argument structure which is satisfied, either in
the synthetic compound or in the NP with PP complement. Rather, it is the (derived)
argument structure of the deverbal nominalization baker. This means that the struc-
ture of the synthetic compound bread baker will be 8.76, in which the constituent
structure implied by the phonology, viz. [bread [baker]], is also that implied by the
syntax and semantics:
8.76 N
Ni N<<Ag,Thi>R>
~
bake<Ag,Th> er<R>
I
bread
Thus, there are no bracketing paradoxes to explain and no account is owed of the
non-existence of compound verbs such as *to bread-bake.
With this machinery Di Sciullo and Williams are able to maintain a strongly lexi-
calist approach to an apparently syntactic phenomenon, and without incurring the
disadvantages of Selkirk's or Lieber's proposals. A number of aspects of their
account have been criticized (e.g. by Baker, 1988c). One problem is worth noting
here, since the issue will recur. Di Sciullo and Williams's arguments from examples
8.74 are intended to locate the special argument structure inheritance properties with
specific morphemes. Di Sciullo and Williams only cite a single example of an
ungrammatical formation, namely 8.74b. Unfortunately, this is formed from -man
which doesn't generally attach to verbs, especially transitive ones. Hence, *bake-man
is ungrammatical with or without a complement, and so the example is irrelevant.
If we look at non-agentive nominalizations we find that, as long as we have a process
nominalization and not a resvlt nominalization, then the deverbal noun always
inherits its stem's argument structure, irrespective of the way the nominal is formed.
In the expressions the theft of cars and car theft we see that this is true even of sup-
pletive derivation: theft is the nominalization of the verb steal. Thus, perhaps what
Di Sciullo and Williams would have to say is that it is the nominalization process
itself that is associated with inheritance. If that is the case, we can't claim that
inheritance is the property of an affix as such, and this may mean that the device of
functional composition has to be modified.
8.3.5 Syntactic approaches
8.3.5.1 Fabb (1984)
We noted in §8.3.3 that Lieber stipulated an Argument Linking Principle which
guarantees that a verb's argument structure will be satisfied inside a synthetic
compound. In fact, this principle is very close in content to a principle of GB syntax,
the Theta Criterion. For our purposes, the important part of this criterion is that
if a verb has obligatory theta roles in its theta grid, then they must be assigned to
334 COMPOUNDS
an argument posmon. For instance, the verb hit is obligatorily transitive. English
(unlike some languages, such as Chukchee) lacks an empty category, pro, which
could appear in direct object position and receive the verb's theta role. Therefore,
in a non-sentence such as *Tom hits we would have a verb with an obligatory
(internal) theta role, but no argument position in the syntactic representation to
which it could assign that theta role. This would then constitute a violation of the
Theta Criterion.
In theory it would be possible to circumvent the Theta Criterion if we had syntactic
rules which could change the argument structure of a verb during the derivation.
However, there is another principle of GB syntax which prevents this, the Projection
Principle (briefly introduced in §7.5.2). According to this principle, the theta grid of
a verb is 'projected' to all syntactic levels: D-structure, S-structure and LF. There-
fore, the Theta Criterion holds at these levels, too. As mentioned in chapter 7, it is
widely agreed that the Projection Principle doesn't hold in the lexicon. Hence, a rule
which appeared to violate the Theta Criterion would have to be lexical.
Given that the Projection Principle and Theta Criterion have essentially the same
effect as Lieber's Argument Linking Principle, it is little surprise that linguists have
suggested that synthetic compounds are formed in the syntax, where they will be
subject to such syntactic principles. The first serious analysis along these lines was
presented in Nigel Fabb's 1984 dissertation. Fabb argues that GB theory permits us
to regard affixes as lexical elements on a part with stems and whole words, having
their own syntactic properties. This means we can regard affixes as belonging to the
X0 level in the X-bar hierarchy as it applies to the internal syntax of words. In this
he departs from Selkirk's assumption that affixes constitute their own category. Such
affixes are attached by syntactic rules, and this is what we referred to in §6.3 as syn-
tactic affixation. Under these assumptions, then, the claim that synthetic
compounding is syntactic amounts to the claim that the affixes which regularly license
synthetic compounds (e.g. -er, -ing and -en) are syntactic affixes.
In simplified terms Fabb claims that, in driving oftrucks and truck driving, the verb
stem drive can and must assign its internal theta role of Theme to the noun truck(s)
in order to satisfy the Theta Criterion. Now, in order to assign a theta role to an
element, a verb must govern that element. This essentially means that it must be a
sister to the element in syntactic structure. Fabb therefore assumes structure 8.77 for
the synthetic compound, i.e. the same constituent structure which Lieber proposes:
8.77 v
~
V ing
~.
N1 V<Th1
>
I I
truck drive
The symbol (Th> represents the verb's internal argument, which has been
coindexed with the non-head of the compound, shown by the superscript.
For driving of trucks Fabb assumes structure 8.78:
ENGLISH SYNTHETIC COMPOUNDS 335
8.78 NP
~-
N PP'
~ 1\
~<Th'> ing u
of trucks
drive
Here, the verb has to assign its theta role to a PP which is not its syntactic sister.
Fabb therefore assumes that government is so defined as to permit theta role assign-
ment in such a circumstance, provided it is within the NP. In this way, we can admit
8.78 while still ruling out, say, *Tom's driving was of trucks.
8.3.5.2 Sproat (1985a)
Similar in its basic conception is the analysis which Richard Sproat proposed in his
1985 thesis. Restricting ourselves to the synthetic compounds for the present, he
agrees that the verb is sister to the non-head noun and that we should permit the verb
to associate its internal theta role to that noun. However, he assumes that it is only
maximal projections, i.e. NPs, to which theta roles can genuinely be assigned. This
means that the association between truck and drive in 8.77 must be something other
than theta role assignment proper.
Sproat adopts Higginbotham's (1985) theory of theta roles, which I shall sum-
marize in extremely brief outline. The first assumption is that all words, including
nouns, have a theta grid. Second, verbs have not only the theta roles associated with
the external and internal arguments, but also an Event theta role. Third, theta roles
have to be associated with (or 'discharged to') their arguments, as in other theories,
but there are three distinct ways of doing this. Two of these are of interest to us, viz.:
theta marking and theta identification.
Theta marking refers to the assignment ofa theta role to an argument. For example,
in the VP drives trucks the verb assigns the Theme role to its direct object. For our
purposes this is all we need say about it.
Theta identification is a way of capturing the idea that a phrase modifies the head
of another phrase. A simple example would be modification of the noun dog by the
adjective in the phrase black dog. Higginbotham argued that a common noun such
as dog will have a theta role, which I shall represent simply as ( R), borrowing the
notation of Di Sciullo and Williams. This will be interpreted as roughly 'any member
of the set of dogs' without actually referring to any such member. If we want to
specify s~me particular dog or dogs, then we need a specifier (Spec) or ·determiner,
such as the or every. This produces an NP which can actually refer to a particular
dog or set of dogs. (Technically this is achieved by the third of Higginbotham's types
of theta discharge, theta binding.) Adjectives, too, have a theta role. Unlike a verb,
however, the adjective doesn't theta mark a complement or an external argument.
The semantic interpretation of a (specifierless) phrase such as black dog is (roughly)
'any member both of the set of black entities and also the set of dogs'. We achieve
this process of semantic modification by saying that the theta role of black is identified
with that of dog.
336 COMPOUNDS
The way we capture the broad semantic structure of driving (as in truck driving)
is shown in 8.79-8.81:
8.79 a) DRIVE: (Ag, Th, Ev)
b) 3x 3y 3e drive (x, y, e)
8.80 Event(z)
8.81 z = e (i.e. drive(x, y, z))
Formula 8.79a is the lexical entry for the verb drive, where Ev stands for the Event
role. This corresponds to the quasi-logical formula 8.79b, read as 'there is an entity
x and an entity y such that there is an event e of x driving y'. The lexical entry for
-ing is associated with the formula 8.80, representing the theta role of the affix. (In
a similar fashion, the agentive affix -er of driver would have its own theta role, namely
Agent(x).) Theta identification identifies the argument of 8.79 with the (Ev) argu-
ment in 8.79a to produce 8.81. We can interpret this to mean something like 'the
event of x driving y'. Semantically, therefore, the nominalization refers to the actual
event while the verb predicates a driving event of a driver and a thing driven.
Sproat assumes the same basic structure for synthetic compounds as Lieber and
Fabb, namely 8.77. Like Fabb, but unlike Lieber, he assumes that this configuration
is constructed in the syntax, not in the lexicon. 5 It must therefore submit to syntactic
well-formedness principles. Taking the transitive reading of drive, this means that
the verb must discharge its internal theta role to truck. If we wish to maintain a close
parallelism with syntactic theta role discharge we can't say, with Fabb, that truck is
simply assigned the verb's Theme role by theta marking. This is because syntactic
theta marking is a relation between the head of a level 1 category (i.e. V') and an
argument in the form of a maximal projection. A synthetic compound involves
neither V' phrases nor maximal projections. However, we have an alternative form
of theta discharge, namely, theta identification.
We therefore assume that the theta relation between the head drive and its argu-
ment truck is mediated by identification. This means that the sole theta role, ( R),
of truck will be identified with the (Th) role of drive. This makes the direct object
rather like a modifier of the verb. By virtue of this identification, we then suppose
that the verb's internal role can actually be discharged to the non-head noun, which
therefore functions as the verb's object. This means that the Theta Criterion is
satisfied, as required. The structure which results from this is shown in 8.82 (where
identification is notated by * and +):
8.82 N<Ag,Th*,Ev+ >
V<Ag,Th*,Ev+ > ing <R+ >
~
N<R*> V<Ag,Th*,Ev>
I I
truck drive
~
!!
I
i,
1
I
I
I
I
I
I
ENGLISH SYNTHETIC COMPOUNDS 337
We must now turn to the driving oftrncks, to see how Sproat deals with the inherit-
ance problem. Under Fabb's analysis this is straightforward theta role assignment
from the verb, on the assumption that the -ing affix can't interfere with government
by the verb and hence doesn't affect the theta marking of the PP complement.
Sproat, however, maintains (along with Lieber) that syntactic theta role discharge
can't take place across a new syntactic category node, so that a verb stem which is
pan of a nominalization can't directly theta mark its complement. This means that
the inheritance phenomenon isn't simply a consequence of constituent structure and
independent syntactic principles.
Sproat's way of deriving inheritance is a principle called the Cross-Categorial Theta-
Grid Percolation Convention. According to this, the theta grid of a verb is required
to percolate to the next higher node when the theta grid of the verbal affix and the
theta grid of the verb stem are associated by some regular process of theta discharge.
In other words, when a verb stem undergoes syntactic affixation (e.g. by -er, -ing or
-en) the theta grids of the affix and verb are identified (as.in 8.81). As a consequence
the derived nominal or adjective must receive the theta grid of the verb stem. So on
this analysis inheritance is induced precisely by syntactic affixation. 6
Being syntactic affixation, it must take place in the syntax. Now, it is possible to
:find cases in which, say, -ing is affixed in the lexicon. In these cases inheritance isn't
observed. Thus, in a sentence such as Harriet's cooking is tasty, the noun cooking has
an idiosyncratic meaning referring to the concrete results of cooking, not the fact of
a cooking event. In this it differs from the eventive use in an example such as The
cooking ':'/'the lasagne took 30 minutes. For this reason, we don't :find the argument
structure of cook projected in the :first reading: *Harriet's cooking of lasagne is tasty.
Nor can we say *Harriet's lasagne cooking is tasty, because cooking in this sense is
formed in the lexicon by adding -ing to cook, whereas in a synthetic compound we
add -ing to [lasagne cook] .
Both Fabb and Sproat have succeeded in reducing pan (a) of Lieber's Argument
Linking Principle to the Projection Principle and the Theta Criterion (together with
a revised theory of theta role discharge and feature percolation in Sproat's case). The
FOPC effects are due to the fact that theta marking can only take place between
sisters (or near-sisters in Fabb's theory), a universal syntactic principle. Sproat's
assumptions lead him to posit a form of argument inheritance, in which the verb's
argument structure percolates to the dominating N node of a nominalization, pro-
vided it is the result of regular (i.e. syntactic) affixation. In Sproat's theory the effects
of compounding and syntactic affixation on argument structure are more akin to
those of a modifier or attribute than to the effects of bona :fide arguments.
Finally, we turn to an interesting aspect of Sproat's theory which, while not strictly
central to questions of compounding and argument inheritance, has bearing on the
nature of syntactic affixation.
Sproat restricts a syntactic affixation analysis to nominalizations which have a
process or event reading, as opposed to, say, a resultative reading. Fabb restricted
such affixation to the -ing suffix. However, Sproat observes that we can form event
nominalizations by means of such suffixes as -(a)tion, -ance, -ment, or even conversion
and suppletion. These nominalizations, provided they are given an eventive reading,
permit the formation of synthetic compounds, despite fairly radical allomorphy. In
other words, Sproat accepts Selkirk's claim that examples such as slum clearance or
338 COMPOUNDS
bomb disposal are genuine synthetic compounds (something which Fabb, for instance,
explicitly denies).
If nothing else were said, we would have to postulate a long list of lexical entries,
all with the same meaning, all syntactic affixes, but with different phonological forms
and phonological properties. Sproat therefore assumes the existence of a single
abstract nominalizing morpheme for events, NOM, whose phonological form will be
a function of the lexical properties of individual stems, but whose syntax will be quite
regular. He explicitly likens this situation to that of an inflectional paradigm. It is
interesting that this proposal is essentially what I suggested would be needed by Di
Sciullo and Williams, to get their lexicalist theory to work adequately.
Sample representations for slum clearance, damage control and car theft are given in
8.83:
8.83 N<Ag,Th*,Ev+>
V<Ag,Th*,Ev+ > NOM<R+ >
~
N<R*> V<Ag,Th*,Ev>
I I
(a) slum
(b) damage
(c) car
clear
control
steal
Representations such as these exacerbate the paradoxical nature of the bracketing,
.in that, for instance, steal and NOM, which have to be spelt out as theft by some kipd
of allomorphic readjustment rule, don't form a constituent. 7 This is an example of
the type of problem we'll be discussing in chapter 10.
8.3.5.3 Roeper (1988)
In this subsection we have been exemplifying synthetic compounding using gerunds
or -ing nominalizations. However, in a sense these are rather unusual constructions.
As is well known, gerunds straddle the boundary between NPs and VPs, having
properties of each. In 8.84, for instance, the -ing form of the verb combines with a
possessive subject, an adjective modifier and a complement marked by of, all of
which are characteristic of NPs. However, in 8.85, the same verb form combines
with a non-possessive subject, an adverb and a complement with no special marking,
just as though it were a finite verb form:
8.84 Tom's careful driving of the truck surprised us.
8.85 Tom driving the truck carefully was a welcome surprise.
Roeper (1988) argues that the gerunds which form synthetic compounds are of the
verbal type. One interesting reason for this is that these compounds appear to include
an empty subject position (PRO) which can be controlled by a higher NP. For
f
f
' t
l
lf
'
!
t
';
lI
l
ENGLISH SYNTHETIC COMPOUNDS 339
instance, corresponding to 8.86 and 8.87 we can have 8.88, in which the implicit or
'understood' subject of driving (PROi) is interpreted as coreferential to Tom:
8.86 a) Tom likes to drive trucks.
b) Tomi likes [PROi to drive trucks]
8.87 a) Tom likes driving trucks.
b) Tomi likes [PROi driving trucks]
8.88 a) Tom likes truck driving.
b) Tomi likes [PROi truck driving]
One way to capture these facts is to assume that the gerunds are verb forms at D-
structure and that in the syntactic derivation they undergo a rule changing them to
NPs. Baker (1985b) proposed just such an analysis, arguing that the -ing affix is of
the class N, that it is subcategorized to attach to a verb stem, and that it is generated
in a non-fmite Inti position. He then argued that the affix 'hopped' onto the verb
stem, turning the verb into a noun. This is another example of syntactic affixation.
Baker (1985b) doesn't discuss synthetic compounding, but (in Baker, 1988a) he
suggests that such compounds are formed lexically. However, Roeper proposes that
Baker's analysis of Noun Incorporation should be applied to synthetic compounds (of
gerunds, at least). In other words he argues that the synthetic compounds are the
result of syntactic NI, moving the verb's direct object and leaving a trace which must
be properly governed. 8 One of his reasons is Baker's UTAH (§7.4.2), which states
tha: if two expressions have the same theta relationships then they are expressed by
means of the same structural relationships at D-structure. Put crudely, Roeper seems
to be interpreting the UTAH to mean that, since drive trucks, the driving of trucks,
and truck driving all involve the same theta marking of trucks, they must all have the
same underlying form.
The claim is, then, that the D-structure for truck driving is a sentence, 8.89, and
that the -ing morpheme in Inti position is lowered onto the verb by a transformation,
while the head of the object NP is incorporated by the verb, to derive 8.90:
8.89 IP
~
NP I'
-----------
I VP
~
V NP
I
N
I
PRO -mg drive truck
'•
\
I
340 CpMPOUNDS
8.90 IP
--------------
NP I'
~
I VP
~
V NP
I
N
I
PRO drive mg e·1
There then follows a rather drastic change, by which the VP in 8.90 is transformed
into a NP, as shown in 8.91:
8.91 NP
~
Det N
I
v
N v
I I
(PRO) truck drive mg
This change accounts, amongst other things, for the fact that English lacks genuine
NI, and hence that we can't say *Tom truck drives for a living. This type of category
changing is essentially what is argued for by Levin and Rappaport (1986) in
their analysis of adjectival passives (§7.5.3). However, for them, the change occurs
in the lexicon, while Roeper argues that it can also be a syntactic phenomenon.
8.3.6 Postscript on inheritance
8.3.6.1 Roeper (1987)
Inheritance of argument structure has become an important issue in explaining the
properties of synthetic compounds. We've seen various approaches to this problem,
including functional composition of theta grids, and conditions for guaranteeing the
percolation of argument structure. In this section I briefly discuss approaches to this
question in more detail. The issue is somewhat controversial, so we will not be
reaching any firm conclusions.
Roeper (1987) proposes a technical device for handling inheritance, thereby linking
ENGLISH SYNTHETIC COMPOUNDS 341
it with another phenomenon which has aroused a fair degree of interest, the licensing
of implicit arguments. \Vhen we form a syntactic or verbal passive, we suppress the
external argument of the verb. However, we don't abolish that argument entirely,
for it can show up as an implicit argument. As we know from §7.1, such an argument
can be detected in two independent ways: either it can be made explicit by means
of a prepositional phrase, as in 8.92a, or it can control the null (PRO) subject of a
purposive or rationale clause, as in 8.92b. Equally, of course, it can do both
(8.92c):
8.92 a) The boat was sunk by its owners.
b) The boat was sunk [PRO to collect the insurance].
c) The boat was sunk by its owners [PRO to collect the insurance].
It is not just the passive participle which behaves in this way. Roeper argues that
affixes such as -ing, -er and -able are also capable of licensing implicit arguments.
Many affixes are selective about what kinds of stems they attach to. The agentive
-er creates a noun referring to an agent and only attaches to verbs which themselves
bear the Agent theta role. Hence, it will attach to an unergative intransitive verb such
as swim to give swimmer, but it fails to attach to an unaccusative verb such as arrive
(*arriver). The suffix -able is able to take transitive verbs bearing the Agent and
Theme roles and create adjectives predicated of the Theme. This sort of behaviour
demands an explanation.
As with all the other accounts of inheritance we have seen, the central task is to
distinguish between affixes which 'trap' the theta grid of their verb stem and prevent
the verb's argument structure from being realized, and affixes which are transparent
to that argument structure. Roeper distinguishes three :3orts of deverbal affixation.
The third type is represented solely by -ing, and we'll return to it in due course. The
first type blocks percolation of the verb's argument structure and prevents it from
assigning an internal theta role. This is illustrated by the affix -ive in 8.93: 9
8.93 a) The grammar generates compounds.
b) The grammar is generative.
c) *The grammar is generative of compounds.
d) *A compound generative grammar.
The second type of affix is that exemplified by -er, by nominalizations and by -able.
Examples of the first two cases are already well known to us: driver oftrucks, destruc-
tion of the city. In the case of -able. Roeper claims that an Agent role can be assigned
to a PP to realize an implicit argument, much as in the case of passive participles
(though some speakers, myself included, find the result rather strained). Thus, we
might compare 8.94 with 8.95:
8.94 The game is playable by children.
8.95 The game is played by children.
How can we tie together these properties? Roeper argues that such affixes bear their
own theta grid and that this grid must match the theta grid of the stem to which it
'342
I '
I,
I ;
COMPOUNDS
attaches. For instance, -er will bear the grid ( Ag), while -able will bear the grid
(Ag, Th). By virtue of the matching requirement, -er will only attach to agentive
verbs, and -able will only be affixed to transitive verbs. The affix is the head of the
word and so its theta grid is free to percolate to the next node. Thus, Roeper accounts
for the inheritance phenomena indirectly, by ensuring that the verb's argument
structure is copied on the affixal head. From the dominating node, a theta role
can be assigned to a PP complement. This is illustrated in 8.96-8.97 in which -able
affixation is contrasted with affixation of -ive:
8.96 A'
A pp
~
V<Ag,Th> <Ag,Th>
I I 6
play able by children
8.97 A'
~
A pp
V<Ag,Th>.
I
*generate 1ve of compounds
Roeper claims that percolation from the theta grid of the affix itself is the only way
in which thematic inheritance ever occurs. In this way he accounts for failure
of inheritance in Di Sciullo and Williams's example *bakeman of bread, though
without having to appeal to a special formal mechanism such as functional composi-
tion. (Recall, however, that this case can be excluded on independent grounds.)
The third sort of affix is represented solely by the process nominalizer -ing. This
affix has no theta grid of its own, and is thus able to affix to any verb stem, yet it
inherits that of the verb to which it attaches. Thus we find the sleeping of the dogs,
the falling of the leaves, the driving of the trucks, the putting of books on shelves and all
the other examples with which we are now familiar. The -ing affix is hence the only
genuine example of a 'transparent' affix. In this respect, of course, it is exactly like
an inflectional affix, as in drives/ drove trucks.
8.3.6.2 Semantically based accounts of inheritance
A number of authors have recently proposed that inheritance phenomena are the
result of semantic aspects of word formation. Perhaps the proposal that comes closest
to those·we have seen so far is that of Booij and van Haaften (1988). (I shall follow
the exposition of Booij, 1992, here.) Booij distinguishes between the Predicate-
Argument Structure (PAS) of a verb and its Lexico-Conceptual Structure (LCS).
The PAS is essentially the verb's theta grid and as such is part of the syntactic struc-
ture of the verb. The LCS is closer to a representation of the actual meaning of the
,·..
i
ENGLISH SYNTHETIC COMPOUNDS 343
verb. A simple example will help clarify this. In 8.98-8.99 we see the LCS ((a) rep-
resentations) and PAS ((b) representations) of the verb break in its anti-causative
(intransitive) and causative (transitive) readings respectively:
8.98 a) [x BREAK] 8.99 a) [y CAUSE [x BREAK] ]
b) break: (Th) b) break: (Ag, Th)
In the (b) representations we see the theta grid, with the external argument under-
lined, following Williams's (1981b) notation. In the (a) representations we see a
variable corresponding to each of the argument positions, with the meaning of the
transitive verb decomposed into a causative predicate and the basic predicate. To a
certain extent the PAS representations are redundant because, knowing the LCS, we
can generally predict the argument structure of the verb. For instance, all causatives
have an Agent external argument. To a large extent, then, we can regard the PAS
as a projection of the LCS.
.According to Booij, there are no morphological operations defined over theta roles
as such. At most we find rules which refer to external or internal arguments. Many
of the rules which are alleged to refer to theta roles are actually rules affecting the
LCS. An example is agentive -er affixation in English (and Dutch). Recall that one
of the things we have to account for is how -er nominalizations such as driver are
interpretated as Agents. For some, (e.g. Roeper, 1987, and also Sproat, 198Sa) this
is because the -er affix actually bears an Agent theta role. On Booij 's analysis this is
a consequence of the semantic operation induced by -er affixation. He claims that
it has the effect of binding the subject position in the LCS. I represent this
schematically in 8.100:
8.100 er: the x such that [LCS of verb]
For instance, the LCS of driver will be 8.101:
8.101 driver: the x such that [x DRIVE y]
When an argument in the LCS is bound in this way it f~ls to show up in the PAS.
Thus, the only remaining theta role for driver is that of Theme.
Assuming that some affixes have the inheritance property, we can now see how
most of the facts of inheritance come about. The Agent role of drive fails to be
inherited by driver because that role has been bound, a semantic effect of -er affixa-
tion. Therefore, the only other role which can be inherited is the Theme role, as
required.
Finally, where affixation has no semantic effect on the LCS of a verb, as is the case
with inflections and with -ing nominalizations, we get inheritance of the entire LCS.
Hence, we have Tom's driving of trncks or the driving of trncks by Tom, with both
Agent and Theme roles expressed.
The various accounts we've reviewed in this chapter of thematic inheritance by no
means exhaust all the possibilities. Nor can we be said to have come to a definitive
solution. 10 In view of its importance for the nature of syntactic valency, and the all-
pervading influence it has on basic word formation processes operating on verbs, we
can expect this to remain an important topic of debate.
344 COMPOUNDS
8.4 Summary and conclusions
In this chapter we've examined a variety of approaches to the phenomenon of com-
pounding. Of great importance in recent theoretical debate has been the distinction
between root compounds and synthetic compounds. Both types can be said to illus-
trate ways in which syntax and morphology interact. In root compounding we find
the best evidence favouring constituent structure in morphology. In addition, if we
agree that the result of compounding is itself a word, we have some evidence of
certain types of phrases being compounded. An interesting, if rather neglected, topic
is the way that modifier-head relationships are established in compounds and how
these relate to modification in syntax. The data from Turkish are sufficient to show
that there is much to be said about this question.
However, by far the greatest interest has been aroused by the problem of synthetic
compounding and related questions of the satisfaction of argument structure in com-
pounds and nominalizations. This currently seems to be revolving around the extent
to which the behaviour of compounds is derivable from purely syntactic principles.
Even within GB theory, radically different positions can be adopted. The lexicalist
camp claims that compounding is a type of word formation process ana~-lience -a
mafi:er-oflexicaf-orgaruiat:lon: The syntactic: effeets noted are the result of essentially
morphological rules or principles permitting argument structure to be accessible
outside the domain of the word itself, a limited 'leak' in the Strong Lexicalist
Hypothesis. This is the tradition represented, for example, by Selkirk (1982), Lieber
(1983), Di Sciullo and Williams (1987); and Booij and van Haaften (1988). At the .
other extreme are those who would have compound formation taking place largely
or solely in the syntax, such as Fabb (1984), Roeper (1988), Sproat (1985a) and
Lieber (1988). Some advocates of the syntactic approach have explicitly questioned
whether there is any organization to the lexicon, beyond its function as a list of idio-
syncrasies (especially Pesetsky, 1985, whose claims are examined in chapter 10, and
also Sproat, 1985a). However, not all those who advocate a strongly syntactic
approach to valency changing operations in general, and the kind of compounding
exhibited in noun incorporation in particular, would accept this degree of radicalism
(Baker, 1988a). In other words, the central 'interface' questions remain wide open
and several of them will be taken up again in chapter 11.
EXERCISES
8.1 On a psg approach it is theoretically possible to generate such forms as
erythrocell, and eel/plasm, i.e. a mixture of words and bound stems, as well as com-
pounds of affixed stem plus stem, such as erythroidcyte. Is there any evidence that this
facility is required in English? If not, how could it be prevented?
8.2 In addition to -er affixation, agentive (actor) nominalizations can be formed in
J
EXERCISES 345
a variety of other ways in English. Using descriptive grammars or other handbooks
such as those of Jespersen, Marchand or Bauer, enumerate the morphological devices
found in English. Then list all the constructions in which deverbal nominalizations
may satisfy their verb's argument structure. Then examine each of the agentive
nominalizing devices to see to what extent they permit satisfaction of argument struc-
ture, either regularly and productively, or idiosyncratically, for certain choices of
verbs.
8.3 Welsh compounds. In some compounds one or other member exhibits some
kind of allomorphy involving consonants, in others there is no allomorphic change.
Describe the consonantal allomorphic changes in phonological terms. What aspects
of the compound govern whether or not allomorphy will be found? [ch = [x],
dd = [o], f = [v], ff = [f], 11 = [tl, th = [8], y = [i] or [d], gw = [gw], otherwise,
w = [w] before vowel, [u] before consonant.]
A) gweithdy 'work house' hirben 'shrewd'
cadeirfardd 'chaired bard' llyfrbryf 'bookworm'
61-ddyddio 'to post-date' pengam 'perverse'
llyfrwerthwr 'bookseller' camgred 'heresy'
wyneb-ddalen 'title-page' llawfer 'shorthand'
penwyn 'white-headed' llawddryll 'pistol'
dyddlyfr 'diary' penboeth · 'fanatical'
aralleiriad 'paraphrase' llawfeddig 'surgeon'
gwellwell 'better and better' suddlong 'submarine'
hendref 'winter dwelling' hinfynegydd 'barometer'
B) wynepryd 'countenance' popty 'oven'
croglofft 'garret, roodloft' crocbren 'gallows'
gwritgoch 'rosy-cheeked' picfforch 'pitchfork'
bracty 'malt house' lletchwith 'awkward'
crocbont 'suspension bridge'
C) penteulu 'head of the family' cae pon 'grazing field'
ty pridd 'earth house' ty cornel 'corner house'
ceffyl gwedd 'team horse' esgidiau dawnsio 'ballet shoes'
Additional vocabulary:
abad 'abott'; arall 'other'; ber 'short'; brag 'malt'; bryd 'mind'; cadeirio 'to chair';
coch 'red'; cred 'belief'; crog 'cross, hanging'; chwith 'left, wrong, strange'; dalen
'leaf'; dawnsio 'to dance'; dryll 'gun'; esgid 'shoe'; fforch 'fork'; geiriad 'wording';
gwaith 'work'; gwedd 'yoke, team'; gwerthu 'to sell'; gwrid 'blush'; gwyn 'white';
hen 'old, old-fashioned'; hin 'weather'; hir 'long'; lled 'partly, rather'; llofft 'loft';
llong 'boat'; meddyg 'doctor'; mynegi 'to tell'; 61 'back (adj.)'; pig 'point'; pobi 'to
bake'; poeth 'hot'; pont 'bridge'; pori 'to graze'; pren 'tree, wood'; pryf 'worm'; tref
'home, town'; wyneb 'face, front'.
346 COMPOUNDS
8.4 Russian 'stub' compounds. Below is a set of Russian compounds (mostly
taken from the Glossary of Russian Abbreviations and Acronyms, 1967), together with
a gloss indicating the full form or title or the source and a more-or-less idiomatic ren-
dering of the whole into English. What regularities, if any, seem to govern these con-
structions (including morphological and phonological regularities)? To what extent
do these examples represent compounding and word-formation proper as opposed to
non-standard forms of word creation? (In some case you will need to pay attention
to the orthography of the original.)
zarplata-zarabotnaja plata (<za 'for' rabota 'work' -n- adjectival
suffix) 'for-work payment', i.e. 'salary'.
ispolkom-ispolnitel'nyj komitet 'executive committee'.
profsojuz-professional'nyj sojuz 'professional (i.e. trades) union'
sovxoz-sovetskoe xozjajstvo 'soviet farm'
BaltNIRO
Baltijskij naucno-issledovatel'skij institut morskogo
Baltic scientifico-research (adj.) institute of-sea (adj).
rybnogo xozjajstva i okeanografii
fish (adj.) economy and oceanography
'Baltic Research Institute for Sea Fisheries and Oceanography'
Glavprimorrybprom
Glavnoe upravlenie rybnoj promyslennosti Primorja
main administration of-fish (adj.) industry of-Primorye
'Central Administration ofthe Primorye Fishing Industry'
GlavPURKKA
Glavnoe politiceskoe upravlenie Raboce-Krestjanskoj
main political directorate of-worker-peasant (adj.)
Krasnoj Armii
red army
'Central Political Directorate of the Workers' and Peasants' Red
Army'
Glavsevuralstroj
Glavnoe upravlenie strojitel'stva predprijatij v rajonax
main administration of-construction of-enterprises in regions
Severnogo Urala
of-northern Urals
'North Urals Central Administration for Factory Construction'
Giprocvetmetobrabotka
Gosudarstvennyj naucno-issledovatel'skij i proektnyj institut
state (adj.) scientific-research (adj.) and planning institute
splavov i obrabotki cvetnyx metalov
of-alloys and of-processing of-nonferrous metals
'State Research and Planning Institute for Alloys and Nonferrous
Metals'
Giprosaxtostrojmas
Gosudarstvennyj proektno-konstruktorskij i
state (adj) planning-design (adj.) and
naucno-issledovatel'skij institut po sozdaniju novyx
scienti:fico-research (adj.) institute for creation of-new
masin i mexanizmov gorno-proxodceskix rabat
machines and of-mechanisms of-mine-sinking works
[NB saxta 'mine']
EXERCISES 347
'State Planning, Research and Design Institute for Shaft Sinking
Technology'
Gossortsemfond
Gosudarstvennyj fond sortovyx semjon
state (adj.) collection of-specialist seeds
'State Specialist Seeds Collection'
Lenoblsovprof
Leningradskij Oblastnoj Sovet Professional'nyx Sojuzov
Leningrad (adj.) regional council of-trades unions
'Leningrad Regional Trades Union Council'
Lensovnarxoz
Sovet narodnogo xozjajstva Leningradskogo ekonomiceskogo
council of-national economy of-Leningrad (adj.) economic
raJona
regwn
'Leningrad Region National Economic Council'
Lenximtexizdat
Leningradskoe Otdelenie Gosudarstvennogo ximiko-texniceskogo
Leningrad (adj.) branch of·state chemica-technological
izdatel'stva
publishing-house
'Leningrad Branch of the State Chemical Engineering Publishing
House'
Mosobiilupravlenie
Moskovskoe oblastnoe upravlenie ziliscnogo xozjajstva
Moscow (adj.) regional administration of-residential economy
'Moscow Regional Housing Administration'
Mosobispolkom
Ispolnitel'nyj Komitet Moskovskogo Oblastnogo Soveta
executive committee of-Moscow (adj.) regional council
Deputatov Trudjascixsja
of-deputies of workers
'Moscow Regional Executive Committee'
Mostextorgsnab
Kontora material'no-texniceskogo snabzenija glavnogo
bureau of-material-technological supply of-main
upravlenija torgovli ispolkoma Moskovskogo
administration of trade of-executive-committee of-Moscow (adj.)
gorodskogo soveta deputatov trudjasCixsja
municipal council of-deputies of-workers
'Moscow Technological Trade Supplies Bureau'
348 COMPOUNDS
N IINAvtosel'xozmas
Naucno-Issledovatel'skij Institut Informacii po
scientifico-research institute of-information on
Avtotraktornomu i Sel'skoxozjajstvennomu masinostrojeniju
tractor and farming machine-construction
'Research and Information Institute for Tractor and Farm Machinery
Construction'
8.5 Provide a tree diagram for examples 8.31-8.34 (Turkish izafet). Which of the
two English glosses does 8.33 more closely resemble and why?
8.6 According to Clark, Hecht and Mulford (1986) children from an early age
make characteristic mistakes with compounds. Explain what might give rise to errors
such as the following (all interpreted as 'wagon puller'):
pull wagon man
pull wagon
puller wagon
pull wagoner
8.7 Compounds such as *man-dying, *Weather-changing and *train-amvmg are
ungrammatical. Use this fact to show that the Unaccusative Hypothesis is incompat-
ible with obvious interpretations of the approaches to synthetic compounding
proposed by Roeper and Siegel, and by Lieber.
8.8 Explain, giving as much relevant detail as possible, why expressions such as
a driver of trucks or the eating of pasta pose problems for Lieber's (1983) theory.
8.9
a) How could Sproat derive backseat driver?
b) If *Shelf book putter (with the meaning 'putter of books on shelves') is ungram-
matical, why is it possible to say motorway truck driver (meaning 'driver of trucks
on motorways') in Sproat's system?
8.10 Jacaltec (Day, 1973; Craig, 1977; Robertson, 1980), a Mayan language, is an
ergative VSO language in which subjects and objects are cross-referenced by prefixes
to the verb. State informally the relationship between compounding and theta role
satisfaction in Jacaltec. In what way might these data be problematic for the theories
we have reviewed? [T/A= tensefaspect]
1) ch -co lo [ixim wah]
PRES -Erglstpl. eat CLASS tortillas
'we eat tortillas'
2) ch-hach' il-w-i 'anma
TfA-Abs2nd see-INTR~affix people
'you watch people'
3) ch -hach 'il-wa-yi
TfA-Abs2nd see-AP-affix
'you see'
4a) potx'-om txitam
b) potx'-b'al txitam
c) potx'-o' txitam
'pig killer'
'time, place or instrument for killing pigs'
'pig killing'
Examples 5 are derived nominals from verb stems:
Sa) 'il-wa-hom
b) mak'-b'anil
c) 'il-wa-1
Compare 5 with 6:
6a) 'il-om 'anma
b) *'il-om
c) txahl-om
Vocabulary:
'watcher'
'hitting instrument'
'watching'
'people watcher'
'watcher
'one who prays'
EXERCISES 349
-omfhom 'agentive', -b'al 'instrumental', -b'anil 'instrumental (antipassive form)',
-o'fl 'gerund', wa 'antipassive'.
*8.11 Roeper (1987) argues that adjectives in -able can project the stem verb's
argument structure in phrasal constructions in a regular fashion, as in learnable by
a child. Test the robustness of this claim by constructing a list of -able adjectives with
as wide a variety of verb stems as possible. What type of complements do these verbs
permit? Are there any restrictions on the kinds of synthetic compounds that can be
formed? Then repeat the exercise for other adjectival suffixes that have been claimed
to license synthetic compounds (see Selkirk, 1982).
*8.12 Compare and contrast the notions of 'percolation' and of 'head' as used by
Lieber (1983), Di Sciullo and Williams (1987) and Roeper (1987). To what extent are
these the same notions for these sets of authors? To what extent are these the notions
appealed to in syntactic theory? (You may find it useful to consult Zwicky, 198Sa,
on the subject of heads.)
9
Clitics
Introduction
In this chapter we will be concerned with a topic which, strictly speaking, goes
beyond the brief of part III of this book, the morphology-syntax interface. For we
will be looking at a set of phenomena which represent the meeting point of mor.,.
phology, syntax and phonology, namely the phenomena collectively known as
cliticization. 1
Clitics are elements which share certain properties of fully fledged words, but
which lack the independence usually associated with words. In particular, they can't
stand alone, but have to be attached phonologically to a host. This makes them look
a little like affixes, in particular, inflectional affixes. Typically, elitics are function
words, such as modal participles (e.g. interrogative participles), conjunctions, pro-
nominals or auxiliary verbs. Historically, they generally develop from fully fledged
words and frequently develop into inflectional affixes.
There are several practical and theoretical difficulties in isolating clitics. They are
generally assumed to be incapable of bearing stress or accent (though, as Klavans,
1982, points out in some detail, strictly speaking, this is not always the case). In some
cases, phonological processes which affect clitics are different from those which affect
genuine affixes (as we will see in the discussion of Macedonian and Polish, below),
but again this is not always the case. In general, cliticization is freer and less res-
tricted lexically than affixation, in the sense that clitics will typically attach them-
selves to any old word provided it is in the right position in the sentence, while affixes
usually only attach to specific classes of words or stems. However, there are plenty
of exceptions to this rule of thumb, too. These difficulties of characterization have
led some linguists to abandon the notion altogether as a theoretical primitive
and regard the notion of clitic as simply a descriptive cover term. Other linguists,
however, regard elitics as a separately identifiable morphosyntactic category.
There are several reasons why morphologists need to understand the nature of
clitics. First, it will be impossible to construct an adequate theory of inflectional mor-
FOUR CASE STUDIES 351
phology if inflection is confused with cliticization, or if important types of inflectional
system are mislabelled as clitic systems. I shan't discuss this aspect in further detail,
since the point should be fairly obvious from our discussion of inflection in chapter
6, and from some of the examples of clitic systems we shall be examining. Second,
the question of cliticization is crucial for our understanding of the nature of
wordhood. Cliticization raises many of the most complex questions concerning the
relationship between syntactic, morphological and phonological characterizations of
this notion. Third, much debate in the syntax literature has concerned the nature of
pronominal clitic systems in languages such as French, Italian or Hebrew. Some
argue that clitics must be regarded as degenerate types of pronoun and that their
behaviour must therefore be viewed from a primarily syntactic perspective. Others
have argued that, morphologically, these clitic pronouns are rather like affixes, so
that an adequate account of their syntactic properties will have to take cognizance of
the morphology-syntax interface.
The chapter begins with an examination of a collection of clitic systems from the
Slavic languages Serbo-Croat, Macedonian and Polish, and the Romance language
Portuguese. These languages together illustrate a good many of the phenomena that
are most often discussed under the heading of clitics (though these particular
languages haven't been discussed in great detail in the theoretical literature). In the
second section we examine recent attempts at classifying clitic systems, and
specifically at attempts to provide a unified theory of cliticization. The third section
deals with the relationship between pronominal clitic systems and syntax, and
broaches th~ question of whether such clitics are really agreement morphemes.
9.1 Four case studies
9.1.1 Serbo-Croat
The clitic system of Serbo-Croat, a Slavonic language and the principal language of
Yugoslavia, embraces auxiliary verbs and pronouns, as well as a question particle. It
has been described in an Aspects-based transformational framework by Browne
(1974). Any handbook of the language will provide information about the clitic
systems and useful descriptive summaries can be found in De Bray (1980b) and
Corbett (1988). 2
Two verbs are used as auxiliaries, the verb to be in the formation of the past tense
and the conditional and the verb to want in the formation of the future. The auxiliary
clitics, like other verbs, inflect for person (1st, 2nd, 3rd) and number (singular and
plural). The past is formed from the present of be with the past participle; the con-
ditional is formed from the aorist of be with the past participle. The past participle
agrees in number and gender (masculine, feminine and neuter) with the subject. The
future is formed from the present of want with either the infinitive or a finite subordi-
nate clause introduced by the complementizer da 'that'.
Clitic forms are contrasted with full (stressed) forms in table 9.1. The only differ-
ence between full form and clitic in the past tense is stress: the clitic forms are
inherently unstressed (and therefore'can never bear a tone). The full forms have short
vowels and bear a falling tone.
352 CLITICS
Table 9.1 Auxiliary clitics (Serbo-Croat)
Be (present tense) (past)
full form elitic full form elitic
Sg. 1 jesam sam b'ih bih
2 jesi Sl bi bi
3 jest(e) je bi bi
Pl. 1 jesmo smo b'ismo bismo
2 jeste ste b'iste biste
3 jesu su b'ise bi
Want
full form elitic
Sg. 1 hocu cu
2 hoed ces
3 hoce ce
Pl. 1 hocemo cemo
2 hocete cete
3 hoce ce
The past participle is formed by adding -l to the verb stem. The flf alternates
with fof in syllable final (coda) position. To the past participle are added the agree-
ment desinences, as shown in example 9.1, using the verb stati 'to stand', stem, st;a-:
9.1 sg. pl.
masc. stao stali
fern. stala stale
neut. stalo stala
Examples of the past, conditional and future are given in 9.2-9.4:
9.2 a) Pisao sam pismo.
wrote AUX letter
'I (masc.) wrote a letter.'
b) Pisala sam pismo.
'I (fern.) wrote a letter'
c) Juce ste citali knjigu.
Yesterday AUX read book
'Yesterday, you (masc. pl.) read a book.'
d) Ovuknjigu smo vee Citali.
this book AUX already read
'We have already read this book.'
e) Devojke su Citale ovu knjigu.
girls AUX read this book
'The girls were reading this book.'
FOUR CASE STUDIES 353
9.3 a) Ja bih citao ovu knjigu.
I AUX read this book
'I would read this book. '
b) Momci bi citali ovu knjigu, kad bi bila zanimljiva.
boys AUX read this book if AUX be interesting
'The boys would read this book if it were interesting.'
9.4 a) Bogdan ce pisati pismo.
Bogdan AUX write letter
b) Bogdan ce da pise pismo.
Bogdan AUX that he-writes letter
'Bogdan will write a letter.'
The Dative and Accusative forms of the personal pronouns are given in table 9.2.
These appear after (most of) the auxiliaries in the order Dative Accusative. This is
illustrated in examples 9.5-9.9:
9.5 a) Ja mu ga dajem svaki dan.
I 3sg.M-DAT 3sg.-ACC give every day
b) Svaki dan mu ga dajem.
c) Dajem mu ga svaki dan.
'I give it to him every day.'
9.6 a) Juce sam JOJ ih dao.
Yesterday AUX-lsg. 3sg.F-DAT 3pl.-ACC gave
'Yesterday, I gave them to her.'
b) Ja sam joj ih juce dao.
c) Dao sam joj ih juce.
'I gave them to her yesterday.'
Table 9.2 Pronominal clitics (Serbo-Croat)
1st sg. 2nd sg. 1st pl.
full elitic full elitic full elitic
Dat. meni tebi ti "
ffil nama nam
Ace. mene me tebe te nas nas
3rd sg. masc.fneut. fern. 3rd pl.
full elitic full elitic full
Dat. njemu nj6j ·"
mu )OJ n)1ma
Ace. njega ga nju jefju njih
Reflexive: Dat. (full only) sebi
Ace. full - sebe, clitic - se.
2nd pl.
full elitic
"
varna vam
vas vas
elitic
lffi
ih
354 CLITICS
9.7 a) U sali smo im se predstavili.
In hall AUX-1pl. 3pl.-DAT REFL-ACC introduced
'In the hall we introduced ourselves to them.'
b) Predstavili smo im se.
'We introduced ourselves to them.'
9.8 a) Once ti ga pokazati sutra.
He AUX-1sg. 2sg.-DAT 3sg.N-ACC show tomorrow
b) Sutra ce ti ga pokazati.
'He will show it to you tomorrow.'
9.9 a) Vi biste JOJ se predstavili u sali.
I AUX-2pl. 3sg.F-DAT REFL-ACC introduced in hall
b) U sali biste joj se predstavili.
'You (pl.) would introduce yourselves to her in the hall.'
The exception is the auxiliary je which always comes last in a sequence of clitics, as
in examples 9.10-9.11: 3
9.10 a) Jovan mi ih je dao.
Jovan 1sg.-DAT 3pl.-ACC AUX-3sg. gave.
'Jovan gave them to me.'
b) Dao mi ih je.
'He gave them to me.'
9.11 U sali nam se je predstavio.
In hall 1pl.-DAT REFL-ACC AUX-3sg. introduced
'In the hall he introduced himself to us.'
The only other enclitic is the question word li. This appears first in a string of
clitics. A sentence initial auxiliary verb then has to appear in the full form (as in
9.13-9.14):
9.12 Dolazite li cesto ovamo?
you-come Q often here
'Do you come here often?'
9.13 Hoces li doei?
AUX-2sg. Q to-come
'Will you come?'
9.14 Jeste li joj se predstavili u sali?
AUX-2pl. Q3sg.F-DAT REFL-ACC introduced in hall
'Did you introduce yourselves to her in the hall?'
An alternative constmction is to begin the clause with the complementizer da, to
form a kind of compound interrogative marker, da li. The rest of the clitics then
follow this marker in their customary order, as shown, in 9.15-9.16:
FOUR CASE STUDIES 35~
9.15 Da li ce ti ga sutra pokazati?
DA Q AUX 2sg.-DAT 3sg.-ACC tomorrow to-show
'Will he show it to you tomorrow?'
9.16 Da li mi ih je dao Jovan?
DA Q 1sg.-DAT 3pl.-ACC AUX-3sg. give Jovan
'Did Jovan give them to me?'
Sentential complements are introduced by complementizers such as da (corre-
sponding to English 'that'). The clitics always follow these complementizers:
9.17 Zelim da mu ga dam.
1-want that 3sg.-DAT 3sg.-ACC 1-give
'1-want to give it to him.'
9.18 Znam da me je Jovan video.
1-know that 1sg.-ACC AUX-3sg. Jovan saw
'I know that Jovan saw me.'
After this wealth of descriptive detail, let's summarize the position and draw some
conclusions.
The first two points to notice concern word order. First, notice that although the
clitics generally come immediately before the lexical verb of the clause, this is not
invariable. It is common to find an adverbial or the subject intervening, as in 9.6b,
9.18. What is important is that the clitic string appears as the second 'constituent'
of the clause. Since Serbo-Croat is a language with free word order the first con-
stituent may be more-or-less anything: subject, verb, complement, adverbial. This
clause-second position (P2) is often known as the Wackernagel position, after the
nineteenth-century philologist whd gave the first detailed description of the phenom-
enon in Indo-European, and the clause-second positioning of clitics is often referred
to as Wackernagel's Law. Clitics which obey this law, 'Wackernagel' or 'P2' clitics,
are found in a great variety of typologically and genetically diverse languages. For
instance, in addition to Serbo-Croat (Slavic, Indo-European) we find Wackernagel
clitics in Luiseiio (Uto-Aztecan) and Warlpiri (Australian).
Unlike many languages with a Wackernagel system, Serbo-Croat allows itself some
leeway in its definition of 'P2': it is the position after the first accented constituent
(e.g. NP) or after the first accented word (where we have to regard subordinating
conjunctions such as da as honorary accented elements). This means that clitics can
break up a subject, clause-initial NP if it contains, say, an adjective or determiner.
This is shown in 9.19:
9.19 a) [Taj pesnik] NP mi je napisao knjigu.
That poet lst.DAT AUX wrote book
b) [Taj mi je pesnik] NP napisao knjigu.
'That poet wrote me a book.'
Cases such as Serbo-Croat illustrate rather clearly that clitic placement is (or was orig-
inally) dependent on sentence accent or similar prosodic factors. For in 9.19b the
I
if
il
II
!.I
356 CLITICS
clitic is attached to a prosodic element rather than a syntactically defined element.
This gives rise to a constituent structure which is grossly at variance with what would
be expected on syntactic grounds.
The second point is that the order of clitics itself is fixed, giving rise to a character-
istic type of elitic cluster. In the case of Serbo-Croat the ordering is as given in 9. 20: 4
9.20 Serbo-Croat clitic order:
li-Aux-Dat.-Acc.-Refl.-je
(Recall that the je in final position is the 3sg. present form of the verb 'to be', not
the fern. sg. pronominal. 'Aux' must, of course, be taken to mean all the auxiliaries
except je.)
This again is typical of languages with clitic systems. If we think of clitics essen-
tially as words, then the order of clitics should be handled by rules determining word
order, i.e. syntactic rules. But it was noted some time ago that clitic order tends to
be rather different from word or constituent order in the syntax proper. This led
Perlmutter (1971) to propose a special grammatical device to describe clitic order,
a surface syntactic filter or template. The problem is well illustrated by Serbo-Croat.
First, word order proper is very free in this language, whereas the clitic order is fixed.
This makes clitics look more like bound morphemes than words. Second, the clitics
must occupy second position in the clause. Apart from conjunctions and determiners
(which arguably share a number of properties with clitics) this kind of ordering
restriction simply isn't found elsewhere in the syntax of the language. Thus, if elitics
really are words, then they are rather idiosyncratic words.
Another property of the Serbo-Croat system worth noting concerns an interesting
alternation with the 3sg. feminine Ace. clitic, je. It is perf~ctly possible for this form
to appear next to its homonym, the 3sg. auxiliary. When this happens the pro-
nominal clitic form is substituted by its allomorph ju, as in 9.21:
9.21 Milan ju je video.
Milan 3sg.F-ACC AUX saw
'Milan saw her. '
We also find phonologically conditioned suppletive, or at least non-automatic, allo-
morphy determined across word or constituent boundaries. For instance, the choice
of indefinite article allomorph afan in English is governed by whether the following
word (of whatever class) begins with a vowel or not. French adjectives such as
beaufbel 'beautiful' and vieuxfviel 'old' display similar allomorphy. As we saw in
§4.6, such phenomena, though not uncommon, pose intriguing problems for theories
of the phonology-syntax interface. The fact that such allomorphy is found in clitic
systems compounds these difficulties.
Serbo-Croat provides another example of elitic allomorphy, which is interesting
when we come to compare this language with the Romance language Portuguese. The
future auxiliary will appear adjacent to the verb when there is no question particle
and when the verb itself is the first accented element of the clause. Under these cir-
cumstances, the verb will be in the infinitive form and, with the exception of verbs
whose infinitives end in -ci, such as ici 'to go', the clitic 'fuses' with the infinitive
FOUR CASE STUDIES 357
form, causing the -i ending of the latter to truncate. This can be seen from 9.22:
9.22 a) Knjigu cu citati
book lsg.-AUX read-INF
'It's the book I'll read.'
b) Citacu knjigu.
read-lsg.-AUX book
'I'll read the book.'
This fusion gives rise to allomorphic changes typical of the lexical (rather than
phrase) phonology of the language. For instance, the verb rasti 'to grow' gives raicu,
raicei, ..., Here, the -st cluster has undergone Iotation, a form of palatalization one
of whose effects is to turn Istl into Isci. This makes the auxiliary' at least, look very
much more like a future tense affix than an auxiliary verb.
In summary, then, Serbo-Croat clitics are unstressed and hence unable to bear sen-
tence accent and they exhibit allomorphy; This is uncharacteristic of real words.
Moreover, they show ordering restrictions which are not true of the rest of the
syntax. A specific example is the idiosyncratic behaviour of the auxiliary je. More
generally, syntactic systems don't seem to include rules positioning a complete string
of elements in a particular place in the sentence. To be sure, it isn't uncommon
to find, say, that a particular lexical category has to be given a set position in the sen-
tence. (This is essentially the 'V2' phenomenon in Germanic, in which a main verb
has to occur as the second constituent.) But to find this type of restriction applying
to a heterogeneous collection of elements such as the Serbo-Croat clitic cluster is
unheard of outside clitic systems. Further, the structure of the clitic cluster itself is
flat or linear, and doesn't show the sort of hierarchical organization we expect from
syntactic constituents. (Recall my remarks about template morphology in §6.4.)
From these observations we seem to be led to the conclusion that we are actually
dealing with an unusual form of free-floating affixation, and that, as far as the syntax
is concerned, clitics aren't words at all. Later we will see other properties of clitics
in other languages which tend to reinforce this conclusion.
On the other hand, there are two important respects in which clitics don't behave
like affixes (i.e. bound morphemes) in Serbo-Croat. Perhaps the most important of
these is one which has already been amply illustrated: unlike affixes, clitics are com-
pletely unrestricted in what kinds of elements they attach to. The only constraint is
that their host must be the first (accented) syntactic element of the clause. Yet
we have seen that it is characteristic of affixation that it is governed by systematic
selection restrictions (e.g. certain affixes only attach, say, to nouns) or by totally
idiosyncratic restrictions. Totally unrestricted affixation would therefore be an
anomaly. Freedom of association is, however, characteristic of words and syntactic
elements in general.
The other property which makes the clitics look like words is the phenomenon of
clitic climbing. In a number of languages (most famously in the syntax literature,
Italian and Spanish), clitic pronouns which are objects to a verb in an infinitival sub-
ordinate clause can 'climb' out of their own clause and appear in the matrix clause.
In Serbo-Croat, averb such as zeliti 'to want' can take either a finite or infinitival
complement clause. In the former case the clitics remain in the subordinate clause;
in the latter they appear after the first accented constituent of the matrix clause, even
358 CLITICS
if this separates them from their own verb. Thus, in addition to example 9.17 with
a finite complement, we can have example 9.23:
9.23 a) Zelim mu ga dati.
I-want 3sg.M-DAT 3sg.N-ACC give-INF
'I want to give it to him.'
b) Ja mu ga zelim dati.
I 3sg.M-DAT 3sg.N-ACC I-want give-INF
'It's me that wants to give it to him.'
This kind of freedom of movement is not normally associated with affixes. 5
Serbo-Croat, then, illustrates rather well not only a very typical clitic system, but
also many of the descriptive problems facing the linguist wishing to make sense of
clitic systems. In our other case studies we will see yet more evidence of schizo-
phrenia on the part of clitics, behaving now as fully-fledged words, now as bound
morphemes.
9.1.2 Macedonian
Macedonian is another of the languages of Yugoslavia and, like Serbo-Croat, is a
member of the South Slav group. Indeed, it is so close to Serbo-Croat that the two
languages are to a large extent mutually intelligible. Not surprisingly it has a similar
clitic system. However, they diverge in very interesting ways, and some of the
differences are of some import for current.syntactic theory.
The first difference is that the future auxiliary, derived from the (extant) verb hteti
in Serbo-Croat, has withered into an invariable modal particle in Macedonian, ce.
Similarly, the conditional is expressed by a particle bi, cognate with the 3sg. aorist
form of the verb 'to be' in Serbo-Croat. This development represents the frequent
fate of function words derived originally from content words which have become
clitics. It illustrates that to a certain extent the precursors of the modern Serbo-Croat
clitics and the Macedonian particles had properties of words, for it is very rare for
affixes to become particles of this sort.
The verb 'to be' forms an auxiliary combining with a participle in -l to form a set
of past tense forms, as in Serbo-Croat. Pronominal clitics occur in Dative and Accus-
ative forms. The ordering within the clitic cluster is as in Serbo-Croat. Interestingly,
the nominal case system of Macedonian has been lost so that it is only in the pronoun
system that a morphological distinction between Nominative, Dative and Accusative
is preserved. This is a very common phenomenon - much the same happened in
English, for instance.
There are three striking differences between Serbo-Croat and Macedonian pro-
nominal clitics. The first two relate to syntactic phenomena, word order and agree-
ment. The third relates to the stress system and the notion 'phonological word'.
Macedonian clitics don't respect Wackernagel's Law. Instead, clitics tend to con-
gregate around their verb. Their absolute position with respect to the verb depends,
moreover, on the morphosyntactic form of the verb: the clitics follow verbs in the
imperative or gerund forms, but precede verbs in other forms (which means the finite
forms, since the infinitive has been lost in Macedonian). Hence, clitic clusters can
(and frequently do) appear as proclitics in absolute sentence-initial position, as in
FOUR CASE STUDIES 359
9.24-9.26 (example 9.24 also illustrates the use of an enclitic pronominal as a
possessive):
9.24 Mi najde brat mi.
me found brother me-DAT/my
'My brother found me.'
9.25 Mi rece Nikola oti ce dojde.
me-DAT said Nikola that FUT come
'Nikola told me that he would come.'
9.26 Se razbira
REFL understands
'It is understood; of course' (lit. ='it understands itself')
Examples of enclitic order with non-finite verbs:
9.27 Zemi ja!
'Takeit.' (imperative)
9.28 ZemajCi mu go, poena da bega.
taking him-DAT it began COMP run (gerund)
'Taking it from him, he began to run.'
Interestingly, the tendency for clitics to appear before finite verbs and after non-finite
verbs is also found in the Romance languages. 6 Indeed, the Macedonian examples
9.24-9.28 look just like their Italian translations with respect to clitic position.
As clitic pronouns develop a stronger attachment for a particular grammatical cat-
egory, they begin to look more 'like (agreement) affixes than free standing syntactic
constituents. (This is what we observed for French pronoun clitics in chapter 1.) In
Macedonian this impression is strengthened by the fact that a definite direct object,
or any indirect object, must be referenced ('reduplicated' in the descriptive litera-
ture's terminology) by a clitic pronoun agreeing for person, number and, in the case
of 3sg. NPs, gender (Berent, 1980; discussion of this construction can be found in
any handbook on Macedonian, such as Lunt, 1952, De Bray, 1980a; see also the
discussion in Lyons, 1990). Examples are given in 9.29-9.32: 7
9.29
9.30
Mi ja dadoa smetka-ta
1sg.-DAT 3sg.F-ACC gave bill -ART-F
'He gave me the bilL'
Dajte mu ja kosula-ta.
give 3sg.M-DAT 3sg.F-ACC shirt-ART-F
'Give him the shirt.'
Nemu mu go dadov.
to-him 3sg.M-DAT 3sg.M/N-ACC !-gave
'It was to him that I gave it.'
360 CLITICS
9.32 Mu go dadov pismence -to nemu a ne nejze.
3sg.M-DAT 3sg.M/N !-gave note -ART-N to-him and not to-her
'I gave the note to him, not her.'
This sort of thing is not unheard of in more familiar languages, and it has given
rise to a great deal of discussion in the syntactic literature under the heading of clitic
doubling. For instance, in certain South American Spanish dialects we encounter
examples such as 9.33 (Jaeggli, 1982, 1986):
9.33 Lo vimosa Juan.
him I-saw to Juan
'I saw Juan.'
Here, the clitic 'doubles' the direct object. However, the object NP in these con-
structions is always associated with a preposition. This has led some observers to
propose that the clitic is assigned (abstract) Objective Case and that the full object
NP Juan therefore needs to be governed by a preposition in order to receive Case.
The descriptive observation that a doubled NP must be assigned Case from a preposi-
tion is often referred to as the Kayne-Jaeggli Generalization, and a number of
theories have been developed to try to explain it (see, for instance, Aoun, 1985,
Borer, 1984, Everett, 1986, Jaeggli, 1982, 1986, Suiier,- 1988). The Macedonian
examples (and other Balkan examples, for instance, from Modern Greek (Joseph,
1988)) show that the Kayne-Jaeggli Generalization is false, at least on its must super-
ficial interpretation. In fact, the clitic doubling phenomenon in Macedonian looks
·very much like object agreement in a language such as Chukchee. .
The third point of interest concerning Macedonian clitics relates to the definition
of 'phonological word'. The language has a rather unusual stress system in that, with
a handful of exceptions, stress falls on the antepenultimate syllable of a word, or
on the first. syllable of a disyllabic word (see Hammond, 1989, for some recent
discussion). Of interest to us is the fact that the stress rule of Macedonian treats as
a word any content word together with its dependent enclitics. For instance, the
pronoun clitic used after a kinterm to mark possession will cause stress to be shifted
forward from the antepenult of a word with three or more syllables, as in 9.34-9.35
(note that the possessive pronoun is sometimes used with a definite form of the
noun):
9.34 a) zena-ta b) zemi-ta ti
wife-ART wife-ART your
'the wife' 'your wife'
9.35 a) bnituced b) braniced-ot c) braniced mu
cousm cousm -ART cousm his
'this cousin' 'his cousin'
Likewise, a clitic cluster may shift the stress on a verb in the imperative: 8
9.36 a) Dajte mi.
give-pl. me
'Give me.'
b) Dajte mi go
give-pl. me it
'Give it me.'
FOUR CASE STUDIES 361
The same is observed when a pronominal clitic cluster follows a demonstrative, as
in 9.37-9.38:
9.37
9.38
a) Eve -go!
there-him
'There he is!'
a) Kamo -go?
where-him
'Where is he?'
c) Kamo-rni-ti-go?
where-me-you-him
b) Eve -ti -go!
there-you-him
'There he is for you!'
b) KamO-ti -go?
where-you-him
'Where's he got to?'
'Where's he disappeared to (on me)?!'
With proclitics the stress usually falls on the verb form:
9.39 Mu go dadov.
him it I-gave
'I gave it to him.'
However, the negative particle, ne, attracts the stress to itself from mono- and
disyllabic verb forms. Moreover, a string of proclitics-plus-verb is treated as a
phonological word if it is negated:
9.40 a) Ne dade.
.
not he-gave
'He didn't give.'
b) Ne mu go dade.
not him it he-gave
'He didn't give it to him.'
9.41 Ne ce se venca.
not FUT REFL they-marry
'They won't get married.'
Similar behaviour is observed with the words sto 'what', koj 'who', koga 'when'
(though only when used as genuine interrogatives, not as relative pronouns):
9.42 Sto rece?
What he-said
'What did he say?'
9.43 Koj mu go rece?
who him it said
'Who said it to him?'
9.44 Sto mu rece?
what him said
'What did (he) say to him?'
362 CLITICS
9.45 Koga dojde t6j?
when come he
'When is he coming?'
We can add to these facts the observation that stress shift occurs with lexicalized
adjective-noun collocations, as illustrated in 9.46-9.47:
9.46
9.47
a) pfva vecer
fust evening
'a first evening'
a) mala reka
small river
'a small river'
b) prva vecer
first evening
'wedding night'
Mala reka
small river
'(placename)'
This all goes to suggest that the host plus clitic cluster forms a unit which is more
lexical than syntactic. However, what exactly this means isn't entirely clear. Modern
Greek has a stress system and a clitic system which bears much resemblance to that
of Macedonian. (This is presumably not a coincidence given that Macedonia and
Greece border on each other.) Nespor and Vogel (1986: chapter 5) argue at some
length, on the basis of the Greek facts, that the theory of Prosodic Phonology must
recognize a domain which they call the Clitic Group, over which certain phonological
rules, such as stress assignment, must be defined. Moreover, they are at pains to
emphasize that this domain is distinct from (and larger than) that of the prosodic
word, and distinct from (and smaller than) that of the phonological phrase. If this
analysis proves the most satisfactory, then clitics will again fall midway between
words and affixes, remaining sui generis.
9.1.3 Portuguese
In this section we examine the clitic system of European Portuguese. Along the way
I shall compare its system with that of a closely related language, (Castilian) Spanish,
which differs in a number of intriguing respects. As with Serbo-Croat and Macedo-
nian we shall be looking at the pronominal system and the auxiliary system. 9
Table 9. 3 Pronominal clitics (Portuguese)
Dir. Obj. Ind. Obj. Full
Sg. l me me m1m
2 te te tim
3M 0 lhe ele
3F a lhe ela
Pl. l nos nos nos
2 vos vos vos
3M OS lhes eles
3F as lhes elas
Refl. se
FOUR CASE STUDIES 363
The pronominal system of Portuguese is summarized in table 9. 3 (omitting
allomorphy in the 3rd person forms which I discuss later). The full forms are those
found as complements to prepositions.
In simple, positive, affirmative sentences the clitics appear as enclitics on the verb.
This is unusual in Romance languages. In Spanish, for instance, clitics precede the
verb, except in non-finite forms (much as in Macedonian). Some examples are given
in 9.48-9.50. The (b) examples are Spanish equivalents (taken from the grammar of
Vasquez Cuesta and Mendes da Luz, 1961):
9.48
9.49
9.50
a) vm-me
he-saw me
'He saw me.'
a) comprou-me
he-bought (for) me
'He bought me (something).'
a) veJo-o
I-see him
'I see him.'
b) me vefa
me he-saw
b) me compr6
me he-bought
b) lo veo
him I-see
Encliticization triggers certain allomorphic changes both in the pronouns them-
selves and in the word to which they attach. After a word ending in frf or fsf, the
3rd person Direct Object forms (o, a, os, as) acquire fl/ to become lo, la, los, las,
while the fr, sf of the previous word drops. If the clitic's host ends in a nasalized
vowel then the clitic acquires fnf to become no, na, nos, nas. Both these changes can
be seen if we conjugate a regular verb such as levar, 'to raise', with a 3sg. masc.
object, as in leva-a 'to raise it' (see table 9.4). (Recall that word final-Vm sequences
represent a nasalized vowel in Portuguese orthography.)
In a cluster of clitics the Indirect Object form precedes the Direct Object form.
Under these circumstances, certain allomorphic changes are observed, summarized
in table 9.5.
It will be noticed that the allomorphy with nos and vas is just a special case of that
discussed in the previous paragraph. Some examples of this are: 10
9.51 a) Mostra-mas
show me-them (F)
'Show them to me.'
Table 9.4 levar 'to raise' levd-lo
'to raise it'
Sg. 1 leva levo-o
2 levas leva-lo
3 leva leva-lo
Pl. levamos levamo-lo
2 levais levai-lo
3 levam levam-no
b) enseiiamelas
show-me-them (> enseiiar)
364 CLITICS
9.52
Table 9. 5 Contracted forms
(Portuguese)
me ---+ mo, rna, mos, mas
te ---+ to, ta, tos, tas
lhe + o, a, os as ---+ lho, lha, lhos, lhas
lhes ---+ lho, lha, lhos, lhas
nos
vos
---+ no-lo, no-la, no-los, no-las
---+ vo-lo, vo-la, vo-los, vo-las
a) Entregaste-lho?
you-delivered him-it
'Did you deliver it to him?'
b) l.Se lo entregaste?
him it you-delivered
Portuguese follows the line of its Romance sisters in clauses containing a WH ques-
tion word, in negative clauses and in subordinate clauses. Here the pronoun precedes
its verb, as seen in 9.53-9.55:
9.53 Nao o tenho.
not it I-have
9.54
'I haven't got it.'
Quando o vendem?
When it they-sell
'When are they selling it?'
9.55 0 armazem onde os compra
the shop where them he-buys
'the shop where he buys them'
A similar pattern is observed when the subject is a quantified NP in sentence initial
position and when the verb is in the infinitive governed by a preposition (except a),
as in 9.56-9.58:
9.56 a) Ambos se sentiam bern.
both REFL they-felt well
b) Sentiam-se ambos bern.
'Both felt well.'
9.57 a) Tres homens se sentaram a mesa.
three men REFL they-sat at table
b) Amesa sentaram-se tn!s homens.
'Three men sat down at table.'
9.58 Sem me decidir a interroga-lo nao vou.
without REFL to-decide to ask-him not I-go
'I'm not going without making up my mind to ask him.'
; 1
!
I
_;
T
FOUR CASE STUDIES 365
The reason for this behaviour seems to be that Portuguese clitics retain some
of the properties of \Vackernagel clitics in migrating to second position in the
clause. In most other Romance languages the clitics have shifted completely from
Wackernagel's position and appear exclusively as en- or pro-clitics to the verb. This
is also shown in the positioning of clitics with respect to auxiliary verbs. In the
Spanish example in 9.59b the clitic can appear in sentence initial position and appears
as proclitic to the auxiliary, but in the Portuguese equivalent the clitic has to inter-
vene between auxiliary and main verb:
9.59 a) Tinha-o estudado a fundo.
I-had it studied in depth
'I had studied it in depth.'
b) Lo habfa estudiado a fondo.
it I-had studied in depth
However, apart from the absolute ban on sentence initial clitics, the rules governing
clitic placement seem to relate more to syntax than to prosody or morphology.
The final peculiarity of Portuguese clitics concerns their interaction with tense
markers. Like other Romance languages, Portuguese has developed a synthetic
future and conditional form from an original Vulgar Latin analytic construction in
which the infinitive was followed by the present or imperfect tense forms of the verb
habere 'to have'. The similarity between the future and conditional endings and the
. relevant tense forms of the auxiliary haver is still evident, as can be seen from table
9.6.
Lexical phonological rules (e.g. the stress) treat the endings like inflectional affixes,
Table 9.6a haver 'to have (aux.)'
present imperfect
Sg. 1 hei havia
2 has havias
3 ha havia
Pl. 1 havemos havfamos
2 haveis havfeis
3 hao haviam
Table 9.6b levar 'to raise'
future conditional
Sg. 1 levarei levaria
2 levanis levarias
3 levani levaria
Pl. 1 levaremos levarfamos
2 levareis levarfeis
3 levarao levariam
366 CLITICS
Table 9. 7 levd-lo 'to raise it'
future conditional
Sg. 1 leva-lo-ei leva-lo-ia
2 leva-lo-as leva-lo-ias
3 leva-lo-a leva-lo-ia
Pl. 1 leva-lo-emos leva-lo-famos
2 leva-lo-eis leva-lo-feis
3 leva-lo-ao leva-lo-iam
just as in other Romance languages. What is odd about Portuguese is that the pro-
nominal clitics can intervene between the verb stem and the tense/aspect affixes, in
effect treating these affixes as though they themselves were clitics. The result is highly
reminiscent of the Serbo-Croat future system, except that. the auxiliary never
migrates away from its host verb. The verbs of -table 9.6 are conjugated with a clitic
in table 9.7.
Exactly similar behaviour is observed with the future and conditional forms of the
auxiliaries in the compound tense. Thus, corresponding to terei levado and teria
levado, 'I shall have raised' and 'I would have raised', we have te-lo-ei levado and te-
lo-ia levado, 'I shall have raised it' and 'I should have raised it'. These tense/aspect
forms can be broken up by a clitic cluster as well as just by single pronouns, as seen .
in 9.60:
9.60 Mostrar-no-los-a
show-us-them-FUT
'He will show them to us.'
To summarize, we see that the tendency noted in Macedonian for the clitics to
cluster around the verb is characteristic of Portuguese (and Romance generally). In
other words, the clitic placement rules of the language are defined not so much in
terms of the constituent surface structure, as with Wackernagel clitics, but in terms
of alexically defined host. This makes the clitics more reminiscent of affixes than the
true Wackernagel clitics are, and in many languages (for example, a number of Bantu
languages) it appears that pronominal or agreement affixes have indeed developed out
of clitic pronouns.
On the other hand, when we consider the future and conditional tense forms in
Portuguese, we see that a process of morphologization which has been completed in
other languages of the group has not been taken to its logical conclusion. If it had,
and the tense/aspect markers were true suffixes, then we would expect them to
appear next to the verb stem and not separated by the person/number markers. As
Bybee (1985) points out, there is an overwhelming tendency for person/number
agreement markers to be more peripheral than tense/aspect markers. However, it
would require a very careful analysis of the syntax and morphology of Portuguese to
decide whether the future and conditional markers were 'really' affixes or 'really'
clitics, or perhaps something else (akin, for instance, to the particles of English
phrasal verbs, such as put it down, as opposed to *PUt down it).
FOUR CASE STUDIES 367
9.1.4 Polish
Polish, like Serbo-Croat and Macedonian, has developed a clitic system from its
personal pronouns and its auxiliaries. However, this system is unlike that of other
Slav languages in a number of respects, and at the same time it differs from that of
the Romance languages exemplified in §9.1.3 by Portuguese and Spanish.
We begin with the pronominals. These are derived, as one would expect, as
shortened unaccented forms of the full form pronouns. The latter are used for
emphasis and as complements to prepositions. Their forms are shown in table 9.8. 11
Only the reflexive, lsg., 2sg. and 3Msg. forms are pure clitics; the others double
as full forms.
In Serbo-Croat the distribution of the clitics was governed primarily by
Wackernagel's Law. In Portuguese, and Romance generally, the clitics are attached
to the verb (before or after). However, as is clear from the description in De Bray
(1980b), in Polish the distribution is determined largely by phrase level prosodic con-
siderations. In general, word order in Polish, as in other Slav languages, is very free.
Thus, we may find verbs, subject NPs, complement NPs, or adverbials initially,
medially or finally in a clause. However, there are a number of constraints governing
the position of the clitic pronominals. The most important, inviolable, constraint is
that no (true) clitic can begin a clause. In addition, there is a strong stylistic con-
straint disfavouring clitics at the absolute end of a clause. This means that a clitic will
only generally be found felicitous at the end of a clause, if that clause contains only
one full lexical word. Moreover, there are certain types of words (for instance, the
negative particle, nie, and prepositions) which never host clitics.
As a result of these factors we must say, for example, 9.6la, because the clitic go
can't begin the sentence, whereas when emphasizing the pronoun we can use the full
form in initial position, as in 9.6lb:
9.61 a) Spotykam go.
!-meet him
'I meet him (regularly).'
b) }ego spotykam (ale nie jq. ...)
him !-meet (but not her ...)
'HIM, I meet, (but not HER ...)'
Table 9. 8 Pronominal clitics (Polish)
Accusative Genitive Dative
Sg. ffiltr ffiH~ ffil
2 Cltr Cltr Cl
3M/N go go mu
3F j<;t JeJ JeJ
Pl. 1 nas nas nam
2 was was warn
3M ich ich lffi
3F/N Je ich lffi
Refl. Sltr Sltr
368 CLITICS
Moreover, in 9.62 it's not only possible to place the clitic before the verb, but,
indeed, preferred:
9.62 Czysto go spotykam.
Often him I-meet
'I often meet him.'
However, this is not to say that it is impossible to end a sentence with a clitic (contra
De Bray). Toman (1981) cites the following examples using the reflexive clitic, sif (re-
marking that the (b) and (c) examples sound literary):
9.63 a) Ten stary pan siy wczoraj ogoli1.
That old man REFL yesterday shaved
b) Ten stary pan wczoraj siy ogoli1.
c) Ten stary pan wczoraj ogoli1 siy.'
'That old man shaved himself yesterday.'
The negative participle nie always procliticizes to the verb (just as in Serbo-Croat,
but not as in Macedonian). This means that the only word order possible for 9.64
is that given:
9.64 Nie spotykam go.
Not 1-meet him
'I don't meet him.'
The clitic pronoun can neither begin the sentence:, nor intervene between nie and the
verb. In 9.64, nie spotykam effectively forms a prosodic unit equivalent to the single
verb spotykam. Likewise, the word order in 9.65 is a consequence of the same factors
that govern the word order in 9.62, given that nie spotykam again forms a prosodic
unit:
9.65 Teraz go nie spotykam.
Nowadays him not I-meet
'I don't meet him nowadays.'
When we increase the number of phrasal stresses in the clause, the distributional
possibilities for the clitic are increased. Thus, in 9.66-9.67 the pronoun has two
natural sites (note that Polish has obligatory double negation, which explains the
appearance of the pleonastic negative participle in 9.67):
9.66 a) Teraz go czysto spotykam.
Nowadays him often I-meet
b) Teraz czcrsto go spotykam.
'I often meet him nowadays.'
9.67 a) Teraz go nigdy nie spotykam.
Nowadays him never not I-meet
b) Teraz nigdy go nie spotykam.
'I never meet him nowadays.'
--,
I
I
_j
(.
1
FOUR CASE STUDIES 369
The word orders we have seen thus far have been 'unmarked' and hence haven't
borne any special emphasis. However, if the verb appears earlier in the clause than
the adverb in such cases, it receives a certain degree of extra emphasis. Under these
circumstances it is liable to attract its pronoun as an enclitic, as in 9.68 (contrast
9.66):
9.68 Cz~sto spotykam go w miescie
often 1-meet him in town
'I often meet him in town.'
Like the other languages we've seen, Polish imposes the order Dative< Accusative
on strings of clitics:
9.69 Daj mi go
Give lsg.-DAT 3sgN.-ACC
'Give me it.'
9.70 Bardzo mi si~ podoba Ewa.
Much lsg.-DAT REFL likes Ewa
'I like Ewa a lot.'
However, this can't be regarded as a straightforward constraint on the elements of
a cluster because it is possible to break up strings of clitics in Polish (unlike the other
languages we have seen thus far):
9.71 Teraz mu takie ksi~zki si~ nie podobaj~.
Nowadays 3sg.M-DAT such books REFL NEG like
'He doesn't like such books nowadays.'
Polish pronominal clitics, then, enjoy almost as much freedom as non-clitic pro-
nominals in other languages. However, we again see remnants of the Wackernagel
positioning of clitics, in that they are not allowed to occupy absolute initial position.
Moreover, we also see remnants of templatic constraints on word order, as a result
of which the Dative clitic precedes the Accusative.
In many respects, then, the pronominal clitics behave almost like real words. The
main reason for calling them clitics is that they have a somewhat restricted distri-
bution compared with the full form pronominals, which behave just like ordinary
nouns. When we turn to the clitics which make up the auxiliary system of Polish we
encounter formatives which look much more like affixes.
The past tense of Polish verbs is formed in much the same way as in Serbo-Croat,
using a participle ending in -l and a reduced form of the verb to be. In elementary
handbooks of the language the impression is often given that the auxiliary has
become a kind of past tense affix, rather in the way that the future and conditional
affixes in Romance have developed from an auxiliary verb attached to a non-finite
form. Thus, it is typical to see a verb such as dac, 'to give', conjugated in the past
tense as in table 9.9.
We can analyse these forms morphologically in the following way. The verb stem
appears as daif dal, the alternation depending solely on the nature of the following
vowel. Then we have a set of subject agreement markers, comprising two parts. The
370 CLITICS
Table 9. 9 Past tense of dac 'give'
Singular
Masc. Fern. Neut.
1 dafern da{arn
2 da{d dafas
3 da{ da{a da{o
Plural
Masc.
dalisrny
daliscie
dali
Fern.fNeut.
da{ysrny
da1yscie
dafy
first is a vowel indicating number and gender, as shown in table 9.10a. The second
is a person marker, whose forms are given in table 9.10b. This is derived from the
auxiliary verb 'to be', as can be seen from comparison with the forms recorded for
the language in the fourteenth century, shown in table 9.1Oc. (In the modern
language the verb 'to be' is conjugated in the present tense using the endings of table
9.10b added to the stem jest-: jestem, jestes, jest, jestesmy, jestescie, s~.)
There are three principal phonological reasons for wanting to call these formatives
affixes rather than clitics. These are summarized in Booij and Rubach's (1987)
description of the phenomenon. The first concerns the appearance of the vowel /ef
in the masc. sg. forms. This vowel is not motivated morphologically; instead, its
Table 9.10a Number/gender markers (Polish verb)
Singular
Masc. Fern.
-a
Neut.
-0
Table 9.1Ob Person
markers (Polish verb)
Singular Plural
1 -rn -srny
2 -s -scie
3
Table 9.1Oc The verb
bye 'to be' (XIV century)
Singular Plural
jesrn jesrny
2 jes jescie
3 Je s~
Plural
Masc.
-1
Fern.fNeut.
-y
FOUR CASE STUDIES 371
origin is morphophonemic. Polish has a pattern of vowel-zero alternations in which
fef acts rather like an epenthetic vowel to break up consonant clusters (cf. the
discussion of Slavic 'jers' in chapter 4). The alternations are conditioned mor-
phophonemically, however, not phonologically. Booij and Rubach (1987) argue that
they are part of the lexical phonology of the language, and that the alternations are
part of the cyclic phonology. Since the alternation is triggered by the formatives -m,
-s and so on, this means that they must be attached in the lexicon, and this strongly
suggests they must be affixes.
The second phonological rule is stress assignment. With a handful of exceptions,
stress falls on the penultimate syllable in Polish (Hammond, 1989). Stress assignment
is generally assumed to be a lexical rule in Polish (though not necessarily cyclic).
When we look at polysyllabic verb stems we find that this is still true of the masc.
sg. forms which receive an extra vowel. Thus, from the verb robic 'to do', we obtain
the stress patterns in 9.72 (where the stressed vowel is indicated in boldface):
9.72 a) robi1 'he did'
b) robi1em 'I did'
c) robites 'you did'
The fact that the stress shifts in 9.72b, c shows that the -em, -es formatives are treated
as part of the word at the level of lexical phonology, rather than being syntactically
added clitics.
The third rule which interacts with past tense formation is a rule of Vowel Raising
applying to stems whose final syllable has fof before a voiced consonant. Under
certain morphophonologically derived conditions this vowel raises to /uf, ortho-
graphically represented as 6, when no other vowel follows :in the word. Thus, we have
alternations such as 9.73:
9.73 a) Ewa mog1a.
Ewa could
'Ewa could.'
b) Jan m6g1.
Jan could
'Jan could.'
As might be expected, the Raising rule fails to apply when the -em, -es, formatives
are added. This suggests that the rule treats these formatives like affixes, so that the
/of is no longer the last vowel in the word:
9.73 c) Ja mog1em.
I could
'I could.'
Given these facts, we would normally conclude that the Polish clitics had become
morphologized, just as has happened with the future and conditional forms of
languages such as French and Spanish. However, there is one property of these form-
atives which prevents us from analysing them as affixes, and that is the fact that,
372 CLITICS
optionally, they may attach to almost any other word in the clause. The major
constraints seem to be that they may not attach to the negative particle nie or to
prepositions, and that they must appear either on the verb itself or somewhere to its
left. (Sussex, 1980, provides an interesting summary of these facts, as well as
discussion of cases in which the clitics may not move.) Thus, we find examples such
as those of 9.74-9.79:
Pronouns:
9.74 a) Ja to robi1em
I that did-lsg.M
b) Ja tom robi1.
c) Jam to robi1.
'I did that.'
Complementizers:
9.75 a) Co ty robi1as?
What you did-Fsg.
b) Cos ty robi1a?
'What did you do?'
c) Czy tam by1es?
Question-particle there you-were-Msg.
d) Czys tam byP.
'Were you there?'
e) Mysla1, ze tam by1em.
he-thought that there I-was-M.
f) Mysla1, zem. tam by1.
'He thought that I was there.'
Conjunctions:
9.76 a) Nie kazali mi ale robi1em.
Adverbs:
9.77
Nouns:
9.78
not they-told me but I-did-M.
b) Nie kazali mi alem robil
'They didn't tell me to but I did it.'
a) Daleko posz1a.
Far I-went-F
b) Dalekom posz1a.
'I went a long way.'
a) W domu to zrobiliscie?
At home it you-did-Mpl.
b) W domuscie to zrobili?
'Did you make it at home?'
AdjectivesJnumerals:
9.79 a) Jeden mielismy.
One we-had-M.
b) Jedenesmy mieli.
'We had one.'
FOUR CASE STUDIES 373
This type of behaviour distinguishes the Polish auxiliary formatives from those of
Serbo-Croat or of Portuguese. It would seem that at the time when the analytic past
tense forms derived from the -l participle and the auxiliary were ousting the older
(now defunct) synthetic forms, order of clitic placement was already fairly fluid.
Thus, although there was a natural tendency in the fourteenth century to attach the
auxiliary to the participle, this was by no means fixed, so that forms such as 9.80 are
recorded in medieval Polish documents (Klemensiewicz, 1985: 113):
9.80 Chlebascie nie jedli.
bread-2pl. not ate-Mpl.
'You didn't eat bread.'
The fact that the formatives show virtually no selection properties with respect to
their hosts strongly indicates that they are clitics and not affixes proper. Again, when
they attach to stems other than verbs, the clitics have exactly the phonological effects
noted when they attach to verb stems. Booij and Rubach argue that the cliticization
must take place in the lexicon, and that the syntactic constraints on the occurre·~1ce
of elitics must be handled by a surface syntactic frlter.
Interestingly, there is one form which is often regarded as a elitic but which seems
to behave differently from either the lexical auxiliary clitics or the pronominal clitics.
This is the conditional formative by. This (like its congener in other Slav languages)
is also derived from the verb 'to be'. Booij and Rubach argue, however, that it is a
syntactic clitic, on the grounds that it shows none of the phonological behaviour of
the lexical clitics. Thus, it -doesn't affect stress (9.81) and it doesn't block Raising
(9.82):
9.81 a) Protestowa1. 'He protested.'
b) Protestowa1by. 'He would protest.'
9.82 M6g1by. 'He would be able.'
Moreover, by itself can act as host to the auxiliary elitics and it can also appear in
initial position in the clause, without any host to encliticize to:
9.83 a) Ja to zrobi1bym.
I it do-COND-1sg.M
b) Ja to bym zrobi1.
c) Bym ja to zrobi1.
'I would do it.'
374 CLITICS
9.84 a) Teraz to zrobilliy.
Now it do-COND-3sg.M
b) By teraz to zrobit.
'He would do it now.'
Booij and Rubach claim that this shows that by is a clitic which is moved syntactically
from its postverbal position. More likely, however, seems an analysis in which by is
simply a particle (more specifically, a kind of adverb, cf. Zwicky, 1985b, on this dis-
tinction). All of its properties, including its appearance in clause initial position,
would then be explained without further stipulation.
There is one final wrinkle to mention. In the standard language the clitics -smy,
-scie, unlike -em and-es, do not cause stress to be shifted forward. Thus, we are sup-
posed to say robilismy and not robilismy. Booij and Rubach note that there is a tend-
ency in the colloquial language, however, for the latter (expected) pronunciation to
replace the former. Presumably, the reason for the difference in behaviour is that
-smy and -scie contain their own inherent vowels. It is intriguing that even some five
centuries or so after the auxiliary system of Polish first became consolidated, the I:
status of its formatives is not entirely settled.
9.1.5 Resume
Let's take stock of our results. We've seen auxiliary verbs and pronominals losing
their status as full words and becoming clitics. In some cases, for instance, the
pronominals and the future tense marker in Serbo-Croat, the (nonstressed) clitic
is paired with a corresponding free standing (stressable) word, and the clitic can be
seen as a morphophonological reduction of that word.
In Serbo-Croat, the pronominal clitics and certain of the auxiliaries, together with
the modal (interrogative) particle, li, congregate in a particular position in the
sentence, the so-called Wackernagel position, or P2. On the other hand, the future
auxiliary (derived from the verb 'to want') is in the process of being fused with the
infinitive form of the verb, thereby turning into a kind of suffix. In Macedonian, the
pronominal clitics attach to the verb itself, as though they were inflectional affixes.
This is also true of pronouns in Portuguese (and other Romance languages). More-
over, the future tense auxiliary in these languages, as in Serbo-Croat, became an
enclitic historically, and now appears as a genuine inflectional suffix. However, in
Portuguese there are interesting remnants of the clitic status of the future marker,
in that pronominal clitics can intervene between it and its stem, a rather unusual
feature.
The clitics of Serbo-Croat, Macedonian and Portuguese all clearly show the tend-
ency of clitics in clitic clusters to line up in a particular order. In this respect they
are highly reminiscent of the affix templates described in chapter 6 for Navajo. This
templatic property is true of both the Serbo-Croat clitic cluster, whose distribution
is determined by syntax, and the Macedonian and Romance clusters, whose distri-
bution is defined with respect to a single lexical category, the verb.
Syntactically, the pronominal clitics in Serbo-Croat and Portuguese behave like
pronouns, in the sense that they 'stand for' a full NP argument. This means that the
clitic and the full NP exclude each other. 12 In this respect, they are very different
from the pronominal affixes or agreement markers of languages such as Chukchee,
\
,..
,,
DEFINITIONS OF CLITICS 375
in which the affix is an obligatory concomitant of the overt NP argument. However,
Macedonian shows one way in which a clitic system can drift into an agreement
system for, with definite direct object NPs (including full forms of pronouns), the
'clitic pronouns' are obligatory, just like Chukchee agreement markers.
The last case study, Polish, presented elements of these systems but in a more fluid
form. The pronominal forms can be divided morphophonologically into full forms
and clitic (nonstressable) forms. However, clitics behave much more like free
standing pronouns, in that they are not bound to the verb, but neither are they bound
to a particular sentence position. Nonetheless, there are constraints on where pro-
nominal clitics can appear. In particular, they are enclitics, in that they must have
a word to their left to 'lean' on. This doesn't hold of the futl form, stressed, pro-
nominals. Moreover, when we have a string of clitic pronouns, we :find that there is
a morphosyntactically defined template ordering (Dative before Accusative), which
isn't reflected in the word order of full NPs. The auxiliary clitic system of Polish is
particularly fascinating, because morphophonologically the clitics look like affixes,
yet they can attach to any word in the sentence (provided that word isn't to the right
of the verb). Overall, the Polish clitic systems poses very special problems for a
general theory of clitics.
9.2 Definitions of elitics
The situation I've just summarized shows that even within a closely-knit language
group like Slavonic there is great variety amongst those things traditionally called
clitics. They may or may not have a corresponding, phonologically similar, full form
with similar meaning or function; they may or may not be restricted to a particular
position in the sentence or to a particular lexical category; and they may or may not
undergo/trigger phonologically irregular allomorphy.
Matters become even more complex if we take languages in which the notion
of 'clitic' doesn't :figure saliently in traditional descriptions. In (spoken) English,
for instance, we :find reduced forms of auxiliary verbs, particles and pronouns, as
illustrated in 9.85-9.91:
9.85 a) Harriet is a linguist.
b) Harriet [s] a linguist.
9.86 a) Harriet is buying a book.
b) Harriet[s] buying a book.
9.87 a) Harriet had bought this book.
b) Harriet [dd] bought this book.
9.88 a) Harriet would buy this book.
b) Harriet [dd] buy this book.
9.89 a) The man I just phoned up would buy this book.
b) The man I just phoned up [dd] buy this book.
376 CLITICS
9.90 a) Put your hands up.
b) Put [jJ] hands up.
c) Pu [tfJ] hands up.
9.91 a) Give them to me.
b) Giv [Ip.tJ] me.
This list is just a handful of relevant cases, of course. What, then, is the relationship
between the reduced forms such as 's, 've, 'd, 'em, ta and so on and their full forms,
is, has, have, had, would, them, to? An obvious way to look at them is to say that the
reduced forms are essentially phonological reductions, due to a faster and less careful
speech style. This view has often been assumed in the past, and is presumably
the case with the alternation between full and reduced forms of the preposition
and infinitive markers to: [tu - tJ]. However, this can't be the whole story. For
instance, is gets reduced to [s] in 9.86b, yet was is never so reduced, even though
both had and would are reduced to [d]. In other words, the reductions are subject
to highly specific lexical conditioning (cf. Kaisse, 1985).
Turning to the data presented in §9.1, can we regard the pronominal elitic forms
in our four sample languages as phonologically reduced variants of the full forms?
Consider again the Serbo-Croat data from table 9.2. The phonological correspon-
dence is very close except for the 3sg.F which is je in the clitic form and nju in the
full form. Here we seem to have a kind of (partial) suppletion. A similar phenomenon
can be seen in the Portuguese pronouns in table 9•.3. In.other words, the relationship
between full form and clitic is governed by lexical allomorphy in certain instances
and not purely by phonology. So we would wish to distinguish between the type of
phonological clitic illustrated by infinitival to, and the more morphological type of
clitic illustrated by Serbo-Croat and Portuguese pronominals. A further difference is
that the pronominal clitics will still be used in their given forms even in very careful
speech, while even highly informal speech still won't turn full forms of the pronouns
into the clitic forms (though other genuine phonological reductions may occur). It
looks as though we will have to distinguish sharply between the two sorts of clitic.
Finally, the elitics represented by Serbo-Croat li can't be related to a full form word
anyway, so for the existence of this type of elitic we would need an explanation which
was independent of phonological reduction.
Reasoning such as this led Zwicky (1977) to propose a classification of clitics into
simple clitics, special clitics and bound words. A paradigm example of a simple
clitic for Zwicky would be the English reduced pronouns such as illustrated in
9.90-9.91. The form of these seems to be dictated largely by phrase phonology, and
can thus be affected by speech rate, level of formality and such like. The special
clltics are those which effectively are separate allomorphs of a full form word, such
as the Serbo-Croat or Portuguese pronouns. These are not derived from full form
equivalents by phrase phonological reduction processes, and therefore aren't depen-
dent on factors such as speaking rate. The bound words are the words which don't
correspond to a full form and thus can't possibly be analysed as reductions of 'real'
words, but which nevertheless need a host and in some cases are restricted to a
particular sentence position, such as Serbo-Croat li.
The frequently observed correlations between special clitics and full words can
J
DEFINITIONS OF CLITICS 377
generally be looked upon as a type of allomorphy. It seems reasonable to assume that
words which have become simple clitics by fast speech reduction might get rean-
alysed by a generation of language learners as special elitics. Moreover, if the special
clitic always has a host of a particular syntactic category, such as a verb, then it is
but a short step from special clitic to affix. In Serbo-Croat this seems to be in the
process of happening to the clitic form of the verb 'to want', used as a future marker.
In most of the Romance languages this process has gone to completion for the future
tense. Nevertheless, we've seen that in Portuguese the auxiliary verb ex-clitic has left
relics of its former status, in that pronominal clitics can intervene between it and its
host. This is something which bona fide tense inflections don't normally permit
(recall the examples in table 9.7 and example 9.60).
This basic typology, while appealing, leaves a number of questions unanswered.
It's especially difficult to know exactly what counts as the type of phonological
reduction which would give rise to a simple clitic, as opposed to the morphophono-
logical alternation needed to produce a special clitic. In Polish, for instance, which
doesn't permit any kind of vowel reduction, the only difference between the mono-
syllabic full form nas 'us' and clitic form nas is that the clitic can never be stressed.
Yet the 3sg. masc. pronominal does undergo reduction, from disyllabic jego to
monosyllabic go. Does this mean that go is a special clitic and nas a simple clitic?
Presumably not. On the other hand, there are grounds for saying that the alternation
between full and reduced forms of auxiliaries in English is dependent on speech rate,
level of formality and so on. Yet we know that it would be highly misleading to say
that 's is a 'reduced' form of is (or has), especially given that was fails to reduce.
Zwicky's original typology didn't attempt a unified characterization of cliticization.
Klavans (1982, 1985) argues that a unified theory is possible, however, if we draw
certain distinctions. These are presented in the form of parameters along which a
elitic system in a language may vary. Different sets of clitics in one and the same
language may exhibit different parametrizations.
Klavans argues first that clitics are lexical items with their own morphosyntactic
and morphophonological properties. These include syntactic category and also a sub-
categorization frame. If we think back to the framework of Lieber (1980; see §6.2.2)
this in itself doesn't distinguish clitics either from words or from affixes. Klavans
claims that what distinguishes clitics from both words and affixes is that clitics are
(usually) subcategorized to attach syntactically to a phrase of some sort. This phrase
is the domain of cliticization. In this respect clitics are different from affixes, which
must attach to word (or stem) level categories. Klavans uses the term phrasal affix
to refer to clitics in this connection. At the same time clitics don't have the freedom
of real words, in that they must show liaison with some other word (that is, they
must attach phonologically to a host).
Klavans's central proposal is that, for a given clitic system, in addition to spec-
ifying the domain of cliticization, we must set the values of three binary parameters,
two syntactic, one phonological. The first parameter defines whether the clitic is posi-
tioned to the right or the left of its domain, and has values Initial and Final. The
second parameter defines whether the clitic comes After or Before the peripheral con-
stituent of the domain. The third parameter determines whether the elitic will attach
phonologically to a host on its left (Enclitic) or its right (Proclitic). The system is
summarized in table 9.11, where I take a schematic ditransitive clause ending in a
sentence adverbial (which is therefore not part of the VP) in a hypothetical language
I
i I
I
378 CLITICS
Table 9.11 Klavans's typology of clitics
Initial, Before, Enclitic
2 Initial, Before, Proclitic
3 Initial, Mter, Enclitic
4 Initial, After Proclitic
5 Final, Before, Enclitic
6 Final, Before, Proclitic
7 Final, After, Enclitic
8 Final, Mter, Proclitic
NP=cl [V NP NP] AP
NP [cl = V NP NP] AP
NP [V =cl NP NP] AP
NP [V cl = NP NP] AP
NP [V NP=cl NP] AP
NP [V NP c1 = NP] AP
NP [V NP NP=cl] AP
NP [V NP NP] c1 = AP
and illustrate the positioning of clitics in the domain of the VP for each type. I
assume that cliticization is defined in terms of constituents and not words.
Notice that there is a tension between the Before/After parameter and the
EncliticfProclitic parameter. If a clitic has the Before value of P2 but is an enclitic,
as 1 or 5, it will have two distinct hosts, one syntactic, the other phonological. The
same is true if a proclitic has the After value (as in 4, 8).
According to Klavans it is possible to find examples of all eight, though a number
of them are represented by somewhat dubiously attested cases. I shall illustrate
examples she provides of Types 1, 2, 3, 5.
We begin with type 2, in which the clitic precedes its host syntactically (Initial,
Before) and phonologically (Proclitic). Klavans argues that the definite article in
Classical Greek was of this type, where the domain of cliticization is N'. 13 Her
example is 9.92, in which the clitic article is preceded by a clitic adverbial, which ··
itself is cliticized to a proclitic preposition:
9.92 en= o:n = te: =pole:
in= therefore= the= city (clitic =adverb= clitic =noun)
'In the city, therefore, ... '
Interestingly, some discourse level particles which appear as enclitics on the first
word of the sentence may treat articles as hosts. Goodwin (1894) provides an example
in which we have string of articles in a recursive possessive construction, the first of
which is host to the clitic adverbial gar 'for':
9.93 ta =gar= te:s = to:n = pollo:n psukhe:s ommata
the= for= [of.the= [of.the= cities] soul] eyes
'For, the eyes of the soul of the cities ... '
Type 1can be illustrated by NP markers in Kwakwala. Example 9.94 is taken from
Anderson (1984b):
DEFINITIONS OF CLITICS 379
9.94 s
v NP NP NP
1\
Det N
Det
A A
Case Dem N Case Poss N
Dem
I
kwix?id=ida ' .
q asa=s=ts
clubbed=the man=OBJ=the otter=INSTR=his club
It is apparent from this tree diagram that the morphological case markers and the
deictic determiners attach themselves as enclitics to the preceding word. We there-
fore assume that the domain of cliticization for these markers is the NP and that they
are attached Initially, Before the :first element (in this case the head noun). By analy-
sing such markers as enclitics we are then not committed to the rather startling claim
that a verb bears inflectional affixes marking the definiteness of the following noun,
or that the object is inflected for the case and possessor of the instrumental adverbial.
The examples in 9.95, from the Australian language Ngiyambaa, show a clitic
which attaches to the :first word of the sentence:
9.95 a) girbadja =ndu mamiyi gabira.
kangaroo= 2NOM catch-PAST yesterday
b) gabira = ndu mamiya girbidja.
'You caught a kangaroo yesterday.'
Here we assume that we are dealing with an Enclitic which has the sentence as its
domain, and which is attached Initially, but After the first constituent (or word).
This characterization corresponds to the classical P2, or Wackernagel position.
Another Australian language, Nganhcara, illustrates Type 5. The clitic =ngu cross-
references a dative pronoun. It is analysed as a sentence domain Final Enclitic
attaching Before the peripheral (hence, :final) constituent. Word order in Nganhcara
is very free except that the verb is restricted to :final position, so the syntactic host
will be the verb:
9.96 a) nhila pama-ng nhingu pukpe-wu ku?a = ngu wa:
he/NOM man-ERG him/DAT child-DAT dog-DATsg. give
'The man gave the dog to the child.'
b) nhila pama-ng nhingu ku?a pukpe-wu =ngu wa:
c) nhila pama-ng ku?a pukpe-wu nhingu =ngu wa:
d) ku?a nhingu pukpe-we nhila pama-ng = ngu wa:
e) ku?a nhingu pukpe-wu pama-ng nhila = ngu wa:
380 CLITICS
The = ngu elitic is actually ambiguous syntactically, in that it may also appear After
the edge of the sentence domain, i.e. at the very end of the sentence, as in 9.96f:
9.96 f) nhila pama-ng nhingu pukpe-wu ku?a wa: = ngu
While Klavans's approach accounts quite neatly for a number of general features
of clitic systems, certain criticisms can be levelled against it. First, two of the
theoretically predicted possibilities are at best dubious. These are represented by
Types 4, a phrase initial proclitic placed after the first constituent, and 6, a phrase
final proclitic placed before the last constituent. However, even if we grant that
examination of further languages might unearth decent examples of Type 6, we may
have some misgivings about Types 4 and 5.
If we consider all eight Types, then some are more 'iconic' than others. For
instance, in Types 2 and 7 we attach the clitic to the peripheral element of the
domain, both syntactically and phonologically. In a certain sense this is the most
direct location for cliticization because the word which stands at the periphery of the
domain is singled out for marking by the clitic. Moreover, the clitics attached to the
left of the domain appear to the left of their host, and those attached to the right of
the domain appear to the right of their host. However, in Types 1 and 8 the phono-
logical attachment is in the opposite direction to that of the syntactic attachment (an
example of a bracketing paradox). Thus, the English reduced auxiliary attaches to the
left of the VP syntactically but to the right of the subject NP phonologically. Such con-
structions undoubtedly exist, so we must ensure our theory doesn't exclude them.
Types 3 and 6 also represent a deviation from a straightforward mapping of form and
function. Here, the clitic successfully marks the peripheral word of the domain of
cliticization, but attaches phonologically to the 'wrong' side of that word. Klavans
claims that this is how the Wackernagel position is defined in the case of Type 3
cliticization, but this seems unlikely. The Wackernagel position is generally
characterized as the position after the first constituent in the sentence, not after the
first word, as required by Klavans's account. However, it seems likely that such
situations do exist. The Latin conjunction -que in its use as sentence coordinator,
illustrated in chapter 2 (example 2.6), is a good candidate, attaching Initially to S,
After the first word as an Enclitic.
Thus, Types 1-3 and their mirror images, Types 6-8, seem to be the kind of clitic
systems we might expect (particularly if we rule out of consideration clitics which
attach to specific lexical classes). Admittedly, we might feel that Types 1, 3 and 7
would be more common than the other three types, given that suffixation seems
to be more common than prefixation. However, Types 4, 5 should, arguably, be
excluded on general grounds unless overwhelming empirical evidence should turn up
in their favour. Now, Klavans cites Nganhcara as exemplifying Type 5. However,
it seems reasonable to suppose that this case can be analysed differently. Recall that
word order is very free in this language, except that the verb must appear finally. If
we say that this is the result of a syntactic rule, then we can argue that placement
of the = ngu elitic is sentence Final, After the last word, but that optionally this place-
ment can occur before the verb placement rule. In other words, we have a Type 7
system. In this way we also account for the data of 9.96f (cf. Sproat, 1988).
Another problem concerns the domain of cliticization. We can regard cliticization
DEFINITIONS OF CLITICS 381
as a unitary phenomenon only if we can permit the domain over which it occurs to
be either a phrasal category or a lexical one (for instance, a verb). This encounters
difficulties with Serbo-Croat P2 clitics, where 'P2' can be defined either as 'after the
first constituent' or as 'after the first word' (cf. 9.19 above). In addition to this, some
would prefer a more principled difference to be drawn between 'lexical clitics',
attaching to a particular word whatever its position in the sentence, and 'phrasal
clitics', attaching to a syntactically defined position, irrespective of the category of
the host word. Klavans (1985) herself suggests that this might mean that the clitics
of Romance languages are actually agreement markers. One reason for adopting this
view is that, if a clitic selects a particular lexical category, then the first two (syn-
tactic) parameters are superfluous, and we can define the clitic position solely in
terms of the third. The proposal for Romance pronominal clitics is particularly
attractive for our Macedonian data, and it's a suggestion I'll be exploring in the next
section. But it isn't entirely satisfactory for most (varieties of the) Romance
languages, in which the clitics are never 'doubled' by an overt NP, for in such
languages the clitic is behaving syntactically much more like a genuine pronominal.
Moreover, in French we have clitics y and en which have an adverbial function
(meaning 'there' and 'of it/them' respectively). These, too, presumably can't be
analysed as agreement markers.
Finally, Klavans's scheme doesn't directly address the question of the internal
structure of clitic clusters, of the kind represented in the 'template' for Serbo-Croat
in 9.20 and elsewhere. This doesn't present any serious obstacle in itself for her
overall conception. Nonetheless, it seems to be such an integral part of most clitic
systems that any theory which fails to account for it appears incomplete.
Zwicky's original classification doesn't provide a hard-and-fast set of criteria for
clitichood; rather, it is a descriptive, and essentially pretheoretical, taxonomy. In
later work, Zwicky has attempted a more thoroughgoing and motivated classification,
which at the same time seeks to distinguish elitics from other things, specifically, free
standing words, and inflectional affixes (Zwicky, 198Sb, 1987a; Zwicky and Pullum,
1983). The essential idea is that prototypical elitics are syntactically like words, in
that they are relatively independent of the words they attach to (that is, they are not
specifically selected by their bases), they have a straightforward meaning, they tend
not to show idiosyncratic allomorphy themselves, and they do not condition idiosyn-
cratic allomorphy on their hosts. Inflectional affixes, on the other hand, are highly
dependent on the bases they attach to, exhibit multiple exponence, and show much
allomorphic variation including suppletion. In addition, they frequently condition
idiosyncratic allomorphy on the stems to which they attach. Zwicky argues from
these properties that cliticization is an essentially syntactic phenomenon, while
inflectional affixation is morphological.
These considerations sometimes produce analyses running counter to received
wisdom. In Zwicky and Pullum (1983) the criteria are applied to the n't negation
element in English. This is usually thought of as a contraction of not, and hence, pre-
sumably, as a simple clitic in Zwicky's (1977) terms. Zwicky and Pullum reason that,
in fact, the contracted negative shows pretty well all the signs of being an inflectional
affix and none of the properties of a clitic.
Zwicky (1987b) re-examines the English possessive formative, 's, which he orig-
inally identified as a bound word. He notes that this element has the property
of being suppressed by another instance of a morpheme with the same shape
i:
~,,
l!
382 CLITICS
(presumably /z/ in underlying form). Thus, we have the data of 9.97:
9.97 a) Katz's reactions
b) the two cats' reactions
c) anyone who hurries'/*hurries's ideas
d) my two kids'/*kids's ideas
e) a friend of my two kids'/*kids's's ideas
(/katS;}Z/)
(/kats/)
Example 9.97a shows that possessive 'sis pronounced as /dz/ after a noun ending in
a sibilant. This forms a minimal pair with 9.97b where the 's formative is dropped
after the plural morpheme. Example 9.97c shows the same thing with the 3sg. verb
ending, and examples 9.97d, e show that 's can be dropped twice after the plural
form.
If the possessive 'sis a genuine clitic, then, reasons Zwicky, it will be put in place
by syntactic and not morphological rules, just as the 's corresponding to is or has is
placed in the syntax. However, unlike the reduced auxiliary verbs, the possessive
formative will give us problems if we make this assumption. The zero allomorphy of
the possessive after words ending in another /zf morpheme requires a statement
along the lines 'the possessive is /zf unless its host ends in a morpheme /zf'. This
means that (i) the morphological composition of the host has to be visible and (ii) the
condition is a statement about when zero allomorphy occurs. Both of these properties
are unheard of and arguably should be excluded on general theoretical grounds.
From this, Zwicky concludes that the possessive is an inflectional affix, which is,
however, attached to the edge of the phrase.rather· than.to·the head of the phrase.
Since pretty well any word in the language can end a noun phrase this means that
all words in English are given this inflection. The stipulation that the preceding
(inflectional) morpheme not itself be /zf can be recast as something along the lines
'affix fzf unless the stem already ends in a morpheme fzf'. This kind of thing,
effectively a variety of morphological haplology, is not uncommon in inflection. An
example which readily springs to mind is that of the Turkish plural morpheme -ler.
In the possessive, 'theirs', this takes an affix -i to become -leri. Thus, ev, 'house',
gives us evler, 'houses', evi, 'his house', and evleri, 'their house' ( = [ev + [ler + i]]).
This last form can also mean 'his houses' (=[[ev + ler] + i]). However, there is no
{orm *evlerleri to correspond to 'their houses'. Instead, one of the ler formatives
drops and we obtain (again) evleri.
From this new vantage point Zwicky also discusses the problem of the Portuguese
'infixed' pronominal forms 14 which I illustrated in §9.1.3. He suggests that the two
most plausible analyses are that the pronominal forms and the future/conditional
forms are either (i) both clitics or (ii) both inflections. The fact that the Dative and
Accusative pronoun forms are fused and the fact that verb stems in fr z sf undergo
special allomorphy argues in favour of the second alternative. However, if the
·pronoun forms really are inflections, it's hard to see what grammatical fur.ction they
have, since they can't be used when there's a full NP in direct or indirect object
position and hence they can't be used as agreement markers (cf. my remarks earlier
about Klavans's difficulties with verb clitics). ·
To conclude: there seems to be some consensus that it is necessary to separate out
the syntactic properties of clitics from their morphophonological properties. The
analysis of Kwakwala, for instance, shows that this distinction has to be made. More-
DEFINITIONS OF CLITICS 383
over, this conclusion is consonant with influential views of the morphology-syntax
interface which will be reviewed in part IV. 15
Next, we must ask what kind of things can be clitics. If we set aside the relatively
unproblematical case of words which have reduced forms as a result of regular rules
of phrase phonology, then we can distinguish two basic sorts of clitic. The first is the
type of clitic which seems to have the same morphosyntactic function as full words
elsewhere in the language. English auxiliary verbs are an example of this. The second
type represents those clitics which don't seem to correspond to a full word. The
possessive 's is an example of this. There is a tendency to think of the first type as
bound words, and the second as phrasal affixes. However, we've seen that Zwicky
and Pullum (1983) have argued that n't, apparently a short form of not, is actually
an inflectional ending which only attaches to auxiliaries. Moreover, Zwicky (1987b)
has argued that possessive 's isn't a clitic, and isn't even a phrasal affix, but rather
is an inflectional ending which attaches to the end of phrases.
There's some evidence that unusual inflections such as n't aren't so uncommon as
might be thought. A curious case concerns reduced auxiliaries. I've said that these
must be regarded as separate allomorphs of the full form auxiliaries, because there
are no regular phrase phonology rules which could produce, say, fdl from lhadl.
However, when we look carefully at the distribution of these elements, it appears as
though they behave differently depending on the exact nature of their hosts. Reduced
forms of had, would, have and will/shall combine directly with pronoun forms, as in
9.98:
9.98 a) She [d] seen it.
b) I [d] have seen it.
c) We [v] seen it.
d) You [1] see it.
However, when such reduced forms attach to full nouns, they have to take the form
[;:,d ;:,v ;:,l] with a schwa, even after vowel final words. Thus, we get 9.99:
9.99 a) Lee [;:,d] I*Lee [d] seen it.
b) Bligh [;:,d] I*Bligh [d] have seen it.
c) Pru[;:,l]/*Pru[l] see it.
Moreover, the pronouns themselves can't take the fully reduced form (with schwa)
if they're part of a conjoined NP:
9.100 a) Tom and she[;:,d]l*she[d] see it.
b) Tom and l[;:,d]f*I[d] have seen it.
c) Me and you [;:,1] f*you [1] see it.
What this suggests (to me, at least) is that the pronouns are inflected for the /d v 11
forms, much as auxiliaries are inflected for negation, and that (i) it is only personal
pronouns which can be so inflected and (ii) the inflection is lexical, not phrasal, thus
ruling out the schwaless cases in 9.100.
When the question of the nature of clitics and their full word hosts is settled there
will remain the question of clitic clusters of the kind exemplified in Serbo-Croat. It
384 CLITICS
remains unclear whether to regard these as a single syntactic constituent (and if so,
at what syntactic level). Moreover, though clitic clusters have for some time been
recognized as paradigm examples of template morphology (§6.4), there has been
rather little discussion of this aspect in the recent literature, and how this might relate
to the other issues surrounding the nature of clitics. Nor has there been any serious
attempt to relate P2 positioning of clitic clusters to other second-position effects
(though Sproat, 1988, has some interesting observations about Warlpiri and Serbo-
Croat clitic clusters in this regard).
So, there is much that remains unclear. The Portuguese data still defy adequate
analysis. The Polish data pose serious problems for all the theories of cliticization I'm
familiar with (and oddly enough, have hardly been discussed anywhere in the pub-
lished literature on the general problem of clitics). Perhaps most significantly, there
is no obvious consensus on the basic typological distinctions that need to be drawn
before a deeper theoretical explanation of cliticization phenomena can be attempted.
This shouldn't come as any great surprise. After all, we are dealing here with
the interface of morphology with both phonology and syntax. It is this, more than
anything else, which makes cliticization a challenging area of research.
9.3 Cliticization and agreement
In the introduction to this chapter I mentioned that the study of clitic pronoun
systems was of considerable interest in current theories of syntax, especially in
Government-Binding theory. One good reason for this is the interaction between
cliticization and argument structure. An example of this has been given in chapter
7, where we saw that reflexivization is often signalled by means of a elitic. At the
same time, the reflexive formative may have the property of detransitivizing a transi-
tive verb (in a certain sense). Another reason is the inherent importance that any type
of pronominal reference system has for syntactic theory. In addition, we know that
pronominal clitic systems have often developed historically into agreement systems.
The syntactic literature on elitics is replete with discussion of the basic properties
of pronominal clitics and debate as to how linguistic theory should tackle them. The
main problem boils down to this: are elitics basically a kind of pronoun with limited
syntactic distribution, or are they variety of loosely attached affix signalling syntactic
dependencies in the manner of agreement morphology?
The original analysis of pronominal clitics in the transformational literature
assumed that they are pronouns which originate in underlying structure in the pos-
ition usually occupied by complements to the verb. They are then moved by transfor-
mation to whatever syntactic position they occupy on the surface. An analysis of this
sort was provided (within essentially the Standard Model of generative grammar) for
French by Kayne (1975) and for Serbo-Croat by Browne (1974). The rationale for
this is straightforward: object clitics are in complementary distribution with full NP
objects in these languages. The simplest way of accounting for this distribution,
together with the fact that the clitics express the function of objects, is to assume that
they are indeed objects underlyingly. Hence, we would assume that the French and
Serbo-Croat sentences in 9.101b and 9.102b are derived from sources such as 9.101b
CLITICIZATION AND AGREEMENT 385
and 9.102a (the empty category, [ec] , in the (b) examples represents the trace of
movement, as is customary in Government-Binding syntax):
9.101 a) Je vois le
9.102
b) Je le vois [ec] NP
I him see
'I see him.'
a) Ja vidim ga
b) Ja ga vidim [ec] NP
I him see
'I see him.'
This means our analysis of cliticization is analogous to that of wh-movement as
illustrated in 9.103:
9.103 a) You saw who
b) Who did you see [ec] NP
A further reason for this treatment is the phenomenon of clitic climbing, illustrated
earlier in §9.1.1 for Serbo-Croat (see example 9.23). The phenomenon as it occurs
in Italian has been discussed from the theoretical point of view by Luigi Rizzi, as part
of an argument in favour of a rule of Restructuring, which has the effect of 'fusing'
the matrix verb with its complement. (In Relational Grammar, the same effect is
accomplished by Clause Union.) The following examples:, taken from Rizzi (1978,
also published as chapter 1 of Rizzi, 1982), illustrate elitic climbing in Italian. The
(b) examples are all optional alternatives to the (a) forms:
9.104
9.105
a) Mario vuole risolver = lo da solo.
Mario wants to-solve =it ·on own
b) Mario lo vuole risolver da solo.
Mario it wants to-solve on own
'Mario wants to solve it on his own.'
a) Gianni ha dovuto parlar = gli personalmente.
Gianni has had to-speak= to-them personally
b) Gianni gli ha dovuto parlare personalmente.
Gianni to-them has had to-speak personally
'Gianni has had to speak to them personally.'
One way in which such constructions can be understood is by assuming that the clitic
moves either from its position in the (a) examples, or from an underlying object
position, to the new position in the matrix clause, skipping over the matrix verb (if
it belongs to the right verb class).
In order to account for the fact that the verb-clitic combinations in Romance tend
to behave phonologically and morphologically like verbs, it is customary to assume
a kind of 'noun incorporation' analysis under which the clitic is adjoined to the
386 CLITICS
lexical V node and so the whole complex retains the category V, to give a represen-
tation such as 9.106:
9.106 Je [v le [v vois]] [ec] NP
The question now arises of the identity of the empty NP category in 9.104. Depen-
ding on a variety of assumptions, a variety of answers have been given to this
question.
In the theory developed by Aoun (1985), the clitic occupies a non-argument (A')
position. The empty category is therefore A'-bound. This identifies it as a variable.
Aoun also assumes (from his analysis of causative constructions in French amongst
other reasons) that the clitic absorbs the verb's theta role. This means that the vari-
able also functions as an anaphor, much like an NP trace. In addition, Aoun assumes
that the clitic absorbs the Case which the verb assigns. Since the ec is a variable and
variables are usually Case marked, this may appear to cause problems but they are
illusory. For the variable is no longer theta marked and hence not an argument. In
this theory we retain the essential idea from the earlier studies (e.g. Kayne, 1975) that
cliticization involves syntactic movement, leaving a trace (in this instance a variable).
Jaeggli (1982, 1986) offers a different analysis. He assumes simply that the clitic
absorbs Case. This means that the verb still assigns its theta role to the complement
NP position. Jaeggli differs from Aoun in his interpretation of the clitic position. For
Jaeggli, this is neither an A position nor an A' position. This determines the nature
of the empty category. Since it isn't A'-bound it can't be a variable (pace Aoun).
Since it isn't A-bound either it can't be an NP trace. The position is governed by
the verb (otherwise no theta role could be assigned to it), so that the ec can't be PRO.
This means that the ec must be pro. 16
A similar analysis is presented by Borer (1984a). She assumes with Jaeggli that the
complement NP position is an argument position, and hence that the verb theta
marks it. She, however, claims that the clitic doesn't so much absorb Case as func-
tion as a spell-out or morphological realization of the verb's Case feature. This is
possible in part because she assumes that the clitic is adjoined to the verb itself,
rather like an affix. (This is an assumption that Jaeggli, 1986, explicitly adopts. It is
also the technical basis for Baker's treatment of noun incorporation.) Both Borer's
analysis and that of Jaeggli presuppose that the clitics are base generated, for only
in this way could we explain how the clitic is coindexed with a pronominal (given the
added assumption that empty categories don't change their featural status during a
derivation). Thus, their analyses are in a certain sense 'morphological'.
Given this brief background we are in a position to illustrate the two main ways
in which analyses of clitics are important for theories of morphosyntax. The crucial
constructions are the clitic doubling constructions discussed above in connection with
Macedonian. The languages evincing this phenomenon which are most commonly
discussed in the literature are Romanian, Hebrew and particularly Latin-American
Spanish. The oft-cited Spanish sentence 9.33 (repeated here as 9.107) illustrates the
point:
9.107 Lo = vimos a Juan.
cl we-saw to Juan
'We saw Juan.'
CLITICIZATION AND AGREEMENT 387
The clitic lo and the direct object a Juan are coreferential and hence must be
coindexed.
The first point to notice is that these constructions seem to rule out a straight-
forward interpretation of cliticization as movement: if the complement NP position
is occupied by a lexical NP it could hardly have been occupied by a clitic in
D-structure. 17
Aoun's solution is to regard the doubled NP a Juan as a kind of adjunct. In effect,
then, this theory says that the Spanish elitic-doubling construction is a species of syn-
tactic antipassive, very much like Baker's analysis of antipassives. Recall that in an
antipassive construction a direct object is demoted to oblique status and the verb
assigns Case as though it were intransitive. Aoun's analysis is completely parallel to
Baker's, except that for Baker the antipassive morpheme is an affix generated in
direct object position. The failure of languages like Serbo-Croat, French and
Castilian Spanish to exhibit doubling is then, presumably, to do with failure to
permit the adjunct phrase to appear, in much the same way that passives in certain
languages and antipassives in other languages (e.g. Tzotzil; Aissen, 1987) are unable
to license an adjunct by-phrase or demoted object. Baker himself doesn't draw any
explicit comparison between his analysis of antipassives and Aoun's treatment of
cliticization. Equally, Aoun doesn't explicitly point out that he is effectively treating
cliticization as a form of antipassive construction (and, hence, doesn't discuss the
interesting anomaly of having a productive antipassive in a language which isn't
ergative). Nor is it explained why clitic doubling is relatively rare, while it is common
for suppressed arguments to appear as adjuncts in passive and antipassive construc-
tions.
There are problems with this analysis (cf. Jaeggli, 1986, Suiier, 1988), in that it
fails to predict certain facts concerning extraction possibilities from the doubled NP
position, as well as other binding phenomena. 18 Jaeggli (1986) develops an analysis
in which the preposition, which is obligatory in Spanish clitic doubling construc-
tions, doesn't itself assign Case, but rather transmits the Case assigned by the verb.
Jaeggli further assumes a process of Case Matching rather than Case assignment,
under which the Case assigner, the verb, is matched with either a recipient or a trans-
mitter of Case (e.g. the preposition a). This is, in effect, a variant of an idea orig-
inally due to Borer (1984a). In a straightforward Verb + Object construction the verb
is Case Matched with the object NP. In a Verb+ Animate Object construction of the
type vimos a Juan, 'we saw Juan', without doubling clitic, the verb is Case Matched
with a, which is itself Case Matched with Juan. In the clitic doubled construction
we have three Case Matched pairs. The verb is Case Matched with the clitic; the verb
is also Case Matched with the preposition; finally, the preposition is Case Matched
with the direct object NP. This situation (that of a Case assigner being matched with
more than one element) is permitted provided only one of the elements so matched
is a nominal. This captures the usual restriction that Case can only be assigned to one
NP.
Finally, Suiier (1988) discusses the Porteiio variety of River Plate Spanish, which
manifests the clitic doubling construction. She argues that the clitic neither absorbs
the verb's theta role, nor its Case. With Borer and Jaeggli, she assumes that the clitic
is attached to the verb as a kind of affix, though contra Jaeggli she regards this as
lexical rather than syntactic affixation. The relation between the verb + clitic complex
and the verb's complement is then one of agreement. The coindexing between clitic
388 CLITICS
and complement NP results in a species of chain. To be well-formed, such a chain
must be constructed of elements whose morphosyntactic features match. It is a
language specific fact about American Spanish (specifically Argentinian Spanish)
clitics that they bear the feature [+specific] and must thus be matched with a specific
(e.g. definite) NP.
This implies that in the Porteno dialect the preposition a is not a Case assigner,
for Case is assigned to the complement from the verb. This in turn implies two
things: first, we should expect to see clitic doubled constructions in which the com-
plement is not introduced by a; second, the preposition must have some function
other than Case assignment (or even transmission). Suner argues that the preposition
is a marker of animacy. She points out that in an example such as 9.108 there is no
preposition to assign Case to the pro:
9.108 Ya las lave todas [pro]
already cl-Fpl. !-washed all-Fpl. ec
'I've already washed them all (e.g. dishes)'
Since it is generally assumed that pro must receive Case to be licensed (Chomsky,
1982; Rizzi, 1986), 19 the Case must come from the verb, and therefore can't have
been absorbed by the clitic. On the other hand, in example 9.109, the preposition
duly appears, this time forcing an animate reading for the complement NP:
9.109 Ya las lave a todas [pro]
'I've already washed them all (e.g. babies)'
Suner, then, advocates an analysis for these varieties of Latin-American Spanish in
which the elitic pronouns have actually become agreement markers of the sort associ-
ated with languages like Chukchee or Bantu. She explicitly points out that specificity
. or definiteness is a common determinant of object agreement, citing Swahili as one
of the better-known cases. (Another, less controversial, example from agreement
morphology would be Hungarian.) In the light of our discussion in §9.1.2 of this
chapter we could draw a parallel with Macedonian, which permits doubling of direct
objects only if they are definite. In effect, the only difference between, say, the
Porteno dialect of Spanish and other less controversial examples of object agreement
inflection is that the clitics (or pronominal affixes?) of Spanish are less fully integrated
into the morphological system of the verb. This means that the Spanish object agree-
ment markers, while syntactically agreement formatives, retain (some of) the proper-
ties of morphological clitics. 20 This can be thought of as the opposite of the position
advanced in the incorporation theory of the passive of Baker et al. (1989). There, we
find a formative (the passive morpheme) which is cross-linguistically an affix in the
majority of cases, being treated as a kind of syntactic clitic.
Finally, it might be thought that the phenomenon of clitic climbing (exemplified
in §9.1, 9.17-9.18) would pose serious problems for an agreement-style analysis.
However, it's not clear what the problem is, exactly. This is because the same kind of
facts are found in languages which uncontroversially have agreement morphology on
the verb, and in which the verb agrees with its direct object. That is, in some
languages, we find that a certain restricted class of auxiliary verbs or auxiliary-like
elements will take intransitive agreements if the embedded clause is intransitive,
CLITICIZATION AND AGREEMENT 389
but transitive agreements if the embedded clause is transitive, in other words, the
matrix verb agrees with the object of the subordinate clause. (We might facetiously
refer to this phenomenon as 'Agr climbing'.) This has been reported for Hungarian
and Mordvinian, for instance. In 9.110-9.111 we see examples from Chukchee
involving the verb mook 'to begin':
9.110
9.111
dtlon moo-g?e kelitku-k.
he-ABS begin-PASTJ3sg.S study-INF
'He began to study.'
dnan moo-nen rdgjulew-dk ekdk iwin-dk.
he-ERG begin-PASTJ3sg.Sf3sg.O teach-INF son-ABS hunt-INF
'He began to teach his son to hunt.'
In 9.110 the matrix verb takes the intransitive agreement marker -g";Je, while in 9.111
it takes the transitive ·marker -nen (meaning '3rd sg. subject acts on 3rd sg. object').
Finally, we may note another twist in the tale of pronominal clitics. Fully-fledged
pronouns in a language like English appear in so-called dislocation constructions,
mentioned in passing in Note 12. Here, the pronoun is doubled by a full NP in a
non-argument position, usually set off from the rest of the sentence intonationally.
In English, we commonly observe right dislocation, 9.112, and perhaps less
commonly, left dislocation, 9.113:
9.112 He teaches linguistics, that man.
9.113 That linguist, he's going to drive me insane:.
Chichewa, like many other Bantu languages, has a set of prefixes which cross refer-
ence subjects and objects. Bresnan and Mchombo (1987) have studied this system
and shown that, in the case of objects and, in certain constructions, in the case of
subjects, these pref!xes function just like the pronouns in examples 9.112, and not
like bona fide agreement markers (of the kind we find in, say, Chukchee). For
instance, they note that the object markers (OM) are optional (though the subject
markers, SM, are obligatory). This is illustrated in examples 9.114-9.115:
9.114 Njuchi zi-mi-him-a alenje.
bees SM-PAST-bite-INDIC hunters
'The bees bit the hunters.'
9.115 Njuchi zi-mi-wa-lum-a alenje.
bees SM-PAST-OM-bite-INDIC hunters
'The bees bit them, the hunters.'
They use a variety of syntactic tests, including topicalization, relative clause forma-
tion, question formation and various discourse properties, to show that the construc-
tion illustrated in 9.115 is actually a type of right dislocation reminiscent of the
English example 9.112, and not a case of genuine agreement. One interesting indi-
cation of this is the effect of the OM marker on word order possibilities. Without the
390 CLITICS
OM marker, the object must follow immediately after the verb; any other word order
gives ungrammaticality, as shown in 9.116:
9.116 a) SVO
b) vos
c) OVS
d) vso
e) SOV
f) osv
Njuchi zi-mi-him-a alenje.
Zi-mi-him-a alenje njuchi.
*Alenje zi-na-h.im-a njuchi.
*Zi-na-him-a njuchi alenje.
*Njuchi alenje zi-na-him-a.
*Alenje njuchi zi-na-him-a.
This situation stands in marked contrast to the possibilities found when the OM
marker is present. Then, any of the above word orders is grammatical:
9.117 a) SVO
b) vos
c) OVS
d) vso
e) SOV
f) osv
Njuchi zi-na-wa-lum-a alenje.
Zi-na-wa-lum-a alenje njuchi.
Alenje zi-mi-wa-lum-a njuchi.
Zi-na-wa-lum-a njuchi alenje.
Njuchi alenje zi-na-wa-lum-a.
Alenje njuchi zi-na-wa-lum-a.
Bresnan and Mchombo go on to show that, under certain circumstances, the SM
marker, too, behaves like an ordinary pronoun, just like the OM marker. Here, then,
we have a situation in which an element which is .firmly incorporated into the le.xical
structure, having the morpholexica.l properties of an affix, nonetheless behaves like
an independent entity syntactically (and, indeed, pragmatically, in discourse struc-
ture).
These are important observations, both for our understanding of anaphora, and for
the theory of clitics. If the pronominal markers in Chichewa can be shown indispu-
tably to be affixes, then we have a very strong form of violation of the Lexicalist
Hypothesis. Of course, the issue isn't closed with this one analysis. It might be, for
instance (as a number of people have suggested for morphological systems such as
this), that we are not dealing here with affixation, but rather with a clitic cluster
which happens to have a relatively .firm phonological attachment .to its verbal host. 21
If that were the case then Chichewa would be no more or less problematic than,
say, French. But such an observation still wouldn't solve the overall problem, given
that students of clitic systems are inclined to say that the French clitic system is,
morphologically speaking, a species of affixation.
9.4 Summary and conclusions
In the first section we looked at four 'case studies' of what in Zwicky's (1977) terms
would be called 'special clitics'. These systems presented most of the phenomena
which have been discussed in the general literature on clitics (plus a few other
phenomena which, while no less important, tend to get ignored).
The second section reviewed two influential attempts at a typology of clitics. It is
largely agreed that genuine clitics are words which happen to be phonologically
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 391
dependent on a host. Thus, they are elements which gave the syntactic properties of
words, but the phonological properties of affixes. According to Klavans's typology,
they are, in fact, affixes which attach to phrases, in accordance with the settings of
three parameters. I argued that Klavans's typology isn't without its conceptual and
empirical problems. Nonetheless, it represents a significant attempt at making sense
of a complex phenomenon.
The section continued with further observations from Zwicky, illustrating how
difficult it is to demarcate cliticization and other phenomena, especially inflection.
His suggestion that the English possessive might be an inflectional morpheme which
attaches to the edge of phrases raises a whole host of questions about the nature of
inflection, constituency and wordhood, and the role of heads in morphology (given
that the possessive modifies the head semantically while remaining morphologically
attached to some other element in the phrase).
Finally, §9.3 reviewed some of the implications that morphological decisions about
clitics might have for syntactic theory and vice versa. When we look at pronominal
clitics attached to verbs we find that some criteria suggest that these are essentially
pronominals, which just happen to have a close morphophonological connection with
a lexical head. But other criteria point towards an analysis under which they are more
like agreement markers. The controversy remains unresolved, particularly when the
'anaphoric affixes' described for Chichewa are taken into consideration.
The kinds of phenomena discussed in this chapter raise a variety of more general
questions for linguistic theory. One observation which may prove of importance con-
cerns the notion of 'parameters' for cliticization. In syntax, a parameter is intended
to unify a diversity of syntactic surface phenomena. In phonology, however (for
example, the phonology of stress systems), what we generally .find is that a whole col-
lection of parameters have to be set in order to fix one surface pattern. Klavans's par-
ameters are of the latter type. This is perhaps slightly odd, given that two of them
are couched in terms of syntactic domains. However, this may be just another reflec-
tion of the fact that we are dealing with the interface between morphology and both
syntax and phonology.
One set of technical problems, posed both by agreement-like pronoun clitics, and
by cliticized auxiliary elements, concerns recent proposals centering around the
notion of functional categories (meaning categories like Agr, Comp, Inti, Det and so
on). Particularly important are the implications for analyses which posit verb move-
ment (especially the widely adopted Government-Binding assumption that verbs
regularly move into the Inti position in order to receive tense/aspect and agreement
morphology). If tense, aspect, modality (including negation) and a variety of other
verbal categories are to be represented as properties of the Inti system (or perhaps
even the Ccmp-Infl system together), as is currently widely assumed, then we might
expect the controversy over the nature of pronominal clitics to be repeated with such
elements as auxiliary verbs, negative particles and modal elements of various sorts.
This would be a particularly interesting line of inquiry given current syntactic work
suggesting that some of these categories might be represented in the syntax as sep-
arate fully-fledged X-bar projections (e.g. Pollock, 1989).
However, this line of thinking brings us up against serious conceptual difficulties,
which are in urgent need of resolution. The problem is one that I have touched on
several times already. Ifwe separate out the morphophonological properties of forma-
rives from their morphosyntactic properties, then we can capture commonalities. For
392 CLITICS
instance, the fact that a notion such as 'perfectivity' or 'causativity' might be sig-
nalled by a verb taking a sentential complement, or an auxiliary verb or an affix, or
merely some kind of lexical alternation is of no great consequence if we accept the
strongest interpretation of Baker's (1988a) UTAH. For in underlying representation
we will say that in each case there is some sort of abstract predicate, which may, for
instance, condition some sort of head-to-head movement, or incorporation process.
Likewise, we can argue, with. Baker et al. (1989) that the English Passive involves
an abstract 'clitic' generated in Infl position, which is obligatorily assigned the
external argument role of the verb and which in turn obligatorily induces an abstract
form of incorporation of the verb stem. But if this approach is adopted then we'll
need other, non-syntactic, criteria for distinguishing full words from clitics from
affixes from other morphological phenomena. In other words, current thinking in GB
syntax, at least, implicitly lays a good part of the burden of explaining systematic
similarities and differences between languages on the morphology component of
grammar. This serves to underline the key role morphology plays in grammatical
theory, by virtue of its interface with the other components of grammar.
EXERCISES
9.1 List as many words in English as you can which would plausibly be analysed
(in one or other of their forms) as clitics. Group them into simple clitics and special
clitics. Are there any properties which all of your candidate clitics have in common?
9.2 (a) Describe in detail which three important phenomena, discussed in this
chapter and in chapter 7, are illustrated in the following Serbo-Croat sentence:
Nasa se kinematografija moze pohvaliti uspjelima dijelima.
'Our cinema industry can be congratulated on its successful work.'
Nasa 'our', moze 'can (3sg. pres.)', pohvaliti 'to praise', uspjelima dijelima 'suc-
cessful work (instr. pl.)'.
(b) Reanalyse exercise 2.3 (chapter 2) in the light of §9.1.1 of this chapter.
9.3 Bulgarian definite article:
(i) What is the form of the article, and what governs its allomorphy?
(ii) How does it fit into Klavans's scheme?
a) Na masata e cervena kniga.
'On the table is a red book.'
b) Knigata e na masata.
The book is on the table.'
c) Cervenata kniga e na masata.
'The red book is on the table.'
d) Mojata cervena kniga e na masata.
'My red book is on the table.'
e) Knigite sa na masata.
'The books are on the table.'
f) Cervenite knigi sa na masata.
'The red books are on the table.'
g) Vol;:>t e na poleto.
'The ox is iii the field.'
h) Cern;:>t vol e na poleto.
'The black ox is in the field.'
i) Silnite cerni volove sa na poleto.
'The strong black oxen are in the field.'
j) Volovete sa na poleto.
'The oxen are in the field.'
k) Na poleto sa silnite cerni volove.
'In the field are the strong black oxen.'
EXERCISES 393
9.4 (a) Write a set of feature co-occurrence rules (redundancy rules) for
Klavans's 3-parameter feature system, which would have the effect of ruling out
Types 4 and 5.
(b) It might be thought that we would improve Klavans's system by adopting a
different set of binary features. Here is one possibility:
(i) Initial/Final (as in Klavans)
(ii) Proclitic/Enclitic (as in Klavans)
(iii) Domain attached/Non-domain attached
The third feature is interpreted thus: Domain attached clitics attach to the adjacent
word in the domain; Non-domain attached clitics attach in the opposite direction to
Domain attached clitics. Thus, the English clitic auxiliaries are Initial (to the domain
VP), but are Non-domain attached because they associate to the word before the VP
domain, to the left, rather than the first word in the VP, to the right. Show that
feature system (i-iii) excludes Types 4 and 5. What are its disadvantages? How might
they be overcome? [Hint: for this last part of the question, re-read question 2(a)
above.]
•9.5 Carefully consult Zwicky and Pullum (1983) and list the criteria they adduce
for analysing a formative as inflectional rather than a clitic. Then, apply these criteria
to
(i) the English 's formative corresponding to has;
(ii) the Serbo-Croat pronominal clitics;
(iii) the Polish auxiliary clitics.
[Note: not all the criteria will be applicable to all the cases.]
394 CLITICS
•9.6 Suppose you wish to investigate the Macedonian clitic doubling construction
and determine whether it was a genuine clitic system or an agreement system. What
syntactic constructions would you in principle be interested in? Provide English sen-
tences which you might wish to have translated into Macedonian to elicit native
speaker informant judgements. (It might help you to know that Macedonian, like
other Slav languages, has very free surface word order, but that question words
appear in sentence initial position.)
•9.7 Select any good handbook, reference grammar or textbook of Japanese.
Collate as much information (phonological, morphological, syntactic) as you can
abou~ the 'case' participles wa, ga, o, no and ni. Are these formatives (i) affixes? (ii)
clitics? (iii) words?
'I
PART IV
The Word in Generative Grammar
i
. i
.
10
Bracketing Paradoxes
10.1 Introduction: the phenomena
We have already encountered bracketing paradoxes, i.e. constructions in which it
appears necessary to assign two distinct constituent structures to a word. For
example, we noted in chapter 6 that a word such as ungrammaticality poses problems
for a level ordered theory of morphology because the grammatical restrictions on the
affixes un- and -ity demand a bracketing 10.1a while the level ordering principles
demand a bracketing 10.1b:
10.1 a) [[ungrammatical] ity]
b) [un [grammatical ity]]
Any theory of morphology aiming at completeness has to have something to say
about bracketing paradoxes. In this chapter we will trace the recent history of this
set of problems and some of the proposals for tackling it. The bracketing paradoxes
don't really constitute a natural kind and hence shouldn't necessarily be given a
unified solution. Nonetheless, all of the paradoxes illustrate an important problem in
morphological theory construction, that of deciding what a word is. It is for this
reason that the various bracketing paradoxes are intrinsically interesting.
Let's begin with some illustrations. In a sense much of the previous chapter was
about bracketing paradoxes, since it is frequently the case that a host+ clitic com-
bination forms a new word phonologically but behaves as two separate words syn-
tactically. For instance, we might say that a familiar example of simple cliticization
as in 10.2 represents a bracketing paradox, as shown in 10.2a, b. In 10.2a we have
the phonological bracketing and in 10.2b the syntactic bracketing:
10.2 Tom's a linguist.
a) [Tom's] a linguist.
b) [Tom] ['s a linguist].
398 BRACKETING PARADOXES
However, the ungrammaticality example shows that the bracketing paradox problem
can extend much further than the behaviour of clitics. In 10.3-10.11 I give a number
of paradoxes from English which have been discussed in the literature (this list is
largely derived from Williams, 1981a):
10.3 hydroelectricity
a) [hydro [electric ity]]
b) [[hydro electric] ity]
10.4 transformational grammarian
a) [transformational [grammarian] ]
b) [[transformational grammar] ian]
10.5 atomic scientist
a) [atomic [scientist] ]
b) [[atomic science] ist]
10.6 Godel numbering
a) [Godel [number ing] ]
b) [[Godel number] ing]
10.7 cross-sectional
a) [cross [sectional] ]
b) [[cross section] al]
10.8 white-washed
a) [white [washed] ]
b) [[white wash] ed]
10.9 four-legged
a) [four [legged] ]
b) [[four legg] ed]
10.10 three-wheeler
a) [three [wheeler]]
b) [[three wheel] er]
. 10.11 unhappier
a) [un [happy er]]
b) [[unhappy] er]
In most of these examples it is fairly clear why we are dealing with a bracketing
paradox. The example hydroelectricity is paradoxical within a level ordered theory for
the same reason that ungrarnmaticality is paradoxical. Semantically the word is
derived from hydroelectric. However, hydro- is either a bound compounded root or a
Class II prefix (depending on your analysis). In either case it should be affixed after
the Class I affix -ity, given level ordering. An atomic scientist is not a scientist who
!4
4
INTRODUCTION 399
is atomic, rather sfhe is a specialist in atomic science. Hence, the meaning demands
bracketing 10.Sb. Similar remarks hold of transfonnational grammarian. The term
Godel numbering refers to a process of assigning a specially constructed number,
called a Godel number, to a set as part of a mathematical proof (a technique devised
in a famous theorem by Kurt Godel). In other words, the process does not refer to
the number of Godels, so, again, 10.6b represents the semantic structure of the
expressiOn.
The adjective cross-sectional means 'pertaining to a cross section', so that the -al
affix applies to the whole phrase even though it attaches morphologically only to the
word section. The same reasoning applies to white-washed, four-legged and three-
wheller. The four-legged and three-wheeler examples are rather interesting, because the
semantic sources, four-leg and three-wheel, don't actually exist (see §10.7 below).
These therefore pose a problem for word-based morphology in its stronger form.
The problem with unhappier is rather subtle. Semantically, this must have the
constituent structure of 10.11b, because it means 'more unhappy' rather than 'not
happier'. Phonologically, however, we know that comparative -er only attaches to
monosyllabic adjectives or those ending in syllabic l, -y or -n, as in nobler, merrier or
commoner.· These contrast with impossible comparatives such as *corrupter, *faciler,
*curiouser, *tractabler, and *melancholier. Thus, to meet the phonological restriction
on affixation, -er must be attached to happy and not to unhappy, as in lO.lla.
Some of the paradoxes, like ungrammaticality and hydroelectricity, are theory internal
paradoxes, in the sense that one at least of the bracketings arises out of specific, and
often not uncontroversial, theoretical assumptions. In this case the not uncontro-
versial theoretical assumption is level ordering. A further example of such theory
internal paradoxes which we have already seen is the apparently innocuous truck
driver. This is a bracketing paradox in some theories (e.g. Lieber, Fabb, Sproat)
because it is given the constituent structure [[truck drive] er] . In other theories
there is no such problem (e.g. Williams).
It must not be thought that the problem is unique to English. Pesetsky (1985)
discusses an example from Russian (re-iterated in a number of Slav languages). In
10.12 we see a prefixed verb form in the past tense. The b) and c) forms show two
bracketings of the (SPE-style) underlying forms generally ascribed to such forms in
generative analyses of Slavic phonology. The # sign represents a 'jer', a lax high
vowel which never surfaces in the modern Slavonic languages:
10.12 a) podzog '(he) set fire to'
b) [pod# [[ [z # g] 1] #] ]
under burn PAST-MASC.SG
c) [[[pod# z#g] 1] #]
Semantically, we must have the bracketing of 10.12c, because the verb root z#g,
'burn', and the prefix pod#-, 'under', form a combination with idiosyncratic
meaning which must be lexically listed. However, under usual assumptions about
Slavic phonology, in order to get the vowel deletion and lowering rules of Slavic right
(basically the rules affecting jers, discussed in §4.1) we must assume the bracketing
in 10.12b. This is therefore somewhat reminiscent of the problem with unhappier, in
that the constituent structure implied by the meaning is at variance with that implied
by the phonology. But notice that this, too, is a theory-internal paradox, inasmuch
400 BRACKETING PARADOXES
as it only arises given particular assumptions about the underlying phonological
representation.
The bracketing paradoxes, then, pose a problem which is essentially that of dual
or multiple representations. In this chapter we will look at the significance of the
bracketing paradoxes for particular theories of morphology and some of the ways
different theoretical approaches have responded to the problem. We conclude with
a case study based on the more popular of the paradox types which suggests that
some of the paradoxes at least provide evidence for a 'paradigmatic' approach to
word formation.
10.2 Bracketing paradoxes in Lexical
Phonology
Since a number of the bracketing paradoxes pose special problems for Lexical
Phonology we'll start with the response lexical phonologists have made. Kiparsky
(1983) pointed out that in English there are two theoretically possible types of brack-
eting paradox violating level ordering. They are shown in 10.13, where I is a Level
1 affix and II is a Level 2 affix:
10.13 a) I + [Stem+ II] (*in + success + ful)
b) (II+ Stem] +I (un +grammatical+ ity)
Only the second of these occurs. However, there are a large number of cases. One
possibility would be to say that some Class II prefixes also belong to Class I, as
Selkirk (1982) suggests. However, doubt is cast on the wisdom of this move by the
observation that any Class II prefix whatever can be involved. Therefore, it would
seem that the 'fault' lies with the Class I suffixes. Yet there is a fairly large number
of such suffixes which give rise to paradoxes. Moreover, they may generate paradoxes
based on compounds and lexicalized phrases as well as Class II prefixed forms. Some
of the examples Kiparsky cites are repeated in 10.14:
10.14 a) [II+ Stem] +I
untruth
underestimation
reburial
decongestant
arch-ducal
vice-presidential
b) set theoretic(al)
twenty-fifth
lieutenant-colonelcy
c) three-dimensional
double helical
However, these cases, while not infrequent, have been regarded by many as excep-
I
ARONOFF AND SRIDHAR 401
tional because it is often impossible to construct such paradoxes from other bases,
even using the Class I suffixes found in 10.14. Thus, despite analysis- analytic we
don't have *fe-analytic. Likewise, with flower- floral, but *Wallfloral, vision- visual
but *tunnel visual.
If paradoxes are the exception rather than the rule, the problem now centres round
the question of why only the second type of paradox (10.13b) arises. Kiparsky's
solution was morphological reanalysis. He first assumed that the selectional (or sub-
categorization) requirements must be met at every level. Thus, un- must be seen to
select an adjective, both in underlying representation and in surface representation.
Second, he assumed a process of reanalysis under which bracketing can be rearranged
freely, providing selectional restrictions aren't violated. The way this can generate
ungrammaticality is shown in 10.15:
10.15 [[grammatical] A+ ity] N
[un [[grammatical] A+ ity] N] N
[[un + [grammatical] A] A+ ity] N
Level 1
Level 2
Reanalysis
Given usual Lexical Phonology assumptions, however, the derivation of 10.15 is
impossible. This is because one of the key ideas in Lexical Phonology is that the
internal structure of any item forming the output of a level is inaccessible to rules
in a subsequent level. This latter property is captured by the Bracket Erasure
Convention, which states that brackets are erased from a word when it leaves a
morphological level. Hence, there is no way for rules at the next level to distinguish,
for instance, monomorphemic words from words which end in a particular sort of
affix. The BEC will now correctly rule out the majority of cases where no bracketing
paradox is formed, but will not permit the formation of ungrammaticality. Therefore,
all we need say is that the ungrammaticality examples exceptionally fail to undergo
bracket erasure.
A number of linguists see the relaxation of the BEC as a serious weakening of the
tenets of Lexical Phonology. Zwicky (1987d) also argues that it locates the problem
in the wrong place. He says that it is the rule rather than the exception for Class I
suffixes to license paradoxes (even very unproductive ones such as -th). Moreover,
bracketing paradoxes formed on un- ... -ity and especially un- ... -ability seem
definitely to be the rule rather than the exception. So Kiparsky's BEC approach can
at best be regarded as only a partial solution to the problem.
10.3 A prosodic approach (Aronoff and
Sridhar)
Aronoff and Sridhar (1983, 1987) deny the validity of level ordering. However, like
Selkirk (1982), they note that there are two types of affix in English, Stem affixes and
Word affixes, corresponding roughly to Class I and Class II affixes. The Stem affixes
attach typically to bound stems or roots, while the Word affixes may attach only to
words. They also note that it is commonplace to find that syntactically organized
structure, for example, the constituent structure of a sentence as represented in a
402 BRACKETING PARADOXES
phrase marker, is distinct from the phonological structure, for instance, the phrasal
groupings implied by phrasal stress and intonation. This discrepancy is well known.
In SPE (p. 368) it is pointed out that, prosodically speaking, the string was in an
unlikely behaves like a single word in a sentence such as IIThe book I was in an unlikely
I place// (where the slashes indicate prosodic boundaries).
The importance of prosodic structure in phonology has recently been stressed by
a number of phonologists and it's probably fair to say that the majority of phonol-
ogists accept that prosodic categories of some sort play a key role in phonology. One
important prosodic category is that of the phonological word or p-word. This is
defined differently for different languages, but in languages with a stress system it
will often correspond to a metrical foot, that is, a string of syllables containing exactly
one stress. The sentence cited above from SPE would therefore consist of three feet
given a normal speaking rate.
Aronoff and Sridhar consider the example of a morphologically complex word,
compartmentalization, in which we have the Class II (stress-neutral) affixes, -ment and
-ize preceding the Class I affixes, -al and -ation respectively, in violation of level
ordering. What Aronoff and Sridhar suggest is that such cases represent a mismatch
between prosodic (phonological) structure and morphological structure. Specifically
they claim that the single morphological word ('m-word') consists of three p-words,
as in 10.16:
10.16 (compart) (mental) (ization)
For Aronoff and Sridhar, -aZ. and -ation are both Stem suffixes. Let's assume that
a Stem affix must always be contained inside a p-word. This means that the two Word
affixes -ment and -ize must be able to form p-words when they have Stem affixes
attached to them. Aronoff and Sridhar suggest that this is possible primarily because
the resulting strings are polysyllabic.
Now consider the cases in 10.17, involvin·g Word affixation:
10.17 a) un-able
b) fear-less
c) fear-less-ness
d) random-ize
In these cases we have just a single p-word, for each example consists of just one
metrical foot. Phonologically, then, the Word affixes are simply attached to their
bases. The other type of element which shows this sort of behaviour is the (phono- ':)
logical) clitic. Thus, we could draw a parallel between exampl~s such as 10.17a, band
examples 10.18:
10.18 a) an apple
b) fear us
To summarize, then, we have seen that Stem affixes must always be contained
within a p-word. Word affixes, on the other hand, can form separate p-words of their
own when they themselves are affixed. However, when a word contains just Word
affixes and no Stem affixes, the Word affixes behave like phonological clitics whose
,.[.
WILLIAMS'S 'LEXICAL RELATEDNESS' 403
host is the base to which they are affixed. This means that we can parse complex
words into p-words in the following way. A major lexical category (Noun, Verb,
Adjective) on its own will constitute a p-word, as will any such category containing
just Stem affixes. If a major lexical category contains a Word affix which itself is
suffixed by one or more Stem affixes, then the Word affix plus Stem affix complex
forms a separate p-word. Any part of a word not thus accounted for will be a clitic,
seeking a stressed host.
How does this help us with the bracketing paradoxes? Consider again our old
friend ungrammaticality. As before, we will consider this to consist of a base, gram-
matical, and the affixes un- and -ity. We won't assume any level ordering. This means
we can say that morphologically speaking the word is formed by taking ungrammatical
and affixing -ity. This gives us the morphological bracketing of 10.19:
10.19 [[un grammatical] ity]
Our p-word parsing principles will analyse this as a major lexical category,
grammatical, followed by a Stem affix, -ity. This will form a p-word. The Word prefix
un- will then be a clitic. This means that we have a structure which we can represent
as 10.20:
10.20 (un (grammaticality))
The adjunction of un-to the p-word grammaticality in 10.20 is intended to represent
cliticization. Now we can see why the example should be regarded as paradoxical.
According to Aronoff and Sridhar, this is nothing more alarming than a consequence
of the mismatch between morphological and phonological structure, much like the
mismatch between syntax and phonology in the book was in an unlikely place.
Naturally, this only accounts for a proportion of the constructions which have been
branded as bracketing paradoxes in the literature. Nonetheless, it is an approach
which has proved popular 'Yith a number of researchers, including Lexical Phonol-
ogists such as Booij -and Rubach (1984), who use the idea of prosodic constituents
to handle problems with prefixation in Slavic phonology (see below §10.2.4; cf. also
Booij, 1985b, 1987).
10.4 Williams's theory of 'lexical relatedness'
Williams (1981a) provides the first detailed discussion of the bracketing paradoxes.
He views the question from the perspective of a concept of relatedness between
lexical entries. In his terms, the problem is to explain how to capture the fact that
words such as hydroelectric and hydroelectricity are related to each other and to the
words electric and electricity. It is for this reason that the constructions are sometimes
known as 'relatedness paradoxes'.
What the paradoxes show is that it is insufficient simply to take the shorter of two
words and derive the longer by affixation. Therefore, Williams offers a more
sophisticated way of recording relatedness. According to Williams we want to relate
404 BRACKETING PARADOXES
the paradox in 10.21a to 10.21b:
10.21 a) macroeconomist
b) macroeconomic
We can't do this by simple derivation because, if anything, 10.21a is derived from
10.2lb by replacing -ic with -ist, and not by attaching one of these affixes to the other
word (assuming there is no truncation analysis of this case). Williams claims that the
rightmost affix is the head of the word. Let's say initially that two words are lexically
related if they are identical except for their heads. This is illustrated in the tree
diagram in 10.22:
10.22
macro econom
At the same time, argues Williams, we would like to relate macroeconomist with
microeconomist. These differ only in the leftmost portion of the word, which Williams
refers to as the 'nonhead', defined as follows (p. 261):
10.23 Nonhead: the highest left branch of a word.
He then proposes the following principle of lexical relatedness (p. 261; footnote
omitted):
10.24 'X can be related toY if X andY differ only in a head position or in the
nonhead position.'
This analysis, though the earliest serious attempt to get to grips with the problem,
is in many respects one of the more successful. In particular, it can handle many of
the more puzzling paradoxes which I shall discuss later and which confound some
later theories. However, there are two main difficulties.
First, Strauss (1982a) pointed out that Williams's approach fails to accommodate
the subcategorization requirements on affixes. For instance, although it can represent
the fact that grammatical, ungrammatical and ungrammaticality are all related, it can't
provide a satisfactory bracketing for ungrammaticality which reflects the fact that un-
selects Adjectives and -ity selects Nouns.
Hoeksema (1986) enumerates a number of other problems. A particularly serious
difficulty is that the theory allows us to relate words which aren't actually related.
For example, given the definition of non-head, and the assumption that the regular
plural morpheme is the head of its word, we would conclude that all regular plurals
PESETSKY'S 'MORPHOLOGICAL QR' 405
of monomorphemic stems (e.g. brothers and sisters) are lexically related, obviously an
absurd result. 1
By comparing Williams's representational approach to the problem with Kipar-
sky's later account we can already see an interesting discrepancy in the nature of the
data each linguist wishes to explicate. Williams is hard pressed to find an adequate
analysis of ungrammaticality. On the other hand it is not clear what Kiparsky would
say about the macroeconomist example, which is the kind of case Williams handles
most successfully.
10.5 Pesetsky's 'morphological QR'
Pesetsky (1985) has used some of the bracketing paradoxes to argue that principles
of syntax hold of morphological representations. This is a very influential viewpoint
nowadays, as we have seen from the work of Fabb, Sproat, Roeper, Baker and
several others. While Williams argues that we need to develop a richly structured
theory of what it is for lexical items to be related, Pesetsky considerably plays down
this notion. Indeed, he claims that his results show that there is really no need for
a richly structured lexiconat all: the lexicon is simply a list of idiosyncratic forms,
a return to earlier structuralist assumptions. All regularities between words are to be
handled by rules (of phonology) or principles (of syntax).
How can we account for the bracketing paradoxes using principles of syntax?
Recall that the architecture of the Government-Binding theory of grammar can be
represented by the T-model of Figure 10.1. LF represents the interpretive compo-
nent for semantics. Now, one of the original motivations behind the level of LF was
a set of phenomena concerning scope of quantifiers such as each, all, some, every, no
and so on. For example, a sentence such as 10.25 is ambiguous, with readings
10.25a, b:
10.25 Everybody liked one of the books.
a) Everybody liked one or other of the books.
b) One particular book was universally liked.
Logicians (and linguists) have related this ambiguity to the order in which quantifiers
such as everybody and one of... appear. For instance, in a formal theory of semantics
Phonological Form
(PF)
Logical Form
(LF)
Move-Alpha
Move-Alpha
Figure 10.1 The 'T' model of Government-Binding theory
406 BRACKETING PARADOXES
we would relate 10.25 on reading a) to 10.26a and on reading b) to 10.26b:
10.26 a) Everybody, x (one y of the books (x liked y))
b) One y of the books (everybody, x (x liked y))
To see how the paraphrases of 10.26 bring out the difference in meaning we can read
them as in 10.27:
10.27 a) For every person, x, there was one booky, such that x liked y.
b) One of the books, y, was such that for every person, x, x liked y.
The point of all this is that the paraphrases in 10.26 and 10.27 can be regarded as
prose renditions of the logical forms of the two readings of 10.25. The logical form
of a sentence is a syntactic representation derived by application of Move-alpha from
the S-structure representation. It is assumed in GB that quantificational elements are
all stacked up at the edge of a sentence form at LF (what mathematical logicians call
the Prenex Normal Form). To achieve this we must be able to move quantifier
phrases such as every person or one of the books and adjoin them to the edge of the
sentence. This may happen in any order, so that we may associate two distinct LF
representations to one sentence in cases such as 10.25. When Move-alpha applies in
this way to reorder quantifier phrases we customarily speak of a rule of Quantifier
Raising (because the quantifier is moved higher up the tree). This is often abbre-
viated to 'QR'. Note that QR is nothing more than a particular type of application
of Move-alpha.
In the original theory, the mapping from S-structure to LF was defined solely for
sentences. Pesetsky's innovation was to suggest that we could view the derivation of
words in the same way. In particular, he argues that the ubiquitous rule of Move-
alpha can apply to parts of words (e.g. bound morphemes) to produce an LF rep-
resentation of a word which is different from the S-structure (or PF) representation.
Though Pesetsky doesn't cite any such data, it is clear that something like the
analysis he proposes will be necessary in general to handle the facts of language. One
obvious case in which a logical element has to be 'extracted' from a word to form
an LF representation is given by English negative quantifiers. Thus, in order to
represent the fact that sentences 10.28a, b have the same meaning we will need a way
of factoring out the negation element of the word nobody, roughly as Pesetsky is
suggesting.
10.28 a) Tom saw nobody.
b) Tom didn't see anybody.
This type of problem is actually much more widespread. Chukchee furnishes a
particularly interesting illustration. In Chukchee there are three prefixes which are
attached to nouns, emq<m-, gemge-, and am-. These respectively mean (roughly)
'each', 'every, any' and 'all'. An indication that emqan- and gemge- are prefixes (and
not, say prenominal elitics) is that they undergo vowel harmony, whereby, sim-
plifying somewhat, fi e uf change to fe a of if there is any one of the vowels fe a of
in the word. Hence we find emqan-1)ewasqet 'each woman' but amqan-qora1Ja 'each
reindeer', gemge-1)ewasqet 'every woman' but gamga-jatjol 'every fox'. Moreover, all
PESETSKY'S 'MORPHOLOGICAL QR' 407
three can be preceded by the prefix part of the Comitative case inflectional cir-
cumfi.xes, ge- and ga- (see examples 10.29-10.30), suggesting that we are dealing
with a derivational prefix. All this is exemplified in 10.29-10.32:
10.29 Gemge-I)ew;>sqet-;>k wark;>n wanenan.
every-woman-LOC is sewing-machine.
'Every woman has a sewing-machine.'
10.30 Amq;>n-I)aw;>sqat-et;> gej;>tlin wanenan.
each-woman-DAT they-gave sewing-machine
'They gave a sewing-machine to each woman.'
(from emqan-1}ewasqet with the Dative case -et<J triggering vowel
harmony).
10.31 G-emq;>n-tumg-e n;>leqin ;>run IJeW?en.
COM-each-comrade-COM came his wife
'Each comrade came accompanied by his wife.'
(g- ... -e) is an allomorph of the Comitative case marker ge- ... -te).
10.32 ;>tl;>g;>n ga-gamga-rnelgar-ma wanewan niwinig?in.
father COM-any-gun-COM not go-hunting
'Father doesn't go hunting with (just) any gun.'
(from gemge-milger and the Comitative ga- ... -ma triggering vowel
harmony).
The rule of Quantifier Raising will help to represent, for example, the fact that in
10.29-10.30 we have one sewing machine per woman, rather than a single sewing
machine for use by all the women. This means that Chukchee provides good evidence
for the application of Quantifier Raising to bound affixes, since otherwise it would
be impossible to account for the logical relations in these sentences.
Let's see how Pesetsky's proposals are supposed to work for a concrete case such
as unhappier. Move-alpha isn't generally involved in the mapping from S-structure
to PF so the phonological constituent structure presumably will reflect the S-
structure constituency. This means that the S-structure representation will be 10.33a.
If we apply Move-alpha as a kind of LF affix movement or 'morphological QR', then
we will obtain 10.33b (where we assume that the movement leaves a trace):
10.33 a) A b) A
'QR'
A A
(\ r\
un happy er un happy t er
408 BRACKETING PARADOXES
This analysis has some plausibility given that the -er affix means 'more' and the un-
affix means 'not'. Both of these are logical expressions which are involved in scope
differences of the kind that syntactic QR was originally designed to handle.
The novelty of Pesetky's approach lies in extending this analysis to all affixes,
including the -ity suffix of ungrammaticalicy. This is a contentious assumption because
such affixes are not usually associated with special logical properties of the sort which
motivate QR. Pesetsky's idea is that we first generate a word from its morphemes
respecting level ordering restrictions. This gives us the bracketing [un [grammatic-
ality]], diagrammed in 10.34a. However, at the level of LF, it is necessary that un-
be affixed to a member of the category Adjective, not Noun. Therefore, QR applies
to -ity, adjoining it to the topmost N node, and leaving a trace. This trace has no syn-
tactic category of its own and hence the resulting constituent [grammatical t] lacks
its former head. This former head, -ity, is of category N. By Lieber's Percolation
Conventions, the syntactic category features of the adjective grammatical percolate so
that at LF the constituent [grammatical t] is treated as an adjective. It is the con-
stituent [grammatical t] to which un- is affixed, so that this prefix is now attached
to an adjective, as required. This gives us the LF representation shown in 10.34b:
10.34 a) N b) N
'QR'
A
un grammatical ity
~~
un grammatical t ity
The crucial assumptions here are that morphological constraints such as level
ordering hold at the level of PF, while syntactic selection constraints hold of LF
alone. (Note that this is in contrast to Kiparsky's assumption mentioned above.)
Thus, if there is a mismatch in the syntactic requirements at S-structure this will not
matter provided there is a way of patching up the representation by the time we reach
LF. Morphological QR, together with the relabelling of nodes in accordance with the
Percolation Conventions, is precisely the patching up operation needed. Thus, we
may think of 10.34a as the representation generated by the morphology and 10.34b
as the representation generated by the syntax.
Pesetsky's theory has been criticized by a number of morphologists (e.g. Sproat,
1985a, b, Hoeksema, 1987, Spencer, 1988c). Hoeksema notes that morphological
Quantifier Raising predicts that a greater number of ambiguities would be found than
actually are found. For instance, why isn't unhappier ambiguous? Also, why does it
only affect certain words? We can't say *Unfitter for example, though from Pesetsky's
account it's not clear why not. And in general Pesetsky's theory is unconstrained
compared with the syntactic version of QR. Although Speas (1984) argued that
Pesetsky's approach was needed to account for the tricky problem of prefix ordering
in Navajo which we discussed in §6.4, Sproat (1985a, b) has vigorously contested this
SPROAT'S MAPPING PRINCIPLE 409
claim, as well as providing other more general arguments against Pesetsky's theory.
Finally, we will see that the morphological QR theory can't handle those of the cases
to be discussed in §10.2.7 where there is no affix to move anywhere.
Pesetsky's solution is rather different from Williams's in that it relies on the notion
of derivation, while Williams's account is essentially representational. In this respect,
Pesetsky is closer to Kiparsky, in that both handle the paradoxes by generating a
basic form close to the phonological form and then modifying the result (by morpho-
logical QR and rebracketing, respectively). The difference is that Pesetsky regards
this as somehow the instantiation of a general process, whereas for Kiparsky it is an
exceptional process.
10.6 Sproat's mapping principle
In the introduction to the chapter I mentioned that an example of simple cliticization
such as Tom's a linguist could be regarded as a kind of bracketing paradox. The way
out of the paradox is to say that the 's has two types of description, one phonological
the other syntactic. Phonologically, we decided that the clitic was rather like an affix.
Syntactically, however, it is described as a main verb. Sproat (1984, 198Sa, 198Sb,
1988) takes this reasoning further and applies it to all cases of (productively formed)
bracketing paradox.
Taking ungrammaticality as our paradigm case, we have been assuming (simplifying
somewhat) that it consists of a stem and two affixes grammatical, un- and -ity. Each
has its two principal sets of linguistic properties: phono-morphological properties and
syntactico-semantic properties. The phono-morphological properties, say, of the
affixes include the information that un- is a prefix and does not bear stress, and that
-ity is a suffix which attracts stress to the previous syllable. The syntactico-semantic
properties will include the information that un- selects adjectives and means 'not',
and that -ity creates abstract nouns from adjectives. Any word we construct out of
these morphological ingredients, such as ungrammaticality, can therefore be thought
of in two different ways in that we can assign, broadly speaking, two distinct
structural descriptions to the word. Each structural description will be associated
with a particular constituent structure, or bracketing. When the morphology is
agglutinating and the semantics compositional the two bracketings will coincide.
However, given that languages typically admit deviations from strict agglutination
and compositionality, this coincidence of structure will not always be in evidence.
When we factor out these two aspects of the representation of word structure it
becomes apparent that there are deeper differences between the two sorts of descrip-
tion. At the phono-morphological level hierarchical constituent structure plays
relatively little role, as I hinted in §6.1.3. Instead, strict adjacency tends to be much
more relevant, so that the linear order of morphemes is more important than which
constituent they belong to. On the other hand, at the syntactico-semantic level of
description, linear order seems to be less important. What matters here is
the hierarchical relationship, or equivalently, sisterhood relationships between
morphemes, and this entails that constituent structure is paramount.
We can depict this situation by providing two parallel representations for our
410 BRACKETING PARADOXES
example, un_grammaticality, in which we write the phono-morphological represen-
tation in (very) broad transcription and the syntactico-semantic representation in
upper case. The two representations are given in 10.35:
10.35 a) [un [gramatikal iti] ]
b) N
A
A
I
UN GRAMMATICAL ITY
Representation 10.35a reflects the fact that -ity is immediately to the right of the
stem, and the stress rules of English would be able to compute that the main stress
should fall on the Iall syllable. Similarly, 10.35a informs us that un- is a prefix, hence
that it appears to the left of the stem. If we accept Aronoff and Sridhar's (1983, 1987)
analysis discussed in §10.2.3, we would say that the bracketing in 10.35a is actually
a reflection of the prosodic structure of the word, with Igramatikaliti/ being a
p-word, which serves as a host to the proclitic lunl.
Representation 10.35b reflects the syntactic restrictions on un- by which it selects
an element of category A. Another way of saying this is that un- is a sister to a node
labelled A. Moreover, un- itself is a constituent of a category labelled A. Likewise,
we can infer that -ity is a constituent of a category labelled N, and that it, too, is a
sister to a node labelled A. However, since these syntactico-semantic restrictions are
couched purely in terms of sisterhood, and since the linear ordering of the mor-
phemes is defined as part of the phono-morphological representation, we could just
as well have ignored linear order in representation 10.35b. For instance, we could
have decided to write all the affixes first or last, writing 10.35b as 10.36 or 10.37:
10.36 N
A
A
I
ITY UN GRAMMATICAL
10.37 N
A
I
GRAMMATICAL UN ITY
SPROAT'S MAPPING PRINCIPLE 411
As far as the relevant information is concerned these three representations would
have been equivalent. (Notice that representation 10.36 is almost the same as
Pesetsky's (1985) LF representation for ungrammaticality.)
If we adopt this line of reasoning, then all we need is a principle or set of principles
which will tell us how to relate representations such as 10.35a to those such as
10.35b. The attentive reader who is familiar with my discussion of Marantz's (1984)
theory of grammatical relations discussed in chapter 7 will recognize this as similar
to the problem Marantz faces in relating 1-s structures to s structures. He relied
on a simple but effective device which he called Principle M. In his theory of the
bracketing paradoxes, Sproat adopts a very similar principle for relating the two parts
of a lexical representation.
In essence the idea is that each morpheme has two representations, and the
grammar provides for the concatenation of the syntactico-semantic halves to produce
the representation 10.35b (or equivalently 10.36 or 10.37). Since linear order is irrel-
evant for this level of representation, we'll write the result as a pair of unordered sets,
as in 10.38 (notice that the second set contains the first as a member, reflecting the
hierarchical structure of the representation):
10.38 [GRAMMATICAL, UN}, [ITY, [GRAMMATICAL, UN}}
Now we need to relate this to the phono-morphological form. Sproat assumes that
we need to reflect the level ordering restrictions on un- and -ity, and hence ensure
that -ity adheres more 'closely' to the stem than does un-. However, no additional
hierarchical information is of relevance at this level. The main restrictions are on
linear order. Therefore, we need a principle which will put the phono-morphological
representations of GRAMMATICAL, UN and ITY into the required order. This
principle is called the Mapping Principle by Sproat. We'll discuss the technicalities
in the Appendix to this chapter. For the present we'll observe that the core of the
Mapping Principle is that elements which are sisters in syntactico-semantic represen-
tation must be adjacent in phono-morphological representation. Together with linear
ordering requirements, this gives us representation 10.39 from 10.38:
10.39 [[un [gramatikal] ] iti]
This violates the bracketing required by level ordering, in that -ity is external to un-.
However, we've already observed that hierarchical structure plays no central role in
phono-morphological form. Therefore, Sproat so words the Mapping Principle that
10.39 can be rebracketed if morphological principles such as level ordering demand
it. (Technically, this hinges on the fact that the species of concatenation defined at
this level is associative, as explained in the Appendix.) Hence, we are permitted to
rewrite 10.39 as 10.40, the required form.
10.40 [un [[gramatikal] iti] ]
In summary, Sproat's solution is a little reminiscent of Kiparsky's rebracketing
solution. However, whereas for Kiparsky the rebracketing is the result of lexically
determined exceptionality, for Sproat it is the result of general principles of gram-
matical organization. In this, Sproat's approach resembles Pesetsky's, which we saw
412 BRACKETING PARADOXES
encountered difficulties because it predicted the existence of paradoxes which don't
actually occur. Sproat, however, has an interesting response to this criticism.
Some of the non-existent expressions we might expect to find are illustrated m
10.41:
10.41 a) *Symphony orchestrate
b) *Chairpersonify
c) *White elephantine
d) *OUtboard motorize
What is the difference between these and, say, twenty-fifth, cross-sectional or trans-
formational grammarian? Sproat's answer is that, in the acceptable cases, the affix
contributes to the meaning of the whole expression in a purely compositional way.
Roughly speaking this means that in, say, twenty-fifth we have simply the ordinal
form of twenty-five: the -th affix contributes nothing special or idiosyncratic to the
meaning. Instead, we are dealing with productive affixation free from lexical idiosyn-
crasy. In the impossible cases there is an additional, idiosyncratic element of meaning
not traceable to the affix. If we do find examples of bracketing paradoxes with idio-
syncratic meaning then the entire expression must be stored in the lexicon as an
exception. In that case, there is no question of derivation through the Mapping
Principle since the whole item is listed along with its meaning.
Turning to the examples of 10.41 we note that each of the affixes which gives rise
to the bracketing paradoxes introduces lexical idiosyncrasy. The meaning of orches-
trate can't' be predicted from the meartings·oforchesrra and -ate, therefore the whole
word has to be lexically listed. If we agree that -ify is a productive denominal verb-
forming affix, then nonetheless in the verb personify we have an idiosyncratic addition-
to the meaning over and above mere derivation of a verb form. Therefore, this par-
ticular case of affixation can't be regarded as productive and no bracketing paradox
can be licensed, as we see from 10.41b. The affix -ine isn't productive with any
meaning, so it can never form bracketing paradoxes. In particular, it could never be
affixed to the expression white elephant to form a denominal adjective. (Notice that
elephantine itself doesn't mean simply 'pertaining to an elephant', but rather 'very
large (rather like an elephant)'.) Thus, even in elephantine the affix is not creating a
relational adjective derived from the noun but adding considerably to the meaning
of the adjective, too. Therefore, again, the lexicon must contain elephantine complete
with its idiosyncratic meaning, and white elephant (with its idiomatic meaning).
Finally, -ize is a very productive affix used for forming (causative) verbs from adjec-
tives. However, it is used much more rarely and sporadically to form verbs from
nouns as in motorize, and the meaning of the resulting verb is not predictable purely
from the meaning of the noun. So again, we will not expect -ize, when attached to
nouns, to license bracketing paradoxes.
This account gets us much closer to a principled explanation for the English brack-
eting paradoxes. Moreover, it provides the basis for explicitly linking the approach
to bracketing paradoxes with the rather more general question of cliticization. Sproat
(1988) devotes some attention to this. Marantz (1988a), too, shows how his rather
similar mapping principle, together with his operation of Morphological Merger (see
chapter 7) can account for bracketing paradoxes and clitics. In both cases the key is
to separate the essentially phonological properties of the formatives from their essen-
PARADOXES AND PARADIGMATIC WORD FORMATION 413
tially syntactic properties, and handle each by means of separate principles. Thus,
the 'mapping principle' type of account of the bracketing paradoxes illustrates rather
neatly the importance of specifying very precisely the nature of the two principal
interfaces between morphology and other components of grammar: phonology and
syntax.
10.7 Bracketing paradoxes and paradigmatic
word formation
We close our brief survey of bracketing paradoxes with a recent account of one, sig-
nificant, subtype. We have seen three different theories which involve some form of
rebracketing, those of Kiparsky, Pesetsky and Sproat, and one theory which relies
on a non-derivational theory of semantic interpretation. In addition, we've seen a
prosodically based account which simply denies that one of the bracketings is
morphologically relevant. Now, the rebracketing theories work best with examples
like transformational grammarian in which we have an affix (more particularly a suffix)
that, phonologically, is attached only to the head, but seems to apply to (or 'take
scope over') the entire word or phrase. Such theories have a certain difficulty with
examples such as Williams's macroeconomist. This is because we're not adding an affix
and then rebracketing. In fact, given the meaning of this form, I will say that it is
derived from the noun macroeconomics. However, this means that we are replacing
one affix by another rather than merely suffixing and then rebracketing. Williams's
theory is designed to handle exactly such cases, of course, but the rebracketing
theories need to say something extra about them. Such examples are far from rare.
Instances involving a phrasal formation would be moral philosopher which has to be
derived from moral philosophy by substituting the affix -y by -er, and marine biolog-ist
from marine biolog-y.
There are, however, even more difficult cases for the rebracketing theories. Con-
sider the examples in 10.42:
10.42 a) theoretical linguist
b) electrical engineer
c) monumental mason
d) southern Finn
e) southern Dane
f) East German
The reason these are problematical is that they must be derived from 10.43:
10.43 a) theoretical linguistics
b) electrical engineering
c) monumental masonry
d) southern Finland
e) southern Denmark
f) East Germany
414 BRACKETING PARADOXES
The direction of derivation can't be the other way, because the expressions of 10.42
all retain semantic idiosyncrasies introduced from the expressions in 10.43. For
instance, a theoretical linguist is one who practises a particular brand of linguistics,
which we refer to as theoretical linguistics. The same is true of historical linguist,
psycholinguist, applied linguist and so on. Likewise, electrical (or mechanical or civil)
engineers are specifically practitioners of electrical (mechanical, civil) engineering.
Monumental masons are people who specialize in carving monuments, i.e. prac-
titioners of 10.43c. Neither southern Finns nor southern Danes are southerners, both
come from the north, and an East German only comes from the East by virtue of
coming from East Germany.
When we look closely at the constituent structures of 10.43 it becomes evident why
they pose grave problems for the rebracketing theories. For in each case the example
in 10.42 appears to be derived by deleting an affix (or the second member of a com-
pound). Therefore, when we look at the structure of 10.42a, say, and compare it with
transfonnational grammarian, there is no affix to rebracket. This is illustrated in 10.44:
10.44 transformational grammar==:) [transformational grammar] 1an
electrical [engineer-ing] ==:) [electrical [engineer-0]
Examples of this sort cast serious doubts on any kind of rebracketing approach to
the paradoxes, including those involving a mapping principle. They can be handled
by Williams's theory of lexical relatedness, but we have seen that this theory is
descriptively inadequate in other ways, and in any case only allows us to relate 10.42
to 10.43 at the expense of an excessively liberal definition of relatedness. Moreover,
even Williams's highly unrestricted theory is unable to cope naturally with examples
such as 10.42g,h:
10.42 g) baroque flautist
h) Modern Linguist
10.43 g) baroque flute
h) Modern Languages
These last examples are a problem for Williams because the part which changes,
namely flute- flaut- and language -lingu-, is neither just a head nor just a non-head.
The astute reader may have noticed something interesting about all the examples
in this section. They all refer to people who bear some sort of relationship to the
source nominal expression. In Spencer (1988c) I refer to these as 'personal nouns'.
This subclass forms a small island of productivity in an otherwise exception-ridden
area of the English lexicon. It is more or less possible to form a personal noun from
a nominal with the right semantics, whatever the allomorphic changes this entails.
As an example of the productivity of the process suppose someone devised a form
of gymnastics which depends on aerobic exercise, and called this 'aerobic gymnas-
tics'. Then a practitioner of this would be an aerobic gymnast. Moreover, any native
speaker would be likely to feel happy coining this expression (provided aerobic gym-
nastics was part of his vocabulary), and anyone hearing the expression aerobic gymnast
being used would assume the existence of a specialism called aerobic gymnastics.
There is an important restriction on the formation of such personal noun brack-
PARADOXES AND PARADIGMATIC WORD FORMATION 415
eting paradoxes. Let's consider an old favourite, transformational grammarian, for
concreteness. To form this we need in the lexicon three expressions, linked as in
10.45:
10.45 grammar <;::::===~ grammanan
~
transformational
grammar
What is important here is that all three expressions be lexicalized, that is, they should
all be represented at the same grammatical level, by virtue of being stored in the
(permanent) lexicon. It is also necessary that the head have exactly the same meaning
in each expression, in other words, we don't allow polysemy. Given these conditions
we can 'complete the square' by a process of proportional analogy, as shown in 10.46.
This process then constitutes 'personal noun formation':
10.46 grammar
~
transformational
grammar
grammanan
~
¢======::;~ X:= transformational
grammanan
The :first prerequisite rules out paradoxes formed from phrasal expressions which
haven't been lexicalized, and which therefore haven't been listed in the lexicon.
Compare the permissible derivation of baroque flautist, shown in 10.47a, with the
impermissible derivation of the (extensionally equivalent!) expression *Wooden
flautist, in 10.47b:
10.47 a) flute flautist b) flute flautist
~ ~ l !
baroque flute ·::: ;> baroque (wooden flute)< I ;:> *wooden
flautist flautist
In 10.47b we have tried to form a paradox on an expression which isn't in the
lexicon, namely wooden flute. Therefore, the derivation can't go through.
The second prerequisite is that the meaning of the individual components be
identical. That is, the sense of grammar in grammarian and transformational grammar
must be the same, namely something like 'set of rules and representations character-
izing a language'. To see the importance of this consider a sociolinguist who makes
a scientific study of bad grammar. Here we are using grammar in a different sense,
namely something like 'set of linguistically defined social conventions relating to
416 BRACKETING PARADOXES
language use'. Such a person could not be called a bad grammarian (unless, of course
he were bad at writing grammars). This is because the sense of grammar which
licenses grammarian and the sense which licenses bad grammar are distinct (because
grammar is polysemous). This is illustrated in 10.48, which shows that we can't com-
plete the square of proportional analogy because the cell for grammar contains two
distinct entries:
10.48
. ~mm~-1 <===~ grammanan
grammar-2
ij
bad grammar
What we are dealing with here is a type of word formation which is blind to
constituent structure (including bracketing paradoxes) and totally cavalier about
allomorphy (up to and including suppletion). The word formation rule says, in effect,
'form a personal noun from whatever you can find in the lexicon, provided the
requisite expressions are already housed there'. This is interesting because it is the
only case of productive word formation discussed in any detail in the literature which
involves anything like genuine analogy..
More interesting from the theoretical point of view, however, is the fact that we
have here an instance of 'paradigmatic word formation'. This particular word forma-
tion process is governed by an abstract linguistic category (and one which is very
difficult to pin down semantically), that of 'personal noun related to a nominal
expression'. This can be thought of as a grammaticalized lexical category. It is lexical
in the sense that it creates new words referring to new concepts. In this it is like, say,
the category of 'feminine form of noun', illustrated by poetess, lioness, she-elephant,
bitch, saleswoman, schoolmistress and so on. However, personal noun formation differs
from feminine noun formation, for the latter only applies to a lexically specified
subpart of the vocabulary. A great many nouns capable of referring to men lack fem-
inine counterparts in English: doctor, professor, seaman, chairman, stationmaster. Most
animal terms don't have male-female pairs, either: wombat, orangutang, frog. The
personal nouns represent a different kind of linguistic relationship, because any
nominal which is semantically capable of forming a personal noun will do so. In this
respect, personal noun formation is much more akin to, say, plural formation than
feminine formation. It's important to stress that this is peculiar to English: there are
some languages in which only a handful of nouns have a plural form (e.g. Chinese),
so that this represents a (marginal) lexical category, not a grammatical category. On
the other hand, in Dutch, it has been argued that feminine formation is so regular
and productive that it is a grammaticalized process (van Marie, 1985).
The reason that this type of process is regarded as paradigmatic is because the word
formation process relies on the relationship. between the items that are currently
present in the lexicon, and not on a syntagmatic process of affixation, compounding
or whatever. This is a slightly different sense of 'paradigm' from that used in describ-
APPENDIX: SPROAT'S FORMALISM 417
ing inflectional morphology. However, there are significant parallels. The most
important of these is that the process should be defined in terms of a network of
relationships, such that, if a language has an empty place at some point in the net-
work, that place will (normally) be filled. This corresponds to the idea that, in a verb
paradigm for a given language, every normal (non-defective) verb should have, say,
a third person singular present indicative form, even if the form itself is suppletive.
There are a number of other plausible candidates for paradigmatic word formation
(some of which are discussed in the next chapter, especially §11.2). Andrew Carstairs-
McCarthy has pointed out to me that names of important personages (especially
heads of state) license relational adjectives, irrespective of allomorphy. Thus, we can
qualify the word limousine with words referring to royalty (kings, queens, princes and
princesses), presidents, bishops and so on, to give the royal/ presidential/ episcopal
limousine. In New Zealand, the term Governor-General has its own adjective, too: the
vice-regal(!) limousine. Carstairs (1988) refers to such word formation as 'meaning
driven'. Like the personal noun bracketing paradoxes it seems to hinge on a very
specific, but covert, semantic category, what Whorf (1956) refers to as a cryptotype.
Other cases of paradigmatic word formation involving covert semantic categories
(which have not been previously noted as far as I can tell) involve bracketing
paradoxes such as green-eyed and quarter-pounder.
The first type is formed by affixing -ed to a phrase consisting of modifier + noun,
in which the modifier will typically be a qualitative adjective or numeral, and in
which the noun is a body part or 'clothing part'. This seems to be virtually produc-
tive (although the obvious examples are set.phrases). Some examples (going from top
to bottom) are long-haired, ruddy-cheeked, flat-chested, rosy-fingered, knock-kneed, left-
footed (external body parts), broad-minded, quick-witted, warm-hearted, lily-livered,
cold-blooded (internal body parts), and open-necked, double-breasted, short-sleeved
(clothing parts). There are one or two other forms of this type which don't fit the
cryptotype, such as five-pointed, right-angled, six-sided, two-edged, three-cornered, flat-
bottomed. It's possible that the cryptotype is simply more abstract than I've claimed
or that these represent a second cryptotype of 'external attribute of geometrical
figure, 'inalienable possession' or some such·.
The second type is formed by affixing -er to an expression formed from a numeral
or measure word and a noun referring to a unit of measurement: three-tanner, five-
miler, four-weeker, fifteen-footer. It seems that these can't be formed if the noun is
polysyllabic (*ten-furlonger), or if it ends in a non-consonant (*two-hourer, *One-yearer,
*Seven-dayer). An honorary member of this class appears to be three-wheeler. Perhaps
a wheel is regarded as a unit of measurement for these purposes.
Of particular interest is the fact that some of these expressions are derived by affixa-
tion to an expression which doesn't exist (lily-livered) or which (in the case of five-
pointed) couldn't exist. Like the personal noun bracketing paradoxes, it appears that
the source must be (perceived as) a lexicalized phrase.
Appendix: Sproat's formalism
This account is distilled from Sproat (1988). Lexical entries for morphemes have two
parts, a 'syntactic half' and a 'phonological half'. The syntactic representation of an
418 BRACKETING PARADOXES
affix indicates the syntactic category it attaches to and the syntactic category it forms,
as in 10.49 for un- and -ity:
10.49 un = (UN<A,O>, un-)
ity = (ITY<A,N>, -ity)
The subscript (A,O) on the syntactic half of un means 'selects an adjective and
effects no change in category'; (A,N) means 'derives a noun from an adjective'. The
syntactic part of an entry therefore indicates only constituent structure information,
while the phonological part encodes only strict adjacency requirements. The idea of
separating these two aspects of structure is familiar from syntax. In Generalized
Phrase Structure Grammar, for instance (Gazdar, Klein, Pullum and Sag, 1985),
Phrase structure rules are factored into two components, the constituent structure
rules (Immediate Dominance rules) and linear order rules (Linear Precedence rules).
Essentially the same has been advocated for Government-Binding syntax by
Zubizarreta and Vergnaud (1982). The formal technique chosen by Sproat for rep-
resenting immediate dominance and linear precedence information is derived from
proposals of Guerssel (1983).
By the Mapping Principle, when the syntactic representations of two morphemes
in a word are sisters, then the phonological representations will be adjacent at PF.
In concatenative morphologies, 'adjacent to' simply means 'linearly contiguous
with', irrespective of any implied bracketing. For non-concatenative morphologies
'adjacent to' will mean 'autosegmentally combined with', so that, in an Arabic verb
form such as katab, the ·vo~alism, -a-, will be adjacent to the triliteral root k-t-b. This
conception of adjacency m~ans that in un +grammatical+ ity the morpheme un- will
be adjacent both to grammatical and grammaticality while -ity will be adjacent to
grammatical and ungrammatical.
Adjacency at PF is represented using the concatenation operator *. Given the syn-
tactic representation of ungrammaticality in 10.50, the Mapping Principle delivers PF
representation 10.51:
10.50 N
A
A
I
UN GRAMMATICAL ITY
10.51 [[un*gramatikal] *iti]
Strictly speaking, 10.51 isn't the phonological form of 10.50, in that linear prece-
dence information isn't yet formally encoded. Recall that the syntactic representation
includes no information about linear order. Therefore, we could equally well say that
the representations in question are those of 10.52-10.53, with an arbitrary ordering
within constituents:
. I
APPENDIX: SPROAT'S FORMALISM 419
10.52 N
A
A
I
ITY UN GRAMMATICAL
10.53 [[gramatikal*un] *iti]
Linear order is encoded with the operator ~ . This is blind to constituent structure
(immediate dominance), but sensitive to linear precedence. We assume that there is
a further function which maps phonological forms defined using * into those using
~ . The representation of ungrammaticality will therefore finally take the shape of
10.54a or b.
10.54 a) [[un~ gramatikal] ~ iti]
b) [un~ [gramatikar iti]
Either of these two representations will correspond to 10.51 (or, indeed, 10.53). We
require 10.54b. How do we ensure this?
We define the operation induced by* as commutative but not associative. We speak
of commutative concatenation of a and b when (ab) is equivalent to (ba). Hence,
ordinary addition is commutative since 2 + 5 = 5 + 2; however, subtraction isn't
commutative because 5-2 7J! 2- 5. We speak of associative concatenation when
((ab)c) is equivalent to (a(bc). Hence, again, addition is associative since
((2 + 5) + 3) = (2 + (5 + 3)) but subtraction isn't, since ((10- 5)- 2) = 3 while
(10- (5-2))= 7. None of the four operations of school arithmetic is commuta-
tive and non-associative, so we'll look at this operator in a little more detail. A
repr:esentation such as [un*grammatical] is equivalent to [grammatical*un]
by commutativity. Likewise, [[un*grammatical] *ity] is equivalent to
[ity* [un*grammatical]], [[grammaticahun] *ity] and [ity* [grammatical*un].
However, [[un*grammatical] *ity] is not equivalent to [un* [grammatical*ity]]
because * isn't an associative operator. To summarize, the * operator allows us to
ignore linear order because it's commutative. On the other hand, it doesn't allow us
to rebracket because it isn't associative.
The - operator is associative but not commutative. Thus, a- (b ~c) is equivalent
to (a~ br c but neither of these is equivalent to (b- cr a. It should be apparent that
using the " operator allows us to rebracket at will (associativity) but prevents us
from altering linear order (non-commutativity). It thus captures linear precedence
irrespective of sisterhood.
We are finally in a position to account for our bracketing paradox. Given two other-
wise legitimate representations for ungrammaticality (i.e. 10.54), we must choose the
one which respects the level ordering restriction, namely, 10.54b. We can do this
because the ~ operator is associative and hence permits rebracketing. In other words,
by using this property of - we can say that un- is syntactically adjacent to (more
properly, a sister of) grammatical but phonologically adjacent to grammaticality, while
420 BRACKETING PARADOXES
-ity is syntactically adjacent to (a sister of) ungrammatical and phonologically adjacent
to grammatical.
Clearly what is crucial about this account is the notion of 'adjacency at PF'.
Although Sproat couches his explanation in terms of rebracketing of PF represen-
tations, strictly speaking what his formalism does is to eradicate constituent structure
from linearized PF representations. This is because it actually makes no sense to talk
of 'bracketings' of elements combined using an associative operator. In other words,
it is misleading for us to say that both 10.54a and b represent 10.52. The real
representation of 10.52 using Ais 10.54c, without any brackets:
10.54 c) unA gramatikalA iti
This makes it easier to understand why non-concatenative morphologies fall under
the same rubric. In these morphologies the linearization rules are slightly different,
but otherwise the same principle holds: (morpho-)phonological adjacency makes no
reference to constituent structure. Given this interpretation of Sproat's claims, we
have an explanation for the bracketing paradoxes which comes very close to that of
Aronoff and Sridhar (1983, 1987).
. ··'',
EXERCISES
10.1 Which of the following could be.described as bracketing paradoxes? Explain
your reasoning
befell
ninety-first
reception
neuropsychological
illegibility
dormice
postmen
politico-economic
Social Democrat
10.2 Investigate the thesis that bracketing paradoxes of the ungrammaticality type
are exceptional by constructing examples of non-paradoxes (that is, ungrammatical
words with the structure of paradoxes) using the Class I suffixes illustrated in 10.14,
along the lines of *Wallfloral.
10.3 The following Hungarian expressions represent bracketing paradoxes.
Explain why. [Hungarian has a vowel harmony rule under which words have to \
\
EXERCISES 421
consist of back vowels or front vowels, with /i e/ being neutral, that is, not under-
going vowel harmony, but triggering front vowel harmony in succeeding vowels.
Stress falls on the first syllable of a word, indicated by underlining in these examples.
U= [y:), li= [u:]].
Word list:
alak - 'shape'; eredet - 'origin', kek - 'blue', hib - 'leg', magyar - 'Hungarian',
negy - 'four', nyelv - 'language', paratlan - 'unparalleled', szem - 'eye', szepseg
- 'beauty', szeszelyes - 'strange', vulkanikus - 'volcanic'
kek szemu 'blue-eyed'
magyar nyelvu 'pertaining to Hungarian'
negy labti 'four-legged'
paratlan szepsegu 'of unparalleled beauty'
szeszelyes alakli 'strangely shaped'
vulkanikus-eredetu 'of volcanic origin'
10.4 Explain exactly how Williams would account for the following examples (it
may help to refer to §6.1).
plastic surgeon
nuclear physicist
three hundred and twenty fifth
vice-presidential
set-theoretic
white-washed
10.5 Take the bracketing paradoxes you identified from ex. 10.1. Which can be
explained by Sproat's Mapping Principle? How does the explanation work?
*10.6 The word submariner means 'one who serves in a submarine'. One pronun-
ciation given in dictionaries is stressed on the first syllable and rhymes with 'marina'
[ 'sAbmdri:nd]. The pronunciation favoured by naval personnel has the stress on
the second syllable to rhyme with 'mariner' [sAb 'mrerind]. Which of the theories
of bracketing paradoxes discussed in this chapter could relate the second pronunci-
ation to the word mariner?
*10.7 Depending on assumptions about morphology and phonology, the fol-
lowing Hungarian verbs may or may not represent instances of bracketing paradoxes.
Under what assumptions are they paradoxes, and under what assumptions are they
not paradoxes? [See ex. 10.3 for phonological information; also 6 = [re:], 6 = [re],
6 = [o:]].
Word list:
ad-' to give', foglal- 'to occupy', megy- 'to go', no- 'to grow', old- 'to untie',
422 BRACKETING PARADOXES
ossze - 'together', pot61 - 'to replace', slit - 'to shine', ti.jul - 'to be renewed',
iii- 'to sit'. - -- -
felold 'to dissolve'
felti.jul
felmegy
kimegy
kipot6l
kiti.jul
osszead
6sszefoglal
nimegy
--; H
rano
rasiit
raiil
'to be renewed, revived'
'to go up'
'to go out'
'to compensate for'
'to begin again'
'to add together; to marry'
'to summarize'
'to go onto'
'to adhere to'
'to illuminate'
·'to sit on'
•10.8 Explain exactly how Kiparsky (1982b: §4.3.2) and Williams (198la: §6.1)
would analyse examples such as forgave and rewrote. Which of these approaches is
compositional, in the ·sense of assigning a constituent structure (at some level) which
matches the semantic structure of the examples?
•10.9 How does Sproat's approach to the bracketing paradoxes help in explaining
the structure of synthetic compounds such as truck driver, slum clearance or car theft?
(You'll need to consult §8.3.5.2.)
•10.10 Lieber (amongst others) analyses truck driver as [[truck drive] er], while
Di Sciullo and Williams assume a structure [truck [driver]]. Which of these rep-
resentations is compatible with the approach advocated by Aronoff and Sridhar
(1983, 1987)?
11
The Place of Morphology
Introduction
The central theme which has run through this book is the idea that morphology
represents an interface between different components of grammar: the lexicon,
syntax, phonology and (though we haven't spoken much of th1s) serilailtics. One of
the trickiest questions facing those who research at an interface is where one compo-
nent ends and another begins. On a number of occasions we have seen differences
of opinion as to whether a given phenomenon should be regarded as morphological
or whether it belongs to some other domain such as phonology or syntax. A corollary
of this line of questioning is whether morphology exists as an autonomous component
at all. In their preface to the first volume of the Yearbook of Morphology (published
in 1988) the editors describe morphology as 'a relatively autonomous discipline' (em-
phasis original). But we have seen that some linguists deny the existence of a separate
morphological component.
My own view is that it at least makes sense to investigate the extent to which
morphology can be viewed as an autonomous discipline, even though many of the
more intriguing problems lie on the boundary between morphology and other com-
ponents. However, this leaves us with another, closely allied, question, succinctly
put by Anderson (1982): 'Where's morphology?'.
The answers which have been proposed to this question are many. The main
reason for the variety of opinion is the variety of views over what constitutes
morphology. For even those who recognize that there is a separate morphology com-
ponent (or 'module') tend not to agree over what it contains. If we think of morpho-
logy rather simplistically in terms of the rules governing the ·concatenation of
morphemes, then for some (e.g. Halle, 1973, Kiparsky, 1982a, Selkirk, 1982,
Lieber, 1980) morphology is a part of the lexicon, and the notion of 'lexicon' as a
linguistic level of representation therefore has to be enriched over the simple notion
of list of idiosyncratic forms. This was a view which came to predominate during the
earlier years of the revival of interest in morphology, but it has been challenged in
424 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
various ways. Others would see morphology as essentially a subcomponent of phono-
logy (in the extended sense of 'phonology' implied by Chomsky's notion of 'Phonolo-
gical Form' or PF). Sproat (l985a) seems to subscribe to such a view. However,
Sproat shares with a number of linguists the opinion that the more syntactic aspects
of morphology (particularly those surveyed in chapters 8, 9 and 10) should really be
viewed as the morphological aspects of syntax, and not handled by a separate mor-
phology component at all. As we saw in chapter 6, Anderson (1982) regards morpho-
logy as split between the lexicon (derivational morphology), and the phonology
(inflectional morphology), with the syntactic component intervening between the
two. In this chapter, however, we will survey the theoretical underpinnings of a
number of proposals to view morphology as an independent component with its own
set of principles, representations, and well-formedness conditions.
We begin with a survey of the theoretical position sketched out by Anna-Maria Di
Sciullo and Edwin Williams. Their approach is often thought of as 'lexicalist' in as
far as it eschews attempts to handle a good many word formation phenomena in
terms of purely syntactic principles. However, this is something of a misnomer, since
they argue that there is a separate morphology component which is distinct from the
lexicon. Indeed, they take what must be regarded as an extreme stance and claim that
the lexicon is no more than a list of idiosyncrasies and as such is not of interest to
linguistic theory.
Diametrically opposed to this position is that of Robert Beard, surveyed in §11.2.
He argues for a separation of morphological form and morphological function, a
claim known as the Separation Hypothesis. This denies prior status to the morpheme
as a bearer of morphological meaning. It therefore rejects the view that morphology
can simply be a question of concatenating morphemes and computing the resultant
meaning from the meaning of the parts.
We next look at the overall conception of morphology which has been presented
in a number of papers recently by Arnold Zwicky which strongly stress the 'inter-
face' properties of morphology. Many of Zwicky's ideas have already been discussed
in some detail, and here I shall in effect tie together these strands and discuss some
of the implications of the resulting picture.
Section 4 is devoted to a set of proposals advanced by Jerrold Sadock, under the
title of 'Autolexical Syntax'. Sadock argues for an autonomous morphology, with an
articulated theory of the interface between morphology and syntax. Along the way
he offers analyses of noun incorporation, cliticization, portmanteau morphs in symax,
and an intriguing pattern of agreement in Slavic.
In the next two sections I discuss two recent analyses of compounding processes,
the first in Japanese, due to Masayoshi Shibatani and Taro Kageyama (1988), and the
second in Hebrew, by Hagit Borer (1988). Although ·these studies might appear
somewhat parochial at first blush, they represent detailed arguments for permitting
morphological principles to apply outside the confines of a morphology or lexical
component proper. Like Sadock, these authors propose a morphology component
which is a separate module of grammar whose function is to define well-formedness
conditions for words. Again, like Sadock, but unlike, say, Zwicky or Beard, they
claim that this component is not 'ordered' with respect to other components of the
grammar. Thus, the well-formedness conditions can be called into play at any
(formal) level of linguistic representation, for example, the lexicon, D-structure,
S-structure or PF.
. 1
-~.
~···
DI SCIULLO AND WILLIAMS'S DEFINITION 425
I conclude with a speculative attempt to link this debate over the location of
morphology in the overall grammatical architecture with the question raised earlier,
concerning what constitutes a word.
11. 1 Di Sciullo and Williams's definition of
'word'
The theory sketched out in Di Sciullo and Williams's (1987) monograph draws a
clear-cut distinction between syntax and morphology. 1 At the same time it provides
one of the most thoroughgoing defences of the Lexicalist Hypothesis. Their claim is
essentially that syntax and morphology are entirely.separate domains of inquiry and
that it is therefore incoherent to speak· of syntactic rules affecting morphological
structures. In other words, lexicalism is not merely a hypothesis about the way
language might be organized, it is the only logically possible way in which language
could be organized.
Part of the difficulty in understanding the nature of morphology, according to Di
Sciullo and Williams, lies in the variety of meanings attached to the notion of 'word'
itself. Di Sciullo and Williams provide us with three distinct notions (actually four).
The :first is that of morphological object, constructed out of morphological 'atoms', i.e.
morphemes, by (concatenative) processes of affixation and compounding. There is
little room here for the view of morphemes as 'processes' rather than as 'things'. The
second sense of word is that of a syntactic atom, i.e. the indivisible building block of
syntax. Since these syntactic words are atomic units with respect to syntax, syntactic
rules can't make reference to their subcomponents. Only morphology can refer to
parts of words (and then only in the sense of morphological objects). This is a restate-
ment of a strong variety of lexical integrity.
According to Di Sciullo and Williams, morphology and syntax are separate (though
related) disciplines (just as history and forestry are separate disciplines, p. 46) so
there should be no confusion between morphological objects and syntactic atoms,
despite the fact that the two disciplines share a common vocabulary of syntactic
categories (Noun, Verb, Adjective and so on). In fact, it is argued, the Lexicalist
Hypothesis (or the thesis of the atomicity of words) is simply the logical conse-
quence of this division between the two disciplines, and not, for instance, a principle
of grammar. 2
The third conception of word is that of 'listed object', for which Di Sciullo and
Williams coin the term listeme. Listemes are the linguistic expressions memorized
and stored by speakers. According to Di Sciullo and Williams their study belongs to
the domain of psychology and not linguistics. 3 The same is true of notions such as
productivity. In particular, just because an expression is listed (i.e. specifically
memorized) doesn't mean that it is a morphological word (or indeed a word in any
sense). There are morphological objects which are formed by perfectly regular and
exceptionless processes whose products are not therefore listed. Examples would be
abstract deadjectival nouns formed by -ness affixation, regular inflections and so on.
Likewise, there are syntactic objects, namely idioms such as take advantage of NP
426 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
or let the cat out of the bag, which have syntactic structure, and are therefore not
simply (syntactic) atoms, but which nonetheless have to be listed.
Now, it is fairly clear that in many cases, if not the majority, morphological words
will also be syntactic words. Why, then, is it necessary to distinguish the two?
Di Sciullo and Williams argue that a number of phenomena demand this and discuss
two classes of examples: Romance compounding and coanalysis. Since I shall be
discussing a similar proposal for coanalysis in §11.3 I shall restrict myself to the
compounding cases.
Romance compounding, the formation of exocentric compounds found regularly
in Romance languages (amongst others), was briefly mentioned in chapter 8. In
11.1-11.2 we see some French examples:
11.1
11.2
a) V +N:
b) V +A:
c) V +Adv:
essuie-glace
wipe-window
'windscreen wiper'
gagne-petit
gain-small
'low wage earner'
couche-tard
lie-late
'night-owl', 'one who goes to bed late'
a) trompe-l'oeil
deceive-the-eye
'illusion'
b) boit-sans-soif
drink-without-thirst
'heavy drinker'
· c) bon-a-rien
good-to-nothing
'good-for-nothing'
d) homme-de-paille
man-of-straw
'stooge'
e) hors-la-loi
outside-the-law
'outlaw'
These compounds and others mentioned earlier all have the distribution of nouns,
that is X0 level elements. In this they contrast with other types of listed syntactic
objects, namely idioms, which have the category of maximal projection (typically
VP). Amongst idioms, Di Sciullo and Williams include cases such as timbres-poste
'postage stamps' (literally 'stamps-post'), on the grounds that they have exactly the
structure of a syntactic phrase.
What Di Sciullo and Williams propose is that syntactic words such as those of
11.1-11.2 are formed by simply relabelling syntactic constructions as words. Thus,
the structure of essuie-glace will be 11.3:
DI SCIULLO AND WILLIAMS'S DEFINITION 427
11.3 N
I
VP
~
V NP
I
N
I
essme glace
Formations of this sort are considered 'marginal' in the sense of being a marked
option in word formation. Since they are not formed by morphological rules (indeed,
they have nothing to do with morphology) they don't need to respect morphological
principles (such as the Righthand Head Rule). Nor is it necessary to explain the
structure of these expressions by assuming that syntactic principles operate in the
morphology. For example, we might want to say that the NP glace in 11.3 is licensed
by receiving (Abstract) Case from the verb, just as in a syntactic VP. However, this
is not necessary, because such formations obey syntactic principles already, by virtue
of being formed from syntactic objects (maximal projections). This is the only
circumstance in which syntactic principles govern the structure of words. A corollary
of this line of reasoning is that a language like French probably has no compounding
at all. 4
There are a good many relevant phenomena which Di Sciullo and William's
theoretical sketch doesn't address. Although the authors mention the notion of
phonological word in passing (to distinguish it from the other three types of word),
there is no discussion of the extent to which the morphology module is distinct from
phonology. Thus, all the questions about allomorphy which we raised in part II of
this book are ignored. Likewise, all the questions which motivated the discussion in
chapter 9 on clitics are bypassed. The only discussion of inflectional morphology
is a passing reference to Williams's (1981) theory of the paradigm, a proposal which
received severe criticism at the hands of Joseph and Wallace (1984) and which
doesn't seem to have had much impact on specialists on inflection. These, of course,
are questions which subject purely morpheme-based theories to considerable strain.
Di Sciullo and Williams's conception of listedness brings with it radical implica-
tions about the nature of the lexicon. For them, the lexicon can be no more than an
enumeration of idiosyncrasies. It has no structure of its own, and its only interaction
with morphology is to serve as the storage place for the input to and output from
morphological rules (i.e. the morphemes and the morphological words). One conse-
quence of this position is the rejection of Aronoff's word-based morphology. Instead,
the original Hallean view is espoused according to which word formation is simply
the concatenation of morphemes. Now, a prime reason for accepting word-based
morphology is that it allows us to explain why a derived word with idiosyncratic ·
meaning retains that idiosyncrasy when further derived. For instance, the word
pluralist is derived from plural but includes an unpredictable semantic element. This
element is also found when pluralist itself is affixed togive pluralistic. Di Sciullo and
428 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
Williams appeal to Williams's (1981a) 'constellation' theory of lexical relatedness
here, pointing out that a similar problem obtains in relating pluralist with pluralism.
Difficulties with that account have already been discussed in §10.4, in connection
with the bracketing paradoxes.
Another challenge to Di Sciullo and Williams's viewpoint is the claim that some
word formation may be paradigmatic (or 'meaning-driven'). For this implies that the
lexicon as list must play some sort of linguistic role, and not a purely psycholinguistic
role. The personal noun formation process and other examples discussed in §10.7
thus casts doubt on the wisdom of Di Sciullo and Williams's point of departure.
The sharpest contrast between the radicallexicalism of Di Sciullo ahd Williams and
other approaches is illustrated by the syntactically based theories of word formation
discussed in great detail in chapters 7 and 8. This type of lexicalism is totally
incompatible with any attempt to relate valency alternations to incorporation (head-
to-head movement), or attempts to account for the structure of compounds in terms
of the Projection Principle and Theta Criterion. This has already been illustrated in
those earlier chapters, and it is over such constructions that we can expect to see some
of the strongest reactions against Di Sciullo and Williams's variety of lexicalism.
11.2 The separation hypothesis
The radical variety of lexicalism espoused by Di Sciullo and Williams brings with it
the assumption that morphology is basically agglutinative. Moreover, the 'atoms'
which are agglutinated, the morphemes, have a meaning of their own as well as a
form. The agglutinating morpheme concept is challenged by Word-and-Paradigm
theorists for whom it is important to separate off the morphosyntactic and semantic
functions of morphological operations (in inflection, at least) from their physical
(phonological and morphological) realization. The primary motivation for this
manoeuvre is to handle cases of multiple exponence or many-many mappings
between form and function. One example of multiple exponence which we discussed
in our initial exposure to morphemics (§2.2.1) concerned a certain ambiguity in the
term 'plural morpheme' in English. Are the plural affixes, -es, -en, -a, -ae, -i, -im,
and processes such as umlauting (foot- feet) all allomorphs of a single plural
morpheme, or must we say that these are all different morphemes, complete with
their own allomorphy? Simple though this question is, it's not clear whether any of
the morpheme based variants of lexicalism we've encountered to date has any
principled answer to it.
Similar problems are posed by 'derived' nominalizations, such as those in -(a)tion.
Many of these can function as nominalizations pure and simple without any
additional components of meaning, corresponding roughly· to the productive -ing
nominalizations (but lacking their aspectual nuances for the most part). Thus, in
hackneyed examples like the destruction of the city we have a phrase meaning simply
'the act or process of destroying the city'. Sproat (1985a) takes these observations to
suggest that there is a single NOM morpheme which serves to nominalize verbs and
whose exact morphological exponent is a function of the verb stem itself. This is tan-
tamount to saying that there is a [ + Nominalization] feature with exponents such as
-ing, -ation and so on. Likewise, we could take ·the productive process of personal
THE SEPARATION HYPOTHESIS 429
noun formation discussed in §10.7, as evidence for the existence of a highly abstract
personal noun morpheme, call it -ER, realized in a great variety of ways.
Finally, in some languages we find that it is extremely easy to form relational adjec-
tives from nouns. These have the general meaning of 'pertaining to Noun'. Thus, in
Chukchee a relational adjective is formed by suffixing -kin to a noun root. This is
used very frequently where in English we would use a prepositional phrase such as
'of the Noun', or a compound noun construction (mentioned in passing in §8.2). For
instance, from weem 'river' and wokw'Jt 'stones' we can form the expression weemkin
wokw'Jt 'the stones in/of the river' (lit. 'fluvial stones'). In the case of Chukchee, not
only is this derivational process semantically very regular (in that it simply forms a
corresponding adjective from a noun without further semantic change), it is also
morphologically very regular.
A very similar process in the Slavonic.languages is almost as regular semantically
as that of Chukchee (as well as being very productive) but morphologically it shows
the same kind of variation in its realization as the English plural or nominalization
processes. We see a few examples from Polish in 11.4-11.9 (based on Szymanek,
1985: 141ff):
11.4 a) jagnic; 'lamb' b) jagniycy 'of a lamb'
(root: jagniyt-)
c) sk6ra jagniyca 'lamb-skin'
ll.S a) ziemniak 'potato' b) ziemniaczany 'of a potato'
c) m~ka ziemniaczana 'potato flour'
zaraza ziemniaczana 'potato blight'
11.6 a) zaba 'frog' b) zabi 'of a frog'
c) zabi szkrek 'frog spawn'
11.7 a) szkola 'school' b) szkolny 'of school'
c) podrc;cznik szkolny 'school book'
budynek szkolny 'school house'
inspektor szkolny 'school inspector'
lata szkolne 'school years'
11.8 a) uniwersytet 'university' b) uniwersytecki 'of a university'
c) lata uniwersyteckie 'university years'
studia uniwersyteckie 'university education'
11.9 a) dom 'house' b) domowy 'of a house'
c) porz~dki domowe 'housework'
przemysl domowy 'cottage industry'
rewizJa domowa 'domiciliary visit'
Here we have six different affixes, each with the basic function of forming a
relational adjective. The first of these affixes is perhaps best regarded as a phono-
logical process of palatalization, t > c. The others are -an, -i, -n, -sk and -ow. Szy-
manek lists them in this order, which he states is the order of increasing productivity
430 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
and generality. He claims that it is best to think of the list as a disjunctively ordered
set. Any given affix is attached to those roots whose morphology, phonology or
semantics demands it (for instance the t > c alternation is characteristic of names of
young animals ending in -fl). In many cases a noun is simply marked in the lexicon
for the suffix it takes. However, if no suffix is specified in the lexical entry of a noun,
then the last on the list, -ow, is chosen by default. In other words, Szymanek argues
that an aspect of derivational morphology is governed by the Elsewhere Condition.
For many linguists this. is tantamount to sa}[ing that there is a derivational paradigm,
a claim Szymanek makes explicitly (cf, also van Made, 1985).
This way of looking at matters is very different from that of a strict morpheme-
based approach, in which we would be obliged to say that there were six synonymous
but distinct morphemes. In such an approach it would be a coincidence (i) that the
morphemes were synonymous and (ii) that almost every noun forms some sort of
relational adjective. Moreover, we would simply be failing to capture the fact that in
Slavonic (though not in English) there is a morphological process of relation adjective
formation, irrespective of its morphological realization.
Now, it might be argued that the relational adjective case isn't entirely parallel to
an inflectional paradigm proper. For we find that a noun will sometimes take more
than one different affix depending on the precise meaning of the resulting adjective.
For instance, we see examples 11.10-11.11 from kon, 'horse':
11.10 a) konny
b) gwardia konna 'Horse Guards'
jazda konna 'horse riding'
wyscigi konne 'horse race'
11. 11 a) kmiski
b) grzbiet korlski 'horseback'
giez korlski 'horse-fly'
naw6z korlski 'horse manure'
korlskie mi~so 'horse meat'
The adjective in 11.10 seems to mean something like 'involving horses' while that
in 11.11 has the meaning 'to do with the body of a horse'. Therefore, it seems to
make more sense to say we are dealing with two separate (though similar) affixal
morphemes, each with slightly different meanings. Szymanek (citing a different
example) states that such cases are rare in Polish, though the phenomenon in general
seems well attested for other types of word formation. However, this need not force
us to abandon the idea that the process as a whole is paradigmatic. A similar phenom-
enon is seen in English in the formation of adjectives converted from past participles.
For instance, drunk is the regular participle form, but there is also a doublet drunken,
which only has the meaning 'inebriated'. And in more general terms it is actually
quite common for complex inflectional systems to permit optional doublets. Even
English plural formation permits this, with doublets such as formulae/ formulas.
Furthermore, even in inflectional systems we find that a given inflectional category
might be given different realizations with slightly different meaning. This happens
in the Russian locative/prepositional singular of certain nouns, where one form (e.g.
sadu from sad 'garden') is used exclusively with the preposition v 'in' to express a
THE SEPARATION HYPOTHESIS 431
strictly locational meaning, while the more usual form of this case, sade, is found in
all other uses.
We are now reaching the position where we might say that we could take some-
thing like a Word-and-Paradigm model of inflection (with its separation of form and
function) and simply extend it to derivational morphology. This means regarding
derivational categories as grammatical categories and not some kind of lexical cat-
egory. Grammatical categories form a closed class which can be coded by means of
a feature system. Thus, we have one part of the grammar which specifi.es that there
are plurals, past tenses, nominalizations, personal nouns, relational adjectives and so
on, and another part of the grammar which says that there are affixes and umlauting
processes and so on. In addition, there is a set of rules stating that for a given set
of lexical items the plural form is realized by such-and-such or that the nominaliza-
tion is realized by so-and-so. In a WP theory such as Anderson's, inflectional markers
do not bear any meaning of their own, rather, they serve as 'cues' for fi.guring out
the morphosyntactic category of the whole word. Likewise, in our extension, no
affixes would have any inherent meaning. All of them would be cues for the function
of the word in relation to its lexical meaning.
The idea of divorcing the form of both inflectional and derivational affixes from
their function is known as the Separation Hypothesis. Its most vigorous proponent
is Robert Beard (1976, 1981, 1982, 1987, 1988). Szymanek's (1985) monograph also
presents a number of arguments in favour of the hypothesis. In Beard's model,
'Lexeme/Morpheme-Based Morphology', we separate out lexical entries, which
Beard refers to as lexemes, and affixes added to lexemes, which are referred to (in
defi.ance of tradition) as morphemes: The grammatical processes of derivation and
inflection are effected by L-rules. Processes of affixation or morphophonological
operations such as umlaut are M-rules.
These ideas can be illustrated by English plurals. In the words cats algae, parame-
cia and geese, we have four lexemes, CAT, ALGA, PARAMECIUM and GOOSE,
three plural morphemes -es, -ae, -a, two M-rules, one of suffixation and one of
unilaut, and one L-rule, that of pluralization. By drawing this distinction between
L-rules and M-rules, we can express the fact that the different plural affixes have their
own morphological properties (such as exhibiting certain sorts of allomorphy or only
attaching to latinate roots), whilst at the same time capturing the fact that they are
all exponents of a more generally important morphosyntactic category of 'plural'. It
should be apparent that the same solution can be applied to the case of Polish
relational adjectives.
Beard contrasts his approach with lexicalist theories such as Lieber's in which
affixes are listed as lexical ent~ies. The chief objection is that, for a set of important
properties, affixes don't behave like lexical items. The fi.rst problem is that there
appear to be zero affixes, while there are no entirely uncontroversial cases of zero
lexical items. The second problem is that affixes don't themselves seem to undergo
derivation. Note that this is different from saying that affixes don't undergo
affixation. In §10.3, I said that Aronoff and Sridhar (1983, 1987) regard
compartmentalization as composed of [compart] [mental] [ization], but this is not
necessarily to say that the items ment and ize have undergone lexical derivation (and,
indeed, this is not what Aronoff and Sridhar are saying). The third problem is that,
properly speaking, lexical items only ever belong to one syntactic (lexical) category
(lexical homonymy apart). Where a word appears to belong to more than one
432 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
category, as when an adjective such as yellow is used as a noun or a verb, then we
speak about the derivation (by conversion) of one category from another. 5 Affixes are
different. It's quite common for a given affix to belong to several totally distinct
categories. The -ing suffix in English derives words of the categories progressive
aspect, gerund, result nominalization and adjective, inter alia. In languages with
richer morphology this phenomenon is the rule rather than the exception. Finally,
lexemes belong to open classes while affixes, being grammatical morphemes, are by
definition closed class items.
Beard argues that these four differences pose problems for straightforward lexicalist
theories which view affixes as just another type of lexical entry. In particular, if affixes
are lexical items then zero morphology poses serious problems. Consider
morphological conversion. Lieber's (198lb) account explicitly denies that conversion
involves zero affixation. The reason is that some languages have a good many ways
of using conversion, so that there would have to be a plethora of zero items all with
different grammatical properties. Beard, however, objects to the conversion solution.
The main problem with Lieber's account seems to be that she simply lists the stem
twice (once as a verb and once as a noun, say) and then writes a redundancy rule
saying they are related. But this, argues Beard, fails to explain why stems of identical
phonological shape should be thus related to each other rather than arbitrary pairings
of stems.
According to the Separation Hypothesis, conversion of (to) walk to (a) walk is
simply using a verb as its own nominalization without specifying any accompanying
morphological change. Therefore, conversion still involves a derivational process
(that of result nominalization) but happens not to involve any morphological
processes. It is difficult to see how the facts of conversion can be captured without
assuming some sort of property changing process. The separation of derivation from
affixation achieves this quite neatly: conversion is derivation with no affixation.
The converse of conversion is affixation which has no grammatical function. This
is not especially uncommon. Beard (1987: 25) cites the well-known phenomenon of
German meaningless inflections, illustrated in 11.12:
11.12 Seif-en-blase
soap-en-bubble
'soap bubble'
Kalb-s-braten
veal-s-roast
'roast veal'
Tag-e-buch
day-e-book
'diary'
Bild-er-buch
picture-er-book
'picture book'
friihling-s-haft
spring-s-like
'spring-like'
Hich-er-lich
laugh-er-ly
'laughable'
bar-en-haft
bear-en-like
'bearish'
The model of morphology Beard proposes then is one in which derivation as well
as inflection is viewed in paradigmatic terms, as the formal realization of abstract
l
!
i
I
I
li
THE SEPARATION HYPOTHESIS
Base
rules
Lexeme
storage
Lexical
rules
(Lexics)
Movement
rule(s)
Figure 11. 1 Beard's model
Logical Form
Morphological
rules P-rules
(Morphemics)
grammatical categories. This means that morphological operations are not housed in
. the lexicon. The lexicon is therefore a storage place for lexemes. These are subjec~
to grammatical processes of derivation (which are lexical rules). They are also subject
to the syntactic processes manifested as inflection. Beard refers to such inflectional
rules (syntactic affixation) as Movement Rules, on the assumption that they involve
either XP movement in the syntax, or feature movement (e.g. as copying). After
these processes we have the morphological operations which are exponents of those
grammatical processes. This feeds the morphology. The model is diagrammed as in
figure 11.1 by Beard (e.g. 1987: 21, 1988: 15). Redrawn and simplified6 this looks.
like figure 11.2, which we can compare with the usual T-model of Government-
Binding syntax, and particularly with Anderson's EWP model (shown in §6.5.2,
figure 6.1).
Lexical store
Derivation
Morphological
Form
Phonological
Form
Logical
Form
Figure 11.2 Beard's model (redrawn)
Lexicon
Move-Alpha
433
434 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
11.3 Zwicky's 'interface program'
The theme of morphology representing an autonomous component with rich inter-
faces with the rest of grammar has been argued perhaps most persuasively by
Arnold Zwicky in a series of papers cited at various times during the course of this
book. Here I'm relying particularly on the formulation in Zwicky (1986, 1988, 1990).
Zwicky's views, which have much in common with those of Beard just reviewed, are
diametrically opposed to the radicallexicalism of Di Sciullo and Williams, relying as
it does on an ultimately agglutinative, morpheme-based theory of word structure.
Zwicky emphasizes the role of processes in morphology, and explicitly sides with
Anderson and other Word-and-Paradigm theoreticians in denying the morpheme any
privileged status.
We have discussed certain aspects of Zwicky's approach to morphophonemics
(§4.6) and clitics (§9.2). Here we examine the crucial role played by the notion of
'interface' in Zwicky's conception of things. The overall model of grammar is shown
in 11.13 (Zwicky, 1986):
11.13 SYNTAX< (LIAISON)< SHAPE< MORPHONOLOGY <
(READJUSTMENT)< AUTOMATIC PHONOLOGY
As indicated, each component on the left strictly precedes each following component.
Therefore, no rule of, say, morphonology can feed a rule of shape or syntax.
The Shape component (described in §4.6) comprises the following:
11.14 IMPLICATION/ REALIZATION/ FORMATION
LEXICON
SHAPE CONDITIONS
The lexicon is an enumeration of all the word forms of the language (including, for
instance, regularly formed inflection). Each such word form has a morphosyntactic
description. Thus the lexicon will contain both /kat/ and Jkats/ with an indication
that the former is singular and the latter plural. Zwicky draws a sharp distinction
between inflection and derivation. The rules of Realization are essentially word
formation rules for inflection, while the Formation rules are for derivation. The
Implication rules are redundancy rules which, for instance, assign lexemes to
particular declensional class on the basis of their gender or phonological form.
Zwicky rejects the view that such phenomena as stem allomorphy should be
regarded as the result of phonological rules triggered by affixation. Instead, he adopts
a form of Separation Hypothesis by distinguishing operations, such as adding an
affix, or umlauting a stem vowel, from morphological rules proper. A morphological
rule can specify a variety of operations (including no operation at all, as in
conversion), some of which may occur in tandem, as when suffixation is accompanied
by umlauting of the stem vowel in certain German plurals. One consequence of this
view is that, when an operation is blocked from applying for some reason (e.g. a
phonological constraint), the result is an apparent zero morph. We've seen an
example of this in our discussion of clitics, where Zwicky argues that the failure of
a possessive marker to appear on kids' in a friend ofmy kids' is due to a general ban
AUTOLEXICAL SYNTAX 435
on multiple 'Zs', such that the -Z affixation process simply fails to apply a second
time (i.e. in addition to pluralization). This can't be because of a ban on a plural affix
followed by a possessive affix (if only because of the existence of oxen's). Instead, it
is a constraint on the operation part of the morphological process.
For Zwicky, then, grammar consists of a set of interacting but autonomous
modules or components, each with its own set of principles of organization. This
means that Zwicky commits himself to a version of the Lexicalist Hypothesis, in the
sense that no rule of syntax can be sensitive to purely morphological information
(such as the declensional class of a noun, or whether a given plural is formed by
suffixation or umlaut). The interface with phonology is given by the Morphonology
and Shape components, while the interface with syntax is governed primarily by the
rules of inflection. Of interest is that morphology is located as a point in a linear chain
(much as in Beard's model). It is part of the rules of interface that syntax must
properly precede morphology (and lexical structure) and that morphology must
properly precede (phrase, or automatic) phonology.
11.4 Autolexical syntax
In our discussion of Baker's theory of noun incorporation (§7.4) I pointed out that
linguistic theory had to find the means to capture the fact that such constructions
obey both morphological and syntactic principles. This is the starting point for a
theory of the morphology-syntax interface currently being developed by Jerrold
Sadock (1985, 1987; see also LaPointe, 1987), which he dubs autolexical syntax.
According to Sadock, a well-formed string of the language must be well-formed
with respect to the rules and principles of morphology and syntax, but there is no
prior ordering of the one with respect to the other. We can therefore simultaneously
ask ourselves two independent questions: 'what is the syntactic structure of this
string?' and 'what is the morphological structure of this string?' In this respect,
Sadock is proposing something distinct from, say, Beard or Zwicky. Rather than
making morphological form a level of representation (such as, say, PF in the familiar
T-model of Government-Binding theory), Sadock regards morphology as a
component or module of grammar, much like Case theory or Theta theory.
Sadock discusses three important aspects of the morphology-syntax interface:
cliticization, inflection, and noun incorporation (though inflection is mentioned
somewhat tangentially). A simple example of the way his system treats the first two
is provided by a sentence such as 11.15a:
11.15 a) Tom's seen that film.
436 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
This is given the autolexical representation 11.15b: 7
11.15 b) w v
~ ~
N AUX v Aff Det N
I I I I I I
Tom 's see n that film
I I I
I I I I
I I I I I
Tom have see that film
[3rd sg.] [PAST PT]
N AUX V Det N
~
NP
VP
NP I'
~··
s
The morphological representation is the top tree and· the syntactic representation
the lower tree. Here we see that the clitic 's is represented as part of a word
morphologically hut as an auxiliary verb syntactically. Moreover, the inflectional
ending of the past participle is not represented syntactically, since it is merely the
morphological spell-out of a feature and not a syntactic element in itself. Another way
of thinking of this is to say that the morphology module respresents words in the
sense of word forms, while in the syntax module words are represented as
morphosyntactic words, in that the units at this level are lexemes together with a
featural specification for agreement, government and so on. Much of the point of
autolexical representations is to separate the word form from its morphosyntactic
description.
Sadock uses this formal mechanism to address the problem of noun incorporation
in West Greenlandic (one of the Eskimo languages). Noun incorporation in these
languages is very unusual in that the verbs which incorporate their objects are
actually affixes ('verbal postbases') and as such can only be found with incorporated
noun stems. An example is 11.16:
11.16 Hansi illu-qar-poq.
Hans (ABS) house-have-3sg.
'Hans has a house.'
As can be seen from 11.17, the object 'house' is marked in the instrumental case by
AUTOLEXICAL SYNTAX 437
the syntax because this is the case it would have been in had it not been incorporated
(note that -poq is an inflectional affix signalling agreement and hence isn't represented
in the syntax):
11.17
N
~
N INFL
I I
Hansi
I
I
I
Hansi
I
N
NP
s
v
~
V INFL
~
N V
I I
illu
I
illu
I
N
I
qar
I
I
I
qar
NP V
[IN\/
VP
poq
The dual representation m 11.17 illustrates the way that both syntactic
requirements (subcategorization frames, word order principles and so on) and
morphological requirements (order of affixation, allomorphy and so on) are met
simultaneously. In simple cases those phonological strings which are labelled as
syntactic words (that is, zero level syntactic categories), such as Hansi, are also
morphological words. However, this is not always the case: illu, 'house', is a
syntactic word but morphologically it is an incorporated stem. Nonetheless, we can
easily draw two trees for the single string because the linear order of phonemes
implied by each representation is identical. In other words, we have a simple case of
bracketing paradox, where we need to assign two incompatible constituent structures
at different levels of representation.
It is not always the case that linear order is preserved in the two representations,
however. We cited West Greenlandic in chapter 7 as a language which permits
modifier stranding. A particularly intriguing example of this is shown in 11.18:
11.18 Hansi ataaseq -nik qamut-qar-poq.
Hans-ABS one -INSTR/PL sled -have-3SG/IND
'Hans has one sled.'
Here, the stem qamut, 'sled', is incorporated by the derivational affix qar (indicating
438 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
possession), but the modifier ataaseq agrees syntactically with the incorporated
element for case and number. Notice that qamut is a stem which only ever appears
with the plural inflection (rather like English trousers or scissors). Despite the meaning
of the noun phrase, the modifier therefore has to take the plural inflection to agree
with the (syntactic) head that it modifies. Now, the grammar of West Greenlandic
demands that in syntactic noun phrases a modifier such as ataaseq must follow its
head noun. However, this is clearly impossible in a sentence such as 11.18 which has
undergone noun incorporation. Sadock therefore represents sentence 11. 18 with the
dual tree structure of 11.19:
11.19 v
N v
~ ~
N N INFL N v INFL
I I I I I I
Hansi ataaseq nik qamut qar poq
I
....._
- I
----- -
I
----- ---- I
I __.---><-...._
I
---- - I
--- -
Hansi qamut ataaseq qar
I
N
I
N Det
NP
[INSTR] V
~
NP VP
s
In these phrase markers, the order of elements in the syntactic half of the
representation is different from that in the morphological half. This means that the
links between morphological words and the corresponding syntactic words have to
cross. Such crossing association lines are the equivalent of movement of the noun
stem.
It appears that whenever such a clash occurs it is universally the morphological
requirements that win out, in the sense that the ordering of the morphemes in the
morphology module takes precedence over the ordering of words in the syntax. This
is perhaps connected with the fact that syntactic word order variation, even in strict
word order languages, is commonplace, while genuinely free (or 'stylistic') variation
AUTOLEXICAL SYNTAX 439
in morpheme order within words is extremely rare. Sadock therefore assumes a
principle under which morphological well-formedness always prevails.
Given that the linear order of elements in the morphological and syntactic
representations can be different, we have greatly increased the number of possible
mappings between syntax and morphology. Indeed, if nothing further is said, the
formalism permits any conceivable morphological arrangement to be linked with any
conceivable syntactic arrangement, which is to say that our formalism is so powerful
as to be useless. Sadock therefore adds a principle of association, which states that,
if crossing lines are unavoidable, the grammatical representation is that in which the
fewest lines cross. If there are two distinct representations with this minimum
number of crossing lines then both representations are grammatical, other things
being equal.
There is a further restriction. In discussing noun incorporation in chapter 7 we
observed that it obeys the Head Movement Constraint. This prevents a modifier such
as ataaseq in 11.18 from being incorporated by a verb stem. Sadock, too, needs such
a constraint, which he formulates as his Principle VII'. In simplified form it runs as
follows (cf. Sadock, 1985: 423):
11.20 If a lexeme, L, combines syntactically with some X (or X' or XP) it may
combine morphologically with a corresponding stem Y, provided that the
syntactic equivalent of Y is the head of its phrase (i.e. the head of XP)
and that L governs XP.
In example 11.18, the lexeme L would be the verbal postbase qar, the X would be
the noun illumik (the instrumental case of illu), and the stem Y would be the stem
of that noun, illu-. The syntactic equivalent of the morphologically incorporated stem
illu- is the head of the NP ataaseq-nik illumik and the lexeme L (qar) does indeed
govern the NP in the syntax.
Principle 11.20 does the same kind of work as the Head Movement Constraint, but
it is by no means equivalent. This is because the HMC applies only to structures
which are analysed as the result of movement in GB syntax. However, 11.20 isn't so
restricted and can therefore apply to other types of syntactic dependency. One such
dependency is adjective-noun agreement. The autolexical analysis will be useful
whenever an agreement process induces a violation of lexical integrity, in other
words, whenever a head in the syntax agrees with a proper subpart of another word.
A nice example of such a case is provided by possessive adjectives in a number of
Slav languages, particularly the two varieties of Sorbian, as described in luxuriant
detail by Corbett (1987) (who himself has interesting observations to make on the
morphology-syntax interface). In Upper Sorbian possessive forms of nouns referring
to people usually take the form of a possessive adjective, derived from the noun by
affixation of -(j)ow. Thus, we have examples such as 11.21-11.22:
11.21 a) wucer 'teacher'
b) wucerjowe
teacher-ADJ-NJNOMsg.
'the teacher's table'
blido 'table' (neut., nom., sg.)
blido
table
440 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
11.22 a) Jan 'Jan', kniha 'book' (nom., sg., fern.)
b) Janowa kniha
Jan-ADJ-F/NOMsg. book
'Jan's book'
These constructions are similar to constructions with pronominal possessive
adjectives corresponding to 'my', 'his' and so on, which also agree with their head
noun in case, number and gender, as shown in 11.23-11.24 (the preposition k takes
the dative case):
11.23 moje blido
my-NfNOMsg. table
'my table'
11.24 a) diowkam 'daughter (fern., dat., pl.)'
b) k nasim diowkam
to our-FfDATpl. daughter-F/DATpl.
'to our daughters'
Within an NP, a possessive adjective itself can be modified by an adjective, for
instance, a pronominal possessive adjective, as in 11.25-11.26:
11.25 a) moj 'my'' muz 'husband' (masc.), sotra 'sister' (fern.)
11.26
b) mojeho muzowa sotra
my-MfGENsg. husband-ADJ-F/NOMsg. sister
'my husband's sister'
a) k 'to'' nas 'our'' diowce 'daughter
b) k naseho wucerjowej
to our-MfGENsg. teacher-ADJ-F/DATsg.
'to our teacher's daughter'
(fern., dat., pl.)'
diowce
daughter
What is surprising about the constructions in 11.25-11.26 is that the possessive
pronouns, rrtojeho and naseho, agree with the noun stem of the possessive adjective
which follows, muz and wucer. These possessives appear in the genitive case (in effect
treating the possessive adjective stems, muzow- and wucerjow-, as a kind of genitive),
and, in addition, agreeing with that stem in (masculine) gender.
This can be thought of as another of our bracketing paradoxes, since one might
imagine a structure such as, say, 11.27 for 11.25b at some level of representation (as
Corbett himself suggests):
11.27 [[mojeho muz] owa] sotra
Actually, it might be more accurate to say that the structure should be something like
11.28, since the genitive case agreement seems to derive from the possessive force of
the possessive adjective affix, -ow:
11.28 [[mojeho muzow]a] sotra
r
i
~I
POST-SYNTACTIC COMPOUNDING IN JAPANESE 441
In any event, Sadock proposes that an example such as 11.25b should be furnished
with a dual representation along the lines of 11.29:
11.29 A
A A N
~ ~ ~
A INFL N A INFL N INFL
I I I I I
eho "
mOJ· muz ow a
I I
sotr a
I I I I
I I I
I I I
I I I
"
mOJ muz ow sotr
[MASC SG]
A N
~
[GEN]
N' A
~ [FEMSG]
AP N
--------------------
NP
The exotica unearthed by Corbett are potentially very important for theories of the
morphology- syntax interface. Baker's transformational account of noun incorpora-
tion can't, presumably, be applied to Sorbian agreement. Therefore, if Sadock is
right in regarding the Sorbian phenomena as an example of the same kind of thing
as noun incorporation then his representational approach to the problem will be
preferable to Baker's analysis. The plot thickens when we recall (§9.3) that many
linguists have analysed cliticization not as pronoun incorporation (as might be
expected within Baker's framework), but as a form of agreement, and that Rosen
(1989) has recently argued that the facts which motivated Baker's account of noun
incorporation actually support an agreement theory of this phenomenon, too.
11.5 Post-syntactic compounding in Japanese
As is evident from chapters 7 and 8, compounding poses notorious problems for
defining wordhood, and for delineating the boundaries between morphology' the
lexicon and syntax. Part of the problem for the theoretician lies in identifying where
442 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
in the grammar compounding takes place. In this and the following section we will
review proposals claiming that there may not be a single level of grammatical
derivation at which all compounding occurs, but that one and the same set of well-
formedness conditions might apply at several, or even all, levels of representation.
This claim comes from Shibatani and Kageyama (1988) who argue that, in Japanese,
compounds can be formed either in the lexicon (as we might expect), or, much more
controversially, can be formed after rules of syntax and postlexical (phrasal)
phonology have applied. This latter process they refer to as post-syntactic
compounding. In essence their argument is that post-syntactic compounds share
crucial properties of lexical compounds, making them more like words than like
syntactically formed phrases. However, they are constructed after the rules of syntax
have applied. Therefore, morphological principles (governing word structure) must
have access to the output of the syntax. In effect, compounding occurs at any
grammatical level, and the exact form of the compound is determined by properties
of the level where it's formed.
Japanese has lexical compounds in abundance. Typical formations are illustrated
in 11.30-11.32:
11.30 Nouns:
11.31
a) hai-zara
ash plate
b) too-isu
case chair
c) kaigai-ryokyoo
overseas travel
d) yama-nobori
mountain climbing
Adjectives:
a) hara-guroi
stomach black
b) darasi-nai
'ashtray'
'cane chair'
'overseas tour'
'mountaineering'
'black-hearted'
tidiness non-existent 'slovenly'
11.32 Verbs:
a) yume-rruru
dream see
b) kosi-kakeru
waist hang
c) de-kakeru
go-out hang
d) tori-kesu
take extinguish
e) kaki-naosi
write repair
f) yomi-hazimeru
read begin
'to dream'
'to sit down'
'start out'
'cancel'
'rewrite'
'to begin to read'
~
POST-SYNTACTIC COMPOUNDING IN JAPANESE 443
Shibatani and Kageyama also argue that it is possible to take a syntactically
constructed phrase such as 11.34, as found in sentence 11.33, and turn it into a
special type of compound, as shown in 11.35 (the colon in Amerika:hoomon indicates
this special compounding):
11.33 [[Kanai ga Amerika o hoomon] no ori] ni wa,
my-wife NOM America ACC visit GEN occasion on TOP
1r01ro osewa m narimasita
much hospitality PTCL received
'Thank you for your generous hospitality when my wife visited America.'
11.34 [[Amerika o hoomon] -no ori]
America ACC visit GEN occasion
11.35 [Amerika:hoomon] -fio ori
Two crucial facts about this process are that it is fed by the dropping of the
syntactic case particle (in this instance o), and that the source of the compound is
a freely-formed phrase, not necessarily a lexicalized one. The first fact indicates that
we are dealing with a compound and not a syntactic phrase. This is because ·a direct
object such as Amerika in 11.33-11.34 is obligatorily marked by a case particle such
as o in genuinely syntactic constructions. Objects can only appear without such a
particle in compounds. The second fact, by contrast, indicates that the compound is
formed as a result of syntactic processes.
These observations suggest a certain parallel with synthetic compounds in English
(of the type truck driver), which also share features of lexical compounds and
syntactically formed constructions. However, Shibatani and Kageyama adduce
arguments that the post-syntactic compounding process is fed not just by syntax but
by phrase phonology. Japanese has a pitch accent system. At some point in every
word there is exactly one sequence of one or more high toned syllables. This high
tone sequence may be preceded or followed by low toned syllables, provided there
is exactly one unbroken stretch of high tones. Thus, we find pitch patterns such as
11.36, where the high toned syllables are shown in capitals (think of doubled vowels
as constituting two separate syllables, each capable of bearing a high tone):
11.36 a) yaMA 'mountain'
b) noBORI 'climbing
c) KAigai 'overseas'
d) ryoKOO 'travel'
e) aMERIKA 'America'
f) yoORROppa 'Europe'
Examples of impossible pitch patterns would be *aMEriKA, where we have two
stretches of high tone separated by a low tone, or *amerika, where there are no high
tones.
In lexical compounds we find exactly the same kind of pitch patterns (though
elements in a compound don't necessarily have the same pitch as they do in isola-
444 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
tion):
11.37 a) yaMA-NObori
b) kaiGAI-RYOkoo
c) yoMI-HAZIMEru
d) yoOROPPA-RYOkoo
e) aMERIKA-HOomon
'mountaineering'
'overseas tour'
'to begin to read'
'European tour'
'American visit'
Post-syntactic compounds depart from this model, for they retain essentially the
accent pattern of the syntactic phrases to which they correspond. Thus, the phrasal
and compound forms respectively of 11.34, 11.35 have the accentuations shown in
11.38, 11.39 (contrasting with 11.37e):
11.38 aMERIKA o hoOMON no ori
11.39 aMERIKA:hoOMON no ori
Since the compound 11.39 has the same accentuation as the corresponding phrase
11.38, Shibatani and Kageyama argue that 11.39 is derived from 11.38 after phono-
logical rules assigning pitch in phrases have applied. Thus, the compounding process
must be post-syntactic (rather than, say, a syntactic process).
There are several other respects in which post-syntactic compounds differ from
lexical compounds. It is possible for NPs or PPs to modify nouns inside NPs. When
this happens the modifying NP or PP must be marked with the postpositive genitive
case marker no. This is shown in 11.40:
11.40 a) bukka no zyoosyoo
pnce GEN rise
'the rise of prices'
b) sensei to no soodan
teacher with GEN consultation
'consultation with a teacher'
Provided such a modifier bears the no particle it can also modify a compound noun,
as shown in 11.41:
11.41 a) kazoku to no [Yooroppa-ryokoo]
family with GEN Europe-travel
'a European tour with one's family'
b) *kazoku to [Yooroppa-ryokoo]
However, post-syntactic compounds can't be modified by no-phrases of this sort.
Thus, 11.41 contrasts with 11.42, in which we have a post-syntactic compound
(identifiable by its accentuation, symbolized here by the colon):
11.42 a) kazoku to [Yooroppa:ryokoo]
b) *kazoku to no [Yooroppa:ryokoo]
POST-SYNTACTIC COMPOUNDING IN JAPANESE 445
It is only in syntactically formed structures that a noun can be modified without
requiring a no-phrase, so 11.42a provides strong support for an analysis in which the
post-syntactic compounds are derived from a syntactic phrase, and not formed in the
lexicon.
Another important property distinguishing the post-syntactic from the the lexical
compounds concerns anaphoric relations. It is absolutely impossible to refer to the
non-head of a lexical compound. In other words, lexical compounds are 'anaphoric
islands', a hallmark of words (recall §2.2.2). This is exemplified in 11.43 for the
compound hai-zara 'ashtray':
11.43 *[Haii-zara] o ugokasitara, sorei ga koboreta.
ashdry ACC moved-when, iti NOM spilled
'When I moved the ashtray, it (=the ash) spilled.'
This constraint doesn't apply to post-syntactic compounding, however:
11.44 a) Taroo wa senzitu, tyuukosyai o hanbai no
Taroo TOP the-other-day used-cari ACC sell GEN
sai ni, sorerai no itidai o kowasite simatta.
occasion PTCL, themi GEN one-car ACC damage ended-up
b) Taroo wa senzitu, [tyuukosyai:hanbai] no
Taroo TOP the-other-day used-cari:sell GEN
sai ni, sorerai no itidai o kowasite simatta.
occasion PTCL, themi GEN one-car ACC damage ended-up
'The other day, on the occasion of selling used cars,
Taroo ended up damaging one of them.''
Given these contrasts between post-syntactic compounds and lexical compounds,
and particularly given the fact that the post-syntactic compounds have a pitch pattern
characteristic of phrases and not words, we are entitled to ask whether the post-
syntactic compounds really are compounds. In fact, there are six respects in which
these compounds resemble words rather than phrases.
First, there are no case particles inside the compounds, whereas, in sentences, case
particles are in general mandatory for expressing relations such as direct object.
Second, verbs inside post-syntactic compounds can't be inflected for tense. This is
also true of verbs inside lexical compounds such as yomihazimern illustrated in 11.32.
Next, the compounds exhibit morphological integrity, in that they can't be split up
by modifiers and the like. For instance, there is no compound 11.46 corresponding
to the phrase 11.45:
11.45
11.46
Yooroppa o nonbiri ryokoo tyuu ni
Europe ACC leisurely travel middle in
'while travelling Europe in a leisurely fashion'
* [Yooroppa: nonbiri: ryokoo] -tyuu ni
Fourth, lexical compounds obey a Binary Branching Constraint, which means they
446 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
may be formed from no more than two elements. This, too, is respected by the post-
syntactic compounds.
The post-syntactic compounds obey Roeper and Siegel's (1978) First Sister
Principle (see §8.3.1). In particular, it is absolutely forbidden for a post-syntactic
compound to be formed from a transitive verb base and its subject. Thus, from 11.47
we can get 11.48a but not 11.48b, on an interpretation in which Sooseki is the subject:
11.47 Sooseki ga Syeikusupia o kenkyuu-tyuu ni
Sooseki NOM Shakespeare ACC study middle in
'while Sooseki was studying Shakespeare'
11.48 a) Sooseki ga [Syeikusupia:kenkyuu] -tyuu ni
'while Sooseki was studying Shakespeare'
b) *Syeikusupia o [Sooseki:kenkyuu] -tyuu ni
'while Sooseki was studying Shakespeare'
In fact, the compound in 11.48b is possible but only on interpretation 11.48c, in
which the non-head of the compound is interpreted as the object of the verb:
11.48 c) [Sooseki-kenkyuu] -tyuu ni
'while studying Sooseki'
Finally, post-syntactic compounding is lexically governed in the sense that
selectional restrictions affecting possible combinations of elements are respected by
post-syntactic compounds just as with other types of word. The Japanese vocabulary
is divided into native morphemes and non-native morphemes, the latter including a
very large number of Chinese words of ancient origin (the Sino-Japanese vocabulary),
and a good many Western (chiefly English) words of more recent provenance. The
basic rule is that mixed combinations from the two sources are not permitted. For
instance, the words syoseki, 'book', and koonyuu, 'purchase', are from the Sino-
Japanese vocabulary, while hon, 'book', is a native word. In syntactic phrases either
syoseki or hon can combine with koonyuu, as in 11.49a, b, but only syoseki forms a
post-syntactic compound with koonyuu, as in 11.50a:
11.49 a) syoseki o koonyuu no sai
book ACC purchase GEN occasion
'when you purchase books'
b) hon o koonyuu no sai
book ACC purchase GEN occasion
'when you purchase books'
11.50 a) [syoseki:koonyuu] no sai
b) ?? [hon:koonyuu] no sai
All this evidence together shows that post-syntactic compounds are words, but that
they aren't formed in the lexicon. Rather, they are derived from sentences, by a
process which drops the case particle attached to the noun. The pitch pattern of the
compound suggests that this process must be post-syntactic, rather than an example
PARALLEL MORPHOLOGY 447
Lexicon
(e.g. lexical compounding)
Syntax
(e.g. syntactic compounding)
Phonology
(e.g. post-syntactic compounding)
Figure 11.3 Shibatani and Kageyama's model
of syntactic word formation. 8 In this respect, the compounding process resembles,
say, the formation of simple clitics discussed in chapter 9. A second reason for
rejecting a syntactic analysis is that we don't see any of the transitivity alternations
that are common with causatives, applied verbs, possessor raising or noun
incorporation, that is, processes which have been argued to be instances of syntactic
word formation (see chapter 7). Rather, the arguments left behind after post-
syntactic compounding always bear the same case particles that they would have in
the original sentence.
On the basis of their detailed analysis of Japanese compounding, Shibatani and
Kageyama propose a modular theory of word formation, in which words can be
formed in any grammatical component (specifically, the lexicon, the syntax or at the
level of PF), and an independent, autonomous morphology module checks that any
word formed in any component is well-formed. Their overall model is shown in
figure 11.3. The morphology module therefore represents the properties of all words,
no matter where formed. Other properties of words will depend on where in the
grammar they are derived. For instance, words constructed in the lexicon will obey
the Anaphoric Island Constraint and other reflexes of lexical integrity, but thi~ will
not necessarily be true of words formed in or after the syntax.
...
11.6 Parallel morphology
Strictly speaking, what Shibatani and Kageyama have shown is that post-syntactic
compounding in Japanese offers support for a morphology module or component
which has access to the lexicon and the output of phonology. It is reasonable to
suppose that if this model is valid then morphological principles will also have access
to the syntax proper. Arguments to precisely this effect have been advanced by Hagit
Borer (1988), on the basis of compounding in Hebrew. She, too, observes that there
are compound-type constructions which have a character intermediate between
syntactically formed phrases and words proper, and concludes that the word-like
properties are due to the operation of an independent morphology which has access
to the mapping between D-structure and S-structure on the Government-Binding
model.
We begin discussion of Borer's claims with a brief survey of compound nouns in
448 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
Hebrew, illustrated in 11.51:
11.51 a) beyt xolim
house sicks
b) beyt zkenim
house olds
c) beyt sefer
house book
d) beyt safarim
house books
e) gan yeladim
garden children
f) gan xayot
garden animals
g) somer mitzvot
guard commandments
'hospital'
'retirement home'
'school'
'library'
'kindergarten'
'zoo'
'practising Jew'
These consist of N + N with the first N the head. Since these are lexicalized it will
not always be the case that the syntactic head will be a semantic head. For instance,
· a kindergarten is not a real garden. The plural of these compounds is formed by
putting the head noun into the plural, e.g. batey sefer 'schools'. Notice that the
number marking of the non-head has no syntactic effect whatever on the compound
as a whole, as can be seen by comparing ll.Slc, d.
Hebrew nouns can be made definite by prefixing the article ha-. In contrast to
plural marking, when a compound is made definite it is the non-head which is given
the definite article. Interestingly, though this makes the compound as a whole
definite, the non-head itself will retain an indefinite interpretation. For example, in
11.52a we have a definite compound which is made plural in 11.52b:
11.52 a) ben ha-melex
son the-king 'the prince'
b) bney ha-melex
sons the-king 'the princes'
The plural form doesn't, however, mean 'the sons of the king', but rather 'the sons
of a (=any) king' or in other words, 'the sons of kings'.
Adjectives agree in definiteness with the nouns they modify, as seen in 11.53:
11.53 a) ha-yeled ha-xadasf*xadas higi9a.
the-boy the-newfnew arrived
'The new boy arrived.'
b) yeled xadasf*ha-xadas higi9a.
boy new/the-new arrived
'A new boy arrived.'
When an adjective modifies a compound made definite by prefixation of ha- to its
non-head, the adjective therefore also takes ha-, as though agreeing with the non-
head:
11.54 beyt ha-xolim ha-xadas
house the-sicks the-new
'the new hospital'
PARALLEL MORPHOLOGY 449
Note that the adjective xadas in 11.54 modifies the whole compound, but doesn't
modify ha-xolim (i.e. 11.54 doesn't have the interpretation 'hospital for new
patients').
In addition to compounds of this sort Hebrew has a construction which is
superficially very similar known as the construct state, shown in 11.55. This has the
same meaning as the NP formed from a PP with sel, 'of', 11.56:
11.55 cd9if ha-yalda
scarf the-girl
'the girl's scarf'
11.56 ha-ca9if sel ha-yalda
the-scarf of the-girl
'the scarf of the girl'
In certain respects the construct state nominals behave like compounds. For
instance, it is impossible to make the head of a construct state nominal definite by
prefixing ha- to it (just as in the case of compounds). Instead, we must modify the
non-head, thereby making the whole NP definite. Thus, 11.56 can have only the
gloss given, it can't, for instance, mean 'the scarf of a girl', and 11.57 is impossible:
11.57 *ha-cd9if ha-yalda
the-scarf the-girl
'the girl's scarf'
Moreover, 11.58 shows that the head can't be directly modified by an adjective
(contrast the acceptable formation with sel, 11.59):
11.58
11.59
*Cd9if (ha-)yafe ha-yalda
scarf (the-)pretty the-girl
'the girl's pretty scarf'
ha-ca9if ha-yafe sel ha-yalda
the-scarf the pretty of the-girl
'the girl's pretty scarf'
Another point of similarity between compounds and construct state nominals is
phonological: in the full NP 11.56 the head, ca9if, retains a full Jaf vowel, while in
11.55 this vowel is reduced. This is because fa/ is reduced if it is not followed by
a stressed syllable, and in the construct state form there is only one main stress,
which falls on the final syllable of ha-yalda.
Because the compounds show lexical idiosyncrasy and word-specific phonological
processes it is assumed that they are formed lexically. Given the similarities with
450 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
construct state nominals we would therefore expect these too to be lexical. However,
there are a number of differences between the two constructions.
First, although both compounds and construct state nominals must be made
definite by marking the non-head, when the non-head of the construct state nominal
is made definite, the interpretation is that both the head and the non-head are definite,
as in 11.60:
11.60 a) manhig ha-kita
leader the-class
'the leader of the class'
b) manhigey ha-kita
leaders the-class
'the leaders of the class' or 'the leaders of a class'
Thus, 11.60b isn't exactly comparable to an English gloss such as 'the class leaders',
because in the English compound class can be given an indefinite or generic
interpretation. This contrasts with compounds such as 11.52 in which the non-head,
though marked with ha-, is necessarily interpreted as indefinite.
Second, a construct state nominal can be modified by an adjective, just as a
compound can, but the form is ambiguous. The adjective can be read as modifying
either the head or its complement, as shown in 11.61:
11.61 C;;l9if ha-yeled ha-yafe
scarf the-boy the-pretty
'the boy's pretty scarf' or 'the pretty boy's scarf'
In a compound it is the whole compound (or equivalently its head) which is modified
by the adjective.
Third, construct state nominals permit conjuction in the non-head with ve-fu-
'and', as seen in 11.62. This is not found in compounds (e.g. 11.63):
11.62 somer batim u-mexoniyot
guard houses and-cars
'a guard of houses and cars'
11.63 *gan' yeladim ve-xayot
garden children and-animals
'kindergarten and zoo'
Other differences between compounds and construct state nominals tend to make
the construct state construction look syntactic compared with compounding, which
is lexical. Thus, while compounding is non-productive and gives rise to non-
compositional and idiosyncratic meanings, the construct state nominals are
productive and always have a compositional meaning. Moreover, the components of
a construct state nominal retain a degree of referentiality, and can be referred to by
pronouns (in violation of lexical integrity). This is impossible with compounds,
which are, as we would expect, anaphoric islands.
PARALLEL MORPHOLOGY 451
How are we to account for these facts and what are their implications? Borer's
argument in summary form is this: in both compounds and construct state nominals
the definiteness prefix appears on the 'wrong' noun. To ensure this marker can
render the whole NP definite we need to appeal to specifically morphological
principles of percolation for each type of construction. Compound formation is
lexical. However, certain aspects of the construct state nominals suggest that they are
formed by syntactic rules not (lexical) morphological rules. Moreover, the syntactic
properties of the construct state nominals suggest that they are formed before the
level of S-structure (and not beyond, for instance at a level of PF). Therefore, there
is a morphological principle (percolation) which has to apply both to lexically formed
constructions (compounds) and syntactically formed constructions (construct state
nominals). Hence, morphological principles must be independent of other levels of
grammar, in other words, there must be a separate morphology module, which at
least has access to the syntax.
The percolation Borer assumes works in the following manner. First, we assume
that a construct state nominal consists of a head N followed by an NP, while a
compound consists of two nouns. Then, we assume that there is a feature [def]
associated with the prefix ha-. This percolates as in 11.64-5, to make the whole NP
definite: 9
11.64 NP NP[+def]
~ ~
N NP ==:=:;'>
~
N NP[+def]
/~
Def N Def N
manhig manhig
ha kita ha kita
11.65 N N[+def]
~ ~
N N
~
N N[+def]
~
Def N Def N
\ I I I
beyt ha sefer beyt ha sefer
The fact that the definiteness feature can be a property of a single noun, as in
11.65, and not just of an NP, distinguishes definiteness in Hebrew from definiteness
in European languages such as English. However, we also know that the definiteness
marking on sefer in 11.65 isn't semantically or syntactically relevant. Thus, sefer itself
isn't interpreted as definite and a definite adjective agrees in definiteness with the
whole compound, not just with sefer (cf. example 11.53). Borer argues that secondary
percolation of this sort from a complement is characteristic of word formation, not
452 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
syntax (cf. our discussion of 'relativized heads' in connection with the theories of
Williams and of Selkirk in §6.2.1). On the other hand the construct state
nominals appear to be syntactically formed (for example, in permitting adjectival
modification of the complement, complete with agreement). Therefore, she reasons,
at least one word formation process, secondary percolation from a complement,
applies in the syntactic formation of a word. From this it is simplest to conclude that
all morphological operations can apply either in the lexicon or the syntax.
The demonstration that construct state nominals can be formed no later than the
syntax comes from the observation that they are opaque to syntactic processes like
WH-extraction, while the sel nominals permit this. This can be explained if
we assume that construct state nominals become words at or before the level of
S-structure, but no later (in particular they can't be formed at PF). Since we have
argued that they can't be formed in the lexicon, this means that the only place they
could be formed is in the syntactic component (the mapping from D-structure to
S-structure).
The model that emerges is spelled out as follows. The notion of the lexicon is
reinterpreted in terms of the Listing Principle (Borer, 1988: 60):
11.66 The Listing Principle
a) Words are inserted at D-structure only if they are listed.
b) Listed words may not be lexically underspeci:fied.
By 'lexical specification' Borer is referring to syntactic category features, argument
structure and meaning. In- other words, if a word is listed then all these features are
fixed. Assuming the Projection Principle this means that none of them can be
changed during a derivation in the syntax. Any rule which does change such features
(i.e. most derivational morphology) must therefore be pre-syntactic, or lexical.
However, if words are not listed, that is, if an item is unspecified for some feature,
then it can be inserted after D-structure.
This notion of listedness is distinct from traditional usages and particularly from
that of Di Sciullo and Williams (1987). Consider a suppletive plural form such as
teeth. In a lexically formed compound such as teeth-marks we would say that plural
formation had taken place 'in the lexicon' (i.e. prior to lexical insertion at
D-structure). Therefore, pluralization would be one of the listed features of teeth in
such a case. On the other hand, in a syntactically relevant context, say, the sentence
Her teeth are white, we would assume that plural formation had taken place in the
syntax, thus making it transparent to syntactic agreement. In other words, listedness
is a somewhat abstract notion dependent on our overall conception of grammar.
Borer summarizes her proposals in the diagram of :figure 11.4. The word formation
Word
formation
component
Figure 11.4
Lexical Insertion
D-structure }
syntax
S-structure
Phonology (PF)
Borer's model of Parallel Morphology
CONCLUSIONS 453
component ('morphology module') is then an autonomous component which is
responsible for the purely morphological aspects of word structure. Borer's analysis
of construct state nominals in Hebrew provides a case study of this module operating
in the syntax, while Shibatani and .Kageyama's analysis of post-syntactic com-
pounding is an instance of the word-formation module operating at the level of PF.
11.7 Conclusions
We began this chapter by asking 'Where's morphology?' and we've seen a variety
of answers, running from 'just in the lexicon', through ' in the lexicon and the
syntax', to 'everywhere'. I conclude this discussion with a rephrasing of this
question, which will serve as the background to my own answer to it. At various
times I've suggested that one of the key unresolved questions in morphology is 'what
is a word?'. We can view the various answers to the question 'where's morphology?'
as implying answers to this second question.
Recall that in my earlier introduction to the question of wordhood in §2.2, I
suggested that there were conflicting criteria for wordhood, and that we should
probably distinguish several types of word, including at least the lexeme, word form,
morphosyntactic word and phonological word. The radical lexicalist theory of Di
Sciullo and Williams draws a rather different set of distinctions centering around a
dichotomy between 'morphological object' and 'syntactic atom'. Here, it would
seem, it is only word forms that are the proper object of study for the morphologist
(though they admit that it might be necessary to distinguish a notion of 'phonological
word'). What is crucial to this conception is that all the other linguistic properties
of a word, be they phonological, syntactic or semantic, are projected from properties
of the component morphemes, and we can't derive them from other components of
grammar. Hence, if a derived nominal seems to behave as though it retained the
argument assigning properties of its verb stem, this must mean that the word as a
whole inherits those properties from that stem by means of morphological principles
(e.g. of feature percolation).
One way of weakening the conceptually taut schema of radical lexicalism is to
concede that some word formation might take place 'beyond' the lexicon. This was
argued for by Borer on the basis of her comparison between Hebrew construct state
nominals and lexical compounds. Another example of this is the familiar distinction
between (purely lexical) derivation and regular, syntactically determined, inflection.
This type of distinction immediately leads to the possibility of a mismatch between
form and function. For instance, most verbs in English have a 3 sg. form in fzf,
which is subject to at most phonologically conditioned allomorphy. However, the
verb to be has a suppletive form, is. Therefore, we must arrange for the
morphological and the syntactic aspects of the agreement process to be separated.
This means that we must distinguish minimally between word forms (is) and
morphosyntactic words ('3sg. form of be'). This implies a further conceptual item,
the lexeme (though possibly only as a derived notion at this stage). Notice that this
isn't to say that a radically lexicalist theory is incapable of accounting for suppletive
inflection. It simply means that the lexicalist theory can't regard the disposition of
morphosyntactic features as of relevance to morphology.
454 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
If we accept the arguments from syntactic ~ffixation and construct state nominals,
then the most parsimonious way of locating morphology is in the lexicon and in the
syntax (pace Sproat, Anderson and others). We have yet to say anything, however,
about the phonological word. Thus far, we could allow this to remain a purely
phonological concept, the prosodic domain of certain types of phonological rule,
related to the morphosyntactic notion of 'word', but not an object of interest to the
morphologist (just as an intonational phrase is not necessarily of interest to the phrase
structure grammarian). The arguments of Shibatani and Kageyama cast doubt on
this judgement. Their Japanese compounding case would seem to indicate that
morphological principles are still operative after syntactic rules and rules of phrase
phonology have applied to form a post-syntactic compound. However, the resulting
type of word can't automatically be identified with the 'phonological word' of the
prosodic phonologist. Nonetheless, for the present I'll refer to this as a phonological
word, despite the danger of pernicious ambiguity.
All such phonological words will be potential words, in the sense that they are
freely formed by general principles and have a compositional interpretation. Is it
possible to imagine a listed phonological word? Such an object would have to be
formed out of syntactically composed elements which then underwent phonological
processes (e.g. reduction processes) to produce an object with wordlike properties.
The fact that phonological words are formed by regular syntactic and phonological
operations would seem to rule out listing by definition. However, one could argue that
certain such constructions might become lexicalized, if the syntactic function they
realized were of frequent occurrence and belonged to a well-defined circumscribed
syntactic domain. This might be true, for instance, ofthe negative auxiliaries of th.e-
form won·'t and shan't, which Zwicky and Pullum (1983) have analysed as a type of
inflection.
Finally, there are two senses in which it has been claimed that syntactically formed
phrases can enter the lexicon and be treated as what we might call phrasal words. The
first is the Romance compounding discussed by Di Sciullo and Williams (which has
rather more limited reflex in the violations of the No Phrase Constraint in English
compounding). Whether we regard this as word formation proper or as some more
performance related notion of word creation (cf. van Marie, 1985), we still need to
account for its existence and for the fact that it is widespread in some languages and
not in others. Such word formation brings us full circle, in the sense that here we
have the syntax feeding lexical morphological processes. In effect, it is perhaps best
to regard such formations as on a par with the lexicalized phonological words, except
that their motivation is purely syntactic and not phonological. In other words, we
have something akin to Japanese post-syntactic compounding by simply redefining
a phrase as a word.
To summarize, we can view the various answers to the question 'where's
morphoiogy?' as implicitly asking 'what is a word?' And the answer to that question
turns out to have different answers at different levels of representation. The final
picture I've painted is very similar to that of Baker (1988c). That paper is a
particularly clear defence of the view of morphology as an autonomous module. On this
conception, we don't view morphology as a componem, or stage, through which all
derivations pass on their way from semantic or lexical structure to phonological form.
Rather, morphology represents a set of rules and principles which together go to
CONCLUSIONS 455
define the well-formedness of words, irrespective of the way in which they are
formed.
I've mapped out the final position in some detail in figure 11.5. This illustrates a
number of the phenomena discussed in various parts of the book, and how they
might be treated on the present model. This diagram is obviously modelled rather
closely on those of Shibatani and Kageyama, and of Borer. The morphology module
is autonomous of other levels of representation, in that it has its own set of elements
and principles of combination, as stressed by Di Sciullo and Williams. It therefore
contains information about (lexical) phonological well-formedness and morphological
well-formedness. However, it interacts with all other levels of representation, shown
in figure 11.5 by the fact that it runs parallel with the rest of the grammatical
Morphology module Lexicon
Derivational
morphology List of lexemes,
Paradigmatic word
idioms etc.
C/)
~
formation Idiosyncratic word
-a
......,
forms
u
Lexical compounding
~
.......
....
Anticausatives etc.
0..
C/)
Monoclausal causatives
C/)
~
~
Chukchee NI
"0
~
Adjectival passives
s
....
<-8 Synthetic compounds?
I
--<
-
~
::: Syntax
- Regular inflection etc.
C\l
u
{ D structure }
.......
OJ:)
0 Hebrew construct state S structure
-
0
nominals
~ (LF)
0
..c: ECP
0.. Synthetic compounds?
0
Binding theory
..c:
0.. Biclausal causatives
.... etc.
0
s Verbal passives
"0
Mohawk NI
~
C\l
"@ Pronominal clitics
u
.......
OJ:)
Phonology
0
0 Phrasal affixation
..c:
0..
(including Eng. POSS Prosodic domains
....
0
aux. clitics, alan) Phonotactic constraints
~
Kwakwala, Polish clitics
Phonological rules
Post-syntactic compounding
Figure II. 5 The morphology module
456 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
derivation. The form this interaction takes is that processes defined over lexical
objects, syntactic objects or phonological objects can serve as the input to a word
formation process. (Since words ultimately have to be realized in phonological form,
this means that there will be no LF processes which feed word formation.)
One way of interpreting figure 11.5 is to imagine that certain aspects of word
structure as determined in the morphology module are 'visible' to other components.
For instance, the syntactic category of a word is visible to the' syntax, and the
phonological composition of a word is visible to the phonology. However, in the
syntax, we find processes such as agreement, which are defined over morphosyntactic
features, manipulated in the syntax. These features are also characteristic of words.
In the spirit of separationism (a la Beard, Anderson, or Zwicky) we can distinguish
two aspects of, say, an inflected word form. First, we identify the lexeme, then the
morphosyntactic feature composition. At the level of syntax, it's the latter which
becomes 'visible'. This presupposes that syntactic atlixation is defined over features,
not actual morphemes. It is only the morphology module that can manipulate
morphemes (or word forms).
Since figure 11.5 includes a number of processes which were not mentioned at the
beginning of this section, I'll provide a brief annotation, to clarify why certain
processes are placed where they are.
There is an interface between the morphology and the lexicon. This means that we
follow Di Sciullo and Williams (amongst others) in not identifying the morphology
module with the lexicon itself. There are various, often productive, morphological
processes which take place at the lexical level, that is, which are defined purely over
lexemes or other lexically listed objects. For instance, much of standard derivational
morphology is of this character. It also includes lexical compounding, and the
'meaning-driven' paradigmatic word formation processes discussed in chapter 10. I
would also claim that monoclausal causative formation occurs at this level. This is
incompatible with Baker's analysis, but fully compatible with the view of Booij, and
of Zubizarreta. Arguably, it's compatible with a certain interpretation of Marantz's
model (though not one Marantz himself would necessarily favour), under which we
regard the crucial aspects of his 1-s structure as equivalent to Lexica-Conceptual
Structure (cf. §8.3.6.2). Similarly, we can treat other types of valency alternation
where the syntax is blind to the original valency of the verb stem, such as
anticausative formation.
We also find cross-category changes such as the formation of causative or
inchoative verbs from adjectives at this level. This type will include adjectival passive
formation. However, this doesn't necessarily mean that verbal passive formation has
to be a lexical process. This is because the passive word forms themselves are formed
in the morphology module, and can thus, in principle, be available for other
morphological processes. Such processes can be linked to the lexical level, provided
they don't refer crucially to information which is not available till the syntax. Since
adjectival passive formation is nothing more than a piece of derivational morphology,
this requirement is met. Therefore, adjectival passive formation can be lexical even
if verbal passive formation is syntactic. In exactly the same way, inflected forms of
words can be subject to lexical processes (such as compounding) provided the
inflected forms are interpreted as lexical units and not as the result of a syntactic
process (say, of agreement). This allows us to form compounds of the type systems
analyst in the lexicon. Whether an inflected form is subject to (marginal) word
CONCLUSIONS 457
formation in this way seems to be a function of the meaning associated with the form
in question.
As an example of lexical compounding I include Chukchee noun incorporation. In
Rosen's (1989) analysis, all incorporation is 'lexical'. However, we can say that the
morphological properties of incorporation structures are determined in the
morphology module, and other properties can be determined elsewhere. Thus, it is
a property of chukchee verbs which incorporate their objects that they become
intransitive. We interpret this as meaning that their direct internal theta role is
satisfied lexically. Such a thing couldn't happen anywhere but the lexicon, because
otherwise it would constitute a violation of the Projection Principle. However, this
doesn't prevent different instantiations of noun incorporation from taking place in
the syntax or even the phonology.
Finally, how does lexically governed phonological form fit into the picture? Baker
(1988c) claims that his model is incompatible with Lexical Phonology, while Borer
(1988) claims that her very similar model is compatible with it. In a sense, both are
correct. Baker is"right to say that our present conception is incompatible with (strict
interpretations of) level ordering. However, level ordering creates a good many
problems of a purely morphological nature, as we've seen, and there are species of
lexical phonology which don't appeal to this. The model presented here is therefore
compatible with those approaches to morphophonology which eschew level ordering,
including Booij and Rubach's model, Morpholexical Phonology and the approach of
Aronoff and Sridhar. The latter two types of approach are perhaps, particularly
consonant with our overall model because of the way they permit explicit linking of
morphophonemic alternations with particular functions in. word formation.
The upshot of this perspective is that the lexicoll may be just a list of
idiosyncrasies, but that doesn't mean that it has no interesting linguistic properties.
On the contrary, by assuming an autonomous morphology module we can retain the
more traditional view and claim that a large part of word formation is defined over
the lexicon, without committing ourselves to the claim that the word forms which
result can be formed only at the lexical level.
If word formation at the lexical level takes as its 'raw material' the contents of the
lexicon, then at the level of syntax we find word formation defined over material
which is not listed in any sense, and which is only defined once it has been created
by syntactic processes. This is the crucial distinction drawn by Borer between
construct state nominals and lexical compounds in Hebrew. I've followed Roeper
(1988) in suggesting that English gerund formation takes place at this level (though
not necessarily in exactly the way he proposes). The syntactic properties of biclausal
causatives are also accounted for if they are formed in the syntax (what Marantz
refers to as s structure). We can account for many of the properties of the verbal
passive by assuming that it is formed at this level, too.
The type of noun incorporation illustrated by Mohawk is arguably the result of
syntactic processes. This will be true whether we accept Baker's Move-Noun analysis
or the alternative in which the noun-verb compound identifies an empty pronoun
(pro), rather than a lexical trace. Similarly, the pronominal cliticization phenomena
of Romance, Macedonian and other languages will take place here, even though the
resulting structures resemble affixed words. The job of accounting for the difference
between such formations and true affixation will be the responsibility of the
morphology module. At the same time, genuine agreement markers, such as the
458 THE PLACE OF MORPHOLOGY
subject agreement of many Indo-European languages and the subject-object
agreement of Chukchee, are also distributed at this level, an instance of what we
may regard as syntactic affixation. Such affixation has as its target a specific lexical
category (a verb).
The morphology module is also responsible for determining the shape of clitic
clusters, such as those described for Serbo-Croat. On the other hand, it is syntactic
principles which govern the occurrence and morphosyntactic make-up of such
clusters. So, again, the morphology module comes into play only after the syntax. has
determined various properties of the. overall structure of the sentence such as
tense/aspect forms, modality and anaphor binding properties. The same goes for the
interesting Chichewa data cited at the end of chapter 9. If, as some claim, the prefix
system of Bantu is actually a type of clitic cluster affixed to the verb, then this case
will reduce to something akin to, say, Macedonian, though with slightly different
principles licensing the occurrence of NPs. If, on the other hand, we really are
dealing with prefixation here, then we'll have a rather unusual case ~n which -rrue
affixes behave like free standing pronouns, a rather serious violation of Strong
Lexicalism.
The agreement processes with Slavic possessive adjectives discussed by Corbett will
be handled here. On the present model, one way of interpreting such facts would be
to say that the possessive adjectives have the morphological form of derived
adjectives, but that the process which drives them is syntactic. This means that a
form such as Sorbian wucerjow 'teacher's' from wucer · 'teacher' is created
morphologically by affixation, but licensed in the syntax, as a kind of spell-out of
whatever syntactic features realize the .function, of a possessive. determiner. One
corollary of this approach to syntactic affixation (explicitly discussed, for instance, by
Corbett, 1987, in respect of the Slavic agreement data) is that there is no unitary
distinction to be drawn between inflection and derivation. In syntactic terms the
formation of possessive adjectives is inflectional, in that it controls agreemen"£. In
morphological terms it is derivational. For example, it changes syntactic category.
Much the same can be said about participle and gerund formation. This means that
the inflection/derivation dichotomy is a pretheoretic distinction which doesn't
correspond to a single phenomenon in our model. If we want to characterize
prototypical (pretheoretic) inflectional processes, however, we might try recasting
Anderson's (1982) dictum and say that inflectional morphology is the paradigm
example of syntax which is relevant to morphology.
Careful scrutiny of figure 11.5 reveals that I have hedged my bets over the locus
of synthetic compounding. As should be evident from our discussion in chapter 8
there remain many murky areas surrounding even the English compounds, on vvhich
a great deal of attention has been lavished. My suspicion is that ultimately we'll find
that in different languages rather similar constructions will turn out to be located at
different levels. For the moment I remain agnostic about how best to handle even one
variety.
Finally, we come to word formation driven by the phonology componen"£. In
addition to post-syntactic compounding in Japanese (which in many respects
represents phonologically determined noun incorporation), there are a number of
other good candidates for phonologically triggered word formation. Phrasal affixation
discussed in chapter 9 is a case in point. The disposition of the possessive ,s in
English is a function of superficial surface syntax, inasmuch as the affix is attached
CONCLUSIONS 459
to the last word of a syntactic phrase. Now, in English, the word order in these
phrases is determined by syntactic principles. However, this doesn't prevent such
phrasal affixation from taking place at the phonological level. In this way we account
for the fact that the word formation aspect of possessive formation is concerned solely
with linear adjacency, remaining blind to all syntactic aspects of structure. In other
languages, in which word order is much freer, it may interact with intonation and
rhythm and contribute to the overall degree of emphasis, topicalization or whatever
borne by individual constituents. Latin was such a free word order language, and the
clitic conjunction -que, discussed in §11.4, is therefore an example of a phrasal affix
whose placement is arguably determined in the phonology component. Again, in
Serbo-Croat, clitics are placed second in their clause. However, we know that this
can be interpreted to mean either 'after the first phrase' or 'after the first stressed
word'. In the latter case it looks as though clitic placement is again determined by
the phonology component. Likewise, Kwakwala clitic placement, illustrated in
chapter 9, is constrained only by linear adjacency and should therefore be handled
in the phonology.
Finally, by permitting the morphology module access to the post-syntactic,
phonological level, we open the way to an understanding of the allomorphic
alternations discussed by Zwicky under the heading of Shape Conditions (cf. §4.6).
This is illustrated by the choice of the form of the English indefinite article, af an.
The article forms a (phonological) word with the lexical item to its right, and this
happens to be subject to phonologically conditioned allomorphy. Much the same is
true of Polish person/number clitics.
Many unanswered questions remain surrounding the composite model I've
presented in figure 11.5. The most pressing relates to the way that morphological
form matches up with syntactic and phonological form. The existence of bracketing
paradoxes and discontinuous dependencies of various sorts shows the mapping is
not direct. As we've seen, a number of theoreticians have attacked this problem,
proposing a variety of 'mapping principles' (Marantz, Sadock, Sproat, amongst
others). Clearly, some set of universal principles is needed, otherwise we couldn't
account for the fact that the possible mappings aren't entirely arbitrary. Given that
many of the mismatches between form and function are very regular and yet
governed by very subtle criteria, we must relate this question to the question of
learnability. Hence, whatever principles we propose must not be too parochial. To
some extent, ignorance is a problem here: we simply don't know enough about the
extent to which mismatches between form and function can occur. This is in part
because such mismatches require careful and detailed analysis before we can
determine which level word formation takes place at, and what kinds of regularities
govern it. It is one of the virtues of the model outlined in figure 11.5 that it
encourages us to look for further such cases.
The model of morphology that has emerged over recent years illustrates
dramatically the theme that has run through this book, namely, that much of the
intellectual challenge posed by morphology for linguistic theory construction lies in
the exploration of the interfaces between morphology and the rest of grammar.
Age-old questions concerning the nature of words are given novel interpretations,
while, at the same time, new phenomena are unearthed, which may well have gone
unnoticed under the older perspective. This is precisely what we want of a vigorous
and developing branch of study.
Notes
CHAPTER I The domain of morphology
1 The word morpheme itself is composed of two morphemes, the first morph, which
comes from the Greek word meaning 'form', and the second -eme, also found in pho- ·
neme, lexeme and a number of other terins. The precise meaning of the latter is
difficult to characterize outside of linguistic theory. One of the aifus of several of the
chapters of this book will be to go towards explaining what the -eme of morpheme
means.
2 The reduced vowel of the plural ending, which I represent here as a schwa, is actually
pronounced in a variety of different ways depending on accent. For instance,
speakers of British 'Received Pronunciation' will pronounce it as frzf.
3 The terminology parallels that in phonology. We have the proportions:
morph
morpheme
allomorph (of a morpheme)
phone
phoneme
allophone (of a phoneme)
4 Appearances may be deceptive here, though, because, on the assumptions of gener-
ative phonology (see chapter 4), this would simply be a case of phonologically
conditioned allomorphy. For the suffix -ity would have a particular effect on the
phonological form of roots it attached to, and the allomorphic variation seen in 1.4-5
would then be the result of the application of phonological rules. This illustrates the
fact that the proper analysis of a phenomenon depends on the theoretical framework
you adopt.
5 At the same time, notice that we also see a case of allomorphy, again conditioned by
a particular morpheme (or rather set of morphemes) in the alternations -ceive -
-cept. We know, incidentally, that the correct analysis of words like conception is
con-cept-ion and not con-cep-tion because the -cept allomorph appears elsewhere in
con-cept, con-cept-ual, re-cept-ive, re-cept-or and so on.
6 There is a further, syntactic, justification for this arrangement in the grammar of
l
I
NOTES 461
Russian, namely agreement: an adjective which modifies a noun takes on endings cor-
responding to the gender, number and case of that noun. I shall discuss agreement
in §1.4.
7 The transcription here follows Slavicist practice: the symbol t' represents
IPA [ti], s= [J], c= [tJ], y = [i].
8 That is, the endings which have a morphosyntactic function, of a kind illustrated below
in §1.4.
9 A terminological note of caution: many authors use the term 'paradigm' in a rather
loose way to mean something like 'subparadigm', or 'the set of inflected forms that
I am talking about at the moment', leaving it to the context to specify the extension
of the subparadigm. Potentially more confusing for the uninitiated is when morpho-
logists use the term to mean 'tabulated data set arranged so as to illustrate some pat-
tern', a usage which applies to derivational morphology, or even phonology and
syntax.
10 I shall try to use the term root to refer ·to a single morpheme which bears the 'core'
meaning of a word. The term stem will be reserved for that part of a word to which
inflectional affixes are added, and base for that part to which any other morpheme is
added (inflectional, derivational or compound). Unfortunately, this terminology isn't
standardized, which is not surprising given that not all linguists admit a distinction
between inflection and derivation. You have to be prepared to see these three terms
used interchangeably in the literature, or with more narrowly defined meanings than
here.
11 English has a somewhat restricted class of infixes, represented by examples such as
abso-bloomin'-lutely, fan-bloody-tastic and other coarser alternatives. This affixation
process (which in the early 1970s, when it was first discussed, was called 'Fuckin'
Insertion', and which is now coyly referred to as 'Expletive Infixation') forms the
basis of an ingenious and extremely interesting argument concerning syllable struc-
ture (McCarthy, 1982c).
12 Scalise (1984: 147ff) provides an interesting discussion of the theoretical status of
parasynthesis, or circumfixation, in Italian.
13 Structuralist theories of morphology (i.e. the pre-generative theories briefly intro-
duced in chapter 2) also spoke of such things as replacives and subtractives (as well
as zero affixes, mentioned below). I shall briefly discuss thes~ and related concepts
in the next chapter.
14 Notice that contrasts such as that between binyan I, katab, and binyan III, kaatab,
provide further illustration of the morphological use of vowel length.
15 An apostrophe after a plosive (e.g. p') indicates aspiration. The hook beneath the
letter in tc!Jl indicates a palatal pronunciation. Nivkh has the following uvulars: a
voiceless plosive q, voiceless fricative x and voiced fricative I!. The sound r is a
voiceless r.
16 The operations just discussed don't exhaust the ways of creating new words. In
English new words are formed by clipping (e.g. mike from microphone) and blending
(e.g. smog from smoke and fog) as well as from acronyms such as radar and 'stub'
compounds such as Caltech. None of these is of any great importance to morpholo-
gical theory.
Of greater significance is word formation by analogy as represented by backforma-
tion. This occurs when a word is reanalysed by speakers as though it had a regular
derivation even though the base of the derivation didn't previously exist. For
instance, from the word baby-sitter speakers have coined the verb to baby-sit.
The distinction between these ways of creating new words (as opposed to genuine
462 NOTES
morphological devices used in productive word fonnation) will be touched on in a
number of places throughout the book.
17 The bulk of chapter 7 is devoted to recent theories of such phenomena and you can
find an expanded account of them at the beginning of that chapter.
18 There are other ways of marking subjects and objects, though the nominative-
accusative and the ergative types are the most common. A good source of information
on these and other types is Mallinson and Blake (1981).
19 Causatives are also frequently found creating a verb meaning 'cause X to be Adjec-
tive' from an adjective.
20 This is not to be confused with the term 'focus', as in 'topic-focus' articulation, also
referred to as 'topic-comment', 'functional sentence perspective' and other terms.
21 An introduction to tense can be found in Comrie (1987), and an introduction to
aspect in Comrie (1976). Palmer (1986) provides an introduction to mood and moda-
lity.
22 The 'y' of the root yn is pronounced [d], otherwise 'y' = [i], 'dd' = [<)], 'ch' = [x],
'f' = [v].
FURTHER READING
Many of the concepts introduced here are discussed in handbooks on structuralist
linguistics such as Sapir (1921), Bloomfield (1933), Hockett (1958) or Gleason (1961). A
book devoted to morphology which is still well worth reading is Nida (1949). More recent
general introductions .to linguistics such as Akmajian, Demers and Harnish (1984),
Fromkin and Rodman (1988), Atkinson, Kilby and Roca (1988) among others can be con-:
sulted for introductory overviews. Lyons (1968) remains a good source. Matthews (1974),
Bauer (1988) and Jensen (1990) contain a good deal of information on many of the con-
cepts discussed here (though from a rather different perspective in some cases). Corbett
(1990) is an overview of gender, agreement and morphological classes which contains
much useful information for morphologists. The chapters in Shopen (ed.) (volume III)
provide a very useful discussion to many of the issues I've touched upon in this chapter.
For details of the morphology of English, in addition to the monumental handbooks
of authors such as Jespersen, Poutsma and so on, the reader can consult Adams (1973),
Bauer (1983) and Marchand (1969).
CHAPTER 2 Basic concepts and pre-generative approaches
1 This notion of 'deviation' is central to certain theories of inflection, notably those of
the Natural Morphologists and the related theory of Carstairs (1987). These are
discussed in chapter 6.
2 Phonotactic constraints are syntagmatic restrictions on (surface) phonological
representations, in other words, constraints on what ('horizontal') combinations of
sounds are permitted by the language. For example, in English, syllables are not
permitted to begin with more than three consonants; in a three consonant cluster the
first must be /sf; no initial clusters of ftlf or fdlf are permitted, and so on. Japanese
permits no consonant clusters of any sort, in any position.
In structuralist morphology we also speak of morphotactic restrictions, i.e. the restric-
tions on the combinations of morphemes. The structuralist literature often referred
NOTES 463
to these restncnons simply as the 'tactics' of the system (thereby isolating the
morpheme implied by the terms phonotactic, morphotactic, and syntactic).
3 A vexed and unresolved question concerns the relationship between the linguist's
conception of the lexicon and that of the psycholinguist endeavouring to develop
models of language use and acquisition in 'real time'. The lexicon in psycholin-
guistics is often referred to as the mental lexicon. Questions of parsimony of rep-
resentation, which are important in linguistic theory construction; tend to be
subordinated to questions of processing efficiency in psycholinguistic modelling.
Many psycholinguists would regard any purely linguistic characterization of the
lexicon as superfluous and would claim that only study of the mental lexicon (using
psycholinguistic methodology) was legitimate. Reviews of the psycholinguisfic litera-
ture on the mental lexicon can be found in many places, for instance, Butterworth
(1983), Henderson (1985), Harris and Coltheart (1986) and Aitchison (1987).
4 With the growth of generative phonology (see chapter 3) a particular version of the
IP approach later became dominant. A common type of analysis (equivalent to sol-
ution (3)) would have used an abstract past tense marker in underlying form to
trigger a set of phonological rules affecting vowels in specially marked verbs. Other
analyses might be best conceived as variants of solution (2) or solution (5). Interest-
ingly, the currently dominant view of vowel alternations of this kind in languages
such as those of the Semitic group is effectively a formalization of Hockett's own IA
solution (4) (see chapter 5).
5 There is one variety of IA approach to highly agglutinative morphology which seems
to require the notion of word (or word form), and that is the analysis by position
class adopted by certain linguists working on American Indian languages. In this
approach a word is analysed as a root plus a string of fixed a.ffix positions. Each
position may be occupied by a unique affix or by a set of mutually exclusive affixes
(e.g. person and number affixes). Position class analysis is considered in more detail
in §6.4.
6 Alternatively, we could adopt the solution suggested earlier and say that the case dis-
tinction is neutralized for oblique cases in fern. sg. forms. Given that that solution
is a little suspect it's important to observe that such a solution isn't forced on the WP
model. However, the neutralization approach is effectively what an IA model is
forced into, though that model has to state neutralization rather perversely, as a form
of allomorphy.
7 Further discussion of structuralist theories of morphophonemics would have us
straying into the field of phonology. A very good and highly readable survey of the
issues is provided by Anderson (1985a). A less up-to-date but still valuable review
is Fischer-}0rgensen (1975). P~onology textbooks which discuss structuralist theories
in some detail include Sommerstein (1977) and Lass (1984). A simple introduction
to the principles of phonemics can be found in Hawkins (1984).
FURTHER READING
In addition to the references given in chapter 1 and note 7 above, many of the papers
of Joos (1958) will be found interesting. Matthews (1972) gives a detailed but rather
technical discussion of inflection and the three models. On wordhood, Brown and Miller
(1980) is a good introduction. A very basic initiation to dictionaries from the point of view
of lexicography (the art of dictionary writing) is found in Jackson (1988).
464 NOTES
CHAPTER 3 Early generative approaches
1 Syntactic accounts of the auxiliary system in generative grammar are very varied. In
some versions the auxiliary (Aux) is an immediate constituent of the sentence, in
others an immediate constituent of the VP and in still others an immediate
constituent of some other node (such as Predicate Phrase, or Infl'). These differences
are irrelevant for our purposes. I have chosen a representation found, for instance,
in Radford (1981, 1988).
2 A very good example of such work is Dowty (1979). Incidentally, Dowty (1979: 241)
rejects McCawley's arguments for decomposing causatives, on the grounds that the
alleged ambiguity with almost is nothing more than vagueness.
3 The only systematic differences are related ultimately to the interpretation of poorly
understood quantifier-type elements in surface structure, and their interaction with
'focus' (or 'functional sentence perspective') Cf. the discussion of the difference
between beavers build dams and dams are built by beavers in Chomsky (1975).
Crucially, actives and passives describe the same state of affairs (i.e. they have the
same truth conditions).
4 Chomsky left open the question of how it is that inflectional morphology changes the
syntactic class of the word in gerunds (and participles).
5 Perhaps I should say 'induce an alteration in the meaning of' in view of the drastic
meaning change mentioned in §3.5.3.
6 SPE also uses a =boundary, but this is regarded by most linguists nowadays as
simply a notational device for p&tching up phonological rules. For discussion see
Siegel (1980).
7 The extension is largely due to Allen·(1978)~ A useful summary of this area, together
with interesting discussion of Italian and Dutch data, is found in Scalise (1984: ch.
5).
8 Aronoff seems to have in mind the incorporation of pronominal elitics onto, say, a
verb, rather than the sort of incorporation exhibited by polysynthetic languages like
Chukchee.
9 It would appear as if Aronoff spurns here the opportunity to attach a semantic feature
such as [+human] onto the output of the word as a function of the WFR. Instead,
this information is coded as part of the semantics. The correct choice in such cases
obviously depends on one's theory of lexical semantics. Many people would say that
features such as [+human] are meaningless anyway and should be discarded for
more sophisticated forms of semantic representation, rather than being confounded
with syntax.
10 The concept of lexical redundancy is explored in great detail by Jackendoff (1975),
who comes to the conclusion that all words have to be listed in the lexicon, and
related in all their facets (syntactic, semantic and phonological) by redundancy rules.
However, while Aronoff allows his productive WRFs to double as redundancy rules,
Jackendoff has his redundancy rules doubling as productive word formation rules to
account for novel coinings. Aronoff regards this as a weakness in Jackendoff's theory,
because it appears to predict a far greater variety of productive word formation
processes than is actually observed.
11 See chapter 1 Note 16 for this term.
12 This is what we would expect given Siegel's observations on the distinction between
# (Class II) and +(Class I) affixation.
13 Much more detailed discussion of the phenomenon of blocking is provided in Scalise
(1984: 156ff). Aronoff's concept of blocking is criticized by Di Sciullo and Williams
(1987: 10ff) but their objections appear to stem from a misreading of Aronoff's book.
NOTES 465
FURTHER READING
Introductions to generative syntax which might be found useful background to this
chapter include Akmajian and Heny (1975), C. Baker (1978), and Smith and Wilson
(1978). Perlmutter and Soames (1979) provides a Generative Semantics orientation.
Lyons (1968) gives a useful introduction to the Aspects model.
The only text devoted specifically to the material of this chapter is Scalise (1984), which
will fill in a good deal of the detail I have left out here. A very good overview of many
of the issues raised in the chapter is provided in Booij (1977).
CHAPTER 4 Approaches to allomorphy
1 With sufficient ingenuity we could extend our umlauting rule to cases like man - men,
or mouse - mzce.
2 In Czech orthography crepresents IPA [tJ], ch is a digraph representing IPA [x];
an accent over a vowel indicates length.
3 Solutions along these lines have been proposed by Lightner (1972) for Russian, by
Scatton (1975) for Bulgarian and by Gussmann (1980) and Rubach (1984) for Polish.
4 My use of this example shouldn't be taken to imply that phonologists have invariably
analysed Velar Softening as a cyclic rule: in Kiparsky (1982b) and in Halle and
Mohanan (1985), for instance, it is treated as non-cyclic.
5 There has been extensive discussion of rule ordering in the generative literature. The
other two principal types of rule interaction brought about by extrinsic ordering are
bleeding and counterbleeding.
Suppose we have two rules, R1 and R2, such that R1 effects a change B-E before
C, while R2 effects a change A-D before B. Either of R1 or R2 could in principle
apply to/ABC/ to produce/AECf and /DBCf respectively. If R1 applies before R2,
however, R2 won't be able to apply to the new output /AECf. In this case, we say
that R1 bleeds R2. If we apply the rules in the opposite order both can apply and
we get /DEC/. This is called a counterbleeding order. Notice that bleeding is in no
sense the opposite of feeding (and therefore isn't in any sense equivalent to counter-
feeding), and likewise, counterbleeding isn't the same as feeding.
A good textbook discussion of rule interactions in phonology is found in
Kenstowicz and Kisseberth (1979).
6 The concept of distinctness is that defined in SPE, under which two representations
are distinct only if one is given a feature specification [+F] , where the other has a
specification [- F] for some feature F. This means that if, say, two representations
are identical, except that one is specified [+F] while the other has no specification
for that feature (or, equivalently, zero specification, [OF]), then the two represen-
tations, though different, are not distinct in the technical sense.
7 The Elsewhere Condition is one of a number of conditions that were proposed to
predict the order of application of phonological rules (and it is very similar in form
to the Proper Inclusion Principle of Koutsoudas, Sanders and Noll, 1974). Zwicky
(1986) has a particularly clear discussion of the significance of the notion 'default
case' and ways of formalizing it in morphology.
8 For textbook treatments of the metrical approach to stress see Halle and Clements
(1983), Hogg and McCully (1987), Goldsmith (1990), and also the overview articles
by van der Hulst and Smith (1982c, 1985b).
9 Vol5, no. 2 of the journal Phonology is devoted entirely to the issue ofunderspecifica-
tion. See particularly Archangeli's (1988b) paper in that volume.
466 NOTES
10 Structure preservation is further discussed by Pulleyblank (1986), and used exten-
sively in a number of recent phonological analyses (e.g. Steriade, 1988b). More
general discussion can be found in Goldsmith (1990). Criticism of the idea has come
from various sources, including Hall (1989), Harris (1987) and Mohanan and
Mohanan (1984).
11 A good many technical proposals have been made for implementing such rules.
Reviews can be found in Kenstowicz and Kisseberth (1977) and especially Zonneveld
(1978).
12 The term 'morpholexical rule' is used in a variety of senses by different authors.
Caveat lector!
Lieber's morpholexical rules are to all intents and purposes identical to the 'via-
rules' of Natural Generative Phonology.
13 Matters are complicated slightly by the fact that even here there is exceptionality in
that a handful of masculine stems ending in velar consonants select an affix allomorph
-ach, borrowed from the feminine paradigm. This doesn't affect the argument,
however, since the stem allomorph which occurs with the (hard) - ach allomorph is
always itself hard.
14 The distinction between PRs on the one hand and MPRs/AMRs on the other is remi-
niscent of the distinction between phonological 'processes' and phonological 'rules'
in Natural Phonology.
15 Plank (1984b) discusses a number of cases of this sort, concluding that linguistic
theory needs to countenance· 'disagreement' rules. Zwicky (1985c) rebuts this,
pointing out that we can handle the facts at least as well by assuming the allomorphy
solution together with a theory of inflection which allows us to state things like
'the allomorph of ma found before a vowel initial word is identical to the masculine
allomorph man'.
FURTHER READING
There are a variety of introductions to the SPE model of phonology. Kenstowicz and
Kisseberth (1979) is particularly good. Hyman (1975) and Sommerstein (1977) can also
be recommended. A more advanced discussion, still of considerable value, is Kenstowicz
and Kisseberth (1977). Introductions which include discussion of Lexical Phonology
include Durand (1990), Katamba (1989) and Goldsmith (1990). Introductions to other
approaches to allomorphy seem to have been lacking until now. A number of the papers
of Phonology Yearbook vol. 2 (1985) are devoted to Lexical Phonology (including an
excellent overview article by Kaisse and Shaw).
From the research literature, Dressler's (1985a) monograph is full of useful facts.
Aronoff's (1976) chapter on allomorphy remains a very useful overview of many of the
issues. Zonneveld (1978) discusses a number of issues of relevance to this chapter.
The relative paucity of books specially devoted to allomorphy and morphophonology
reflects the view, dominant till recently, that these could be lumped together with
phonology.
CHAPTER 5 Nonlinear approaches to morphology
1 The most up-to-date, authoritative and complete introduction to autosegmental
phonology is Goldsmith (1990). This chapter should be read in conjunction with his
chapter two, especially his §2.3.
NOTES 467
2 Some discussion of this hypothesis and ways of implementing can be found in
McCarthy (1982b, 1986), and also in the theoretical model advanced in Halle and
Vergnaud (1987). A good overview of the implications for autosegmental phonology
is given in Goldsmith (1990), chapter 6.
3 This is similar in spirit to the type of rules actually written by Chomsky (1979) in
his analysis of essentially the same problems in his Hebrew morphophonemics. Note
that, despite the date of publication of this work, it is, in fact, the first real example
of generative phonology, being a Masters dissertation which Chomsky wrote in 1949.
4 McCarthy explicitly limits application of this principle to morphological rules proper,
and remains agnostic as to whether it should apply to Aronoff's readjustment rules
or allomorphy rules.
5 We shall look at further problems with the standard constituent structure view of
concatenative morphology in chapter 10 when we discuss so-called bracketing
paradoxes (or lexical relatedness paradoxes).
6 Halle and Vergnaud (1987) argue for similar conclusions. A good overview of these
issues,.and other related questions, is found in Goldsmith (1990)
7 I haven't addressed the still vexed question of the way that phonological rules interact
with reduplication. In some cases it seems as though certain phonological rules have
to apply before reduplication. This is problematic if reduplication is a morphological
operation, and if all morphology has to precede the phonology. In a level ordered
morphology, of course, this assumption isn't made, but the problem re-emerges for
those who reject level ordering (see §6.1.1). Recall that Lieber (1982) and Marantz
(1982) used the relative ordering of reduplication and phonology to argue that certain
phonological rules are actually m9rpholexical relationships in the sense of §4.4.
8 See §4.1 for a detailed account of the morphological functions of umlaut in German,
and further information about the phonological characterization of the process.
9 Goldsmith (1990) analyses the morphological function of templates in Sierra Miwok.
10 Alternative solutions are to be found in Spencer (1986), Rubach (1986) and Pio-
trowski, Roca and Spencer (1992).
11 A survey of the assumptions underlying autosegmental accounts of tone languages
can be found in chapter 1 of Goldsmith (1990).
12 Other recent papers which extend or modify some of the proposals reviewed here
include Odden and Odden (1985), Aronoff, Arsyad, Basri, and Broselow (1987),
Steriade (1988a), Marantz (1987), Aronoff (1988a).
13 This therefore excludes signing systems concocted by educationalists, such as the
Paget-Gorman system, which remains in use in some parts of Britain. Such systems
may well not be learnable naturalistically, since they include attempts at mimicking
the structure of spoken languages which arguably violate universal constraints on the
structure of natural sign languages. In this respect they could not be considered
natural languages. I am also excluding the signing systems of monks, though it is
much more likely that these systems do represent natural languages (even though for
sociological reasons it is doubtful that they will ever be learnt by infants!).
FURTHER READING
There is no introductory text which deals specifically with nonconcatenative morphology.
Goldsmith (1990) is essential reading for autosegmental approaches to phonology and
it includes much useful discussion of the morphology-phonology interface. It is also
indispensable reading for tone languages. Other introductory material on noncon-
468 NOTES
catenative morphology can be found in Atkinson, Kilby and Roca (1988), Durand (1990)
and Halle and Clements (1983). Katamba (1989) has an introduction to tonology, while
Kaye (1989) provides a very readable and entertaining introduction to the phonological
justification for autosegmental representations. From the earlier literature Hyman (1985)
contains a helpful discussion of the phonology of Mrican tone and Pike (1948) remains
a fascinating source of information on tone languages.
A very simple introduction to signing systems is provided in Fromkin and Rodman
(1988). Among the most important and useful references on Sign Language are Klima and
Bellugi (1979), Wilbur (1979) and Padden (1988) (ASL, American Sign Language);
Deuchar (1984) and Kyle and Woll (1985) (BSL, British Sign Language); and Moody
(1983) (LSF, French Sign Language). A recent research monograph on the mor-
phophonology of Sign Language is Sandler (1989), which appeared too late to be incor-
porated into the text.
CHAPTER 6 Later generative theories
1 This kind of case can't be accounted for so easily by the method by which Di SCiullo
. and Williams (1987) deal with French compounding (chapter 11), because we are
dealing with an endocentric compound in the Germanic case, with just the same
structure as ordinary compounds.
Recently, Lieber (1988) has used such examples to argue that morphology is an
entirely syntactic phenomenon.
2 There are a few well-known counterexamples to these claims. For instance, in the
word cannibalistic, it look,s as though we are, after all, adding an idiosyncratic com-
pound suffix -istic to· a noun or adjective stem, since there -is no word *cannibalist to
which to add -ic. Booij (1977) discusses similar 1examples from Dutch.
3 I'm making this assumption simply to clarify what's at stake. Exactly the same sort
of argument could be run if we assumed a conversion analysis. Then, we would still
have the labelled brackets intervening but no null affixes.
4 While the most frequent use of -ee, this is not the only one. Bauer (1983: 243) pro-
vides a recent discussion of the functions of this suffix.
5 Carstairs (1987: chapter 4) discusses this question in great detail, under the heading
'systematic inflectional homonymy'.
6 In point of fact there is a good deal of controversy over the status of the aspectual
distinction in Slavic and its expression. Comrie (1976: 88) refers to Derived
Imperfectives as being formed by a derivational process. However, Zaliznjak's (1977)
grammatical.dictionary regards the pairs formed by Derived Imperfectivization as the
only legitimate type of 'pure' aspectual pairing, implying that there is always some
lexical or non-aspectual semantic difference between pairs such as pisat' and napisat'.
This suggests that Derived Imperfectivization might be inflectional and prefixing
perfectives derivational. Note, incidentally, that if the prefixed perfectives are
inflectional forms, then this is the only case of prefixing inflection in the language
except for the formation of superlatives of adjectives (formed by adding nai- to the
comparative form).
7 Or at least reinterpret it. See for instance the distinction drawn by Carstairs (1988)
between 'meaning-driven' and 'expression-driven' morphology.
8 Williams (1981a) tries to reconstruct a notion of paradigm, though this has not been
widely taken up and the empirical base of the attempt has been criticized severely
by Joseph and Wallace (1984).
9 One of the difficulties in evaluating the split-morphology hypothesis is knowing when
NOTES 469
to take claims literally. For instance, it can't literally be the case that real live
speakers construct inflected forms of words only when they need that inflected form
to express syntactic relations in a sentence. If this were so it's difficult to see how
anyone could ever produce an isolated word in an arbitrary inflected form. This is
important for Badecker and Caramazza's experiments, for instance, for their argu-
ment hinges on the behaviour of a brain-damaged patient failing to repeat accurately
inflected words of Italian. At the same time, those who claim that even regular inflec-
tion is lexical need to explain what this means in highly inflected languages where
every verb might give rise to literally thousands of inflected forms.
10 Fabb argues for some very specific syntactic relations between components of
complex words. Some of these are discussed in chapter 8 when we look at compound-
mg.
11 In standard Navajo orthography, b d g represent voiceless unaspirated stops, p t k
are aspirated stops, sh is the fricative [J] , 1 is a voiceless lateral and y represents a
palatal glide [j]. The apostrophe ' is the glottal stop, and p' t' k' are ejectives. Vowel
doubling represents length, and an accent over a vowel indicates a high tone. The
cedilla below a vowel indicates nasalization.
12 Simpson and Withgott are noncommittal about how they would formalize the notion
of template. The only formal models I know of which take the notion of template
seriously are those of the Soviet linguist Revzin (e.g. Revzin and Juldaseva, 1969) and
the model proposed by Grimes (1967, 1983). Grimes's 1983 monograph describes a
computer program for expediting the practical task of figuring out position classes.
13 This restriction on selection in 'layered' morphologies is discussed in considerable
detail by Carstairs (1987): chapter 5) under the heading of his Peripherality Con-
straint.
14 It is sometimes argued that there are no affixal template morphologies and that cases
of apparent templatic affixation are really cases of cliticization. For example, Joyce
McDonough argues this for Navajo in work currently in progress. However, this still
leaves us with the problem of characterizing clitic systems, and, in particular, of dis-
tinguishing them from affixing systems. §9.3 discusses this in more detail.
15 Anderson (1982) doesn't actually present the data in one place, and doesn't provide
all the forms in this paradigm. Table 6.2 has been prepared on the basis of Anderson
(1982) and Jensen and Stong-Jensen (1984).
16 A similar idea is adopted in the feature system employed in Generalized Phrase Struc-
ture Grammar, where it is developed much more fully and given a formal definition.
See Gazdar, Klein, Pullum and Sag (1985) (cf. my remarks in §6.2.1)
17 These rules are based on those given by Anderson (1982), with the ungainly addition
of 6.70a to account for the non-appearance of the -t suffix in xedav 'thou seest them'.
As Jensen and Stong-Jensen (1984) point out, Anderson's (1982) original rules would
fail to generate vxedavt 'I see them'. As far as I can tell, Anderson's revision of the
1982 rules (Anderson, 1986) would incorrectly predict that 'thou seest them' would
come out as xedavt.
18 Another aspect of Anderson's proposal which is of interest is the device he suggests
for a phenomenon in Georgian grammar known as inversion. In certain tense forms,
the affixes which normally mark subjects are used to mark direct objects, while the
subject gets marked by affixes which elsewhere are used to mark indirect objects. One
way of analysing this is to assume a syntactic process in which indirect objects are
'promoted' to subject status and subjects 'demoted' to objects. This is the type of
rule favoured by relational grammarians (e.g. Harris, 1984). Anderson suggests han-
dling this by means of a rule operating over morphosyntactic features. Essentially
470 NOTES
what this does is to take the outer and inner layer of PJN features and reverse them.
It is difficult to see, however, how this rather powerful formalism could be con-
strained so as to avoid predicting all sorts of unheard of alternations.
19 Anderson devotes little attention to the implications of models of nonconcatenative
morphology, such as those discussed in chapter 5. Hammond (1981) has some critical
comments on McCarthy's (1982a) analysis of Semitic root-and-pattern morphology,
though it seems fair to say that the question of nonconcatenative inflectional systems
has not been seriously addressed by protagonists of the EWP approach.
20 The philosophical underpinnings of Natural Morphology lie in the semiotic theories
of C. S. Peirce. Unfortunately, we won't have time to discuss these. However, the
application of Peircean semiotics to morphology is at a relatively simple level, so little
is lost.
FURTHER READING
There is no textbook introduction to the whole of the material covered in this chapter.
The most useful overview sources are Bauer (1988) and Di Sciullo and Williams (1987),
though the latter is very condensed and is intended as a programmatic research mono-
graph, not as ahandbook. The introduction to Hammond and Noonan (1988) provided
by the editors is also very-helpful. Scalise (1984) has an introduction to some of the earlier
work surveyed here (e.g. Lieber).
Introductions to Lexical Functional Grammar can be found in Horrocks (1987), Sells
(1985) and Winograd (1983). The theory i!self is presented -in the collection of papers
edited by Bresnan (1982). The Horrocks and Sells textbooks are also good introductions
to Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar. -Perhaps the most useful discussion devoted
specifically to argument structure and theta roles is Jackendoff (1983).
Template morphology is discussed in some of the earlier handbooks of American
descriptive linguistics (e.g. Gleason, 1961). Otherwise, there are no introductory
accounts. For inflection, there is a classical introduction in Matthews's (1974) textbook.
Bauer (1988), too, is very useful. A handy and very readable overview is provided by
Anderson (1985b). Anderson (1988b) is a useful summary of Anderson's views, while
Anderson (1988a), a lucid summary of morphology, also contains a very readable account
of the EWP approach to inflection. After these references a niuch more thorough account
can be found in Carstairs (1987) and Wurzel (1984). Matthews (1972) presents a com-
pendious and minutely argued discussion of earlier work on inflectional systems. A
volume edited by Plank (to appear) promises to contain an interesting collection of papers
on inflection.
CHAPTER 7 Grammatical relations
1 Usually called -EN, even though its regular allomorph is -ed.
2 According to some linguists (e.g. Perlmutter and Postal, 1984, and other references
in the Relation Grammar framework) such constructions are· fully equivalent to
passive constructions involving -EN verbal morphology. However, when we come to
discuss middle constructions we will see that there are certain important distinctions -
to bear in mind.
3 For the present, think of an unaccusative verb as an intransitive verb whose subject
is typically a non-voluntary or passive participant. An intransitive verb with a volun-
tary or active subject will be called 'unergative'.
NOTES 471
4 Semantically, causation is related to the rather slippery notion of agentivity. This will
be discussed in more detail in §7. 5 below.
5 In the GB literature unaccusative verbs are often referred as 'ergative', following a
tradition initiated by Burzio in his 1981 PhD thesis. Many linguists find this use of
the term 'ergative' rather confusing to the point of being irritating (cf. Dixon, 1987,
Pullum, 1988). Given that the term 'unaccusative' is descriptive and not used for
other purposes, while 'ergative' is already overworked, and given that many GB
linguists seem to prefer the term 'unaccusative', I shall use the latter exclusively.
6 NI is sometimes regarded as 'exotic', but this is only because it is poorly represented
in European languages. Explicit descriptions of NI can be found for languages
spoken pretty well everywhere except Europe, including Eskimo languages (e.g.
Sadock, 1980, 1985), Uta-Aztecan (e.g. Nahuatl: Andrews, 1975, Merlan, 1976),
Tanoan (e.g. Southern Tiwa: Allen, Gardner and Frantz, 1984), a number of South
American languages (e.g. Derbsyhire and Pullum, 1986), a variety of Polynesian
languages (e.g. Niuean: Seiter, 1980), the Chukotkan-Kamchadal group of
Paleosiberian languages (Bogoraz, 1922, Cmririe, 1981). Ainu, a language isolate of
Japan and Sakhalin Island (Shibatani, 1990), a variety of East Cushitic languages (see
Sasse, 1984), the Mayan languages (e.g. Jacaltec, Day, 1973; Mam, England 1983),
the Caddoan and Iroquoian languages (Chafe, 1976, Baker, 1988a), Tiwi, a language
of Australia (Osborne, 1974), Turkish (Ozkaragoz, 1986), Takelma, an extinct
language of Texas (Sapir, 1922) and a good many more. Overviews of the phenom-
enon can be found in Mardirussian (1975), Mithun (1984) and Baker (1988a).
7 Presumably the antipassive will be an exception to this.
8 Baker in fact derives (most of) the HMC from the ECP, discussed briefly below.
9 Actually, Chukchee poses an intriguing problem here: the surface case form assumed
by the oblique argument may be Dative, Locative or Instrumental, depending on the
verb root. This suggests that the antipassive itself is formed lexically rather than
syntactically as in Baker's theory.
10 Technically, this is because there would be a violation of the Theta Criterion, which
states that every theta role must be assigned to an argument, and every argument
must receive a theta role. The Theta Criterion will be discussed in more detail in
§8.3.5.1.
11 There is a very interesting parallel here between Rosen's analysis and 'null object'
constructions in English and Italian discussed in some detail by Rizzi (1986). In
English a verb such as lead can be used with or without an object, but when it takes
an infinitival complement it must include its direct object. This is illustrated in (i):
(i) a) This leads people to the following conclusion.
b) This leads to the following conclusion.
c) This leads people [PRO to conclude the following].
d) *This leads [PRO to conclude the following] .
In Italian, the corresponding verb, conducere, permits the direct object to be missing
in the equivalent of (i, d).
(ii) a) Questa conduce la gente alla seguente conclusione.
b) Questa conduce alia seguente conclusione.
c) Questa conduce la gente a [PRO concludere quanta segue].
d) Questa conduce a [PRO concludere quanta segue].
472 NOTES
Rizzi argues that the missing direct object in the English cases is simply missing syn-
tactically, and that in (i, b) the verb is intransitive. Since an object is required to
control the PRO in the infinitival this means (i, d) is impossible. However, in Italian
we have a pro object in the position of the dash in (ii, b, d) and this syntactically
present, though phonetically null, object can hence control the PRO in (ii, d).
Note, also, that Baker himself points out (1988a: 454, note 17) that NI might be
lexical compounding in those languages which do not permit stranding of modifiers.
12 Indeed, such a rule would not be expected if, as many linguists assume, the Projec-
tion Principle doesn't hold in the lexicon. See chapter 8 for further discussion of this
question.
13 Technically, this is a consequence of the Theta Criterion (see note 10), which is
discussed in more detail in chapter 8.
14 There is a great deal more one could say about these constructions. In particular, we
have not said anything about the fact that in many languages (e.g. English) the
passive participle is identical to the perfect participle (see Hoekstra, 1984, for
discussion). Nor have we mentioned the fascinating connection between passive
participles, adjectival passives, perfect participles and resultatives. This promises to
be one of the areas of growth in research on lexical structure.
FURTHER READING
A proper understanding of the material of this chapter presupposes a basic grounding
in Government-Binding syntax. Good textbook introductions are Haegeman (1991),
Horrocks (1987), Radford (1981, 1988), Sells (1985). A more advanced text is Lasnik and
Uriagereka (1988). Perhaps the best introduction from the point of view of this chapter
is van Riemsdijk and Williams (1986). McCloskey (1988) provides an article-length over-
view of recent syntactic theories, particularly GB.
The most convenient source of information on Relational Grammar is Blake (1990).
Otherwise, the articles in Perlmutter (1983) and Perlmutter and Rosen (1984) provide a
comprehensive overview. (Another volume, edited by Joseph and Perlmutter, is
advertised at the time of writing.) Syntax and Semantics, vol. 8 (Cole and Sadock, 1977)
is devoted to grammatical relations. Other interesting collections are Plank (1984a) and
Syntax and Semantics, vol. 15, on transitivity (Hopper and Thompson, 1982).
Syntax and Semantics, vol. 6 (Shibatani, 1976) is devoted to causatives. A semantic
theory which relies on the relationship between causation and agentivity is presented in
Jackendoff (1976, 1983), and, for interesting discussion from a rather different theoretical
point of view, see Anderson, J. M. (1971, 1977). More recently, a Parasession of the
Chicago Linguistics Society (CLS 21) has been devoted to Causatives and Agentivity.
An excellent collection of articles on resultatives,' full of fascinating data, together with
a detailed typology of these constructions, is to be found in Nedjalkov (1983).
The syntax of the Italian si constructions is discussed by Burzio (1986), and a conve-
nient summary of the issues, together with important theoretical proposals, is to be found
in Cinque (1988).
For discussion of ergativity see Comrie (1978), Dixon (1979) and the papers in Plank
(1979) (especially Trask's overview), and, more recently, the papers in -the special issue
of Lingua, 1987, edited by Dixon, also published separately. Marantz (1984) offers a
particularly interesting theoretical perspective on the notion 'ergative language'.
For references on noun incorporation, see note 6 above.
NOTES 473
Marantz (1988b) provides an explicit comparison between his approach and that of
Baker.
CHAPTER 8 Compounds
1 Turkish orthography is phonetic, with the following correspondence with IPA:
c = [q,], c; = [tf], g indicates a lengthening of the previous vowel (it often alternates
with a velar stop). ~ = [J], y = [j], 1= [i] , o= [re] , ii = [y] . In transcription, E and
I represent vowels which alternate by vowel harmony, respectively afe and 1/ifu/ii.
2 Allen (1978) proposed a theory which distinguishes compounds in terms of the
phonological boundaries separating their components. Where a compound is highly
lexicalized and undergoes lexical morphophonemic rules, we might adopt a +boun-
dary or a single # boundary, as in post# man. Where no lexical processes affect the
compound we have a double word boundary, # # , as in anchor## man. With
phonological boundaries out of favour, alternatives will involve a separate Stratum (as
in Mohanan, 1986) or rules referring to prosodic domains of the kind discussed by
Nespor and Vogel (1986).
3 FPC IV will otiose, of course, if, as I've hinted , all tnte (productive) compounding
is rightheaded, and the Vietnamese style compounding is really the lexicalization of
phrases.
4 Lieber (1983) claims, somewhat controversially, that tntck driver can also be inter-
preted as a nonce root compound (say, something with a meaning such as '(taxi)
driver who owns a truck'). My own view is that tntck driver could marginally be inter-
preted as a root compound, but that this is because drive can be interpreted intran-
sitively. A compound formed from an obligatorily transitive verb such as make,
however, can only be read as a synthetic compound. That is, coffee maker can only
mean 'person or thing that makes coffee' (cf. Sproat, 1985a).
5 One reason Sproat mentions for assuming that synthetic compounds are formed syn-
tactically is that phrasal chunks can appear inside such compounds, as in the famous
American history teacher. Interestingly, Fabb uses this fact to argue that phrasal
chunks can become lexicalized and thus appear in lexical compounds (such as
American history course). This illustrates one of the difficulties in finding uncontrover-
tible criteria for placing processes in the syntax, the lexicon or elsewhere.
6 Granted the need for an inheritance mechanism, it's not entirely clear to me from
Sproat's account why a structure such as 8.72 has to be assumed for synthetic com-
pounding. It would seem compatible with Sproat's theory to assign the structure
[truck [driving]]. Assuming that driving is formed syntactically, the derived
nominal would inherit the verb's argument structure. Mter compounding, 'the non-
head tntck could then be theta identified with the Theme role in the derived argument
structure of the nominalization, just as in the driving of tntcks. This would bring
Sproat's solution closer to that of Di Sciullo and Williams.
7 These assumptions have a number of theoretical consequences and commit Sproat to
a number of further assumptions about the syntactic structure of nominalizations,
particularly about the nature of the Specifier position in NPs headed by nominal-
izations. Discussion of these questions is well beyond the scope of a text devoted
primarily to morphology. The interested reader can follow some of the debate from
recent works such as Chomsky (1986b), Williams (1985, 1987) Lasnik (1988), Safir
(1987).
8 Roeper suggests that the NI analysis allows part of the First Sister Principle to fall
out from the ECP. However, since Roeper apparently wishes to extend his NI
474 NOTES
analysis to examples like pan-fried and well-kept, it isn't clear how this is to be done.
This is because it is a crucial feature of Baker's analysis of NI that incorporation can't
extract from Adjuncts, only from theta marked (internal) arguments. This in turn is
because any maximal projection which isn't theta marked will be a barrier to (proper)
government, so that an incorporated adjunct would leave an ungoverned trace,
causing an ECP violation. Roeper doesn't explicitly say he is adopting the Barriers
framework of Chomsky (1986a), so perhaps he has some other treatment in mind.
9 Roeper actually cites the suffix -ful, as in (i):
(i) *The children are playful of games.
He also mentions that there are exceptions: resentful of his mother. What appears to
be happening here is that -ful attaches preferably to nouns (sorrowful, painful, soleful)
but also to verbs. In playful, we presumably have affixation of a noun, so there is no
theta grid to percolate; otherwise, it seems as though -ful may permit percolation.
Lexicalization muddies the picture, though, as in mindful of his responsibilities.
10 One proposal we haven't mentioned is that of Pesetsky (1985), who analyses the
inheritance phenomena as the result of the movement of the affix, giving a structure
[drive of trucks]er], and permitting the verb to govern its PP complement. We'll
discuss the Affix Movement analysis in some detail in chapter 10.
On the other hand, according to Hoekstra (1986) and Hoekstra and van der Putten
(1988) there is nothing to explain, and inheritance is simply the result ofa misanalysis
of the data.
FURTHER READING
Descriptions of English compounding can be found in Adams (1983), Bauer (1983) and
Marchand (1969). The stressing of compounds in English is discussed in Hogg and
McCully (1967).
The question of productivity and root compounding is discussed in some detail in Bauer
(1983). An interesting account is to be found in Downing (1977).
Some of the theoretical issues surrounding root compounding are discussed in Scalise
(1984). Botha (1983) provides the most recent overview of synthetic compounding. The
notion of argument inheritance was introduced by Randall (1984), who makes a number
of interesting observations about the phenomenon. An extended defence of a framework
similar to that adopted by Booij for handling inheritance phenomena is given in Zubizar-
reta (1987). (Readers unfamiliar with recent trends in syntactic theory (especially
Government-Binding theory) should consult the references mentioned at the end of
chapter 7.)
CHAPTER 9 Clitics
1 The term 'clitic' comes from a Greek root meaning 'to lean'. In addition to the
nominalized form 'cliticization', you will sometimes come across the term clisis. This
is also used in affixed form, so that a language which has enclitics might be said to
show 'enclisis'.
2 Serbo-Croat orthography can be taken to be IPA except the following: c = [ts],
c= [t~], c= [tJ], h = [x], z= [,3] . The trilled r can be syllabic. Note the common
alternation between -aof-al and -eofel (especially in verb for:ms).
NOTES 475
The symbols - - " and A in tables 9.1, 2 represent tones. These indicate the
position of word stress. They are not marked in the official orthography.
3 Example 9.11 illustrates Croatian usage rather than Serbian, since, in the latter, je
after se is omitted.
4 Strictly speaking, Genitive forms of the pronominal clitics should appear between the
Dative and Accusative forms. This is because certain obligatorily reflexive verbs take
a Genitive complement. When this surfaces as a pronominal clitic it appears before
the Accusative reflexive clitic se, as in (i). The Genitive clitic forms, however, are
identical in form to the Accusative forms.
(i) Bojirn ga se; ja ga se bojirn
I-fear 3sg.M-GEN REFL; I 3sg.M-GEN REFL I-fear
'I'm afraid of him.'
5 But see §9.3 below for a case of agreement with exactly the properties of clitic
climbing.
6 For those who read Italian, an extremely interesting comparison of the development
of Romance and Slavic clitics, discussing this aspect in some detail, is presented in
Benacchio and Renzi (1987), in which the authors explore Jakobson's (1935) thesis
that the loss of Wackernagel's Law in Slavic languages is connected with the develop-
ment of a moveable stress system.
7 Notice that these examples also illustrate the use of the postpositive definite article
-ot (rnasc.), -ta (fern.), -to (neut.). This is itself a kind of clitic. An interesting dis-
cussion of the rnorphophonological properties of the very similar definite article in
Bulgarian is given in Scatton (1980).
8 Lunt (1952: 23) gives an example of stress shift with a gerund form. However,
Usikova (1985: 31) explicitly states that gerunds, which exceptionally have stress on
the penult, retain this stress pattern even with clitics.
9 The principle vagaries of Portuguese pronunciation and orthography are the
following:
1h = [A:] nh = [Jl] .
Vm = V= nasalized vowel.
Vindicates a stressed vowel; other marks over vowels are purely orthographic.
Note that the clitic systems of Brazilian Portuguese and of many American varieties
of Spanish are different from the European varieties of these languages.
10 In the Spanish gloss 9.54b we might have expected the sequence le lo, but this is pro-
hibited in Spanish, much as the sequence je je is prohibited in Serbo-Croat. Instead,
the first of a sequence of 3rd person pronouns is replaced by the reflexive se, the so-
called Spurious se rule.
11 Polish orthography can be taken to be IPA except for the following:
£1= [6], tt:= [e] 6 (=u)= [u], y= [i]
1= [w], w = [v], cz = [tJ] , sz = U], rz = z= [3] .
Before i: elsewhere:
c = c= [tc] c = [ts]
S=S= [~] S= [s]
z = i = [.?>] z = [z]
n = ri = [Jt] n = [n]
Stress almost always falls on the penultimate syllable.
476 NOTES
In tables of nominal and participial declension, 'masculine plural' is actually short-
hand for 'masculine human plural', the so-called virile gender of Polish.
12 We must be careful to distinguish cases in which the pronominal element excludes
an NP argument and dislocation structures such as those illustrated in (i, ii):
(i) They're nice, these pears.
(ii) I've seen him before, that chap standing in the corner.
In these sentences, the NP isn't an argument, but rather stands in a 'topic' position,
outside the clausal matrix proper. We'll be discussing other cases similar to this in
§9.3.
13 This account is something of an oversimplification given NPs of the form ho ane:r
ho sophos 'the wise man', literally 'the wise the man'.
14 In Zwicky's (1977) descriptive account these would be endoclitics, that is, clitics
inserted inside inflected words. However, it seems to be generally agreed (e.g. by
Zwicky himself, 1987b) that endoclisis should be excluded as a theoretical possibility
and putative cases reanalysed.
15 Sproat's Mapping Principle (§10.6) was proposed for just this sort of mismatch, and
Sproat (1988) uses it to provide a reanalysis of K.lavans's typology of clitics.
16 Recall from chapter 7 that 'small' pro is the empty pronominal bearing the feature
specifications [+pronominal, -anaphor]. It is most famously represented by the
definite null subjects of tensed clauses in null subject ('pro-drop') languages such as
Italian and Spanish. In such languages it is frequently the case that the existence of
a pro subject is associated with verbal subject agreement morphology which identifies
the pronominal (gender, person or number) features of the subject. It is therefore a-
natural step to assume that the same empty category represents the null object in
languages with object agreement, and that it also represents the null object in
languages in which the object can be expressed as a clitic.
17 Intriguingly, an analogous problem arises in noun incorporation. In Mohawk, for
instance, it's possible to 'double' a semantically general incorporated noun (such as
'fish') with an overt NP direct object, provided it has a more specific meaning (e.g.
a type of fish). In certain languages, a semantic classifier system has developed in
which it is obligatory to incorporate such a general noun as a kind of 'agreement
marker' for the more specific NP. The phenomenon is discussed by Baker (1988a),
Di Sciullo and Williams (1987) and Rosen (1989). Very curiously, none of these com-
mentators draws any explicit parallel with the equivalent problem posed by pro-
nominal clitics.
18 Not all scholars are sceptical about Aoun's ability to deal with clitic doubling. Everett
(1987) discusses very interesting facts from the Brazilian language Piraha, which has
a doubling construction violating the Kayne/Jaeggli generalization. Everett regards
this as evidence against the Jaeggli/ Borer approach.
19 Jaeggli, of course, also assumes that the empty category in examples such as 9.108
will be pro and hence must be licensed by a Case assigner. However, he assumes that
if the clitic failed to absorb Case then it would be unable to license the pro. This mys-
terious incompatibility is due to the fact that Jaeggli follows Borer in assuming that
the Case feature absorbed by the clitic becomes part of the V + clitic complex. Thus,
the Case feature assigned to the clitic comes to be represented on the verb which
governs and is indexed with the object position. In this fashion, the verb complex,
which as a whole bears the Case feature, is able to license the pro.
I find Jaeggli's account a little puzzling here. It would appear that he is actually
NOTES 477
adopting Borer's thesis that the clitic is a spell-out of Case features; otherwise, he is
advocating an odd 'Duke of York' derivation in which the verb assigns Case to the
clitic and then the Case feature percolates from the clitic to the verb node dominating
the verb + clitic complex, thereby mimicking percolation of that feature from the
verbal head.
20 Sufter doesn't wish to claim that all clitic systems showing doubling are necessarily
agreement systems. She refers to the case of Modern Hebrew in which clitic doubling
is invariably supported by a prepositional Case assigner (Borer, 1984a). Sufter follows
Borer in assuming that the Hebrew clitic is a Case absorber, so that the clitic can only
be licensed if the verb is not obliged to assign its Case to the lexical NP.
A more radical account of clitic pronouns is offered by Lyons (1990) who argues
that all clitic doubling, and by extension all cliticization phenomena, are a species of
agreement.
21 Interesting observations in this regard are offered by Myers (1987), discussing Bantu
verb morphology.
FURTHER READING
There is no introductory text which includes detailed discussion of the phonology or mor-
phology of clitics. Rather oddly, given the enormous importance of clitic systems in the
development of Government-Binding syntax, there is no introductory syntax text which
provides an overview of the morphosyntax of clitics, either. In addition to monographs
such as Borer (1984a) I can recommend the papers of Borer (1986a) and especially Borer's
own succinct 'introduction to that volume (Borer, 1986b). Still valuable is Perlmutter's
(1971) thesis.
The content of §9.3 will be found hard going by those not acquainted with GB
approaches to pronominalization. Of the introductions to GB syntax mentioned in chapter
7, perhaps the most useful background to this section would be Lasnik and Uriagereka,
(1988).
CHAPTER 10 Bracketing paradoxes
1 Hoeksema proposes to handle Williams's cases (and others he adduces) in terms
of rules which are permitted to refer directly to the head of a construction (Head
Operations). Unfortunately, it would take us too far afield to consider Hoeksema's
very interesting proposals. Readers with a basic knowledge of categorial grammar are
strongly- encouraged to consult Hoeksema's book.
FURTHER READING
There are no textbooks or review monographs which discuss bracketing paradoxes as
such.
For §10.3, further information about prosodic domains in phonology can be found in
Selkirk (1980, 1986), Kaisse (1985) and Nespor and Vogel (1986).
For §10.5, introductory accounts of those aspects of logic of interest to linguists can be
found in books on mathematical linguistics such as Partee (1978) and Wall (1972), in
introductions to formal theories of semantics such as Dowty, Wall and Peters (1981),
478 NOTES
Fodor(l977) and more specifically in McCawley (1981) and Allwood, Anderson and Dahl
(1977). May (1985) is an influential approach to Logical Form in GB theory.
CHAPTER 11 The place of morphology
l The monograph is given insightful critical reviews by Baker (1988c), and Aronoff
(1988b).
2 I confess to being baffied by Di Sciullo and Williams's remarks about the autonomy
of scientific disciplines. It is worth noting that Di Sciullo and Williams's view of the
philosophy of science is entirely at odds with that usually associated with Generative
Grammar (as enunciated, for instance, in Chomsky, 1980, Fodor, 1983). Chomskyan
linguists generally assume that in principle any fact from any domain could impinge
on inferences drawn in another domain. Indeed, an entertaining, and not very
difficult, exercise in the philosophy of science would be to concoct scenarios in which
findings in history might influence theory construction in forestry, and vice versa.
3 As Baker (1988c) points out, this radical position seems to be at odds with usual
Chomskyan assumptions about the 'psychological reality' of grammar. Perhaps we
should therefore interpret the suggestion as the claim that productivity, like word fre-
quency, or the precise content of an individual's mental lexicon, should be regarded
as a performance phenomenon and not as part of a competence theory.
4 Notice that the claim that Romance compounds have syntactic structure is mildly
overstated. For example, if essuie-glace were a real VP then the NP would require
a Determiner: essuie la glace.
5 It's not obvious to me that this is a very strong criterion. In some languages (Chinese,
Chukchee) it's notoriously difficult to decide what the 'real', 'basic' syntactic
category of a word or root is since the rules of syntax or morphology frequently don't
permit us to define a base form from which other word types are derived. Indeed,
this is illustrated by certain English noun-verb pairs: is the noun or the verb basic
in jump, sleep, seat, rain, work ...? What criteria would allow us to decide?
6 The main simplification in figure 11.2 is that I have ignored Beard's claim that
essentially the same kinds of syntactic operations are found in lexical derivation as
in syntax proper.
7 Sadock assumes the framework of Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar (Gazdar,
Klein, Pullum and Sag, 1985). To make for easier reading, I have altered Sadock's
syntactic representations to bring them into line with those used in the rest of this
book.
8 This argument requires, of course, that the accentuation be assigned after the syntax,
in the phrase phonology, and that it is not possible for the accentuation to be assigned
to each component of the compound separately in the lexicon.
9 This type of percolation is highly unusual in that the percolated feature has no effect
on the constituent which it marks morphologically. This is different from, say
definiteness marking in English possessives: in the tree's root both tree and the whole
NP are definite. (In a compound such as the tree root the determiner modifies the com-
pound noun giving a constituent structure [the [tree root]], so this is not comparable
to the Hebrew case.) Hebrew definiteness marking therefore constitutes a rather
intriguing example of a mismatch between morphological structure and syntac-
tic/semantic structure. It would be interesting to find comparable cases involving
different features.
References
Abbreviations
BLS n
CLS n
CSLI
CUP
ESCOL n
IJAL
IULC
JL
Lg
LI
LA
MITWPL
NELS n
NLLT
OUP
TLR
WCCFL
YM
Proceedings of the nth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics
Society, Berkeley, University of California
Papers from the nth Annual Meeting of the Chicago Linguistics Society,
Chicago, University of Chicago
Center for the Study of Language and Information
Cambridge Up.iversity Press
Proceedings of the nth Annual Meeting of rhe Eastern States Conference
on Linguistics
International Journal of American Linguistics
Indiana University Linguistics Club
Journal of Linguistics
Language
Linguistic Inquiry
Linguistic Analysis
Massachusetts Institute of Technology Working Papers in Linguistics
Proceedings of the nth Annual Meeting of the North Eastern Linguistics
Society
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory
Oxford University Press
The Linguistic Review
West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics
Yearbook of Morphology
Adams, V. (1973) An Introduction to Modern English Word-Fonnation. London:
Longmans.
Aissen, J. (1987) Tzotzil Clause Structure. Dordrecht: Reidel.
480 REFERENCES
Aitchison, }. (1987) Words in the Mind. Oxford: Blackwell.
Akmajian, A. and Heny, F. (1975) Introduction to the Principles of Transformational
Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Akmajian, A., Demers, R. and Harnish, R. (1984) Linguistics: an Introduction to Language
and Communication (2nd edn.). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Allen, B., Gardiner, D. and Frantz, D. (1984) Noun incorporation in Southern Tiwa.
IJAL 50, 292-311.
Allen, M. (1978) Morphological Investigations. Phd dissertation, University of Connect-
icut.
Allwood, }., Andersen, L-G. and Dahl, 0. (1977) Logic in Linguistics. Cambridge: CUP.
Anderson, J. M. (1971) The Grammar of Case. Cambridge: CUP
Anderson, }. M. (1977) A Localise Theory of Case Grammar. Cambridge: CUP.
Anderson, S. R. (1977) On the formal description of inflection. CLS 13, 15-44.
Anderson, S. R. (1982) Where's morphology LI 13, 571-612.
Anderson, S. R. (1984a) On representations in morphology: case, agreement and
inversion in Georgian. NLLT 2, 157-218.
Anderson, S. R. (1984b) Kwakwala syntax and the government-binding theory. In: Cook,
E.-D. and Gerdts, D (eds.), Syntax and Semantics, 16: the Syntax of Native American
Languages. New York: Academic Press.
Anderson, S. R. (1985a) Typological distinctions in word formation. In: Shopen (ed.),
Vol. 3.
Anderson, S. R. (1985b) Inflectional morphology. In: Shopen (ed.), Vol. 3.
Anderson, S. R. (1985c) Phonology in the Twentieth Century: Theories ofRules and Theories
of Representations. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Anderson, S. R. (1986) Disjunctive ordering in: inflectional morphology. NLLT 4, 1-31
Anderson, S. R. (1988a) Morphological theory. In: Newmeyer (ed.), Vol. 1.
Anderson S. R. (1988b) Inflection. In: Hammond and Noonan (eds.).
Anderson, S. R. (1988c) Morphology as a parsing porblem. Linguistics 26, 521-44.
Andrews, A. (1988) Lexical structure. In: Newmeyer (ed.). Vol. 1.
Andrews, }. (1975) Introduction to Classical Nahuatl. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Aoun, }. (1985) A Grammar of Anaphora. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Aoun, J. Hornstein, N., Lightfoot, D. and Weinberg, A. (1987) Two types of locality.
LI 18, 537-78.
Archangeli, D. (1983) The root CV-template as a property of the affix: evidence from
Yawelmani. NLLT 1, 347-84.
Archangeli, D. (1988a) Underspecification in Yawelmani phonology and morphology. New
York: Garh:nd Press. [PhD dissertation, MIT, 1984].
Archangeli, D. (1988b) Aspects of underspeci:fi.cation theory. Phonology 5, 183-207.
Aronoff, M. (1976) Word Fonnation in Generative Grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Aronoff, M. (1988a) Head operations and strata in reduplication: a linear treatment. YM
1, 1-16.
Aronoff, M. (1988b) Review: Di Sciullo and Williams (1987). Lg 64, 766-70.
Aronoff, M. and Sridhar, S. (1983) Morphological levels in English and Kannada; or,
Atarizing Reagan. In: Papers from the Parasession on the Interplay of Phonology, Morph-
ology, and Syntax. CLS 19, 3-16.
Aronoff, M. and Sridhar, S. (1987) Morphological levels in English and Kannada. In:
Gussmann (ed.).
Aronoff, M., Arsyad, A., Basri, H. and Broselow, E. (1987) Tier conflation in
Macassarese reduplication. In: Papers from the Parasession on Metrical and Auto-
segmental Phonology. CLS 23, 1-15.
REFERENCES 481
Ashton, E. (1944) Swahili Grammar. London: Longmans.
Atkinson, M., Kilby, D. and Roca, I. (1988) Fundamentals of General Linguistics (2nd
edn.). London: Unwin.
Bach, E. (1968) Nouns and noun phrases. In: Bach and Harms (eds.).
Bach, E. and Harms, R. (eds.) (1968) Universals of Grammar. New York: Holt, Rinehart
and Winston.
Badecker, W. and Caramazza, A. (1989) A lexical distinction between inflection and
derivation. LI 20, 108-16. ·
Baker, C. (1978) Introduction to Generative-Transformational Syntax. Englewood Cliffs,
NJ: Prentice-Hall.
Baker, M. (1985a) The Mirror Principle and morphosyntactic explanation. LI 16,
373-416.
Baker, M. (1985b) Syntactic affixation and English gerunds. WCCFL 4, 1-11.
Baker, M. (1988a) Incorporation: a Theory of Grammatical Function Changing. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Baker, M. (1988b) Morphology and syntax: an interlocking dependence. In: Everaert
et al.
Baker, M. (1988c) Review: Di Sciullo and Williams (1987). YM 1, 259-84.
Baker, M., Johnson, K. and Roberts, I. (1989) Passive arguments raised. LI 20, 219-52.
Barber, E. (1975) Voice - beyond the passive. BLS 1, 16-22.
Bauer, L. (1983) English Word-formation. Cambridge: CUP.
Bauer, L. (1988) Introducing Linguistic Morphology. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Press.
Beard, R. (1976) A semantically based model of a generative lexical word-formation rule
for Russian adjectives. Lg 52, 108-20.
Beard, R. (1981) The Indo-European Lexicon: a Full Synchronic Theory. Amsterdam:
North-Holland.
Beard, R. (1982) The plural as a lexical derivation. Glossa 16, 133-48.
Beard, R. (1987) Morpheme order in a Lexeme/Morpheme based morphology. Lingua
72, 1-44.
Beard, R. (1988) On the separation of derivation from morphology: Toward a Lexeme/
Morpheme-based morphology. Quaderni di Semantica. 9; 3-59.
Belletti, A. and Rizzi, L. (1988) Psych-verbs and 6-theory. NLLT 6, 291-352.
Benacchio, R. and L. Renzi (1987) Clitici Slavi e Romanzi. Padua: CLESP.
Bendor-Samuel, J. T. (1966) Some prosodic features in Terena. In Bazell et al. (eds.) In
memory of]. R. Firth. London: Longmans; reprinted in Palmer, F. (ed.) (1970) Pro-
sodic Analysis. London: OUP.
Berent, G. (1980) On the realization of trace: Macedonian clitic pronouns. In: Chvany
and Brecht (eds.).
Blake, B. (1990) Relational Grammar. London: Routledge.
Bloch, B. (1941) Phonemic overlapping. American Speech 16, 278-84; reprinted in Joos
(ed.) (1958). "'
Bloomfield, L. (1933) Language. New York: Holt.
Bloomfield, L. (1939) Menomini morphophonemics. Travaux du Cercle Linguistique de
Prague 8, 105-15.
Boas, F. (ed.) (1922) Handbook ofAmerican Indian Languages. Washington: Smithsonian
Institution.
Bogoraz, W. (1922) Chukchee. In: Boas (ed.).
Booij, G. (1977) Dutch Morphology: a Study of Word Formation in Generative Grammar.
Dordrecht: Foris.
482 REFERENCES
Booij, G. (198Sa) The interaction of phonology and morphology in Prosodic Phonology.
In: Gussmann (ed.).
Booij, G. (1985b) Coordination reduction in complex words: a case for Prosodic Phono-
logy. In: van der Hulst and Smith (eds.).
Booij, G. (1987) Lexical Phonology and the organisation of the morphological component.
In: Gussmann (ed.).
Booij, G. (1992) Morphology, semantics and argument structure. Amsterdam. In:
I. Roca (ed.) Thematic Structure. Its Role in Grammar. Berlin: Foris.
Booij, G. and van Haaften, T. (1988) On the external syntax of derived words: evidence
from Dutch. YM 1, 29-44.
Booij, G. and Rubach, J. (1984) Morphological and prosodic domains in Lexical Phonol-
ogy. Phonology Yearbook 1, 1-28.
Booij, G. and Rubach, J. (1987) Postcyclic versus postlexical rules in Lexical Phonology.
LI 18, 1-44.
Borer, H. (1984a) Parametric Syntax. Dorclrecht: Foris.
Borer, H. (1984b) The Projection Principle and rules of morphology NELS 14, 16-33.
Borer, H. (ed.) (1986a) Syntax and Semantics, 19: the Syntax of Pronominal Clitics. New
York: Academic Press.
Borer, H. (1986b) Introduction. In: Borer (ed.).
Borer, H. (1988) On the parallelism between compounds and constructs. YM 1, 45-66.
Botha, R. (1983) Morphological Mechanisms. Oxford: Pergamon Press.
Bresnan, J. (1978) A realistic transformational grammar. In: Halle, M., Bresnan, J. and
Miller, G. (eds.) Linguistic Theory and Psychological Reality. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Bresnan, J. (ed.) (1982) The Mental Representation of Grammatical Relations. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Bresnan, J. and Mchombo, S. (1987) Topic, pronoun, and agreement in Chichewa. Lg
63, 741-82; also in Iida, M., Wechsler, S. and Zec, D. (eds.) Working Papers in Gram-
matical Theory and Discourse Structure. Stanford: CSLI.
Bromberger, S. and Halle, M. (1989) Why phonology is different. LI 20, 51-70.
Broselow, E. and McCarthy, J. (1983) A theory of internal reduplication. TLR 3, 25-88.
Brown, K. and Miller, J. (1980) Syntax: an Introduction to Sentence Structure. London:
Hutchinson.
Browne, E. W. (1974) On the problem of enclitic placement in Serbo-Croatian. In Brecht,
R. and Chvany, C. (eds.) Slavic Transformational Syntax. Ann Arbor: Michigan Slavic
Publications.
Burzio, L. (1986) Italian Syntax: a Government-Binding Approach. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Butterworth, B. (1983) Lexical representation. In: Butterworth, B. (ed.) Language
Production, Vol. 2. New York: Academic Press.
Bybee, J. (1985) Morphology: a Study ofthe Relation between Meaning and Farm. Amster-
dam: Benjamins.
Carlson, G. and Roeper, T. (1980) Morphology and subcategorization: (Case and the
unmarked complex verb. In: Hoekstra et al. (eds.).
Carrier, J. (1979) The Interaction of Morphological and Phonological Rules in Tagalog: a
Study in the Relationship between Rule Components in Grammar. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Carstairs, A. (1987) Allomorphy in Inflexion. Beckenham: Croom Helm.
Carstairs, A. (1988) Some implications of phonologically conditioned suppletion. YM 1,
67-94.
Chafe, W. (1976) The Caddoan, Iroquoian, and Siouan Languages. The Hague: Mouton.
Charette, M. (1989) The Minimality Condition in phonology. JL 25, 159-88.
REFERENCES 483
Chomsky, N. (1957) Syntactic Structures. The Hague: Mouton.
Chomsky, N. (1965) Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (1970) Remarks on nominalization. In: Jacobs, R. and Rosenbaum, P.
(eds.). Readings in English Transformational Grammar. Waltham, MA: Blaisdell.
Chomsky, N. (1975) Reflections on Language. London: Fontana.
Chomsky, N. (1979) Hebrew Morphophonemics. New York: Garland.
Chomsky, N. (1980) Rules and Representations. Oxford: Blackwell.
Chomsky, N. (1981) Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, N. (1982) Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory of Government and
Binding. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (1986a) Barriers. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (1986b) Knowledge of Language. New York: Praeger.
Chomsky, N. (MS) Notes on economy of derivation. MIT.
Chomsky, N. and Halle, M. (1968) The Sound Pattern of English. New York: Harper and
Row. ·
Chung, S. (1976) An object-creating rule in Bahasa Indonesian. LI 7, 41-87; reprinted
in Perlmutter, D. (ed.) (1983).
Chvany, C. and Brecht, R. (eds.) (1980) Morphosyntax in Slavic. Columbus: Slavica.
Cinque, G. (1988) On si constructions and the theory of Arb. LI 19, 521-82.
Clark, E., Hecht, B. and Mulford, R. (1986) Coining complex compounds in English:
affixes and word order in acquisition. Linguistics 24, 7-29.
Cole, P. and Sadock, J. (eds.) (1977) Syntax and Semantics, 8: Grammatical Relations.
New York: Academic Press.
Comrie, B. (1976) Aspect. Cambridge: CUP.
Comrie, B. (1977) In defense of spontaneous demotion: the impersonal passive. In: Cole
and Sadock (eds.).
Comrie, B. (1978) Ergativity. In: Lehman, W. (ed.) Syntactic Typology. Austin: Univer-
sity of Texas Press.
Comrie, B. (1979) Degrees of ergativity. In: Plank (ed.).
Comrie, B. (1981) Languages of the U.S.S.R. Cambridge: CUP.
Comrie, B. (1987) Tense. Cambridge: CUP.
Corbett, G. (1987) The morphology-syntax interface. Lg 63, 299-345.
Corbett, G. (1988) Serbo-Croat. In: Comrie, B. (ed.) The World's Major Languages.
London: Croom Helm.
Corbett, G. (1990) Gender. Cambridge: CUP.
Craig, C. (1977) The Structure of Jacaltec. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Day, C. (1973) The Jacaltec Language. Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
De Bray, R. (1980a) Guide to the Slavonic Languages, Vol. 2: South Slavonic. Ann Arbor:
Slavica.
De Bray, R. (1980b) Guide to the Slavonic Languages, Vol. 3: West Slavonic. Ann Arbor:
Slavica.
Derbyshire, D. and Pullum, G. (eds.) (1986) Handbook ofAmazonian Languages. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Deuchar, M. (1984) British Sign Language. London: Longmans.
Di Sciullo, A.-M. and Williams, E. (1987) On the Definition of Word. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Dixon, R. (1979) Ergativity. Lg 55, 59-138.
Dixon, R. (1987) Introduction: Lingua special issue on ergativity. Lingua 71.
Downing, P. (1977) On the creation and use of English compound nouns. Lg 53,
810-42.
'l
484 REFERENCES
Dowty, D. (1979) Word Meaning and Montague Grammar. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Dowty, D., Wall, R. and Peters, S. (1981) Introduction to Montague Semantics. Dordrecht:
Reidel.
Dressler, W. (1985a) Morphonology. Ann Arbor: Karoma.
Dressler, W. (1985b) On the predictiveness of natural morphology. JL 21, 321-38.
Durand, J. (1990) Generative and Non-Linear Phonology. London: Longmans.
Durie, M. (1988) The so-called passive of Acehnese. Lg 64, 104-13.
England, N. (1983) A Grammar ofMam, a Mayan Language. Austin: University of Texas.
Everaert, M., Evers, A., Huybregts, R. and Trommelen, M. (eds.) (1988) Morphology
and Modularity. Dordrecht: Foris.
Everett, D. (1987) Piraha clitic doubling. NLLT 5, 245-76.
Fabb, N. (1984) Syntactic Affixation. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Fabb, N. (1988a) English suffixation is constrained only by selectional restrictions. NLLT
6, 527-39.
Fabb, N. (1988b) Doing affixation in the GB syntax. In: Everaert et al. (eds.).
Fagan, S. (1988) The English middle. LI 19, 181-204.
Fahnrich, H. (1987) Kurze Grammatik der georgischen Sprache. Leipzig: VEB Verlag
Enzyklopadie.
Feoktistov, A. P. (1966) Moksanskij jazyk. In: Jazyki Narodov SSSR, Vol. III. Moscow:
Nauka.
Fischer-}0rgensen, E. (1975) Trends in Phonological Theory: a Historical Introduction.
Copenhagen: Akademisk Forlag.
Fodor, J. D. (1977) Semantics. Hassocks: Harvester Press.
Fodor, J. (1983) Modularity of Mind. Cambridge, MA: Bradford Books.
Fromkin, V. and Rodman, R. (1988) Introduction to Language (4th edn.). New York:.
Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Fujimura, 0. ·(ed.) (1973) Three Dimensions of Linguistic Theory. Tokyo: TEC Corpor-
ation.
Gazdar, G., Klein, E., Pullum, G. and Sag. I. (1985) Generalized Phrase Structure
Grammar. Oxford: Blackwell.
Gleason, H. (1961) An Introduction to Descriptive Linguistics (rev. ed.) New York: Holt,
Rinehart and Winston.
Glossary ofRussian Abbreviations and Acronyms (1967). Washington: Library of Congress.
Goldsmith, J. (1979) Autosegmental Phonology. New York: Garland.
Goldsmith, J. (1990) Autosegmental and Metrical Phonology. Oxford: Blackwell.
Goodwin, W. (1894) Greek Grammar. London: Macmillan.
Greenough, J., Kittredge, G., Howard, A. and D'Ooge, B. (eds.) (1983) Allen and
Greenough's New Latin Grammar. New Rochelle: Caratzas Publishing Co.
Grimes, J. (1967) Positional analysis. Lg 43, 437-44.
Grimes, J. (1983) Affix Positions and Co-occurrence: the PARADIGM Program. Dallas:
Summer Institute of Linguistics.
Grimshaw, J. (1979) Complement selection and the lexicon LI 10, 279-326.
Grimshaw, J. (1986) A morphosyntactic explanation for the Mirror Principle LI 17,
745-50.
Grunwell, P. (1987) Clinical Phonology. Beckenham. Croom Helm.
Guerssel, M. (1983) A lexical approach to word formation in English. LA 12, 183-243.
Gussmann, E. (1980) Studies in Abstract Phonology. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Gussmann, E. (ed.) (1985) Phonomorphology. Lublin: Redakcja Wydawnictw Katolick-
iego Uniwersytetu Lubelskiego.
REFERENCES 485
Gussmann, E. (ed.) (1987) Rules and the Lexicon. Lublin: Redakcja Wydawnictw
Katolickiego Uniwersytetu Lubelskiego.
Haegeman, L. (1991) An Introduction to Generative Syntax. Oxford: Blackwell.
Hall, T. (1989) Lexical Phonology and the distribution of German[<;:] and [x]. Phonology
6, 1-18.
Halle, M. (1959) The Sound Pattern of Russian. The Hague: Mouton.
Halle, M. (1973) Prolegomena to a theory of word-formation. LI 4, 3-16.
Halle, M. and Clements, G. (1983) Problem Book in Phonology. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Halle, M. and Mohanan, K. P. (1985) Segmental phonology of Modern English. LI 16,
57-116.
Halle, M. and Vergnaud. J.-R. (1987) An Essay on Stress. Cambridge MA: MIT Press.
Hammond, M. (1981) Some Vogul morphology: a hierarchical account of multiple
exponence. In: Thomas-Flinders (ed.).
Hammond, M. (1988) Templatic transfer in Arabic broken plurals. NLLT 6, 247-70.
Hammond, M. (1989) Lexical stresses in Macedonian and Polish. Phonology 6, 19-38.
Hammond, M. and Noonan, M. (eds.) (1988) Theoretical Morphology: Approaches in
J;fodern Linguistics. Orlando: Academic Press.
Harris, A. (1984) Inversion as a rule of grammar: Georgian evidence. In: Perlmutter and
Rosen (eds.).
Harris, James. W. (1969) Spanish Phonology. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Harris, James. W. (1983) Syllable Structure and Stress in Spanish. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Harris, John (1987) Non-structure-preserving rules in Lexical Phonology. Lingua 73,
255-92.
Harris, M. and Coltheart, M. (1986) Language Processing in Children and Adults. London:
Routledge.
Hawkins, P. (1984) Introducing Phonology. London: Hutchinson.
Hayes, B. (1982) Extrametricality and English stress. LI 13, 227-76.
Henderson, L. (1985) Towards a psychology of morphemes. In: Ellis, A. (ed.) Progress
in the Psychology of Language, Vol. 1. London: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Higginbotham, J. (1985) On semantics. LI 16, 547-94.
Hockett, C. (1958a) Two models of grammatical description. In: Joos (ed.).
Hockett, C. (1958b) A Course in Modern Linguistics. New York: Macmillan.
Hoeksema, J. (1986) Categorial Morphology. New York: Garland.
Hoeksema, J. (1987) Relating word structure and logical form. LI 18, 119-26.
Hoekstra, T. (1984) Transitivity: Grammatical Relations in Government-Binding Theory.
Dordrecht: Faris.
Hoekstra, T. (1986) Deverbalization and inheritance. Linguistics 24, 549-85.
Hoekstra, T., van der Hulst, H. and Moortgat, M. (eds.) (1980) Lexical Grammar.
Dordrecht: Faris.
Hoekstra, T. and van der Putten, F. (1988) Inheritance phenomena. In: Everaert et al.
(eds.).
Hogg, R. and McCully, C. (1987) Metrical Phonology: a Coursebook. Cambridge: CUP.
Hooper, J. (1976) Introduction to Natural Generative Phonology. New York: Academic
Press.
Hopper, P. and Thompson, S. (1982) Syntax and Semantics, 15: Studies in Transitivity.
New York: Academic Press.
Horrocks, G. (1987) Generative Syntax. London: Longmans.
486 REFERENCES
Huck, G. and Ojeda, A. (eds.) (1987) Syntax and Semantics, 20: Discontinuous Consti-
tuency. Orlando: Academic Press.
Hudson, G. (1974) The representation of non-productive alternation. In: Anderson, J.
and Jones, C. (eds.) Historical Linguistics, vol. 2. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Hudson, G. (1980) Automatic alternations in non-transformational phonology. Lg 56,
94-125.
van der Hulst, H. and Smith, N. (eds.) (1982a) The Structure of Phonological Represen-
tations, Part I. Dordrecht: Foris.
van der Hulst, H. and Smith, N. (eds.) (1982b) The Structure of Phonological Represen-
tations, Part II. Dordrecht: Foris.
van der Hulst, H. and Smith, N. (1982c) Introduction. In: van der Hulst and Smith
(1982a).
van der Hulst, H. and Smith, N. (eds.) (1985a) Advances in Nonlinear Phonology.
Dordrecht: Foris.
van der Hulst, H. and Smith, N. (1985b) Introduction. In: van der Hulst and Smith
(1985a).
Hyman, L. (1975) Phonology: Theory and Analysis. New York: Holt, Rinehart and
Winston.
Jackendoff, R. (1972) Semantic Interpretation in Generative Grammar. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Jackendoff, R. (1975) Morphological and semantic regularities in the lexicon. Lg 51,
639-71.
Jackendoff, R. (1976) Towards an explanatory semantic representation. LI 7) 89-150.
Jackendoff, R. (1983) Semantics and Cognition. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jackson, H. (1988) Words and their Meaning. London: Longmans.
Jakobson, R. (1935) Less enclitiques slaves. Proceedings ofthe Congress ofLinguists, Rome,
384-90; reprinted in Selected Writings, Vol. 2: Word and Language. (1971) The Hague:
Mouton.
Jakobson, R. (1968) Child Language, Aphasia and Linguistic Universals. The Hague:
Mouton.
Jaeggli, 0. (1982) Topics in Romance Syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Jaeggli, 0. (1986) Three issues in the theory of clitics: case, doubled NPs, and extraction.
In Borer (ed.).
Jenkins, C. (1984) Some aspects of word formation in a polysynthetic language. BLS 10,
104-15.
Jensen, J. (1990) Morphology. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Jensen, J. and Stong-Jensen, M. (1984) Morphology is in the lexicon! LI 15, 474-98.
Joos, M. (ed.) (1958) Readings in Linguistics (2nd edn.). Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
Joseph, B. (1988) Pronominal affixes in Modern Greek: the case against clisis. CLS 24,
203-15.
Joseph, B. and Wallace, R. (1984) Latin morphology: another look. LI 15, 319-28.
Kaisse, E. (1985) Connected Speech: the Interaction of Syntax and Phonology. Orlando:
Academic Press.
Katamba, F. (1989) An Introduction to Phonology. London: Longmans.
Kaye, J. (1989) Phonology: a Cognitive View. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associ-
ates.
Kaye, J. and Lowenstamm, J. (1981) Syllable structure and markedness theory. In:
Belletti, A., Brandi, L. and Rizzi, L. (eds.) Theory of Markedness in Generative
Grammar. Pisa: Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa.
REFERENCES 487
Kaye, J., Lowenstarnm, J. and Vergnaud, J.-R. (1985) The internal structure of
phonological elements: a theory of Charm and Government. Phonology Yearbook 2,
305-28.
Kayne, R. (1975) French Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Keenan, E. (1976) Remarkable subjects in Malagasy. In: Li, C. (ed.) Subject and Topic.
New York: Academic Press.
Keenan, E. and Timberlake, A. (1985) Predicate formation rules in Universal Grammar.
WCCFL 4, 123-38.
Kenstowicz, M. and Kisseberth, C. (1977) Topics in Phonological Theory. New York:
Academic Press.
Kenstowicz, M. and Kisseberth, C. (1979) Generative Phonology: Description and Theory.
New York: Academic Press.
Keyser, S. (ed.) (1978) Recent Transformational Studies in European Languages.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Keyser, S. and Roeper, T. (1984) On the middle and ergative constructions in English.
LI 15, 381-416.
Kibrik, A. E., Kodzasov, S. V., Olovjannikova, L P. and Samedov, D. S. (1977) Opyt
strukturnogo opisanija arcinskogo jazyka ['A structural description of Archi'; in Russian] .
Moscow: Izdatel'stvo moskovskogo universiteta.
Kiparsky, P. (1973a) 'Elsewhere' in phonology. In Anderson, S. and Kiparsky, P. (eds.)
A Festschrift for Morris Halle. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Kiparsky, P. (1973b) Abstractness, opacity and global rules. In: Fujimura (ed.).
Kiparsky, P. (1982a) From Cyclic Phonology to Lexical Phonology. In van der Hulst and
Smith (eds.) (1982a).
Kiparsky, P. (1982b) Explanation in Phonology. Dordrecht: Faris.
Kiparsky, P. (1983) Word formation and the lexicon. In:Jngemann, F. (ed.) Proceedings
of the 1982 Mid-America Linguistics Conference. University of Kansas.
Kiparsky, P. (1985) Some consequences of Lexical Phonology. Phonology Yearbook 2,
83-136.
Klavans, J. (1982) Some Problems in a Theory of Clitics. Bloomington: IULC.
Klavans, J. (1985) The independence of syntax and phonology in cliticization. Lg 61,
95-120.
Klemensiewicz, Z. (1985) Historia J?zyka Polskiego ['The History of Polish'; in Polish].
Warsaw: Paristwowe Wydawnictwo Naukowe.
Klima, E. and Bellugi, U. (1979) The Signs of Language. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Koutsoudas, A., Sanders, G. and Noll, C. (1974) The application of phonological rules.
Lg 50, 1-28.
Krause, S. (1979) Topics in Chukchee Phonology and Morphology. PhD dissertation,
University of Illinois.
Kyle, J. and Wall, B (1985) Sign Language. Cambridge: CUP.
LaPointe, S. (1981) General and restricted agreement phenomena. In: Moortgat et al.
(eds.).
LaPointe, S. (1987) Some extensions of the autolexical approach to structural mis-
matches. In: Huck and Ojeda (eds.).
Lasnik, H. (1988) Subjects and the 6-Criterion. NLLT 6, 1-18.
Lasnik, H. and Saito, M. (1984) On the nature of proper government. LI 15, 22-80.
Lasnik, H. and Uriagereka, J. (1988) A Course in GB Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Lass, R. (1984) Phonology. Cambridge: CUP.
488 REFERENCES
Lawler, J. (1977) A agrees with Bin Achenese: a problem for Relational Grammar. In:
Cole and Sadock (eds.).
Lawler, J. (1988) On the question of Acehnese 'passive'. Lg 64, 114-17.
Lees, R. (1960) The Grammar of English Nominalizations. The Hague: Mouton.
Levin, B. and Rappaport, M. (1986) The formation of adjectival passives. LI 17, 623-63.
Levin, J. (MS, 1983) Reduplication and prosodic structure. MIT.
Lewis, G. (1953) Teach Yourself Turkish. London: Hodder and Stoughton.
Lewis, G. (1967) Turkish Grammar. Oxford:. OUP.
Liddell, S. and Johnson, R. (1986) American Sign Language compound formation
processes, lexicalization and phonological remnants. NLLT 4, 445-513.
Lieber, R. (1980) The Organization of the Lexicon. PhD dissertation, MIT. [Distributed
by IULC 1981a].
Lieber, R. (1981b) Morphological conversion within a restricted theory of the lexicon. In
Moortgat et al. (eds.).
Lieber, R. (1982) Allomorphy. LA 10, 27-52.
Lieber, R. (1983) Argument linking and compounding in English. LI 14, 251-86.
Lieber, R. (1988) Phrasal compounds in English and the morphology-syntax interface.
Papers from the Parasession on Agreement in Grammatical Theory. CLS 24, 202-22.
Lightner, T. (1968) On the use of minor rules in Russian phonology. JL 4, 69-72.
Lightner, T. (1972) Problems in the Theory ofPhonology. Edmonton: Linguistic Research.
Lowenstamm, J. and Kaye, J. (1986) Compensatory lengthening in Tiberian Hebrew. In:
Wetzels, L. and Sezer, E. (eds.).
Lunt, H. 1952) A Grammar of the Macedonian Literary Language. Skopje.
Lyons, C. (1990) An agreement approach to elitic doubling. Transactions of the Philological
Society 88, 1-57.
Lyons, J. (1968) Introduction to Theoretical Linguistics. Cambridge: CUP.
McCarthy, J. (1979) Formal Problems in Semitic Phonology and Morphology. PhD disserta-
tion, MIT. [Distributed by IULC; published by Garland, New York, 1982a].
McCarthy, J. (1982b) Prosodic templates, morphemic templates, and morphemic tiers.
In: van der Hulst and Smith (eds.) (1982a).
McCarthy, J. (1982c) Prosodic structure and expletive infixation. Lg 58, 574-90.
McCarthy, J. (1986) OCP effects: gemination and antigemination. LI 17, 207-64.
McCawley, J. (1968) The role of semantics in a grammar. In: Bach and Harms (eds.).
McCawley, J. (1973) Syntactic and logical arguments for semantic structures. In:
Fujimura (ed.).
McCawley, J. (1981) Everything that Linguists have Always Wanted to Know About Logic*
(but were Ashamed to Ask). Oxford: Blackwell.
McCloskey, J. (1988) Syntactic theory. In Newmeyer (ed.).
McDonald, B. (1983) Levels of analysis in sign language research. In: Kyle, J. and ~roll,
B. (eds.) Language in Sign: an International Perspective on Sign Language. London:
Croom Helm.
Mallinson, G. and Blake, B. (1981) Language Typology: Crosslinguistic Studies in Syntax.
Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Manzini, M. R. (1983) On control and control theory. LI 14, 421-46.
Manzini, M. R. (1986) On Italian si. In: Borer (ed.).
Marantz, A. (1982) Re reduplication. LI 13, 483-545.
Marantz, A. (1984) On the Nature of Grammatical Relations. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Marantz, A. (1987) Phonologically induced bracketing paradoxes in full morpheme
reduplication. WCCFL 6, 203-12.
Marantz, A. (1988a) Clitics, morphological merger, and the mapping to phonological
structure. In: Hammond and Nooan (eds.).
I
u
I
j
REFERENCES 489
Marantz, A. (1988b) Apparent exceptions to the Projection Principle. In: Everaert et al.
. (eds.).
Marchand, H. (1969) The Categories and Types of Present-Day English Word-Fonnation.
Munich: C. H. Beck Verlagsbuchhandlung.
Mardirussian, G. (1975) Noun incorporation in universal grammar. CLS 11, 383-9.
van Made, J. (1985) On the Paradigmatic Dimension of Morphological Creativity.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Mascaro, J. (1976) Catalan Phonology and the Phonological Cycle. PhD dissertation, MIT.
[Distributed by IULC] .
Mascaro, J. (1983) La Fonologia Catalana i el Cicle Fonologic. Bellaterra: Universitat
Autonoma de Barcelona.
Matthews, P. (1972) Inflectional Morphology. Cambridge: CUP.
Matthews, P. (1974) Morphology. Cambridge: CUP.
May, R. (1985) Logical Fonn. Cambridge, MA. MIT Press.
Mayerthaler, W. (1981) Morphologische Naturlichkeit. Wiesbaden: Athenaion; translated
as Naturalness in Morphology (1988). Ann Arbor: Karoma.
Menovscikov, G. A. (1975) ]azyk Naukanskix Eskimosov ['The language of the Naukan
Eskimo'; in Russian] Leningrad: Nauka.
Merlan, F. (1976) Noun incorporation and discourse reference in modern Nahuatl. IJAL
42, 177-91.
Mithun, N. (1984) The evolution of noun incorporation. Lg 60, 847-94.
Mithun, N. (1986) On the nature of noun incorporation. Lg 62, 32-7.
Mohanan, K. (1986) The Theory of Lexical Phonology. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Mohanan, K. and Mohanan, T. (1984) Lexical Phonology of the consonant system in
Malayalam. LI 15, 575-602.
Moody, B. (1983) La Langue des signes fram;aise. Montpelier.
Moortgat, M., van der Hulst, H. and Hoekstra, T~ (eds.) (1981) The Scope of Lexical
Rules. Dordrecht: Foris.
Mtenje, A. (1987) Tone shift principles in the Chichewa verb: a case for a tone lexicon.
Lingua 72, 169-209.
Mtenje, A. (1988) On tone and transfer in Chichewa reduplication. Linguistics 26,
125-55.
Muysken, P. (1981) Quechua word structure. In: Heny, F. (ed.) Binding and Filtering.
London: Croom Helm.
Muysken, P. (1988) Affix order and interpretation: Quechua. In: Everaert et al.
(eds.).
Myers, S. (1987) Tone and the Structure of Words in Shona. PhD dissertation, University
of Amherst.
Nash, D. (1980) Topics in Warlpiri Grammar. PhD dissertation, MIT. [Published by
Garland, New York] .
Nedjalkov, V. P. (1976) Diathesen und Satzstruktur im Tschuktschischen. In: Lotsch,
R. and Ruzicka, R. (eds.) Satzstruktur and Genus Verbi. Berlin: Akademie Verlag.
Nedjalkov, V. P. (ed.) (1983) Tipologija rezultativnyx konstrukcij. Leningrad: Nauka;
translated as Typology of Resultative Constructions (1987). Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Nespor, M. and Vogel, I. (1986! Prosodic Phonology. Dordrecht: Foris.
Newmeyer, F. (1980) Linguistic Theory in America. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
Newmeyer, F. (ed.) (1988) Linguistics: the Cambridge Survey, Vol. 1: Linguistic Theory:
Foundations. Cambridge: CUP.
Nida, E. (1949) Morphology: the Descriptive Analysis of Words. Ann Arbor: University of
Michigan Press.
.,
490 REFERENCES
Nykiel-Herbert, B. (1985) The vowel-zero alternation in Polish prefixes. In Gussmann
(ed.).
Odden. D. and Odden, M. (1985) Ordered reduplication in Kfhehe. LI 16, 497-503.
Osborne, C. (1974) The Tiwi Language. Canberra: Australian Institute of Aboriginal
Studies.
Oskaragoz, I. (1986) The Relational Structure of Turkish Syntax. PhD dissertation, Univer-
sity of California at San Diego.
Padden, C. (1988) Grammatical theory and signed languages. In: Newmeyer, F. (ed.)
Linguistics: the Cambridge Survey, Vol. 2: Linguistic Theory: Extensions and Implications.
Cambridge: CUP.
Padden, C. and Perlmutter, D. (1987) American Sign Language and the architecture of
phonological theory. NLLT 5, 335-75.
Palmer, F. (1986) Mood and Modality. Cambridge: CUP.
Partee, B. H. (197g) Fundamentals of Mathematics for Linguists. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Perlmutter, D. (1971) Deep and Surface Structure Constraints in Syntax. New York: Holt,
Rinehart and Winston.
Perlmutter, D. (1978) Impersonal passives and the Unaccusative Hypothesis. BLS 4,
157-89.
Perlmutter, D. (1980) Relational Grammar. In: Moravcsik, E. and Wirth, J. (eds.) Syntax
and Semantics, 13: Current Approaches to Syntax. New Yor~: Academic Press.
Perlmutter, D. (ed.) (1983) Studies in Relational Grammar, Vol. I. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press.
Perlmutter, D. (1988) The split-morphology hypothesis: evidence from Yiddish. In:
Hammond and Noonan (eds.).
Perlmutter, D. and Postal, P. (1977) Towards a universal characterization of
passivization. BLS 3; reprinted in Perlmutter (ed.) (1983).
Perlmutter, D. and Postal, P. (1984) The !-Advancement Exclusiveness Law. In:
Perlmutter and Rosen (eds.).
Perlmutter, D. and Rosen, C. (eds.) (1984) Studies in Relational Grammar, Vol. 2.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Perlmutter, D. and Soames, S. (1979) Syntactic Argumentation and the Structure ofEnglish.
Berkeley, CA: University of California Press.
Pesetsky, D. (1985) Morphology and Logical Form. LI 16, 193-246.
Pike, K. (1948) Tone Languages. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.
Piotrowski, M., Roca, I. and Spencer, A. (1992) Polish jers and syllabicity. TLS.
Plank, F. (ed.) (1979) Ergativity. New York: Academic Press.
Plank, F. (ed.) (1984a) Objects. New York: Academic Press.
Plank, F. (1984b) Romance disagreements: phonology interfering with syntax. JL 20,
329-50.
Plank, F. (ed.) (forthcoming) Paradigms: the Economy of Inflection. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Platt, D. (1981) Old Proven~al: the balance between regularity and irregularity in verbal
inflection. In: Thomas-Flinders (ed.).
Pollock, J.-Y. (1989) Verb movement, Universal Grammar, and the structure of IP. LI
20, 365-424.
Pulleyblank, D. (1986) Tone in Lexical Phonology, Dordrecht: Reidel.
Pullum, G. (1988) Topic ... comment: citation etiquette beyond thunderdome. NLLT 6,
579-88.
J
~ '
,
j
·"
.~
'·
·•
REFERENCES 491
Radford, A. (1981) Transformational Syntax. Cambridge: CUP.
Radford, A. (1988) Transformational Grammar. Cambridge: CUP.
Randall, J. (1984) Morphological Structure and Language Acquisition. New York: Garland.
Revzin, I. I. and Juldaseva, G. D. (1969) Grammatika porjadok i ee ispol'zovanija ['Pos-
ition class analysis and its application'; in Russian]. Voprosy Jazykoznanija, 42-56.
Rice, K. (1985) On the placement of inflection. LI 16, 155-61.
van Riemsdijk, H. and Williams, E. (1986) Introduction to the Theory of Grammar.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rizzi, L. (1978) A restructuring rule in Italian syntax. In: Keyser (ed.).
Rizzi, L. (1982) Issues in Italian Syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Rizzi, L. (1986) Null objects in Italian and the theory of pro. LI 17, 501-57.
Roberts, I. (1987) The Representation of Implicit and Dethematized Subjects. Dordrecht:
Foris.
Robertson, J. (1980) The Structure of Pronoun Incorporation in the Mayan Verbal Complex.
New York: Garland. ·-
Robins, R. (1959) In defence of WP. Transactions of the Philological Society, 116-44;
reprinted in Robins, R. (1970) Diversions of Bloomsbury. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Roeper, T. (1987) Implicit arguments and the head-complement relation. LI 18,
267-310.
Roeper, T. (1988) Compound syntax and head movement. YM 1, 187-228.
Roeper, T. and Siegel, D. (1978) A lexical transformation for verbal compounds. LI 9,
199-260.
Rosen, C. (1984) The interface between semantic roles and initial grammatical relations.
In: Perlmutter and Rosen (eds.).
Rosen, S. (1989) Two types of noun incorporation:a lexical analysis. Lg 65, 294-317.
Rubach, }. (1984) Cyclic and Lexical Phonology. Dordrecht: Foris.
Rubach, J. (1985) On the interaction of word formation and phonological rules. In:
Gussmann (ed.).
Rubach, J. (1986) Abstract vowels in three dimensional phonology: the yers TLR 5,
247-80.
Ruzicka, R. (1986) Typologie der Diathese slavischer Sprachen in parametrischen
Variationen. Die Welt der Slaven 31, 225-74.
Sadock, J. (1980) Noun incorporation in Greenlandic. Lg 56, 300-19.
Sadock, J. (1985) Autolexical syntax: a proposal for the treatment of noun incorporation
and similar phenomena. NLLT 3, 379-439.
Sadock, J. (1986) Some notes on noun incorporation. Lg 62, 19-31.
Sadock, J. (1987) Discontinuity in autolexical and autosemantic syntax. In: Huck and
Ojeda (eds).
Sa:fir, K. (1987) The syntactic projection of lexical theta structure. NLLT 5, 561-601.
Sandler, W. (1989) Phonological Representation of the Sign. Dordrecht: Foris.
Sapir, E. (1911) The problem of noun incorporation in American languages. American
Anthropologist 13, 250-82.
Sapir, E. (1921) Language. New York: Harcourt, Brace and World.
Sapir, E. (1922) Takelma. In: Boas (ed.).
Sasse, H.-J. (1984) The pragmatics of noun incorporation in Eastern Cushitic languages.
In: Plank (ed.).
Scalise, S. (1984) Generative Morphology. Dordrecht: Foris.
Scalise, S. (1988) Inflection and derivation. Linguistics 26, 561-82.
492 REFERENCES
Scatton, E. (1975) Bulgarian Phonology. Cambridge, MA: Slavica.
Scatton, E. (1980) On the shape of the Bulgarian definite article. In: Chvany and Brecht
(eds.).
Seiter, W. (1980) Studies in Niuean Syntax. New York: Garland.
Selkirk, E. (1980) On prosodic structure and its relations to syntactic structure.
Distributed by IULC.
Selkirk, E. (1981) English compounding and the theory of word structure. In: Moortgat
et al. (eds.).
Selkirk, E. (1982) The Syntax of Words. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Selkirk, E. (1986) On derived domains in sentence phonology. Phonology Yearbook 3,
371-405.
Sells, P. (1985) Lectures on Contemporary Syntactic Theories. Stanford University: CSLI.
Shibatani, M. (ed.) (1976) Syntax and Semantics 6: the Syntax of Causative Constructions.
New York: Academic Press.
Shibatani, M. (1985) Passives and related constructions: a prototype analysis. Lg 61,
821-48.
Shibatani, M. (1990) The Languages of Japan. Cambridge: CUP.
Shibatani, M. and Kageyama, T. (1988) Word formation in a modular theory of
grammar: a case of post-syntactic compounds in Japanese. Lg 64, 451-84.
Shopen, T. (ed.) (1985) Language Typology and Grammatical Description, Vol. 3:
Grammatical Categories and the Lexicon. Cambridge: CUP.
Siegel, D. (1977) The Adjacency Condition and the theory of morphology. NELS 8,
189-97.
Siegel, D. (1979) Topics in English Morphology. New York: Garland.
Siegel, D. (1980).Why .there is no = boundary: In: Aronoff, M. and Kean, M.-L. (eds.)
Juncture. Saratoga, CA: Anma Libri.
Simpson, J. and Withgott, M. (1986) Pronominal clitic clusters and templates. In: Borer
(ed.).
Skorik, I. P. (1948) Ocerki po Sintaksisu Cukotskogo ]azyka: Inkorporatsija ['Outline of
Chukchee Syntax: Incorporation'; in Russian] Leningrad: Ucpedgiz.
Skorik, I. P. (1961) Grammatika Cukotskogo Jazyka. Tom 1 ['A Grammar of Chukchee',
Vol. 1'; in Russian]. Moscow: Izdatel'stvo Akademii Nauk.
Skorik, I. P. (1977) Grammatika Cukotskogo Jazyka. Tom 2 ['A Grammar of Chukchee,
Vol. 2'; in Russian] Moscow: Izdatel'stvo Akademii Nauk.
Smith, N. and Wilson, D. (1978) Modern Linguistics. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
Sobin, N. (1985) Case assignment in Ukrainian morphological passive constructions. LI
16, 649-62.
Sommerstein, A. (1977) Modern Phonology. London: Arnold.
Speas, M. (1984) Navajo prefixes and word structure typology. MITWPL 7, 86-109.
Spencer, A. (1984) A nonlinear analysis of phonological disability. Journal of
Communication Disorders 17, 325-48.
Spencer, A. (1986) A non-linear analysis of vowel-zero alternations in Polish. JL 22,
249-80.
Spencer, A. (1988a) Arguments for morpholexical rules. JL 24, 1-30.
Spencer, A. (1988b) Lexical rules and lexical representation. Linguistics 26, 619-40.
Spencer, A. (1988c) Bracketing paradoxes and the English lexicon. Lg 64, 663-82.
Sproat, R. (1984) On bracketing paradoxes. MITWPL 7, 110-30.
Sproat, R. (1985a) On Deriving the Lexicon. PhD dissertation, MIT.
Sproat, R. (1985b) A note on rebracketing in morphology. MITWPL 6, 199-205.
}
'
,,
REFERENCES 493
Sproat, R. (1988) Bracketing paradoxes, cliticization and other topics: the mappmg
between syntactic and phonological structure. In: Everaert et al. (eds.).
Stampe, D. (1979) A Dissertation on Natural Phonology. New York: Garland.
Steriade, D. (1988a) Reduplication and syllable transfer in Sanskrit and elsewhere.
Phonology 5, 73-155.
Steriade, D. (1988b) Greek accent: a case for preserving structure. LI 19, 271-314.
Strauss, S. (1982a) On 'relatedness paradoxes' and related paradoxes. LI 13, 695-700.
Strauss, S. (1982b) Lexicalist Phonology of English and German. Dordrecht: Faris.
Suiier, M. (1988) The role of agreement in clitic-doubled constructions. NLLT 6,
391-434.
Sussex, R. (1980) On agreement, suffixation and enclisis in Polish. In: Chvany and Brecht
(eds.).
Szymanek, B. (1985) English and Polish Adjectives: a Study in Lexicalist Word Formation.
Lublin: Katolicki Uniwersytet Lubelski.
Ter Mors, C. (1983) Affix to X*. TLR 3, 275-98.
Thomas-Flinders, T. (ed.) (1981) Inflectional Morphology: Introduction to the Extended
Word-and-Paradigm Theory. Occasional Papers in Linguistics 4. UCLA Department of
Linguistics.
Thompson, L. (1965) A Vietnamese Grammar. Seattle: University of Washington
Press.
Timberlake, A. (1982) The impersonal passive in Lithuanian. BLS 8, 508-23.
Toman, J. (1981) Aspects of multiple wh-movement in Polish and Czech. In: May, R.
and Koster, J. (eds.) Levels of Syntactic Representation. Dordrecht: Faris.
Travis, L. and Williams, E. (1982) Externalization of arguments in Malaya-Polynesian
languages. TLR 2, 57-78.
Usikova, R. P. (1985) Makedonskij Jazyk ['The Macedonian Language'; in Russian].
Skopje: Makedonska kniga.
Vasqez Cuesta, P. and Mendes da Luz, M. A. (1961) Gramdtica Portuguesa. Madrid:
Editorial Gridos.
Vennemann, T. (1972) Rule inversion. Lingua 29, 209-42.
Volodin, A. P. (1976) Itel'menskij Jazyk ['The Itel'men Language'; in Russian].
·Leningrad: Nauka.
Wall, R. (1972) Introduction to Mathematical Linguistics. Englewood Cliffs, NJ:· Prentice-
Hall.
Wasow, T. (1977) Transformations and the lexicon. In: Culicover, P., Wasow, T. and
Akmajian, A. (eds.) Formal Syntax. New York: Academic Press.
Wetzels, L. and Sezer, E. (eds.) (1986) Studies in Compensatory Lengthening. Dordrecht:
Faris.
Wharf, B. (1956) Language, Thought, and Reality (J. Carroll, ed.). Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Wilbur, R. (1973) The Phonology of Reduplication. PhD dissertation, MIT. [Distributed
by IULC].
Wilbur, R. (1979) American Sign Language and Signing Systems. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Williams, E. (1980) Predication. LI 11, 203-38.
Williams, E. (1981a) On the notions 'lexically related' and 'head of a word'. LI 12,
245-74.
Williams, E. (1981b) Argument structure and morphology. TLR 1, 81-114.
Williams, E. (1985) PRO in NP. NLLT 3, 277-95.
.,
494 REFERENCES
Williams, E. (1987) Implicit arguments, the binding theory, and control. NLLT 5,
151-80.
Winograd, T. (1983) Language as a Cognitive Process, Vol. 1: Syntax. Reading, MA:
Addison-Wesley.
Wurzel, W. (1984) Flexionsmorphologie und Naturlichkeit. Berlin: Akademie Verlag;
translated as Inflectional Morphology and Naturalness (1989). Dordrecht: Reidel.
Xaritonov, L. N. (1963) Zalogovye formy glagola v jakutskom jazyke ['Voice Forms of the
Verb in Yakuts'; in Russian]. Moscow-Leningrad: Nauka.
Yip, M. (1982) Reduplication and C-V skeleta in Chinese secret languages. LI 13,
637-61.
Young, R. and Morgan, W. (1980) The Navajo Language. Albuquerque: University of
New Mexico Press.
Zaliznjak, A. A. (1977) Grammaticeskij Slovar' Russkogo Jazyka ['A Grammatical
Dictionary of Russian'; in Russian]. Moscow: Russkij Jazyk.
Zonneveld, W. (1978) A Formal Theory ofExceptions in Generative Phonology. Lisse: Peter
de Ridder Press.
Zubizarreta, M.-L. (1987) Levels of Representation in the Lexicon and in Syntax.
Dordrecht: Faris.
Zubizarreta, M.-L. and Vergnaud, J.-R. (1982) On virtual categories. MIIWPL 4,
293-303.
Zukova, A. N. (1980) Jazyk Palanskix Korjakov ['The Language of the Palan Koryak';
in Russian]. Leningrad: Nauka.
Zwicky, A. (1977) On Clitics. Bloomington: IULC.
Zwicky, A. (1985a) How to describe inflection. BLS 11, 371-86.
Zwicky, A. (1985b) Clitics and particles. Lg 61, 283-305.
Zwicky, A. (1985c) Rules of allomorphy and syntax-phonology interactions. JL 21,
431-36.
Zwicky, A. (1985d) Heads. JL 21, 1-20.
Zwicky, A. (1986) The general case: basic form versus default form. BLS 12, 305-14.
Zwicky, A. (1987a) Suppressing the Zs. JL 23, 133-48.
Zwicky, A. (1987b) French prepositions: no peeking. Phonology Yearbook 4, 211-27.
Zwicky, A. (1987c) Phonological and morphological rule interactions in highly modular
grammars. ESCOL 3, 523-32.
Zwicky, A. (1987d) Transformational grammarians and their ilk. MIIWPL 9, 265-79.
Zwicky, A. (1988) Morphological rules, operations and operation types. ESCOL 4,
318-34.
Zwicky, A. (1990) Inflectional morphology as a (sub)component of grammar. In:
Luschutzky, H. (ed.) Morphologica 1988. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Zwicky, A. and Pullum, G. (1983) Cliticization vs. inflection: English n't. Lg 59, 502-13.
Subject Index
Note: The symbol - represents the position of the head word within a complex technical term.
For instance, under clitic, pronominal- and -doubling stand for pronominal clitic and clitic doubling
respectively.
!-Advancement Exclusiveness Law (1-AEX)
243, 261, 290
ablaut 16, 50, 51, 114, 135
absolutive (case) See ergativity
absorption (of theta role) 386
(of Case) 283, 303, 386, 476nl9
Abstract Case See Case _
Abstract Incorporation [see also Reanalysis]
279-80
abstract (segment, analysis) 63, 99, 103,
104, 106, 125
accidental gap 76, 90
acronym 85, 46lnl6
active (voice) 23
adjacency 409, 418, 420
Adjacency Condition [see also Atom
Condition, bracket erasure] 185-6,
188, 202, 213
Adjectival Passive Formation (APF) 301
affix 5
phrasal- 377, 383, 458-9
pronominal- 374
Stem- 401-3
stress neutral- 79
Word- 401-3
Affix Hopping 200, 206
Affix Ordering Generalization 80, 179, 199
Affix Rule [Roeper and Siegel] 326
Affix-to-X 155-6
After [Klavans] 377
Agent (8 role) 190
agent defocusing 245
agentive 84, 111, 195
agglutination (agglutinating morphology)
38, 50, 52, 69, 74, 103, 133, 134, 189,
215, 223, 224, 225, 230, 428, 463n5
'Agr climbing' 389
agreement 10, 21, 65-6, 374, 384-90, 394,
439, 457-8, 460n5, 462FR, 475n5
cliticization as, 359-60, 381, 477n20
Aktionsart 33-4, 196
allomorph(y) 6, 40-1, 57-8, 66, 86, 103-5, ..
227, 460n3,4,5
derived- 104, 118, 120
external- 128, 356
allomorphy rule See rule
Allomorphy Rule (AMR) [in Natural
Morphology] 126, 127, 466nl4
allophone 460n3
allophony 53, 54
alternation (phonological-) 15
Alternation Condition 106-7
analytic (construction) 238
anaphoric island 42, 445, 450
Anaphoric Island Constraint 447
antipassive 24, 251, 267, 278, 289, 47ln7,9
anticausative 246, 297, 343, 456
apophony See ablaut
applied verb (applicative ·[see also Dative
Shift, Preposition Incorporation] 253,
254, 273-5, 277' 283, 287-9, 307
archiphoneme 55
496 SUBJECT INDEX
argument 191
-structure 190-3, 191, 256, 329, 332,
470FR
external- 191, 299
implicit- 245, 299
internal- 191, 325, 330
semantic- 331
Argument Linking Principle [Lieber] 330,
333-4, 337
aspect 26, 87, 195
Aspects (model) 62-3, 64, 66, 67, 72, 78,
82, 91, 190, 256, 258, 351, 46SFR
association line [see also delinking] 137
crossing- 139, 146
associativity 411, 419
Atom Condition [see also Adjacency
Condition, bracket erasure] 187, 202,
231
atomicity of words [see also lexical
integrity] 425
Autolexical syntax 424, 435-41
automatic (phonological process/alternation)
53, 80, 100, 126, 128
autosegment [see also floating, prosodies,
tone] 133, 163
autosegmental phonology 133, 137, 146,
466n1
auxiliary verb (as clitic) 351-3, 356-7, 358,
365-6, 369-74
backformation 85-6, 322, 461n16
bahuvrihi See compound
barrier 281
Barriers 276, 281, 283
base 461n10
base form [see also underlyir.g
representation, underlying form] 127
Before [Klavans] 377
Benefactive (8 role) 190
promotion of in applicative 253
Binary Branching Constraint 445-6
Binding Theory 272
binyan 17, 136, 146
biuniqueness [structuralist phonemics] 54
biuniqueness [Natural Morphology] 126
bleeding (order) 125, 465n5
blending 85, 461n16
block [see also component, module] 79, 218
blocking 89, 93, 111, 464n13
bound word See word
boundary 79, 473n2
morpheme (+)- 79, 113, =- 464n6
word ( # )- 79, 82, 113
bracket erasure 113, 147, 149, 173, 184
Bracket Erasure Convention (BEC) 113,
401
bracketing (labelled) 230
bracketing paradox 44, 93, 94, 181, 189,
330, 333, 338, 380, 428, 437' 460,
467n5
'broken plural' [Semitic] 142, 145, 169-70
Burzio's Generalization 260, 264, 266, 267,
292-3, 303
CV skeleton, template, tier 136-9, 142,
148-9, 151,155,156-9,160-2, 167
case 9
absolutive- See ergative
direct- 24
ergative- See ergative
Oblique- 24
Case (Abstract-) [See also PF
Identification] 257
assignment of in passive 292-3
in clitic doubling 360
Inherent- 240, 258
Structural- 258, 283
Case Complement Restriction 297
Case Filter 257
Case Frame Preservation Principle (CFPP)
283
Case Matching 387
categorial grammar 300, 477n1
category [se.e also class]
functional- 391
morphological- 193, 227
morphosyntactic- 216, 225, 431
prosodic- 402
causative 24, 68-9, 93, 252, 267-73, 276,
283-7, 462n19, 464n2, 472FR
monoclausal- 268, 283, 284-6, 308, 456
biclausa1- 268, 283, 284-6, 308, 457
chain 388
change (historical-) 8, 19, 102, 118, 123,
126, 226
ch6meur 251, 261
circurnfix 12, 461n12
class [see also conjugation; declension]
lexical- 10, 83, 204
morphological- 9, 100, 225, 226, 227,
462FR
syntactic- 10, 83
Class I, II affixation [see also level
ordering] 79, 93, 109, 179, 199, 399,
400-1, 420, 464n12
classifier 171, 209, 476n17
Clause Union 385
'clean-up' rule 115
clipping 85, 461n16
clisis 474n1
clitic(ization) 14, 43, 82, 128, 213, 294,
399, 403, 412, 435-6, 441, 459,
469n14
~climbing 357-8, 385, 388-9, 47Sn5
~cluster 356, 383-4, 458
~doubling 249, 360, 386-8, 394, 476n18,
477n20
pronominal~ 14, 353-4, 356, 357-8,
359-62, 362-6, 367-9, 374-5, 457,
464n8, 47Sn4
simple- 376, 392, 399, 409, 447
special~ 376, 390, 392
Clitic Group 362
coanalysis 426
commutativity 419
comparison (of adjectives) 27
comparative 27
compensatory lengthening 168
complementary distribution 53
complex segment 157
component [see also module] 79, 129, 230,
423
base- 62
morphological~ 78, 90, 91
phonological~ 62, 78
semantic~ 62
word formation~
compositional (semantics) See semantics
compound 14, 47-8, 67, 81, 87, 93, 94-5,
114-5, 294, 424
appositional- 311
bahuvrihi~ 311
dvandva- 311
endocentric~ 310, 318
exocentric- 189, 311
neo-classical- 94-5, 320, 344
post-syntactic- 441-7
primary~ See root~
Romance compounding 426, 454, 478n4
root- 319-24, 328, 474FR
'stub'~ 346-7, 461n16
synthetic- 308, 309, 319, 324-43, 422,
458, 474FR
verbal~ See synthetic~
Compound Affix Ordering Generalization
[see also Affix Ordering Generalization]
199
Compound Rule [Roeper and Siegel] 326
Compound Stress Rule 313, 319-20
concord See agreement
concrete (analysis) [see also abstract] 99
conditional (mood) 26
conditioning
grammatical~ 100
lexical~ 88-9, 115, 128
morpholexical~ 100
morphological~ 7, 109
phonological~ 6, 77-8, 121-4, 131, 460n4
congruent (inflectional system) 225
conjugation(al class) 11
SUBJECT INDEX 497
conjuctive ·(ordering) 218
consonant mutation See mutation
constituent structure [see also phrase
structure grammar, labelled
bracketing] 90, 91, 113, 197-205, 310,
399, 410, 467n5
construct state 449, 457
control [Di Sciullo and Williams] 299
Control (theory) [GB syntax] 299
conversion (morphological-) [see also zero
affixation] 20, 61, 94, 114, 131, 184,
189, 431
counterbleeding 465n5
counterfeeding 108, 125, 130
cranberry morpheme See morpheme
Cross-Categorial Theta Grid Percolation
Convention [Sproat] 335
cryptotype 417
cumulation 51
cycle 107, 131
cycle of affixes 212, 233
cyclic derivation [see also cycle,
Lexical Phonology, SCC] 85, 91
Cyclic Phonology [see also Lexical
Phonology] 91, 99, 107-9
D-structure 207, 262, 281
Dative Shift 274, 286, 288-9, 298
declension(al class) 11
deep structure [see also D-structure] 62,
64-5, 66, 68, 99
default (case) 110, 127, 164, 218, 465n7
Default Low Tone Assignment 164, 165
delinking 141
automatic- 143
demotion 237, 251, 259, 303
derivation [see also derivational
morphology] 9, 193
derivational constraint 78
derivational morphology 66-7, 72, 75, 82,
85, 204
derived environment 107
Derived Imperfective 196, 468n6
derived nominalization See nominalization
desiderative [see also modality] 26
devoicing
final obstruent devoicing (German) 100
(Russian) 53-5
diacritic See feature
dictionary [see also lexicon] 47-9
Dictionary [Halle] 76, 78, 87-8
[Selkirk] 198
diminutive 102, 197
'disagreement' rule See rule
discontinuous dependency 2~0, 213, 460
disjunctive (ordering) 10, 218, 430
498 SUBJECT INDEX
dislocation 389, 476n12
left-, right- 389
distinct(ness) 111, 112, 465n6
distinctive feature See feature
domain
cyclic- 107
prosodic- 42-3, 473n2, 477FR
downstep 163
Duplication Problem 111
dvandva See compound
echo-words 158
Eight Binyan Flop 140
'elsewhere' case 215
Elsewhere Condition 109-11, 127, 131,
218, 430, 465n7
Empty Category Principle (ECP) 281, 295,
471n8, 473n8
enclitic 14
Enclitic [Klavans] 377
endocliiic 476n14
equative 27
erasure (of association lines) [see also
delinking] 141
ergative (verb) [see also unaccusative] 471n5
ergative (case, language) [see also
transitivity] 23, 251, 256-7, 472FR
evidentiality [see also modality] 26
Exceptional Case Marking (ECM) 257, 264,
269, 271-2
Experiencer (() role) 190
"Expletive Infixation" 461n11
expletive (subject) 240
exponent 41, 136
exponence
extended- 51
multiple- 51, 85, 216, 428
overlapping- 51, 221
Extended Level Ordering Hypothesis 81,
93, 179, 182, 321
Extended Word-and-Paradigm 91 216
' '
234-5, 470FR
external evidence 127
externalization 192, 303
Externalized language 74, 127
extraction (in clitic doubled constructions)
387' 394
feature
diacritic- [see also exception-, (minor)
rule-] 76, 101, 115, 120, 121, 204
distinctive- 65, 116, 153
exception- 101, 105
layered- 220, 222
minor rule- 101, 119
morphosyntactic- 76, 216, 218
rule- 101
selection- 116
-percolation 186, 200-1, 222-3, 265, 349,
451, 478n9
-percolation convention (FPC) 200, 201,
203, 231, 323, 408
feeding 109
Filter [Halle] 76, 87-8, 90, 94
Final [Klavans] 377
finite state grammar 201
First Order Projection Condition (FOPC)
[Selkirk] 328, 332, 337
First Sister Principle (FSP) 326, 328, 331,
332, 446, 473n8
floating (autosegment) 157, 163, 165-6
focus [Malaya-Polynesian grammar] 25
focus [topic-comment articulation] 462n20,
464n3
foot See metrical foot
"Fuckin' Insertion" See "Expletive
Infixation"
functional composition 300, 333
functional sentence perspective [see also
topic-comment articulation] 464n3
functor 300, 332-3
fusion(al morphology) [see also multiple
exponence] 38, 45-6, 60-1, 221, 225
game (word-, language-) 126, 145, 159-60
gemination 136, 140
gender 9, 45, 462FR
Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar
(GPSG) 201, 418, 469n16, 470FR,
478n7
generative grammar 62, 74
generative phonology 56, 63-4, 101, 104,
460n4, 463n4
Generative Semantics 67-9, 92, 93, 263,
465FR
gerund(ive) 27, 66-7, 69-71, 193, 338, 457
in synthetic compound 324
global rule 78
Goal (() role) 190
governed (lexically-, morphologically-) See
conditioning
government 21, 88, 89
proper- [see also ECP] 280
Government-Binding syntax (GB syntax)
[see also Barriers] 202, 207, 220, 255,
256, 259-60, 472FR
Government Phonology 207
Government Transparency Corollary (GTC)
[Baker] 281, 288
Great Vowel Shift 104, 126
H spread [Tiv] 166
haplology 382
head [see also endocentric, exocentric, X'
theory, feature percolation, Righthand
Head Rule] 72, 186-9, 200-1, 204,
213, 310-11, 316-17, 349, 391, 404,
439,
relativized- 200, 452
-movement [see also incorporation] 200,
392
Head Movement Constraint (HMC) 280,
286, 439, 471n8
Head Operations 477nl
homonymy [see also homophony] 45-6, 88
homophony (affix-) 211-12
honorific 26
passive as, 244
host [see also clitic] 14, 350, 391, 399
iconicity 224
constructional- 225
idiom 44, 210, 423-4
idiosyncrasy 75-6, 87-8, 90, 92, 94, 95,
103, 105, 344, 412, 427
imperative [see also mood] 26
impersonal si [Italian] 247, 472FR
incorporation [see also Noun Incorporation]
15, 42, 82, 87, 255, 275-96, 308, 311,
388, 392
inchoative 77, 121, 246
indicative [see also mood] 26
indirect (argument, complement, theta role)
infix [see also "Expletive Infixation"] 12,
135-6, 140, 154, 199, 461n11
Infl 257
inflectional language 38
inflection(al morphology) [see also fusion,
(Extended) Word-and-Paradigm,
syntactic affixation] 9, 45-6, 67, 69,
75-6, 82, 85, 90, 91, 101, 114, 193-7,
204, 214--29, 391, 436, 470FR
inside compounds 313, 324
vs. cliticization 381, 393
inheritance 70, 331, 332, 337, 340-3,
474n10,FR
Initial [Klavans] 377
initial phrase marker (IPM) 62
Instrument (8 role) 190
promotion of in applicative 253
instrumental (case) 75
interaction, interface 31, 206, 424, 435
morphology-lexicon- 456, 460
morphology-phonology- 31, 113, 119,
120, 122, 127, 129, 391, 413, 467FR
morphology-syntax- 31, 127, 208, 221,
230, 309, 391, 413, 424, 435, 439, 441
phonology-syntax 356
internalization 193
Internalized language 74, 127
SUBJECT INDEX 499
interrupted synthesis 211, 213
inversion 255, 469-70n18
Iotation 357
isa (relation) 187
isolating (language) 38
Item-and-Arrangement (IA) [see also
agglutination] 49, 61, 66, 85, 100, 103,
134-5, 213, 221, 463n4,5,6
Item-and-Process (IP) 50, 100, 135, 463n4
izafet 314-19, 348
jer 102-3, 161, 371, 401
Jer Lowering/Deletion 102-3, 107,
jussive [see also mood] 26
Kayne-Jaeggli Generalization 360, 476n18
labelled bracketing See bracketing
language faculty [see also Universal
Grammar] 167, 172
language pathology 127
latinate (affix) 188, 226
layered morphology [see also constituent
structure] 212-13
layering (of features) See feature
learnability 79, 106, 116, 125
level 81
level ordering [see also Lexical Phonology]
91, 109, 113, 115, 116, 131, 231, 313,
400-1, 408, 411, 419, 457, 467n7
Level Orde:ing Hypothesis [see also
Extended-] 81, 114, 119
lexeme 45, 434
lexical decomposition 69, 263, 281, 464n2
lexical entry 64, 111, 112, 147, 161
Lexical Functional Grammar (LFG) 73,
256, 259, 262, 470FR
lexical insertion 62, 76, 86, 92
lexical integrity 42, 425, 439, 447, 450
lexical phonology [see also
morphophonemics] 109, 129, 457
Lexical Phonology 91, 109-19, 120, 122,
127, 129, 147, 148-9, 163, 178-9, 184,
221, 321, 457, 466FR
bracketing paradoxes in, 400-1
lexical redundancy See redundancy
lexical relatedness 148, 404, 428
Lexicalist Hypothesis (Extended-) 72,
206-7' 325-6, 327' 332-3, 390, 425
Strong- 73, 178-9, 199, 207, 221, 230,
344, 431' 435' 458
Weak- [see also Extended Word-and-
Paradigm; split-morphology
hypothesis] 178-9, 230
lexicalization 293
vs. compounding 312, 321
of izafet 316
l
500 SUBJECT INDEX
Lexica-Conceptual Structure (LCS) 342-3,
456
lexicography 463FR
lexicon 47-9, 63, 64, 69, 73, 74, 91, 147,
221, 296, 326, 344, 373, 405, 414,
423, 427' 434, 452
conditional-, potential- 48
mental- 463n3, 478n3
permanent- 48, 198, 415
liaison (of elitics) 377
listeme 425
listing 88, 115, 120, 452
Listing Principle [Borer] 452
Location/ Locative (8 role) 190
promotion of in applicative 253
Logical Form (LF) 207, 405, 478FR
logical object, subject 237, 264-5
logico-semantic (1-s) structure [Marantz]
262, 263, 411, 456
merger at, 270
loop [see also level ordering, Lexical
Phonology] 78, 115, 179, 321
macroparadigm 228-9
mapping principle [Marantz] 262
Mapping Principle [Sproat] 411, 412, 418,
421, 476n15
'Marantz's Generalization' 287
markedness 146, 224
matching (of theta grid) [See also Case
matching] 341-2
maximal projection See projection
melody 137, 151, 156-60, 168
merger (morphological- [Marantz]) 267-75,
269, 307, 412
metathesis 141, 209-10, 210-11
metrical foot 154, 402
Metrical phonology 111, 190, 465n8
middle (voice) [see also se-moyen
construction] 245, 247, 248, 297,
470n2
minimal free form 43
Mirror Principle [Baker] 294
modality 26, 462n21
modifier stranding [see also possessor
raising] 295
module 79, 424, 427, 435, 447, 451, 453,
454
mood 462n21
morph 6, 460n1,3
morpheme 4, 31, 61, 206, 216, 221,
460n1,3
as 'minimal sign' 86
bound- 5, 90, 356
cranberry- 40, 86-7, 94
discontinuous- 135
free- 5
tone as- 18, 163-7
Morpheme Structure Condition (MSC) [see
also lexical redundancy rule] 64
morphemic tier
Morphemic Tier Hypothesis 139, 154
Morpholexical Phonology 122-5, 127, 457
morphological object [Di Sciullo and
Williams] 423
Morphological Transformation Prohibition
(MTP) 147
Morphological Rule (MPR) [in Natural
Morphology] 126, 127, 466n14
morphonology See morphophonology
morphophoneme 54
morphophonemic level 53, 54, 127, 129
morphophonemics [see also
morphophoneme, morphophonemic
level, morpho(pho)nology] 53, 463n7
morphosyntax 2lf, 65, 432, 461n7
morphotactic restriction 462-3n2
Move-alpha 92, 275, 406-7
multilinear (phonology) [see also non-linear
phonology] 92, 133
mutation (consonant-) [see also Nivkh,
Welsh] 16, 61, 128, 131-2
nasal assimilation 80
nasal harmony 156-8
natural class 84
Natural Generative Phonology (NGP) 99,
103-5, 125, 126, 466n12
Natural Morphology 91, 125, 127, 224,
462n1, 470n20
Natural Phonology 125, 466n14
naturalness 125, 146
negation [see also modality] 26
neutral vowel 116
neutralization 54, 100, 106-7, 126, 463n6
absolute- [see also abstract segment] 63,
103, 104, 106
'No Phrase' Constraint 321, 454
NOM 338
nominal [see also nominalization] 84
nominalization 7, 66-7, 304, 308, 337-8,
473n7
derived- 69-71, 73, 74-5, 92, 94, 428
non-automatic (phonological process) [see
also lexical, morphological, syntactic
conditioning] 79, 100, 101, 126
nonconcatenative morphology [see also root-
and-pattern morphology] 129, 133,
151, 470n19
nonlinear (morphology, phonology) [see also
autosegmental, multilinear,
nonconcatenative], 92, 133, 125
Non-vacuous Application Principle (NVAP)
265
Noun Incorporation (NI) 276, 278, 282,
286, 294-6, 297, 339, 436-9, 441, 457,
458, 47ln6, 472nll, 473n8, 476nl7
Nuclear Stress Rule (SPE) 313
null affixation, morpheme See zero
affixation, morpheme
null object 47lnll
null subject (language) 240, 476nl6
opacity [see also referential opacity] 106
optative [see also mood] 26
order [see also position class] 209
ordering See rule ordering
overgeneration 76, 90, 207
P2 clitic [see also Wackernagel position]
355, 374, 381, 384
PF identification 281-3, 282, 286
p word See word
palatalization 102, 103
paradigm [see also (Extended) Word-and-
Paradigm, inflectional morphology,
macroparadigm] 11, 52-3, 66, 75, 91,
193-4, 198, 204, 212, 214, 215-29,
230, 231, 233, 238, 338, 416, 427,
430, 46ln9, 468n8
-economy 227-9
Paradigm Economy Principle 229, 231
paradigm structure condition (PSC) 226,
234
paradigmatic word formation See word
formation
Parallel Morphology 447-53
parasynthesis See circumfix
parsing (of lexical entries) 147
participle 27, 193
in synthetic compound 324
passive 23, 69, 73, 237-44, 245, 247, 258,
278-9, 289-93, 301-3, 308, 470n2
adjectival- 73, 301-3, 456
impersonal- 239, 243, 293
lexical- 259
morphological- 241
reflexive- 241
syntactic- 259, 264, 299-301, 456, 457
transitive- 240, 293
verbal- See syntactic passive
Patient (8 role) [see also Theme (8 role)]
190
percolation See feature
Periph\!rality Constraint 469nl3
periphrastic (construction) [see also analytic
(construction)] 238]
personal·noun 414, 416, 417, 428-9
phone 460n3
phoneme 125, 129, 460n3
SUBJECT INDEX 501
phonemics 53, 463n7
Phonological Form (PF) 207, 221, 424
phonological process [Natural Phonology]
466n14
Phonological Rule (PR) [in Natural
Morphology] 126, 127, 466nl4
phonomorphology See morphophonemics,
morpho(pho)nology
phonotactic constraint 42, 64, 462n2
phrasal verb 44
phrase phonology [see also postlexical
phonology] 118, 129, 442-3, 478n8
phrase structure grammar (psg) 62, 71-2,
198, 202, 215, 232, 320
plural 6
point 167
politeness [see also honorific] 26
polysemy 87-8, 416
of passive construction 245, 304
polysynthetic (language) 38
portmanteau [see also multiple exponence]
50, 51
position class [see also order, template
morphology, clitic] 201, 208-9, 216,
217, 232, 463n5, 469nl2
positive (form of adjective) 27
possessor raising (ascension) 259, 276, 295
possessive 22, 314
possessive 's 381-2, 391, 434-5,· 457-9
postcyclic (phonology, rule) [see also
postlexical] 116-18
postlexical (phonology, rule) [see also
postcyclic, phrase phonology] 109,
116-18, 119
Prague School 55, 129, 244
preassociated (autosegment) 152, 153, 170
predicate 27
Predicate-Argument Structure (PAS) 342-3
predication, theory of [Williams] 193, 332
prefix 5
prelinked See preassociated
prenasalized stop 157-8
Preposition Incorporation [see also
applicative] 277, 287-8
Preposition Stranding [see also pseudo-
passive] 242
Principle M [Marantz] [see also mapping
principle] 263, 411
PRO 338-40
pro ["small pro", GB theory] 386, 388,
457, 476nl6,19
proclitic 14
Proclitic [Klavans] 377
productivity 48, 82, 87-9, 94, 95, 225, 425,
474FR, 478n3
projection (X-bar theory) 72
maximal- 72, 426-7
502 SUBJECT INDEX
Projection Principle [see also Theta
Criterion] 202, 298, 301, 334, 337,
428, 452
and the lexicon, 298, 457, 472n12
promotion 237, 245, 253, 259, 268
Proper Inclusion Principle 46Sn7
Prosodic Phonology 113, 362
prosodic structure 410
prosodic template [see also CV skeleton]
136, 143, 151-2
prosodies 134
pseudo-passive 242, 261
psycholinguistics 126, 127, 463n3
psychological reality 127
quantifier 405
Quantifier Raising 406-8
Raising-to-Object verb [see also Exceptional
Case Marking] 271-2
Raising-to-Subject verb 243, 272
realization (of morph) 6
Reanalysis 279-80, 286, 292
Received Pronunciation (RP) 460n2
reciprocal 74, 246-7, 248
reciprocal-cooperative (voice) 249-50
recursion [see also phrase structure
grammar, X-bar syntax] 48, 310, 317
redundancy (rule) See rule, (lexical)
redundancy
reduplication 13, 61, 122, 125, 134, 150-6,
168, 171, 173, 199, 467n7
syllable- 154, 173
referential opacity 42
reflexive [see also passive, reciprocal] 241,
246, 248-9, 266, 272, 305
relatedness paradox [see also bracketing
paradox] 403
relational adjective 324, 417, 429-30, 431
Relational Grammar 251, 255, 256, 261,
262, 385, 469n18, 470n2, 472nFR
relevance [Bybee] 193
replacive 461n13
Restructuring [see also Reanalysis] 385
resultative 246, 472nl4, FR
Revised Alternation Condition [Kiparsky]
107' 108
Righthand Head Rule [Williams] [see also
head]
root 5, 87, 461n10
triliteral- [Semitic] 17, 135
quadriliteral- 142, 145
quinqueliteral- 142, 143, 145
root-and-pattern morphology [see also
nonconcatenative morphology, prosodic
template] 133, 142, 159, 160, 198,
470n19
root compound See compound
rule
adjustment- 83 [see also readjustment-]
allomorphy- [Aronoff] 82, 100, 103, 115,
116
allophonic- 116, 128
context-free phrase structure- 62
context-sensitive- 147
cyclic- 107-9, 111, 120, 122, 123, 130,
148, 149, 164
'disagreement'- 466n15
Implicational- [Zwicky] 434
minor- 101, 119, 120, 122
morpholexical- [allomorphy-Lieber] 120,
122, 124, 205, 466nl2, 467n7
[in EWP-Anderson] 216, 466nl2
morphophonemic- 119
postcyclic, postlexical- See postcyclic,
postlexical
phrase structure- [see also phrase
structure grammar] 62, 71-2, 327
readjustment- [see also allomorphy-,
minor- truncation-] 66, 100, 120, 184,
467n4
Realization- [Zwicky] 434
(lexical) redundancy- 64, 71, 73, 84, 85,
94, 104, 119, 120, 147, 162, 259, 434,
464nl0
Righthand Head- See Righthand Head
transformational- See transformation
truncation- [Aronoff] 83, 88
via- [see also allomorphy rule, lexical
redundancy rule, morpholexical rule,
Natural Generative Phonology] 104,
466nl2
word formation- (WFR) 47, 76-8, 82-4,
90, 93, 94-5, 202
rule feature See feature
rule ordering [see also conjunctive,
disjunctive ordering]
extrinsic- [see also feeding, bleeding,
counterfeeding, counterbleeding] 79,
104, 106, 124-5, 130, 46Sn5
rule of referral [see also syncretism] 134,
219
SPE (=The Sound Pattern of English) 63-4,
66, 79, 83, 93, 99-103, 105, 113, 119,
120, 121' 122, 126, 127' 128, 402,
464n6, 46Sn6, 466FR
s-structure See syntactic structure
S-structure 207, 262
scope 405, 408, 413
se-moyen 241
Second, Fifth Binyan Erasure 141
Second Velar Palatalization [Slavic] 123
Secondary Imperfective See Derived
Imperfective
selection [see also subcategorization]
allomorph- 121, 124, 127-8
'semantic coherence' 89
semantic role [see also thematic role] 190
semantics (compositional-) 44, 70, 88, 89,
310, 409, 411, 422
Separation Hypothesis 424, 428-33, 431,
434
Shape Conditions, Component 128, 456
si See impersonal-
sign language 171-2, 467n13,FR
slot (timing-) [see also X slot] 167
C, V- 137, 146
Sole Component Generalization 302, 303
'sound plural' (Arabic) [see also 'broken
plural'] 142
Source (e role) 190
Specifier 72
split-morphology hypothesis [see also
Extended Word-and-Paradigm, Weak
Lexicalist Hypothesis] 178, 207, 208,
221, 230, 468-9n9
spray-load verb 302
spreading 138, 141, 164
Standard Theory [see also Aspects] 62-7,
78, 82, 91, 223, 384
stative (adjective) 195, 246
stem 5, 87, 90, 94-5, 461n10
stratum [see also level (ordering), Lexical
Phonology] 81
Stray Deletion/Erasure 143, 165
stress 16, 42, 61, 75, 88, 101, 111-12, 117,
154, 360-2, 371
in compounds, 313, 319-21, 474FR,
478n8
Strict Cycle Condition (Strict Cyclicity
Condition, strict cyclicity SCC) 108,
111-12, 115, 116, 118, 122, 125, 130
strong verb 93-4, 114, 115, 158-9, 201
structural change, description [see also
transformation] 110, 124, 145
structuralism 5, 49f, 104, 118, 127,
462n2,FR, 463n7
structure-building (rule) 111, 159
structure-changing (rule) 111
structure preservation 83, 116, 125, 126,
129, 466n10
subcategorization 64, 70, 92, 94, 256, 296,
377' 402
morphological- 121
-frame 64, 190, 199, 202, 231, 232, 265,
297
Subcategorization Insertion [Roeper and
Siegel] 326
Subject Restriction [Selkirk] 328, 332
SUBJECT INDEX 503
subjunctive (mood) 26
subtractive (morphology) 224, 46ln10
suffix 5
superlative 27
suppletion 8, 100, 121, 126
partial- 8, 66, 82, 128, 376
total- 8, 50, 104
surface representation (SR), surface form 64
surface structure [see also S-structure] 62,
99, 263
syncretism [see also rule of referral] 45, 52,
60, 61, 194-5, 219, 225
syntactic affixation 205-8, 304, 334, 337,
339, 456, 458
syntactic atom [Di Sciullo and Williams]
423
syntactic structure (s-structure) [Marantz]
26.2, 411, 457
synthetic (construction) 238
system-defining structural property (SDSP)
225, 234
T-model (of GB syntax) 405, 433
template See CV skeleton, prosodic
template
template (morphology) 208-14, 216, 356,
357, 374, 381, 384, 467n9, 468n12,
470FR
tense 26
theme [=extension vowel] 11, 194, 204-5,
215, 217, 219
Theme (0 role) 190
theta binding 335
Theta Criterion 333-4, 336, 337, 428,
471n10, 472n13
theta identification 335, 337, 473n6
theta marking 335
theta ce, thematic) role [see also argument
structure, Lexica-Conceptual Structure,
Predicate-Argument Structure] 92,
190, 335, 470FR
theta (0) grid 191, 329
of affix, 332
tier 136
-conflation [see also bracket erasure]
148-9, 159, 173
morpemhic- 139, 149, 154
timing slot See slot
tone 18, 133, 169, 467n11
-as morpheme See morpheme
topic-comment articulation 244
trace 276, 385, 386, 407, 408, 457
transfer 168-71
transformation (transformational rule) 62,
67-71, 78, 99, 144-7, 151, 258
lexical- 68, 326, 327
504 SUBJECT INDEX
transformational (generative) grammar (TG,
TGG) 62, 71
transmission (of Case) 387
tree (diagram) [see also phrase structure
grammar] 62, 71, 147, 183
triconsonantal (root), See root, triliteral
Trisyllabic Laxing (Shortening) (TSL) 80,
105-6, 126
typology 37-9
umlaut
[English] 101, 104
[German] 100, 467n8
[Terena] 158
Unaccusative Hypothesis 260, 348
unaccusative (verb) 243, 260, 264, 470n3,
471n5
underlying representation (UR), underlying
form 56, 62, 64, 99, 103, 104, 106,
120, 122 -
underspecification 111, 153, 158-9, 200,
222, 452, 465n9
unergative (verb) 260, 470n3
Uniform Theta Assignment Hypothesis
(UTAH) 281, 283, 339, 392
Unitary Base Hypothesis (UBH) 84, 95
Universal Grammar (UG) 116, 223, 229
V2 phenomenon 290, 357
valency 190, 296-8
-changing 23
-reduction 297
variable 386
Velar Softening 108, 126, 465n4
verbal noun [see also gerund]
via rule See rule
voice [see also active, antipassive, causative,
inversion, passive, transitivity, valency]
23, 237-54
voicing assimilation [Russian] 55-6
vowel harmony 42, 116, 156, 158, 161,
227-8, 419
vowel length 16, 75
Vowel Raising [Polish] 371
Vowel Shortening [Czech] 75
vowel-zero alternation [see also jer, absolute
neutralization] 102-3, 161-2
Wackernagel position 355, 365, 366, 369,
374, 379, 380
Wackernagel's law 355, 358, 367, 475n6
Well-Formedness Condition 137
word
actual- 48, 74, 87, 90, 91, 94-5
bound- 376, 381-2, 383
morphosyntactic- 45, 436
p word, phonological- 42, 43, 360-2,
402-3, 410, 427
phrasal- 454
potential-. 48, 74, 87, 90, 91
Word-and-Paradigm (WP) 52, 434, 463n6
word-based morphology 82, 85-7, 94-5,
147, 320, 399, 427
word creation 346, 461n16
word form 45, 436
word formation 346, 462n10
paradigmatic- 182, 416, 456
word formation rule (WFR) See rule
Word Structure Autonomy Condition 200
Word Syntax 198~9
X slot 167, 168
X' (X-bar) syntax 72, 198-9
zero affixation [see also conversion] 20, 114,
185, 189, 431, 461n13
zero morph(eme) 209, 212, 218
Name Index
Adams, V. 462FR, 474FR
Aissen, J. 251, 387
Aitchison, J. 463n3
Akmajian, A. 462FR, 465FR
Allen, B. 471n6
Allen, M. 81, 185, 187, 464n7, 473n2
Allwood, J. 478FR
Andersen, L.-G. 478FR
Anderson, J. M. 472FR
Anderson, S. R. 38, 91, 196, 207, 216-23,
230, 234, 255, 312, 378, 423, 431, 433,
434, 454, 456, 458, 463n7, 464n8,
469n15, 17,18, 470n19,FR, 472FR
Andrews, J, 471n6
Aoun, J. 207, 360, 386, 387
Archangeli, D. 160, 162, 465n9
Aristotle 52
Aronoff, M. 81-91, 93-5, 100, 116, 120,
147, 151, 171, 177, 179, 182, 198, 202,
205, 221, 230, 401-3, 410, 420, 422,
427, 431, 457, 464n8,9,13, 466FR,
467n4, 12, 478n1
Arsyad, A. 467n12
Ashton, E. 231
Atkinson, M. 462FR, 468FR
Bach, E. 67
Badecker, W. 207, 469n9
Baker, C. 69, 465FR
Baker, M. 91, 200, 208, 236, 243, 248,
254, 255, 269, 275-96, 292, 293, 298,
299, 304, 305, 307-8, 333, 339, 344,
386, 387, 388, 392, 405, 435, 441, 454,
456, 457, 471n6,8,9, 472n11, 473FR,
474n8, 476n17, 478n1,3
Barber, E. 248
Basri, H. 467n12
Bauer, L. 320, 345, 462FR, 468n4, 470FR,
474FR
Beard, R. 424, 431-3, 434, 435, 456,
478n6
Belletti, A. 255
Bellugi, U. 468FR
Benacchio, R. 475n6
Bendor-Samuel, J. 156
Berent, G. 359
Blake, B. 462n18, 472FR
Bloomfield, L. 5, 47, 56, 462FR
Bogoraz, W. 471n6
Booij, G. 91, 113, 116, 119, 125, 149, 182,
343, 344, 370-1, 373-4, 403, 456, 457,
465FR, 468n2, 474FR
Borer, H. 91, 360, 386, 387, 424, 447-53,
455, 457, 476n18,19, 477n20,FR
Botha, R. 321, 327, 331, 474FR
Bresnan, J. 73, 389-90, 470FR
Bromberger, S. 223
Broselow, E. 150, 151, 168, 467n12
Brown, K. 463FR
Browne, W. 351, 384
Burzio, L. 260, 264, 267, 471n5, 472FR
Butterworth, B. 463n3
Bybee, J. 193, 366
Caramazza, A. 207, 469n9
Carlson, G. 296
Carrier, J. 151
Carstairs (-McCarthy), A. 77, 91, 121,
227-9, 231, 417, 462n1, 468n5,7, 469nl3
Chafe, W. 471n6
506 NAME INDEX
Charette, M. 207
Chomsky, N. 62, 63, 66, 69-73, 74, 82,
92-3, 105, 127' 172, 206, 223, 256, 257'
259, 275, 281, 283, 298, 299, 304, 325,
388, 424, 464n3,4, 467n3, 473n7, 474n8,
478n2,3
Chung, S. 253
Cinque, G. 472FR
Clark, E. 348
Clements, G. 168, 465n8, 468FR
Cole, P. 472FR
Coltheart, M. 463n3
Comrie, B. 196, 242, 462n21, 468n6,
471n6, 472FR
Corbett, G. 351, 439-41, 458
Craig, C. 348
Dahl, 0. 478FR
Day, C. 348, 471n6
De Bray, R. 351, 359, 367, 368
Demers, R. 462FR
Derbyshire, D. 471n6
Deuchar, M. 468FR
Di Sciullo, A.-M. 91, 200, 234, 237,
299-JOO, 304, 312, 320, 332-3, 335, 338,
342, 344, 349, 422, 424, 425-8, 434,
452, 453, 454, 455, 456, 468n1, 470FR,
473n6, 476n17, 478n2
Dixon, R. 471n5, 472FR
Downing, P. 474FR
Dowty, D. 464n2, 477FR
Dressler, W. 99, 125-7, 129, 224, 466FR
Durand, J. 466FR, 468FR
Durie, M. 244
England, N. 47ln6
Everett, D. 360, 476n18
Fabb, N. 181, 208, 304, 324, 333-5,
336-7, 399, 405, 469n10, 473n5
Fagan, S. 297-8
Fahnrich, H. 234
Feoktistov, A. P. 233
Fischer-J0rgensen, E. 463n7
Fodor, Janet 478FR
Fodor, Jerry 478n2
Frantz, D. 47ln6
Fromkin, V. 462FR, 468FR
Gardner, D. 471n6
Gazdar, G. 201, 418, 469n16, 478n7
Gleason, H. 462FR, 470FR
Godel, K. 399
Goldsmith, J. 133, 136, 164, 465n8,
466n10,FR,1, 467n2,6,9,ll,FR
Goodwin, W. 150, 248, 378
Greenough, ]. 235
Grimes, J. 212, 233, 469n12
Grimshaw, J. 294
Grunwell, P. 173
Guerssel, M. 418
Gussmann, E. 103, 119, 465n3
van Haaften, T. 342, 344
Haegeman, L. 30, 472FR
Hall, T. 466n10
Halle, M. 8, 56, 63, 73-9, 82, 84, 85, 87,
90, 94, 105, 115, 116, 121, 147, 174,
181, 189, 198, 223, 230, 423, 427,
465n4,8, 467n2,6, 468FR
Hammond, M. 117, 168-71, 360, 371,
470n19,FR
Harnish, R. 462FR
Harris, A. 255, 469n18
Harris, James 115
Harris, John 466n10
Harris, M. 463n3
Hawkins, P. 463n7
Hayes, B. 111
Hecht, B. 348
Henderson, L. 463n3
Heny, F. 465FR
Higginbotham, J. 335
Hockett, C. 49-50, 127, 462FR, 463n4
Hoeksema, J. 321, 404, 408, 477n1
Hoekstra, T. 69, 472n14, 474n10
Hogg, R. 465n8, 474FR
Hooper, ].. 104
Hopper, P. 472FR
Hornstein, N. 207
Horrocks, G. 470FR, 472FR
Hudson, G. 104
van der Hulst, H. 465n8
Hyman, L. 466FR, 468FR
Jackendoff, R. 72, 104, 464n10, 470FR,
472FR
Jackson, H. 463FR
Jaeggli, 0. 360, 386, 387, 476n18,19
Jakobson, R. 55, 224, 475n6
Jenkins, C. 180
Jensen, J. 221-3, 234, 462FR, 469n15,17
Jespersen, 0. 145, 462FR
Joh!)son, K. 292
Johnson, R. 171
Joos, M. 463nFR ·
Joseph, B. 427, 468n8, 472FR
Juldaseva, G. D. 469n12
Kageyama, T. 91, 424, 442-7, 454
Kaisse, E. 128, 207, 376, 466FR, 477FR
Katamba, F. 466FR, 468FR
Kaye, J. 167, 207, 468FR
Kayne, R. 360, 384, 476n18
Keenan, E. 240, 243
Kenstowicz, M. 101, 104, 111, 46Sn5,
466n11,FR
Keyser, S. 297
Kibrik, A. E. 48
Kilby, D. 462FR, 468FR
Kiparsky, P. 91, 93, 99, 105, 109-16, 122,
127, 129, 131, 177, 182, 184, 215, 218,
313, 400-1, 405, 408, 409, 411, 413,
422, 423, 465n4
Kisseberth, C. 101, 104, 111, 465n5,
466nll,FR
Klavans, J. 350, 377-81, 382, 391, 392-3,
476n15
Klein, E. 201, 418, 469n16, 478n7
Klemensiewicz, Z. 373
Klima, E. 468FR
Koutsoudas, A. 46Sn7
Kyle, J. 468FR
LaPointe, S. 207, 435
Lasnik, H. 472FR, 473n7, 477FR
Lass, R. 463n7
Lawler, J. 244
Lees, R. 67
Levin, B. 301-3, 340
Levin, J. 154, 167
Lewis, G. 121, 313
Liddell, S. 171
Lieber, R. 20, 121-2, 151, 178, 201,
202-5, 213, 216, 221, 222, 230, 231,
232, 233, 234, 265, 293, 321, 322, 323,
325, 329-32, 333, 334, 336, 337, 344,
348, 349, 377, 399, 408, 422, 423, 432,
466n12, 467n7, 468n1, 470FR, 473n4
Lightfoot, D. 207
Lightner, T. 101, 46Sn3
Lowenstamm, J. 167, 207
Lunt, H. 359, 475n8
Lyons, C. 359, 477n20
Lyons, J. 462FR, 465FR
McCarthy, J. 133-49, 150, 151, 154-6,
158, 159, 164, 168, 173, 461n1, 467n2,4,
470n19
McCawley, J. 67, 68, 464n2, 478FR
McCloskey, J. 472FR
McCully, C. 465n8, 474FR
McDonald, B. 171
McDonough, J. 469n14
Mallinson, G. 462n18
Manzini, R. 245, 246
Marantz, A. 122, 150-5, 168, 173, 236,
262-75, 281, 283, 293, 296, 298, 301,
304, 307, 411, 412, 456, 457, 459,
467n7,12, 472-3FR
NAMEINDEX 507
Marchand, H. 93, 345, 462FR, 474FR
Mardirussian, G. 471n6
van Marie, J. 215, 416, 430, 454
Mascaro, J. 91, 107-8
Matthews, P. 51-2, 216, 462FR, 463FR,
470FR
May, R. 478FR
Mayerthaler, W. 125, 224
Mchombo, S. 389-90
Mendes da Luz, M. 362
MenovsCikov, G. A. 33
Merlan, F. 471n6
Miller, J. 463FR
Mithun, N. 296, 471n6
Mohanan, K. 8, 115, 116, 313, 46Sn4,
466n10, 473n2
Mohanan, T. 466n10
Moody, B. 468FR
Morgan, W. 209, 214
Mtenje, A. 18, 169
Mulford, R. 348
Muysken, P. 74
Myers, S. 477n21
Nash, D. 121
Nedjalkov, V. P. 288, 472FR
Nespor, M. 43, 128, 362, 473n2, 477FR
Newmeyer, F. 67, 69
Nida, E. 56, 462FR
Noll, C. 465n7
Noonan, M. 470FR
Odden, D. 467n12
Odden, M. 467n12
Orwell, G. 180
Osborne, C. 296, 471n6
Oskaragoz, I. 471n6
Padden, C. 172, 468FR
Palmer, F. 462n21
Panini 52
Partee, B. 477FR
Peirce, C. 470n20
Perlmutter, D. 172, 207, 213, 242, 244,
260, 356, 465FR, 470n2, 472FR, 477FR
Pesetsky, D. 91, 109, 213, 344, 399,
405-9, 411, 413, 474n10
Peters, S. 477FR
Pike, K. 468FR
Piotrowski, M. 467n10
Plank, F. 466n15, 470FR, 472FR
Platt, D. 217
Pollok, J.-I. 200, 391
Postal, P. 242, 244, 260, 470n2
Poutsma, H. 462FR
Prince, A. 168
Pulleyblank, D. 115, 163-7, 173, 466n10
508 NAME INDEX
Pullum, G. 201, 260, 381, 383, 393, 418,
454, 469nl6, 471n5,6, 478n7
van der Putten, F. 474n10
Radford, A. 464n1, 472FR
Randall, J. 474FR
Rappaport, M. 301-3, 340
Renzi, L. 475n6
Revzin, I. I. 469n12
Rice, K. 194
van Riemsdijk, H. 472FR
Rizzi, L. 255, 385, 388, 471-2n11
Roberts, I. 292
Robertson, J. 348
Robins, R. 52, 216
Roca, I. 462FR, 467n10, 468FR
Rodman, R. 462FR, 468FR
Roeper, T. 208, 296-7, 304, 324, 325-6,
338-42, 343, 344, 348, 349, 405, 446,
457, 473n8, 474n9
Rosen, C. 472FR
Rosen, S. 294-5, 441, 457, 471nll, 476n17
Rubach, J. 107, 115, 116, 119, 121, 123,
125, 130, 149, 161, 370-1, 373-4, 403,
457, 465n3, 467n10
Ruzicka, R. 242
Sadock, J. 424, 435-41, 459, 471n6,
472FR, 478n7
Safi.r, K. 473n7
Sag, I. 201, 418, 469n16, 478n7
Sanders, G. 465n7
Sandler, W. 468FR
Sapir, E. 50, 56, 462FR, 47ln6
Sasse, H-J. 471n6
Scalise, S. 67, 69, 83, 87, 185, 207, 320,
461n2, 464n7, 465FR, 470FR, 474FR
Scatton, E. 465n3, 475n7
Seiter, W. 471n6
Selkirk, E. 80, 198-201, 202, 213, 221,
232, 234, 320, 321, 322-3, 324, 327-9,
332, 333, 337, 344, 349, 400, 401, 423,
452, 477FR
Sells, P. 470FR, 472FR
Sezer, E. 168
Shaw, P. 466FR
Shibatani, M. 91, 244-5, 253, 304, 424,
442-7, 454, 471n6, 472FR
Shopen, T. 462FR
Siegel, D. 79-81, 109, 114, 177, 179, 185,
325-6, 348, 446, 464n6, 12
Simpson, J. 212-13, 469n12
Skorik, I. P. 251, 255, 295
Smith, Neil 465FR
Smith, Norval 465n8
Soames, S. 465FR
Sobin, N. 240
Sommerstein, A. 463n7, 466FR
Speas, M. 213, 408
Spencer, A. 122, 125, 158, 173, 194, 201,
205, 408, 414, 467n10
Sproat, R. 91, 116, 208, 213, 304, 324,
331, 335-8, 343, 344, 348, 380, 399,
405, 408, 409-13, 417-20, 421, 422, 424,
428, 454, 459, 473n4,5,6,7, 476n15
Sridhar, N. 179, 401-3, 410, 420, 422,
431, 457
Stampe, D. 125
Steriade, D. 466n10, 467n12
Stong-Jensen, M. 221-3, 234, 469n15,17
Strauss, S. 404
Suiier, M. 360, 387-8, 477n20
Sussex, R. 372
Szymanek, B. 429-30, 431
Ter Mors, C. 155-6, 168
Thomas-Flinders, T. 216
Thompson, L. 311
Thompson, S. 472FR
Timberlake, A. 240, 243
Toman, J. 368
Trask, L. 472FR
Travis, L. 280
Trubetskoy, N. 55
Uriagereka, J. 472FR, 477FR
Usikova, R. P. 475n8
Vasqez Cuesta, P. 362
Vennemann, Th. 104
Vergnaud, J.-R. 115, 168, 189, 207, 418,
467n2,6
Vogel, I. 43, 128, 362, 473n2, 477FR
Volodin, A. P. 232
Wall, R. 477FR
Wallace, R. 427, 468n8
Wasow, T. 73, 259, 301
Weinberg, A. 207
Wetzels, L. 168
Whorf, B. 417
Wilbur, R. 151, 468FR
Williams, E. 91, 178, 186-9, 191-3, 198,
200, 202, 221, 230, 234, 237, 298-301,
304, 312, 320, 321, 322, 323, 332-3,
335, 338, 342, 344, 349, 398-9, 403-5,
413, 414, 421, 422, 424, 425-8, 434,
452, 453, 454, 455, 456, 464n13,
468n1,8, 470FR, 472FR, 473n6,7,
476n17, 477n1, 478n2
Wilson, D. 465FR
Winograd, T. 470FR
Withgott, M. 212-13, 469n12
Woll, B. 468FR
Wurzel, W. 91, 125, 224-7, 234, 470FR
Xaritonov, L. N. 238
Yip, M. 159
Young, R. 209, 214
Zaliznjak, A. A. 468n6
NAME INDEX 509
Zonneveld, W. 466nll, FR
Zoscenko, M. M. 75
Zubizarreta, M.-L. 418, 456, 474FR
Zukova, A. N. 131, 150
Zwicky, A. 99, 127-9, 194, 201, 214, 219,
349, 374, 376-7, 381-2, 383, 390-1, 393,
401, 424, 434-5, 435, 454, 456, 459,
465n7, 466n15, 476n14
Language Index
Abbreviations Cauc: Caucasian, Ger: Germanic, I-E: Indo-European, M-P: Malayo-Polynesian, Pal:
Paleosiberian, P-Ny: Pama-Nyungan, Rom: Romance, Sem: Semitic
Acehnese [or Achenese] (M-P; Sumatra)
244
Mrikaans (Ger: S. Mrica) 179, 321
Agta (M-P; Philippines) 150, 152, 168
Ainu (isolate; Japan) 253, 282, 471n6
Altaic (Russia) 238, 248
Amharic (Sem; Etluopia) 104
Arabic (Sem; Middle East, N. Mrica) 26,
33, 134--49, 164, 169-71' 172, 418
Archi (Cauc; S.W."USSR) 48
Bantu (Central, Southern Mrica) 18, 169,
253, 388, 389, 458, 477n21
Bulgarian (Slav; Bulgaria) 162, 393, 465n3,
475n7 ·
Caddoan (USA; Qkhlahoma, Texas) 471n6
Catalan (Rom; Spain) 107-8
Cebuano (M-P; Philippines) 239
Celtic (1-E; Ireland, Scotland, Wales,
Brittany (France)) 29
Chamorro (M-P; Guam, Mariana Is.) 253
Chichewa (Bantu; Malawi) 18, 26, 254,
287, 289, 389-90, 458
Chi-Mwi:ni (Bantu; Central E. Mrica)
270-1, 273, 274, 307
Chinese (Sino-Tibetan; China) 14, 33, 38,
244, 312, 416, 478n5
Chukchee [or Chukchi] (Pal; N.E. Siberia)
10, 15, 24-5, 27, 28-9, 38, 39, 42, 87,
161, 234, 236, 251, 255, 283, 288-9,
295-6, 334, 360, 374, 388, 389, 406-7'
429, 455, 457, 458, 464n8, 471n9, 478n5
Chukotkan-Kamchadal (N.E. Siberia)
471n6
Cushitic See East Cushitic
Czech (Slav; Czech Republic) 14,.42-3,
58-9, 75, 102, 117, 118, 122, 131, 134,
161, 205, 226, 242, 249, 266, 465n5
Dakota (Siouan; Central N. USA) 150
Danish (Ger; Denmark) 260
Dutch (Ger; Holland) 30, 179, 182, 266,
321, 343, 416, 464n7, 468n2
Dyirbal (P-Ny; Queensland, Australia) 251
East Cushitic (N.E. Mrica) 471n6
Enets (Samoyedic (Uratic); N. Siberia) 27
English (Ger; England and colonies) 6, 15,
16, 18, 19, 31-3, 38, 40, 47-8, 79-80,
115, 120, 159, 179, 181, 182, 204, 226,
242, 243, 244, 252, 319, 375, 380, 381,
393, 416, 46lnll,16, 47lnll
Eskimo [see also Naukan, West
Greenlandic] (Eskimo-Aleut; N.E.
Siberia, Alaska, Canada, Greenland) 25,
283, 47ln6
Esperanto (Indo-European) 35-6
Finnish (Pennie (Finno-Ugric); Finland)
10, 42, 116
Flemish See West Flemish
French (Rom; France) 8, 10, 14, 15, 38,
43, 205, 294, 312, 321, 351, 356, 359,
371, 381, 384, 386, 387, 390, 426, 468n1
Gaelic (Celtic; Scotland, Ireland) 33
Georgian (Cauc; Georgia) 219-20,222-3,
234,255,469nl8
German (Ger; Germany) 7, 10, 13, 38,
-·~ 100-1, 179, 215, 225, 239-40, 241, 242,
243;258, 266,293,432,434
Germanic (1-E; N.W. Europe, etc.) 290
Gilyak See Nivkh
Greek (Ancient, Classical) (extinct I-E;
Greece, etc.) 52, 150, 153, 248, 249
Greek (Modern) (I-E; Greece) 10, 11, 360,
362, 378
Greenlandic See West Greenlandic
Gta? (South Munda; India) 158
Hanun6o (M-P; Philippines) 159
Hausa (Chadic; Nigeria) 16, 26
Hebrew (Sem; Israel) 148, 351, 386,
447-53, 455, 457, 466n3, 477n20, 478n9
Hungarian (Ugric (Finno-Ugric); Hungary)
10, 34-5, 38, 57-8, 77, 117, 161, 227-9,
388, 389, 420, 421
Ilokano (M-P; Philippines) 239
Indo-European 10, 11, 26, 134, 219
Indonesian (M-P; Indonesia) 253
Irish (Celtic; Ireland) 33
Iroquoian (USA/Canada; New York,
Ontario, Oklahoma, Quebec) 47ln6
Italian (Rom, Italy) 10, 15, 215, 216, 218,
220, 246, 260, 351, 357, 359, 385,
461n12, 464n7, 469n9, 471nll, 472FR,
476n16
ltel'men (Pal; N.E. Siberia) 60-1, 232
Jacaltec (Mayan; Guatemala) 348, 47ln6
Japanese (Altaic?; Japan) 25, 26-7, 244,
394, 442-7, 454, 458, 462n2
Kamchadal See ltel'men
Koryak (Pal; N.E. Siberia) 131, 150, 173,
296
Kwakwala (Wakashan; British Columbia)
378, 382, 455, 459
Latin (extinct 1-E Italy, etc.) 8, 23, 38, 43,
51-2, 125, 204-5, 235, 238, 239-40, 365,
380, 459
Latvian (Baltic, Latvia) 242
Lithuanian (Baltic; Lithuania) 243, 290
Luiseiio (Uta-Aztecan; California) 355
LANGUAGE INDEX 511
Macedonian (Slav; Macedonia) 162, 351,
358-62, 366, 368, 374-5, 381, 386, 388,
394, 457' 458
Madurese (M-P; N.E. Java) 150
Malagasy (M-P; Madagascar) 239
Malayalam (Dravidian; India) 25, 115,
270-1, 313
Malaya-Polynesian 25, 239, 244
Mam (Mayan; Guatemala) 47ln6
Mayan (Central America) 64, 251, 471n6
Menomini (Algonquian; Wisconsin) 56
Mohawk (lroquoian; New York, Quebec)
282, 292, 294, 296, 455, 457, 476nl7
(Moksha) Mordvin(ian) (Finno-Ugric;
Russia) 232, 389
Nahuatl (Uta-Aztecan; Mexico) 292, 47ln6
Nakanai (Austronesian;. New Guinea) .155
Navajo (Athapaskan; Arizona, Colorado,
New Mexico, Utah) 33, 171, 208-14,
408, 469nll,14
Naukan (Yup'ik Eskimo. N.E. Siberia)
33-4
Newspeak (Ger; "1984") 180
Nganhcara (Australian) 378, 380
Ngiyambaa (P-Ny, Au-stralia) 378
Niuean (Polynesian; Niue) 283, 292, 47ln6
Nivkh (isolat,e, E. Siberia) 18, 134, 46ln15
Old English (extinct Ger; England) 223
Oneida (lroquoian; N.E. USA) 282
Palan See Koryak
Piraha (Mura, Macro-Chibchan; Brazil)
476n18
Polish (Slav; Poland) 107, 115, 117, 119,
120, 123, 130, 161, 239-40, 242, 243,
266, 293, 351, 367-74, 375, 377, 384,
393, 429-30, 431, 455, 459, 46Sn3,
47Snll
Portuguese (Rom; Portugal, Brazil, etc.)
358, 362-6, 367, 373, 374, 376-7, 382,
384, 475n9
Provencal (Rom; France) 217
Quechua (Andean; Argentina, Bolivia,
Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru) 74, 212,
294
Romance 11, 14, 15, 241, 246, 248, 249,
359, 362, 365, 367, 369, 374, 377, 381,
385, 426, 457, 475n6, 478n4
Romanian [or Rumanian] (Rom; Romania)
386
Russian (Slav; Russia) 5, 9, 11, 21-2, 27,
28, 38, 39, 45-6, 51, 53-6, 61, 75, 87,
101, 161, 194-7, 224, 225, 227, 237,
··~
512 LANGUAGEINDEX
242, 258, 305, 313, 324, 346, 399, 430
461n6, 465n3
Samoan (Polynesian; Samoa) 151, 154
Semitic 64, 133, 135, 151, 156, 160-1, 164,
167, 463n4, 470n19
Serbo-Croat (Slav; Serbia/Croatia) 59-60
162, 213, 242, 351-8, 362, 366, 367,
368,369,373,374,376-7,381,383,
384, 385, 387' 392, 393, 458, 459,
474n2,475n3, 10
Seri (Hokan; Mexico) 242
Sierra Miwok (Penutian; California) 466n9
Sign Language 33, 134, 171, 468FR
American 33, 468FR
British 33, 171, 468FR
French 468FR
Slav((on)ic) 102, 161, 241, 243, 248, 249,
324, 375, 399, 403, 429-30, 439, 458,
468n6, 475n6
Slovak (Slav; Slovak Republic) 162
Slovene (Slav; Slovenia) 162
Sorbian (Slav; Germany) 162, 439-41, 458
Southern Tiwa (Tanoan; California) 286,
47ln6
Spanish (Rom; Spain, Central, South
America) 10, ll5, 194, 197, 205, 213, ·
215, 357, 360, 362, 365, 367, 371, 386,
387, 475n10, 476nl6
Porteiio dial. (R. Plate) 387-8
Swahili (Bantu; Central E. Africa) 33, 231,
253, 388
Tagalog (M-P; Philippines) 12, 25, 33, 150,
151, 239
Takelma (extinct Penutian, Oregon) 471n6
Temiar (Malacca; Malaysia) 151, 155
Terena (Arawakan; Brazil) 156-8
Tiv (Benue-Congo; Nigeria) 163-7, 173
Tiwi (Australian isolate, Northern
Territories) 296, 471n6
Tucano (Andean-Equatorial, Colombia) 212
Turkic (Middle East, S. USSR) 238, 249
Turkish (Turkic; Turkey) 22-3, 25, 38,
121, 161, 189, 253, 313-19, 344, 348,
382, 471n6, 473n1
Tzotzil (Mayan; Mexico) 251, 387
Ukranian (Slav; Ukraine) 240, 266,
293
Ural-Altaic 10, 22
Urdu (lndic; Pakistan) 242
Vietnamese (Mon-Khmer; Vietnam) 14, 38,
3ll, 321, 472n3
Warlpiri (P-Ny; Northern Territories)
121-2, 213, 355, 384
Welsh (Celtic, Wales) 29, 33, 131, 345
West Flemish (Ger; Belgium) 30, 292
West Greenlandic (Eskimo-Aleut;
Greenland) 180, 436-8
Yakut (Turkic; Russia) 238, 248, 249,
266
Yawelmani See Yokuts
Yidiny (P-Ny; Queensland) 151, 153
Yokuts. (Penutian, California) 134, 160-1,
162
Yoruba (Kwa, Nigeria) 64, ll5, 151, 153
L
