who brought the language to them. Or to take an example in which the language
has remained in situ but the population has changed, the Scandinavian and
Norman French people who took up residence in England during the Old and
early Middle English periods eventually (as Chapter 3 discusses) gave up their
previous language in favour of English, just as immigrant groups from a range of
other countries have done in more recent centuries.
There are several features of Proto-Germanic which mark it out as a language
distinct from the other languages of the Indo-European group. Among the most
striking are a number of signiWcant changes in the verbs and adjectives which
already serve to establish patterns that will later also be features of Old English. In
Germanic, for example, verbs had only two diVerent forms to make distinctions
of tense, normally referred to as ‘present’ and ‘past’ tense forms (some writers use
‘preterite’ instead of ‘past’). Other tenses had to be indicated by the use of
another verb (such as ‘have’) alongside the verb in question. Furthermore, the
simple ‘present’ and ‘past’ tense forms might themselves convey the sense of more
than one tense. The situation can be illustrated with modern English
examples, using the verb ‘walk’. This verb has just two diVerent tense forms,
walk and walked:
You walk very quickly
He walked into the bank
Beyond that, further tense distinctions (often, in fact, involving other factors
than just tense) can be made by the use of one or more ‘auxiliary’ verbs as in,
for example:
I have walked all the way here
They had walked home after having dinner
We were walking side by side
She will walk down to the town
He will have walked there before the bus arrives
Serving even more clearly to mark oV Germanic from the other Indo-European
languages than this system of two basic tense forms, however, is the shape of the
forms themselves. Germanic verbs fall into two groups, according to the way in
which their past tense forms are made. (In what follows, modern English forms
are used to represent the Germanic patterns.) Most verbs are like walk, in that their
past tense form is made by adding a suYx including d (or sometimes t): heal/ed,
love/d, end/ed, etc. In some cases the formation is less clearly visible, but originally
it was essentially the same: sent, left, bought, said. But there is another, less
numerous, group of verbs in which the past tense form is made not by adding a
preliminaries: before english 17
suYx but by changing the main vowel from that found in the present tense form:
sing  sang, take  took, rise  rose, Wnd  found, forgive  forgave, etc. Verbs
belonging to the walk type are traditionally called ‘weak verbs’ by linguists, and
verbs of the sing type are called ‘strong verbs’. The weak verbs were, originally,
formed from other parts of speech: drench/ed from the strong verb drink  drank,
Wll from the adjective full, etc. The strong verbs, on the other hand, were words
which had been verbs from the outset and were not built on other words.
Generally speaking, the strong verb group has not increased in number but has
lost members as time has gone on: modern English help(ed) now follows the walk
pattern, whereas at an earlier stage (and still in Old English) it was a strong verb.
The weak verb group has increased enormously in size, since verbs coming into the
vocabulary at various times have nearly always been added to that group: English
pray/ed,rejoice/d,discover/ed,tango/ed,televise/d,compute/d,etc.Thesamepattern
can be seen in the history and development of the other Germanic languages.
The Germanic strong verb system represents a particular development of a way
of using alternations of vowels that had existed previously in Indo-European (and
that can be seen in Sanskrit, Greek, and the other Indo-European languages). The
weak verb system does not have such clear origins, although it no doubt also
builds on features already existing in Indo-European. Those origins have been the
subject of prolonged—and not yet resolved—debate among linguists.
Another distinctive characteristic of Germanic grammar, and one which
remained a conspicuous feature of Old English is that the great majority of
adjectives in Germanic may occur in two diVerent forms, depending on the
grammar of the sentence in which they appear. Broadly speaking, if an adjective
is attached to a noun that is made ‘deWnite’ (as, most frequently, by the attach-
ment to it also of a word such as ‘this’ or ‘my’ to specify a particular instance of
whatever it is the noun signiWes), the adjective will appear in one of the forms. In
other situations, the other form of the adjective will be used. Somewhat confus-
ingly, in view of the terminology used with regard to verbs, linguists have
traditionally often referred to adjective forms of the Wrst kind as ‘weak’ forms,
and to forms of the second kind as ‘strong’ forms (others prefer ‘deWnite’ and
‘indeWnite’ respectively). Thus, using examples from Old English to illustrate
what was a pattern in earlier Germanic:
Þær wuniaþ þa haligan (weak) menn
There dwell the holy men
Oft halige (strong) menn wunedon on westene
Often holy men dwelt in (the) desert
18 terry hoad
During the medieval period, as Chapter 4 explores, English gradually lost this
formal distinction between adjective forms, along with most other inXections. It
continues even today, however, to be reXected in the grammar of modern
German and other modern Germanic languages.
Because features such as those just discussed are found in the early stages
of all the Germanic languages, it is reasonable to suppose that they were also
found in Proto-Germanic, before the individual languages acquired separate
identities. Conversely, because these features are not found in the other Indo-
European languages, at least with the structural role which they have in the
grammar of Germanic, it seems reasonable to suppose that they developed
as or after Proto-Germanic became separate from the rest of the Indo-
European group.
The same is true of a major contrast between the development of certain
sounds in Germanic and in other early Indo-European languages. Pronunciation
is very prone to change, even within what we might consider one and the ‘same’
language. The diVerence between various regional accents in modern Britain (see
further, Chapter 12), or between characteristically British and characteristically
American pronunciations, makes this immediately apparent. But there is one
extensive, systematic set of diVerences between pronunciation in Germanic and
in Indo-European which can be seen as a further particularly signiWcant part of
what made Proto-Germanic a distinct form of language.
This set of diVerences has been variously labelled the ‘Germanic Consonant
Shift’, the ‘First Consonant Shift’, and ‘Grimm’s Law’ (from the name of the
German scholar Jacob Grimm [1785–1863], who gave one of the Wrst systematic
statements of it). In general, where Indo-European had p, t, k, Germanic had f, þ,
 respectively (þ stands for the sound represented by th in modern English thin,
and  stands for the sound represented by ch in modern German nach). Similarly,
in place of Indo-European b, d, g Germanic had p, t, k respectively, and in place
of Indo-European bh, dh, gh it had b, d, g respectively (bh, etc., stand for sounds
supposed to have existed in Indo-European in which the sound b, etc., is
accompanied by ‘aspiration’, i.e. a release of breath similar to that represented
by h in modern English house).
This leads to such kinds of correspondence as:
Sanskrit Greek Latin Old English
(p  f ) ‘father’ pita patēr pater fæder
(t  þ) ‘three’ trayas treı̂s trēs þrı̄e
(k  ) ‘heart’ kardia cor heorte
and similarly for the other consonants.
preliminaries: before english 19
One further feature common to the early Germanic languages (and which can
therefore also be assumed to have been present in Proto-Germanic) is the Wxing
of the stress in most words on the Wrst syllable. In Indo-European the stress fell
on diVerent syllables in diVerent words, or in diVerent forms of the same word.
Thus Sanskrit has the forms juhómi (‘I sacriWce’), juhumás (‘we sacriWce’),
júhvati (‘they sacriWce’). Some modern languages of the Indo-European group
show similar variation in the placing of the stress in diVerent words or forms, as
in Russian slóvo (‘word’) and slová (‘words’). Because in Germanic the stress
came to be always placed on the Wrst syllable in most words, the prominence of
the syllables at the ends of words was reduced. This seems to have played a part in
the gradual loss of inXectional endings which came to be characteristic of the
various Germanic languages.
entering the historical period: the division of
proto-germanic
From their early homeland in the southern parts of Scandinavia, the speakers of
Germanic carried it in various directions over succeeding centuries. The process
began, perhaps, in the third century bc, and was still active when the Anglo-
Saxons came to Britain towards the middle of the Wrst millennium ad. Entirely in
keeping with the pattern of linguistic developments which were described at the
beginning of this chapter, increasingly diVerentiated forms of Germanic devel-
oped as diVerent groups of speakers became more Wrmly separated from one
another. It has long been common for linguists to speak in terms of a funda-
mental three-way division of the Germanic speech community, into a North
Germanic part, an East Germanic part, and a West Germanic part which, as
Figure 1.2 illustrates, includes Old English. For some linguists, the picture has
been of three groups of Germanic peoples, each detaching themselves from the
previously united Germanic tribal cluster and in the process bringing into being
three separate forms of Germanic language. As time progressed, each of the latter
would have given rise to the various historically attested Germanic languages:
North Germanic would have divided into Danish, Swedish, and Norwegian; East
Germanic would have produced the no longer extant Gothic (together with some
other now extinct languages of which relatively little is known); and West
Germanic would have undergone a separation into the early forms of German,
Dutch, Frisian, and English.
20 terry hoad
The movements of diVerent groups of peoples in northern Europe during this
period can be partially reconstructed—at Wrst with considerable diYculty and
uncertainty; later, as historical records come into being from the earliest centuries
of the Christian era onwards, with somewhat greater conWdence—and that
reconstruction Wts in some broad respects the three-way division outlined
above. It is also the case that the historically attested Germanic languages fall
rather easily into the three groups mentioned. Nevertheless, opinions on this
matter have varied in recent times, with many scholars thinking it more likely
that Germanic Wrst split into two languages rather than three: into North West
Germanic and East Germanic (or, perhaps, into North East Germanic and West
Germanic). The following account, using for convenience a three-fold classiWca-
tion, does not make any claim about the details of the sequence of splits.
Peoples from the East Germanic grouping are believed to have moved east-
wards and southwards during the Wrst three or four centuries ad. The people
about whom most is known, by far, are the Goths, who over that period and the
following three centuries or so (when some of them moved westwards across
southern Europe as far as the Iberian peninsula) played a major part in the
history of the territories they inhabited. Their language is known mainly from a
translation of parts of the Bible believed to have been made in the fourth century
ad among a part of the Gothic people living at that time west of the Black Sea, in
approximately the same area as modern Romania. That translation, as the Wrst
extensive written record of a Germanic language, is of very great importance for
linguistic study. Gothic is distinguished from the other Germanic languages by a
number of characteristics, some of which preserve features of earlier Proto-
Germanic which have not survived into the other historically attested languages,
while others are innovations. For example, Gothic has inXectional forms of verbs
to indicate the passive voice:
ni afdomjaid, jah ni afdomjanda
not judge, and not (you) will be judged
‘do not judge, and you will not be judged’
In other Germanic languages passive inXections no longer survive in recognizable
form, and the passive voice is indicated (as in modern English) by the use of an
auxiliary verb. One Old English translation of the gospels has, for the sentence
just quoted:
nelle ge deman, and ge ne beoð demede
do not you judge and you not will be judged
‘do not judge, and you will not be judged’
preliminaries: before english 21
Gothic also makes use, in the past tense forms of a group of strong verbs, of what
is known as reduplication; that is, the addition at the beginning of a word of a
syllable consisting of the initial consonant of the word and a vowel (sometimes
accompanied by a change of the main vowel as in the past tense forms of other
strong verbs):
haitan (‘call’)  past tense haihait
gretan (‘weep’)  past tense gaigrot
In other Germanic languages, only isolated remains of reduplicated forms are to
be found and they no longer form a regular grammatical pattern.
These are just two examples from a range of features in which Gothic gives
us very valuable information for reconstructing the nature of Proto-Germanic,
and hence for the better understanding of what lay distantly behind Old
English.
Peoples from the North Germanic grouping, who moved into the areas we
now know as Denmark, Sweden, and Norway (and subsequently further
aWeld, to Iceland and other places), left extensive texts dating from c 1100
ad onwards. They also left a considerable number of much earlier texts
(relatively short) carved in ‘runes’ on metal, wooden, bone, and other objects.
The runic ‘alphabet’ is generally called the ‘futhark’, after the values of the
Wrst six characters of the sequence; this is illustrated in Figure 1.3. It varies in
some particulars from one place or time to another and is of disputed
origin. The earliest of these runic texts are reckoned no later than the second
century ad, and frequently consist of just a name or one or two words. In
many cases the identity of the words or the meaning of the texts cannot be
conWdently made out. In such circumstances it is not surprising that there is
uncertainty surrounding the nature of the language in which they are written.
Some scholars take it to be an intermediate ‘Common Scandinavian’ stage
f u th a r k
Fig. 1.3. The Wrst six letters of the early futhark found on a bracteate [thin gold
medallion] from Vadstena in Sweden
22 terry hoad
between Proto-Germanic and the later separate Scandinavian languages,
others that it is a ‘North West Germanic’ stage that subsequently gave rise
not only to the Scandinavian but also to the West Germanic languages
(including English).
Runes, with changes over time in their number, shapes, and sound values,
continued to be used in Scandinavia into and beyond the Middle Ages, and
longer texts came to be written in them. There are also some objects bearing
runic inscriptions and possibly of dates between the third and the ninth
centuries (although the datings tend to be uncertain) from various parts of
continental Europe. Much relating to these objects and texts is very uncer-
tain—from which direction runic writing reached the places in question,
for example, or what languages the texts are in, or what the texts mean. The
practice of writing in runes is also fairly well evidenced in Anglo-
Saxon England, starting very early in the period. It seems likely that an ability
to write in runes was simply brought with them by the Anglo-Saxon
settlers. Some of the important English runic texts are dealt with in the
next chapter.
This lack of clearly interpretable textual evidence until a relatively late date
makes it diYcult to reconstruct the process by which Danish, Swedish, and
Norwegian became separate languages. The Norwegians took their language
with them when they began to settle in Iceland in the second half of the ninth
century ad. Much of the early literature from the North Germanic group
consists of texts preserved (if not always originally composed) in Icelandic
after that language had developed its separate identity from the period of
settlement onwards, for example, the poems of the Poetic Edda and the many
prose narratives of the sagas. It is a common practice to cite Old Icelandic
forms as representative of the early North Germanic languages (which are
often referred to collectively as ‘Old Norse’), and since this often leads to
thirteenth-century Icelandic forms being set alongside, say, fourth-century
Gothic ones it can give a misleading impression to the unwary.
Some features of the early North Germanic languages are nevertheless quite
clearly diVerent from those found elsewhere in Germanic. Two aVect the verb and
pronoun systems. In the verbs, a set of ‘mediopassive’ forms arose in which a
suYx in -mk (Wrst person) or -sk (second and third person), or some variant, was
added to the verb form. The suYxes were originally forms of personal pronouns:
mik (‘me’, ‘myself’) and sik (‘yourself’, ‘himself’, etc.). The ‘mediopassive’ forms
typically expressed a reXexive or passive sense, although this did not always
remain transparent:
preliminaries: before english 23
sı́ðan búask boðsmenn ı́ brottu
then prepare themselves guests away
‘then the guests prepare to leave’
Ísland bygðisk fyrst ór Norvegi á do
˛gum
Iceland was settled Wrst from Norway in days
Haralds ins Hárfagra
of Harald the Fairhaired
‘Iceland was Wrst settled from Norway in the days of Harald Fairhair’
munu vit báðir ı́ braut komask
will we both away manage to go
‘we will both get away’
In a further distinctive feature, the North Germanic languages developed a
deWnite article that was suYxed to its noun unless there was also an adjective
attached to the noun: maðrinn (‘the man’), á grindina (‘to the gate’), landinu
(‘[to] the land’), but it fyrsta ho
˛gg (‘the Wrst blow’).
The peoples of the West Germanic grouping are those from among whom
arose, as has already been mentioned, the forms of language that are eventually
identiWable as German, Dutch, Frisian, and English. Before the Germanic peoples
began their divergent migrations, the West Germanic group seem to have been
located in what is now Denmark and in the more northerly and North Sea coastal
territories of modern Germany, the Netherlands, and Belgium. It is diYcult to
reconstruct the evolving interrelationships between the tribes that constituted
this group, or between them and the other Germanic peoples, and harder still to
discover the connection between those tribal interrelationships and the gradually
emerging diVerent languages which are now generally labelled ‘West Germanic’.
Another of the issues on which scholars today are divided is whether to posit a
more or less uniWed West Germanic protolanguage at any stage intermediate
between Proto-Germanic and the individual West Germanic languages. Some are
inclined to believe that ‘West Germanic’ from the time of its separation from
Germanic (or from North Germanic) fell into two parts, one of which was
destined to become early German and the other to give rise to English, Frisian,
and Dutch. It is at any rate reasonable to think in terms of a prolonged period of
Xuctuating divergences and convergences, both of peoples and of languages, in
complex circumstances which again would have had many similarities to those
described at the beginning of this chapter but which are now no longer recov-
erable in much detail.
24 terry hoad
The West Germanic languages of which we have early evidence are Old High
German, Old Saxon, and Old English. Texts in Old High German and Old English
survive from the eighth century ad onwards, whereas the Wrst Old Saxon texts
come from the following century. Old Frisian, which is of particular interest
because of the number of close similarities which it bears to Old English, is not
recorded until considerably later, in thirteenth-century copies of texts which
originate in the eleventh century.
Old High German is known in a number of quite markedly diVerent dialectal
varieties, broadly classiWable as Alemannic, Bavarian, and Franconian. The two
Wrst of these (from the south-west and south-east of the Old High German area
respectively) are grouped together as ‘Upper German’; the Franconian dialects
(further to the north) are referred to as ‘Middle German’. A signiWcant number of
prose and verse texts survive, together with other records of the language in, for
example, glosses in Latin texts and glossaries of Latin words.
Old High German is diVerentiated from the other West Germanic languages by
what is known as the ‘Second Consonant Shift’—a systematic set of develop-
ments which aVected the consonants that had arisen as a consequence of the
earlier ‘First (or Germanic) Consonant Shift’ (described above on p.19). This
results in correspondences such as:
Old English Old High German
‘tooth’ tōþ zan
‘make’ macian mahhōn
The Second Consonant Shift aVects a wider range of consonants in some dialects
than in others, with the Franconian dialects tending to show less extensive
changes than the Upper German dialects.
Old High German is also further distinguished from the other West Germanic
languages (including Old English) in retaining from earlier Germanic a distinct
form for each of the three ‘persons’ in the plural of the present and past tenses of
verbs, where the other languages have reduced these to just one form, as in the
following examples:
Old High German Old English
‘we carry/carried’ wir beremēs/bārumēs
‘you (pl.) carry/carried’ ir beret/bārut wē, gē, hı̄e beraþ/bǣron
‘they carry/carried’ sie berent/bārun
Old Saxon is the name given to the language represented in two ninth-century
scriptural narratives in verse, Heliand (nearly 6,000 lines) and Genesis (nearly 350
lines). It is not known where these texts were composed, although it may well
preliminaries: before english 25
have been in an areawhere Franconian Old High Germanwas in use, rather than in
what may be thought of as an Old Saxon area. Some shorter texts of various kinds
also exist, as do glosses explaining words in Latin texts. Until the beginning of the
ninth century the Saxons as a people (or group of peoples) had been politically and
militarily very signiWcant in the northern parts of what is now Germany, and had
experienced Xuctuating fortunes in their dealings with the kings of the Franks,
their powerful neighbours to the south. The submission of the Saxon leader
Widukind to the Frankish ruler Charlemagne in 785, however, led soon after to
the Saxons being Wnally incorporated into Charlemagne’s Empire.
In these circumstances, it is not surprising that the status of the Old Saxon
language, especially as represented in Heliand and Genesis, is uncertain. Scholarly
debate has not Wnally decided on any one of the various possibilities, which
include the language of these texts being a more or less direct representation of a
local (spoken) dialect but its representing a local dialect but with the introduc-
tion by a copyist of written forms which are proper to Old High German, or its
not being direct evidence of any spoken dialect at all but being instead a
speciWcally written form of language.
Old Saxon is, however, of particular interest with regard to the origins of Old
English, in part because it appears to lie on the supposed path of the earlier
Germanic invaders of and migrants to the British Isles, but also since it seems to
have been at that earlier time close in a number of respects to the kinds
of language that are thought to have developed into Old English. The Saxons
are, moreover, named as one of the Germanic peoples who were part of the
movement to Britain of the ‘Anglo-Saxons’ (see further, pp. 34–5). It is never-
theless important to bear in mind that the Anglo-Saxon settlements in Britain
took place some centuries before the Wrst surviving evidence for an Old Saxon
language. We must therefore be properly cautious about the possibilities of
accurately reconstructing what the language of ‘Saxons’ might have been like at
that earlier date.
One feature of Old Saxon which it shares with Old English and Old Frisian, but
in which it stands in contrast to Old High German as well as to East Germanic, is
that an original n or m is lost between a vowel and f, þ, or s:
Old Saxon Old English Old High German Gothic
‘Wve’ fı̄f fı̄f fı̄mf Wmf
‘journey’ sı̄ð sı̄þ sind sinþs (‘time’)
‘us’ ūs ūs unsih unsis
Old Frisian, even more than Old Saxon, is a language of which we have no
direct knowledge at the period relevant to the Anglo-Saxon migrations to
26 terry hoad
Britain. The surviving Old Frisian texts, which are mostly legal in nature, may
in some cases have their origins in the eleventh century although the earliest
manuscript copies are from the late thirteenth century. The territory in which
these texts came into being was the coastal region of what is now the Nether-
lands, together with neighbouring areas in modern Belgium and Germany. The
former acceptance by scholars of the probability that Frisians were involved in
the Anglo-Saxon migrations to Britain is now questioned, but at any rate the
Old Frisian language, although known only from a much later date, appears to
have some deep-rooted resemblances to Old English. For some earlier scholars
these resemblances were suYciently strong to justify the postulating of an
‘Anglo-Frisian’ language as an intermediate stage between West Germanic
and the separate Old English and Old Frisian languages, but that view is not
favoured these days. The traditional picture of a language undergoing succes-
sive splits into discrete parts may well be inadequate, and the similarities
between Old English, Old Frisian, and Old Saxon are perhaps better seen as
the result of parallel developments in a complex and changing social and
linguistic situation.
Old English, Wnally, is the Germanic language that developed in Britain out of
the dialects brought from the continent by the Anglo-Saxons during the period of
invasions and settlements (principally the Wfth and sixth centuries ad). Historical
sources name the Angles and Saxons as two of the peoples who took part in those
movements, and archaeological evidence has played a major part in the recon-
struction of events (sometimes archaeology yields results not easily reconcilable
with all the claims of written historical accounts). There is general agreement on
the important role of the Angles and Saxons (the former from a homeland in the
southern part of the Jutland peninsula), and also that other peoples involved are
likely to have included, for example, Franks. But many details are unclear,
including the varieties of language which were spoken by the invaders and
settlers. Direct evidence for the continental Germanic languages becomes avail-
able only some time after the period of the settlements—for a language like Old
Frisian, as we have seen, a long time after—which seriously limits the possibility
for reconstructing the earlier linguistic situation. Comparison of the historically
attested languages can nevertheless shed some light on the broader issues.
Some of the similarities between Old Frisian and Old English, or between
those two languages and Old Saxon, are matters of phonology (the sound
system), as in the case of the losses of n mentioned above. For example, Old
Frisian and Old English have a vowel ē or ǣ (the latter representing a vowel
similar to that in modern English there) where Old Saxon (usually), Old High
German, and Old Norse have ā and Gothic has ē :
preliminaries: before english 27
Old Frisian Old English Old Saxon
‘were’ (pl.) wēron wǣron wārun
‘deed’ dēd dǣd dād
Old High Old Norse Gothic
German
‘were’ (pl.) wārun váru wēsun
‘deed’ tāt dáð gadēþs
There has been disagreement as to whether or not this indicates a particularly
close relationship between Old Frisian and Old English. It is known that in
Proto-Germanic the vowel in such words was ǣ . If, as some scholars think,
West Germanic as a whole Wrst changed this vowel to ā, and in Old Frisian and
Old English it subsequently recovered something like its original sound, that may
suggest a close connection between those two languages. Linguists look on
‘shared innovations’ as having some value for indicating relationships between
languages. If, on the other hand, Old Frisian and Old English have merely
preserved the Proto-Germanic vowel unchanged, along with Gothic, while the
other languages have innovated with ā, the similarity between Old Frisian and
Old English may be just a matter of coincidence. Linguists do not treat ‘shared
retentions’ as normally of much help in determining relationship.
One important grammatical similarity between Old Frisian, Old English, and
Old Saxon is to be found in the system of personal pronouns. For the first and
second persons singular (‘I’ and ‘you’), Gothic, Old Norse, and Old High
German have diVerent forms for the accusative case (direct object: ‘Please help
me’, ‘My friend saw you’) and the dative case (indirect object: ‘Send me [¼ to me]
a letter’, or with a preposition: ‘The man gave the book to you’). In contrast, Old
Frisian, Old Saxon, and Old English have just one form:
Old Old Old Old High Old Norse Gothic
Frisian English Saxon German
acc. dat. acc. dat. acc. dat.
Wrst mi mē mı̄ mih mir mik mér mik mis
person
second thi þē thı̄ dih dir þik þér þuk þus
person
However, accusative forms mec and þec are also found in some dialects of Old
English, and the alternation between accusative mē, þē, and mec, þec could result
either from both forms having been brought to Britain by the Anglo-Saxons, or
28 terry hoad
from mec, þec having been the only accusative forms brought with them and
dative mē, þē having taken over that function after the settlement. Old Saxon also
has, relatively infrequently, accusative mik, thik.
Once the individual Indo-European languages had begun to take separate
form, the possibility arose that words would be borrowed from one language
into another, as has happened in much more recent times as English has been
carried around the globe. Identifying borrowings at a very early date (as distinct
from two languages having each developed the same word from their common
source) is usually a very uncertain business, and caution is needed in drawing any
conclusions from supposed cases. An example which has been accepted by many
scholars is the word which appears in Gothic as the noun reiks ‘ruler’, and both
there and in the other Germanic languages as the adjective ‘powerful’ (Old Norse
rı́kr, Old High German rı̄hhi, Old Saxon rı̄ki, Old Frisian rı̄ke, Old English rı̄ce;
the word is the same as modern English rich). There exist elsewhere in Indo-
European the corresponding forms Latin rēx and Old Irish rı́ (‘king’). The vowel
-ı̄- in Gothic reiks, etc. (Gothic ei represents ı̄), makes it easier to explain the
Germanic word as having been borrowed from an early Celtic form *rı̄gs than as
its having developed independently in Germanic from the same Indo-European
origins as the Celtic and Latin words. Scholars have related this interpretation of
the linguistic material to the question of the earliest movements and interrela-
tionships of the peoples speaking Indo-European languages, believing the bor-
rowing to have happened some centuries before the beginning of the Christian
era as the Germanic peoples were expanding from their original homeland and
encountering the Celts on their way. It has been assumed that it indicates
something of the nature of Celtic political organization, relative to that of the
Germanic speakers, at the time the borrowing occurred.
Another frequently cited example of what is very probably a borrowing from
Celtic is the word that appears in modern English as iron (Gothic eisarn, etc.).
Corresponding forms in Celtic are Old Irish iarn and Welsh haearn. If the
assumption of borrowing from Celtic into Germanic is correct, that may con-
tribute to an understanding of the transmission of iron-working capabilities
from one people to another at an early date.
Subsequent contact with Roman traders and armies led to borrowing from
that source, too. An early case would be the Latin word caupō (‘peddler, shop-
keeper, innkeeper’) having been borrowed as the basis for Germanic words
meaning ‘merchant’ (Old Norse kaupmaðr, Old High German koufo, koufman,
Old English cȳpa, cēapmann), ‘to trade, buy and/or sell’ (Gothic kaupōn, Old
Norse kaupa, Old High German koufen, coufōn, Old Saxon kōpon, Old Frisian
kāpia, English cēapian, cȳpan), ‘act of buying and/or selling’ (Old Norse kaup,
preliminaries: before english 29
Old High German kouf, Old Saxon kōp, Old English cēap), and the like. The
adoption of this foreign word by early Germanic speakers no doubt reXects the
circumstances in which they typically encountered people in the outer reaches of
the Roman world.
Much the same can be said of another word that is generally accepted to be one
of the early borrowings into Germanic from Latin, the word that in modern
English is wine. This word, representing Latin vı̄num, is found across the whole
spread of Germanic languages: Gothic wein, Old Norse vı́n, Old High German,
Old Saxon, Old Frisian, Old English wı̄n. While there is no guarantee that the
word was borrowed at a time when the individual Germanic languages were still
not fully diVerentiated from one another, or even that they each owe it directly to
Latin rather than in one or more cases having reborrowed it from a neighbouring
Germanic language, the pervasiveness of the term may suggest an earlier rather
than a later date (for which other arguments have also been put forward). As with
the ‘iron’ word in respect of Celtic, the borrowing of the word for ‘wine’ reveals
something about the early contacts of the Germanic peoples with the more
southerly populations and cultures of Europe.
The Anglo-Saxons, on their way to Britain, encountered the Romans and the
material and non-material aspects of their way of life in a variety of circumstan-
ces, peaceful and less so. As they settled in what would eventually become known
as England they would have found much evidence of the civilization of the
Roman garrisons and oYcials who had been leaving as they arrived, and it is
likely that a signiWcant part of the Romanized Celtic population that remained
spoke a form of Latin. The Anglo-Saxons and their ancestors had by that time
had contacts with the Romans over some Wve hundred years. Those contacts were
reXected in a sizable number of borrowings of words from Latin, although it is
not possible to reconstruct with great precision the date at or circumstances in
which those borrowings occurred. They come from the Wrst phase of an engage-
ment with the Latin culture which in one way or another would be an inescapable
and incalculably inXuential presence in England, as in continental Europe, for
centuries to come. The next and subsequent phases will be a major concern of the
remainder of this book.
Suggestions for Further Reading
For brief descriptions of the various Indo-European languages see Baldi (1983), or with
more emphasis on their external histories (with notes on linguistic characteristics and
short illustrative texts) Lockwood (1972). Szemerényi (1996) is a fuller, quite technical
30 terry hoad
account of the sounds and inXectional forms of Indo-European. Benveniste (1973)
discusses the Indo-European vocabulary related to a number of key areas of social
organization.
Accessible and informative accounts of the Germanic language family are Bammes-
berger (1992) and Robinson (1992). Bammesberger provides, in particular, a more
systematic account of the sounds and forms of Proto-Germanic than has been given
here, while Robinson outlines the historical background relevant to the various languages
and gives brief descriptions of their linguistic characteristics (with commentary on
passages of text illustrative of each language). Useful too, although somewhat technical,
are JasanoV (1997) and Nielsen (1981, 1989, and 1998). Lass (1987) and (1994a) also give
some attention to aspects of the Germanic and Indo-European antecedents to Old
English.
Runes are dealt with brieXy in Page (1987), and more fully in Elliott (1989) and (for
English runes) Page (1999). See also pp. 41–4 of this volume.
On the history of the Scandinavian languages, from their Germanic and Indo-Euro-
pean origins to the later twentieth century, see Haugen (1976). For a similar treatment of
German see Keller (1978).
Aspects of the vocabulary of the early Germanic languages, with reference to the
cultural environment in which they developed, are dealt with in Green (1998).
Acknowledgements
The author would like to thank John Hines for his assistance in the preparation of this
chapter.
preliminaries: before english 31
2
BEGINNINGS AND
TRANSITIONS: OLD
ENGLISH
Susan Irvine
Moððe word fræt. Me þæt þuhte
wrætlicu wyrd, þa ic þæt wundor gefrægn,
þæt se wyrm forswealg wera gied sumes,
þeof in þystro, þrymfæstne cwide
ond þæs strangan staþol. Stælgiest ne wæs 5
wihte þy gleawra, þe he þam wordum swealg.
(‘A moth devoured the words. That seemed to me a strange happening,
when I heard of that wonder, that the worm, a thief in the darkness,
swallowed up a man’s speech, the glorious utterance and its Wrm
support. The thievish visitor was not at all the wiser for swallowing
those words.’)
THIS short but evocative poem from the Exeter Book, one of the four major
extant Old English manuscripts containing poetry, provides a valuable
insight into language from an Anglo-Saxon perspective. The poem, known as
the ‘Book-Moth Riddle’, explores the transience of language, both spoken
and written. It also acts as a sombre reminder that we rely for our knowledge of
Old English on a relatively small number of manuscripts which have survived
the ravages of time. More importantly perhaps, through its sophisticated word-
play on the insubstantial nature of words it reminds us that these man-
uscripts reXect a living spoken language which was as familiar to its speakers
as modern English is to us today. In considering both speech and writing, the
poem further draws our attention to the transition from orality to literacy in the
use of the vernacular in Anglo-Saxon England, a transition which had enormous
implications for the development of the Old English language. Although the
written form of the language is necessarily the subject of this chapter, the
strenuous attempts by Anglo-Saxon scribes to reproduce their spoken language
in writing, without the conventions which we now take for granted, can be seen
to underlie many of the linguistic features and developments which will be
discussed here.
Old English is the term denoting the form of the English language used in
England for approximately seven centuries (c450–1150 ad). It is a synthetic
language (like Latin) rather than an analytic one (like modern English): it relies
on inXections (or endings) on words to denote their function in the sentence. In
nouns, pronouns, and adjectives it distinguishes between diVerent cases (nom-
inative, accusative, genitive, dative, and instrumental), genders (masculine, femi-
nine, and neuter), and numbers (singular, plural, and—in some pronouns—
dual). Just as in the antecedent stages of the language which have been discussed
in the previous chapter, adjectives are not invariable (as they are in modern
English) but are inXected strong or weak, depending on the syntactic circum-
stances in which they Wnd themselves. In verbs, Old English distinguishes be-
tween diVerent tenses (present and past), moods (indicative, subjunctive, and
imperative), numbers (singular and plural), and persons (Wrst, second, and
third). Further discussion of these features, with detailed examples, will be
found at pp. 45–6.
The term Old English, although it identiWes a distinctive form of the English
language, covers in fact a wide range of linguistic usages. In a period marked by
enormous changes—political, social, and cultural—it is hardly surprising to Wnd
that the language too was far from stable. The theme of this chapter is transitions:
the transition in the use of the vernacular from orality to literacy mentioned
above was accompanied by a series of other transitions aVecting Old English.
These transitions can be viewed from both internal and external perspectives:
internal in the sense of changes in spelling, grammar, and vocabulary, and
external in the sense of the links between these changes and social and political
events. This chapter will analyse the Old English language both in terms of its
linguistic characteristics and also in relation to the external factors which so
indelibly inXuenced it.
A useful framework within which one might examine the development of the
Old English language is provided by Wve historical watersheds, each of which had
signiWcant linguistic implications. First, the invasion of Britain (purportedly in
beginnings and transitions: old english 33
the mid-Wfth century) by the Germanic peoples who became the Anglo-Saxons
can be linked to the ensuing dialectal diversity which came to be so characteristic
of this period of the language. Second, the coming of Christianity to Anglo-
Saxon England in 597 ad made available the Roman alphabet for Old English
writing, where previously, as Chapter 1 has indicated, only runes had been
available. Third, the reign of King Alfred the Great in the West Saxon kingdom
(871–99 ad) created a culture in which Old English became recognized as a
language of prestige and status in its own right. Fourth, the Benedictine Reform
of the second half of the tenth century led indirectly to the establishment of an
Old English ‘literary language’. Fifth, the Norman Conquest (1066 ad) precipi-
tated developments in the language which would steer it ultimately towards what
we now know as Middle English.
Given that the external and the internal histories of the language so clearly
interact at these points, this chapter will focus on each of the Wve watersheds in
turn, considering its implications for the forms and development of Old English.
This structure is intended to allow Xexibility: it is by no means always possible or
desirable to link particular features or developments of the language to a speciWc
period, and the discussion of extracts of text, some of which may be relevant
historically but written or copied later, provides an opportunity throughout to
pick up features of the language, whether orthographical, grammatical, syntac-
tical, or lexical, which are of general interest for the study of Old English.
invasion and dialectal diversity
The Anglo-Saxon monk Bede, in his eighth-century Latin history of the English
nation known as the Ecclesiastical History of the English People, famously de-
scribes the arrival in Britain in 449 ad of a variety of Germanic tribes who had
responded to King Vortigern’s invitation to settle there. This migration myth, as
Nicholas Howe has noted, became canonical in Anglo-Saxon England.1
It was
even incorporated into the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, an important collection of
annals which took shape in King Alfred’s reign and then was kept up for over 200
years thereafter. The early part of the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle (the annals up to
890 ad) survives in two distinct forms: in a ‘common stock’ version and in what
is known as the northern recension, a version which includes much material of
1
See N. Howe, Migration and Mythmaking in Anglo-Saxon England (New Haven and London: Yale
University Press, 1989).
34 susan irvine
particularly northern interest. The northern recension also incorporated extra
material from Bede’s Ecclesiastical History, including a translation of Bede’s
account of the migration. This recension is now best represented by the Peter-
borough Chronicle (also known as the E manuscript of the Chronicle). The
following passage (which survives only in this manuscript) is taken from the
entry for 449 in the Peterborough Chronicle :
5
D
- a comon þa men of þrim megðum Germanie: of Aldseaxum, of Anglum, of Iotum. Of
Iotum comon Cantwara 7 Wihtwara, þet is seo megð þe nu eardaþ on Wiht, 7 þet cyn on
Westsexum þe man nu git hæt Iutnacynn. Of Ealdseaxum coman Eastseaxa 7 Suðsexa 7
Westsexa. Of Angle comon, se a syððan stod westig betwix Iutum 7 Seaxum, Eastangla,
Middelangla, Mearca and ealla Norþhymbra.
(‘Those people came from three nations of Germany: from the Old Saxons, from the
Angles, and from the Jutes. From the Jutes came the inhabitants of Kent and the
Wihtwara, that is, the race which now dwells in the Isle of Wight, and that race in Wessex
which is still called the race of the Jutes. From the Old Saxons came the East Saxons, the
South Saxons, and the West Saxons. From the land of the Angles, which has lain waste
between the Jutes and the Saxons ever since, came the East Anglians, the Middle
Anglians, the Mercians, and all of the Northumbrians.’)
The Anglo-Saxon migrations were undoubtedly, as Chapter 1 has suggested,
a much more complex process than this account acknowledges. The settlement of
the various Germanic peoples in diVerent regions of the country was, however,
an important factor in the linguistic diversity which characterized Old English,
since dialectal distinctiveness can be linked to geographical areas. The terms
Kentish, West Saxon, and Anglian (the latter also divided into Northumbrian
and Mercian), which are used to describe the main dialects of Old English,
suggest how, for the early stages in the writing of Old English at least, a
correspondence can be clearly established between locality and linguistic forms
(see Fig. 2.1).
The exact nature of this correspondence in any particular text or manuscript is,
however, notoriously diYcult to identify. The passage cited above, for example,
already illustrates some of the diYculties of attempting to draw conclusions about
dates or provenances of Old English texts from dialect evidence. Although it
incorporated material composed much earlier, the Peterborough Chronicle was
itself copied in about 1122 at Peterborough (and it continued thereafter up to 1154).
Itsownlinguistic formsmaywellbeattributabletoavarietyoffactors:thelateWest
Saxon archetype fromwhich this version of the Chronicle seems ultimately to have
derived,AnglianinXuenceatsomestagein transmission, thePeterboroughscribe’s
own East Midland dialect (which is, in fact, an early Middle English designation
which corresponds in many of its features to Anglian, the antecedent Old English
beginnings and transitions: old english 35
Cerne Abbas
Eynsham
Wantage
Worcester
Ruthwell
Exeter
Winchester
London
Canterbury
Peterborough
W E S T
S A X O N
MERCIAN
Lichfield
Chester
Lincoln
York
A
N
G
L
I
A
N
KENTISH
N
O
R
T
H
U
M
B
R
I
A
N
Lindisfarne
The
Wash
Chester-le-Street
Fig. 2.1. Dialect areas in Anglo-Saxon England
variety; see Fig. 4.1), or the late date of the copy (the language of which shows signs
of the transition to early Middle English). Thus, for example, within the passage,
the scribe uses two diVerent spellings for the ‘Old Saxons’, Aldseaxum in line 1 and
Ealdseaxum in line 3. The latter is the normal West Saxon spelling (where eald-
represents the sound-change known as breaking, by which a front vowel followed
by a back consonant or group of consonants is diphthongized; here æ has been
broken to ea before ld ). The former spelling, which is non-West Saxon, might be
the result of the vestige of an Anglian form introduced in textual transmission (in
Anglianæ,rather thanbeingbrokentoeaasinWestSaxon,wouldinsteadnormally
be retracted to a and hence articulated with the tongue pulled back). Alternatively,
it might be the product of the scribe’s own East Midland dialect (in which
unbroken forms would also be typical) or it might provide evidence of the early
Middle English monophthongization of diphthongs by which ea was mono-
phthongized to æ which later became a.
The link between dialect and geographical area can in some cases, however, be
more clearly established, as in the various versions (fourteen in all) of the Old
English poem known as Cædmon’s Hymn. The story behind the composition of
this poem—the spontaneous utterance of an illiterate cow-herd who miracu-
lously receives the gift of poetry (see further, pp. 75–6)—is also related by Bede in
his Ecclesiastical History. Bede himself quotes only a Latin translation of the
poem, but several manuscripts contain what is purportedly the vernacular
original. The version thought to be the closest to the original is written in a
Northumbrian dialect on the last page of the earliest Latin manuscript of Bede’s
Ecclesiastical History (the so-called Moore Manuscript):
Nu scylun hergan hefænricæs uard,
metudæs mæcti end his modgidanc,
uerc uuldurfadur, sue he uundra gihuæs,
eci dryctin, or astelidæ.
He ærist scop aelda barnum 5
heben til hrofe, haleg scepen;
tha middungeard moncynnæs uard,
eci dryctin, æfter tiadæ
Wrum foldu, frea allmectig.
(‘Now [we] must praise the Guardian of the heavenly kingdom, the Creator’s might and
His intention, the glorious Father’s work, just as He, eternal Lord, established the
beginning of every wonder. He, holy Creator, Wrst shaped heaven as a roof for the
children of men, then He, Guardian of mankind, eternal Lord, almighty Ruler, afterwards
fashioned the world, the earth, for men.’)
beginnings and transitions: old english 37
Various dialectal features can be used to identify this version as Northumbrian. In
uard (‘Guardian’, line 1) and barnum (‘children’, line 5), we can, for example, again
see what is known as retraction so that the front vowel æ becomes a (with back
articulation) before r when followed by a consonant (in West Saxon, as we have
seen, the expected form would instead have ea, the result of the very diVerent
process known as breaking by which æ is diphthongized to ea). Likewise, in mæcti
(‘might’, line 2) and uerc (‘work’, line 3), we can see the results of the process known
as Anglian smoothing, by which the diphthongs ea and eo before certain back
consonants or consonant groups (here c and rc) became respectively the monoph-
thongs æ and e. In the form of scop (‘shaped’, line 5) we can furthermore see no sign
of a transitional glide vowelbetween the palatal/$/(whichis articulated at thefront
of the mouth) and the back vowel represented by o —a sound-change which was
established at an early stage in West Saxon (giving the comparable form sceop) but
was more sporadic in Northumbrian. Moreover, in foldu (‘earth’, line 9), we can see
early loss of inXectional -n, a change which was already typical of Northumbrian.
We can compare this with a later West Saxon version of the same poem in an
Old English translation of Bede’s Ecclesiastical History, made in the second half of
the ninth century, perhaps in association with King Alfred’s educational pro-
gramme in Wessex:
Nu sculon herigean heofonrices weard,
meotodes meahte and his modgeþanc,
weorc wuldorfæder, swa he wundra gehwæs,
ece drihten, or onstealde.
He ærest sceop eorðan bearnum 5
heofon to hrofe, halig scyppend;
þa middangeard monncynnes weard,
ece drihten, æfter teode
Wrum foldan, frea ælmihtig.
Here the Northumbrian forms of the Moore Manuscript version are replaced by
West Saxon equivalents: weard (‘Guardian’) and meahte (‘might’), weorc (‘work’),
sceop (‘shaped’), bearnum (‘children’), scyppend (‘Creator’), teode (‘fashioned’),
foldan (‘earth’). The distinctive dialectal characteristics of the two versions,
instituted in their diVerences of spelling, are clearly linked to their geographical
aYliations.
Cædmon’s Hymn is, as Katherine O’Brien O’KeeVe notes, the earliest docu-
mented oral poem in Old English,2
and its metrical and alliterative features typify
2
See K. O’Brien O’KeeVe, Visible Song: Transitional Literacy in Old English Verse (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1990), 24.
38 susan irvine
those of Old English poetry more generally. In none of its manuscript copies (nor
indeed in those of any other Old English poetry—see, for example, the illustra-
tion from the Beowulf manuscript which appears in Fig. 2.2) is poetic format ever
indicated graphically by, for example, lineation, or punctuation. Like all Old
English poems, however, Cædmon’s Hymn is clearly composed in poetic lines,
each line being made up of four stresses, dividing into two two-stress half-lines
which are linked by alliteration. Each half-line conforms to one of Wve rhyth-
mical patterns according to its arrangement of stressed syllables and dips (groups
of unstressed syllables). The constraints of alliteration and metre have a consid-
erable impact on the language of Old English poetry. Its syntax is often complex:
in line 1 of Cædmon’s Hymn, for example, is the pronoun we (‘we’) missing
before sculon (‘must’) (the word appears in some of the manuscripts)? Is weorc
wuldorfæder (‘the glorious Father’s work’, line 3) part of the object of praise (as in
the translation above) or instead part of the subject (‘[we], the glorious Father’s
work, must praise . . .’)? Likewise, exactly what kind of connective is swa (‘just
as’, line 3)? And does Wrum foldan mean ‘for the men of earth’ or ‘[made] the
earth for men’? So too the diction of Old English poetry is characterized by what
is known as ‘variation’ or repetition of sentence elements, as can be illustrated in
Cædmon’s Hymn by the variety of words for God: heofonrices weard (‘the
Guardian of the heavenly kingdom’, line 1), meotodes (‘Creator’, line 2), wuldorfæder
Fig. 2.2. Lines 2677–87 of the manuscript of Beowulf. See p. 53 for the edited text.
Source: Taken from the Electronic Beowulf, K. Kiernan (ed.) (London: The British Library
Board, 2004).
beginnings and transitions: old english 39
(‘glorious Father’, line 3), ece drihten (‘eternal Lord’, lines 4 and 8), scyppend
(‘Creator’, line 6), moncynnes weard (‘Guardian of mankind’, line 7), frea ælmih-
tig (‘almighty Ruler’, line 9). It is also characterized by the use of poetic com-
pounds (that is, words formed by joining together two separate words which
already exist) and formulae (or set phrases used in conventional ways). Cæd-
mon’s Hymn contains both—poetic compounds such as modgeþanc (‘intention’,
literally ‘mind’s purpose’, line 2) and wuldorfæder (‘glorious Father’, line 3),
and formulae such as meotodes meahte (‘the Creator’s might’, line 2), weorc
wuldorfæder (‘the glorious Father’s work’, line 3), and ece drihten (‘eternal
Lord’, lines 4 and 8).
Thepoem Cædmon’sHymn oVers,therefore,a usefulillustration of thedistinct-
iveness of two Old English dialects, and it also exempliWes the features of Old
English verse. For the Old English language, however, it embodies more than
dialectal or formal signiWcance. In the poem the most humble of inhabitants, a
cow-herd, is shown to have the capacity for divine understanding through com-
munication in the vernacular. The Old English language itself is thus eVectively
authenticated through its association with the miraculous, both in terms of the
creationitself(thesubjectofthepoem),andintermsofthepoeticexpressionofthis
eventbyanilliteratecow-herd.England’sidentityasaChristiannationispresented
as being intricately bound up with its language. The signiWcance of Christianity for
thedevelopmentoftheEnglishlanguagewillbefurtherexploredinthenextsection.
conversion to christianity: establishing
a standard script
In 597 ad Augustine and his fellow missionaries arrived in Britain and began the
gradual process of converting its inhabitants. The event is recorded in Bede’s
Ecclesiastical History, and also in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle (the Parker Chron-
icle, the oldest manuscript of the Chronicle which is also known as the A version,
attributes it to 601 ad; the Peterborough Chronicle records it twice, once under
596 ad and once under 601 ad). Fascinating from a linguistic perspective is Bede’s
account, also in his Ecclesiastical History, of how this missionary project came to
be conceived. According to Bede, an encounter in a Roman market-place with a
group of heathen slave-boys from Britain inspired Pope Gregory to send mis-
sionaries to convert that country. Bede’s account wittily links Old English proper
names with Latin terms denoting Christian concepts. The passage cited here is
40 susan irvine
from the Old English translation of the Ecclesiastical History, where the etymo-
logical play on words (seen in the linking of Ongle with engla in lines 2 and 3, Dere
with de ira in lines 5 and 6, and Æll with Alleluia in lines 8 and 9) gathers an extra
layer of resonance from its vernacular context:
5
10
Eft he [Gregory] frægn, hwæt seo þeod nemned wære, þe heo of cwomon. Ondswarede
him mon þæt heo Ongle nemde wæron. Cwæð he: Wel þæt swa mæg: forðon heo ænlice
onsyne habbað, ond eac swylce gedafonað, þæt heo engla æfenerfeweardas in heofonum
sy. Þa gyt he furðor frægn ond cwæð: Hwæt hatte seo mægð, þe þa cneohtas hider of
lædde wæron. þa ondswarede him mon ond cwæð, þæt heo Dere nemde wæron. Cwæð
he: Wel þæt is cweden Dere, de ira eruti [removed from anger]; heo sculon of Godes yrre
beon abrogdene, ond to Cristes mildheortnesse gecegde. D
- a gyt he ahsode hwæt heora
cyning haten wære: ond him mon ondswarade ond cwæð, þætte he Æll haten wære. Ond
þa plegode he mid his wordum to þæm noman ond cwæð: Alleluia, þæt gedafenað, þætte
Godes lof usses scyppendes in þæm dælum sungen sy.
(‘Again he asked what the race from which they came was called. The reply was that they
were called English. He said: ‘‘That is appropriate, because they have a matchless
appearance and likewise it is Wtting that they should be joint-heirs with the angels in
heaven.’’ Then he inquired further, saying: ‘‘What is the name of the province from which
the boys were brought?’’ Then the reply came that they were called Deiri. He said: ‘‘Deiri
is an appropriate term, de ira eruiti [removed from anger]; they shall be removed from
God’s anger and called to Christ’s mercy.’’ He asked moreover what their king was called;
the reply came that he was called Ælle. And then he punned on the name, saying:
‘‘Alleluia, it is Wtting that praise of God our Creator should be sung in those places.’’’)
Here, as with Cædmon’s Hymn, the nature of the vernacular language itself
becomes testimony to what was seen as the innate Christianity of the inhabitants
of Anglo-Saxon England. The very language that is spoken and written is seen to
bear witness to the nation’s Christian identity. The word-play in this passage is of
course enhanced by the way in which Latin and Old English rely on the same
script to represent their language, and it is the origin of this script for English that
will be my focus in this section.
One of the most profound eVects of the arrival of Christianity in Britain on the
English language was the development of an Old English script based on the
Roman alphabet. Before the arrival of the Christian missionaries, the only script
available in Anglo-Saxon England had been a diVerent sort of writing altogether, a
runic ‘alphabet’ developed from the earlier Germanic futhark (see p. 22). Because
the fourth character in the sequence had changed, and because it is today
conventional to use ‘c’ to transliterate the sixth character, the set of runes used
by the Anglo-Saxons is normally referred to as the futhorc (and is illustrated in Fig.
2.3). It was used in central Mercia, Kent, and Northumbria from the fourth
beginnings and transitions: old english 41
or early Wfth century up to the eleventh century; it occurred mainly in carved
inscriptions on stone but, as the following chapter indicates, it could also appear
on manuscripts and coins. Amongst the most interesting runic inscriptions are
those found carved on the Ruthwell Cross, a late seventh- or early eighth-century
stone cross at Ruthwell in Dumfriesshire. These have parallels with parts of the
Old English poem The Dream of the Rood which survives in the Vercelli Book, a
manuscript from the second half of the tenth century.
Comparison of The Dream of the Rood and the runic inscriptions on the
Ruthwell Cross shows interesting diVerences between the two, both in script
and in dialect. Lines 56–8 of the poem read as follows:
Crist wæs on rode.
Hwæðere þær fuse feorran cwoman
to þam æðelinge.
(‘Christ was on the cross. However eager ones came there from afar to the Prince.’)
A runic inscription corresponding to this passage appears on the Ruthwell
Cross (both the runes and their transliteration are given in Fig. 2.4).
Krist wæs on rodi.
Hweþræ þer fusæ fearran kwomu
æþþilæ til anum.
(‘Christ was on the cross. However eager ones came there from afar, noble ones [came] to
the solitary man.’)
The linguistic forms in the transliterated passage clearly indicate a diVerent dialect
for the runic inscription from the poem itself. Whereas the poem shows predom-
inantly late West Saxon spellings, the spellings of the Ruthwell Cross inscription
correspond to those found in Northumbrian texts such as the tenth-century
glosses (that is, interlinear translations) which were added to the Lindisfarne
Gospels by Aldred, Provost of Chester-le-Street. Hence, for example, we have in
the transliterated inscription the form þer (‘there’), where the poem has þær, and
fearran (‘from afar’), where the poem has feorran. Similarly the transliterated
f u o r k
Fig. 2.3. The Anglo-Saxon futhorc
42 susan irvine
inscription shows the frequent use of æ in unstressed syllables (corresponding to e
in the poem), and the loss of Wnal n in kwomu (‘came’)—the poem itself, in
contrast, has cwoman. These features in the transliterated inscription are all
characteristic of the early Northumbrian dialect.
Runes, as I noted above, were not conWned to stone inscriptions. The best-
known examples of runes in Old English manuscripts are those found in the
Exeter Book riddles, in the Rune Poem, and in the Anglo-Saxon poet Cynewulf’s
signature in four of his poems (Fates of the Apostles, Elene, Christ II, and Juliana).
By far the majority of Old English, however, was written in the Roman alphabet,
further testimony to the impact of Christianity on the Old English language.
Sounds in Old English for which the Roman alphabet had no letters were
represented by letters drawn from various sources: the letter þ (capital Þ),
known as ‘thorn’, was borrowed from the runic alphabet to denote the dental
fricative phoneme /u/ (both the voiced and voiceless allophones); the letter ð,
known as ‘eth’ (capital D
- ), and also used to denote the dental fricative /u/, may
have been derived from Irish writing; a third letter known as ‘ash’ and repre-
sented by æ (capital Æ), used to denote /æ/, was derived from Latin ae. The letter
w was represented by the runic letter wynn, j
>. The usual form of g was the Irish
Latin form Z (‘yogh’) but by the twelfth century the diVerent sounds represented
by this letter came to be distinguished through the introduction of the
Fig. 2.4. Part of the runic inscription on the Ruthwell Cross, County Dumfries
beginnings and transitions: old english 43
continental caroline form g for /g/ and /dZ/, as in god (‘good’) and secgan (‘say’),
and the retention of Z for the other sounds including /j/, as in Zear (‘year’) and
dæZ (‘day’). Other noteworthy features of the Old English alphabet were the
absence of j and v, and the rarity with which q, x, and z were used. The Old
English orthographical system seems in general to have been closely linked to
phonemic representation: the exact correlation between the two is of course
uncertain (not least given that we no longer have any native speakers of Old
English). Nevertheless, as we have already seen, the sound patterns of the
diVerent dialects of Old English were clearly reXected in the orthographical
usages of scribes.
The introduction of the Roman alphabet which was brought to England
with the Christian mission had enormous linguistic implications for Old English,
and indeed paved the way for the kind of visionary project to translate Latin
works into the vernacular which is the subject of the next section of this
chapter.
king alfred and the production of vernacular
manuscripts
In 871 ad Alfred ascended to the throne of Wessex. Alfred’s achievement as a
military strategist over the period of his reign (871–99) is matched by his success
in championing the vernacular. In his determination to educate as many of his
subjects as possible and to make England a centre of intellectual achievement,
Alfred set up a scheme by which certain important Latin works were to be
translated into English. Alfred was not working in isolation; he seems to have
been able to call upon scholars from Mercia as well as from the Continent. In a
Preface to his translation of the late sixth-century work by Pope Gregory known
as Pastoral Care, Alfred outlines his project. The Preface survives in two copies
which are contemporary with Alfred: the passage here is cited from the manu-
script which Alfred sent to Bishop Wærferth at Worcester:
5
Forðy me ðyncð betre, gif iow swæ ðyncð, ðæt we eac sumæ bec, ða ðe niedbeðearfosta sien
eallum monnum to wiotonne, ðæt we ða on ðæt geðiode wenden ðe we ealle gecnawan
mægen, ond gedon swæ we swiðe eaðe magon mid Godes fultume, gif we ða stilnesse
habbað, ðætte eall sio gioguð ðe nu is on Angelcynne friora monna, ðara ðe ða speda
hæbben ðæt hie ðæm befeolan mægen, sien to liornunga oðfæste, ða hwile ðe hie to nanre
oðerre note ne mægen, oð ðone Wrst ðe hie wel cunnen Englisc gewrit arædan: lære mon
siððan furðuronLædengeðiodeðaðemon furðor læranwille ondto hieran hade donwille.
44 susan irvine
(‘Therefore it seems better to me, if it seems so to you, that we also translate certain
books, those which are most necessary for all men to know, into the language which we
can all understand, and bring to pass, as we very easily can with God’s help, if we have
peace, that all the free-born young people now in England, among those who have the
means to apply themselves to it, are set to learning, whilst they are not competent for any
other employment, until the time when they know how to read English writing well.
Those whom one wishes to teach further and bring to a higher oYce may then be taught
further in the Latin language.’)
The passage serves not only to explain the burgeoning in the production of
vernacular manuscripts at the end of the ninth century, but also to illustrate the
linguistic features which are characteristic of early West Saxon in this period.
In its orthography the passage demonstrates the marked tendency in early
West Saxon to use io spellings where late West Saxon would use eo, as in iow (‘to
you’, line 1), wiotonne (‘know’, line 2), geðiode (‘language’, line 2), sio gioguð (‘the
young people’, line 4), liornunga (‘learning’, line 5), and Lædengeðiode (‘Latin
language’, line 7). In its morphology the passage, again characteristically of early
West Saxon, makes full use of the Old English inXectional system. Case, number,
and gender are strictly observed in nouns, pronouns, and adjectives, as the
following examples (organized according to case) will show.
The nominative case, used to express the subject of the sentence (e.g. ‘The boy
dropped the book’), is found in sio gioguð (‘the young people’, line 4), where the
demonstrative pronoun sio is feminine singular agreeing with the noun; it also
appears in the plural pronouns we (in lines 1, 2, and 3) and hie (‘they’, in lines 5
and 6).
The accusative case, used to express the direct object of the sentence (e.g. ‘The
girl found the book’), is found in sumæ bec . . . niedbeðearfosta (‘certain books
. . . most necessary’, lines 1–2), where sumæ and niedbeðearfosta are feminine
plural adjectives (inXected strong since they do not follow a demonstrative
pronoun, possessive, or article; see further, pp. 18–19) and agreeing with the plural
noun bec; we might also note that the feminine plural pronoun form ða is used
twice in agreement with bec, Wrst as part of a relative pronoun in line 1 (ða ðe,
‘which’) and, second, as a demonstrative pronoun in line 2 (meaning ‘them’).
The accusative case is also used to express the direct object in ða stilnesse (‘peace’,
line 3), where the demonstrative pronoun and noun are feminine singular; ða
speda (‘the means’, line 4), where the demonstrative pronoun and noun are again
feminine plural; Englisc gewrit (‘English writing’, line 6), where the adjective
(again inXected strong since it does not follow an article, demonstrative, or
possessive pronoun) and noun are neuter singular. The accusative case is also
used after some prepositions: on ðæt geðiode (‘into the language’, line 2), where
beginnings and transitions: old english 45
the demonstrative pronoun and noun are neuter singular, to liornunga (‘to
learning’, line 5), where the noun is feminine singular, and oð ðone Wrst (‘until
the time’, line 6), where the demonstrative pronoun and noun are masculine
singular.
The genitive case, used to express a possessive relationship (e.g. ‘the girl’s
book’), is found in Godes (‘God’s’, line 3), where the noun is masculine singular,
friora monna (‘of free-born men’, line 4), where the adjective and noun are
masculine plural, and ðara (‘of those’, line 4), a demonstrative pronoun agreeing
with friora monna.
The dative case, used to express the indirect object (e.g. ‘The boy gave the book
to the teacher’), is found in eallum monnum (‘for all men’, line 2), where the
adjective and noun are masculine plural, me (‘to me’, line 1), a Wrst person
singular personal pronoun, iow (‘to you’, line 1), a second person plural personal
pronoun, and ðæm (‘to that’, line 5), a neuter singular demonstrative pronoun.
The dative case is also used after some prepositions: mid . . . fultume (‘with . . .
help’, line 3), where the noun is masculine singular, on Angelcynne (‘in
England’, line 4), where the noun is neuter singular, to nanre oðerre note (‘for
no other employment’, lines 5–6), where the adjectives and noun are feminine
singular, and to hieran hade (‘to a higher oYce’, line 7), where the comparative
adjective (inXected weak as all comparatives are) and noun are masculine
singular.
The Old English inXectional system of verb forms is also in evidence in the
passage. Hence, for example, in ðyncð (‘it seems’), which is used twice in line 1,
the -ð inXection denotes the third person present singular of the verb whose
inWnitive form is ðyncan (‘to seem’), and in habbað (‘we have’, line 4) the -að
denotes the present plural of the verb whose inWnitive is habban (‘to have’). The
forms ðyncð and habbað, which both express statements, are in the indicative
mood; Old English also makes frequent use of the subjunctive mood, either to
express doubt or unreality or (somewhat arbitrarily) within subordinate clauses.
The verb habban, for example, also occurs in the present subjunctive plural form
hæbben (‘[they] may have’, line 5); the verb magan (‘to be able’) occurs in its
present indicative plural form magon (‘[we] are able’) in line 3 and also three
times (once in the Wrst person, twice in the third person) in its subjunctive plural
form mægen (‘[we]/[they] may be able’), in lines 3, 5, and 6. Both the inWnitive
(for example gecnawan, befeolan, arædan, læran, and don) and the inXected
inWnitive (to wiotonne) occur in the passage.
The freedom in word order which characterizes Old English syntax is equally
evident. Although in main clauses Old English commonly used the word order
46 susan irvine
Subject–Verb–Object—now the basis of modern English word order—the use of
inXections also allowed much more Xexibility. The word order of the Wrst
sentence in the passage is particularly complex: in Old English subordinate
clauses it was common for the verb to be placed at the end of the clause, but
here the accumulation of subordinate clauses, when combined with the recap-
itulation of ðæt we eac sumæ bec (‘that we also certain books’, line 1) as ðæt we ða
(‘that we them’, line 2), leads to very convoluted syntax indeed. In part at least this
may be attributed to the attempt (more prevalent in early West Saxon writings
than in late) to apply Latin syntactic constructions to a linguistic structure not
suited to them.
That the task of translation which Alfred set himself and his advisers was not
always an easy one is suggested by the Old English version of Book I Metre 2 of
Boethius’s Consolation of Philosophy. The translation of Boethius’s early sixth-
century work, like that of Gregory’s Pastoral Care, seems to have been undertaken
as part of Alfred’s educational programme, and possibly by Alfred himself. Two
versions of the translation survive, one consisting of prose only, one consisting of
alternating prose and verse (as in Boethius’s original). It seems that Boethius’s
metres were Wrst translated into Old English prose, after which they were con-
verted into poetry. It is interesting to compare the prose and poetic versions.
Here is part of the prose version of the Old English Metre 2:
D
- a lioð þe ic wrecca geo lustbærlice song ic sceal nu heoWende singan, and mid swiþe
ungeradum wordum gesettan, þeah ic geo hwilum gecoplice funde; ac ic nu wepende and
gisciende ofgeradra worda misfo.
(‘Those songs which I, an outcast, formerly sang joyfully, I must now sing grieving, and
set them down with very discordant words, though I formerly composed as was Wtting;
but now weeping and sobbing I fail to Wnd appropriate words.’)
The Old English poetic version of this passage is more expansive:
Hwæt, ic lioða fela lustlice geo
sanc on sælum, nu sceal sioWgende,
wope gewæged, wreccea giomor,
singan sarcwidas. Me þios siccetung hafað
agæled, ðes geocsa, þæt ic þa ged ne mæg 5
gefegean swa fægre, þeah ic fela gio þa
sette soðcwida, þonne ic on sælum wæs.
Oft ic nu miscyrre cuðe spræce,
and þeah uncuðre ær hwilum fond.
beginnings and transitions: old english 47
(‘Lo, formerly I sang many songs joyfully in happy times; now, sighing, exhausted by
weeping, I, a sad outcast, must sing sorrowful utterances. This sighing and sobbing have
hindered me so that I cannot compose those songs so elegantly, although I formerly
constructed many true utterances in happy times. Often now I misinterpret known
words, and yet previously found unknown ones.’)
The poetic passage emphasizes more vehemently than the prose the speaker’s
diYculty in Wnding the right words to use; we might perhaps detect in this
expansion of the source a rueful admission by the translator of the sometimes
tortuous nature of the process of translation into the vernacular. It is hard to
imagine that miscyrre (‘mis-turn’, line 8) does not on some level at least apply to
the pitfalls of translation.
The comparison of the Old English prose and verse versions of this Latin
metre usefully illustrates some of the characteristic features of the language of
Old English poetry. The verse contains vocabulary which is distinctively poetic
(as in giomor ‘sad’, line 3). It relies on more compound words: sarcwidas
(‘sorrowful utterances’, line 4), and soðcwida (‘true utterances’, line 7). Whilst
some repetition with variation is found in the prose, as in the sequence
of present participle verbs heoWende . . . wepende . . . gisciende (‘grieving . . .
weeping . . . sobbing’, lines 1, 2 and 3), it is more prevalent in the verse:
sioWgende, wope gewæged (‘sighing, exhausted by weeping’, lines 2–3); þios sicce-
tung . . . ðes geocsa (‘this sighing . . . this sobbing’, lines 4–5). Repetition of words
or elements of words is found in on sælum (‘in happy times’, lines 2 and 7), fela
(‘many’, lines 1 and 6), and geo/gio (‘formerly’, lines 1 and 6), sarcwidas and
soðcwida (‘sorrowful utterances’ and ‘true utterances’, lines 4 and 7), and in cuðe
and uncuðre (‘known’ and ‘unknown’, lines 8 and 9). The two-stress half-line
structure and alliteration typical of Old English poetry are employed through-
out, if rather more loosely than elsewhere.
This section has examined the Old English language in the reign of King
Alfred. West Saxon, in keeping with the political dominance of Wessex, was
becoming the dialect most commonly used in the writing of the vernacular.
The characteristics of early West Saxon in relation to Old English more generally
have been analysed with reference to Alfred’s Preface to his translation of
Gregory’s Pastoral Care; the characteristics of Old English poetry as distinct
from prose have been considered in the light of the Old English prose and
verse translation of Boethius’s Consolation of Philosophy. The vitality of the
vernacular in Alfred’s reign had a lasting impact on the use and development
of the language: its association with the court and with intellectual endeavour
gave it an authority and prestige which enabled its acceptance as a literary
language in its own right.
48 susan irvine
the benedictine reform and the regularizing of
old english
The transition from ‘early West Saxon’ to ‘late West Saxon’ was not, of course, as
abrupt or as clear-cut as these terms might suggest, although intervening histor-
ical circumstances had an important part to play in the development from ‘early’
to ‘late’. In the second half of the tenth century, the English monasteries under-
went a sweeping overhaul. Along with this monastic reform came a renewal of
interest in the production of texts in the vernacular for didactic purposes. The
production of these texts is marked by the considerable attention paid to the
form which the vernacular should take. The school of Bishop Æthelwold (d. 984)
at Winchester has been identiWed as the most signiWcant focus of such linguistic
scrutiny. Here, the evidence suggests, a concerted eVort was made to establish a
‘standard’ literary language whose conventions were to be observed as consist-
ently as possible. The use of the term ‘standard’ here denotes not common usage
but rather a preferred usage which seems to have been systematically dissemin-
ated. The literary language to which it applies apparently developed from the
West Saxon dialect (though it did not, as Peter Kitson has noted, necessarily
correspond to the speech of the Winchester area),3
but its inXuence spread
beyond dialectal boundaries, creating an early supra-regional model of usage. A
large number of written works which survive from the late tenth and early
eleventh centuries can be seen to have been written or revised with the conven-
tions of a standard late West Saxon in mind.
The works of the most proliWc writer of the period, Ælfric, epitomize the
eVorts to achieve the kind of linguistic standardization which originated at
Winchester. Ælfric was probably taught by Æthelwold at his Winchester school,
before becoming monk and mass-priest at Cerne Abbas in Dorset, and later
abbot of Eynsham in Oxfordshire. Ælfric’s lexical and grammatical choices, as
well as his revisions of his own earlier writings, provide important evidence of the
attempts made to ‘standardize’ written Old English in this period.
Ælfric shows, for example, a number of lexical preferences in his writings. The
argument that a regulated vocabulary can be found in several Old English texts or
groups of texts associated with the Winchester school was Wrst put forward by
Helmut Gneuss and has been further substantiated by, amongst others, Walter
3
Kitson argues, for example, that standard literary Old English reXects the spoken dialect of
Wiltshire rather than Hampshire. See his article, ‘Geographical Variation in Old English Prepositions
and the Location of Ælfric’s and Other Literary Dialects’, English Studies 74 (1993), 1–50.
beginnings and transitions: old english 49
Hofstetter and Mechthild Gretsch.4
The works of Ælfric stand out for the number
of ‘Winchester’ words that they include and the consistency with which they are
used: ælfremed (meaning ‘foreign’), for instance, is preferred to fremde (a word
with the same meaning) as, in precisely the same way, is gelaðung (‘Christian
community’) to cirice.
Ælfric was also well aware of the importance of a consistent grammatical
system. He wrote his own grammar, designed to facilitate the learning of Latin
by English people: in a Preface to this work he states unequivocally that stæfcræft
is seo cæg ðe ðæra boca andgit unlicð (‘grammar is the key which unlocks the
meaning of the books’). In a Preface to another of his works, his translation of
Genesis, Ælfric addresses the pitfalls of translating from Latin into English. His
attention to grammatical detail is demonstrated in this Preface (quoted here from
a copy made in the second half of the eleventh century):
5
Oft ys seo halige þrinnys geswutelod on þisre bec, swa swa ys on þam worde þe God
cwæþ: ‘Uton wyrcean mannan to ure anlicnisse’. Mid þam þe he cwæð ‘Uton wyrcean’ ys
seo þrinnis gebicnod; mid þam þe he cwæð ‘to ure anlicnisse’ ys seo soðe annis
geswutelod: he ne cwæð na menifealdlice, ‘to urum anlicnissum’, ac anfealdlice, ‘to ure
anlicnisse’.
(‘Often the holy trinity is revealed in this book, just as it is in the words which God said:
‘‘Let us make man in our image’’. When he said ‘‘Let us make’’, the trinity is betokened;
when he said ‘‘in our likeness’’ the true unity is revealed: he did not say in the plural ‘‘in
our likenesses’’, but in the singular ‘‘in our likeness’’.’)
Here Ælfric focuses on the signiWcance of the distinction between anlicnisse
(‘likeness’, lines 2, 3, and 5), with its dative singular inXection -e, and anlicnissum
(‘likenesses’, line 4), with its dative plural inXection -um. Precise grammatical
usage, Ælfric insists, can aVect meaning in crucial ways. It is ironic that in a
twelfth-century copy of this Preface, which was made at a time when the inXec-
tional system was breaking down (see further, pp. 55–8), the reading anlicnesse for
anlicnissum blurs the grammatical distinction that Ælfric had so carefully delin-
eated.
The process of grammatical revision in the work of Ælfric (and other authors)
is visible in the manuscripts themselves. In many of the manuscripts containing
4
See Gneuss’s seminal article, ‘The Origin of Standard Old English and Aethelwold’s School at
Winchester’, Anglo-Saxon England 1 (1972), 63–83. Hofstetter’s ‘Winchester and the Standardization of
Old English Vocabulary’, Anglo-Saxon England 17 (1988), 139–61, and Gretsch’s The Intellectual
Foundations of the English Benedictine Reform (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999) provide
further important contributions.
50 susan irvine
Ælfric’s works, there are signs of corrections and alterations which may be in
Ælfric’s own hand.5
One of the manuscripts which shows such corrections is the
earliest extant copy of Ælfric’s First Series of Catholic Homilies, British Library,
Royal 7 C.xii, as exempliWed by the following passage from Homily Dominica in
Quinquagessima:
5
Ac hwæðre he cwyð on oðre stowe; Eower heofonlica fæder wat hwæs ge behoWað. ær
þan þe ge hine æniges þinges biddon; þeahhwæðere wile se gooda god þ
=
we hine georne
biddon; for ðan þurh þa gebedu. bið ure heorte onbryrd; 7 gewend to gode; D
- a cwæð se
blinda; la leof. do þ
=
ic mæge geseon; Ne bæd se blinda. naðor ne goldes ne seolfres; ne
nane woruldlice þing; ac bæd his gesihðe.
(‘And yet he said elsewhere: ‘‘Your heavenly Father knows what is Wtting before you pray
to him for anything; however the good God wishes us to pray eagerly to him because
through those prayers our hearts are Wred up and turned to God’’. Then the blind man
said: ‘‘Beloved, make me able to see’’. The blind man did not pray for gold or silver or any
worldly thing, but prayed for his sight.’)
Here the form biddon (‘[you] ask for’, line 2) represents an alteration in the
manuscript from the original reading biddað: the indicative form has been
altered to subjunctive after the conjunction ær þan þe (‘before’, lines 1–2). The
nouns goldes (‘gold’, line 4) and seolfres (‘silver’, line 4) also represent manu-
script alterations from gold and seolfor, so that the objects sought (or rather not
sought) are placed in the genitive rather than the accusative case; curiously the
alterations here (and elsewhere in the manuscript) are not consistently made,
since þing (‘thing’, line 5) remains in the accusative case. In his revisions Ælfric
characteristically alters any dative case inXections on words which follow the
preposition þurh into the accusative case; the prepositional phrase þurh þa
gebedu (‘through those prayers’, line 3) here represents his preferred usage. The
types of alterations made by Ælfric and his contemporaries are presumably
designed to bring the manuscript copies in line with a recognized literary style.
It has to be said, however, that the extent to which these can be linked to the
Winchester school’s attempt to establish a ‘standard’ written linguistic usage
5
For detailed discussion of this, see K. Sisam, Studies in the History of Old English Literature
(Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1953), 172–85, N. Eliason and P. Clemoes (eds), Ælfric’s First Series of
Catholic Homilies (Early English Manuscripts in Facsimile, Copenhagen: Rosenkilde and Bagger,
1966), 33 and, most recently, M. R. Godden, ‘Ælfric as Grammarian: the evidence of his Catholic
Homilies’, in E. Treharne and S. Rosser (eds), Early Medieval Texts and Interpretations: Studies
Presented to Donald C. Scragg (Tempe, AZ, 2002), 13–29.
beginnings and transitions: old english 51
rather than to the preferences of individual scribes or monastic houses is, as
Donald Scragg has argued, still far from clear.6
The excerpt above, taken from the 1997 edition of Ælfric’s Catholic Homilies by
Peter Clemoes, also exempliWes diVerences between Old English and modern
punctuation since its editor has chosen to retain manuscript punctuation. These
diVerences are often obscured in editions which use modern English punctu-
ation, a practice which potentially leads to distortion of meaning. The punctu-
ation in this manuscript is used in a well organized way, if not always entirely
evenly. In this passage, three punctuation marks are used: the simple punctus (.),
a punctus elevatus (,
:), and a punctus versus (;), the Wrst two being used within
sentences and the last at the close of sentences. A fourth punctuation mark, the
punctus interrogativus, is used elsewhere but not in the passage. Capitals are
mostly, but not always, used at the beginning of a sentence. There is some use
of abbreviation: the crossed thorn þ
=
is used for þæt (see lines 2 and 4) and the
symbol 7 is used for and. Although the punctuation practices of Old English
scribes from manuscript to manuscript are far from consistent, they have been
shown all to derive in one way or another from attempts to facilitate the reading
aloud of texts from manuscripts.
Whilst the Benedictine Reform does not seem to have stimulated the compos-
ition of poetry in the same way as it did that of prose, the interest in the
vernacular which it fostered presumably explains why the majority of Old English
poetry survives from manuscripts which were copied in the second half of the
tenth or early eleventh centuries. The poetry too seems to have been subject to
the regularizing process which characterizes linguistic usage at this time. The
language of the texts in the four main extant poetic codices (the Exeter Book, the
Vercelli Book, the Cædmon Manuscript, and the Beowulf Manuscript) is largely
late West Saxon, albeit with some non-West Saxon elements. The non-West
Saxon elements, which are both grammatical and lexical, may have been con-
sidered particularly appropriate to poetry.
Excerpts from two poems, one composed in the early eleventh century and one
copied in the same period but composed much earlier are here juxtaposed to
show their linguistic similarities and diVerences. The Wrst is lines 2677–87 of
Beowulf (see Fig. 2.2):
6
See D. G. Scragg, ‘Spelling variations in eleventh-century English’, in C. Hicks (ed.), England in
the Eleventh Century: Proceedings of the 1990 Harlaxton Symposium (Stamford: Paul Watkins, 1992),
347–54.
52 susan irvine
Þa gen guðcyning
mærða gemunde, mægenstrengo sloh
hildebille þæt hyt on heafolan stod
niþe genyded; Nægling forbærst, 2680
geswac æt sæcce sweord Biowulfes
gomol ond grægmæl. Him þæt gifeðe ne wæs
þæt him irenna ecge mihton
helpan æt hilde; wæs sio hond to strong
se ðe meca gehwane mine gefræge 2685
swenge ofersohte; þonne he to sæcce bær
wæpen wundum heard, næs him wihte ðe sel.
(‘Then once more the war-prince was mindful of glorious deeds; he struck with his
battle-sword with great strength so that it stuck in the head, driven by hostility. Nægling
snapped, Beowulf’s sword, ancient and grey-coloured, failed him in battle. It was not
granted him that iron blades could help him in Wghting; the hand was too strong which,
so I have heard, overtaxed every sword with its stroke; when he carried to battle a
wondrously hard weapon, it was not at all the better for him.’)
The other is lines 162–8 of The Battle of Maldon, a poem which is thought to have
been composed a decade or so after the battle of 991 which it describes. It now
survives only in a transcript made shortly before the manuscript containing it
was destroyed in the Cotton Wre of 1731:
Þa Byrhtnoð bræd bill of sceðe
brad and bruneccg, and on þa byrnan sloh.
To raþe hine gelette lidmanna sum,
þa he þæs eorles earm amyrde. 165
Feoll þa to foldan fealohilte swurd:
ne mihte he gehealdan heardne mece,
wæpnes wealdan.
(‘Then Byrhtnoth drew a broad and shiny-edged sword from its sheath and struck at the
coat of mail. Too quickly one of the sailors hindered him, when he injured the earl’s arm.
Then the golden-hilted sword fell to the ground: he could not hold the hard sword or
wield the weapon.’)
Both excerpts show their poets exploiting poetic diction. Hence both employ a
considerable amount of variation, particularly in their words for ‘sword’: the
distinctively poetic word for ‘sword’, mece, appears in both (Beowulf, line 2685,
and Maldon, line 167), Beowulf also includes hildebille (‘battle-sword’, line 2679),
sweord (‘sword’, line 2681), irenna ecge (‘iron blades’, line 2683), and wæpen
beginnings and transitions: old english 53
(‘weapon’, line 2687), and Maldon includes bill (‘sword’, line 162), swurd (‘sword’,
line 166), and wæpnes (‘weapon’, line 168). Likewise both make use of the
compound words which are so frequent in Old English poetry: Beowulf has, for
example, guðcyning (‘war-prince’, line 2677), mægenstrengo (‘great strength’, line
2678), and grægmæl (‘grey-coloured’, line 2682); Maldon has, for example, brun-
eccg (‘shiny-edged’, line 163) and fealohilte (‘golden-hilted’, line 166).
Both passages are written mainly in late West Saxon. The language in The
Battle of Maldon is, as Scragg has remarked, notable for its uniformity and for
the consistency with which it conforms to the late Old English standard. In this
passage, for example, -wur- for earlier -weor- in swurd (‘sword’, line 166), the
verb form mihte (‘could’, line 167), and the -ea- spellings in gehealdan (‘hold’,
line 167) and wealdan (‘wield’, line 168) (which both reveal the operation of
breaking; see p. 37) are all characteristic of late West Saxon. The language of
Beowulf is less consistent, supporting the view of Frederick Klaeber that ‘the
text was copied a number of times, and that scribes of heterogeneous dialectal
habits and diVerent individual peculiarities had a share in that work’.7
In the
passage cited above there are a number of usages which do not seem to
conform to late West Saxon: gen (‘once more’, line 2677) is a mainly Anglian
word (though it may, like mece, have been considered poetic), the -weor- in
sweord (‘sword’, line 2681) is early rather than late, and the -io- in Biowulfes
(‘Beowulf’s’, line 2681) and in sio (‘the’, line 2684) is characteristically early
West Saxon rather than late.
As can be seen, a range of shared orthographical and phonological practices
characterizes the ‘late West Saxon’ language of these two poems, one
composed in the early eleventh century and one copied at that time from a
much earlier original. There seems no doubt that the interest in linguistic
consistency fostered by the Benedictine Reform movement led to a concerted
attempt by Æthelwold and other writers associated with his school at Win-
chester to regularize Old English grammatical and lexical usage. It is also clear,
however, that there was still considerable variation in Old English linguistic
usage and that any notion of a ‘standard’ written language in the late tenth
century and early eleventh century is to be understood as very diVerent
from the notion of a ‘standard’ when applied to the emergence of standard
English in the Wrst half of the Wfteenth century onwards, as we shall see in
Chapter 5.
7
See F. Klaeber (ed.), Beowulf and the Fight at Finnsburg (3rd edn.). (Boston: D. C. Heath, 1950),
lxxxviii–lxxxix.
54 susan irvine
the conquest: a language in transition
Cultural, social, and political upheavals rocked Anglo-Saxon England in the wake
of the Norman Conquest. The spoken language too was indubitably undergoing
enormous changes as the impact of the invaders’ language inWltrated Old English
usage, and such changes would eventually be reXected in the development of
Middle English (see further Chapters 3 and 4). The written language, however,
remained for some time remarkably close to pre-Conquest late West Saxon. In
part the conservatism here is due to the fact that the majority of the texts which
were written down in the late eleventh and twelfth centuries were copies of earlier
Old English works; there is little evidence of much new composition in English
taking place in this period. Even those works which do seem to have been
composed after the Conquest largely conform to the written conventions familiar
from earlier Old English. It is possible, nevertheless, to identify a number of
linguistic developments in works copied or composed after the Conquest which
do reXect more general changes in the language, and it is these developments
which this Wnal section of the chapter will address.
The Norman Conquest itself is recorded brieXy in the Parker Chronicle entry
for 1066, and in more detail in other versions of the Chronicle including the
Peterborough Chronicle version which is cited here:
7 þa hwile com Willelm eorl upp æt Hestingan on Sancte Michaeles mæssedæg, 7 Harold
com norðan 7 him wið feaht ear þan þe his here come eall, 7 þær he feoll 7 his twægen
gebroðra Gyrð 7 Leofwine. And Willelm þis land geeode 7 com to Westmynstre, 7 Ealdred
arcebiscop hine to cynge gehalgode, 7 menn guldon him gyld 7 gislas sealdon 7 syððan
heora land bohtan. 5
(‘And meanwhile the earl William landed at Hastings on St Michael’s Day, and Harold
came from the north and fought against him before all his army arrived. And he and his
two brothers Gurth and Leofwine died there. And William conquered this land and came
to Westminster. And Archbishop Ealdred consecrated him as king. And men paid him
tribute and gave him hostages, and afterwards redeemed their lands.’)
Given that this is part of an annal copied in around 1121, more than half a
century after the Conquest, the language is remarkably close to late West Saxon.
This was almost certainly the dialect in which the scribe’s exemplar (or original)
was written. Occasional orthographical inconsistencies do nevertheless give some
indication of ongoing linguistic changes. The falling together of unstressed
vowels, for instance, which in fact seems to have begun before 900 and gathered
momentum thereafter, is reXected in the inXection -an (for -on) in the past plural
beginnings and transitions: old english 55
verb form bohtan (‘redeemed’, line 5), whereas both guldon (‘paid’, line 4) and
sealdon (‘gave’, line 4) have the more usual inXection -on. The spelling ear
(‘before’, line 2) for ær may reXect the late Old English falling together of the
sounds represented by æ, e, and ea. On the whole there is, in fact, little to
distinguish this language, orthographically, grammatically, or syntactically,
from the language as it had been written a century or more earlier.
The Peterborough Chronicle is of interest not only because it oVers a twelfth-
century copy of earlier annals but also because it oVers an example of new
composition in English at this time when very little else survives. The language
of the annals after 1121 apparently reXects more closely the form of English
spoken by their scribes. The First Continuation (covering the years 1122–31) was
written by the same scribe who was responsible for copying the earlier entries; the
Second or Final Continuation (covering 1132–54) was written by a diVerent
scribe. The passage quoted here is from the annal for 1140, where the conXict
between King Stephen and the Empress Matilda is recounted thus:
5
Þa was Engleland suythe todeled: sume helden mid te king 7 sume mid þemperice, for þa
þe king was in prisun, þa wenden þe eorles 7 te rice men þat he neure mare sculde cumen
ut, 7 sahtleden wyd þemperice 7 brohten hire into Oxenford 7 iauen hire þe burch. Þa þe
king was ute, þa herde ðat sægen 7 toc his feord 7 besæt hire in þe tur. 7 me læt hire dun
on niht of þe tur mid rapes 7 stal ut, 7 scæ Xeh 7 iæde on fote to Walingford.
(‘Then England was greatly divided: some supported the king and some the empress.
When the king was in prison, the eorls and the powerful men thought that he would
never get out and made an agreement with the empress and brought her to Oxford and
gave her the town. When the king was free, he heard about it and took his army
and besieged her in the tower, and she was let down from the tower at night with ropes, and
stole away, and walked to Wallingford.’)
Here it is word order rather than inXections which points to the grammatical
function of words. Hence the marking of cases has become largely superXuous:
after prepositions, for example, there is no indication of case (as in mid te king in
line 1 and of þe tur in line 5). The nominative masculine singular pronoun is þe, or
te when it occurs after d or t ; the nominative feminine singular is now scæ (line
5), close to its modern English equivalent ‘she’. In personal pronouns, the falling
together of the accusative and dative forms, which is characteristic of Middle
English, is also evident. In, for example, brohten hire (‘brought her’, line 3),
whereas in Old English we would have expected to Wnd the direct object of
brohten expressed by the accusative singular feminine form hie, here the Old
English dative form is found. The form me (line 4) replaces the impersonal
pronoun man (‘one’). The word king is regularly spelt with initial k rather than
56 susan irvine
c, in line with the Middle English usage of k rather than c before e, i, and y. Nouns
show no inXection in the singular (except in the phrase on fote in line 5) where the
-e on fote is presumably a vestigial dative). Moreover, in the plural the inXection
-es is now common: in mid rapes (‘with ropes’, line 5), for example, the -es gives no
indication of case. On verbs, the -en inXection denotes the past tense indicative
plural as in helden (‘supported’) in line 1, and wenden (‘thought’) in line 2, as well
as the inWnitive, as in cumen (‘come’) in line 2 and sægen (‘say’) in line 4. The
diction shows the inXuence of foreign loan-words, as in the French word prisun
(for more on this subject, see Chapter 3 of this volume).
Much more common than new composition in English in the twelfth century
was the copying of earlier texts. Oxford, Bodleian Library, Bodley 343, for
example, a manuscript copied in the second half of the twelfth century, contains
a substantial collection of works by Ælfric and his contemporaries. Although the
language of Bodley 343 is remarkably conservative considering the late date of the
manuscript, a number of linguistic changes can be observed when its text is
compared with earlier versions. In the following extracts, Passage A comes from
the Vercelli Book (from the second half of the tenth century) and Passage B from
Bodley 343, copied up to two centuries later. The earlier version in Vercelli
Homily X (Passage A) reads:
Hwær syndon þa rican caseras 7 cyningas þa þe gio wæron, oððe þa cyningas þe we io
cuðon? Hwær syndon þa ealdormen þa þe bebodu setton? Hwær is demera domstow?
Hwær is hira ofermetto, butan mid moldan beþeahte 7 in witu gecyrred? Wa is worulde-
scriftum, butan hie mid rihte reccen.
The later version in Bodley 343 (Passage B) reads:
Hwær beoð þæ rice caseres, and þa kyngæs, þe we iu cuþæn? Hwær beoð þa ealdormen
þe boden setten? Hwær is domeræ domselt? Hwær beoð heoræ ofermedo, buton mid
molde beþeaht, and on wite wræce[n]? Wa byð weorldscryftum buton heo mid rihte
ræden and tæcæn.
(‘Wherearethewealthyemperors[andkings of formerdays(Aonly)], or [B.and]the kings
wepreviously knew? Wherearethe noblemenwhoestablished laws? Whereisthe judgment
seat of judges? Where is their pride, except covered with dust and turned [B. driven] to
torment? Woe is it for earthly judges unless they direct [B. advise and teach] with justice.’)
Although the two passages clearly derive (at least ultimately) from the
same source, the linguistic distinctions further indicate and conWrm some of
the changes which characterize the English language in this transitional stage
between Old and Middle English. The inXections of the later version show less
consistency than the earlier one: in Passage A, for example, the nominative plural
nouns caseras (‘emperors’, line 1) and cyningas (‘kings’, twice in line 1) all end
beginnings and transitions: old english 57
in -as; in Passage B the corresponding nouns diVer from each other in their
inXections (caseres and kyngæs, both in line 1). The vowels used in unstressed
syllables (including inXections) are conWned in Passage B almost entirely to æ
and e, where Passage A still regularly uses the back vowels a, o, and u: hence, for
example, the past plural indicative of verbs is systematically denoted by -on
in Passage A’s cuðon (‘knew’, line 2) and setton (‘established’, line 2), but by -æn
and-en in Passage B’s cuþæn (line 1) and setten (line 2). The scribe of Passage B
may be more inclined, as Peter Kitson has argued,8
to represent the Old English
back vowels a, o, and u by æ, as in þæ (‘the’, line 1), kyngæs (‘kings’, line 1), cuþæn
(‘knew’, line 1), domeræ (‘of judges’, line 2), heoræ (‘their’, line 2), and tæcæn
(‘teach’, line 4), and the unaccented front vowel e by e, but this is by no means a
consistent practice. In contrast with Passage A where, as is common in Old
English, c is used rather than k, in Passage B the normal Middle English spellings
of c before a, o, and u, and k before e, i, and y, are used, as in caseres (‘emperors’)
and kyngæs (‘kings’) in line 1. Again in accordance with the development towards
Middle English, there is a tendency for the earlier more complex inXection of
adjectives to be reduced to-e, as in Passage B’s rice (‘wealthy’, line 1) (beside rican,
inXected weak since it follows the article, in line 1 of Passage A).
Old English works continued to be used in the late twelfth and even early
thirteenth centuries, but fairly extensive rewriting and adaptation into Early
Middle English was clearly necessary in the compilation of collections such as
the Lambeth and Trinity Homilies, which drew on Old English works. By the
time glossators such as the Worcester scribe known as the ‘Tremulous Hand’
(because of his distinctive shaky handwriting) were at work in the thirteenth
century, it is evident that the increasing unfamiliarity with the Old English
language had made it virtually incomprehensible without the provision of glosses
or explanatory translations accompanying the text.
conclusion
The transition from Old to Middle English is only the last in a series of
transitions which the Old English language underwent over its seven centuries
of existence. Interrelation between external and internal history, as the structure
of this chapter attests, can be used to illuminate and characterize the develop-
ment of the Old English language.
8
See P. Kitson, ‘Old English Dialects and the Stages of Transition to Middle English’, Folia
Linguistica Historica 11 (1992), 27–87.
58 susan irvine
This chapter began with the ‘Book-Moth Riddle’ where the image of a moth or
worm eating through parchment is used percipiently by the poet to explore the
transient nature of both written and spoken words. The Anglo-Saxons were, as
that short poem indicates, only too well aware of the precariousness of language.
But this is a language which survives, albeit in a very diVerent form from that in
which the Anglo-Saxons knew it. The ability of the language to adapt, to change
in accordance with the historical circumstances which were so inextricably linked
with its fortunes, led ultimately to the English language with which we are
familiar today.
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
The poem with which I begin is quoted from Krapp and Dobbie (1936). General
introductions to Old English can be found in Mitchell and Robinson (2001) and Baker
(2003), as well as in Mitchell (1995).
Invasion and dialectal diversity
For Bede’s Ecclesiastical History of the English People, see Colgrave and Mynors (1969); the
passage alluded to here is in Book I, chapter 15. The migration myth is discussed by Howe
(1989). The passage from the Peterborough Chronicle is quoted from Irvine (2004). For
further information on Old English sound changes, see Campbell (1959) and Hogg
(1992b); for further information on Early Middle English sound changes, see Jordan
(1974). The Northumbrian version of Cædmon’s Hymn is from the manuscript Cam-
bridge University Library, Kk.5.16, and is quoted from Dobbie (1942); the West Saxon
version is also quoted from Dobbie. On the manuscript lay-out of the poem, see O’Brien
O’KeeVe (1990).
Conversion to Christianity: establishing a standard script
For Bede’s Ecclesiastical History, see Colgrave and Mynors (1969); for Augustine’s arrival
see Book I, chapter 25, for Gregory and the slave-boys see Book II, chapter 1. For the
Parker Chronicle, see Bately (1986); for the Peterborough Chronicle, see Irvine (2004).
The passage from the Old English translation of Bede’s Ecclesiastical History is quoted
from Miller (1890–8). The passage from The Dream of the Rood is quoted from Swanton
(1987), as is also the transliteration of the runic inscription. The runic inscription itself
can be found in full in Dickins and Ross (1954). For a useful discussion of Old English
runes, see Page (1999).
beginnings and transitions: old english 59
King Alfred and the production of vernacular manuscripts
On the literary achievements of Alfred’s reign, see Bately (1988). On Alfred’s contact with
Mercia, see Keynes (1998). The passage from the Preface to the Old English translation to
Gregory’s Pastoral Care is from the manuscript Oxford, Bodleian Library, Hatton 20, and
is quoted from Sweet (1871). On Old English grammar, see Campbell (1959) and Hogg
(1992a). On Old English syntax, see Mitchell (1985). The prose passage from the Old
English translation of Boethius’s Consolation of Philosophy is quoted from SedgeWeld
(1899); the verse passage is quoted from Krapp (1932).
The Benedictine Reform and the regularizing of Old English
On the monastic reform, see Knowles (1963). For the argument that standard late West
Saxon may in fact reXect the spoken dialect of Wiltshire rather than of Hampshire, see
Kitson (1993). On the notion of a standard late Old English literary language more
generally, see Gneuss (1972), Hofstetter (1988), and Gretsch (1999). The passages from
Ælfric’s Prefaces to his Latin grammar and to his translation of Genesis are taken from
Wilcox (1994); the twelfth-century copy of the Preface (from the manuscript Cambridge
University Library Ii.1.33) is collated by Wilcox (1994). The passage from the First Series
of Ælfric’s Catholic Homilies is taken from Clemoes (1997). On the grammatical revisions
made in Old English manuscripts, see Sisam (1953), Eliason and Clemoes (1966), Godden
(2002). For a facsimile edition of British Library, Royal 7 C.xii, which shows such
revisions, and for a discussion of the punctuation of this manuscript, see Eliason and
Clemoes (1966). On the origins and use of punctuation by Old English scribes more
generally, see Parkes (1992). On the practice of using modern punctuation in the editing
of Old English texts, see Mitchell (1980). On the diYculty of distinguishing the usages of
the literary standard from those of particular scribes or monastic houses, see Scragg
(1992b). For a discussion of the four main Old English poetic codices, see Raw (1978). The
passage from Beowulf is quoted from Klaeber (1950), the one from The Battle of Maldon
from Scragg (1981); both of these editors also discuss the language of their respective
texts. The need to distinguish between the use of ‘standard’ in relation to Old English and
the standard English in the later development of the language is addressed by, for
example, Penhallurick and Willmott (2000).
The Conquest: a language in transition
On the manuscripts containing Old English in the twelfth century, see Irvine (2000a).
For the Parker Chronicle and Peterborough Chronicle, see Bately (1986) and Irvine
(2004) respectively (the passages quoted are from the latter). The Vercelli Homily passage
is quoted from Scragg (1992a), and the passage from Bodley 343 is quoted from Irvine
(1993). The language of Bodley 343 is discussed by Irvine (2000b) and Kitson (1992 and
1993). On the Worcester ‘Tremulous Hand’, see Franzen (1991).
60 susan irvine
3
CONTACTS AND
CONFLICTS: LATIN, NORSE,
AND FRENCH
Matthew Townend
the multilingual middle ages
AS a number of chapters throughout this volume stress, a history of the
English language is something very diVerent from a history of language in
England. Of no period is this more true, however, than the Middle Ages. To
write linguistic history by looking only at English would give an entirely false
impression of linguistic activity in England; it would be like writing social
history by looking at only one class, or only one gender. But in addition to
misrepresenting the linguistic history of England, such a one-eyed view would
also misrepresent the history of English itself. One cannot look at English in
isolation; for much of its history the English language in England has been in a
state of co-existence, or competition, or even conXict with one or more other
languages, and it is these tensions and connections which have shaped the
language quite as much as any factors internal to English itself. Obviously,
there is not the space here for a full-scale multilingual history of England in
the medieval period; nonetheless in this chapter I wish to look brieXy at the
other languages current in England in the Middle Ages, and how they impacted
on English.
Three snapshots will serve to introduce the complex multilingualism—and,
therefore, multiculturalism—of medieval England. First, in his Ecclesiastical
History of the English People (completed in 731), the Anglo-Saxon monk Bede
talks about the Wve languages of Britain:
Haec in praesenti iuxta numerum librorum quibus lex diuina scripta est, quinque
gentium linguis unam eandemque summae ueritatis et uerae sublimitatis scientiam
scrutatur et conWtetur, Anglorum uidelicet Brettonum Scottorum Pictorum et Lati-
norum, quae meditatione scripturarum ceteris omnibus est facta communis.
(‘At the present time, there are Wve languages in Britain, just as the divine law is written in
Wve books, all devoted to seeking out and setting forth one and the same kind of wisdom,
namely the knowledge of sublime truth and of true sublimity. These are the English,
British, Irish, Pictish, as well as the Latin languages; through the study of the scriptures,
Latin is in general use among them all.’)
Bede is talking about Britain here (Britannia), not simply England, but one
would only need to take away Pictish—spoken in northern Scotland—to repre-
sent the situation in England, leaving some four languages at any rate. (By
British, Bede means what we would call Welsh, and the language of the Scotti is
what we would now call Irish.)
For a second snapshot, let us consider a 946 grant of land by King Eadred (who
reigned 946–55) to his subject Wulfric. The charter is written in a form of Latin
verse, and in it Eadred is said to hold the government Angulsaxna cum Norþhym-
bris / paganorum cum Brettonibus (‘of the Anglo-Saxons with the Northumbrians,
and of the pagans with the Britons’), while his predecessor Edmund (who reigned
940–46) is described as king Angulsaxna & Norþhymbra / paganorum Brettonum-
que (‘of the Anglo-Saxons and Northumbrians, of the pagans and the Britons’).
In these texts, ‘pagans’ means Scandinavians, and so peoples speaking three
diVerent languages are recognized here: the Scandinavians speak Norse, the
Britons speak Celtic, and the Anglo-Saxons (of whom the Northumbrians had
come to form a part) speak Old English. The text itself, being in Latin, adds a
fourth language.
And for a third snapshot we may turn to the monk (and historian) Jocelin
of Brakelond’s early thirteenth-century Chronicle of the Abbey of Bury St
Edmunds. Jocelin tells us the following about the hero of his work, Abbot
Samson:
5
Homo erat eloquens, Gallice et Latine, magis rationi dicendorum quam ornatui uerborum
innitens. Scripturam Anglice scriptam legere nouit elegantissime, et Anglice sermoci-
nare solebat populo, et secundum linguam Norfolchie, ubi natus et nutritus erat,
unde et pulpitum iussit Weri in ecclesia et ad utilitatem audiencium et ad decorem
ecclesie.
62 matthew townend
(‘He was eloquent both in French and Latin, having regard rather to the sense of what he
had to say than to ornaments of speech. He read English perfectly, and used to preach in
English to the people, but in the speech of Norfolk, where he was born and bred, and to
this end he ordered a pulpit to be set up in the church for the beneWt of his hearers and as
an ornament to the church.’)
Here we can observe a trilingual culture exempliWed within a single person.
Samson’s native language is English—and a dialectally marked English at
that—and it is English which he uses to preach to the laity; but his eloquence
in Latin and French makes him a microcosm of learned and cultured society in
the late twelfth and early thirteenth centuries, where two learned languages
tended to take precedence over the majority’s mother tongue.
It is no coincidence that all three introductory snapshots are taken from texts
in Latin; in the written mode (as opposed to the spoken), it is Latin, and not
English, which forms the one constant in the linguistic history of medieval
England. And it should also be noted how my three snapshots are chronologically
distributed over the Old English and early Middle English periods—one from the
eighth century, one from the tenth, and one from the early thirteenth. It is
sometimes claimed that post-Conquest England was the most multilingual and
multicultural place to be found anywhere in medieval Europe at any time; but in
fact there was nothing in, say, 1125 which could not have been matched in 1025 or
925, so long as one substitutes the Norse of the Scandinavian settlements for the
French of the Norman. The Norman Conquest makes no great diVerence in
terms of the linguistic complexity of medieval England; it merely changes the
languages involved.
the languages of medieval england
The basic timelines of the non-English languages of medieval England can be
stated quickly; a more nuanced account will follow shortly. Celtic (or strictly
speaking, Brittonic Celtic or British) was, as Chapter 1 has already noted, the
language of those peoples who occupied the country before the arrival of the
Anglo-Saxons, and is likely to have remained a spoken language in parts of
England through much of the Anglo-Saxon period, before it became conWned
to those areas which are (from an Anglocentric perspective) peripheral: Corn-
wall, Wales, Cumbria, and Scotland. Latin was spoken and read right through the
medieval period, beginning with the arrival of the missionaries from Rome in
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 63
Winchester
Norwegian
settlement 901
Danish
settlement 875
Danish
settlement 876
Danish
settlement 879
L
C
Aldbrough
Sf
Nf
Hu
R
Le
Nth
Bd
Ess
St
Nt
Db
Ch
La
Y
W
Y
W Y
E
Y
E
Y
N
Y
N
Du
Nb
Cu
We
Norwegian
settlement
900–950
Pennington
Parish names of
Scandinavian origin
Southern limit of
the Danelaw
Lindisfarne
Watling
S
t
r
e
e
t
Fig. 3.1. Scandinavian settlement in Anglo-Saxon England
Source: Based on A. H. Smith, English Place-Name Elements, 2 vols. (Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1956), Map 10.
597. Old Norse was the language of the Scandinavian settlers who entered the
country in the Viking Age, and settled especially in the north and east of England
(see Fig. 3.1). French was the language of the Norman conquerors who arrived in
1066, although in time it came to be spoken more widely by the upper and middle
classes. In the study of language contact and the history of English, these
languages—in particular, Latin, French, and Norse—are what would be termed
‘source languages’ or ‘donor languages’. But of course to describe Latin, Norse,
and French in such terms, while accurate enough for the study of English, is
deeply misleading, as it leads us to think of them only insofar as they exist to
contribute to English, like satellites revolving round a sun. But to repeat the point
made in the introduction to this chapter, these languages are just as much a part
of the linguistic history of England as English is (and their literatures, as will be
noted below, are just as much a part of the literary history of England as literature
in English is).
Before proceeding to review these three languages as they existed in England, it
is worth saying a few words about Celtic. Celtic appears to have had little impact
on English; for this reason it is likely to be the most overlooked language of
medieval England, and for this reason too it features little in the present chapter.
It appears that fewer than a dozen words were borrowed from Celtic into English
in the Anglo-Saxon period, such as brocc (‘badger’) and torr (‘rock’), even though
Celtic was widely spoken in Anglo-Saxon England, especially in the early period.
The standard explanation for this, which there seems little reason to doubt, is
that since the Britons were the subordinate people in Anglo-Saxon England, they
are likely to have been the ones who learned the language of their conquerors
(Old English) and who gave up their own language: it cannot be a coincidence
that the Old English word for ‘Briton’, wealh, also came to mean ‘slave’ (it
survives in modern English as the Wrst element of walnut, as the surname
Waugh, and, in the plural, as the place-name Wales). However, Celtic would
assume a much more central place if one were writing a history of language in
England rather than a history of the English language; the most eloquent
monument to this is the great quantity of place-names in England which are of
Celtic origin, especially river-names (such as Derwent, Ouse, and Lune).
In the languages of medieval England it is Latin, alongside English itself, which
is, as has been said, the one constant—a surprising situation for a language which
was not, after all, ever a mother tongue. Though its use in Anglo-Saxon England
is normally dated to the Roman mission of 597 (and certainly its unbroken
history in England begins at this point), it is, as Chapter 1 has pointed out, also
possible that the newly settled Anglo-Saxons may have encountered spoken Latin
(in addition to Celtic) among the Romano-British peoples whom they conquered
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 65
in the Wfth and sixth centuries. Nevertheless, leaving aside this one exception, the
history of Latin in England is of course the history of a primarily written
language. This is not to say that Latin was not spoken, for it was—endlessly
and exclusively in some environments—but simply that it was always a learned
second language. Furthermore, Latin was the language of learning, and for most
of the time this meant that it was the language of the church. Church services
were conducted in Latin throughout the Middle Ages; Latin was spoken in the
monasteries and minsters; Latin was the language of the Bible. But there was
almost no one speaking or reading Latin in England who did not also possess
English (or sometimes French) as their Wrst language.
Old Norse in England could not have been more diVerent. With the exception
of a handful of inscriptions in the runic alphabet, Norse was never written down
in England, only spoken. However, spoken Norse appears to have been both
geographically widespread and surprisingly long-lived, no doubt because it
formed the Wrst language of a substantial immigrant community. Settled Norse
speakers were to be found in England from the 870s onwards, following the
Viking wars of the time of King Alfred (who reigned over Wessex 871–99) and
the establishment of the so-called Danelaw; that is, the area to the north and
east of the old Roman road known as Watling Street (although the actual term
‘Danelaw’ dates from the eleventh century). It is clear that England was settled
by both Danes and Norwegians—and perhaps even a few Swedes—although
as the Scandinavian languages at this point were hardly diVerentiated from
one another it is not much of a misrepresentation to speak of a unitary lan-
guage, here called Norse (though some other writers employ the term ‘Scandi-
navian’). Norse continued to be spoken in the north of England certainly into the
eleventh century, and quite possibly into the twelfth in some places. In the early
eleventh century the status of Norse in England received a high-level Wllip
through the accession of the Danish King Cnut and his sons (who ruled over
England 1016–42).
Finally, we may consider French. As is well known, one of the consequences of
the Norman Conquest was that the new rulers of the country spoke a diVerent
language from their subjects. Originally the Normans had been Scandinavians—
the term ‘Norman’ comes from ‘Northman’—who had been granted a territory
in northern France in the early tenth century. These early Normans spoke Old
Norse, just like the Scandinavians who settled in England at about the same time.
By the early eleventh century, however, the Normans had given up Old Norse and
had adopted the French spoken by their subjects and neighbours; it is an irony
that this formidable people gave up their own language, and adopted that of their
conquered subjects, not once but twice in their history. French, of course,
66 matthew townend
descended from Latin; it was a Romance language, not a Germanic one like Old
English and Old Norse. French as it came to be spoken in England is often termed
Anglo-Norman, though it should be noted that this designation is based as much
on political factors as it is on linguistic ones.
The history of the French or Anglo-Norman language in England falls into a
number of episodes, but at the outset it is important to stress that there is little
value in older accounts which depict two distinct speech-communities, English
and French, running on non-convergent parallel lines for a number of centuries.
Nor are direct comparisons between the French and Norse episodes in England’s
linguistic history necessarily helpful, as the circumstances were signiWcantly
diVerent: French speakers in England probably formed a considerably smaller
percentage of the population in the eleventh and twelfth centuries than had
Norse speakers in the ninth and tenth, and they were also of a higher social
status. In the Wrst decades after 1066, of course, those who spoke French were the
Norman invaders, but not many generations were required before the situation
had become very diVerent; parallels with the languages of other immigrant
minorities suggest that this is not surprising. From the middle of the twelfth
century at the latest, most members of the aristocracy were bilingual, and what is
more their mother tongue is likely to have been English; there can have been very
few, if any, monolingual French speakers by that point. A hundred years later, in
the thirteenth century, one begins to Wnd educational treatises which provide
instruction in French, and it seems from the target audiences of such treatises
that not only was French having to be learned by the aristocracy, it was also
coming to be learned by members of the middle classes. One consequence of this
opening-up of French to those outside the aristocracy is that the language began
to be used in increasingly varied contexts. In other words, French became less
restricted in usage precisely as it ceased to be anyone’s mother tongue in England
and instead became a generalized language of culture. And the cause of this was
not the Norman Conquest of England—an event that was by now some two
centuries in the past—but rather the contemporary currency of French as an
international language outside England. In time, however, the pendulum swung
back, and English took over more and more of the functions developed by French
(as is explored in the next chapter); by the mid- to late-fourteenth century, the
‘triumph of English’ was assured.
It should also be stressed that, at diVerent times, there was a thriving literary
culture in England in all three of these languages. Latin and French are the most
obvious. Latin works were composed in England right through the medieval
period, from beginning to end and then beyond. Bede and Anglo-Saxon hagio-
graphers, for example, were active in the seventh and eighth centuries, Asser, the
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 67
biographer of Alfred the Great, in the ninth, Benedictine churchmen like Ælfric
in the tenth and eleventh, and Cistercians like Ailred of Rievaulx in the twelfth.
Scholastics like Roger Bacon in the thirteenth century and the courtly John
Gower in the fourteenth continued this practice, as did the humanist authors
of the early Renaissance. As for French, Ian Short has pointed out just how
remarkable a body of work was produced in England in the twelfth century: the
Wrst romance in French composed anywhere was produced in England, not
France, as were the Wrst historical, scientiWc, and scholastic works in French.
Even the Song of Roland, a celebrated landmark in medieval French culture,
is found Wrst of all in an English manuscript.1
Indeed, it is little exaggeration to
claim that the evolution of French as a written literary language was largely due to
the Norman Conquest; while in the eleventh and twelfth centuries French in
England may have advanced slowly in its role as ‘a language of record’ (in
Michael Clanchy’s phrase),2
it made exceptionally rapid progress as a language
of literature and culture. Even when English was beginning to re-establish itself as
a medium for written literature in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries the
composition of French works continued unabated, and it is quite possible that
the earliest poems of GeoVrey Chaucer were in French. The English literatures of
Latin and French are perhaps familiar enough, but there were also times in the
history of England when literature in Old Norse was composed and enjoyed in
England, most importantly during the reign of Cnut, king of England, Denmark,
and—brieXy—of Norway as well. Oral Norse praise-poetry, of the type known as
skaldic verse, was a popular genre at Cnut’s court at Winchester and elsewhere,
and Norse poetry in England exerted an inXuence over both English and Latin
compositions of the period. For all three of these languages, then, it is not just
that works circulated and were read in England; many original works were
composed in this country, a testimony to the vitality of England’s multilingual
literary culture, and another reminder of how misleading it is to take a mono-
lingual view of the past.
The phenomenon known as language death occurs when no one speaks or uses
a language any more, either on account of the death of its users or (less radically
and more commonly) on account of their shift to using a diVerent language.
Reviewing the three main ‘source languages’ in medieval England, one can Wrst
see that, since Latin in England was, as already indicated, not a mother tongue,
the notion of language death is not really applicable. The death of the Norse
1
I. Short, ‘Patrons and Polyglots: French Literature in Twelfth-Century England’, Anglo-Norman
Studies 14 (1992), 229.
2
M. T. Clanchy, From Memory to Written Record: England 1066–1307 (2nd edn.). (Oxford: Black-
well, 1993), 220.
68 matthew townend
language in England is likely to have occurred in the eleventh century in most
places, as that is when the Norse speech community seems to have shifted to
using English. As for French, one could argue that the standard form of language
death occurred in the twelfth century, with the demise of French as the mother
tongue of the aristocracy; after the twelfth century, French was in much the same
position as Latin in its status as a learned language, although the constituencies
and functions of the two languages were diVerent (see further, pp. 70–1).
Language death is an important phenomenon, not just for the languages and
speech communities involved, but for their neighbours and co-residents. As we
shall see in the rest of the chapter, it was in their deaths, just as much as in their
lives, that the non-English languages of medieval England exerted an enormous
inXuence on English itself.
contact situations
The historical sociolinguist James Milroy insists: ‘Linguistic change is initiated by
speakers, not by languages’. What is traditionally termed ‘language contact’, or
‘languages in contact’, is in reality contact between speakers (or users) of diVerent
languages, and an emphasis on speaker-activity has far-reaching implications for
the writing of linguistic history. As Milroy observes, ‘the histories of languages
such as English . . . become in this perspective—to a much greater extent than
previously—histories of contact between speakers, including speakers of diVerent
dialects and languages’.3
This is one reason why the previous section paid due
attention to the non-English speech communities, and to the uses of languages
other than English, that were such a deWning feature of medieval England.
Languages do not exist apart from their users, and any study of language contact
must be emphatically social in approach. In this section the actual processes of
contact will be examined, before moving on to look at their linguistic con-
sequences.
The nature of the social contact, together with the conWgurations of the speech
communities, has a governing eVect on the type of linguistic impact that will
occur. Clearly, contact between languages—or rather, between users of lan-
guages—involves bilingualism of some sort. This bilingualism can either be
individual or societal; that is, one may have a society which is at least partly
made up of bilingual speakers, or conversely a bilingual society which is made up
3
J. Milroy, ‘Internal vs external motivations for linguistic change’, Multilingua 16 (1997), 311, 312.
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 69
of monolingual speakers. So, for the contact between Norse and English speakers
in Viking Age England, it is likely that, at least for pragmatic purposes, speakers
of the two languages were mutually intelligible to a suYcient extent to preclude
the need for bilingualism on either a major or minor scale (in the form of a
society which was made up of bilingual individuals, or else one which relied on a
small number of skilled interpreters). Viking Age England was thus a bilingual
society dominantly made up of monolingual speakers of diVerent languages; as
an analogy it may be helpful to think of contemporary contact between speakers
of diVerent dialects of English.
The situation with French was clearly very diVerent, as English and French—
being respectively a Germanic language and a Romance one—were so dissimilar
as to permit no form of mutual intelligibility. In such circumstances one must
therefore think in terms of individual bilingualism. But of course exactly who
those individuals were, and what form their bilingualism took, changed over
time. Once their early monolingual period had come to an end, initially it was the
Norman aristocracy who spoke French as their Wrst language and who learned
English as their second. But soon these linguistic roles had been reversed and
French, as we have seen, became the learned second language, after which it also
began to be learned by those below the level of the aristocracy. However, it is
important to stress that French speakers in England always formed a minority;
the majority of the population were monolingual, and the language they spoke
was English.
The situation for Latin was diVerent again. All those who knew Latin also
spoke at least one other language, and in the post-Conquest period sometimes
two (French and English). Being the language of books, Latin also introduces
another form of language contact: that between an individual and a written text
in a foreign language. One might think of the contact between users and books as
a sort of second-order contact—clearly it does not represent the same form of
societal bilingualism as that between individuals—but at the same time it is
important not to overplay this diVerence. In the medieval period even written
texts had a dominantly oral life: literature was social, texts were read out loud,
and private silent reading had barely begun. In any case, Latin was the language of
conversation and debate in many ecclesiastical and scholarly environments: it was
spoken as a learned language in just the same way as French was in the later
medieval period, so one should not dismissively characterize Latin as a ‘dead’
language in contradistinction to French, Norse, and English.
How do these various circumstances of bilingual contact (whether individual
and/or societal) work out in terms of their eVect on English? That is, the question
to be asked is: how exactly do elements from one language come to be transferred
70 matthew townend
into another language, whether those elements are words, sounds, or even
syntactical constructions? As stated above, languages in contact do not exist
apart from their users, so there must be speciWc, observable means by which
linguistic transfer occurs. Words do not simply Xoat through the air like pollen;
as James Milroy insists, what we are dealing with here is the history of people, not
of disembodied languages.
In understanding and analysing the processes of linguistic inXuence a crucial
distinction made by modern linguists is that between ‘borrowing’ on the one hand
and ‘imposition’ or ‘interference’ on the other (and it should be noted that
‘borrowing’ has a more precise meaning here than in older treatments of the
subject). This distinction turns on the status of the person or persons who act as
the bridge between languages, and may best be appreciated through modern
examples. Suppose a speaker of British English learns a new word from a speaker
of American English, and subsequently uses that American-derived word in their
own speech: that would be an example of borrowing, and the primary agent of
transfer would be a speaker of the recipient language. Suppose, on the other hand,
that a bilingual French speaker uses a word or a pronunciation from their mother
tongue when speaking English. A new word or pronunciation, derived from
French, would thereby be introduced into a passage of spoken English; that
would be an example of imposition or interference, and the primary agent of
transfer would be a speaker of the source language. Of course, for either of these
processes to lead to a change in the English language more broadly, as opposed to
simply in the language of one individual at one time, the word or pronunciation
would have to be generalized, by being adopted and used by other speakers of the
recipient language. In considering this process of generalization one can see again
how a study of language contact must really be part of a wider study of social
networks.
This distinction between borrowing and imposition (as I shall henceforth call
it) is also very helpful in understanding the phonological form which is taken by
transferred elements. The linguist Frans van Coetsem, who has elucidated this
distinction, writes as follows:
Of direct relevance here is that language has a constitutional property of stability; certain
components or domains of language are more stable and more resistant to change
(e.g. phonology), while other such domains are less stable and less resistant to
change(e.g.vocabulary).Giventhenatureofthispropertyofstability,alanguageincontact
with another tends to maintain its more stable domains. Thus, if the recipient language
speaker is the agent, his natural tendency will be to preserve the more stable domains of
his language, e.g., his phonology, while accepting vocabulary items from the source
language. If the source language speaker is the agent, his natural tendency will again be to
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 71
preserve the more stable domains of his language, e.g., his phonology and speciWcally his
articulatory habits, which means that he will impose them upon the recipient language.4
That is to say, a word that is transferred through borrowing is likely to be
nativized to the recipient language in terms of its phonological shape or pro-
nunciation, whereas a word that is transferred through imposition is likely to
preserve the phonology of the source language, and introduce that to the
recipient language. We shall meet both of these phenomena in the examples
analysed below.
Lexical transfer—the transfer of words from the source language to the
recipient language—is not, of course, the only form of linguistic inXuence that
may occur when users of two languages come into contact, although it is certainly
the most common. So-called bound morphemes (parts of words like preWxes or
suYxes) may also be transferred, as may individual sounds, or word-orders and
sentence structures, or (at the written level) letter forms and spelling conven-
tions. In other words, while its most common form is lexical, linguistic inXuence
can also be morphological, or phonological, or syntactic, or orthographic. All the
so-called subsystems of language can be aVected through contact, and in the
history of English’s contact with other languages in the medieval period, all of
them were.
consequences for english
As we turn to consider the consequences of language contact for the English
language, it is inevitable that our point of view should become more Anglocen-
tric, and less able to hold all the languages of medieval England within one
balanced, multilingual vision. Nonetheless, a reminder is in order before we go
on, that the history of the English language forms only a part of the linguistic
history of England in the medieval period, and in the course of what follows
I shall also indicate brieXy some of the ways in which English inXuenced the other
languages as well; the results of language contact were not in one direction only.
When one considers the consequences for English of contact with other
languages, it is vocabulary that inevitably looms largest. It is well known that
the size of the English lexicon as a whole has grown steadily over the course of
time: estimates place the size of the Old English lexicon at c 50–60,000 words, and
4
F. van Coetsem, Loan Phonology and the Two Transfer Types in Language Contact (Dordrecht:
Foris, 1988), 3.
72 matthew townend
that of Middle English at 100–125,000 (that of modern English is placed at over
half a million). This expansion has occurred overwhelmingly through the trans-
fer of words from source languages, rather than through the formation of new
words out of native resources, as has happened much more, for example, in
German. However, it should be noted that Old English was much more similar to
German than modern English is in its fondness for word-formation out of native
elements; it has been estimated than while as much as 70 per cent of the modern
English lexicon is comprised of loanwords, the comparable Wgure for the Old
English lexicon is probably less than 5 per cent.
As a preliminary categorization, prior to looking at some actual passages, it is
worth distinguishing between, on the one hand, loanwords proper and, on the
other, loan-translations and semantic loans (though the term loan or loanword is
conventionally used to cover the whole range). A loanword, as strictly deWned,
may arise either through borrowing or imposition, but it involves the incorpora-
tion of a lexical item from the source language into the lexicon of the recipient
language; and the item may undergo phonological and morphological adapta-
tion in the process, depending on the mode of transfer. Representative loanwords
in Old English are munuc (‘monk’, from Latin monachus), lið (‘Xeet’, from Old
Norse lið), and prut (‘proud’, from Old French prud). In a loan-translation
(sometimes known as a calque), the elements of the lexical item in the source
language are translated into corresponding elements in the recipient language;
the form of the source item is not actually transferred. Old English examples are
wellwillende (literally ‘well-wishing, benevolent’, from Latin benevolens), anhorn
(literally ‘one-horn, unicorn’, from Latin unicornis), and (as a partial loan-
translation) liðsmann (‘Xeet-man, sailor’, ‘follower’, from Old Norse liðsmaðr).
Finally, in a semantic loan the form of a lexical item in the recipient language
remains the same, but its meaning is replaced by the meaning of an item from the
source language; in Saussurean terms, that is, the signiWer (i.e. the sequence of
sounds, the physical element of the sign) stays the same but the signiWed (i.e. the
meaning) changes. Examples are Old English synn (where the original meaning
‘crime, fault’ has been replaced by the meaning ‘religious transgression’ from
Latin peccatum) or modern English dream where the present meaning derives
from Old Norse draumr, but the form derives from the cognate Old English
dream (‘(sounds of) joy’); the Old English word for ‘dream’ was swefn, which has
since disappeared from the lexicon. Clearly the category of semantic loan merges
into that of semantic change more generally.
With regards to the chronological stratiWcation of the loanwords in English
(that is, when the items entered the English lexicon), clearly the broad strata will
correlate with the times when the source languages were spoken, or had recently
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 73
ceased being spoken, in England. But the loanwords from each of the three source
languages can themselves also be subdivided and stratiWed, usually on phono-
logical grounds (that is, depending on which sound-changes in the source and
recipient languages the words have or have not participated in). So, the Latin
loans in Old English are conventionally subdivided into early, ‘popular’ loans
(arising through oral contact, up to c 600), and later, ‘learned’ ones (arising
through Christianization and books), although some older treatments further
subdivide the Wrst of these into pre- and post-migration loans; in addition there
were later book-based loans in the Middle English period. Norse loans are less
easy to date and stratify, but a broad distinction can be made between those
which appear to have entered English through borrowing (tenth and eleventh
centuries) and those which have entered through imposition following language
death (eleventh and twelfth centuries), although of course the two processes may
have been occurring contemporaneously in diVerent parts of the country.
Leaving aside a few early loans in Old English, the French loans in Middle
English are traditionally subdivided into two groups: an earlier group from
Norman French dialect, and a later group from central French (reXecting the
shift in power and inXuence from Normandy to Paris and the Île de France from
the thirteenth century onwards).
All standard histories of the language give generous lists of loanwords (see
the suggestions for Further Reading at the end of this chapter), cataloguing the
fact that loans from Latin include, for example, altar, camel, chrism, comet,
crown, disciple, font, litany, martyr, mass, master, mile, mint, pipe, pound, school,
silk, street, tile, triumph, and wall (all these occur in the Old English period—
Middle English loans from Latin are both fewer and diYcult to distinguish
from loans from French); that loans from Norse include bask, beck, cast, fellow,
gape, hit, husband, ill, knife, law, leg, loft, meek, skill, skirt, sky, take, though,
want, wrong, and (very importantly) the pronouns they, them, and their; and
that loans from French (in the early Middle English period) include abbey,
battle, castle, chaplain, charity, council, duke, empress, folly, fruit, gentle, honour,
journey, oYce, purity, silence, treasure, and virgin. Something of the diVerent
cultural spheres from and for which these languages contributed vocabulary
can be impressionistically gauged from lists such as these, broadly upholding
(especially for Latin and French) the general principle that loanwords enter a
language on account of either need or prestige. As can also be deduced from the
lists given here, not all parts of speech are equally represented as loanwords:
nouns and adjectives are by far the most frequently transferred word-classes,
followed by verbs and adverbs, and far ahead of ‘grammar-words’ such as
conjunctions and pronouns.
74 matthew townend
However, isolated lists such as these tell little or nothing about the sociolin-
guistics of usage. Let us, then, look in more extended fashion at three texts or
passages which illustrate lexical transfer in context; as with my introductory
selection, these are mere snapshots, or (to change the metaphor) windows onto a
complex and continually evolving situation. I begin with a very famous, early,
and canonical text, namely the nine-line poem known as Cædmon’s Hymn,
which has already been discussed in Chapter 2. According to a story told by
Bede, Cædmon was a cowherd attached to the monastery of Whitby, who,
through a miracle, received the gift of poetic inspiration, and became the Wrst
ever Anglo-Saxon to compose poetry in Old English on Christian subjects.
(There had, of course, been poetry in Old English before Cædmon, but its subject
matter was probably legendary or heroic; and there had also been Anglo-Saxon
poetry on Christian subjects, but it had been composed in Latin. Cædmon is
supposed to have been the Wrst to combine the two, sometime in the 670s.) Bede
tells us that Cædmon subsequently composed many poems on many Biblical
subjects, but his Wrst poem, granted to him through a miraculous dream, was a
brief celebration of the creation. The poem survives in various manuscripts, but
I quote it here in its earliest form (in early Northumbrian dialect):
Nu scylun hergan hefænricæs uard,
metudæs mæcti end his modgidanc,
uerc uuldurfadur sue he uundra gihuæs,
eci dryctin, or astelidæ.
He ærist scop aelda barnum 5
heben til hrofe, haleg scepen;
tha middungeard moncynnæs uard,
eci dryctin, æfter tiadæ
Wrum foldu, frea allmectig.
(‘Now we must praise the Guardian of the heavenly kingdom, the might of the Ordainer
and his mind’s intent, the work of the Father of glory, as He, the eternal Lord, established
the beginning of every wonder. He, the holy Maker, Wrst made heaven as a roof for the
children of men. Then the Guardian of mankind, the eternal Lord, afterwards adorned
the middle-earth for the people of earth, the almighty Lord.’)
The language of this poem shows heavy inXuence from Latin ecclesiastical
culture, yet arguably contains not a single loanword as strictly deWned. How-
ever, there are more than enough loan-translations, semantic loans, and se-
mantic changes to characterize this as being, linguistically, a poem born out of
contact with the church. Consider, for example, the terms for God in these
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 75
nine lines: uard (‘Guardian’, line 1), metud (‘Ordainer’, line 2), uuldurfadur
(‘Father of glory’, line 3), dryctin (‘Lord’, lines 4 and 8), scepen (‘Maker’, line 6),
and frea (‘Lord’, line 9). A hundred years earlier, none of these words meant
‘God’, for the simple reason that the Anglo-Saxons were as yet an un-Chris-
tianized, polytheistic people; contact with missionaries and the church has
created a demand for new vocabulary which has been met by native words
changing their meaning, rather than new words being introduced from Latin.
Other words show a comparable shift: heben or hefæn (‘heaven’) seems to be in
the process of changing its reference from the literal (line 6) to the spiritual
(line 1), while middungeard (‘middle-earth’, line 7) may now allude to this
world being positioned between heaven and hell as much as to the land
being surrounded by sea. Allmectig (‘almighty’, line 9) appears to be a loan-
translation of the Latin omnipotens (a word of identical meaning). The opening
sentiment of Nu scylun hergan (‘Now we must praise’, line 1) may be modelled
on the Psalms. There are other features which might also betray Latin eccle-
siastical inXuence, but the overall character should by now be clear enough,
and the moral of this analysis can be spelt out in simple terms. The changes in
the Old English language which Cædmon’s Hymn reveals to us have all arisen
through contact with new people and new ways of doing things; language
contact is always part of culture contact.
The second text for analysis is the inscription on an early eleventh-
century grave-marker from the Old Minster, Winchester, which apparently
commemorates a Scandinavian of the time of Cnut. Inscriptions are an excellent
resource for linguistic history, even though they feature less regularly in histories
of the language than do texts which are found in manuscripts or printed books.
For one thing, inscriptions are often datable; more importantly, they tend to be
texts which are socially embedded, active, and performative in the public sphere.
The text on the Winchester grave-marker reads HER LID
- GVNNI : EORLES
FEOLAGA, which means either ‘Here lies Gunni, Eorl’s Companion’ or ‘Here lies
Gunni, the earl’s companion’, and since Eorl is recorded only once as a personal
name in England, the strong likelihood is that ‘the earl’s companion’ is the
correct reading. Though only Wve words long, this short inscription is full of
interest in terms of language contact, and there are four points to note. First,
Gunni is an Old Norse personal name, reminding us that language contact often
results in expansion of the onomasticon (or repertoire of names) as well as the
lexicon. Second, FEOLAGA is a loanword from Old Norse, where félagi means
‘companion, comrade, trading partner’; it survives in modern English as fellow.
Third, EORL is likely to show inXuence from Old Norse in its meaning; that is, it
is a semantic loan. There was a native Old English word eorl, which tended to be
76 matthew townend
used in poetry with a general meaning of ‘man, warrior, hero’. However, the
cognate Old Norse word jarl came be a term of rank (‘earl’), and in the reign of
Cnut this Norse meaning was grafted onto the English form, so that the English
word came to mean ‘earl’, and thereby ousted the earlier English term of rank
ealdormann (which survives in modern English as alderman). Fourth and last,
and moving on from vocabulary to syntax, the phrase HER LID
- (‘Here lies’) is
not found anywhere else in Anglo-Saxon inscriptions, and it is possible that it
shows the inXuence of Latin on Old English. Hic iacet (‘here lies’) is the standard
Latin memorial formula, and although it is not found in Anglo-Saxon inscrip-
tions, one does Wnd the comparable hic requiescit (‘here rests’). This Wve-word
inscription, then, is written in the Old English language using the Roman
alphabet; it shows one loanword from Old Norse, one semantic loan, and one
personal name; and it probably reveals Latin inXuence on its syntax and phrasing.
Such an inscription seems an entirely Wtting product of the Winchester of King
Cnut, when Norse and English culture co-existed and interacted at the highest
levels of society, and the whole city also partook of a Latinate, ecclesiastical air
through the inXuence of its three royal minsters.
The third passage is from the Peterborough Chronicle, also known as manu-
script ‘E’ of the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle or (in older works) the Laud Chronicle.
As Irvine has already discussed in Chapter 2, the annals known collectively as the
Anglo-Saxon Chronicle took shape in the reign of Alfred the Great, and thereafter
were kept up for some two hundred years. However, following the Norman
Conquest the various recensions all fell silent, except one: the Peterborough
Chronicle. This, remarkably, was maintained up to the middle of the twelfth
century, thereby supplying an all-too-rare example of English composition from
a time when most other writing was being done in either Latin or French
(although earlier Old English texts continued to be copied in the twelfth cen-
tury). The twelfth-century parts of the Peterborough Chronicle divide into the
so-called First Continuation (covering the years 1122 to 1131) and the Second or
Final Continuation (1132–54); the passage quoted here comes from the entry for
1135, reXecting on the death of Henry I and the accession of Stephen:
5
God man he was and micel æie wes of him: durste nan man misdon wið oðer on his time.
Pais he makede men and dær. Wua sua bare his byrthen gold and sylure, durste nan man
sei to him naht bute god. Enmang þis was his nefe cumen to Engleland, Stephne de Blais;
and com to Lundene; and te lundenisce folc him underfeng and senden æfter þe ærce-
biscop Willelm Curbuil; and halechede him to kinge on Midewintre Dæi. On þis kinges
time wes al unfrið and yfel and ræXac, for agenes him risen sona þa rice men þe wæron
swikes, alre fyrst Balduin de Reduers; and held Execestre agenes him and te king it besæt,
and siððan Balduin acordede. Þa tocan þa oðre and helden her castles agenes him.
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 77
(‘He[i.e.Henry] was agood man and therewas greatfearof him; no-one daredact wrongly
against another in his time. He made peace for both men and animals. Whoever carried a
gold and silver burden, no-one dared say to him anything but good. At this time his
nephew, Stephen de Blois, had come to England, and he came to London, and the people of
London received him and sent for the archbishop, William Curbeil; and he consecrated
him as king on Midwinter Day. In this king’s time everything was unpeace and evil and
plunder, for those powerfulmenwhoweretraitors immediately rose against him, Wrst of all
BaldwindeRedvers;andheheldExeteragainsthimand thekingbesieged it,andafterwards
Baldwin submitted. Then the others occupied and held their castles against him.’)
Although it is a somewhat hackneyed convention for histories of the English
language to take in the Peterborough Chronicle as one of the must-see sights, the
text is so rich in interest that to uphold such a tradition is more than justiWed:
almost every sentence could provide material for an entire chapter, and would
illuminate all the subsystems of the language. The work is usually exhibited, as in
Chapter 2, to demonstrate the demise of the Old English inXexional system and
the transition to the relatively uninXected state of Middle English. Here, with an
eye initially to the lexical consequences of language contact, we should begin by
noting the loanwords from both Norse and French. It is not surprising to Wnd
Norse inXuence in a text written in Peterborough, as that place was within the
Scandinavian-settled region of the Danelaw, although in fact the only Norse loan
in the passage above is tocan (‘(they) occupied, (they) took’, line 8). This is,
however, an important and signiWcant word as it is a central item of vocabulary,
and in due course came to oust the native Old English term niman (of identical
meaning) from the lexicon. (In other respects, the language of the passage shows
some English words holding their own against the Norse loans which we know
had entered the language by this time: for instance, the third person plural
possessive personal pronoun here is still the Old English-derived her, rather
than the Norse-derived their). But the passage also shows a sprinkling of French
loanwords, most obviously the iconic castles in line 9, but also pais (‘peace’, line 2)
and acordede (‘submitted’, line 8). One might also note the construction of
personal names such as Stephne de Blais and Balduin de Reduers, using French
de rather than English of. Moreover, French inXuence in this passage goes beyond
the merely lexical. Pais is interesting for phonological reasons: following the
Germanic Consonant Shift (see further p. 19), only a tiny number of words in
Old English began with [p], and so the introduction of Romance (French or
Latin) words beginning thus marked a clear development. Orthographically, too,
this passage shows a language in conspicuous transition. Anglo-Saxon spelling
conventions are still present—for example sc has not yet been replaced by sh in
ærcebiscop (‘archbishop’)—but they are now accompanied by Romance (and
78 matthew townend
speciWcally French) conventions: u is used for medial [v] in sylure (‘silver’), and
the digraph th is used in byrthen (‘burden’) alongside the older Anglo-Saxon
letters þ and ð in þis (‘this’) and unfrið (‘unpeace’).
These three examples—Cædmon’s Hymn, the Winchester inscription, and the
Peterborough Chronicle—give a representative sample of the kinds of inXuence
(especially lexical) that were exerted on English through contact with Latin,
Norse, and French. Further kinds of inXuence will be discussed shortly, but at
this point it is important to stress that not every loanword recorded in a medieval
text succeeded in establishing itself and became in any way a continuing (let alone
a permanent) part of the language. Instead there were many one-oVs and dead
ends and, as in other aspects of the history of English, one must not tell a
teleological narrative, implying that there is anything inevitable about the forms
taken by linguistic change. On the contrary, linguistic change occurs through
thousands (or millions) of individual human choices, and so it is in this sense pre-
eminently ‘evitable’. Similarly, there were many developments which were only
local or regional, and never became established more generally across the country.
Such local developments and local histories have tended to be occluded or
concealed in the post-standardization, post-print era, but in the present context
it is essential that we think in terms not of a single nationwide situation of
language contact, but rather of countless local situations all over the country.
A text that exempliWes both of these qualities (of dead ends and local develop-
ments) is the eleventh-century inscription on the sundial at Aldbrough church in
the East Riding of Yorkshire (see Fig. 3.2). Commemorating the act of a benefac-
tor, the inscription reads: VLF [HE]TARŒRAN CYRICE FOR H[A]NUM 7 FOR
GVNWARA SAVLA (‘Ulf ordered the church to be erected for himself and for
Gunnwaru’s soul’). The language of the inscription is perfectly normal late Old
English, except for the one word HANUM, which appears to be (and surely is) the
Old Norse word honum, the masculine singular dative form of the third- person
personal pronoun (i.e. ‘him’). As has already been said, other personal pronouns
were transferred from Norse to English (they, them, and their, while she may also
show Norse inXuence; see further pp. 100–1), but this is the only extant text that
records the importation of honum as well. There is nothing very surprising about
such a loan, even though the transfer of pronouns between languages is rare: in
the late Old English and early Middle English period the personal pronoun
system in English (especially in the third person) underwent extensive changes,
with the loss of distinctive accusative forms, and the function of the accusative
being taken over by the dative forms. The entry of they, them, and their into English
is just one sign of this process of change and renovation. But what the Aldbrough
inscription shows is that, in this part of late Anglo-Saxon Yorkshire, the
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 79
Norse pronoun honum was also borrowed and incorporated into the local
language. However, this particular innovation did not prove to be productive:
it failed to be generalized through the language as a whole, and is not found again
in any other source, whereas English-derived him has survived to this day. The
Aldbrough inscription exempliWes clearly how the consequences of language
contact are local and multifarious; it may be that most individual changes fail
to catch on.
One might wonder whether speakers of Old English in late Anglo-Saxon
Yorkshire were conscious of HANUM as a distinctively Norse item in the
language of the Aldbrough inscription, or whether it had come to appear to
them as a perfectly unremarkable English word (as would have been the case with
CYRICE, even though that too was a loanword, ultimately from Greek but
probably via Latin). In other words, how far are loanwords nativized and
integrated into the recipient language, or how far do they remain a discernibly
‘foreign’ element? After a while, does the origin of words matter? Of course, there
is no single answer to these questions—as attested by the well-known example of
Fig. 3.2. The inscribed sundial at Aldbrough, East Riding of Yorkshire
Source: ß Corpus of Anglo-Saxon Stone Sculpture: Photographer T. Middlemass.
80 matthew townend
the variant pronunciations of the French loanword garage in modern English. It
is certainly important to stress that the contemporary connotations of a word are
no more based on etymological origin than its denotative meaning is; after a
while, most loanwords are indeed nativized and their origins become irrelevant.
But what about at an early stage: did late Old English and early Middle English
writers deliberately exclude (or indeed include) Norse and French loans precisely
because they were conscious that they were loans?
One example that might suggest this possibility is the fascinating text known
as the Ormulum. Composed in the late twelfth century by a certain Orm (who
named the work after himself), the Ormulum is an extraordinarily ambitious
sequence of metrical homilies, all written out using an equally ambitious spelling
system that is Orm’s own invention (see further pp. 87–8). The sole manuscript
appears to be in the author’s own hand, and the work is sadly incomplete. The
Ormulum was probably composed somewhere in southern Lincolnshire, not far
in time and space from the Continuations of the Peterborough Chronicle, and
the language of the text is marked by very heavy Norse inXuence: many Norse
loanwords are found recorded there for the Wrst time, and Orm’s third-person
plural personal pronouns are the new, Norse-derived ones. However, and in this
regard strikingly unlike the Peterborough Chronicle, the Ormulum contains very
few loanwords from French—quite possibly fewer than a dozen. The reason for
this cannot be lack of exposure to French inXuence more generally, as French
orthographic practices are prominent in Orm’s spelling system: indeed, the
Ormulum may well be the Wrst extant English manuscript to use French-derived
sh for earlier sc, and wh for earlier hw. Orm’s non-use of French-derived vocabu-
lary therefore looks deliberate, and implies that French-derived terms were
suYciently recognizable to be excluded. The likely reasons for exclusion may be
stylistic and/or audience-related: Orm may have felt that French-derived terms
were inappropriate in associations or register, or else unfamiliar to his audience.
As Orm himself tells us in the extensive Dedication of his work to his brother
Walter, the Ormulum was conceived as a preaching tool, intended to be read out
loud to lay audiences. In his inclusion of French-derived orthography but
exclusion of French-derived vocabulary, Orm may permit us to glimpse a
sociolinguistic situation in which literate readers were familiar with French
spelling, but illiterate listeners were ignorant of French words.
It is also important to stress that the consequences of language contact were
not in one direction only. The other languages of medieval England also changed
as a result of contact with English, and they thereby came to diVer from the
variety of language spoken in the homelands from which they had come—as is
the manner of ‘colonial’ languages throughout history. Again, Latin is the
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 81
exception here, as it was never a mother tongue, whereas the Norse spoken in
England came to diVer from that spoken in Scandinavia, and the French of
England similarly diverged from the French of France (whether as a mother
tongue or, later, as a learned language). So, for example, Old Norse poetry
composed and recited in England often contains loanwords from Old English:
as Roberta Frank has observed, all three of the alliterating words in the tenth
stanza of Sigvatr Þórðarson’s praise-poem for Cnut (Knútsdrápa) are in fact
loanwords (Cnut is said to be kærr keisara, klúss Pétrúsi ‘dear to the Emperor,
close to Peter’), the Wrst coming probably from French and the second and third
from Latin via Old English, and together they exemplify both Cnut’s European
ambitions and the new cultural inXuences exerted upon Norse poetry—and the
Norse language—in England.5
As has been seen, then, while lexical expansion is the most prominent conse-
quence of language contact, contact-induced change can also occur in the other
subsystems of orthography, phonology, morphology, and syntax. If space per-
mitted, much more could be said about all of these areas, but one larger question
that cannot remain without discussion is the possible role language contact may
have played in the English language’s loss of inXexions. As is discussed elsewhere
in this volume, in evolving from Old English to Middle English the English
language moved from being a dominantly synthetic language (that is, where
grammatical relationships are expressed morphologically through the addition of
inXexions) to a dominantly analytic one (where grammatical relationships are
expressed syntactically). However, did language contact play a part in this
process? In this regard, it is contact between speakers of English and speakers
of Norse that has often been suggested as having been crucial. As was noted
earlier, English and Norse (unlike English and Latin, or English and French) were
probably mutually intelligible languages, on account of their close relationship
within the family of Germanic languages. However, while cognate English and
Norse words were generally similar, or even identical, in their basic form the one
aspect in which they often diVered was their inXexional endings: compare, for
instance, Old English giest and Old Norse gestr (‘guest’), or guma and gumi
(‘man’), or scipu and skip (‘ships’). In a situation in which speakers of the two
languages were repeatedly in contact with one another, on a daily or even a
domestic basis, it is quite possible that these inXexional diVerences became
eroded or ignored, as they played no role (or were even a hindrance) in eVective
communication between speakers of the two languages. In other words, most
5
R. Frank, ‘King Cnut in the verse of his skalds’, in A. Rumble (ed.), The Reign of Cnut: King of
England, Denmark and Norway (London: Leicester University Press, 1994), 118.
82 matthew townend
inXexions were probably non-functional in Norse–English communication;
hence they decayed, and alternative methods of expressing grammatical relation-
ships came to be more prominent—above all, the method of a relatively Wxed
word-order.
Two points in support of this hypothesis might be mentioned, and also two
points of qualiWcation. The Wrst point in support is that English inXexions
appear to have decayed earlier in the north and east of England than in the
south and west—that is, precisely in those parts of the country where Scandi-
navian settlement led to contact situations between speakers of Norse and
English. The second is that a similar inXexional decay appears to have occurred
in the Norse language in England as well as in the English language, as can be
seen, for example, in the Pennington inscription in Cumbria, a twelfth-century
text in Norse runes which shows both loss of inXexions and (possibly) confu-
sion of grammatical gender. The Wrst point of qualiWcation is that the gradual
decay of inXexions and the tendency towards analysis (that is, towards a
relatively Wxed word-order) were already present in Old English, largely—as
Chapter 1 has already discussed—as a result of the Wxing of stress on the Wrst
syllable in the Germanic period (so that the Wnal syllable became gradually
weakened, and less capable of bearing information content); the whole process
was certainly not initiated by contact with Norse speakers, only encouraged or
accelerated. The second point of qualiWcation is that it is probably misleading
to label this contact-induced loss of inXexions as ‘creolization’—or the devel-
opment of a new mother tongue out of a pragmatic contact language—as
some linguists have wished to do; pidgins and creoles arise as simpliWed
languages of communication between speakers of two mutually unintelligible
languages, whereas mutually intelligible speakers of Norse and English did not
Wnd themselves in such a situation.
The Norse inscription from Pennington is unusually late in date, and it is
highly likely that by the twelfth century Norse speakers had shifted to English in
most other parts of the country. One possible result of a widespread shift on
the part of an entire speech community is that the language shifted to may show
‘substratum inXuence’ from the earlier language of the shifting speakers. In
other words, in this case speakers of Norse may have imported into English
various features of Norse in the process of language shift. This is the phenom-
enon labelled (in van Coetsem’s (1988) term) as ‘source language agentivity’,
and it will be recalled (see pp. 71–2) that the most likely consequence of such
a shift is phonological inXuence from the substratum language; that is,
Norse speakers may have carried over features of Norse pronunciation and
articulation when they shifted to speaking English. This hypothesis may well
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 83
be the best way of explaining the very common phenomenon in Middle English
of Norse-derived variants existing alongside English cognates, and diVering only
in phonology: so, for example, in Middle English Norse-derived bleik (‘white,
pale’) exists beside English-derived bloc, while coupe (‘buy’) exists beside chepe,
and Wsk (‘Wsh’) beside Wsh, and so on (usually with identical meaning). It is hard
to explain these Norse-derived variants in terms of borrowings made on account
of either need or prestige; to see them as impositions arising through substratum
inXuence is much more persuasive.
Since Latin was not a mother tongue as Norse was, the issue of language
death and language shift, as noted earlier, does not arise in the same way. As
for French, the process of shift occurred in the twelfth century, when French
ceased to be the mother tongue for the Anglo-Norman aristocracy; after that
point, the giving up of French as a learned language (like Latin) was not so
much a case of language death as simply the abandonment of a curriculum.
However, the one other language of medieval England that must have under-
gone a Norse-style language death, with possible substratum inXuence on
English, was Celtic; but sadly the possible inXuence of Celtic on English
(besides the handful of loanwords mentioned earlier) remains obscure and
disputed. Nonetheless it is clear that at least one of the languages of medieval
England continued to inXuence the development of English even after it ceased
to be spoken (Norse); and two more, of course, exerted a longstanding
inXuence on English even when they were no longer anyone’s mother tongue
(Latin and French).
conclusion
I began this chapter with three snapshots that encapsulated the multilingual
nature of medieval England, and the role language contact has played in the
evolution of English. I will conclude by explicitly stating (or re-stating) three
axioms, all of which have been exempliWed in the intervening discussion. The
Wrst is that, as I said at the beginning, the history of the English language is not
at all the same thing as the history of language in England, and to consider
only the former is to misrepresent and misunderstand the linguistic history of
the country. The second is that language contact is all about people: language
contact does not occur apart from human contact, and contact-induced change
is always the result of human activity. And the third, consequent on this, is
84 matthew townend
that language contact is part of cultural contact more generally: if one
embarks on a study of language contact in medieval England, one is carried
irresistibly onwards into the broader history and culture of that inexhaustibly
interesting society.
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
My three introductory snapshots are quoted from Colgrave and Mynors (1969), Birch
(1885–93), and Butler (1949).
The languages of medieval England
On Latin language and literature in England see Rigg (1992), Lapidge (1993, 1996), and
Sharpe (1997). On Old Norse language and literature in England see Townend (2000, 2001,
2002), and also Jesch (2001). On French language and literature in England see Wilson
(1943), Rothwell (1968, 1976), Short (1979–80, 1992), Kibbee (1991), and Crane (1997, 1999).
On the interplay of Latin, French, and English see Clanchy (1993) and Trotter (2000).
Contact situations
For general accounts of language contact see Weinreich (1953), Thomason and KauVman
(1988), and Thomason (2001); Trudgill (1986) supplies a complementary study of dialect
contact.
Consequences for English
General accounts of loanwords in English, which include sections on each of the
languages discussed here, can be found in Serjeantson (1935), Jespersen (1956), Strang
(1970), Burnley (1992b), Kastovsky (1992), Baugh and Cable (2002), Blake (1996), and
Hughes (2000). On Latin loanwords see Campbell (1959), Wollmann (1993), and Gneuss
(1996). On Norse loanwords see Björkman (1900–02), Wollmann (1996), and Dance
(2003). On French loanwords see Rothwell (1991, 1998) and Cannon (1998). The text of
Cædmon’s Hymn is from the manuscript of Cambridge University Library, Kk.5.16, and is
published in Dobbie (1942). The Winchester grave-marker is published in Okasha (1971)
and Tweddle et al. (1995). The Peterborough Chronicle is quoted from Clark (1970), with
abbreviations expanded. The Aldbrough sundial is also published in Okasha (1971). The
standard edition of the Ormulum is Holt and White (1878). On language contact and the
loss of inXexions in English see Mitchell (1991) and Townend (2002); on the ‘creole’
debate see Görlach (1986) and Allen (1997). For the Pennington inscription, see Page
(1971) and Holman (1996).
contacts and conflicts: latin, norse, and french 85
4
MIDDLE ENGLISH—
DIALECTS AND DIVERSITY
Marilyn Corrie
Annd whase wilenn shall þiss boc eVt oþerr siþe writenn,
Himm bidde icc þatt hêt wrı́te rihht, swa summ þiss boc himm tæcheþþ.
(‘And whoever may wish to write this book out again on another occasion, I ask him that
he write it correctly, just as this book teaches him.’)
MIDDLE English, in the words of Barbara Strang, is ‘par excellence, the
dialectal phase of English’.1
This is because it is the period in which
dialectal variation was represented in writing and, signiWcantly, in which it was
represented without the ideological issues which have underscored the writing of
dialects in subsequent times. It is important, however, to recognize developments
within the period, and to recognize also that some typical features of Middle
English have been manifested in other periods as well. For example, Chapter 2 has
shown that dialectal variation in the written medium was more common in the
Old English period than was once thought to be the case. And this chapter will
suggest that there are other ways in which both the treatment of the language in
the Middle English period and attitudes towards it have parallels in other times.
One of these is anxiety about how the language should be represented in the
written medium: an anxiety which is encapsulated in the lines quoted above.
1
See Strang (1970: 224).
The lines which open this chapter are taken from the late twelfth-century text
known as the Ormulum, which was mentioned brieXy in Chapter 3. They convey,
on the one hand, the fear of their author, Orm, that the orthography of his work
may be altered when it is copied—an unnecessary fear, ironically, as the single
surviving version of the Ormulum, written by Orm himself, appears to be the
only one that was ever made. A diVerent kind of anxiety, however, is implicit in
these lines as well, because the ingenious, and unique, orthography which they
exemplify reXects Orm’s concern that his writing should reXect the phonological
features of his English. In the second line of the cited extract, for example,
accents appear above the vowels in hêt and wrı́te because Orm wanted to indicate
to his readers that these vowels are long (diVerent accents are used because the e
in hêt is in a ‘closed’ syllable, that is, one ending in a consonant, whereas the i in
wrı́te, pronounced /wri:t@/, is in an ‘open’ syllable, that is, one ending in a vowel:
the t forms part of the second syllable of the word). Conversely, when a vowel in
a closed syllable is short, Orm systematically doubles the consonant which
follows it, as in annd and þiss in the Wrst line of the quotation. In the dedication
to the text, Orm prays ‘forr lufe oV Crist’ that his work will be of beneWt to
others. But he describes his dedicatee, Walter (or rather ‘Wallterr’), as ‘broþerr
min i Crisstenndom’ (‘my brother in Christendom’); the diVerences in the
spelling patterns which Orm deploys suggests that whereas the i in Crist is
long, in the polysyllabic Crisstenndom it has been shortened. The orthography
of the Ormulum thus reveals (among many other things) that our modern
distinction between a long and a short vowel in Christ and Christendom existed
already by Orm’s day, although—as Chapter 6 will show—the precise realization
of the former was to change signiWcantly through the eVects of the ‘Great Vowel
Shift’.
The anxiety which is implicit in Orm’s work will be a recurring feature of
this chapter, as it will be also of subsequent chapters. The chapter will discuss
the issue of dialectal variation in written Middle English by considering, Wrst of
all, the causes of this variation. It will then explore some of the principal
features which distinguish the dialects of Middle English from one another,
before discussing developments in the ‘later’ Middle English period (after the
rough boundary of the mid-fourteenth century) which distance this era from
‘earlier’ Middle English. The most important later Middle English develop-
ment, standardization, will be considered in a separate, and Wnal, section.
Standardization is a counter-tendency to the diversity which characterizes
written Middle English, and can itself be regarded as the manifestation of an
unease with the instability of the written language in the centuries covered in
this chapter.
middle english—dialects and diversity 87
dialectal variation in written middle english
Orm’s mission to create an orthographic system which appears to reXect his (East
Midland) pronunciation of English may be compared with the work of spelling
reformers such as John Hart or John Cheke in the sixteenth century. But whereas
Hart and Cheke were attempting to reform a substantially standardized written
form of the language from which pronunciation had diverged, in the twelfth
century there was no non-localized or supra-regional written standard variety of
English for Orm to react against. Chapter 3 has discussed the fact that Latin
became the language of record following the Norman Conquest, and French the
language of much of the ‘literary’ material which was written down. This meant
that those who were trained to write did not have to be trained to write English,
and so—unless scribes were merely reproducing existing material—when the
language was written, it appears not to have been written according to inculcated
rules. Orm’s orthography is therefore just one example of various ad hoc spelling
systems which were devised in response to this linguistic situation; the Ormulum
is exceptional only in its commitment to the indication of vocalic length, and in
its resulting usefulness to modern philologists. In the early Middle English period
(up to around the middle of the fourteenth century), there is very little evidence
of any scriptorium producing an identiWable ‘house style’ of English comparable
to the variety which, as Chapter 2 has noted, developed at Winchester in the Old
English period (although see further, below). There was therefore no variety of
written English which might have seemed worthy of imitation by others. The
connection between the function of English and the development of its form
in the Wfteenth and sixteenth centuries will be the subject of the next chapter.
Here it is suYcient to say that the diminution of the functions which English
had formerly served resulted, in Middle English, in the diversiWcation of its
written form.
Local variation
The consequences of the obliteration of standardization in the written language
are striking in the following two extracts, which are taken from diVerent
versions of the same work. The Wrst extract (Text A) is from MS Cotton
Nero A.xiv in the British Library, a copy of the guide for female recluses
known as Ancrene Riwle (‘The Rule for Anchoresses’). The manuscript was
written in the second quarter of the thirteenth century, probably in Worces-
tershire. The second passage (Text B) is from a revised ‘edition’ of the work in
88 marilyn corrie
MS 402 in Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, where it is given the title
Ancrene Wisse (‘The Guide for Anchoresses’). This was copied around the
year 1230, almost certainly in north-west Herefordshire. The small time gap
between the texts may account for some of the divergences which the extracts
display, but most seem rather to be the result of the diVerent geographical
provenances of the scribes.
Text A:
Uikelares beoð þreo kunnes. þe uorme beoð vuele inouh, þe oðre þauh beoð wurse, þe
þridde Zet beoð alrewurste. Þe uorme, Zif a mon is god, preiseð hine biuoren himself, and
makeð hine, inouh reðe, Zet betere þen he beo, and Zif he seið wel oðer deð wel he hit
heueð to heie up mid ouerpreisunge and herunge.
Text B:
Fikeleres beoð þreo cunnes. Þe forme beoð uuele inoh, þe oþre þah beoð wurse, þe þridde
þah beoð wurst. Þe forme, Zef a mon is god, preiseð him biuoren himseolf and makeð
him, inoh reaðe, Zet betere þen he beo, and Zef he seið wel oðer deð wel heueð hit to hehe
up wið ouerherunge.
( Flatterers are three in kind. The Wrst are bad enough; the second, however, are worse;
the third are yet worst of all (Text B: ‘the third, however, are worst’). The Wrst, if a man is
good, praises him to his face and, eagerly enough, makes him out to be even better than
he is, and if he says well or does well he makes too much of it [lit. ‘raises it up too high’]
with excessive praise and gloriWcation’ (Text B: ‘with excessive gloriWcation’).)
Perhaps the most prominent diVerence between the passages is the fact that
words which begin with u in Text A begin with f in Text B, hence uikelares
(‘Xatterers’) and uorme (‘Wrst’) against Wkeleres and forme in the Wrst line of
each extract. Scribes of English in this period usually use u at the beginning of
words to represent the voiced fricative /v/ (as Chapter 3 has already noted, it
was a new development in Middle English to distinguish /v/ from /f/ ortho-
graphically, a reXection of the fact that certain recent loanwords into the
language would have fallen together with other words if the distinction had
not been made: compare, for example, vine with Wne). The u in uikelares and
uorme in Text A hence indicates that this text has been aVected by a sound-
change called ‘initial voicing’, which aVected an area that included Worcester-
shire. But initial voicing does not seem to have spread as far as north-west
Herefordshire, which is why Text B has the corresponding voiceless fricative /f/
in Wkeleres and forme. Although the copyists of the texts seem to have been
working in relatively close proximity in geographical terms, the extracts reveal
middle english—dialects and diversity 89
that they do not write English according to an agreed orthography. Their
guiding principle in writing was instead probably local pronunciations, which
were not precisely the same in the two places. Scribes read aloud to themselves
when they were transcribing material, and this may sometimes have helped to
drive a representation of their own sound systems into the work which they
produced. The case of Ancrene Wisse, though, is complicated and will be
discussed further below.
Further variations between the passages can be seen: for instance, in the Wrst
two lines of Text A, the words inouh (‘enough’) and þauh (‘however’) contain
diphthongs (caused by the development of a glide before the velar fricative [], a
sound similar to modern Scottish enunciations of the ch in loch). Conversely,
the corresponding forms in Text B, inoh and þah, represent the same vowels as
monophthongs or simple vowels (inoh is from Old English genog, þah is from
þæh, which was the form for West Saxon þeah in Anglian dialects of Old English).
The phonology (or sound system) of Text A, on the whole, shows more changes
since the Old English period than does the phonology of Text B. But in other
respects, it is Text B which seems more distanced from Old English. Thus Text A
uses the Old English preposition mid for ‘with’ in its Wnal line, but Text B has wið.
The latter had signiWed ‘against’ in Old English but in some dialects, it seems, it
had already come to assume its modern meaning by the early Middle English
period. This example illustrates how dialects were changing at diVerent rates and
in diVerent ways, and the absence of a non-localized written standard at this time
means that their evolution can often be traced in writing.
Another interesting point is that whereas Text B uses the single word
ouerherunge (‘excessive gloriWcation’) in line 4, Text A has the phrase ouerprei-
sunge and herunge (line 4), in which the two nouns have more or less the same
meaning (‘excessive praise’ and ‘gloriWcation’). This indicates the tendency of
some scribes to rewrite the substance of what they were copying as well as its
linguistic traits. But the linked synonyms of Text A are signiWcant from a
lexical perspective as well. Ouerpreisunge seems to be a neologism: it combines
a morpheme derived from French (preis) with aYxes (ouer- and -ung(e)) which
were present in the language in Old English. The word shows that Middle
English did not increase its vocabulary only by incorporating loanwords
(compare Chapter 3): it did so also by preserving the habits of word-formation
which had been so productive before the Conquest, and which would yield
many new words again in the early modern period (see Chapters 2 and 8
respectively). The more established form herunge may have been included to
ensure that the meaning of ouerpreisunge was understood, much as Renaissance
prose writers sometimes explain words new to the language by pairing them
90 marilyn corrie
with synonyms (compare, for example, the intention of the scholar and
statesman Sir Thomas Elyot to ‘devulgate or sette fourth some part of my
studie’ in his educational treatise The Governour, published in 1531; devulgate
(or, in its modern form, divulgate) is traced back to 1530 in the OED, and some
glossing or explanation was clearly necessary in order to render it transparent
to Elyot’s wider audience). The linguistic exuberance that is characteristic of
these later writers is clearly foretold in prose which dates from over 300 years
earlier.
The major dialect areas: Old English to Middle English
Some of the dialectal diVerences between the two passages discussed above may
derive from the territorial divisions between the original Anglo-Saxon kingdoms
which have been described in Chapter 2 (see also Fig. 2.1). Worcestershire, where
Text A seems to have been copied, was inside the boundary of the old West Saxon
kingdom, whereas north-west Herefordshire, the linguistic home of the scribe of
Text B, was in Anglian territory. It is often pointed out that dialects exist in a
continuum, but it is true also that territorial boundaries can aVect networks of
contact, potentially impeding the spread of innovative linguistic features and
entrenching any linguistic diVerences which may already have been present when
the boundaries were established.
The Anglian dialect area in the Old English period fell, as has been mentioned,
into two distinct regions: Northumbrian to the north of the River Humber (as its
name suggests) and Mercian to the south. In the Middle English period, as
Figure 4.1 indicates, the old Mercian area itself shows considerable dialectal
diVerentiation, especially between its western and eastern parts. This diVerentia-
tion seems largely to derive from developments long before the Norman Con-
quest: the east had been part of the area of Scandinavian settlement which has
been described in Chapter 3, the western area of Mercia not. It is only in Middle
English, however, that the consequences of the divergent histories of the two
regions manifest themselves, with the eastern dialects displaying the impact of
intense contact with Norse, as the previous chapter has shown in its discussion of
the Continuations of the Peterborough Chronicle and of the Ormulum.
The easternmost part of the East Midland area—which is still called East
Anglia after the Angles who settled in it in the Wfth century—had been made
an autonomous kingdom when Britain was carved up among the Angles, Saxons,
and Jutes. This, together with its geographical isolation, may have helped to
ensure that its dialect diverged from the language of other parts of the East
Midlands in certain distinctive ways. Some of the features of East Anglian Middle
middle english—dialects and diversity 91
E A S T
E A S T
M I D L A N D
M I D L A N D
The
Ayenbite
of Inwyt
of Inwyt
The
Bestiary
The Ormulum
The Ormulum
London
Ancrene
Wisse
Ancrene
Riwle
Sir Gawain
Sir Gawain
and the
and the
Green
Knight
SOUTH
EASTERN
H
umber
S
O
U
T H E R N
T
h
a
m
es
S
e
v
e
r
n
W
E
S
T
M
I
D
L
A
N
D
N
O
R
T
H
E
R
N
Fig. 4.1. Dialect areas in Middle English
English can be seen in the following passage, which was written late in the
thirteenth century. It is from a copy of a versiWed Middle English ‘bestiary’, a
collection of descriptions of animals in which their place in creation is explained
by reference to their allegorical signiWcance.
A wilde der is, ðat is ful of fele wiles,
Fox is hire to name, for hire qweðsipe
Husebondes hire haten, for hire harm-dedes.
D
- e coc and te capun
Ge feccheð ofte in ðe tun, 5
And te gander and te gos,
Bi ðe necke and bi ðe nos,
Haleð is to hire hole.
(‘There is a wild animal that is full of many tricks. Her name is ‘‘fox’’. Farmers hate her for
her wickedness, because of her harmful deeds. She often fetches the cock and the capon
from the farmyard, and the gander and the goose, by the neck and by the beak, carries
them to her hole.’)
In morphology, this extract resembles the passages from Ancrene Riwle and
Ancrene Wisse in the fact that the third person singular of the present tense of
the verb ends in -eð. Hence the extract has feccheð (‘fetches’) and haleð (‘carries’)
in lines 5 and 8, which may be compared with preiseð and makeð, for example, in
lines 2 and 3 of Text A and line 2 of Text B above. But whereas in Texts A and B -(e)ð
is also the ending of the plural form of the present tense (as in beoð ‘are’ in the Wrst
two lines of each text), in the extract from the bestiary the plural ends in -en, as in
haten (‘[farmers] hate’) in line 3. Southern and south-west Midland texts can be
clearly distinguished from ones which emanate from other Midland areas in
Middle English through the form of the ending used in the present plural of
verbs. Michael Samuels has pointed out that the central and east Midlands were
precisely the parts of England in which the singular and plural forms of the
nominative third-person pronoun (the forms for ‘he’ and ‘they’ respectively)
tended to be indistinguishable.2
The Old English form for ‘they’ (hie) became he
in these areas in Middle English. The -en ending may therefore have been adopted
here as a means of clarifying whether a verb and its subject were in the singular or
the plural (it seems to have come from the -en which was the ending of the present
tense plural subjunctive in Old English; the southern and south-west Midland
plural ending -(e)ð derives from the Old English indicative plural -að).
2
See M. L. Samuels, Linguistic Evolution, with Special Reference to English (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1972), 85–6.
middle english—dialects and diversity 93
It remained diYcult in the East Midlands, however, to tell whether a singular he
form referred to a masculine or a feminine subject, since he was also commonly
the form for ‘she’ in this area, as will be discussed below.
A feature of the passage from the bestiary which is not shared by other East
Midland texts is the word for ‘them’, is, which appears in the Wnal line. This is a
highly restricted form, occurring only in Middle English from the extreme east of
England, and from the south-east and Gloucestershire. It has been suggested that
the form is cognate with the ‘enclitic’ s (that is, the s which is found tacked on to
other words) which is a feature of texts in dialects of Low German, including
Middle Dutch (the area in which ‘High German’ was spoken is discussed in
Chapter 1). The feature may have spread to East Anglia (and the other areas)
because of trading contacts with speakers of Low German dialects. The form is
not, incidentally, the only example of contact with Low German in Middle
English. The word bunsen, for instance—our modern bounce, although in Middle
English this was a transitive verb meaning ‘to beat’ or ‘to thump’—is a loanword
from Low German which appears in Ancrene Riwle, possibly as a result of the
proximity of several Flemish-speaking colonies in southern Pembrokeshire. Such
linguistic enclaves contributed to the multilingualism of England, which, as
Chapters 3 and 12 explore, has been such an important inXuence on the devel-
opment of the English language.
This increasing diversiWcation of English was registered by the Chester monk
Ranulph Higden, who wrote his encyclopaedic Polychronicon in Latin around the
year 1327. The well-known citation below is from the English translation of the
work by John Trevisa, which was completed in 1387. Trevisa expands—rather
haltingly—on Higden’s distaste at the state of the language in his day:
5
. . . Englische men, þey [þei] hadde from the bygynnynge þre manere speche, norþerne,
sowþerne, and middel speche in þe myddel of þe lond, as þey come of þre manere peple
of Germania, noþeles by comyxtioun and mellynge Wrste wiþ Danes and afterward wiþ
Normans, in meny þe contray longage is apayred, and som vseþ straunge wlaVerynge,
chiterynge, harrynge, and garrynge grisbayting.
(‘Englishmen, though they had from the beginning three kinds of speech—northern,
southern, and Midland speech, in the middle of the country—as they came from three
kinds of people from Germany, nonetheless through commingling and mixing Wrst with
Danes andlater withNormans, inmany the language of thecountry iscorrupted,andsome
use strange stammering, chattering, snarling, and grating gnashing of the teeth’ (Higden’s
text refers simply to peregrinos . . . boatus et garritus, ‘strange chatterings and babblings’).)
Modern linguists would point out that the ‘þre manere peple’ who came from
Germany did not, in fact, create the dialectal map which this passage imagines: not
94 marilyn corrie
only because the languageof the north and the ‘middel’ were both Anglian dialects,
but also because the Jutes established themselves in the south-east, forging a dialect
which retained a distinctive quality in Middle English (see further, Chapter 5). It is
also generally believed now that there was much more mixing of peoples in each of
the areas settled than Trevisa allows. But the extract does show an impressive
awareness of the impact which the history of England had had on the development
of the English language. The vocabulary chosen by Trevisa to describe the eVects of
linguistic contact is also worth noting: the English language, he suggests, has been
apayred (‘corrupted’). The idea that English is, or was, better when ‘pure’ was to
becomecommoninthesixteenthcenturyandagain,especially,intheeighteenth.It
was already being expressed, however, in the fourteenth century, and with the same
horror at the result of linguistic admixture that would be voiced—often—later.
North and south
There are few surviving samples of northern Middle English from before 1350 to
corroborate Trevisa’s awareness of its separateness from other varieties of the
language. One important witness to its characteristics, however, is a manuscript
of the enormous poem Cursor Mundi (‘The Runner of the World’—that is, the
text ‘runs over’ the history of the world). The manuscript was written in the
north of England around the end of the thirteenth century (the poem was also
composed in the north, not long before the manuscript was copied), and its
opening lines are as follows:
Man yhernes rimes forto here
And romans red on manere sere—
Of Alisaundur þe conquerour,
Of Iuly Cesar þe emparour;
O Grece and Troy þe strang striif, 5
Þere many thosand lesis þer liif;
O Brut, þat bern bald of hand,
Þe Wrst conquerour of Ingland;
O Kyng Arthour þat was so rike,
Quam non in hys tim was like; 10
O ferlys þat hys knythes fell
Þat aunters sere I here of tell.
(‘One longs to hear poems, and works in the vernacular read in various ways: about
Alexander the conqueror, about Julius Caesar the emperor, about the Werce battle
between Greece and Troy, where many thousands lose [sic] their lives; about Brutus,
middle english—dialects and diversity 95
that warrior bold in deed, the Wrst conqueror of England; about King Arthur who was so
powerful, whom no one was like in his time; about marvels that befell his knights, about
whom I hear told various adventures.’)
The third person of the verb in the present tense here ends in -s in both the
singular (yhernes, ‘[One] longs’ in line 1) and the plural (lesis, ‘[thousands] lose’ in
line 6: the disyllabic present tense form has probably been used here instead of the
past tense to Wt the metrical pattern). This -s ending was not new in Middle
English: it appears in the glosses in the Northumbrian dialect which were entered
above the Latin text of the Lindisfarne Gospels in the late tenth century. It may
derive from the -sk ending in the so-called ‘medio-passive’ verbs in Old Norse (an
example is setjask, ‘they set themselves’, that is ‘they sit’: the -sk gives the verb a
reXexive quality; see further pp. 23–4). This sound was probably a conspicuous
feature of Norse speech, and it is possible that a simpliWed version of the -sk
morpheme spread to English verbs in the north through contact with Norse.
Another important morphological feature of the passage is the fact that the
adjective in the phrase þe strang striif in line 5 has no ending. In Old English
(and also in the Germanic languages more widely, as Chapter 1 has shown), an
adjective following the deWnite article or the word for ‘this’, or a possessive
adjective such as ‘my’ (see pp. 18–19), was ‘weak’ and therefore took an inXectional
ending in all cases. Northern dialects of Middle English are the most advanced in
showing the decay of the Old English inXections, perhaps—as Chapter 3 has
suggested—because communication with Norse speakers may have eroded the
Wne distinctions of case and gender that were established through the endings of
words. When a southern copy of Cursor Mundi was made late in the fourteenth
century, it is signiWcant that the scribe inserted a representation of the old weak
adjective ending, writing þe longe strif (with ‘long’ replacing ‘strong’ in the
northern version). His use of the inXected adjective may be no more than another
example of a metrical expedient—it makes longe disyllabic—but the -e suggests
that in his dialect the inXected form was still acceptable, at least in verse.
The southern longe against the northern strang points to an important phono-
logical diVerence as well. Strang preserves the Old English spelling of the adjec-
tive, even though its pronunciation had evolved: prior to the Norman Conquest,
the vowel had been lengthened before the consonant group ng and, probably
by the thirteenth century, it had been fronted and raised in the north, from /A:/ to
/æ:/—the pronunciation which the vowel still has in this word in Scots today. But
in the south, not long after 1200, /A:/ was raised and rounded in its articulation to
/O:/, a development which is reXected in the spelling long(e), from Old English
lang. Similarly, the form bald appears in line 7 of the northern version of Cursor
Mundi: the equivalent form in the southern manuscript is bolde. Another typical
96 marilyn corrie
northern form in the extract is quam (‘whom’) in line 10. The spelling of this
word reXects the strong aspiration of the initial fricative which was characteristic
of the north; in southern texts the word would be spelt with an initial wh, hw, or w.
Again, the northern form seems to be the result of the inXuence of Norse, where
many words began with kv-. The /k/ in rike (‘powerful’) in line 9, is also due to
contact with Old Norse—the Old English form was rice (/ri:t$@/), its equivalent
in Norse, which had no /t$/ sound, rı́kr. Lexically, however, only sere (‘various’) is
from Norse: French has had a much more pronounced inXuence on the passage.
Rimes, romans (‘works in the vernacular’: compare our modern term ‘the Ro-
mance languages’, that is, the vernacular languages which are descended from the
speech of Rome), manere, conquerour, emparour, striif (‘battle’), and aunters
(‘adventures’) are all derived from French, most, it would seem, through contact
with literature in the language. Rimes and romans show how English was absorb-
ing terms for new concepts (a process sometimes called ‘functional borrowing’).
Some of the other words illustrate that long-standing English terms were being
displaced by foreign ones: thus emparour, for example, is used instead of the Old
English word cāsere (itself a borrowing from Latin Cæsar). Direct contact with
Norse was, with a few important exceptions, a geographically speciWc phenom-
enon, but French inXuence could appear in any dialect.
Northern English may, then, have had at least one thing in common with
the English of other regions; but contemporary writers have more to say
about what made it diVerent. In another often-cited expansion of Higden’s
Latin, Trevisa asserts that northern dialects are virtually unintelligible to
southerners:
Al þe longage of þe Norþhumbres, and specialliche at Zork, is so scharp, slitting, and
frotynge and vnschape, þat we souþerne men may þat longage vnneþe vnderstonde.
(‘All the language of the Northumbrians, and especially at York, is so sharp, harsh, and
grating, and formless that we southern men can hardly understand that language.’)
Higden’s observation that the language of the Northumbrians ‘stridet incondita’
(‘grates [as it is] irregular’) is, in fact, lifted from a twelfth-century Latin work by
the chronicler William of Malmesbury, De Gestis PontiWcum Anglorum (‘About
the acts of the bishops of the English’). In elaborating on the oVensive charac-
teristics of northern language, however, Trevisa seems to suggest that he endorses
William’s attitude towards it. The previous chapter has argued for the likely
mutual comprehensibility of English and Old Norse; but if the status of these as
separate languages can thus be debated, the status of northern and southern
English as dialects of the same language is also called into question by what some
sources say about them.
middle english—dialects and diversity 97
If northern dialects were impenetrable to southerners, so too, according to the
author of Cursor Mundi, was the language of the south incomprehensible for
northerners:
In sotherin Englis was it draun,
And turnd it haue I till our aun
Langage o northrin lede,
Þat can nan oiþer Englis rede.
(‘It [the author’s source material] was composed in southern English, and I have turned
it into our own language of northern people, who cannot read any other English.’)
This statement has been said to show that, however diVerent they were,
northern and southern dialects were at least both recognized as ‘English’. But in
claiming that other varieties of written English could not be read in the north,
and had to be translated into the northern dialect, the author has pushed those
varieties along the dialect–language cline until they are made to seem quite
diVerent tongues from his own (although he may, of course, be exaggerating
the otherness of ‘sotherin Englis’, and the separateness of northern language, to
promote a sense of the independence of the north). In the Old English period,
English identity had, as Chapter 2 has pointed out, been cultivated in part
through aYrmation of the specialness of the English language. By the end of
the thirteenth century, some people were suggesting that the English language
was far from a unitary whole. For these individuals at least, it could no longer be
looked to as an index of what the English people had in common.
middle english before and after 1350
The copying of texts
After the middle of the fourteenth century, the number of surviving texts written
in northern English increases, as does the number in North- and North-
West-Midland dialects. An example of the latter is Sir Gawain and the Green
Knight whichwas written, like the other works Pearl, Patience, and Cleanness which
are contained in the sole remaining manuscript of the poem, in the late fourteenth
century in the dialect of the east Cheshire area. There is also a surge in the volume
of writing in English more generally, both in the composition of new works
(including those of Chaucer) and in the copying of English texts. Fifty-Wve
98 marilyn corrie
manuscriptsofTheCanterburyTales,forinstance,survivefromtheWfteenthcentury,
and there are Wfty-Wve extant copies of another of the great works of the later
fourteenth century, Piers Plowman (which seems originally to have been written in
a South-West Midland dialect). The number of documents written in English,
however, remains small until the second quarter of the Wfteenth century. The year
1362isoftencitedasakeydateintheexpansionoftheuseoftheEnglishlanguage:this
is when the Statute of Pleading decreed that court proceedings (into which a very
large ratio of people in the Middle Ages were at some time drawn) were to be
conductedin English,insteadofthe French thathadbeenused formerly. Butrecords
of legal proceedings were still kept in French—English was not used for this purpose
until the seventeenth century (see further, p. 337)—so that the date had little direct
impact on the only medium to which posterity has access. What is perhaps more
importantisthefactthattheStatutegavetheEnglishlanguageavalidationthatithad
previously lacked, and this in turn may have stimulated the use of the language in
other spheres, in writing as well as in speech. The Statute also nulliWed an important
reason for acquiring, or maintaining, a competence in spoken French, hastening its
passage to the status of a ‘foreign’ language, at least in the spoken medium.
The year 1350 is the terminus a quo of the great resource for the study of the
dialects of Middle English, the Linguistic Atlas of Late Mediaeval English
(LALME), although the Atlas does embrace some earlier material as well.
LALME relies on texts which its compilers describe as ‘localizable’—for instance,
documents or letters which contain some indication of the place where they were
written. An example is the series of correspondence known as the Paston letters
(see further below), which were written by the members of a prosperous Norfolk
family over the course of the Wfteenth century (and into the sixteenth). Occa-
sionally more ‘literary’ texts are localizable too. One of the best witnesses of the
dialect of Kent, for example, is the holograph manuscript of the Ayenbite of Inwyt
(or, in modern English, ‘Remorse of Conscience’: ayenbite, literally ‘back-bite’,
and inwyt, literally ‘inward intelligence’, are two good examples of what the
last chapter has described as ‘loan translations’; both were later replaced in the
language by borrowings from French (remorse and conscience), which had itself
borrowed the words from Latin). This devotional manual helpfully ends by stating
that it was Wnished (‘uolueld’) by ‘ane broþer of the cloystre of Sauynt Austin of
Canterberi, in the yeare of oure Lhordes beringe 1340’ (the brother names himself
at the beginning as ‘Dan Michel’ of Northgate). Localizable texts such as these are
used as ‘anchors’ to which other, non-localized samples of Middle English can be
‘Wtted’ through analysis of the forms which they contain. The distribution of the
diVerent dialectal forms of individual words can also be disengaged, and these are
represented in LALME through a series of maps. Some of these maps chart the
middle english—dialects and diversity 99
SCHO, SHO,
SCO, S(S)O
S(C)HE
(also SCE, SE)
HEO, HU(E)
HOE
HA, A
HE
HEO,
HU(E),
HOE
HY
(E)
HY
(E)
(also HI(J))
Fig. 4.2. The main distributions of selected forms for the pronoun ‘she’ in later Middle
English. The areas in which restricted forms are found are defined by solid lines; the areas
of greatest concentration of other forms are defined by broken lines
forms recorded for the word ‘she’, which include those represented in Figure 4.2.
In the West Midlands, and in some southern texts, forms for ‘she’ have an initial h
and a rounded vowel. The spelling of the pronoun in Old English is preserved in
the form heo, but this was probably pronounced in Middle English as a rounded
monosyllable, [hø]. An unstressed form, ha (or a) is also found, in Ancrene Wisse
and in texts from the Bristol Channel area. Scho and sho (or sometimes sco or
s(s)o) appear frequently in the North: these forms probably derive from contact
with Old Norse speakers, which may have resulted in the transformation of the
falling diphthong of heo ([hé:o]) to a rising diphthong ([hjó:]); this seems then to
have evolved through the pronunciations [ço] to [$o] (/ç/ again has a value similar
to the ch in the Scottish pronunciation of loch). Hy (e) is found in the south-east; it
is derived from Old Kentish hia, the delabialized version (i.e. one pronounced
without lip-rounding) of what was the original form for heo, hio. Other forms for
‘she’ include the typical East Midland spellings he (an unrounded development of
heo) or the form s(c)he, which is probably a blend of he with s(c)ho, and is the form
now used in standard English for reasons which will become clear below. Ge,
which is the form for ‘she’ in line 5 of the passage from the East Anglian bestiary on
p. 93, is found only in Norfolk, and has disappeared by the fourteenth century; the
initial g- probably reXected a consonant sound somewhere between [h] and [$]. It
is important to point out, however, that although a form, or the dialect of a whole
text, may be typical of a particular area, it is not necessarily the case that this area is
where the text was copied. For example, it has been suggested that, despite their
North-West Midland dialect, Sir Gawain and the Green Knight and the other texts
in its manuscript could have been written in London, possibly for members of
the large group of Cheshiremen with whom Richard II (who ruled 1377–99)
surrounded himself towards the end of his reign. As the compilers of LALME
concede, its data indicate ‘where the scribe of a manuscript learned to write; the
question of where he actually worked and produced the manuscript is a matter of
extrapolation and assumption’.3
In the early Middle English period (up to around 1300), many scribes appear to
have copied English texts literatim, that is, they reproduced the forms in their
‘exemplars’ (the texts from which they were copying) faithfully. The best-known
example of such copying is in one of the two surviving manuscripts of the debate
poem The Owl and the Nightingale, MS British Library, Cotton Caligula A.ix. In
3
See I. McIntosh, M. L. Samuels, and M. Benskin, with M. Laing and K. Williamson, A Linguistic
Atlas of Late Mediaeval English (Aberdeen: Aberdeen University Press, 1984), vol. I, 23.
middle english—dialects and diversity 101
the following passage, the lugubrious Owl accuses her opponent of encouraging
immoral behaviour amongst human beings:
‘Al þu for-lost þe murZþe of houene,
for þar-to neuestu none steuene:
al þat þu singst is of gol-nesse,
for nis on þe non holi-nesse, 5
ne wened na man for þi pipinge
þat eni preost in chir[ch]e singe.’
(‘‘‘You forfeit the joy of heaven completely, for you do not have any voice directed to
that: everything that you sing about concerns lechery, for there is no holiness in you,
nor does any man on account of your piping conceive that any priest sings in
church.’’’)
A conspicuous feature of this extract is the fact that representations of the
reXex (i.e. the corresponding form) of Old English eo changes from o, as in -lost
and houene in line 1 (Old English -leos(es)t and heofon(e)), to eo, as in preost in
line 6. This variation seems to have taken place because the scribe was copying
his text from a version which had been written by two diVerent scribes who
had themselves used two diVerent spelling systems. This kind of copying is
certainly not unknown in the later Middle English period—the English ma-
terial contained in the Wfteenth-century miscellany known as the Thornton
manuscript (MS Lincoln Cathedral 91 (A.5.2)), for example, seems to preserve
the linguistic features of its exemplars. But attempts to translate material into
scribes’ own dialects are more common than literatim copying in the four-
teenth and Wfteenth centuries, perhaps because the increase in the writing of
English material meant that more scribes had their own habitual forms to
impose on texts.
Very often, though, scribes who do translate their exemplars do not translate
them thoroughly, sometimes leaving the occasional ‘relict’ in their texts,
sometimes producing what is known as a Mischsprache, a turbid conglomer-
ation of forms from diVerent dialects, some inherited by the scribe from his
exemplar, some added by him. One of the most popular poems written in
Middle English—it survives in over a hundred manuscripts—is The Prick of
Conscience, a lengthy devotional treatise which was composed in the north of
England around the year 1350. The work circulated throughout England and
has a particularly complicated textual history which is reXected in the language
of many of its copies. The author begins by discussing why he has chosen to
write in English:
102 marilyn corrie
. . . this bok ys in Englis drawe, composed
Of fele maters that ar unknawe many
To lewed men that er unconna[n]d, uneducated; unknowing, ignorant
That can no Latyn undurstand:
To mak hemself frust to knowe 5 to make them know themselves Wrst
And from synne and vanites hem drawe, withdraw themselves
And for to stere hem to ryght drede, proper fear
Whan this tretes here or rede, when (they)
That prik here concience wythinne, that (it) may prick their
Ande of that drede may a ful bygyng 10 and from that a fool can begin to fear
Thoru confort of joyes of hevene sere, various
That men may afterward rede here.
Thys bok, as hit self bereth wyttenesse,
In seven partes divised isse. divided
These lines are taken from a manuscript (Cambridge University Library, Dd.11.89)
which was copied in the Wfteenth century, probably in the south of England. The
form bereth (‘bears’) in line 13, with its -eth ending for the third person singular of
the present tense of the verb, is typical of a southern text, as are the plural
pronouns hem and here for ‘them’ and ‘their’ (although hem and here were
soon to be displaced by the northern, Norse-inXuenced forms them and their;
see further p. 110). On the other hand, frust (‘Wrst’) in line 5, with its rounded
vowel (derived from Old English fyrst, with metathesis—or transposition—of the
vowel and r), is a more restricted form which is typical of the south-west and the
West Midlands. Unconna[n]d (‘unknowing’) in line 3 has the present participle
ending -and which was characteristic of northern texts (-ing was standard in the
south by this date): it has probably been retained here to preserve the rhyme with
undurstand. The task of copying a piece of Middle English writing was likely to
confront a scribe with a variety of the language diVerent from his own. As the
extract from The Prick of Conscience shows, the end result of the copying process
could be a text which represented the diversity of English in microcosm.
London English
Some texts combine features typical of diVerent dialects not because they have
gone through successive layers of copying, but because they were written by
scribes whose language appears to have been shaped in areas where varying forms
of English converged. The place where this happened more than anywhere else
was London. Originally, the dialect of London seems to have been that of the East
Saxons who controlled it after the invasions of the Wfth century. The place name
middle english—dialects and diversity 103
Fancherche Strate (‘Fenchurch Street’) which is found in Latin documents of the
twelfthcenturyshowsphonologicaldevelopmentswhichareuniqueto theoldEast
Saxonterritory:theainFan-reXectstheincompletemutationofatoæ,rather than
e, in this region in the Old English period, and the subsequent development of æ to
a in Middle English; Strate (which was a word borrowed into early West Germanic
from Latin) reXects the development of Old English æ to ā which was conWned
to the East Saxon area (the development of Old English y to e in the root syllable
of cherche is found in Kent as well as the Essex area to which the East Saxons gave
their name). By the middle of the thirteenth century, the English of London and its
vicinity was evolving through contact with speakers from areas both adjacent to
the city and further away. This is illustrated in a proclamation of 1258—a
document which is exceptional since it was issued in English. The proclamation
affirms that Henry III (r. 1216–72) agrees to abide by what his councillors:
þæt beoþ ichosen þurZ us and þurZ þæt loandes folk on vre kuneriche, habbeþ idon and
shullen don in þe worþnesse of Gode and on vre treowþe
(‘who are chosen through us and through the people of the country in our kingdom,
have done and shall do to the glory of God and in loyalty to us’).
But the document states that if anyone contravenes Henry’s wishes, ‘we willen and
hoaten þæt alle vre treowe heom healden deadliche ifoan’ (‘we wish and com-
mand that all our loyal subjects should account them deadly foes’). The switch
from conciliatory to imperious sentiment is complemented by morphological
variation: the southern -eþ ending in the third person plural of the present tense
of the verbs (beoþ, habbeþ) changes to the Midland -en of willen and hoaten
(compare haten in the extract from the East Anglian bestiary on p. 93 above).
Shullen in the Wrst citation is from a ‘preterite present’ verb in Old English (that is,
a verb which showed certain features typical of the preterite, or past, tense of verbs
in their present-tense forms) and took an -en ending in Middle English even in
southern texts. The oa spelling used to represent what had been ā in Old English
in hoaten and ifoan (compare also loandes, in which an original short a has been
lengthened before the consonant group nd) is a feature that is almost limited to
Essex in early Middle English: the spelling probably represents an open /O:/ sound.
Features typical of Essex, however, now coexist with others and, as the citations
above reveal, the text can vary between forms derived from diVerent dialects.
In the fourteenth century, the language of London changed further. Texts
copied there between 1330 and 1380 reXect features contributed by immigrants
from the East Midlands, including East Anglia. Thus, for example, the famous
Auchinleck manuscript of romances, which was produced in London around
the year 1340, has the form werld for ‘world’, a spelling which is typical of Norfolk
104 marilyn corrie
and SuVolk (the vowel may have been inXuenced by Old Norse vero
˛ld). Another
spelling for ‘world’ which appears in the manuscript, warld, appears to be
derived from the East Anglian form, anticipating the early modern development
by which /er/ became /Ar/ (compare the spelling clerk with its modern English
pronunciation /klA:k/). Subsequent immigration into London from the central
Midlands led to the appearance of, for example, the forms ben and arn for
the present plural of the verb ‘to be’, as well as olde for ‘old’, which replaced
earlier southern elde. These are the forms which are found in manuscripts of
the works of Chaucer, and they probably correspond to Chaucer’s own usage
(although it is far from certain that what appears in Chaucerian manuscripts
always represents the language of the author rather than that of scribes). Chau-
cer’s famous statement of concern about the consequences of the variability
of English for his ‘litel bok’, Troilus and Criseyde, therefore seems especially
apposite to the eclectic character of the language in the city in which he spent
much of his life:
And for ther is so gret diversite
In Englissh and in writyng of oure tonge,
So prey I God that non myswrite the,
Ne the mysmetre for defaute of tonge. error
Yet, as David Burnley has shown, the ‘diversite’ of London English served
Chaucer very well.4
Chaucer’s usual form for the verb ‘kiss’, for instance, seems to
have been spelt with i or y (the two are interchangeable in Middle English
orthography, as well as later; see further, p. 150)—hence the following couplet
in The Miller’s Tale, in which Absolon’s decorous promise to give his once-
beloved Alison a ring is bluntly and bathetically juxtaposed with an account of
what her lover is up to:
‘This wol I yeve thee, if thou me kisse.’ give
This Nicholas was risen for to pisse.
In Troilus and Criseyde, however, when Chaucer describes how Criseyde soothes
Troilus, he uses the south-eastern form of the verb (in the past tense), which has
an e in its main syllable. As line 2 below shows, this provides Chaucer with the
rhyme which he requires:
4
See D. Burnley, The Language of Chaucer (Houndmills: Macmillan, 1983).
middle english—dialects and diversity 105
And therwithal hire arm over hym she leyde,
And al foryaf, and ofte tyme hym keste. forgave; kissed
He thonked hire, and to hire spak, and seyde
As Wl to purpos for his herte reste; was pertinent
And she to that answerde hym as hire leste, 5 she wished
And with hire goodly wordes hym disporte
She gan, and ofte his sorwes to comforte. she began to cheer him up
Chaucer, as is well-known, indicates the ‘foreignness’ of northern speech in his
portrayal of the students Aleyn and John in The Reeve’s Tale (see further p. 123);
but in his early poetry, somewhat conspicuously, he occasionally exploits north-
ern morphology too. The most frequently quoted instance of this phenomenon is
in these lines from The Book of the Duchess, which describe what the narrator will
do if the god of sleep will put an end to his insomnia. The northern -es ending for
the third person singular of the present tense of the verb appears in rhyming
position (falles) in the Wrst line, a departure from Chaucer’s usual -eþ ending:
. . . I wol yive hym al that falles give
To a chamber, and al hys halles is appropriate to
I wol do peynte with pure gold. have painted
The diversity of English may have jeopardized the exact preservation of what
Chaucer wrote but, as this example shows, it facilitated much of his writing in the
Wrst place.
These excerpts from Chaucer illustrate also how much the language had
changed since the Old English period. In morphology, one might note the spread
of the plural noun ending derived from Old English -as (which had been used
only with strong masculine nouns in the nominative and accusative plural in Old
English) to nouns which originally would have had other inXections in the plural.
Thus the form sorwes appears in line 7 of the extract from Troilus above: in Old
English, the corresponding form would have been sorga or sorge, since the word
was a strong feminine noun (such nouns could take either an -a or an -e in the
nominative and accusative plural in Old English). Wordes in line 6 shows how the
-es ending has spread to cases, as well as genders, in which it was not used
originally: following the preposition ‘with’, the noun would have been in the
dative case in Old English and would therefore have had the form wordum.
Another point of interest is that the old genitive singular ending of a weak
feminine noun, -an, has been whittled down to -e in herte (‘heart’s’) in line 4
of the passage from Troilus (our -’s ending, which comes from the genitive
singular ending of strong masculine and neuter nouns in Old English, -es, has
106 marilyn corrie
not yet been adopted in this word). And prepositional phrases appear where Old
English would generally have used inXectional endings to express the relationship
of nouns or pronouns to the rest of the clause: examples include to hire, to that,
and with hire goodly wordes (lines 3, 5, and 6).
Forms derived from the old dative of the personal pronouns (i.e. the form for
the indirect object) are now also being used where the accusative (i.e. direct
object) forms would have been used in Old English: hence, for instance, hym
keste, hym disporte in lines 2 and 6 of the Troilus extract. (Old English would have
had accusative hine in such contexts.) In the other passages, one might note the
contexts in which the old singular forms of the second person pronoun are used:
when Chaucer addresses his own literary creation (‘So prey I God that non
myswrite the’), and when Absolon asks Alison to kiss him (‘This wol I yeve thee,
if thou me kisse’). These examples (both using the accusative thee in accordance
with the syntax; the corresponding subject form is thou) should be compared with
pronoun usage in the following stanza from Troilus, in which Troilus expresses his
reluctance to part from Criseyde after he has slept with her for the Wrst time:
Therwith ful soore he syghte, and thus he seyde: sighed
‘My lady right, and of my wele or wo
The welle and roote, O goodly myn Criseyde,
And shal I rise, allas, and shal I so?
Now fele I that myn herte moot a-two, 5 must (break) in two
For how sholde I my lif an houre save,
Syn that with yow is al the lif ich have?’
Although a single person is being addressed, as in the other passages, Troilus here
usestheformderivedfromwhatwas, in Old English, thepluralsecond personobject
pronoun(yow,line7,fromOldEnglishēow).Thecorrespondingsubjectformwould
be ye, as in Troilus’s earlier observation to Criseyde that God ‘wol ye be my steere,/
To do me lyve’ (‘wishes that you be my guide, to make me live’). This shows that, as
in modern French (and some modern English dialects; see further Chapter 11),
theselectionofthesecondpersonpronominalformdepended,byChaucer’sday,not
just on how many people were being addressed, but also on considerations
of respectfulness, politeness, and social standing (Troilus and Criseyde are of
noble rank, Absolon and Alison in The miller’s Tale anything but). Etiquette now
determines which form is used if one person is being spoken to, complicating
considerably the ‘rules’ which governed the use of the pronouns in Old English.
Lexically, the passage from Troilus on p. 106 is distanced from Old English
through the amount of French inXuence which it displays: the words purpos,
middle english—dialects and diversity 107
disporte, and comforte (lines 4, 6, and 7) are all derived from French. So too are
chamber, peynte, and pure in the extract from The Book of the Duchess, although
the lines from The Miller’s Tale quoted on p. 105 contain a higher proportion of
‘Anglo-Saxon’ vocabulary, complementing the earthiness of the events related.
Syntactically, Chaucer’s verse can use a word order diVerent from that typical of
Old English. In Old English, the words in the Wrst line of the passage from The
Book of the Duchess would have been arranged ‘I wol al that falles hym yive’, with
the inWnitive dependent on the modal wol appearing at the end of the clause;
Chaucer’s word order in the line is the same as in modern English. But Chaucer
can also use a word order inherited from Old English which is alien to modern
readers, as in the subject–object–verb structure following a subordinating con-
junction in ‘if thou me kisse’. And Chaucer’s sentence construction can be as
sinuous, even tortuous, as in the most complex Old English verse, as the stanza
from Troilus on p. 106 shows. What diVerentiates it from poetry of the Old
English period is the fact that its guiding principle is the need to Wnd rhyming
words, not alliterating syllables, at appropriate points in the lines. Chaucer’s
English clearly represents a diVerent phase of the language from Old English,
but at least some of the distinguishing features of Old English can still be detected
in his writing.
The permissiveness of the written medium may have been useful to Chaucer,
but it caused others some diYculty. Towards the end of the fourteenth century,
the New Testament had been translated into English twice, after the Oxford
theologian John Wyclif called for Scripture to be made accessible to all. In the
early Wfteenth century, a concordance to the translations, which are collectively
known as the ‘WycliYte Bible’, was produced, so that:
5
If a man haue mynde oonly of oo word or two of sum long text of þe Newe Lawe and haþ
forZetyn al þe remenaunt, or ellis if he can seie bi herte such an hool text but he haþ
forZeten in what stede it is writen, þis concordaunce wole lede him bi þe fewe wordis þat
ben cofrid in his mynde vnto þe ful text, and shewe him in what book and in what
chapitre he shal fynde þo textis which him list to haue.
(forZetyn: forgotten; stede: place; cofrid: contained; chapitre: chapter; him list: he wishes)
The trouble was that the ‘same’ word could have diVerent phonological mani-
festations (as in kirke and chirche). It could also vary orthographically (thyng and
theef, for example, could be spelt with an initial th or an initial þ); or it could
appear under an alternative lexical guise (hence the author points out that the
Latin borrowing accesse might be represented elsewhere by the English loan-
translation nyZcomynge, literally ‘near-coming’). ‘If þou þanne seke a text in ony
of suche synonemus, and if þou fynde it not in oon of hem,’ the author suggests
108 marilyn corrie
(synonemus is his term for a range of alternative word forms, not just words of
similar meaning):
loke in a noþir of hem; Zhe, loke in alle suche synonemus, þouZ þer be þre or mo of hem,
til þou fynde þe text wiþ which þe liste mete.
(Zhe: ‘yea’; þouZ: ‘though’; wiþ which þe liste mete: ‘which you want to Wnd’)
The diversity of Middle English could be beneWcial to an author, but
it could also undermine the very viability of what other writers were trying
to do.
standardization
There is an exception to what we can see as the centrifugal tendency of written
Middle English from the early part of the period. This is the phenomenon known
as ‘AB language’, a variety of English found in the Corpus manuscript containing
Ancrene Wisse (whence ‘A’) and MS Bodley 34 in the Bodleian Library in Oxford
(whence ‘B’). The Bodley manuscript includes copies of such texts as Sawles
Warde (‘The Guardian of the Soul’) and Hali Meiðhad (‘Holy Virginity’), which
share many of the stylistic features of Ancrene Wisse and appear, like it, to have
been composed for a female audience. The two manuscripts are written in
diVerent hands but, to a marked and remarkable degree, they share phonological,
grammatical, and orthographical systems. Unless one is to assume that the texts
were all written by the same individual and then copied literatim by diVerent
scribes, it seems that the copyists who used AB language had been trained to write
in a particular way—thus, as suggested above, the dialect of Ancrene Wisse does
not necessarily correlate with the speech habits of its scribe. It has often been
pointed out that the south-west Midland area in which the manuscripts seem to
have been produced was the ‘stronghold’ of English literary tradition in the early
Middle English period. Old English material was still being copied here, and it
was systematically studied by the fascinating scribe known as the ‘Tremulous
Hand’ of Worcester, who glossed Old English texts and compiled word lists of
their vocabulary (see further p. 58). The works copied in AB language sporadically
display a literary texture comparable to the ‘alliterative prose’ developed in the
Old English period by Ælfric (discussed in Chapter 2); it has been claimed that the
very idea of writing in a standardized form of English may have come from an
awareness of the dialectal and orthographical regularity of much Old English
middle english—dialects and diversity 109
literature. Whether this is the case or not, AB language suggests that at one
scriptorium at least, the transcription of English texts was an ‘oYcial’ activity,
and that it was considered important enough to be methodized.
Evidence for standardization in the copying of English increases greatly after
the middle of the fourteenth century, an indication of the rising value attached to
English literature among those who trained scribes, and among those for whom
scribes copied texts. The changing conditions of book production may also have
had an impact: manuscripts containing English material were now being pro-
duced outside monastic scriptoria, in commercial bookshops, and the copyists
who contributed to these books may have been more specialized in the writing of
English than their monastic counterparts and predecessors. Two of the hands in
the Auchinleck manuscript, which was mentioned previously, share a number of
features, and these are replicated in seven other fourteenth-century manuscripts
copied in the greater London area. In addition to the East Midland forms already
described, these manuscripts contain þat ich(e) for ‘the same’, coexisting with þat
ilch(e) (which appears to have been the more ancient London form: it is found in
Henry III’s 1258 proclamation); also the rare southern oZain(s), along with aZen,
for ‘again, back’, and ich for ‘each’ (another form, it seems, which was contributed
to the London dialect by immigrants from the Midlands). The central Midland
features in Chaucerian manuscripts, which were noted above, are found also in a
number of London documents from the end of the fourteenth and the beginning
of the Wfteenth centuries, in a manuscript of Langland’s Piers Plowman (Trinity
College Cambridge B.15.17), and in copies of the work of the London poet
Thomas Hoccleve. In these, ilk has become the form for ‘same’ and eche for
‘each’, the present participle of verbs ends in -yng (in the earlier standardized
variety it had been -ande, -ende, or -inde), and the nominative form of the third
person plural pronoun is they, replacing earlier þai and hij (the h-form is a vestige
of Old English hie; the forms with initial th- or þ, as Chapter 3 has shown, are
originally from Old Norse. As in the passage on p. 103, our modern forms for
‘them’ and ‘their’ have not yet entered this dialect).
The most widely attested example of a standardized variety of English from the
fourteenth century, however, does not seem to have been formulated or written
in London, but in the central Midland region which was providing the English of
London with so many features at around the same time. This variety is usually
called ‘Central Midlands Standard’, and its diagnostic features include such forms
as sich(e) for ‘such’, ony for ‘any’, silf for ‘self’, and Zouen or Zouun for ‘given’. The
dialect is used in most of the large number of writings which were produced to
defend and propagate the teachings of Wyclif and his followers, partly because
the central Midland area, the great hotbed of WycliYte belief, appears to have
110 marilyn corrie
been where many WycliYte tracts were copied. But the central Midland dialect
may also have become the vehicle of WycliYte doctrine for strategic reasons,
since it lacked the barrier of incomprehensibility to many with which northern
and southern dialects were charged (compare pp. 97–8 above). The dialect
appears as well in individual manuscripts of non-WycliYte religious writings,
including a number of ‘mystical’ texts, and in copies of medical treatises and
other secular works. Interestingly, it was used over half a century after it Wrst
emerged, in writings by the Welsh bishop Reginald Pecock, who was one of the
most vehement opponents of the WycliYtes’ arguments. Pecock’s works thus
connect with WycliYte discourse not just in their subject matter but in their
language too.
Greater dissemination and imitation of Central Midlands Standard may have
been impeded by the proscription of the material for which it was chieXy used:
Wyclif’s beliefs were condemned by the Church as heretical, and the WycliYtes
were persecuted especially viciously in the reign of Henry V (1414–22). The fate of
the dialect—ultimate obsolescence—may be contrasted with that of the Wfteenth-
century variety of English which evolved in the oYces of royal administration
which were located at Westminster. Up to 1417, the Signet OYce, which produced
the personal correspondence of the king, issued its documents in French; but after
1417 the language of the king’s missives changed to English. After a hiatus caused by
the minority of Henry’s heir, Henry VI (r. 1422–61, 1470–71), the Signet OYce
retained the practice of issuing its letters in English. These documents (as well as
ones issued by the OYce of the Privy Seal, which also began to use English for
certain purposes in Henry VI’s reign) were copied in the Chancery—the oYce of
the chancellor—where pleas and other administrative items sent from all over the
kingdom were also enrolled. Traditionally, it has been claimed that the English
which was written in this oYce displays certain distinctive usages: the forms not,
but, gaf, and such(e), for example (Chaucer’s equivalents are, respectively, nat, bot,
yaf, and swich(e)), together with forms beginning with th- (or þ-) for ‘their’
and ‘them’. The language of Chancery documents has been labelled ‘Chancery
Standard’, and it was, it has been asserted, familiarized throughout the country
because material from the Chancery was disseminated to every region. Gradually,
according to the traditional view, this language came to be emulated, apparently
because of the authority with which the Chancery was regarded: Chancery was
responsible for the ‘rise’ of a standardized form of English to which people in all
parts of England increasingly conformed.
A number of problems with this neat picture have been highlighted by Michael
Benskin, who has pointed out that there is no evidence that ‘Chancery’ language
was either unique to the Chancery, or Wrst emanated from it: rather, the Chancery
middle english—dialects and diversity 111
seems to have replicated the English of Signet and Privy Seal documents. Benskin
has also argued that the homogeneity which has been claimed for the English of
the Chancery is, in fact, a myth; also, it was not the business of the Chancery to
produce the writs, summonses, and other documents which were sent to the
diVerent parts of the country. It is clear that many of the forms which appear in
Chancery material, including those listed above, are, or are close to, those used in
modern standard written English. It is equally clear, however, that the relation-
ship between the modern standard and ‘Chancery’ English is not a simple one—
that, as Benskin says, ‘the development of a written standard . . . was more
complex and less determined than it has sometimes been made to appear’.5
To
complicate the issue further, recent research has shown that in the Wfteenth
century, the spread of ‘Chancery’ usages depended on the kind of writing
which was being undertaken. The writers and copyists of verse, for example,
often chose to imitate not the language of administrative documents, but the
phonological (as well as the stylistic) characteristics of the individuals who were
considered authoritative within the ‘literary’ sphere, especially Chaucer and
his contemporary John Gower. Those who wrote English in the Wfteenth century
were, it seems, often eager to follow a model, but the model which they selected varied.
The extent to which Wfteenth-century English can resemble the modern
standard variety may be illustrated by the following royal warrant, which was
written in 1438:
5
The king commandeth the keper of his priue seal to make suYsant warrant to þe
Chaunceller of England that he by letters patentZ yeue licence vnto such lordes as shal be
atte tretee of peas at Caleys &c to haue stuV with þeim of gold siluer coyned & in plate &
al oþer þinges such as is behoueful to euch of þeim after þair estat: & þat þe same keper of
our priue seal make hervpon such seueralx warrentes As þe clerc of þe counseil can
declare him after þe kinges entent/ And also þat þe said keper of our priue seal/ make a
warrant to þe Tresorer of England & to þe Chamberlains to paie Robert whitingham such
wages for þe viage of Caleys abouesaid for a quarter of a yere as so apperteineþ to a Squier
to take.
(yeue: may give; tretee of peas: peace treaty)
Orthographically, this passage shows considerable variation, in the spelling of
the same word (compare, for example, the diVerent representations of the
5
M. Benskin, ‘‘‘Chancery Standard’’’, in C. Kay, C. Hough, and I. Wotherspoon (eds), New
Perspectives on English Historical Linguistics: Selected Papers from 12 ICEHL, Glasgow, 21–26 August
2002. Vol. II: Lexis and Transmission. Amsterdam Studies in The Theory and History of Linguistic
Science, 252 (Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 2004), 1–40.
112 marilyn corrie
unstressed vowel in the second syllable of warrant and warrentes in lines 1 and
5) and in the symbols used for certain sounds (thus th in commandeth in line 1
but þ in apperteineþ in line 8, and both the and þe in line 1). Capitalization is
not as in modern English: Squier, for instance, has an initial capital but the
proper name whitingham in line 7 does not. Marks of punctuation are diVerent
from those with which we are familiar, and they distinguish rhetorical, not
grammatical, sense units. The form of the adjective seueralx (line 5), which has
been given an -x because it is modifying a plural noun, follows French
usage (as, it seems, does the phrase þe said in line 6, which appears to be
modelled on the specifying adjective ledit with which French legal prose
is peppered). The old form for the third person singular of the present
tense, as in commandeth, remains (and would do, at least in formal registers,
into the seventeenth century); so does the ‘assimilated’ form atte (combining
at and the) in line 3. But the language, if sometimes archaic to us, is
comprehensible throughout, despite the fact that it dates from a time nearer
to the Old English period than to our own. This suggests the relative
stability of written English between the Wfteenth and the twenty-Wrst
centuries—and the great pace of its development between Old English and
the end of Middle English.
At the other end of the spectrum is this extract from a postscript to one of the
letters of the Paston family which was written in north-east Norfolk (their
surviving correspondence provides an extremely important linguistic as well as
historical resource). The letter below was sent by Margaret Paston to her husband
John in 1448 (although it was written for, not by, her). Gloys is the name of the
family’s chaplain, who wrote some of Margaret Paston’s other letters:
As touchyng Roger Foke Gloys shall telle yow all &c Qwhan Wymdham seyd þat Jamys
xuld dy I seyd to hym þat I soposyd þat he xuld repent hym jf he schlow hym or dede to
hym any bodyly harm and he seyd nay he xuld never repent hym ner have a ferdyng
wurth of harm þow he kelyd Zw and hym bothe.
(Qwhan: when; xuld: should; schlow: slew, killed; ferdyng: farthing; þow: though; Zw: you)
The word order here may be more or less as in modern English, but a great deal
else—including the peculiarly East Anglian spelling xuld in line 2—is not. As this
illustrates, the similarity of Wfteenth-century writing to our typical standard
written English clearly depends on whether its scribe (or author) has been
exposed to the language of the Chancery; whether he has decided to emulate its
forms; which forms he has decided to emulate (since not all features of Chancery
language passed into the modern standard variety); if none of these, what his own
dialect was (since a scribe writing a London variety of English will use forms close
middle english—dialects and diversity 113
to the language of Chancery whereas a scribe writing a dialect typical of an area
far from London will not); and whether his dialect is of restricted currency or
diluted by more widely acceptable, ‘regional’ features (see the next chapter, which
discusses the ‘Colourless Regional Writing’ which is used in many Wfteenth-
century texts). The projected audience of a text and its genre are important
variables too—a piece of writing aimed at a wide readership may avoid forms
known to be parochial, whereas a personal letter may not; at the same time, a self-
consciously ‘literary’ piece may aspire to the complex syntax and ornate vocabu-
lary which are features of ‘high style’ in the period, as Chapter 5 will show. It is far
from the case that written English had become dialectally homogenized by the
end of the Middle English period: this would not happen until a standard variety
of the language was fully regularized and then spread through education, and that
is a development of the ‘modern’ era, not the medieval.
Poets of the Wfteenth century initiated a tradition of identifying Chaucer as
what Hoccleve calls the ‘Wrst fyndere of our faire langage’. But to their contem-
poraries, it was to Henry V that the development of English, and the expansion of
its functions, were to be attributed, as an often-cited entry in the Abstract Book
of the Brewers’ Guild of London makes clear. The note, which is here given in
modern spelling and with modern punctuation, is a translation of a Latin
memorandum recording the Brewers’ 1422 decision to adopt English as the
language of their accounts and proceedings:
5
. . . our mother-tongue, to wit the English tongue, hath in modern days begun to be
honourably enlarged and adorned, for that our most excellent lord, King Henry V, hath
in his letters missive and divers aVairs touching his own person, more willingly chosen to
declare the secrets of his will, and for the better understanding of his people, hath with a
diligent mind procured the common idiom (setting aside others) to be commended by
the exercise of writing.
Henry’s decision (it probably was his) to use English in his correspondence
seems to have been dictated by a perception that French was a mark of the
people who were his military and political enemies. English could be a symbol
of the independence of Henry’s people: at the Council of Constance in 1417, the
oYcial English notary Thomas Polton seemed to speak for his king when he
asserted that the autonomy of England was manifest in its language, ‘the chief
and surest proof of being a nation’. Henry’s recognition that the English
language could be viewed as a deWning feature of the English people was a
long-delayed endorsement of what some of the English themselves had noticed
long before. One of the texts in the Auchinleck manuscript, Of Arthour and
Merlin, notes that:
114 marilyn corrie
Freynsche vse þis gentil man
Ac euerich Inglische Inglische can.
(‘These high-born people use French, but every English person knows English’.)
One source of anxiety about the linguistic situation of England was removed
when Henry, the greatest of all ‘gentil’ men, embraced the writing of English.
Other concerns, however, remained. When the Wrst English printer, William
Caxton, lamented the diachronic instability of the language of his country in his
prologue to the Eneydos (1490)—‘certaynly our langage now vsed varyeth ferre
from that whiche was vsed and spoken whan I was borne/ For we englysshe men/
ben borne vnder the domynacyon of the mone, whiche is neuer stedfaste/
but euer wauerynge’—he echoed, probably not merely out of deference, Chau-
cer’s wistful observation about linguistic change in Troilus and Criseyde a
century before:
Ye knowe ek that in forme of speche is chaunge
Withinne a thousand yeer, and wordes tho
That hadden pris, now wonder nyce and straunge
Us thinketh hem, and yet thei spake hem so. they seem to us
Caxton’s concern about the ‘brode and rude’ nature of his own English,
expressed in the prologue to his Recuyell of the Historyes of Troye (1475: see
further Chapter 5), likewise reiterates a long-standing authorial topos: towards
the end of the fourteenth century, Chaucer’s contemporary Thomas Usk can be
found apologizing for his ‘rude wordes and boystous’ (boystous means ‘rough’)
in his prose treatise on free will and grace, The Testament of Love. And there
were new worries to add to the traditional canon. In the prologue to the
Eneydos, Caxton frets about the opacity of what he calls the ‘curyous termes’
which were newly fashionable in English (these are discussed further in Chap-
ter 5). His identiWcation of the language of Kent as especially unpolished
(again, see Chapter 5) suggests an incipient hierarchy of dialects, with the
concomitant stigmatization of those varieties which deviate from the most
prestigious forms. But when Caxton in the Eneydos expresses his bewilderment
at the phonological variation which underpins a range of variant forms in
written language—‘Loo what sholde a man in thyse dayes now wryte, egges or
eyren?’—he stands at the end of an era, not the beginning of a new one.6
The
6
The passage is discussed in detail on 122–3.
middle english—dialects and diversity 115
period of Middle English was one of exceptional change in the history of the
language, which saw the establishment of new trends together with the demise
of old—both in the development of the language itself and in what people were
saying about it. In that sense the term ‘Middle English’ does not adequately
capture its importance.
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
Accessible discussions of the period covered in this chapter can be found in Baugh and
Cable (2002) and Crystal (2004a). The account in Blake (1996) focuses especially on the
issue of standardization. Strang (1970) is for more advanced students of the language, and
treats later Middle English before the earlier part of the period, the two phases being
divided at 1370. The most comprehensive examination of the whole period is Blake
(1992).
Useful sourcebooks of Middle English texts include Bennett and Smithers (1968),
Burnley (1992a), Burrow and Turville-Petre (2005), Dickins and Wilson (1956), Freeborn
(1998), and Sisam (1921). All of these also contain information about the language in the
period.
The lines from the Ormulum are quoted from Dickins and Wilson (1956: 84 (ll. 48–9)).
For a useful discussion of the text, see, in particular, Burnley (1992a: 78–87). My emphasis
on the anxiety implicit in Orm’s linguistic project queries David Crystal’s recent claim
that ‘metalinguistic awareness’ about English is a development of the late fourteenth
century (see Crystal 2004a: 169).
Dialectal variation in written Middle English
The classic study of the use of Latin and French after the Conquest (and the newly
restricted use of English) is Clanchy (1993).
Local variation
The extract from Ancrene Riwle (‘Text A’) is quoted from Dickins and Wilson (1956:
91). The extract from Ancrene Wisse (‘Text B’) is from Tolkien (1962: 46). Shepherd
(1991) gives a concise account of the diVerent versions of the text; on its origins, see
Dobson (1976). The dates of the Nero and Corpus manuscripts are taken from
Laing (1993: 77 and 24 respectively). Carruthers (1990) includes a fascinating account
of the processes involved in scribal reading and copying. On compound words in
Ancrene Wisse which combine English with French elements, compare Crystal (2004a:
149). The quotation from Elyot’s The Governour is taken from Baugh and Cable
(2002: 214).
116 marilyn corrie
The major dialect areas: Old English to Middle English
Good, basic accounts of the major dialect ‘divisions’ of Middle English can be found in
Burnley (1992a) and the introduction to Burrow and Turville-Petre (2005); compare also
the more detailed material introducing the notes to the texts in Bennett and Smithers
(1968) and Sisam (1921). Samples of the dialects, with concise discussion of their features,
are included in Baugh and Cable (2002: 409–21, Appendix A). The passage from the East
Anglian bestiary is quoted from Dickins and Wilson (1956: 59 (ll. 1–8)). The extract from
Trevisa’s translation of Higden’s Polychronicon is taken from Babington, vol. 2 (1869: 159).
North and south
The lines from Cursor Mundi are quoted from Freeborn (1998), who prints the corre-
sponding passage in the later southern manuscript in parallel. The most comprehensive
guide to phonological developments in the Old English period is Campbell (1959); on
vowel lengthening before certain groups of consonants, see p. 120. Blake (1996) discusses
the time delay in the representation of linguistic change which had taken place in the Old
English period (see especially chapters 5 and 6). On phonological and morphological
developments in early Middle English, and the ways in which these vary between dialects,
Strang (1970) is especially helpful. On the origins of the -s ending in the present tense of
verbs in northern Middle English, see Samuels (1985). Crystal (2004: 218–21) oVers an
alternative explanation.
The passage from Trevisa in this section is taken from Babington, vol. 2 (1869: 163);
Higden’s reliance on William of Malmesbury is discussed in Machan (2003: 96). The
comments of the author of Cursor Mundi regarding his source material are quoted from
Turville-Petre (1996: 20), where the claim that regional dialects were thought of as
variations of the same language is also made.
Middle English before and after 1350
The copying of texts
The citations from the holograph manuscript of the Ayenbite of Inwyt are quoted from
Sisam (1921: 32). On the suggestion that Sir Gawain and the Green Knight and the
other texts in its manuscript might have been written in London, see Bennett (1983)
and Putter (1995: 191). The passage from The Owl and the Nightingale is taken from
Wells (1907: 74 (ll. 897–902)); on the two spelling systems reXected in the Caligula
manuscript of the text, see also Cartlidge (2001: xli) and Stanley (1960, esp. pp. 6–9).
On literatim copying in early Middle English, see Laing (1991) and Smith (1991: 54);
on scribal translation in later Middle English, see also Benskin and Laing (1981), who
discuss the varying thoroughness with which copyists changed the language of their
exemplars. The language of the Thornton manuscript is examined in McIntosh
(1967).
middle english—dialects and diversity 117
The extract from The Prick of Conscience is quoted from Wogan-Browne et al. (1999:
242–3 (ll. 9–22)).
London English
On the language of twelfth-century London, see Reaney (1925); on its evolution
through immigration, see especially Samuels (1963). The excerpts from Henry III’s
proclamation of 1258 are quoted from Dickins and Wilson (1956: 8). The passages from
Chaucer are cited from Benson (1988): see pp. 584, 528, 533, and 531 for the lines from
Troilus and Criseyde (V. 1793–6, III. 1128–34, III. 1471–77 and III. 1291–2 respectively);
see p. 76 for the couplet from The Miller’s Tale (Fragment I(A). 3797–8); and p. 333 for
the extract from The Book of the Duchess (ll. 257–9). Burnley (1983) discusses various
aspects of Chaucer’s (1983) language, including his exploitation of the diVerent dia-
lectal forms familiar in London.
The quotations from the concordance to the WycliYte Bible, which are found in the
preface to the work, are taken from Burnley (1992a: 166–7).
Standardization
Shepherd (1991) contains a useful discussion of AB language. The suggestion that AB
language may have been inXuenced by the standardization of English before the Con-
quest is made by Blake (1996: 129).
Samuels (1963) is the classic account of the appearance of standardized varieties of
English in the fourteenth and Wfteenth centuries. The standardized language exempliWed
by the Auchinleck manuscript is called ‘Type II’ here, that of Chaucerian manuscripts
‘Type III’, and that of the Chancery ‘Type IV’; ‘Central Midlands Standard’ is ‘Type I’. For
important qualiWcations of Samuels’ Wndings, however, see Benskin (1992, 2004), and
also Horobin (2003), who emphasizes the perpetuation of Samuels’ Type III language
after the emergence of Type IV. On the spread of forms typical of Gower’s language, see
also Smith (1988a). On the commercial production of books in fourteenth- and Wfteenth-
century London, see Christianson (1989).
The royal warrant of 1438 is quoted from Fisher et al. (1984: 178); the postscript from
Margaret Paston’s 1448 letter to her husband is taken from Burnley (1992a), but with the
modern punctuation inserted there removed. The often-cited Brewers’ memorandum is
taken from Chambers and Daunt (1931: 139). Thomas Polton’s claims regarding the
connection between the English language and English autonomy are discussed in All-
mand (1992: 417). On Chaucer’s importance for Wfteenth-century English poets, see
especially Lerer (1993); but compare Cannon (1998), who argues that the image of
Chaucer created in the Wfteenth century misrepresents the truth about his contribution
to the development of the English language.
118 marilyn corrie
The couplet from Of Arthour and Merlin is quoted from Turville-Petre (1996: 21). The
passage from Chaucer’s Troilus and Criseyde which is echoed by Caxton is taken from
Benson (1988: 489 (II.22–5)); Usk’s apology is quoted from Wogan-Browne et al. (1999: 30
(l. 9)). For the sources of Caxton’s comments which I quote in this section, see the
bibliographical details in the following chapter.
middle english—dialects and diversity 119
5
FROM MIDDLE TO EARLY
MODERN ENGLISH
Jeremy J. Smith
MANY histories of languages diVerentiate between ‘external’ and ‘internal’
approaches to the subject. Internal history may be deWned as the study of
evolving systems of lexicon, grammar, and transmission (speech- and writing-
systems); external history is to do with the ways in which a language is employed
over time, for example the shift from script to print, or how particular languages
are associated with particular social functions at particular moments in their
history.
Such a distinction is in many ways useful and is, for example, adopted in the
chapter which follows this one. However, it is important to realize that this strict
separation of internal and external history is a matter of operational scholarly
convenience rather than actual fact. Just as living creatures evolve through
natural selection, whereby form interacts over time in complex ways with
environmental function, so do languages evolve: thus the changing forms of a
particular language through time are the result of their interaction with that
language’s functions. From this point of view, therefore, internal and external
histories are intimately connected.
The relationship between form and function clearly underpins many of the
comments on their native language which are made by English writers in the late
medieval and early modern periods. Thus, for example, William Caxton (Eng-
land’s Wrst printer), in the prologue to his translation of Eneydos (1490), makes
the point very eVectively; his discussion has a local point of reference, but it has
wider implications in that he explicitly draws connections between linguistic
forms and their social/stylistic functions:
5
And for as moche as this present booke is not for a rude vplondyssh man to laboure therin/
ne rede it/ but onely for a clerke & a noble gentylman that feleth and vnderstondeth in
faytes of armes in loue & in noble chyualrye/ Therfor in a meane bytwene bothe I haue
reduced & translated this sayd booke in to our englysshe not ouer rude ne curyous but in
suche termes as shal be vnderstanden by goddys grace accordynge to my copye.
(faytes: deeds)
Almost a century later, in his The First Part of the Elementarie (1582), the
Elizabethan schoolteacher Richard Mulcaster also points directly to how lan-
guage change derives from functional considerations:
5
. . . our tung doth serue to so manie vses, bycause it is conuersant with so manie peple,
and so well acquainted with so manie matters, in so sundrie kindes of dealing. Now all
this varietie of matter, and diuersitie of trade, make both matter for our speche, & mean
to enlarge it. For he that is so practised, will vtter that, which he practiseth in his naturall
tung, and if the strangenesse of the matter do so require, he that is to vtter, rather then he
will stik in his vtterance, will vse the foren term, by waie of premunition, that the cuntrie
peple do call it so, and by that mean make a foren word, an English denison.
(premunition: premonition denison: denizen, naturalized inhabitant)
In the terminology of modern sociolinguistics, Mulcaster’s description of the
manie vses of our tung could be described as ‘elaboration’. In many societies,
particular languages—or varieties of the same language—are used with particu-
lar functions. As has been discussed earlier in this volume (see Chapter 3), Latin,
English, and French all performed distinct functions in England during the
Middle Ages. But if a particular language or language-variety has a number of
functions, we may consider it to be elaborated.
Elaboration of usage is one of four stages in the process of standardization, the
others being selection, codiWcation, and acceptance. It is by means of this process
that a particular variety or language is selected for overtly prestigious use, either
consciously or unconsciously; it is codiWed through the enforcement of norms
(e.g. by an Academy, or through education); it is elaborated in function; and it is
accepted by the community as an elite usage.
It is, however, important to realize that standard varieties of language tend
to relate to other varieties clinally rather than discretely: in other words, there
is no clear cut-oV point between a standard variety and other varieties of the
same language. Moreover, as later chapters in this volume illustrate, standardi-
zation itself seems to be an ongoing process; the distinction between standard
and non-standard forms tends to change over time, and no single stage in the
process of standardization of any living language is ever complete (such Wxity
is of course possible for dead languages, such as Latin). During the transition
from middle to early modern english 121
from Middle to modern English, a ‘standardized’ variety, based on usages
current in London, can nevertheless be discerned. However, since London
English itself was changing as a result of the dynamic processes of immigration
into the capital which took place at this time, it is hard to pin down any
precise set of forms which characterizes it.
The notion of elaboration has usefulness in any context where the multi-
functionality of languages or language-varieties is being discussed. The theme
of this chapter is that the transition from Middle to early modern English is
above all the period of the elaboration of the English language. Between the
late fourteenth and sixteenth centuries, the English language began increas-
ingly to take on more functions. These changes in function had, it is argued
here, a major eVect on the form of English: so major, indeed, that the old
distinction between ‘Middle’ and ‘modern’ retains considerable validity, al-
though the boundary between these two linguistic epochs was obviously a
fuzzy one.
The remainder of this chapter falls into four major sections, dealing with the
lexicon, grammar, spelling, and pronunciation respectively. The chapter con-
cludes with some remarks on the linguistic implications of a key cultural event
during the period: the arrival of printing in the British Isles in 1476.
lexicon
As discussed in the previous chapter, the Middle English period is above all
the period when linguistic variation is reXected in the written mode. One of
the most famous descriptions of such variation may be taken as a starting-
point for our discussion of the lexicon during the transition from Middle
to early modern English. It is again taken from Caxton’s prologue to
the Eneydos:
5
And certaynly our langage now vsed varyeth ferre from that. whiche was vsed and spoken
whan I was borne/ For we englysshe men/ ben borne vnder the domynacyon of the mone.
whiche is neuer stedfaste/ but euer wauerynge/ wexynge one season/ and waneth &
dyscreaseth another season/ And that comyn englysshe that is spoken in one shyre
varyeth from a nother. In so moche that in my dayes happened that certayn marchauntes
were in a shippe in tamyse for to haue sayled ouer the see into Zelande/ and for lacke of
wynde thei taryed atte forlond and wente to lande for to refreshe them And one of theym
named sheVelde a mercer cam in to an hows and axed for mete. and specyally he axyd
after eggys And the good wyf answerde. That she coude speke no frenshe. And the
122 jeremy j. smith
10
marchaunt was angry. for he also coude speke no frenshe. but wold haue hadde egges/
and she vnderstode hym not/ And thenne at laste a nother sayd that he wolde haue eyren/
then the good wyf sayd that she vnderstod hym wel/ Loo what sholde a man in thyse
15
dayes now wryte. egges or eyren/ certaynly it is harde to playse euery man/ by cause of
dyuersite & chaunge of langage. For in these dayes euery man that is in ony reputacyon in
his countre. wyll vtter his commynycacyon and maters in suche maners & termes/ that
fewe men shall vnderstonde theym/ And som honest and grete clerkes haue ben wyth me
and desired me to wryte the moste curyous termes that I coude fynde/ And thus bytwene
playn rude/ & curyous I stande abasshed.
(tamyse: the River Thames; Zelande: Zealand, in the Low Countries; forlond: the North Foreland, the
westernmost point on the coast of modern Kent; axed: asked; mete: food)
This passage, even if Caxton were (as seems likely) exaggerating to strengthen his
argument, is interesting for several reasons. Most obviously, in the communica-
tive problems caused by egges and eyren in lines 9–13, it illustrates what is known
as diatopic (‘through-space’) variation in the lexicon, and thus may be taken as
an early comment on Middle English word geography—a somewhat neglected
sub-discipline still. DiVerent forms have a diVerent distribution in Middle
English. Thus, kirk (‘church’) and stern (‘star’) appear in Northern Middle
English but not in the south; and bigouth (‘began’) appears in Older Scots but
not in Middle English, where the forms gan and can were preferred.
Moreover, it is clear that the vocabulary of English varied diatopically during
the late Middle Ages not only in forms but also in the meaning of forms. At the end
of the fourteenth century, GeoVrey Chaucer observed something of this variation
in his representation of Northern dialect in the Canterbury Tales when, in The
Reeve’s Tale (l. A.4029) he made his young Northern students Aleyn and John use
the word hope with its Northern meaning ‘think’, rather than with its Southern
meaning ‘hope, wish for’. Thus the line ‘Oure maunciple, I hope he wil be deed’ is a
dialectal joke, depending on the conXict between the Northern meaning ‘I think
our manciple will die’ and the Southern meaning ‘I hope our manciple will die’.
But other points made in the passage from Caxton’s prologue are also of
interest for the arguments of this chapter. For instance, he clearly understands
one of the principal axioms which underpin modern theories of language change:
the relationship between linguistic variation and linguistic change. Furthermore,
he draws attention to the connection between language and social standing; the
lines (14–17) referring to the usage of ‘euery man that is in ony reputacyon’ make
this point explicitly. Caxton indicates that for many contemporaries such ‘repu-
tacyon’ or status correlates with a particular form of ‘commynycacyon’ which
valued heightened expression above clarity. And Caxton distinguishes ‘playn’,
‘rude’, and ‘curyous [termes]’; to use present-day linguistic terminology, he
from middle to early modern english 123
distinguishes registers characterized by diVerent kinds of vocabulary. In doing so
he follows the ancient distinction between ‘middle’, ‘low’, and ‘high’ styles
respectively; the terminology derives from the classical world, but it was still
understood in the Middle Ages.
We can be fairly certain what kinds of vocabulary Caxton had in mind when he
referred to ‘curyous termes’. In part he is probably referring to so-called ‘aureate’
diction, a kind of usage found in much English writing of the Wfteenth century.
The term aureate applied to stylistic choice (‘designating or characteristic of a
highly ornamental literary style or diction’, as OED notes) seems to have been
invented by the poet John Lydgate (c 1370–1449/1450), who is probably the best-
known practitioner of this mode of writing. Lydgate desired to enrich vernacular
poetic vocabulary—to ‘refourme the rudenesse of my stile’—by transferring Latin
nouns and adjectives from the liturgy, from major medieval Latin writers, and
from the Vulgate Bible into English. The result was what one of Lydgate’s con-
temporaries, the East Anglian writer John Metham, called ‘half-chongyd Latyn’.
The following passage from Lydgate’s Marian lyric, A Balade in Commendation
of Our Lady, exempliWes his mature aureate style:
O closid gardeyn, al void of weedes wicke, 35
Cristallyn welle, of clennesse cler consigned, conWrmed with a seal
Fructif olyve, of foilys faire and thicke, olive tree; leaves
And redolent cedyr, most derworthly ydynged, fragrant; sumptuously; decorated(?)
Remembyr of pecchouris [unto thee] assigned, Recaller; sinners
Or the wyckid fend his wrath upon us wreche, 40 vent (anger, etc.)
Lantyrn of light, be thu oure lyWs leche. cure
. . .
Red[e] rose, Xouryng withowtyn spyne, 50 thorn
Fonteyn of fulnesse, as beryl corrent clere, clear running water
Some drope of thi graceful dewe to us propyne; give drink
Thu light without nebule, shynyng in thi spere, cloud; sphere
Medicyne to myscheu[e]s, pucelle withoute pere, misfortunes; virgin
Flawme down to doolful, light of thyn inXuence, 55
Remembryng thi servant for thi magniWcence.
John Norton-Smith has shown how phrases such as fructif olyue and redolent
cedyr in lines 37–38 are closely modelled on the French poet and philosopher Alan
of Lille’s Anticlaudianus which was written in Latin: in these instances, on oliua
124 jeremy j. smith
fructiferans and cedrus redolans respectively.1
But more properly ‘aureate’ is nebule
in line 53. The form, from Latin nebula, is deWned by the Middle English
Dictionary (MED) as ‘A cloud; mist or haze’. It occurs in Middle English only
in Lydgate’s writing, and is not recorded by the OED again until 1869. It seems,
indeed, that Lydgate himself introduced the word into English.
There is evidence, however, that aureate diction was not the only kind of
‘curyous’ writing available. David Burnley has shown how the anonymous
printer of The Boke of St Albans (1486) met the desire of the socially ambitious
to develop aristocratic modes of expression, to use ‘the gentill termys in com-
munyng of theyr haukys’. As Burnley puts it:
It is apparent that the motive for compiling lists of such terms was one of social aspiration:
a knowledge of the language proper to the concerns of a gentleman was equated with the
possession of gentility itself. To be heard to speak like a gentleman was half-way to being
taken for one . . . at a time when poetic art was preoccupied with lexical splendour, [it is
not] surprising to Wnd the ancient association between eloquence and cultural reWnement
taking the form of a fascination with out-of-the-way terminology.2
The Boke of St Albans, therefore, includes not only a Wne set of collective nouns, of
which perhaps the most attractive are ‘a Cherme of Goldefynches’, ‘a SuperXuyte
of Nunnys’, ‘a Malepertnes of pedleres’, ‘a Rage of Maydenys’, ‘a blush of boyes’,
and ‘a Sculke’ both ‘of freris’ and ‘of foxis’, but also an extensive vocabulary for
hawking and hunting. For instance, terms for the Xight of hawks range from beke
(‘beckoning to game’) through nomme (‘taken game and lost again’) and retriue
(‘rouse game a second time’) to souce (‘rising’) and toll (‘summons’).
Of course, our evidence for the range of registers which were available in the
vernacular during the late medieval and early modern periods is limited; we have
to make do with the written materials which have survived the vagaries of time,
or with interpreting the sometimes cryptic discussions of contemporary com-
mentators. Scholars of the period do not have the advantages available to
present-day dialectologists and sociolinguists. There are no tape-recordings or
transcriptions taken from the speech of carefully selected informants from the
Wfteenth and sixteenth centuries; informants are (fairly obviously) not available
for follow-up interrogation; many groups in society (e.g. most women and
practically all labouring folk) were illiterate, and this means that we have no
direct access to their language.
1
This is discussed further on p. 146 of Norton-Smith’s edition of John Lydgate: Poems (Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1966).
2
See D. Burnley, The Language of Chaucer (Houndmills: Macmillan, 1983), 178.
from middle to early modern english 125
However, Anthonij Dees, working on medieval French, has suggested that it is
permissible to use direct speech—most obviously in dramatic texts—as evidence
forthespokenusagesofthepast(anapproachwhichisalsoexploredinChapter8).3
Dees does qualify his suggestion by adding the proviso that any direct speech
should not contain lengthy monologues which could represent a more formalized
usage.ItsohappensthatsuchdramaticmaterialisavailableinMiddleEnglishfrom
the Wfteenth century: the play Mankind includes some useful stage interaction
between the ‘vice’ characters New Gyse, Nowadays, and Nought, and the ‘virtue’
character Mercy, in which the characters not only demonstrate a range of registers
but also considerable linguistic self-awareness. We might note especially New
Gyse’s reference to Mercy’s Englysch Laten.
mercy. Mercy ys my name by denomynacyon,
I conseyue Ze haue but a lytell fauour in my communycacyon.
new gyse. Ey, ey! Yowr body ys full of Englysch Laten.
I am aferde yt wyll brest. 125 break apart
‘Prauo te’, quod þe bocher onto me I cures thee
When I stale a leg a motun.
Ze are a stronge cunning clerke.
nowadays. I prey yow hertyly, worschyppull clerke,
To haue þis Englysch mad in Laten: 130
‘I haue etun a dyschfull of curdys,
Ande I haue schetun yowr mowth full of turdys.’
Now opyn your sachell with Laten wordys
Ande sey me þis in clerycall manere!
And, making allowances for the necessary conventionality of literary expres-
sion in non-dramatic verse, some idea of contemporary registers of vocabu-
lary—ranging from ‘curyous’ to ‘rude’—may be derived from the writings of
Caxton’s younger contemporary, the poet and cleric John Skelton
(c 1460–1529). Skelton and other poets of the period, such as Stephen Hawes
(?1475–?1510/11), represent a cultural bridge between the late medieval
and Tudor worlds. Caxton refers, later in his prologue to the Eneydos, to
‘mayster Iohn Skelton late created poete laureate in the vnyuersite of oxen-
3
This is discussed in A. Dees, Etude sur l’evolution des demonstratifs en ancien et en moyen français
(Groningen: Walters-NoordhoV, 1971). I owe this reference to Eleanor Lawson. For a diVerent point of
view, see further Chapter 9.
126 jeremy j. smith
forde’; and in poems such as (respectively) the high-style Dyuers Balettys and
Dyties Solacyous, or the low-style The Tunnyng of Elynour Rummyng, we may
see the range of lexical possibilities which were available to authors of the
period:
Encleryd myrroure and perspectyve most bryght, illuminated
Illumynyd wyth feturys far passyng my reporte; features; surpassing
Radyent Esperus, star of the clowdy nyght,
Lode-star to lyght these lovers to theyr porte, 25
Gayne dangerous stormys theyr anker of supporte,
Theyr sayll of solace most comfortably clad,
Whych to behold makyth hevy hartys glad.
(from Dyuers Balettys)
And than come haltyng Jone,
And brought a gambone gammon
Of bakon that was resty; rancid
But, Lord, that she was testy! furious
Angry as a waspy! 330
She gan to yane and gaspy yawn
And bad Elynour go bet, go on
And fyll in good met:
It was dere that was far fet! fetched from afar
Another brought a spycke 335 piece of fat meat
Of a bacon Xycke; side of bacon
Her tonge was very quycke,
But she spake somwhat thycke.
Her felowe dyd stammer and stut,
But she was a foule slut 340
For her mouth fomyd
And her bely groned:
Jone sayde she had eten a fyest. fart
‘By Chryst,’ sayde she, ‘thou lyest;
I have as swete a breth 345
As thou, with shamefull deth!’
(from The Tunnyng of
Elynour Rummyng)
from middle to early modern english 127
This adoption of ‘curyous termes’ such as illumynyd—which was, according to
the MED, rare before the Wfteenth century—and encleryd in the sense ‘illumi-
nated’ (recorded in OED only in a few sixteenth-century texts) preWgures the
‘inkhornism’ of the Elizabethan period (see further Chapter 8). It stems moreover
from the same impulse: a perceived need to augment the vernacular. However,
that such a lack was perceived in English would have puzzled earlier generations
for whom the solution was easy: use French. But this last option was no longer
available, and the marking of social standing required new linguistic strategies.
As Burnley put it:
The loss of French had by this time Wnally removed the traditional linguistic distinction
between the gentil and the peasant, and no upper-class standard English had yet emerged
to Wll its role, so that it is apparent that the linguistic situation itself had contributed to
this new solution to the problem of maintaining linguistic diVerentiation between the
rulers and the ruled.4
In its way, and as Chapter 3 has already discussed, the loss of French in England
was a kind of ‘language death’; and, as is common in such situations, vocabulary
from the dying language was transferred to its successor as a means of Xagging
social diVerence. It is no coincidence that so many words from French as well as
Latin are Wrst recorded in the English language from the middle of the fourteenth
century onwards—just as French was ceasing to be used as the heightened
register of late medieval English elites. Examples of French loanwords here
include desolation, enable, loyalty, perspective, separate, and zone.
Nor is it a coincidence that so much of this French-derived vocabulary retains
a distinct stylistic signiWcance even in modern English. The word commence, for
instance, is Wrst recorded in English texts in the fourteenth century; its very
earliest occurrences are possibly ‘carry-overs’ from the French originals (e.g. in
‘þei it comenci to snewe and frese’ in the Auchinleck text of the Middle English
romance Sir Orfeo). But the French derivation of commence means that its
present-day semantic connotations are diVerent—heightened—from those of
its near-synonym begin which derives from the native Old English beginnan.
Such diVerentiation, of course, is to be expected; as the linguist Leonard
BloomWeld put it, ‘where a speaker knows two rival forms, they diVer in conno-
tations, since he has heard them from diVerent persons and under diVerent
circumstances’.5
4
See Burnley (1983), 178–9. 5
See L. BloomWeld, Language (London: Unwin, 1933), 394.
128 jeremy j. smith
grammar
As with the lexicon, there is good evidence for grammatical variation in the
writings of the Wfteenth and early sixteenth centuries. Diatopic variation is well
attested throughout the period, and many examples could be adduced.
Perhaps the most salient grammatical distinctions are between Older Scots and
contemporary Southern English. The late Wfteenth century saw a major diver-
gence between these varieties, most obviously indicated by the adoption of a new
name for the former; originally known as Inglis to Scottish writers, the variety is
called Scottis from the late Wfteenth century—a term which had been used up
until that date for Gaelic.
As an illustration, we might compare the Southern and Scots paradigms for
verbal inXexion. In Southern English during the Wfteenth and the early part of the
sixteenth centuries, the paradigm for the present indicative tense appears thus:
I kepe, thou kepest, he/she/it kepeth, we/ye/they kepe.
In Older Scots, by contrast, there were two paradigms for the present indica-
tive. The system works as follows: if the subject of the clause is a personal
pronoun (i.e. ‘I’, ‘thou’, ‘he’, etc.), and comes immediately before or after the
verb, the paradigm is as follows:
Singular 1 I keip
2 thou keipis
3 he/scho/it keipis
Plural we/Ze/thai keip
Otherwise the -is form is used throughout the paradigm for all persons. A good
example appears in the Brus, composed by the Aberdonian poet-priest John
Barbour (c 1320–1396) in 1375 but surviving only in copies made a century later:
‘Thai sla our folk but enchesoune,/ And haldis this land agayne resoune’ (‘They
slay our people without cause,/ And hold this land unreasonably’). Here, since sla
follows immediately after the pronoun Thai, it lacks the -is inXexion which
appears on haldis.
This system of grammatical concord is known as the Northern Personal
Pronoun Rule. As its name suggests, it was also found in Northern Middle
English texts, but over time it withdrew towards the increasingly permanent
Scottish/English border as prestigious southern forms pushed north in England
during the modern period. The system survives sporadically beyond Scotland,
most notably in some of the more conservative dialects of the Eastern United
States; the nineteenth-century dialectologist Joseph Wright later recorded the
from middle to early modern english 129
system as widespread in the north and north midlands of England, Scotland,
Ireland, and the Northern Isles in his English Dialect Grammar of 1905.
But, as with the lexicon, dialectal distinctions are only part of the picture.
Grammatical distinctions also relate to register during the late Middle and early
modern periods. There are indications, for instance, that -s type endings for the
third person present singular as in he keipis were already available in Southern
Middle English in informal situations (see further Chapters 6 and 7). A similar
informal/formal distinction is detectable in earlier texts, in the use or omission of
adjectival -e in southern texts; Chaucerian verse, as is proven by metrical criteria,
distinguished between ‘strong’ and ‘weak’ singular adjectives in (e.g.) the man is
old (strong) beside the olde man (weak since it follows the deWnite article; see
further pp. 18–19). Conversely, it is interesting that in a few Scots texts of the
‘highest’ style the odd quasi-Anglicism is adopted. Thus, in the Eneados of
the poet-bishop Gavin Douglas (?1475–1522) we Wnd doith (‘does’) in place
of the expected dois in the Xambe doith brist (‘the Xame breaks out’).
Such early accommodations to usages which are prototypical of those found
southoftheAnglo-ScottishborderpreWgureamorethorough-goingAnglicization
insixteenth-andseventeenth-centurytextswritteninScotland.This‘Reformation’
AnglicizationappearsWrstinreligioustexts—suchasthesermonsofJohnKnox,the
ScottishreligiousreformerwhoseusagewillbefurtherdiscussedinChapter7—and
is probably related to the Protestant adoption of the English bible.6
However, register diVerences are perhaps most clearly demonstrated gram-
matically in syntactic choices. Since antiquity, rhetorical theory had demanded
that ‘high style’ was associated with complex syntax, and there is good evidence
for such continuing patterns of usage in Wfteenth- and early sixteenth-century
English writing. For instance, in 1418 the mayor, sheriVs, alderman, and commu-
nality of London wrote formally to King Henry V, assuring him of their loyal
appreciation of his reports of his Wghting in France. A copy of the letter survives
in the Guildhall Letter Book of the period:
Of alle erthely Princes our most dred soueraign Liege lord and noblest kynge, we
recomaunde vs vnto your soueraign highnesse and riall power, in as meke wyse and
lowely maner as any symple oYcers and pouuere lieges best may or can ymagine and
diuise vnto her most graciouse and most soueraign kyng, Thankyng with all our soules
your most soueraign excellence and noble grace of the right gentell, right graciouse, and
right confortable lettres, which ye late liked to send vs fro your toun of Pount-de-Larche,
6
This is discussed further in A. Devitt, Standardizing Written English (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1989) and in J. J. Smith, ‘Scots’, in G. Price (ed.), Languages in Britain and Ireland
(Oxford: Blackwell, 2000), 159–70.
130 jeremy j. smith
10
which lettres wiþ al lowenesse and reuerence we haue mekly resceyued, and vnderstonde
bi which lettres, amonges al other blessed spede and graciouse tithinges in hem con-
teyned, for which we thanke hyly, and euer shulle, the lord almighty, ware we most
inwardly 10
conforted and reioysed, whan we herde þe soueraign helthe and parWt pros-
perite of your most excellent and graciouse persoune, which we beseche god of hys grete
grace and noble pite euer to kepe and manteyne.
(riall: royal; her: their; spede: news of success)
This passage (constituting about half the complete letter) consists of a single
sentence in which an opening commendation is followed by a lengthy subordi-
nate clause introduced by the single (capitalized) present participle ‘Thankyng’
(line 4). Such a style, celebratory and mannered, derived from the French
traditions found in homiletic and epistolary prose. As Burnley has pointed out,
in his very telling discussion of this letter, it is a Wne demonstration of the ‘heigh
stile’ which Chaucer’s Host describes in the Prologue to The Clerk’s Tale: ‘Heigh
stile, as whan that men to kynges write’.
Such ‘high-style’ writing found successors elsewhere in literary use, notably in
the so-called ‘trailing style’ which is characteristic of Caxton’s own prose (as
opposed to some of his editions of other authors). A well-known example is
from the preface to Caxton’s edition of Sir Thomas Malory’s cycle of Arthurian
texts (1485):
5
And I accordyng to my copye haue doon sette it in enprynte to the entente that noble men
may see and lerne the noble actes of chyualrye, the jentyl and vertuous dedes that somme
knyghtesvsedinthodayes,bywhychetheycame tohonour,andhowthey thatwerevycious
were punysshed and ofte put to shame and rebuke; humbly bysechyng al noble lordes and
ladyes 5
wythalotherestates ofwhatestate ordegreetheybeenofthatshalsee andredein this
sayd book and werke, that they take the good and honest actes in their remembraunce, and
to folowe the same; wherin they shalle fynde many joyous and playsaunt hystoryes and
noble and renomed actes of humanytye, gentylnesse, and chyualryes.
(renomed: renowned)
Caxton is here restrained in his use of French-derived vocabulary, but his
syntactic choice, with its lengthy subordinate clauses, clearly reXects the kinds
of structure seen in the Guildhall Letter.
Such grandiloquent ‘high’ prose is not all that survives from the period, and a
less convoluted style, which seems to be closer to the usage of contemporary
speech, is also recorded. This ‘pleyn’ style, deriving from native models, is
demonstrated in the writings of Sir Thomas Malory himself. It may also (to
take a less well-known author) be illustrated from the translation of the French
writer Froissart’s Chronicle by Sir John Bourchier, Lord Berners (c 1469–1533). As
from middle to early modern english 131
an illustration, here is part of a passage from Berners’s translation describing an
incident in the Hundred Years’ War, the death of Sir John Chandos (1369–1370):
5
And anone it was fayre light day, for in the begynnyng of January the mornynges be soone
light. And whan the Frenchmen and Bretons were within a leage of the bridge, they
perceyved on the other syde of the bridge Sir Thomas Percy and his company; and he
lykewise perceyved the Frenchmen, and rode as fast as he might to get the advantage of
the bridge . . .
(leage: league)
Although Berners does use some subordinated clauses, the dominant
syntactic mode in this passage is co-ordination, indicated by the presence of the
co-ordinating conjunction ‘and’.
Conversely, something more ‘rude’ (i.e. ‘low-style’) can be found in the
colloquial Vulgaria or ‘school books’ which were designed as sources for
translation from English into Latin. These consisted of collections of everyday
sentences and the example below comes from such a collection from Magdalen
College School, Oxford, c 1500:
Yesterdaye, I departyde asyde prively oute of the feldys from my felows and went be
myselfe into a manys orcherde wher I dyde not only ete rype apples my bely full, but
I toke away as many as I coulde bere.
(manys: man’s)
Of course, even such ‘rude’ writings are conventionalized and literary. Probably
the nearest approximations to the colloquial registers of the period, other than in
the dramatic texts cited in the previous section, are to be found in the great
collections of private letters and memoranda in English which begin to appear in
the Wfteenth and sixteenth centuries. Of these pieces of ‘everyday English’, by far
the best known and largest are the archived letters and papers associated with the
Paston family (mentioned already in Chapter 4)—an aspirant late-medieval
family from Norfolk that rose from humble origins to the nobility. Other
collections are also important: the letters of the wealthy Stonor family in Ox-
fordshire, of the Cely family (a merchant family with business in London,
Flanders, and Calais, some of whose letters will be discussed in Chapter 7), and
of John Shillingford (Mayor of Exeter 1447–50), or the sixteenth- and seven-
teenth-century private documents collected by Bridget Cusack (see pp. 137–8 and
the Further Reading to this chapter).
A Xavour of this sort of material may be had from some of the letters of John
Paston III to his brother John Paston II. In October 1472, John IIIwas living (rather
unhappily) with his formidable mother Margaret in Norwich, and the following
passage from a frank letter of that date to his brother gives an idea of the kind of
132 jeremy j. smith
language used informally by a member of the ‘rising’ classes of the late Wfteenth
century. Syr Jamys, about whom John III is complaining, is James Gloys, a family
chaplain and retainer already referred to in the previous chapter (see p. 113).
5
I send yow herwyth the endenture betwyx yow and Townesend. My modyr hathe herd of
that mater by the reporte of old Wayte, whyche rennyth on it wyth opyn mowthe in hys
werst wyse. My modyr wepyth and takyth on meruaylously, for she seythe she wotyth
well it shall neuer be pledgyd ought; wherfor she seythe that she wyll puruey for hyr lond
þat ye shall non selle of it, for she thynkys ye wold and [i.e. if] it cam to yowr hand. As for
hyr wyll, and all syche maters as wer in hand at your last being here, they thynk that it
shall not lye in all oure porys to let it in on poynt.
10
Syr Jamys is euyr choppyng at me when my modyr is present, wyth syche wordys as he
thynkys wrathe me and also cause my modyr to be dyspleaseid wyth me, evyn as who
seyth he wold I wyst that he settyth not by the best of vs. And when he hathe most
vnsyttyng woordys to me, I smylle a lytyll and tell hym it is good heryng of thes old talys.
Syr Jamys is parson of Stokysby by J. Bernays gyft. I trowe he beryth hym the hyeer.
(wotyth: knows; porys: powers; vnsyttyng: inappropriate; smylle: smile)
The simple syntax and uncomplicated vocabulary of the passage, accompanied by
what seem (from comparison with modern usage) to be ‘natural’ expressions (e.g.
‘My modyr . . . takyth on . . . , I smylle a lytyll and tell hym it is good heryng of thes
old talys’), are good indications of the main characteristics of the ‘playn’ style.
transmission: writing and speech
It should be clear from the preceding sections that the elaboration of English
meant that it was possible to use the language for a very wide set of functions,
from ceremonious address to colloquial complaint, and that this elaboration
manifested itself in distinct lexical and grammatical usages. This elaboration has
implications for the transmission of English, and it is to questions of transmis-
sion—writing-system and phonology—that we must now turn.
It is usual to describe the Wfteenth century as the period of spelling standardi-
zation and, as discussed in the previous chapter, since Michael Samuels’s seminal
article of 1963 scholars have generally emphasized the role of ‘Chancery English’
(sometimes renamed ‘Chancery Standard’) in this process. Samuels modelled the
expression ‘Chancery English’—his Type IVof ‘incipient standard’—on ‘Chancery
from middle to early modern english 133
German’orKanzleideutschwhichemergedinseveralGermanstatesduringthelater
Middle Ages, for example Das Gemeine Deutsch used in Austria, Bavaria, Swabia,
Alsace, parts of the Rhineland, and some parts of what is modern Switzerland.
ChanceryEnglishwasnotenvisagedbySamuelsaslocatedinanyparticularEnglish
oYce of state, and more recent work—notably by Michael Benskin, who is
currently working on a complete reassessment of the issue (see pp. 111–12 of
this volume)—has, as we have seen, tended to downplay any special and
explicitintervention by government intheevolutionof standard spelling practices.
What is undeniable is that the Wfteenth century saw a gradual shift from the
richly diverse spellings of the Middle English period to a more muted set of
variations where more exotic forms of rarer currency were purged in favour of
those more commonly used. The outcome was that late Wfteenth-century spelling
in England tends to be more various in character than present-day English usage,
but nevertheless lacks precise dialectal ‘colouring’. For example: there are one
hundred and forty-three distinct spellings for the item such recorded in the
authoritative Linguistic Atlas of Late Mediaeval English (LALME), ranging from
schch recorded in Norfolk through such forms as swich, seche, and soche to
Kentish zuyche and Northern swilk, slik. But during the course of the Wfteenth
century, such exotics tend to be replaced by more commonly occurring forms
such as such(e) and sich(e).
This purging of what have been termed ‘grosser provincialisms’ seems to
derive from communicative pressures relating to the elaboration of English.
During the earlier Middle English period, as Chapter 4 has already discussed,
written English had a local function—when writing had a national function,
Latin and French were used, as (for instance) in the copying of Magna Carta—
and therefore it made sense to develop a spelling-system which mapped fairly
closely in phonic terms to the varying phonologies of individual localities. An
eZorescence of distinct spelling-systems resulted. But as English began, through
elaboration, to take on national functions, such variation impeded communi-
cation. As a result, a kind of ‘lowest common denominator’ of usage emerged:
colourless written English. Colourless usage emerged at diVerent speeds in
diVerent parts of the country; it appeared Wrst in the southern half of the
country, later in the north, and it seems to have competed and interacted
variously with well-established local usages in (e.g.) the South-West Midlands
and East Anglia. These local variations fairly clearly relate to the state of
vernacular literacy in these areas.
However, standardization in this context was not a straightforward matter—
indeed, as Samuels stressed in 1981, interpreting the process ‘bristles with
134 jeremy j. smith
problems’7
—and the problematic character of the process is well illustrated by
the evidence of the Paston letters. Two short quotations might be used to
demonstrate the issue. In 1479, John Paston II and his brother Walter both
wrote to their mother Margaret. Here is a passage from John’s letter:
But on Tywesdaye I was wyth þe Bysshop of Hely [i.e. Ely], whyche shewyth hymselVe
goode and worshypfull, and he seyde þat he sholde sende to myn oncle William þat he
sholde nott procede in no suche mater till þat he speke wyth hym; and mooreouyre þat he
scholde cawse hym to be heer hastelye.
And here is a passage from Walter’s:
5
I marvel soore that yow sent me noo word of the letter wych I sent to yow by Master
Wylliam Brown at Ester. I sent yow word that tym that I xold send yow myn exspenses
partyculerely, but as at thys tym the berare hereof had a letter sodenly that he xold com
hom, and therefore I kowd have noo leysure to send them yow on that wys; and therefore
I xall wryt to yow in thys letter the hool som of my exspenses sythyns I was wyth yow tyll
Ester last paste, and also the resytys, rekenyng the xx s. that I had of yow to Oxon.
Wardys, wyth the Buschopys fyndyng.
(xold: should; berare: bearer; xall: shall)
What is interesting about these two passages is that these two men, from the same
family (and social group) and writing to the same person, have distinct spelling
systems. John’s usage is more dialectally ‘colourless’ than Walter’s; his forms
include whyche and sholde/scholde, both of which have a fairly widespread
distribution dialectally. But Walter’s wych in the passage has been commented
on, as has his use of x- in xold, xall (‘should’, ‘shall’); the latter in particular is a
distinctively East Anglian usage. The reason for the diVerence between the
brothers seems to be that John was a much-travelled man, part of the entourage
of Edward IV, whereas Walter, a decade younger than his sibling, died soon after
this letter was written; he was a student at Oxford, but otherwise seems to have
lived at home and thus has closer social ties to the Norfolk region. John, more
exposed to written English of diVerent kinds, adopts forms of wider currency.
Nevertheless, both sons expect to be understood by the person who is to read
their letters.
Alongside colourless English, there is evidence for other kinds of usage
restricted to particular genres or even particular authors; and in the early
modern English period there is evidence that spelling took on an ideological
signiWcance. Samuels’s Type I (‘Central Midlands Standard’) seems, as mentioned
7
See M. L.Samuels, ‘Spelling andDialect in the Late andPost-Middle EnglishPeriods’, in M.Benskin
and M. L. Samuels (eds), So meny people, longages and tonges: philological essays in Scots and mediaeval
English presented to Angus McIntosh (Edinburgh: Middle English Dialect Project, 1981), 43–54.
from middle to early modern english 135
in Chapter 4, to have emerged in the mid-fourteenth century as a means of
transmitting university learning (particularly theological) to a wider audience
who could read the vernacular. At the other end of the period under review,
during the sixteenth century in Scotland, it became usual for Catholics to use
Older Scots but for Protestants, modelling their usage on the English vernacu-
lar bible, to adopt Anglicized forms. It is no coincidence that one of the earliest
English spelling reformers, Sir John Cheke, devised a special usage—with (e.g.)
long vowels Xagged by the doubling of letters, as in eest (‘East’), fruut
(‘fruit’)—for the translation of the Bible that he undertook at the request of
the reformer Archbishop Cranmer. Moreover, special spelling systems seem to
have been adopted for the copying of particular writers: it seems to have been
usual to transcribe the Confessio Amantis of John Gower and the Mirror of the
Blessed Life of Jesus Christ of Nicholas Love, both texts which survive in many
copies, using spelling systems peculiar to both textual traditions. Thus a
‘typical’ Gower will contain slightly odd spellings such as o(u)ghne for the
adjective ‘own’, -ende inXexions for the present participle, for example
walkende rather than walking, and syncopated forms of the third person
present singular verb, for example brekth (‘breaks’) rather than breketh, and
these spelling systems continued to be used when these works came to be
printed.
These last examples indicate that there was a perceived developing need to
adopt a particular spelling system, but as yet no particular model had been
selected for adoption. Indeed, authoritative norms for spelling in English only
appear in the practices of printers in the sixteenth century, alongside the writings
of the orthoepists and spelling reformers such as Hart and Cheke. Even then
spelling variation in private writings lasted for many years subsequently (see
further Chapters 9 and 10). The evolution of standardized spelling, therefore,
relates closely to—and depends upon—the elaboration of English during the
Wfteenth century, and the evidence suggests that standardization was not a
straightforward process.
When we turn to the evolution of prestigious and/or standardized accents, the
evidence becomes much more indirect and hard to interpret, but it is possible to
make some broad observations.
The evidence for accents during the Middle English period derives from a
mixture of things such as the analysis of rhyming and alliterating verse and
including—for stress patterns—the study of metre, or by means of comparative
and internal reconstruction. Particularly important is the study of the relation-
ship between written symbol and what may be presumed to be the corresponding
sound; although LALME, the great resource for the study of Middle English
136 jeremy j. smith
dialects, claims only to map the writing systems of the medieval period, it is
nevertheless possible, provided that important qualiWcations are understood, to
draw certain conclusions about the sound system relating to the writing systems
which LALME records, since the relationship between written symbol and
corresponding sound seems to have been closer during the Middle English period
than ever since.
No detailed (as opposed to general) discussion of accents by a contemporary
writer survives; until the spelling reformers and phoneticians of the sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries, there is no English equivalent to the twelfth-century First
Grammatical Treatise which provides us with a sophisticated phonological an-
alysis of the medieval vernacular of Old Icelandic. However, as Chapter 4 has
already revealed, interpretation of this kind of spelling evidence does enable a
good deal of the phonological map of the Middle English period to be recon-
structed.
It is usual for scholars to argue that, as symbol and sound began to diverge
under the impact of standardization during the course of the Wfteenth and
sixteenth centuries—‘silent k ’, for instance, seems to have appeared in English
in knife, knight during the course of the early seventeenth century—the evi-
dence for speech becomes harder to interpret, or is indeed uninformative (a
problem which is addressed in Chapter 6). Nevertheless, this argument has
perhaps been overstated, for there are many writings from the Wfteenth and
sixteenth centuries which, taken alongside the discussion of contemporary
writers on language, enable something of the accentual map of the period to
be reconstructed.
Some of the most interesting material relevant for this purpose has been
collected by Bridget Cusack. The following passage is taken from a letter written
by Alice RadcliVe, probably a resident of Winmarleigh in Lancashire. The letter is
dated by Cusack to 1524.
5
Ryght Wryscheppefull Syr in my moste hwmly Wyse I recommande me vnto you
Dyssyrynge to here of youre well fare the Wyche I pray iesu in cresse to is plusure & to
youre moste herttys Dyssyre Syr has tochynge youre laste letter qwere in I persawe Ze
Dyssyryt me to be gud moder to my swnne & yourys yt there be no predysciall nar hwrtte
vnto my swnnys Anarretans Syr has ferre has lys in my pore power I wyll be lotthe to Se yt
swlde hwr it And yV yer be ony mon A bowth to do hym Any Wronge youre mas-
terscheppe sall hawe knawlyge trystynge yt Ze Wylle se remedy for hym for he nor I has no
noder socare both you
(hwmly: humble; in cresse: increase; is plusure: his pleasure; has: as (also in l. 6); in: wherein; persawe:
perceive; swnne: son; predysciall: prejudicial; hwrtte: hurt; Anarretans: inheritance; swlde hwr: should
hurt; A bowth: about; sall hawe: shall have; no noder socare both: no other succour but)
from middle to early modern english 137
Alice’s usage is of interest for a number of reasons, not least because her
spelling—while bearing in mind the oft-cited complexity of the relationship
between written and spoken modes—seems to relate fairly closely to what we
can reconstruct of contemporary pronunciation. Thus the stressed vowels in gud
(‘good’) in line 5 and knawlyge (‘knowledge’) in line 8 seem to reXect the fronted
reXexes of the Old English long vowels ō and ā which are characteristic of
Northern English accents both during the Middle English period and in the
present day. Similarly typical of Northern speech would be a voiceless alveolar
fricative consonant [s] in place of the palato-alveolar [$] in shall, represented in
the spelling sall (‘shall’, ‘must’) in line 8. Analysis of Cusack’s collection not only
shows that a dialect map of the early modern period along the lines of the
LALME would not be impossible; it also shows that it is possible to reconstruct
something of the informal and dialectal speech which mapped onto this writing.
Nevertheless, such an enterprise would depend much more on such ‘everyday
English’ as Cusack has collected than on the major literary texts which form the
core of LALME’s analyses. Public writing during the period is comparatively
more homogeneous, for the reasons Xagged above, and there is good evidence
that the elaboration of English during the period correlated with the emergence
of prestigious forms of pronunciation.
The clearest statement to this eVect is in the famous chapter ‘Of Language’ in
The Arte of English Poesie (1589) by the Tudor courtier-critic George Puttenham
(c1520–90). The poet, advises Puttenham, should avoid the usages of ‘marches
and frontiers, or in port townes, where straungers haunt for traYkesake’;also to be
avoided are the ‘peeuish aVectation of words out of the primatiue languages’ used
by scholars in the universities, or the usage of ‘poore rusticall or vnciuill people’, or
5
10
15
the speach of a craftes man or carter, or other of the inferiour sort, though he be
inhabitant or bred in the best towne and Citie in this Realme, for such persons doe abuse
good speaches by strange accents or ill shapen soundes, and false ortographie. But he
shall follow generally the better brought vp sort, such as the Greekes call [charientes] men
ciuill and graciously behauoured and bred. Our maker [i.e. poet] therfore at these dayes
shall not follow Piers plowman nor Gower nor Lydgate nor yet Chaucer, for their language
is now out of vse with vs: neither shall he take the termes of Northern-men, such as they
vse in dayly talke, whether they be noble men or gentlemen, or of their best clarkes all is a
matter: nor in eVect any speech vsed beyond the riuer of Trent, though no man can deny
that theirs is the purer English Saxon at this day, yet it is not so Courtly nor so currant as
our Southerne English is, no more is the far Westerne mans speech: ye shall therfore take
the vsuall speach of the Court, and that of London and the shires lying about London
within lx. Myles, and not much aboue. I say not this but that in euery shyre of England
there be gentlemen and others that speake but specially write as good Southerne as we of
Middlesex or Surrey do, but not the common people of euery shire, to whom the
138 jeremy j. smith
gentlemen, and also their learned clarkes do for the most part condescend, but herein we
are already ruled by th’English Dictionaries and other bookes written by learned men,
and therefore it needeth none other direction in that behalfe.
The passage is of considerable interest for a number of reasons. It indicates
a codifying stage in the standardization of English (the ‘bookes written by
learned men’ of line 17), an awareness of linguistic change (see lines 5–7), and a
sense that non-standard varieties have certain archaic features (see lines 10–14).
It also suggests that a ‘standard’ usage has yet to penetrate beyond the River
Trent even among ‘noble men and gentlemen’. But most importantly for our
purposes, it signals the existence in towns of a class structure correlating with
speech—including matters of accent (we might note the reference in the opening
lines to the ‘ill shapen sounds’ of the ‘craftes man or carter’). It is therefore
permissible to apply, if not all the methods, at least the insights of modern
sociolinguistics to the major conurbations of Tudor England—most obviously,
to London.
The question arises, though, as to the possibility of detecting class-based
accentual distinctions at any earlier date. Puttenham’s account is the most
explicit of a number of sixteenth-century comments. John Palsgrave, an early
sixteenth-century student of French, refers in 1532 to a pronunciation ‘where the
best englysshe is spoken’; the scholar-diplomat Sir Thomas Elyot, in The Boke
called the Governour (1531) refers to how a nobleman’s son must ‘speke none
englisshe but that which is cleane, polite, perfectly and articulately pronounced’;
and Henry Dowes, tutor to Thomas Cromwell’s son, states his charge is learning
‘the natural and true kynde of pronunciation’.8
But there are very few if any such comments from before the beginning of the
sixteenth century. Dialect-awareness is used comically in GeoVrey Chaucer’s The
Reeve’s Tale, but the comedy in that poem does not depend on social class; if
anything, the Northern students belong to a higher social class than the Cam-
bridgeshire miller they fool. In the Wrst half of the Wfteenth century, the Northern
shepherds of the WakeWeld Second Shepherds’ Play mock the ‘Sothren tothe’ of the
sheep-stealer Mak in his pose as ‘a yoman . . . of the kyng’, but Mak’s ‘tothe’
seems to be characterized by southern English grammar rather than pronuncia-
tion, with ich be for I am and ye doth for ye do.
We are therefore forced back on hypotheses based on probabilities and the
analysis of historical correspondences; and there are at least indications that a
8
These (and other comments) are discussed in Eric Dobson’s 1955 article, ‘Early Modern Standard
English’, Transactions of the Philological Society, 25–54. Reprinted in R. Lass (ed.), Approaches to English
Historical Linguistics (New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1969), 419–39.
from middle to early modern english 139
class-based system was beginning to appear in London English. Indeed, the
existence of such a system oVers the best hypothesis for the origins of the
major phonological distinction between Middle and early modern English: the
Great Vowel Shift, which saw a whole series of raisings and diphthongizations of
the long vowels of late Middle English in an apparently ordered way. The Shift
will be further examined in Chapter 6, so there is no need to examine the detail of
its geometry here. But its origins—described as ‘mysterious’ by Stephen Pinker in
1994—lie, it might be argued, in the interaction of usages in late medieval
London. (‘Origins’ are here seen as the triggering of the process, as distinct
from ‘inception’ as described in the following chapter.)
We know that London underwent a surge in its population during the
fourteenth century, and this seems to correspond to the development of
‘Types’ of London English in the latter half of the century which were formu-
lated by Samuels in 1963. Most immigrants into London came from the
Midlands; on arrival, they encountered an elite whose usage had a more
southerly basis.
From the analysis of rhymes it is possible to reconstruct the various sound
systems existing in late medieval London. It is clear that writers such as Chau-
cer—an important government oYcial and a member of the royal court—had a
distinct sound system from those of Midland writers, most notably in the reXexes
of lengthened Middle English short e, o. For Chaucer, as his rhyming practice
conWrms, the lengthened forms of these vowels—as in the verb beren (‘to bear’)
and forlore (‘abandoned’) respectively—were distinct from the reXexes (i.e. the
corresponding forms) of the Old English long vowels ēa, æ, as in leren (‘to teach’)
which derives from Old English læran), and ā (which was rounded to /O:/ in
accents south of the Humber, as in Chaucer’s loore (‘teaching’) which derives
from Old English lār). Chaucer can therefore rhyme loore with moore (from Old
English māra, but not with, for example, before (from Old English beforan).
However, Midland texts regularly rhyme lengthened e with the reXexes of the Old
English long vowels ēa, ǣ, and lengthened o with the reXex of Old English ā,
giving rhymes such as reade (‘red’): iureden (‘injure’), and of ore (‘mercy’, from
Old English ār): uorlore (‘abandoned’).
When two phonological systems come into contact, it is usual to expect
adjustment to take place. We know from the evidence of present-day sound-
changes in progress that very slight diVerences in articulation can have a major
systemic eVect as these diVerences are monitored and hyperadaptation—what we
can see as ‘overshooting the mark’—follows. If Chaucerian-type usage were
accommodating itself to Midland usage, then we would predict a hyperadapted
lowering. If, on the other hand, Midland usage were accommodating itself to
140 jeremy j. smith
Chaucerian-type usage, then we would predict a hyperadapted raising; and it is of
considerable interest that a raising would correlate with the Wrst stage of the Shift.
That the accommodation had a social basis is indicated by what we know of
the social structure of late medieval London. London, like other cities, was
dominated socially by an oligarchy: a group of richer citizens, of which Chaucer
was one. The tale of Dick Whittington, which dates from this period, is
essentially a capitalist success story in which the poor hero joins an elite; it
is not a revolutionary attack on the existing order. Although the pantomime
story is considerably embellished, it does encapsulate an essential truth: success-
ful incomers to London accommodated themselves to the elites who were in
power.
Whatever the origins of the Shift, it seems fairly clear that accents had social
implications by the late Wfteenth century. Caxton, perhaps, already indicates this,
in his prologue to The Recuyell of the Historyes of Troye (1475). This prologue
seems to be the Wrst he wrote; it was the Wrst book to be printed in English, in
Bruges, before Caxton moved to Westminster in 1476.
. . . I remembryd my self of my symplenes and vnperWghtnes that I had in bothe
langages/ that is to wete in frenshe & in englissh for in france was I neuer/ and was
born & lerned myn englissh in kente in the weeld [i.e. Kent in the Weald] where I doubte
not is spoken as brode and rude englissh as is in ony place of englond . . . .
(vnperWghtnes: faultiness, imperfection; wete: be ascribed to)
The passage indicates that the Kentish of the Weald was, for Caxton, a ‘rude’, or
‘low-status’ usage, and it seems likely that this notion of ‘rudeness’ could be
applied to pronunciation as to other levels of language. However, the passage
does not necessarily indicate that there was a speciWc ‘correct’ usage for him to
adopt; he knew what was ‘rude’, but not yet for certain what was polite. The
problem was that, just as with the evolution of standard spelling, a particular
model of pronunciation had yet to be clearly distinguished at the end of the
Wfteenth century.
the arrival of printing
This chapter began with a discussion of the relationship between internal and
external approaches to the history of the language; and in this Wnal section we
might return to the key ‘external’ event during the Wfteenth century: Caxton’s
introduction of printing to England in 1476.
from middle to early modern english 141
It is of interest that Caxton worries repeatedly in his own prose, from his very
Wrst prologue, about the role of the vernacular; it would seem that technological
and linguistic innovation go together, and this is signiWcant for the argument of
this chapter. It has often been pointed out that Caxton’s success as a printer
depended on his linking of supply to demand: if there had been no demand for
the books he printed, then Caxton, a shrewd businessman, would not have
produced them.
From the discussion above, it is possible to reconstruct where this demand
came from: rising folk, aspiring to elite status, who were most at home in the
vernacular. The Pastons were such people. Their enemies could think of no more
cutting insult than to describe them as ‘churles’, for their origins seem to have
been humble. In a lost document dating from the Wfteenth century, the family
was founded by ‘one Clement Paston dwellyng in Paston, and he was a good
pleyn husbond, and lyvyd upon hys lond yt he has in Paston, and kept yron a
Fig. 5.1. Caxton’s English: a passage from Caxton’s The Myrrour of the World (West-
minster: c 1490; A4v, Sp Coll Hunterian Bv.2.30)
142 jeremy j. smith
Plow alle tymes in ye yer’. But as the Pastons rose—they were regularly MPs and
courtiers from the 1460s onwards—they developed the courtly tastes for which
Caxton was to cater. Caxton Xatters his audience—his books are for ‘noble lordes
and ladyes’—but he also claims that the act of translation is so that his work
‘myght be had and vsed emonge the people for thamendement of their maners’;
and in his edition of The Royal Book (1488) he tells us that he ‘reduced into
englisshe’ the book ‘at the request & specyal desyre of a synguler frende of myn a
mercer of london’. Such socially-aspirant mercers—merchant traders, like Cax-
ton himself—were evidently an important part of his clientele. Indeed, they had
shown they were eager to engage with courtly culture, even before Caxton
provided them with the wherewithal; their ‘mercers’ marks’ are frequently
found in major literary manuscripts from the late fourteenth century onwards,
for example in MS Oxford, Corpus Christi College B.67, an important early
Wfteenth-century manuscript of John Gower’s Confessio Amantis. These folk were
conscious that manners—perhaps their manners—needed amendment.
Perhaps the best instance of this aspiration towards the courtly is oVered by the
career and tastes of Sir John Paston II, an important member of the Paston family
whose language has already been discussed on p. 135. John not only took part in
1467 in a famous royal tournament at Eltham—always an occasion for the
egregious display of courtly virtues—but he also developed an interest in aristo-
cratic literature. He employed the scribe William Ebesham to compile his ‘Great
Book’ of chivalric texts, and he wrote out for his own use a famous ‘List of Books’,
which included a number of works Caxton was to print, such as Cicero’s Of Old
Age and Of Friendship, and Chaucer’s Troilus and Criseyde and The Parliament of
Foules, and also what appears to be Caxton’s Game and Play of the Chess, printed
in Bruges in 1475: ‘a boke jn preente oV ye Pleye of ye < . . . >’. John must have
acquired this book soon after it appeared, because he died in 1479; he was clearly
part of Caxton’s social network (even though Caxton does not refer to him), for
Caxton does refer, in his printing of Cicero’s Of Old Age (1481), to the Pastons’
great patron, Sir John Fastolf. SigniWcantly, John Paston II also owned ‘myn olde
boke oV blasonyngys’ and ‘my boke of knyghthod’.
In miniature, the Pastons encapsulate the processes involved in the elaboration
of English during the Wfteenth century. For them, and for people like them,
English had achieved—or, perhaps more accurately, was achieving—a dignity
which made it available for almost every kind of use, both literary and non-
literary; and this functional change had clear implications for the formal develop-
ment of English in terms of written standardization and lexical augmentation.
Moreover, it is worth pointing out that there is a profound connection
between this development and the historical and social developments of the
from middle to early modern english 143
sixteenth century in which vernacular literacy played so important a role:
the English Reformation, and the rise of Elizabethan and Jacobean vernacular
culture.
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
Useful overviews of the transition between Middle and early modern English appear in
all the standard histories of the language (e.g. Barber (1993), Baugh and Cable (2002),
Strang (1970)), although the tendency to split Middle and early modern English
between chapters can cause problems of continuity. The relevant volumes of the
Cambridge History of the English Language—speciWcally Blake (1992) and Lass (1999a,
1999b)—are crucial resources for all levels of language, though stronger on ‘internal’
than on ‘external’ history. An older book which still contains much of value is Wyld
(1936); Wyld was almost alone in his generation in seeing the history of English as not
simply a process of standardization. Explicit connections, at an introductory level,
between Middle and early modern English are made in Smith (1999, second edition
forthcoming). On questions of form and function in relation to the history of English,
see Samuels (1972), Smith (1996a), both of which contain sections on the main levels
of language (lexicon, grammar, transmission). For the typology of standardization
(elaboration, selection, codiWcation, acceptance), see Haugen (1966), Hudson (1980:
32–4).
A useful resource of texts, with good annotation, is Burnley (1992a). Vernacular
documents from the Middle/early modern English transition are printed in Chambers
and Daunt (1931), Görlach (1991), and Cusack (1998). These editions (especially the latter
two) are particularly useful for students of the history of English since there has been
minimal editorial intervention. Modern practice—even, unhappily, in scholarly edi-
tions—is to make numerous silent decisions in the editing of Middle and early modern
English texts; such decisions can disguise important linguistic features such as punctu-
ation, marks of abbreviation, and even spelling. For contemporary comments on the
English language, see Bolton (1966). Important texts by Caxton appear in Blake (1973).
Crotch (1928: 109–10) is, with minor modiWcation and annotations, the source of the
quotations from Caxton’s Eneydos which appear on pp. 121 and 122–3 of this chapter. The
citation from Mulcaster (1582) on p. 121 is taken from Bolton (1966: 10).
Introductions which include relevant material for the transition between Middle and
early modern English include Horobin and Smith (2002) and Nevalainen (forthcoming),
both part of the Edinburgh Textbooks on the English Language series; full references and
suggestions for further reading are given in both. The best introduction to Middle
English from a literary perspective is Burrow and Turville-Petre (1996); for early modern
English, see Barber (1997) and Görlach (1991).
144 jeremy j. smith
Lexicon
For word geography, see McIntosh (1973); for some possible approaches, see the
articles by Hoad, Lewis, and Fellows Jensen in Laing and Williamson (1994). For
the examples of diatopic variation discussed at this point in the chapter, see further
Smith (1996a: 180–5). The citation from Chaucer’s Reeve’s Tale is taken from Benson
(1988: 80). For discussion of stylistic choice, see the important chapters on ‘literary
language’ by Burnley and Adamson which appear respectively in Blake (1992) and Lass
(1999b). A special study of Chaucerian usage, with wider implications, appears in
Burnley (1983).
For aureate diction, see Norton-Smith (1966: 192–5); the quotation from Lydgate is
taken from Norton-Smith (1966: 26), and a discussion of nebule appears on p. 194. The
Boke of St. Albans was edited by Hands (1975). Eccles (1969) is the source of the extract
from Mankind. For the quotations from Skelton, see Kinsman (1969: 4 and 62).
Further examples of French loanwords from this period can be found in Strang
(1970: 184). The quotation from line 247 of Sir Orfeo can be found in Burrow and
Turville-Petre (1996: 121). On questions of meaning and changes in meaning, see still
Waldron (1979); also important are Burnley (1983) and Samuels (1972). The main
resources for the study of the lexicon (as well as much else) during the period are
of course the historical dictionaries: the Oxford English Dictionary (OED) and the
Middle English Dictionary (MED). Both these resources are now accessible online by
subscription, and can be accessed in most university libraries; electronic publication
has massively enhanced their functionality. The MED (alongside other resources) may
be found at <http://ets.umdl.umich.edu/m/mec/>. The OED appears at <http://
dictionary.oed.com/>.
Grammar
On the evolution of grammar during the Middle English/early modern English transi-
tion, see Denison (1993) and references there cited. Important discussion is also provided
in Samuels (1972). For transmission during this period of transition, see Horobin and
Smith (2002, especially chapter 4 and references there cited), for a basic account.
Important detailed discussions appear in Barber (1997) and Görlach (1991). The quota-
tion on p. ** from Barbour’s Brus is from Book 1, 487–8, and is cited from Duncan (1997).
Wright (1905: 296, §435) provides evidence of the continuance of the Northern Personal
Pronoun Rule into the late nineteenth century. Gray (1985: 327) is the source of the
quotation on p. 130 from Douglas (line 145). The Guildhall Letter also cited here derives
(with minor modiWcations) from Chambers and Daunt (1931: 72–3). For Caxton’s edition
of Malory, see Blake (1973); the cited extract can be found on pp. 7–8. The quotation
on p. 132 from Lord Berners’ translation of Froissart is taken from Gray (1985: 394), as is
from middle to early modern english 145
the extract from the Magdalen College schoolbook (see pp. 276–7). John Paston’s letter to
his brother is taken (with minor modiWcations) from Davis (1971: 582, text 355).
Transmission: writing and speech
On written standardization, the best recent published discussion is Benskin (1992), which
preWgures a large-scale reassessment of the problem; an extended discussion appears in
Benskin (2004). Benskin’s discussion of the spread of colourless usage through the
various geographical areas can be found in Benskin (1992: 82–5). However, the most
accessible account remains that given in the introduction to LALME. John Fisher’s
extensive writings on this issue, for example (1977), should be seen in the light of
Benskin’s comments; the anthology of ‘Chancery Standard’ texts by Fisher et al. (1984)
should therefore be consulted with care. On the diVerent usages of the Paston brothers,
see Davis (1983). The cited extracts from the letters of John Paston II and his brother
Walter are, with minor modiWcations, taken from Davis (1971: 516, 644). See also Gomez
Solino (1984), the preliminary Wndings for which were reported in Samuels (1981: 43, 52).
For an examination of Cheke’s principles of reformed spelling, see Dobson (1968: 43–6).
On the spelling systems used in copies of Gower and Nicholas Love, see further Smith
(1988b) and Hellinga (1997).
On the standardization of speech, the best account (with full references) remains
Dobson (1955), supplemented by materials in Dobson (1968). Wyld (1936) is also im-
portant. On applying the insights of sociolinguistics to past states of the language, see
Smith (1996a), and also Mugglestone (2003a, especially chapter 1). The First Grammatical
Treatise is discussed by Haugen (1972). The extract from Alice RadcliVe’s letter is cited
(with minor modiWcations) from Cusack (1988: 232). That from Puttenham is taken
(with some minor changes) from Görlach (1991: 237–8).
On the northernisms in The Reeve’s Tale, see Tolkien (1934) and Smith (1995); for the
Second Shepherds’ Play, see Cawley (1958: 48, 131). On the origins of the Great Vowel Shift,
see Smith (1996a, especially chapter 5). For a discussion of rhyming practice in Middle
English, see Smith (1996a: 98) and references there cited. The extract on p. 141 from
Caxton’s prologue to The Recuyell of the Historyes of Troye is taken (with minor mod-
iWcations) from Crotch (1928: 4).
The arrival of printing
See Febvre and Martin (1976) for a good account of the impact of printing between
1450–1800. For an overview of a range of early printed books, with illustrations, see
<http://special.lib.gla.ac.uk/exhibns/printing/index.html>. The origins of the Paston
family are discussed by Davis (1971: p.xli); their designation as ‘churles’ can be found in
Davis (1971, text 129). The quotations from Caxton’s The Royal Book, which appears on
p. 143 are taken from Crotch (1928).
146 jeremy j. smith
6
RESTRUCTURING
RENAISSANCE ENGLISH
April McMahon
EARLY modern English (a convenient if slightly amorphous term which
covers at least 1500–1700, the two centuries focused on in this chapter) is a
period of paradox. It is during early modern English that many features of
present-day English were developed and consolidated: caricaturing slightly, this
period is a bridge between the dialectal diversity which, as Chapter 4 has
indicated, is widely apparent in Middle English, and the striving for order and
regularity which, as Chapter 9 will explore, is often seen to be characteristic of the
eighteenth-century grammarians and codiWers. However, this same period in-
volves very considerable structural and systemic change.
In this chapter, I shall concentrate on just these structural changes and
speciWcally on phonology—the sound system of English, where we see some of
the most signiWcant developments of the period. Of course, as earlier chapters in
this volume have illustrated, there are many diVerent ways of doing linguistic
history, and of Wnding out just what the important changes were. As in Chapter 5,
we can look at the practice of individuals which, for this period, will mean
examining written documents to see what ‘speakers’ were doing from generation
to generation. We can, as the next chapter will show, bring together documents
written by a larger number of individuals for the same period into corpora or, in
other words, into substantial collections of electronically available and searchable
materials. These can then be examined, for example, to assess whether there were
linguistic diVerences within a period depending on whether the ‘speaker’ was
male or female, was writing for a personal or a public audience, or was commu-
nicating about a particular topic. However, in this chapter I shall, for the most
part, be working at a rather more abstract level, thinking about the language
systems which it seems reasonable for us to posit for the early modern period of
English on the basis of all these diVerent kinds of evidence, and comparing those
systems with those of English today. I shall also be introducing diVerent perspec-
tives from phonological theory, to see whether we can explain why developments
in Renaissance English took the particular course they did.
Working in this way, comparing systems and considering rather abstract
changes in those systems, might seem to take our focus away from the indi-
vidual speakers through whose usage and knowledge the linguistic changes
under discussion were percolating at this time. However, we shall see as we
go along that this is not necessarily the case. To understand language change as
well as we can, we have to deal with two diVerent levels all the time, that of the
speaker, and that of the linguistic system: both are useful and necessary. We
shall (as the previous chapter has indicated) see that English may have been
gradually standardizing but that this does not equate to complete uniformity
and does not reduce the importance or utility of dialect variation. A speaker-
focused historical linguistics must also, as other chapters have already stressed,
allow diVerent speakers to have diVerent systems. On the other hand, as
historical linguists, we can use those more abstract notions of systems to
make generalizations above the level of the speaker when those seem product-
ive; here, we can also beneWt from adopting a pluralistic rather than a mono-
lithic model of English.
a focus on phonology
The main focus of this chapter will be on the sound system of English and, in
particular, on the dramatic changes which take place in its long vowels during
this period. However, this is not to suggest that nothing was happening in other
areas of the language. On the contrary, as Chapters 7 and 8 will conWrm, there was
in fact considerable contemporaneous grammatical and lexical change. To give an
overview at this point in the volume there is, perhaps most obviously, great
lexical expansion in early modern English, as English becomes increasingly
outward-looking, leading to the borrowing of words such as cargo from Spanish,
sheikh and sherbet from Arabic, and coVee from Turkish. At the end of our period,
the scene is set for the building of the Empire, the development of extraterritorial
Englishes in North America, Australia, and beyond (see further Chapter 12), and
a consequent quantum leap in borrowed vocabulary.
148 april mcmahon
In morphology, our period sees a gradual but comprehensive decline in the use
of the second person singular pronoun thou (in subject position) and thee (in
object position) although, as the linguist Roger Lass has noted, the history of this
form remains ‘intricate and not well understood (alternatively, not entirely
coherent)’.1
What is clear is that the opposition of thou/ thee and ye/ you which
was a staple feature of Middle English is almost gone by the eighteenth century,
except in certain specialist registers and in some parts of the north. As thou slips
away moreover, it takes along the matching verb ending -(e)st of forms such as
thou goest, thou thinkest, thou seest, which in turn contributes to that general
reduction of overt inXectional morphology which, as we have seen, had been
under way since the Old English period. In the same vein, the earlier -(e)th/ -(e)þ
verbal marker for the third person singular present tense Wrst comes to alternate
with the originally northern -(e)s, and is gradually displaced by it. As the
following chapter will examine in detail, forms such as he goeth, she telleth are
therefore gradually replaced by he goes, she tells, via a stage of coexistence when
the same writer can use both in the same passage, and sometimes with the same
verb. Although here an inXectional marker is retained (he goes, she tells), the
overall inventory of English inXectional morphological strategies is again reduced
during this period.
In syntax, the furthest-reaching development in early modern English involves
the use of do. At the start of our period this is used quite routinely in declarative,
aYrmative sentences (e.g. I do send a letter) but is not required in questions or
negatives such as I send not a letter ; Send I a letter? Moreover, at this time any verb
can appear directly before the negative marker, or can invert with the subject to
make a question. This is, in a sense, the converse of the present-day situation
where we do not typically Wnd what is termed ‘periphrastic do’, although do may
still appear in emphatic aYrmatives—I deWnitely (do) like it. On the other hand,
do is now an essential supporting verb in negatives and in questions which lack
an auxiliary verb: in modern English, it is now only have, be, and do which can
invert with the subject or precede the negative marker in these constructions, as
in the examples below:
I am a terrible singer. I hear a terrible singer.
Am I a terrible singer? Do I hear a terrible singer?
I am not a terrible singer. I do not hear a terrible singer.
1
See R. Lass, ‘Phonology and morphology’, in R. Lass (ed.), The Cambridge History of the English
Language, Vol. III: 1476–1776 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999), 148.
restructuring renaissance english 149
It seems that, around the middle of our period, English might well have been
developing into a language which required do in every sentence though this
possible change was never completed. Instead, do found a niche in particular
constructions. Periphrastic do had by no means disappeared by 1700, but it was
clearly on the decline.
Finally, throughout the early modern period, English is becoming more
familiar to the modern eye, as spelling (especially in public domains of usage)
becomes more regular, encouraged by the commercial pressures accompanying
the introduction and spread of printing. Nevertheless, the increasing stabilization
does not mean that orthographic practice became completely uniform: much in
fact depended on whether the intended audience for a document was more
public or more private and intimate.
The following extract, which is also discussed in the next chapter, is, for
example, from a letter of Queen Elizabeth I to King James VI of Scotland written
in 1591:
My deare brother, As ther is naught that bredes more for-thinking repentance and
agrived thoughtes than good turnes to harme the giuers ayde, so hathe no bonde euer
tied more honorable mynds, than the shewes of any acquittal by grateful acknwelegement
in plain actions; for wordes be leues and dides the fruites.
This reveals a number of typical features of Renaissance orthography such as the
continued use of u and v as positional variants (as in euer in line 2, leves in line 4)
rather than, as in modern English, their deployment as vowel and consonant
respectively. It also shows considerable variation in the use of single Wnal -e,
which was no longer pronounced at this time (see deare in line 1, good in line 2),
as well as in the use of i and y (as in ayde in line 2, and plain in line 4). Moreover,
in terms of morphology, it also shows that Elizabeth is using the novel third
person singular -(e)s ending, at least in personal correspondence, in contrast to
her father King Henry VIII (1491–1547) who had used the older -(e)th even in
personal letters (see further p. 188). In the last line (and in contrast to bredes in
line 1), we can also see the form dides (‘deeds’) for earlier (and co-existing) dedes.
Variation here may also provide evidence for the progress of the Great Vowel
Shift which, as we shall see, raised /e:/ to /i:/ in words of exactly this kind.
In view of all this action in the lexis and morphosyntax, we might therefore ask
why a focus on the phonology of early modern English is either desirable or
necessary. First, there is arguably at least as much change in early modern English
phonology as in any other area of the grammar: in particular, and as the previous
chapter has already indicated, the whole long vowel system is radically reshaped
between about 1450 and 1750 in what has come to be known as the Great Vowel
150 april mcmahon
Shift. These shifts of long vowels, and the other changes that lead up to these or
that follow in their wake, are probably the major phonological factor which
distinguishes Middle English from modern English. As such, their signiWcance
cannot be overestimated nor—in reality—discussed in just a few paragraphs.
This is especially true given that these changes are also (perhaps understandably,
given their magnitude) particularly controversial, and there is a very considerable
literature on the so-called ‘Great Vowel Shift’ and the changes surrounding it.
This is itself, therefore, justiWes a much closer look at phonological change in the
period.
Second, the development of historical corpus linguistics (which will be dis-
cussed in more detail in Chapter 7) has led to a great leap forward in our
approach to—and understanding of—changes in lexis, morphology, and syntax.
For various reasons, however, the eVect of this methodological revolution cannot
be so signiWcant for phonology. As the next chapter points out, corpora are, for
instance, most useful for morphosyntactic change since they may not be suY-
ciently extensive for an accurate picture of lexical developments, while, in terms
of pronunciation, the increasing standardization of spelling can impede system-
atic evidence of on-going change. Naturally, even in morphosyntax, the collec-
tion and analysis of corpus data is not the end of the story. Finding a trend which
seems to indicate the introduction, increase, decrease, or loss of a feature is in
itself interesting, and is able to take us much further than the painstaking
accumulation of small amounts of data which our predecessors had to settle
for as they strove to document the linguistic changes of the past. However, the
hypothesized changes which underlie any perceived trend then require explan-
ation and this, in itself, the corpus cannot provide. For instance, the decrease in
the use of negative do in London after 1600 could be explained as a by-product of
the inXuence of the Scots speakers who accompanied King James to the English
court (after the death of Queen Elizabeth in 1603 and the Union of the Crowns).2
Further corpus work establishes that do was indeed rarer in Older Scots. Never-
theless, this cannot in itself constitute a proven explanation: as Terttu Nevalainen
conWrms in the following chapter (see p. 205), ‘more work is of course called for
to support or reject this contact hypothesis’.
Careful analysis of corpora can, however, sometimes provide phonological
evidence too, simply by providing suYcient data for us to observe patterns which
might not emerge from isolated examples. Again using Terttu Nevalainen’s
example in this volume (see pp. 190–3), we know that the originally northern
2
See further A. Nurmi, A Social History of Periphrastic DO. (Helsinki: Société Néophilologique,
1999).
restructuring renaissance english 151
third person singular verb ending -(e)s spread conclusively to the south during
the early modern English period to give she walks, he writes. Nevertheless, there is
an ostensibly odd, opposing development whereby some Scots writers at this
time adopted the otherwise declining southern -(e)th (e.g. she helpeth), retaining
it right into the seventeenth century. A closer examination of the corpus data
shows that many of the verbs with -(e)th in fact have a stem ending in a sibilant
sound, like ariseth, causeth, increaseth, produceth. If we examine the evidence
more closely, it seems that both -(e)s and -(e)th were earlier available not only as
simple consonants (being pronounced [s] or [u] respectively), but also as syllabic
forms with a vowel before the consonant—probably as [@s] and [@u]. These
syllabic forms would be more appropriate after a sibilant sound like [s] or [z]:
if you added a simple [s] ending after a verb ending in [s] anyway, it would be
both diYcult to pronounce, and hard to hear whether the extra [s] was there or
not. As it happens, the [s] ending had earlier lost its alternative syllabic -es form,
while -(e)th remained available in both full and contracted forms, that is as both
[@u] and [u]. This might therefore be used to explain the otherwise unaccount-
able preference of Scots writers in our period for -(e)th on verbs which possess
these stem-Wnal sibilants.
Corpus data, then, can indeed put us on the track of phonological generaliza-
tions and explanations, and can certainly provide a wealth of data for phono-
logical analysis. As the examples already discussed have indicated, it is this
further analysis which is, however, crucial: and in addition, although it is
relatively straightforward to search a corpus for a particular ending, it can be
very diYcult and time-consuming to search for the many diVerent variant
spellings for a particular vowel. Orthographic practice during this period was
moving towards standardization, but it was, as I have indicated, by no means
static; and departures from typical spellings—just as in Queen Elizabeth’s dides
for dedes—may also alert historical phonologists to ongoing change. For ex-
ample, occasional spellings from the Wfteenth to seventeenth centuries indicate
the progressive loss or at least reduction and instability of /r/ before a consonant,
so that in the letters contained in the Wfteenth-century Cely Papers, as discussed
by Lass in 1993, we Wnd forms such as monyng (‘morning’), passel (‘parcel’), and
the inverse spelling marster (‘master’) which shows r where it would never have
been pronounced. These therefore suggest that /r/ in such contexts was becoming
so weak or prone to loss that spellers no longer quite knew where to put it.
We also need to interpret carefully our valuable contemporary evidence from
the so-called orthoepists, early grammarians and commentators on language.
Importantly, this period is the Wrst to possess evidence from writers who, from a
variety of perspectives (and levels of aptitude), sought to describe and record the
152 april mcmahon
language of the time. Writers such as John Hart and William Bullokar hence
engaged with the potential for spelling reform, often providing insights into
contemporary pronunciation as they did so. Common sixteenth-century spelling
practice operated, as Hart complained, ‘Without any regard vnto the seuerall
parts of the voice which the writing ought to represent’. Orthoepists such as
Richard Hodges engaged more directly with the spoken language, especially in
their attempted classiWcation of the sound system, and the systems of transcrip-
tion which could be implemented in its representation (see Fig. 6.1).
Nevertheless, even when we have Wrst-hand descriptions of the English of the
period, we still have to interpret this carefully. For example, an orthoepist may be
trying very hard to give an objective account of the phonological situation.
Nevertheless, in the absence of agreed phonetic symbols (the International
Phonetic Alphabet would not be developed until the late nineteenth century)
and in the similar absence of an agreed phonetic terminology for the place and
manner of articulation, he may be using inherently ambiguous, everyday
Fig. 6.1. The opening pages of Richard Hodges, The English Primrose (1644), showing
his system of transcription and his initial discussion of the vowel sounds of English
restructuring renaissance english 153
vocabulary to do so. In such cases, we might need to bring in external evidence
from other sources to conWrm a particular reading.
On the other hand, we may be pretty conWdent from spelling evidence or other
descriptions that a particular pronunciation was emerging or increasing in the
period, but an orthoepist may not mention it because he does not approve of this
new development and is ignoring it in the hope that it will go away. A good
example here can be found in Alexander Gil’s conservative insistence in his
Logonomia Anglica of 1619 on the continued use of the palatal and velar fricatives
[ç] and [x] in words such as Wght, ought, even though, as Chapter 5 has
incidentally illustrated on p. 141, Wfteenth-century back-spellings or scribal
‘slips’—as of unperWghtness for imperfectness where gh can have carried no
sound value—already signalled their loss. It follows from all this that historical
phonologists have to introduce their own interpretations in many cases when
diagnosing and accounting for changes. For that reason, it is essential to combine
careful collection and analysis of examples with hypotheses from phonetics and
sociolinguistics, along with application of whichever theoretical phonological
model seems useful in casting light on the developments in question. Some might
suggest that, although this is what makes historical phonology so particularly
satisfying—like historical detective work—it is also what makes it particularly
prone to competing interpretations and controversy. There is no better example
of both tendencies than the putative Great Vowel Shift of Renaissance English.
textbook views of the great vowel shift
The Great Vowel Shift (henceforth GVS) is not, of course, the only phonological
change to take place between 1500 and 1700. Admittedly, there is not much action
in the consonant system at the time, although /r/, except before a vowel, is (as the
spelling evidence already discussed suggests) becoming more vulnerable, with
considerable consequences for neighbouring vowels. For example, John Hart in
his Orthographie of 1569 gives transcriptions like [feiër] Wre, [piuër] pure, and
[hier] here, indicating that ‘breaking’ or diphthongization before /r/ is already an
option by the mid-sixteenth century. /h/ is also progressively dropping in some
varieties; but apart from that, the consonant system, even at the start of our
period, is very much as it is today. There are more developments in the short
vowel system (readers unfamiliar with phonetic notation might Wnd it useful to
consult the Key to Phonetic Symbols, and accompanying diagrams, on pp. x–xi
for the following discussion). For instance, Middle English short /e o/ in bed, lot
154 april mcmahon
lowered to /e `/ by the end of the seventeenth century, while short /U/ split to give
/U/ in put, as opposed to // in cut. Not all these changes operated identically in
all dialects: many Northern English varieties share the lowering and centraliza-
tion of Middle English short /u/ to /U/ (and of Middle English short /i/ to /I/), but
do not show the split to /U/ and //, so that Yorkshire varieties still have /U/ in
both put and cut (a pattern discussed in Chapter 11 in this volume). There are
also changes in diphthongs: early in our period, some of the Middle English
diphthongs, such as the /Ou/ of grow, sow and the /ai/ of rain were monophthon-
gizing, while a new subtype of diphthong was created shortly after the end of our
period, when the progressive loss of postvocalic /r/ led to the innovation of the
centring diphthongs in here, there, sure (now, in turn, often monophthongized
again). However, the most signiWcant change, or changes, in early modern
English involve the long vowels.
In most accents of English today, the great majority of words with short vowels
had identical, or at least strongly similar, short vowels in late Middle English.
There has been a general lowering of the high and mid short vowels, with a degree
of centralization for the high ones, but the short vowel system has scarcely
changed, apart from the innovation of /U/ versus // (for a diagrammatic
representation of vowel positioning, and illustration of terms such as ‘high’,
‘mid’ etc., see p. xi). The case of the long vowels, however, is much more complex,
and the classic, textbook statement of the facts is that virtually all words in
present-day English which have a long vowel, and which existed in the language
in late Middle English, now have a diVerent long vowel. Some examples of these
correspondences are given below:
Middle English Modern English
time /ti:m/ /taIm/
green /gre:n/ /gri:n/
break /bre:k/ /breIk/
name /na:m@/ /neIm/
day /dai/ /deI/
loud /lu:d/ /laud/
boot /bo:t/ /bu:t/
boat /bO:t/ /boUt/
law /lau/ /lO:/
Some modern English long vowels also existed in Middle English: /aI/, /i:/, /u:/,
/O:/, and /au/, for example, fall into this category. Other vowels in today’s English
clearly Wll the same systemic slot as particular Middle English vowels, although
they are not identical: so, Standard Southern British English (SSBE) lacks the
restructuring renaissance english 155
Middle English long high-mid front and back monophthongs /e:/ and /o:/,
substituting instead the /eI/, /oU/ diphthongs in words like day, grow. These
monophthongs and diphthongs are, however, strikingly phonetically similar;
and indeed some accents of English with smaller diphthong systems still use
precisely these long, high-mid monophthongs. For instance, grey, day, and rain
for a Standard Southern British English speaker would have /eI/, where a Stand-
ard Scottish English (SSE) speaker would have /e:/; and likewise, SSBE /oU/ in go,
boat, hope corresponds to the /o:/ monophthong for an SSE speaker. The only
vowels in the Middle English system which seem to have disappeared altogether,
merging with the reXexes of /e:/, are /e:/ and /a:/ as in Middle English beat and
face (although a long low unrounded vowel, usually now back /A:/, has subse-
quently re-emerged in words such as father, bra, calm, part in many varieties).
However, Wnding aYnities between individual long vowels and diphthongs in
this way conceals the vital fact that the Middle English vowels and their closest
articulatory equivalents in modern English appear in almost entirely diVerent
sets of lexical items. There have been wholesale distributional changes so that,
although the same vowels may persist, they can now be found in entirely diVerent
sets of words. While words like time, eye, Wve had /i:/ in Middle English, this same
high front long monophthong is now found in green, serene, queen, while the
time, eye, Wve cases now have the diphthong /ai/, earlier found in Middle English
day, plain. Similarly, whereas Middle English /o:/ is found in boot, food, root and
/u:/ in loud, out, down, the boot, food, root cases now have /u:/, and the loud, out,
down ones, the diphthong /au/. This is not, however, a random and unpredict-
able series of substitutions. Instead it can be summarized in a diagram of the sort
which typically accompanies textbook accounts of the GVS in many histories of
the language, as shown in Figures 6.2 and 6.3.
i: ai au u:
e: o:
ε: :
a:
←
→
c
time loud
boot
boat
green
break
name
Fig. 6.2. The Great Vowel Shift
Source: Based on Baugh and Cable (2002: 238), although with some changes in symbols to
reXect IPA usage).
156 april mcmahon
These diagrams give slightly diVerent outlines of the Vowel Shift in one respect:
Baugh and Cable in Figure 6.2 show the high monophthongs as in Middle English
time and loud diphthongizing directly to their modern values /ai/ and /au/
(although they do note that ‘Such a diagram must be taken as only a very rough
indication of what happened’). On the other hand, Barbara Fennell in Figure 6.3
shows the high vowels as diphthongizing but does not give the Wnal values, with
low Wrst elements, which they have achieved today. As we shall see later, Fennell’s
view is more accurate historically. It is quite true that these new diphthongs did
lower later, and that the Middle English /ai/, /au/ diphthongs (in day and law
respectively) also raised and monophthongized: but these changes are usually seen
as separate developments which followed after the GVS. Likewise, the impression
in both diagrams is of each vowel progressively shifting up one step, from low to
low-mid, low-mid to high-mid, high-mid to high. However, the majority of
originally low-mid front vowels eventually shifted two steps, to high—hence
modern English has /i:/ deriving from two diVerent sets of Middle English
words, namely sea, leave (which had Middle English /e:/ and which raised by two
steps) as well as in green, queen (which had Middle English /e:/, and only raised by
a single step). Likewise, Middle English /a:/ in name underwent a double raising, to
/e:/ and then /e:/. All these second-step raisings are typically regarded as later
developments which took place after the Great Vowel Shift ‘proper’.
There can be no question that these developments have been instrumental in
shaping the modern English vowel system, hence the importance of a detailed
investigation of exactly what happened in the phonology of early modern
English. The GVS has also had a strong impact on the English orthography,
since through this set of changes, each vowel graph comes to be equipped with at
least two distinct values. Whereas in Chaucer’s time an a spelling could only be
[i:] [u:] loud
boot
boat
[e:]
time
green
break
name
[o:]
[ε:] [ :]
[a:]
c
e
[ Ι [ ]
eΩ
]
Fig. 6.3. The Great Vowel Shift
Source: Redrawn after Fennell (2001: 159).
restructuring renaissance english 157
pronounced as long or short /a/ (as in name or cat), and an i only long or short /i/
(as in time or bit), today’s novice spellers have to face a choice in every case, so
that a, for example, can be /æ/ in apple, /eI/ in name, or /A:/ in father, and i can be
/I/ in ill, bit or /aI/ in time, Wne. Long and short values for the same vowel graph,
in other words, no longer match in terms of vowel quality.
Furthermore, the GVS and the various lengthening and shortening changes
which preceded or followed it have also contributed to the development of
complex morphophonological patterns in modern English, as illustrated below.
various  variety divine  divinity
comedy  comedian serene  serenity
study  studious sane  sanity
harmony  harmonious (fool  folly)
(profound  profundity)
Some of these alternations are more productive than others in the current system,
with those in brackets arguably being fossilized. Nevertheless, interactions be-
tween morphology and phonology of this kind are particularly challenging for
phonological theories, and these Vowel Shift alternations have been the focus of a
great deal of phonological attention since they played a central part in Chomsky
and Halle’s ground-breaking The Sound Pattern of English of 1968. Alternations
between diVerent vowels in divine and divinity, for instance, can help us under-
stand more about what native speakers know about their language, which many
linguists would see as the real goal of linguistics. If speakers know that divine and
divinity are related, and see them as forms of the same word, they may store only
a single form in their mental dictionary, and apply a rule to produce the diVerent
pronunciations we Wnd in surface representations of the language. On the other
hand, if speakers do not perceive a real and generalizable relationship between the
stem vowels in divine and divinity, their mental dictionaries might contain both
forms, and they may simply perceive that the two independent items are similar
in meaning. For a phonologist working on modern English, Wnding out whether
the Vowel Shift patterns are real and meaningful to speakers today is therefore a
fundamental part of understanding how abstract our mental representations of
words might be, as well as in formulating the more abstract phonological systems
which underlie diVerent dialects.
Returning to the historical picture, the attraction of diagrams like those given in
Figures 6.2 and 6.3 is that they provide an apparently elegant, symmetrical picture
of a series of shifts which seem to aVect the whole early modern English system in a
regular, parallel, and step-wise way. Chain shifts, or circular developments of
this kind, are also particularly fascinating for phonologists, partly because such
158 april mcmahon
far-reaching changes are challenging to explain. Given their dramatic eVects on
the English spelling system, and their part in the development of new, complex
synchronic morphophonological alternations like those illustrated above, it is
perhaps natural, as so many histories of the language have done, to see these
changes as large-scale, orderly, momentous shifts. Sometimes this might make us
prone to neatening up the overall pattern by deciding what we call part of the
Great Vowel Shift, and what we might conversely choose to factor out into other,
independent developments. So, the monophthongization of /ai/ and /au/ in day
and law, and the lowering of the new diphthongs—which Fennell in Figure 6.3
gives as /@I/ and /@U/—to eventual /aI/ and /au/ (as in time and loud), are often
portrayed as part of the GVS (as in Fig. 6.2 above). Typically, however, the second-
step raisings for some front vowels are excluded, so both diagrams show Middle
English /e:/ shifting only one step to /e:/, although we know that historically the
raising continued for most words, so that sea, speak, clean now have /i:/, and only
the leftover cases great, break, steak retain /eI/ (or /e:/ for Scots speakers). Similarly,
the diagrammatic representations of the GVS depicted in both Figures 6.2 and 6.3
show /ai/ (as in day) raising by the regulation single step to /a:/, although it in fact
continued to the /eI/ or /e:/ that we now Wnd in day, plain.
These textbook diagrams, then, bring together what Roger Lass in 1976 called
‘THE GVS proper’, with some later changes. Other later changes are, however,
commonly excluded because they do not Wt the pattern. The neat diagrams of
Renaissance English phonology might be justiWed on the grounds that they are
excellent teaching aids; but in this sense, therefore, they do not reXect direct
historical fact. It is clear, for example, that not all the individual changes in the
orderly, composite diagrams happened at the same time, or even took place
particularly close together in chronological terms: the whole lot may well have
taken upwards of three hundred years, beginning perhaps between 1400 and 1450.
Furthermore, some of the changes that are included in some versions of the GVS
(like those monophthongizations of /ai/ and /au/ in day, law), seem to have been
contemporaneous with others that are usually excluded (like the second-step
raising of Middle English /e:/ from /e:/ to eventual /i:/ in sea).
As a result, neat diagrams of the kind given in Figures 6.2 and 6.3 cannot
validly be sold as a composite picture of changes in the long vowel system over a
particular time period either. This raises an important question for our under-
standing of the GVS and the phonology of early modern English. Are we
therefore including or excluding certain changes purely because the overall
outline then looks more uniform and easier to handle than the sum of its more
realistic parts? As historians of the language, we might also be guilty of setting up
a highly idealized ‘change’ which never really happened, simply because the
restructuring renaissance english 159
idealized version resembles a circular chain shift, a phenomenon which is suY-
ciently mysterious and challenging to make phonological theorists and historical
linguists sit up and take notice.
Considering this question might therefore make us wonder whether there
really was a Great Vowel Shift in Renaissance English, and if so, which of these
elements really counted as part of it. It may then come as no surprise to Wnd that
there is indeed a diversity of views in the technical literature about the validity of
the ‘GVS’ concept, and its reality as a single historical phenomenon. We turn in
the next section to an outline of the alternative views put forward by the best-
known current defender of the GVS, Roger Lass, and the opposing views of the
linguists Robert P. Stockwell and Donka Minkova: a range of relevant references is
included in the Further Reading at the end of this chapter. Finally, we shall return
to the thoroughly problematic question of whether phonologists create diagrams
like those in Figures 6.2 and 6.3 because we are particularly easily seduced by
patterns, seeing them where they do not really exist; or whether such overarching
changes are indeed in any sense ‘real’ for the period under discussion.
‘what, if anything, was the great vowel shift?’
The subheading above is the title of an article which Lass published in 1992, and it
recurs as a section header in 1999, within Lass’s chapter on phonology and
morphology in the third volume of the Cambridge History of the English Lan-
guage. It neatly expresses a diVerence of opinion which has been fought out over
almost thirty years between Lass on the one hand, and Stockwell and Minkova on
the other. There has been a certain degree of rapprochement between their
positions, as we shall see later, but a central diVerence remains, summed up
aptly in the quotations below which derive respectively from Lass, and from
Stockwell and Minkova:
whatever else has been and still is going on in the history of English vowels—there was
one particular set of late mediaeval shiftings that was more coherent and more potent in
eVect on the system as a whole than others.3
the traditional summary of the putative structure of the vowels at some earlier date,
abstracted from a range of manuscripts which were certainly not representatives of a type
3
R. Lass, ‘Vowel Shifts, Great and Otherwise: Remarks on Stockwell and Minkova’, in D. Kastovsky
and G. Bauer (eds), Luick Revisited (Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag, 1988), 407.
160 april mcmahon
of speech from which Modern English is derived, followed by a summary of Modern
English vowel contrasts in a single normalized ‘standard’ dialect, . . . creates an appear-
ance of neat regularity that is misleading in a very serious way. It also creates a set of
pseudo-problems for structuralism to ‘solve’ with neatly symmetrical charts and theories
that seem to us to have very little to do with what was actually taking place.4
In other words, Lass argues that seeing the GVS as a real, single, and unitary
phenomenon is both justiWed and helpful in interpreting the history of English: it
is, as he argues in 1999, also the norm, since ‘Most recent historians, whether
through unaided intuition or brain-washing by teachers and tradition, have been
convinced of the reality and unity of the GVS’.5
Conversely, Stockwell and
Minkova consider it counter-productive to reify a series of independent changes
as a single object, since this focuses the minds of linguists on accounting for an
idealized change which, they contend, never really happened.
The core of the disagreement, then, is partly what we might see as a
metatheoretical one: can a series of changes which took place over a considerable
period of time, and which might have individual (and therefore arguably inde-
pendent) motivations, meaningfully be grouped together into a superordinate or
over-arching change like the putative GVS of Renaissance English? Furthermore,
if that can be done, should it? There are also diVerent interpretations of the
individual changes, though Lass, and Stockwell and Minkova, generally agree
that these developments did take place: nobody is arguing that the individual
elements of the GVS are phantasms, though in some interpretations the dia-
grammatic representations connecting them might well be.
To Wnd the source of these views, and take any steps towards evaluating them,
we must Wrst identify the similarities and diVerences between the Lass and
Stockwell–Minkova accounts of the development of long vowels during early
modern English.
Stockwell and Minkova raise the following Wve unresolved questions or prob-
lems,6
tracing these back to the work of the philologist Karl Luick (1865–1935):
1 The inception problem: what, if anything, started the whole change oV?
2 The merger problem: is it feasible to think of a chain shift of this kind at all,
where a shift of one vowel causes another to move too, to prevent merger
and loss of distinctiveness?
4
R. P. Stockwell and D. Minkova (1988a), ‘The English Vowel Shift: Problems of Coherence and
Explanation’, in D. Kastovsky and G. Bauer (eds), Luick Revisited (Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag,
1988), 379.
5
Lass (1999), 74. 6
See Stockwell and Minkova (1988a), 355–6.
restructuring renaissance english 161
3 The order problem: did the shift happen in stages, and if so, what was the
chronology for each stage?
4 The dialect problem: how can we account for the fact that the supposedly
coherent vowel shift seems to have happened diVerently in diVerent dialects?
5 The structural coherence problem: did the GVS really happen as a unitary
change, or do linguists want to believe in it because we are attracted to neat
patterns?
I shall focus below on problems 1 (inception), 2 (merger), and 5 (structural
coherence). I assume that problem 3 (order) is more apparent than real, reXecting
as it does a somewhat outmoded view that a particular subshift must be over and
done with (or alternatively, in synchronic terms, that a particular phonological
rule applies and stops) before the next begins its work. Stockwell and Minkova
were absolutely right in 1988 to stress the need for historical linguistics to learn
from sociolinguistics, but it can perhaps be regarded as accepted now. As for
problem 4 (dialects), many of the issues arising from dialect variation also relate
to the inception and structural coherence problems, and will therefore be dis-
cussed in connection with those. Otherwise, I set this apparent problem aside in
what follows, since it seems axiomatic that we should be able to recognize that
‘the same’ process, or phonological unit or phenomenon, occurs with relatively
minor diVerences cross-dialectally. For example, it seems reasonable to see Scots
[e:] and Standard Southern British English [eI], phonetically diVerent though
they undoubtedly are, as Wlling the same notionally high-mid front slot in the
respective vowel inventories of these dialects. Indeed, recognizing and using such
dialect diVerences is vital, as we shall see in the next section, to our understanding
of sound change.
the inception problem
The inception problem remains one of the most deeply entrenched diVerences of
opinion on the GVS and the phonology of early modern English. Lass, and
Stockwell and Minkova base elements of their arguments and ideas on earlier
historical scholarship, referring crucially to the work of the Danish linguist Otto
Jespersen in the Wrst volume of his Modern English Grammar on Historical
Principles (1909) and to Luick’s two-volume Historische Grammatik der englischen
Sprache (1920–40). Both Jespersen and Luick saw the GVS as involving largely
step-wise lengthening, with diphthongization of the long high vowels. However,
162 april mcmahon
they made diVerent suggestions about the Wrst step in the overall change, with
Jespersen arguing for high-vowel diphthongization, while Luick instead favours
mid-vowel raising.
Jespersen, then, suggests that the high vowels /i:/ (as in time) and /u:/ (as in
loud) moved Wrst, towards some intermediate diphthongal value (Lass in 1999
suggests /ei/: Stockwell in 1961 put forward an alternative suggestion, discussed
below). This would have left the high positions vacant, and Jespersen proposes
what is now known as a ‘drag chain’, following terminology later introduced by
the French linguist André Martinet. This assumes that linguistic systems follow
principles, wherever possible, of economy, symmetry, and good margins of safety
between units, so that the shift of the high vowels would have left a gap into
which the next highest vowels would have been ‘dragged’, to preserve the shape of
the overall system. This would have had a knock-on eVect on the next highest
vowels; and as the new diphthongs lowered, they would in turn put pressure on
pre-existing /ai au/ (as in Middle English day and law), which would have risen in
early modern English into the vacant low or low-mid monophthong slots, hence
avoiding merger (see below). Today, we might support these arguments with the
additional typological point (i.e. one based on the structural similarities we can
perceive between languages, regardless of their histories) that it is most unusual
for a language to lack high vowels, so that the initial diphthongization of the
originally long vowels in time and loud would also have produced an unbalanced
system.
Luick, on the other hand, proposes what we would now call a ‘push chain’.
Here, the vowels that begin the overall process are assumed to be the high-mid
ones, /e:/ and /o:/ (as in green and boot), which start to shift upwards towards the
high monophthongs /i:/ and /u:/. If we cast this in functional terms, and think of
the vowel system as a set of slots, each occupied by a single vowel unit, one
priority for speakers might be to ensure that not too many contrasts fall together
or merge, lest lexical items become indistinguishable en masse. If the raising
vowels had simply collapsed with the vowels one step higher, we should Wnd
mergers, for example, rather than a chain shift; hence feel would have become
identical in pronunciation with Wle, and boot with bout. Since the facts indicate
that wholesale mergers of this kind did not take place, we must hypothesize
instead that a gradual change in the articulation of the lower vowels caused them
to encroach gradually on the higher ones, which responded by diphthongizing—
there would have been little option, since lowering would simply speed the
apparently undesirable merger, and high vowels cannot, by deWnition, raise any
further. This might all sound rather anthropomorphic: we can recast it in more
sociolinguistically informed, speaker-centred terms by suggesting that a raising
restructuring renaissance english 163
[e:] need not become [i:] directly, but could take up any number of slightly raised
realizations in between. Any of these might create a greater likelihood of mis-
communication, as speakers increasingly produced slightly higher vowels which
were in danger of being interpreted as categorically high rather than high-mid.
We are not, then, proposing mergers and then problematic resplittings, but a
gradual raising to which speakers might respond by producing a more exagger-
ated, diphthongal pronunciation of the high vowels, thereby setting a chain shift
in motion.
As we shall see, Lass agrees with Luick (at least, broadly speaking) that the Wrst
step in the GVS involved mid-vowel raising. However, Stockwell and Minkova
instead favour Jespersen’s (1909) hypothesis that the Wrst step was high vowel
diphthongization, and argue that this in turn was motivated by the vocalization
of certain Old English consonants—speciWcally the palatal glide [j] or fricative
[$̊] in front vowel environments in words like stig (‘sty’), and the velar fricative
[x] after back vowels in words such as bugan (‘bow’); and the development of
front or back glides before [-ç] in niht (‘night’) and [-x] in drugte (‘drought’).7
The usual assumption has been that the outputs or results of these changes
merged with the pre-existing long high monophthongs /i:/ and /u:/, but this
need not mean they were necessarily pronounced as monophthongs. Stockwell
and Minkova suggest instead that Old English /i:/ and /u:/ might have had
alternative diphthongal realizations [Ii] and [Uu], and indeed that these diph-
thongal realizations would have become more common until ‘by Chaucer’s time,
it is likely that all instances of putative long high vowels were already diph-
thongal’.8
These would not, however, be what we might term ‘ideal’ diphthongs, since
their two elements are arguably too close together perceptually. Stockwell and
Minkova in 1988 therefore suggest that ‘healthier’ diphthongs would have devel-
oped, probably by lowering or centralizing the Wrst element. As these new
diphthongs progressively lowered towards /ai/ and /au/, the now-vacant high
monophthong slots would necessarily have been reWlled because of a universal
restriction which, as already discussed, disallows systems without true high
vowels. Alternatively, they suggest that the Middle English high-mid long vowels
were also phonetically ingliding diphthongs, perhaps [e@] or [e@] in words such
as green and [o@] or [O@] in words like boot. If so, the Wrst elements of these might
also have raised quite naturally as part of a process developing ‘better’ diph-
thongs, which had greater distance between their composite elements.
7
See also Colman (1983). 8
See Stockwell and Minkova (1988a), 376, 386.
164 april mcmahon
However, these arguments are not uncontroversial, and Lass takes issue with
both the centralization of the new diphthongs (or the lowering diphthongs, if we
adopt Stockwell and Minkova’s argument that these were already largely diph-
thongal by Chaucer), and the drag-chain hypothesis which assumes that the high
slots in the long vowel system were vacated Wrst. On the Wrst point, Lass in 1999
objects that claims for centralization are motivated by theoretical assumptions
about the nature of systems and changes, whereas he himself prefers to rely on
evidence from the orthoepists who, as we have seen, provide the earliest detailed
descriptions of English phonetics. In particular, he observes that ‘Crucially, no
orthoepist before Hodges (1644) reports anything interpretable as a central vowel
in the relevant positions; most report something quite diVerent’.9
As in Figure 6.1,
Hodges’ transcriptions in his English Primrose show eie as his preferred name for
the vowel sound in words such as time (even though, in accordance with
orthoepical tradition at this time, he continues to describe this as a long
vowel). It is possible, of course, that the orthoepists simply had no available
orthographic symbol to mark centralized vowels like schwa, but even Robert
Robinson (1617), who had invented a new alphabet for just this sort of reason,
uses symbols which more plausibly signal [ei, Ou]. Turning to the question of
whether high vowel diphthongization or mid vowel raising came Wrst, Lass, in
both 1976 and 1999, noted that there is very little contemporaneous evidence for
the order of these subshifts, since they are too early for orthoepical sources to be
of much assistance: John Hart in his Orthographie of 1569 nevertheless suggests
that both changes were already established. However, it is in fact dialectal
evidence which proves of greatest utility in identifying the Wrst step in the GVS.
Lass in 1976 observed that there is a very clear diVerence between the pronun-
ciation of modern standard Southern British English, and the patterns which are
found in varieties from the North of England and Scotland, as can be seen below.
Diphthongisation patterns for Middle English /i: u:/ (partly after Lass 1976).
Middle English SSBE Lowick Chirnside Buchan
i: ai eI @i`e @iA.e bite
u: au u: u(:) u(:) house
o: u: i: ë(:) i(:) boot
There is, as Lass notes, an exceptionless correlation between two facts. Although
the northern varieties (Lowick is in Northumberland, and Chirnside and Buchan
are southern and northern Scots) all show the expected GVS diphthongization of
Middle English /i:/ in bite, none of them have diphthongs for Middle English /u:/
9
Lass (1999), 81.
restructuring renaissance english 165
in house. Moreover, all of them have front rather than back vowels for Middle
English /o:/ in boot. Lass argues that these facts are not unrelated: the former
follows from the latter.
Paul Johnston has observed that, by a sound change known as Northern /o:/-
Fronting in the late thirteenth century, /o:/ (as in boot) was fronted to /ø:/. It was
this development, he argues, which ‘soon became a deWning characteristic of the
whole northern English and Scots groups’.10
This fronting, depicted below, sets
the reXex of Middle English /o:/ as an atypical front rounded vowel in northern
English, which lay outside both the back and front monophthong systems.
/o:/-Fronting
i: time u: loud
e: green ø: (o:) boot
e: break O: boat
a: name
As the bracket indicates, by the onset of the GVS, the northern varieties had
developed a gap in the system which was still Wlled in the southern ones. All
varieties did have the high front and back long monophthongs /i:/ and /u:/ (as in
time, loud). As a result, if Jespersen, and Stockwell and Minkova are right in their
assumption that the Wrst step in the GVS was indeed high vowel diphthongiza-
tion, there is no reason why those high vowels should not have been aVected in
exactly the same way in the north and the south. But this is not what we Wnd.
Instead, although the high front vowel diphthongizes in all varieties in bite, the
northern varieties instead maintain hoose, with undiphthongized /u/ (which will
be long in the Northern English varieties, and positionally long or short in
Scottish ones, following what is known as the Scottish Vowel Length Rule. This
therefore suggests that the initial step in the GVS (and the subsequent restruc-
turing of Renaissance phonology) was in fact the raising of lower vowels—
although probably not the high-mid /e: o:/, as Luick suggested (given that, as
we have seen, /o:/ in the north is absent and yet the rest of the Shift proceeds as
normal). A more likely scenario therefore was that it was the low-mid /e:/ and /O:/
which were initially involved. As the low-mid front /e:/ raised, it would therefore
begin to displace /e:/ on a push-chain model, which in turn would enforce
diphthongization of /i:/. However, the gap left by the departing /e:/ might have
attracted low /a:/, suggesting that the ‘bottom half’ of the Shift was perhaps a
10
P. Johnston, ‘Older Scots phonology and its regional variation’, in C. Jones (ed.), The Edinburgh
History of the Scots Language (Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 1997), 69.
166 april mcmahon
drag chain, while the ‘top half’ must have been a push chain. In the south,
matters would proceed in parallel in the back vowel subsystem, with /O:/ raising
and in turn encouraging /o:/ to move up, and then /u:/ to diphthongize. In
the north, as Johnston suggests, /O:/ alone would have raised, while /u:/ ‘appar-
ently stays put because there is no /o:/ to move it, after /o:/-Fronting has
occurred’.11
In short, if we adopt the view that diphthongization of high vowels (or, to
reXect Stockwell and Minkova’s view more accurately, the lowering and cen-
tralization of pre-existing diphthongs) came Wrst, we lose this very persuasive
connection between /o:/-Fronting in the north, and the absence of diphthong-
ization of /u:/ in the same areas. Stockwell and Minkova in their 1988 chapter
on ‘The English Vowel Shift’ suggest that there may be dialects where Middle
English /e:/ did not raise, but where /i:/ nonetheless diphthongized; and also
that raising Middle English /o:/ in some dialects merged with /u:/ rather than
provoking diphthongization. However, they also accept that these dialect data
are not robust. The most plausible conclusion, therefore, is that the fronting of
/o:/ in the north is connected with the failure of /u:/ to diphthongize in the
same areas, hence arguing for long mid-vowel raising as the Wrst step in the
GVS.
This comparison and evaluation of the Luick/ Lass and Jespersen/ Stockwell
and Minkova views on the starting point for the GVS illustrates very clearly the
relevance and, indeed, the necessity of working with detailed present-day dialect
data in assessing the shape and chronology of historical sound changes. It may
also, therefore, go some way towards answering Stockwell and Minkova’s justiW-
able criticisms that proposing over-idealized, monolithic Middle English and
modern English vowel systems can create a wholly misleading picture of the
regularity of the shift which supposedly converted one into the other. On the
contrary, as the evidence considered so far conWrms, we are Wnding that no
responsible consideration of the GVS (or any other change) can aVord to ignore
variation either then or now. However, Stockwell and Minkova are not only
concerned about the evidence used to argue for the GVS. They also dispute other
aspects of the allegedly uniWed change, and we will turn now to the second of
these. The next section, however, is particularly detailed in its treatment of
phonological issues and problems, and readers of a nervous disposition may be
better advised to skip it and move on to the structural coherence problem
instead.
11
See Johnston (1997), 69.
restructuring renaissance english 167
the merger problem
If we accept the Luick/ Lass view of the inception of the GVS, almost the whole
change was a push chain, saving only the raising of the low-mid vowels, which are
‘dragged’ to high-mid. Clearly, any push chain mechanism must have avoidance
of merger as part of its rationale. It seems intuitively obvious that shifting two
vowels upwards and merging them with two others, end of story, is likely to be
‘simpler’, all other things being equal, than the trajectory of the actual change(s),
which instead led, during the early modern English period, to wholesale dis-
placement of long vowels and diphthongs from their earlier lexical classes as
illustrated on p. 155. Since the knock-on eVects of the GVS, in the shape of further
monophthongizations, raisings, and lexical resettlements, were still going on in
the eighteenth century, this suggests that all other things were, however, not
equal. The obvious reason would therefore seem to involve disfavourment of
merger.
Stockwell and Minkova do accept that mergers must under some circumstan-
ces be avoided, or at least that they do not always take place:
Arguments against mergers would have to show that they are statistically rarer than
splits. One’s experience with language change, and therefore one’s intuition about what is
in general likely to be true, to some slight extent supports the position that contrasts are
more often preserved than collapsed. And it has to be true that these alternatives at least
turn out to oVset each other fairly evenly, on balance over a period of time. Otherwise it
becomes logically impossible to explain why languages have more than one vowel, if
mergers win; or why languages don’t continue to proliferate vowels beyond measure, if
splits win.12
However, they also argue that much of the traditionally-described GVS in fact did
involve mergers, rather than raisings. For instance, Stockwell and Minkova suggest
that both [e:] and [ei], and [O:] and [ou], existed either as variants in the same
idiolects, or as dialectal alternatives, so that the gradual dominance of the higher of
the available realizations in each case does not necessitate raising. Instead, it could
be seen as rather a shift of preference, or perhaps dialect borrowing. Similarly, the
later second-step raisings of Middle English /e:/ and /a:/ to /i:/ and /e:/ respectively
(as in read and face) must involve merger on any interpretation. Arguing for
avoidance of merger as a major motive for the whole GVS is quite clearly
incoherent, if there were in fact mergers involved in that overarching change.
12
Stockwell and Minkova (1988a), 358–9.
168 april mcmahon
Stockwell and Minkova do suggest that the Old English mid-high long mono-
phthongs in words like green, boot were already ‘very close vowels indeed’ by the
time of Middle English.13
The fact that these did not merge with the pre-existing
high vowels might of course support an anti-merger condition in some circum-
stances. But this in turn might argue in Stockwell and Minkova’s favour: if we do
Wnd mergers in some parts of the traditional GVS complex, but high vowel
diphthongization and mid vowel raising (or the equivalents in Stockwell and
Minkova’s system) are partially motivated by avoidance of merger, this may
suggest these changes are necessarily independent of the rest of the GVS. The
GVS itself is then less well supported as a single, unitary change.
Alternatively, we might use exactly this criterion of merger/ non-merger to
help us delimit what we might term ‘the Vowel Shift proper’ from subsequent
changes. Lass in 1999, for example, argues that Phase II of the GVS (Phase I being
the push chain combination of mid-vowel raising and high-vowel diphthong-
ization) involves progressive raisings, Wrst of /a:/ to /æ:/ in words like name,
‘giving a somewhat crowded but plausible system’, and then of /æ:/ to /e:/, which
has the eVect of pushing earlier /e:/ into the vacant slot /e:/.14
Consequently, as
Lass had pointed out eleven years earlier, ‘The term GVS denotes only that
particular no-collapse shift that ends up with the Middle English long monoph-
thong system intact, if phonetically displaced’. Further raisings and concomitant
mergers can then be seen as later and independent developments, both within
and after early modern English. They cannot, therefore, compromise the GVS
itself or be counterexamples to its causes or tendencies.
Certainly, avoidance of merger cannot provide a rationale for all the changes
which are involved in or which follow the GVS as proposed here. However,
this is only a serious problem if we require the motivation for all parts of a
composite change to be the same. If we recognize an overall shift because of
its shape, its eVect on the system, or its results, why should each contributory
shift not have its own individual shape and explanation? For readers with an
interest in phonological theory, Minkova and Stockwell (2003) return to some
of these issues in an Optimality Theoretic account of sound change, and
speciWcally of the diVerent historical outcomes produced by the various
possible rankings of four speciWc constraints. It may be that the diYculties
they are clearly wrestling with in 1988, on the obvious opposition between the
avoidance of merger in some cases and the apparently antithetical mergers in
others, may simply dissipate given an Optimality Theoretic account,
13
Stockwell and Minkova (1988a), 376. 14
Lass (1999), 83.
restructuring renaissance english 169
where universal motivations do not always have to be instantiated in surface
linguistic fact.
the structural coherence problem
Finally, then, we turn to the crux of the whole issue: was there a Great Vowel Shift
in early modern English, or wasn’t there? And if we say there was, what do we
mean? All parties accept that there were particular changes, whatever their
precise nature, involving shifts, diphthongizations, raisings, or preferences of
pre-existing structural alternatives. The question is whether all the contributory
changes add up to anything: are they independent developments which follow
one Germanic type; or did a particular set of changes dating between approxi-
mately 1450 and 1750 share something which sanctions us to regard them as a
uniWed change, regardless of any factors of motivation, shape, or outcome which
they might share with other changes at other times, or might not share with each
other?
It might initially seem that the prospects for reaching any accommodation
between, say, Lass in his English Phonology and Phonological Theory of 1976 and
Stockwell and Minkova in their 1988 essay on ‘The English Vowel Shift’ are slim
to non-existent. Lass seems to regard what we have here been calling the GVS
(plus the various later monophthongizations, raisings, and mergers), as part of a
single ‘system-wide chain: the long nonhigh vowels raise, the high vowels diph-
thongize, and some of the diphthongs raise their Wrst elements like the corre-
sponding long vowels, while others monophthongize and Wll the slots vacated by
the raised mid vowels. . . . The earlier stages seem to have involved no mergers;
but some categories merged later on’.15
On the other hand, Stockwell and
Minkova seem implacably opposed to seeing any of these individual changes as
related, remarking that ‘It is a hard thing to take to task a long and venerable
tradition on the charge that it has erected a notable monument of scholarship
that is in a real sense fraudulent, even though of course we do not suggest that
there was ever any intentional or knowing fraud’.16
However, a closer consideration of the evidence suggests that there is room for
hope. Lass, for example, does regularly distinguish what he calls ‘THE GVS
15
R. Lass, English Phonology and Phonological Theory (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
1976), 87.
16
Stockwell and Minkova (1988a), 376.
170 april mcmahon
proper’ from the later monophthongizations, raisings, and mergers—this core
change involves essentially the stepwise raisings of long monophthongs, and the
diphthongization of high vowels to an intermediate value. In 1992 he goes further,
suggesting a diVerentiation between the ‘top half’ of the Great Vowel Shift (the
mid vowel raising and high vowel diphthongization) and everything else, which
he refers to as ‘pseudo-GVS’ or ‘post-GVS Raising’. Admittedly, he returns to an
extent to earlier terminology in 1999, referring to ‘Phase I’ (mid vowel raising and
high vowel diphthongization) and ‘Phase II the later raising of the lower vowels’,
but he still apparently excludes the subsequent mergers. In turn, Stockwell and
Minkova in 1997 concede that at least part of Lass’s Phase I may constitute a
minimal chain shift: ‘It is clear that [i:] and [u:] got out of the way, whether
pushed or dragged . . . and whether by our suggestion of merger . . . or by some
even more mysterious process of bouncing oV the hard palate and diphthonging
their way southward’.17
Perhaps, then, we can look forward to a generally agreed strategy of labelling
Lass’s Phase I, shown in Figure 6.4, as the GVS of Renaissance English. There will
still be minor disagreements (the diVering realizations for the diphthongs show
this; and recall also the diVerent proposals on the inception problem already
discussed). This might, however, provide an acceptable compromise.
The question is, of course, whether this does indeed represent the best way
forward for an understanding of this aspect of Renaissance phonology. Is it a
good, sensible compromise, or is it the lowest common denominator? If we
accept that the two subshifts in the diagram Wt together, and if they lead on to
other things, what is the objection to putting this set of changes and those other
things together into a single overarching category, and calling that the GVS? How
do we know which components do Wt together, and when we have overshot and
included elements erroneously? What does it mean (and what does it not mean)
in our understanding of the history of the language and of phonology more
generally, when we propose a systemic change composed of other more minor
changes?
17
Stockwell and Minkova (1997), 287.
i:
time loud
boot
green
ei or or ou u:
e:
i
e
u
e
o:
Fig. 6.4. The Great Vowel Shift
restructuring renaissance english 171
What, then, are Stockwell and Minkova’s objections to the GVS as a unit? The
key issue seems to be their view (stated in their 1988 ‘rejoinder to Lass’) that the
subchanges which make up any larger-scale development must share some
essential property: ‘The crucial property that Lass assigns to the Great Vowel
Shift that puts it into a certain category is, no-mergers during the relevant time
frame’. They argue, however, that this ‘no-merger property holds only if quite
arbitrary restrictions are placed on the chronology and scope of what is normally
called the Great Vowel Shift’.18
In particular, the two-step raisings of /a:/ to /e:/ in
name, late and of /e:/ to /i:/ in sea, mean must be excluded. As Stockwell and
Minkova therefore continue, this is intrinsically unsatisfactory: ‘characterizing
the Great Vowel Shift as belonging to one or another category of chain-shifts on
the basis of arbitrarily time-delimited properties is of no interest to us . . . unless
such a characterization entails some suggestion about its causation’. On this view,
maintaining the traditional GVS militates against recognizing the aYnities which
individual subchanges bear to other changes at other times; and a focus on types
of change throughout English and indeed Germanic would be more productive
and enlightening.
But can unity only follow from uniformity of causation? It is certainly valid to
group changes together if they have the same motivation. We can, for example,
recognize diVerent instances of epenthesis throughout the history of English, and
cross-linguistically: thus, we Wnd Latin facilis from earlier faclis (‘easy’) with an
epenthetic vowel, and in English, bramble with epenthetic [b], mirroring the
present-day epenthetic [p] in fast or casual speech pronunciations of hamster
[hampst@]. But would we be prevented from recognizing the aYnities between
one case of epenthesis and another simply because one of those cases was
generally seen as forming part of a trajectory along with a range of other,
diVerently-motivated changes? If common motivation is the only real connection
between changes, we may be unable to produce classiWcations at all, since
causation is often the least clear aspect of language change, whether in early
modern English or any other period (including our own). Indeed, there may well
be more than one motivation for any given change, and sometimes we cannot be
sure what the motivation is at all. Even the top half of the GVS, which seems the
least controversial part, is problematic in this sense, because it is unclear what
started the Wrst step in the Wrst place. Stockwell and Minkova suggest that their
Wrst step, dissimilation of the two elements of the high diphthongs, followed
from a general condition on diphthong optimality: in other words, diphthongs
18
R. P. Stockwell and D. Minkova (1988b), ‘A rejoinder to Lass’, in D. Kastovsky and G. Bauer (eds),
Luick Revisited (Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag, 1988), 411–12.
172 april mcmahon
are better if their two subparts are more diVerent from one another, presumably
so that the transition between them is easier to hear, and it is therefore easier to
perceive the vowel as a diphthong. Since their hypothesis is that the high
diphthongs in time, loud were rather poor diphthongs, with the two elements
of each very close together in quality, there would naturally be pressure for
change. However, this is not a condition against mergers, meaning that this
change presumably cannot be linked with the mid vowel developments, if
causation is the only connection between changes we are allowed to make. If
the mid vowels started to shift Wrst, why did that raising happen? In any case,
these mid vowels cannot be shifting into the territory of the high ones to satisfy a
no-merger condition.
There are still at least two other possibilities for grouping changes together
apart from common causation. Perhaps the GVS has an essential unity, not
because the contributory changes happen for the same reason, but because one
part leads to, or creates the necessary conditions for, the next. This would argue
for a GVS which does exclude the subsequent mergers—not because the whole
shift is motivated by the avoidance of mergers, but because the changes that show
a degree of interdependence stop at the point where all the systemic slots are Wlled
again and the cycle is complete.
This is partly an aesthetic argument (we include the ‘circular’ aspects of the GVS
because they form a neat pattern, and exclude the later mergers because they mess
the pattern up, even though we know that language change is really at least as often
messy as neat). It is, on the other hand, supported by results. Both the top and
bottom halves of the GVS have contributed to the mismatches of orthography and
phonology which are such a trial to today’s learner spellers. Furthermore, both
halves provide the same kinds of outcomes in terms of the modern English
morphophonemic alternations they create, with divine–divinity created by the
top half, and sane–sanity by the bottom half. Stockwell and Minkova suggest that
such classiWcation by results is possible, though ultimately uninteresting:
The Great Vowel Shift has reality as the historical explanation of phonetic diVerences
among cognates within the Modern English lexicon. . . . As a ‘summation’ . . . it has such
reality. There is no basis for disputing anyone’s choice of convenient summation labels,
only for disputing the reiWcation of them.19
In other words, the GVS itself is, on this view, not something that happened, but
merely a convenient summary term for a series of independent processes which
combine to cause a particular set of eVects on early modern English phonology.
19
Stockwell and Minkova (1988b), 411.
restructuring renaissance english 173
Labelling these individual changes as a single unit is both meaningless (because
the only rationale for doing so would involve an identiWcation of a single
common motivation, which is lacking), and pernicious (because creating a
category like the GVS makes us believe in it).
In what sense, then, is the GVS not real? Lass in 1992 provided an entertain-
ing and enlightening view of Stockwell and Minkova’s problems with the GVS
concept by discussing the aYnities of the proposed GVS with zebras and
constellations. As he explained, while we know what we think we mean by a
zebra (it’s a stripy horse), some zebras will in fact turn out to be biologically
closer to other horses than they are to other zebras. ‘S&M argue in eVect that
the GVS is like the zebra: its sub-changes have more powerful and compelling
aYnities with processes outside the package (both earlier and later), and the
package is therefore a fake’.20
Even worse, the elements conventionally included
in the GVS have only been grouped together because humans tend to see
patterns, just as we group stars into constellations, even though of course there
is no Great Bear or Orion’s Belt (or Orion, come to that) in the night sky.
Nonetheless, we easily fall prey to what Lass here calls ‘The constellation
fallacy: . . . Because a set of points in some space can be joined into an
‘‘object’’ of a deWnite shape, the object exists.’
To continue Lass’s metaphor, Stockwell and Minkova seem, therefore, to
suggest that we should do away with both zebras and constellations for both
early modern English and the GVS. In these terms, then, although humans are
naturally good at seeing patterns, we ought to be more disciplined and disallow
many of those we think we see. In particular, we should, they warn, be extremely
wary of patterns which are ‘the product of hindsight’.21
Historical patterns,
however, may not be entirely like either zebras or constellations, as this and
other chapters within the volume serve to illustrate. In fact, it is hard to see how
we can discuss historical patterns at all except insofar as they are the product of
hindsight on the part of linguists.
First, even a change that only takes a generation or two is quite unlikely to
be seen as such by the people participating in it. All changes therefore go
beyond the individual native speaker’s competence, and none can be truly
linguistically or conceptually ‘real’. Either no change is real, however minor;
or we cannot rule out groupings of changes simply because of the time factor
involved. Stockwell and Minkova argue that ‘Changes that are separated by 300
years surely cannot partake of the same ‘‘inner coherence’’ ’22
—but we have
20
See Lass (1992), 147. 21
Stockwell and Minkova (1988a), 386. 22
Ibid., 370.
174 april mcmahon
already seen that there are other modes of classiWcation which need not assume
common motivation. In fact, when it comes to language change, linguists need
to stand outside what is going on to understand it. That is what historians are
for. We can see patterns which are partly mysterious, the causation of which we
do not fully know, and we can still learn from them. In that sense, as Lass
noted in 1999, ‘The GVS is problematical in the same way as other ‘‘events’’
with great temporal spans like ‘‘the Industrial Revolution’’ or ‘‘the Romantic
Period’’’.23
Historians propose such labels partly because of that human ten-
dency to see patterns, but those labels catch on because they are helpful—they
allow us to classify certain events and ideas together which we might not
otherwise do on other grounds. It seems absurd to suggest that we should
disregard ‘the long eighteenth century’ because it took too long, or ‘the
Enlightenment’ because not everyone was enlightened at the same time, or
for the same reason.
Perhaps, in the end, the real argument comes down to what diVerent
scholars are willing to accept, and how high or low they set their thresholds
for realism as opposed to idealism and abstraction. As Lass puts it, ‘obviously
cognitive preferences diVer, and there are personal limits to what anybody can
swallow. S & M appear to choke on some I Wnd quite palatable, and vice versa;
but in most cases there aren’t real empirical issues involved.’24
We see here a
very clear match for another current argument in historical linguistics, this
time focusing on grammaticalization, which has been discussed at length by
the linguists Paul Hopper and Elizabeth Traugott in their 1993 book of the
same name. Grammaticalization is the term for what happens when a lexical
word, like a noun or verb or adjective, becomes something more grammatical,
like a particle or suYx; and there seems to be general agreement about what a
core case of grammaticalization might be. We can see a good English example
in the case of be going to, which can be used in a lexical way to mean ‘I am
physically on my way to do something’; if I meet you at the bus stop, and ask
where you are going, you may say I’m going to town. However, now be going to
also has a much more grammatical use, which express futurity. So, you may
say I’m going to tell Jane tomorrow. These grammaticalized usages can be
recognized because they no longer necessarily involve motion: in our example,
you and Jane may be Xatmates and there is no question of travelling in order
to do the telling. This loss of some earlier component of meaning is known as
23
Lass (1999), 396. 24
Lass (1988), 405–6.
restructuring renaissance english 175
semantic bleaching. In addition, phonological reduction is common in the
grammaticalized cases, where we often Wnd gonna rather than going to: note
that I’m gonna tell Jane tomorrow is Wne, whereas *I’m gonna town is not.
Historical linguists recognize that these changes of semantic bleaching and
phonological reduction are ‘real’, and that they work together, perhaps over-
lapping in their chronology, in the development of particular forms from
lexical to grammatical. However, battle has been joined over grammaticaliza-
tion itself, the composite of these individual changes. The issue, which should
seem rather familiar by now, is whether grammaticalization is simply a con-
venient label for a whole set of independent changes, in which case we would
be better served by looking for aYnities of one kind of semantic bleaching (i.e.
the process by which one linguistic element, in becoming more and more
functional, loses most of its lexical meaning) with another, for example; or
whether we can talk meaningfully about grammaticalization theory, thereby
according the overall trajectory of changes a reality and meaning which is
greater than the sum of its parts.
Lass argues (and this preWgures some of the arguments about grammaticaliza-
tion too) that ‘the traditional GVS . . . can be salvaged to some extent on
aesthetic and historiographical grounds; not as an empirical ‘‘event’’, but as a
pattern of signiWcance and a focus for story-telling too valuable to discard’.25
What is absolutely clear is that something did profoundly restructure Renais-
sance English, at least as far as the long vowel system was concerned. Calling that
something the GVS is not in itself a solution, and could be downright obfusca-
tory if we took that to be the end of the story. Nevertheless, it is a step in the right
direction if we accept that one relatively minor change could lead to another,
until the whole system had altered, and then try to Wnd out more about the
rationale for those individual steps and for their aftermath.
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
There are many textbooks available on the history of English and on historical linguistics
more generally, and all include some information on sound change and attempts to
explain it: try Fennell (2001), Aitchison (1981), or McMahon (1994). If you need help with
basic phonetics and phonology, and with the symbols used throughout this chapter,
some introductions which focus speciWcally on English are Carr (1999) and McMahon
(2001). A guide to phonetic symbols can be found in this volume on pp. x–xi.
25
Lass (1992), 148.
176 april mcmahon
A focus on phonology
Turning to change in the relevant period, there are excellent overviews of each area of the
grammar in Lass (1999b), with a particularly detailed chapter on developments in
phonology and morphology from 1476–1776 by Lass himself (1999a). This chapter goes
into far more depth on far more changes than I can hope to cover here. On syntax, there
is a full treatment of historical developments in Denison (1993), while Tieken-Boon van
Ostade (1987) gives a very clear and detailed account of the variability in usage of DO in
the eighteenth century. Nurmi (1999a) is also useful in this context. Barber (1997) and
Görlach (1991) both provide good overviews of change during this period.
Textbook views of the Great Vowel Shift
The Great Vowel Shift itself, whatever exactly it was or wasn’t, Wgures at least in
passing in all surveys of the history of English, and tends to make an appearance in
many textbooks on language change. It is discussed in much more detail in Lass (1976,
1988, 1992, 1999b), and by Stockwell (1975) and Stockwell and Minkova (1988a, 1988b,
1990, 1999).
The inception problem
Orthoepical evidence for this period is presented in detail in the second volume of
Dobson (1968); many texts—including those by Hart, Robinson, and Hodges—have
been printed in facsimile by The Scolar Press. Nöjd (1978) presents a full analysis of
Hodges’ work.
Lass discusses the importance of regional evidence for the interpretation of the GVS in
both 1976 and 1999. Further information on the Scottish Vowel Length Rule can be found
in Aitken (1981), Johnston (1997), and McMahon (2000), and more information on Scots
in general in Jones (1997) and in Corbett et al. (2003).
The merger problem
Readers interested in Optimality Theory might consult Kager (1999); for papers applying
the model speciWcally to historical problems and data, see Holt (2003).
The structural coherence problem
Grammaticalization is treated in detail in Hopper and Traugott (1993); the controversy
over ‘grammaticalization theory’ in particular is highlighted in Newmeyer (2001), Janda
(2001), and Campbell (2001).
restructuring renaissance english 177
7
MAPPING CHANGE IN
TUDOR ENGLISH
Terttu Nevalainen
Davphine. Why? whom do you account for authors, sir Iohn Daw?
Daw. Syntagma Iuris ciuilis, Corpus Iuris ciuilis, Corpus
Iuris canonici, the King of Spaines bible.
Davphine. Is the King of Spaines bible an author?
Clerimont. Yes, and Syntagma.
Davphine. What was that Syntagma, sir?
Daw. A ciuill lawer, a Spaniard.
Davphine. Sure, Corpus was a Dutch-man.
Clerimont. I, both the Corpusses, I knew ’hem: they were very
corpulent authors.
Ben Jonson, Epicoene, or The Silent Woman (1616), II.iii.
NOW, four hundred years on, Clerimont in Jonson’s Epicoene is not too far
oV the mark when he thinks Corpusses are authors. Modern corpora (or
corpuses) are structured collections of texts, both written and spoken. DiVerent
kinds are available for language studies. A multigenre corpus contains a variety of
genres, and a single-genre corpus consists of only one, such as personal letters,
pamphlets, or newspapers. Both types usually have multiple authors. Single-
author corpora also exist, with the Shakespeare canon as a case in point. As
corpora are usually digitized, it is easy to run searches for words and construc-
tions in the texts they contain.
Over the last couple of decades, electronic corpora have greatly enriched the
study of the history of the English language. Giving quick and easy access to a
wide selection of data, they have made it possible to explore how the language
was used not only in successive time periods such as Middle and Early Modern
English, but also in various genres, and by diverse groups of people. Apart from
the Corpus of Old English, which contains all extant texts from that period, most
historical corpora consist of text selections. They aim, in essence, to provide a
window on diVerent kinds of writing from administrative documents to early
science, handbooks, sermons, Wction, drama, and personal letters, to name but a
few. The number of extant genres grows with time as literacy improves and new
genres come into being, such as the private diary in the sixteenth century, the
newspaper in the seventeenth, and the novel in the eighteenth.
In this chapter, historical corpora will be used to shed light on some of the
details of how the English language changed during the Tudor era, roughly, in
the sixteenth century (although seventeenth-century English will also be con-
sidered at various points). As other chapters in this volume have already
stressed, period divisions of this kind are arbitrary in that language change
rarely if ever coincides with royal dynasties—or indeed with any of the other
landmarks commonly found in history books. The time span adopted in this
chapter will therefore be introduced not in terms of absolute boundaries but as
a core period for the linguistic processes which will be discussed. As these
processes partly extend beyond the sixteenth century, the time span could
equally well have been labelled ‘the Tudor-Stuart period’. This would have
accounted for the fact that what was the Tudor period in England was already
part of the Stuart period in Scotland, the linguistic characteristics of which will
also be included in our discussion.
As noted in Chapter 5, by the sixteenth century English spelling no longer
contained much information that could help us identify a writer’s dialectal
background. This is obviously the case in Jonson’s Epicoene, printed in 1616.
But the Tudor era also represents the time before prescriptive grammars, and so
enables us to see how grammatical changes spread quite unmonitored in the
language community, often replacing other, earlier, or more local features as they
did so. The use of corpora as a means of investigation importantly enables a
close-up of such change, enabling us to map the details of shift and variation in
ways which are otherwise impossible. Although often neglected in traditional
histories of the language, corpus evidence of this kind is, therefore, extremely
valuable, a means of taking us much closer to the ‘real English’ of the day, and the
complexities of language history as it was enacted through the usage of a wide
range of writers.
In this context, private writings—such as personal letters and diaries—oVer
considerable insight into how Tudor English was used by individuals, by women
mapping change in tudor english 179
and men, northerners and southerners, and by a range of people from diVerent
walks of life. All of these necessarily drew on the English of their time but, in
doing so, they often made diVerent linguistic choices where choice was available.
DiVerent people and groups of people could hence become leaders of linguistic
change, promoting new forms, picking up on-going changes, or avoiding
traditional forms such as the second-person pronoun thou (an important shift
in Tudor English which we will examine in detail later in this chapter). Such
speakers can thereby be seen as instrumental in changing the language of their
day as many of the changes they implemented eventually diVused throughout the
language community. Many features promoted in Tudor English have also
become part of modern English—of both mainstream regional varieties and
the standard variety alike.
The majority of this chapter will deal with two important processes of change
in Tudor English: one that aVected the third-person singular verbal ending
(e.g. he knoweth, which was gradually displaced by he knows), and one that
introduced the auxiliary do into English (so that structures such as they know
not were gradually displaced by they do not know). Both are critical aspects
of change in the English of this time, and they have attracted a good deal of
scholarly interest. The evidence provided by electronic corpora is nevertheless
able to give us a more rounded picture of both of them, but it has also raised
some new questions for further studies. Some of these questions are related to
other processes of change as, for instance, in the Early Modern English pronoun
system (including the disappearance of the pronoun thou). This process will also
be traced in the light of corpus data, and the evidence of change and variation
which it can illuminatingly provide.
some historical corpora
The Tudor period from the late Wfteenth to the early seventeenth century
(1485–1603) provides us with a rich array of public and private writings, a
selection of which has been sampled for the multigenre Helsinki Corpus of
English Texts (henceforth referred to as HC). The corpus spans Old, Middle,
and Early Modern English, paying attention to both genre continuity and innov-
ation across time. It is organized into shorter sub-periods, two of which—1500–
1570 and 1570–1640—are of particular interest for our study of Tudor English.
180 terttu nevalainen
Both consist of a matching set of Wfteen genres ranging from the typical formal
kinds of writing such as the Statutes of the Realm to more informal kinds such
as comedy.1
Most of the genres included in the HC were publicly distributed or appeared
in print (autobiographies, handbooks, philosophical and educational treatises,
histories, and plays) but, where possible, private writings were also included
(such as diaries and personal correspondence). Language composed for oral
delivery (such as sermons or plays) was similarly sampled, as were texts originally
produced in the spoken medium (such as trial proceedings). Using a selection
of materials like this we can, for example, trace back processes of change in the
grammar of Tudor English which emanate from the more oYcial written end of
the genre spectrum as opposed to those that were Wrst manifested in informal,
colloquial texts.
The distinction between oYcial and informal colloquial genres is relevant in
that oYcial genres were often modelled on French and Latin which, as Chapters 3
and 4 have noted, had much longer histories in England as languages of the law
and administration than was true of Wfteenth- or sixteenth-century English. It is
clear that many formal features such as complex subordinating conjunctions
came into English through these channels. The passage below, for instance,
illustrates an early case of provided that (‘on condition that’, ‘if’) in the Statutes
of the Realm for 1489–91 as sampled for the HC:
Except and provided that yt be ordyned by the seid auctorite, that the lettres patentes late
made by the Kyng to Thomas Lorde Dacre of Maister Foster of the seid forest, stand and
be goode and eVectuell to the same Thomas after the tenor and eVecte of the same lettres
patentes, the seid Acte not withstondyng. ([STAT2 II] 532)2
Since all the Wfteenth-century instances of this conjunction in the HC come from
statutory texts, as do nearly all sixteenth-century cases, a convincing case can be
made, based on corpus evidence of this kind, that provided (that) entered the
English language through legal and administrative use in the Wfteenth century.
1
Each genre in the HC is typically represented by two texts, and each longer text by two samples, so
as to make up the minimum of 10,000 words per genre per sub-period. Letters, trials, and the Bible
have been sampled up to 20,000 words per sub-period. The HC is large enough for the study of
grammar change, but it may not give a reliable picture of lexical changes, especially with less common
words, where a larger corpus is needed. As English spelling was becoming standardized in the course
of the Tudor period, only private writings by less educated people and imitation of speech in drama
can provide some information on the pronunciation of the time.
2
The corpus examples cited are identiWed by the year of writing/publication, the name of the
writer and the text and, in square brackets, the short title of the text in the corpus (HC, HCOS), or the
name of the letter collection (CEEC), followed by a page reference. Any emendations such as
expansions of abbreviations have been italicized.
mapping change in tudor english 181
Provided that is also found in a 1554 trial for high treason, in which Sir Nicholas
Throckmorton was accused of conspiring to prevent Queen Mary’s marriage to
Philip of Spain, but there, too, it appears in a passage that quotes from an earlier
statute:
5
. . . yet there is another cause to restraine these your strange and extraordinarie
Constructions; that is to say, a Prouiso in the latter ende of the Statute of Edwarde the
Thirde, hauyng these Wordes: Provided always, if any other Case of supposed Treason
shall chaunce hereafter to come in Question or Trial before any Justice, other than is in
the said Statute expressed, that then the Justice shall forbear to adjudge the sayd case,
untill it be shewed to the Parliament to trie, whether it should be Treason or Felonie.
(1554, State Trials [THROCKM I] 75.C1)
If we trace this change further, we can see that although the conjunction
continues to be favoured in legal language, it also Wnds its way into less formal
contexts of use towards the end of the sixteenth century and at the beginning
of the next. It can be found, for instance, in Gervase Markham’s Countrey
Contentments of 1615, a book on husbandry which gives instructions on farming
and housekeeping. The excerpt below comes from a section on exercising horses:
As for the quantity of his exercise it must be according to his foulenes or cleannes; for if
he be very foule you must then exercise moderatelie to breake his grease, if halfe foule,
halfe cleane, then somewhat more to melt his grease, if altogether cleane; then you may
take what you please of him (prouided that you doe nothing to discourage his sprits).
([MARKHAM] 77)
Nevertheless, there are fewer than ten instances of the conjunction in the entire
corpus of William Shakespeare’s plays (and none in the The Merry Wives of
Windsor which was sampled for the HC). The following example comes from
Act IV of The Two Gentlemen of Verona:
I take your oVer, and will liue with you,
Prouided that you do no outrages
On silly women, or poore passengers.
(IV. i. 69–71)
Using a range of corpora is particularly useful for establishing the processes of
change which may be at work, especially when we consider the variety of usages
which may concurrently exist within a given period. The Helsinki Corpus of
Older Scots (HCOS), for example, follows the period division of the HC in
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries and with a similar spread of genres.
Importantly, however, it gives us an opportunity to compare the pathways
of change in Scots and southern British (i.e. English) English. So the new
182 terttu nevalainen
conditional conjunction found in Scottish legal texts in the sixteenth century is,
in fact, not the past participle form provided that but the present participle
providing (always) that, as can be seen in the following example taken from the
HCOS evidence of the 1555 Peebles Records: ‘The inquest ordanis to ansuer Robert
Atzin, and ilk ane of the oYcaris, of ane ferlot of meill in this storme to help thair
wiYs and barnis, providing allwayis that thai clame na possessioun thairof
in tyme cuming’ ([PEEBLES 1] 225). The past participle form is only generalized
in Scottish texts in the seventeenth century, presumably under southern inXuence
after the Union of the Crowns of Scotland and England in 1603.
The Tudor era is also covered by the Corpus of Early English Correspond-
ence (CEEC), which is speciWcally designed to facilitate the study of social
variation in language use. It consists of personal correspondence, private
letters written by one person to another. The way this corpus is structured
allows great Xexibility in analysing periods as short as twenty years (or even
shorter), while its range of female as well as male writers facilitates the
investigation of the impact of gender on language change and variation (a
feature which is clearly important in language history but one which, as
previous chapters have shown, is often hampered by lack of evidence). The
CEEC also contains letters deriving from writers of various social and regional
backgrounds. When data were sampled for the CEEC, particular attention was
paid to letter writers from London, East Anglia (Norfolk and SuVolk), and the
North. London writers proper were, in addition, separated from those at-
tached to the Royal Court in Westminster in order to make it possible to
compare their language use.
It is a sign of the less formal nature of the CEEC letter corpus that there are no
more than half a dozen instances of provided that in the sixteenth-century data
(which amounts to almost a million words). One of these comes from a letter
written by the Norfolk lawyer Stephen Drury to Nathaniel Bacon, a local JP and
future sheriV of Norfolk, in 1583. The Wrst instance of provided, reproduced here
in curly brackets, was deleted by Drury himself:
I, thinking yt would come thus to passe {provided} and supposing (as inded yt followed)
that Hast would be this day at Aylesham church, provided that Mr Neave who had
no notyce of the countermaund should be there to arrest him, who came accordingly to
Aylesham churche. ([BACON II] 270)
In this chapter the CEEC will be used to examine changes which spread from less
formal language use across the language community, as well as the fundamental
role of language users (both men and women) from diVerent parts of the country
in shaping Tudor English.
mapping change in tudor english 183
the story of -(e)th and -(e)s
Let us begin our corpus-guided tour of Tudor English by looking at the processes
that led to the generalization of the originally northern -(e)s ending in verbs
throughout the country. Its diVusion was, at the beginning of our period, by no
means a foregone conclusion: -(e)s was not used by William Caxton, the Wrst
English printer, nor was it used by William Tyndale in his Bible translations in the
1520s and 1530s. Both Caxton and Tyndale retained the southern -(e)th. Tyndale’s
usage was followed by the 1611 King James Bible; both write, for instance, ‘he that
commeth after me’, not ‘he that comes after me’ (John 1:15). But Shakespeare
already preferred -s, as is evident in the title of his play All’s Well That Ends Well,
which dates back to 1603–4.
If we glance forward to modern English, we can, on the other hand, see little
variation in the third-person singular present-tense indicative endings. The -(e)s
ending is found in the standard and supra-regional variety, as well as in many
mainstream regional and social varieties. Most speakers now associate -(e)th with
archaic usage, and the vast majority of its occurrences in modern newspapers, for
instance, are quotes or pseudo-quotes from the 1611 Bible or from Shakespeare, as
indeed in the following example from Time in June 2000 (where it is also being
used in the plural): ‘But what the tabloids giveth they may also taketh away, and
Charles must watch his step’.3
It is noteworthy here that the writer employs the
ending with the main verb taketh following a modal auxiliary may, a usage which
had been possible in Middle English in the south of England but which was in
fact no longer found in Shakespeare’s time. (Incidentally, the spellchecker used
when writing this chapter did not recognize taketh but suggested that it was a
misspelling of teeth!)
Forms in -(e)th have, however, also been attested in traditional dialects in
Britain well into the twentieth century. The Survey of English Dialects (SED),
which contains material from the 1950s and 1960s (see further Chapter 11),
records, for instance, weareth (‘wears’) and dooth (‘does’) in Cornwall and
Devon. Conversely, in some regional dialects no verbal ending at all is found in
the third-person singular, as in constructions such as ‘He like her’ and ‘She want
some’ found in East Anglia.
A look at the history of the forms can partly explain this present-day variation.
The Linguistic Atlas of Late Mediaeval English (LALME) shows that there was a
clear dialect boundary between the north and the south in Late Middle English
3
Time, 19, June 2000: 33. I owe this example to Dr Helena Raumolin-Brunberg.
184 terttu nevalainen
based on the third-person singular indicative endings. North of a line running
between Chester in the north-west of England to the Wash in Lincolnshire in the
east, the ending -(e)s was used, whereas to the south of this line, the dominant
form was -(e)th (typically spelled, with a thorn, as -(e)þ). This situation reXects
the disparate geographical origins of the two suYxes: as Chapter 4 conWrms, -(e)s
is Wrst attested in northern texts in Old English whereas -(e)th is found in
southern and Midland dialects. This old dialect boundary can partly account
for some traditional dialects in the south-west retaining -(e)th until the twentieth
century. But it does not explain how the originally northern form -(e)s came to
be generalized in the south as well.
-(e)s from the north
Let us Wrst look at the sixteenth- and seventeenth-century evidence which is
provided by the Helsinki Corpus to get an overall picture of how this change
unfolded in time. First of all, we learn that zero forms (which were discussed in
the previous section), as in the modern regional ‘he like her’, hardly occur at all in
most genres, although they are occasionally recorded in private letters. The two
instances below come from a 1625 letter of Lady Katherine Paston, a Norfolk
gentlewoman (and a descendant of Margaret Paston whose own linguistic usage
was discussed in Chapter 5). Katherine Paston is writing to her son, who was a
student in Cambridge in the mid 1620s:
thy father haue bine very ill with his owld truble in his Legge so that he haue kepte
his bede with it this 5: or 6: days, but now god be thanked it is on the mendinge
hand . . . ([KPASTON] 77)
One reason why this zero form did not spread may be that it was also used to
signal the subjunctive mood (as in ‘they insist that he go’ i.e. ‘should go’), which
continued to be in common use throughout Renaissance English. There may of
course also have been dialect diVerences that have gone unrecorded because most
rural dialect speakers at this time could not write, and so did not leave any
personal record of their language for posterity. We only know that the zero form
did not make its way into the supralocal usage that was being established among
the literate section of the Tudor and Stuart language community.
This leaves us with the two alternatives, -(e)s and -(e)th, in the third-person
singular present-tense indicative. The HC evidence, which comes from both
published and private sources, suggests that the use of -(e)s was in fact negligible
mapping change in tudor english 185
at the national level in the period 1500–1570; it occurs in a mere 3 per cent of
the cases. It was instead the southern -(e)th which was the dominant form in
most kinds of writing from the Tyndale Bible to sermons and trial records.
Nevertheless, -(e)s continued to spread, and in 1570–1640 it had already achieved
a mean frequency of 20 per cent of all the third-person singular present-tense
endings over a selection of HC genres (diaries, histories, oYcial and private
letters, sermons, and trials).
Average Wgures such as these, however, can only describe a change in progress in
very general terms. In order to Wnd out in more detail the kinds of texts (and
genres) in which the incoming form Wrst appeared, we need to dig deeper. Here
again, corpus evidence proves its value. The HC data, for example, conWrms that
there were notable diVerences between genres in the use of third-person endings. A
comparison of diaries, histories, and private and oYcial letters reveals that it was
in fact only private letters that had any instances of -(e)s to speak of between 1500
and 1570. Typically, it occurred in the letters of northern writers, as in an extract
from the following letter which was written c1506 by Dame Isabel Plumpton to her
husband Sir Robert (the Plumptons were a Yorkshire gentry family):
Sir, I have sent to Wright of Idell for the money that he promyst you, and he saith he
hath it not to len, and makes choses [\excuses\] and so I can get none nowhere.
([PLUMPTON] 198)
But even Isabel Plumpton alternates between -(e)s and -(e)th, as in her use of -s
with make and -th with say and have in the second line of this extract. This is, in
fact, a general pattern in the data. There are a few verbs, notably do, have, and say,
which take the incoming -s ending later than others. As a result when, in the latter
half of the seventeenth century, most other verbs have more than 90 per cent
of -(e)s according to the evidence of the corpus, do still takes it in only half of the
cases, and have in merely one third. Such patterns are common in language
change. A change usually spreads gradually to all relevant contexts, but it can also
have word-speciWc restrictions and can thereby proceed, just as in the case of
-(e)s, by means of a process known as lexical diVusion.
In the next HC period, 1570–1640, the overall use of -(e)s with verbs other than
do and have soars to some 80 per cent in private letters, and comes to about one
third of the instances in trials and oYcial letters. This pattern of spread from the
private, informal end of the genre spectrum is, of course, precisely the reverse of
that which we found with the conjunction provided (that) which, as we have seen,
Wrst gained ground in formal genres, and only afterwards spread to informal ones
in the course of time. Meanwhile, to return to the indicative endings, it was the
southern -(e)th formwhich, becoming associated with more formal registers, soon
186 terttu nevalainen
gained a distinctly ‘literary’ status in general use. This passage from a sermon
against ‘usurie’ (or excessive gains made by lending money) by the ‘silver-tongued’
preacher Henry Smith illustrates a typical context for -(e)th around 1600:
Now, al the Commandements of God are fulWlled by loue, which Christ noteth when hee
draweth all the Commandements to one Commandement, which is, Loue God aboue all
things, and thy neighbour as thy selfe: as if hee should say, hee which loueth GOD, will
keepe all the Commaundements which respect God, and he which loueth his neighbour
will keepe all the Commaundements which respect his neighbour. (1591, H. Smith, Of
Vsurie [SMITH] B4R)
The approximate date for this wider generalization of -(e)s based on the HC gains
direct support from the Shakespeare corpus. In Shakespeare’s early plays, that is
those written between 1591–99, the dominant ending with verbs other than have
and do is -(e)th, and -(e)s appears in only one Wfth of the cases. In his later
plays, however, those written between 1600–13, the situation is reversed, and it is
instead -(e)s which is used in the vast majority of cases.
We can follow the process of change even more closely by referring to some of
the other corpora which have been discussed above. In the Corpus of Early English
Correspondence, for example, the change can be traced within shorter periods and
with more data. The CEEC conWrms that -(e)s was infrequent well into the second
half of the sixteenth century, occurring on average in less than 10 per cent of all
possible cases. Figure 7.1 presents the increasing frequency of -(e)s towards the end
of the century and in the Wrst half of the next. It reaches 50 per cent around 1600,
when -(e)th and -(e)s are almost equally frequent in personal correspondence:
Yet even these Wgures hide a great deal of variation. If we make a comparison
between male and female writers, a systematic diVerence can be seen to emerge
between the two sexes and their patterns of indicative usage. Throughout the
0
20
40
60
80
100
1500−
1539
1540−
1579
1580−
1619
1620−
1659
%
Fig. 7.1. Increasing use of the third-person singular -(e)s in personal letters between
1500 and 1660
Source: Based on Nevalainen and Raumolin-Brunberg (2003: 215).
mapping change in tudor english 187
sixteenth century, women are shown to be consistently more frequent users of the
incoming -(e)s form in the south than men, suggesting perhaps that women were
more apt to adopt forms that were in the process of being generalized throughout
Tudor England. In fact women turned out to be the leaders in seven out of ten Early
Modern English changes which were studied by means of the CEEC corpus. We also
know from present-day English that women are usually in the vanguard of linguis-
tic change, especially of those changes that are in the process of spreading to supra-
local usage. At the same time, we should not forget that, due to basic diVerences in
education, a much smaller section of the female than the male population could
write in Tudor England, which leaves women’s language less well represented than
that of men. But there were also women—such indeed as Queen Elizabeth herself—
who possessed an extensive classical education. The passage below comes from a
letter written by her in 1591 to King James VI of Scotland, the man who, twelve years
later, would be her successor to the English throne:
My deare brother, As ther is naught that bredes more for-thinking repentance and
agrived thoughtes than good turnes to harme the giuers ayde, so hathe no bonde
euer tied more honorable mynds, than the shewes of any acquital by grateful acknow-
elegement in plain actions; for wordes be leues and dides the fruites. ([ROYAL 1] 65)
In her personal correspondence, Queen Elizabeth chose -(e)s over -(e)th about
half of the time with verbs other than have and do. In this, she clearly belonged to
another generation than her father King Henry VIII (1491–1547) who, as in the
following extract from a letter of 1528, had not employed the incoming -(e)s form
even in the intimacy of his love letters to Anne Boleyn, Elizabeth’s mother:
And thus opon trust oV your short repaire to London I make an ende oV my letter, myne
awne swettehart. Wryttyn with the hand oV hym whyche desyryth as muche to be yours
as yow do to have hym—H Rx ([HENRY 8] 112)
The CEEC material can also be used to give us an idea how the change progressed
geographically at this time. Figure 7.2 presents the relative frequency of the third-
person singular -(e)s from the late Wfteenth to the early seventeenth centuries. As
-(e)s originates from the north it is only natural that it should be more frequent
in the northern texts than it is elsewhere in the early part of the period. It is
therefore somewhat surprising to Wnd that, for the better part of the sixteenth
century, this higher frequency is no longer in evidence. We can assume, therefore,
that the pressure of the southern -eth norm must have had an eVect on the
general usage among the literate section of the people in the north; we will
explore this in more detail in the next section.
As Figure 7.2 also indicates, with the exception of the late Wfteenth century, -(e)s
is not much used in the capital, either at Court or in the City of London, until the
188 terttu nevalainen
last few decades of the sixteenth century. This is the point when the -(e)s ending
made its breakthrough in the City, and also gained ground at Court. We saw above
that the Queen herself regularly used -(e)s in her personal correspondence.
But it nevertheless remains signiWcant that -(e)s should have been present in
London in the late Wfteenth century. A writer’s geographical roots in the -(e)s
speaking area may, for example, partly account for its early appearance in the
usage attested for the capital. As Chapters 4 and 5 have noted, for example, the
City of London attracted vast numbers of immigrants from the north, especially
apprentices, in the late Middle Ages. Our early evidence on London English also
mostly comes from merchants’ letters, and some of them we know had northern
connections. This was, for instance, the case with Richard Cely, a member of the
wool-exporting Cely family from London, and a frequent -(e)s user, as is
indicated in the following extract from a letter written in 1480 to his brother
George Cely. It is worth noting here that he also uses the zero form, and writes
both he prays (as in line 2) and he pray (in line 4):
Syr, my Lord of Sente Jonys commende hym to you, and thankys yow for yowr tydyngys,
and prays you of contynewans. He ys ryught glad of them, and he prays yow to
remembyr hys sadyllys, styropys and spwrs, and clothe for hosyn. Aull tys at thys
Whytsuntyd he pray yow that hyt may be had. ([CELY] 74)
The only region of the four examined where literate writers clearly avoided -(e)s
at the turn of the seventeenth century is East Anglia. This may be connected with
the fact that the area was rather self-contained with Norwich as its local centre. It
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
1460−
1499
1500−
1539
1540−
1579
1580−
1619
%
London
Court
North
East Anglia
Fig. 7.2. Regional spread of -(e)s in verbs other than have and do
Source: Based on Nevalainen and Raumolin-Brunberg (2003: 178).
mapping change in tudor english 189
may also have something to do with the availability of a third alternative, the zero
form, which had been attested there from the Wfteenth century onwards. This
suYxless form could also be used with have, do, and say—as in the Norfolk-based
Katherine Paston’s use of ‘thy father have’ (see p. 185). Elsewhere, as we have seen,
these verbs preferred -eth. Further examples can be found, for example, in a letter
written by John Mounford, a local Norfolk man, to Nathaniel Bacon in 1573:
. . . and also your horce shall want no shooing, to be doone allwaies at home in your
stabel, for he do dwell within haulfe a myle of Cocthorpe. But his father saye that he
cannot forbeare him from his occupacion to continew with yow, but I thinke if yow doo
talke with his father yow shall soone intreat him . . . ([BACON I] 56)
Despite this lag, the supralocal use of -(e)s was generalized in the East Anglian
data as well in the course of the seventeenth century
-(e)th from the south
As we have seen, Figure 7.2 suggests that the southern -(e)th had made sign-
iWcant inroads into the north in the course of the late Wfteenth and early
sixteenth centuries, by which time it appears as the majority form in the
personal correspondence of northerners. Nevertheless, there was clearly com-
petition between the local northern form -(e)s and the would-be supra-local
-(e)th, not least since the latter was supported by the printing press and
administrative and legal documents, such as the Statutes of the Realm, which
has been referred to above. Both forms were clearly known to and used by
literate people in the north, although the relative proportions of this usage
tend to diVer depending on the person. In the Plumpton family letters, for
example, -(e)th was more common in letters written by men than it was in
letters written by women, as well as being more common in the letters of high-
ranking and professional men than in letters written by men coming from
lower social orders. But northerners of course never gave up their local -(e)s
form, which regained its status as the supra-local written norm at the turn of
the seventeenth century in the northern data.
The -s ending, with its alternative spellings -es and -is, was also the norm in
Older Scots. The Helsinki Corpus of Older Scots has no instances of the southern
-(e)th before 1500, and only a couple occur in the period 1500–1570. But there is a
huge increase in the use of -(e)th in the HCOS in the next period, 1570–1640, and
this does not diminish signiWcantly even in the latter half of the seventeenth
century. Most Scots genres at that point have at least some instances of -(e)th,
190 terttu nevalainen
although it is clearly favoured in travelogues, handbooks, and educational and
scientiWc treatises. Genre-preferential patterns can also be seen in the HC data
which represents southern English from the latter half of the seventeenth century;
apart from the conservative verbs do and have, which commonly retain -(e)th,
other verbs also take the ending in handbooks, educational treatises, sermons,
and in the autobiography of George Fox, the founder of the Quaker society,
although it is particularly prominent in Richard Preston’s translation of
Boethius’s De Consolatione Philosophiae (1695).
Two Scots cases from the middle period are presented below. The Wrst comes
from a sermon Upon the Preparation of the Lordis Supper which was preached by
the Church of Scotland minister Robert Bruce in Edinburgh in 1589. It has only
one -eth form, doeth in line 2; all the other relevant forms end in -es, as in makes
in line 2 and 3, and hes in lines 1 and 4. In this respect, it diVers strikingly from the
sermon preached by Henry Smith in London two years later (and which was
discussed on p. 187) which does not contain a single instance of -(e)s:
I call it Wrst of all, ane certaine feeling in the hart: for the Lord hes left sic a stamp in the
hart of euery man, that he doeth not that turne so secretlie, nor so quietly but hee makes
his owne heart to strike him, and to smite him: hee makes him to feill in his owne hart,
whether hee hes doone weill or ill. (1590, [BRUCE] 4)
The second passage comes from a pamphlet entitled A Counterblaste to Tobacco
which was written by King James and published in 1604. This contains an even
mix of -eth and -es forms and, as such, is more anglicized than Bruce’s sermon:
Medicine hath that vertue, that it neuer leaueth a man in that state wherin it Wndeth him;
it makes a sicke / man whole, but a whole man sicke. And as Medicine helpes nature
being taken at times of necessitie, so being euer and continually vsed, it doth but weaken,
wearie, and weare nature. ([TOBACCO] 95)
The fact that the traditional southern -eth form continued well into the
seventeenth century has, as the previous chapter also noted, been explained by
the process of anglicization of Older Scots especially after the Union of the
Crowns in 1603. A closer look at the later seventeenth-century Scots forms
reveals, however, that they come from two main categories. One consists of the
familiar three verbs have, do, and say (the Wrst two of which also appear in the
King James’ extract above). These make up about half of the cases. The other
group consists of verbs that end in sibilant sounds such as /s/, /z/, or /$/, for
example, where the suYx constitutes a syllable of its own (as in words such as
ariseth, causeth, increaseth, presseth, produceth, etc.). Only one third of the cases
are not linguistically regulated in this way.
mapping change in tudor english 191
linguistic motives for-(e)s
The relevance of the verb-Wnal consonant to the choice of suYx also emerges in
the southern English data. The incoming -(e)s form was favoured by verbs ending
in a stop, and in particular by the presence of a Wnal /t/ (e.g. lasts) and /d/ (leads).
In contrast, and just as in the Older Scots corpus, -eth tended to be retained in
verbs ending in a vowel and, as noted above, particularly, in verbs ending in a
sibilant or sibilant-Wnal aVricate: /s/ (compasseth), /z/ (causeth), /$/ (diminisheth),
/t$/ (catcheth), and /dZ/ (changeth). After a sibilant the suYx always preserves its
vowel, thereby forming an additional syllable.
A means of adding an extra syllable to a verb is, of course, a very useful device in
maintainingametricalpatternindramaandpoetry.Thealternationbetweenthetwo
suYxes in the following extract from Act Vof Shakespeare’s The Taming of the Shrew
can, for instance, be explained by metrical considerations. The suYx -eth in oweth is
accorded a syllabic status, while a non-syllabic reading is given to -s in owes:
Such dutie as the subiect owes the Prince
Euen such a woman oweth to her husband.
(V. ii. 156–7)
But, we might ask, why could a syllabic -es not be used in these contexts, too?
Corpora give no straightforward answer to this question, and we need to turn to
contemporary Tudor commentators to see whether they could give any clues as
to how to interpret this variation. After all, the spellings -es and -eth in medieval
texts suggest that both these third-person endings once contained a vowel before
the Wnal consonant. Today the vowel is no longer pronounced except with
sibilant-Wnal verbs (as in it causes).
Vowel deletion of this kind is not restricted to third-person verbal endings but it
canalsobefoundinthepluralandpossessive-(e)sendingsofnouns,aswellasinthe
past tense and past participle -ed forms of verbs. Previous research suggests that
plural and possessive nouns were the Wrst to lose the /@/ vowel in these positions,
and this took place in all words except for those ending in sibilants. This deletion
process started in the fourteenth century and was gradually completed over the
course of the sixteenth. The process was slower with the past-tense and past-
participle forms of verbs in which the suYx -ed was retained as a separate
syllable in many formal styles of usage until the end of the seventeenth century.
It still of course continues to be retained in adjectival forms such as learned, as
in a learned monograph, a learned society.
192 terttu nevalainen
In the third-person singular present-tense endings, the vowel loss happened
earlierinthenorthofEnglandthaninthesouth.Theprocesswasfasterincolloquial
speech than in other registers, and was only blocked, as we have seen, by the
presence of word-Wnal sibilants. The southern -(e)th ending was, for example, the
regular third-person suYx for John Hart, an early (London-based) phonetician
who has already been discussed in Chapter 6. His proposals for spelling reform
appearedbetween1551and1570and,importantly,containeddetailedtranscriptions
ofspeech.Inthiscontext,Hartis,importantly,theWrstreliablesourcetodistinguish
between the full and contracted variants of -eth. The latter he restricts to colloquial
speech, and his transcriptions only contain a few instances of /s/ (as in the words
methinks, belongs), but none of /es/. This suggests therefore that -(e)s had lost its
vowel in non-sibilant contexts by the mid-sixteenth century. Manycommentators,
as a result, did indeed regard -s as a contracted form of the syllabic -eth.
This contemporary evidence also indicates that the contracted forms of both
-(e)th and -(e)s had become current in the course of the Tudor period, and that -s
was, by this point, largely used as a contracted form. Phonologically, the
contracted -s also had an advantage over the dental fricative in -th (i.e. /u/) in
that it was much easier to pronounce after verbs ending in /t/ and /d/, as in
sendeth, for example, or sitteth. Although the Tudor English spelling system
cannot be relied on to display vowel deletion except with writers with little
formal education, the corpus evidence shows a general preference for -(e)s with
verbs ending in the stops /t/ and /d/.
We are now in a better position to interpret the CEEC Wndings in Figure 7.2. It
is probably the full and uncontracted -es form which reached London in the late
Wfteenth century. Like some other northern features which are also attested in
London English at this time, it failed to gain wider acceptance. However, the
second time -(e)s surfaced in the capital, in the sixteenth century, it involved
vowel contraction, which was now common with singular third-person verb
inXections in the south as well. In its short, contracted form, the originally
northern suYx hence found its way into the supra-local variety used by the
literate people of the time. The traditional southern form -eth had meanwhile
gained a Wrm position in formal contexts as, for instance, in liturgical speech, but
it was also retained in many regional dialects.
you and thou
Verbal endings are by no means the only linguistic systems in Tudor English
which make use of the same form for both the solemn and the rural. One of
mapping change in tudor english 193
the best known cases is the alternation between the second-person singular
pronouns you and thou.4
Apart from its traditional liturgical use, as in the
Lord’s Prayer, thou has continued as a regional form until the present day
especially in the north and west of England. Nevertheless, and as earlier
chapters in this volume have already explored, English, just like the other
Germanic languages, used to have two second-person pronouns, thou in the
singular and you in the plural. In Middle English (see p. 107), the use of the
plural you started to spread as the polite form in addressing one person (cf.
French vous, German Sie). Social inferiors used you to their superiors, who
reciprocated by using thou. In the upper ranks you was established as the norm
among equals. Thou was generally retained in the private sphere, but could also
surface in public discourse. As forms of address are socially negotiable, how-
ever, no rigid rules apply, and the story of the two pronouns is rather more
complex in its pragmatic details.
The Helsinki Corpus tells us that thou continued to recede in Tudor English.
Comparing an identical set of genres and about the same amount of text, we
learn that the use of the subject form thou dropped from nearly 500 instances in
the Wrst Early Modern English period (1500–1570), to some 350 in the second
(1570–1640). It is noteworthy, however, that a full range of genres continued to
use thou in the sixteenth century: not only sermons and the Bible but also
handbooks, educational treatises, translations of Boethius, Wction, comedy, and
trials. The example below, on how to ‘thresshe and wynowe corne’, comes from
John Fitzherbert’s The Boke of Husbandry of 1534; only the pronoun thou occurs
in the text included in the HC.
This whete and rye that thou shalt sowe ought to be very clene of wede, and therfore er
thou thresshe thy corne open thy sheues and pyke oute all maner of wedes, and than
thresshe it and wynowe it clene, & so shalt thou haue good clene corne an other yere.
([FITZH] 41)
Thou also occurs in sermons and the Bible, as well as the Boethius translations,
which are sampled from all three Early Modern English periods in the Helsinki
Corpus. Henry Smith’s sermon discussed on p. 187 can, for example, be used to
illustrate the familiar biblical use, as in ‘Loue . . . thy neighbour as thy selfe’.
4
Unless otherwise stated, you here stands for the lexeme, which comprises all the case forms of the
pronoun: ye, the traditional subject form, largely replaced by you in the course of the Tudor period;
you, the form traditionally used in the object function; and the possessive forms your and yours.
Similarly, thou stands for the subject form thou; the object form thee; and the possessive forms thy and
thine.
194 terttu nevalainen
Although the Boethius translations display widely diVerent wordings, the use of
thou is common to all of them, as in ‘that thou a litel before dyddyst defyne’ in
the translation written by George Colville in 1556 (see further p. 207), and ‘as thou
hast defynd a lyttle afore’ in that written by Queen Elizabeth herself in 1593 (both
further discussed on p. 207).
The rest of the HC genres that contain thou suggest, however, a process of
sociodialectal narrowing in its use during the seventeenth century: in comedies
and Wction, for example, thou is commonly put in the mouths of servants and
country people. To some extent, thou also continues to be used by social
superiors addressing their inferiors. In seventeenth-century trials, for instance,
the judge could still take recourse to thou when trying to extract information
from a recalcitrant witness. The example below records part of Lord Chief
Justice JeVreys’s interrogation of the baker John Dunne in the trial of Lady
Alice Lisle in 1685. Note that apart from the formulaic prithee, the judge begins
by using you:
5
L. C. J. Now prithee tell me truly, where came Carpenter unto you? I must know the Truth
of that; remember that I gave you fair Warning, do not tell me a Lye, for I will be sure to
treasure up every Lye that thou tellest me, and thou may’st be certain it will not be for thy
Advantage: I would not terrify thee to make thee say any thing but the Truth: but assure
thy self I never met with a lying, sneaking, canting Fellow, but I always treasur’d up
Vengeance for him: and therefore look to it, that thou dost not prevaricate with me, for
to be sure thou wilt come to the worst of it in the end?
Dunne. My Lord, I will tell the Truth as near as I can. (1685, State Trials [LISLE IV] 114, C1)
This passage suggests that in a highly status-marked situation such as a public
trial, where forms of address are derived from social identity, thou co-occurs with
terms of abuse, threats, and other negative associations—here speciWcally Lord
Chief Justice JeVrey’s accusations of lying. This had also been the case earlier in
the Tudor period.
Moving on to private spheres of usage, in the seventeenth century thou can
be found in letters exchanged by spouses, and parents may use it when
addressing their young children. But in these cases, too, mixed usage prevails,
with you clearly as the usual form, and thou often appearing in formulaic
use at the beginning and end of the letter. In the following extract from a
letter written in 1621 by Thomas Knyvett to his wife, you appears when he is
discussing the choice of cloth patterns, but thou is used in the more intimate
(if rather conventional) closing of the letter. Even there you intervenes in the
last sentence:
mapping change in tudor english 195
5
I haue been to look for stufe for yr
bedde and haue sent downe paternes for you to
choose which you like best. Thay are the neerest to the patourne that wee can Wnde. If
you lack anything accept [except] my company you are to blame not to lett me knowe of
it, for my selfe being only yours the rest doe followe. Thus in hast Intreating the to be
merry and the more merry to think thou hast him in thy armes that had rather be with
you then in any place vnder heaven; and so I rest
Thy dear loving husband for ever
Tho: Knyvett. ([KNYVETT] 56–57)
Knyvett was a Norfolk gentleman. Lady Katherine Paston, writing to her 14-year
old son in 1625 to inform him that ‘thy father haue bine very ill’ (see p. 185), also
came from Norfolk. The writers using thou at all in their private letters at the time
were, as these examples suggest, typically members of the country gentry. In
contrast, the overwhelming majority of close family letters written by the literate
social ranks only have you throughout the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.
As the Corpus of Early English Correspondence (CEEC) bears witness, Henry
VIII always addressed his ‘own sweetheart’, Anne Boleyn, as you rather than thou
in his love letters to her, but so did the wool merchant John Johnson, writing to his
wife Sabine Johnson in the 1540s. The same is true of King Charles II, who
consistently addressed his little sister, dearest Minette, as you in the 1660s. Writing
to her Wancé (and later her husband) Sir William Temple in the 1650s, Dorothy
Osborne used you well over 2,500 times. Thou (or rather thee) appears only twice,
after they were married, as in the following extract from a letter of 1656:
Poor Mr
Bolles brought this letter through all the rain to day. my dear dear heart make
hast home, I doe soe want thee that I cannot imagin how I did to Endure your being soe
long away when your buisnesse was in hand. good night my dearest, I am
Yours D. T. ([DOSBORNE] 203)
linguistic consequences
As you came to be used in the singular as well as in the plural, the traditional
number contrast was lost in the second-person pronoun system in supra-local
uses of English. As a result, as in Modern English, it is not always clear whether
you refers to one or more people. DiVerent varieties of English have remedied the
situation by introducing plural forms such as youse (see further Chapter 11), you
all, or you guys. In the eighteenth century, the distinction was often made by using
196 terttu nevalainen
singular you with singular is (in the present tense) and was (in the past tense); in
the plural you appeared with the corresponding are and were. This practice was,
however, soon condemned as a solecism—ungrammatical and improper—by the
prescriptive grammarians of the period (see further Chapter 9).
Another consequence of the loss of thou was an additional reduction in person
marking on the English verb. As shown by the extract from Lord Chief Justice
JeVreys (discussed on p. 195), the use of thou as the subject of the sentence
entailed the verb being marked by the -(e)st ending, as in JeVrey’s s thou tellest,
thou may’st, thou dost. Marking the second-person singular was systematic in that
it also extended to auxiliary verbs (e.g. thou wilt), which otherwise remained
uninXected for person. It is, in fact, the second-person singular that justiWes us
talking about a system of person and number marking in English verbs, because
it also applies to past-tense forms (as in thou . . . didst deWne). As we saw in the
previous section, the third-person singular endings -(e)th and -(e)s only applied
to present-tense forms in Tudor English, just as -(e)s does today.
Adding the second-person ending could, however, lead to some quite
cumbersome structures in past-tense forms. George Colville, for instance,
decided against having thou *deWnedst in his Boethius translation in 1556, opting
instead for thou didst deWne. This is also the case for many other texts, such as the
1552 Book of Common Prayer, which preferred didst manyfest to *manifestedst in
the collect given below; this phonotactic use of the auxiliary was retained and
even augmented in the revised version of the Prayer Book in 1662:
O God, whych by the leadinge of a starre dyddest manyfeste thy onely begotten sonne to
the Gentyles; Mercyfully graunt, that we which know thee now by fayth, may after this
lyfe haue the fruicion of thy glorious Godhead, through Christ our Lorde.
As we have established a connection between the second-person pronoun thou
and the use of do, let us now turn to this auxiliary verb.
the story of do
The rise of do is a grammatical development which is, in histories of the
language, particularly associated with Tudor English. But even after decades of
empirical work, some key issues in the history of this auxiliary continue to
puzzle scholars. Where in England did it come from? Does it go back to
mapping change in tudor english 197
colloquial or to literary language? And, having made its way into questions and
negative statements, why did it fail, after a promising start, to spread to
aYrmative statements as well? The following corpus-based survey oVers some
answers to these questions, but will hardly provide a deWnitive account of this
intriguing phenomenon.
If we look Wrst at modern English, we can see an interesting asymmetry in
the use of do. As Chapter 6 has already outlined, if there is no other auxiliary
verb in the clause, do is required with not-negation (as in ‘they did not see it’),
with inversion, and especially in questions (as in ‘did they see it?’), and with
emphasis (as in ‘they ’’did see it’), as well as acting as a prop-word in reduced
clauses (‘they saw it, and we did too’). But apart from the emphatic use, do is
not required in aYrmative statements (‘they saw it’) when no other auxiliary is
present.
Present-day spoken-language corpora suggest, however, that do can sometimes
appear in aYrmative statements even when it is without emphasis. The example
belowcomesfromtheLondon-LundCorpusofBritishEnglishconversationwhich
was recorded in the 1970s (and which is provided with prosodic annotation). In B’s
contribution, the Wrst word, I, is stressed, and so is the third, know. But no prosodic
prominence is attached to do, which therefore appears to convey no overt semantic
contrast or emphasis. In this text, it instead signposts the speaker’s contribution to
the discourse topic, that of smoking. Whatever its speciWc function, in aYrmative
statements do is more common in modern spoken-language corpora than it is in
written-language corpora.
A: but^I !noticed that :Joseph _went :out for ’quarter of an :h_our# at^_one
point#^I’m !sure he ’went for a sm/oke# ( - - laughs) - -
B: ^I did ‘know :one _Indian ’who . :i!r_onically# -^learnt to ch/ain’smoke#^in
this !c\ountry# (London-Lund Corpus of Spoken English S.1.6.606–612)
Unstressed do is also used to mark habitual action in Welsh English and in the
south-western dialects of British English from Cornwall to Somerset and Dorset.
But even there do is not the only expression available. In Welsh English the
habitual past is indicated by means of the simple past tense and the used to
construction, as well as the past tense of do, as in constructions such as ‘He went/
used to go to the cinema every week’ and ‘He did go to the cinema every week’.
Examples such as these suggest that in aYrmative statements the use of
periphrastic do, as it is called in the literature, might have been quite Xexible in
the past as well.
198 terttu nevalainen
origins of do
Few issues in the history of English have attracted as much interest as the rise of
the do-periphrasis. There are some uncertain instances of it from Old English,
and more certain data from the end of the thirteenth century onwards, but the
periphrasis only gains ground at the end of the Wfteenth century in the texts that
have come down to us and in which both emphatic and non-emphatic functions
are in evidence.
One of the puzzles in the history of do are the circumstances which give rise to
the construction in the Wrst place. As it can be seen to assume an aspectual
function expressing habitual action (e.g. ‘He did walk to school every day’) in
traditional south-western dialects (see p. 198), some scholars argue in favour of
its south-western origins, probably prompted by contacts with the Celtic lan-
guages in the area. Others suggest that it may have arisen from contacts between
English and Anglo-Norman French. Still others look for its origins in causative
constructions of the type the king did write a letter that is in the sense ‘the king
had a letter written (by someone)/made somebody write a letter’. Because it is
attested in early Middle English poetry, there are also suggestions that it started
out as a metrical Wller. None of these accounts is perfectly satisfactory, and not
least because of problems of localization.
Let us begin by looking at some corpus evidence from the Wfteenth century, the
period when periphrastic do began to gain ground. A comparison of the regional
data in the CEEC reveals the following trends. The causative construction
dominates, especially at Court, in the Wrst half of the Wfteenth century but
becomes very rare after 1500. Good examples can be found in the Signet Letters
of Henry V, as in the following extract from a letter of 1419 (kynwolmersh refers to
William Kynwolmersh, appointed Dean of St Martin le Grand in London in
1421): ‘We wol ye do make a patent vnder oure greet seel vnto þe said kynwol-
mersh of þe Deanee of saint martines grande yn London’ ([SIGNET] 116). In
contrast, periphrastic do occurs particularly in the City of London and to some
extent in the west, but remains relatively infrequent throughout the Wfteenth
century. A typical instance appears, for example, in a letter written by Richard
Cely to his brother George in 1480: ‘the xxvj day of thys monthe I resauyd ij lettyrs
frome you, whon to houre father, another to myselue, the qweche I do whell
wndyrstonde, and heyr I sende yow . . .’ ([CELY] 84).
One of the signiWcant issues that has been debated in the history of periphrastic
do is whether it arose in literary or colloquial contexts. Those who argue for its
mapping change in tudor english 199
literary origins suggest that it grew out of the causative function (as in the example
in the 1419 Signet Letter discussed above). Conversely, those who are in favour of
colloquial origins refer instead to the inXuence of language contact or semantic
weakening of the lexical verb do. As we have seen, causative do occurred frequently
in oYcial Court correspondence in the early Wfteenth century. But it could also
occur in private letters as something of a politeness marker, to indicate that the
writer did not necessarily expect the recipient to carry out the request him- or
herself, as in the following illustration from Margaret Paston’s letter to her
husband John in c1453: ‘Also I pray yow þat ye woll do bey a loV of gode sugowr
and di. j li. of holl synamun, for þer is non gode in this town’ ([PASTON I] 252).
On the other hand, many instances of periphrastic do in Wfteenth-century
London merchants’ letters were rather formulaic, and cannot perhaps be labelled
as colloquial (cf. Richard Cely’s use of I do whell understand on p. 199). It seems,
therefore, that with periphrastic do the question of colloquial as opposed to
literary origins, although useful in cases like provided that, may not be very
illuminating. We will return to the issue below.
affirmative and negative do
Periphrastic do clearly gains momentum in the sixteenth century, and interest-
ingly aYrmative statements (its least typical context today) also seem to have
played a signiWcant role in the process. In eVect, it looks as though do had the
makings of being generalized to all sentence types in Tudor English, had not
something interfered with its progress in aYrmative statements. Earlier research
suggests that in the sixteenth century the rise of do was being led by interrogatives
or questions, as in George Colville’s ‘And doest thou think that such thynges as
suYsaunce, and power be, are to be dispysed, or contrarye wyse, that they be
most worthy reuerence aboue all thinges’ (from his 1556 translation of Boethius
([BOETHCO] 68–69)). This was followed by negative declaratives, and, at a
somewhat slower pace, by the use of do in aYrmative declaratives such as ‘I did
mislike the Queenes Mariage’ from Sir Nicholas Throckmorton’s confession of
treason in 1554, which will be discussed below on p. 201–2. The non-use of do in
interrogatives, and in negative interrogatives in particular, was already much
rarer than question-forms which used do, although it could still be found, as the
following example, from a 1521 sermon by John Fisher, Bishop of Rochester,
illustrates: ‘Seest thou not his eyes, how they bee fylled with blood and bytter
teares?’ ([FISHER 1] 400).
200 terttu nevalainen
However, the fact that aYrmative statements are much more common in
communication than negative statements, and especially questions, in fact serves
to make aYrmative do numerically the most frequent kind of periphrastic do in
texts. We will therefore focus in the following sections on the rise of the
periphrasis in aYrmative and negative declaratives. Let us begin with aYrmative
do in the multigenre Helsinki Corpus. Figure 7.3 presents the average frequencies
of do in aYrmative statements between 1500 and 1710. The development clearly
falls into two phases: the use of aYrmative do Wrst increases between the sixteenth
and early seventeenth centuries, after which there is a dramatic decline in the
latter half of the seventeenth century.5
Focusing on the usage of the sixteenth century, these Wndings could be inter-
preted to lend more support to the spoken associations of the periphrasis than to
the division between colloquial and literary language. The genre with by far the
highest average frequency of aYrmative do in 1500–1570, for example, is trial
records. While trials cannot of course be called colloquial, they certainly display
features of interactive spoken discourse. The use of do is also very common in
scientiWc and educational treatises, diaries, sermons, and comedies. By contrast,
only a few instances are found in statutes, biographies, the Bible, private letters,
travelogues, and histories.
The high incidence of aYrmative do in trials in the corpus evidence is largelydue
to theirclusteringin longspeeches in the 1554 trial of Sir Nicholas Throckmorton, a
diplomat and MP accused of high treason. An extract from this appears on the
following page; as can be seen, after the Wrst appearance of do in line 1 in Throck-
morton’s confession that he ‘did mislike the Queenes Mariage with Spain’, the
0
10
20
30
40
1500−
1570
1570−
1640
1640−
1710
Fig. 7.3. Periphrastic do in affirmative statements, 1500–1710
5
Figs. 7.3, 7.5, and 7.6 are based on the individual genre scores normalized to 10,000 words
provided by the data in Rissanen (1991: 325), Nurmi (1999a: 169), and Meurman-Solin (1993: 262–3),
respectively. The Wgures show how many times do could, on average, be expected to appear in every
10,000 words of text in each period.
mapping change in tudor english 201
repetition of dois hardlyemphaticorcontrastive.Insteaditcouldserveasadeviceto
mark the relevance of the actions narrated by Throckmorton in response to the
questions being put to him:
5
I confess I did mislike the Queenes Mariage with Spain, and also the comming of the
Spanyards hither: and then me thought I had reason to doe so, for I did learne the
Reasons of my misliking of you M. Hare, M. Southwell, and others in the Parliament
House; there I did see the whole Consent of the Realm against it; and I a Hearer, but no
Speaker, did learne my misliking of those Matters, conWrmed by many sundry Reasons
amongst you. (1554, State Trials [THROCKM I] 66, C1–C2)
The other genres with high frequencies of aYrmative do also display features of
spoken interaction, such as Wrst-person narration and references to the audience.
A cluster of aYrmative do’s can be found, for instance, in Robert Record’s 1551
First Principles of Geometrie, in which he justiWes to his readers the necessity of
introducing one more category of circles:
5
Nowe haue you heard as touchyng circles, meetely suYcient instruction, so that it should
seme nedeles to speake any more of Wgures in that kynde, saue that there doeth yet
remaine ij. formes of an imperfecte circle, for it is lyke a circle that were brused, and
thereby did runne out endelong one waie, whiche forme Geometricians dooe call an egge
forme, because it doeth represent the Wgure and shape of an egge duely proportioned (as
this Wgure sheweth) hauyng the one ende greater then the other. ([RECORD] B2R)
Corpora again enable us to trace change through time, and in 1570–1640 the
use of aYrmative do picks up in almost all HC genres. The only exceptions are
comedies and, again, trials where its usage clearly declines despite the overall
rising trend. This apparent deviation has been accounted for by the greater
likelihood of the record of spoken language (together with the imitation of this
in drama), reXecting changes which were indeed taking place at this time in real
spoken interaction. By the last period covered by the HC, 1640–1710, a rapid
decline can also be seen in these patterns of usage across the rest of the genres too.
Nevertheless, and despite this general pattern, non-emphatic aYrmative do was
to persist well into the eighteenth century in many written genres.
In contrast, do continued to advance in negative declaratives in this last HC
period, but the process was not completed by the end of the seventeenth century.
This is evident if we list all negative declarative sentences with not in the HC, and
compare the number of instances which contain do (as in I do not mean) with the
corresponding simple Wnite verb forms which are used without do (as in I mean
not). Figure 7.4 presents the results, showing a steady increase in the use of do at
the expense of the simple Wnite form.
202 terttu nevalainen
Just as in the earlier discussion of the shifts which can be observed over this
time with reference to the singular third-person endings of verbs, the process of
do-generalization in negative declaratives was partly one of lexical diVusion.
A group of verbs called the know-group (including know, doubt, mistake, trow
(‘to believe’), and wot (‘to know’)) lagged behind the general development. Do
only began to be associated with these verbs from the seventeenth century
onwards. This development can also be observed in the CEEC. As a result, the
do-less I know not which appears in the Wrst extract below, taken from a 1547 letter
from Queen Catherine Parr to Lord Admiral Seymour, is more typical of
sixteenth-century usage than is the I do not know which we can see in the 1572
letter of the humanist and author of The Arte of Rhetorique, Thomas Wilson, to
Bishop Parkhurst, and which is given in the second extract below:
My Lord where as ye charge me with apromys wryttin with myne one hand, to chaunge
the two yeres into two monethes, I thynke ye have no suche playne sentence wrytten with
my hand; I knowe not wether ye be aparaphryser or not, yf ye be lerned in that syence yt
ys possyble ye may of one worde make ahole sentence . . . ([ORIGINAL 2] 152)
I do thinke if Mr. Mynne might haue but this moch, he wold be some what satisWed;
and how your Lordship can of right denie this moch vnto hym, I do not know.
([PARKHURST] 107).
Overall, the correspondence evidence suggests that men generally used do more
than women both in aYrmative and negative statements in the late sixteenth
century. However, the gender preference changed in both processes in the
seventeenth century, as women took the lead in their divergent developments.
0
20
40
60
80
100
1500−
1570
1570−
1640
1640−
1710
%
main group
know group
Fig. 7.4. Periphrastic do in negative statements, 1500–1710
Source: Based on Nurmi (1999a: 146).
mapping change in tudor english 203
the fall of affirmative do
The correspondence corpus can also tell us more about the history of do in
aYrmative statements. More speciWcally, it may be used to date the time when its
progress came to a halt, and a fall in its frequency began. As shown by Figure 7.3,
corpus data suggest that the use of aYrmative do reached its peak between 1570
and 1640. By contrast, earlier Wndings (based on a less controlled genre selection)
date the beginning of its fall to the 1570s. In a case like this, diachronic compar-
isons will be easier to make if they are drawn from genres that can be sampled at
shorter intervals. Figure 7.5 presents the development during the crucial period in
the correspondence corpus. As this indicates, the CEEC evidence suggests that
aYrmative do was used very frequently in the Wrst two decades before 1600, but
that its use plummeted during the Wrst decade of the seventeenth century. Do did
not recover from this drop but continued to be used at this much more moderate
level in the following decades.
But, importantly, there were also regional diVerences in the use of do. If we
compare Nurmi’s (1999) Wndings on London, the Royal Court, East Anglia, and
the north (see the Further Reading for this chapter), we can see that in the two
decades before 1600 aYrmative do was very common among East Anglian writers
and those resident at Court, or attached to it, as indeed in Queen Elizabeth’s
usage in the following example from 1592: ‘Wel, I wyl pray for you, that God wyl
unseal your yees, that to long haue bin shut, and do require you thinke that none
shal more joy therat than myselfe’ ([ROYAL 1] 70). It was also commonly attested
0
10
20
30
40
1580−
1589
1590−
1599
1600−
1609
1610−
1619
1620−
1629
Fig. 7.5. Periphrastic do in affirmative statements in personal letters, 1580–1630
Source: Based on Nurmi (1999a: 169; see note 5).
204 terttu nevalainen
in the correspondence of Londoners. Philip Henslow, the London theatrical
manager, can be used to provide a good illustration here, in his letter to Edward
Alleyn from 1598:
ther is nothinge ther to be hade but good wordes wch trvbelles my mynd very mvche for
my losse you knowe is very mvche to me J did move my ladey edmones in yt & she very
onerabley vssed me for she weant presentley & moved the quene for me . . .
([HENSLOWE] 98)
In the north, use of the periphrasis was less frequent than it was in London at this
time. Nevertheless, while an upward trend continued in the north (and also
especially in East Anglia) for some time after 1600, in London, and at Court this
pattern of usage came to an abrupt end. A similar but more modest drop was
found with negative do. Why should this drop have occurred in the capital after
1600? One would have expected do to continue to rise as it did in East Anglia.
One motive might have been contact with Scots in the capital following the
arrival of King James and the Scottish court in London after the death of Queen
Elizabeth in 1603. The timing would match the date of change, and the new ruler
and his oYcers must have enjoyed high prestige in the metropolis at the time.
This contact hypothesis is attractive but more work is, of course, called for to
conWrm it.
If we turn to the evidence on northern English dialects and Older Scots, it
becomes clear that aYrmative do was indeed a latecomer in these regions. It is not
attested at all in the Wfteenth-century texts which are included in the Helsinki
Corpus of Older Scots, but it spread through the language at a slow pace during
the sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. The process is traced in Figure 7.6.
This nevertheless conWrms that, by the latter half of the seventeenth century,
aYrmative do had reached the same average frequency as it had in the southern
0
10
20
30
40
1500−
1570
1570−
1640
1640−
1700
Fig. 7.6. Periphrastic do in affirmative statements in Older Scots, 1500–1700
Source: Based on the data in Meurman-Solin (1993: 262–3).
mapping change in tudor english 205
British English data from the same period of time (cf. Fig. 7.3). Incidentally, the
middle period, 1570–1640, shows roughly the same average level of do-use as does
the London and the Royal Court in the English data after 1600.
In the selection of thirteen prose genres which are included in the Scots corpus,
it is mid-sixteenth century pamphlets, such as William Lamb’s Ane Resonyng of
ane Scottis and Inglis Merchand betuix Rowand and Lionis of 1550 (an extract of
which is given below), which Wrst display some instances of aYrmative do. The
rise of this device in pamphlets may be connected with both Latinate rhetoric and
southern inXuence:
Eftir the refusale to restore þe thre or four aikiris of mure, commissionaris of baith þe
realmes did proclame þat guid ordour suld be keipit and obseruit, as wes accustummat
for guid reule on þe bordouris, and siclik Lord Maxwell, Warden of þe Scottis West
Merchis, did proclame guid ordour. ([LAMB] 47).
However, as Figure 7.6 indicates, the frequency of aYrmative do rises slowly
towards the end of the seventeenth century in Scots, becoming particularly
common in trials and educational treatises. The clustering of do in the passage
below (cited from the 1688 trial of Philip StandsWeld for the murder of his father
Sir James StandsWeld is reminiscent of the cluster in the Throckmorton trial
which was discussed on pp. 201–2:
5
. . . he did attempt to assassinat, and oVered violence to his fathers person, and did chase
and pursue him upon the King’s high way at Lothian-burn, and did Wre Pistols upon his
father. And likewayes upon one or other of the dayes, of one or other of the moneth of
one or other of the years of God above speciWed, he did attempt to assassinat his father
for his life, at Culterallors, and did Wre Pistols upon him. ([STANDSFIELD] 4–5)
In general, literary evidence suggests that the do-periphrasis was established in
Scots later than in southern English in other sentence types, too. With some
dialectal exceptions, contemporary Scots follows general English usage.
linguistic motives for-do
As aYrmative do has attracted a great deal of scholarly interest over the years,
there are numerous suggestions as to the motives which triggered its use in texts.
But we should not forget that, while aYrmative do is more frequent in texts than
is do in the other sentence types (i.e. interrogatives and negatives), when we think
of absolute numbers, it is obvious that, even in its peak period, it does not occur
206 terttu nevalainen
in the majority of aYrmative Wnite clauses. Queen Elizabeth’s use of aYrmative
do, for example, occupies the middle range with less than one do in every ten
clauses that have no other auxiliary.
We can, for example, see that syntactic conditions motivate the introduction of
do to negative declaratives and to clauses which involve inversion such as
interrogatives: in these contexts, it provides a carrier for the tense, mood, and
polarity of the clause when no other auxiliary is present. This is, of course, also
true of aYrmative do. However, many scholars argue that the appearance of do in
aYrmative declaratives in the sixteenth century was not so much to do with
syntax—that is, with introducing an auxiliary to all sentence types. Instead they
suggest that the inXuence of textual and stylistic factors which operate in
response to certain structural features (constraints) in the clause could have
been more important. These are related to structural complexity and ease of
information Xow. An adverbial separating the subject from the verb, for instance,
makes the clause harder for the reader to parse. Inserting do into a context like
this can facilitate it.
Looking at the Wrst extract below, from George Colville’s 1556 Boethius
translation, structural reasons for introducing do are worth considering. Both
instances of do here occur in relative clauses, and the second one in particular has
several structurally marked features: the subject (thou) is separated from the two
clause-Wnal verbs (defyne or detemine) by an adverbial (a litel before). The clause
would have become awkward to pronounce with simple past-tense forms of these
verbs (*defynedst or determinedst). In her own translation of forty years later
(which appears as the second extract below), Queen Elizabeth does not use
do-support, but neither does she relativize the second clause. She makes do
with a single verb, which she puts in the perfect, and her adverbial phrase
comes after the verb:
In the which I do iudge to inquyre fyrste, whether anye suche perWt good (as the same
that thou a litel before dyddyst defyne or determine) myght be in the nature of thyngs,
that no vayne imaginacion or shadowe deceyue vs, and put vs out of the trewth of the
thynge or matter, that we be aboute to talke of. ([BOETHCO] 73)
In which Wrst this I think to be inquyrd of, whither any such good ther be, as thou hast
defynd a lyttle afore, among natures woorkes, leste a vayne imagination of thought
deceaue us wyde from the truthe of that we talke of. ([BOETHEL] 61)
In the HC, features conducive to structural complexity were found in a large
number of aYrmative statements with do, especially in typical written genres. But
this was not the case with typical spoken genres such as trials, which displayed
few instances of these structurally marked uses.
mapping change in tudor english 207
In some cases, aYrmative do could also assume an emphatic function, con-
Wrming or contradicting something. As we have seen, for example, on p. 202, Sir
Nicholas Throckmorton was answering the charges made against him and
admitted that some of them had not been unfounded, hence his use of do in ‘I
confess I did mislike the Queenes Mariage’. It may of course not always be easy to
distinguish emphatic from non-emphatic instances of do in writing. But
as suggested above when Throckmorton’s trial was discussed, from these
clause-level considerations it is but a short step to marking information relevant
to the discourse topic. This is how the clustering of do in trials may be
understood—just like in the modern example on smoking which was discussed
on p. 198. In sum, aYrmative do clearly proves a useful multi-purpose device in
Tudor English. Comparing the seventeenth-century with present-day corpora,
we also see that despite the declining numbers, there was more use for it in Stuart
English than we have for it today.
in conclusion
Language change does not happen overnight or spread uniformly throughout
the country across the whole social spectrum. In this chapter we have seen
that even the most familiar aspects of the English language are the result of
quite intricate processes of change. The modern standard variety of English
largely displays features of southern (East Midland) origin, but it also con-
tains elements that originated in the north. The verbal ending -(e)s is one of
them. It Wrst gained ground in everyday speech and informal writings, and
only made its way to formal contexts with some considerable delay. The
auxiliary do, by contrast, shows that a change need not always proceed to
completion. The spread of do to aYrmative statements was well under way in
Tudor English but, unlike its continued use in questions and negative state-
ments, the process suddenly came to a halt. Here too, dialect contact may
have had a role in shaping the supra-local variety which came to be seen as
the standard.
Gender diVerences also play a role in ongoing changes. Both today and in
the past, it is usually women who more readily than men adopt incoming
forms spreading across the language community. This was the case, for
instance, with the third-person -(e)s ending. Many grammatical features that
became the property of Tudor English were Wrst promoted by women. Obvi-
ous exceptions to this gender advantage were changes that came from the
208 terttu nevalainen
learned and literary domains of language use. As observed in Chapter 8, the
Wrst monolingual English dictionary, Cawdrey’s hard-word dictionary (1604),
was compiled for the use of ‘Ladies, Gentlewomen, or any other vnskilfull
persons’.
When a language change is in progress, people use both old and new forms.
Analysing these forms in context tells us more about the ways in which
speakers and writers make use of the variants available to them. Some have
linguistic constraints, such as -(e)s and do, which diVuse to certain words later
than to others. Others are primarily socially determined. The spread of you at
the expense of thou illustrates a deferential practice being adopted in the
private sphere. As forms of address are not Wxed but can be negotiated, the
social status and roles of the writer and the addressee were at issue throughout
this process.
In conclusion, if we wish to Wnd out where language changes come from
and how they progress through the language community, we need to compare
texts from the same time period representing diVerent genres and dialect areas,
as well as texts produced by both women and men. Ideally, we should have
data from all social ranks, but unfortunately this is not the case in the Tudor
period. Because of their poor or, in many cases, non-existent writing skills, the
voices of the lower-ranking people have only been recorded in trials and
imitated in drama, and women are less well represented than men. This is
one reason why we shall never know everything that happened in Tudor
English. But a good deal can be learnt from the data sources that have come
down to us when they are organized into corpora as structured collections of
digitized texts.
References, Corpus Resources, and Further Reading
The historical corpora discussed in this chapter are available for educational and research
purposes through ICAME (the International Computer Archive of Modern and Medieval
English; <http://helmer.aksis.uib.no/icame.html>) and the Oxford Text Archive (<http://
ota.ahds.ac.uk/>): the Helsinki Corpus of English Texts (HC), the Helsinki Corpus of Older
Scots (HCOS), and a sampler version of the Corpus of Early English Correspondence
(CEECS). The copyright on the texts included in the corpora is retained by their publishers
or editors, and the copyright on the corpus collections by their compilers, both speciWed in
the accompanying electronic manuals, which also give full references to the texts.
More information about the HC is given in the corpus manual, Kytö (1996), and
about the Early Modern English texts in the HC by Nevalainen and Raumolin-Brun-
berg (1993). For the HCOS, see Meurman-Solin (1993, 1995). The CEEC is introduced
mapping change in tudor english 209
by Nevalainen and Raumolin-Brunberg (2003), and its sampler version, CEECS, by
Nurmi (1999b). Rissanen (2000b) and Meurman-Solin (2001) provide recent overviews
of the growing number of English historical corpora.
A couple of examples from drama have been cited from the commercially available
Chadwyck-Healey Literature Online database (LION), and are listed in the references,
and one from the London-Lund Corpus of Spoken English (LLC), which is available
through the ICAME and the Oxford Text Archive.
The story of -(e)th and -(e)s
For earlier studies on -(e)s and -(e)th variation in the history of English, see the references
in Kytö (1993). LALME gives the various Middle English spellings of the two forms. A
much cited early philological work is Holmqvist (1922). For a discussion of modern uses
of -eth as pseudo archaism, see Minugh (1999: 295–7). The examples of modern regional
uses of zero-inXexion on p. 184 are taken from Trudgill (1999b: 102).
-(e)s from the north
See Kytö (1993: 120) for further discussion of the HC genres and the patterns of -(e)s use.
See Moore (2002b) for the language of the Plumpton family. Kytö (1993: 124) is the source
of the data analysis of -(e)s use in the second HC period (1570–1640). The information on
-(e)s in the CEEC data is taken from Nevalainen and Raumolin-Brunberg (2003: 220,
215). Wareing (1980) provides a good analysis of immigration patterns into London
which may have inXuenced the Wfteenth-century use of -(e)s in the capital.
-(e)th from the south
Moore (2002b) again provides valuable information on northern writers in this context,
with speciWc reference to the Plumpton family; for Scots use of -eth, and the evidence of
the HCOS, see Meurman-Solin (1993: 250–2).
Linguistic motives for -(e)s
For the metrical utility of -eth/ -(e)s alternation, see Taylor (1987: 350). The views of John
Hart and other early commentators are discussed in Danielsson (1963, II: 174–6) and in
Dobson (1968, II: 881–4).
You and thou
The second-person pronouns you and thou are discussed in most histories of English.
Two recent corpus-based approaches to the topic are Busse’s (2002) monograph on
210 terttu nevalainen
Shakespeare’s use of the two pronouns and Nevala’s (2004) work on terms of address
in personal correspondence from the fourteenth to the eighteenth century. For trials,
see Nevalainen (1994), and for letter-writing formulae, see Austin (1973). For the
continued regional use of thou, see Trudgill (1999b: 92–3), and also Chapter 11 in
this volume. See Nevalainen (1991: 316) for the use of relevant verbal forms in liturgical
prose.
The story of do
The debate on the origins of the do-periphrasis is summarized by Rissanen (1991: 334–
8), and Denison (1993: 255–91). Denison (1993: 446–71) gives a state-of-the-art account
of studies on do until the early 1990s; see also Stein (1990) and Nurmi (1999a).
Ellegård (1953) is a classic in the Weld, based on an extensive collection of texts.
See Tieken-Boon van Ostade (1987) for an examination of its use in eighteenth-
century English. The examples of modern regional use on p. 198 are taken from
Thomas (1994: 135).
Origins of do
See Denison (1993: 267) for further discussion of usage in the Wfteenth century. The
analysis of the regional data in the CEEC is based on Nurmi (1999a: 77–97).
AYrmative and negative do
Ellegård (1953: 162) provides an earlier examination of the diVusion of do. For the
language of the Throckmorton trial in this context, see further Rissanen (1991: 326–7).
The fall of aYrmative do
For earlier assumptions, based on a mixed database, about the decline of aYrmative do,
see Ellegård (1953: 162). Nurmi (1999a: 177) provides speciWc details of regional diVerences
in distribution; the hypothesis that the change was inXuenced by contact phenomena
after the Union of the Crowns in 1603 can be found in Nurmi (1999a: 178). McClure
(1994: 72) describes modern Scots usage with reference to aYrmative do.
Linguistic motives for do
For relevant patterns of usage in the letters of Queen Elizabeth I, see Nurmi (1999a: 63);
for a corresponding analysis of usage in spoken genres such as trials, see Rissanen
(1991: 332).
mapping change in tudor english 211
8
THE BABEL OF
RENAISSANCE ENGLISH
Paula Blank
THE early modern period in England saw the Wrst systematic attempts to
create, or recreate, a universal language, a ‘perfect’ tongue. SigniWcantly, the
declared motive behind the numerous universal languages designed and advanced
in the seventeenth century was to ‘remedy Babel’, to level the diversity of human
vernaculars and, on a national level, to undo a perceived confusion with
English itself by reconstructing or inventing a common language. Many scholarly
histories of the English language have often appeared to have the same, implicit
aim—pre-emptively to ‘Wx’ the problem of linguistic diversity within early
modern England. And it was considered a problem. Long accounted the ancient
source of national, racial, and linguistic diVerences, the ‘curse’ of Babel was newly
construed in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries as a contemporary phe-
nomenon, not just the legacy of a Biblical past, but a consequence of new,
‘multicultural’ developments with the vernacular. An inXux of foreign words
and a habit of creating new English words out of foreign elements made the early
modern vernacular lexicon a ‘hotch-pot’ of native and alien forms. The present
chapter aims to remedy the insularity of studies that focus on the rise of a
standard, national language in late Renaissance England by reconstructing what
Renaissance writers deemed the ‘Babel’ of early modern English.
This chapter will therefore survey Renaissance ‘Englishes’—not the standard
language of early modern vernacular writing, but the variety of regional and
social dialects which came to be represented in that writing. The ‘King’s English’
(the phrase is attributed to the reign of Henry V (1413–22)) was not yet a
sovereign domain of language, establishing one, accepted ‘rule’ for speech or
writing; rather, Renaissance English was ‘broken’ or divided by divergent, local
forms—from southern English to northern English, elite social dialects and
underworld language, to specialized terms of the trades. As thousands of foreign
words, newly coined words, and revivals of obsolete words were introduced and
assimilated into English in this period, writers further contested the boundaries
of the native tongue.
The idea that English was ‘confused’ spans the period from the Middle Ages to
the middle of the seventeenth century. Anxieties about English, as Chapter 4 has
already discussed, preoccupied a range of writers in Middle English. And as
Jeremy Smith has demonstrated in Chapter 5, these did not cease with the advent
of printing. Instead, Caxton in The Description of Britayne, & also Irlonde taken
oute of Polichronicon (1480) speciWcally described the diYculties he faced in
attempting to choose among available varieties of spoken English as the basis
for his printed texts and translations. Noting the ‘diuerse englissh in the reame of
englond’, he observed that ‘a man of kente, Southern western, & northern men
speken frenssh all lyke in soune & speche, but they can not speke theyr englissh
so’. As in his Prologue to the Eneydos of 1490 (which has already been discussed
on pp. 122–3), Caxton records the way that regional diversity divided the nation
into mutually unintelligible tongues. Caxton’s ‘good wyf’, as we have seen (see
p. 122–3), thus mistakes another regional English dialect as ‘French’—that is, as a
foreign language altogether. Alongside regionalized lexis (such as egges or eyren,
both of which signiWed ‘eggs’ depending upon geographical location), Caxton
includes ‘curyous termes’ or neologisms, and ‘the olde and auncyent englysshe’
(which looked to him ‘more lyke to dutche than englysshe’) among the ‘Eng-
lishes’ which he has to choose among. All provided further examples of ‘strange’
or alien terms within the national language.
George Puttenham’s Arte of English Poesie (1589) reveals a similar engagement
with the problem of diversity. Attempting to prescribe the ‘region’ of English that
was suitable for formal writing, he places both northern and western speech
outside the bounds of his selected norm, which is (as Chapter 5 has noted) given
as ‘the vsuall speach of the Court’. Socially deWned varieties of English such as
the ‘speach of a craftes man or carter, or other of the inferiour sort, though he be
inhabitant or bred in the best towne and Citie in this Realme’ are, as we have
seen, also deemed unacceptable in English writing, as are archaisms (‘for their
language is now out of vse with vs’) and new coinages (‘inkhorne termes so ill
aVected’). Despite Puttenham’s strictures, however, these and other ‘strange’
words were in fact to proliferate in the written English of Renaissance Eng-
land—even in (and sometimes especially in) literature. This ‘broken English’ of
his contemporaries led the grammarian Alexander Gil to describe them as
the babel of renaissance english 213
‘Englishmen not speaking English and not understood by English ears’ in his
Logonomia Anglica, originally written in Latin in 1619. Half-way through the
seventeenth century, the lexicographer Thomas Blount declares that the ‘Babel’ of
the vernacular made England a ‘self-stranger’ nation—one growing alien to itself
through this diversity of available forms. He dedicates his dictionary of 1656 to
the cause of having ‘English Englished’. Arguably, in this context it is not the rise
of a standard variety of language, but a new awareness of dialect and variability of
discourse—the ‘self-stranger’ English of the Renaissance—that best deWnes the
linguistic culture of early modern England.
regions of renaissance english
Although, as previous chapters have noted, medieval authors such as Chaucer
observed regional diVerences among speakers of English, the Wrst programmatic
accounts of the dialects of English appear in the sixteenth century. The earliest
recorded use of the word dialect, referring to a kind of language, dates from 1577,
according to the OED. John Bullokar’s An English Expositor (1616) is the Wrst
vernacular dictionary to include the term:
Dialect. a diVerence of some words, or pronunciation in any language: as in England the
Dialect or manner of speech in the North, is diVerent from that in the South, and the
Western Dialect diVering from them both. . . . So euery countrey hath commonly in
diuers parts thereof some diVerence of language, which is called the Dialect of that place.
The poet and antiquary Richard Carew in his treatise on the Excellencie of the
English Tongue (c1595) commends his native vernacular not only on the grounds
that it is ‘copious’ in having borrowed so richly from other languages, but also
because of ‘the diuersitie of our Dialects, for wee haue Court and wee haue
Countrey English, wee haue Northeine, and Southerne, grosse and ordinarie’. But
Carew is unusual in this estimation of the ‘Countrey’ dialects. For most Renais-
sance writers, like Puttenham, the ‘excellency’ of English did not inhere in the
variety of its dialects but—far more narrowly—in just one of them. As the
historian and chorographer William Harrison, on p. 416 0f his Description of
England (1587), concurs, ‘[T]his excellency of the English tongue is found in one,
and the south, part of this island’. For those, like Puttenham and Harrison, who
favoured the centralization—and uniWcation—of English in and around the
language spoken at Court, locating ‘southern’, ‘northern’, and ‘western’ dialects
was more than a matter of mapping the site of linguistic diVerences. It was about
214 paula blank
distinguishing the ‘best’ English from its inferiors, ‘true’ English from the
confusion of ‘Englishes’ which could be heard around the nation. Although in
the early seventeenth century dialect was, as in Bullokar’s Expositor, chieXy
deWned in terms of regionality, notions of social ‘place’—the status of speakers
in relation to one another—were also implicit in these earliest linguistic geog-
raphies. In the process of demarcating the diVerences among the dialects of
English, the Renaissance also served to establish the modern alliance between
language and cultural authority.
the ‘western’ dialect
‘Southern’, ‘northern’, and ‘western’ were the broad domains under which early
modern writers typically distinguished the regions of Renaissance English. Re-
naissance writers commonly portray western English as the most foreign of
English dialects, at least when seen from the standpoint of an elite social class.
As Gil in 1619 writes:
Of all the dialects the Western has the most barbarous Xavour, particularly if you listen to
the rustic people from Somerset, for it is easily possible to doubt whether they are
speaking English or some foreign language.
Although aristocrats as prominent as Sir Walter Raleigh were said to have spoken
with a broad Devonshire accent (and may indeed have helped introduce western-
isms into the language at court), the dialect of the south-western shires in its
grammar, lexis, as well as its phonology, was generally viewed, as the poet and
playwright Thomas Randolph in the fourth act of his The Muses’ Looking Glass
(1638) put it as a ‘discourse [that] is all country; an extreme of [i.e. from]
Urbanity’. When Ben Jonson chose the western dialect as the primary language
for his last completed play, A Tale of a Tub (performed 1633, published 1640), he
did so in order to place it at the furthest remove from the Court:
No State-aVaires, nor any politique Club,
Pretend wee in our Tale, here, of a Tub.
But acts of Clownes and Constables, to day
StuVe out the Scenes of our ridiculous Play.
. . .
. . . . to shew what diVerent things
The Cotes of Clownes, are from the Courts of Kings.
(Prologue, 1–4; 11–12)
the babel of renaissance english 215
In general, the western dialect, at least when seen from the perspective of London
writers, represents the untranslatable diVerence—regional, social, intellectual—
between courtiers and rustic ‘clowns’.
As ‘heard’ by speakers of the ‘King’s English,’ the signature features of western
English included pronunciations which were broadly characteristic of Somerset,
Devon, and Cornwall, although south-eastern elements—from Kent and its
neighbouring shires—sometimes get mixed up in representations of this dialect
as well. These features include the voicing of the consonants [f] and [s] to [v] and
[z] respectively; the Wrst-person pronoun ich (rather than I ), and the contrac-
tions icham, chill, chwas (‘I am’, ‘I will’, ‘I was’). Other typical markers include the
preWx i or y with past participles, as in yvound (‘found’), and the ending -th in the
third person plural of the present indicative. Some lines from Shakespeare’s King
Lear (spoken by the exiled aristocrat Edgar in his disguise as a poor rustic) may
serve to illustrate this dialect and its literary stereotyping:
Chill not let go, zir, without vurther [cagion] . . . Good gentlemen, go your gait, and let
poor voke pass. An chud ha’ bin zwagger’d out of my life, ‘twould not ha’ bin zo long as
‘tis by a vortnight. (IV.vi. 235, 237–9)
Such forms are far removed—geographically as well as in their social implica-
tions—from those habitually used by Edgar earlier in the play. For westerners, of
course, it was conversely the language of the aristocracy that could sound like a
strange or foreign tongue: Columel, a simple plowman in the Tudor genealogist
John Ferne’s Blazon of Gentrie (1586), reacts to courtly diction by declaring: ‘By
my vathers soule . . . I like not this gibberishe’ (2.23).
In one of Scoggin’s Jests (c 1565), attributed to the physician and writer Andrew
Boorde, Scoggin tries to teach a poor western youth how to read and write:
The slovenly boy, almost as big as a knave, would begin to learne his A.B.C. Scogin did
give him a lesson of nine of the Wrst letters of A.B.C., and he was nine daies in learning of
them; and when he had learned the nine . . . the good scholler said: am Ich past the worst
now? . . . would God Ich were, for dis is able to comber any man’s wits alive. Scogin then
thought his scholler would never bee but a foole, and did apply him as well as he could to
his learning; but he, that hath no wit, can never have learning nor wisedome.
Here the forms ich and dis mark the regional origins of Scoggin’s ‘scholler’, as
does comber, a contraction of encumber. According to Boorde, the dialect
speaker can barely command an alphabet of nine letters, an abridged language
that marks the limits of his intellectual powers (and which serves as a clear
illustration of the growing—and stereotypical—alliance of dialect and images
of cognitive deWciency). John Redford, in his mid-century play Wit and
Science, includes, for example, a western dialect speaker among his allegorical
216 paula blank
characters who is named, simply, ‘Ingnorance’. Even when asked his name,
Ingnorance can only say, ‘Ich cannot tell’. The anonymous Contention between
Liberality and Prodigality (1602) makes western English the language of the
labouring classes of the nation in general, whose representative in the drama
announces his social role in Act II (2.4.448–9) as follows: ‘Che dig, che delue, che
zet, che zow,/ Che mow, che reape, che ply my Xaile’—or, translated into the
standard (and non-localized) variety: ‘I dig, I delve, I set, I sow,/ I mow, I reap, I
ply my Xaile’. Nicholas Udall’s court interlude Respublica (1553) likewise includes
a character who is named, simply, ‘People’. Representing, as he states, ‘the poor
Commontie’ of the nation, People further identiWes himself in Act III (III.iii.648–
52) as poor, ignoram (‘ignorant’), and oppressed:
Lett poore volke ha zome parte,
vor we Ignoram people, whom itche doe perzente,
wer ner zo I-polde, zo wrong, and zo I-torment.
Lorde Ihese Christe whan he was I-pounst & I-pilate,
was ner zo I-trounst as we have been of yeares Late.
(‘Let poor folk have some part,
For we ignorant people, whom I do represent,
Were never so plundered, so wronged, and so tormented.
Lord Jesus Christ when he was pounced upon [may alternatively
mean ‘struck’ or ‘perforated,’ like metal or glass] and
pilated [i.e. persecuted and scourged by Pontius Pilate]
Was never so trounced [beaten, punished] as we have been of years late’)
As ‘foreign’ as the western dialect seemed (or was made to seem) to southern
audiences, it was, also imagined to be a kind of national vox populi—a ‘common’
language of the English ‘People.’
When Boorde, on p. 123 of his Fyrst Boke of the Introduction of Knowledge
(1542), describes the languages of Cornwall, he explains that ‘In Cornwall is two
speches; the one is naughty Englyshe, and the other is Cornyshe speche’ (emphasis
added). The idea that regional dialect is a kind of ‘naughty’ or corrupted English
is implicit in most Renaissance representations of provincial language. Western
speakers, for example, are often ascribed a tendency towards malapropisms—
that is, to mistaking or misusing words, once again reifying the prevalent
stereotypes of ‘ignorance’ and ‘uneducatedness’ which have already been dis-
cussed. Thomas Wilson in his Arte of Rhetorique (1553), for instance, mocks a
western speaker’s attempts to use Latinate diction by assuming the terms which
were fashionable at the universities and court:
the babel of renaissance english 217
When I was in Cambrige, and student in the kynges College, there came a man out of the
toune, with a pinte of wine in a pottle pot, to welcome the provost of that house, that lately
came from the court. And because he would bestow his present like a clerke, dwellyng
emong the schoolers: he made humbly his thre curtesies, and said in this maner. Cha good
evenmygoodlorde,and wellmight yourlordshipvare:Understandyng that yourlordeship
was come, and knowyng that you are aworshipfull Pilate, and kepes a bominable house . . .
Here the simple man beyng desirous to amende his mothers tongue, shewed hymself not to
bee the wisest manne, that ever spake with tongue. (239–30) (emphasis added)
While forms such as cha in line 5 identify the regional origins of the ‘simple man,’
bominable in line 8 (an aphetic form of ‘abominable’) is just a mistake (it is not
clear what he was hoping to say—perhaps something like dominical, with
reference to the Latin, dominus, lord). Nevertheless, the connection that Wilson,
among many others, draws between regional dialect and malapropism is an
important one, for the implication is that provincial language too is an English
deformed by the incapacity of its speakers.
Richard Carew, the one, true, early modern champion of regional English,
whatever the region, was also the only Renaissance writer to celebrate western
English as an ‘antiquity’ of the nation. According to Carew, the English spoken in
Cornwall was actually the oldest, purest surviving descendant of an original
English. Western dialect words like pridy (‘handsome’), scrip (‘escape’), thew
(‘threaten’), shune (‘strange’) may sound ‘broad and rude’, he explains, but
they ‘plead in their defence not only the prescription of antiquity but also the
title of propriety and the beneWt of signiWcancy, for most of them take their
source from the Saxon, our natural language’ (1602: 127–8). But most of Carew’s
contemporaries were not convinced that the King’s English owed anything to the
provinces. Indeed, they barely recognized the people’s English—however indi-
genous, however common—as English at all.
the ‘northern’ dialect
Carew (1602) suggested that the western dialect might one day be restored to its
former status—that its terms ‘want but another Spenser to make them passable’.
In invoking Spenser, Carew was making reference to the way that a Renaissance
courtly poet had elevated the status of another regional dialect—the dialect of the
northern shires—by incorporating its terms into the composite poetic diction of
works such as The Shepheardes Calender. Although the northern dialect, like
western English, was often set apart as marginal, both geographically and socially,
218 paula blank
to a dominant or elite culture, some sixteenth- and early seventeenth-century
writers also deemed it ‘passable’ within the bounds of a national language.
Renaissance representations of northern English are generally more elaborate
than those of the western dialect, involving a greater variety of linguistic markers.
Some of the more typical features—again, as ‘heard’ (and duly represented) by
southerners—include the use of a for o in words like ane (‘one’), bath (‘both’),
and fra (‘from’). This is especially common before the cluster ng, as in wrang,
amang, and lang. The sound represented orthographically by ae or ea also often
replaces the regionally unmarked o, as in frae (‘from’), wae (‘woe’), and heame
(‘home’). Before n, however, o usually appears instead of a (ony, mony). The
vowel represented by oo in good or book occurs as u (gude, buke). With conson-
ants, typical phonological markers include the metathesis (or transposition) of r
in words like brast (‘burst’) and brunt (‘burned’), forms such as sic with the velar
plosive /k/, (rather than southern such with its Wnal aVricate); similar were whilke
(rather than which), kirk (rather than church), and carl (rather than churl ).
Typical too was the loss of Wnal consonants, as in sel for self. Common morpho-
logical cues include the Wrst- and second-person singular forms of the verb to be,
in I is (or I’se) and thou is (or thou’s). Finally, the northern lexicon includes words
such as barn (‘child’), bonny, deft (‘neat’, ‘trim’), derne (‘dismal’), dight (‘to
prepare, arrange’), gang (‘to go’), gar (‘to make, cause’), gif (‘if’), mickle
(‘much’), mun (‘must’), and til (‘to’). The following passage from William
Warner’s Albion’s England (Wrst part, 1586, S.24) illustrates some of these features:
Roben hood, liell Iohn, frier Tucke, little
And Marian, deftly play,
And lard and ladie gang till kirke
with lads and lasses gay:
Fra masse and eensong sa gud cheere
And glee on ery greene. every
(5.24)
Seen from the viewpoint of the capital and the court, northern English was in
many ways indistinguishable, in social if not in formal linguistic terms, from the
western dialect. Both were, in this sense, provincial languages, specimens of
‘extreme’ speech. Comedy thus often prevails in early modern representations
of northern provincialism. The antiquarian Richard Verstegan in his Restitution of
Decayed Intelligence in Antiquities (1605), for example, tells an anecdote about a
London courtier who orders a northern man to ‘equippe’ his horse. The northerner,
the babel of renaissance english 219
confounded by both the Londoner’s pronunciation and his lexis, believes that the
courtier desires him to ‘whip’ the animal. Equip, in the sense ‘to furnish for
service’ is, as the OED records, not attested before the late sixteenth century, and
the comedy here may well also turn on the incomprehension of the northern
speaker in the face of a fashionable French usage which had not yet diVused
throughout the country. The playwrights Thomas Heywood and Richard Brome,
in The Late Lancashire Witches (1634), likewise chose to show their contempor-
aries how funny it would be—and also, perhaps, how dangerous—if northerners
came to power. In the opening scene, a peasant, Lawrence, describes his new
relationship with his former master:
He mainteynes me to rule him, and i’le deu’t, or ma’ the heart weary o’ the weambe on
him . . . A Wne World when a man cannot be whyet at heame.
(i’le deu’t: I’ll do it; ma’: may; weambe: womb; whyet: quiet)
The orthographic reformer John Hart, writing of those of the ‘farre West, or
North Countryes, which vse diVering English termes from those of the Court,
and London, where the Xower of the English tongue is vsed’, likewise expresses
his fear of provincial power, especially where the language is concerned: ‘[I]f
some such one come to any good learning . . . and putteth some worke in print,
his authoritie maketh many a rude English worde to be printed’. Hart’s use of
rude returns us, of course, to those negative stereotypes of dialect already
discussed—its dominant sense at this time, as the OED conWrms, signiWed the
unlearned and ignorant, those lacking in knowledge or book-learning.
But northern England was also associated with its own, modest literary
tradition, and one that potentially conferred the type of cultural and linguistic
authority which Hart had denied to provincial dialects. Northern versions of
certain medieval texts, like Amis and Amiloun, were still in circulation, and some
of the poets who contributed to anthologies such as Tottel’s Miscellany used a few
northern terms in their poems. Nicholas Grimald, for example, in his verses on
Latin epic, wrote of ‘[T]he famous woork, that Eneids hight,/The naamkouth
Virgil hath set forth in sight’ (1557: 13–14, emphasis added). In doing so, however,
it is unlikely that Grimald was trying to strike a rustic note by his use of the
dialect word naamkooth (‘famous’). He probably thought such northernisms
were ‘old,’ that is, he was confusing northern terms with archaisms or obsolete
English words. By the middle of the sixteenth century, Renaissance language
scholars had already hypothesized just such a relationship between old words
and local expressions. In 1565, Lawrence Nowell began to compile the Wrst Old
English dictionary, the Vocabularium Saxiconum. Observing a resemblance
between Anglo-Saxon vocabulary and terms that occurred exclusively in
220 paula blank
provincial speech, Nowell included in his dictionary 173 words from his home
county, Lancashire, as well as a handful from other shires. Nowell noted northern
survivals of older words as follows:
AdreoZan. To endure, to suVer, to abide. Lanc. to dree.
Ætwitan. To blame, to reproache, to laye the fawte on. Lanc., to wite.
ZeDaeft. Clenlinesse. Lanc., deft.
Derian. To hurt, to harme. Lanc., to deere.
As here, Nowell’s pioneering work conWrmed the idea that the rubble of northern
English could be mined for fossils of the older language.
A careful philologist, Nowell made a signiWcant contribution to English lan-
guage study when he deduced that older elements of the language, long out of use
in standard written English, sometimes survive in non-standard speech. But the
enthusiasm of the earliest Saxonists generated the notion that northern English
was the oldest of the regional dialects and therefore bore a privileged relation to
the ancient language. While linguists such as Gil (1619) therefore continued to
exclude regional language from the one, true English (‘What I say here regarding
the dialects . . . refers only to country people, since among persons of genteel
character and cultured upbringing, there is but one universal speech’), such
prescriptions could at times be qualiWed by the possible exception of northern
English. As Gil had earlier noted, ‘the Northern dialect . . . is the most delightful,
the most ancient, the purest, and approximates most nearly to the speech of our
ancestors’. In the Renaissance northern English was, as a result, regarded as a
remote region of the vernacular but also, at times, as the most authentic, the most
‘native’ of dialects.
Towards the end of Ben Jonson’s Bartholomew Fair (1631), a group of minor
characters join together in a spirited game which they call ‘vapours’. The speciWc
object of this game, according to Jonson’s stage directions, is ‘Non sense. Euery
man to oppose the last man that spoke: whether it concern’d him, or no.’ The
players include Puppy, a wrestler from southwestern England, Northern, a
clothier from the northern shires, and Whit, an Irish bawd. The characters
compete in their respective dialects:
Puppy: Why, where are you, zurs? Do you vlinch, and leaue vs i’ the zuds, now?
Northern: I’le ne mare, I’is e’en as vull as a Paipers bag, by my troth, I.
Puppy: Doe my Northerne cloth zhrinke i’ the wetting? ha?
Knockem: Why, well said, old Flea-bitten, thou’lt neuer tyre, I see.
Cutting: No, Sir, but he may tire, if it please him.
Whit: Who told dee sho? that he vuld neuer teer, man? (IV.iv.10–19)
the babel of renaissance english 221
Jonson recreates the urban fair as a contemporary Tower of Babel, where pro-
vincial languages cause a kind of comic oppositionality or ‘confusion’. But the
confrontation of regional ‘Englishes’ in the Renaissance was not always repre-
sented as a lot of ‘nonsense’. Identifying the ‘one universal speech’ of the nation,
and securing the site of the King’s English, also depended on putting alternative
Englishes in their place.
the classes of renaissance english
The ‘new’ English
The Renaissance saw the introduction some where between 10,000 and 25,000
new words into the language. Many were foreign loanwords; others were self-
consciously ‘invented’ by writers attempting to enrich a vernacular widely held to
be insuYcient. Although the need for new words in early modern English was
real enough, especially in Welds such as medicine and law, which had previously
been dominated by Latin and other foreign languages, linguistic innovation in
the Renaissance generated a polemic well known as the ‘inkhorn’ controversy.
The fundamental problem with neologisms was that, even granting their utility,
they remained hard to interpret. Often derived from Latin roots and aYxes, the
use of ‘inkhorn’ terms such as semicircle (<Latin preWx semi, ‘half’, plus circle,
long since nativized in English but originally from Latin circulus); jurisprudence
(<Latin jurisprudential with anglicized suYx); or (speaking of a surplus of
words) loquacity (<French loquacité—and, in turn, Latin loquācitās—with an-
glicized suYx), for example, depended on knowledge of the very language they
were designed to translate and supersede. The Tudor logician Ralph Lever in his
Art of Reason, Rightly Termed Witcraft of 1573, thus, in his section headed ‘The
Forespeache’, compared a common man’s apprehension of the Latinate term
predicate with his own, invented ‘native’ equivalent, backset:
I wish you to aske of an english man, who vnderstandeth neither Greek nor Latin, what
he conceiueth in his mind, when he heareth this word a backset, and what he doth
conceiue when he heareth this terme a Predicate. And doubtlesse he must confesse, if he
consider ye matter aright or haue any sharpnesse of wit at al, that by a backset, he
conceiueth a thing that must be set after, and by a predicate, that he doth vnderstande
nothing at all.
Ironically, however, Lever also felt it necessary to append a glossary of his ‘native’
coinings to his treatise, so that his readers might ‘understand the meaning of
222 paula blank
[my] newe deuised Termes’. Along with Backsette, Lever’s glossary includes the
following translations of Latin terms into native ones:
a Foreset. Subiectum, antecedens.
an hauing. habitus.
a kinred. species, forma.
a Saywhat. deWnitio.
a Selfe thing, or a sole thing. Indiuiduum.
a Wight. animal.
a Yeasaye. aYrmatio.
(‘A note to vnderstand the meaning of newe deuised Termes’)
Examples of new words in early modern English which derived from Latin include
absurdity, conspicuous, contradictory, delirium, demonstrate, exotic, frivolous, in-
sinuate, meditate, and obstruction, along with a host of others that did not survive
into modern English, such as adnichilate (‘reduced to nothing’), deruncinate (‘to
weed’), fatigate, illecebrous (‘delicate’), and splendidious. Inkhorn English, accord-
ing to its detractors, turned the native language into a foreign tongue ‘whiche the
common people, for lacke of latin, do not vnderstand’, as the translator Peter
Ashton stated (1556 sig.vii.v)
Indeed, the new English was for many a ‘counterfeit’ English—that is, not
really English at all. Thomas Wilson in 1553 thus indicts inkhorn language as
‘outlandishe’: ‘Emong al other lessons, this should Wrst be learned, that we never
aVect any straunge ynkehorne termes, but so speake as is commonly received . . .
Some seke so farre for outlandishe Englishe, that thei forget altogether their
mothers language’. The court poet and playwright Samuel Daniel, in his Defense
of Rhyme (1603), considers neologizing a form of cultural and linguistic treason
(although perhaps it is also worth noting that Daniel’s own usage of audaciously
in the extract below depends on a recent coinage, a word taken from Latin and
Wrst recorded, according to the OED, in Shakespeare’s Love’s Labour’s Lost):
We alwayes bewray our selues to be both vnkinde and vnnatural to our owne natiue
language, in disguising or forging strange or vnusuall wordes . . . [to create] another kind
of speach out of the course of our vsuall practise, displacing our wordes, or inuenting
new . . . And I cannot but wonder at the strange presumption of some men, that dare so
audaciously aduenture to introduce any whatsoever forraine wordes, be they neuer so
strange, and of themselues, as it were, without a Parliament, without any consent or
allowance, establish them as Free-denizens in our language.
(bewray: reveal or betray)
the babel of renaissance english 223
Richard Verstegan agrees, emphasizing that Latinate terms and other foreign
borrowings are ‘unnatural’ to English. Again (and precisely like Daniel), such
‘unnatural’ elements are nevertheless at times allowed into his own writing as, for
instance, in his use of derivation, a French loanword which was recorded only
from the sixteenth century in English:
For myne own parte, I hold them deceaued that think our speech bettered by the aboun-
dance of our dayly borrowed woords, for they beeing of an other nature and not originally
belongingtoourlanguage,donotneithercantheyinourtoung,bearetheirnaturalandtrue
deryuations: and thereforeaswelmaywefetchwoords fromthe Ethiopians, or East or West
Indians, and thrust them into our language and baptise all by the name of English, as those
which wee dayly take from the Latin, or languages thereon depending: and heer-hence it
cometh . . . that some Englishmen discoursing together, others beeing present and of our
own nation, and that naturallyspeak the English toung, arenot able tovnderstand what the
others say, notwithstanding they call it English that they speak.
(deceaued: deceived)
As we have already seen, new words are among several examples of ‘strange’
English, or dialects, whose merits are openly debated over the sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries. But it is the practice of neologizing, above all, that exposes
the ways in which the ‘new’ Englishes of the period cemented the relationship
between dialect and social class or—in other words—how the distinction be-
tween ‘usual’ and unusual words, between those in the know and those ‘un-
learned’ in specialized languages, served to stratify the native tongue. In the
process of ‘enriching’ English, especially via Latin, inkhorn language advanced a
‘foreign’ English which was, above all, associated with an educated elite. While
Latin writing was experiencing a cultural decline in the period in favour of the
vernacular, the new English served to perpetuate the old class distinctions which
were based, in part, on a privileged knowledge of classical languages.
That is why representations of inkhorn language throughout the Renaissance
so often record the unsuccessful—and often comic—attempts of the uneducated
to use it. John Hart (1570) describes the impact of neologism on his ‘countrie’
men:
Howbeit, I must confesse it [i.e. borrowing] beautiWeth an Orators tale, which
knoweth what he speaketh, and to whom: but it hindereth the vnlerned from vnder-
standing of the matter, and causeth many of the Countrie men to speake chalke for
cheese, and so nickname such straunge tearmes as it pleaseth many well to heare them:
as to say for temperate, temporall: for surrender, sullender: for stature, statute: for
abject, object.
224 paula blank
It is of course possible that such widespread malapropism among the uneducated
was a real phenomenon, a linguistic by-product of the new trade in words.
Wilson (1553) observed it as well, relating the following anecdote:
[A poor man] standyng in muche nede of money, and desirous to have some helpe at a
jentlemanns hand, made his complaint in this wise. I praie you sir be so good unto me, as
forbeare this halfe yeres rent. For so helpe me God and halidome, we are so taken on with
contrary Bishoppes, with revives, and with Southsides to the kyng, that al our money is
cleane gone. These words he spake for contribucion, relief, and subsidie. And thus we see
that poore simple men are muche troubled, and talke oftentymes, thei know not what,
for lacke of wit and want of Latine and Frenche, wherof many of our straunge woordes
full often are derived (330–1).
In Wilson’s account, the poor man’s ‘want’ is not only economic but linguistic;
his malapropisms both announce and conWrm his impoverishment. Wilson
further cites (or composes) a letter by a ‘Lincolnshireman’ in search of patronage:
You knowe my literature, you knowe the pastorall promocion, I obtestate your clemencie,
to invigilate thus muche for me, accordyng to my conWdence, and as you know my
condigne merites, for suche a compendious livyng (327–8).
It is not coincidental that neologisms are put to use by a man seeking a ‘compen-
dious livyng’ from a patron. For the Lincolnshireman, new words seem to hold out
the linguistic means of his social and Wnancial gain. But it is crucial, too, that the
very language of his suit advertises his failure, mocking his unworthiness to ‘gain’
the living he seeks. Whether this was a ‘real’ phenomenon or not, Renaissance
malapropism—the misunderstanding of the new, Latinate English—was often a
means for elite London writers to deride the social ambitions of others, to identify
or (if necessary) to create distinctions of class through language.
The drama of the period, including Shakespeare’s plays, is full of comic
characters who cannot command the ‘new’ English, and who are ridiculed for
their attempts to do so. Shakespeare, personally responsible (according to the
evidence of the OED) for introducing more than 600 new words into the English
language, often parodied the Renaissance fashion for neologizing. In Love’s
Labour’s Lost, he pokes fun at the pedant Holofernes, the curate Nathaniel, and
the pretentious Spaniard, Armado, and their penchant for ‘new’ Englishes.
Armado is described by the court as a man who ‘hath a mint of phrases in his
brain’, ‘a man of Wre-new [newly coined] words’, and of ‘high-borne’ words
(I.i.65; 178; 172). He explicitly uses neologism to distinguish himself from the
unlettered classes: ‘Sir, it is the King’s most sweet pleasure and aVection to
congratulate the Princess at her pavilion in the posteriors of this day, which the
rude multitude call the afternoon’ (V.i.87–90). He prefers to associate himself
the babel of renaissance english 225
with Holofernes: ‘Arts-man, preambulate, we will be singuled from the barbar-
ous’ (V.i.81–2). Holofernes and Nathaniel, for their part, insist on distinguishing
themselves, linguistically and socially, from the Spaniard, whose pretensions they
critique in their own, neologistic language:
His humor is lofty, his discourse peremptory, his tongue Wled, his eye ambitious, his gait
majestical, and his general behavior vain, ridiculous, and thrasonical. He is too picked,
too spruce, too aVected, too odd as it were, too peregrinate, as I may call it . . . He
draweth out the thread of his verbosity Wner than the staple of his argument. (V.i.9–26)
Yet while Shakespeare may have deemed some of his characters’ ‘Wre-new words’
to be inauthentic or pretentious, he uses many of them elsewhere; while pre-
ambulate (‘walk ahead’), peregrinate, and verbosity only occur in this play,
peremptory, thrasonical (‘boastful’), audacious, impudency, excrement, and erup-
tion, for example, all occur in contexts where no comedy is intended. Shake-
speare’s satire, it seems, is not directed at particular words, but at particular
people—namely, those who, like Wilson’s Lincolnshireman, use neologisms as a
means of social promotion, to assert their own standing against that of others.
The ‘foreign’ character of inkhorn language spoke, above all, to a new means of
social ascendancy, a competition for ‘place’ through language.
Underclass English
If neologisms were implicitly understood to belong to a privileged, erudite dialect
of early modern English, what was known as the ‘canting’ language was classed as
a dialect of beggars and thieves. The pamphleteer Samuel Rid, in his Martin
Mark-all, Beadle of Bridewell (1610: 58), describes how Cock Lorrell—‘the most
notorious knaue that euer liued’—became, in 1501, the leader of all vagrants in
England, and organized them into a new society:
After a certaine time that these vp-start Lossels had got vnto a head; the two chiefe
Commaunders of both these regiments met at the Diuels-arse-a-peake, there to parle and
intreate of matters that might tend to the establishing of this their new found gouern-
ment: and Wrst of all they thinke it Wt to deuise a certaine kinde of language, to the end
their cousenings, knaueries and villanies might not be so easily perceiued and knowne, in
places where they come.
The story of the rise of a Renaissance underworld, in its various renderings of the
period, always includes the same basic elements—the creation, at the turn of the
sixteenth century, of a ‘society’ or ‘fraternity’ of criminals, subject to their own
laws only, who hatch and carry out their conspiracies by means, in part, of an
invented language. In his account of this underworld in 1608, the dramatist (and
226 paula blank
prose pamphleteer) Thomas Dekker reminds his readers of Babel, noting that at
the beginning of time, that there was one, universal language, and in those
innocent days ‘two could not then stand gabling with strange tongues, and
conspire together, (to his owne face) how to cut a third mans throat, but he
might understand them’. For Dekker, the confusion of tongues at the Tower
therefore gave rise not only to nations and to foreign wars, but also to the
internal ‘confusion’ within English boundaries—both social and linguistic. In
this respect, the ‘canting crew’ represents the latest, hated consequences of that
ancient division.
To its critics, cant, even within itself, represented a kind of Babelish confusion.
Thomas Harman, the Wrst to describe the dialect, declared cant to be ‘half-mingled
withe Englyshe’, although he did not identify the derivation of the other half.
According to Dekker (1608), many cant words (including the word cant itself
which, as the OED conWrms, comes from Latin cantāre) were Latin in origin:
As for example, they call a Cloake (in the Canting tongue) a Togeman, and in Latine, toga
signiWes a gowne, or an upper garment. Pannam is bread: and Panis in Lattin is likewise
bread. Cassan is Cheese, and is a word barbarously coynde out of the substantiue Caseus
which also signiWes Cheese. And so of others.
Rid (1610) determined that cant was rather more cosmopolitan than that, and
incorporated not only English and Latin, but also Dutch, Spanish, and French
forms, whileWilliam Harrison(1577) notedthat this ‘mingled’language appearedto
be augmented by a ‘great number of odd words of their [the rogues’] own devising’.
Whatever the precise constitution of their dialect, the ‘canting crew’ was
universally charged with creating an ‘unlawfull language’, insubordinate to Eng-
lish rule. Harrison describes the language as ‘without all order or reason’, and
Dekker concurs:
as touching the Dialector phrase it self,Isee not that it is grounded upon anycertaine rules;
And no marvaile if it haue none, for sithence both the Father of this new kinde of Learning,
and the Children that study to speake it after him, haue beene from the beginning and still
are,the Breeders and Norishers of all base disorder,in their liuing and in their Manners: how
is it possible, they should obserue any Method in their speech, and especially in such a
Language, as serues but onely to utter discourses of villainies?
Gil (1619) condemned them—and their language—to death:
Regarding that venomous and disgusting ulcer of our nation I am embarrassed to say
anything at all. For that destestable scum of wandering vagabonds speak no proper
dialect but a cant jargon which no punishment by law will ever repress, until its
proponents are cruciWed by the magistrates, acting under a public edict.
the babel of renaissance english 227
There was, in fact, at least one oYcial measure taken to suppress the unlawful
language of the underworld. As Cockburn (1975) has conWrmed, in formal indict-
ments, it was illegal to designatecertain criminals suchasdicers orcarders by terms
that identiWed their true means of earning a living, since these terms, manyof them
cant terms, referred to ‘occupations’ which were forbidden by the state.
But cant was also deemed ‘unlawful’ in its deliberate obscurity. As the poet,
playwright,andproseauthorRobertGreeneexplainedin1591(p.39),‘Thesequaint
termes do these base arts vse to shadow their villanie withall; for, multa latent quae
non patent [‘many things lie hiddenwhich are not exposed’], obscuring their Wlthie
crafts’. Greene usefully suggests six pages earlier that cant is best understood as a
jargon, one that pertains to a specialized trade: ‘If you maruail at these misteries
and queynt words, consider, as the Carpenter hath many termes familiar inough to
his prentices, that other vnderstand not at al, so haue the[y]’. The importance of
preserving these ‘misteries’ is so great that, according to Dekker’s O per se O (1612),
one of the ten articles of their fraternity explicitly prohibits the translation of cant,
or its teaching to laymen: ‘Thou shalt teach no householder to Cant, neyther
confesse any thing to them, be it neuer so true, but deny the same with oathes’.
An ‘invented’ language, derived from Latin and other foreign words, an obscure
discourse, designed to mystify others, an ‘unlawful’ jargon, that broke the rule of
English—the contemporary description of thieves’ cant might pass well enough
for a contemporary account of neologisms and the ‘babelish confusion’ which
many identiWed more broadly with early modern English. Indeed, Renaissance
anxieties over neologism—that the practice was inimical to English culture and to
English law, that it constituted a mode of social exploitation—saw their fullest
realization in contemporary accounts of underworld language. The Renaissance
fearof, but also fascinationwith, the terms of cant reveals how muchwas at stake in
the social assessment of all new ‘Englishes’ of the period.
‘Old’ English
By the sixteenth century, old words, generally culled from Chaucer and other
Middle English writers, were often set forward as native alternatives to foreign
borrowings and inkhorn language as resources for enriching the language. In his
preface to his edition of Gower’s Confessio Amantis (1532), T. Berthelette thus
hoped that his work would revive and advance
the plenty of englysshe wordes and vulgars, besyde the furtheraunce of the lyfe to vertue,
whiche olde englysshe wordes and vulgars no wyse man, bycause of theyr antiquite, wyll
throwe asyde. For the wryters of later dayes, the whiche beganne to loth and hate these
olde vulgars, whan they them selfe wolde wryte in our englysshe tonge, were constrayned
228 paula blank
to brynge in, in their writynges, newe termes (as some calle them) whiche they borowed
out of latyne, frenche, and other langages, whiche caused that they that vnderstode not
those langages, from whens these newe vulgars are fette, coude not perceyue theyr
wrytynges. (sig. aaiiiv
)
The olderlanguagewas acclaimed, asby the classical scholar SirJohn Cheke in 1557,
as ‘vnmixt and vnmangeled’ in comparison with early modern English. By the
beginning of the seventeenth century, as noted earlier, English antiquarians had,
however, begun to investigate the Anglo-Saxon roots of the vernacular. ‘English
Saxon’therebycame to be associated with the idea of an authentic national culture.
Lever in 1573 made a strong case for ‘antique’ words as he began his Arte of Reason:
We therfore, that deuise vnderstandable termes, compounded of true & auncient english
woords, do rather maintain and continue the antiquitie of our mother tongue: then they,
that with inckhorne termes doe chaunge and corrupt the same, making a mingle mangle
of their natiue speache. (sig. viiv
)
Yet alongside those who celebrated their nativeness, others conversely judged
archaisms as too distant and removed—in time if not in space—for contempor-
ary writing. Caxton, and later, Puttenham, had found such old words too ‘hard’
or too ‘unusual’ for use. ‘In my Judgemente the comyn termes that be dayli vsed
ben lyghter to be vnderstonde than the olde and auncyent englysshe’, as Caxton
had stated in 1490. Peter Ashton, in 1556, wrote of the importance of avoiding
both old and new words: ‘[T]hrowghe out al this simple & rude translation, I
studyed rather to vse the most playn and famylier english speche, then ether
Chaucers wordes (which by reason of antiquitie be almost out of vse) or els
inkhorne termes, (as they call them)’. The poet George Gascoigne, in his Certain
Notes of Instruction (1575: 469), likewise warns poets to use unfamiliar words,
including archaisms, sparingly: ‘Asmuche as may be, eschew straunge words, or
obsoleta & inusitata [i.e. obsolete and unused words]’. Ben Jonson (1640) pre-
scribed limits on all words, old or new, that hampered understanding: ‘Wee must
not be too frequent with the mint, every day coyning. Nor fetch words from the
extreme and utmost ages; since the chiefe vertue of a style is perspicuitie, and
nothing so vitious in it, as to need an Interpreter’. Archaism, for many early
modern writers, was just another example of linguistic ‘extremity’, an unwar-
ranted departure from current, accustomed English.
It is critical to note, however, that many who objected to archaisms allowed
that poets—and poets alone—were licensed to break a general rule prohibiting
their use. Renaissance proponents for the revival of old words often cited
Quintilian, who wrote in his Institutione Oratoria that archaisms conferred
dignity and majesty upon a verse. By the middle of the sixteenth century, Thomas
the babel of renaissance english 229
Wyatt had, for example, initiated a fashion for archaic language in poetry,
composed perhaps, as ‘V. Rubel has argued, under the inXuence of the Italian
debates over the vernacular.1
Archaism was certainly the most conspicuous
feature of the language of the poems that appeared in Tottel’s Miscellany (1557);
Thomas Wilson’s complaint (1619: 155) that ‘the Wne Courtier will talke nothyng
but Chaucer’ no doubt speaks to the prevalence of old words in courtly poetry of
the period. Gil in 1619 likewise concurred that old words have a place in poetry
because ‘they . . . bear the authority of antiquity, and because neglected, add a
charm comparable to freshness’.
Spenser’s language in The Shepheardes Calender, The Faerie Queene, and other
works was deliberately and self-consciously archaic. Sometimes he borrowed
older words from Chaucer and other medieval writers, such as clepe (‘call’),
elde (‘age’), iwis (‘indeed’), sikerly (‘truly’), swink (‘toil’, ‘work’), and wone
(‘dwell’); sometimes he ‘invented’ archaisms on their model, as in his coinings
bellibone (to denote a ‘fair maid’) and wrizzled (meaning ‘wrinkled’ or ‘shriv-
elled’). The poet’s original editor, known only as ‘E.K.’, said that those who heard
Spenser’s language as ‘gibbrish’ ought to be ashamed ‘in their own mother tonge
straungers to be counted and alienes’; in the ‘Epistle to Harvey’ (1579), he
compared Spenser’s English favourably to the current idiom which is ‘a galli-
maufray or hodgepodge of al other [foreign] speches’. But Ben Jonson, among
others, later denied that his poetic diction was English at all. ‘Spencer, in aVecting
the Ancients, writ no Language’, as Jonson famously declared in 1640. Despite
E.K.’s claims that Spenser’s language was ‘naturall’ English, literary history would
have the last word, for most future readers would judge it as an example of the
strangeness and artiWciality of literary language.
Indeed, ‘literary diction’—a specialized language of poetry—emerges as an-
other, distinctive variety of English in the Renaissance. Gil in 1619 identiWed it as a
dialect: ‘There are six major dialects: the general, the Northern, the Southern, the
Eastern, the Western, and the Poetic’. According to Gil, the ‘Poetic’ dialect of
English, from a formal standpoint, is based on ‘metaplasm’: ‘Metaplasm is when
out of necessity, or for the sake of charm, a syllable or word is changed from its
own proper form to another’. In the Renaissance, literary language, no less than
provincial speech, is sometimes deWned as an alteration of the ‘proper’ forms of
current English. No doubt archaisms primarily belong, in the Renaissance and
beyond, to the new ‘dialect’ of poetic language.
1
See V. Rubel, Poetic Diction in the English Renaissance: From Skelton through Spenser (New York:
Modern Language Association, 1941).
230 paula blank
renaissance english–english dictionaries
It is often said that the English dictionary—the prototype for our modern Oxford
English Dictionary, among many others—was ‘invented’ in the early seventeenth
century; up until that time, English lexicography had produced only foreign
language dictionaries (Latin–English, French–English, Italian–English, etc.). But
the earliest vernacular dictionaries in fact represented less of an innovation than
has been imagined. They were exactly like the foreign language dictionaries that
preceded them. Both provided translations of words which were largely foreign
to native speakers into an English that all could understand. The Wrst ‘English–
English’ dictionaries did not therefore concern themselves with what Puttenham
had called the ‘usuall speech’ of the Court; rather, they listed and deWned what
they called ‘hard words’, the foreign-sounding diction found in contemporary
writing. As a result, these works are, in some ways, best understood as ‘dialect’
dictionaries, interpreting the new and unusual ‘Englishes’ of the period.
Although the Wrst actual dialect dictionary, John Ray’s A Collection of Words
Not Generally Used, did not appear until 1674, the Wrst English dictionaries are
predicated on the idea that the nation was cursed by a linguistic confusion which
only translation to plain or ‘usuall’ English might remedy.
In fact, the original English–English dictionaries, long preceding those pro-
duced in the seventeenth century, were glossaries of the canting language. As
Thomas Harman and his followers often noted, cant was otherwise known in the
period as ‘pedlar’s French’, a term which again reinforced notions of its ‘foreign’
nature. Harman’s popular pamphlet A Caveat or Warening for Common Cursetors
(1567) describes the underworld language as a ‘leud, lousey language of these
lewtering Luskes and lasy Lorrels . . . a vnknowen toung onely, but to these bold,
beastly, bawdy Beggers, and vaine Vacabondes’. As a measure of social precaution,
he included a glossary intended to expose the ‘vnknowen toung’, thereby trans-
lating the ‘leud, lousey’ language into ‘common’ English:
Nab, a pratling chete, quaromes,
a head. a tounge. a body.
Nabchet, Crashing chetes, prat,
a hat or cap. teeth. a buttocke.
and so on through a list that includes 120 terms.
The English dictionary that is generally recognized as the Wrst of its kind,
Robert Cawdrey’s Table Alphabeticall (1604), advertises itself on the title page as
the babel of renaissance english 231
conteyning and teaching the true writing, and vnderstanding of hard vsuall English
wordes, borrowed from the Hebrew, Greeke, Latine, or French &c., with the interpret-
ation thereof by plaine English words, gathered for the beneWt & helpe of Ladies,
Gentlewomen, or any other vnskilfull persons.
Cawdrey directs his work to women and to other ‘unskilfull’ people, promising
to make ‘hard words’ available to all readers. But, like Harman, Cawdrey does
not entirely favour the unregulated practice of neologism. He entreats his
educated readers to refrain from using ‘any strange ynckhorne termes, but
[rather] labour to speake so as is commonly receiued, and so as the most
ignorant may well vnderstand them.’ In the interests of communication, ‘un-
usually’ hard words are, as he states in his opening address ‘To the Reader’, best
avoided:
Do we not speak, because we would haue other[s] to understand vs? . . . Therefore, either
wee must make a diVerence of English, & say, some is learned English, & othersome is
rude English, or the one is Court talke, the other is Country-speech, or els we must of
necessitie banish all aVected Rhetorique, and vse altogether one manner of language.
Cawdrey’s dictionary aims to level the ‘diVerence of English’ that had arisen in
the age of new words. By distributing the wealth of new words to the disadvan-
taged (entries under the letter A include aberration, adulterate, aVranchise,
alienate, anarchie, anathema, and animaduersion), Cawdrey hoped to advance
the use of ‘one manner of language’ in Renaissance England.
Cawdrey’s successors similarly argue for the dissolution of the language
barrier as a means of social reform. Henry Cockeram thus oVers the contents
of his English Dictionary (1623) for ‘the generall use’. He too remains ambiva-
lent about the unrestricted practice of inventing words; some measure, Cock-
eram believed, must be introduced to curb the potential for excessive
neologizing. To that end, as he explains in ‘A Premonition from the Author
to the Reader’: ‘I haue also inserted . . . euen the mocke-words which are
ridiculously vsed in our language . . . by too many who study rather to bee
heard speake, than to vnderstand themselues’. His contemporary, John Bullo-
kar, also speaks out for linguistic equality in his dictionary, An English
Expositor (1616), but expresses some concern about the reaction of the edu-
cated classes to such a project. In his dedication ‘To the Courteous Reader’, he
writes:
I hope such learned will deeme no wrong oVered to themselues or dishonour to
Learning, in that I open the signiWcation of such words, to the capacitie of the ignorant
. . . for considering it is familiar among best writers to vsurpe strange words . . . I suppose
withall their desire is that they should also be vnderstood.
232 paula blank
Bullokar, like Harman, fears that the ‘strange’ words he records in his dictionary
may be deliberately ‘usurped’ to exclude others from understanding. As this
further conWrms, what is at stake in early modern lexicography is, above all,
access to knowledge—the ‘opening up’ of signiWcation to the uninitiated, unsus-
pecting, or unschooled.
It is therefore no coincidence that the Renaissance also saw the rise of what we
might call ‘technical’ dictionaries, opening the signiWcation of words which
pertained to speciWc Welds of early modern knowledge. The proliferation of
foreign loanwords and neologisms in the period owes a great deal, in fact, to the
eVort to translate Latin, Greek, French, Arabic, and other foreign terms in
disciplines which had long been dominated by those languages. Many ‘hard
words’ dictionaries of the seventeenth century include terms of specialized trades.
Bullokar, as he indicated on the title-page of his Expositor, felt the necessity of
translatingthe‘mostusefultermsofart,usedinourLanguage’;othercontemporary
lexicographers list speciWc ‘arts’. Blount (1656), for example, promises on his own
title page to explicate ‘the terms of Divinity, Law, Physick, Mathematicks, Heraldry,
Anatomy, War, Musick, Architecture; and of several other Arts and Sciences’.
Numerous Renaissance ‘English–English’ dictionaries specialize in the terms of
just one of these arts or sciences. Renaissance law, for example, was notorious as a
discourse of ‘hard words’ derived from French. Abraham Fraunce, in the prefa-
tory epistle to The Lawiers Logike (1588), hence complains of ‘that Hotchpot
French, stuVt vp with such variety of borowed words, wherein our law is written’,
arguing that many lawyers exploit legal language to impress those who lack the
education to understand it. Such men ‘hauing in seauen yeares space met with six
French woordes, home they ryde lyke braue MagniWcoes, and dashe their poore
neighboures children quyte out of countenance, with Villen in gros, Villen
regardant, and Tenant per le curtesie’. John Cowell provided ‘translations’ of
the terms of law in his Interpreter: Or Booke Containing the SigniWcation of Words
. . . requiring any Exposition or Interpretation (1607). According to Cowell’s
etymologies, about half the legal terms used in Renaissance England are derived
from French, another quarter are Latin, while the rest come from German, Welsh,
Old English, and other languages. But though he intended his work as an aid to a
speciWc discipline, Cowell, with a characteristic Renaissance interest in any and
all new and unusual words, couldn’t resist ‘inserting not onely of words belong-
ing to the art of the lawe, but of any other also, that I thought obscure, of what
sort soeuer; as Fish, Cloth, Spices, Drugs, Furres, and such like’ (4–5).
In the wake of the Reformation movement to translate the Bible, prayer book,
and other liturgical materials into English, religion also became a discourse of
hard words in the Renaissance. The debate over Englishing the Bible centered on
the babel of renaissance english 233
vocabulary—the question of how to translate traditional Greek and Latin eccle-
siastical terminology. At stake in this context therefore were not just ‘words’ but
the Word of God. Catholics tended to argue for the ‘faithful’ preservation of
original words such as ancilla (‘handmaid’), egenus (‘destitute’, ‘in need of’),
parasceve (‘preparation’), pasche (‘Passover’), and pontifex (‘high priest’); they
believed that the foreign nature of these words lent a veil to the mysteries of
scripture, a needful interposition for those too ignorant or too unworthy to
receive the Word directly. At the other extreme were Puritans who felt that only
words of native English derivation should be used, so that nothing would be
hidden from even the most ‘common’ reader. The compositors of the King James
Bible (1611) attempted a compromise, as they indicate in their dedication, ‘The
Translators to the Reader’:
Wee haue on the one side auoided the scrupulositie of the Puritanes, who leaue the
olde Ecclesiasticall words, and betake them to other, as when they put washing for
Baptisme, and Congregation in stead of Church: as also on the other side we haue
shunned the obscuritie of the Papists, in their Azimes, Tunike, Rational Holocausts,
Prapuce, Pasche . . . whereof their late Translation is full, and that of purpose to darken
the sence.
Yet apparently this ‘Authorized’ Version did not clear up all ‘obscurities’, for one
year later Thomas Wilson (1612) was moved to compile, as his title page aYrms:
A Complete Christian dictionary: wherein the SigniWcations and several Acceptations of All
the Words mentioned in the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testament, are fully
Opened, Expressed, Explained. Also, Very many Ambiguous Speeches, Hard and diYcult
Phrases therein contained, are plainly Interpreted, Cleered, and Expounded. Tending to the
increase of Christian knowledge, and serving for the use of All; especially the Unlearned, who
have no skill in the Original Languages, Hebrew and Greek, wherein the Scriptures were Wrst
written.
He argues that his work is needful just as ‘it is necessary in Grammar Schools,
that children which learn French, Latin, or Greek, have their Dictionaries &
Lexicons allowed them, to interpret such hard and strange words’. Like so
many Renaissance lexicographers, however, Wilson acknowledges the contem-
porary fear of disseminating this once privileged knowledge through translation
into English:
I know that there are not a few who would not that such Books as this should be
published in English, or made so common for the common people: But . . . [i]f Books
of all Arts and Sciences (Logick, Rhetorick, Physick, Arithmetick, Musick, Astronomy,
Geometry, Alchumy, etc.) are daily translated and published in English, why not also
such as this?
234 paula blank
The publication of dictionaries of the sciences was not quite a ‘daily’ occurrence,
but several do appear in the seventeenth century before 1660. Among early
science dictionaries are Henry Manwayring’s The sea-Mans dictionary (1644) and
John Smith’s The sea-mans grammar and dictionary (1653) which, as the former
notes on its title page, contains ‘an Explanation of all the Termes and Phrases used
in the Practique of Navigation’. But most noteworthy, from a linguistic point of
view, is the science of ‘physick’ or medicine. Like lawyers and religionists, phys-
icians were often accused of deliberately keeping ‘secrets’—in part, via language—
from the public. Boorde, in his Breuiary of Helthe (1547) was among those who
attemptedtoturn‘allsuchobscure[medical]wordesandnamesintoenglyshe,that
euery manopenlyandapartlymayvnderstandethem’,asheindicatesinhis‘Preface
to reders of this boke’. But the ‘hard words’ that continued to appear in English
medical treatises prompted the compilation of works such as A Physical dictionary,
or An Interpretation of such crabbed words and termes of art, as are deriv’d from the
GreekorLatin,andusedinphysick,anatomy,chirurgery,andchymistryof1657.These
texts, providing translations of the terms of the trades, must be acknowledged
alongside Cawdrey’s or Bullokar’s contributions to vernacular lexicography; they,
too, are English–English dictionaries, deWning the ‘dialects’ of the disciplines.
Although no full-scale dictionaries of the ‘poetic’ dialect of early modern
English were produced in the period, several poets compiled glossaries of the
‘hard words’ that appeared in their works. Edmund Spenser supplied glosses to
his Shepheardes Calender (1579): ‘Hereunto haue I added a certain Glosse or
scholion for thexposition of old wordes and harder phrases: which maner of
glosing and commenting, well I wote, wil seeme straunge and rare in our
tongue’(10). George Gascoigne, who acknowledged a poetic preference for old
words over new (‘I have more faulted in keeping the olde English wordes quamvis
iam obsoleta [although obsolete now] than in borowing of other languages, such
Epithets and Adjectives as smell of the Inkhorne’), glossed the archaisms that he
used in his play Jocasta (1575) for reasons which are familiar from the prefaces of
early modern dictionaries: ‘I did begin those notes at request of a gentlewoman
who understode not poëtycall words or termes’, Gascoigne notes (1575: 326).
Puttenham in 1589 coined new English words to replace the Latin and Greek
terms of rhetoric, suggesting, for example, ‘ringleader’ for prozeugma, ‘trespasser’
for hiperbaton, and ‘misnamer’ for metonimia. The ‘poetic’ dialect of English too,
it seems, sometimes required ‘translation’ or interpretation by specialists in the
disciplines of literature and rhetoric.
When Thomas Wilson surveyed the state of the English language in 1553, he
found a collection of sociolects, each deWned by the interpenetration of a foreign
language or jargon:
the babel of renaissance english 235
He that cometh lately out of France, wil talke Frenche English, and never blushe at the
matter. Another choppes in with Englishe Italianated . . . The lawyer wil store his
stomack with the pratyng of Pedlers. The Auditour in makyng his accompt and rekenyng,
cometh in with sise sould, and cater denere . . . The Wne Courtier wil talke nothyng but
Chaucer . . . The unlearned or foolishe phantasticall, that smelles but of learnyng . . . will
so latine their tongues, that the simple cannot but wonder at their talke . . . Do we not
speake, because we would have other to understand us, or is not the tongue geven for this
ende, that one might know what another meaneth? And what unlearned man can tell,
what [this language] . . . signiWeth?
The earliest English–English dictionaries answer Wilson’s rhetorical question,
‘Do we not speake, because we would have other[s] to understand us?’, by
disseminating hard words to the ‘unlearned’ (Cawdrey cited this passage at
length in the preface to his work). But they also attempt to identify the diVerence
between acceptable and unacceptable inclusions and innovations, to proscribe
‘unEnglish’ words. Puttenham in 1589, expressing his own likes and dislikes
among the English dialects—including neologisms (he approved of compendious,
function, methode, numerositee, and harmonicall, but would not allow audacious,
egregious, facunditie, or compatible)—observed that his caveats were unnecessary
to the extent that ‘herein we are already ruled by th’English Dictionaries’.
But it is not so clear that Renaissance English dictionaries successfully ‘ruled’the
language,in thesenseof establishingonceand forall theboundsof Englishdiction.
The age of uniWed, oYcial measures to enforce the ‘standardization’ of the English
language was yet to come. Meanwhile, Gil in 1619 guessed correctly that the early
English lexicographers were so intrigued by ‘counterfeit’ words that they some-
times coined them themselves: ‘I grant that lexicographers collect artiWcial words,
and even invent them, and truly disregard English ones, or even misunderstand
them’. Whatever their intentions to ‘rule’ the native wordstock by setting limits on
proper forms, Renaissance lexicographers, ironically, did far more to advance the
expansion and diversiWcation of the language—extending its bounds well beyond
Puttenham’s ‘lx. myles’ from ‘the vsuall speach of the Court, and that of London.’
conclusion
Thomas Harman, in his 1567 ‘caveat’ against those who ‘cant’ rather than speak
‘true’ English, expresses the hope that ‘by this lytle ye maye holy and fully
vnderstande their vntowarde talke and pelting speache, mynglede without meas-
ure’, adding that ‘as they haue begonne of late to deuyse some new termes for
certien thinges, so wyll they in tyme alter this, and deuyse and euyll or worsse’. He
236 paula blank
might in fact have been speaking of any of the many new and unusual dialects of
the period—or even of Renaissance English itself, ‘mynglede without measure’.
Verstegan in 1605 complained that ‘of late wee haue faln [fallen] to such borowing
of woords from Latin, French and other toungs . . . that it is of it self no language
at all, but the scum of many languages’. Carew who, ten years earlier, had
celebrated English as a ‘mingled’ language on the grounds that it made it more
copious, acknowledged those that believed that the interpenetration of foreign
and obscure elements into the language ‘maketh . . . [a] hotch-pot of our tongue,
and in eVect brings the same rather to a Babellish confusion, then any one entire
language’. For many Renaissance writers and linguists, the ‘multicultural’ nature
of Renaissance English reWgured the primal Western scene of social, political, and
ethnic division as a modern crisis of national identity.
It was the ‘Babellish confusione’ of Renaissance English that led to the call, in
the middle of the seventeenth century, for a language academy to unify and rule
the vernacular. In his 1665 proposals to the Royal Society of London—estab-
lished, in part, for the improvement of the English language—the diarist and
writer John Evelyn included a call for:
a Lexicon or collection of all the pure English words by themselves; then those which are
derivative from others, with their prime, certaine, and natural signiWcation . . . all the
technical words, especially those of the more generous employments . . . a full catalogue
of exotic words, such as are daily minted by our Logodaedalie . . . and that it were resolved
on what should be suYcient to render them current . . . since, without restraining that
same indomitam novandi verba licentiam, it will in time quite disguise the language.
(Logodaedalie: people who are cunning with words; indomitam novandi verba licentiam: the indom-
itable license of making new words)
The Royal Society also sponsored the project of creating a universal language, for
all nations, that would clear up the ‘confusion’ of Babel altogether. The universal
language movement of the seventeenth century remains the most dramatic
evidence we have that linguistic diversity—whatever the prospects for unitary,
early modern European languages—remained the ‘curse’ of the English vernacu-
lar for many writers throughout the period. Yet it is the ‘Babel’ of Renaissance
English, in part, that gave us, among other great works in verse and prose,
Shakespeare’s plays and the King James Bible—which have for so long been
celebrated as foundational texts for modern English language and culture. The
earliest language reformers, seeking to ‘remedy Babel’, hoped to promote intellec-
tual clarity and cultural cohesion, and yet, what might have been lost—even
intermsoftheirowngoals—hadthey foundaway toruleorsuppresswhatThomas
Sprat, on behalf of the Royal Society, condemned in 1667as ‘this vicious abundance
of Phrase . . . this volubility of Tongue, which makes so great a noise in the World’?
the babel of renaissance english 237
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
Jones (1953) oVers the most comprehensive survey of perceptions towards the English
language in the Renaissance, although most histories of the language (e.g. Fennell (2001),
Crystal (2004)) also oVer useful supporting discussions. Padley (1988) provides essential
contexts for understanding the wider ramiWcations of the Renaissance questione della
lingua (the ‘question of the language’)—especially in terms of the continental debates
about reforming the vernaculars of Europe and establishing national languages. On the
seventeenth-century universal language movement, see Knowlson (1975) and Umberto
Eco’s philosophical study, The Search for the Perfect Language (1995). Caxton’s Eneydos
(edited by Crotch) is the source of the quotations on p. 213; Puttenham (1589)—available
in a modern edition by Willcock and Walker (1972)—is an excellent source of contem-
porary opinion on language diversity and appropriateness.
Regions of Renaissance English
Blake (1981) gives a detailed examination of the uses of dialect in Renaissance literary
works while Blank (1996) provides a full discussion of the Renaissance ‘discovery’ of
dialect, with an emphasis on the relationships between early modern literary and linguis-
tic writers as language reformers. Dobson (1968) is still the most comprehensive investi-
gation of the phonology of Renaissance English, based on contemporary accounts of both
standard and non-standard varieties of the language. Carew’s defence of dialect is taken
from Camden 1614: 49.
Gil’s (1619) condemnation of the western dialect is taken from Danielsson and Gab-
rielson (1972: 103), although see Matthews (1937) for evidence of Sir Walter Raleigh’s
continued use of western forms. Boorde’s satirical representation of the ignorant western
youth in Scoggin’s Jests on p. 216 is taken from Boorde (1565: 63–4). Carew’s discussion of
northern forms can be found in Halliday’s edition of Carew’s works (1953: 127). Verstegan
(1605: 159) is the source of the anecdote on p. 215. Hart’s fear of provincial power on p. 221
in terms of language on p. 220 is taken from Hart (1570: sig.aiiir
). Gil’s praise of north-
ernism is taken from Danielsson and Gabrielson (1972: 104).
Classes of Renaissance English
For an excellent survey of the Renaissance English lexicon in all its variety, see
Görlach (1991). McConchie (1997) also provides excellent information on technical
registers and their lexical expansion in English at this time, while Barber (1997) also
provides a useful examination of changing tendencies in lexical structure in his
opening chapter. For language attitudes and lexis, especially towards ‘inkhornism’,
see also Jones (1953). Lever’s (1573) resistance to loans typiWed one strand of the
controversies which came to surround lexical use at this time; his discussion of
predicate versus his preferred term backset is taken from Lever (1573: sig.vir
). Thomas
238 paula blank
Wilson’s ‘inkhorn letter’—designed to exemplify the excesses of classical importation
into English—is given in full in Görlach (1991), along with other similar documents.
The quotation from Daniel (1603) on p. 223 is taken from the 1904 edition by Gregory
Smith (p. 384); Verstegan (1605: 159) is the source of the quotation on p. 224. Hart’s
criticism of loanwords (and the malapropisms they may occasion in the unlearned) is
taken from Hart (1570: sig.aiiir
).
Underclass English
Coleman (2004) provides a clear account of the canting tradition in language commen-
tary. The various myths of origin for a canting fraternity discussed in this section can be
found in Rowlands (1610: 58), and, for Dekker, in Pendry (1967: 74, 190–1); Harrison’s
(1577) comments on p. 227 can be found in the edition by Edelen (1968: 184). For
the quotation from Gil on p. 227, see Gil (1619, ed. Danielsson and Gabrielson (1972:
104)); for more formal attempts to engineer the suppression of such forms, see also
Cockburn (1975: 223).
‘Old’ English
Lever (1573) provides a strong defence for the necessary revival of native words, as does
Cheke. Extracts from both can be found in Görlach (1991); Caxton’s opposition is cited
from the edition by Crotch (1928): 109), while Gasgoine’s (1575) resistance to the revival of
older forms is taken from CunliVe’s edition (1907: 469). Vol. 8 of Herford and Simpson’s
(1966: 622) edition of Jonson is the source of the quotation on p. 229. Spenser’s English is
discussed by Bruce Robert McElderry (1932: 144–70). Gil’s discussion of literary English as
a dialect can be found in Gil (1619, ed. Danielsson and Gabrielson (1972: 102)).
Renaissance English–English Dictionaries
On Renaissance dictionaries, see Starnes and Noyes (1991), and Schäfer (1989). On biblical
translation, see Amos (1920) and also the translators’ prefaces to vernacular bibles of the
period, especially the preface to the Authorized (King James) Version of 1611. The
quotations from Wilson on p. 234 derive from Wilson (1612): sig.A5r
and sig.B1v
respect-
ively; that from Wilson (1553) on p. 236 is cited from the edition by Derrick (1982: 325–6).
Conclusion
Harman (1567) on pp.236–7 is cited from the edition by Viles and Furnivall (1869: 82).
The comments by Verstegan and Carew on the multilingual nature of early modern
English are taken, respectively, from Verstegan (1605: 158) and Carew (in Camden 1614:
47–8).
the babel of renaissance english 239
9
ENGLISH AT THE ONSET OF
THE NORMATIVE
TRADITION
Ingrid Tieken-Boon van Ostade
WHEN Betsy Sheridan, sister of the playwright Richard Brinsley Sheridan,
came to London in 1784, one of her friends—as she later reported to her
sister Alicia in Dublin—accused her ‘of having some brogue which [her] Father
would by no means allow’. The Sheridans came from Ireland and this was, it
seems, still evident in the way Betsy spoke. Her father, Thomas Sheridan, had just
published a pronouncing dictionary as part of his project to standardize English
pronunciation and Betsy’s elocution had already been a matter of concern (and
no little parental endeavour).1
Sheridan was, however, by no means alone in his
interests in reforming language. In contrast to the ‘babel’ of varieties which, as
the previous chapter has explored, was in many ways seen as typical of the
seventeenth century, it was the desire for a standard language, in national as
well as individual terms, which was to be one of the most prominent issues of the
century which followed.
The beginnings of this development can already be found within the variety of
discourses which typiWed the seventeenth century. Chapter 8 has mentioned the
Royal Society which had been founded in the early 1660s, and which ‘served as
coordinator and clearing house for English scientiWc endeavours’.2
From its very
1
As part of the elocutionary training given by her father, Betsy was, for example, made to read at
length from Johnson’s Rambler, afterwards being subjected to detailed correction of the mistakes she
had made. See Mugglestone (2003a), 147.
2
See A. C. Baugh and T. Cable, A History of the English Language, 5th edn. (London: Routledge,
2002), 245.
early days, the Royal Society concerned itself with matters of language, setting up
a committee in 1664 whose principal aim was to encourage the members of the
Royal Society to use appropriate and correct language. This committee, however,
was not to meet more than a couple of times. Subsequently, writers such as John
Dryden, Daniel Defoe, and Joseph Addison, as well as Thomas Sheridan’s god-
father, Jonathan Swift, were each in turn to call for an English Academy to
concern itself with language—and in particular to constrain what they perceived
as the irregularities of usage.
Upon adapting Shakespeare’s The Tempest and Troilus and Cressida in 1667
and 1679 for a contemporary audience, Dryden, for example, had discovered
not only that the English language had changed since the days of Shakespeare,
but that his plays contained what might be considered as grammatical ‘mis-
takes’. Shakespeare had used double comparatives and double negation, as in
‘more softer bowels’ in Troilus and Cressida, and ‘no nearer you cannot come’
in The Tempest; he had moreover used adjectives as adverbs, which with a
human antecedent, for example ‘The mistress which I serve’ (The Tempest
III.i.6), as well as you instead of ye, and who when whom was strictly required.
Shakespeare would even end sentences with a preposition, a construction
which Dryden determinedly removed from his own writing when revising his
Essay of Dramatic Poesy in 1684. Dryden had been a member of the Royal
Society language committee, and he and his fellow writers believed that an
English Academy along the example of the Italian Accademia della Crusca
(which had been founded in 1582) and the Académie Française (founded in
1635) might provide the solution for such irregularities in usage. An Academy
would codify the language by reWning and Wxing it, and by laying down its
rules in an authoritative grammar and dictionary. ‘The Work of this Society,’
Defoe argued in 1697, ‘shou’d be to encourage Polite Learning, to polish and
reWne the English Tongue, and advance the so much neglected Faculty of
Correct Language, to establish Purity and Propriety of Stile, and to purge it
from all the Irregular Additions that Ignorance and AVectation have intro-
duc’d’. English, it was felt, had no grammar, and in this it compared unfavour-
ably with Latin, which it had been gradually replacing in all its important
functions. ‘Our Language is extremely imperfect,’ Swift complained in 1712, and
one of the problems noted by Addison the year before was that the language
was ‘clogged . . . with Consonants, as mayn’t, can’t, sha’n’t, wo’n’t, and the like,
for may not, can not, shall not, will not, &c’. What these writers wanted to
establish was a written medium that was free from contamination by the
spoken language and that had enough prestige to be able to compete with
Latin. This had to be brought about, as Swift put it on the title page of his
english at the onset of the normative tradition 241
famous proposal, by ‘Correcting, Improving and Ascertaining [i.e. Wxing] the
English Tongue’, and an English Academy was to take charge of the process.
But no Academy was ever founded, and the codiWcation process was taken up
instead by a series of interested individuals: clergymen, scientists, schoolmasters
(and mistresses!), poets, and booksellers. And actors too, for Thomas Sheridan,
although he had originally intended to become a clergyman, had felt so disgusted
with the drawl of preachers that he decided to tackle the problem properly by
training as an actor. Sheridan’s rival John Walker, who also wrote a pronouncing
dictionary (1791), likewise had his early background in acting, playing alongside
the celebrated David Garrick in Drury Lane. Codifying the English language
hence became the result of private enterprise, as in the case of Samuel Johnson
who was invited to compile his famous Dictionary of the English Language (1755)
because his friend, the publisher Robert Dodsley, felt he was in need of a project
with which to occupy himself. The same was true of Robert Lowth, a clergyman
who originally wrote his canonical Short Introduction to English Grammar of 1762
for his son Tom. When Dodsley, who had published Lowth’s earlier work, learnt
of Lowth’s plans for a grammar, he decided that a grammar was just what the
public needed. As in the case of Johnson’s dictionary, he turned Lowth’s grammar
into a publishers’ project. Lowth’s grammar was not the Wrst grammar of English,
but the 1760s marked the beginning of a veritable explosion of English grammars,
culminating during the nineteenth century in what Ian Michael characterized in
1991 as ‘more than enough English grammars’.3
These newly published grammars and dictionaries did not, of course, have an
immediate eVect on the language. Instead, throughout the period, there con-
tinued to be a considerable amount of variation in spelling, grammar, and
vocabulary, as well as in pronunciation. The extent of this variation has not,
however, always been made visible in studies of eighteenth-century English,
which have traditionally focused on the language as it appeared in print. The
following excerpt from Chapter X of Sarah Fielding’s novel The Adventures of
David Simple (1744) illustrates some of the ways in which the features of printed
texts can diVer from equivalent forms in present-day English (indicated here in
square brackets):
On these Considerations they agreed to go, and at half an Hour past Four [half past four]
they were placed [took their seats] in the Pit; the Uproar was [had] begun, and they were
surrounded every way [on all sides] with such a variety of Noises [noise], that it seemed as
if the whole Audience was [had] met by wayof Emulation [in a kind of competition], to try
3
See I. Michael, ‘More than Enough English Grammars’, in G. Leitner (ed.), English Traditional
Grammars (Amsterdam: Benjamins, 1991), 11–26.
242 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
who could make the greatest. David asked his Friend, what could be the Meaning of all this;
for he supposed they could be neither condemning, nor applauding the Play, before it was
[had] begun. Mr. Orgueil told him, the Author’s Friends and Enemies were now shewing
[showing] what Parties they had gathered together, in order to intimidate each other.
ComparedtotheEnglishoftoday,thediVerencesingrammaraswellasvocabulary,
including the capitalization of almost all nouns, can give the text an unduly formal
character, while the author had merely intended to write plain narrative prose.
Private writings, such as diaries and letters, oVer a very diVerent perspective on
the language from that customarily taken in histories of English, and these will be
the major focus of the present chapter. The basic material for discussion will be
the language of a variety of individual writers, men and women from all layers of
society, ranging from those who were highly educated to those who were barely
able to spell. All these people wrote letters, and many of them were socially and
geographically mobile, a fact which undoubtedly exposed them to the existence
(and inXuence) of diVerent linguistic norms.
mobility: geographical and social
The playwright Richard Sheridan, Thomas Sheridan’s son, was a very ambitious
man; he felt ashamed of his father’s background as an actor, and an Irish actor at
that. In her letters to her sister Alicia, which she wrote in the form of a journal,
Betsy Sheridan describes Richard as ‘a little grand ’; unlike his sister, Richard shed
his regional accent as soon as possible upon his arrival in London: he, too, had
been the recipient of his father’s speech training.4
Regional accents were increas-
ingly being seen as social shibboleths, although Irish seems to have been par-
ticularly stigmatized. Swift, for example, had felt embarrassed by his own Irish
accent, noting that, in England, ‘what we call the Irish brogue is no sooner
discovered, than it makes the deliverer in the least degree ridiculous and des-
pised’. In a later letter to her sister, Betsy Sheridan describes a meeting with a
certain ‘Irish Doctor’, who ‘is very civil and talks French in Public, as he says ‘‘to
hide his Brogue’’’. Of course Betsy herself may have learned to hide her brogue,
too, especially when she came to live with her brother after her father’s death.
Another example of someone who felt embarrassed by his regional origins is
Johnson’s biographer, James Boswell. Boswell recorded this embarrassment in his
4
Some traces of his original accent must have remained, attracting the attention of the observant
Fanny Burney (see further p. 247).
english at the onset of the normative tradition 243
Life of Johnson, Wrst published in 1791, writing that upon being introduced to
Johnson in 1763 he
was much agitated; and recollecting his prejudice against the Scotch, . . . I said to Davies
[a mutual acquaintance], ‘Don’t tell where I come from’—‘From Scotland,’ cried Davies
roguishly. ‘Mr. Johnson, (said I) I do indeed come from Scotland, but I cannot help it’.
Boswell may not have had much of a Scottish accent because, as Frank pointed
out in 1994, educated Scotsmen of the time would make every eVort to avoid
being caught out. Boswell had, moreover, taken private lessons in elocution with
Thomas Sheridan in order to make certain that this was so.
As in previous centuries, many people at the time felt the pull of London
(see the map in Fig. 9.1), attracted by the better social, economic, and cultural
opportunities which the capital seemed to oVer; all of them must have
experienced similar anxieties and embarrassment at being confronted with a
diVerent linguistic context. John Gay, the poet and playwright, came from
Barnstaple, Devonshire, and the novelist (and printer) Samuel Richardson,
from Mackworth in Derbyshire; Robert Dodsley, writer and publisher, was
born near MansWeld, Nottinghamshire; Henry and Sarah Fielding, both
novelists, came from Dorset, though they attended school in Salisbury in
Wiltshire; Samuel Johnson, the writer and lexicographer, and the actor David
Garrick both came from LichWeld in StaVordshire (travelling to London
together in March 1737); the grammarian Robert Lowth (later Bishop of
London), was born in Winchester; Laurence Sterne, the author of Tristram
Shandy, was born in Clonmel in Ireland, and the novelist Fanny Burney came
from King’s Lynn, Norfolk. William Clift, Wrst conservator of the Hunterian
Museum, originated from Bodmin in Cornwall: upon his arrival in London,
his letters show that he quickly lost all traces of his local dialect. Note the
speech-like quality of the Wrst letter which he wrote home on 19 February 1792
to report his safe arrival in the capital:
I have a thousand things to write and I Can’t tell where to begin Wrst—But I think Ill
begin from the time I left Fowey—Just as we was getting out of the Harbour I saw you
and Cousin Polly out at St Cathrines and I look’d at you till I saw you get out at the Castle
and sit down upon the Bank the other side and I look’d and look’d and look’d again till
you look’d so small that I Cou’d not discern you scarcely only your red Cloak.
His later letters display considerable change; we was, still characteristic of
southern dialects today, no longer occurs after this Wrst letter, while other
regionally-marked usages—such as where for whether and was a week for a
week ago—were likewise soon shed.
244 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
Samuel Richardson
Robert
Dodsley
James
Boswell
Fanny
Burney
the Clifts
Henry and Sarah Fielding
David Garrick and
Samuel Johnson
the
Sheridans
London
John Gay
Fig. 9.1. Geographical mobility in eighteenth-century Britain
All these people were geographically mobile, a fact which in itself (as Clift’s
letters already conWrm) had the potential to aVect their language in signiWcant
ways. But some of them were socially mobile too. John Gay, for instance, came
from a family of traders, and his ambition was to Wnd himself a place at Court.
Richardson’s father had been a joiner, but although Richardson himself became a
successful printer (as well as a celebrated novelist), he never felt quite at ease with
those who had similarly made it in society. While he got on well with Sarah
Fielding, one of the reasons for Richardson’s rivalry with her brother Henry was
his feeling of inequality due to the fact that he hadn’t had a grammar school
education. Robert Dodsley, who later became the publisher of most of the
important writers of the period, including Johnson, Lowth, and Sterne, began
his career as an apprentice to a stocking weaver; afterwards he became a footman,
which is how the author Horace Walpole, fourth Earl of Orford, would still
occasionally refer to him, even after Dodsley had turned into a successful
bookseller. Lowth eVected a social transition within a diVerent sphere; coming
from a family of clergymen, he set out to become a bishop and was, towards the
end of his life, called to the highest oYce in the Church of England, that of
Archbishop of Canterbury (although his failing health forced him to decline).
Fanny Burney’s father, the musical scholar and composer Charles Burney, was
also a fashionable music teacher; this brought him in contact with the more
highly placed in London society, and both Garrick and Sir Joshua Reynolds were
frequent visitors to his home. Charles Burney saw a lifelong wish fulWlled when
Fanny was appointed lady-in-waiting at the court of King George (although he
must have been sadly disappointed when she became ill and asked to resign her
position). The greatest social leap was, however, probably made by William Clift,
who came from a very poor family indeed: his father earned a living by making
sticks and setting hedges, while his mother managed to scrape together barely
enough money to send him to school. William possessed great skill at drawing
which, according to Frances Austin, ‘attracted the notice of Nancy Gilbert, the
Squire’s lady, and it was through her good oYces that at the age of seventeen he
was apprenticed to John Hunter . . . the most eminent surgeon and anatomist of
his day’. 5
Upon Hunter’s death in 1793, and soon after Clift arrived in London, he
was appointed conservator of the Hunterian Museum.
Mobility could of course occur in the opposite direction too. Johnson’s close
friend, Mrs Thrale (later Piozzi), for example, came from a Welsh aristocratic
5
See F. Austin, ‘The Effect of Exposure to Standard English: The Language of William Clift’, in
D. Stein and I. Tieken-Boon van Ostade (eds), Towards a Standard English 1600–1800 (Berlin and New
York: Mouton de Gruyter, 1994), 287.
246 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
family but married down: her husband was Henry Thrale, a London brewer,
wealthy but still middle class. The Fieldings, too, experienced a similar downward
mobility; their grandparents belonged to the aristocracy but their mother mar-
ried an army oYcer. Henry nevertheless made use of his aristocratic connections
by soliciting literary patronage from his cousin, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu.
His sister Sarah did not: the road to success in literature was diVerent for women.
The downward mobility of Mrs Thrale or the Fieldings may not have been sought
consciously; that of Boswell, by contrast, was: he was the son of a Scottish laird,
with whom he did not get along well. In search of a substitute father, he felt more
attracted to Johnson and his circle. Whether upward or downward, geographical
or social, any type of mobility would, as already indicated, have brought people
into contact with diVerent norms of speech, with the potential for their own
language to change in response. Some, such as William Clift, may have con-
sciously sought new linguistic models, working hard to adopt the desired
norm—in this case that of his newly found patron, John Hunter. Robert Lowth
similarly strove throughout his life to rise in the church hierarchy. His awareness
of what was appropriate language is evident from his most formal letters, and
with his Short Introduction to English Grammar he made this linguistic norm
accessible to those who similarly wished to rise in social status.
spoken english
First-hand evidence of the way people spoke is very hard to come by. Sometimes,
occasional spellings in diaries and journals indicate colloquial pronunciations,
such as when Betsy Sheridan cursed her sister-in-law’s father Thomas Linley with
the words ‘od rot un’ (‘may God rot him’), for not allowing her the use of the
family’s theatre box, or Fanny Burney’s mocking of Richard Sheridan’s Irish
accent in a letter to her sister dated 11 January 1779: ‘I assure you I took it quite
koind in him [Sheridan] to give me this advice’. On the whole, however, there is
no indication in the spelling of the letters and diaries of the more educated
writers to show how their words were pronounced. The letters of the uneducated
members of the Clift family are a diVerent matter. When, on 3 December 1795,
Elizabeth, William’s eldest sister, reported to him on their brother Robert’s
recovery from a recent illness, she wrote: ‘whin I Left him he was abel Seet up
an he Promisd me to writ to you the next day’, and ‘they ware All very well’. Her
spelling of whin (‘when’), seet (‘sit’), writ (‘write’), and ware (‘were’) suggests a
diVerent pronunciation of the vowels in question. Generally, however, her letters
english at the onset of the normative tradition 247
show a skill in spelling that did not go much beyond high-frequency words of
more than one syllable (and sometimes, as the examples above indicate, not even
that). But the skills she did possess were exceptional for a woman of her
background, and more than enough to keep the family together by correspond-
ing with them.
There is more evidence of the use of spoken grammar and vocabulary, and
not just in the letters of the barely literate. But in looking for such evidence,
not all sources can be considered equally trustworthy; the language of drama,
for instance, can be a dangerous source to use. Gay’s Beggar’s Opera (1728),
which features thieves and other lower-class characters, does not contain a
single instance of multiple negation. This is odd, because by this time this
feature was already being avoided by more highly placed people (see further
p. 262). Given the stratiWed nature of variation within English usage, we might
therefore realistically have expected some occurrences of double negation in
the play. Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, in her play Simplicity (c 1734), puts the
following words into the mouth of the servant girl Lucy in Act 1: ‘Says my
Master, says he, ‘Lucy, your mistress loves you . . .’ ‘Yes, Sir,’ says I. What could
a body say else?’ This sounds like the authentic speech of the lower orders, but
it is the only time it occurs in the play. Lucy’s words function merely as an
indication of her social class at the outset; the rest was presumably left to the
theatrical skills of the actress in question. Better sources are the novels by
writers like Tobias Smollett and Fanny Burney. In Evelina (1778), for instance,
Fanny Burney renders the language of speech by using short sentences con-
nected by and and nor:
‘Well,’ said Miss Polly, ‘he’s grown quite another creature to what he was, and he doesn’t
run away from us, nor hide himself, nor any thing; and he’s as civil as can be, and he’s
always in the shop, and he saunters about the stairs, and he looks at every body as comes
in’ (Letter XLIV).
Miss Polly’s use of the relative as instead of that would have called for the censure
of Lowth, who proscribed the form in his grammar. Deviant spelling was not
normally used at this time to indicate colloquial language or non-standard
speech, as it would be in the century to come by writers such as Charles Dickens
or Emily Brontë. Eighteenth-century novelists instead used diVerent devices in
attempting to render distinctive speech patterns, such as Sarah Fielding’s use of
the dash to indicate pauses and hesitations in Chapter 6 of her Wrst novel The
Adventures of David Simple (1744):
If I got any Book that gave me pleasure, and it was any thing beyond the most silly Story,
it was taken from me. For Miss must not enquire too far into things—it would turn her
248 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
Brain—she had better mind her Needle-work—and such Things as were useful for
Women—Reading and poring on Books, would never get me a Husband.—Thus was I
condemned to spend my Youth . . . .
Although—or perhaps because—this device was also used by Richardson, the
dash was obliterated from the text by her brother Henry, who got involved
with the reprint that was brought out later that year. In doing so he failed to
understand its function. Removing the dash was only one of the many—and
often uncalled for—changes which Henry made to the text. ReXecting con-
temporary norms of ‘good’ usage, he also corrected Sarah’s use of the prepos-
ition at the end of the sentence which, then as now, and in spite of Dryden’s
earlier strictures, remained a common pattern in usage, especially in informal
language.
Plays and novels oVer only Wctional dialogue, but there are two eighteenth-
century authors who were renowned at the time for recording the way people
actually spoke. Both James Boswell and Fanny Burney carried around note-
books for noting down things worth remembering, which were later copied
into their diaries. Apparently Boswell’s contemporaries believed that his
reported conversations in the Life of Johnson sounded like the real thing,
while people warned each other to be careful in what they said when in Fanny
Burney’s presence: for all they knew they might end up as a character in one
of her novels! Fanny Burney’s skill in recording the spoken language of the
time is evident from the large number of Wrst recorded instances under her
name in the OED. There are nearly three times as many of them as for Jane
Austen, who is usually credited as the Wrst to record colloquial language in
her novels.
If it represents natural conversation, the following dialogue, which Fanny
Burney reported as taking place between Dr Johnson, Mrs Thrale, and herself
on 25 September 1778, seems rather formal, at least to speakers of modern
English:
He [i.e. a Mr. Smith] stayed till Friday morning. When he was gone, ‘What say you to him,
Miss Burney? cried Mrs. Thrale, I am sure I oVer you variety’?
‘Why I like him better than Mr. Crutchley—but I don’t think I shall pine for either of
them’?
‘Mr. Johnson, said Mrs. Thrale, don’t you think Jerry Crutchley very much improved?’
Dr. J. Yes, Madam, I think he is.
Mrs. T. Shall he have Miss Burney?
Dr. J. Why—I think not;—at least, I must know more of him: I must enquire into his
connections, his recreations, his employments, & his Character, from his Intimates
before I trust Miss Burney with him . . .
english at the onset of the normative tradition 249
The use of titles instead of Wrst names, of questions and negative sentences
without do (as in Mrs Thrale’s ‘What say you to him?’ and Johnson’s ‘I think
not’), the presence of the interjection why, as well as Johnson’s conspicuous
wordiness . . . to the modern reader all of these suggest a discrepancy between
the informality of the situation and the language used. Such apparent dis-
crepancy is also evident in the language of the letters of the period.
the age of letter writing
The eighteenth century has been called the ‘great age of the personal letter’.6
As a
result of the improved postal system, which made sure that letter writers could
rely on the actual arrival of their letters into the hands of their addressees, people
began to communicate by letter in vast numbers. One indication of the increase
in letter writing is the fact that ‘by 1704 the post oYce was receiving 75 per cent
more money per year than in 1688’.7
Many collections of correspondence have
come down to us, and a good example is the one between the Lennox sisters,
which was used as material for the book Aristocrats published by Stella Tillyard in
1994. The letters were not only exchanged between Caroline, Emily, Louisa, and
Sarah Lennox: there are, according to Tillyard in her introduction, ‘thousands of
. . . letters—between sisters, husbands and wives, servants and employers, parents
and children’. The letters themselves are unpublished, as are many other corres-
pondences from this period that have survived: a vast amount of material is
therefore still waiting to be analysed. Private letters contain important material,
not only in terms of their contents (they can, for instance, provide detailed
pictures of eighteenth-century society, as in the letters and diaries of genteel
Georgian women which Amanda Vickery used as the basis for her book The
Gentleman’s Daughter published in 1998), but also in terms of the language of the
period. Just as today’s private informal communication diVers from that of
formal speech styles or from writing, eighteenth-century English varied depend-
ing on the formality of the situation, the topic people wrote about, and the
relationship they had with their correspondents. This kind of variation is evident
in spelling, grammar, as well as vocabulary, and the diVerent styles found in
eighteenth-century letters provide important evidence of this.
6
See H. Anderson and I. Ehrenpreis, ‘The Familiar Letter in the Eighteenth Century: Some
Generalizations’, in H. Anderson, P. B. Daghlian, and I. Ehrenpreis (eds), The Familiar Letter in the
Eighteenth Century (Lawrence: University of Kansas Press, 1968), 269.
7
Ibid., 270.
250 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
The letters, moreover, help us reconstruct social networks, the study of which
is important in tracing the origins and processes of linguistic change. Based on a
study of present-day speech communities carried out during the mid-1970s, the
sociolinguist Lesley Milroy in 1987 described the extent to which the kind of
social network one belongs to correlates with one’s use of vernacular speech (as
in, say, the local dialect) or, conversely, that of the standard variety. In doing so,
she distinguished between closed and open networks. In closed networks, which
are usually found among the working classes and in rural communities (although
also within the highest social classes), everybody knows everybody else, and
usually in more than one capacity at the same time (e.g. as neighbours, friends,
relatives, and colleagues). The language of such networks serves as a means of
identiWcation to the network’s members; as such, it is hostile to inXuence from
outside so that it tends to be conservative and inhibits linguistic change. Open
networks, in which people might have no more than a single loose tie with each
other, are less subject to Wxed linguistic norms. Such networks are typically found
among the middle classes, and it is here that linguistic change may be most
evident because members of open networks are usually more mobile, geograph-
ically and otherwise, than people belonging to closed networks. Their mobility
brings them into contact with other social networks, and hence with diVerent
speech norms which may inXuence their own language and that of those around
them. The social network model, therefore, has enormous potential for the
analysis and description of linguistic change. In doing research on language
change, it is important to try and identify people who were mobile, as these are
the ones who may have carried along linguistic changes from one network
to another. At the same time, many more people were probably not mobile:
such people probably belonged to closed networks, and their language would
therefore have been conservative compared to those people who did move about
a lot.
In the eighteenth century, however, mobility (both social and geographical)
was, as already indicated, an established fact for many people who—consciously
or unconsciously—experienced the inXuence of other norms of language. If
this happened on a large enough scale, we can assume that the language may
have been aVected accordingly. But even on a small scale the inXuence from
other networks or from individual speakers (or writers) may have had its eVect.
On the other hand, as many histories of the language have stressed, the eight-
eenth century was also—stereotypically—the period when the English language
was being codiWed. CodiWcation is when the language is being submitted
to rule by means of the publication of grammars and dictionaries. This is
one of the Wnal stages of the standardization process. Typical of the approach
english at the onset of the normative tradition 251
of the codiWers is that their grammars or dictionaries are normative in nature: by
means of their publications, they set the norms of the language down for all to see
and for all—at least potentially—to adhere to. This is indeed the function that
Johnson’s Dictionary and Lowth’s grammar came to have. The latter aspect is part
of the prescription stage, which completes the standardization process, although
without—as other chapters have indicated—ever putting an end to it. Unlike,
say, the system of weights and measures, language can never be fully Wxed; if such
were the case, it would no longer be functional as an instrument of communi-
cation, which has to be Xexible to be able to adapt itself to changed circumstan-
ces. But the codiWcation process did result in slowing down the rate of linguistic
change: never again would the English language change as rapidly as it had done
before.
All the people who have been mentioned so far within this chapter wrote
letters, and some wrote diaries as well. It is nevertheless important to remember
that, at least in a wider context, they do not form a representative section of
society, for the majority of the population of this time did not write and hence no
direct evidence of their language usage has come down to us. Tony Fairman, who
has studied the language of what he calls ‘unschooled people’ from the early
nineteenth century, calculated that ‘of the one-third to 40% who could write, less
than 5% could produce texts near enough to schooled English’.8
We can assume
similar—if not even lower—Wgures for the eighteenth century. But there is a
further complication: for those who could write, the eighteenth century was also
the period during which letter writing, just like spoken communication, was
considered an art. Spontaneous utterances, therefore, letters were not—even if, at
times, they can give the impression of spontaneity. Letter writing had to be
learned and, as Tillyard conWrms in her own account of the letters of the Lennox
family, it was done so with various degrees of success. Caroline Lennox, for
instance, complains about her son Ste’s lack of skill at the age of 17: ‘His letters are
quite a schoolboy’s. He is well, hopes we are, and compliments to everybody.
Adieu. Yours most sincerely’. His cousin Emily, by contrast, was ‘a delightful
correspondent, her style quite formed’9
. Consequently, such letters are not of
interest to an analysis of the kind of unmonitored language which sociolinguists
try to identify in their search for the vernacular language of the period.
8
T. Fairman, ‘Letters of the English Labouring Classes and the English Language, 1800–34’, in
M. Dossena and C. Jones (eds), Insights into Late Modern English (Bern: Peter Lang, 2003), 265.
9
See S. Tillyard, Aristocrats. Caroline, Emily, Louisa and Sarah Lennox 1740–1832 (London: Chatto
& Windus, 1994), 93.
252 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
Receiving a letter was a social event and letters were usually passed around at
an assembly of relatives and friends. Letter writers as a result usually knew that
they did not write for the addressee alone, and their language must also have
reXected this. The Lennox sisters had found a solution to this predicament:
private aVairs were written on separate sheets which the addressee could remove
upon opening the letter and before it was made public. Such sheets contain more
truly private language, and it is this kind of unmonitored writing that is inter-
esting for sociolinguistic analysis. In other cases, spontaneous language may be
found in letters to correspondents with whom the author had such a close
relationship that the need to polish one’s style was felt to be irrelevant. Examples
are Lady Mary Wortley Montagu’s letters to her husband in the days of their
courtship, or those to her daughter Lady Bute later in life. Robert Lowth wrote
his most intimate letters to his wife when he was in Ireland in 1755. There are
sixty-four of them, and their intimacy of style is reXected in his spelling, his
grammar, as well as his choice of words. Mary Lowth’s letters, unfortunately, have
not come down to us. Sometimes authors informed their recipients that their
letters were unpremeditated, such as Betsy Sheridan who, on 19 June 1785 told her
sister: ‘But as I scribble a great deal I am forced to write the Wrst word that occurs,
so that of course I must write pretty nearly as I should speak’.
In eighteenth-century correspondences the relationship between writer and
addressee can be determined by the form of the opening or closing formula in a
letter. Opening formulas may vary in formality from, in Lowth’s case, ‘Dear
Molly’ (his wife), ‘Dear Tom’ (his son), ‘Dear Brother’ (his closest friend Sir
Joseph Spence), ‘Dear Sir’ (friends and acquaintances), ‘Sir’ (acquaintances),
‘Rev. Sir’ (fellow clergymen), to ‘My Dear Lord’ (e.g. the Archbishop). Closing
formulas similarly range from informality to formality: from ‘Your’s most AVec-
tionately’ (relatives and friends), ‘Your most Obedient & most faithful humble
Servt
. (acquaintances), to ‘Your humble Servant’ (enemies). With Gay a diVerent
principle applied: the longer the formula, the greater the distance from the
addressee and, hence, the more polite the letter. His shortest form, ‘Adieu’, is
found only in a letter to his cousin. Gay is the Wrst to use the formula ‘yours
sincerely’, which, judging by his relationship with the people to whom he used
this formula, does not indicate politeness as it does today but rather the opposite:
extreme informality.
An example of how the topic of a letter can inXuence its style may be found in
letters exchanged between Boswell and his friend John Johnston of Grange: they
are often about nothing in particular, and merely serve the purpose of expressing
the intimacy between them. This becomes clear from the following letter which
Boswell sent to Johnston on 27 October 1762:
english at the onset of the normative tradition 253
My dear friend: I know it will revive your spirits to see from whence this Epistle is dated,
even from a Place in which the happiest moments of your life have passed. While the
multitude consider it just as the town of Edinburgh and no more; How much more
valuable is it to you, who look upon it as an ancient City—the Capital of Scotland—in
which you have attended the Theatre, and there had your soul reWned by gentle Music, by
the noble feelings of Tragedy, by the lively Xashes of comedy and by the exalted pleasure
resulting from the view of a crowd assembled to be pleased, and full of happiness.
The opposite occurs in letters between Sarah Fielding and her lifelong friend James
Harris, the author of Hermes (1751): when asking advice on her translation of
Socrates, Sarah wrote to Harris as one scholar to another, adopting the kind of
formallanguagethatsuitsthetopic.‘DearSir,’ shebeganherletterof18August1761:
Many Acknowledgements and thanks are due to you for your ready compliance with my
Request in giving me a Translation of that hard passage about ˜ØÆºe
 ªeŁÆØ, which I could
not render into English with any Satisfaction. Where the Sense so intirely depends on the
Etymology of a Word in ye Original, it requires more Knowledge than I am Mistress of, to
make it clear in another language; and your friendly Kindness in doing it for me is felt
most cordially and gratefully.
She had ended an earlier letter to him (from September or October 1760) with
‘I should take it as a favour if you will mention to [Mr Garrott] how much I am
obliged to him and his Sister. I . . . beg my Compliments. I am Dear Sir with
true regard your sincere and Obedt
humble
Servt
. S Fielding’. The use of words
like favour, obliged, sincere, obedient, humble, and Servant in her letters are part of
what McIntosh (1986) calls ‘courtly genteel prose’, the kind of language that has
its origin in the language of the Wfteenth-century courtier and that is characteristic
of eighteenth-century letters of ‘high friendship’, usually exchanged between men.
Sarah Fielding’s letters show that women in her position were capable of such
language too. In the whole of her correspondence, her use of extra initial capitals
assumesitshighestfrequency inherletterstoHarris,precisely matchingthekindof
patterns which we Wnd in the printed texts of the time (see further p. 256).
language
According to traditional accounts of eighteenth-century English, nothing much
happened to the language during the period. Spelling had been Wxed since the end
oftheseventeenthcentury,andBaughandCable(2002),forexample,discussonlythe
developmentofthe passive, in particular the rise of theprogressivepassive (the house
is building and the house is being built). On this model, English grammar would
254 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
alreadymoreorlesshavereacheditspresent-daystate.Butthisperspectiveisbasedon
the idea that the English language is that which appears in print (see further Chapter
10). As a result of the advent of historical sociolinguistics, which primarily looks at
data derived from other sources, such as personal letters, it has, however, come to be
recognizedthatbothinthecaseofspellingandinthatofgrammaralotmorewenton
than was formerly given credit. There was even a large increase of new words in the
period, especially during the second half of the century. Evidence for this can, of
course,alsobefound in theOED,which includes considerableamountsofdatafrom
lettersandjournalsinitssecondedition,achangeinpolicysinceitsconceptioninthe
mid-nineteenth century.
Spelling
The Wrst scholar who systematically studied the spelling of letters in relation
to printed texts was Noel Osselton (1984), who found to his surprise that
Dr Johnson’s private spelling was ‘downright bad’. Johnson’s letters contained
spellings like chymestry, compleat, chappel, ocurrence, pamXet, stomack, stiched,
Dutchess,anddos(‘does’),noneofwhichwereformallysanctionedinhisDictionary.
Howcouldsuchseemingly‘illiterate’spellingsbereconciledwithJohnson’sstatusas
the one who, in another popular eighteenth-century stereotype, was supposed to
have Wxed English spelling? When looking at letters by other educated eighteenth-
century authors, Osselton discovered that there were at the time two standards
of spelling—a public one, as found in printed documents (and duly codiWed in
Johnson’s dictionary), and a private one, found in letters. This dual spelling
standard was even recognized by the schoolmasters. And, indeed, it was very
widespread. People like Lowth, Sarah Fielding, and Laurence Sterne, who must
all havelearned to spell around the same time, likewise used verydiVerent spellings
in their private writings from those which were found in printed books. Lowth’s
letters to his wife, for instance, contain spellings like carryd, copys, gott, and
immediatly. Sarah Fielding wrote rejoyces, intirely, and Characteristick, while in
the draft of Sterne’s Memoirs we Wnd Birth Day, a Drift, and small Pox (all were
corrected in the printed version of this text). Private spelling can be called a system
of its own, with diVerent rules from those in use by the printers. And for published
workstheprinterswereresponsibleforcorrectingprivatespellingaccordingtotheir
house rules, just as in the example of Sterne’s Memoirs. We see the same phenom-
enon with James Boswell, whose spelling underwent a sudden change in favour
of the printed system. This change coincides with the moment when he Wnally gave
in to his father’s wishes for him to study law. Having become a serious student,
he seems to have adopted the spelling of the books he read during his studies.
english at the onset of the normative tradition 255
Osselton discovered that in printed texts there were many diVerent spellings
for the past tense and past participle endings of weak verbs. He recorded as many
as seven: sav’d, save’d, saved, sav d, lack’t, lackd, and lackt. The forms with the
apostrophe rose steadily during the second half of the seventeenth century,
reaching just over 50 per cent during the Wrst half of the eighteenth, after
which they rapidly declined. In private letters, ’d lingered on much longer,
although some, such as Johnson, abandoned ’d very early on. Upon his arrival
in London, and in his zeal to adapt to a new linguistic norm, William Clift Wrst
dropped ’d and other contractions but later started reusing them. It is as if he
were hypercorrecting, using ’d more frequently than would be expected of him in
the context of his letters, perhaps under the inXuence of a self-imposed reading
programme. In eVect, he had to learn that contractions were acceptable in private
letters as part of a diVerent spelling system. Osselton also studied the use of extra
initial capitals in printed texts, which rose to nearly 100 per cent around the
middle of the period, becoming almost like the pattern we Wnd in modern
German. The eighteenth-century system arose out of the practice of authors to
stress particular words by capitalizing them. But in eighteenth-century manu-
scripts, capitals are at times very hard to distinguish from lower-case letters, and
in the interest of speed of production, compositors must have decided to impose
their own rules on authorial practice, hence capitalizing all nouns. Spelling was
usually left to the compositors in any case, as is apparent from frequent references
in the correspondence of the printer and publisher Robert Dodsley. In September
1757 Lowth, for example, instructed Dodsley as follows: ‘But before you send the
Book to the press, I must beg the favour of you to take the trouble of reading it
over carefully yourself: & not only to alter any mistakes in writing, spelling, &c.
but to give me your observations, & objections to any passages’. Five months
earlier, Dodsley had commented in a letter to the printer John Baskerville that:
‘In the Specimen from Melmoth [one of Dodsley’s authors], I think you have us’d
too many Capitals, which is generally thought to spoil the beauty of the printing:
but they should never be us’d to adjective verbs or adverbs’. Sarah Fielding was
also aware of the fact that her own use of capitals diVered from that of published
texts. In a letter to Richardson (14 December 1758) she wrote: ‘I am very apt when
I write to be too careless about great and small Letters and Stops, but I suppose
that will naturally be set right in the printing’. Possibly she had become aware of
the existence of diVerent spelling systems by her brother’s correction of the
language of David Simple. In line with this awareness, she varied her capitaliza-
tion practice in her private correspondence depending on her relationship with
her addressees: the less intimate this relationship or the more formal the topic of
discussion (as in her correspondence with Harris which has been discussed on p.
256 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
254), the more her use of extra initial capitals approximates that of the publishers
of the time.
Spelling, therefore, had a social signiWcance at the time, and it can be used as a
markerof relative formality in aprivateletter.Thissituationwould,however,begin
to change towards the end of the century, as appears from William Clift’s criticism
of his sister Elizabeth’s spelling in a letter which he wrote to her on 9 January 1798:
I shall never be convinced to the contrary of what I now think, by you, unless you learn to
mend your Orthography or spell better; because No person on earth I am very certain can
understand the true meaning of what they read unless they read it right . . . Now you
surely do not understand the true deWnition and derivation of the words Lutheran,
Calvinist, Methodist, &c, otherwise you could not spell them wrong.
Clift’s insensitivity here may be explained by his youthful pride at being about to
make it in society—he was 23 when he wrote this letter. But it seems unfair for
him to expect similar spelling skills of his barely literate sister. And Elizabeth took
it hard, for it would be eighteen months before she wrote to him again. She had
probably never enjoyed any formal education but she did learn to spell, possibly
from Nancy Gilbert, daughter of the Vicar of Bodmin and later married to the
local squire (see p. 246). Her letters show that she mastered the Wrst stages of
spelling: monosyllables such as should, thought, treat, and know are generally
spelled correctly. She managed some polysyllables as well (Particular, Company,
Persecuted, inherit), while others were evidently beyond her capabilities: upurtu-
nity, Profshion, sevility, Grandyear (‘grandeur’). For all that, her spelling skills were
more than adequate for her to communicate with her family.
For Elizabeth Clift, to be able to read and write must have meant a giant
educational leap compared to her mother (who probably had had no education
atall).Ingenteelfamilies,themotherwasresponsibleforteachingthechildrentheir
letters. ‘I am very glad,’ Lowth wrote to his wife in 1755, ‘to hear that the dear Tom
learns hisbooksowell’.Tomwas noteventwoat thetime.Lowthhimselfappearsto
have learnt to spell from his mother too: he had a peculiar habit of breaking oV
words at the end of a line, using two colons, one on each line, as in ‘my Af::fairs’,
rather than a hyphen or a double hyphen, as was more common. A surviving letter
from his mother suggests that he must have learnt this practice from her! Genteel
women did not on the whole spell worse than men: as long as English was not a
school subject, they would have learnt to spell alongside their brothers at home.
Grammar
As with spelling, letters contain grammatical constructions that may strike a
modern reader as somewhat surprising given the social background of the writer
english at the onset of the normative tradition 257
in question. In a letter to her future husband, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, for
instance, refers to ‘them admirers you speak of’; Dodsley told Garrick of his
‘suspicion that you was concern’d in it on purpose’; Lowth told his wife that he
had arrived safely after his journey in the following words: ‘Old William, after
having happily drove us to Town with great spirit, sett us down at Mr
. Garnier’s’;
Lord Hertford informed Horace Walpole that ‘Lady Mary Coke and her have
conversed upon it’; Walpole, gossiping with George Montagu, wrote: ‘don’t it put
you in mind of any thing?’; and Betsy Sheridan, commenting on the appearance
of Lady Anne Lindsay, wrote that she ‘should not of known her’. These kind of
sentences do not occur in printed texts: they would seem more typical of the
language of the lower classes (such as the servant girl Lucy in Lady Mary Wortley
Montagu’s play Simplicity), but they are found in informal letters of more highly
placed writers. Even relatively educated writers had a vernacular style at their
disposal, which they used in informal, private correspondence; this style was
characterized by diVerent grammatical rules from those which came to form the
basis of the normative grammatical tradition. People were also familiar with the
kind of grammar that beWtted the style required in more formal correspondence,
such as Lady Mary Wortley Montagu when she wrote to Bishop Burnet, or Lowth
when corresponding with his superiors in the Church. Richard Sheridan’s letters,
however, show no such stylistic distinction, for they contain hardly anything
remarkable grammatically speaking. In his social ambitions, he evidently took
care to write by the book, irrespective of his relationship with his addressees. In
doing so, he may actually have been hypercorrecting, because it seems unusual
that he would not have had a vernacular style. Such behaviour is typical of people
who, like Sheridan, were social climbers, who are often almost too eager to show
that they fully belonged to the class of people to which they were aspiring.
Fanny Burney observed that Dr John Hawkesworth, a writer and acquaintance
of her father’s,
does not shine in Conversation so much superior to others, as from his writings might be
expected. Papa calls his Talking Book Language—for I never heard a man speak in a style
which so much resembles writing. He has an amazing Xow of choice of words & expres-
sions . . . All he says is just,—proper, & better express’d than most written language.
What she must have meant by ‘Book Language’ is the kind of language prescribed
by the normative grammars of the time, which was often characterized by an
over-scrupulous application of rules that more frequently than not had their
basis in Latin rather than in actual usage. One example is what Görlach in 1997
called the ‘ablative comparationis’, as in ‘We have lost our good Friend Dr
.
Chapman, than whom no man had better pretensions to long life’, a construction
258 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
which Lowth used in a letter to Dodsley dated 19 June 1760. The construction as
such is not very common: Görlach found only 68 instances like the above sentence
in a period of 400 years. Lowth perhaps used it when he had just started on his
grammar in an eVort to show oV his grammatical competence to Dodsley. The
correct use of case was a similar point. Actual usage shows considerable variation,
as with Mrs Thrale who uses both whom and who in object position in her letters
to Dr. Johnson: ‘who you know I haven’t seen’ and ‘whom he was heard to call’. In
a footnote on p. 127 of his Grammar, Lowth (1762) picks up a similar pattern of
usage from the philosopher John Locke, commenting: ‘It ought to be whom’. The
correct use of whom in letters of the period, however, suggests an almost unnatural
awareness of the grammatical stricture that was supposed to regulate usage.
Women were often blamed for breaking these rules, supposedly because they
had not received as much formal and especially clerical education as men; they
would therefore not know about the concept of case, and hence be able to apply it
correctly—even in English which, as previous chapters have illustrated, had
gradually seen the erosion of the case system it had originally possessed. Walpole
wrote to a friend as follows:
You will be diverted to hear that a man who thought of nothing so much as the purity of
language, I mean Lord ChesterWeld, says. ‘you and me shall not be well together,’ and this
not once, but on every occasion. A friend of mine says, it was certainly to avoid that
female inaccuracy they don’t mind you and I, and yet the latter is the least bad of the two.
This construction was used by women, as by Walpole’s correspondent Lady
Ailesbury (‘by Mr Conway and I’) and by Lady Hertford (‘and both Mr Fitzroy
and her were vastly liked here’). It was, however, also used by men, including
Walpole’s own friends and acquaintances such as Conway (‘but what might very
probably have happened to anybody but you or I’) and Lord Hertford (see
above). Not surprisingly perhaps, Walpole did not use it himself. This provides
a good example of what Jennifer Coates in 1993 termed ‘The Androcentric Rule’,
according to which women are blamed for whatever is perceived as wrong in the
language, while men are praised for the opposite. Another example of
the Androcentric Rule in eighteenth-century English is the rise of the so-called
sex-indeWnite he, as in anyone may do as he pleases. An alternative, then as now, is
the use of they as a singular pronoun: anyone may do as they please. Such a rule
would have violated the principle of number but not that of gender, as with the
choice of he, a decision which would no doubt have been preferred by women. It
is therefore odd that this rule Wrst appears in a grammar by a woman, Ann
Fisher (1745): ‘The Masculine Person answers to the general Name, which com-
prehends both Male and Female; as, any Person who knows what he says’ (2nd edn.
english at the onset of the normative tradition 259
1750,10
117n). Did Ann Fisher record preferred practice, and by formulating it into
a rule, attempted to inform her female audience of its existence, or did she draw
up the rule herself? What remains clear, however, is that, despite the normative
grammarians’ proscriptions, both between you and I and singular they are still
current today.
The grammarians were more successful in their condemnation of other items.
You was is one of them. Usage of this construction increased considerably during
the eighteenth century, and it apparently functioned as a transition in the
development of you into a singular pronoun. There was a peak in usage during
the 1760s, and this presumably caught the attention of the normative grammar-
ians: though Lowth regularly used you was himself, he was the Wrst to condemn it
as ‘an enormous solecism’ in the Wrst edition of his grammar. He was similarly
the Wrst to condemn the use of participles like wrote—as in the example he gives
in his Grammar from the poet Matthew Prior, ‘Illustrious virtues, who by turns
have rose’—although he may have picked up the stricture from his friend James
Harris. During the eighteenth century, past tense forms and participles of strong
verbs regularly appeared in more than one form, such as chose/chused and chose/
chosen, or swum/swam/swimmed and swum/swimmed. In their desire for regu-
larity, the grammarians advocated the principle of one form, one function:
chose—chosen and wrote—written. Again, and as illustrated above, Lowth fre-
quently used wrote, drove, and forgot as past participles himself, although only in
his informal letters.
In the letters of the period, grammatical forms are also attested that are not
discussed in the grammars. One example is he/she don’t, as illustrated above. It is
used by Lady Mary Wortley Montagu and by Walpole and his correspondents
(Montagu, Lady Dysart, Lady SuVolk), but not by Boswell, Mrs Thrale, Fanny
Burney, Lowth, or Thomas Turner, who is described by Vaisey (who edited
Turner’s diaries) as a Sussex ‘shopkeeper, undertaker, schoolmaster, tax-gatherer,
churchwarden, overseer of the poor and much besides’. About a generation ago
today, the use of he/she don’t would be considered aVected, and if it was typically
found in the language of the higher social classes during the eighteenth century
(and also the nineteenth century; see further p. 282), it may also have been
considered aVected in those days too. What complicates the matter is that he/
she don’t is also found in the novels of Fanny Burney and Smollett to mark non-
standard speech. To social climbers, it would therefore have been a tricky form to
use, as one ran the risk of being considered uneducated if one did. Stigmatized
10
The first edition was probably published in 1745, although no copy is currently known to be in
existence.
260 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
though the form probably was at the time, particularly to those belonging to the
middle classes, we do Wnd it in the language of Betsy Sheridan. This may
therefore be taken to indicate that, despite her protestations to the contrary
(‘I never coveted the honor of sitting at great people’s tables and every day I live
I wish for it less’), that she was as much a social aspirer as her brother, though less
openly so.
Another feature, not even discussed by present-day grammars of English, is
found among all speakers, that is the use of -self pronouns instead of pronouns
proper, as in ‘Miss Allen & myself went to an Auction’ (Fanny Burney), ‘nobody
is to see this letter, but yourself and . . .’ (Walpole), and ‘myself being the
bondman’ (Turner). This non-reXexive use of -self served as an avoidance
strategy, functioning as a kind of modesty device by skirting the rather more
direct use of the pronoun I on the part of the speaker and, interestingly, even that
of you on the part of the addressee. It is more common with modest people, such
as Turner and Fanny Burney, than with men like Boswell, who was very much the
opposite. Tag questions are not treated in the grammars of the period either.
They do occur, even in letters (e.g. Walpole: ‘is not he’), although not as
frequently as today: Lowth’s letters to his wife do not contain a single instance.
The use of tag questions was an informal device—seeking conWrmation, defer-
ring to the addressee—that still had to become common usage.
The subjunctive has a Wxed place in the grammars of the period, and it still
occurred regularly, although less so in informal contexts. Lowth, for example,
when writing to his wife, says ‘If he writes to the Bishop in the same style’, but he
used the subjunctive when addressing the Duke of Newcastle, as in ‘Whether the
exchange were advantageous’. He also used it to William Warburton (with whom
he fought what Hepworth called in his biography of Lowth, ‘the greatest literary
battle of the century’), just before breaking oV relations with him: ‘That an end
be put to this Correspondence’. There was also considerable variation in the use
of periphrastic do in negative sentences and questions depending on the style of
writing, the author’s background, and the degree of inXuence from prestigious
users. Usage of do-less negative sentences, for example, I question not but that . . . ,
in informative prose (novels, essays, history) ranges between 2 per cent (Lady
Mary Wortley Montagu) and 75 per cent (Fanny Burney), that in letters between 1
per cent (Walpole) and 52 per cent (Richardson). In both styles, usage is most
advanced with members of the aristocracy. Fanny Burney’s exceptional status can
be explained by the fact that she allowed her language to be inXuenced by that of
Dr Johnson, who was her linguistic model. Richardson’s usage is equally high in
his letters as in his informative prose, which is unusual for the time: like Fanny
Burney, he appears to have modelled himself on Johnson, and on the language of
english at the onset of the normative tradition 261
Johnson’s periodical the Rambler rather than on Johnson’s other prose styles
(that of his Lives of the Poets, for instance), which are less archaic in their use of
periphrastic do. Another auxiliary that was changing at the time was the use of be
with mutative intransitive verbs (arrive, go, come) which was increasingly re-
placed by have. It is a change which appears to be led by women. With Lowth we
Wnd the auxiliary be most frequently in his informal letters, as in ‘I rejoice that ye
.
Dear Tom is gott so well again’ (to his wife Molly, 1755). This suggests that by the
middle of the eighteenth century the construction with have had already become
the predominant one.
Lowth himself did not use double negation, nor did his correspondents; this
probably explains why there is no stricture against it in the Wrst edition of his
grammar. One of his critical readers must have brought this oversight to his
attention, and Lowth made up for it in the second edition of 1763: ‘Two Negatives
in English destroy one another, or are equivalent to an AYrmative’. According to
Baugh and Cable, ‘the eighteenth century is responsible for the condemnation of
the double negative’; double negation was indeed for the Wrst time formally
proscribed, but it was already on the way out. Well before Lowth’s grammar
appeared, the physicist Benjamin Martin had set out the argument which lay
behind the condemnation of the double negative:
But the two negatives as used by the Saxons and French must be understood by way of
apposition . . . which way of speaking is still in use among us; and in this case the two
negatives answer to the addition of two negative quantities in Algebra, the sum of which
is negative. But our ordinary use of two negatives (in which the force of the Wrst is much
more than merely destroyed by the latter) corresponds to the multiplication of two
negative quantities in Algebra, the product of which is always aYrmative; as mathemat-
icians very well know.
Martin’s explanation—which appears on p. 93 of his Institutions of Language of
1748—is interesting because it indicates that double negation was no longer
considered quite acceptable (‘our ordinary use of two negatives’), but that it
was common in speech (‘which way of speaking is still in use among us’). It still
occurred in drama and in novels, but also in letters, as by Sir Richard Steele, Lady
Mary Wortley Montagu, Walpole (‘I told them that I did not neither’) and his
correspondents (Montagu, Lord Hertford, Lady Hertford, the writer Hannah
More), by Boswell (‘I am troubled with no dirty sheets nor no jostling chair-
men’), and by Mrs Thrale (‘nor I see no Call’). But from the absence of any
double negatives in the Beggars’ Opera, commented on above, it appears that
double negation was becoming stigmatized even in the spoken language—hence
its presence in Lowth’s grammar.
262 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
When he arrived in the capital, William Clift had to adapt his grammar to
London practice and, because he was socially ambitious, he modelled himself on
the language of the middle classes to which he aspired. He thus got rid of he don’t
and you was, as well as a range of dialectal features such as where for whether and
time adverbials as in ‘the Footman left us last monday was Sennight’, that is
‘Monday, a week ago’. The adverbial sennight, grammaticalized from the Old
English phrase seofon þ niht (literally ‘seven’ þ ‘night’, meaning ‘week’), also
occurs once in a letter by Lowth addressed to his friend and co-executor of the
anecdotist Sir Joseph Spence’s will, Gloster Ridley: ‘I propose being in Town abt
.
nex[t] Wednesday Sennight’. Lowth had been born in Winchester, and this
instance suggests that in informal letters—Ridley was one of his closest
friends—regionally marked usages might show up occasionally. But he and his
social peers would avoid them in their more formal letters, upon the risk of being
considered uneducated by betraying their local origins.
Vocabulary
In an age in which many new words arose, it is interesting to see that almost all
authors discussed in this chapter, including those of the Wrst half of the century,
are represented in the OED with Wrst occurrences of new words. This need not
imply that they had actually invented these words; in many instances they were
simply the Wrst to record common usage. Some writers appear more frequently in
the OED than others, which probably merely means that their writings were
better studied by the dictionary’s volunteer readers who tracked down citations
and evidence of usage for the OED. For all that, it is illuminating to see with what
kind of words their names found their way into the OED as Wrst users; it could be
argued, for example, that the kind of words they supposedly coined are probably
representative of the kinds of social and cultural developments that were going
on at the time. In order of frequency, the following authors are listed in the OED
online edition at the time this research was carried out: Richardson (245),
Walpole (214), Fanny Burney (160), Henry Fielding (108), Sterne (100), Johnson
(72), Gay (43), Lady Mary Wortley Montagu (35), Richard Sheridan (31), Boswell
(25), Martin (18), Mrs Thrale (18), Garrick (16), Dodsley (8), Lowth (8), Thomas
Sheridan (8), Sarah Fielding (4), and Betsy Sheridan (4). Except for—not sur-
prisingly—Elizabeth Clift, all of the others occur in the OED as well, although
William Clift and Thomas Turner do not have any Wrst recorded words to their
name, and only very few instances of other usages, such as bumbo (‘a liquor
composed or rum, sugar, water, and nutmeg’) which was used by Turner in his
diary in 1756, and the palaeontological term megatherium (referring to an ‘extinct
english at the onset of the normative tradition 263
genus of huge herbivorous edentates resembling the sloths’) which was used by
Clift. The majority of the other writers are literary Wgures, including the women;
Benjamin Martin was, as already indicated, a scientist, and Robert Lowth and
Thomas Sheridan were linguists—if this term can indeed be used for the period.
Eighty per cent of Walpole’s quotations derive from his letters, which is also true
for Betsy Sheridan: all her quotations in the OED—thirty-three altogether—are
from her journal letters. Given his literary status at the time, Johnson seems
rather underrepresented in the OED; there are, however, many words in the OED
for which the Wrst recorded evidence is in his Dictionary. This indicates that the
Dictionary served as an important source for recording words that were new at
the time—for everyday or colloquial words such as brilliantness and chickling (‘a
tiny chick’) as well as more learned ones, such as menagogue (‘agents which
increase or renew the menstrual discharge’).
In his introductory ‘General Explanations’ for the OED in 1884, James Murray,
the dictionary’s principal editor, described the nature of the lexicon. Its core was,
he noted, made up by Common words, bounded by the categories Literary and
Colloquial words. These are surrounded in turn by Archaic, Dialectal, Vulgar,
Slang, Technical, ScientiWc, and Foreign words. These categories are not discrete:
they overlap with each other, for it is not always easy to classify a word as Vulgar
or Slang, or as Technical or ScientiWc. All these categories are found among the
Wrst occurrences of words used by the authors listed above, with the obvious
exception of Archaic words. There are many words that are now considered part
of the common stock of words which were Wrst used in the eighteenth century,
and their nature usually reXects the interests of the author in question. We owe
heroism to Lady Mary Wortley Montagu (1717), to bother to Thomas Sheridan
(1718), the noun growl to Gay (1727), pork-pie to Henry Fielding (1732), babyhood
to Richardson (1748), descriptive to Johnson (1751), littered to Dodsley (1754), low-
bred to Garrick (1757), biographically to Sterne (1760), ostensibly to Walpole
(1765), dressing gown to Richard Sheridan (1777), pinafore to Fanny Burney
(1782), coquettishly to Sarah Fielding (1785), box-oYce to Betsy Sheridan (1786),
lapel to Mrs Thrale (1789), and colloquially to Boswell (1791). To Lowth we owe
two rather strong words, intolerance and atrociously (1765). Both occur in the Wnal
stages of his correspondence with Warburton. Johnson’s new words are mostly of
a learned nature, which is not surprising given his reputation for using Latinate
words. Most of the Common words are found with Fanny Burney. It is interesting
but not unexpected to see that the words Johnsonian and lexicographical are Wrst
found in Boswell’s Life of Johnson (1791, ed. Chapman (1980))!
Martin did not add any common words to the English language according to
the evidence of the OED. The Wrst occurrences under his name are almost all
264 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
scientiWc: geology in 1735, goniometer (‘an instrument used for measuring angles’)
in 1766, uranology (‘the study of the sidereal heavens; astronomy’) in 1735.
Technical words appear, too (archetypical 1737, diacritical 1749). Martin was an
inventor of microscopes, although any new project that crossed his path would
appeal to him, even a grammar (1748) and a dictionary (1749). Johnson was also
at the forefront of adopting scientiWc and technical words, as the citations for the
OED entries for acescence (‘the action of becoming acid or sour; the process of
acetous fermentation’), catenarian (‘pertaining to the curve formed by a chain or
rope of uniform density hanging freely from two Wxed points not in the same
vertical line’), alliterated (‘composed with or characterized by alliteration’), and
conglobulate (‘to collect into a rounded or compact mass’) conWrm. These were
Wrst used by Johnson in (respectively) 1765, 1751, 1776, and 1768. Lowth is credited
with the Wrst occurrences of pleonastic and suYx, both of which occur in his
translation of Isaiah (1778). Literary words are found with Gay (chanting, 1720),
Sarah Fielding (exulting, 1744), Dodsley (shroudless, 1758), and Sterne (attrited,
signifying ‘worn down by continued friction’, 1760). Colloquial words are rare:
pill, used as a verb by Henry Fielding in 1736 to mean ‘to dose with pills’, pop-visit
(‘a short, hasty, or unannounced visit, in which one ‘‘pops in’’’) used by Sterne in
1767, the onomatopoeic piV (‘an imitation of various sounds, as of that made by
the swift motion of a bullet through the air’) used by Garrick in 1775, and plumply
(‘directly’), as used by Fanny Burney in 1786. Rarer still are vulgar words: arrow
(given in the OED as a ‘corruption of e’er a, ever a’, meaning ‘‘always’’’) and pottle
(‘bottle’), used by Henry Fielding in 1749 and 1733; imperence (‘impudence’), used
in The Clandestine Marriage by George Colman and Garrick in 1766; ain’t (Fanny
Burney, 1778). Slang too is rare, such as agad (‘egad’) used by Henry Fielding in
1728. Such words would not be expected from writers such as Lowth, Martin, or
Mrs Thrale, who were neither novelists nor playwrights (and who therefore had
no need to represent the variety of discourses which might appear within these
genres). Dialect words also occur, but not frequently and with a few authors only:
bocking (‘a kind of coarse woollen drugget or baize’) which occurs in Martin’s
Natural History of England (1759) and graddan (‘to parch (grain) in the husk’),
used by Boswell in his Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides which he undertook with
Johnson in 1773.
Foreign words are a diVerent matter. There are Wrst cited instances in the OED
for Henry Fielding (poulard, ‘a young hen fattened for the table’, 1732), Thomas
Sheridan (benecarlo, ‘a coarse-Xavoured astringent Spanish wine’, 1734), Walpole
(papillote, ‘a curl-paper’, 1748), Sterne (accoucheur, ‘a man who assists women in
child-birth, a man-midwife’, 1759), Boswell (consulta, ‘an (oYcial) consultation; a
meeting of council’, 1768), Fanny Burney (passé, used in 1775 to mean ‘past, past
english at the onset of the normative tradition 265
the prime; esp. of a woman: past the period of greatest beauty; also, out of date,
behind the times, superseded’), Richard Sheridan (amadavat, ‘an Indian song-
bird’, 1777), and Mrs Thrale (casino, 1798, used in sense 2 of the OED entry:
‘A public room used for social meetings; a club-house; esp. a public music or
dancing saloon’)—but none, however, from Richardson. The largest number of
foreign words is found with Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, for example cicisbeo
(1718, ‘the name formerly given in Italy to the recognized gallant or cavalier
servente of a married woman’), feridgi (1717, ‘the dress of ceremony of the Turks’),
and diligence (1742, from French, ‘A public stage-coach’), due to her travels
abroad. Most of these words, however, did not become part of the common
word-stock of the language, and one wonders how current they ever were.
There are likewise many words for which the OED oVers no more than a single
quotation, that of the author in question. Examples are tawder, ‘to deck out in
tawdry garments’ (Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, 1716), paradeful, ‘full of parade
or display’ (Richardson, 1755), awaredom, ‘the state of being on one’s guard’
(Walpole, 1752), phenomenous, ‘of the nature of a remarkable phenomenon’
(Fielding, 1754), to obstreperate, ‘to make a loud noise’ (Sterne, 1765), complimen-
tative, ‘expressive of, or conveying, compliment; of the nature of a compliment’
(Boswell, 1778), amatorian, ‘amatorial, amatory’ (Johnson, 1779), feudatorial, ‘of
or pertaining to a feud or Wef; of the nature of a feud or Wef’ (Mrs Thrale, 1789).
The question is why the OED lists them, or why the authors did not use sorrowful,
awareness, phenomenal, complimentary, amatorial, or feudal instead, all of which
were already in existence. Evidently, even the vocabulary, and particularly the use
of suYxes, was still in a state of Xux at the time.
One striking suYx among the new words is -ess, as in Tristram Shandy: ‘The
abbess of Quedlingberg, who with the four great dignitaries of her chapter, the
prioress, the deaness, the sub-chantress and senior canonness, had that week come
to Strassburg . . .’. Deaness (‘a woman who is head of a female chapter’) is Wrst
attributed to Sterne, who also was the Wrst to use nabobess (‘a female nabob;
the wife of a nabob’); Walpole Wrst used adventuress, agentess, artistess, chancel-
loress (‘a female chancellor; also a chancellor’s wife’), incumbentess, and Methu-
salemess (‘a female ‘‘Methuselah’’’). Fanny Burney used censoress and
commoneress, and Richardson briberess, doggess (‘a female dog, a bitch’), fellowess
(‘a female ‘‘fellow’’’), gaoleress, and keeperess. Lady Mary Wortley Montagu used
interpretess, which, according to the OED entry, is also recorded in the usage of
Fanny Burney. Lowth, when he was in Ireland, asked his wife: ‘Do you want to be
a bishopess?’ Not, obviously, a female bishop, as there were none at the time.
‘Wife of a bishop’ had been the common meaning of the word since the 1670s,
and the new meaning would only be attested 200 years later. Many of these words
266 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
are recorded no more than once, and are labelled ‘nonce words’ by the OED.
Their number, however, demonstrates that there was a need for gendered words
at the time.
The preWx un- was likewise a productive one, most of all with Richardson: it is
found in 17 per cent of his new words, as against 14 per cent with Fanny Burney and
10 per cent with Sterne and Walpole. Evidently, it was felt that almost any word
could be turned negative by attaching un- to it. Some of these words were
subsequently used by other writers, while others are listed no more than once:
unaudienced (Richardson, 1748), unsecrecy (Walpole, 1759), unkindhearted (Sterne,
1759), to unattire (Fanny Burney, 1791).
social networks and linguistic influence
The entry for interpretess in the OED is supported by two citations, one from Lady
Mary Wortley Montagu and the other from Fanny Burney. Yet is it unlikely that
Fanny Burney adopted the word from her predecessor, who had used it in a private
letter to her sister, the Countess of Mar. Fanny Burney used it 75 years later, in her
diary. Possibly, she reinvented the word herself: -ess was, as we have seen, a
productive suYx at the time. But there are some cases where inXuence does
seem to have occurred. Lady Mary Wortley Montagu is Wrst credited with the
word cicisbeo (‘a gallant accompanying a married woman’), which she must have
picked up in Italy on her way to Turkey with her husband, whom she accompanied
on a diplomatic visit in 1716–1718. Walpole, 25 years later, used the word cicisbeism
in a letter to Thomas Mann, one of his regular correspondents. Walpole and Lady
Mary were close friends, and they frequently exchanged letters, gossiping about
mutual acquaintances. Richardson used the word over-indulged in Pamela (1741).
The next user of the word in a printed text was, according to the OED, Sarah
Fielding in her novel The Countess of Dellwyn (1759). Sarah Fielding was both an
admirer of Richardson—she had been the Wrst to write a critical study of Clar-
issa—and a close friend. Richardson also appears to have inXuenced Johnson in
the use of the word out-argue: he had Wrst used it Clarissa (1748), and Johnson is
next recorded in the Life of Johnson as using the word on 3 April 1778: ‘Though we
cannot out-vote them, we will out-argue them’. Like Sarah Fielding, Johnson was
inXuenced by Richardson, with whom he likewise had a close tie; he had, for
example, decided to adopt in his Dictionary a list of moral terms which Richardson
had compiled, and which had been published as an appendix to the fourth edition
of Clarissa in 1751. In another possible line of inXuence, the word crinkum-crankum
english at the onset of the normative tradition 267
(‘applied playfully to anything full of twists and turns, or intricately or fancifully
elaborated’) was Wrst used by Garrick and Colman in their play The Clandestine
Marriage (1766).11
It is next found seventeen years later, in Fanny Burney’s novel
Evelina. It is highly likely that Fanny Burney had read this popular play, or had seen
it performed. Garrick, moreover, was a friend of her father’s, and a frequent visitor
of the Burneys.
Vocabulary was not the only Weld where linguistic inXuence occurred. Sarah
Fielding conceivably was inXuenced in her use of ’d in the past tense and past
participle forms of weak verbs by the letters she received from Richardson, while
Lowth’s spelling of the word immediatly changed when he began to correspond
with his friend Ridley. Boswell abandoned his private spelling habits when he
became more serious as a student of law and Mrs Thrale in her letters to Dr
Johnson, and only in those to him, accommodated to his preference for -ck in
words like musick and publick, which is how these words appeared in his
dictionary. Similarly, William Clift appears to have modelled his use of contrac-
tions on that of his new and much admired patron John Hunter. With the
exception of Boswell, these examples were all motivated by the presence of a
linguistic model, someone with so much prestige that they would set a linguistic
norm to those around them. Fanny Burney changed her usage of periphrastic do
(and presumably other linguistic features as well) after she became acquainted
with Dr Johnson, who in turn had been inXuenced by Richardson. Fanny
Burney’s later novels consequently lost much of her originally colloquial style.
Lowth’s use of periphrastic do is very diVerent from that of his middle-class peers;
he used as few negative sentences without do (‘wch
. I know not where to get here’)
as people like Sir Horace Walpole. This suggests that Lowth’s private linguistic
model was not that of the educated gentleman, the class to which he himself
belonged, but that of the class above, the aristocracy. And it is this model which
he presented in his grammar, which came to serve as a tool for all those in the
eighteenth century with similar social aspirations to himself.
Johnson, as already indicated, was widely perceived as a linguistic model. So
had Addison been before him, providing a model of linguistic correctness during
much of the eighteenth century through his popular journals The Tatler and The
Spectator. Linguistic models, however, do not normally innovate but they pick
up, consciously or unconsciously, changes which were made or introduced by
others. According to the research model of social network analysis, it is these
people who are the true linguistic innovators. Usually, they are marginal people
11
The date supplied by the OED—1761—must be a mistake, for the play was completed in 1765 and
first performed in 1766.
268 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
who are not fully integrated into a social network to which they aspire, although
they might have a strong tie with the person who eventually adopts the innov-
ation; often they are socially and geographically mobile. An example is John Gay,
who came from a lower-class background in Cornwall. He was probably the Wrst
to use the formula yours sincerely, but he was not the one to cause its spread. Once
it was adopted by the more inXuential members of his social network such as
Swift, Pope, and Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, it spread further. Walpole, in turn,
might be someone following the linguistic norm of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu,
in adopting part of her vocabulary. In the network around Johnson at the time
the Dictionary was published in 1755, Richardson was a linguistic innovator: he
occupied only a marginal position in it, and Johnson conceivably picked up
innovations (vocabulary, usage of periphrastic do) from him and which others in
turn adopted from Johnson, due to his own recognized status as a writer and
lexicographer. But Richardson also belonged to other networks, in which he
occupied a more central position. Sarah Fielding belonged to one of them: she
admired Richardson and his work, and consequently modelled certain aspects of
her language on him. The case of William Clift is similar: upon his arrival in
London, he found himself in a new network, with John Hunter at its centre, and
in the changes which his language subsequently underwent, his old linguistic
norms, modelled on his sister Elizabeth, were displaced by Hunter’s.
conclusion
The twenty-one authors discussed in this chapter—Gay, Lady Mary Wortley
Montagu, Richardson, Robert Dodsley, Martin, the Fieldings, Johnson, Lowth,
Sterne, Garrick, Turner, Walpole, Boswell, Mrs Thrale, the Sheridan family, Fanny
Burney, and the Clifts—do not belong to a single social network. There is,
for example, no way in which Lady Mary Wortley Montagu and Elizabeth Clift
would have known each other, either socially or chronologically. Even Lowth and
Johnson did not belong to a single social network, despite the fact that they were
friends of Dodsley. In Dodsley their networks touched, but without overlapping.
But what these people all have in common, apart from the fact that they wrote,
which in itself turns them into a kind of linguistic elite, is that they did so at a
time when the language had not yet been fully standardized. This applies to
spelling, of which there were two recognized systems, one for printed and the
other for private use, as well as to grammar, where people still varied in their use of
sentences with and without do and between diVerent forms for past participles of
english at the onset of the normative tradition 269
strong verbs (wrote alongside written), and also to vocabulary: many eighteenth-
century words have so far been attested in the OED in only a single instance.
Given our present state of knowledge, this suggests that, at the time, authors were
still to some extent free to coin new words along their own principles. Conse-
quently, almost all the above authors have linguistic ‘Wrsts’ to their name in the
OED. All this demonstrates that, contrary to the stereotypes of this period
which often prevail in histories of the language, writers were not yet as constrained
by normative writings—the grammars and dictionaries produced during
the period—as they would be in years to come. Grammars such as those by
Lowth and his contemporaries primarily served the function of making accessible
new linguistic norms to those who sought social advancement, rather
than controlling the language per se. This important insight comes from the
recognition of the signiWcance of the language of private letters. No history of
modern English will be complete unless the language of letters is taken into
account as well.
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
The most reliable Wrst-hand information on how people spoke in eighteenth-century
England, at least according to their contemporaries, may be found in Boswell’s Life of
Johnson (ed. Chapman 1980) and Fanny Burney’s diaries (ed. Troide et al. 1988–).
The journals and letters quoted from in this chapter are worth studying for the ways in
which people wrote to diVerent correspondents. Apart from Fanny Burney’s early
journals (also edited by Troide et al. 1988–) and Boswell’s correspondence (see e.g. the
edition by Walker (1966)), there are the letters of the Clift family edited by Austin (1991),
of Robert Dodsley, edited by Tierney (1988), of the Fieldings, edited by Battestin
and Probyn (1993), of Betsy Sheridan, edited by Lefanu (1960), of Mrs Thrale (available
in Chapman’s edition of Johnson’s letters (1952)), as well as Thomas Turner’s Diary,
edited by Vaisey (1984). By far the most voluminous correspondence is that of Horace
Walpole (edited by Lewis et al. (1937–83)). All of these are readily accessible. The only
exception is Lowth, whose letters have not been published yet. Most of his letters
are in the Bodleian Library, Oxford and in the British Library in London. A survey
of eighteenth-century published collections of letters may be found in Historical
Sociolinguistics and Sociohistorical Linguistics, <http://www.let.leidenuniv.nl/hsl_shl>
(! Contents ! Correspondences). For readers interested in the lives of eighteenth-
century people, there are, apart from Boswell’s Life of Johnson, many biographies
which are worth reading, for example, see Lonsdale (1965) for Charles Burney,
Fanny Burney’s father; Nokes (1995) for John Gay; Solomon (1996) for Robert Dodsley;
270 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
Thomas (1990) for Henry Fielding; Bree (1996) for Sarah Fielding; Millburn (1976) for
Benjamin Martin; Halsband (1956) for Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, and Benzie (1972)
for Richard and Thomas Sheridan. Vickery (1998) oVers an account of how gentlewomen
lived during the eighteenth century, based on an analysis of their diaries, while Tillyard
(1994) is concerned with the lives of aristocratic women. Her book formed the basis of
the outstanding BBC television series Aristocrats.
Görlach (2001a) oVers a general introduction to eighteenth-century English, although
the sections on grammar are largely based on an analysis of the normative grammarians’
statements regarding usage. An account of the rise of normative grammar can be found
in Tieken-Boon van Ostade (2000c). For a good selection of contemporary opinions on
language from this period (including relevant extracts from Dryden, Defoe, and Addi-
son), see Bolton (1966). Swift’s A Proposal for Correcting, Improving and Ascertaining the
English Tongue was published (anonymously) in 1712. For the making of Johnson’s
Dictionary, see Reddick (1990). Robert Lowth’s Short Introduction to English Grammar
(1762) has also been reprinted by The Scolar Press (1967); for details of its genesis with
reference to Lowth’s son Tom, see Tieken-Boon van Ostade (2003a). Still the best general
account of the codiWcation process of the English language, although it dates back to the
Wrst edition of 1951, is Baugh and Cable’s chapter ‘The appeal to authority, 1650–1800’
(2002: 248–89).
Mobility: geographical and social
Betsy Sheridan’s Journal has, as already mentioned, been edited by Lefanu (1960);
her statement about her brother is taken from p. 186, and the second letter referred to
on p. 243 is taken from p. 192. Mugglestone (2003a: 55), which provides a detailed study of
the rise of (and attitudes to) a non-localized English pronunciation, is the source of the
quotation from Swift about the increasing unacceptability of Irish accents. She also
discusses Boswell’s elocution lessons with Thomas Sheridan. T. Frank (1994) provides
useful evidence on eighteenth-century Scottish and language standardization. The cited
extract from William Clift’s letters is taken from Austin (1991); Austin (1994) examines
Clift’s changing patterns of usage. The life of John Hunter, William Clift’s patron and
linguistic model, is discussed by Qvist (1981).
Spoken English
The Clift Family correspondence has been edited by Austin (1991). For Sarah Fielding’s
use of the dash, see Barchas (1996); Henry Fielding’s textual emendations of his sister’s
novel are discussed in the introduction to her novel edited by Kelsall (1969). For Fanny
Burney’s acuity in representing eighteenth-century speech patterns, see Tieken-Boon van
Ostade (2000a); the reported conversation between Burney, Johnson, and Mrs Thrale can
be found in Vol. III of Burney’s Early Journals (ed. Troide et al. 1988–: 170).
english at the onset of the normative tradition 271
The age of letter-writing
An excellent discussion of eighteenth-century letter writing practice is Baker’s (1980)
introduction to JohnWesley’s correspondence.See Milroy(1987)for afull accountof social
network analysis; the potential for using social network analysis as a model for research
on earlier stages of English is explored in Tieken-Boon van Ostade et al. (2000). CodiWca-
tion is discussed in Milroy and Milroy (1997). Betsy Sheridan’s characterization of her
own informal style can be found in Lefanu (ed. 1960: 57). For the various formulae which
can appear in eighteenth-century letters, see Tieken-Boon van Ostade (1999), and Tieken-
BoonvanOstade(2003b).Bijkerk(2004)alsoprovidesagoodanalysisoftheirdevelopment
and use. Boswell’s letter to Johnston can be found in Walker (1966: 17), while the
extract from Sarah Fielding’s letter to James Harris is taken from Battestin and Probin
(1993: 171). The use of courtly-genteel language in eighteenth-century letters is treated by
McIntosh (1986).
language
Osselton (1984) provides important information on the private spelling practices of the
eighteenth century; private and public spelling practice are examined in Tieken-Boon
van Ostade (1998). Austin (1991) is, as before, the source of the cited extracts from the
letters of William and Elizabeth Clift; Austin’s detailed introduction also provides
useful evidence on Elizabeth’s acquisition of literacy. Lowth’s own education at his
mother’s knee is discussed by Luteijn (2004).
Grammatical variation is, as the chapter indicates, well-represented in private letters
from a range of sources. Burney’s letter on the stylistic formality of John Hawkesworth can
be found in Troide et al. (1988: 63). Walpole’s criticism of ChesterWeld’s usage is quoted
from Leonard (1929: 188), while Tieken-Boon van Ostade (1994) analyses Walpole’s own
usage as well as that of his contemporaries, male and female alike. The ‘Androcentric Rule’
and associated gender stereotypes in language are discussed by Coates (1993). For the role
of the female grammarians in eighteenth-century normative tradition, see Tieken-Boon
van Ostade (2000d), and for a description of Ann Fisher’s life and work see Rodrı́guez-Gil
(2002).With reference to the development of the be/have periphrasis with mutative
intransitive verbs (as in the parcel is/has arrived ) Rydén and Brorström (1987) present
evidence of the role of gender in eighteenth-century linguistic change. On you was, see
Tieken-Boon van Ostade (2002a); Lowth’s condemnation of this construction can be
found in a note on p. 48 of his Grammar (1762); on another example of Lowth’s prescriptive
strictures in relation to his own language, see Tieken-Boon van Ostade (2002b). Lass
(1994b) provides a useful analysis of variation in past tense and past participle forms of
strong verbs. Self- forms are discussed in Tieken-Boon van Ostade (1994).
272 ingrid tieken-boon van ostade
Vocabulary
As in other chapters, the OED remains the prime source of evidence for both words and
meaning, although Görlach (2001a) provides a good account of salient features of
eighteenth-century usage. James Murray’s nineteenth-century analysis of the structure
of the lexicon is reprinted in Craigie and Onions (1933: xxvii). Richardson’s list of moral
terms, used by Johnson in his Dictionary, is discussed in Keast (1957).
Social networks and linguistic inXuence
For Garrick’s connections with the Burney family, see Troide et al. (1988: xxi). Addison as
a linguistic model is discussed by Wright (1994).
english at the onset of the normative tradition 273
10
ENGLISH IN THE
NINETEENTH CENTURY
Lynda Mugglestone
transitions
‘EVERY age may be called an age of transition’, the novelist and statesman
Edward Bulwer Lytton stated in 1833. Transitions have of course emerged
as a signiWcant topic in many chapters in this volume; as Lytton noted, ‘the
passing-on, as it were, from one state to another never ceases’. Nevertheless, he
made one important distinction for the nineteenth century alone. ‘In our age’, he
added, ‘the transition is visible’.
For those who lived in the nineteenth century, this ‘visibility’ of change
could hardly be denied. Industrialization and new patterns of transport trans-
formed the British landscape at an unprecedented rate while, both directly and
indirectly, language mapped and consolidated the advances being made. In-
dustrialism, according to the OED (itself one of the great achievements of the
age) was Wrst used in 1833; industrialize as a verb appeared in 1882. Urbaniza-
tion was later still, Wrst being recorded in 1888, although its processes were
widely apparently throughout the century; Manchester almost quadrupled in
size between 1801 and 1871, Birmingham expanded by 73 per cent, and Leeds by
99 per cent. Countless acts of individual migration moreover underpinned
these patterns of change, bringing a whole range of regional speakers into new
(and unexpected) proximities as a result. Meanwhile, urbanize lost dominant
eighteenth-century senses in which it had signiWed ‘To render urbane or civil;
to make more reWned or polished’. Instead, by association, it gradually assumed
meanings with which modern speakers are more familiar: ‘The Government
will . . . then appeal to the urbanised counties’, as the Western Morning
Chronicle noted in 1884.
The currency of new verbs such as to train reXected further transformative
shifts in both landscape and mobility. ‘I trained up to town for the Commit-
tee of Privileges’, a letter from Lord Granville stated in 1856. Railway demon-
strated conspicuous fertility. Railway-guides, -passes, -rugs, and -sickness all
exist as part of a new catalogue of combinatory forms (along with railway
spine: ‘an aVection of the spine produced by concussion in a railway accident’,
as the OED noted); idioms such as to let oV steam likewise became part of
accepted verbal currency. Macadam, cab, omnibus, bicycle, and the earlier
velocipede—deWned in the OED as ‘a travelling-machine having wheels turned
by the pressure of one’s feet upon pedals’ and ridden enthusiastically around
Oxford by Charles Dodgson (otherwise known as Lewis Carroll), as well as by
James Murray, the OED’s editor-in chief—can all be used to demonstrate
further intersections of linguistic and technical spheres. As Alice Mann
stressed in her General Expositor (1862): ‘Our language, as well as our arts,
science, and manufacture, has partaken of the general progress, improvement,
and enlargement, which have marked the surprising movements of the present
century’.
The legacies of progress in the nineteenth century can therefore result in a
scale—and scope—of language data which was inconceivable in earlier periods.
The production of printed texts was, for example, transformed by the steam
press. Whereas some 250 impressions an hour had been produced by the earlier
hand-presses, the advent of steam meant that production quadrupled by 1814. By
1848, 12,000 sheets an hour could be printed. The elimination in the 1850s and
1860s of taxes on paper and newspapers likewise contributed to the increased
presence of the printed word. Access to education in a diversity of forms, whether
dame schools which provided a rudimentary education in the Wrst principles of
letters and numbers, night classes such as those attended three times a week (at 1d
per session) by the 18-year-old engineer George Stephenson (inventor of the Wrst
workable railway locomotive), elite public schools such as Shrewsbury, attended
by Charles Darwin, as well as private schools—and Sunday Schools which also
often aimed to foster language skills—also served to bring familiarity with the
written word to a far broader spectrum of society. The Elementary Education Act
of 1870 institutionalized the principle (and practice) of mass education but, even
before this, it was clear that literacy was in the ascendant. The testimony of a wide
range of working-class autobiographies and diaries (see further pp. 296–7) oVers
compelling evidence of the variety of linguistic experiences which await the
historian of language in the nineteenth century. The ‘Penny Post’ which, from
english in the nineteenth century 275
January 1840, established a national and standard price of 1d
for letters (paid by
the sender rather than, as previously, by the recipient according to the distance
sent), brought a similarly unparalleled rise in private written communication.
Some 75 million letters were sent in 1839; by 1849 the corresponding Wgure was
347 million. New modes of communication, both written and spoken, also came
into being. Only face-to-face conversation had hitherto oVered the directness—
and speed—of the telegraph (introduced in 1837), and particularly the telephone
(Wrst demonstrated by Alexander Graham Bell in Glasgow in 1876). By 1872
around 15 million telegrams were being sent each year.
This image of progress is, of course, only one side of the story. While it might
be tempting to construct the nineteenth century as one dominated by transcend-
ent innovation and advance, then it is also salutary to remember the various
images of divisiveness which also came to mark the age. Here too language played
a part. The introduction of the telegraph raised fears for linguistic decline (‘We
shall gradually give up English in favour of Telegraphese, and Electric Telegraph-
ese is as short and spare as Daily Telegraphese is longwinded and redundant’, the
Pall Mall Gazette conjectured in 1885). Advances in print culture meanwhile
served to foreground linguistic diVerence—not least since if ‘the great majority
of working people spoke some form of dialect; in general they read and wrote in
standard English’.1
ConXicts of ‘masters and men’ isolated a language of class
which had also been absent in previous centuries. As the OED records, here a
newly extensive terminology oVered the potential for self-deWnition (and for the
deWnition of others). ‘Higher (upper), middle, lower classes, working classes . . .
appear to be of modern introduction’, James Murray wrote, carefully deWning
class in 1889; class-antagonism and class-barrier, class-bias, and class-consciousness,
all have their roots in the nineteenth century. In popular stereotypes of language
practice, it was moreover not just vocabulary which implemented such divisions.
As the previous chapter has indicated, accent (in the work of Thomas Sheridan
and others) came to participate in increasingly normative constructions by which
the ‘received’ and the regional were increasingly placed at odds. A range of
shibboleths of pronunciation (not least the perceived stigma of [h]-dropping)
were duly consolidated as the nineteenth century advanced. Contemporary
images of self-help—another important image of the age—often assumed dis-
tinctive linguistic resonances in response. ‘The perusal and proWt of the ledger
should be preceded, accompanied, or at least followed, by a little study of
grammar’, stated P’s and Q’s. Grammatical Hints for the Million in the 1850s.
The same author—an anthropomorphized Hon. Henry H.—satirized the aspir-
1
See further L. James (ed.). Print and the People 1819–1851 (London: James Allen, 1976), 22.
276 lynda mugglestone
ations (and aspirates) of the parvenu (another new word, Wrst documented in
1802) in Poor Letter H: ‘We must, however, protest against the barbarity of a rich
nobody, who having . . . more money than wit, built himself a large mansion,
and dubbed it his habbey . . . he would persist in saying that the habbey was his
‘obby’. In a real-life correlate, the self-made ‘railway king’ George Hudson was
widely stigmatized in the popular press for linguistic infelicities of precisely this
kind (and in spite of his own purchase of the 12,000-acre Londesborough Park in
Yorkshire where he had planned to build a family seat).
A variety of prescriptive agendas for reform and control hence came to exist
uneasily alongside newer linguistic approaches whereby, as for the OED, the
study of language was intentionally objective rather than subjective. Philology,
dismissed as ‘barren’ by Johnson in the eighteenth century, assumed a new
fertility in the nineteenth. It was of course under the auspices of the London
Philological Society (founded in 1842) that the OED had its own beginnings.
Language scholars such as Frederick Furnivall, W. W. Skeat, the phoneticians
Alexander Ellis and Henry Sweet, and the lexicographer James Murray insisted
on the salience of scientiWc principle in linguistic investigation. ‘The sounds of
language are very Xeeting . . . all are altered by combination, expression, pitch,
intonation, emotion, age, sex’, as Ellis stressed in 1869, setting out principles
which bear no little resemblance to the underlying ideas of modern socio-
linguistic study.
Linguistic division was manifest in other ways too. The forces of nationalism
and standardization assumed, for instance, an uneven co-existence in terms of the
continuing multilingualism of the United Kingdom. The use of Welsh was ‘a vast
drawback to Wales’, concluded a special committee which investigated the state of
Welsh education in 1846. Wales gained its own national anthem ten years later but
the number of Welsh speakers continued to decline. In 1800 circa 80 per cent of the
population of Wales had used Welsh in their daily lives; by 1900 the same could be
said of only 50 per cent (a Wgure partly aVected by the forces of immigration). The
1870 Education Act made English compulsory in all schools throughout the
kingdom. While societies such as the Gaelic Society of Inverness (founded in
1871) and the Society for Utilising the Welsh Language (founded in 1885), as well as
the Gaelic Union of Ireland (founded in 1880), attest considerable interest in
distinct language varieties, the educational impetus was Wrmly placed on acquir-
ing the ‘proper’ forms of English alone. It was essential that the person appointed
as English master ‘shall have a pure English accent’ proclaimed the Statement by
the Directors of the Edinburgh Academy in 1824. Colonial discourses, and the
missionary drive to foster standard English within the Empire, presented still
other facets of the divisiveness which language could serve to enact.
english in the nineteenth century 277
This range of conXicting voices means that it is in some ways virtually
impossible to characterize the language of the nineteenth century within a single
chapter. Even the deWnition of the nation changes signally over this time; by its
political union with Ireland, the Britain of 1800 became the United Kingdom of
1801 (‘The said Kingdoms of Great Britain and Ireland shall . . . be united into
one Kingdom, by the name of The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland’
as the Act of 1800 had declared). DeWnitions of the monarchy manifest other
aspects of change. The century began with George III (1738–1830). It ended with
Victoria, born in 1819, crowned Queen in 1837, and proclaimed Empress of India
in 1877. Meanwhile English (and Englishes) expanded abroad, becoming a lingua
franca for a wide range of international settings (see further Chapters 12 and 13).
Describing ‘English’ is, as a result, fraught with complexity. Indeed, if one form of
English came to be widely institutionalized in education and the printed text, it is
also clear that nineteenth-century English (and its manifold varieties) were, in
reality, to remain open to considerable shift and Xux.
myths of stasis
Given the insistence by historians on the nineteenth century as a period of
particularly dramatic shift, it can seem ironic that, in histories of the language,
it is the absence of signiWcant linguistic change which instead comes to the fore.
The English of the present day diVers from that of 1800 ‘only in relatively minor
ways’, writes Fennell; Gerry Knowles similarly allows only ‘little subsequent
change [since 1800] in the forms of the standard language’, even if he simultan-
eously admits ‘substantial change in non-standard spoken English’.2
It is of
course undeniable that the wide-scale systemic changes which characterized
some of the earlier periods discussed in this volume are absent. On the other
hand, to assume a situation of near stasis is clearly somewhat reductive, especially
when one takes into account the linguistic variability which accompanied private
writings of a variety of kinds. Moreover, while public printed texts manifest
greater stability, even these are not devoid of change. ‘She was not less pleased
another day with the manner in which he seconded another wish of her’s’, states
Jane Austen’s Emma (1816), displaying principles of genitive marking which were
later proscribed. ‘Hers, its, ours, yours, theirs, should never be written, her’s, it’s,
2
See Fennell (2001: 168) and G. Knowles, A Cultural History of the English Language (London:
Arnold, 1997), 136.
278 lynda mugglestone
our’s, your’s, their’s’, as Lennie’s Principles of English Grammar (1864) aYrmed.
Forms such as chuse and chace, doat and chearful, common in printed texts in the
early nineteenth century, likewise gradually disappear. Print is, however, merely
one domain of usage, not the language in entirety. In this sense, it often served as
an inadequate reXection of the underlying realities of language in use, especially
in matters of orthography and morphology. ‘Except in extremely rare cases where
the author is opinionated and insists on the compositor ‘‘following copy,’’ no
printed copy represents the orthography and punctuation of the man of educa-
tion who writes, but only of the man of education who prints’, wrote Ellis. Indeed,
he added, ‘the literal exhibition of the greater part of ‘‘the copy for the press,’’ and
still more of the correspondence of even esteemed men of letters, would show
that our present orthography, including the use of capitals and punctuation, is by
no means as settled as printed books . . . would lead us to suppose’.
As Ellis indicates, print culture fostered a set of norms which rationalized the
variable realities of the underlying text. Correctors and printers’ readers con-
tinued to act in markedly interventionist ways. ‘Most Authors expect the Printer
to spell, point, and digest their Copy, that it may be intelligible and signiWcant to
the Reader’, Caleb Stower noted in his Printer’s Grammar (1808). Given the
nineteenth-century emphasis on the importance of standardization, it was a
practice which became increasingly entrenched, consolidating a public image of
a norm from which private usage—throughout the social spectrum—often
conspicuously diverged. This observable gap between public and private usage
indeed often prompts emendation in modern editions of nineteenth-century
texts. ‘Certain Dickensian peculiarities of spelling, e.g. ‘Recal’, ‘pannel’ ’ are hence
corrected in Michael Slater’s edition of A Christmas Carol (2003); House and
Storey similarly remark on what they term ‘life-long mis-spellings’—such as
poney and trowsers—in Dickens’s letters. Editing the European diaries of the
politician Richard Cobden, Miles Taylor isolates Cobden’s ‘arcane’ spellings;
‘much of it [is] American English . . . ‘‘labor’’, instead of ‘‘labour’’’, he adds.
Hutchinson’s (1904) edition of Shelley displayed a similar bias; ‘irregular or
antiquated forms such as . . . ‘‘sacriWze,’’ ‘‘tyger,’’ ‘‘gulph,’’ ‘‘desart,’’ ‘‘falshood,’’
and the like’ were all corrected on the grounds that they would ‘only serve to
distract the reader’s attention, and mar his enjoyment of the verse’.
Such patterns were, however, entirely characteristic of the realities of nineteenth-
century spelling practice. Both trowsers and poney, for example, appear as habit-
ual forms in the diaries of Lady Katherine Clarendon: ‘George and I dined
together at 4 o’clock and drove down the Grove afterwards in the Poney Carriage’,
as her entry for 12 August 1840 states; gulph appears in the letters of EYe Ruskin
(and of Ruskin himself), while spellings such as novellist, untill, porcellain, and
english in the nineteenth century 279
beautifull conWrm common variabilities of consonant doubling in a range of
writers. The variation of s/z underpins a whole set of diVerent forms. Surprize
rather than surprise was used by George Eliot and Walter Scott; Michael Faraday
(the pioneering English chemist and physicist) selected fuze rather than fuse.
Darwin embarked on a cruize rather than cruise in his voyage on the Beagle. Cozy
was the preferred form of Queen Victoria and of the novelist (and politician)
Benjamin Disraeli (‘the concomitant delights of cozy luncheons and conWdential
chats’, he wrote in a letter of 17 April 1838 to his future wife). Dorothy Words-
worth preferred cozie while Dickens used cosey. These are by no means isolated
examples but represent a level of systemic variability even within so-called
‘educated’ writers. Contemporary variation of or/our oVers a further case in
point. Favor, favorite, honor, harbor, splendor, and color (among others) are all
common nineteenth-century forms. Their dominant connotations were not
those of incipient Americanization (as Taylor suggests of Cobden), but instead
those of modernity and advance. As Dickens explained to the philanthropist
Angela Burdett Coutts on 11 July 1856, ‘I spell Harbor without the letter u, because
the modern spelling of such words as ‘‘Harbor, arbor, parlor’’ &c. (modern
within the last quarter of a century) discards that vowel, as belonging in that
connexion to another sound—such as hour and sour’.
Millward’s contention in 1996 that ‘by the end of the seventeenth century the
principle of a Wxed spelling for every word was Wrmly established for printed
works, and, over the course of the following century, ‘‘personal’’ spelling followed
suit’ can hence underestimate the true situation.3
Instead, the sense of a norm was
seemingly far more Xexible, allowing variants such as poney to appear even in
printed texts until mid-century (‘Clive . . . much preferred poneys to ride’, as
Thackeray’s The Newcomes states in 1855) and permitting, as indicated above, a
still wider range within the domains of private communication. Nineteenth-
century punctuation practices attest, if anything, still greater diversity, and
informal usage in private texts (especially in the preference for dashes above
stops) can contrast sharply with the heavy punctuation which commonly
attended print. Typical too is Darwin’s hesitancy over the placing of apostrophes.
‘Do you know it’s name?’ Darwin enquired of William Darwin Fox, on 12 June
1828. ‘I am myself going to collect pigs jaws’, he wrote on 31 August 1856 to T. C.
Eyton; ‘I want to know whether on a wet muddy day, whether birds feet are dirty’
[emphases added]. Michael Faraday, Mrs Gaskell, and Sir Henry Lennox (‘I am
so determined, that you shall not write a second letter like your last, that, at the
3
See C. Millward. A Biography of the English Language (2nd edn.) (Orlando, Florida: Harcourt
Brace, 1996), 261.
280 lynda mugglestone
risk of it’s being quite illegible, I have commenced an Epistle, in the Railway
Carriage’, as the latter wrote to Disraeli), provide other examples of such patterns.
While it’s had undoubted legitimacy as an early possessive form, assumptions
that such usage had declined by the beginning of the nineteenth century are again
open to reappraisal. Public and private conventions diverge, just as they do over
the retention or otherwise of long-tailed S in the representation of words such as
happineSs and gentleneSs (disappearing in printed texts around 1800, it can be
found in private documents throughout the century). Similar was the retention
of ye as a scribal abbreviation for the (‘We can stay a day or two at ye Ile of Man if
either of us feel inclined to give up the ghost’, writes Darwin’s elder brother
Erasmus in June 1825; ‘Rogers hates me. I can hardly believe, as he gives out, that
V[ivian] G[rey] is ye cause’, Disraeli fumed in his diary in 1834).
Other aspects of language in use also displayed features which, at times, have
little in common with the rhetoric of standardization which dominates popular
language comment at this time. As the opening page of Ledsham’s Sure Guide to
English Grammar (1879) conWrms, prescriptive traditions here maintained a
healthy continuity with their eighteenth-century predecessors: ‘Grammar is the
science of language, and it therefore teaches us how to speak and write correctly’,
it stated. Principle and practice were, however, often to be at odds. Duncan’s
patriotic insistence in 1890 that English was ‘undoubtedly the noblest of modern
tongues’ hence sits uneasily alongside his admission that ‘no other language of a
civilized people is so badly spoken and written’. Indeed, he continued, ‘errors and
inelegancies of the most glaring character abound in the speaking and writing of
even our best orators’. The sociolinguist Peter Trudgill’s axiom that ‘Standard
English is not a set of prescriptive rules’ necessarily lay in the future (as indeed
did his emphasis on the fact that a standard is not restricted to the most formal
styles alone).4
In popular thinking in the nineteenth century, it was instead by the
speciWcation of a set of (often highly conservative) desiderata that ‘good’ English
was to be acquired. Usage was in turn depicted as in need of stringent reform,
especially when it revealed a change in progress or the inXuence of regional
marking. ‘It is an error, very common to the district between Rotherham and
Barnsley, to use wrong verbs, &c. Such expressions as the following are very
common:—‘‘I were running,’’ ‘‘We was running,’’ ‘‘We’m running,’’ meaning ‘‘We
am running,’’ ‘‘Was you there?’’’, dictated Pearson in The Self-Help Grammar of
the English Language (1865). Standard grammar was national not local. As a
result, ‘the Teacher should point out to his pupils the erroneous expressions of
their own locality, and endeavour to eradicate them’ (see further pp. 292–5).
4
See further P. Trudgill, ‘Standard English. What It Isn’t’, in T. Bex and R. J. Watts (eds), Standard
English. The Widening Debate (Routledge: London and New York, 1999), 117–28.
english in the nineteenth century 281
Verbal forms in fact reveal a number of signiWcant shifts over the nineteenth
century, not least perhaps in the continued diVusion of the progressive passive.
Although examples of the earlier construction could still be found (‘Chintz-
room preparing for Mr. Sawyer’, noted Harriet Acworth, the well-educated wife
of an Evangelical minister in Leicestershire, in her diary in 1838), the newer
form—as in ‘The house was being built’—was well established by the 1830s,
even if it continued to attract prescriptive censure. The escalation in other
expanded tense structures elicited further condemnation, revealing another
divide between linguistic practice and prescriptive principle. Constructions
such as ‘I intended to have returned on Monday’ (corrected to ‘to return’), ‘I
happened to have been present’ (corrected to ‘to be’), and ‘I hoped never to
have met him again’ (corrected to ‘to meet’) are all given as prevalent errors on
p. 14 of Ladell’s How to Spell and Speak English (in its third edition by 1897).
Traditional prescriptive considerations of logic and reason underpinned formal
resistance to their use, as Duncan (1890) again illustrates: ‘Some persons—we
might perhaps say a majority of those who professedly speak the English
language—often use the past tense and the perfect tense together, in such
sentences as the following: ‘‘I intended to have called on him last night.’’ ‘‘I
meant to have purchased one yesterday,’’ or a pluperfect tense and a perfect
tense together as, ‘‘You should have written to have told her.’’ These expressions
are illogical, because, as the intention to perform the act must be prior to the
act contemplated, the act itself cannot with propriety be expressed by a tense
indicating a period of time previous to the intention’. The ubiquity of such
constructions reveals, of course, the real situation: ‘I fully expected to have seen
you’, wrote Fanny Owen to Darwin in the late 1820s; ‘How I wish you had
been able to have stayed up here’, Darwin wrote to his cousin William Fox
in 1829.
Changes in progress (with all their underlying variability) predictably attracted
a normative response. Nineteenth-century vacillations over the subjunctive pro-
vide a further useful example. This remained obligatory (at least in theory) in the
traditional environments of verbs following the expression of a wish, desire, or
command, or in hypothetical constructions governed by whether, though, or if.
Bulwer Lytton illustrates its formal proprieties well in a letter written on 5
October 1836: ‘the English Wnd it so bad a thing to have a wife, that they suppose
it quite natural to murder her, even though she bring him £1000 a year’ (emphasis
added). Its variability, especially in informal contexts, is nevertheless clear. ‘If she
is in a state [i.e. pregnant], she don’t shew it’, Katharine Clarendon conjectured
on 29 May 1840 about the newly-married Queen Victoria, deploying indicative is
rather than subjunctive be (as well as the frequently proscribed she don’t).
282 lynda mugglestone
Seventeen years later, the artist John Millais displayed conspicuous uncertainty,
even in parallel constructions within the same letter (written on 8 June 1861): ‘I
wd work splendidly if I was beside you. I am perfectly certain I could Wnish both
pictures in less than half the time if I were with you’. In the face of this apparently
fading linguistic nuance, many writers conversely attempted to comply with
popular doctrines of correctness by hypercorrect uses of the subjunctive—even
when strictly inappropriate. This too met with short shrift. The anonymous
author of Fashion in Language (1906) condemned it as ‘a growing tendency’
which rendered it almost impossible to ‘state any Wxed rule at all’ on the matter
for the late nineteenth century. Even by 1848, as Harrison conWrmed, it was clear
that subjunctive usage was both ‘indiscriminate’ and ‘promiscuous’: ‘a part of
English grammar, in which we shall look in vain for any thing bordering upon a
principle, even in authors of the highest authority’.
While Harrison recommended remedial measures for this situation, supply-
ing a set of exercises in ‘false syntax’ (specimen ‘incorrect’ sentences to be
emended by the reader/pupil) in the interests of re-establishing the ‘proper’
norms, the direction of change was clear. Normative exercises of this kind were
common in grammatical instruction, and their dictates often readily reveal the
tensions between prescriptive precepts and language in use. Common targets for
correction by the reader were the ‘Xat adverb’ (‘John writes pretty’), the
‘improper’ use of relatives (‘James was one of those boys that was kept in at
school for bad behaviour’), the imperfect discrimination of who/ whom (‘Who
did you buy your grammar from?’), as well as the complex proprieties of shall
and will, may and might, which often served as convenient touchstones of
correctness in contemporary language attitudes. Real English was, as ever,
often at some remove. Adverbial variation remained common, especially in
private and informal writing in the Wrst half of the century. ‘They both ran
down so quick’, wrote Clarendon in her diary, describing Victoria and Albert on
their wedding day on 10 February 1840; ‘they went down to Windsor very
slowly ’. ‘I do not believe that they sleep separate’, she added [emphases added].
The diaries of Anne Lister, a member of the Northern gentry, provide similar
examples (‘our train having gone slow for the last 1/4 hour’ (2 November 1834); ‘I
did not wish to inXuence anyone unfairly’ (19 January 1835); ‘very civilly com-
plained ’ (23 January 1835); ‘She dared scarce speak’ (17 September 1835)), as do
the letters of Charlotte Brontë (‘Her lively spirits and bright colour might
delude you into a belief that all was well, but she breathes short ’, she wrote in
evident anxiety on 9 June 1838 [emphases added]). Variation in Darwin’s letters
follows the same patterns (‘I am very glad to hear, the four casks arrived safe’, he
wrote on 24 July 1834).
english in the nineteenth century 283
Other Xuctuations accompanied the continuing loss of the be/ have distinction
of (intransitive) She is arrived versus (transitive) She has made. As Denison (1998)
observes, the nineteenth century here reveals the tail end of the typical S-curve of
linguistic change, duly emerging as ‘the period of the most rapid switch-over’,
especially in informal usage.5
‘Mr Lewes is gone to the museum for me’, as George
Eliot wrote with conservative propriety in 1861. This change too triggered an
excess of prescriptive zeal as many writers on the language strove to maintain the
older and ‘correct’ constructions. ‘Never say ‘‘I have come’’—‘‘He has risen’’ . . .
But ‘‘I am come’’—‘‘he is risen’’’, insisted Live and Learn: A Guide for All who
Wish to Speak and Write Correctly. Other long-variable constructions stabilized,
although these too can reveal considerably more Xux than is usually assumed.
Patterns of negation with (and without) do provide useful examples here. Dar-
win’s variability in this letter (written on 24 November 1832) is, for instance,
typical of a continuing variability in the use of do, especially in the Wrst half of the
nineteenth century: ‘I do not see any limits to it: one year is nearly completed &
and the second will be so before we even leave the East coast of S America.—And
then our voyage may be said really to have commenced.—I know not, how I shall
be able to endure it’. ‘I know not yet what government will do with respect to my
propositions regarding the MSS’, writes the chemist Humphry Davy to Michael
Faraday in 1819 [emphases added]. Questions too can display a perhaps unex-
pected variability. ‘What say you?’, Mary Shelley demanded in a letter written on
6 June 1836; ‘How get you on with the Electro Magnetism?’, Faraday asked
Richard Phillips in 1832. Do, in a process of regularization which has its begin-
nings in a much earlier period (see Chapters 6 and 7), continued to consolidate
its role across the range of structures in which it is used in modern English—even
if this did tempt Henry Bradley, one of James Murray’s co-editors on the OED,
into a certain prescriptive antipathy for what seemed to be the weakening
distinctions of late nineteenth-century English. ‘The use of the auxiliary do is
correct English only when have expresses something occasional or habitual, not
when the object is a permanent possession or attribute’, Bradley (1904) insisted:
‘It is permissible to say ‘‘Do you have breakfast at 8?’’ or ‘‘We do not have many
visitors’’; but not ‘‘Does she have blue eyes?’’ or ‘‘He did not have a good
character’’. Many American writers violate this rule, and the use appears to be
gaining ground in England’.
Prescriptivism was not, on the other hand, entirely without eVect, especially in
the domain of language attitudes. It is, for instance, in the nineteenth century
5
See D. Denison, ‘Syntax’, in S. Romaine, (ed.) (1998), The Cambridge History of the English
Language Vol. IV: 1776–1997 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1998), 136.
284 lynda mugglestone
that we can trace the rise of shibboleths such as split inWnitive, the legacies of
which can still linger today. This was increasingly common from the 1830s:
‘Wishing to amicably and easily settle the matter, I at once agreed to it’, as an
1835 letter from Captain Sutherland, transcribed in Anne Lister’s diary, aYrms.
Nevertheless, like other changes in progress, it often attracted censure. Mrs.
Gaskell’s use of this construction in her novel Wives and Daughters (‘In such
conversation as was then going on, it is not necessary to accurately deWne the
meaning of everything that is said’) was declared an incontrovertible blunder in
Hodgson’s Errors in the Use of English in 1881. Pronominal uses too could be
aVected by the normative ideals of many nineteenth-century grammars (and, by
extension, of much educational practice too). Contemporary insistence on the
incorrectness of the objective case in constructions such as ‘as calm as him’ led to
patterns of pronoun usage which can sound odd to modern ears. ‘I always feel it
unjust that I should have had so many more of the kind earth’s pleasures than
she’, wrote the novelist Mary Ward in 1893, reXecting her own drilling in formal
proprieties of precisely this kind. Similar proscriptions operated in sentences
such as ‘I heard of him running away,’ ‘It is no use you saying so’. Hodgson gives
both as explicitly erroneous forms (for ‘his running’, ‘your saying’). ‘It is hum-
bling to every one of us to conceive of your being in the least put out of your way
by the world’, wrote Harriet Martineau in a letter to Lytton on 26 January 1844,
here maintaining the ‘proper’ use of genitive above objective pronouns. The fact
that these stated infelicities of case were also acknowledged as ‘common’ by the
late nineteenth century nevertheless conWrms their underlying variability (which
the exercises on ‘false syntax’ attempted to constrain), as well as the on-going
currents of linguistic change.
Second-person pronouns can likewise display an interesting pluralism. While
you was undeniably the standard form, thou and thee (as well as ye/you distinc-
tions) remained a composite feature of many regional grammars. The politician
and statesman Robert Peel (1788–1850) hence grew up with full—if passive—
knowledge of the thou/thee forms used by his StaVordshire grandparents. Still later
in the century, writers such as Thomas Hardy (and the poet and philologist
William Barnes; see further pp. 282–3) had evident facility in pronominal systems
of both kinds. Even within non-localized grammars, however, it is clear that the
older second-person forms, connotative of intimacy and closeness, could retain a
stylistic role which was by no means restricted to religious usage. It was, for
instance, these (and their corresponding verbal inXections) which George Eliot
used on 16 October 1879 as she wrote to the 40-year old John Cross, agreeing to be
his wife: ‘Through everything else, dear tender one, there is the blessing of trusting
in thy goodness. Thou dost not know anything of verbs Hiphil or Hophal . . . but
english in the nineteenth century 285
thou knowest best things of another sort, such as belong to the manly heart’. The
use of thou/thee, and the possessive thy, remained stylistically marked forms,
regularly drawn on in private letters as well as public usage, as in Disraeli’s 1833
promise to send Helen Blackwood the Wrst bound copy of his novel The Wondrous
Tale of Alroy ‘wherein I will venture to inscribe thy fair & adored name’.
Pronouns such as everybody posed further problems, again trapping a variety
of writers between opposing discourses of correctness and usage. The formal
position was that given by Duncan in 1890 under the heading ‘False InXection
and Construction’. ‘‘‘Everybody has a right to their opinions;’’ but we have no
right to use a plural pronoun in construction with a singular antecedent’, he
declared, pointing out the ‘proper’ form to be employed: ‘Everybody [a singular
noun] has a right to his opinions. The error indicated here is a very common one.
Even our best speakers and writers fall into it’. It is rulings of this kind which
Mary Ward observes in her own letters (‘Everybody did the best he could’) and
which Henry Bradley, editing this word in the OED four years later, carefully
endorsed. The fact that, in the accompanying illustrative citations for this entry
in the dictionary, it was the notionally ‘incorrect’ plural which dominated did not
escape the notice of reviewers, especially given the stated intentions of the OED to
provide a descriptive engagement with the facts of language. ‘Every body does
and says what they please’, Byron had written in 1820; ‘Everybody seems to
recover their spirits’, Ruskin noted in 1866. Earlier instances traced usage into
the sixteenth century, rendering Bradley’s comment visibly awry.
Real English again retained considerable variation on these and related mat-
ters. Mary Ward’s vigilance on matters of concord can, for example, be relaxed in
informal constructions such as ‘three or four volumes of these books a week is
about all that I can do’ (from a letter of 1882 [emphasis added]). ‘Everybody are
enthusiastic’ wrote Millais in 1856, displaying a further level of variability which
accords well with, say, Queen Victoria’s habitual use of news as a plural (‘These
news are dreadful’, she wrote in a telegram to Gladstone after the siege of
Khartoum in 1885) or the nurse Elizabeth Wheeler’s use of health as a count
noun in December 1854 as she made her statement to the Parliamentary Com-
missioners concerning hospital conditions in the Crimea (‘I think that perhaps
50 men may have had their healths injured by the want of the restoratives I desired
to give them’). Other nouns such as scissors and drawers could conversely appear
in the singular. ‘Flan[ne]l drawers is not enough when you go out of yr
. warm
room’, Mary Anne Disraeli informed her husband in 1869.
The cumulative eVect of such patterns, perhaps relatively minor in isolation,
hence attests a range of diVerences between nineteenth-century English and our
own. Pleonastic be could still be found (‘Poor vulgar Mrs W—was beginning to
286 lynda mugglestone
bore me on my sister’s being going to be married’, as Anne Lister wrote on
1 February 1836); gerundial constructions such as ‘Nothing remains but to trust
the having children or not in His hands’, as Mary Lyttelton stated in her diary on
3 December 1855, continued to Xourish. ‘Today has seen one of our greatest family
events—the starting of Papa and Spencer to New Zealand’, states a diary entry by
her sister Lavinia on 2 December 1867; ‘The sitting tight for his arrival was terribly
sad and nervous work’, confessed Lucy Lyttelton Cavendish in a letter written on
28 April 1876 [emphases added]. Darwin too made use of similar forms (‘the
unWtting me to settle down as a clergyman’, he wrote in a letter on 30 August
1831). Preterites also display considerable variability. Alternatives such as ‘dug, or
digged’, ‘rang, or rung’, ‘sank, or sunk’, ‘sang, or sung’ and ‘spat, or spit’ are
countenanced in Lennie’s Grammar (1864), and duly reXected in usage; lighted
for lit was also common, as was waked for woke. Weak preterites meanwhile often
appeared in forms such as clapt, stopt, drest, whipt, and prest; ‘[I] slipt oV my heels
in the powdered snow by the garden door’, the politician William Gladstone
recorded in his diary in 1881. Past participles also failed to show the regularization
formally expected in the nineteenth century (even if such variation was formally
condemned in many grammars). ‘The health of Prince A[lbert] was drank’,
Katharine Clarendon noted in her diary in 1840. Swelled regularly appeared
alongside swollen, waked alongside woken.
Proclaimed standards of ‘good’ English, throughout the social spectrum, could
therefore reveal considerable latitude when placed in the context of ordinary
usage. Informal syntax, for example, regularly operated outside the strait-jacket of
prescriptive rules, as in the evocative description by the scientist Humphry Davy
of walking on Vesuvius as it erupted in 1819 (‘I should have completed [my
experiments] but for a severe indisposition owing to my having remained too
long in that magniWcent but dangerous situation the crater within 5 or six feet of a
stream of red hot matter Xuid as water of nearly three feet in diameter & falling as
a cataract of Wre’). While the political speeches recorded in Hansard were usually
corrected by their respective speakers before publication (‘I will not got down to
posterity talking bad grammar’, as Disraeli declared, duly correcting proofs in
1881), some qualities of oral syntax can illuminatingly be glimpsed in other public
documents, allowing us perhaps to get behind the ‘observer’s paradox’ of the
nineteenth century which conWnes us almost exclusively to the written language.
Early phonographic recordings—as of Tennyson and Gladstone—have a formal-
ity which is absent from, for example, the following extracts from two transcribed
statements given in March 1855 to the Select Committee of the House of Com-
mons Enquiry into War in the Crimea by (respectively) the Honourable Sidney
Godolphin Osborne, and Archibold McNicol, a Private in the 55th Regiment:
english in the nineteenth century 287
Nothing could be more dreadful than the dysentery and cholera wards . . . The thin
stuVed sacking that they laid upon Xoors, perfectly rotten and full of vermin; and as I have
kneeled by the side of the men, they crawled over my hand onto my book; in fact the
place was alive with them. I have asked the orderlies why were these Xoors not cleaned;
and the answer was, and Dr McGregor told me so, that the wood was so rotten, that if it
were properly washed it could not be got dry again.
It was very close—bad smell, very—the smell of wounds and Wlth . . . There was both salt
and fresh—that is, preserved meat. There was also sago. No porter or wine. Those who
acted as orderlies got grog, nobody else . . . I was only six days in hospital. I then became
an orderly, caught the fever and went into hospital . . . It was the 9th
of the month. I got
every thing comfortable.
pronounced distinctions
This is, of course, not to suggest that we do not know anything about the spoken
voices of the time. Even if the ephemerality of calls made on the recently-
introduced telephone ensured that no direct evidence of this kind remains,
indirect evidence, from a range of sources, is plentiful. Informal spelling patterns
in private texts can reveal otherwise hidden phonetic nuances, as in Anne Lister’s
rendering of dreamed as dreampt (with its intrusive [p]) in a diary entry from
January 1835. Similarly, the Northumbrian engineer George Stephenson’s letters
reveal not only his laboriously (and imperfectly) acquired literacy, but also
regionalities of accent in forms such as geather (‘gather’) and gretter (‘greater’);
spellings of sute (‘suit’)—presumably with [s] rather than the [sj] commended in
manuals of ‘correct’ articulation—and of shore (‘sure’), yore (‘your’) indicate
other pronunciations which gradually established themselves as co-existing vari-
ants in nineteenth-century speech. Other private documents provide further
illuminating evidence of spoken usage. As the Darwin correspondence indicates,
young William Darwin’s (b. 1839) habit of referring to himself as ‘Villie Darvin’
displayed his ready assimilation of the London accents of the servants. While this
caused no little amusement in the Darwin household, from a linguistic point of
view it gives incontrovertible evidence of the continued alternation of [v] and
[w] into the mid-nineteenth century (often regarded as an anachronism
deployed, as by Dickens, for comic eVect in literary approximations of low-
status speech).
Works which (on a variety of levels) explicitly focused on the spoken language
also provide considerable amounts of information. Alexander Ellis’s concern for
288 lynda mugglestone
phonetic exactitude makes, for example, a welcome contrast to the prescriptive
appeals which featured in many manuals of linguistic etiquette. While the latter
draw attention to a range of spoken shibboleths, the nature of prescriptive
rhetoric can, however, make it diYcult to discern the true linguistic situation.
If the presence of post-vocalic [r] in words such as car was, for instance,
frequently commended as essential in ‘standard’ speech, other comments make
it clear that, as in modern English, its loss instead characterized a range of
speakers, in upper- as well as under-class. Retained in Scotland, Ireland, and
the accents of the south-west of England, its vocalization was complete by the
early/mid-nineteenth century in London and the south-east. Images of literacy
(and literate speech) can nevertheless, as here, inXuence the variants which are
formally accepted. Visual proprieties undoubtedly underpinned not only the rise
of spelling pronunciations for words such as waistcoat (earlier [weskIt]), but also
the increasing insistence on [h] as a marker of educatedness, leading to its
presence in words such as hospital, herb, humble, and humour in which it had
hitherto been silent (older or more conservative speakers nevertheless retained
[ju:m@] for the latter, even in the late nineteenth century). In contrast, herb
remained [h]-less in American English. The number of books dedicated to the
pronunciation of [h] alone serves to indicate the salience which accent gradually
assumed during this period. Smith’s Mind Your H’s and Take Care of Your R’s was
published in 1866; Harry Hawkins’ H Book by Ellen Eccles appeared in 1879, The
Letter H. Past, Present, and Future by Alfred Leach followed in 1880, while over
43,000 copies of Poor Letter H. Its Use and Abuse were sold by the mid-1860s. As
the Oxford scholar Thomas Kington-Oliphant declared, as he sought to deWne
the standard English of the late nineteenth century, the pronunciation of [h] was
indeed ‘the fatal letter’. Even the moderate Ellis felt bound to confess that its
omission where it should be present was tantamount to social suicide.
Social feelings about accent ran high, reXected even in such consummate
works of reference as Chambers’s Encyclopaedia and the OED. The OED entry
for accent, written in fact by Ellis, reveals its changed signiWcance in the nine-
teenth century. ‘This utterance consists mainly in a prevailing quality
of tone, or in a peculiar alteration of pitch, but may include mispronunciation
of vowels or consonants, misplacing of stress, and misinXection of a sentence.
The locality of a speaker is generally clearly marked by this kind of accent’. While,
as here, accent had come to signify the localized above the non-localized
(often in ways, as in Ellis’s use of mispronunciation, which deliberately con-
note the non-standard), it was the accentless—that is a ‘colourless’ form
of speech devoid of localized markers—which was popularly used to deWne
‘educated’ and ‘standard’ speech. ‘It is the business of educated people to
english in the nineteenth century 289
speak so that no-one may be able to tell in what county their childhood was
passed’, as the elocutionist Alexander Burrell averred in 1891. It was this which
provided a core element of the ‘received pronunciation’ or RP which Ellis
formally speciWed in 1869 (‘In the present day we may . . . recognise a received
pronunciation all over the country, not widely diVering in any particular locality,
and admitting a certain degree of variety’).
The extent to which ‘standard speech’ was indeed used is, on the other hand,
debatable. While the rhetoric of standardization seized on accent as a further
strand by which the ‘best’ speakers might be deWned, the realities of usage were,
as always, far more complex. As Ellis repeatedly stressed, received pronunciation
had to be seen as highly variable. Age-grading led to the co-existence of older
and newer variants. Queen Victoria recalled hearing forms such as goold (for
gold) and ooman (for woman) from older speakers in the early nineteenth
century. Dickens likewise manipulated awareness of the down-shifting of
variants earlier praised for their reWnement. His representation of words such
as kiend and kiender (for kind and kind of ) for the Yarmouth Wsherman
Mr Peggotty in David CopperWeld (‘I’m kiender muddled’, ‘My niece was
kiender daughter-like’) hence represents the outmoded (and increasingly non-
standard) presence of a palatal glide /kj-/. Given as a marker of indisputable
vocal elegance by John Walker in his Rhetorical Grammar (1781; 3rd edn, 1801), it
was conWned to the ‘antiquated’ and ‘old-fashioned’ by Ellis in 1869. The
lengthened [A:] in words such as last, past, and path (a marker of non-localized
speech in modern English) also remained variable, both in realization and
framing language attitudes. While the shipping magnate Charles Booth was
condemned in the 1840s by his prospective in-laws for his ‘Xat northern a’,
realizations with the fully lengthened [A:] could conversely be proscribed for
their ‘Cockney’ associations. Compromise or ‘middle’ sounds, praised for their
‘delicacy’, were recommended for speakers worried about the precise nuances of
social identity which might otherwise be revealed. ‘Avoid a too broad or too
slender pronunciation of the vowel a in words such as glass . . . Some persons
vulgarly pronounce the a in such words, as if written ar, and others mince it so
as to rhyme with stand’, as Smith’s Mind Your H’s (1866) dictated. Pronunci-
ation of words such as oV as [O:f] shared the same evaluative patterns, being
linked with under- as much as upper-class for much of the century. A speciWc
set of non-localized pronunciation features (the presence of [h] in words such
as hand, [I˛] rather than [In] in words such as running, the vocalization of [r]
in words such as bird, and the use of /V/ (rather than /U/) in words such as
butter and cut)) repeatedly surfaced in deWnition of the ‘best’ speakers in the
second half of the nineteenth century.
290 lynda mugglestone
Pressures to acquire a non-regionally marked accent could be prominent,
especially in educational terms. The use of the regionally-marked [U] instead of
[V] in words such as cut was, for instance, explicitly condemned as a feature of
‘Defective Intelligence’ (alongside the omission of [h]) by the educational writer
John Gill. His popular Introductory Text-Book to School Management (1857) was a
set text in many of the training colleges for teachers which were established after
1850. Teachers were exhorted to eradicate their own regional accents as incom-
patible with the educational status they sought to attain. As The Teacher’s Manual
of the Science and Art of Teaching (1874) aYrmed, the good teacher had ‘to guard
himself’ against provincialisms since ‘if his intercourse with others accustom him
to erroneous modes of pronunciation and speech, he will be in danger of setting
these up as standards’. Inspectors of schools endorsed these objectives. ‘A master
. . . should read frequently with [the children] during a lesson, and take pains to
correct their incorrect pronunciation, e.g. the prevalent provincialisms of a
district’, stated H. W. Bellairs in his General Report for 1848–9; ‘Attempts are
made, with considerable success, to combat the peculiarities of the Lancashire
pronunciation’, T. Marshall commended in the same year. The favoured meta-
language of such reports (‘incorrectness’, ‘peculiarity’, ‘provinciality’) readily
participated in prescriptive notions of norm and deviation. Regional accents
were ‘depraved’, the language scholar Thomas Batchelor had aYrmed of Bed-
fordshire speech in 1809. Charlotte Brontë shed her Irish accent (acquired from
her father) while at Roe Head School in MirWeld (being awarded a silver badge
for ‘correctness of speech’ in recognition of her endeavours); George Eliot lost her
rustic Midlands accent while at the Miss Franklins’ school in Coventry. Michael
Faraday attended Benjamin Smart’s lectures on elocution in London in the early
nineteenth century as part of his own processes of linguistic self-education.
Nevertheless, as the phonetician Henry Sweet emphasized in 1881, the ‘correct
speaker’ remained elusive in the realities of everyday English. He compared his
own quest for this phenomenon to ‘going after the great sea-serpent’, concluding
that such a creature ‘is not only extraordinarily shy and diYcult of capture, but . . .
he may be put in the same category as the ‘‘rigid moralist’’ and ‘‘every schoolboy’’’.
In other words, ‘he is an abstraction, a Wgment of the brain’. Instead, as Ellis
observed, register, gender, age, and status all operated to inXuence the variants
which might be deployed in any one instance. The transcriptions of speech which
Ellis made while at the theatre or public lectures conWrmed him in this view. Many
prominent nineteenth-century speakers were self-evidently immune to popular
prescriptive exhortations to shed regionalized features of speech. Gladstone
retained his Liverpool articulations and Robert Peel’s Lancashire accent was
equally unmistakable. Thomas Hardy (his ownvoice marked by the ‘thick, western
english in the nineteenth century 291
utterance’, as the novelist George Gissing disparagingly observed) was gratiWed in
1884 to note the ‘broad Devon accent’ of his host Lord Portsmouth. As such
examples conWrm, regionality was not, in fact, incompatible with educatedness
or with status. Popular notions of an absolute norm once again foundered on the
complexities of co-variation, just as they did on the pluralism of actual language
practice. The spoken English of the nineteenth century remained mutable, attest-
ing the rise of new features such as the glottal stop and the rise of intrusive [r] (as in
constructions such as idea of /aidI@r @v/), or the presence of new homophones
such as pore and pour which, although castigated for their ‘slovenliness’, came to
constitute an undeniable part of the informal speech patterns of the day.
dialects and difference
Regionality, as we have seen, served as a popular nineteenth-century image
of the non-standard, able to localize speakers in ways which prescriptive
writers decried. ‘Proper’ pronunciation was ‘maltreated . . . by the natives of
Somersetshire, Devonshire, StaVordshire, Lancashire, and Yorkshire’, as P’s and
Q’s (1855) averred. Speakers within these areas would not necessarily have agreed.
William Barnes defended the expressive potential of dialect against what he
termed ‘book-speech’. To prove his point, he translated Queen Victoria’s speech,
made on opening Parliament in 1863, into Dorset (see Fig. 10.1). Barnes deter-
minedly rejected the connotations of inferiority which regional speech could
attract, noting, for example, the absence in the standard variety of pronominal
distinctions which were present in Dorsetshire: ‘Whereas Dorset men are laughed
at for what is taken as their misuse of pronouns, . . . the pronouns of true Dorset,
are Wtted to one of the Wnest outplannings of speech that I have found’. Through-
out the century there was a vigorous interest in dialect writing, particularly after
the foundation of the English Dialect Society (see Chapter 11), but also before.
Much of this, as James Milroy has stressed, sought to ‘historicize the rural dialects
of English—to give them histories side by side with the standard language and, in
some cases, to codify them’.6
Just as nineteenth-century scientists strove to
investigate variation within the history of forms, so did contemporary dialectol-
ogists locate the value of research into the geographical variabilities of English.
Indeed, as Holloway suggested in his Dictionary of Provincialisms (1839), in future
6
See J. Milroy, ‘The Legitimate Language. Giving a History to English’, in R. Watts and P. Trudgill
(eds), Alternative Histories of English (London: Routledge, 2002), 14.
292 lynda mugglestone
years ‘antiquaries may feel the same delight in poring over these remains of a by-
gone age, as Cuvier did in putting together the bones of the antediluvian animals
which he discovered’. Endeavours to record the regional were spurred by com-
mon fears that, like the dinosaur (a word coined by the scientist Richard Owen in
1841), its forms were in danger of extinction. ‘Railways, telegraph, and School
Boards—steam, electricity, and education—are surely killing dialects’, Nicholson
wrote in the Folk Speech of East Yorkshire (1889). He carefully noted the idiomatic
force of words such as Wre-fanged (used for a cake that has been left in the oven
Fig. 10.1. Queen Victoria’s Speech to the Houses on Opening Parliament in 1863,
translated into the Dorset dialect
Source: From W. Barnes, A Grammar and Glossary of the Dorset Dialect with the
History, Outspreading, and Bearings of South-Western English (London: Trübner & Co,
1864), 10.
english in the nineteenth century 293
for too long) and dowly (‘a lowly, gruesome spot is a dowly spot’). Empirical
investigation was presented as important; the Committee on Devonshire
Verbal Provincialisms, chaired by Fred Elworthy (a subeditor and frequent
contributor to the OED), closely paralleled the OED in its emphasis on the dating
and use of each form (‘state, if possible, the sex, occupation, birth-place,
residence, and age of the person using each recorded provincialism . . . give
the meaning of each recorded provincialism, . . . illustrate that meaning by
embodying the word or phrase in a sentence, if possible the very sentence in
which it was used’). Resulting evidence presented a clear documentary record, as
in the following entries:
Fleeches ¼ large Xakes (rhymes with ‘breeches’). A servant girl, native of Pawle, South
Devon, residing at Torquay, and about twenty-three years of age, stated in March, 1877,
that the snow was ‘falling in Xeeches,’ meaning in large Xakes. She added that the small
Xakes were not Xeeches. 19 March, 1877.
Bedlayer ¼ one who is bedridden of conWned to bed. Mrs. W—, aged 65, labourer’s
wife, of Woodford Ham, often used the word ‘bedlayer’. April, 1885.
Urban dialects also attracted interest, as in Bywater’s The SheYeld Dialect, in
Conversations (1834) or Tum o’ Dick o’ Bobs’s Lankisher Dickshonary by Joseph
Baron (n.d.), with its opening poem in celebration of the regional forms of
Lancashire (see Fig. 10.2). A common pattern was nevertheless to see these as
the negative counterpart of ‘purer’, rural varieties. Robinson’s Dialect of Leeds
(1862) hence contrasts the ‘bright ‘side of dialects—‘teeming with ancient word
relics . . . replete with the sturdiness, forcefulness, and wisdom of times when
words were fewer, and had more of a meaning than they have now’—with their
‘dark side’, evident in ‘towns and cities’. The latter was merely ‘barbarous
English’ and ‘the result of vicious habits’. As here, the fertility of nineteenth-
century urban dialects, especially as a result of the immigration of workers
from other areas, was regarded as corruption, lacking the legitimacy of the
past. Migrants from Cornwall, Ireland, East Anglia, the Yorkshire Dales, and
Scotland gravitated to towns such as Nelson and BriarWeld, near Burnley; as Jill
Liddington has noted, ‘Cornish accents were soon mingling with East Anglian
ones, Rossendale folk settling down next door to Scots or Irish families’.7
So
many Cornish families moved north that part of Lancashire was colloquially
7
See J. Liddington, The Life and Times of a Respectable Rebel: Selina Cooper, (1864–1946) (London:
Virago, 1984), 11.
294 lynda mugglestone
designated ‘Little Cornwall’. Around 50,000 Irish were in Liverpool in 1841;
over 68,000 in Glasgow by 1871.
While this relationship between ‘national’ and ‘local’ foregrounds one image
of division in nineteenth-century English, further images are located in the
marginalized voices of the working classes. Often used in contemporary writ-
ings as a stereotype of linguistic infelicity, especially where urban speech forms
were concerned, such voices are often forgotten in histories of the language,
many of which present a seamless equation of ‘educatedness’ and ‘Englishness’.
It was, however, the working classes (rather than the middle or upper sections
of society) who, at least in numerical terms, dominated Victorian Britain. The
English of the working classes hence remains an important resource for
establishing the real range and diversity of language practices at this time.
Fig. 10.2. ‘Th’ Dickshonary’, by Teddy Ashton
Source: From J. Baron, Tum o’ Dick o’ Bobs’s Lankisher Dickshonary (Manchester: John
Heywood, n.d.).
english in the nineteenth century 295
Working-class diaries, journals, and letters exist in abundance. The Lancashire
weaver John O’Neil (b. 1810 in Carlisle) hence combines regional grammar with
an astute understanding of the wider political situation which underpinned the
cotton crisis of the early 1860s (‘All the mills in Clitheroe commenced work this
morning. At Low Moor there is a great many oV. There is above a hundred looms
standing . . . Civil War has broke out in the United States . . . another battle was
fought in Missouri when the rebels was routed with the loss of 1500 men’);
variabilities of grammar and spelling feature liberally in the journal of William
Tayler, a footman born in Grafton in Oxfordshire in 1807. As in his expanded
tenses and use of do, Tayler’s words often usefully illustrate developments which
are proscribed within the standard variety:
I did intend to have gon out but here are two more people has just called on me . . . Had
one gentleman and a lady to dinner and two old maids viseting in the kitchen—they has
been servants but being unsucessfull in getting places they took a bublic house They say,
when in service, they always heared servants very much run down and dispised but since
they have been keeping a bublic house they have had an opertunity of seeing the goings
on amongst the tradespeople [.] they consider them a most drunken disepated swareing
set of people. Servants, they say, are very much more respectable.
Working-class diaries of this kind moreover exhibit an idiomatic quality of
syntax which can be lost in printed texts. ‘I think I was about seventeen, about
1803, when on a Sabbath day, walking out with a young man to whom I was
much attached, a person put a track [i.e. tract] in my hand, which I took care
oV and read afterward,—but I don’t recollect the exact eVect [.] but this was
partly owing to my friends dog running down a fowl, which my companion
put in his pocket and took and eat at a house which he and I used to go to—
but after this I never went more, no, not to partake of it’, as the dissenter
Thomas Swan recorded in the Wrst entry in his journal in 1841. Individual
examples can of course be multiplied, whether in the extensive memoirs of
James Hutchinson (a Victorian cabinet-maker), or the recollections of the
mining butty, Emanuel Lovekin (born in 1820 in StaVordshire), who presents
a narrative characterized by its compelling orality of syntax and style (‘[Edna]
as ad two children, But as buried one Emanuel, is liveing at Wigan he as one
child a Boy . . . But every year make a change, and especially in some families.
But I hope they will all do well and live happy together and honner God’). As
a collective voice, records of this kind serve to challenge the patronizing
stereotypes which could surround the lower classes of the nineteenth century
when seen from the standpoint of those higher in the social order. The
inarticulacy of Dickens’s Wctional weaver Stephen Blackpool in Hard Times
296 lynda mugglestone
(1854), with his iterated lament of ‘It’s aw a muddle’, in this respect bears little
relationship to the clarity of comprehension and expression eVected by writers
such as O’Neil through (and not in spite of) their command of regional
grammar.
world of words
‘Verily a wonderful world, when we survey it . . . is the World of Words, but
how impossible its exact census, how laborious the work of its exploration’,
wrote James Murray as he contemplated the editing of the New English
Dictionary (later to be known as the OED). Nineteenth-century lexis was
wide-ranging, and the account given in this chapter is necessarily selective.
Even the OED would be incomplete, in spite of its intended status as an
‘inventory’ of English. ‘The word was spoken before it was written’, Murray
stressed; some words might be used for some twenty or thirty years before a
record of their use was found. Others would never emerge into what he termed
‘the dignity of print’. It remains easy to Wnd examples to prove his point.
Smatter (‘To dabble in (a subject)’), was used (according to the OED) from
1883 yet it can be antedated by half a century in Darwin’s private usage. ‘I . . .
smattered in biology’, he wrote in 1838. Still more striking is the gap between
the OED’s entry for dolting (< dolt, ‘To act like a dolt, to play the fool’) and the
evidence available in George Eliot’s private correspondence. Two sixteenth-
century citations provide the substance of the OED entry—yet dolting was
clearly still in use. ‘The eVect is dolting and feeble’, Eliot wrote on 4 December
1877. The inventory of the OED inevitably remains open to revision and
reassessment. Nevertheless, in its commitment to empirical investigation, its
painstaking documentation of the history and use of words, and its scholarly
regard for sources, it represents a supreme linguistic achievement. Six million
citations (many collected through the endeavours of volunteers) provided the
underlying corpus of evidence; over two million entries (and 178 miles of type)
would make up the text of the Wrst edition, publication of which spanned
1884–1928.
The existence of the OED therefore provides an unparalleled resource for
nineteenth-century English (as well as that of earlier periods). The lexical range
of English at this time was striking. New words from India, Africa, and the
Caribbean conWrmed the colonial present (as did associated connotative mean-
ings); here might be listed such importations as amah (‘A name given in the
english in the nineteenth century 297
south of India, and elsewhere in the East, to a wet-nurse’), dhobi (‘A native
washerman in India’), purdah, or laager (S. African Du. lager) meaning ‘a
camp, encampment’ which made its appearance in 1850. Africaans kop (‘a hill’)
took on currency from the 1830s; biltong (‘strips of lean meat . . . dried in the
sun’) was recorded from 1815. Hundreds of West Indian genus types are likewise
given in the OED, along with terms such as jumby, deWned as a ‘ghost or evil spirit
among American and West Indian Blacks’, a word Wrst attested—at least in the
written sources used by the dictionary—in Charles Kingsley’s At Last (1871):
(‘Out of the mud comes up—not jumbies, but—a multitude of small stones’).
American readers, as Murray noted, were among the most enthusiastic in sending
in evidence of the new uses they had found, providing a rich resource for English
in a variety of geographical settings. The writer and diplomat George Perkins
Marsh co-ordinated the American contributions for the early part of the dic-
tionary, often comparing British English and American English in his own work.
While he noted that the latter does not ‘discriminate so precisely in the meanings
of words nor . . . employ so classic a diction’, a growing sense of linguistic
nationalism is nevertheless evident, building on images of a triumphantly Ameri-
can English such as those earlier set forth by the American lexicographer Noah
Webster, as in his two-volume American Dictionary of the English Language of
1828. As Marsh aYrmed, ‘In the tenses of the verbs, I am inclined to think that
well-educated Americans conform more closely to grammatical propriety than
the corresponding class in England’; likewise ‘gross departures from idiomatic
propriety, such as diVerent to, for diVerent from are common in England, which
none but very ignorant persons would be guilty of in America’.
As in previous eras, nineteenth-century language imaged forth the history of
conXict. Nelson coined the Nelson touch (‘a stroke, action, or manner character-
istic of Nelson’) in 1805; Napoleon became a term of marked productivity, gaining
at least six transferred senses. Words such as balaclava and cardigan later pro-
vided an enduring lexical record of the Crimea. A ‘woollen covering for the head
and neck worn esp. by soldiers on active service; named after the Crimean village
of Balaclava near Sebastopol’, as the OED states. Cardigan was ‘named from the
Earl of Cardigan, distinguished in the Crimean war’. Raglan was similar; taken
from the name of Lord Raglan, the British commander in the Crimean War, it
denoted ‘an overcoat without shoulder seams’, and with distinctive sleeves.
Jingoism (and a range of derivative words) attests other aspects of war. ‘We
don’t want to Wght, yet by Jingo! if we do, We’ve got the ships, we’ve got the
men, and got the money too’, as the popular music hall song by G. W. Hunt
aYrmed in 1878 in a form of words which became the rallying cry of those who
wanted to enter into conXict with Russia.
298 lynda mugglestone
A productive mingling of Englishes from a range of sources is attested in words
such as Australian leather-jacket (‘a kind of pancake’) and barney (Wrst attested in
the New Zealand Evening Post in 1880 with the sense ‘to argue’), or shout (‘To
stand drinks, to treat a crowd of persons to refreshments’), a common colloqui-
alism in mid-nineteenth century Australia and New Zealand. Canadian terms for
the ‘The master of a fur-trading post’ (postmaster) and ‘The Wlling of cracks in the
walls of a house or log-cabin with mud’ (mudding) likewise make their appear-
ance at this time. French meanwhile continued to conWrm its dominance in
fashionable discourse. The politician Robert Peel (in spite of his StaVordshire
accent) spoke ‘with a foreign tournure de phrases which I delight in’, as Lady
Sheely noted in her diary in January 1819. That she was not alone in these
preferences is amply attested by the linguistic practices of countless nineteenth-
century writers. Mary Ponsonby, lady-in-waiting to the Queen, commends
Osborne on the Isle of Wight for ‘a certain kind of luxe which exists nowhere
else’; she describes Victoria herself as ‘dorletède’ (‘spoiled’). Betise (favoured by
Disraeli) and dérangé (used by Victoria) provide other examples of this trend, as
does Lord Alexander Lennox’s use of engouement (‘unreasoning fondness’) in a
letter to Disraeli in January 1853. The latter was much in vogue, as in Thackeray’s
Vanity Fair (1848): ‘She repaid Miss Crawley’s engoument by artless sweetness and
friendship’. Condemned as a species of linguistic aVectation by Kington-Oli-
phant, such forms were essentially ‘aliens’, as the OED conWrmed. ‘Not in
habitual use’, they lacked full assimilation into the language. Other loans mean-
while could assume the more permanent occupation denoted by the OED’s
category of ‘denizens’—those ‘fully naturalized as to use, but not as to form,
inXexion, or pronunciation’ (although even these might, with continued use, pass
into the category of ‘naturals’). Here might be included words such as debacle,
originally borrowed from French in the specialized sense, ‘A breaking up of ice in
a river; in Geol. a sudden deluge or violent rush of water, which breaks down
opposing barriers, and carries before it blocks of stone and other debris’. ‘They
could have been transported by no other force than that of a tremendous deluge
or debacle of water’, William Buckland, the Oxford Professor of Minerology,
wrote in 1823. Later transferred uses demonstrate continuing processes of assimi-
lation (‘In the nightly débâcle [he] is often content to stand aside’, as an article in
the Graphic stated in 1887).
New forms from closer to home demonstrate the unremitting fertility of lexis.
Words such as Banting (and its associated verb to bant) and blueism provide
evidence of changing preoccupations and social roles. The former, as the OED
records, was the ‘name of a London cabinet-maker, whose method of reducing
corpulence by avoiding fat, starch, and sugar in food, was published and much
english in the nineteenth century 299
discussed in the year 1864’. The latter designated ‘the characteristics of a ‘‘blue’’ or
‘‘blue-stocking’’; feminine learning or pedantry’ and was in use from 1822. Lexical
items such as telegram and photo, entomologize and phonograph conWrm other
advances. Even if not all of these met with approval, their presence was indis-
putable, duly being recorded by the OED. ScientiWc terms represented an area of
conspicuous growth with -ology emerging as particularly popular suYx. Biology
(1819), embryology (dated to 1859 in the OED in Darwin’s Origin of Species,
although in fact used by him—and others—some time earlier), vulcanology
(‘The science or scientiWc study of volcanoes’), and petrology (among scores of
others) all owe their beginnings to this time. Similar was -itis, as in appendicitis, a
word Wrst used in 1886 (and hence omitted from the OED’s second fascicle Ant-
Batten which had been published one year previously). Bronchitis (1814), con-
junctivitis (1835), dermatitis (1876), and gastritis (1806) attest further examples
(tartanitis—not in the OED—was used to describe Victoria’s Scottish enthusi-
asms after her acquisition of Balmoral in 1847). These too could meet popular
resistance. ‘Surely you will not attempt to enter all the crack-jaw medical and
surgical terms’, the surgeon James Dixon (a frequent contributor to the OED)
wrote to Murray, vainly urging their exclusion from the dictionary.
Charles Dodgson’s inventions of chortle (from chuckle and snort) and slithy
(from slimy and lithe) meanwhile presented examples of what he christened
‘portmanteau words’ (since they contained two meanings within the same unit
which, just like a nineteenth-century portmanteau case, could be opened up to
reveal two parts). Elsewhere, however, word-formation processes could evolve
into highly partisan aVairs. Samuel Taylor Coleridge condemned talented as a
‘vile and barbarous vocable’, decreeing that ‘the formulation of a participle
passive from a noun is a licence that nothing but a very peculiar felicity can
excuse’. In common with a number of other writers, he blamed America as a
source of linguistic decline (‘Most of these pieces of slang come from America’).
The OED meanwhile presented the rise of talented with impeccable objectivity,
providing corroboratory evidence from a range of writers including Southey,
Herschel, and Pusey. The OED’s entry for enthuse (‘An ignorant back-formation
from enthusiasm’) could, on the other hand, reveal a problematic slippage into
subjectivity. Back-formations were by no means indicative of ignorance, as can be
conWrmed by other nineteenth-century coinages such as adsorb, demarcate, and
extradite.
Resistance to on-going semantic shifts—occasionally glimpsed even in the
OED, as in the entries in the Wrst edition of the dictionary for enormity, avocation,
and transpire—was conspicuous in popular language comment. Prestige was a
particular target, and the neglect of its etymological meaning (‘An illusion; a
300 lynda mugglestone
conjuring trick; a deception, an imposture’) in favour of transferred senses by
which it came to mean ‘Blinding or dazzling inXuence; ‘magic’, glamour; inXuence
or reputation’ was often decried. Similar was the continuing demise of decimate in
its etymological sense of ‘to reduce by a tenth’. Instances in which it signiWed ‘to
destroy’, as in a letter from ‘A Perthshire Farmer’ which appeared in the Scotsman
in 1859 (‘Next morning a severe frost set in which lasted ten days, and my Weld of
turnips was absolutely decimated; scarce a root was left untouched’) were singled
out for public condemnation, as in Hodgson’s Errors of English (1881). Countless
new senses nevertheless managed to appear in nineteenth-century English with-
out prompting prescriptive censure, as in the changed values which adaptation,
variation, and evolution all came to have in a post-Darwinian era.
While other notions of propriety led to the exclusion of words such as condom
and cunt (as well as some slang terms such as bounder) from the Wrst edition of
the OED, the dictionary nevertheless gives a compelling picture of the idiomatic
vigour of nineteenth-century English. Outside strait-laced stereotypes by which
forms such as trousers might be referred to as unmentionables (a euphemistic
practice deftly satirized by Dickens in his Sketches by Boz) and in which designa-
tions such as breeches were likewise to be avoided, constructions such as a fat lot
and a Wt of the clevers, a put-up job, and to get it in the neck, proliferated. In the
nineteenth century, one could be as boiled as an owl (i.e. drunk) or a shingle short
(an Australian colloquialism which co-existed alongside ‘a tile loose’); here too
can be found Wgurative phrases such as a bad taste in the mouth and a bolt out of
the blue, the latter used by Carlyle in 1837, or—in another new type of word
creation—the initialisms of P.D.Q. (recorded in the OED, originally in America,
from 1878) and O.K., another form of American origin which spread rapidly on
both sides of the Atlantic. Such forms take us far closer to the colloquial texture
of nineteenth-century usage, confronting us once again with a dynamism which
is impossible to ignore.
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
Transitions
The opening quotation is taken from Lytton (1833: I, 163). Excellent introductions to
nineteenth-century history can be found in Black and Macraild (2003) and Newsome
(1997); see also Matthew (2000a). As in other chapters, biographies and collections of
personal correspondence (as well as private diaries) have been used to give insights
not only into the socio-historical context, but also into features of language in use in
english in the nineteenth century 301
domains outside those of public printed texts. See especially Smith (1995–2000) for
the letters of Charlotte Brontë; see Burkhardt (1996), Burkhardt and Smith (1985–),
and also Browne (2003) for Charles Darwin; see House and Storey (1965) for Dickens,
see Mitchell (2003) for Disraeli; Haight (1954–78) for George Eliot’s letters; see James
(1993) for Faraday’s letters; for Anne Lister, see Liddington (1998); for the engineer
George Stephenson, see Skeat (1973). The diaries of Katherine Clarendon and
Harriet Acworth can be found in the Bodleian Library, Oxford. For other accounts
of nineteenth-century English, see especially Bailey (1996) and Görlach (1999) and the
relevant volume of The Cambridge History of the English Language, ed. Romaine
(1998). Phillipps (1994) oVers a nuanced discussion of the social sensibilities
which often surrounded nineteenth-century usage (especially in terms of lexis and
semantics).
The history of the OED—and its original foundation as the New English
Dictionary—is discussed in Mugglestone (2002b) and also, in more detail, in
Mugglestone (2004); see also the biography of James Murray by his granddaughter
(Murray 1977). The data and citations of the OED—as for earlier chapters in this
volume—provide a valuable linguistic resource for documenting language—and lan-
guage change—at this time. The opening page of Mann (1862) is the source of the
quotation on p. 275.
For transformations of print culture and literacy, see James (1976), Klancher (1987),
and Altick (1998). Education and language is discussed in Mugglestone (2003a). Details
of the impact of the telegraph and telephone can be found in Matthew (2000b). For
nineteenth-century shifts in the use of class, see Mugglestone (2003a), especially chapter
2, and also CorWeld (1987), Joyce (1991); for changes in pronunciation (and its sign-
iWcance) over this time, see McMahon (1998) and Mugglestone (2003a). Hon. Henry H.
is discussed in the latter (see especially pp. 108–11). Lambert (1964) provides a useful
biography of the rise and fall of George Hudson. For nineteenth-century philology, see
AarsleV (1983). Ellis’s comments on variability can be found in Ellis (1869–89: vol. IV,
1089). For the other languages of nineteenth-century Britain, see Pittock (1999) and also
Black and Macraild (2003).
Myths of stasis
Chapter 1 of Bailey (1996) discusses of the traditional neglect of nineteenth-century
English. Lennie (1864: 15) is the source of the quotation on p. 278–9 which conWrms
changing criteria of acceptability for spelling. Ellis (1869: 591) analyses the public/
private discrepancy in spelling practices; for the responsibilities of the nineteenth-
century printer, see Stower (1808). The editorial comments on the perceived deWcien-
cies of nineteenth-century writers in their use of language can be found respectively in
Slater (2003: xxxvi–ii), House and Storey (1965: xxvi), Taylor (1994: 40), and Hutch-
inson (1904: iv).
302 lynda mugglestone
For nineteenth-century grammar (and grammars) see Michael (1987); those dis-
cussed in the chapter, for example Harrison (1848) and Duncan (1890), represent a
small fraction of those published, although their concerns can often be seen as
representative. See Dekeyser (1996) for a good account of nineteenth-century prescrip-
tivism; Hodgson (1881) provides an extensive list of perceived errors in usage, as does
Ladell (1897); Duncan’s criticisms of English in use can be found in Duncan (1890: 47–
8). Pearson’s criticisms of regional grammar are taken from Pearson (1865: 32). Hall
(1873) is a good example of a writer who forcefully resisted the rise of the progressive
passive; for a similar position, see Live and Learn (1872: 52). The citations from the
Darwin correspondence on p. 282 are taken (respectively) from Burkhardt and Smith
(1985–, I: 109); and Browne (2003, I: 155). See Denison (1998) for a good analysis of the
range of constructions covered here. The subjunctive is discussed by S. L. I, Fashion in
Language (1906: 28); Harrison (1848: 279) gives an earlier analysis. Evidence of Millais’s
variability is taken from Fleming (1998: 196). The nineteenth-century fondness for
exercises in ‘false syntax’ is discussed by Görlach (2003).
Live and Learn (1872: 62) supplies a range of good examples of resistance to change in
progress; the examples of variability given on p. 284 are taken from Burkhardt’s (1996)
edition of Darwin’s letters and, for the Davy/ Faraday/ Phillips correspondence, from
James (1993, I: 178, I: 219), although other examples could easily be found. For Shelley, see
Seymour (2000: 446). Bradley (1904: 71) is the source of the criticism of on-going change
(and Americanisms) given on p. 284. For the treatment of case in nineteenth-century
English, see Dekeyser (1975). For Ward’s usage, see Sutherland (1990: 172), and for the
Martineau/ Lytton correspondence discussed on p., see Mitchell (2003: 116). For pro-
nouns in Barnes, see Barnes (1864: 20), and Austin and Jones (2002, chapter 4).
For prescriptivism and the Wrst edition of the OED, see Mugglestone (2002c). For
nineteenth-century concerns with concord and number, see Dekeyser (1975). The tran-
script of Elizabeth Wheeler’s speech, given on 22 December 1854, can be found in Florence
Nightingale and the Crimea (2000: 130). For Mary Anne Disraeli’s letter, see the (unpub-
lished) Hughendon Papers (HP/A/I/A/509). For the usage of the Lyttelton sisters, see
Fletcher (1997).
For nineteenth-century syntax, see Denison (1998) and Görlach (1999); Davy’s letter to
Faraday is taken from James (1993, I: 187). For Disraeli’s correction of his speeches, see
Bradford (1982: 388). For the transcripts given on p. 288, see Florence Nightingale and the
Crimea (2000, 148 and 69–70).
Pronounced distinctions
Evidence of William Darwin’s pronunciation can be found in Healey (2001: 176). For
Ellis’s concern to describe rather than prescribe usage, see further Mugglestone
(1996). For nineteenth-century prescriptivism in this context, see Mugglestone (2003a);
/r/ and /h/ are discussed on pp. 86–128. Elocution was a popular pastime and Burrell’s
concerns on p. 290 (1891: 24) can be taken as typical of late nineteenth-century attitudes
english in the nineteenth century 303
in this context; see also Benzie (1972). Ellis’s formative discussion of RP can be found in
Ellis (1869: 23) (although see further Mugglestone (1997)). Variability in nineteenth-
century speech is well-attested in a range of sources; see especially MacMahon (1998).
For Victoria’s comments on language, see Hibbert (2000: 358); for Booth’s use of the ‘Xat’ a,
see Mugglestone (2003a: 65–6). Smith (1866) can be used to exemplify prescriptive
concerns on ‘good’ pronunciation in this category of words, see further Mugglestone
(2003a: 77–85) and Lass (2000). Chapter 6 of the former examines educational concerns
with the acquisition of a ‘good’ accent; the quotations from inspectors’ reports and
educational textbooks are taken from p. 213; for Brontë’s move away from her original
regional accent, see Gordon (1994: 40); for Eliot, see Karl (1995: 25). For Faraday’s
endeavours to improve his English, see Pearce Williams (1965: 20 V). Henry Sweet’s
sceptical discussion of the ‘correct speaker’ can be found in Sweet (1881: 5–6). Ellis’s
transcriptions of ‘real speech’ are given in Ellis (1869–89: 1210–14).
Dialects and diVerence
Wales (2002) oVers a welcome shift from the traditional concentration on the standard
variety alone; see also Milroy (2002). P’s and Q’s (1855: 25) exempliWes prescriptive and
negative attitudesto regionality; for averydiVerent view, see Barnes (1864), and also Austin
and Jones (2002). Holloway’s analogies between dialects and palaeontological research can
be found in Holloway (1839: v). Fears for the future of rural dialects are discussed in
Nicholson (1889: vi). The reports of the Committee on Devonshire Verbal Provincialisms
werepresented in 1885 and 1910.Robinson’s characterization of urban dialects can be found
in Robinson (1862: xx).
A collection of working-class autobiographies (including those by John O’Neil, Wil-
liam Tayler, and Emanuel Lovekin) can be found in Burnett (1994); Burnett (1982) is also
a useful resource, as is Burnett et al. (1984). For the diary of Thomas Swan, see Swan
(1970). For Hopkinson’s journal, see Goodman (1968).
World of words
The main resource for nineteenth-century lexis and semantics remains the OED, though
Bailey (1996), Görlach (1999), and Hughes (2000) all provide useful accounts of lexical
change and innovation over this time. Murray’s comments on the world of words are taken
from his (unpublished) lectures in the Murray papers in the Bodleian Library; for the OED
and opposition to words of science, see Mugglestone (2004, chapter4). For prescriptivism
andtheOED,seeMugglestone(2002c),chapter5ofMugglestone(2004),andWard-Gilman
(1990).Marsh(1860)providesarangeofusefulperspectivesonEnglishandAmericanusage
in the nineteenth century. For criticisms on innovation in nineteenth-century lexis,
see especially Hodgson (1881). On the lexis of taboo and the OED, see Mugglestone (2002:
10–11), and also Mugglestone (2004), (2006, forthcoming), as well as BurchWeld (1973).
304 lynda mugglestone
11
MODERN REGIONAL
ENGLISH IN THE BRITISH
ISLES
Clive Upton
the beginnings of dialectology
There can be no doubt that pure dialect speech is rapidly disappearing
even in country districts, owing to the spread of education, and to
modern facilities for intercommunication. The writing of this gram-
mar was begun none too soon, for had it been delayed another twenty
years I believe it would by then be quite impossible to get together
suYcient pure dialect material to enable any one to give even a mere
outline of the phonology of our dialects as they existed at the close of
the nineteenth century.
WITH these words, written in 1905, Joseph Wright, the most famous
English dialectologist of the nineteenth century, sought to draw a line
under the formal study of vernacular speech that had occupied many academic
linguists such as himself, and many other expert amateur enthusiasts such as ‘the
Dorset poet’ William Barnes, for more than half a century. The movement of
which Wright was a part, and of which his English Dialect Dictionary and English
Dialect Grammar of 1898–1905 were a high point, had been driven by a realization
that the regional speech of the then largely immobile (and little-educated)
majority preserved forms of language with real pedigree, the study of which
put linguists in touch with those older forms of language that were the real object
of their attention as philologists.
In 1876 the famous German dialectologist Georg Wenker had begun to use the
German dialects as a test-bed for the theory that sound changes, an object of
especial interest for philologists, occurred regularly across all the words with that
sound, and across all communities which used those words (the so-called
‘Neogrammarian Hypothesis’). Meanwhile, his contemporary in Britain, the
gentleman-scholar Alexander Ellis, mentioned in the previous chapter, was
himself embarking on a country-wide survey of existing dialects which would
inform his On Early English Pronunciation. Ellis had made his Wrst attempt at
writing dialectal pronunciation in 1848, and published his intention systematic-
ally to enquire into the subject in 1871, thereby putting him in the forefront
internationally of those using non-standard speech to inform scholarly language
study. The Wfth (and Wnal) volume of his great work on early pronunciation,
which is wholly devoted to this issue, is a monument to this pioneer of data
collection and presentation (including the devising of ‘Palaeotype’, an early form
of phonetic notation), and of its interpretation.
Ellis’s work, of course, concentrated on pronunciation, the ‘accent’ compon-
ent of dialect and, in mobilizing a small army of enthusiasts to provide
information from around the country, he showed that others shared his interest
and, in varying measures, were able to understand and use his notation system.
In the contemporary drive to create a New English Dictionary (later known as
the OED;), we can see a parallel passion of the age for the study of words, again
with a focus on the diachronic, the career of the language in an historical
dimension. Although the new great dictionary was to contain some current
non-standard vocabulary such as bike (‘A nest of wasps, hornets, or wild bees’),
labelled ‘north. dial.’, and rock (‘U.S. slang’ for ‘To throw stones at’), an early
decision was taken that, in concert with the OED, an English Dialect Dictionary
should be compiled, and in 1873 an English Dialect Society (the EDS) was
created to undertake the task of gathering and ordering the material for this
separate work. Under the leadership, amongst others, of W. W. Skeat, Professor
of Anglo-Saxon at Cambridge University and a prominent nineteenth-century
philologist, and with such people as Ellis and Barnes within its ranks, the
Society created an impressively wide-ranging set of glossaries and other publi-
cations which, whilst contributing in large measure to the Wnal Dictionary, are in
themselves a continuing source of knowledge for the linguist concerned with
variation.
We might proWtably consider here an item of information that has only very
recently come to light in a rather neglected EDS glossary, but that is particularly
relevant to a very modern dialectological concern. The pronunciation of think as
Wnk and brother as bruvver, that is of [u] and [ð] as [f] and [v], is termed by
306 clive upton
linguists TH-Fronting (because the substitute pronunciations are produced with
the tongue advanced in the mouth). A common supposition is that this is a
feature which has been moving northwards from the south, and more
precisely from the south-east, of England, beginning only in the very late
nineteenth century. However, C. Clough Robinson’s glossary and grammar for
mid-Yorkshire, published by the EDS in 1876, has, in its description of dialect
sounds, the following for F:
There is a strong disposition to sound this consonant in the place of initial th, initially, in
certain words, as in thratch (to quarrel sharply), through, thrust [fruost], thimble
[Wmu’l], throstle, throng, and in thought, as habitually pronounced by individuals
[faowt]. (Note the early phonetic notation here, following Ellis.)
It is apparent from this that, far from being unknown in the area, TH-Fronting
was suYciently established as a feature of Yorkshire speech in the nineteenth
century to attract linguistic comment: one suspects that closer systematic study
of the EDS publications would shed further light on such current linguistic
controversies.
Symptomatic of the mind-set that gave rise to the quotation heading this
chapter is the fact that, having handed its materials to Joseph Wright in his role as
editor of the English Dialect Dictionary, the EDS disbanded in 1896. The Society
thought its job was done. Its members had gathered together the written
record on vernacular speech from the previous 200 years, and had compiled
glossaries and commentaries on current dialect words. It was felt that vocabu-
laries of local vernaculars which had been little touched by other varieties—or
indeed by the standard variety itself (as a result of geographical mobility and
universal education)—had been collected, and not a moment too soon. Accord-
ing to this thinking, no one at a later date could have access to real ‘dialectal’
speech.
There is an element of truth in this. The nineteenth-century scholarly impetus
for dialect study was, as we have noted, historical: if one’s focus is on the language
of earlier times, the purer and the less cluttered with external inXuences the
present-day object of study is, the better. Seen from a twenty-Wrst-century
perspective, however, as we remain aware of considerable regional diVerences
in speech and when, as we shall see, impulses other than the philological are
driving the desire to study speech varieties, the late nineteenth-century view of
the future of the discipline appears remarkably pessimistic. And even from an
historical linguist’s standpoint, in fact, an announcement of the death of dialect-
ology proved premature, as much of the best work in this area remained to be
done.
modern regional english in the british isles 307
the modern dialect surveys
Much scholarly dialectology in the Wrst half of the twentieth century in fact
continued the focus on the historical dimension of non-standard speech, and was
the province of medievalists who knew that they would understand more about
the English of the Middle Ages by looking at modern conservative dialects. While
Wright turned his attention from dialect study to other aspects of historical
linguistics after 1905, other linguists maintained or developed an interest in
dialect. Two such were the Swiss Eugen Dieth and the Englishman Harold
Orton, whose respective studies of Buchan in Fife, Scotland, and of Byers
Green in County Durham, England, continued in the philological tradition. It
was these two linguists who, spurred on in no small measure by the innovative
large-scale linguistic surveys initiated by members of the American Dialect
Society in the 1930s, founded the Survey of English Dialects (SED) at Leeds in
1948. This, and the Linguistic Survey of Scotland (LSS) which began in Edin-
burgh one year later, provide our Wrst data which can realistically be thought of as
wholly relevant to the modern period. Their emphasis, and that of the later SED-
inspired Survey of Anglo-Welsh Dialects (SAWD) and Tape-Recorded Survey of
Hiberno-English Speech, is in essence rural, being deliberately intended to tap
into that reservoir of non-mobile speakers who were likely to preserve regional
speech-forms in an historical continuum. Nevertheless, their data are collected
according to modern principles as regards speaker documentation and compar-
ability of questioning, and are presented to the standards expected of modern
linguistic studies. It is from these large-scale surveys, and from very many more
localized studies too, that our knowledge of the speech varieties of the present
and the recent past stems. And one of the most singular points that the collected
evidence makes is the ancient pedigree of much of that which modern speakers
have often been trained to be apologetic about or even ashamed of.
SED especially is drawn upon heavily by commentators on regional diVerence
in speech, since no other detailed geographical survey of speech-variation in
England has yet been undertaken, and it is the speech of England in particular
that excites most comment and criticism. The two best-known markers of
the English northerner or southerner are their pronunciation of a in grass
and u in sun, which shows northerners strong in their continuing support for
the old historical [a] and [u] in place of seventeenth-century innovations by
which, as Chapter 6 has discussed, pronunciations such as [grA:s] and [sVn]
gradually came into being. SED’s maps for these two features are repeatedly used
308 clive upton
to illustrate mid-twentieth-century distributions: a line running east–west
through Birmingham separating short northern [a] from southern [A:] for
grass; another boundary dipping further south into the south Midlands separat-
ing northern [u] from southern [V] for sun. Clearly, in southern accents these
sounds are similar to or the same as those in RP, whereas in the north they are
markedly diVerent. But whereas the ‘short northern [a]’, whilst being considered
a giveaway of a person’s northernness, is often regarded benignly in modern
English (and indeed is used by many RP speakers), [u] in place of [V] in sun tends
to attract adverse judgements concerning education and sophistication. This fact
has put northern [u] under some pressure in a way that northern [a] is not.
Nevertheless, widespread support for both [a] and [u] remains.
the ‘dialect area’
It is worth looking in a little detail at the SED map for thunder, given in Figure 11.1,
since not only does it show us the very large area over which the ‘northern’ form
was supported in the local accents of the mid-twentieth century but it helps us to
understand a most important fact that must always be remembered when dialects
are being discussed, namely that even individual features do not occur within
tidily-deWned boundaries.
What does this map tell us? The basic fact is clearly that, at the time of the SED
Weldwork in the 1950s, northerners and most Midlanders used [u] (as many of
course still do) and southerners used [V] in sun and similar words. We must note
too, however, that the line or ‘isogloss’ shown on the map does not demarcate
limits within which only the form indicated is to be found. Rather, it is very
approximately at the centre of a transition zone between the two pronunciations,
within which both are to be found in mixed, and sometimes quite large, propor-
tions: symbols relating to the southern sound are, for example, found in areas
labelled for the northern one, indicating the presence of ‘outliers’ there. Further-
more, close examination of the SED evidence shows that an intermediate sound, a
kind of compromise or ‘fudge’ between the two extremes (not in fact represented
on the map, where it is largely subsumed in the [V] area), is to be heard in and
around the zone. In other words, when we talk of geographical dialect distribu-
tions we are not talking of neat boundaries, even for one feature mapped at one
time forone type of speaker. If we were to superimpose another feature, such as the
north–south short–long ‘bath vowel’, onto Figure 11.1, we would introduce
modern regional english in the british isles 309
further isoglosses, which would cut across those already in place, blurring the
picture. Factoring in matters of diVerent speaker types, and of the vital matter of
constant language change, quickly makes a nonsense of taking conventional
dialect mapping far.
SCOTLAND
SCOTLAND
WALES
WALES
Λ
Λ
Λ
Λ
u
u
e
Fig. 11.1. SED map for stressed vowel in thunder
Source: From H. Orton, S. Sanderson, and J. Widdowson (eds), The Linguistic Atlas of
England (London: Croom Helm, 1978).
310 clive upton
This is simply to say that the idea of a ‘dialect area’ is, in reality, a Wction. It is
not possible to identify even quite loose boundaries within which speakers share
a well-deWned set of features to the exclusion of others, comforting though it
would be to try to do so. We might, for example, take pleasure in the tidy notion
of ‘the dialects of England’. However, drawing together data for SED and the
very-closely related SAWD permits the creation of a map such as Figure 11.2,
which illustrates what we all intuitively know, that language has no frontiers.
Were we to present a diVerent SAWD/SED map, of course, the isoglosses would
not coincide with those on the map shown, reinforcing the futility of trying to
deWne dialect boundaries.
Because tightly-drawn dialect boundaries are illusory, this chapter discusses
features, and their distributions and implications, without attempting that deW-
nition of dialect types which can only safely be done using a small set of items. To
some limited extent, the focus is on the clues of language which people might
commonly use to place other speakers in geographical or social terms: it is, of
course, typically by considering a range of such features as clues that we can
‘narrow down’ a speaker’s likely origins, sometimes to a very restricted region. But
whilst we can perform such a locating exercise for an individual, who will be seen
to share certain features with others, the territory occupied by the full range of
that speaker’s spoken features will be diVuse, and the picture for whole popula-
tions will always be far too complex for us to embark on the restrictive exercise of
‘dialect counting’. Furthermore, an essay of this size attempting wide geographical
coverage cannot hope to summarize the linguistic diversity of the British Isles. For
both these reasons, the focus is on issues relating to variation, rather than on the
details of that variation, although it is intended that the examples chosen to
illustrate those issues will necessarily have some representative merit.
types of variation
Language shows variation in three essential dimensions: pronunciation, vocabu-
lary, and grammar. This three-fold hierarchy of variability provides a useful
structure for the detailing of dialectal features. But it is a singular fact that public
and oYcial acceptance of variability is not uniform across the three dimensions.
Accent, the area of variability most reliably used to locate a speaker geographic-
ally, tends not to be regarded as incorrect in modern English, although it is an
undoubted fact that some urban accents are widely judged unfavourably on
various aesthetic grounds. The use of localized words to express oneself, at least
modern regional english in the british isles 311
f
v
v
f
f
f
v
v
v
f
f
f
v
f
f
f
f
v
f
f
v
v
f
v
f
f
f
f
Calf:Final [
f]
Calf:Final [
f]
Final [
v]
Final [
v]
Fig. 11.2. Combined SAWD/SED map for the Wnal consonant in calf
Source: From D. Parry (ed.), A Grammar and Glossary of the Conservative Anglo-Welsh
Dialects of Rural Wales (SheYeld: National Centre for English Cultural Tradition, 1999),
244.
in speech and within the limits of comprehension, is often greeted warmly as
evidence of the richness of the language and the vibrancy of local communities,
even if the judgement might be combined with one of a certain lack of sophis-
tication. Variations in grammar, however, have typically been received much less
tolerantly in all circles: some diVerences are understood to exist within the
conWnes of standard English, but anything which is felt to be outside the quite
narrow limits of that variety is readily judged ‘wrong’. But whether regarded
negatively or not, over and over again one Wnds that those features which are
well-established as characteristic of speakers from particular places are also
historically authenticated. This fact of the undoubted pedigree of much non-
standard speech should make those who judge its grammar or vocabulary less
worthy of serious consideration than that of standard English, or its pronunci-
ations less sophisticated than those of RP, less ready to pass comment. When we
factor in the enthusiasm of speakers for their own linguistic identity, and
consider the importance of such identity to our social fabric, we would do well
to avoid criticism or mockery. Put simply, non-standard is not sub-standard.
Pronunciation
‘Invariant /u/’, which sees put and putt as northern homophones and put and but
as northern rhymes, is one of two very signiWcant pronunciation markers that
have already been mentioned. The other, more enduring in terms of speaker
support amid social change, is the use of short or long a before following /s/, /f/,
or /u/. The boundary separating these two sounds in England runs just south of
Birmingham, with the older, historical [a] characterizing the north and north
Midlands and [a:A:] (a southern innovation which, as already noted, began in
the seventeenth century) characterizing the south and south Midlands. This
boundary appears stable, no doubt at least in part because [a] is also widely
supported in the English accents of Wales and Scotland. In the southern zone,
[A:] is traditionally only a feature of the extreme south-east around London,
whilst the remainder of the area has had, and still largely keeps, [a:].
Two very powerful accent features then, ‘northern short /a/’ and ‘invariant /u/’,
characterize the accents of northern England as a group as diVerent from those of
the south. But both the distribution and perception of these two features are
diVerent. Traditionally, the north–south boundary for the /u/ feature dips further
south through the Midlands than does that for /a/. Since it attracts a certain
stigma, however, probably because it involves the absence of a sound that is
present in southern accents (and in RP) and can therefore be seen as ‘deWcient’,
many speakers in ‘invariant /u/’ areas are now either adopting /V/ as used by
modern regional english in the british isles 313
southerners or, more usually, adopting a hybrid sound, a blending of [V] and [u],
that has in fact traditionally been a feature of much of the south and Midlands.
No such compromise strategies seem to be needed for [a].
Some historically authenticated features are of course so widespread and so
strongly supported that no one can question their viability or even their general
acceptability. One such feature, that is without doubt a most striking and easily
recognized marker of variation around the British Isles, is the pronouncing of /r/
after a vowel where it is present in the written word. This ‘rhoticity’ is charac-
teristic of much Scottish and Irish speech, as it is of the vast majority of the
accents of North America, where it has become the prestige variant. It is a curious
fact, however, that although most English people would not remark on Scots,
Irish, or American /r/-use, they might well judge the same feature to be un-
sophisticated or risible when used by a speaker from England: a recent report in
the London Evening Standard on an interview with a rhotic Lancashire woman
who had suVered a life-threatening accident glossed a quotation with the gra-
tuitous observation ‘her broad Lancashire accent making the episode sound
bizarrely entertaining’. Historically, however, post-vowel or ‘post-vocalic’ /r/
was pronounced throughout the country, which is why it is present in spellings.
Only in the last 50 years has the sound retreated from the outskirts of
London, with the result that young speakers in Reading—some 60 kilometres
(38 miles) from the capital—are now reported to think recordings of elderly
fellow-townspeople were made by people from much further west. Today, al-
though RP inXuence is such that fewer accents within England and Wales are
rhotic than they once were, pockets of post-vocalic /r/ remain in the South-west,
the culturally linked south-west of Wales and the southern England/Wales border
country (a large area, but with the feature more strongly exhibited by older than
by younger speakers), variably amongst people in Welsh-speaking areas elsewhere
in Wales (since r is invariably pronounced in Welsh itself), in parts of south
Lancashire and Greater Manchester, and (if one searches closely and listens
carefully) in the north-east above Newcastle.
Speakers of rhotic accents do not all use the same /r/, however, so they are not
easily to be confused even on this single feature. In Ireland, southern accents
traditionally have a light-sounding post-alveolar approximant [\] i.e. articulated
just after the alveolar ridge in the mouth but without enough friction to cause
turbulence (see the diagram on p.*** which illustrates place of articulation), while
in the North /r/ tends to be a deeper, retroXex [˙], which is produced with the tip
of the tongue curled back. (This broad distinction is complicated by the devel-
opment of a retroXex /r/ in fashionable Dublin English, and its spread outside the
city in a development quite unconnected to the north and led, some experts
314 clive upton
believe, by younger female speakers.) The Irish north–south distinction is a
reversal of that in the parts of England where rhoticity is found, with the south-
west featuring the retroXex and Lancashire/Manchester the alveolar variety. Still
in England, where /r/ can still be heard, the Northumbrian version (the ‘North-
umbrian burr’) is a throaty uvular []. A range of /r/-types (post-alveolar, retro-
Xex, and a tap-sound, i.e. produced by a brief moment of contact in the mouth) is
also to be found in Scotland, with the latter also being heard in northern England.
Recent studies indicate that taps of this kind are more working-class and retroXex
/r/s more middle-class, and that rhoticity is, as a whole, declining in Scottish
urban areas. In Wales, a Xapped /r/, inXuenced by the sound in Welsh, is widely
heard, especially in the English of Welsh-speaking areas.
Such is the power of rhoticity that its presence or absence has had ramiWca-
tions for regional accents beyond the sounding of /r/ itself. Scottish accents, being
rhotic, do not have diphthongs ending in [@] as in near [nI@], poor [pU@], which
in most (non-rhotic) English accents represent spellings in -r. So many Scottish
speakers will, for example, have forms such as [nir] for near and [pur] for poor,
and indeed might Wnd [@], as in the respective southern realizations of these
words, to be an alien sound. Non-rhotic accents have Wnal /@/ to represent -er, as
in father [’fA:ð@]. When new or exotic words requiring Wnal [@], such as trivia
(deriving from Latin trivium, and Wrst used in the early twentieth century), have
arrived, these have been happily pronounced in such accents, but rhotic accents
have had to develop ways of reconciling such words with their lack of word-Wnal
[@]. So in Scotland one might hear Wnal /a/, whilst in much of the English West
Country these words might exhibit /-@r/ just as if they did indeed have an -er
spelling.
Pronounced post-vocalic /r/ is just one of very many ancient pronunciations
signalled by our spellings. Like rhoticity, another sure marker of Irish and Scottish
speech (and also of the border country of northern England), is wh- pronounced
[hw], giving forms such as [hwen] when. This is, of course, a mannered spelling
pronunciation adopted by some RP speakers as well as being regional, but it has
historical and linguistic foundations, going back to Old English. For modern Irish
English [hw] can, however, be seen as doubly justiWed, with the imported English
feature being reinforced by a similar sound from Irish.
Whilst the use of a sound that is signalled by spelling might be seen by some as
especially desirable, as we have already seen in Chapter 10, the absence of a sound
whose presence is supported by spelling is likely to be stigmatized. Such is
certainly the case with the dropping of word-initial /h/ (see further pp. 276–7),
resulting, for example, in house being pronounced [aUs]. This /h/-dropping is
characteristic of modern regional pronunciation in Wales and in most of
modern regional english in the british isles 315
England, although it is not a feature typical of the north-east of England around
and above Tyneside, of rural East Anglia, or of Scotland or Ireland. That the
feature, where present, has social signiWcance is readily apparent in Bradford,
where usage varies between 12 per cent and 93 per cent depending on the social
class of speakers. Like /h/-dropping, the tendency for non-RP speakers to have
[n] (rather than the velar nasal [˛]) at the end of words spelt -ing can also attract
criticism on the same grounds, but it is even more widespread, being quite usual
throughout the whole of the British Isles. It is also a feature which exhibits very
considerable social variation within communities, with Wgures ranging from 3
per cent to 98 per cent across social classes in Norwich, for example. Although
common sense suggests that speakers might try to avoid such high-proWle
stigmatized forms in careful speech, it has only become fully apparent through
the insights of modern social dialectology quite how predictably such features are
tied to the contexts in which they are used: measurements of how such features
are produced by speakers of diVerent social proWles, and consideration of the
stimuli which prompt them to make their selections, are used in the study of
the mechanisms that give rise to change in language use over time.
A further -ing feature, although one which is characteristic of a very conWned
area and so an ideal indicator of English regionality, is the inclusion of the
alveolar stop [g] following the velar nasal [˛] in non-ing words containing [˛].
This is very typical of the English north-west Midlands, an area stretching from
Birmingham northwards and westwards to Manchester and Liverpool. A native
of Birmingham itself will typically pronounce the name of the city [’b@:mI˛g@m]
instead of the more widely-heard [’b@:mI˛@m], with such a pronunciation being
something of a shibboleth for the true ‘Brummie’. Speakers with this ‘velar nasal
plus’ feature will pronounce wrong and sing as [r`˛g] and [sI˛g]; likewise Wnger
and singer, instead of being near-rhymes as [’fI˛g@] and [’sI˛@] respectively, will
rhyme completely, as [’fI˛g@], [’sI˛g@]. Speakers who have this feature might also
be inclined to carry it into the -ing ending of other words too on occasions, thus
giving [’kUmI˛g] alongside [’kUmIn] or [’kUmI˛] coming.
Every region has such dialectal features which, if they are present in an
individual’s speech, at least strongly suggest that they have close local aYliation.
For example, there is, extending widely in East Anglia and the English East
Midlands, a characteristic dropping of /j/ wherever it occurs before /u:/, this
being a continuation of the tendency which has elsewhere made it increasingly
unlikely in modern English that one will hear [’sju:p@] super, [s@’lju:$n] solution.
As these last examples suggest, this general /j/-dropping in the area might be a
sign of things to come in other British accents: it is, after all, much more
widespread in North America than in Britain in such words as news and studio.
316 clive upton
For the present at least, however, it remains an especially localized symbol. It is
therefore not surprising that a major food-producer in the region has long
described its products as bootiful. Nor is it surprising to hear reports that younger
speakers in Norwich adopt the feature deliberately when playfully asserting their
local identity, even though they might never use it in everyday speech.
This issue of identity is crucial to the persistence of non-standard dialectal
features. Strongly identifying speakers as Scottish and north-eastern English is
the use of [u:] in /au/ words such as house, about. This [u:] is the sound from
before the onset of the Great Vowel Shift: Scotland, as Chapter 6 has already
discussed, is one of several places where the Shift did not fully take place, and
pronunciations such as [hu:s] and [@’bu:t] are today well-known characteristics
of Scots pronunciation. Traditionally, the feature is typical of the area immedi-
ately south of the Scottish border too. Today it is little heard as the norm,
especially in the urban areas around Newcastle upon Tyne, but it remains
emblematic of local ‘Geordie’ identity, occurring, for example, in such expres-
sions as doon toon (‘down town’) to refer to Newcastle city centre, The Toon
(Newcastle United Football Club), and broon in relation to Newcastle Brown Ale.
Altogether, there are too many distinguishing accent features to list in a short
chapter, but we might single out also as especially localized and identiWable the
[A:] of time, miner in the north-east Midlands, the [e:] of Merseyside and [ø:] of
South Walian bird, heard, as well as mother with TH-dropping in Northern
Ireland (and corresponding [d] in the South). Some features that have become
increasingly the focus of dialectological scrutiny and debate are, however, far
from localizable. One such feature that is currently much discussed, probably
because, like h and ng it is highlighted by spelling, is the presence of a glottal stop,
[?], in place of the stopped voiceless consonants /p, t, k/ (and especially notice-
able with /t/). A very deWnite feature of the London accent, glottaling has
nevertheless been noted in Scotland and northern England for many decades,
and it is now a feature of urban accents generally. It is most frequently to be heard
before a consonant (it would now be most usual to hear it in the middle of
Gatwick, Luton), where its presence would probably pass unnoticed. More stig-
matized is its use between vowels and before syllabic /l/: [’le?@] letter and [’lI?l]
little. The feature is less likely to be heard in Wales than elsewhere, and especially
in north-east England it is likely to take the form of what is known as ‘glottal
reinforcement’ or ‘glottalization’, where both the glottal and voiceless stops are
heard, giving for example [’peI?p@] paper. Tending to suppress the glottaling or
glottalization of plosives in Liverpool is that city’s particularly characteristic
feature of heavily aspirated /p, t, k/ or even, especially word-Wnally, the rendering
of them as the corresponding fricatives [F, , x].
modern regional english in the british isles 317
The quality of /l/ is a matter of considerable variation in regional accents, and
one of its manifestations in particular attracts almost the same level of stigma as
does /t/-glottalization. The essential diVerence is between a light, ‘thin’ or ‘clear’
[l] to be expected frequently in Ireland, usually in south and mid-Wales, and in
England especially in the north-east, and a heavier, ‘thick’ or ‘dark’ [] charac-
teristic of north Wales and increasing in frequency as one moves south through
England. The situation is complicated by the phonetic environment in which the
sound occurs (between vowels it is more likely to be ‘thin’, before and after vowels
‘thick’), and by historical and modern processes of language change: a recent
very detailed study of /l/ in Glasgow concentrates on the phenomenon of
‘L-vocalization’, by which /l/ becomes [U], an old process that has given rise to
a limited set of Scots lexical items such as aw ‘all’, and a quite separate modern
process that is apparently spreading widely through British English. This latter,
modern L-vocalization as in words such as real and Wnal, has been traditionally
regarded as having its roots in the immediate area of London, and some com-
mentators suggest that London inXuence might be an important factor in the
spread of the feature generally.
Because, like L-vocalization, it is a notable feature of the London accent, the
presence of glottalization and other such features in English pronunciation
elsewhere within Britain is often advanced as evidence of a so-called ‘Estuary
English’, said by some to be spreading from the capital to other regions. The
weight of the inXuence of London—and of other major metropolitan areas too—
on areas some distance away should not be underestimated: it has been shown
that linguistic features often do diVuse from larger to smaller urban areas,
subsequently ‘Wlling in’ the intervening spaces once they have become Wrmly
transplanted. But care must be taken not to assume too much from slim
evidence. We have seen that TH-Fronting, itself sometimes held to be a quite
modern London-inXuenced feature, was noted by a linguist in Yorkshire in 1876.
So too, glottalization is by no means new to places far removed from the south-
east of England, and it is not certain that London speech is an especially sign-
iWcant factor in the undoubted spread of this feature.
Furthermore, major urban features can be supplanted, or subtly changed, under
the inXuence of pressures other than those of mere weight of population or
assumed cultural dominance. Over most of the British Isles outside south-eastern
and Midland England (which in this case includes an area extending north to
Liverpool), where RP-like diphthongs occur in such words as game and home
[geIm], [h@Um], older, more traditional long monophthongs persist quite
strongly, giving [ge:m], [ho:m]. However, in what is a complex picture, exceptions
do occur, a particular case being that of north-east England, where the centring
318 clive upton
diphthongs [I@] and [U@] have been typical. There is now evidence that these
north-eastern forms are declining in popularity, even though they have long been
typical of the speech of residents of the very large and culturally dominant city of
Newcastle upon Tyne. Crucially, though, the change is not in the direction of the
sounds of what some might consider the culturally (and certainly numerically)
still more dominant city of London, and of RP. Rather, the ‘pan-northern’ [e:] and
[o:] are being espoused, especially by younger and middle-class north-eastern
speakers: seemingly, they are simultaneously drawing away from sounds which are
regarded as expressive of old-fashioned working-class roots, whilst Wrmly identi-
fying themselves as northerners by assimilating to the wider northern norm.
The pan-northern long monophthongs are not remaining static, however. In a
move which signals both adherence to northern identity and, it has been con-
troversially argued, a possible move towards RP, a new trend in northern /o:/ has
been observed as emerging. Quite widely heard among younger speakers in
Yorkshire and north-east England is a fronted version of the vowel which results
in go home being rendered as [g‚: ’h‚:m]. Here we might perhaps detect a move
towards the initial vowel of the RP diphthong [g@U, h@Um], but it is even more
apparent that there is a determined retention of the northern tendency to a
monophthong: as with the north-eastern adoption of [e:] and [o:], identiWcation
with a region remains a strong factor for speakers, even in a situation of language
change.
It has been observed that much of the variation that occurs in regional
accents persists and changes as a result of a concept of regional identity, and
is used by outsiders as a way of placing speakers geographically in a quite non-
judgemental way. It is true, however, that it is this aspect of speech which, when
questioned, native British and Irish residents seem most ready to comment on,
sometimes quite critically. In one of several recent studies in this area, which
asked respondents to rate accents as they perceived them in the abstract on a
rising scale of from 1 to 7, the Liverpool accent scored 3 for educatedness, whilst
RP was rated highest at 5.7. Conversely, however, when asked to judge the
speakers of the accents for friendliness, the same assessors returned 3.6 for RP,
and placed southern Irish highest at 5.3. Scores for honesty ranged from 2.2 for
Liverpool to 4.9, again for southern Ireland. The reasons for such scores are a
matter of no little debate, especially since every similar study produces some-
what diVerent rankings, albeit with observable trends. It is undoubtedly the case
that the accents of most major urban areas are held in lower esteem than those
of rural areas, doubtless because the latter have pleasant associations of tran-
quillity and are, perhaps, holiday destinations. Places with which most assessors
are likely to be unfamiliar tend also to rate well. Fashion might play a part
modern regional english in the british isles 319
too—the Scouse (Liverpool) accent is said to have been highly rated during the
Beatles era of the 1960s. Understandably RP, which is often used for important
functions such as broadcast news-reading, is likely to rate high in terms of
education, but it is signiWcant that a high rating on one scale does not imply a
high rating on all. It should also be made clear that women do not accord with
men in their judgements: on the attractiveness of the speakers of various accents,
for example, another recent study of ten accents saw men placing West Country
speakers in sixth place, whilst women placed them eighth. Also, understandably,
assessors drawn from diVerent places record diVerent judgements as regards
accents from their own and other regions. This fascinating and readily-quantiW-
able area of accent study, then, raises many questions and answers few: however
it does, most interestingly, point to the readiness of assessors to make comments
on such abstract concepts as honesty or level of education.
Vocabulary
Less contentious than variation in pronunciation, although just as likely to excite
comment, is variation in vocabulary. But whereas a speaker might use their own
characteristic pronunciations when speaking to someone from a diVerent com-
munity, it is comparatively unusual for word diVerences to play a prominent part
in communication across today’s socially- and geographically-mobile society,
because of the likelihood of misunderstandings arising. This is in part the reason
why we know comparatively little about modern word-variation: researchers
have observed that there has been some considerable erosion in the diVerences
in vocabulary that once characterized communities, and so seem to have thought
this area of language study less important than pronunciation and grammar.
There have been two other causes of the neglect of vocabulary in modern dialect
research, however. First, words do not occur in the readily-quantiWable systems
that today’s dialectologists require if they are to make empirical observations
based on statistical evidence. Second, it is undoubtedly the case that it is hard to
obtain detailed evidence of word-use across communities without undertaking
lengthy and elaborate Weldwork, something which is hard to contemplate spe-
ciWcally for lexis when surveying a rich social mix of speakers. So, while we know
that there is considerable variation across the UK relating to words denoting a
narrow passage between buildings (alley, ginnel, gully, jennel, jigger, jitty, snicket,
gully, ten-foot, twitten, and others), our information on the distribution of these
words in terms of geographical spread or types of speakers, or indeed their
precise meanings for those who use them, is no more than anecdotal. A little
more is known of some words that were not covered by the older surveys with
320 clive upton
their wide geographical sweeps: for example, words for soft games-shoes include
daps around Bristol and in South Wales, pumps in the Midlands and much of
northern England, sandshoes in the north-east, gollies on Merseyside, and gutties
in Scotland, but even here we have no knowledge of precise distributions.
Nevertheless, although there is a shortage of information on the regional use of
many words which intrigue us, it is still possible to address important issues.
One such issue is the link, and the very observable diVerence, between the
vocabularies of English and Scots (both of Scotland and Ireland). In this we are
immediately confronted with a basic issue in lexicology: what is a word? The
following pairs might be considered versions of the same ‘word’, but it makes
equally good sense for them to be considered as related, cognate words instead
(the Scottish word is given Wrst in each case): hame/home, hale/whole (note the
survival in the English Wxed expression hale and hearty), mare/more, auld/old,
cauld/cold, hoose/house, dee/die, deed/dead, twae/two, kirk/church, brig/bridge.
These and many more signal a close, parallel development of Old English-
derived language in Scotland and England. Other pairs, however, indicate a
more marked separation into two diVerent, although intimately related, lan-
guages: bairn/child, wean/child, brae/slope, ken/know, cuit/ankle, kenspeckle/con-
spicuous, birl/spin, girn/whine, mind/remember, ay/always, gey/very, gaed/went,
and so on. Whilst some words from this second list suggest a clear-cut
diVerence between the varieties found in Scotland and England, others from
both lists illustrate the point already made, that political borders are not
linguistic borders. They also support the frequently-made observation that
there are degrees of Scottishness in the speech of the Scots: whilst wean is a
term of Scotland, bairn is widely used in north-east England by young and old
alike (so that wean and bairn cannot be considered entirely synonymous,
having rather diVerent regional attachments); birl is a term used technically
in the textile industries of northern England; brig and kirk, descended from
Old Norse, have been much used in northern England until comparatively
recently, and survive widely today in place-names (Brighouse, Ormskirk, and
the like). A recent survey of various studies carried out between 1977 and 1998
into the loss of speciWcally Scots words strongly suggests that these are eroding
quite rapidly, with passive knowledge taking over from active use, and Scots
words coming often to be reserved for specialist application such as for
storytelling and in songs. Scots and English words can also be kept product-
ively apart by Scottish speakers for reasons of semantics: it has been reported
from Glasgow, for example, that whilst hame might be used in a domestic
sense, home is more to be expected in an institutional sense when referring to
care-homes for children. In such a way, speakers can be expected to make use
modern regional english in the british isles 321
of a range of word-variants available to them, Wnely grading the distinctions
which they see as signiWcant.
An example both of lexical erosion and of the lexical ‘recycling’ that gives a
non-standard word a new meaning is provided by the notion of ‘left-handedness’.
A question concerning this concept elicited no fewer than 84 diVerent words
from across the SED network of 313 localities: today, approximately half a century
after that Survey’s Weldwork took place, it would be hard to Wnd as many as ten
variants, and a recent survey of Wfty young people drawn from a wide geograph-
ical area discovered only Wve, with a further Wve describing a left-handed person.
Loss of variety in this case is probably due largely to the more liberal and less
superstitious attitude of contemporary society to diVerences, especially to phys-
ical diVerences (SED records eight variants for ‘bow-legged’, twenty-one for
‘knock-kneed’, and no fewer than Wfty for ‘pigeon-toed’). One ‘left-handed’
variant, cack-handed, however, has acquired a well-known alternative meaning
of ‘clumsy’ and ‘incompetent’: with its pejorative connotation carried by cack
(‘excrement’), the term is a less than pleasant reminder of a more judgemental
time in an overwhelmingly right-handed society, whilst we can see an old word
put to new work in our more sensitive age. It is likely, however, that many of
those who use cack-handed to describe clumsiness are quite unaware of either its
left-handed or lavatorial connections.
It is equally likely that the young people who use charver or pikey to identify a
contemporary whose style of dress and general demeanour suggests an aimless
‘street’ lifestyle are unaware of the Romany origin of the Wrst or of the original
connotation ‘gypsy’ of the second. Pikey, formed from the ‘turnpike’ roads, has,
along with pikee and piker, been used in the south-east especially since at least the
mid-nineteenth century with reference to itinerant people of various kinds, and
has been used by travelling people themselves insultingly to refer to travellers of
lower caste. Scally, a corresponding label originating in the north-west of Eng-
land, was taken up widely by the media and by several internet websites devoted
to the phenomenon, only to be superseded by chav. Notwithstanding the emer-
gence of a generic term, a very recent enquiry has unearthed 127 synonyms, with
ned favoured in Scotland, charver in north-east England, and pikey across the
south. Important to note here is the fact that existing terms are re-used to suit
new needs that arise as a result of social change and that, although the media are
inXuential in fostering support for words, there is a strong suggestion of regional
variation in the new usage of a sector of the population who might be expected to
be more geographically mobile than their predecessors.
The Uniformitarian Principle that informs much of modern ‘social’ dialect-
ology oVers as a working assumption the notion that, since human interaction is,
322 clive upton
at bottom, the same from generation to generation, what we observe happening
to language now is much the same as what happened to language in former
times. Traditionally, the cultural importance of the potato in Ireland resulted in a
complex of terms: for size (marley, taw, chat, crachan); for seed (cutling, poureen,
shaleen, spachan); uncooked (potato, pritty, taty, spud ); cooked (brudgy, champ,
prockus). Young people, wanting to describe a group they identify as diVerent
from (and, it would be fair to say, inferior to) themselves, adapt existing words,
and where necessary invent new ones, and in doing so they declare their identity
in both generation and place. Such needs might be expected to have arisen in
every community and in every generation in all former times too.
In the inXuence of other indigenous (Celtic) languages can be seen another
example of English drawing on an available resource, most clearly to be seen in
regional vocabulary, although it can of course be observed at other levels of
variation too. Frequently, the borrowing will be so heavily anglicized, and so
widely understood, that its origin will be obscure even to its users. Irish Gaelic, as
well as having had an important—if limited—impact on the English standard
lexicon (for example, bannock, bog, cairn, ceilidh, creel, galore), has been observed
to have been still more widely inXuential in Irish English, especially in the areas of
social contact, as in alanna (‘child’), asthore (‘darling’), or shannach (‘gossip),
and in traditional domestic life, as in dullice (‘edible seaweed’), boxty (‘reheated
leftovers’), caulcannon (‘cabbage and butter’), and bonnyclobber (‘curds’). Ban-
nock and ceilidh are, of course, as closely associated with Scottish Gaelic as with
Irish, and Scots has received a wealth of words from that language as one might
expect as, for example, sonsie (‘lucky’), knock (‘hill’), claymore, sporran, clan.
Similarly, the English vocabulary of Wales has been signiWcantly aVected by
Welsh: as in Ireland and Scotland, non-Celtic speakers use Celtic-derived non-
standard words as a matter of course, as in cwtch for ‘to stoop down’, or ‘a storage
place’, and twmp for ‘hill’, for example. Even in south-west Wales, an English-
speaking area for more than 800 years and so dubbed ‘Little England Beyond
Wales’, Welsh words are by no means uncommon, although pronunciation might
be very heavily disguised, so that Welsh pistyll (‘spring’) becomes English pissle
and the south Pembrokeshire village name Llangwm is pronounced as if it were
spelt ‘Langham’.
Other historical language contact is enshrined in lexical variation to a still
more signiWcant degree. The Old Norse ancestry of brig and kirk has already been
mentioned, and to these can be added very many words characteristic of those
areas settled by Viking invaders from Scandinavia. A stream throughout the
Norse-settled areas of England is almost invariably a beck, although in Scotland
it is likely to be a burn and quite widely in England, although with a heartland in
modern regional english in the british isles 323
the Midlands, a brook, both of which terms, like stream itself, are Old English-
derived. A restrictively northern English, and especially Yorkshire, word which
could owe its existence to either Old English or Old Norse, and which in truth
exists as a result of its presence in both of these, is laik meaning to ‘play’. The fact
of its distribution across the Norse-settled regions of northern England suggests
that it is Norse derivation which is the more signiWcant, although with the dual
eVect of both languages making the non-standard survival more likely than it
might otherwise have been. It is interesting to note, however, that the coincidence
of laik and play is only partial: whilst both relate to taking recreational exercise,
the former has connotations of taking time away from work whilst the latter,
exhibiting still more versatility, can relate to performing on a musical instrument,
making fun of someone, taking part in a game, and so on. Synonymy is likely to
be only partial between non-standard and standard words.
External historical inXuence on non-standard English is not limited to that of
Old Norse, of course, and French in particular has had its eVect, often in
surprising ways. French being the language of the early medieval court and
administration, as Chapters 3 and 4 have discussed, we might expect its inXuence
to be found especially in the standard dialect and in the speech of the English
regions around London. Whilst this is indeed the case to some considerable
extent, there are many exceptions which probe the rule. Most signiWcantly, the
presence of French-derived words in Scots is, in considerable measure, the result
of the ‘Auld Alliance’ which saw close links between Scotland and France in long
opposition to England. We might cite corbie (‘crow’) which derives from Old
French corb, and fash (‘to worry’) which derives from Old French fascher, as
instances of this. Within England itself, French-derived words have often gained a
strong grip on the standard dialect: for example, autumn predominates over
especially northern back-end, and over fall, which until recently has been most
favoured in the Midlands and south as well as being the norm in North America.
But the standard dialect has upon occasions retained an English word while it is
the French word that has taken root in the non-standard. A remarkable if now
very recessive example is urchin (‘hedgehog’), a descendent of Old French
herichon, recorded widely in the north and the West Midlands in the mid-
twentieth century while the English, Germanically-compounded standard dialect
hedge þ hog was Wrmly rooted elsewhere. Somewhat similarly, though of greater
signiWcance for the modern standard dialect, is the dominance of English adder
(and, on the Scottish and Welsh borders, its related ether) over French-derived
viper, which seems only to have had a weak hold in the south and East Anglia. Old
Norse is a further inXuence in this case, with hagworm recorded in the north-west
and in the north-east below Teesside. Again we have typically Germanic
324 clive upton
compounding: hag, from Old Norse, is connected either with wet moorland or
woodland, and worm, with cognates in both Old English and Norse, once meant
‘snake, serpent, dragon’. (It is in this sense that it is found in the coastal-feature
names Great and Little Orm at Llandudno and Worms Head on Gower, both on
that Welsh coast along which the Vikings once raided from their Irish settle-
ments.)
Some of the words mentioned above as examples of regional variation have
been speciWcally referred to as recessive. As a result of greater contacts between
people, the inXuence of the broadcast media, advertising and the like, either their
geographical coverage or their speaker-base within their region of use is decreas-
ing, or both. The fact that some words of long standing remain in use as
indicators of regional identity, and that others are adapted to new use, or still
others are coined afresh, suggests that lexical diversity will continue to some
marked degree into the future. Even when a form retreats to a far smaller area
than that which it is known to have once occupied, its eventual death is not
necessarily signalled. Such seems to be the case with while (‘until’). In quite
general use when Bunyan in The Heavenly Footman (1688) wrote ‘Run . . . while
thou art weary, and then I will take thee up and carry thee’, this sense was still to
be found as far south as his native Bedfordshire in the mid-twentieth century.
While in the sense ‘until’ now seems largely to have retreated within the bound-
aries of Yorkshire, but there is no sign of it losing its popularity amongst even
adolescent speakers there. Especially if a word comes to be seen as in any sense a
badge of regional aYliation, its indeWnite retention can be expected.
Grammar
There are also distinctions to be found at the interface of vocabulary and
grammar, that is ‘word grammar’ or morphology. Within England and Wales
especially, since deviations from standard grammar are most likely to be pro-
scribed in education and employment circles, and a standard English model is
very inXuential, the extent to which features in this category persist among the
adult population is limited. But persist they do, at least in part as a result of their
being employed sporadically by speakers intent on asserting their regional iden-
tity or class roots. So a Yorkshire speaker who uses while for ‘until’ might well use
the personal pronouns thou/thee (often in a contracted form tha) when speaking
to close friends. So might other speakers of the most distinctive regional dialects
over much of northern and north-Midland England outside the north-east, and
also in the south-west and south-west Midlands. Retention of this ‘T/V system’
(so called from its paralleling of the French tu/vous familiar/polite pronoun
modern regional english in the british isles 325
system), albeit in a diluted form where there is no clear distinction between the
original subject case thou and object case thee, provides its users with a valuable
social resource. It is likely to go hand-in-hand with older verb-forms too,
creating quite distinctive regionalisms: H’art tha doin’? (‘How art thou [are
you] doing?’, i.e. ‘How are you?’), this from a young Yorkshire speaker, somewhat
formulaically, to a friend. Further south, in StaVordshire, one might hear ast? for
‘have you?’ (‘hast thou?’) and further south still, in the English West Country,
cassn’t? (‘can’t you’, literally ‘canst thee not’).
Pronouns are, in fact, a very fertile area for variation generally. The following
are just some of the other pronoun phenomena which mark out non-standard
from standard, and in some cases from place to place. More than simply
illustrating dialectal diversity, however, they can be seen to demonstrate that
diversity as a resource too.
In youse, many Irish English speakers have a plural form of you with which to
address more than one person. (Irish Gaelic, like very many other languages,
makes a singular–plural distinction in the second person personal pronouns, so
its speakers might have been expected to create one when adopting English.)
Through migration of speakers from its Irish base, this plural form has spread to
become associated with, amongst others, Liverpool and Middlesbrough speech
and, because a distinct plural pronoun might be seen as a useful addition to the
pronominal system, it has been suggested that this is becoming more widely
current in English generally. Only time will tell whether youse will become an
accepted element in the standard English paradigm.
Variety in both the use and the forms of the reXexive pronouns shows the non-
standard dialects exhibiting possibilities in advance of those available to speakers
of the standard variety. Found in Ireland, for example, is a special situation which
can see a reXexive used on its own without reference to another noun or
pronoun: It was himself who did it. Although there is some evidence of such
forms more generally in earlier English, the existence of parallels in Gaelic, and
the uniqueness of this feature to modern Irish English, support the interpretation
that foreign-language inXuence is largely responsible for the usage persisting.
Whatever the origin, the availability of an emphatic device that does not rely
solely on stress is a resource denied to the standard-dialect speaker.
We can remain with the system of reXexives to illustrate the marked level of
simpliWcation which can occur in the non-standard, arguably a sign of an
enhanced level of linguistic sophistication. Whilst standard myself, ourselves,
and the like comprise possessive pronoun þ self/selves, standard himself, them-
selves are anomalous in being constructed using the object personal pronoun:
many non-standard dialects introduce consistency in their use of hisself, their-
326 clive upton
selves, which feature the possessives. (All is not consistency and simplicity, of
course: broader speakers especially in the English east Midlands and Yorkshire
still make extensive use of forms ending in -sen/-sens: missen (‘myself’), theirsens
(‘themselves’).) Where, in standard English, the use of the reXexive myself as a
substitute for I or me tends to be regarded as an error or aVectation (give it to my
colleague or myself ), this is quite usual practice in modern Scots, which should be
a warning to anyone disposed to be too readily judgemental in matters of
language use.
It is regularization too that produced hisn, hern, ourn, yourn, theirn, analogous
to mine and thine, in a medieval system that remained common among dialect
speakers in the south Midlands of England into the mid-twentieth century and is
still to be heard today from some. But although superWcially such matters might
seem only to involve simpliWcation, this is not so with the phenomenon of
‘pronoun exchange’ which, like Irish English himself, provides opportunities
for signalling meaning very precisely. This phenomenon, associated espe-
cially—although not exclusively—with the English south-west and south-west
Midlands, sees standard subject pronouns he, she, we, they doing duty also for the
object pronouns him, her, us, them: conversely, the object pronouns might serve
for the subject. One can therefore hear I gave it to she, or her did it, give it we, or
him’s the one as [i.e. who] said it. Although this might seem simply to relieve a
speaker of the necessity of learning both subject and object pronouns, usage can
often be seen to be rule-governed, with, for example, subject pronouns especially
used to make an utterance emphatic.
A tendency towards prescriptivism that particularly relates to grammar has
already been mentioned. Whilst it would be wrong simply to insist in the face of
this that any grammatical variant is as useful as any other in any circumstance, it
is as easy to point to language history in the defence of many non-standard
grammatical features as it is to use that history in defence of dialectal pronun-
ciations or words: those levelling criticism at today’s non-standard too often
simply display their ignorance of historical fact. In what is no more than a
remarkable historical survival, but which might be seen as a subtle extra element
in the range of personal pronouns too, some speakers preserve the Old English
masculine singular object pronoun hine as un in unstressed positions, giving, for
example, I told un so: no doubt few people who use this form realize that they are
doing more than pronouncing ‘him’ in a rather unusual local way, and few others
who regard it as a quaint localism can have any awareness of its historicity.
Linguistic streamlining and historical pedigree are nowhere more evident than
in the matter of the non-standard formation of the past tense and past participle
(used to create the present perfect, I have . . . etc.) of irregular verbs. Whilst
modern regional english in the british isles 327
regular (‘weak’) verbs form their past tense and past participles in -ed (walk-
walked-walked), irregular (‘strong’) verbs do so in a variety of ways which can see
quite radical diVerences in two or all three of these positions (Wnd-found-found,
come-came-come, write-wrote-written, and so on). The regularization tendency of
the non-standard is such that some of the complexity can be avoided, either
through the transforming of normally irregular verbs into regular ones or by
uniting past tense and past participle (show-showed-showed illustrates both
possibilities). But not all is blunt regularization. It might at Wrst sight appear
that it is the former of these strategies, the change from irregular to regular, that
creates catched as the non-standard variant of caught. (Catched has traditionally
been found over most of England, with standard caught being found dominant in
the south-east around London and signiWcantly in some coastal areas—such as
east Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, Norfolk, south Devon, the Severn Estuary—which
are readily connected to the capital by sea, a fact which incidentally provides an
insight into how linguistic forms can be spread.) However, although there is
complicating vowel-change here, caught, with its [t] ending, is clearly irregular
like catched: in fact, these two past-tense forms have existed side by side in the
language for a very long time, and neither seems more historically valid than the
other. And just as catched might attract criticism as childish, so the falling
together of the past tense and past participle of to come, which allows for such
usage as She come to town last week, is likely to attract judgements of ignorance.
However, this is similarly not merely a matter of simpliWcation: although they
will be quite oblivious of the fact, the very many people who use come in this way
have an Old English past-tense form, and so have pedigree on their side.
Syntax is also heavily subject to the normalizing eVect of the standard dialect,
and non-standard variation in this area of grammar is as stigmatized as is that in
word-grammar. It is to be expected that such variation will exist, of course, most
strongly supported by those who do not feel themselves to be subject to social
pressures. And variation at this level can be expected to have a social rather than a
narrowly regional base, with widespread social implications as a consequence.
Doubtless the best known feature of this kind is multiple negation, which sees the
negative signalled twice or more within a construction: he didn’t never have none
and the like. There is only small variation in the kinds of multiple negative
constructions which are likely to be encountered from place to place, and no
English-speaking region where none are found at all. Yet whilst the phenomenon
is widespread geographically, and the writings of Chaucer and Shakespeare,
amongst others, testify to its historicity, the taboo on breaking the rule that
‘two negatives make a positive’ which has been discussed in Chapter 9 remains
strong, and such negation can have important social consequences for its users.
328 clive upton
The same is true, as regards both widespread use and social stigmatization,
for ain’t/ent/int as negatives of the auxiliaries be and have (I ain’t ready; He
ain’t got one), and the use of never with reference to one speciWc event (I saw
you do it! You never!). And whilst some types of negation are widespread,
others are more localizable. Scots in both Scotland and Ireland has the markers
nae/no, standing alone or attached particularly to the words can, do, and will:
he’ll no do it, it cannae be done. And an as yet little-studied area of variation
concerns the form anyone doesn’t know in place of the expected no one knows:
this appears to be a low-level but signiWcant feature of Irish English and Scots
and also of English in the north-east of England, for which Gaelic is thought to
be the origin.
Not all syntactic variation is tied to social variation therefore: we can occa-
sionally observe surprising regional variation, although it can be hard to ac-
count for this when it occurs. No better example exists of a syntactic puzzle than
the quite deWnite regional preferences for the standard give me it in northern
and eastern England, a non-standard give it me in the West Midlands, and an
expanded give it to me in the south-west, as recorded by SED. Although the
standard is where one might expect it to be, that is in area around London, its
strong support in the north, and that for the other varieties elsewhere, is
curious. But whilst some grammatical diVerences are puzzling, others have
both socio-political and linguistic bases: constructions involving past and per-
fect, for example, are areas of grammar where Scots, Irish English, and the
standard variety of English show marked diVerences of some complexity. To
take one matter of particular note, we can observe that the three varieties have
markedly diVerent ways of indicating an event that is immediately past. The
standard method is to use the present perfect, thus: I have (just) seen him. In
contrast, a Scots speaker might be expected to use the simple past tense with
just: I just saw him. In a construction that is one of the best known, even
stereotypical features of Irish English, an Irish speaker can say I’m after seeing
him, a construction which is heavily inXuenced by Irish Gaelic, as are many
others in Irish English.
conclusion
The non-standard dialects, retaining as they do a lot of the history of the
language, have much to recommend them in linguistic terms. Amongst the
older forms preserved are some which can be seen to have present-day utility:
modern regional english in the british isles 329
whilst permitting their speakers Wne-tuning of meaning which is not available
to standard dialect users, they oVer notable consistency where the standard is
irregular; and they oVer to the communities who use them a very ready
means by which to express individual and collective identity. Why, then, is
so little credit aVorded to the non-standard? The answer seems in large part
to rest with social, and with it regional, separation, at the level of which
people are quite readily disposed to pass judgement on the speech of others,
providing the kind of statistics presented above on attitudes to accents.
Women in the Belfast community of Ballymacarrett, aware of the more
acceptable pronunciation, are only half as likely to pronounce look as [lVk]
as their male counterparts. A peripheral member of an adolescent gang in
Reading, England, is reportedly one-third as likely to say I goes than is a core
member, and will not use what as a relative pronoun when the leaders use it
almost without fail.
Variants, then, far from being in free variation, available to be chosen at will,
have social meaning, and the society we have inherited places store by what
speakers select from the available forms. Social and economic progress in
mainstream society is undeniably easier for those who consistently use the
variants of grammar and vocabulary belonging to what, at the present time, we
have agreed to recognize as the standard dialect, so-called ‘standard English’.
And the nearer a speaker approaches to pronunciations of prestige, which in
England are those of Received Pronunciation, the more acceptable their accent.
Changing fashion over time ensures that the goalposts at which people aim
will move, and indeed it is not hard to imagine that, as more people achieve
mastery of particularly desirable language forms, those previously in posses-
sion of them will Wnd ways of moving the target to maintain their exclusivity.
It has been suggested by some commentators, furthermore, that it is this desire
to remain exclusive that has not only brought about past innovations but has
hindered the acceptance into the standard of those regularizations which we
have seen to be a feature of the non-standard: if the standard dialect is kept
irregular, and so diYcult to attain, fewer people might be expected to achieve
it than might otherwise be the case.
Whether or not one accepts this ‘conspiracy theory’ view of the tension
between varieties of the language, it is clear that tension does exist, with the
members of social groups within one locality, and the collective memberships of
diVerent regional communities, interacting to share, or to emphasize as distinct,
their own especial variants. Studying that variation today, we are provided with
both a window on the past and a means by which we might better understand
what has spurred English on to change over the centuries.
330 clive upton
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
Introductory books on regional dialectal variation in Great Britain include Trudgill et al.
(2005), Upton and Widdowson (1996), and Trudgill (1999b): these illustrate many of the
preoccupations and insights of dialectology and explain concepts, terms, and techniques
usedinthestudyofdialects,whilstanalysingdialectdatacollectedfromavarietyofpractical
investigations. The chapter on dialects and accents in O’Donnell and Todd (1992) also
provides valuable information and insights whilst remaining very accessible to the early
enquirer into the subject. For a more technical overview of the principles behind the study
of variation in English speech, the reader can do no better than to consult Chambers and
Trudgill (1998), which discusses materials and methods associated with the study of
variation in both regional and social dimensions. Also valuable as technical handbooks,
with varying degrees of concentration on the British regional dimension and the historical
perspective, are Wakelin (1977), Davis (1983), and Francis (1983).
The beginnings of formal dialectology
Indispensable to anyone going on to venture deeply into traditional British English
speech is access to the Wndings of the major regional dialect surveys of the nineteenth
century. Wright’s Dialect Dictionary of 1898–1905, and the appended Grammar of 1905,
from the Preface of which the opening quotation of this chapter is taken, remain sources
of much reliable information not only for England but also for parts of Scotland, Wales,
and Ireland, even though it is now a century old and focuses on speech current from the
early eighteenth century onwards. The publications of the English Dialect Society, which
provided the essential source material for Wright, and of which Robinson (1876) is a
particular example, provide additional material, of variable quality but ultimately of
undoubted value to those concerned with the historical development of the language in
the various regions: they also provide insights into the enthusiasms of members of the
Society, and show what can be accomplished by committed amateurs in the Weld.
Although less accessible than Wright, by virtue of its compilation in an age before the
advent of the International Phonetic Alphabet, the pioneering pronunciation work of
Ellis (1889) rewards the intrepid student with very many essential insights into nine-
teenth-century regional phonology. Important monographs from the earlier part of the
twentieth century, since they can be seen as directly sowing the seeds of the Survey of
English Dialects, are Dieth (1932) and Orton (1933). Wakelin (1977) provides an accessible
yet scholarly introduction to this formative period in dialect enquiry, as does Chambers
and Trudgill (1998) in more general terms.
Modern dialect surveys
Original and more modern Weldwork data collected on a large scale are now available for
all the national regions of the British Isles. Mather and Spietel (1975–86) provide very
modern regional english in the british isles 331
detailed survey-derived data for Scotland from the middle of the twentieth century.
Fieldwork data, with accompanying analysis, is provided for English in Wales by Parry
(n.d. [1977], 1979, 1999). Dieth and Orton (1962) and Orton et al. (1962–71) give access to
the very detailed raw data of the Survey of English Dialects, which covers the English
counties and a small part of south-east Wales, whilst Upton et al. (1994), in drawing
together its diVuse lexical and grammatical information, provides a digest and also acts
as a thesaurus to the larger work. Extracts of recordings from the Survey, set alongside
others from the Millennium Memory Bank project to aVord the possibility of real-time
comparison of local speech at the mid- and end-points of the twentieth century, can be
heard in the English Accents and Dialects collection of the British Library’s Collect
Britain website <http://www.collectbritain.co.uk/collections/dialects/>, where accom-
panying notes are also provided. The website for the BBC’s Voices 2005 project may
also be of interest: see <http://www.bbc.co.uk/voices/>. Some survey material for Ireland
is available in Barry (1981, 1982), although this is brief and restricted in geographical
range: Hickey (2004) gives the user access to very detailed and up-to-date information on
Irish English.
The ‘dialect area’
A wide variety of atlases present the Wndings of the Survey of English Dialects carto-
graphically: Orton and Wright (1974) and Orton et al. (1978) interpret much of
the Survey’s data in map form; further SED mapping, using a wide range of techniques
to highlight various issues of geographical distribution of features in England, and
doing so with varying degrees of technical complexity, is available in Kolb (1979),
Anderson (1987), Upton et al. (1987), Viereck with Ramisch (1991, 1997), and Upton
and Widdowson (1996). Parry (1999) contains Survey of Anglo-Welsh Dialects maps
directly in the tradition of Orton et al. (1978), and, since the SAWD data are directly
comparable with those of SED, permits the mapping of features across the Wales–
England border. It should be noted, however, that although a number of these atlases
are isoglossic, the lines which they contain do not imply the existence of areas within
which features are contained. Trudgill (1999) does use the concept of the ‘dialect area’ in
order usefully to discuss basic feature distributions in an elementary book, and the
impression might be gained that such areas are a reality. That this is not so is manifest
from the ‘mixing and fudging’ discussions in Chambers and Trudgill (1998) and Upton
(1995). A critique of the whole dialect area concept is to be found in Davis et al. (1997).
There are a few specialized isoglossic dialect maps relating to Irish English variation in
Barry (1981). However, the Linguistic Survey of Scotland (Mather and Spietel 1975–86),
which, as well as covering Scotland takes in Northern Ireland features and those in the
extreme north of England, makes use of overlaying hachuring as a technique, and in
doing so demonstrates the fuzziness of boundaries.
332 clive upton
Types of variation: pronunciation, vocabulary, and grammar
General overviews of aspects of modern speech variation are available at diVerent
scholarly levels. Trudgill (1984) ranges especially widely in the essays of a variety of
authorities, while Trudgill et al. (2005), which has an accompanying audio cassette,
provides a most accessible summary of salient features of a wide range of vernacular
dialects. For pronunciation only, a core text for information is the second volume of
Wells (1982), in which all the British regions are treated in some detail. Foulkes and
Docherty (1999), in addition to detailed descriptions of the accents of very many major
urban centres of Britain, contains an exploration of a wide range of sociolinguistic issues
attendant on modern dialectological preoccupations. Trudgill and Chambers (1991)
provides papers by major practitioners on aspects of non-standard dialect grammar
within Britain and beyond. Concentrating on both phonology and grammar, Kortmann
et al. (2004) contains chapters on all regions; these are accompanied by a CD-Rom and
website and form part of a series detailing accents and grammar of English world-wide.
Also very wide-ranging globally is Cheshire (1991). Milroy and Gordon (2003) contains a
wealth of instruction on the principles and practices of the discipline of sociolinguistics.
Additional to the material of the regionally-conceived Linguistic Survey of Scotland,
many aspects of present-day and older Scots are detailed in papers in Corbett et al. (2003),
where those by Macafee, Miller, and Stuart-Smith concentrate respectively on the vocabu-
lary,grammar,andpronunciationofmodernScots.OtherauthoritativeworksonScotsand
Scottish English include Romaine (1982), Görlach (1985), and Fenton and MacDonald
(1994).TheScottishNationalDictionary(GrantandMurison1931–76)isanessentialtoolfor
the student of the Scottish lexicon, for which see also Macafee (1994). Wide-ranging essays
on Irish English are available in Ó Baoill (1985) and Kallen (1997), while Todd (1999) gives a
most accessible overview of northern and southern varieties in the round. Filppula (1999)
provides a quite comprehensive grammar of the varieties to be found in Ireland. Detailed
study of the interaction of speech and social networks in Belfast, carried out in the 1970s by
J. and L. Milroy, along with much else concerning social variation in English, is reported on
most accessibly in Chambers (2003). Besides the work of Parry, also closely associated with
the Surveyof Anglo-Welsh Dialects is Penhallurick (1991); Coupland (1988) provides social
dialectological insight into a very major variety of Welsh English. A wide range of such
sociolinguistic commentary is available for varieties in England: among the most recent of
these furnishing material for this chapter can be cited Kerswill and Williams (1999), Beal
(2000), Watt and Tillotson (2001), and Watt (2002). The phenomenon dubbed ‘Estuary
English’ (see further Chapter 13) is much discussed both in the media and some more
serious forums: one of the most useful critiques among the latter is that of Przedlacka
(2002).InformationonthemostmodernformofReceivedPronunciation,thesocialaccent
which is inevitably to be used as a touchstone from time to time in the description of other
accents, is to be found in Upton et al. (2001).
modern regional english in the british isles 333
12
ENGLISH AMONG THE
LANGUAGES
Richard W. Bailey
MULTILINGUALISM is, and has been, a normal part of social life for most
people, both now and in the past. Modern multilinguals look with surprise
on those who believe that a single language will serve them better than several,
and they can hardly imagine so isolated an existence as implied by one language
or barely believe that monolinguals can be satisWed by talking to people identical,
more or less, to themselves.
English is (and has been) one language among many, and this chapter intro-
duces readers to some of the interactions between English and other languages,
focusing on the period between the later Renaissance and modern English
(although earlier aspects of this pattern of interaction will also be examined
too). The ebb and Xow of enthusiasm for other languages within the anglophone
community is a tale of profound cultural importance for this history of English.
Yet both sides of the linguistic divide are important. In Britain, abroad has been
seen as sometimes repugnant, sometimes frightening—‘that beastly abroad’,
wrote one nineteenth-century novelist quoted by the OED. Mistrust and suspi-
cion is not the exclusive property of English-speakers, however. English, as seen
by those who did not acquire it as a mother tongue, has been characterized in an
astonishing variety of ways: unimportant, invasive, empowering, destructive are
among the words used to describe it.
how many languages do you need?
In the past, heightened social value accrued around the possession of more
languages than one. The Bible, for example, relates a linguistic miracle that
took place in the Wrst century ad when the followers of Jesus suddenly
became Xuent in languages of the many visitors to (and residents of) Jerusa-
lem. This involved no fewer than Wfteen languages. The surprise, as reported
in Acts 2:4–12, was the clarity of the speech of those miraculously made
Xuent, a startling improvement on the halting approximations or pidgin
contact languages which had been usual in that multilingual city. Even if
this story is regarded as metaphorical rather than historical, it presumes a
culture in which a diversity of languages is entirely normal. As Stephen of
Hungary counselled his successor in the eleventh century, ‘The utility of
foreigners and guests is so great that they can be given a place of sixth
importance among the royal ornaments’. Moreover, he added, ‘a country
uniWed in language and customs is fragile and weak’.1
Stephen’s view seems
to have been commonplace in political thinking at the time that English
emerged as a distinct language within the cluster of West Germanic dialects.
As Matthew Townend has reminded us in Chapter 3 of this volume (see p. 62),
Bede began his Ecclesiastical History of the English Peoples by describing the
linguistic riches of eighth-century Britain and celebrating the fact that Wve
languages were in use. Until quite recently, the prevailing opinion has been
the more languages, the better.
Old-fashioned language histories have often endeavoured to look at a ‘na-
tional’ language as if it were a single (and triumphant) result of some Darwinian
process of selection. This view ignores the abundance of languages and language
varieties except insofar as they were swept up and carried forward by the
inevitable rise of the national ‘standard.’ More recently, approaches to the ‘ecol-
ogy’ of communities have instead demonstrated the value of describing the facts
of language life for all people living in earlier times and places. People at the
interface of two (or more) languages ‘accommodate’ to each other and thus
create new linguistic identities. Twenty-Wrst-century society is not so diVerent to
those of earlier times; the many languages of Manchester or Miami, Cape Town
or Canberra, can easily be matched in the much smaller settlements of medieval
1
See O. Jászi, The Dissolution of the Habsburg Monarchy (Chicago: The University of Chicago Press,
1929), 39.
english among the languages 335
Colchester or renaissance CardiV. In all of these communities, a dynamic inter-
action among languages (and dialects) produced new forms of expression. In
recognizing that the past is often like the present, we need to search backwards for
evidence of this process of accommodation.
traversing language boundaries
Before written records became common, it is diYcult to discern just what balance
among languages might have been struck in the early history of the British
Isles. Place-names, as already indicated (see p. 325), can still attest the kinds of
linguistic layering which often took place. London, for example, traces its own
history into English from the Latin Londoninium, which is itself supposed to be
based on a Celtic personal or tribal name, Londinos. The name of Weston super
Mare on the Somerset coast reveals that the Latin-speakers who came there
wanted to distinguish among Westons. This one overlooks the sea (and its Wnal
element derives from Latin mare); Weston-under-Penyard in nearby Hereford-
shire lies under a hill (which bears a Welsh name). Chapters 2 and 3 have
addressed the complex multilingualism of Anglo-Saxon England. Old English
already had a word for the crucial social role of the translator—wealhstod—who
stood at the interface of two languages; in A
elfric’s Life of King Oswold, King
Oswold of Northumbria (bilingual in Gaelic and Northumbrian) is hence the
wealhstod for the Gaelic-speaking Bishop Aidan of Scotland who was to convert
the Northumbrians to Christianity (aided by the linguistic skills of the king
himself). In Middle English too, as Chapters 3 and 4 have stressed, multilingual-
ism remained a signiWcant fact about language use in Britain (even though,
following the Norman Conquest, the individual language components of such
multilingualism had decisively changed). DiVerent languages also clearly took on
diVerent social values, and the linguistic situation was evidently far more com-
plex than that later articulated in Sir Walter Scott’s Ivanhoe (1819). In that novel,
the ‘boors and serfs’ use Germanic terms for the animals they tend (like deer,
pig, and sheep), while the swaggering French use Romance words for the
meat they ate after the slaughter (venison, pork, and mutton). In post-Conquest
Britain, new words also emerged for those who mediated across the boundaries
which languages could create: latimer (Wrst used in LaZamon’s Brut in the early
thirteenth century), followed by translator (a1392), and later by drugeman (c1400
>dragoman). In early modern English still other terms were introduced for the
bilingual facilitator: truchman (1485) and linguister (a1649).
336 richard w. bailey
Fourteenth-century texts can often reveal a complex interface of languages.
English, for example, could be directly embedded in Latin texts, particularly
those prepared for the use of persons in religious orders who were Xuent in both
languages. In many of these, the English selections included proverbs, asides, and
expansive metaphors, as in the following example:
5
Iam dierum nesciunt quid et quomodo vellent habere formam vestimentorum suorum in
eo quod habent vestimenta sua contra naturam, for-qwy it is a meruell to se a catt with
two tallys, bot now a man or a woman will haue two talles, and yt is more meruell, for a
woman wyll haue a tayll a-fore oV her scho and anoder byhynd oV hyr gone. A man wyll
haue two qwellbarowys oV hys schowdyrs. Set certe Deus non sic creavit hominem set
adymaginem suam, et ipse not habet talia, scio.
(‘Nowadays they don’t know what and how they want to have the shape of their clothes,
because they have clothes against [the law of] nature. For it is a marvel to see a cat with
two tails, but now a man or woman will have two tails, and it is an even greater marvel,
for a woman will have a tail in front of her shoe and another behind her gown. A man will
have two wheelbarrows oV his shoulders. But surely God did not create man thus but
rather in his own image, and he does not have such things as far as I know’.)
Here the rant about fashion—tails and barrows in lines 3, 4, and 5 are methods of
cutting and piecing fabric—has a ‘low’ element which is, in fact, typical of these
mixed-language texts. English is the ‘slangy’ language; Latin is the vehicle for
serious business. Two other English insertions in this sermon quote a tapster and
a glutton. In both cases, English is the language of silliness and sin.
Fifteenth-century account books kept for London Bridge similarly show a fully
integrated mixture of English, Latin, and French. Business records of this sort
were often composed in this way.
It ‘Thome Mede Pyle dryver opant’ in quadrando scindendo & dirigendo lez pyles hoc a8
inWx in opibz aquaticis pro defensione Xuxus & reXuxus aquae ab opibz lapideis tam
circa peram noui turris lapidei versus Wnem australem pontis’ hoc anno circūlus’ cum
piles qa
m in diu’s alijs locis . . .
(‘And to Thomas Mede piledriver working in squaring cutting and guiding the piles this
year Wxed in the water works for defence of the stone work from the ebb and Xow of the
water both around the pier of the new stone tower towards the southern end of the bridge
encircled this year with piles and in diverse other places’.)
This entry, made in 1471–2, invites speculation that its three languages were in
use along the Thames, not just by clerks who kept the accounts but also by
mariners and other workers who communicated with each other across linguistic
boundaries.
english among the languages 337
linguistic encounters
Away from south-east England, the ecology of languages had taken diVerent
forms. Dutch merchants, for example, settled in the east of Scotland, from
Edinburgh north to Aberdeen, and traded with Antwerp, Ghent, and Bruges.
In 1475, Flemish weavers formed a corporation in Edinburgh, and earlier Dutch
military engineers had designed a catapult for use by the Scots against the
English. Most of the words that were borrowed by the Scots from Dutch had,
however, little currency outside Scotland; the great exception to this generaliza-
tion is golf (<Middle Dutch kolf ). Farther north, in Shetland, another kind of
multilingual community emerged, involving Norn (the variety of Norwegian
spoken in Orkney, Shetland, and northern Scotland), English, and Dutch after
the construction of a naval base by the Dutch to protect their herring Xeet.
Multilingualism could, of course, be met with resistance. As English military and
political power increased, eVorts were made to put down the use of other
‘national’ languages within Britain. In 1366, the statutes of Kilkenny required
that in Ireland, descendants of English migrants should abandon the use of
Gaelic on penalty of forfeiture of their property. (This law also forbade ‘fostering
of children, concubinage or amour’ between English men and Irish women.) In
Wales, in 1536, Welsh speakers were expelled from positions of power: ‘from
hence forth no person or persons that use the Welsh speech or language shall have
or enjoy any manner oYce or fees . . . unless he or they use and exercise the
English speech or language’ (27 Henry VIII 20). In Cornwall, in 1549, Cornish
people were compelled to become Protestants but denied liturgy in their own
language; proponents of the law asserted that the Cornish should not complain
since they had not understood services in Latin and so should be content not to
understand them in English. In Scotland, through the ‘Statutes of Iona’ in 1609,
the London parliament required inhabitants of the Western Isles worth the value
of sixty cattle to put their sons (or, lacking sons, daughters) to school in English
until they should be able to speak, read, and write the language ‘suYcientlie’.
EVorts like these reXect an emerging intolerance for multilingualism, but none of
these laws had an immediate and radically transforming eVect on the language
ecology of Ireland, Wales, Cornwall, and Scotland. Over the long-term, however,
English overwhelmed these other languages, as Chapter 13 will further discuss.
Early modern English, as the examples above suggest, rested on a complex
foundation of both multilingual practice and attitude. Many of the books
which Caxton printed in the late Wfteenth-century were, for instance, transla-
338 richard w. bailey
tions of Latin, Dutch, and French texts so that readers not adept in these
languages could have access to them. Because he was eager for commercial
success, Caxton printed the works he believed would be most popular, and he
printed them in a form of English that he thought would reach the widest
audience. Thus, as Chapter 5 has noted, printing became a force for uniform-
ity, privileging not just English per se but certain kinds of English. On the other
hand, such an account leaves out the importance of languages other than
English in the early book trade. Caxton imported books in foreign languages
from abroad to sell in Britain, and, of some ninety that he published in
London, sixteen were in languages other than English. Commercially, Caxton
and his immediate successors had a good sense of what would sell, and they
did not limit their productions to English. Technically, these printers were not
innovators, however, and they lagged behind their continental competitors.
Not until 1519 were Greek types employed. Hebrew and Arabic faces followed
much later in 1592 and 1617 respectively. But England was not wholly indiVer-
ent to innovation. With a revived interest in the national past, antiquarians
commissioned Anglo-Saxon types in 1567, and in 1571 Elizabeth I ordered the
creation of an Irish face which was sent to Dublin so that a catechism could be
printed in Gaelic. All of this activity is good evidence that there was a demand
for books published in languages other than English.
In commercial and legal writing, French and Latin remained essential lan-
guages for practitioners even if none of the litigants or lawyers used these
languages in speech. As a result, mixed-language texts continued to be composed
in early modern English, as in the following examples of depositions from
(respectively) 1514 and 1570:
1514. unus egipcius sibi publice dixit tuam fortunam congoscis for he that stantith by the
schold jape the iii tymes er thou goo to thy bedd to thi husband. Et hoc allegat probare.
(‘A gypsy said publicly to her, You know your fortune, for he that stands beside you
should fuck you three times before you go to your bed to your husband. And she oVers to
prove this’.)
1570. Margaria nicolson singlewoman contra agnete blenkinsop vxor Robert in causa
diVamacinois videlicet hyte hoore a whipe and a cra cart/ and a franc hoode/ waies
me for
ye
my lasse wenst haue a halpeny halter for
ye
to goo vp gallygait & be
hanged/
(‘Margaret Nicolson, spinster, against Agnete Blenkinsop, wife of Robert, in a case of
defamation, namely that she should be whipped behind a cart and [she was] a ‘French
hood.’ ‘Woe is me, my lass, do you want a halfpenny noose for you to go up to the
Gallowgate and be hanged’.)
english among the languages 339
Scriveners who recorded these statements faced a demanding task of balancing
the (increasingly conventional) Latin frame of the proceeding with the literal
transcript (in English) of what had been said.
In the early modern period, London continued to be a magnet for migration,
and many migrants spoke languages other than English. Interpreters must have
had plenty to do on the interfaces of these languages—even though they seldom
come to the foreground in the written records. Diplomatic and royal visits from
abroad brought crowds of foreigners—especially from France and Spain—and
these occasions too required translators. Trade with Germany, the Baltic nations,
and Russia increased, and these contacts in turn left marks on the vocabulary of
English—for instance, beluga (‘whale’), severuga (‘sturgeon’), and tsar (‘ruler’),
all words borrowed from Russian in the sixteenth century.
english out and about
One of the great ‘facts’ about English in the early modern period is that the
language was used in exploration and conquest, and it is usual in histories of the
language to display for admiration and wonder the exotic borrowings into the
native tongue from languages spoken at a great distance from Britain. What is
seldom made prominent in these conventional histories is that these explorings
Wrst took place nearly a century after the beginning of European expansionism; in
this respect, the English followed the Spanish and the Portuguese (for instance)
with a series of freebooting raids on the principle that it was easier to steal from
the riches looted from the new world after they had been accumulated by other
Europeans rather than competing for treasures on the ground. Precisely the same
idea illuminates the empire of words. It was far easier for English people to pluck
new (and exotic) vocabulary from Latin, Spanish, or Portuguese books once the
sharp edges of its foreignness had, in a sense, already been rubbed oV. Nearly all
the famously ‘American’ words come into English from one of these languages—
for example, chocolate, maize, potato, and tomato.
go-betweens
A representative Wgure in this late-coming expansion of English is the mariner
John Hawkins whose exploits were celebrated and generously rewarded in his
340 richard w. bailey
lifetime (Figure 12.1). On his Wrst voyage in 1562–63, he sailed to the west coast of
Africa where he captured two Portuguese vessels and their cargo of human
beings. These captives he transported to Hispaniola and sold as slaves to the
Spanish; he returned to England with goods which were sold for a great proWt.
His subsequent voyages were similarly successful (and unscrupulous), and they
Fig. 12.1. The crest of John Hawkins (1532–1595), who pioneered the triangular trade
that connected England, Africa, and the Americas. In 1562–63, he kidnapped some
Africans who had been enslaved by the Portuguese, sold them to the Spanish in the
New World, and returned to England flush with profit. After a second, and similarly
successful, voyage, he was granted the coat of arms reproduced above. It shows the British
lion bestriding the waves, and the crest, above, a ‘demi-Moor, or negro’ chained. Free-
booting by Hawkins and those who followed in the slave trade profoundly changed the
mixture of languages into which England had become immersed.
Source:ReproducedbypermissionoftheCollegeofArms,MSMiscellaneousGrants1,f.148.
english among the languages 341
occurred both before and after the defeat of the Spanish armada in 1588, a naval
action in which he was celebrated for serving. From the viewpoint of multilin-
gualism, however, Hawkins is perhaps not so interesting a Wgure as those who
accompanied him on his travels and who could speak the Portuguese, Spanish,
and other European languages required for the success of the expeditions. Even
more interesting are those who bridged the gap between the Europeans and these
newly encountered African people.
One such gap-bridger—although a man not celebrated for truthfulness—is
David Ingram, a sailor from Essex who accompanied Hawkins on his third voyage
of 1567. On this occasion, Hawkins’ vessels were surprised by a Spanish force near
Veracruz in Mexico, and only two small ships of Hawkins’ Xotilla remained to
bring the survivors back to England. Given the crowding and lack of provisions, a
hundred men were set on shore and left to fend for themselves. Most went south.
Ingram and two companions went north. The three of them claimed to have
walked through the heart of North America, arriving one year later at Cape
Breton (in what is modern-day Canada) where they found a French vessel to
bring them back to Europe. While there seems to have been some scepticism
about this tale at the time—the British geographer Richard Hakluyt published
Ingram’s Relation of his journey in his own anthology of travel writings, The
Principal Navigations, Voyages and Discoveries of the English Nation (1589), and
then dropped it from the 1599 edition—much of what Ingram wrote was plausible
and even convincing. (His references to abundant silver, crystal, and rubies may
have been invented to foster investment in further travel to the new lands.)
Attention to language in Ingram’s report reveals what a late sixteenth-century
audience would expect to hear on the subject. Like most of his contemporaries,
Ingram supposed that only one language was spoken by the inhabitants of this
vast (and richly multilingual) territory. If he had actually been there, he would
have known better. Six sample words are listed and glossed to represent ‘the
language of some of the Countreis’: gwando (‘a word of salutation’), caricona (‘a
king’), caraccona (‘a lord’), fona (‘bread’), carmugnar (‘the privities’), kerucca
(‘the sun’). These seem hardly suYcient to have facilitated the long walk, and they
provide no deWnite impression of the nature of the cultural encounter. In fact,
these six ‘Welsh-sounding ‘‘Indian’’ words’ were intended to give authenticity to
Ingram’s tale—among the theories of origin of the North Americans was that they
were a lost tribe of Welsh. But Ingram’s story almost immediately struck many
readers as bogus.2
These ‘Indian’ words were, however, plausible to his readers.
2
See D. B. Quinn, Explorers and Colonies: America, 1500–1625 (London: The Hambleton Press,
1990), 404.
342 richard w. bailey
One European word Ingram uses is authentically connected with the new
world—cannibal:
The people in those Countreys are professed enemies to the Canibals or men eaters: The
Canibals do most inhabite betweene Norumbega, & Bariniah, they haue teeth like dogs
teeth, and thereby you may know them.
Cannibal was a word introduced into colonial discourse by Columbus himself,
and its origin is squarely American since it is a borrowing into Spanish of the
Arawak word caniba (‘person’). As an etymologist with a cause, Columbus
connected caniba with khan and declared that the Caribs were none other than
‘la gente del Gran Can,’ that is, the people of the Grand Khan, whose rich palaces
and mines lay just over the horizon.
Thus Ingram’s Relation oVers an example of a meandering route by which
many expressions from the Americas entered English. Reported by Columbus,
caniba gained a Spanish form, Canibales, and then a neo-Latin one: Canibalis.
The word arrived in English in 1553 in a translation into English of travel writings
composed by a German and published in Latin.
ScientiWc study of American languages began at the same time that Ingram’s
Relation became known. Thomas Harriot, an Elizabethan genius, was assigned as
‘geographer’ in an expedition to Roanoke (in present-day North Carolina).
Harriot had already learned some Algonquian from two Amerindian men who
had been brought to England for a short visit in 1584, and he went to Roanoke
equipped, according to a note he jotted down later, with the sentence: Kecow hit
tamen or ‘What is this?’. After a year in America during 1585–6, Harriot had
devised a sophisticated orthography and become Xuent in the language. On his
return, he composed A Briefe and True Report of the New Found Land of Virginia
which was published separately and then incorporated into Hakluyt’s anthology
of Navigations. This work printed two words that are attested in the OED as Wrst
used in the Report : cushaw (‘a kind of squash’) and werowance (‘a chief’).
Evidence of this kind gives a very misleading picture of the multilingual world
of English and the key Wgures in it: the bilinguals. English empire building in the
sixteenth century was often hasty and opportunistic. On the continent, the
empire builders took a longer view. The Portuguese, for example, exiled men
to West Africa where they were expected to father bilingual children who, as
grown-ups, could be employed as translators. Before his 1517 expedition to the
Yucatan peninsula in search of the Mayan civilization, the Spanish conquistador
Hernan Cortés (Captain-General of the Armada) similarly sought out Spanish
castaways who had been abandoned in the Yucatan long enough to become Xuent
in Maya. In 1536, the French Explorer of the St Lawrence, Jacques Cartier, left two
english among the languages 343
boys behind; if they survived, they would be turned into translators. English
colonists beneWted from such persons, though not in so calculated a way. In 1613,
an East India Company vessel kidnapped two ‘Souldanians’ from the Cape of
Good Hope for training as intermediaries. Cory, the one who survived, Xour-
ished as a translator from his return to southern Africa in 1614 until his death in
1627. One nearly contemporary report characterized Cory’s pitiful homesickness
during his residence in London: ‘For when he had learned a little of our
Language, he would daily lie upon the ground, and cry very often thus in broken
English: Cooree home go, Souldania go, home go’.
Usually, however, the appearance of translators was the result of accident
rather than policy. In 1621, three months after their arrival in what is now
Massachusetts, a man emerged from the forest speaking Xuent English and
oVering assistance to the Pilgrims. He was Tisquantum, a native of the area
who had earlier been kidnapped by the English, sold into slavery in Spain,
emancipated to London, and returned to New England.
As traYc increased, so did the number of bilinguals. Describing his travels to
the east, another adventurer, Peter Mundy, gave currency to words associated
with China. Unlike many travellers, he described the translators who had helped
him and his companions:
The aforesaid interpreter was a Chincheo, runaway From the Portugalls att our beeing att
Macao, who spake a little bad language. There is another Named Antonio, A Capher
Eathiopian Abissin, or Curled head, thatt came to and Froe aboutt Messages as inter-
preter, little better then the other, runawaie allsoe From the Portugalls to the Chinois, it
being an ordinary Matter For slaves on some Discontent or other to run away From their
Masters; and beeing among the Chinois they are saVe, who make use of their service.
This report—describing events in 1637—does not make it clear just where the
linguistic shortcomings of these translators lay, whether in their Portuguese or
their Cantonese (the language of Macao). What is signiWcant, however, is that both
men were out of place. The Wrst was from Fukien province (‘Cincheo’) which had
suVered an imperial decree closing its maritime trade with the consequence that its
ambitious people were dispersed all over south-east Asia. The second translator
was, if anything, even farther from home since he was a sub-Saharan African and
thus both racially and linguistically isolated. People like these two, living on the
culturaldivide,lubricate the surfaces of the languagesin contact and helpthemrub
oV on each other. Without the misplaced Chinese translator and the multilingual
helper from southern Africa, the English would have been almost entirely helpless.
Not all these expeditions were commercial or political. The early modern era
witnessed vigorous eVorts to convert native peoples to Christian practices. One
344 richard w. bailey
such missionary, Roger Williams, the founder of Rhode Island, had arrived in
New England in 1631. Almost immediately he set out to learn the local language
and in 1643 he published (in London) his Key into the Language of America. Full
of information about cultural contact, this little book shows the inXuence of an
ardent Puritan on a willing convert. Using the familiar trope of the death-bed
confession, Williams described the last days of his friend Wequash, a Pequot: ‘He
replyed in broken English: Me so big naughty Heart, me heart all one stone! . . . I
had many discourses with him on his Life, but this was the summe of our last
parting untill our generall meeting’. Throughout his book, Williams shows deep
respect for native peoples and even upbraids the English for lacking the gener-
osity he sometimes found among them.
Another of the remarkable early eVorts at Christian evangelism was the hard
work of John Eliot, a Puritan minister, who learned the Algonquian language of
Massachusetts Bay, and, with the help of a convert, translated the entire Bible
(from Genesis to Revelation), publishing it in 1663. Eliot faced enormous diY-
culties in making the cultural context accessible, and to do so he relied frequently
on inserting English loanwords into Algonquian:
Kah Saboth paumushaumoouk, Mary Magdelene, kah Mary okasoh James kah Salome,
taphumwog weetemunge spicesash, onk peyaog, kah wuilissequnouh.
(‘And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and
Salome, had bought sweet spices, that they might come and anoint him’ Mark 16:1.)
The names in this selection make it look more ‘English’ than it really is, but the
borrowings of sabbath and spices are clearly apparent, and the paratactic style of
the English source (with linkages using kah ‘and’) is exported to the translation.
While only a handful of Native Americans became deeply literate in their own
language, many preachers—both English and Native—became Xuent in preach-
ing and reading aloud. Even the most casual encounters with this kind of
language introduced ideas about literacy and the value of written documents
where they had not been known before.
These eVorts took place at a time when the prevailing opinion among the
English was that they were especially skilful at learning new languages and eager
to bring home the linguistic ‘treasures’ found abroad. Writing at the very
beginning of English expansionism outside Europe, Richard Carew, a poet and
antiquarian whose work has already been discussed in Chapter 8, celebrated this
genius for acquiring languages: ‘. . . turne an Englishman at any time of his age
into what countrie soever allowing him due respite, and you shall see him proWt
so well that the imitation of his utterance, will in nothing diVer from the patterne
english among the languages 345
of that native language’. Williams, Eliot, and many other migrants deserved the
praise that Carew oVered them.
english expands
The boundary between early and late modern English is not marked by any event
as memorable as the Conquest in 1066 by the Norman French or the introduction
of printing in 1476. In most histories of the language, the boundary of 1700 has
been chosen partly because of the roundness of the number, and partly because
historians discern in the death of the poet John Dryden (who died in that year)
the end of the copiousness of the English renaissance and the commencement of
plain-spoken modernity as represented by a next-generation writer like Joseph
Addison. It is also an era in which the optimism of a Carew about learning
foreign languages sank into the background to be replaced by the notion that
English was spreading around the world and hence was suYcient by itself. As one
anonymous writer wrote in 1766 as he reviewed (and refuted) allegations against
the language:
The last objection that occurs to me at present, is, that our tongue wants universality,
which seems to be an argument against its merit. This is owing to the aVectation of
Englishmen, who prefer any language to their own, and is not to be imputed to a defect in
their native tongue. But the objection, if such it be, is vanishing daily; for I have been
assured, by several ingenious foreigners, that in many places abroad, Italy in particular, it
is become the fashion to study the English Tongue.
It would not be long before the old idea that English people were adept at foreign
languages had been stood on its head. The new idea, emergent in the middle of
the eighteenth century, was that English was destined to be a ‘world language’
and that those who did not gain it as a birthright would learn it as a necessity. Not
until the middle of the nineteenth century, however, was this idea widely em-
braced as part of the orthodoxy of English. Then it developed into a stubborn
resistance to multilingualism that continues, to a lessening extent, down to the
present.
Otherconventionalideas were changingtoo. Adventurersno longerexpected,as
the earlier narratives of Ingram and his contemporaries had promised, that gold,
silver, and rubies could be plucked from the ground (or pilfered from the Spanish).
Adventurers became far less common. It was instead merchants who came to the
centre of the ideas of the multilingual world. And then the bureaucrats.
346 richard w. bailey
Borrowed words from this period tended to become less venturesome and
more commercial. This development can be seen through the perspective of the
market for woven goods, a principal source of export wealth before the mid-
nineteenth century. Early names came from places in England associated with the
production of these weaves: worsted, for instance, from a place in Norfolk, or
kersey from a village in SuVolk. Cultural history can be seen through the growing
internationalization of these names. Here is a selection with the dates of Wrst
occurrence as found in the OED: arras (< Arras ‘a town in northern France’,
1397), holland (1427), calico (< Calicut in India, 1505), brocade (< Spanish, 1556),
mohair (< Arabic, 1570), jersey (< jersey worsted, 1583 <from the Channel Island),
muslin (< Mosul, Iraq, 1609), vicuna (< Spanish, 1622), seersucker (< Persian,
1622), denim (< serge de Nı̂mes, < Nı̂mes ‘a town in southern France’, 1695),
chenille (< French, 1738), astrakhan (<Russian, 1766), cashmere (< Kashmir,
1822), chine (< China through French, 1852), khaki (< Urdu, 1879).
Commerce embedded in colonialism produced yet more inXuence of other
languages on English. In south Asia, the East India Company became John
Company, and the great lexicographers of this part of the empire—Henry Yule
and A. C. Burnell—provided a suitably local etymology for it in their celebrated
Hobson-Jobson: A Glossary of Colloquial Anglo-Indian Words and Phrases, Wrst
published in 1886:
. . . Ithasbeensuggested,butapparentlywithoutrealreason,thatthephraseisacorruption
of Company Jahān, ‘‘which as a Wne sounding smack about it, recalling Shāh Jehānn and
Jehānagı̄r, and the golden age of the Moghuls’’ . . . . And Sir G. Birdwood writes: ‘‘The
earliest coins minted by the English in India were of copper, stamped with a Wgure of the
irradiated lingam,the phallic‘RoiSoleil.’’’Themintageof thiscoin isunknown (?Madras),
but without doubt it must have served to ingratiate us with the natives of the country, and
may have given origin to their personiWcation of the Company under the potent title of
Kumpani Jehan, which, in English mouths, became ‘John Company’.
The relevant entry in the dictionary concedes that these etymological specula-
tions are ‘without real reason’, but these fantastic ideas do connect an obvious
English phrase with the Moguls and, by the puissant symbol of the lingam on the
coin, with the sexual potency of John Company.
commerce in (and about) english
As multilingualism became more specialized, borrowing from other languages
increased. An entry in a minute book prepared in India in 1761 shows that
english among the languages 347
bilingual clerks had integrated many borrowings into English: ‘Abuses of dustucks
by Company’s gomasthas and banians noticed. To prevent it, all dustucks to be
registered and returned after speciWc time’ (‘Abuses of passes by Company’s native
agents and Hindu traders noticed. To prevent it, all passes to be registered and
returned after speciWc time’). In addition to ephemeral loanwords like those
found in this passage, the bureaucratic style had evolved the near total omission
of articles and other ‘small’ grammatical markers and had embraced the passive
voice (in which the grammatical agents become as invisible as John Company’s).
Documents of British India abound with grammatical shortcuts and loanwords of
this kind, and this special ‘insider English’ appeared with nearly equal frequency
in legal papers or commercial transactions among both anglophones and com-
pradors or ‘native agents’ (< Portuguese comprador ‘buyer’ [1615]).
Social roles assigned to native peoples in south Asia produced borrowed words
that gained some enduring usage in the wider community of English: coolie
(‘labourer’), lascar (‘sailor’), nabob (‘person of great wealth and inXuence’),
sepoy (‘soldier’), subahdar (‘oYcer in command of sepoys’).
The technology of international trade also abetted change in English. With the
introduction of the telegram and cablegram, abbreviated commercial communi-
cation gained a new reason for brevity: messages were charged by the number of
words they contained. A solution to this problem was found by the Anglo-
American Code and Cypher Company and published in a dictionary at the end
of the nineteenth century. It contained such entries as Anes (‘Must have answer
immediately’). One four-letter word thus stood for the four ordinary words,
producing a 75 per cent reduction in the cost of sending this message. Such a
saving could only arise in a culture already bent on the idea of brevity and
abbreviation and that had already reduced the eight-word sentence upon which
the four-word version is built: ‘I must have an answer from you immediately’.3
science and english
As ‘natural philosophy’ turned into science, English changed in response to new
impulses. A ‘plain’ style emphasizing nouns expressed the doctrines of the Royal
Society (see p. 240–1), and new thoughts required new terms. On the intersection
of the old and the new ways of expression appeared An Historical Relation of the
3
See further R. W. Bailey, Nineteenth-Century English (Ann Arbor, MI: The University of Michigan
Press, 1996), 59.
348 richard w. bailey
Island Ceylon in the East Indies, published in 1681 under the name of Robert Knox
but strongly inXuenced by the ideas of Robert Hooke, secretary of the Royal
Society. Knox had suVered a ‘Detainment of 19 years 6 months & 14 days’ in
Ceylon, much of it spent in the fastness of Kandy, a city high in the central
mountains which would resist outside colonial inXuence into the nineteenth
century. Knox became Xuent in Sinhalese and acquainted with the customs, Xora,
and fauna of the island. When he was Wnally released from ‘detainment’, he
returned to England with a collection of biological specimens, some of them
preserved in British collections today. As a scientiWcally-minded adventurer,
Knox was a wonderful informant for Hooke who was discouraged by the abysmal
state of systematic knowledge of the natural world, even that which might easily
‘be obtain’d from divers knowing Planters now Residing in London’.
Knox was thus a source of precious knowledge. He himself saw his experience
in terms of religion: exile and estrangement. But Hooke saw the pages of Knox’s
story as opening a world of science: anthropology, geography, plants and animals,
government, religious beliefs. And in helping Knox prepare his story for publi-
cation, Hooke did his best to use the ‘native’ words for the exotic novelties
reported in it: perahera (‘a celebratory procession’), dissava (‘a district gov-
ernor’). Knox’s book is cited 93 times in the OED, and most of the borrowed
words from Sinhalese appear there for the Wrst time: Kittul and talipot (‘kinds of
palm’), wanderoo (‘a kind of monkey’). What is intriguing about this case is that
the new science wanted to use borrowed words to give authenticity to these new
exotica, a far cry from the impulse that had earlier led to the North American
robin having only the slightest resemblance to the European one. (The English
robin is a small linnet; the American one a large thrush.) Having two quite
diVerent birds named with the same word was bad science, and Hooke wanted
to avoid it.
The inXuence of science on the English vocabulary can be traced by an
examination of the elements in the periodic table. The ones known and valued
before the dawn of chemistry have English names (even if they are borrowed at
some early time): gold, silver, lead. The new chemistry produced exotic novelties
inXuenced by Germany and France. Thus cobalt Wrst appears from German in
1683; oxygen from French in 1789; and then, through the principles leading to the
‘International ScientiWc Vocabulary’ based on ‘new’ Latin, to potassium and
sodium coined in 1807 by Humphrey Davy on the foundation of English potash
and soda. As the periodic table Wlled up through discovery or synthesis, word
formation became even more creative—for instance, uranium (1805) from the
name of the planet; lawrencium (1961) from the name of the scientist Ernest
O. Lawrence.
english among the languages 349
What makes these ‘scientiWc’ words of special importance is that their users
abhorred ambiguity and were willing to suVer the jeers of etymologists or the
scorn of the lay public as they used exotic vocabulary. A paraphrase of the slogan
of the founders of the Royal Society shows just how much this kind of English
was (and is) set apart from the usual fortunes of language change—so many
meanings; just so many words.
a various language
On both sides of the anglophone Atlantic, from the mid-eighteenth century
forward, there was, as Chapter 9 has explored, an unprecedented interest in
‘propriety’ and ‘correctness’. Of the 187 books concerned with linguistic eti-
quette published in the anglophone world in the eighteenth century, 32 were
published before 1750 and 155 after. This Xood of new publications, beginning
at mid-century, supported Wnely nuanced judgements about the ‘genius’ of
English and what properly belonged to it. Most attention was devoted to
varieties within the community of English speakers, but commentators were
also fascinated by the ‘otherness’ of the English inXuenced by foreign lan-
guages.
In Jamaica, the African-descended part of the population was of particular
interest, as Edward Long reported in his History of Jamaica in 1774:
The Negroes seem very fond of reduplications, to express a greater or less quantity of
anything; as walky-walky, talky-talky, washy-washy, nappy-nappy, tie-tie, lilly-lilly, fum-
fum; so bug-a-bugs (wood ants); dab-a-dab (an olio made with maize, herrings, and
pepper), bra-bra (another of their dishes), grande-grande (augmentative size, or grand-
eur), and so forth. In their conversations they confound all the moods, tenses, cases, and
conjunctions, without mercy: for example, I surprize (for I am surprized), me glad for see
you (pro, I am glad to see you; how you do (for how d’ye do?), me tank you; me ver well; etc.
Linguistic analysis is not sophisticated here. For instance, fum-fum means a
‘Xogging’ and, like dab-a-dab, is thought by subsequent observers to have been
inXuenced by an African language. Yet the writer recognizes that this is English
‘larded with the Guinea dialect’, and he identiWes particular West African lan-
guages from which some borrowings come.
When usages like these crossed a cultural divide, they became even more a
matter of interest. Here is another observation about Jamaica, this one—by Lady
Nugent—recorded in 1802:
350 richard w. bailey
The Creole language is not conWned to the negroes. Many of the ladies, who have not
been educated in England, speak a sort of broken English, with an indolent drawling out
of their words, that is very tiresome if not disgusting. I stood next to a lady one night,
near a window, and, by way of saying something, remarked that the air was much cooler
than usual; to which she answered, ‘Yes, ma-am, him rail-ly too fra-ish’.
In this example, readers are presumed to know how ‘creole’ sounds: him for it
and a diphthong rather than a simple vowel in really and fresh.
Increased travel and exposure to new voices led to diVerent ideas about what
constituted ‘foreign’ English. So Benjamin Silliman, a young American, toured
Britain in 1805–6, and encountered a youth, the son of an English ‘planter’ in
Tobago, who was on his way to school to be ‘Wnished’. Silliman described the
youth’s English as ‘broken’ and his narrative reveals just how innocent many
English people were about their language as used abroad. A high-table of
Cambridge dons could not be persuaded that Silliman had grown up in New
England since his speech seemed, to them, indistinguishable from that of young
men brought up in south-east England. While ‘creole’ might be recognizable,
most other varieties of English seemed not to rise to cultivated attention.
In the manifesto for romanticism published by William Wordsworth and
Samuel Taylor Coleridge in 1798, there was a declaration that poetic language
ought to be the ‘real language’ of humble people. Though these two poets did not
indulge in dialect verse or draw upon the resources of ‘foreign’ English, others did
so enthusiastically. Maria Edgeworth in Ireland, Walter Scott in Scotland, and
Thomas Chandler Halliburton in Canada all became proliWc and imaginative
writers employing the vernacular. Halliburton is of particular interest because his
cast of characters, performing in New England and Atlantic Canada, was poly-
glot: Dutch, Germans, French, African-Americans, Native Americans. These
voices were assigned to comedy and satire; characters who spoke in ‘accented’
English were often ‘low’ or ‘rustic’. But they were also made articulate in new
ways, and treated as fully human (in comparison to the notions of ‘barbarism’
that had weighed down views of ‘exotic’ foreign languages in earlier times). Such
innovations in literature arose from the romantic idea that language and culture
were intricately linked, and, even if the characters were ‘low’, they might be wise.
In Trinidad in 1844 appeared a vernacular text purporting to be ‘an overheard
conversation’ between ‘a creole of the colony’ and a gentleman who was ‘one of
the Immigrants from North America’:
She—Me Gaad, dis da really big building far true—he big more dan two church—
three chapel and one meeting house put together. What he far, me wonder—St. James
Barracks fool to he. Wha’ go lib dere me want for know.
english among the languages 351
He—Why Marm, I guess as how them Government Folks as are very deceptious in
every country, Britishers as Americans, give out that is intended for a new Government
House and Court House—that may do very well for you, natives—but I reckon I have’nt
been reared in one of the principal Cities of the United States and visited all the other
worth seeing, to be taken in that sort of way. No, I guess this child knows a trick worth
two of that any day, catch a ‘coon asleep and then you’ll Wnd me rather obliverous about
the eye lids—but not afore that I guess.
(The building under discussion turns out to be a penitentiary ‘where they lock up
all the people as is too good to put in a goal, but too bad to be allowed to be at
large in the streets’.) Both of these characters are African-descended, and
‘Eavesdropper’—the pseudonym employed by the reporter of this conversa-
tion—is condescending to them. Yet the American visitor to Trinidad, however
much his pompous speech is characterized by malapropisms, is still the spokes-
person for satire on the ‘deceptious’ nature of governments. And the woman to
whom he speaks is herself capable of wise and sceptical observation: ‘dese
‘Merican people rally speak very droll English, but dey clever people, clever for
true’. In short, there seems to be enough linguistic snobbery to go round.
This mid-nineteenth-century example represents a broad movement within
the English-speaking community for writers to adopt ‘foreign’ accents and
dialects for satiric purposes. Fools and clowns in earlier times had been allowed
considerable liberty for poking oral fun (and even criticizing) the powerful and
their literary descendents began to do the same in print. In the United States
‘Davy Crockett’, a wild frontiersman based on a real person, was developed in the
1830s as a way for the uneducated to mock the pretence of the learned, for the
‘westerners’ to assert themselves against the patricians of the Atlantic-coastal
cities, and for the exuberant to shame those who were hidebound by their own
gentility. Most of these voices were presented in newspapers, and most of them
are now forgotten—except, perhaps, for their extraordinary pseudonyms: Josiah
Allen’s Wife, Bill Arp, Josh Billings, Hans Breitmann, Sut Lovingood, Petroleum
Vesuvius Nasby, Carl Pretzel, Seba Smith. Except for just one of these subversive
humorists, Mark Twain, none are commonly read nowadays, but the American
example of this work inspired imitation elsewhere, particularly in late nine-
teenth-century Scotland where newspaper humour in the vernacular was also
the mouthpiece for a variety of causes—anti-Imperial critiques, advocacy of the
working class, anti-clericalism, and various progressive causes: ‘Oor mere men
buddies in their wise stupidity hae declared that weemen shall hae nae vote . . .’).4
4
See further W. Donaldson, Popular Literature in Victorian Scotland: Language, Fiction, and the
Press (Aberdeen: Aberdeen University Press, 1986), 183.
352 richard w. bailey
Here the satirist, a woman, uses the vernacular (and an oxymoron) to denounce
the pig-headedness of men. In the twentieth century, this use of the distinctive
Scots vernacular became part of a nationalist programme to celebrate Scotland
and decry the inXuence of south-eastern English culture on it.
Of course the voices of the ‘foreign’ could also be held up for ridicule, as in, for
instance, Charles G. Leland’s Pidgin-English Sing-Song (1900) or Arnold Wright’s
Babu English as ’tis Writ (1891). Publications like these are deeply stained with the
taint of racial superiority, but nowadays they seem less oVensive than quixotic in
their belief that only some forms of English were worthy of respect. At the same
time, there was a developing taste for dialect humour in the music halls and
vaudeville theatres, and guides appeared so that amateurs could also join in the
fun, as in The Dime Dialect Speaker: A ‘Talking’ Collection of Irish, German-
English, Cockney, Negro, Yankee, and Western Vernacular Speeches (1879). As never
before, the copious variety of voices became the vehicle for humour and satire.
english international, ltd.
As for the view of English beyond Britain, the tentative optimism of the eight-
eenth century gave way to a new view of ‘global English’, an outlook in which
conWdence turned into triumphalism. A turning-point in this emergent idea
occurred in January 1851 when the great philologist Jacob Grimm declared to
the Royal Academy in Berlin that English ‘may be called justly a language of
the world: and seems, like the English nation, to be destined to reign in future
with still more extensive sway over all parts of the globe’. Soon translated from
German to English, Grimm’s opinion became a commonplace and the math-
ematically-minded computed the increase, both biological and cultural, that
would lead English to sweep around the world. Dozens of comments expressed
this wisdom: ‘The English tongue has become a rank polyglot, and is spreading
over the earth like some hardy plant whose seed is sown by the wind’, as Ralcy
Husted Bell wrote in 1909.5
Such views led to a new perspective on multilingual-
ism: those who did not know English should set promptly about learning it! As
later chapters in this volume further explore, English-speakers did not need to
Wnd a niche in the multilingual world; they could, instead, bestride it.
5
R. H. Bell, The Changing Values of English Speech (New York: Hinds, Noble and Eldredge,
1909), 35.
english among the languages 353
One linguistic consequence of this ideological change was to reduce the import-
ation of borrowed words into English. Various factors make it diYcult to be
precise about this development since there are diYcult questions when some
words enter the language, Wnd few users, and survive only in dictionaries. But
one can gain an impression of what happened by consulting the enduring new
words introduced into English decade by decade. In the Wrst ten years of the
twentieth century, such words as these appeared: adrenaline (like television,
representing the nomenclature of science), aileron (like much of the terminology
of aviation—fuselage, for instance—introduced from French), okapi (like panda
introduced from languages where the creatures were found), and various political
terms that would resonate over the next century (like lebensraum from German
or pogrom from Russian). Words from the 1990s are very rarely borrowed from
other languages; instead, the most common practice is to form words from
existing English elements: babelicious (< babe þ delicious), cybercafé (< cyber
netics þ café), website. Borrowings from foreign languages quickly yielded to
home-grown synonyms: tamagotchi (< Japanese ‘lovable egg’) almost immedi-
ately became cyberpet.
Lexicographers associated with the Oxford English Dictionary have declared
that 90,000 ‘new words’ were introduced in the twentieth century. Only 4,500 of
these ‘new words’ were foreign borrowings. In the twentieth century, while there
came to be far more speakers of English than ever before (see further Chapters 13
and 14), far more of them were multilingual, and far more people were likely to
have their neologisms recorded in a way that would be accessible to lexicog-
raphers. Yet, paradoxically, there were far fewer borrowed words than in any
century since the Norman Conquest. On the other hand, exportation of English
words penetrated languages everywhere. Here are words that appear in nearly all
the major languages of Europe; in many of them, they are fully integrated to the
grammar and pronunciation of the recipient language: biker, carpool, fairness
(‘justice’), gimmick, high (‘intoxicated’), OK, second-hand, shredder, wild card.
Beyond Europe, only the most puristic (or isolated) language communities show
resistance to English. Okay is an expression found hundreds of times in websites
written in Arabic, Chinese, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, and Turkish.
Before the mid-twentieth century, it was unusual to Wnd code switching and
language mixture in works of Wction or drama, a decision doubtless made on the
grounds that too many demands made on monolingual readers would reduce
sales. A common method for giving a taste of foreign language was, for instance,
used by Hemingway, as in his For Whom the Bell Tolls (1940): ‘‘‘No es nada,’’ she
said. ‘‘A bridge is nothing’’.’ Here, simultaneous translation or paraphrase pro-
vided suYcient Xavour to the text.
354 richard w. bailey
In the post-colonial world, creative writing for multilingual audiences Xour-
ished where readers (or viewers) could appreciate it. In Anglophone communi-
ties where many languages are in widespread use, dramatic performances for
stage or television have achieved sophisticated eVects through the use of several
languages. Some plays oVer the option of scenes not in English (for instance, Kee
Thuan Chye’s Malaysian play, We Could **** You, Mr. Birch). Others employ
scripts with a mixture of languages (for instance, Stella Kon’s monologue for a
Singaporean audience, Emily of Emerald Hill, employs fragments in Hokkien,
Cantonese, Malay, Hindi, and even African-American English of the American
south). Such works make local use of global English.
As the concluding chapter in this volume will further explore, in the twenty-
Wrst century, the membrane separating English from the other languages is ever
more permeable. Consider the following extract from a resume of a Hong Kong
actor:
Tomcatt Playwright/ Director/ Performer
Tomcatt, aka Luen Mo Fay, joined Hong Kong Commercial Broadcasting Company
Limited in 1995 as copywriter. She was transferred to CR2 as program host in 1997. She
initiated and hosted the Wrst Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Radio Program
‘‘Boys and Gals.’’ She was also involved in the creative process of idclub.com and
english among the languages 355
crhk.com.hk as Creative Director. She is a freelancer for 2 years now. She owns an erotic
column in ‘‘Pepper’’, the monthly magazine. Her work in ‘‘Sister’’ has been awarded the
CertiWcate of Excellence in the Media Graphics Award 2002, Category Book/ Editorial
Magazine—Inside Page (Series). Other than writing, she is also involved in a lot of
theatre productions and playback theatre. She is the membership secretary in Hong Kong
of the International Playback Theatre Network (IPTN) and professional member of
International Association of Theatre Critics (Hong Kong). (Tomcatt, 2004)
To a person unable to read the Chinese version, the text above the translation is
bewildering. Yet in many respects it resembles those mixed-language texts we
examined early in this chapter. There is no apparent reason why some portions
occur in English and others do not. It is simply another form of the hybridity that
has impacted English (and languages in contact with it) from the earliest times.
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
How many languages do you need?
Wright (2002) and Schneider (2003) discuss in detail the patterns and consequences of
linguistic accommodation across language barriers.
Traversing language boundaries
The origins of English place names are treated in fascinating essays which introduce the
dictionaries compiled by Ekwall (1960) and Mills (1998). Aelfric’s Life of St. Oswald, with
its account of Oswold’s role as ‘wealhstod’, can be found in Skeat (1890). Unfortunately
the documentary record is so fragmentary that it is diYcult to state with certainty the
role and impact of multilingualism in Old English times. Toon (1983), however, oVers
interesting ideas about the role of group identity in the ecology of English. The best
account of bilingualism in Old English times is provided by Kastovsky (1992: 299–338);
after a minute review of the evidence (and the scholarship) he reaches a cautious
position: ‘Thus it seems reasonable to conclude that there was a certain amount of
bilingualism, notably with the oVspring of mixed marriages or second- and third-
generation settlers . . .’ (p. 330). Middle English multilingualism has come in for renewed
scrutiny, and Short (1979) is particularly useful.
Apart from the sources cited above, the most comprehensive recent account of
borrowings from foreign languages in the period is provided by Burnley (1992a). Texts
with language mixture are anthologized (among other places) in Harding and Wright
(1995), and Cusack (1998); the extract on p. 337 is taken from Wenzel (1994: 70), while
356 richard w. bailey
Wright (1996: 183) is the source of the mixed-language extracts from the London Bridge
account books on the same page.
Linguistic encounters
Murison (1971) examines Dutch-Scots contact, and its lexical consequences. Policies to
encourage the spread of English through the British Isles are documented by Blank
(1996), especially pp. 126–68, and by Bailey (1985). Moore (2002a: 404–5) is the source of
the mixed-language texts cited here.
English out and about
Early modern English and the expansion of English beyond Europe is the subject of
innumerable articles and monographs. The North American experience is described
authoritatively by Karttunen (2000) and by Kupperman (2000).
Go-betweens
Quinn (1990) provides a thorough account of the voyages described here. Ingram’s
discussion of cannibals can be found in the facsimile edition of Ingram’s Relation (1966:
558). Salmon (1996) discusses the linguistic signiWcance of Thomas Harriot; Harriot’s
speciWcally linguistic writings, including his orthography, unfortunately remained
virtually unknown until the last quarter of the twentieth century. See also Quinn (1985)
for an account of Harriot’s Briefe and True Report. The tale of South African Cory echoed
through the English imagination for more than two centuries; it appears in Maria
Edgeworth’s novel Leonora (1806). A thorough account of this man in fact and fable is
found in Merians (2001: 87–117), which is also (p. 94) the source of the quotation on p. 344 .
The history of Tisquantum is given in Karttunen (2000). Bolton (2003) gives fascinating
detailsaboutthecontactbetweentheEnglishandtheChinesefrom1637forward;itistohim
that I owe the story of Peter Mundy. The quotation on p. 344 is taken from the edition
by Temple (1919: 192). The (1997) facsimile edition of Williams (1643: A7r
) is the source of
the quotation which, on p. 345 of this chapter, describes the last days of Wequash.
Carew’s comments on the English talent for acquiring new languages can be found in
Camden (1984: 40).
English expands
The anonymous writer with whom this chapter begins published Some Thoughts on the
English Language in 1766; the cited extract is taken from p. 95. Bureaucratic and legal
English is mostly neglected once historians of English get beyond the scribes of the late
medieval Court of Chancery.
english among the languages 357
Commerce in (and about) English
The citation from the Indian minute book is taken from Islam (1978: 33). Despite archives
bursting with commercial documents, the English of business has received only scant
attention.
Science and English
Paulusz’s greatly enhanced (1989) edition of Knox’s Historical Relation of the Island
Ceylon in the East Indies is the source of the quotations on p. 349 (see, respectively,
Paulusz 1989, 2: 515, and 2: xxxi). For the history of the Royal Society, see further p. 240–1
of this volume. Like the English of commerce, the English of scientiWc writing has not
been given much detailed attention. See, however, Taavitsainen and Pahta (2004) and
Huddleston (1971).
A various language
Long’s account of Jamaican English can be found in Long (1774: 427); Lady Nugent’s
opinions on Jamaican English can be found in Nugent (1907: 132). Silliman describes his
encounter with the Tobagan youth in Silliman (1812, 2: 237). Recognition of American
English in Britain is fully documented by Read (2002). Ideologies of English, more
broadly, are treated historically in Bailey (1991), particularly the emergence of the idea
of ‘world English’. Literary representations of the post-colonial anglophone world are
discussed in the inXuential book by Ashcroft et al. (1989). Important programmatic
statements are found in Ng~
u
ug
~(1986) and Jussawalla and Dasenbrock (1992).
In general, writers of vernacular humour are only slightly represented in histories of
English, despite their evident value as indicators of both values and behaviour. A
collection of the American humourists of the nineteenth century whose taste ran to
dialect was compiled by Blair and McDavid (1983). Winer (1997: 75) is the source of the
cited conversation on pp. 351–2 . The satirists of Victorian Scotland are ably discussed by
Donaldson (1986) (who has also published an anthology of this ephemeral work (1989));
the quotation on p. 352 is taken from Donaldson (1989: 183). McCulloch (2004) discusses
twentieth-century developments within this tradition. Both the journalists and the
higher-browed writers of late nineteenth-century America are discussed by Jones
(1999). The impact of American varieties of English on the world scene is the subject
of Bailey (2001).
358 richard w. bailey
English International, Ltd.
There is an increasingly vast scholarship devoted to the spread of English around the
world; see Hickey (2004) for an up-to-date collection of essays and a substantial
bibliography of this work. The role of English and its impact on some of the other
languages of Europe is discussed in Görlach (2002). For the role of the British Council in
spreading the language abroad, see Coombs (1988), and the following chapter in this
volume. Ayto (1999) provides a useful foundation for studying lexical change in modern
English.
english among the languages 359
13
ENGLISH WORLD-WIDE IN
THE TWENTIETH CENTURY
Tom McArthur
IN 1992, in the preface to Events: A Chronicle of the Twentieth Century, the
British historian Philip L. Cottrell noted: ‘The twentieth century has proved to
be a turbulent period for humankind. The tempo of change has been unpreced-
ented.’
In 1996, in the preface to Timelines of the 20th Century, the American historians
David Brownstone and Irene Franck observed: ‘Our century has been the century
of blood and tears, and at the same time a century of scientiWc breakthroughs that
have vastly changed human experience and possibilities.’
In 2003, in World Englishes: An Introduction, the linguists Gunnel Melchers and
Philip Shaw, wrote: ‘The worldwide expansion of English . . . did not truly
escalate until after the Second World War’.1
Also in 2003, the British linguist David Crystal noted, in English as a Global
Language, that ‘There has never been a language so widely spread or spoken by so
many people as English’.2
english, englishes, english languages
These citations say a great deal in little space about the period in which English
grew from prominence to virtual dominance world-wide, in the process acquir-
1
G. Melchers and P. Shaw, World Englishes: An Introduction (London: Arnold, 2003), 6.
2
D. Crystal, English as a Global Language (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2003), 189.
ing some novel names. In 1900, for most people, English was simply English or,
more fully, either the English language or the English tongue, much as it had been
for centuries. By the 1990s, however, a great deal had changed and several new
labels had come into wide use, most notably world English, whose earliest OED
citation is 1927 (‘1927 K. MALONE in Amer. Speech II. 323/2: ‘‘He . . . warns
against a slavish conformity to the dictionary, i.e., to the prescriptions of
standard English, or world-English, as some people call it’’’) but which was in
fact in occasional, limited use several decades earlier. Thus, in the 1880s, the
phonetician Alexander Melville Bell published a booklet with the title ‘World-
English, The Universal Language’. However, the phrase remained rare until the
1980s, by which time it was being used to mean either all varieties of English
world-wide or a more or less standard international variety. Also in the 1980s
there emerged two radical plural forms, the Englishes and world Englishes, and in
the 1990s the phrase the English languages took a novel place alongside such long-
established ‘family’ names as the Romance languages and the Germanic languages.
The closing years of the twentieth century were therefore, at least in the study of
this language/these languages, a time of radical terminological innovation.
The English language (to continue with the traditional usage) has, as Chapter
11 has explored, long been known for its dialects, such as West Country and
Yorkshire. Until the sixteenth century, such dialects were to be found only in
Britain and Ireland but, by the eighteenth century, comparable social and regional
variations had begun to emerge in Britain’s North American colonies and, in due
course, American and other commentators applied the same distinguishing label
to them. Prior to the nineteenth century, as other chapters have noted, language
scholars—at least in conventional histories of the language—paid relatively little
attention to such regional variation, often being more interested in ‘reWned’ usage
and the dissemination of a ‘standard’ variety of the language. Nevertheless, in that
century, in addition to becoming fashionable in the dialogue of novels, kinds of
dialect also became the focus of language surveys and related studies which
crystallized into a novel scholarly discipline, dialectology, Wrst used in the
Presidential Address given by James Murray to the London Philological Society
in 1879. This, along with philology, was one of the ancestral forms of present-day
linguistics.
Until about 1970, however, there was a lack of organized knowledge about, and
relatively little scholarly interest in, what had been happening, and what was
continuing to happen, to English (and varieties of English) beyond Britain,
Ireland, North America, and, to some degree, Australia. When such an interest
did develop, it was most notably under the aegis of Randolph Quirk at University
College, London, Wrst in the form of the Grammar of Contemporary English
english world-wide in the twentieth century 361
(1972), written with his colleagues Sidney Greenbaum, GeoVrey Leech, and Jan
Svartvik. This was followed, in 1985, by their Comprehensive Grammar of the
English Language, which drew upon the work of scholars of English world-wide
as well as on the evidence of text corpora. However, whereas Quirk et al. were
primarily concerned with the ‘standard’ language world-wide, Kachru and other
non-Western scholars were already concerned with discussing and describing a
fuller range of uses and styles, especially in territories where English was widely
used but not indigenous. As a consequence of both areas of research, and others
like them, the traditional term ‘dialect’ proved increasingly less relevant in the
context of this kind of analysis.
As a result, many twentieth-century investigators took up the more neutral,
Xexible, and safely vaguer term variety and, when talking about varieties of
English world-wide, found the plural form Englishes useful—in large part be-
cause it lacked any immediate implication of superordination, subordination,
hierarchy, or sociocultural primacy. However, in a mundane but real sense, in
promoting this radical usage Kachru was fortunate in the name of the entity he
was studying. Pluralizing English (while in the opinion of many people an
eccentric and disreputable thing to do) did not create the kind of confusion
that would have arisen with such pluralizations as *Frenches, *Germans, and
*Chineses (if such languages had been the object of the same kind of attention at
that time). Fortunately, from Kachru’s point of view, the word English was
pluralizable and the idea of such plurality world-wide at least plausible. Yet the
issues on which he focused at that time have been just as true for other large
languages as, for example, with Quebec French (as opposed to, say, Mauritian
French, and the less digestible French French), Austrian German (as opposed to
Swiss German and German in Germany), and Singaporean Chinese (as opposed
to Chinese in China). His radical approach prompted a great deal of discussion
not only of variety in English but also in relation to other large languages. As
regards English, however, the Wve following terminological areas at least proved
to be of interest to scholars of linguistic variation, all of which have developed
their own sets of labels:
1 Geographical location, prompting such terms as African English, American
English, Asian English, British English, Indian English, Irish English, London
English, Hong Kong English, New York English, New Zealand English.
2 Linguistic and ethnic association, prompting such terms as Bengali English,
Chinese English, Maori English.
3 Activities such as commerce, technology, education, culture, and social life,
prompting such terms as airline English, legal English, medical English, Public
362 tom mcarthur
School English (in the UK), and standard/Standard English generally [cf. also
such parallel terms as Policespeak and Seaspeak].
4 Combinations of location and activity, as with American legal English and
British medical English, and including a large set containing the word
standard, located either medially, as in Australian Standard English (where
Standard English is primary and Australian secondary) or initially, as in
Standard Canadian English (where Canadian English is primary and Stand-
ard secondary).
5 Usually informal and often tongue-in-cheek fusions of English with the
names of other languages, providing names for what were in eVect Anglo-
hybrids, as with: French-based franglais and English-based Frenglish; Hindl-
ish and Hinglish as names for a mix of Hindi and English; Chinglish as the
label for an informal hybrid of Chinese and English; and Japlish, Japalish,
and Janglish as a range of mixes of Japanese and English (the third implying
also a kind of chaos).
The wry humour that underpins the Wfth category of labels has tended to mask
the social signiWcance, scale of use, and range of linguistic mixing which is
highlighted in this informal way. It should come as no surprise, however, that
terms of this kind have been adopted only reluctantly for scholarly purposes,
although quite often there is no easy way round them: they are, indeed, part of
the phenomenon itself. Hybridization of this kind has in fact been common for
centuries, and has operated at various sociocultural levels. It occurred, for
example, when, many centuries ago, Greek technical terms became fashionable
in Latin, as with geographia (‘world writing/description’) and geologia (‘earth
study’), which duly passed into French as géographie and géologie and then into
English as geography and geology. As regards English itself, an initial wave of
hybridization took place in the early Middle Ages between Anglo-Saxon and
Danish that included, among many other items, that apparently most English
of words: the. A second process began after the Norman Conquest in 1066, as
Chapters 3 and 4 have illustrated, when English mixed with French, and began
to draw, both through French as well as directly, on Latin and Greek for a wide
range of cultural and technical vocabulary. Indeed, rather than being an
exception, or an aVront to native culture, such hybridization is a normal and
even at times predictable process, and in the twentieth century a range of such
Xows of material has been commonplace. Indeed, they have often run both
ways (as with English into Hindi, and Hindi into English in northern India),
and have been not only useful for everyday purposes but also creative and
productive.
english world-wide in the twentieth century 363
a debate at the start of the century
By and large, users of English who thought about ‘good English’ around
1900–1920 tended to suppose that it was much the same wherever it was
used, despite such institutionalized diVerences as British and American spell-
ing, and regardless of the casual hybridization at work in the world. They also
tended to assume, notably in Great Britain and its empire, that ‘good English’
was a birthright of the upper reaches of society, whose children increasingly
attended ‘good schools’. However, this expression did not refer to the greater
eYciency with which some schools might be run, but only to the public
schools—private fee-paying boarding schools, entirely unconnected with what
came to be known as state schools: tax-supported institutions for the general
population. As a consequence, the ‘good’ speech of young people in such
private schools was a mutually reinforcing process undergone at a non-regional
level, despite the fact that such speech ultimately derived from upper-class
usage in the Home Counties (the counties around London). Such public
school usage was ipso facto ‘correct’ in pronunciation and grammar, was
lexically rich for social rather than educational reasons, and ‘standard’ for its
social group (and by projection also for ‘the best’ speakers and writers in
‘society’, a sense of the word which, in use from 1823, did not mean the whole
of British society, but ‘high society’ alone: ‘The aggregate of leisured, cultured,
or fashionable persons regarded as forming a distinct class or body in a
community’, as the OED conWrms).
Henry Cecil Wyld, professor of English Wrst at Liverpool University from 1904
and then, from 1920, at the University of Oxford, was one of the leading scholars
of English in England over the Wrst three decades of the century. In his view, the
adult speakers par excellence of ‘good English’ were army oYcers: holders of
the king’s commission who spoke the King’s English in ways which, in terms
of accent, revealed no trace of geographical origin. For this kind of usage he
coined two terms: Wrst, Received Standard English, or simply Received Standard,
then, for the institutions in which these oYcers acquired their speech style, Public
School English (PSE). Wyld’s contemporary, the phonetician Daniel Jones, called
the accent he chose for his model of British speech Public School Pronunciation
(PSP), a title which, after discussion with Wyld, he changed to Received Pronun-
ciation (RP), a term which had, as we have seen in Chapter 10, already been
employed by Alexander Ellis in the late nineteenth century. Jones’s system, with
only minor modiWcations, survives to the present day as the accent at which
364 tom mcarthur
foreign learners of British English have generally been expected to aim,
which their teachers ought therefore to be able to speak (whatever their back-
grounds), and which has in recent decades been used (via representation by
phonetic symbols) to represent British English pronunciation in most ELT
dictionaries. In eVect, therefore, Wyld and Jones set the standard for the use
and learning of spoken British English throughout the century.
A further signiWcant development took place in 1922 when a national radio
service, the British Broadcasting Company (BBC), later British Broadcasting
Corporation, was launched, and for some years both Wyld and Jones served as
its language advisers. As a result of their views and recommendations, Jones’s RP
model came in due course to be known widely as both BBC English and a BBC
accent, gaining prestige nationally and internationally as the BBC itself acquired a
reputation for both a clear, measured style and dispassionate, authoritative
broadcasting.
In the UK, such factors as class, education, and socio-economic conWdence
continued to be invoked with regard to ‘good’ or ‘the best’ usage (much indeed as
they had in the nineteenth century; see Chapter 10), until the mood of the nation
began to change, particularly in the 1960s—a decade in which many received
attitudes were challenged. Public commentators in print and on radio and TV
had tended until then to sustain the tradition of Wyld and Jones, although both
men had been largely forgotten (at least outside those university departments
which engaged with the history, and historiography, of English). During and after
the 1960s (the golden age of the Beatles, four working-class Liverpool pop singers
who represented the speech style of another England altogether), language
attitudes tended to become more ‘democratic’ and less judgemental. As a result,
the linguistic touchstones of the early decades of the century tended to be
forgotten or marginalized. However, the following quotations from Henry
Wyld and the philologist Henry Sweet (who had in fact been Wyld’s tutor at
Oxford) can still be seen as representative of views widely held by middle-class
England throughout the Wrst half of the twentieth century:
Henry Cecil Wyld (1907): ‘It is believed that from these two great types of speech—that of
London, the centre of Law, Government, and Commerce, and that of Oxford, the centre
of learning and culture—the Standard English which we all write, and which we all try, at
any rate, to speak, has grown up.’3
Henry Sweet (1908): ‘Standard English, like Standard French, is now a class-dialect more
than a local dialect: it is the language of the educated all over Great Britain. . . . The best
3
H. C. Wyld, The Growth of English (London: John Murray, 1907), 121.
english world-wide in the twentieth century 365
speakers of Standard English are those whose pronunciation, and language generally,
least betray their locality’.4
We may note here the word betray. The following comments, which derive from
two leading American language specialists a few years later, indicate, however,
that the New World was already disinclined to toe such an Old World line.
Fred Newton Scott (1917): ‘In Wne, the idea that somewhere, in some linguistic utopia,
there exists a standard English, which all cultural Englishmen use alike and cannot help
using and to which distracted Americans may resort for chastening and absolution, is a
pleasing hallucination’.5
H. L. Mencken (1919): ‘I think I have oVered suYcient evidence . . . that the American of
today is much more honestly English . . . than the so-called Standard English of England
. . . . Standard English must always strike an American as a bit stilted and precious.’ 6
Scott’s and Mencken’s rejection of England’s class-centred norms and imposi-
tions has been a US theme since Noah Webster in the late eighteenth and early
nineteenth centuries. Nevertheless (and despite their strongly expressed feelings),
their identiWcation of the term Standard English solely with stilted and precious
class accents and attitudes in England did not catch on, in the USA or anywhere
else. A majority of commentators later in the century, in the USA, the UK, and
elsewhere, has instead tended to keep the concept ‘standardness’ distinct from
any single pronunciation model, whether as the possession of a securely elevated
social class or something achievable through elocution and phonetics, as in
George Bernard Shaw’s play Pygmalion (1912) and Alan Jay Lerner’s My Fair
Lady, the later movie [in AmE] or Wlm [in traditional BrE] which was based on it.
Shaw’s energetic and idiosyncratic phonetician, Professor Henry Higgins, it will
be noted, shares a Wrst name with both Sweet and Wyld and, for an upmarket
character, had as down-market a surname as Jones.
In 1919, the US phonetician George P. Krapp brought out a work titled [AmE]/
entitled [BrE] The Pronunciation of Standard English in America, which argued
for independence in language as in all other things. He followed it in 1925 with
The English Language in America, in which he introduced the term General
American (GA, GenAm), which oVers an alternative and American-based norm
4
H. Sweet, The Sounds of English, an Introduction to Phonetics (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1908),
7–8.
5
F. N. Scott, ‘The Standard of American Speech,’ The English Journal 6 (1917). Cited in T. McArthur,
The English Languages (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1988), 123.
6
H. L. Mencken, The American Language (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1919). Cited in McArthur
(1988), 123.
366 tom mcarthur
for natives and learners: a common-denominator accent from which distinctive
regionalisms were excluded. Like RP, GA is an idealization, not a direct reXection
of real-life speech although, paradoxically, it is intended to reXect standard,
educated speech which is, however, by no means homogenous [AmE]/ homoge-
neous [BrE]. By mid-century, GA had become the model for many ESL/EFL
[English as a second/foreign language] users and communities around the world.
In such diVerent ways, representations of idealized accents were thereby formu-
lated in both nations, becoming in due course the teaching norms for millions of
upwardly mobile native speakers, immigrants, and foreign learners over at least
the rest of the century.
Although an idealized ‘educated’ or ‘middle-class’ version of British or
American pronunciation and spoken style has its place as a model for learners,
there can, alas, be no guarantee that the usage of the next native speaker a learner
meets will reXect it. As regards the transatlantic debate, however, two years after
Mencken’s The American Language was published, Henry Bradley, one of the
editors of the OED, made his own observations in the Literary Review:
The wiser sort among us will not dispute that Americans have acquired the right to frame
their own standards of correct English on the usage of their best writers and speakers. . . .
But is it too much to hope that one day this vast community of nations will possess a
common ‘‘standard English’’, tolerant of minor local varieties?.7
We may, however, note two things here: Wrst, Bradley’s early use of the term
varieties, where dialects (in either a social or a regional sense) would clearly have
beeninadequateand,secondly,that,bytheendofthecentury,hishopewasmoreor
less realized, almost in passing. Consider the ease with which, for example, Ameri-
cans may read TheGuardian andBritons The InternationalHeraldTribune,and (by
andlarge)thelackofdiYcultyeachsidehashadthroughoutmuchofthecenturyin
following the sound tracks of one another’s cinematic products. The same also
applied on a wider front, in the deliberations of, Wrst, the League of Nations and
then the United Nations Organization, of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
and, farther aWeld, of the Organization of African Unity, the Association of South
East Asian Nations, and the like, among all of which English has served as a
mediating language. When the twentieth century came to a close, world-wide
viewsonwhatmightbeconsidered‘educated’spokenEnglishcoveredafarbroader
socialrangethantheyhaddoneintheearlydecadesofthecentury,accommodating
a range of accents (including foreign accents) in a continuum of intelligibility and
7
H. Bradley, The Literary Review, 3 December 1921: 224. Cited in McArthur (1988), 123.
english world-wide in the twentieth century 367
negotiability—all of which was made easier by a shared involvement with radio,
television, cinema, computers, email, the Internet, and the World Wide Web.
technology, communication, war, and
realpolitik
At the end of the nineteenth century, many people had high hopes for the
twentieth and, in terms of scientiWc, technological, and social breakthroughs,
such hopes were more than fulWlled. By the end of the twentieth century, their
grand-children were enjoying (if that is the right word) two remarkable facilities:
on one side, a more-or-less standard variety (or set of varieties) of English which
served an unprecedented number of people as both a home language and a global
lingua franca, as well as fulWlling many personal, social, and professional needs at
local, national, and international levels. On the other side, many millions had
desk-top computers with which they could create, manipulate, transmit, and
receive text, pictures, and other kinds of data predominantly—but not only—in
English. The world-wide technological framework within which this took place
was beyond the conception of typesetters, printers, and postal and telegraphic
systems not just in 1900 but also in 1950. The key end-product, however, was
not beyond anyone’s conception. A printed page is a printed page, however
produced, and print on screen looks much the same as it does on a modern
printed page.
Embedding scores of other linguistic transformations in both lexis
and meaning, the textual and other information which those millions of
computer users could transmit varied in scale from a single-line email to a
Wle containing data that can be attached to such an email, which could be sent
without leaving one’s own desk to an email address in another machine
anywhere on the planet (where both Wle and attachment could be down-
loaded). As the italicized words in the former sentence conWrm, the discourse
of computing has, in itself, been a signiWcant development of the twentieth
century—not least perhaps in its familiarity to an increasingly wide range of
users. Indeed, by the closing decade of the century, the writing of such
messages, in English or any other appropriately developed language, had its
own range of usages: from traditional publishing-quality prose with tidy
headings, sentences, and paragraphs at one extreme to what might be termed
e-anarchy at the other. Such email text may include emoticons (‘emotive
368 tom mcarthur
icons’) intended to express feelings not normally expressed or exposed in text.
Indeed, in ten years of the twentieth century (and Wve of the twenty-Wrst),
this new communicative mode became commonplace more rapidly
and pervasively than any earlier twentieth-century technical marvels had
done, such as radio (originally AmE), wireless (BrE, especially c1950), TV
(AmE and BrE) telly (BrE, although often with social marking, as in the
citation from Muriel Spark’s The Go-Away Bird (1958) which accompanies this
entry in the OED: ‘He said, ‘‘What do you do in the evenings, Lorna? Do you
watch Telly?’’ I did take this as an insult, because we call it TV, and his
remark made me out to be uneducated’), and the telephone (Wxed or mobile),
with no transatlantic linguistic contrasts. As a result of all of which, English
(especially in its US guise) became ever more securely the world’s primary
language.
By 1900, English had been in wide use around the world for over two
centuries, but no one could have imagined the communicative and techno-
logical support available to it (and to other ‘advanced’ languages) by 1999. Such
developments were in large part the outcome of three sets of events that
aVected many languages in many ways, and English more than most. These
were:
1 Two World Wars (1914–18, 1939–45) in which the key victorious nations were
English-speaking. Especially in World War II [AmE and BrE] the Second
World War [BrE], the use of English for military, political, economic, and
other purposes expanded greatly in the various war zones. In Europe, Africa,
Asia, and the PaciWc millions of people came into regular contact with
English who would not otherwise have had much (or anything) to do with
it. And where English arrived it tended to stay on after the hostilities ended,
for a variety of reasons that included reconstruction, trade, and education.
2 A political and economic Cold War (1945–89) between a capitalist West and
a communist East. In this long and often tense struggle for territorial
and ideological inXuence, the USA was the foremost Western contestant.
However, after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1989, the USA became the
world’s sole ‘super-power’, the perceived prestige of which impelled many
people in ex-Soviet satellites, such as Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland,
to switch from Russian to English as their language of wider communica-
tion, having already regarded it for years as a—if not indeed the—language
of freedom. Inevitably, Russians also began to Wnd it useful to know some
English, especially in trying to catch up on a West that was now both
technologically and economically far ahead of them.
english world-wide in the twentieth century 369
3 Globalization, the name of a process, set in train after the Soviet collapse, of
world-wide social, cultural, and commercial expansion (and exploitation),
in which the USA was the center [AmE] or centre [BrE] of socio-economic,
political, cultural, and linguistic interest. In the closing quarter of the
century, English was not only a key socio-cultural language but also
the communicative linchpin of both international capitalism and the world’s
media. By this point, the American variety had also become the main
inXuence not only on other languages but on other Englishes (including
the British variety). In its standard spoken form, AmE was now also the
primary model for teaching English as a second or foreign language. For
many years, key publishers in the UK’s ‘English language industry’ had
resisted this tide but when it became clear that the tide was becoming ever
stronger, they began to publish courses in US usage from oYces in New
York, alongside their continuing operations at home and elsewhere. In this,
they proWted from both Englishes (and, if BrE ever did decline beyond a
certain unwished-for point, they would be well placed to transfer more
resources to selling the US variety).
Closely associated with the World Wars, the Cold War, and globalization were
two ‘tides’ in the aVairs of the language, one internal, the other external. The
internal tide was a growing awareness of two issues: Wrst, the major and the
minor (but often subtle) diVerences between US and UK usage, despite their high
level of mutual intelligibility and a relative lack of friction; second, the growing
global signiWcance of US usage and the ease with which, and the extent to which,
Americanisms were passing into British English, into other Englishes, and into
other languages. The external tide, on the other hand, was a precipitous loss of
competition from other once powerful languages of European origin.
the internal tide: from the uk to the us
In both the UK and the USA, as already noted, an ‘educated’ accent (whatever,
precisely, that might be said to be) had, since at least 1900, been widely considered
desirable and useful. Rural and urban accents which might for any reason be
considered uncouth could be modiWed through contact with the ‘right’ people
and/or as a result of elocution and personal eVort, avowedly making life
smoother for their owners. By and large, accents from lower social levels and
especially un-prestigious urban-industrial areas were seen as drawbacks as, for
370 tom mcarthur
example, those of Liverpool, Manchester, and Glasgow in the UK, and those of
New York, Chicago, and Detroit in the USA. Again, by and large, and unaVected
by universal education, such views of how the language was spoken (or should be
spoken) continued well past mid-century, remaining—especially in the UK—a
key social issue. In addition, however, a marked element of counter-prestige
prevailed, as where the non-establishment speech styles of pop stars and other
role models had a powerful impact, including a trending down or linguistic
downshifting among young people who already possessed enviable speech styles.
Although pop stars’ accents did not serve widely as models, they may have
contributed in the UK to accent levelling between RP and some local kinds of
usage. Such levelling occurred, for example, in the Greater London area, as Wrst
reported in the early 1980s, generating a relaxed but conWdent speech style towhich
the phonetician David Rosewarne gave the name Estuary English—referring to the
estuary of the river Thames. This compromise younger-generation style emerged
out of a levelling ‘up’ towards RP among speakers of lower-middle and working-
class London accents (notably Cockney), together with a levelling ‘down’ from RP
and near-RP towards, with a concomitant relaxation of inter-class barriers.
Also by the 1980s, linguists, language teachers, and members of the media had
become more aware of how varied the language was world-wide, and in ways that
could not necessarily be described (or ‘explained’) in terms simply of standard,
dialect, accent, and class. However, regardless of the general success of the
language world-wide, the kind and quality of English that anyone might use
had, during the twentieth century, been of increasing interest, including the
often-stated desire to improve the language or rescue it from various dangers:
1 Concern for both the prestige and proper use of the language and the
reduction of abuses of various kinds, individual or collective: a particular
concern of the Queen’s English Society in the UK.
2 Concern for clarity of usage and the welfare of people who might be misled
or baZed by bureaucratic and other ‘jargon’: the key concern of the initially
British grass-roots group the Plain English Campaign.
3 Concern about preserving the key position of English against inroads of any
kind, for example, the organization US English that seeks a constitutional
amendment that would make it the oYcial language of the United States and
therefore protect it from a rapid increase in the use of Spanish.
4 Awareness of the importance of using the standard language well in terms of
both lifestyle and career opportunities, regardless of past conceptions
of class and more in terms of business values associated in the 1990s with
the term globalization.
english world-wide in the twentieth century 371
In the seventeenth century, the norms of upper-class England were, in general,
suYcient to serve the language at large as a broadly-deWned reference model,
despite the fact that most people would never achieve them and indeed seldom
came into direct contact with them. In eighteenth-century Great Britain,
upper- and middle-class people in Edinburgh and Dublin developed their
own styles and usage while still acknowledging polite (‘socially reWned’) Lon-
don views and usages. Thus, while the Edinburgh and Dublin élite generally
deferred to the prestige usage of London, they developed ‘polite’ usages of their
own, notably in terms of pronunciation (although these too, as Chapter 9 has
shown, could also be discarded in favour of London norms). Just as such
usages gained in prestige at home and in due course elsewhere, and just as the
USA by the later nineteenth century acquired the sense of linguistic autonomy
noted above, so—especially in the later twentieth century—the usage of Can-
ada, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa gained in autonomy, as man-
ifested in, for example, the creation of dictionaries of their national Englishes.
By mid-century, however, in such places, the term that replaced such expres-
sions as polite, good, the best, and received was standard, and the ‘standard’ in
this sense was increasingly located at home: that is, to use a term usually
reserved for the constitution of Canada, it had been patriated (‘brought
home’). In the course of the last two decades of the twentieth century it
therefore became possible for both the world at large and, more importantly,
the citizens of such nations to believe in (and, more signiWcantly, to be
comfortable about) such entities as Standard Australian, Standard Canadian,
Standard New Zealand, and Standard South African English, all of which were
backed by national dictionaries of their own.
The traditional approach to such matters as language, nation, capital, and
provinces, and whether kinds of usage are ‘better’, ‘worse’, or simply ‘diVerent’,
appears as a result to have led over the course of the seventeenth to the twentieth
centuries to a situation which can be summarized as follows:
1 A nation has, or should have, a state of its own, and be the home and focus of
the language of that nation, as with Portuguese in Portugal. On this basis,
French is the national language of the French, and the citizens of France are
assumed to have a prior or greater claim to it than Belgians, Cameroonians,
Canadians, Swiss, or any others who use it.
2 A nation-state is seen ashaving a primary, perhaps even exclusiverole in using
and standardizing itslanguagewhetheror not that languageis usedelsewhere.
Thus, Hungary is the land of the Hungarians, who speak Hungarian, and any
ethnic Hungarians elsewhere should consider the usage of Hungary the norm.
372 tom mcarthur
3 All nation-states have, or should have, national languages, and, if a new
nation-state is created, it should have a constitutionally established national
language: a position taken up after the Second World War as various
territories in the British Empire became independent, regardless of the
complex relationships of communities and languages within any such new
state.
4 If there is more than one language in a state, the majority language,
especially if its name echoes the name of the state or the major ethnic
group in the state, should be selected, and may have its name adapted, as
with Bahasa Malaysia (‘the Malaysian language’), the form of Malay which
is, for example, deemed oYcial in Malaysia.
It is, however, uncommon for one language to Wt neatly and to the exclusion of all
others within the boundaries of one nation-state. In the case of France, for
example, Basque, Breton, Occitan/Provenç
al, as well as German have all long
been in everyday regional use. The situation of English in England in particular,
and in Britain at large, may therefore serve as a ‘national’ starting point for
considering what happened to the language elsewhere in the world during the
twentieth century. In England, there has for many centuries been no rival to
English. On its own, therefore, England meets the ideal of a nation with a single
tongue, and this is true regardless of how many hundreds of imported tongues
are currently in use there among speciWc communities.
However, when one steps beyond England into the rest of Britain, this US-
like condition ceases to apply. In Wales, English continues to co-occur with
Welsh (in spite of the various disincentives evident throughout the history of
these language varieties; see further p. 338). In Scotland, English co-occurs with
Gaelic and with Scots, a Germanic vernacular which, like English, emerged
from Anglo-Saxon. Both are recognized as minority languages of the European
Union but, like English, have no legally-established status in the UK: there is,
for instance, no written constitution and the law does not oYcially recognize
any language. In Ireland, matters are equally complex. In Northern Ireland
(part of the UK), a local variety of English co-habits with both Irish Gaelic and
Ulster Scots (these being equivalent to Scottish Gaelic and Scots); all are non-
oYcial, as in England, Wales, and Scotland, but English is the only language
used oYcially. In the Irish Republic, Irish (Gaelic) is the oYcial language and
is taught universally in school, but is not in wide constant use, while Irish
English (sometimes called Hiberno-English), although it is used everywhere by
everyone, is constitutionally second to Irish Gaelic. Few people speak Gaelic on
a consistent, regular basis, but it appears above English on the bilingual road
english world-wide in the twentieth century 373
signs (if in smaller letters). As such real-life illustrations demonstrate, there is
in fact usually nothing simple about the relationships between languages and
nation-states.
In the world at large, the following statements were, for example, largely true at
the end of the twentieth century. Many people in the USA, the UK, Nigeria, India,
and other English-using nation-states spoke more than one language, as did
many mainland Europeans, Arabs, and others. Indeed, as Chapter 12 has stressed,
multilingualism has been at least as normal in the world as monolingualism and
is as common in the English-speaking world as elsewhere. Moreover, although
the people of England are now famously monolingual (although see further pp.
334–5), a signiWcant minority both here and in Great Britain at large do in fact
use other languages, many on a daily basis. Such variety is equally true of other
English-speaking nation-states. At the turn of the twentieth/twenty-Wrst centur-
ies, the USA is widely polyglot, notably in such cosmopolitan cities as New York
and Los Angeles and, because of a large Spanish-speaking minority, this is
especially so in the western states. At the same time, however, the USA is
massively English-speaking, and many of its citizens (as in the UK) have little
knowledge of any other language. Canada, on the other hand, has had a major
French-speaking minority for centuries as well as many smaller communities
with indigenous languages, such as Kwakiutl (spoken on northern Vancouver
Island and the adjacent mainland), as well as immigrant languages, such as
Cantonese. In addition, Australia has both its aboriginal languages and the ethnic
languages of immigrants, while New Zealand has Maori, other Polynesian lan-
guages, and immigrant languages from further aWeld. South Africa is a large-scale
multilingual (‘rainbow’) nation, as is Singapore on a small scale, with four oYcial
languages: English, Chinese, Malay, and Tamil. Furthermore, in mainland west-
ern Europe, particularly in the Netherlands, Switzerland, Denmark, Norway,
Sweden, and Finland, English is not an oYcial language but is successfully used
as a high-level lingua franca in, for example, academic teaching, publishing, and
business. It is therefore probably safe to say that in the twentieth century (and the
early twenty-Wrst), English in the world is as often used alongside other languages
as it is used on its own, even in massively Anglophone countries.
Although many commentators have emphasized a reluctance among native
English speakers to learn and use other languages, a more likely reason in the
modern era is a lack of need and opportunity, a lack that can be seen in part as the
result of traditional geographical isolation at home, and more perhaps as a
consequence of the enormous success of the language abroad. By the end of the
twentieth century, if someone were a reasonably competent speaker, reader, and
writer of English, in many situations and locations world-wide there might be no
374 tom mcarthur
pressing need for anything else, especially as non-native speakers are often more
than willing to practise their English with anyone who happens to come by.
What is perhaps the most signiWcant shift in the role of English world-wide
in the twentieth century—that from UK to US predominance—began slowly,
then accelerated with World War II [AmE and BrE] or the Second World War
[BrE] and the subsequent dismantling of empire. The independence of Jordan
in 1946 was the Wrst step in a process that ended thirty-seven years later in 1984
with the independence of Brunei (for the entire process, see the timeline 424 V).
In addition, vast numbers of people were on the move both during and after the
Second World War, initially in armies and as refugees, then as migrants,
business travellers, and (as the world recovered) as tourists. The presence of
US soldiers in Europe was part of what, for the British, was the defénce of the
free world (stress on second syllable) and, in the US, its défénse (stress on both
syllables). An awareness of US/UK language diVerences in fact tended to
become stronger after the 1930s, when the movies [AmE] or the pictures/the
cinema [BrE] became more enticing than the radio [AmE] and what the British
were, by the 1950s, learning not to call the wireless. Both nations, however, had
the same word and acronym for television/TV, although the British also reduced
it to the telly—something neither did to the telephone, both sides favoring
[AmE] or favouring [BrE] the short form phone. As trade and travel increased,
so did mail [more AmE] or post [which remains more BrE], both of which were
increasingly carried over longer distances as airmail (although never *airpost) in
airplanes [AmE] and aeroplanes [BrE], or, by both, in planes and aircraft.
In the second half of the century, foreign learners of English, wherever they
lived, increasingly needed to pay attention to both varieties, if not productively
then receptively. If a choice had to be made regarding their target, many favored
[AmE] or favoured [BrE] US over UK usage, only adopting such other varieties if
they had associations with, or became immigrants to, for example, Australia,
Canada, and New Zealand. By the century’s end, many teachers and more
conservative users of English in mainland Europe and elsewhere still favoured
the BBC as their model (although this too was becoming increasingly diverse),
but others, especially if they were younger speakers, tended to prefer the racier
idiom evident in programs and movies [AmE] rather than the traditional pro-
grammes and Wlms [BrE]. Indeed, a transatlantic coup de grace came in the 1980s
when the US spelling program was adopted in computing everywhere. Even so,
however, the Brits have kept programmes for use in theaters [AmE] or theatres
[BrE], on the telly, and on the radio (seldom called the wireless in the later
decades of the century).
english world-wide in the twentieth century 375
Although the trend towards the dominance of US usage among foreign- and
second-language learners has therefore undeniably gained strength, by 1999 BBC-
style English had kept much of its social gloss, including among admiring
middle-class Americans (who might consider it ‘cute’ but would never think of
adopting it). Equally, in the UK and other parts of the world, US usage and slang
had become so easy to adopt and so familiar that no one any longer recalled their
origins, and US accents had little inXuence among native-speakers anywhere else,
although they did increasingly inXuence foreign learners, especially in mainland
Europe and East Asia. Not even the English of the net and the Web tipped the
scales. Computer-literate people beyond the USA continued to manage US usage
without diYculty, on the whole keeping their own styles, even if they logged on
with America Online (AOL).
the external tide: loss of competition
Perhaps the most signiWcant factor that aVected the English language increasingly
through the twentieth century was loss of (linguistic) competition. Many situ-
ations and institutions could in fact be highlighted as important in this regard,
but one in particular needs attention, not least because it is often overlooked. Out
of the Cold War between a capitalist West and a communist East emerged the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), probably the most powerful
military bloc ever known, the bulk of whose members are Western European
nation-states. The working language of NATO has, from the start, been English;
this pre-eminence as a NATO-associated language has in turn helped to promote
its use in mainland Europe (notably in Germany, where US troops have been
stationed since the end of the Second World War).
In terms of NATO, the United Nations (UN), the British Commonwealth,
world business, and many national and international institutions and activities,
English became, in the closing quarter of the century, (to borrow a phrase from
computing) the world’s default mode. That is, given no compelling reason or
need to use any other medium, those not born to English straightforwardly opted
for it, both for themselves and their children. Among the many situations in
which the primacy of English became manifest, one of the most patent at the
century’s end was international conferences. Even where simultaneous transla-
tion was provided, participants from many backgrounds preferred to listen
‘straight’ to deliveries in English. Partly for this reason, and partly because of
the ways in which modern communicative and information-storage systems
376 tom mcarthur
developed, English had the serial publications (such as print and online jour-
nals), the libraries, and the databases to handle them. Closely comparable was the
use of English by the world’s media, not only directly for journalism, radio, and
television, but as a behind-the-scenes source for output in languages other than
English. Routinely, material gathered in English by such agencies as Reuters and
the Associated Press was, every day, round the clock, translated into and then
transmitted in other languages.
SigniWcantly (and for many, ominously), the external tide included a weaken-
ing in competition, notably from other European languages. German fared
particularly badly. Although in the early twentieth century it was a signiWcant
medium for science and scholarship, it suVered as a consequence of being the
medium of Germany and Austria, nations defeated in two world wars. This
happened, moreover, despite the economic resurgence in West Germany after
the war and its reuniWcation with East Germany in 1990. Comparably, after the
dissolution of the Soviet Union, Russian lost its international clout not only in
the Third (Non-Aligned) World, but also in the vanishing Second World of
communism: in both, former Eastern European satellites such as Poland and
Hungary, and former Asian Soviet republics such as Turkmenistan and Uzbeki-
stan, took a new interest in English as the language of both the USA and
capitalism.
The retreat of German and the displacement of Russian contrast strongly with
the twentieth-century vigour of both Spanish and Portuguese whose users in
Iberia, Latin America, and elsewhere escaped many of the eVects of the World
Wars and the Cold War. Because they have secure roles in Europe and the
Americas, both remain strong, a situation diVerent, therefore, not only from
that of German and Russian, but also from that of French. In the Wrst decades of
the century, for example, the inXuence of French in Europe changed little from its
role in the nineteenth century as the language of diplomacy and high culture.
Nevertheless, its world role declined greatly as a consequence not only of the
World Wars (in the second of which it was partly occupied and fully controlled by
Germany), but also because of events within its empire after 1945, especially its
protracted wars to keep control of Algeria and Vietnam. Even so, however, there
emerged a loose post-imperial league of French-speaking nations known as La
Francophonie (‘The French-speaking Community’), a considerable success
through which, as a counter-force to a far less formal community of world
English, they were able to promote their shared language as le français mondial
(‘world French’).
The post-war fate of the British Empire was complex. As a consequence of at
least four factors (pressure from the USA, great economic loss, considerable
english world-wide in the twentieth century 377
social hardship at home, and the election of a Labour government in 1945), a
retreat from empire was inevitable. The government was not only ideologically
opposed to imperialism, but realized that it simply could not aVord the empire
much longer (and in particular the Indian Empire). Independence was therefore
granted to the nationalists in 1947, but to two countries, not one: a new primarily
Hindu India and predominantly Muslim Pakistan. Immediately upon independ-
ence and the departure of British forces, sectarian conXict broke out during a
massive exchange of populations. Although the two countries were at odds for
decades afterwards, each continued to sustain English as a key administrative and
legal language, making the subcontinent of South Asia one of the key English-
using areas in the world.
In the decades that followed, many newly independent nations decided to
sustain a link with the UK through what was at Wrst known as the British
Commonwealth of Nations, then the Commonwealth of Nations, then simply
the Commonwealth, whose head was not the British state but its monarch, whose
interests and role were considered wider and more neutral than those of any
politician. Apart from the vast suVering in India and Pakistan, and later troubles
in Malaya, Cyprus, Rhodesia/Zimbabwe, and Northern Ireland, the disassembly
of empire was relatively bloodless. The Commonwealth grew as Empire shrank,
and the new states generally had solid diplomatic and economic reasons for
staying loosely (and non-politically) together. Currently, the Commonwealth not
only sustains economic and cultural ties among its members but demonstrates
how a linguistic default mode works, in a range of nation-states in which English
is either the primary or a key secondary language. Even so, however, although
English has remained one of the ties that bind, the Commonwealth as an
institution did not directly serve as a means of promoting or sustaining English.
Rather, English helped sustain the Commonwealth.
Although it might be supposed a close link exists in London between the
Commonwealth OYce and the British Council (on the analogy of La Franco-
phonie), the British Council is an entirely distinct organization, set up in 1934 not
to strengthen empire but to counter Nazi and Fascist propaganda in Europe, as
well as to promote a wider awareness (both there and elsewhere) of the UK, its
culture, and of British English. Its Wrst overseas oYces were in Europe, Latin
America, and West Asia, and only in the 1950s did it become involved in the
Commonwealth, as the agent of what came to be known as the British Overseas
Development Administration. In 1985, a speciWc statement was made that the
Council did not ‘actively propagate British English as a commodity or as the
proper model for foreign users . . . and has no tradition or policy of preferring or
propagating any one accent over another’. However, the Council has generally
378 tom mcarthur
been aware of the economic signiWcance of ELT. In 1989, for example, the then
director general, Sir Richard Francis, noted that ‘Britain’s real black gold is not
oil, but the English language’ (as quoted by William Greaves in The Times on 24
October 1989). By the century’s end, the British Council had oYces in over eighty
countries and over Wfty teaching centres in thirty-Wve countries.
The British Council’s interest in mainland Europe proved entirely justiWed.
One of the more remarkable linguistic developments in the decades after 1945 was
the expansion of the English language ‘on the continent’, where it had never
previously been signiWcant. This expansion was due both to the development of
NATO and the world-wide export of US popular culture through Hollywood
movies and popular music and dance, an output which greatly aVected younger
generations in Europe and elsewhere, including those in the UK. Both the British
Council and the BBC sustained a mainland European cultural presence, notably
in such Anglophile nations as the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and
Portugal, but also behind the Iron Curtain. As a consequence, however, of the
closeness of the two major varieties of English was a rueful post-war re-
conception in France of its American and British allies as a single often suspect
entity, les Anglo-Saxons, a phrase that gave a novel twist to an ancient name.
It was left to German, however, to provide the word that best Wtted the
conditions aVecting English throughout the century: realpolitik. The New Oxford
Dictionary of English of 1988 deWnes this word as ‘a system of politics or principles
based on practical rather than moral or ideological considerations’. What shaped
and strengthened English in the twentieth century (and led, by the end of the
century, to such soubriquets as the global or world lingua franca) was not so
much a cluster of cultural, literary, social, or educational attitudes and policies
(however signiWcant these may have been), but a combination of war, economics,
politics, and pragmatism. Although such matters have sometimes been couched
in terms of high culture, Shakespeare did not in any serious sense triumph over
Molière or Goethe, Cervantes, or Tolstoy.
english and the western hemisphere
It is, as the previous chapter has already indicated, entirely the case that the
activities of the UK in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries spread English
world-wide in commercial and imperial terms, and that those of the USA in
the twentieth consolidated its global role culturally, technologically, and mili-
tarily. It is, however, at least as important to note that the foundation stones of
english world-wide in the twentieth century 379
the English ediWce at the century’s end were laid not in the UK or the USA as
such, but in terms of the perceived Europeanness, or indeed the Westernness, of
the language.
English was only one of eight European languages that, at much the same time,
and in varying degrees, became world languages. The others were Dutch, French,
German, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish in the west, and Russian in the east.
Any one of these, if the circumstances had been right, could have become the
global lingua franca. They have all had comparable educational, literary, legal,
administrative, and military dimensions, and the communities in which they
emerged have generally had strong convictions regarding their ethnic, literary,
and academic worth, if not indeed their outright superiority as well. There was,
especially in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, no shortage of ethnic and
nationalist chutzpah associated with each of them which, by and large, serves to
conWrm that they are all from the same cultural matrix. As a result, with the
exception of Russian (on geo-political grounds, and because it expanded by land
rather than sea), these languages have been key elements in an evolving ethnic,
social, and cultural complex that, in the course of the twentieth century, came to
be called the Western world, or simply the West.
A common assumption about language labels like English and French is that
they relate Wrst to geography and ethnicity, and only then to culture, economics,
and politics, as a result of which one may overlook the evolution of (and the
senses inherent in) the labels themselves. In this regard, we can consider the
apparently speciWc and stable meanings of three key place-related words: Amer-
ica, Europe, English. Technically (some would say ‘properly’), America refers to a
continent. More often, however, it serves as an incomplete, informal, but potent
label for one nation that occupies only the middle reaches of the northern part of
the Americas. It was only in the later twentieth century that the term Europe took
on a similar ambiguous duality. Formerly, the word Europe referred only to a
continent, and not a particularly big one at that. In the later twentieth century,
however, Europe acquired an additional sense that brought it into line with
America: it now meant not only the whole continent, but served as shorthand
for the European Union (EU), a politico-economic federation, which occupies
only part of that continent. As a result, the world’s peoples can say America when
they mean only the USA and Europe when they mean only the EU, and be
understood: regardless of how the Canadians or the Swiss may feel about it.
The word English is comparably polysemic. When used with a deWnite article, it
designates the people of England (‘the English’ and not, say, the Scots or the
French), but without the article (and used as an adjective) it may refer to
England, its attributes and aspects (‘an English rose’), to the people of England
380 tom mcarthur
(‘The English are a nation of gardeners’), and, importantly for our purposes, a
language originating in England but extensively used elsewhere (‘the English-
Speaking Union’).
It can also be ambiguous. English literature, for example, can mean the
literature of England alone, or of Britain, or of the many countries where the
language is used, as in Indian English literature. However, many people world-
wide who have grown up in English (as the language of their families and/or
schooling, in, say, Newfoundland or Singapore) do not, and indeed cannot, in
their daily lives give much thought to the Englishness of what they say and write
in terms of England, which they may never have visited. The unyielding proof in
this regard is that English could survive even if it ceased (an unlikely prospect,
however) to be used between the Channel and Hadrian’s Wall, or indeed between
Canada and Mexico.
The way in which the word West behaves is comparable, and like English it has
close links with Europe. The language called English has long been a world
language, but it is also the primary language of a psycho-cultural West, as
opposed in particular to an East. Images of a geographical, cultural, and political
West can be traced back over two thousand years to where the sun went down if
you lived in Greece. After many centuries as an indivisible mass around the
Mediterranean, the Roman Empire was divided into a Western Empire ruled
from Rome and an Eastern Empire ruled from Constantinople. In this West the
imperial language was Latin, while in the East it was Greek. However, as centuries
passed, the Western empire shrank at the same time as its focus shifted north
until it became, in the Middle Ages, the Holy Roman Empire and later the
Austrian or Austro-Hungarian Empire, by which time it was Central European
and no longer Western at all. By then the West had become Atlantic Europe, from
Scandinavia to Spain. In the sixteenth century, however, a larger West emerged
through the discoveries of Columbus.
The Spanish and Portuguese, restricted in a Mediterranean largely controlled
by Muslims, looked elsewhere for expansion, the Portuguese Wnding a sea route
to a Far East beyond the Near East of Islam, while both Spanish and Portuguese
vessels explored a ‘new’ far western continent that, because of the languages they
spoke, became known in due course as Latin America, an ethno-linguistic
transplant of the Iberian peninsula. Other Europeans followed, with speakers of
Spanish, Danish, Dutch, English, and French exploring and exploiting the Carib-
bean and what lay beyond and to the north.
To this mélange was added, in 1776, a sixth, entirely transplanted power: the
United States, a group of thirteen ex-British colonies that saw themselves as
American (and as potential defenders-cum-masters of the Americas). The British,
english world-wide in the twentieth century 381
however, controlled British North America (Canada), where they imposed their
rule on French settlers already there, developed an English-speaking Ontario, and
pushed towards the PaciWc, where Russians from Siberia were already establishing
themselves in Alaska. In successive stages, the USA gained Louisiana from the
French, Florida from Spain, and took from Mexico a vast territory they infor-
mally called the Wild West. At that point, Spanish became a secondary European
language in Western North America, which was being steadily integrated, state by
state, into the USA. And when the Americans bought Alaska from them, the
Russians and their language were removed as potential competitors.
As a consequence of the enlargement of the USA and the consolidation of
Canada, English became the most powerful language in North America, with
Spanish second (in the USA, in Mexico, and the Caribbean), and French third (in
Canada, Louisiana, and the Caribbean), followed by a host of European settler
languages that include Danish, Dutch, German, Yiddish, Italian, Norwegian,
Swedish, Russian, and Ukrainian, all of which co-habit with a dwindling range of
Amerindian languages. Apparently, the currents of multilingualism were strong,
butintermsofdominanceandprospectstheonlylanguageonapar withEnglishin
the western hemisphere was Spanish, in its Mexican, Puerto Rican, Central Ameri-
can, and South American forms. Inevitably, over decades, there arose between the
two (notably in the twentieth century) kinds of Hispanicized English and Angli-
cized Spanish, in a continuum from español through englañol and Spanglish to
Englishproper.TheEnglishinthishybridizingclineincludesnotonlythemore-or-
less standard language of the US schoolroom and media but also what is widely
known as both Black English and Black English Vernacular (BEV), the usage of the
largeAfrican-Americanminority that(together withAfro-Caribbeanpeopleinthe
USAandtheCaribbean)descendsfromAfricanstransportedintimespastintoNew
World slavery. Such complexity has endowed nineteenth- and twentieth-century
American and Caribbean English with an immense range, variety, and vitality,
much of it informal, slangy, and inventive.
As a national language, American may well be more heterogenous [AmE] or
heterogeneous [BrE] than British which, because of the range of its rural and
urban dialects (as well as big-city varieties inXuenced by immigrant languages),
has tended to be regarded as the most varied English anywhere. However that
may be, by the end of the twentieth century the sum total of kinds of English, and
the numbers using them in the USA, Canada, and the Caribbean, made the
Western Hemisphere the primary focus of the language, much as had been
happening with Spanish in Central and South America and Portuguese in Brazil.
All of this has, in eVect, served to make the Americas the primary world focus of
three European languages.
382 tom mcarthur
In this respect, it is therefore worthy of note that the USA, often portrayed
as the most monolithic English-speaking country on Earth (and a place where
learning other languages has low priority), has a foot in both linguistic camps,
which in fact makes it both the most signiWcant English-speaking nation at the
same time as it is a signiWcant Spanish-speaking nation. Thus, of the three
largest language complexes in the world—Chinese, English, and Spanish—two
have their centres of gravity in the Americas, one in East Asia, and none in
Europe. At the same time, while English has always been dominant in the USA,
Spanish became increasingly signiWcant there as the twentieth century ad-
vanced, especially because of migrations north from Latin America, while
English made further headway as a language of business in Latin America. In
consequence, Europe, which at the beginning of the century had been so
signiWcant politically, culturally, and linguistically, had by the century’s end
lost a great deal of linguistic, as well as economic and military, ground to the
New World.
Each of the Western European languages considered in this review has a
proWle and place, as it were, in a world-wide peck order [AmE] or pecking order
[BrE] of languages. Western European languages have, over the last Wve
centuries, had their sea-borne diasporas, through colonies established by
their speakers (English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Dutch) or by emigration
from other European territories to those colonies. In addition, although many
emigrants established homes in non-English-speaking territories, such as Que-
bec (French), Venezuela (Spanish), and Brazil (Portuguese), many settled in the
USA and English Canada, and (while some sustained communities in which
the mother tongue continued to be used) most were assimilated into North
American English, in the process often losing what came to be thought of as
their heritage languages. The ultimate outcome for the Americas as a whole
has, however, been two-fold:
1 The extinction, decimation, and displacement of the aboriginal languages of
the hemisphere, notably Quechua in Peru (still relatively strong in relation to
Spanish), Maya in Guatemala (sustaining itself), Sioux and Cherokee in the
USA (weak, but stronger than many others), and Mohawk and Kwakiutl in
Canada (marginal).
2 The chequerboard [BrE] or checkerboard [AmE] establishment of various
European languages, at the top of whose hierarchy have been English in
North America and the Caribbean, Spanish in South, Central, and North
America, Portuguese in Brazil, and French in Quebec, Louisiana, and the
Caribbean. Although this pattern is unique to the New World, comparable
english world-wide in the twentieth century 383
clusters exist elsewhere, such as English and French in West Africa, and
English, Portuguese, and Afrikaans (from Dutch) in southern Africa, as well
as Spanish and English in the Philippines.
Asian languages may now be following. Arabic has long been widespread as both
a religious and a national language from the Gulf west to Morocco and, as a
religious language, east as far as the Philippines. In the second half of the
twentieth century, however, its presence in both Western Europe and North
America was greatly increased by emigration from North Africa, the Middle
East, and South Asia. Chinese has been signiWcant in and beyond China for
centuries and in diasporas around the world in the nineteenth and twentieth
centuries, notably including the USA and Canada. Large numbers of speakers of
Hindi-Urdu in northern India and Pakistan emigrated in the later nineteenth and
throughout the twentieth century, initially as indentured labourers in many parts
of the British Empire, later often in such middle-class roles as doctors and shop-
keepers in Europe and North America. In a serious sense, the Americas in general
and North America in particular have become a socio-cultural and linguistic
melting pot for not only Europeans but the entire world, with English and
Spanish in the key positions.
english and ‘the global west’
While the West is primarily a direction and a point of the compass, in the
twentieth century it also served to label a culture that was noted, among many
other things, for science, technology, mass-marketing, hi-tech modes of com-
munication, modernity and post-modernity, and for such languages as French,
Spanish, Portuguese, German, Dutch, and ever-increasingly English. Yet, the
twentieth-century range of English went so much farther than the West (properly
so called) that by the 1990s it could only be discussed on planet-wide terms.
Indeed, as the opening sections of this chapter have already indicated, by this
point, no fewer than three labels were available to scholars, journalists, and others
when describing and discussing the language at its most comprehensive: English
as a world language or, more succinctly, world English; English as an international
language or international English; and English as a global language or global
English (see further Fig. 13.1).
All three labels are currently used (at times confusingly) either for all varieties
of English, wherever used, or for the standard variety as used and understood
384 tom mcarthur
12
3
4
5
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
44
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
25
91
92
93
6
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
1 Anguilla
2 Antigua and Barbuda
3 Argentina
4 Ascension
5 Australia
6 Bahamas
7 Bahrain
8 Bangladesh
9 Barbados
10 Belize
11 Bermuda
12 Botswana
13 British Indian
Ocean Territory
14 Brunei
15 Cameroon
16 Canada
17 Cayman Islands
18 Channel Islands
19 China
20 Cook Islands
21 Dominica
22 Egypt
23 England
24 Falkland Islands
25 Fiji
26 Gambia
27 Ghana
28 Gibraltar
29 Grenada
30 Guyana
31 Hawaii
32 Honduras
33 Hong Kong
34 India
35 Indonesia
36 Iraq
37 Irish Republic
38 Isle of Man
39 Israel
40 Jamaica
41 Japan
42 Jordan
43 Kenya
44 Kiribati
45 Korea
46 Kuwait
47 Lesotho
48 Liberia
49 Malawi
50 Malaysia
51 Maldives
52 Malta
53 Maritime Provinces
54 Mauritius
55 Montserrat
56 Namibia
57 Nauru
58 Nepal
59 New England
60 Newfoundland
61 New Zealand
62 Nicaragua
63 Nigeria
64 Northern Ireland
71 Puerto Rico
72 Qatar
73 Quebeec
74 Saint Christopher
& Nevis
75 Saint Helena
76 Saint Lucia
77 Saint Vincent &
the Grenadines
78 Scotland
79 Seychelles
80 Shetland
81 Sierra Leone
82 Singapore
83 Solomon Islands
84 South Africa
85 Sri Lanka
86 Sudan
87 Surinam
88 Swaziland
89 Tanzania
90 Texas
91 Tonga
92 Trinidad & Tobago
93 Tristan da Cunha
94 Turks & Caicos Islands
95 Tuvalu
96 Uganda
97 United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
(23, 64, 78, 101)
98 United States
99 Vanuatu
65 Oman
66 Orkney
67 Pakistan
68 Panama
69 Papua New Guinea
70 Philippines
100 Virgin Islands
(US & UK)
101 Wales
102 Western Samoa
103 Zambia
104 Zimbabwe
Fig. 13.1. World English
world-wide. It is English in this planet-wide sense which parents everywhere
(whatever their backgrounds and circumstances, and regardless of whether they
themselves know the language well or at all) seek, or would seek if they could, for
their children. In eVect then, by the fourth quarter of the twentieth century (in
part because of immediate US inXuence, in part as an aftermath of the British
Empire) a ‘third West’ had come into existence, extending the Atlantic West just
as the Atlantic West had extended the original Greco-Roman and Medieval West.
This time, the extension was, incongruously but logically enough, into the
southern hemisphere: most notably to Australia, New Zealand, South Africa,
and the Falkland Islands. The Wrst European settlers in these regions were
predominantly English, Scottish, Welsh, and Irish, and English was predomin-
antly the language they took with them. In Australia in particular such migrants
have, entirely appropriately, been identiWed as Anglo-Celtic. English is the dom-
inant but by no means the sole language in Australia and New Zealand, is one
among a range of languages in South Africa, but is the sole language of the
Falklands and other British island groups in the southern Atlantic. It is also,
incidentally but signiWcantly, a key inter-communal language in the various
nationally-controlled segments of Antarctica.
In eVect, the West had by the last quarter of the century become the name, not
simply of a particular region of the world, but of a Western European core
together with other areas massively colonized in two sea-borne diasporas, Wrst
to the Americas, then to the southern hemisphere. The identiWcation of this
vastly expanded space relates to both colonists of Western European stock and
the languages they used, some of which were widely acknowledged to be ‘world’
languages (as with French and Spanish), while one in particular—English—had
by the closing decades of the twentieth century become the world or international
or global language, even though it remains far from being a universal language.
This expanded West inevitably has its anomalies, the most unusual of which
is the identiWcation of Japan as a Western rather than a Westernized nation, at
least in an economic, industrial, and technological sense—and despite its
ancient epithet, ‘the land of the rising sun’. Remarkably, and with little fuss,
Japan has been cited in Western news media as Western. Thus, a 1987 editorial in
the British daily newspaper the Independent (24 August 1987) noted that
‘[d]espite its Asian roots, Japan has become suspended in the Western world’.
In a similar way, in the US International Herald Tribune (1 June 1990) David
Sanger wrote about ‘tension between the West’s two biggest economic competi-
tors’, noting that ‘American corporate executives and members of Congress have
complained that Japan has acted as a sponge for technologies developed in the
United States’.
386 tom mcarthur
In the earlier twentieth century, the Westernizing acculturation of Japan was
towards Britain and British English, but after World War II [AmE and BrE] the
Second World War [BrE], as the result of military occupation, it shifted towards
the USA and American English, although a strong interest in the UK and British
usage survives. The Japanese have absorbed, re-created, and exported the prod-
ucts of Western-style technology and art, and have adopted into everyday
Japanese expressions primarily from English and other Western languages, vir-
tually on an industrial scale, as with takushi (‘taxi’), purutoniumu (‘plutonium’),
and seku hara (an abbreviated version of ‘sexual harassment’). However, al-
though the Japanese have given the English language a key role in their national
curriculum, they have not become widely Xuent or even comfortable in the
language. Yet, even so, from time to time home-grown proposals are made that
Japan adopt English as a second national language.
No other non-Occidental country has opted so unreservedly to ‘join the West’,
at least in socio-technological terms. There is, however, a range of comparable
territories whose contact with the West was Wrst commercial (principally in the
nineteenth century), then through absorption into one or other European empire,
then (in the later twentieth century) by on-going contact, in varying degrees of
closeness, with their former imperial state, as independent nations. This was the
case, for example, with both India and the Malay states (now Malaysia and Brunei)
in relation to Britain; Indo-China (Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos) with France;
Venezuela with Spain; the Philippines with Spain then the USA; East Timor and
Macau with Portugal; and the East Indies (now Indonesia) with the Dutch.
Singapore, a small island nation with four oYcial languages (English, Manda-
rin Chinese, Malay, and Tamil), occupies a category all its own. English is the
most used, the government in fact intending that its citizens should speak and
write ‘internationally acceptable English’. The Lion City is highly Westernized
along mainly British lines, but has neither an Australian-style sense of ‘kith and
kin’ with Britain (and Ireland) nor social, commercial, or military closeness to
the USA, nor a Japanese approach to out-doing the West on its own terms—even
though Singapore is materially and in business terms highly Western (and not
simply ‘Westernized’). The city-state may yet, however, succeed, in the process
showing others how to create a long enough spoon to sup with the devil.
Certainly, and uniquely, by the end of the twentieth century Singapore had
become an English-speaking country in its own right, but without (as in the
case of South Africa) an indigenous native-speaking minority to serve as a
template. A kind of Britishness remains evident in Singapore, but there are not
enough Brits or indeed Americans, Canadians, Australians, and New Zealanders
to have a serious impact on Singaporean socio-political style or private
english world-wide in the twentieth century 387
inclination. The dominant role of English in Singapore is therefore home-grown,
and to prove it there is a widespread younger-generation patois called Singlish
which, while distressing the Lion City’s elders, oVers a vivid, home-grown, multi-
ethnic sense of being safe in one’s in-group, while at the same time facing the
older local generation and the wider world, while also—and simultaneously—
drawing on the resources of all of Singapore’s native languages.
Also close to the global West is a range of territories variously associated with
Europe or the USA or both. All are Westernized and fully aware of it, many use
English for external and often internal purposes, but none has any particular
wish or need to be regarded as ‘Western’ in the sense that Australia or indeed
Japan is Western (despite their Asia-PaciWc locations) or that Singapore is
Westernized. These include: India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Malaysia,
and Fiji (all formerly British Asian ‘possessions’ with strongly indigenous cul-
tures); the Gulf States (formerly British protectorates every bit as Arabic and
Islamic as their neighbours); Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and Uganda
(all former British colonies in which there was, apart from Kenya, no large-scale
permanent British settlement, but where there has been a strong British presence
and considerable acculturation). These Westernizing territories form a penumbra
to the global West, and proof of their close ties to that West is the long-term,
often permanent residence of large groups of their own citizens in such Western
territories as the UK, the USA, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. All such
countries have substantial diasporas in the preceding Wve ‘Anglo-Celtic’ nations
(as the Australians might put it), and the likelihood that such diasporas will
simply fade into the local populations in the early twenty-Wrst century, in the
process forgetting their roots, is low.
However, the use of English in the global West and the greater circle of
Westernization is by no means tidy. Other languages than English are used
there, just as in the earlier Wests, a range of Anglo-hybrids exist, and English is
also being put to work in places that could never be reckoned ‘Western’ or
traditionally ‘Westernized’ as, for example, Kyrgyzstan and China. Three points
are, however, worth noting in this connection:
1 English and the global West share a vast area, but are not co-terminous:
English is used beyond this West as, for example, in India, and there are areas
of the global West where English is not (yet) massively present as, for
example, in France and Mexico.
2 By and large, within the global West, there is a shared although non-uniform
and sometimes uneven standardness of English usage, particularly in edu-
cation and the media. Thus, while Americans spell and punctuate diVerently
388 tom mcarthur
from the British, Canadians may be caught between the two; US and UK
dictionaries of English diVer considerably on many points of usage, style,
and presentation; and works of language reference often, necessarily, pro-
vide diVerent representations of the pronunciation of the ‘same’ words in
British and American English.
3 Beyond this area, varieties of English tend to be more divergent, notably, say,
where West African Pidgin English (WAPE) is in wide use, or in South Asia,
where a range of highly distinctive Indian Englishes can be found alongside
the normative usage of, say, The Times of India and All India Radio (AIR).
One is, for instance, unlikely to hear someone who works as an announcer
or continuity person on AIR saying to a friend in the street, regarding some
colleagues, that ‘They are working hard, no?’, although this is an otherwise
fairly common construction in which the non-standard question speciWcally
relates to habitual (not current and continuing) activity. Although this is
therefore a widespread construction in everyday Indian English, AIR pro-
fessionals would say, to indicate habituality, ‘They work hard, don’t they?’, as
would their equivalents elsewhere. In this they use an internationally viable
professional Indian English which is comparable to professional British or
American English, and their local accent will, as it were, be set in an
equivalent social position to the accents of media people in the rest of the
English-using world.
It can be argued that such diVerences in India and elsewhere are no more
remarkable than dialect and social-class diVerences in the UK and the USA.
Whenever lines are drawn (as I have drawn them over the course of this chapter
in the image of a global West and a range of English-using and non-English-using
territories), we cannot assume that in the process anything absolute and Wnal has
been described. Models of this kind are only models, and such a complex reality
as English world-wide will never quite be pinned down, especially when we
consider how mobile populations became in the course of the century.
Finally, it is a curiosity of English world-wide that, while it is used on an
enormous scale in such non-Western (though varyingly Westernized) regions as
India and indeed China (including the special case of Hong Kong, with its own
distinctly institutionalized English), the language itself continues to be identiWed
as fundamentally Western. The ancient West knew nothing of English; a later
Atlantic West was the incubator for the language as we know it; and much of the
global West now uses it, along with much of the rest of the world, in a wide
spectrum of ways. Indeed, the notion ‘the rest of the world’ poses the question of
whether there will, at some point, be an Alice-in-Wonderland universalized West
english world-wide in the twentieth century 389
(although presumably not called by that name) in which English and other very
large languages co-occur with a range of medium to large regional languages that
are in no danger of extinction and may be expanding in their own right. In such a
world, the word cluster West, Western, Westernize, Westernization might, in rela-
tion to the use of English and other matters, become a term whose original
directional meaning no longer has any relevance. At that point, English would
beyond any doubt be a world or international or global language.
At that point, of course, the issue of modernity returns, in as much as the
term Westernization has tended to Xirt with both modernization and modernity.
A non-Western society engaged in Westernization is ipso facto also engaged in
modernization—and a modernization in which English, especially in its US
form, is profoundly involved. In many parts of the world, children of the
Wnancially secure may not be sent to conventional local schools but to private
and fee-paying international schools instead (reminding us of the public schools
in England). A key subject in such schools (if not indeed their sole or primary
medium of instruction) is English. When children leave such schools, in India,
Hong Kong, Singapore, or elsewhere, they may proceed to local English-med-
ium universities or to universities in the global West whose sole medium may
be English or (as in parts of mainland Western Europe, such as the Nether-
lands) where English can be used as the medium of instruction and discussion,
if by so doing foreign students are likely to be attracted in greater numbers, and
if no local students object. An example is the Netherlands, now virtually an
English-using country in which Dutch has to date lost no signiWcant ground.
In such situations, English (already perceived and received as the global lingua
franca) has become in eVect, and paradoxically, a ‘second Wrst language’, a
phenomenon that seems likely to spread in the twenty-Wrst century. Tradition-
alists and protectionists in many parts of the world, including people of good will
and wide experience, who also know English, may fear for the health and
integrity of their national traditions and object, at times strongly. But the tide,
for good or ill or something else, seems to be running against them, and within
their own communities. The unarguable utility of English may win out globally
as it won out (amid pain) in Ireland, Scotland, and Wales in the eighteenth
century. There may be regrets, but the medium will be used by some (with
manifest gain), and as a result cannot fairly be denied to others. In this, in the
early years of the twenty-Wrst century, access to English comes (perilously?) close
to a human right.
Schools that oVer such global qualiWcations as the International Baccalaureate
tend to have strong local reputations for quality of education, and not only in
English. This inevitably strengthens parents’ hopes for a strong and safe educa-
390 tom mcarthur
tion for their children, at the same time as such a system leads to, or expands, an
élite whose aim is to ensure (through endowments, prizes, and other means) that
such schools achieve even more in future. For some, this is a virtuous circle,
creating the best of futures; for others it is vicious, because it may sap the strength
of indigenous languages, cultures, and traditions; for others still it is simply there,
to be used if possible, or to become a source of envy and resentment if not. In the
meantime, however, such schools thrive like the green bay tree, and, in their own
right, are a signiWcant element in the socio-economic process known world-wide,
in English of course, as globalization.
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
English, Englishes, English languages
Useful introductory works are Elmes (1999–2000) whose Routes of English provides a set
of four books (each with a foreword by Melvyn Bragg) relating to a BBC Radio 4 series of
the same name (see also <http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/routesofenglish>), illustrated
and with eight CDs (non-academic in style and focusing strongly on English as the
world’s lingua franca); Jenkins (2003), a relaxed and wide-ranging source book, with
many examples, specimens and quotations, and Trudgill and Hannah (1994), now in its
third edition and a virtual classic on the subject of international English. McArthur
(1998a) and McArthur (2002a) are also useful. The first views English as a family of
languages or a ‘language complex’ rather than taking a traditional ‘one language’ view,
while the second offers a detailed survey of the language, both continent by continent and
in global terms. Relevant journals are English Today: The International Review of the
English Language (edited by Tom McArthur, Cambridge University Press), World Eng-
lishes, Journal of English as an International and Intranational Language (edited by Braj B.
Kachru and Larry E. Smith, Oxford: Blackwell) and English World-Wide (John Benja-
mins: Amsterdam &
Philadelphia), edited by Edgar Schneider.
A debate at the start of the century
For images of ‘good English’ at the start of the century, especially in terms of the public
schools and education, see Mugglestone (2003a), Chapter 7, and Honey (1988). Beal
(2004) provides a good overview of modern English (up to 1945) and changes within it.
For recent changes in RP (and dialect levelling), see, for example, Trudgill (2002). An
excellent biography of Daniel Jones can be found in Collins and Rees (1999); his English
Pronouncing Dictionary, first published in 1917, is now in its 16th edition (2003, edited by
Roach, Hartman, and Setter). For Henry Cecil Wyld, see Milroy (1998). For the BBC and
its influence on spoken language, see Mugglestone (2003a), Chapter 8. For the changing
english world-wide in the twentieth century 391
cultural dynamics of popular broadcasting in the later twentieth century, see MacCabe
(1999).
For American English, see Krapp (1919, 1925) and the now classic Bailey and Görlach
(1984). For African American English, see Mufwene et al. (1998).
Technology, communication, war, and realpolitik
Brutt-Griffler (2002) gives significant coverage of the nature and use of English in the
later British Empire, while the sixteen international articles in Burns and Coffin (2001)
provide, as the title indicates, a useful reader in the changing roles of English in a global
context. See also Crystal (2003b). For language and technology, see Baron (2000), and the
discussion (and references) given in the following chapter in this volume. For a general
historical background to the twentieth century, see Cottrell (1992).
The internal tide: from the UK to the US
Rosewarne’s initial discussion of Estuary English can be found in Rosewarne (1984); see
also Rosewarne (1994a, 1994b). The subject has provoked a range of responses and articles
(a number of them critical); many of these are gathered at <www.phon.ucl.ac.uk/home/
estuary>. The website of the Queen’s English Society <http://www.queens-english-
society.com> provides information about its linguistic aims and objectives, as does
that of the Plain English Society <http://www.plainenglish.co.uk/>.
See Kachru (1992, 1990, 1983) and McArthur (2002a) for discussion of national
Englishes around the world and their development. Varieties of English (and their
history) are illuminatingly discussed in many of the articles in Watts and Trudgill
(2002). For multilingualism in the modern world, see Cronin (2003). For the influence
of American English, see relevant entries in McArthur (2002a).
The external tide: loss of competition
For further information on relevant factors (and consequences) here, see McArthur
(2002a), especially Parts 1 (Introduction) and 8 (Conclusion). For the British Council,
seeCoombs(1988)andalsothewebsiteoftheBritishCouncil:<http://www.britishcouncil.
org/>.
English and the western hemisphere
Huntington (1996) gives a concise review of the situation of English and other major
world languages, in which English is presented as the world’s lingua franca.
392 tom mcarthur
English and ‘the global West’
See Melchers and Shaw (2003) for an overview of global variation in vocabulary,
grammar, phonology, and usage (with recordings on an accompanying CD). Maurais
and Morris (2003) provide a useful survey, discussing ‘a new global linguistic order’,
English hegemony, and the current condition of the world’s (especially larger) languages.
McArthur (1998b) offers a collection of papers on language teaching, reference materials,
the possibility of a global library-cum-database, and the lexicography of a universalizing
English, while Graddol (1997) looks at the recent situation of, and possible futures for,
English as a world language.
english world-wide in the twentieth century 393
14
INTO THE TWENTY-FIRST
CENTURY
David Crystal
IT is a widespread literary trope to anthropomorphize English—to talk about
its ‘remorseless advance’ (around the world) or its ‘insatiable appetite’ (for
new words). If we were to continue this trope at the beginning of the twenty-Wrst
century, we would have to select much less assertive metaphors. For, as a result of
the unprecedented trends which aVected the language during the twentieth
century, and especially during its Wnal decade, we would need to talk of ‘tentative
steps’ and ‘uncertain directions’. We can see these new perspectives chieXy in
relation to three themes: globalization, the Internet, and education.
the long-term consequences of globalization
As the preceding chapter has stressed, the impact of globalization brought a
widespread acknowledgement during the 1990s that English had achieved a
genuine world presence, receiving special status in the usage or educational
systems of every country. Books and journals whose titles described English as
a ‘world language’ or a ‘global language’ became ubiquitous. But because there
has never been a language of such global reach and magnitude, it is unclear what
happens to one in the long term when it achieves this status, or what happens to
other languages as a consequence. Certainly, we saw during that decade an
increase in the number of concerned reactions from other-language communities
which were anxious to preserve the functional standing or formal character of
their language in the face of the growing dominance of English. Anxiety over
reduced functionality related chieXy to such domains as science and higher
education, where English was widely used; issues of linguistic character were
chieXy focused on the amount of English lexical borrowing which was taking
place—words such as email, shop, and AIDS—which were entering several
European languages.1
At the same time, within English itself, the Wrst eVects of
global spread were beginning to be analysed.
The immediate linguistic consequences of English becoming a global language
have been reviewed in Chapter 13. The recurring pattern is one of language spread
resulting in language change. As new communities adopt English, and give it an
increasingly central place in their lives, so they adapt it to reXect their circum-
stances and needs. As it accretes functions within their society, there is a growing
sense of local identity articulated through its use, in addition to whatever other
languages may be available. In due course, regional literatures emerge which not
only express themselves through English but also—via their themes and
characters—comment upon it, and upon the linguistic situation which the
communities are experiencing.
The countries of the world are at varying stages in relation to this course of
development. Those which reXect a long history of divergence, such as Britain and
the USA, show the emergence of distinct regional standards and a highly diverse
and mature literature manifested by writing in every genre. But it is important to
appreciate that all countries—even those whose separate political identities are
relatively recent, such as Singapore and Nigeria (the so-called ‘New Englishes’)—
display a use of the language which is sociolinguistically highly varied. Regional
dialects reXect the often extensive geographical spread of English throughout a
country. Social dialects reXect the ethnic diversity of the population, a diversity
which is often reinforced by the use of separate or mixed languages (such as the
Chinese and English mixing which comprises Singaporean English, or ‘Singlish’).
New pidgins and creoles emerge. Whatever ‘Nigerian English’ is, for example, it
could never be a homogeneous entity, given the great size and population of
Nigeria and the fact that it contains over 400 languages, each of which inXuences
the form of English in individual ways through the use of local loanwords,
pronunciations, and grammatical patterns. In addition, any New English soon
evolves a set of formality levels, which depend largely on the closeness of the
relationship between a variety and standard English.
1
See, for example, M. Görlach, A Dictionary of European Anglicisms: A Usage Dictionary of
Anglicisms in Sixteen European Languages (Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press, 2001).
into the twenty-first century 395
Although futurologists have varied opinions about the very-long-term role of
Englishasagloballinguafranca,weareunlikely toseeareversalofcurrenttrendsin
the course of the present century. All the evidence at present points to a steady
growth in the number of New Englishes, and—within these—an increase in new
forms, new functions, and new literatures. There is one main reason for this, which
has been acknowledged in Chapter 13: the increasing global presence of non-native
speakers, now outnumbering native speakers in a ratio of three to one. But the
natureofthenon-nativespeakerbiasischanging.WhereasWftyyearsagomostnon-
nativespeakersofEnglishbelongedto‘second-language’nations,wheretheBritish
Empire had left a legacy of oYcial language use, today most belong to countries
whichhavehadnopoliticalrelationshipwithBritainoranyotherEnglish-speaking
nation. This seems to be the pattern for the future. Because there are more of these
nations, we must therefore anticipate a considerable increase in the kind of inter-
linguistic eVects which have been repeatedly observed in earlier contact situations.
Just as South African English displays large numbers of words borrowed from
Afrikaans, Xhosa, Zulu, and other local languages—such as Afrikaans agterkamer
(‘back-room’), Zulu ngoma (‘type of drum’), and a distinctive range of pronunci-
ations which reXect the syllable-timed pattern of those languages (the name South
Africa, for example, being pronounced by many speakers as four equally stressed
syllables)—so we must expect to Wnd an evolving linguistic distinctiveness in
China, Egypt, Sweden, and the other 120 or so countries where English has status
only as a ‘foreign language’ (‘EFL countries’).
At a colloquial level, this inXuence, seen in lexical borrowing or more extensive
code-mixing, has already been institutionalized through the use of such names as
‘Spanglish’ and ‘Japlish’. These labels, however, have to be used with caution
because they have been applied to a variety of diVerent language situations on the
ground, and they are often used stereotypically. The term ‘Spanglish’, for ex-
ample, has been used in four main senses: for a balanced mixing at all levels
between Spanish and English; for the use of a large number of Spanish loan words
in English; for the use of a large number of English loan words in Spanish; and for
a situation where any kind of mutual inXuence, no matter how small, generates a
public outcry from purists. For the present chapter, it is the Wrst two senses that
are relevant, such labels drawing attention to the way English vocabulary, gram-
mar, pronunciation, or patterns of discourse have altered under the inXuence of
other languages. Once upon a time, such variations would have been dismissed
out-of-hand as ‘interference errors’ produced by people whose command of the
standard language was imperfect. Today, as increasing numbers of highly edu-
cated people accommodate to each other in the use of such features, these ‘errors’
gradually take on the character of regional spoken standards. For example, in
396 david crystal
Egypt, the universal greeting ‘Welcome in Egypt’ was once perceived to be an
error, displaying the inXuence of Arabic. Today, it is in universal use, produced by
native English speakers living in Egypt as well as by native Arabic speakers. Its
status has even been sanctioned by its appearance in some English-language
textbooks written for the Egyptian market. This process is no diVerent, of course,
from the emergence of quarter of instead of quarter to in American time-telling,
or any other distinctive local use, such as toward vs. towards, which has achieved
status as a regional standard.
However, the fact that such a usage has emerged in Egypt, an EFL country, and
has moreover crossed the native/non-native divide, is highly signiWcant. It is, I
believe, a sign of things to come. The driving force is probably the need for
linguistic accommodation. The language of people in rapport with each other
readily converges. It is only natural for native speakers of English, living as a (less
powerful) minority in a non-native community, and wishing to integrate within
that community, to accommodate in the direction of the linguistic norms which
they hear around them. And it is only a matter of time before features of this
integration—vocabulary, most obviously, but also subtle features of grammar
and even pronunciation—begin to be institutionalized, written down by those
who listen most carefully: the novelists, poets, dramatists, and short-story
writers. While at the outset these writers produce styles which are personal and
idiosyncratic, over the course of time shared features inevitably emerge, and these
then become models for other kinds of written language use. The similarities in
vocabulary and grammar are often obscured by the diversity of spelling prac-
tices—as in the case of contemporary Scots or Caribbean writing—but we might
expect a gradual standardization of spelling to emerge in the course of time.
‘New Literatures’ do not develop overnight. The evidence from earlier Com-
monwealth manifestations is that fresh literary voices take a considerable while to
mature.AuthorsarealwaysatWrstsomewhatuncertainabouttheway tohandlethe
non-standard or innovative varieties of English evolving in the community about
which they are writing. But over time the writing gains in conWdence. In relation to
the presentation of non-standard varieties, there seem to be four stages:
1 All characters express themselves in standard English, whatever their lin-
guistic background; the author makes no comment. Example:
‘How long do you intend to stay with us,’ said the Colonel.
‘As long as you will have me, sir,’ replied Manuel.
2 Characters express themselves in standard English; the author tells the
reader what variety or language they are really using. Example:
‘I’ll leave as soon as I can,’ said Manuel in pidgin.
into the twenty-first century 397
3 Characters express themselves in a local variety; the author additionally tells
the reader what the variety is. Example:
‘Me go quick-quick,’ said Manuel in pidgin.
4 Characters express themselves in a local variety; the author makes no
comment. Example:
‘Me go quick-quick,’ said Manuel.
It is this last stage, a stage of ‘showing’, not ‘telling’, which is a sign of real
literary conWdence. We can see it emerging early on (as far as the history of
New Englishes is concerned) in Milton Murayama’s novel All I asking for is my
body (1959), which tells a story from the viewpoint of Kiyoshi, a young
Japanese boy growing up on a sugar plantation in Hawaii. It used standard
English and varieties of Hawaiian pidgin and creole English, as well as pidgin
and code-mixed Japanese.2
The extract below displays features both of showing
and of telling. Standard English is used (with occasional deviations) for the
main narrative as well as to express the thoughts of older people speaking in
Japanese—the latter including some code-mixing, as in the last sentence of the
extract.
‘Kiyoshi, you understand, you’re not to eat anymore at Makoto’s home,’ Father said
evenly, now his anger gone.
I was going to ask ‘Why?’ again but I was afraid. ‘Yes,’ I said.
Then Tosh said across the table in pidgin English, which the old folks couldn’t under-
stand, ‘You know why, Kyo?’ I never liked the guy, he couldn’t even pronounce my name
right. ‘Because his father no work and his mother do all the work, thass why! Ha-ha-ha-ha.’
Father told him to shut up and not to joke at the table and he shut up and grinned.
Then Tosh said again in pidgin English, his mouth full of food; he always talked with
his mouth full. ‘Go tell that kodomo taisho to go play with guys his own age, not small
shrimps like you. You know why he doan play with us? Because he scared, thass why. He
too wahine. We bust um up.’
‘Wahine’ was the Hawaiian word for woman. When we called anybody wahine it
meant she was a girl or he was a sissy.
. . . ‘Mama, you better tell Kyo not to go outside the breakers. By-‘n’-by he drown.
By-’n’-by the shark eat ’um up.’
‘Oh, Kiyo-chan, did you go outside the breakers?’, she said in Japanese.
‘Yeah,’ Tosh answered for me. ‘Makoto Sasaki been take him go.’
‘Not dangerous,’ I said in pidgin Japanese; ‘Makato-san was with me all the time.’
‘Why shouldn’t Makoto-san play with people his own age, ne?,’ Mother said.
2
This is discussed in more detail in S. Romaine, ‘Hawai’i Creole English as a Literary Language’,
Language in Society 23 (1994), 536.
398 david crystal
As the number of English-language speakers in EFL countries increases, and
as their conWdence to use the language in distinctive ways grows, we must
surely anticipate a major growth in the expressive range of English arising out
of new literary uses. There is no reason why the Hawaiian or West African
novel (in English) should not have its equivalent one day in the Scandinavian
novel (in English) or the Oriental novel (in English), or Caribbean poetry
eventually be matched by Russian poetry (in English) or Chinese poetry (in
English). An indication of the correspondingly wider linguistic and cultural
perspectives needed to interpret them can already be seen in the English-
language newspapers from any of the EFL countries that produce one, for
example, Egypt, Japan, or Greece. A wide range of topic areas has generated an
extensive local vocabulary of common nouns and proper names which have
acquired local overtones (the equivalent of such forms as Whitehall, Soho, and
West End in British English). I do not know what the equivalent of West End
and East End is in the English-language description of its corresponding
locations in Tokyo, Bangkok, or Berlin, but every city has names which reXect
social realities, and the English which is used in these areas will include those
resonances. We would need to know what they were if we were to interpret
correctly any English-language novel or newspaper in Japan, Thailand, or
Germany which incorporated them.
As with the literary example above, English-language newspapers uncertain of
the level of awareness of their readership take pains to ‘tell’ their readers what
they are talking about by translating potentially obscure vocabulary, especially in
relation to proper names. Here is an example from a Russian English-language
publication:
Russia’s Ded Moroz (Grandfather Frost) whose oYcial residence is in Veliky Ustyug [a
town in Russia’s northwest], Santa Claus from Lapland’s village of Rovaniemi and their
Yakutian counterpart Ekhee Dyyl are meeting this Saturday in the Yakutian village of
Tomtor in the Oimyakon district (the Far Eastern Federal District) on the last day of the
Wrst Cold Pole-2002 festival. (Pravda, 2003)
This is a very high level of ‘telling’. At a more mature stage of expression, there is
no ‘telling’, only ‘showing’:
Wakonahana, facing one of the few rikishi smaller than himself, had little trouble with
No. 6 maegashire Mainoumi, who could use none of his tricks against the technically-
sound sekiwake. (The Daily Yomiuri, 1993)
This is conWdent writing, assuming an aware readership which does not have to
be written down to. Those who understand Japanese sumo wrestling of course
Wnd such sentences transparent. They are no more diYcult, in essence, than is a
into the twenty-first century 399
baseball or cricket report to enthusiasts of either sport, as in these American and
British examples:
Brown was hit in the helmet by a Jim Taylor pitch in the top of the eighth inning and was
down at home plate for three minutes.
Hussein has placed two slips and a gully and a backward short-leg for the occasional ball
zipping in oV the seam.
Newspapers, creative literature, and printed ephemera (such as restaurant
menus) involve a very wide range of subject matter, reXecting the physical
environment, history, society, and life style of the host country. As a result, the
number of culturally distinctive lexical items which accumulate is extensive, as
demonstrated by the ‘New English’ dictionaries—of South African English,
Jamaican English, Australian English, and so on—which, as mentioned in
Chapter 13, have already been compiled. These usually include well in excess
of 10,000 entries—and this Wgure does not take into account encyclopaedic
data, such as the names of people, places, and events, which most modern
dictionaries tend to exclude. To come to terms with all this, a rapprochement
between linguistic and cultural studies, at a comparative and global level, is
likely to be one of the major intellectual developments in twenty-Wrst-century
English-language studies.
Linguistic terminology can hardly fail to be inXuenced by these new per-
spectives. The kinds of issue presented by code-mixed and culturally-induced
lexical variation raise serious questions for the distinction between ‘native’ and
‘non-native’ English, and for the relevance of such notions as ‘EFL’. Quite
plainly, the experience of a Japanese speaker learning English as a foreign
language in Japan is very diVerent from that of someone learning French as a
foreign language in that country. The fact that English is part of the Japanese
environment in a way that French is not means that the learning experience is
very diVerent. Young children cannot avoid being exposed to English in such
domains as advertising, television, the Internet, and pop music, and inevitably
develop a considerable passive knowledge of (some domains of) English.
There is an increased awareness of English vocabulary through the assimilation
of loanwords into Japanese. And the popular appeal of English motivates a
degree of spontaneous active (albeit often non-standard) use, both in speech
and writing, as when children (or adults) imitate discourse exchanges they
have encountered in English-language Wlms or make use of idiomatic expres-
sions they have seen in Internet interactions. And for ‘Japanese’ here, read
‘people from any EFL country’. We need a term for the state of a language
which arises out of its status as a lingua franca in a community. ‘Nativized
400 david crystal
English’ is one which has been suggested, as by Prcic in 2003.3
Other terms,
describing the varying types of situation in diVerent communities, must
follow.
the long-term consequences of the internet
The trend towards electronic communication in the second half of the
twentieth century also made its public impact during the 1990s, when the
world wide web and mobile telephony arrived, and interaction through email
and chatroom became routine. As earlier chapters in this volume have
illustrated, a new technology always has a signiWcant eVect on the character
and use of language, but when a technology produces a medium that is so
diVerent from anything we have experienced hitherto, the linguistic conse-
quences are likely to be dramatic, involving all areas of English structure
and use, and introducing new considerations into the methodology of its
study.
The impact of technology has been evident at every stage in English linguis-
tic history, from the arrival of pen and ink onwards. Writing introduced a
graphological dimension to English, with all that this involved in terms of
spelling, punctuation, and styles of handwriting. Printing added another di-
mension to written language, in the form of typography and graphic design, of
further developments in the orthographic system, and of a huge expansion of
language varieties through books, magazines, newspapers, advertisements, and
printed ephemera. The telephone introduced new techniques of spoken dis-
course, and the telegraph added new written styles, such as ‘telegramese’ (see
further p. 276). Radio broadcasting did analogously for the spoken language
what print had done for the written, extending phonological expression, and
introducing several fresh varieties such as announcements, sports commentar-
ies, and news broadcasts. Over the twentieth century, Wlm and television
continued this process, adding cinematic or televisual speech varieties and
also such forms of written expression as programme titles, screen credits,
and commercials. In the late twentieth century, the mobile phone (or cell-
3
See T. Prcic, ‘Is English Still a Foreign Language?’, The European English Messenger 12 (2003),
35–7.
into the twenty-first century 401
phone), with its space-restricted screen, motivated the development of a
further written variety, based on linguistic abbreviation, in the form of text-
messaging. And the Internet has taken this process even further, with emails,
synchronous (real-time) chatrooms, asynchronous discussion groups, and the
many types of Web-based text showing English moving in new stylistic direc-
tions, partly in response to the personalities and group dynamics of the
participants, and partly because of the constraints introduced by the control-
ling hardware and software.
But the Internet has done more than earlier technologies in altering our
perception of what language is and how it is used. There are plainly consid-
erable diVerences between the kind of language used on the Internet—Net-
speak, as I have elsewhere called it4
—and those used in traditional forms of
speech and writing. Indeed, the extent of the diVerence is so great that it
amounts to the arrival of a new medium, often called computer-mediated
communication, which blends properties of traditional written and spoken
language. Netspeak is not like traditional writing. It permits people to do
things routinely to the written language which were not possible before, such
as to interpolate responses into a message (as in emails) or to cut and paste
from one document to another without the results clashing graphically. And
it oVers new dimensions of contrast which were not previously available,
notably in animated graphic presentation. Nor is Netspeak like traditional
speech. It lacks the simultaneous feedback which is an essential part of face-
to-face conversation. It permits the carrying on of several conversations
simultaneously in chatrooms, where it is possible to attend to many inter-
locutors at once, and to respond to as many as taste and typing speed permit.
And it allows people to participate in several totally diVerent speech situations
simultaneously—a computer may have a number of windows open at the
same time, allowing the user to participate in a multi-user chatroom, engage
in a one-to-one conversation using Instant Messenger, role-play an imaginary
character in an Internet game, and much more. Participants are well aware of
what they are doing, as the following conversation shows. It took place in
2003 between a group of established adult members of a chatroom and a
newcomer (a ‘newbie’, Artman), puzzled about how to behave. (Nicknames
have been changed, but the text is otherwise exactly as it appeared.)
4
See D. Crystal, Language and the Internet (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2nd edn 2006).
402 david crystal
Artman: how can you listen and chat at the same time? it boggles the mind.
Toots: for now anyway
Mo: add chewing gum and you can try for Mensa
Deedee: It takes skill artman
Toots: HEy, we love Boggle
Artman: heheh
Pluto: you’re a mere newbie. You’ll get the hang of it. Just realign both halves of the
brain and stuV
Hop: I’ve been chatting/listening/watching tv shows at the same time for long time
Artman: well, I’m impressed. :)
Deedee: Sometimes I listen, chat, AND play Bejeweled
Benj: Throw in Wc writing, and I hear ya.
Hop: it’s kinda overwhelming at Wrst
TKD: after a couple of go-arounds, you Wnd that having 7 conversations at once is
perfectly normal
Artman: sure
Benj: Not necessarily 7 perfectly normal conversations
DIY: you will often write in the wrong window
DIY: but we don’t care
TKD: well, its when you start having them without the computer that people start to
stare
Artman: oh yeah, that happens all the time
Artman: lol [¼ ‘laughing out loud’]
Mo: It makes the conversation more interesting
It is linguistically interesting too, for the practices break most of the traditionally
understood conventions governing how successful conversations are supposed to
proceed. The general concept of the conversational exchange, for example (as
discussed by Stubbs in his 1983 analysis of the structure of discourse), or the more
speciWc notion of the ‘adjacency pair’ (i.e. a privileged sequence of sentences,
such as question þ response), has to be fundamentally revised to cope with such
material.
Just as radical a development is the way the Internet is altering our conception
of what the written language is for. The vast majority of traditional writing has
represented the language of public record and debate, as manifested in admin-
istrative, academic, and expository material (e.g. newspapers, ephemera). It is
formal in style, for the most part constructed with care, and expressed in
standard English (in one of its regional incarnations). Creative literature, dis-
playing a wider range of styles, forms only a small part of the written output
over the centuries, as the relative proportions of texts in any modern corpus
into the twenty-first century 403
show.5
Informal writing (as seen in letters) forms an even smaller part although,
as Chapters 7 and 9 have shown, its linguistic importance is great. All kinds of
imbalances exist. Texts written by men far outnumber texts written by women, at
all stages in the history of the language. Texts written by young children or
teenagers hardly ever achieve a public presence; nor do texts written by handi-
capped people or marginalized groups. It is diYcult to Wnd public examples of
unedited regional or dialect writing after standard English is established. Like-
wise, the written language of many social groups, such as ethnic minorities, rarely
achieves an outside audience. At any stage in the history of English, if I wanted to
Wnd out what an in-group was saying, or how it used the language, as an outsider
the task would be virtually impossible. The Internet has changed all this.
Probably the most important linguistic eVect of the Internet is the way it oVers
an unprecedented degree of written public presence to small-scale regional and
social groups, and thus a vast potential for representing local identities. At the
level of regional dialect, developments have taken place both intranationally and
internationally, corresponding to the way the Internet has—since the late 1990s—
become increasingly multilingual, oVering opportunities for self-expression to all
languages, including many that are seriously endangered. At the level of the social
group, every conceivable interest group now has an Internet presence, fostering
new styles of linguistic interaction and giving rise to a range of fresh social
concerns (see below). The opportunities are unlimited even at the level of the
individual: anyone with access to the medium can now present a personal
diary-type statement to the world, of unlimited length, in the form of a blog or
‘Web log’—one of the most proliferating functions of the Web in the early 2000s.
The representation of dialect was an early manifestation. Any intranational
regional dialect which has a history of enthusiastic support will now have its web
pages. In the UK alone, there are hundreds of sites devoted to the local English of
Scotland, Wales, or Northern Ireland, as well as dialect sites focusing on Yorkshire,
Lancashire, Newcastle, London, and elsewhere. A major BBC-inspired web-based
project, ‘Voices 2005’, a nationwide interactive survey of regional variation, and
including transcriptions of dialect usage and sound recordings, began in January
2005 (and was aired on BBC Radio 4 in August 2005). And at an international level,
many of the New Englishes now have available a written electronic identity which
previously could be achieved only through conventional creative literature. Because
the Internet is uncontrolled by the hierarchy of grammarians, lexicographers, pub-
lishers, printers, copy editors, and proof-readers who have traditionally established,
5
See D. Crystal, The Cambridge Encyclopedia of the English Language, 2nd edn. (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2003), 451.
404 david crystal
disseminated, and controlled standard English (see Chapters 9 and 10 for earlier
manifestations of this particular domain of language activity), it seems likely that
we will see a much greater presence of informal written interaction than at any
previous stage in the history of the language, and thus the rapid emergence and
consolidation of local group norms of usage—several of which will privilege non-
standard forms. These new varieties are bound to achieve a more developed written
representation than would ever have been possible before, and through the global
reach of the Internet they may well extend their inXuence beyond their locality
or country of origin. A whole new range of Internet-mediated regional written
standards is the likely outcome. And as the amount of written language on the
Internet will eventually far exceed that available in traditional print form, a new
type of relationship between non-standard varieties and standard English will one
day emerge.
What is especially interesting, from a linguistic point of view, is that most of
this material will be unedited. Editorial involvement represents the biggest
diVerence between speech and writing. By ‘editing’ I mean the presence of an
intermediate stage of adaptation (usually by a professional) of a speaker/writer’s
output before it is received by a listener/reader. Most of the spoken language
around us is unedited, in this sense, the only real exception being certain kinds of
broadcast and cinematic material where producers, directors, or recording spe-
cialists may be heavily involved. By contrast, most of the written language around
us is edited, often several times over. The exceptions include only informal letter-
writing, graYti, and a few other manuscript phenomena, which in modern times
comprise a very small proportion of written English. The Internet is changing
this balance—not so much on the web, where a great deal of editing takes place,
but in email, chatroom, and instant messenger interaction, and especially in
blogging, where the most ‘naked’ forms of writing appear. There is no single style.
Even in the short extract above, we can see diVerent principles at work in the use
of capitalization, punctuation, abbreviations, and non-standard spellings. These
personality-inXuenced variations will certainly increase, as the population-base
of the Internet grows, and the present generation of Internet-literate individuals
grows old. But in all genres, from web diaries to fantasy games, we will expect to
Wnd writing which reXects the speech rhythms, regional and class backgrounds,
ages, personalities, and education levels of the participants. There has been
nothing like it since the manuscript era of Middle English. And the renewal of
connection with medieval times may in due course be complete, for digital
representations of handwriting already exist, and may well become routine—
assuming of course that, at this point in the future, people are still being taught
handwriting!
into the twenty-first century 405
At the same time, the long-term linguistic character of the Internet remains
unclear. This is partly because the technological revolution is in its earliest phase.
Given the changes that have taken place in the last decade or so (the web itself is a
creation from as recently as 1991, and mobile phone technology more recent still),
we must expect there to be further innovative developments, especially of an
interactive kind, which will push the language in unexpected directions. A
spoken dimension of Internet use, supplementing the present graphic dimension,
is in prospect. It is never possible to predict language outcomes. Text-messaging,
with its array of idiosyncratic abbreviations such as lol, used on p. 403, or c u l8r
(‘see you later’), was a totally unexpected linguistic innovation in the UK in the
late 1990s. And since 2000 we have seen even more esoteric forms of usage arising
out of the way in which the Internet is being used in unpredictable ways. In
relation to emails, for example, the early years of the new millennium have seen
most email users suddenly having to cope with the arrival in their inboxes of large
numbers of unwanted messages (‘spam’) which have been distributed in huge
quantities from a single source. EVorts to prevent such messages through auto-
matic Wltering of their subject lines have resulted in ingenious eVorts on the part
of spammers to evade the Wlters. A whole new genre of English has been the
consequence, chieXy seen in the subject-line of emails, and illustrated by such
usages as:
supr vi-agra online now znwygghsxp
VI @ GRA 75% oV regular xxp wybzz lusfg
fully stocked online pharmac
y
Great deals, prescription d[rugs
Many of the bizarre graphological expressions have been generated randomly, in
itself an unprecedented procedure in everyday written communication.
Chatrooms provide another domain of innovation which has led to unex-
pected linguistic outcomes. I am not here referring to the distinctive use of
rebuses and colloquial abbreviations which characterize ‘textspeak’. It was per-
haps not surprising to see the emergence of such forms in the technically
constrained environment of a mobile phone, where there was a limit of 160
characters per screen, and space was at a premium. Nor was it surprising to see
such abbreviations taken up universally in teenage interaction, where they are
widely used as an economical and ‘cool’ style of communication. Much more
unexpected was the way users adapted so quickly to the communicative potential
of the medium and exploited it as part of a newfound virtual identity in which
anonymity is the norm and the choice of personality (as expressed through a
nickname or an on-screen character, or ‘avatar’) is limited only by imagination.
406 david crystal
The uncontrolled nature of many sites (especially teenage chat sites) has motiv-
ated their participants to indulge in every kind of fantasy, regularly resulting in
written representations of language which previously would have been conWned
to maximally informal speech, and which would never have been included in
traditional publishing outlets in the interests of public decency.
Obscene or aggressive exchanges have presumably been part of youngster
communication since the invention of the teenager, and have been given some
study. For example, sociolinguists have long known about the kind of ritual street
confrontations described under the heading of ‘verbal duelling’,6
in which parti-
cipants try to outdo each other in Xights of linguistic fancy exploiting taboo
language to the full. Competitive joke rituals similarly have an ancient history.
What is unusual is to see such rituals carried on, at great length and often with
great verbal skill, in the written language—especially when such material is spelled
and punctuated according to the conventions of standard English, as happens in a
surprising number of cases. It is a new genre of English writing—and one which
will be very diYcult to research, as many of the interactions are accompanied by
the exchange of webcam images which, if downloaded to a researcher’s computer,
would bring obvious risks. There is, understandably, immense concern over the
opportunities presented by chatrooms to paedophiles, who simulate the language
found there as a preliminary to gaining the trust of the participants. It is perhaps
the Wrst time in the history of linguistics that a domain of language has become
oV-limits (especially to male researchers) without a sophisticated system of
protective legal safeguards being Wrst put in place. And it may well be that several
domains of Internet use will eventually be incapable of unimpeded investigation.
This, then, is a necessary qualiWcation about the linguistic character of future
Internet English. Editing, in the traditional sense, there may not be. But moder-
ating, in the modern sense, there certainly will be. Many chatrooms are now
moderated—watched over by a person whose role is to exclude unacceptable
submissions to a site being seen by other participants. The notion of acceptability
is very wide-ranging: it includes people who send in messages which are irrelevant
(‘oV-topic’), aggressive (‘Xaming’), misleading (‘trolling’), blasphemous, or ob-
scene. It focuses on content, rather than linguistic structure (although doubtless
there is a punctuation chatroom site somewhere where a moderator is sanctioning
apostrophes), and usually takes the form of the deletion of a whole message rather
than an editing of it. But the natural evolution of the discourse is inevitably
6
See, for example, A. Dundes, J. W Leach, and B. Özkök, ‘The Strategy of Turkish Boys’ Verbal
Duelling Rhymes’, in J. J. Gumperz and D. Hymes (eds), Directions in Sociolinguistics (New York: Holt,
Rinehart and Winston, 1972), 130–60.
into the twenty-first century 407
aVected by such activity. How much, it is diYcult to say. It is practically and
economically impossible to moderate everything and, even in moderated sites, the
attention-span of the moderator has its limitations—especially when dozens of
messages are arriving simultaneously from many members, and being displayed at
various locations on screen. The degree of sanitization varies greatly across the
records of chatroom interactions, and also depends greatly on the personality of
the moderators, whose censorship reXects to a degree their individual beliefs and
tastes. Many sites publish logs of what their participants have said. However, many
of these logs are a remove or two away from what actually went on in the session.
Coping with this kind of material will be a new challenge for corpus linguistics.
the long-term consequences of educational
change
During the latter part of the twentieth century, a noticeable trend towards a more
egalitarian society began to reduce the severity of social-class distinctions, rec-
ognize the value of diversity, safeguard the rights of minorities, and revitalize
demotic values. The immediate linguistic eVect was a move away from the
prescriptive ethos of the past 250 years which has been described in Chapters 9
and 10, and it brought the introduction of new educational paradigms of
language study. But in an age when the prescriptive tradition is still very much
part of the language consciousness of older members of society, the transition
between old and new paradigms presents the new generation (and their teachers)
with an uncertain linguistic climate whose character is still evolving.
The new climate has particularly called for a reassessment of the relationship
between standard and non-standard language and for a fresh and realistic
appraisal of just what a ‘standard’ language involves. We seem to be at a
transitional point between two worlds. The ‘old world’ is one where a tiny
number of rules, selected and deWned by prescriptive grammarians, totally con-
ditioned our sense of acceptable ‘standard’ usage, so that all other usages were
considered to be inferior or corrupt, and excluded from serious consideration.
The ‘new world’ is one where non-standard regional usage is achieving a new
presence and respectability within society, reminiscent of that found in Middle
English when, as we have seen in Chapter 4, dialect variation in literature was
widespread and uncontentious. It is not a question, in this new climate, of non-
standard in any sense replacing standard. Rather, the two dimensions of language
408 david crystal
use are being brought into a new relationship, in which the essential role of the
standard language (as a means of guaranteeing intelligibility and continuity
among educated people) is seen to complement the essential role of the non-
standard language (as a means of giving expression to local identities). It is a
move away from the confrontational situation which has had so many traumatic
consequences for individual language users, most of whom have been brought up
to believe that there is something seriously wrong with their demotic speech.
Eliminating such feelings from public consciousness will nevertheless take
some time. As Chapter 13 has pointed out, once people have been given an
inferiority complex about the way they speak or write, they Wnd it diYcult to
be rid of it. But it is only a matter of time. In the later decades of the twentieth
century there were clear signs that institutionalized prescriptivism was already
beginning to come to an end. The most important area of change was in
educational practice—especially signiWcant because it was only through the
school system that prescriptivism had been able to propagate itself. In the UK,
from the 1970s, changes in school syllabuses and examination systems introduced
a new dispensation. The unthinking adherence to mechanical sentence analysis
and old-style canons of correctness began to be replaced by a broad-based
investigation of the functions of language in all their social manifestations—a
‘language in use’ era of linguistic pedagogy. By the end of the 1990s, in the new
National Curriculum, as well as in the syllabuses which were being devised for
higher examinations, the study of linguistic forms had been added to functions,
with a complete change in emphasis. Similar educational changes took place in
other parts of the English-speaking world.
The new emphasis integrated the insights of the ‘language in use’ approach
with aspects of the earlier tradition of structural analysis, now seen through
linguistic spectacles. Classes and exam papers no longer asked students to parse
sentences or to make decisions about correctness in relation to such issues as
split inWnitives. Instead, the questions began to make students explain what
happens when language is used—to go beyond the mere ‘spotting’ of a
linguistic feature (a passive, a simile, a piece of alliteration) to a mode of
inquiry in which they explored the reasons lying behind the linguistic choices
being made by language users. It was no longer enough to say, ‘I see an
unusual adjective order in that poem’. The interesting answer—and the one
which gained the marks in an exam—was to be able to say why it was there.
Only in that way, it was reasoned, would students be able to develop a sense of
the consequences of choosing one kind of language rather than another (such
as formal vs. informal), when it came to using language themselves or evalu-
ating the eVect of a language choice upon other people. The aim, in short, was
into the twenty-first century 409
to promote a more responsive and responsible approach to language, in which
students would come to understand why people use language in the way they
do, and would put this knowledge to active use to become more able to control
language for themselves.
This change in emphasis is now being realized in the form of textbooks and
teaching materials,7
but the new approach does not yet have an agreed name. It
is not a matter of a ‘prescriptive’ approach being replaced by a ‘descriptive’
one, as has sometimes been suggested, for this pedagogy goes well beyond
description into a world of explanation and evaluation. A better term would be
‘pragmatic’ (as opposed to ‘dogmatic’), with all that this implies—an ability to
adapt knowledge to meet the needs of diVering circumstances and a readiness
to judge cases on their merits. The pragmatic approach instils an awareness
that variation and change are normal features of linguistic life, demanding
recognition and respect. And it carries with it the corollary that those who
make use of this variation must themselves be recognized and respected. In its
strongest and most positive manifestation, the pragmatic approach replaces the
concept of ‘eternal vigilance’ (beloved of prescriptivists and purists) by one of
‘eternal tolerance’.
Although an educational perspective is crucial, in moving away from an
institutionalized prescriptivism towards a more egalitarian linguistic era, it
cannot operate alone. Other social institutions need to be involved. Indeed,
without a sense of linguistic disquiet within society as a whole, it is unlikely
that any change in educational practice would have taken place at all. What is
interesting about the later decades of the twentieth century is the way that
diVerent social trends began to reinforce pragmatic educational linguistic
thinking. In the UK, for example, leading media organizations such as the
BBC opened their doors to regional speech, partly as a reaction to the
emergence of independent local radio and television stations. A Wne radio
presenter, Susan Rae, had to stand down from Radio 4 in the early 1980s
because of antagonism towards her Scots accent, but she was back reading the
news on Radio 4 at the end of 2003. Business management recognized the
importance of speech variation in interacting with clients: the regional accents
of a new linguistic order (international as well as intranational) may be heard
now at the end of a telephone at many a call centre. Organizations such as the
Plain English Campaign focused attention on the linguistic responsibilities of
organizations towards the needs of the individual. Political correctness, in the
7
See, for example, D. Crystal, Making Sense of English Grammar (London: Pearson Education,
2004).
410 david crystal
best sense, fostered notions of gender and racial equality. And there was a fresh
awareness of the nature of regional and ethnic identity, which led to a greater
valuing of linguistic diversity. These trends had their parallels in other English-
speaking countries.
But changes in linguistic attitudes and practices are not accepted overnight, or
even over a decade. The cumulative eVects of ten generations of prescriptive
teaching are still around us. Organizations which were set up to ‘safeguard’ the
English language, with their founding ideals in the prescriptive era, continue to
exist and to attract members. Usage manuals presenting an idealized vision of
standard English as a uniform, unchanging, and universal norm of correctness
continue to be published. And senior managers today, whether in government,
law, medicine, business, education, or the media, cannot rid themselves entirely
of prescriptive thinking, because they are the last generation to have experienced
this approach in their schooling. Their inXuence is considerable, because they
unconsciously pass on their linguistic anxieties and preoccupations, often half-
remembered and poorly understood, to subordinates who, in the absence of
linguistic knowledge of their own, accept their opinions as dictates. In a few years
time, the new generation of schoolchildren, well-grounded in pragmatic prin-
ciples, will be out there in society, able to counter unthinking prescriptive
attitudes; and once they are in senior positions, the confrontation will be over.
But in the meantime, innumerable schoolchildren and adults have developed
feelings of inadequacy and inferiority about their natural way of speaking, or
about certain features of their writing, being led to believe that their practice is in
some way ‘ugly’ or ‘incorrect’. We are coming towards the close of a linguistically
intolerant era, but—as happens in last-ditch situations—conservative reaction
can be especially strong as seen in the Trussian promulgation of ‘zero tolerance’
in Eats, Shoots & Leaves (2003).8
The intellectual achievement of the prescriptive writers of the eighteenth
century was to give deWnition to the future character of the standard; but their
emotional legacy was to instil in everyone guilt about everyday usage and a fear of
‘breaking the rules’ which can reach paranoid proportions. It was they alone who
chose which features of grammar were to be the sign of an educated writer, and
their prescriptions were suYciently powerful to persuade generations of writers
how to behave, right up to the present. The main contribution of linguistics to
this debacle has been to develop a fresh conception of standard English—one
which gets away from prescriptive preoccupations, occupying as they do only a
8
See L. Truss, Eats, Shoots & Leaves. The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation (London: ProWle
Books, 2003).
into the twenty-first century 411
tiny proportion of grammatical ‘space’, and allows us to concentrate on the core
areas of grammatical structure that actually do govern the way we express and
respond to meaning and style. In a typical reference grammar of 1,500 pages, only
a dozen or so pages will be taken up with the issues that so worried the
prescriptive grammarians. What linguistics has done is underline the importance
of the topics covered by the remaining pages—topics which turn out to be much
more closely bound up with questions of intelligibility, clarity, precision, and
elegance of expression than could ever be found in the pages of a prescriptive
grammar.
A transition between linguistic eras is not a comfortable stage. It takes time for
people to adjust their mindsets to assimilate new ways of thinking, and for
teachers to be prepared to cope with this thinking. It took half a century for
the prescriptive era to become Wrmly established, and it will probably take a
similar period to be fully weaned away from it. In 2005 we are perhaps half-way
through this period. But a new social climate has emerged, in which new
linguistic mores are being formed by the impact of globalization and technology.
It is a world where intranational preoccupations have been Wrmly put in their
place by an international presence of unprecedented proportions—with the
population of world English-language users approaching two billion. No one
nation can any longer be said to ‘own’ English, and no one nation’s anxieties over
local norms of usage will make much impact in a world where diverse regional
standards are the norm, and where the Internet provides these varieties with new
levels of public display. A new intellectual sociolinguistic climate is slowly but
surely being formed, to which the present volume will no doubt make a sign-
iWcant contribution.
References and Suggestions for Further Reading
The long-term consequences of globalization
There is little as yet published on linguistic trends in the new century, as the period has
hardly begun; but the globalization and technological trends noted in this chapter were
repeatedly anticipated in the 1990s. I have discussed these trends in some detail in Crystal
(2001, 2004c) and the literary trends in Crystal (2004a). On the changing role of English,
see McArthur (1998a), Graddol and Meinhof (1999), and Burns and CoYn (2001), as well
as Chapter 13 in this volume. On the evolution of standard English, see the papers in
Wright (2000). The position of English in Europe is discussed in a series of essays edited
by Görlach (2002), and overseas in several papers in Volume 5 of the Cambridge History of
the English Language (BurchWeld 1994).
412 david crystal
The long-term consequences of the Internet
On computer-mediated communication, see the collection of essays edited by Herring
(1996) and the volume by Baron (2000); for its impact on general English usage, see
especially Crystal (2006) and also Crystal (2004d).
The long-term consequences of educational change
Doughty et al. (1971) provide a useful example of the ‘language in use’ era of linguistic
pedagogy. Recent educational trends are discussed in Crystal (2004a), which is a devel-
opment of the position adopted by the papers in Watts and Trudgill (2002).
into the twenty-first century 413
This page intentionally left blank
A Chronology of English
c1500 bc First evidence for some languages of the Indo-European group.
c1000–500 bc Emergence of Proto-Germanic.
c300–200 bc Break-up of Proto-Germanic.
c45–c410 Britain becomes part of the Roman Empire, forming the Roman
colony ‘Britannia’.
c 410 Collapse of Roman Empire; Romans leave Britain.
449 Traditional date for the invasion of Britain by the Angles, Saxons, and
Jutes.
597 Arrival of Roman mission in England and introduction of Christianity.
601 Augustine becomes the first Archbishop of Canterbury.
664 Synod of Whitby.
670s Presumed date of composition of Cædmon’s Hymn.
c700 First surviving written evidence of Old English.
c700–20 Lindisfarne Gospels written (in Latin).
731 Bede completes his Ecclesiastical History of the English People (in
Latin).
735 Death of Bede.
757 (–96) Reign of Offa as King of Mercia.
780s Period of Scandinavian invasion begins.
793 Sacking of the monastery at Lindisfarne by Scandinavian invaders.
849 Alfred born in Wantage, Oxfordshire.
870s Scandinavian settlement in England.
871(–99) 1 Reign of Alfred as King of Wessex.
2 Production of translations of, for example, Bede’s Ecclesiastical
History, Boethius’s Consolation of Philosophy, Gregory’s Pastoral
Care.
878 Battle of Edington, in which Alfred triumphs over Vikings and agrees
on areas of Scandinavian settlement (later to be known as the ‘Dane-
law’).
from c890 Production of Anglo-Saxon Chronicle.
899 Death of Alfred.
937 Battle of Brunanburh.
from c 950 Benedictine Reform.
c950 (–970) Glosses to Lindisfarne Gospel added (in Old English) by Aldred,
Provost of Chester-le-Street in Northumbria.
c955 Birth of Ælfric.
c970s Exeter Book and Vercelli Book copied.
990s Ælfric writes his Catholic Homilies.
991 Battle of Maldon.
c1000 Copying of Junius (or Cædmon) manuscript and Beowulf manuscript.
1005 Ælfric becomes Abbot of Eynsham in Oxfordshire.
c1010 Death of Ælfric.
1016(–35) Reign of the Danish king Cnut over England.
1066 Battle of Hastings; William I (the Conqueror) reigns over England
(until 1087).
1086–7 Compilation of the Domesday Book, the first survey of the nation’s
land resources.
c1122 The Peterborough Chronicle is copied, and the First Continuation
begins.
1154 Peterborough Chronicle ends.
c1170s The Ormulum.
1172 Henry II becomes King of Ireland.
416 chronology
1204 Loss of Normandy; England becomes the sole remaining home of
Norman English.
1215 Magna Carta.
c1225 Ancrene Wisse.
1258 Proclamation of Henry III: first Royal Proclamation issued in English
since the Norman Conquest.
1284 Annexation of Wales.
c1300 Cursor Mundi.
1330–80 Evidence of East Midland influence on language of London;
evidence of limited standardization in manuscripts written in
London.
1337(–1454) Hundred Years War with France.
1340 Dan Michel’s Ayenbite of Inwyt completed.
c1343 Birth of Geoffrey Chaucer.
1348 First outbreak of the Black Death.
1362 Statute of Pleading; English becomes the official language of the law
courts.
1380s Wycliffite Bible (first complete Bible in English).
1381 The Peasants’ Revolt.
1387 John Trevisa completes English translation of Ranulph Higden’s Poly-
chronicon (1327).
c1395 Second version of the Wycliffite Bible in English.
1400 Death of Geoffrey Chaucer.
1417 Signet Office begins issuing the king’s letters in English.
1422 Brewers’ Guild of London decides to switch to English as language of
proceedings and accounts.
1425 First surviving Paston letter.
1430 Chancery adopts East Midland koiné as its written form.
c1450 Death of John Lydgate.
c1470 Death of Thomas Malory.
chronology 417
1475 Printing of The Recuyell of the Historyes of Troye by William Caxton in
Bruges—the first book to be printed in English.
1476 William Caxton sets up his printing press in Westminster and pub-
lishes the first printed books in England.
1485 Henry VII becomes the first Tudor King after Richard III is killed at
the Battle of Bosworth.
1489 French no longer used as the language of Parliament.
1490 Caxton’s Eneydos published (with prologue remarking on variability of
English).
1491 Death of Caxton; succeeded by Wynkyn de Worde, who moves his
printing press to Fleet Street.
1492 Christopher Columbus arrives in West Indies.
1497 John Cabot reaches Newfoundland, providing the first English contact
with Canada.
1525–6 Publication of William Tyndale’s New Testament in English.
1534 English Reformation (Henry VIII breaks with the Catholic Church).
1535 Publication of Miles Coverdale’s Bible (the first complete Bible to be
printed in English).
1536 First act of union between England and Wales.
1542 Andrew Boorde, Fyrst Boke of the Introduction of Knowledge, illustrates
regional dialects.
1549 Book of Common Prayer.
1562 John Hawkins starts British slave trade.
1564 Birth of Shakespeare.
1565 Lawrence Nowell, Vocabularium Saxiconum, first Old English glossary;
included northern English words.
1567 Thomas Harman, A Caveat or Warening for Common Cursetors, first
glossary of the ‘canting language’ or dialect of the underworld.
1577(–80) Francis Drake circumnavigates the world.
1585 Thomas Herriot, a scientist, visits Roanoke in America to
gather information on the flora, fauna, resources, people, and
languages.
418 chronology
1586 Publication of William Bullokar’s Pamphlet for Grammar, the first
grammar of English.
1600 Founding of the East India Company.
1600(–) English begins to be used in records of legal proceedings.
1603 Union of the Crowns; James VI of Scotland succeeds to the English
throne, as James I, after death of Elizabeth I.
1604 Robert Cawdrey, A Table Alphabeticall, the first English–English dic-
tionary, translates ‘hard words’ and inkhorn terms into ‘common’
English.
1607 Jamestown in Chesapeake Bay founded in North America—the first
successful British colony.
1611 The Authorized Version of the English Bible (the ‘King James’ Bible),
attempts to resolve questions about Englishing the Word of God.
1616 Death of Shakespeare.
1619 Alexander Gil, Logonomia Anglica, first vernacular grammar to treat
English dialects systematically.
1623 Publication of the First Folio edition of Sheakespeare’s plays.
1653 Publication of John Wallis’s Grammatica linguae Anglicanae.
1655 Britain ousts the Spanish from Jamaica and extends its influence and
language into the Caribbean and to West Africa.
1660 1 Restoration of the monarchy.
2 Royal Society of London founded, in part, as the first English
language academy.
1670 Hudson’s Bay Company formed.
1710 Copyright Act.
1711 Publication of Greenwood’s Essay towards a practical English Gram-
mar.
1712 Publication (anonymously) of A Proposal for Correcting, Improving and
Ascertaining the English Tongue; in a Letter by Jonathan Swift, which
proposes the foundation of an Academy to regulate English usage.
1713 Having defeated the French, the British exile French-speakers from
Atlantic Canada. A later attempt by France to maintain colonies in
chronology 419
present-day Illinois failed, and their defeat at Battle of Quebec in 1759
ensures dominance by English speakers in the west.
1714 Death of Queen Anne: allchances ofsettingup anEnglishAcademylost.
1715 Elisabeth Elstob published the first grammar of Old English.
c1745 Publication of Ann Fisher’s New Grammar (Newcastle upon Tyne), the
first grammar to be published by a woman.
1747 Samuel Johnson published the Plan for his Dictionary.
1752 Britain (and its colonies) move from the Julian to the Gregorian
calendar, losing 11 days between 2 and 14 September.
1755 Publication of Samuel Johnson’s two-volume Dictionary of the English
Language.
1757 In India, the British military victory at Plassy institutes English dom-
inance in South Asia that will last until 1947. In the hands of expatriate
and native soldiers and bureaucrats, English becomes the language of
government.
1762 Publication of Robert Lowth’s Short Introduction to English Grammar.
1770 Botany Bay, Australia, discovered by James Cook.
1775 War of American Independence begins.
1776 Declaration of American Independence.
1780 Publication of Thomas Sheridan’s General Dictionary of the English
Language. One main object of which, is, to establish a plain and per-
manent standard of pronunciation.
1783 US Declaration of Independence formally recognized by the British.
1783 Noah Webster’s American Spelling Book (the ‘Blue-backed Speller’)
published.
1787 Abolitionists in Britain establish Sierra Leone in West Africa and settle
2000 freed slaves there. They employ English in governing themselves
and the indigenous peoples.
1788 Establishment of a penal colony near present-day Sydney begins to
form the distinctive English of Australia.
1789 Publication of Noah Webster’s Dissertations on the English Language,
which advocated the institution of a national American standard of
usage.
420 chronology
1791 Publication of John Walker’s Critical Pronouncing Dictionary and
Expositor of the English Language.
1793 A delegation from Britain arrives in China to open trade relations.
‘Pidgin English’ begins to emerge as a trade language.
1795 Publication of Lindley Murray’s English Grammar, adapted to the
different classes of learners. Over 1.5 million copies would be sold by
1850.
1800 Act of Union with Ireland.
1801 Union with Ireland begins.
1803 Purchasing the huge central portion of what is now the USA, the US
government ensured the extension of English throughout much of the
American west.
1806 British establish control of South Africa (English becomes the official
language in 1822).
1810 William Hazlitt publishes A New and Improved Grammar of the English
Tongue.
1821 Liberia is supported by the USA as a place of re-settlement for freed
slaves. All who arrive in Monrovia as part of this ‘colonization’ effort
are English speakers.
1825 Opening of the Stockton to Darlington Railway.
1828 Publication of Noah Webster’s American Dictionary of the English
Language.
1830 Opening of the Liverpool to Manchester Railway.
1832 Passing of the First Reform Bill.
1837 Death of William IV; accession of Queen Victoria.
1840 1 In England, introduction of the Penny Post on 10 January; by the
end of the year 168 million letters have been posted (compared to
76 million in 1839).
2 The Treaty of Waitangi was the foundation document in the
establishment of exclusive British sovereignty in New Zealand.
1842 Foundation of the London Philological Society.
1844 First telegraph line established between Baltimore and Washington.
chronology 421
1845–48 The annexation of Texas and the defeat of the Mexican army extends
the USA westward to California. Vast numbers of migrants to the west,
especially after the gold rush of 1848, overwhelm the institutions of
Spanish culture.
1850 Public Libraries Act.
1854–6 Crimean War.
1858 Proposal for A New English Dictionary (later known as The Oxford
English Dictionary) made by the London Philological Society.
1866 Atlantic Cable completed, linking Valencia, Ireland and Trinity Bay,
Newfoundland by submarine cable.
1867 1 Second Reform Bill (extending franchise to all those who could
demonstrate ownership of property worth £7).
2 Canada given self-government.
1869 Alexander Ellis publishes the first volume of his On Early English
Pronunciation in which he defined ‘received pronunciation’ for the
first time.
1870 In England and Wales, Elementary Education Act passed, providing
compulsory elementary education for all children.
1872 Education in Scotland made compulsory until the age of 14.
1873 Founding of the English Dialect Society.
1876 Introduction of the telephone by Alexander Graham Bell.
1877 Invention of the phonograph by Thomas Edison.
1881 Education in England and Wales becomes compulsory until the age
of 10.
1884 First fascicle of A New English Dictionary on Historical Principles (later
OED) published, covering the words A-Ant.
1888 The British East Africa Company is established to oversee the devel-
opment of British interests in Kenya, Zanzibar, and Uganda.
1889 Publication of fifth volume of A. J. Ellis’s On Early English Pronunci-
ation: The Existing Phonology of English Dialects.
1892 Publication of Joseph Wright’s Grammar of the Dialect of Windhill.
1896 The English Dialect Society disbanded.
422 chronology
1897 Founding of the first regional dialect organization, The Yorkshire
Dialect Society.
1898(–1905) 1 The Spanish–American War extends US dominance from the
continent of North America and into Puerto Rico and the Philippines.
2 In England, publication of The English Dialect Dictionary and
English Dialect Grammar, edited by Joseph Wright.
1899(–1902) 1 The South African War (Boer War) concludes with the British in
control of present-day South Africa.
2 First magnetic sound recordings.
1901 1 Guglielmo Marconi received the first transatlantic radio
signals, sent between Poldhu, Cornwall and Signal Hill in New-
foundland.
2 Australia is transformed from a colony to a commonwealth.
Among the first laws passed was the Immigration Restriction Act
which required all prospective immigrants ‘to write out at dictation
and sign in the presence of the [custom’s] officer a passage of fifty
words in length in a European language directed by the officer.’ This
language incorporated the ‘dictation test’ used in Natal in 1897 to
exclude most Indians from South Africa.
3 Death of Queen Victoria.
1906 First public radio broadcast.
1907 New Zealand becomes a dominion of the British Empire.
1910 The Union of South Africa becomes a dominion of the British Empire.
1914(–18) The First World War (UK), World War I (US).
1918 The Englishman Sir Evelyn Wrench and the American Alexander
Smith Cochran found the English-Speaking Union, to encourage
partnership between the UK, its dominions, and the USA. [There is
currently an English-Speaking Union of the Commonwealth (HQ:
London) and of the United States (HQ: New York).]
1919 The German colony of Tanganyika in East Africa is ceded to Britain,
and Kamerun in West Central Africa is divided between France (Cam-
eroun) and Britain (Cameroon).
1920 Kenya becomes a British colony.
chronology 423
1921 Ireland achieves Home Rule and is separated from Great Britain.
Gaelic is made an ‘official’ language in addition to English.
1922 Foundation of British Broadcasting Company (BBC).
1925 The Afrikaans language gains official status alongside English in South
Africa.
1928 Completion of the first edition of the Oxford English Dictionary.
1931 The British Commonwealth is formed, and South Africa becomes a
dominion of the British Empire.
1934 The British Council is founded, with its headquarters in London, as a
vehicle for British cultural diplomacy and teaching English as a foreign
or second language.
1935 The Philippines becomes a self-governing Commonwealth in associ-
ation with the USA.
1936 The Republic of Ireland severs all constitutional links with Great
Britain.
1937 In Wales, a new constitution for the festival the National Eisteddfod
makes Welsh its official language.
1939–45 The Second World War (UK), World War II (US).
1945 Signing of the United Nations Charter and the decision to make the
headquarters of the UN in the USA gives English an unprecedented
importance as a language of diplomacy.
1946 1 The Philippines gains its independence from the USA.
2 Transjordan gains its independence from the UK as Jordan.
1947 1 India is partitioned into Pakistan and India and is freed from
British control. The constitution provides that English remain the
language of national government for only fifteen years. The approach
of that date results in riots led by those fearing the dominance of Hindi
and the loss of power for their own language communities. English
remains as the most important of India’s ‘national languages’ even
though few learn it as a mother tongue.
2 New Zealand gains its independence from the UK, and joins the
Commonwealth.
1948 1 In England, the Survey of English Dialects is founded.
424 chronology
2 Burma gains its independence from the UK, and declines mem-
bership of the Commonwealth.
3 Ceylon gains its independence from the UK as Sri Lanka, and joins
the Commonwealth.
1949 1 The Linguistic Survey of Scotland founded.
2 Newfoundland becomes a province of Canada.
3 Two New Guinea territories are combined by the United Nations as
an Australian mandate, the UN Trust Territory of Papua and New
Guinea.
1952 Puerto Rico (see 1898) becomes a Commonwealth in association with
the US, with Spanish as its first and English its second language.
1953 The creation of the United States Information Agency (USIA) and its
overseas arm, the United States Information Service (USIS).
1955 About this time, the number of speakers using English as an additional
language surpassed the number who had learned it as a first language.
1957 1 The New Zealand-born lexicographer Robert W. Burchfield be-
comes the editor of a Supplement to the Oxford English Dictionary
(eventually published in four volumes 1972–86).
2 The Gold Coast (as Ghana) and Malaya gain their independence
from the UK.
1960 Nigeria becomes independent from the British and Somalia from the
British and Italians.
1961 1 South Africa becomes a republic, leaves the Commonwealth, and
adopts Afrikaans and English as its official languages.
2 The British colony of Cameroon divides, part joining Nigeria, part
joining the ex-French colony of Cameroun, to become the Republic of
Cameroon, with French and English as its official languages.
3 Sierra Leone, Kuwait, and Cyprus gain their independence from
the UK.
4 In England, 1961–72, publication of the Basic Material of the
Survey of English Dialects.
1962 1 Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, and Uganda gain their independ-
ence from the UK.
chronology 425
2 Caribbean English becomes the vehicle for popular culture, espe-
cially calypso, Rastafarianism, and reggae.
1963 1 Nigeria becomes independent as part of the wave of ‘decolonizing’
that took place throughout the former British colonies. West African
PidginEnglish emergesas amajor and widelyspokenregionallanguage.
2 Kenya gains its independence from the UK.
3 Malaya unites with the newly independent colony of Borneo to
become Malaysia.
4 In Wales, the first public protests by the Cyndeithas yr Iaith
Gymraeg (the Welsh Language Society) take place, seeking a fuller
use of Welsh in the Principality.
1964 1 Malta gains its independence from the UK.
2 TanganyikaandZanzibar(asTanzania),Nyasaland(asMalawi),and
Northern Rhodesia (as Zambia) gain their independence from the UK.
1965 Gambia, the Maldives, and Singapore gain their independence from
the UK.
1966 Barbados, Basutoland (as Lesotho), Bechuanaland (as Botswana), and
British Guiana (as Guyana) gain their independence from the UK.
1967 1 In the UK, the Welsh Language Act gives the Welsh language equal
validity with English in Wales, and the Principality is no longer
deemed to be part of England.
2 Aden gains its independence from the UK as South Yemen.
1968 1 The Survey of Anglo-Welsh Dialects is founded.
2 Swaziland, Mauritius, and Nauru gain their independence from
the UK.
1969 English and French become the official languages of Canada.
1970 Fiji and Tonga gain their independence from the UK.
1971 Bahrain, Qatar, and the Trucial States (as the United Arab Emirates)
gain their independence from the UK.
1972 1 Martin Cooper makes the first public call on a personal, portable
cell phone.
2 East Pakistan secedes and becomes Bangladesh.
426 chronology
1973 The Bahamas gain their independence from the UK.
1974 1 The Cyngor Yr Iaith Gymraeg/Council for the Welsh Language is
set up to advise the Secretary of State for Wales on matters concerning
the Welsh language.
2 Grenada gains its independence from the UK.
1975 Papua New Guinea gains its independence from Australia.
1976 The Seychelles gains its independence from the UK.
1977 In Quebec, Loi/Bill 101 is passed, making French the sole official
language of the province and banning public signs in other
languages.
1978 1 In England, publication of The Linguistic Atlas of England.
2 Dominica, the Solomon Islands, and Tuvalu gain their independ-
ence from the UK.
1979 St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines, and the Gilbert and Ellice
Islands (as Kiribati) gain their independence from the UK.
1980 The UK government averts a fast to the death by Gwynfor Evans,
leader of Plaid Cymru (the Welsh National Party), by honouring
election pledges to provide a fourth television channel broadcasting
in both Welsh and English.
1981 Antigua (as Antigua and Barbuda) and British Honduras (as Belize)
gain their independence from the UK.
1982 Canada’s constitution, until then kept in London, is ‘patriated’ to
Ottawa.
1983 St Kitts and Nevis gains its independence from the UK.
1984 1 Brunei gains its independence from the UK.
2 David Rosewarne identifies ‘Estuary English’.
1990 South West Africa gains its independence from South Africa as
Namibia.
1991 1 Tim Berners-Lee launches the World Wide Web.
2 The Marshall Islands and Micronesia gain their independence
from the USA.
1994 Text messaging introduced.
chronology 427
1996 South Africa ratifies a constitution in which English becomes one of
eleven ‘official’ languages.
1997 Hong Kong is returned to China and becomes the last of the colonies
in Asia to be freed from British sovereignty.
1999 A Survey of Regional English proposed.
2000 The European Union fosters bilingualism as a goal. In 2000, the largest
of the then fifteen member states were estimated to have the following
mother tongues: German (24%), French (16%), English (16%), Italian
(16%), Spanish (11%). Once the population speaking these languages
in addition to the mother tongue were added in, the figures show:
English (47%), German (32%), French (28%), Italian (18%), and
Spanish (15%).
2003 Text messages sent in the UK pass 20 billion.
2004 The British Library ‘Collect Britain: English Accents and Dialects’
website launched.
2005 The British Broadcasting Corporation ‘Voices’ project launched on 17
January.
428 chronology
Notes on Contributors
Richard W. Bailey is Fred Newton Scott Collegiate Professor of English at the Univer-
sity of Michigan, Ann Arbor. He is past president of both the American Dialect Society
and the Dictionary Society of North America. His books include Images of English (1991),
Nineteenth-Century English (1996), and a biography of a philological murderer, Rogue
Scholar: the Sinister Career and Celebrated Death of Edward H. Rulloff (2003).
Paula Blank is Associate Professor of English at the College of William and Mary in
Virgina. She is the author of Broken English: Dialects and the Politics of Language in
Renaissance Writings (1996), and articles on the language and rhetoric of Spenser,
Shakespeare, Donne, and Jonson. She is currently working on a book on the rhetoric
of ‘equality’ in the Renaissance.
Marilyn Corrie is a lecturer in the Department of English Language and Literature at
University College London. She is the author of a forthcoming study of Sir Thomas
Malory’s Le Morte D’Arthur and the editor of A Concise Companion to Middle English
Literature, forthcoming from Blackwell.
David Crystal was Professor of Linguistics at the University of Reading for several
years, and is currently Honorary Professor of Linguistics at the University of Wales,
Bangor. His authored works are mainly in applied linguistics and English language
studies, and he is editor of a series of general reference encyclopedias, first for Cambridge
University Press and now for Penguin Books, along with their online incarnations.
Terry Hoad is a Fellow of St Peter’s College, Oxford, and Tutor in English Language and
Medieval Literature. He is also a lecturer in the English Faculty at Oxford University, and
previously taught at Queen Mary College, London, and at the University of Arizona. His
publications include the second (revised) edition (1978) of Henry Sweet’s Second Anglo-
Saxon Reader, and The Concise Oxford Dictionary of English Etymology (1986).
Susan Irvine is Professor of English Language and Literature in the Department of
English at University College London. She is the author of Old English Homilies from MS
Bodley 343 (1993) and The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle MS E (2004), and co-author (with
Bruce Mitchell) of Beowulf Repunctuated (2000). She has also published articles on
writings of the transitional period between Old and Middle English, on rhetoric and
meaning in Old English poems, and on King Alfred’s translation of Boethius’s
Consolation of Philosophy. She is currently working (with Malcolm Godden) on a critical
edition of Alfred’s Boethius.
Tom McArthur is an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Linguists, London. He has,
among other posts and activities, been Head of English, Cathedral School, Bombay/
Mumbai, India, an Associate Professor of English at the Université du Québec in Canada,
an Honorary Fellow at the University of Exeter (in the Dictionary Research Centre), and
a Distinguished Visiting Professor at both the Chinese University of Hong Kong and
Xiamen University, Fujian, China. He is founding editor of the quarterly journal English
Today: The International Review of the English Language (Cambridge, 1985–) and the
Oxford Companion to the English Language (1992), and is the author, among other works,
of The Longman Lexicon of Contemporary English (1981), The English Languages (Cam-
bridge, 1998), and The Oxford Guide to World English (2002).
April McMahon is Forbes Professor of English Language at the University of Edin-
burgh. She has research interests in English phonology, past and present; in language
classification; phonological theory; and evolutionary linguistics. Her publications in-
clude Understanding Language Change (Cambridge University Press, 1994), Change,
Chance, and Optimality (Oxford University Press, 2000), Lexical Phonology and the
History of English (Cambridge University Press, 2000), and Language Classification by
Numbers (with Rob McMahon; Oxford University Press, forthcoming).
Lynda Mugglestone is a Fellow in English Language at Pembroke College, Oxford, and
News International Lecturer at the University of Oxford. She has published widely on
language in the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Recent work includes Lexicog-
raphy and the OED. Pioneers in the Untrodden Forest (Oxford University Press, 2002),
‘Talking Proper’. The Rise of Accent as Social Symbol, 2nd edn. (Oxford University Press,
2003), and Lost for Words. The Hidden History of the Oxford English Dictionary (Yale
University Press, 2004).
TerttuNevalainenisProfessorofEnglishPhilologyattheUniversityofHelsinkiandthe
Director of the Research Unit for Variation and Change in English. Her research focuses on
historical sociolinguistics, language change, and early modern English. Her publications
include ‘Early Modern English Lexis and Semantics’, in R. Lass (ed.), The Cambridge
History of the English Language, Vol. 3 (Cambridge University Press, 1999); Historical
Sociolinguistics; Language Change in Tudor and Stuart England (Longman 2003; with H.
Raumolin-Brunberg); and An Introduction to Early Modern English (Edinburgh University
Press, forthcoming). She is also the director of the research project ‘Sociolinguistics and
Language History’, which has produced the Corpus of Early English Correspondence.
Jeremy J. Smith is Professor of English Philology in the University of Glasgow.
His publications include An Historical study of English (1996), Essentials of Early
English (1999) and An Introduction to Middle English (with S. Horobin, 2002). He is
currently working on a new survey of Middle English transmission (with S. Horobin
430 notes on contributors
and M. Stenroos), and a study of the actuation of sound-change in the history of
English.
Ingrid Tieken-Boon van Ostade is senior lecturer in the English department of the
University of Leiden. She has written a study of periphrastic do in eighteenth-century
English (1987) as well as a book on the use of multiple negation in Malory’s Morte
D’Arthur (1995). In addition, she has edited a variety of international collections of
articles. Her research interests include social network analysis in the history of English
and the standardization process (especially codification and prescription), on which
subjects she has widely published. She edits an internet journal called Historical Socio-
linguistics and Sociohistorical Linguistics.
Matthew Townend is Lecturer in English at the University of York. He is the author of
English Place-Names in Skaldic Verse (1998) and Language and History in Viking Age
England (2002), and is the editor of Wulfstan, Archbishop of York (2004). He has also
published many articles on Old Norse poetry and Anglo-Norse contact, and is currently
editing the Old Norse poems in honour of King Cnut.
Clive Upton is Professor of Modern English Language in the School of English at the
University of Leeds. He was formerly a teacher in universities in Africa and Papua New
Guinea, and a researcher in the Universities of Leeds and Birmingham and at the
National Centre for English Cultural Tradition at the University of Sheffield. His research
specialisms are in English dialectology and pronunciation: he has been associated with
the Surveys of English Dialects and Anglo-Welsh Dialects for more than thirty years, and
is currently developing a new dialect survey, the Survey of Regional English. He is also
pronunciation consultant to Oxford University Press, where he is responsible for the
description of Received Pronunciation carried by the larger native-speaker Oxford
English Dictionaries.
notes on contributors 431
Acknowledgements
The author would like to thank the following for permission to reproduce material: the
British Library Board for permission to reproduce the manuscript image of lines 2677–87
from the Beowulf Manuscript (taken from the Electronic Beowulf, ed. K. Kiernan (Lon-
don: The British Library Board, 2004); the English Place-Name Society for permission to
reproduce Map 10 from A. H. Smith, English Place-Name Elements (Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1956); the Corpus of Anglo-Saxon Stone Sculpture for permis-
sion to reproduce the photograph of the inscribed sundial at Aldbrough; the Department
of Special Collections, Glasgow University Library, for permission to reproduce the
passage illustrating Caxton’s use of English from The Myrrour of the World (Westminster:
c 1490; A4v, Sp Coll Hunterian Bv.2.30); the Bodleian Library for permission to reproduce
William Barnes’s Dorset translation of Queen Victoria’s speech on opening Parliament in
1863 (from W. Barnes, A Grammar and Glossary of the Dorset Dialect with the History,
Outspreading, and Bearings of South-Western English (London: Trübner & Co, 1864)), and
for permission to reproduce ‘Th’ Dickshonary’, by Teddy Ashton, from J. Baron, Tum
o’ Dick o’ Bobs’s Lankisher Dickshonary (Manchester: John Heywood, n.d.); I would also
like to thank the College of Arms for permission to reproduce the manuscript drawing of
the Arms of Sir John Hawkins; David Parry for permission to reproduce the SAWD/SED
map for calf from A Grammar and Glossary of the Conservative Anglo-Welsh Dialects of
Rural Wales (Sheffield: National Centre for English Cultural Tradition, 1999: 244). I
would also like to thank Lucinda Rumsey for her many helpful suggestions on the text,
and April Warman for her assiduous checking of quotations and references throughout
the volume.
References
Primary sources
Manuscript sources
Acworth Papers: Diaries of Harriet Garland Acworth 1833–46. Bodleian Library MSS. Eng.
misc. e. 1571–83.
Lady Clarendon Papers: Diaries of Lady Katharine Clarendon, 1840–50. Bodleian Library
MSS. Eng. d. 2048.
Murray Papers: Uncatalogued papers of James A. H. Murray. Bodleian Library, Oxford.
Published sources
Allen, R. (ed.) (1992). Lawman: Brut. London: J. M. Dent & Sons Ltd.
Anderson, P. (1987). A Structural Atlas of the English Dialects. London: Croom Helm.
Ashton, P. (trans.) (1546). A shorte treatise vpon the Turkes chronicles. London:
E. Whitchurch.
Austen, J. (1816). Emma: A Novel in Three Volumes. London: John Murray.
Austin, F. (ed.) (1991). The Clift Family Correspondence. Sheffield: CECTAL.
Babington, C. and Lumby, J. R. (eds) (1865–86). Polychronicon Ranulphi Higden Mon-
achi Cestrensis; together with the English Translations of John Trevisa and of an Unknown
Writer of the Fifteenth Century. 9 vols. London: Longman, Green, Longman, Roberts,
and Green.
Baker, F. (1980). The Works of John Wesley, vol. 25. Letters I. 1721–39. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
Barnes, W. (1864). A Grammar and Glossary of the Dorset Dialect with the History,
Outspreading, and Bearings of South-Western English. London: Trübner & Co.
Baron, J. (n.d.). Tum o’ Dick o’ Bobs’s Lankisher Dickshonary. Manchester: John
Heywood.
Batchelor, T. (1809). An Orthoëpical Analysis of the English Language . . . to which is
added, a Minute and Copious Analysis of the Dialect of Bedfordshire. London: Didier
and Tebbitt.
Bately, J. (ed.) (1986). The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle MS A. The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle:
A Collaborative Edition. Cambridge: D. S. Brewer.
Battestin, M. C. and Probyn, C. T. (eds) (1993). The Correspondence of Henry and Sarah
Fielding. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Bennett, J. A. W. and Smithers, G. V. (eds) (1968). Early Middle English Verse and Prose
(2nd edn.). Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Benson, L. D. et al. (eds) (1988). The Riverside Chaucer. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Berthelette, T. (trans.) (1532). Jo. Gower de Confessione Amantis. London: T. Berthelette.
Bibbesworth, Walter de. (1990). Le Tretiz. London: Anglo-Norman Text Society.
Electronic edition: <http://and4.anglo-norman.net/texts/bibbes-contents.html>.
Birch, W. de G. (ed.) (1885–93). Cartularium Saxonicum: A Collection of Charters relating
to Anglo-Saxon History. 3 vols. London: Whiting [vols I–II]/ Clark [vol. III].
Blake, N. F. (ed.) (1973). Selections from William Caxton. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Blakemore Evans, G. (ed.) (1974). The Riverside Shakespeare. Boston, MA: Houghton
Mifflin.
Bloom, E. A. and Bloom, L. D. (eds) (1982). Fanny Burney, Evelina. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Blount, T. (1656). Glossographia. Anglistica & Americana 32. New York: Georg Olms
Verlag, 1972.
Bolton, W. (ed.) (1966). The English Language: Essays by English and American Men of
Letters 1490–1839. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Boorde, A. (1542). Fyrst Boke of the Introduction of Knowledge, ed. F. J. Furnivall. London:
Early English Text Society, 1871.
—— (1547). The Breviary of Helthe. London: W. Middleton.
—— (c1565). The First and Best Part of Scoggins Jests, in W. Carew Hazlitt (ed.), Old
English Jest Books. London: Willis & Sotheran, 1866.
Brook, G. L. and Leslie, R. F. (eds) (1963, 1978). Layamon. Brut, Early English Text
Society o.s. 250, 277. London: Published for the Early English Text Society by Oxford
University Press.
Bullokar, J. (1616). An English Expositor: Teaching the Interpretation of the Hardest
Words Used in our Language. London: J. Leggatt.
Burkhardt, F. (ed.) (1996). Charles Darwin’s Letters. A Selection 1825–1859. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
—— and S. Smith (eds) (1985–). The Correspondence of Charles Darwin. 13 vols. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge: University Press.
Burnett, J. (ed.) (1982). Destiny Obscure: Autobiographies of Childhood, Education, and
Family from the 1820s to the 1920s. London: Allen Lane.
—— (ed.) (1994). Useful Toil. Autobiographies of Working People from the 1820s to the
1920s. London and New York: Routledge.
Burnley, D. (ed.) (1992a). The History of the English Language: A Source Book. London:
Longman.
434 references
Burrell, A. (1891). Recitation. A Handbook for Teachers in Public Elementary Schools.
London: Griffith Farran Okeden & Welsh.
Burrow, J. A. and Turville-Petre, T. (eds) (2005). A Book of Middle English (3rd edn).
Oxford: Blackwell.
Butler, H. E. (ed.) (1949). The Chronicle of Jocelin of Brakelond. London: Nelson.
Bywater, A. (1834). The Sheffield Dialect, in Conversations ‘Uppa are Hull Arston’. By A
Shevvild Chap. Sheffield: A. Whitaker and Co.
Camden, W. (1616/1984). Remains Concerning Britain, ed. R. D. Dunn. Toronto: University
of Toronto Press.
Carew, R. (c1595). ‘The Excellencie of the English Tongue’, in W. Camden, Remaines
Concerning Britaine: But Especially Englande, and the Inhabitants thereof. London: Iohn
Leggatt, 1614, 36–44.
—— (1602). Survey of Cornwall, in F. E. Halliday (ed.), Richard Carew of Antony.
London: Andrew Melrose, 1953, 73–237.
Cartlidge, N. (ed.) (2001). The Owl and the Nightingale: Text and Translation. Exeter:
University of Exeter Press.
Cawdrey, R. (1604). A Table Alphabeticall. London: E. Weaver.
Cawley, A. (ed.) (1958). The Wakefield Pageants in the Towneley Cycle. Manchester:
Manchester University Press.
Caxton, W. (trans.) (1480). The Description of Britayne, & also Irlonde taken oute of
Polichronicon. Westminster: W. Caxton.
Chambers, R. W. and Daunt, M. (eds) (1931). A Book of London English 1384–1425.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Chapman, R. W. (ed.) (1952). The Letters of Samuel Johnson: with Mrs. Thrale’s Genuine
Letters to Him. 3 vols. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— (ed.) (1980). James Boswell, Life of Johnson. rev. by J. D. Fleeman. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Clark, C. (ed.) (1970). The Peterborough Chronicle (2nd edn.). Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Clemoes, P. (ed.) (1997). Ælfric’s Catholic Homilies: The First Series: Text. Early English
Text Society, Supplementary Series, 17. Oxford: Published for the Early English Text
Society by Oxford University Press.
Colgrave, B. and Mynors, R. A. G. (eds) (1969). Bede’s Ecclesiastical History of the
English People. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Contention Between Liberality and Prodigality, The (1602). Oxford: Malone Society
Reprints, 1913.
Cowell, J. (1607). Interpreter. Facsimile edn. Union, NJ: The Lawbook Exchange,
2002.
Craigie, W. A. and Onions, C. T. (eds) (1933). A New English Dictionary on Historical
Principles; Founded on the Materials Collected by the Philological Society. Edited by James
references 435
A. H. Murray, Henry Bradley, William A. Craigie, C. T. Onions. Introduction, Supple-
ment, and Bibliography. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Crotch, W. J. B. (ed.) (1928). The Prologues and Epilogues of William Caxton. Early
English Text Society o.s. 176. London: Published for the Early English Text Society by
H. Milford, Oxford University Press.
Cusack, B. (ed.) (1998). Everyday English 1500–1700. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Press.
Daniel, S. (1603). Defense of Ryme, in G. Gregory Smith (ed.), Elizabethan Critical Essays,
vol. 2. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1904, 356–84.
Darwin, F. (ed.) (1888). The Life and Letters of Charles Darwin (rev. edn.), 3 vols.
London: John Murray.
Davis, N. (ed.) (1971). Paston Letters and Papers of the Fifteenth Century: Part I. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
Dekker, T. (1608). Lanthorne and Candle-light: or The Bell-man’s Second Nights Walke.
London: J. Bushie.
—— (1612). O per se O. Or, a new Cryer of Lanthorne and Candle-light. London: John
Bushie.
Dickens, C. (1850). The Personal History of David Copperfield. London: Bradbury &
Evans.
—— (1854). Hard Times, for these Times. London: Bradbury & Evans.
Dickins, B. and Ross, A. S. C. (eds) (1954). The Dream of the Rood (4th edn.). London:
Methuen.
—— and Wilson, R. M. (eds) (1956). Early Middle English Texts (3rd edn.). London:
Bowes and Bowes.
Dime Dialect Speaker, The ([1879]). New York: Beadle and Adams.
Dobbie, E. V. K. (ed.) (1942). The Anglo-Saxon Minor Poems. Anglo-Saxon Poetic Records
VI. New York: Columbia University Press.
Donaldson, W. (ed.) (1989). The Language of the People: Scots Prose from the Victorian
Revival. Aberdeen: Aberdeen University Press.
Duncan, A. (ed.) (1997). John Barbour: The Bruce. Edinburgh: Canongate.
Duncan, P. (1890). How to Talk Correctly: A Pocket Manual to Promote Polite and Accurate
Conversation, Writing, and Reading . . . with more than 500 errors in Speaking and
Writing Corrected. London: William Nicholson and Sons.
Eccles, E. (1879). Harry Hawkins’ H Book. Shewing How He Learned to Aspirate his H’s.
London: Griffith and Farran.
Eccles, M. (ed.) (1969). The Macro Plays. Early English Text Society o.s. 262.
London; New York: published for the Early English Text Society by Oxford
University Press.
Ekwall, E. (ed.) (1960). The Concise Oxford Dictionary of English Place-Names. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
436 references
Eliason, N. and Clemoes, P. (eds) (1966). Ælfric’s First Series of Catholic Homilies
(British Museum Royal 7 C. xii, fols 4–218). Early English Manuscripts in Facsimile,
13. Copenhagen: Rosenkilde and Bagger.
Eliot, J. (trans.) (1663). Mamusse wunneetupanatamwe Up-Biblium God. Boston: Samuel
Green and Marmaduke Johnson. Electronic edition: <http://wwwlib.umi.com/eebo/
image/45378> (accessed January 21, 2004).
Ellis, A. J. (1869–89). On Early English Pronunciation. 5 vols. London: Trübner & Co.
Evelyn, J. (1665). ‘Letter to Sir Peter Wyche’, in J. I. Spingarn (ed.), Critical Essays of the
Seventeenth Century, 3 vols. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1908–9, vol. 2, 310–13.
Ferne, J. (1586). The Blazon of Gentrie. London: A. Maunsell/T. Cooke.
Fisher, J. H., Richardson, M., and Fisher, J. L. (eds) (1984). An Anthology of Chancery
English. Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press.
Florence Nightingale and the Crimea, 1854–55 (2000). London: Stationery Office.
Fraunce, A. (1588). The Lawiers Logike. London: T. Gubbin and T. Newman.
Freeborn, D. (ed.) (1998). From Old English to Standard English: A Course Book in
Language Variation across Time (2nd edn.). Houndmills: Macmillan.
Gascoigne, G. (1575a). ‘Certayne Notes of Instruction Concerning the Making of Verse’, in
J. W. Cunliffe (ed.), The Posies. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1907, 465–73.
—— (1575b). ‘Jocasta’, in J. W. Cunliffe (ed.), The Posies. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 1907, 244–326.
Gil, A. (1619). Logonomia Anglica, part 2, trans. R. C. Alston, ed. B. Danielsson and
A. Gabrielson, Stockholm Studies in English 27 and 28. Stockholm: Almquist & Wiksell,
1972.
Gill, J. (1857). Introductory Text-Book to School Management. London: Longman & Co.
Goodman, J. B. (ed.) (1968). Victorian Cabinet-Maker: The Memoirs of James Hopkinson
1819–1894. London; Routledge & Kegan Paul.
Grlach, M. (2001). A Dictionary of European Anglicisms. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Grant, W. and Murison, D. (eds) (1931–76). The Scottish National Dictionary. Edin-
burgh: The Scottish National Dictionary Association.
Gray, D. (ed.) (1985). The Oxford Book of Late Medieval Verse and Prose. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Greene, R. (1591). ‘The Art of Conny-Catching’, in A. B. Grosart (ed.), The Life and
Complete Works in Prose and Verse of Robert Greene, vol. 10. New York: Russell &
Russell, 1964, 15 vols, 1–61.
Grimald, N. (1557). ‘Concerning Virgils Eneids,’ in E. Rollins (ed.), Tottel’s Miscellany,
vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1929, 2 vols, 99.
H., Hon. Henry. (1854). Poor Letter H: Its Use and Abuse. London: John F. Shaw and Co.
—— (1855). P’s and Q’s. Grammatical Hints for the Million (2nd edn.). London: Seeley,
Jackson, and Halliday.
references 437
Haight, G. S. (1854–78). The George Eliot Letters. 9 vols. New Haven: Yale University
Press.
Hall, F. (1873). Modern English. London and New York: Scribner, Armstrong.
Halsband, R. (1965). The Complete Letters of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, vol. I. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
—— and Grundy, I. (eds) (1977). Lady Mary Wortley Montagu. Essays and Poems and
Simplicity, a Comedy. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Harding, V. and Wright, L. (eds) (1995). London Bridge: Selected Accounts and Rentals,
1381–1538. London: London Record Society.
Harman, T. (1567). A Caveat or Warening, for Commen Cursetors, ed. E. Viles and
F. J. Furnivall. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1869.
Harrison, M. (1848). The Rise, Progress, and Present Structure of the English Language.
London: Longman, Brown, Green, and Longmans.
Harrison, W. (1577). The Description of England, ed. G. Edelen. Ithaca, NY: Cornell
University Press, 1968.
Hart, J. (1569). An Orthographie, conteyning the due Order and Reason, howe to Write or
Paint Thimage of Mannes Voice, most like to the Life or Nature. London: no publisher.
Reprinted in facsimile Menston: The Scolar Press, 1969.
—— (1570). A Methode or Comfortable Beginning. London: H. Denham.
Hemingway, E. (1940). For Whom the Bell Tolls. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons.
Heywood, T. and Brome, R. (1634). The Late Lanchashire Witches, in The Dramatic
Works of Thomas Heywood, vol. 4. New York: Russell & Russell, 1964, 6 vols, 167–262.
Hickey, R. (2003). Corpus Presenter. Processing Software for Language Analysis. Including
A Corpus of Irish English. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hodges, R. (1644). The English Primrose. London: Richard Cotes.
Hodgson, W. B. (1881). Errors in the Use of English. Edinburgh: David Douglas.
Holloway, W. (1839). A General Dictionary of Provincialisms, Written with a View to
Rescue from Oblivion the Fast fading Relics of By-Gone Days. Sussex, Lewes: Baxter and
Son.
Holt, R. and White, R. M. (eds) (1878). The Ormulum. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Holy Bible. (1611). Facsimile edn. of the Authorised Version. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 1911.
House, M. and Storey, G. (eds) (1965). The Letters of Charles Dickens, vol. I. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
Hutchinson, T. (ed.) (1904). The Complete Poetical Works of Shelley. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
Ingram, D. (1966). The Relation of David Ingram [1589]. March of America Facsimile
Series, 14. Ann Arbor: University Microfilms.
Irvine, S. (ed.) (1993). Old English Homilies from MS Bodley 343. Early English Text
Society, Original Series, 302. Oxford: published for the Early English Text Society by
Oxford University Press.
438 references
Irvine, S. (ed.) (2004). The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle MS E. The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle: A
Collaborative Edition. Cambridge: D. S. Brewer.
Islam, S. (ed.) (1978). Bangladesh District Records: Chittagong, 1760–1787. Dhaka: Uni-
versity of Dhaka.
‘Jacob Grimm on the Genius and Vocation of the English Language’ (1853). Notes and
Queries (February 5), 125–6.
James, A. (ed.) (1993). The Correspondence of Michael Faraday. 2 vols. London: The
Institution of Electrical Engineers.
Jonson, B. (1616). EPICOENE, Or The Silent Woman. London 1616. English Drama
(1280–1915). Department of English, University of Helsinki. 8 Aug. 2003. <http://
collections.chadwyck.com/>.
—— (1618–19). ‘Conversations with Drummond,’ in C. H. Herford, P. Simpson, and
E. Simpson (eds), Ben Jonson, vol. 1. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1966, 11 vols, 128–78.
—— (1631). ‘Bartholomew Fair’, in C. H. Herford, P. Simpson, and E. Simpson (eds), Ben
Jonson, vol. 6. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1966, 11 vols, 1–141.
—— (1640). Discoveries, in C. H. Herford, P. Simpson, and E. Simpson (eds), Ben Jonson,
vol. 8. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1966, 11 vols, 555–649.
—— (1633–40). ‘ATale of a Tub’, in C. H. Herford, P. Simpson, and E. Simpson (eds), Ben
Jonson, vol. 3. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1966, 11 vols, 1–92.
Johnson, S. (1755). A Dictionary of the English Language. 2 vols. London: W. Strahan.
Repr. in facs. Hildesheim: Georg Olms Verlagsbuchhandlung, 1968.
Jussawalla, F. and Dasenbrock, R. W. (1992). Interviews with Writers of the Post-
Colonial World. Jackson: University Press of Mississippi.
Kee, T. C. (1995). We Could ****
You, Mr. Birch. Petaling Jaya: Published by the author.
Kelsall, M. (ed.) (1969). Sarah Fielding, The Adventures of David Simple. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Kington-Oliphant, T. L. (1873). The Sources of Standard English. 2 vols. London:
Macmillan & Co.
Kinsman, R. (ed.) (1969). John Skelton: Poems. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Klaeber, F. (ed.) (1950). Beowulf and the Fight at Finnsburg (3rd edn.). Boston: D. C.
Heath.
Kolb, E. (1979). Atlas of English Sounds. Bern: Francke.
Kon, S. (1989). Emily of Emerald Hill. London: Macmillan.
Kortmann, B., Schneider, E., Burridge, K., Mesthrie, R., and Upton, C. (eds)
(2004). A Handbook of Varieties of English: A Multimedia Reference Tool. 2 vols plus
CD-Rom. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Krapp, G. P. (ed.) (1932). The Anglo-Saxon Poetic Records, V: The Paris Psalter and the
Meters of Boethius. London: Routledge, Kegan Paul; New York: Columbia University
Press.
—— and Dobbie, E. V. K. (eds) (1936). The Anglo-Saxon Poetic Records, III: The Exeter
Book. London: Routledge, Kegan Paul.
references 439
L., I. S. (1906). Fashion in Language. London: H. M. Pollett and Co.
Ladell, H. R. (1897). How to Spell and Speak English (3rd edn.). London: Relfe
Brothers.
Leach, A. (1880). The Letter H. Past, Present, and Future. A Treatise. London: Griffith &
Farran.
Ledsham’s Sure Guide to English Grammar (1879). Manchester: J. B. Ledsham.
Lefanu, W. (ed.) (1960). Betsy Sheridan’s Journal. Letters from Sheridan’s Sister [repr.
1986]. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
Leland, C. G. (1900). Pidgin-English Sing-Song. London: K. Paul, Trench, Trübner & Co.
Lennie, W. (1864). The Principles of English Grammar (58th edn. ‘with alterations’).
London: William Tegg.
Lever, R. (1573). The Arte of Reason, rightly termed, Witcraft. London: H. Bynneman.
Lewis, W. S. et al. (eds) (1937–83). The Yale Edition of Horace Walpole’s Correspondence,
9 vols. New Haven: Yale University Press.
Live and Learn: A Guide for All who Wish to Speak and Write Correctly (1872) (28th edn.).
London: John F. Shaw & Co.
Long, E. (1774). The History of Jamaica. London: T. Lowndes.
Lowth, R. (1762). A Short Introduction to English Grammar: with critical notes (2nd edn.,
1763), London: printed for A. Millar; and R. and J. Dodsley.
Mann, A. (1862). Mann’s Modern Expositor; Containing Alphabetical Collections of the
Most Usual and Expressive Words in the English Language: Carefully Divided, and
Properly Accented, and the Meanings Given According to the Best and Most Recent
Authorities. London: Thomas W. Grattan.
Manwayring, H. (1644). The Sea-Mans Dictionary. London: J. Bellamy.
Marsh, G. P. (1860). Lectures on the English Language. New York: C. Scribner’s Sons.
Martin, B. (1748). Institutions of Language. London. Repr. in facs. by R. C. Alston,
Menston: The Scolar Press, 1974.
—— (1749). Lingua Britannica Reformata. London: printed for J. Hodges; S. Austen;
J. Newbery; J. Ward.
Mather, J. Y. and Spietel, H. H. (1975, 1977, 1986). The Linguistic Atlas of Scotland. 3 vols.
London: Croom Helm.
Miller, T. (ed.) (1890–8). The Old English Version of Bede’s Ecclesiastical History. 2 vols.
Early English Text Society, Original Series, 95–6, 110–11. London: Published for the
Early English Text Society, by N. Trübner.
Mills, A. D. (1998). A Dictionary of English Place-Names. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Mitchell, B. and Robinson, F. C. (eds) (2001). A Guide to Old English (6th edn.).
Oxford: Blackwell.
Nicholson, J. (1889). The Folk Speech of East Yorkshire. London: Simpkin, Marshall
and Co.
Norton-Smith, J. (ed.) (1966). John Lydgate: Poems. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
440 references
Nowell, L. (1595). Vocabularium Saxiconum, ed. A. H. Marckwardt. Ann Arbor, MI:
Michigan University Press, 1952.
Nugent, M. (1907). Lady Nugent’s Journal [1801–1815]. London: Institute of Jamaica.
—— and Wright, N. (1974). A Word Geography of England. London: Seminar Press.
Orton, H. (1962). Survey of English Dialects (A): Introduction. Leeds: E. J. Arnold.
—— Halliday, W. J., Barry, M. V., Tilling, P. M., and Wakelin, M. F. (eds) (1962–
1971). Survey of English Dialects (B): The Basic Material. 4 vols, each of 3 parts. Leeds:
E. J. Arnold.
—— Sanderson, S., and Widdowson, J., (eds) (1978). The Linguistic Atlas of England.
London: Croom Helm.
Parry, D. (ed.) (n.d. [1977]). The Survey of Anglo-Welsh Dialects: Volume 1, The South-
East. n.p.: privately mimeographed.
—— (ed.) (1979). The Survey of Anglo-Welsh Dialects: Volume 2, The South-West. Swan-
sea: University College of Swansea, privately mimeographed.
Paulusz, J. H. O. (ed.) (1989). An Historical Relation of the Island Ceylon in the East
Indies, by Robert Knox (1681). 2 vols. Dehiwala: Ceylon Historical Journal Monograph
Series, 14.
Pearsall, J. (ed.) (2001). The New Oxford Dictionary of English. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Pearson, W. (1865). The Self-Help Grammar of the English Language. London: Hamilton,
Adams & Co.
A Physical Dictionary (1657). London: J. Garfield.
Puttenham, G. (1589). Arte of English Poesie, ed G. Doidge Willcock and A. Walker.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1970.
Quinn, D. B. (ed.) (1985). The Roanoke Voyages, 1584–1590. 2 vols. London: Hakluyt
Society.
Quintilian, The Institutione Oratoria, trans. H. E. Butler. London: Loeb Classical
Library, 1921.
Randolph, T. (1638). The Muses’ Looking Glass, in W. Carew Hazlitt (ed.), Poetical and
Dramatic Works of Thomas Randolph, vol. 1. London: Reeves & Turner, 1875, 2 vols,
173–266.
Ray, J. (1674). A Collection of English Words Not Generally Used. London: T. Burrell.
Redford, J. (c1550). Wit and Science. Malone Society reprints. Oxford. Oxford University
Press, 1951.
R[id], S. (1610). Martin Mark-all, Beadle of Bridewell; his Defence and Answere to the
Belman of London. London: J. Budge and R. Bonian.
Robinson, C. C. (1862). The Dialect of Leeds and its Neighbourhood. London: John Russell
Smith.
—— (1876). A Glossary of Mid-Yorkshire Words Pertaining to the Dialect of Mid-Yorkshire:
With Others Peculiar to Lower Nidderdale: to which is prefixed an Outline Grammar of
the Mid-Yorkshire Dialect. London: Trübner and Co., for The English Dialect Society.
references 441
Robinson, R. (1619). The Art of Pronuntiation, ed. E. J. Dobson (1957), The Phonetic
Writings of Robert Robinson. Early English Text Society o.s. 238. London: Published for
the Early English Text Society by Oxford University Press.
Rowlands, S. (1610). Martin Markall, Beadle of Bridewell, in The Complete Works of
Samuel Rowlands, vol. 2. New York: Johnston Reprints, 1966, 3 vols.
Scragg, D. G. (ed.) (1981). The Battle of Maldon. Manchester: Manchester University
Press.
—— (ed.) (1992a). The Vercelli Homilies. Early English Text Society, o.s. 300. Oxford:
published for the Early English Text Society by Oxford University Press.
Sedgefield, W. J. (ed.) (1899). King Alfred’s Old English Version of Boethius De Con-
solatione Philosophiae. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Shadwell, T. (1688). The Squire of Alsatia. A Comedy. London: J. Knapton.
Shakespeare, W. (1623). The Taming of the Shrew. London 1623. English Drama (1280–
1915). Department of English, University of Helsinki. 8 Aug. 2003. <http://collections.
chadwyck.com/>.
—— (1623). The Two Gentlemen of Verona. London 1623. English Drama (1280–1915).
Department of English, University of Helsinki. 8 Aug. 2003. <http://collections.
chadwyck.com/>.
Shepherd, G. (ed.) (1991). Ancrene Wisse Parts Six and Seven (rev. edn.). Exeter:
University of Exeter Press.
Sheridan, T. (1780). A General Dictionary of the English Language, one main object of
which is to establish a plain and permanent standard pronunciation, to which is prefixed
a rhetorical grammar. 2 vols. London: printed for J. Dodsley, C. Dilly, and J. Wilkie.
Sidney, Sir P. (1595). Defense of Poesie, in A. Feuillerat (ed.), The Prose Works of Sir Philip
Sidney, vol. 3. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1968, 4 vols, 1–46.
Silliman, B. (1812). A Journal of Travels in England Holland, and Scotland, and of Two
Passages over the Atlantic, in the Years 1805 and 1806. 2 vols. Boston: T. B. Watt and
Company.
Simpson, J. A. and Weiner, E. S. C. (eds) 1989. The Oxford English Dictionary First Edited
by James A. H. Murray, Henry Bradley, W. A. Craigie, and C. T. Onions combined
with A Supplement to the Oxford English Dictionary edited by R. W. Burchfleld and Reset
with Corrections, Revisions, and Additional Vocabulary. 20 vols. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
Sisam, K. (ed.) (1921). Fourteenth Century Verse and Prose. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Skeat, W. W. (1890 [1966]). A
elfric’s Lives of Saints. Early English Text Society, o.s. 94.
London: published for the Early English Text Society by Oxford University Press.
Slater, M. (ed.) (2003). A Christmas Carol and Other Christmas Writings. London:
Penguin.
Smith, C. W. (1866). Mind Your H’s and Take Care of Your R’s. London: Lockwood & Co.
Smith, J. (1653). The Sea-mans grammar and dictionary. London: A. Kemb.
442 references
Smith, M. (ed.) (1995–2004). The Letters of Charlotte Brontë: with a Selection of Letters by
Family and Friends. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
‘Some Thoughts on the English Language’ (1766). Annual Review, 194–7.
Spenser, E. (1579). The Shepheardes Calender, in E. Greenlaw et al. (eds.), The Works of
Edmund Spenser, vol. 7, part 1. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press,
1932–57, 11 vols.
Spingarn, J. I. (1908–9). Critical Essays of the Seventeenth Century. Oxford: Clarendon
Press, 3 vols.
Sprat, T. (1667). The History of the Royal-Society of London. London: J. Martyn.
Stanley, E. G. (ed.) (1960). The Owl and the Nightingale. London: Nelson.
Stower, C. (1808). The Printer’s Grammar; or, Introduction to the Art of Printing . . . With
the Improvements in the Practice of Printing. London: L. Wayland.
Swan, W. T. (ed.) (1970). The Journals of Two Poor Dissenters, 1786–1880. London:
Routledge & Kegan Paul.
Swanton, M. (ed.) (1987). The Dream of the Rood (rev. edn.). Exeter: University of Exeter
Press.
Sweet, H. (ed.) (1871–2). King Alfred’s West-Saxon Version of Gregory’s Pastoral Care.
Early English Text Society, Original Series, 45 and 50. London: published for the Early
English Text Society by Oxford University Press.
—— (1881). The Elementary Sounds of English: a paper read before the Spelling Reform
Association on 22 November, 1881. London: John Street.
[Swift, J.] (1712). A Proposal for Correcting, Improving and Ascertaining the English
Tongue; in a Letter. London: Printed for Benj. Tooke.
Taylor, M. (ed.) (1994). The European Diaries of Richard Cobden 1846–1849. Aldershot:
Scolar Press.
TheTeacher’sManualoftheScienceandArtofTeaching(1874).London: Spottiswoode&Co.
Temple, R. C. (ed.) (1919). The Travels of Peter Mundy in Europe and Asia, 1608–1667.
London: The Hakluyt Society.
Tierney, J. E. (ed.) (1988). The Correspondence of Robert Dodsley 1733–1764. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Tolkien, J. R. R. (ed.) (1962). The English Text of the Ancrene Riwle: Ancrene Wisse, Edited
from MS. Corpus Christi College Cambridge 402, with an introduction by N. R. Ker.
Early English Text Society, 249. London: published for the Early English Text Society by
Oxford University Press.
Tomcatt, (2004). <http://hk.geocities.com/catttom/gap_team.html> (Accessed
August 18, 2004).
Treharne, E. (ed.) (2004). Old and Middle English c. 890–c. 1400: An Anthology (2nd
edn.). Oxford: Blackwell.
Trench, R. C. (1860). On Some Deficiencies in Our English Dictionaries (2nd rev. edn.).
London: John W. Parker & Sons.
references 443
Troide, L. E., et al. (1988–). The Early Journals and Letters of Fanny Burney. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
Udall, N. (1553). Respublica, ed. L. A. Magnus. London: Kegan Paul, 1905.
—— and Widdowson, J. D. A. (1996). An Atlas of English Dialects. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Upton, C., Kretzschmar W. A., Jr., and Konopka, R. (2001). The Oxford Dictionary of
Pronunciation for Current English. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— Sanderson, S., and Widdowson, J. (1987). Word Maps: A Dialect Atlas of England.
London: Croom Helm.
—— Parry, D., and Widdowson, J. D. A. (1994). Survey of English Dialects: The
Dictionary and Grammar. London: Routledge.
Vaisey, D. (1984). The Diary of Thomas Turner 1754–1765 [repr. 1985]. Oxford and New
York: Oxford University Press.
Verstegan, R. (1605). A Restitution of Decayed Intelligence. London: J. Norton and J. Bill.
Viereck, W., with Ramsich, H. (1991). The Computer Developed Linguistic Atlas of
England: Volume 1. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
—— (1997). The Computer Developed Linguistic Atlas of England: Volume 2. Tübingen:
Niemeyer.
Walker, J. (1791). A Critical Pronouncing Dictionary and Expositor of the English Lan-
guage. London: G. and D. J. Robinson.
—— (1801). A Rhetorical Grammar or Course of Lessons in Elocution (3rd edn.). London:
G. Robinson and T. Cadell.
Walker, R. S. (ed.) (1966). The Correspondence of Boswell and John Johnston. London:
Heinemann.
Warner, W. (1586; 1612). Albion’s England, in A. Chalmers (ed.), The Works of the
English Poets from Chaucer to Cowper, vol. 4. London: J. Johnson et al., 1810, 21 vols,
509–658.
Weiss, J. (ed. and trans.) (2002). Wace’s Roman de Brut: A History of the British. Exeter:
The University of Exeter Press.
Wells, J. E. (ed.) (1907). The Owl and the Nightingale. Boston: D. C. Heath.
Wilcox, J. (ed.) (1994). Ælfric’s Prefaces. Durham: Durham Medieval Texts.
Williams, R. ([1997].) A Key into the Language of America [1643] (Facsimile edn.).
Bedford, MA: Applewood Books.
Wilson, T. (1553). The Arte of Rhetorique, ed. T. J. Derrick. New York: Garland Publishing,
1982.
Wilson, T. (1612). A Complete Christian Dictionary. London: W. Jaggard.
Wogan-Browne, J., Watson, N., Taylor, A., and Evans, R. (eds) (1999). The Idea of
the Vernacular: An Anthology of Middle English Literary Theory 1280–1520. Exeter:
University of Exeter Press.
Wright, A. (1891). Baboo English as ‘tis Writ. London: T. F. Unwin.
444 references
Wright, J. (ed.) (1898–1905). The English Dialect Dictionary: being the complete vocabu-
lary of all dialect words still in use, or known to have been in use during the last two
hundred years. 6 vols. London: Henry Frowde.
—— (1905). The English Dialect Grammar : comprising the dialects of England, of the
Shetland and Orkney islands, and of those parts of Scotland, Ireland & Wales where
English is habitually spoken. Oxford: Henry Frowde.
Yule, H. and Burnell, A. C. ([1976]). Hobson-Jobson: A Glossary of Colloquial Anglo-
Indian Words and Phrases (1886, 1903). New York: Humanities Press.
secondary sources
Aarsleff, H. (1983). The Study of Language in England, 1780–1860. London: The Athlone
Press.
Aitchison, J. (1981). Language Change: Progress or Decay? London: Fontana.
Aitken, A. J. (1981). ‘The Scottish Vowel-length Rule’, in M. Benskin and M. L. Samuels
(eds), So Meny People, Longages and Tonges. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press,
131–57.
Albrow, M. (1996). The Global Age: State and Society Beyond Modernity. Cambridge:
Polity Press.
Allen, C. L. (1997). ‘Middle English Case Loss and the ‘‘Creolization’’ Question’, English
Language and Linguistics, 1: 63–89.
Allerton, D. J., Skandera, P., and Tschichold, C. (eds) (2002). Perspectives on English
as a World Language. Basel: Schwab Verlag.
Allmand, C. (1992). Henry V. London: Methuen.
Altick, R. D. (1998). The English Common Reader. A Social History of the Mass Reading
Public, 1800–1900 (2nd edn). Ohio: Ohio State University Press.
Amos, F. R. (1920). Early Theories of Translation. New York: Columbia University Press.
Anderson, H. and Ehrenpreis, I. (1968). ‘The Familiar Letter in the Eighteenth
Century: Some Generalizations’, in H. Anderson, P. B. Daghlian, and I. Ehrenpreis
(eds), The Familiar Letter in the Eighteenth Century. Lawrence: University of Kansas
Press, 269–82.
Arnold. J. (2000). History. A Very Short Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Ashcroft, B., Griffiths, G., and Tiffin, H. (1989). The Empire Writes Back: Theory and
Practice in Post-Colonial Literatures. London: Routledge.
Austin, F. (1973). ‘Epistolary Conventions in the Clift Correspondence’, English Studies,
54: 9–22, 129–40.
references 445
Austin, F. (1994). ‘The Effect of Exposure to Standard English: The Language of William
Clift’, in D. Stein and I. Tieken-Boon van Ostade (eds), Towards a Standard English
1600–1800. Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter, 285–313.
—— and Jones, B. (2002). The Language and Craft of William Barnes, English Poet and
Philologist (1801–1886). Lewiston: The Edwin Mellen Press.
Ayto, J. (1999). Twentieth Century Words. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bailey, R. W. (1985). ‘The Conquests of English,’ in S. Greenbaum (ed.), The English
Language Today. Oxford: Pergamon, 9–19.
—— (1991). Images of English: A Cultural History of the Language. Ann Arbor, MI: The
University of Michigan Press.
—— (1996). Nineteenth-Century English. Ann Arbor, MI: The University of Michigan
Press.
—— (2001).‘AmericanEnglishAbroad,’inJ.Algeo(ed.),TheCambridgeHistoryoftheEnglish
Language. Vol. vi: English in North America. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bailey, R. W. and Görlach, M. (eds) (1984). English as a World Language. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Baker, P. S. (2003). Introduction to Old English. Oxford: Blackwell.
Baldi, P. (1983). An Introduction to the Indo-European Languages. Carbondale: Southern
Illinois University Press.
Bammesberger, A. (1992). ‘The place of English in Germanic and Indo-European’, in
R. M. Hogg (ed.), The Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. 1: The Begin-
nings to 1066. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 26–66.
Barber, C. (1993). The English Language: A Historical Introduction. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
—— (1997). Early Modern English (2nd edn.). Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Barchas, J. (1996). ‘Sarah Fielding’s Dashing Style and Eighteenth-Century Print Cul-
ture’, ELH, 63: 633–56.
Baron, N. S. (2000). Alphabet to Email. How Written English Evolved and Where It’s
Heading. London: Routledge.
Barry, M. V. (1981). Aspects of English Dialects in Ireland. Vol. 1: Papers arising from the
Tape-recorded Survey of Hiberno-English Speech. Belfast: Institute of Irish Studies.
—— (1982). ‘The English Language in Ireland’, in R. W. Bailey and M. Görlach (eds),
English as a World Language. Ann Arbor, MI: University of Michigan Press, 84–133.
Bately, J. M. (1988). ‘Old English Prose Before and During the Reign of Alfred’, Anglo-
Saxon England 17: 93–138.
Baugh, A. and Cable, T. (2002). A History of the English Language (5th edn.). London:
Routledge.
Beadle, R. (1994). ‘Middle English Texts and their Transmission, 1350–1500: Some
Geographical Criteria’, in M. Laing and K. Williamson (eds), Speaking in Our Tongues:
Proceedings of a Colloquium on Medieval Dialectology and Related Disciplines. Cam-
bridge: D. S. Brewer, 69–91.
446 references
Beal, J. (2000). ‘From Geordie Ridley to Viz: Popular Literature in Tyneside English’,
Language and Literature, 9/4: 359–75.
—— (2004). English in Modern Times: 1700–1945. London: Arnold.
Bell, R. H. (1909). The Changing Values of English Speech. New York: Hinds, Noble and
Eldredge.
Bennett, M. J. (1983). Community, Class, and Careerism: Cheshire and Lancashire Society
in the Age of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Benskin, M. (1992). ‘Some New Perspectives on the Origins of Standard Written English’,
in J. A. van Leuvensteijn and J. B. Berns (eds), Dialect and Standard Language in the
English, Dutch, German and Norwegian Language Areas: 17 Studies in English or
German. Amsterdam: Netherlands Academy of Arts and Science, 71–105.
—— (2004). ‘‘‘Chancery Standard’’’, in C. Kay, C. Hough, and I. Wotherspoon (eds),
New Perspectives on English Historical Linguistics: Selected Papers from 12 ICEHL,
Glasgow, 21–26 August 2002. Vol. ii: Lexis and Transmission. Amsterdam Studies in
the Theory and History of Linguistic Science, 252. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 1–40.
—— and Laing, M. (1981). ‘Translations and Mischsprachen in Middle English Manu-
scripts’, in M. Benskin and M. L. Samuels (eds), So Meny People, Longages and Tonges:
Philological Essays in Scots and Mediaeval English Presented to Angus McIntosh. Edin-
burgh: Middle English Dialect Project, 55–106.
Benveniste, E. (1973). Indo-European Language and Society, trans. E. Palmer. London:
Faber.
Benzie, W. (1972). The Dublin Orator: Thomas Sheridan’s Influence on Eighteenth-Century
Rhetoric and Belles Letters. Leeds: University of Leeds.
Bijkerk, A. (2004). ‘Yours Sincerely and Yours Affectionately: On the Origin and Devel-
opment of Two Positive Politeness Formulas’, in T. Nevalainen and S.-K. Tanskanen
(eds), Letter Writing. Special issue of Journal of Historical Pragmatics, 5/2: 297–311.
Bjrkman, E. (1900–02). Scandinavian Loan-Words in Middle English. Halle: Niemeyer.
Black, J. and Macraild, D. M. (2003). Nineteenth-Century Britain. Basingstoke: Pal-
grave Macmillan.
Blair, W. and McDavid, I. R., Jr. (eds) (1983). The Mirth of a Nation: America’s Great
Dialect Humor. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.
Blake, N. F. (1981). Non-standard Language in English Literature. London: Deutsch.
—— (ed.) (1992). The Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. II: 1066–1476.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (1996). A History of the English Language. Houndmills: Macmillan.
Blank, P. (1996). Broken English: Dialects and the Politics of Language in Renaissance
Writings. London and New York: Routledge.
Bloomfield, L. (1933). Language. London: Unwin.
Bolton, K. (2003). Chinese Englishes: A Sociolinguistic History. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Bradford, S. (1982). Disraeli. London: Weidenfield and Nicholson.
references 447
Bree, L. (1996). Sarah Fielding. New York: Twayne Publishers/London: Prentice Hall
International.
Browne, J. (2003). Charles Darwin. 2 vols. London: Pimlico.
Brownstone, D. and Franck, I. (eds) (1996). Timelines of the 20th Century: A Chron-
ology of 7,500 Key Events, Discoveries, and People that Shaped Our Century. Boston:
Little , Brown & Co.
Brutt-Griffler, J. (2002). World English: A Study of its Development. Clevedon: Multi-
lingual Matters.
Burchfield, R. W. (1973). ‘The Treatment of Controversial Vocabulary in the OED’,
Transactions of the Philological Society, 1–28.
—— (ed.) (1994). The Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. v: English in
Britain and Overseas. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Burnett, J., Vincent, D., and Mayal, D. (eds) (1984). The Autobiography of the Working
Class: An Annotated, Critical Bibliography. Brighton: Harvester.
Burnley, D. (1983). The Language of Chaucer. Houndmills: Macmillan.
—— (1992b). ‘Lexis and Semantics’, in N. F. Blake (ed.), The Cambridge History of the
English Language. Vol. ii: 1066–1476. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 409–99.
Burns, A. and Coffin, C. (eds) (2001). Analysing English in a Global Context: A Reader.
London: Routledge.
Busse, U. (2002). Linguistic Variation in the Shakespeare Corpus: Morpho-Syntactic
Variability of Second Person Pronouns. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Campbell, A. (1959). Old English Grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Campbell, L. (2001). ‘What’s Wrong with Grammaticalization?’, Language Sciences 23:
113–61.
Cannon, C. (1998). The Making of Chaucer’s English: A Study of Words. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Carr, P. (1999). English Phonetics and Phonology: An Introduction. Oxford: Blackwell.
Carruthers, M. J. (1990). The Book of Memory: A Study of Memory in Medieval Culture.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Chambers, J. K. (2003). Sociolinguistic Theory (2nd edn.). Oxford: Blackwell.
—— and Trudgill, P. (1998). Dialectology (2nd edn.). Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Cheshire, J. (ed.) (1991). English around the World: Sociolinguistic Perspectives.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Chomsky, N. and Halle, M. (1968). The Sound Pattern of English. New York: Harper &
Row.
Christianson, C. P. (1989). ‘Evidence for the Study of London’s Late Medieval
Manuscript-Book Trade’, in J. Griffiths and D. Pearsall (eds), Book Production and
Publishing in Britain 1375–1475. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 87–108.
448 references
Clanchy, M. T. (1993). From Memory to Written Record: England 1066–1307 (2nd edn.).
Oxford: Blackwell.
Coates, J. (1993). Women, Men and Language (2nd edn.). London: Longman.
Cockburn, J. S. (1975). ‘Early Modern Assize Records as Historical Evidence’, Journal of
Society of Archivists, 5: 215–31.
Cockeram, H. (1623). The English Dictionarie. London: E. Weaver.
Coleman, J. (1995). ‘The Chronology of French and Latin Loan Words in English,’
Transactions of the Philological Society, 93: 95–124.
—— (2004). A History of Cant and Slang Dictionaries. Vol. 1: 1567–1784. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Collins, B. and Rees, I. M. (1999). The Real Professor Higgins: the Life and Career of
Daniel Jones. Berlin: Gruyter.
Colman, F. (1983). ‘Vocalization as Nucleation’, Studia Linguistica 37: 30–49.
Coombs, D. (1988). Spreading the Word: the Library Work of the British Council. London:
Mansell.
Corbett, J., McClure, J. D., and Stuart-Smith, J. (2003). The Edinburgh Companion
to Scots. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Corfield, P. (1987). ‘Class by Name and Number in Eighteenth-Century Britain’, History,
72: 39–61.
Cottrell, P. L. (ed.) (1992). Events: A Chronicle of the Twentieth Century. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Coupland, N. (1988). Dialect in Use: Sociolinguistic Variation in Cardiff English. Cardiff:
University of Wales Press.
Crane, S. (1997). ‘Social Aspects of Bilingualism in the Thirteenth Century’, in
M. Prestwich, R. H. Britnell, and R. Frame (eds), Thirteenth Century England VI:
Proceedings of the Durham Conference 1995. Woodbridge: Boydell, 103–15.
—— (1999). ‘Anglo-Norman Cultures in England, 1066–1460’, in D. Wallace (ed.), The
Cambridge History of Medieval English Literature. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 35–60.
Cronin, M. (2003). Translation and Globalization. London & New York: Routledge.
Crystal, D. (2000). Language Death. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2003a). The Cambridge Encyclopedia of the English Language (2nd edn.). Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2003b). English as a Global Language (2nd edn.). Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
—— (2004a). The Stories of English. London: Penguin/Allen Lane.
—— (2004b). Making Sense of English Grammar. London: Pearson Education.
—— (2004c). The Language Revolution. Cambridge: Polity.
references 449
Crystal, D. (2004d ). A Glossary of Netspeak and Textspeak. Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press.
—— (2006). Language andtheInternet. 2nd edn. Cambridge:Cambridge UniversityPress.
Dance, R. (2003). Words Derived from Old Norse in Early Middle English: Studies in the
Vocabulary of the South-West Midland Texts. Tempe: Medieval and Renaissance Texts
and Studies.
Danielsson, B. (1963). John Hart’s Works on English Orthography and Pronunciation
(1551, 1569, 1570), Part 2, Phonology. Stockholm: Almqvist and Wiksell.
Davis, L. M. (1983). English Dialectology: An Introduction. Alabama: University of
Alabama Press.
Davis, L., Houck, C., and Upton, C. (1997). ‘The Question of Dialect Boundaries: The
SED and the American Atlases’, in A. Thomas (ed.), Current Methods in Dialectology:
Proceedings of the Methods IX International Conference on Dialectology, Bangor, 1996.
Bangor: University of Wales Bangor, 271–283.
Davis, N. (1972). ‘Margaret Paston’s Uses of Do’, Neuphilologische Mitteilungen, 73: 55–62.
—— (1983). ‘The Language of Two Brothers in the Fifteenth Century’, in E. G. Stanley
and D. Gray (eds), Five Hundred Years of Words and Sounds: A Festschrift for Eric
Dobson, Cambridge: D. S. Brewer, 23–28.
Dees, A. (1971). Etude sur l’evolution des demonstratifs en ancien et en moyen francais.
Groningen: Walters-Noordhoff.
Dekeyser, X. (1975). Number and Case Relation in 19th Century British English.
A Comparative Study of Grammar and Usage. Amsterdam: De Nederlandske Boekhan-
del.
—— (1996). ‘Concord of Number in Lindley Murray’s Grammar : The Dialectics be-
tween Prescription and Usage’, in I. Tieken-Boon van Ostade (ed.), Two Hundred Years
of Lindley Murray. Münster: Nodus Publikationen, 193–206.
Denison,D.(1993).EnglishHistoricalLinguistics: VerbalConstructions.London: Longman.
—— (1998). ‘Syntax’, in S. Romaine, The Cambridge History of the English Language.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 92–329.
Devitt, A. (1989). StandardizingWrittenEnglish. Cambridge:Cambridge UniversityPress.
Dieth, E. (1932). A Grammar of the Buchan Dialect (Aberdeenshire): Descriptive and
Historical. Cambridge: W. Heffer.
Dobson, E. J. (1955). ‘Early Modern Standard English’, Transactions of the Philological
Society, 25–54; reprinted in R. Lass (ed.), Approaches to English Historical Linguistics.
New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston (1969), 419–39.
—— (1968). English Pronunciation 1500–1700 (2nd edn.), 2 vols. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
—— (1976). The Origins of Ancrene Wisse. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Donaldson, W. (1986). Popular Literature in Victorian Scotland: Language, Fiction, and
the Press. Aberdeen: Aberdeen University Press.
Doughty, P., Pearce, J., and Thornton, G. (1971). Language in Use. London: Edward
Arnold.
450 references
Dundes, A., Leach, J. W., and Özkk, B. (1972). ‘The Strategy of Turkish Boys’ Verbal
Duelling Rhymes’, in J. J. Gumperz and D. Hymes (eds), Directions in Sociolinguistics.
New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 130–60.
Dunning, J. H. (ed.) (2003). Making Globalization Good: The Moral Challenges of Global
Capitalism. Oxford: University Press.
Eco, U. (1995). The Search for the Perfect Language, trans. J. Fentress. Oxford: Blackwell.
‘Eighth Report of the Committee on Devonshire Verbal Provincialisms’ (1885). Transac-
tions of the Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science, Literature, and Art,
77–117.
Ellegrd, A. (1953). The Auxiliary ‘Do’: The Establishment and Regulation of its Use in
English. Stockholm: Almqvist and Wiksell.
Elliott, R. W. V. (1989). Runes: an Introduction. Manchester: Manchester University
Press.
Elmes, S. (1999–2000). The Routes of English. 4 vols þ 8 CD Roms. London: BBC
Education.
Fairman, T. (2003). ‘Letters of the English Labouring Classes and the English Language,
1800–34’, in M. Dossena and C. Jones (eds), Insights into Late Modern English. Bern:
Peter Lang, 265–81.
Febvre, L. and Martin, H.-J. (1976). The Coming of the Book: the Impact of Printing
1450–1800 trans. D. Gerard; ed. G. Nowell-Smith and D. Wootton. London: N.L.B.
Fennell, B. A. (2001). A History of English. A Sociolinguistic Approach. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Fenton, A. and. MacDonald, D. A. (eds) (1994). Studies in Scots and Gaelic: Proceedings
of the Third International Conference on the Languages of Scotland. Edinburgh: Canon-
gate Academic and The Linguistic Survey of Scotland.
Filppula, M. (1999). The Grammar of Irish English: Language in Hibernian Style.
London: Routledge.
Finegan, E. (1992). ‘Style and Standardization in England: 1700–1900’, in T. Machan and
C. T. Scott (eds), England in its Social Contexts. Essays in Historical Sociolinguistics.
Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
Fisher, J. (1977). ‘Chancery and the Emergence of Standard Written English in the
Fifteenth Century’, Speculum, 52: 870–99.
Fleming, G. (1998). John Everett Millais: A Biography. London: Constable.
Fletcher, S. (1997). Victorian Girls. Lord Lyttelton’s Daughters. London: The Hambledon
Press.
Foulkes, P. and Docherty, G. J. (eds) (1999). Urban Voices: Accent Studies in the British
Isles. London: Arnold.
Francis, N. M. (1983). Dialectology: An Introduction. London: Longman.
Frank, R. (1994). ‘King Cnut in the Verse of his Skalds’, in A. Rumble (ed.), The Reign of
Cnut: King of England, Denmark and Norway. London: Leicester University Press,
106–24.
references 451
Frank, T. (1994), ‘Language Standardization in Eighteenth-Century Scotland’, in D. Stein
and I. Tieken-Boon van Ostade (eds), Towards a Standard English 1600–1800. Berlin
and New York: Mouton de Gruyter, 51–62.
Franzen, C. (1991). The Tremulous Hand of Worcester: A Study of Old English in the
Thirteenth Century. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Gash, N. (1985). Mr. Secretary Peel: the Life of Sir Robert Peel to 1830 (2nd edn.). London:
Longman.
Gerner, J. (1996). Untersuchungen zur Funktion des emphatischen do im Englischen.
Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Gneuss, H. (1972). ‘The Origin of Standard Old English and Æthelwold’s School at
Winchester’, Anglo-Saxon England 1: 63–83.
—— (1993). Language and History in Early England, Aldershot: Variorum.
Godden, M. R. (2002). ‘Ælfric as Grammarian: the Evidence of his Catholic Homilies’, in
E. Treharne and S. Rosser (eds), Early Medieval English Texts and Interpretations:
Studies Presented to Donald G. Scragg. Tempe, AZ: Arizona Center for Medieval and
Renaissance Studies, 13–29.
Godrguez-Gil, M. (2002). ‘Ann Fisher: First Female Grammarian’. Historical Socio-
linguistics and Sociohistorical Linguistics 2 <http://www.let.leidenuniv.nl/hsl_shl/>
(!Contents!Articles).
Gomez Solino, J. (1984). Variacion y Estandarizacion en el Ingles Moderno Temprano
1470–1540. Unpublished PhD thesis, University of Oviedo.
Gordon, E. V. (1957). An Introduction to Old Norse (2nd edn.), rev. A. R. Taylor. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
Gordon, L. (1994). Charlotte Brontë. A Passionate Life. London: Chatto and Windus.
Grlach, M. (ed.) (1985). Focus on Scotland. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
—— (1986). ‘Middle English—a Creole?’, in D. Kastovsky and A. Szwedek (eds),
Linguistics Across Historical and Geographical Boundaries in Honour of Jacek
Fisiak on the Occasion of His Fiftieth Birthday. 2 vols. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter,
i: 329–44.
—— (1991). Introduction to Early Modern English. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
—— (1997). ‘. . . A Construction than which None is More Difficult’, in T. Nevalainen
and L. Kahlas-Tarkka (eds), To Explain the Present. Studies in the Changing
English Language in Honour of Matti Rissanen. Helsinki: Société Néophilologique,
277–301.
—— (1999). English in Nineteenth-Century England: An Introduction. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
—— (2001a). Eighteenth-Century English. Heidelberg: Universitätsverlag C. Winter.
—— (2001b). A Dictionary of European Anglicisms. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— (ed.) (2002). English in Europe. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
452 references
—— (2003). ‘A New Text Type: Exercises in Bad English’, in F. Austin and C. Stray (eds),
The Teaching of English in the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries. Essays for Ian
Michael on his 88th Birthday, Paradigm 2: 5–14.
Graddol, D. (1997). The Future of English? London: The British Council.
—— and Meinhof, U. H. (eds) (1999). English in a Changing World. AILA Review 13.
—— Leith, D., and Swann, J. (eds) (1996). English: History, Diversity and Change.
London: Routledge.
Green, D. H. (1998). Language and History in the Early Germanic World. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Gretsch, M. (1999). The Intellectual Foundations of the English Benedictine Reform.
Cambridge Studies in Anglo-Saxon England 25. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Hands, R. (ed.) (1975). English Hawking and Hunting in The Boke of St Albans. London:
Oxford University Press.
Haugen, E. (1966). ‘Dialect, Language, Nation’, American Anthropologist, 68: 922–35.
—— (ed.) (1972). First Grammatical Treatise. London: Harlow.
—— (1976). The Scandinavian Languages. London: Faber.
Healey, E. (2001). Emma Darwin: The Inspirational Wife of a Genius. London: Headline.
Hellinga, L. (1997). ‘Nicholas Love in Print’, in S. Oguro, R. Beadle, and M. Sargent
(eds), Nicholas Love at Waseda. Cambridge: D. S. Brewer, 143–62.
Hepworth, B. (1978). Robert Lowth. Boston: Twayne Publishers.
Herring, S. C. (ed.) (1996). Computer-mediated Communication. Amsterdam: Benja-
mins.
Hibbert, C. (2000). Queen Victoria. A Personal History. London: HarperCollins.
Hickey, R. (ed.) (2004). Legacies of Colonial English: Studies in Transported Dialects.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Higham, N. J. (1997). The Death of Anglo-Saxon England. Stroud, Glos.: Sutton.
Hofstetter, W. (1988). ‘Winchester and the Standardization of Old English Vocabulary’,
Anglo-Saxon England 17: 139–61.
Hogg, R. M. (ed.) (1992a). The Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. i: The
Beginnings to 1066. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (1992b). A Grammar of Old English. Vol. 1: Phonology. Oxford: Blackwell.
Holman, K. (1996). Scandinavian Runic Inscriptions in the British Isles: Their Historical
Context. Trondheim: Tapir.
Holmqvist, B. (1922). On the History of the English Present Inflections, Particularly -th
and -s. Heidelberg: Carl Winter.
Holt, D. E. (ed.) (2003). Optimality Theory and Language Change. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Honey, J. (1988). ‘‘‘Talking Proper’’: Schooling and the Establishment of English
‘‘Received Pronunciation’’’, in G. Nixon and J. Honey (eds), An Historic Tongue:
Studies in English Linguistics in Memory of Barbara Strang. London: Routledge,
209–27.
references 453
Hopper, P. and Traugott, E. C. (1993). Grammaticalisation. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Horobin, S. (2003). The Language of the Chaucer Tradition. Chaucer Studies 32. Cam-
bridge: D. S. Brewer.
—— and Smith, J. J. (2002). An Introduction to Middle English. Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press.
Howard, M. and Lewis, W. R. (1998). The Oxford History of the Twentieth Century.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Howe, N. (1989). Migration and Mythmaking in Anglo-Saxon England. New Haven and
London: Yale University Press.
Huddleston, R. D. (1971). The Sentence in Written English: A Syntactic Study based on an
Analysis of Scientific Texts. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hudson, R. (1980). Sociolinguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hughes, A., and Trudgill, P. (1996). English Accents and Dialects: An Introduction to
Social and Regional Varieties of British English (3rd edn.). London: Edward Arnold.
Hughes, G. (2000). A History of English Words. Oxford: Blackwell.
Huntington, S. P. (1996). The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order.
New York: Simon & Schuster.
Ilmberger, F. and Robinson, A. (2002). Globalisation. Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag.
Irvine, S. (2000a). ‘The Compilation and Use of Manuscripts Containing Old English in
the Twelfth Century’, in M. Swan and E. M. Treharne (eds), Rewriting Old English in
the Twelfth Century. Cambridge Studies in Anglo-Saxon England 26. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 41–61.
—— (2000b) ‘Linguistic Peculiarities in Late Copies of Ælfric and their Editorial Impli-
cations’, in J. Roberts and J. Nelson (eds), Essays on Anglo-Saxon and Related Themes in
Memory of Lynne Grundy. King’s College London: Centre for Late Antique and
Medieval Studies, 237–57.
Jacob, E. (1961). The Fifteenth Century. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
James, L. (ed.) (1976). Print and the People 1819–1851. London: James Allen.
Janda, R. (2001). ‘Beyond ‘‘Pathways’’ and ‘‘Unidirectionality’’: On the discontinuity of
language transmission and the counterability of grammaticalization’, Language
Sciences, 23: 265–340.
Jasanoff, J. H. (1997). ‘Germanic (Le germanique)’ (in English), in F. Bader (ed.),
Langues indo-européennes. Paris: CNRS Editions, 253–82.
JÆszi, O. (1929). The Dissolution of the Habsburg Monarchy. Chicago: The University of
Chicago Press.
Jenkins, J. (2003). World Englishes: A Resource Book for Students. London and New York:
Routledge.
Jenkins, R. (1995). Gladstone. London: Macmillan.
Jesch, J. (2001). ‘Skaldic Verse in Scandinavian England’, in J. Graham-Campbell, R. Hall,
J. Jesch, and D. N. Parsons (eds), Vikings and the Danelaw: Select Papers from the
454 references
Proceedings of the Thirteenth Viking Congress, Nottingham and York, 21–30 August 1997.
Oxford: Oxbow, 313–25.
Jespersen, O. (1909). A Modern English Grammar on Historical Principles. Vol. 1: Sounds
and Spellings. Copenhagen: Munksgaard.
—— (1956). The Growth and Structure of the English Language (9th edn.). Oxford:
Blackwell.
Johnston, P. (1997). ‘Older Scots Phonology and its Regional Variation’, in C. Jones
(ed.), The Edinburgh History of the Scots Language. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Press, 47–111.
Jones, C. (1988). Grammatical Gender in English: 950–1250. London: Croom Helm.
—— (ed.) (1997). The Edinburgh History of the Scots Language, Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press.
Jones, G. (1999). Strange Talk: The Politics of Dialect Literature in Gilded Age America.
Berkeley and Los Angeles: The University of California Press.
Jones, R. F. (1953). The Triumph of the English Language: A Survey of Opinions Concerning
the Vernacular from the Introduction of Printing to the Restoration. Stanford, CA:
Stanford University Press.
Jordan, R. (1974). Handbook of Middle English Grammar: Phonology. Trans. and rev.
E. J. Crook. Janua Linguarum, Series Practica, 218. The Hague: Mouton.
Joyce, P. (1991). ‘The People’s English: Language and Class in England c.1840–1920’, in
Burke P. and R. Porter (eds.), Language, Self, and Society. A Social History of
Language. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Kachru, B. B. (1983). The Indianization of English: the English Language in India. Delhi
and Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— (1990). The Alchemy of English: the Spread, Functions, and Models of Non-native
Englishes. Urbana: University of Illinois Press.
—— (ed.) (1992). The Other Tongue: English across Cultures (2nd edn.). Urbana: Uni-
versity of Illinois Press.
Kager, R. (1999). Optimality Theory. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kallen, J. L. (ed.) (1997). Focus on Ireland. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Karl, F. (1995). George Eliot. A Biography. London: HarperCollins.
Karttunen, F. (2000). ‘Interpreters Snatched from the Shore: The Successful and the
Others,’ in E. G. Gray and N. Fiering (eds), The Language Encounter in the Americas,
1492–1800. New York: Berghahn Books, 215–29.
Kastovsky, D. (1992). ‘Semantics and Vocabulary,’ in R. Hogg (ed.), The Cambridge
History of the English Language. Vol. i: The Beginnings to 1066. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 290–408.
Keast, W. R. (1957). ‘The two Clarissas in Johnson’s Dictionary’, Studies in Philology, 54:
429–39.
Keller, R. E. (1978). The German Language. London: Faber.
references 455
Kerswill, P. and Williams, A. (1999). ‘Dialect Recognition and Speech Community
Focusing in New and old Towns in England: the Effects of Dialect Levelling, Demog-
raphy, and Social Networks’, in C. Upton and K. Wales (eds), Dialectal Variation in
English: Proceedings of the Harold Orton Centenary Conference 1998. Leeds: Leeds
Studies in English XXX, 205–41.
Keynes, S. (1998). ‘King Alfred and the Mercians’, in M. A. S. Blackburn and D. N.
Dumville (eds), Kings, Currency and Alliances: History and Coinage of Southern Eng-
land in the Ninth Century. Woodbridge: The Boydell Press, 1–45.
Kibbee, D. A. (1991). For To Speke Frenche Trewely. The French Language in England,
1000–1600: Its Status, Description and Instruction. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
King, A. (1997). ‘The Inflectional Morphology of Older Scots’, in C. Jones (ed.), The
Edinburgh History of the Scots Language. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press,
156–81.
Kitson, P. R. (1992). ‘Old English Dialects and the Stages of the Transition to Middle
English’, Folia Linguistica Historica, 11 [for 1990]: 27–87.
—— (1993). ‘Geographical Variation in Old English Prepositions and the Location of
Ælfric’s and Other Literary Dialects’, English Studies, 74: 1–50.
Klancher, J. P. (1987). The Making of English Reading Audiences 1790–1832. Madison and
London: University of Wisconsin Press.
Knowles, G. (1997). A Cultural History of the English Language. London: Arnold.
Knowlson, J. (1975). Universal Language Schemes in England and France 1600–1800.
Buffalo and Toronto: University of Toronto Press.
Krapp, G. P. (1919). The Pronunciation of Standard English in America. New York: Oxford
University Press.
—— (1925). The English Language in America. 2 vols. New York: Frederick Ungar.
Kuhn, W. M. (2002). William and Mary Ponsonby. Life at the Court of Queen Victoria.
London: Duckworth.
Kupperman, K. O. (2000). Indians and English: Facing Off in Early America. Ithac, NY:
Cornell University Press.
Kyt, M. (1993). ‘Third-person Present Singular Verb Inflection in Early British and
American English’, Language Variation and Change, 5: 113–39.
—— (ed.) (1996). Manual to the Diachronic Part of the Helsinki Corpus of English Texts
(3rd edn.). Helsinki: Department of English, University of Helsinki.
Laing, M. (1991). ‘Anchor Texts and Literary Manuscripts in Early Middle English’, in
F.Riddy(ed.),RegionalisminLateMedievalManuscriptsandTexts:EssaysCelebratingthe
PublicationofaLinguisticAtlasofLateMediaevalEnglish.Cambridge:D.S.Brewer,27–52.
—— (1993). Catalogue of Sources for a Linguistic Atlas of Early Medieval English. Cam-
bridge: D. S. Brewer.
—— and Williamson, K. (eds) (1994). Speaking in our Tongues: Medieval Dialectology
and Related Disciplines. Cambridge: D. S. Brewer.
456 references
Lambert, R. S. (1964). The Railway King. 1800–1871. A Study of George Hudson and the
Business Morals of his Time. London: George Allen & Unwin.
Lapidge, M. (1993). Anglo-Latin Literature 900–1066. London: Hambledon.
—— (1996). Anglo-Latin Literature 600–899. London: Hambledon.
Lass, R. (1976). English Phonology and Phonological Theory. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
—— (1987). The Shape of English. London: Dent.
—— (1988). ‘Vowel Shifts, great and otherwise: Remarks on Stockwell and Minkova’, in
D. Kastovsky and G. Bauer (eds), Luick Revisited. Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag,
395–410.
—— (1992). ‘What, If Anything, was the Great Vowel Shift?’, in M. Rissanen, O. Ihalainen,
T. Nevalainen, and I. Taavitsainen (eds), History of Englishes: New Methods and
Interpretations in Historical Linguistics. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 144–55.
—— (1994a). Old English: a Historical Linguistic Companion. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
—— (1994b). ‘Proliferation and Option-Cutting: The Strong Verb in the Fifteenth to
Eighteenth Centuries’, in D. Stein and I. Tieken-Boon van Ostade (eds), Towards a
Standard English 1600–1800. Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter, 81–113.
—— (1999a). ‘Phonology and Morphology’, in R. Lass (ed.), The Cambridge History of
the English Language. Vol. iii: 1476–1776. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
56–186.
—— (ed.) (1999b). The Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. iii: 1476–1776.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (2000). ‘A Branching path: Low vowel lengthening and its friends in the emerging
standard’, in L. Wright (ed.), The Development of Standard English 1300–1800.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 219–29.
Leonard, S. A. (1929). The Doctrine of Correctness in English Usage, 1700–1800. Madison:
University of Wisconsin.
Lerer, S. (1993). Chaucer and His Readers: Imagining the Author in Late-Medieval
England. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Liddington, J. (1984). The Life and Times of a Respectable Rebel: Selina Cooper
(1864–1946). London: Virago.
—— (1998). Female Fortune: Land, Gender, and Authority: The Anne Lister Diaries and
Other Writings, 1833–36. London: Rivers Oram Press.
Lockwood, W. B. (1972). A Panorama of Indo-European Languages. London: Hutchinson.
Lonsdale, R. (1965). Dr. Charles Burney. A Literary Biography [repr. 1986]. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
Luick, K. (1920–40). Historische Grammatik der englischen Sprache. 2 vols. Leipzig:
Tauchnitz; reprinted (1964) Oxford: Blackwell.
references 457
Luteijn, M. (2004). ‘Lowth’s Letters to his Wife: Reconstructing the Life of an Eight-
eenth-Century Wife and Mother’. MA thesis, English Department, University of
Leiden.
Lytton, E. Bulwer (1833). England and the English. 2 vols. London: Richard Bentley.
Macafee, C. (1994). Traditional Dialects in the Modern World: A Glasgow Case Study.
Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Macafee, C. (2003). ‘Studying Scots Vocabulary’, in J. Corbett et al. (eds), The Edinburgh
Companion to Scots. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 50–71.
McArthur, T. (ed.) (1992). The Oxford Companion to the English Language. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
—— (1998a). The English Languages. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (1998b). Living Words: Language, Lexicography and the Knowledge Revolution.
Exeter: University of Exeter Press.
—— (2002a). The Oxford Guide to World English. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— (2002b). ‘World English: Unity and diversity, profit and loss’, in F. Ilmberger and
A. Robinson (eds), Globalisation. Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag, 113–25.
—— (2004). ‘Is it World or International or Global English, and Does it Matter?’, English
Today, 79 (20/3): 3–15.
MacCabe, C. (1999). The Eloquence of the Vulgar. Language, Cinema, and the Politics of
Popular Culture. London: BFI Publishing.
McClure, J. D. (1994). ‘English in Scotland’, in R. Burchfield (ed.), The Cambridge
History of the English Language, vol. v, English in Britain and Overseas. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 23–93.
McConchie, R. W. (1997). Lexicography and Physicke: the Record of Sixteenth-Century
Medical Terminology. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
McCulloch, M. P. (ed.) (2004). Modernism and Nationalism: Literature and Society in
Scoitland, 1918–1939 (Source Documents for the Scottish Renaissance). Glasgow: Associ-
ation for Scottish Literary Studies.
McElderry, B. R., Jr., ‘Archaism and Innovation in Spenser’s Poetic Diction,’ PMLA 47/1
(1932): 144–70.
Machan, T. W. (2003). English in the Middle Ages. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
McIntosh, A. (1967). ‘The Textual Transmission of the Alliterative Morte Arthure’, in
N. Davis and C. L. Wrenn (eds), English and Medieval Studies Presented to J. R. R.
Tolkien. London: Allen and Unwin, 231–40.
—— (1973). ‘Word Geography in the Lexicography of Mediaeval English’, Annals of the
New York Academy of Sciences, 211: 55–66.
—— , Samuels, M. L, and Benskin, M., with Laing, M., and Williamson, K. (1986).
A Linguistic Atlas of Late Mediaeval English. 4 vols. Aberdeen: Aberdeen University
Press.
McIntosh, C. (1986). Common and Courtly Language. The Stylistics of Social Class in
18th-Century British Literature. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
458 references
McMahon, A. (1994). Understanding Language Change. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
—— (2000). Lexical Phonology and the History of English. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
—— (2001). An Introduction to English Phonology. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Press.
MacMahon, M. K. C. (1998). ‘Phonology’, in S. Romaine (ed.), The Cambridge History
of the English Language. Vol. iv: 1776–1997. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
373–535.
Mair, C. (ed.) (2003). The Politics of English as a World Language. ASNEL Papers 7.
Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Martinet, A. (1955). Economie des changements phonétiques. Bern: Francke.
Matthew, C. (ed.) (2000a). The Nineteenth Century: The British Isles: 1815–1901. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
—— (2000b). ‘Public Life and Politics’, in C. Matthew, The Nineteenth Century: the
British Isles: 1815–1901. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 85–133.
Matthews, W. (1937). ‘The Vulgar Speech of London in the Fifteenth to Seventeenth
Centuries’, Notes and Queries, 172: 2–5.
Maurais, J. and Morris, M. A. (2003). Languages in a Globalising World. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Melchers, G. and Shaw, P. (2003). World Englishes. London: Arnold.
Mencken, H. L. (1919). The American Language. New York: Alfred A. Knopf.
Merians, L. E. (2001). Envisioning the Worst: Representations of ‘Hottentots’ in Early-
Modern England. Newark: University of Delaware Press.
Meurman-Solin, A. (1993). Variation and Change in Early Scottish Prose; Studies Based
on the Helsinki Corpus of Older Scots. Helsinki: Academia Scientiarum Fennica.
—— (1995). ‘A New Tool: The Helsinki Corpus of Older Scots (1450–1700)’, ICAME
Journal, 19: 49–62.
—— (2001). ‘Structured Text Corpora in the Study of Language Variation and Change’,
Literary and Linguistic Computing, 16: 5–27.
Michael, I. (1987). The Teaching of English: from the Sixteenth Century to 1870. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
—— (1991). ‘More than Enough English Grammars’, in G. Leitner (ed.), English Trad-
itional Grammars. Amsterdam: Benjamins, 11–26.
Millburn, J. R. (1976). Benjamin Martin. Author, Instrument-Maker, and ‘Country
Showman’. Leyden: Noordhoff International Publishing.
Miller, J. (2003). ‘Syntax and Discourse in Modern Scots’, in J. Corbett et al. (eds), The
Edinburgh Companion to Scots. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 72–109.
Millward, C. M. (1996). A Biography of the English Language (2nd edn.). Orlando,
Florida: Harcourt Brace.
references 459
Milroy, J. (1997). ‘Internal vs External Motivations for Linguistic Change’, Multilingua,
16: 311–23.
—— (2002). ‘The Legitimate Language: Giving a history to English’, in R. J. Watts and
P. Trudgill (eds), Alternative Histories of English. London: Routledge, 7–26.
—— and Milroy, L. (1997). Authority in Language: Investigating Standard English
(3rd edn.). London: Routledge.
Milroy, L. (1987). Language and Social Networks (2nd edn.). Oxford: Blackwell.
Milroy, L. and Gordon, M. (2003). Sociolinguistics: Method and Interpretation. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Minugh, D. C. (1999). ‘What Aileth Thee, to Print So Curiously? Archaic Forms and
Contemporary Newspaper Language’, in I. Taavitsainen, G. Melchers, and P. Pahta
(eds), Writing in Nonstandard English. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins,
285–304.
Minkova, D. (1999). Review of Roger Lass (ed.) (1999), The Cambridge History of the
English Language. Vol. iii: 1476–1776, Journal of English Linguistics, 29: 83–92.
—— and Stockwell, R. (2003). ‘English Vowel Shifts and ‘‘Optimal’’ Diphthongs: Is
there a logical link?’, in D. E. Holt (ed.), Optimality Theory and Language Change.
Amsterdam: Kluwer, 169–90.
Mitchell, B. (1980). ‘The Dangers of Disguise: Old English Texts in Modern Punctu-
ation’, Review of English Studies, 31: 385–413; reprinted in B. Mitchell (ed.), On Old
English: Selected Papers (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1988), 172–202.
—— (1985). Old English Syntax. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
—— (1991). ‘The Englishness of Old English’, in M. Godden, D. Gray, and T. Hoad (eds),
From Anglo-Saxon to Early Middle English: Studies Presented to E. G. Stanley. Oxford:
Clarendon Press, 163–81.
—— (1995). An Invitation to Old English and Anglo-Saxon England. Oxford: Blackwell.
Moore, C. (2002a). ‘Reporting Direct Speech in Early Modern Slander Depositions,’ in
D. Minkova and R. Stockwell (eds), Studies in the History of the English Language:
Millennial Perspectives. Topics in English Linguistics, 39. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter,
399–415.
—— (2002b). ‘Writing Good Southerne: Local and Supralocal Norms in the Plumpton
Letter Collection’, Language Variation and Change, 14: 1–17.
Mufwene, S., Rickford, J. R., Bailey, G., and Baugh, J. (eds) (1998). African-American
English: Structure, History, and Use. London: Routledge.
Mugglestone, L. C. (1996). ‘‘‘A Subject so Curious and Useful’’: Lindley Murray and
Pronunciation’, in I. Tieken-Boon van Ostade (ed.), Two Hundred Years of Lindley
Murray. Munster, Germany: Nodus Publikationen, 145–63.
—— (1997). ‘John Walker and Alexander Ellis: Antedating RP’. Notes and Queries, n.s.
44: 103–7.
—— (ed.) (2002a). Lexicography and the OED. Pioneers in the Untrodden Forest. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
460 references
—— (2002b). ‘‘‘Pioneers in the Untrodden Forest’’: The New English Dictionary’, in L. C.
Mugglestone (ed.), Lexicography and the OED. Pioneers in the Untrodden Forest.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1–21.
—— (2002c) ‘‘‘An Historian and not a Critic’’: The Standard of Usage in the OED’, in L.
C. Mugglestone (ed.), Lexicography and the OED. Pioneers in the Untrodden Forest.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 189–206.
—— (2003a). Talking Proper: The Rise of Accent as Social Symbol (2nd edn.). Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
—— (2003b). ‘Sheridan in the Schoolroom’, in F. Austin and C. Stray (eds), The Teaching
of English in the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries. Essays for Ian Michael on his 88th
Birthday. Special issue of Paradigm, 2: 22–28.
—— (2004). Lost for Words. The Hidden History of the Oxford English Dictionary. London
and New York: Yale University Press.
—— (2006, forthcoming). ‘The Indefinable Something: Taboo and the English Diction-
ary’, in M. Gorji (ed.), Rude Britannia (London: Routledge).
Murison,D.(1971).‘TheDutchElementintheVocabularyofScots,inA.J.Aitken,A.McIntosh,
and H. Pálsson (eds), Edinburgh Studies in English and Scots. London: Longman, 159–76.
Murray, J. A. H., Bradley, H., Craigie, W. A., and Onions, C. T. (eds) (1884–1928).
A New English Dictionary on Historical Principles. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
[Murray, J. A. H and Murray, H. M. R.] (1910). ‘English Language’, in Encyclopedia
Britannica (11th edn.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 9: 587–600.
Murray, K. M. E. (1977). Caught in the Web of Words. James A. H. Murray and the Oxford
English Dictionary. New Haven and London: Yale University Press.
Nevala, M. (2004). Address in Early English Correspondence; Its Forms and Socio-
pragmatic Functions (Mémoires de la Société Néophilologique de Helsinki, 64).
Helsinki: Société Néophilologique.
Nevalainen, T. (1991). ‘Motivated Archaism: The Use of Affirmative Periphrastic Do in
Early Modern English Liturgical Prose’, in D. Kastovsky (ed.), Historical English Syntax.
Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter, 303–20.
—— (1994). ‘Ladies and Gentlemen: The Generalization of Titles in Early Modern
English’, in F. Fernández, M. Fuster, and J. J. Calvo (eds), English Historical Linguistics
1992. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins, 317–27.
—— (forthcoming). An Introduction to Early Modern English. Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press.
—— and Raumolin-Brunberg, H. (1993). ‘Early Modern British English’, in M. Rissa-
nen, M. Kytö, and M. Palander-Collin (eds), Early English in the Computer Age. Berlin
and New York: Mouton de Gruyter, 53–73.
—— and Raumolin-Brunberg, H. (2003). Historical Sociolinguistics; Language Change
in Tudor and Stuart England. London: Longman.
—— , Raumolin-Brunberg, H., and Trudgill, P. (2001). ‘Chapters in the Social
History of East Anglian English: The Case of Third Person Singular’, in J. Fisiak and
P. Trudgill (eds), East Anglian English. Cambridge: D. S. Brewer: 187–204.
references 461
Newmeyer, F. J. (2001). ‘Deconstructing grammaticalization’, Language Sciences, 23:
93–340.
Newsome, D. (1997). The Victorian World Picture: Perceptions and Introspections in an
Age of Change. London: J. Murray.
Nielsen, H. F. (1981). Old English and the Continental Germanic Languages. Innsbruck:
Institut für Sprachwissenschaft der Universität Innsbruck; Innsbrucker Beiträge zur
Sprachwissenschaft, 33.
—— (1989). The Germanic Languages: Origins and Early Dialectal Interrelations. Tusca-
loosa: University of Alabama Press.
—— (1998). The Continental Backgrounds of English and its Insular Development Until
1154. Odense: Odense University Press; A Journey through the History of the English
Language in England and America, vol. 1; North-Western European Language Evolu-
tion, Supplement 19.
Njd, T. (1978). Richard Hodges’s The English Primrose (1644): A study of the strong-
stressed vowels and diphthongs with some regard to A special help to ortographie (1643),
The plainest directions (1649), Most plain directions for true-writing (1653). Stockholm:
Almqvist & Wiksell International.
Nokes, D. (1995). John Gay. A Profession of Friendship. A Critical Biography. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Nurmi, A. (1999a). A Social History of Periphrastic DO. Helsinki: Société Néophilologique.
—— (1999b). ‘The Corpus of Early English Correspondence Sampler (CEECS)’, ICAME
Journal, 23: 53–64.
Ó Baoill, D. P (ed.) (1985). Papers in Irish English. Dublin: Irish Association for Applied
Linguistics.
O’Brien O’Keeffe, K. (1990). Visible Song: Transitional Literacy in Old English Verse.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
O’Donnell, W. R. and Todd, L. (1992). Variety in Contemporary English (2nd edn.).
London: Routledge.
Okasha, E. (1971). Hand-List of Anglo-Saxon Non-Runic Inscriptions. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
—— (1992). ‘The English Language in the Eleventh Century: The Evidence from In-
scriptions,’ in C. Hicks (ed.), England in the Eleventh Century. Stamford, Lincs.: Paul
Watkins, 333–43.
Orton, H. (1933). The Phonology of a South Durham Dialect. London: Kegan Paul,
Trench, Trübner and Co.
Osselton, N. E. (1984). ‘Informal Spelling Systems in Early Modern English: 1500–1800’,
in N. F. Blake and C. Jones (eds), English Historical Linguistics: Studies in Development.
Sheffield: CECTAL, 123–37. Repr. in: M. Rydén, I. Tieken-Boon van Ostade, and
M. Kytö (eds), A Reader in Early Modern English. Frankfurt: Peter Lang, 33–45.
Page, R. I. (1971). ‘How Long did the Scandinavian Language Survive in England? The
epigraphical evidence’, in P. Clemoes and K. Hughes (eds), England Before the Con-
462 references
quest: Studies in Primary Sources Presented to Dorothy Whitelock. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 165–81.
—— (1987). Runes. London: British Museum Press.
—— (1999). An Introduction to English Runes (2nd edn.). Woodbridge: The Boydell Press.
Parkes, M. B. (1992). Pause and Effect, an Introduction to the History of Punctuation in the
West. Aldershot: Scolar Press.
Parry, D. (ed.) (1999). A Grammar and Glossary of the Conservative Anglo-Welsh Dialects
of Rural Wales. Sheffield: National Centre for English Cultural Tradition.
Pearce Williams, L. (1965). Michael Faraday. A Biography. London: Chapman and Hall.
Penhallurick, R. (1991). The Anglo-Welsh Dialects of North Wales. Frankfurt am Main:
Peter Lang (University of Bamberg Studies in English Linguistics, vol. 27).
—— and Willmott, A. (2000). ‘Dialect/‘‘England’s Dreaming’’’, in R. Penhallurick
(ed.), Debating Dialect: Essays on the Philosophy of Dialect Study. Cardiff: University
of Wales Press, 5–45.
Phillipps, K. C. (1984). Language and Class in Victorian England. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Phillipson, R. (2003). English-Only Europe? Challenging Language Policy. London:
Routledge.
Pinker, S. (1994). The Language Instinct. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
Pittock, M. (1999). Celtic Identity and the British Image. Manchester: Manchester
University Press.
Prcic, T. (2003). ‘Is English Still a Foreign Language?’, The European English Messenger,
12: 35–7.
Przedlacka, J. (2002). Estuary English?: A sociophonetic study of teenage speech in the
Home Counties. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Putter, A. (1995). Sir Gawain and the Green Knight and French Arthurian Romance.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Quinn, D. B. (1990). Explorers and Colonies: America, 1500–1625. London: The Hambleton
Press.
Quirk, R. (1985). A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language. London: Longman.
—— and Widdowson, H. (eds.) (1985). English in the World: Teaching and Learning the
Language and Literatures. Cambridge and New York: Cambridge University Press for
the British Council.
Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G., and Svartvik, J. (1972). A Grammar of Contem-
porary English. Longman: Harlow.
Qvist, G. (1981). John Hunter. London: William Heinemann Medical Books Ltd.
Raw, B. C. (1978). The Art and Background of Old English Poetry. London: Edward
Arnold.
Read, A. W. (2002). ‘British Recognition of American Speech in the Eighteenth Century’
(1933), in R. W. Bailey (ed.), Milestones in the History of English in America. Durham:
Duke University Press for the American Dialect Society.
references 463
Reaney, P. H. (1925). ‘On Certain Phonological Features of the Dialect of London in the
Twelfth Century’, Englische Studien, 59: 321–45.
Reddick, A. (1990). The Making of Johnson’s Dictionary 17461773 [rev. edn. 1996].
Cambridge: University Press.
Rigg, A. G. (1992). A History of Anglo-Latin Literature 1066–1422. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Rissanen, M. (1991). ‘Spoken Language and the History of Do-periphrasis’, in
D. Kastovsky (ed.), Historical English Syntax. Berlin and New York: Mouton de
Gruyter, 321–342.
—— (2000a). ‘Standardization and the Language of Early Statutes’, in L. Wright (ed.),
The Development of Standard English, 1300–1800: Theories, Descriptions, Conflicts.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 117–30.
—— (2000b). ‘The World of English Historical Corpora: From Cædmon to the Com-
puter Age’, Journal of English Linguistics, 28: 7–20.
Roach, P., Hartman, J., and Setter, J. (2003). English Pronouncing Dictionary. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Robinson, O. W. (1992). Old English and its Closest Relatives: A Survey of the Earliest
Germanic Languages. London: Routledge.
Romaine, S. (1982). ‘The English Language in Scotland’, in R. W. Bailey and M. Görlach
(eds), English as a World Language. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 56–83.
—— (1994).‘Hawai’iCreoleEnglishasaLiteraryLanguage’,LanguageinSociety,23:527–54.
—— (ed.) (1998). The Cambridge History of the English Language. Vol. iv: 1776–1997.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Rosewarne, D. (1984). ‘Estuary English’, Times Educational Supplement, 19 October 1984:
29.
—— (1994a). ‘Estuary English—Tomorrow’s RP ?’, English Today, 10/1: 3–9.
—— (1994b). ‘Pronouncing Estuary English’, English Today, 10/4: 3–9.
Rothwell, W. (1968). ‘The Teaching of French in Medieval England’, Modern Language
Review, 63: 37–46.
—— (1976). ‘The Role of French in Thirteenth-Century England’, Bulletin of the John
Rylands University Library of Manchester, 58: 445–66.
—— (1991). ‘The Missing Link in English Etymology: Anglo-French’, Medium Aevum,
60: 173–96.
—— (1998). ‘Arrivals and Departures: The Adoption of French Terminology in Middle
English’, English Studies, 79: 144–65.
Rubel, V. (1941). Poetic Diction in the English Renaissance: From Skelton through Spenser.
New York: Modern Language Association.
RydØn, M. and Brorstrm, S. (1987). The Be/Have Variation with Intransitives in
English. Stockholm: Almqvist & Wiksell.
464 references
Salmon, V. (1996). ‘Thomas Harriot (1650–1621) and the Origins of Algonkian Linguis-
tics’ (1994), in K. Koerner (ed.), Language and Society in Early Modern England:
Selected Essays, 1981–1994. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 143–72.
Samuels, M. L. (1963). ‘Some Applications of Middle English Dialectology’, English
Studies, 44: 81–94.
—— (1972). Linguistic Evolution, with Special Reference to English. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
—— (1981). ‘Spelling and Dialect in the Late and Post-Middle English Periods’, in
M. Benskin and M. Samuels (eds), So meny people, longages and tonges: philological
essays in Scots and mediaeval English presented to Angus McIntosh. Edinburgh: Middle
English Dialect Project, 43–54.
—— (1985). ‘The Great Scandinavian Belt’, in R. Eaton et al. (eds), Papers from the Fourth
International Conference on English Historical Linguistics. Current Issues in Linguistic
Theory 41. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 269–81.
Schfer, J. (1980). Documentation in the OED: Shakespeare and Nashe as Test Cases.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Schneider, E. (2003). ‘The Dynamics of New Englishes: From Identity Construction to
Dialect Birth,’ Language, 79: 233–81.
Scott, F. N. (1917). ‘The Standard of American Speech,’ The English Journal, 6 (January):
1–15.
Scragg, D. G. (1974). A History of English Spelling. Manchester: Manchester University
Press.
—— (ed.) (1991). The Battle of Maldon, AD 991. Oxford: Basil Blackwell in Association
with the Manchester Centre for Anglo-Saxon Studies.
—— (1992b). ‘Spelling Variations in Eleventh-Century English’, in C. Hicks (ed.), Eng-
land in the Eleventh Century: Proceedings of the 1990 Harlaxton Symposium. Stamford:
Paul Watkins, 347–54.
Seidlhofer, B. (2003). Controversies in Applied Linguistics: Section 1. The global spread of
English. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Serjeantson, M. S. (1935). A History of Foreign Words in English. London: Kegan Paul.
Seymour, M. (2000). Mary Shelley. London: John Murray.
Sharpe, R. (1997). A Handlist of the Latin Writers of Great Britain and Ireland before 1540.
Turnhout: Brepols.
Shelston, D. and A. (1990). The Industrial City, 1820–1870. London: Macmillan.
Short, I. (1979–80). ‘On Bilingualism in Anglo-Norman England’, Romance Philology, 33:
467–79.
—— (1992). ‘Patrons and Polyglots: French Literature in Twelfth-Century England’,
Anglo-Norman Studies 14: 229–49.
Sisam, K. (1953). Studies in the History of Old English Literature. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
references 465
Skeat, W. O. (ed.) (1973). George Stephenson: The Engineer and his Letters. London: The
Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
Smith, A. H. (1956). English Place-Name Elements. 2 vols. English Place-Name Society
25–26. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Smith, J. J. (1988a). ‘The Trinity Gower D-Scribe and his Work on Two Early Canterbury
Tales Manuscripts’, in J. J. Smith (ed.), The English of Chaucer and his Contemporaries:
Essays by M. L. Samuels and J. J. Smith. Aberdeen: Aberdeen University Press, 51–69.
—— (1988b). ‘Spelling and Tradition in Fifteenth-century Copies of Gower’s Confessio
Amantis’, in M. L. Samuels and J. J. Smith (eds), The English of Chaucer. Aberdeen:
Aberdeen University Press, 96–113.
—— (1991). ‘Tradition and Innovation in South-West-Midland Middle English’, in
F. Riddy (ed.), Regionalism in Late Medieval Manuscripts and Texts: Essays Celebrating
the Publication of a Linguistic Atlas of Late Mediaeval English. Cambridge: D. S. Brewer,
53–65.
—— (1995). ‘The Great Vowel Shift in the North of England, and Some Spellings in
Manuscripts of Chaucer’s Reeve’s Tale’, Neuphilologische Mitteilungen, 94: 259–77.
—— (1996a). An Historical Study of English: Function, Form and Change. London:
Routledge.
—— (1996b). ‘Language and Style in Malory’, in A. Edwards and E. Archibald (eds),
A Companion to Malory. Woodbridge: Boydell and Brewer, 97–113.
—— (1999). Essentials of Early English. London: Routledge.
—— (2000). ‘Scots’, in G. Price (ed.), Languages in Britain and Ireland. Oxford: Black-
well, 159–70.
Solomon, H. M. (1996). The Rise of Robert Dodsley. Carbondale and Edwardsville:
Southern Illinois University Press.
Starnes, D. T. and Noyes, G. E. 1991. The English Dictionary from Cawdrey to Johnson,
1604–1755 (with an introduction and a select bibliography by G. Stein). Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Statement by the Directors of the Edinburgh Academy Explanatory of the Scheme of that
Institution. (1824). Edinburgh: John Hutchinson.
Stein, D. (1990). The Semantics of Syntactic Change; Aspects of the Evolution of do in
English. Berlin and New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Stenroos, M. (forthcoming). ‘A Variationist Approach to Middle English Dialects’,
Studia Anglica Posnaniensis.
Stockwell, R. P. (1961). ‘The Middle English ‘‘long close’’ and ‘‘long open’’ mid vowels’,
Texas Studies in Literature and Language, 2: 259–69.
—— (1975). ‘Problems in the interpretation of the Great English Vowel Shift’, in
D. L. Goyvaerts and G. K. Pullum (eds), Essays on the Sound Pattern of English.
Ghent: E. Story-Scientia, 331–53.
466 references
—— and Minkova, D. (1988a). ‘The English Vowel Shift: Problems of coherence and
explanation’, in D. Kastovsky and G. Bauer (eds), Luick Revisited. Tübingen: Gunter
Narr Verlag, 355–94.
—— and—— (1988b). ‘A Rejoinder to Lass’, in D. Kastovsky and G. Bauer (eds), Luick
Revisited. Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag, 411–17.
—— and—— (1990). ‘The Early Modern English vowels, more O’Lass’, Diachronica VII:
199–214.
—— and—— (1997). ‘On Drifts and Shifts’, Studia Anglica Posnaniensia, XXXI:
283–303.
—— and—— (1999). ‘Explanations of Sound Change: Contradictions between
dialect data and theories of chain shifting’, Leeds Studies in English (New Series), 30:
83–101.
Strang, B. M. H. (1970). A History of English. London: Methuen.
Stuart-Smith, J. (2003). ‘The Phonology of Modern Urban Scots’, in J. Corbett et al.
(eds), The Edinburgh Companion to Scots. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press,
110–37.
Stubbs, M. (1983). Discourse Analysis. Oxford: Blackwell.
Sutherland, J. (1990). Mrs Humphry Ward: Eminent Victorian, Pre-eminent Edwardian.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Svartvik, J. (ed.) (1990). The London-Lund Corpus of Spoken English: Description and
Research. Lund: Lund University Press.
Sweet, H. (1908). The Sounds of English, an Introduction to Phonetics. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
SzemerØnyi, O. J. L. (1996). Introduction to Indo-European Linguistics. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Taavitsainen, I. and Paivi, P. (eds) (2004). Medical and Scientific Writing in Late
Medieval English. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Taylor, E. (1987). ‘Shakespeare’s Use of eth and es Endings of Verbs in the First Folio’, in
V. Salmon and E. Burness (eds), A Reader in the Language of Shakespearean Drama.
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins, 349–69.
Thomas, A. R. (1994). ‘English in Wales’, in R. Burchfield (ed.), The Cambridge History of
the English Language. Vol. v: English in Britain and Overseas. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 94–147.
Thomas, D. (1990). Henry Fielding. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
Thomason, S. G. (2001). Language Contact: An Introduction. Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press.
—— and Kauffman, T. (1988). Language Contact, Creolization, and Genetic Linguistics.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Tieken-Boon van Ostade, I. (1987). The Auxiliary Do in Eighteenth Century English:
A Sociohistorical-Linguistic Approach. Dordrecht: Foris.
references 467
Tieken-Boon van Ostade, I. (1990). ‘Drydens versies van The tempest en Troilus and
Cressida: De bewerker als purist’, in Traditie & Progressie. Handelingen van het 40ste
Nederlands Filologencongres. ’s Gravenhage: SDU Uitgeverij, 161–9.
—— (1994). ‘Standard and Non-Standard Pronominal Usage in English, with Special
Reference to the Eighteenth Century’, in D. Stein and I. Tieken-Boon van Ostade (eds),
Towards a Standard Language 1600–1800. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter, 217–42.
—— (1998). ‘Standardization of English Spelling: The Eighteenth-Century Printers’
Contribution’, in J. Fisiak and M. Krygier (eds), English Historical Linguistics 1996.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 457–70.
—— (1999). ‘Of Formulas and Friends: Expressions of Politeness in John Gay’s Letters’,
in G. A. J. Tops, B. Devriendt, and S. Geukens (eds), Thinking English Grammar. To
Honour Xavier Dekeyser, Professor Emeritus. Leuven/Paris: Peeters, 99–112.
—— (2000a). ‘Sociohistorical Linguistics and the Observer’s Paradox’, in D. Kastovsky
and A. Mettinger (eds), The History of English in a Social Context. Berlin/New York:
Mouton de Gruyter, 441–61.
—— (2000b). ‘Social Network Analysis and the Language of Sarah Fielding’, in I. Tieken-
Boon van Ostade, T. Nevalainen, and L. Caon (eds), Social Network Analysis and the
History of English, special issue of EJES 4.3: 291–301.
—— (2000c). ‘Normative Studies in England’, in S. Auroux, E. F. K. Koerner, H.-J.
Niederehe, and K. Versteegh (eds), History of the Language Sciences/Geschichte der
Sprachwissenschaften/ Histoire des Sciences du Langage. Berlin/New York: Walter de
Gruyter, 876–87.
—— (2000d). ‘Female Grammarians of the Eighteenth Century’. Historical Socio-
linguistics and Sociohistorical Linguistics 1. <http://www.let.leidenuniv.nl/hsl_shl/>
(!Contents!Articles).
—— (2002a). ‘You Was and Eighteenth-Century Normative Grammar’, in K. Lenz and R.
Möhlig (eds), Of Dyuersite & Chaunge of Langage: Essays Presented to Manfred Görlach
on the Occasion of his 65th Birthday. Heidelberg: C. Winter Universitätsverlag, 88–102.
—— (2002b). ‘Robert Lowth and the Strong Verb System’, Language Sciences 24: 459–69.
—— (2003a). ‘‘‘Tom’s grammar’’: The Genesis of Lowth’s Short Introduction to English
Grammar Revisited’, in F. Austin and C. Stray (eds), The Teaching of English in the
Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries. Essays for Ian Michael on his 88th Birthday. Special
issue of Paradigm, 2: 36–45.
—— (2003b). ‘Lowth’s Language’, in M. Dossena and C. Jones (eds), Insights into Late
Modern English. Bern etc.: Peter Lang, 241–64.
—— and Bax, R. (2002). ‘Of Dodsley’s Projects and Linguistic Influence: The Language
of Johnson and Lowth’, Historical Sociolinguistics and Sociohistorical Linguistics 2.
<http://www.let.leidenuniv.nl/hsl_shl/> (!Contents!Articles).
—— Nevalainen, T., and Caon, L. (eds) (2000). Social Network Analysis and the
History of English, special issue of European Journal of English Studies 4/3.
468 references
Tillyard, S. (1994). Aristocrats. Caroline, Emily, Louisa and Sarah Lennox 1740–1832.
London: Chatto & Windus.
Todd, L. (1999). Green English: Ireland’s Influence on the English Language. Dublin:
O’Brien Press.
Tolkien, J. (1934). ‘Chaucer as a Philologist: The Reeve’s Tale ’, Transactions of the
Philological Society, 1–70.
Toon, T. E. (1983). The Politics of Early Old English Sound Change. New York: Academic
Press.
Townend, M. (2000). ‘Viking Age England as a Bilingual Society’, in D. M. Hadley and
J. D. Richards (eds), Cultures in Contact: Scandinavian Settlement in England in the
Ninth and Tenth Centuries. Turnhout: Brepols, 89–105.
—— (2001). ‘Contextualizing the Knútsdrápur: Skaldic Praise-Poetry at the Court of
Cnut’, Anglo-Saxon England, 30: 145–79.
—— (2002). Language and History in Viking Age England: Linguistic Relations between
Speakers of Old Norse and Old English. Turnhout: Brepols.
Trotter, D. A. (ed.) (2000). Multilingualism in Later Medieval Britain. Cambridge: D. S.
Brewer.
Trudgill , P. (ed.) (1984). Language in the British Isles. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
—— (1986). Dialects in Contact. Oxford: Blackwell.
—— (1990). The Dialects of England. Oxford: Blackwell.
—— (1999a). ‘Standard English. What It Isn’t’, in T. Bex and R. J. Watts (eds), Standard
English. The Widening Debate. London: Routledge, 117–28.
—— (1999b). The Dialects of England. (2nd edn.). Oxford: Blackwell.
—— and Chambers, J. K. (1991). Dialects of English: Studies in Grammatical Variation.
London: Longman.
—— and Hannah, J. (1994). International English: A Guide to the Varieties of Standard
English (3rd edn.). London and New York: Edward Arnold.
—— , Peter, Arthur Hughes, and Dominic Watt (2005). English Accents and
Dialects. 4th edn. London: Hodder Education.
Truss, L. (2003). Eats, Shoots & Leaves. The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation.
London: Profile Books.
‘Twenty-Second Report of the Committee on Devonshire Verbal Provincialisms’ (1910).
Transactions of the Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science, Literature,
and Art, 64–92.
Turville-Petre, T. (1996). England the Nation: Language, Literature, and National
Identity, 1290–1340. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Tweddle, D., Biddle, M., and Kjłlbye-Biddle, B. (1995). Corpus of Anglo-Saxon Stone
Sculpture Volume IV: South-East England. Oxford: The British Academy.
references 469
Upton, C. (1995). ‘Mixing and Fudging in Midland and Southern Dialects of England:
the cup and foot vowels’, in J. W. Lewis (ed.), Studies in General and English Phonetics:
Essays in Honour of Professor J. D. O’Connor. London: Routledge, 385–94.
Upton, C. and Widdowson, J. D. A. (1999). Lexical Erosion in English Regional Dialects.
Sheffield: National Centre for English Cultural Tradition.
—— and Wales, K. (eds) (1999). Dialectal Variation in English: Proceedings of the Harold
Orton Centenary Conference 1998. Leeds: Leeds Studies in English New Series XXX.
van Coetsem, F. (1988). Loan Phonology and the Two Transfer Types in Language Contact.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Vickery, A. (1998). The Gentleman’s Daughter. Women’s Lives in Georgian England. New
Haven and London: Yale University Press.
Wakelin, M. (1977). English Dialects: An Introduction (rev. edn.). London: Athlone Press.
Waldron, R. (1979). Sense and Sense Development. London: Deutsch.
Wales, K. (2002). ‘‘North of Watford gap’’: A cultural history of Northern English (from
1700)’, in R. J. Watts and P. Trudgill (eds), Alternative Histories of English. London:
Routledge, 45–66.
Walker Chambers, W. and Wilkie, J. (1970). A Short History of the German Language.
London: Methuen.
Ward-Gilman, E. (1990). ‘Dictionaries as a Source of Usage Controversy’, Dictionaries,
12: 75–84.
Wareing, J. (1980). ‘Changes in the Geographical Distribution of the Recruitment of
Apprentices to the London Companies 1486–1750’, Journal of Historical Geography, 6:
241–49.
wa Thiong’o, N. (1986). Decolonising the Mind: The Politics of Language in African
Literature. London: James Currey.
Watt, D. and Tillotson, J. (2001). ‘A Spectrographic analysis of Vowel Fronting in
Bradford English’, English World-Wide 22/2, 269–302.
Watt, D. (2002). ‘‘‘I don’t speak with a Geordie accent, I speak, like, the Northern
accent’’: Contact-induced levelling in the Tyneside vowel system’, Journal of Sociolin-
guistics, 6, 44–63.
Watts, R. J. and Trudgill, P. (eds) (2002). Alternative Histories of English. London:
Routledge.
Weinreich, U. (1953). Languages in Contact: Findings and Problems. New York: Linguis-
tic Circle of New York.
Wells, J. C. (1982). Accents of English 2: The British Isles. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Wenzel, S. (1994). Macaronic Sermons: Bilingualism and Preaching in Late-Medieval
England. Ann Arbor, MI: The University of Michigan Press.
William Canden, Remains Concerning Britain. Yorkshire: EP Publishign, 1974.
Wilson, R. M. (1943). ‘English and French in England: 1100–1300’, History, 28: 37–60.
470 references
Winer, L. (1997). ‘Six Vernacular Texts from Trinidad, 1838–1851,’ in E. W. Schneider
(ed.), Englishes around the World: Studies in Honour of Manfred Görlach. 2 vols.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 2: 69–83.
Wolfe, P. (1973). Linguistic Change and the Great Vowel Shift in English. Berkeley, CA:
University of California Press.
Wollmann, A. (1993). ‘Early Latin Loan-words in Old English’, Anglo-Saxon England, 22:
1–26.
—— (1996). ‘Scandinavian Loanwords in Old English’, in H. F. Nielsen and L. Schøsler
(eds), The Origins and Developments of Emigrant Languages. Odense: Odense Univer-
sity Press, 215–42.
Wright, J. (ed.) (1905). The English Dialect Grammar. Oxford: Frowde.
—— (1914). Old English Grammar (2nd edn.). London: Oxford University Press.
Wright, L. (1996). Sources of London English: Medieval Thames Vocabulary. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
—— (ed.) (2000). The Development of Standard English 1300–1800. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
—— (2002). ‘Code-intermediate Phenomena in Medieval Mixed-Language Business
Texts,’ Language Sciences, 24: 471–89.
Wright, S. (1994). ‘The Critic and the Grammarians: Joseph Addison and the Prescrip-
tivists’, in D. Stein and I. Tieken-Boon van Ostade (eds), Towards a Standard Language
1600–1800. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter, 243–84.
Wyld, H. C. (1907). The Growth of English. London: John Murray.
—— (1936). A History of Modern Colloquial English (3rd edn.). Oxford: Blackwell.
references 471
Websites
http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/routesofenglish
http://www.collectbritain.co.uk/collections/dialects/
http://www.bbc.co.uk/voices/
http://www.phon.ucl.ac.uk/home/estuary
http://www.plainenglish.co.uk/
http://ets.umdl.umich.edu/m/mec/
http://dictionary.oed.com/
http://www.queens-english-society.com/
index
Ælfric, Abbot 49–52, 57, 105, 336, 416
Æthelwold, Bishop 49, 54
a in path, fast 290, 308–10, 313–14
AB Language 109–10
accent see pronunciation, received
pronunciation
accent levelling 371
accommodation 130, 140–1, 335, 336, 397
Addison, J. 241, 268, 346
adjectives, inXection of 18–19, 20, 33, 45–6,
58, 96, 130
adverb 283
Africa 343, 344
African-American English 355, 382
Africaans 298, 384, 396, 424
age, and language 4, 7, 277, 290, 291
Alfred, King 34, 38, 44–5, 47, 48, 67–8, 77,
415, 416
Algonquian 345
alliteration 38, 48
alphabet 34, 41, 43, 44
America 420
American Dialect Society 308
American English 2, 7–8, 19, 71, 129, 148,
279, 280, 284, 298, 300, 301, 301, 314,
316–17, 324, 342, 343, 345, 349, 351,
352, 361, 362, 364, 366–7, 369, 370,
375, 376, 381–2, 383, 397 see also
General American
Ancrene Riwle 88, 89–90, 94
Ancrene Wisse 88–90, 101, 109, 416
Androcentric Rule 259
Angles 27, 35, 91
Anglian 35–7, 38, 54, 90, 91, 95
Anglo-Frisian 27, 30
Anglo-Norman 67, 84, 199
Anglo-Saxon Chronicle 34–5, 40, 55, 77,
416
Anglo-Saxons 10, 20, 23, 26, 27, 28, 30, 34,
35, 62, 63, 65, 363
Arabic 148, 339, 354, 384
Arawak 343
archaism 220, 228–30, 235, 262, 264
Armenia 11, 12, 16
Asia Minor 11
Avestan 11, 12
Augustine, Saint 40
aureate diction 124–5
Austen, J. 249, 278
Australia 148, 361, 372, 374, 375, 386, 388,
423
Australian English 299, 301, 400, 420
auxiliary verbs 17, 149, 180, 184, 186, 190,
197–9, 207, 260–1, 262, 283, 284, 329
see also do
Ayenbite of Inwyt 99
back-formation 300
back-spellings 154
Bacon, R. 68
Baltic languages 11, 12, 15
Barnes, W. 285, 292–3
Barbour, J. 129
Battle of Maldon, The 53–4
Bavarian 25
BBC 3, 365, 376, 379, 424 see also
broadcasting and regional
English 410
BBC Voices 2005, 3, 332, 404, 428
Bede, Venerable 34–5, 37, 40–1, 61–2, 67,
335, 415, 416
Bedfordshire, dialect of 291, 325
Belfast 330
Bell, A. G. 276
Bell, A. M. 361, 422
Benedictine Reform 34, 49, 52, 54, 416
Bengali English 362
Benskin, M. 111–12, 118, 134, 146,
Beowulf 39, 52–4, 416
Bible 21, 66, 108, 124, 136, 184, 194, 201,
233–4, 335, 345, 418, 419
bilingualism 67, 69–71, 343–5, 348, 428 see
also language contact
Birmingham 274, 309, 313, 316 309, 314–15,
318, 319, 320, 330, 333
Black English Vernacular (BEV) 382
blends 300, 354
Blount, T. 214, 233
Boethius 47, 48
Book of Common Prayer 197, 418
Boorde, A. 216, 217, 235, 418
Boswell, J. 243–4, 247, 249, 253–4, 255, 260,
261, 262, 263, 264, 265, 268, 269
Bradford 316
Bradley, H. 284, 286, 367
Bristol 321
British Broadcasting Corporation, see BBC
British Council 378–9, 424
broadcasting 8, 320, 325, 365, 368, 369, 370,
377, 401, 423 see also BBC
Brome, R. 220
Brontë, C. 283, 291
Brontë, E. 248
Bullokar, J. 214, 215, 232–3, 235
Bullokar, W. 153, 419
Bunyan, J. 325
Burnell, A. C. 347
Burney, F. 244, 245, 246, 247, 261, 263, 264,
265, 266, 267, 268, 269
Cædmon 37, 40, 75, 416
Cædmon’s Hymn 37–40, 41, 75–6, 79, 415
cablegram 348
Canada 342, 351, 372, 374, 375, 381, 382, 383,
388, 426
Canadian English 299, 363
cant 226–8, 232, 418
Cantonese 374
Carew, R. 214, 218, 237, 345–6
Caribbean English 382, 397, 426
Carroll, L. see Dodgson, C.
case 13–14, 28–9, 33, 45–6, 51, 52, 55–6, 96,
106–7, 194n., 258
causation 172
Cawdrey, R. 209, 231–2, 235, 419
Caxton, W. 115, 120–1, 122–3, 126, 131, 141,
142–3, 184, 213, 229, 338–9, 418
Celtic 10, 11, 12, 29, 30, 62, 63, 65, 84, 199,
323, 336
Cely Papers 132, 152, 189, 199, 200
Central Midlands Standard 110–11, 118, 135
chain shifts 158–9, 160, 163–7, 168
Chancery English 111–14, 118, 133–4, 417
chatrooms, and language of 401, 402, 405,
407
Chaucer, G. 2, 68, 98, 105–8, 110, 111, 112,
114, 115, 123, 139, 140, 141, 157–8, 164,
214, 228, 230, 328
Cheke, Sir J. 88, 136, 229
Chicago 371
China 388, 389, 396, 421
Chinese 354, 355–6, 362, 383, 384
Chinese English 362
Chomsky, N. 158
Christianity 34, 40–1, 44, 75–6, 336, 415
Clarendon, lady K. 279, 282, 283, 287
class 276, and language 2, 4, 7, 8, 123–4,
125, 138–40, 190, 196, 209, 213, 215,
216, 217, 224, 226–7, 243, 248, 261,
262, 276–7, 291, 295–7, 315, 319, 325,
328, 365, 408
Clift, E. 247–8, 257, 263, 269
Clift, W. 244, 245, 246, 247, 257, 263–4, 268
Cnut, King 66, 68, 82, 416
474 index
Cobden, R. 279
Cockney 290
Cockeram, H. 232
code-switching 354–6, 398
codiWcation 121, 139, 144, 147, 241–2, 251–2
Coleridge, S. T. 300, 351
colonialism 2, 81, 347, 419 see also Empire
colourless accent 289–90, see also Received
Pronunciation
Colourless Regional Writing 114, 134–5
Columbus, C. 343, 381, 418
Commonwealth 378
compositors, and language 256, 279
computer-mediated communication 402
computing, and language 368–9, 376 see
also chatrooms, email, Internet,
Netspeak
concord 286
Cornish 338
Cornwall, dialect of 63, 184, 198, 216, 217,
218, 244, 294–5
corpora 147, 178–9, 180–1, 183, 185–6,
187–8, 190–1, 192–3, 194, 197, 198,
199, 201, 362
value of 151, 152, 178–9, 180, 182, 186, 202,
209
corpus linguistics 5, 151, 152
correctness 3, 241, 268, 281–3, 285–6, 288,
291, 298, 350, 371, 409, 411 see also
prescriptive grammar,
prescriptivism
Cory 357, 344
Coverdale, M. 418
Cowell, J. 233
creole 351–2, 398
creolization 83
Crimean War 298
Crockett, Davy 352
Cumbria 63, 83
Cursor Mundi 95–7, 417
Cynewulf 43
Danelaw 66, 78, 83 see also Scandinavian
setttlement
Daniel, S. 223
Danish 10, 12, 20, 23, 363, 381, 382
Darwin, C. 275, 280, 282, 283, 284, 288, 297
Davy, Sir H. 284, 287, 349
Defoe, D. 241
Dekker, T. 227, 228
Denmark, and use of English 374, 379
Detroit 371
Devon, dialect of 184, 215, 216, 294, 328
dialect 2–3, 4, 8, 70, 184, 185, 194, 208, 224,
244, 265, 274, 276, 292–5, 305–33,
336, 351, 353, 358, 361, 362, 404, 408,
419, 422, 423
boundaries 184–5, 309–11, 321, 332
contact 274, 336
and grammatical variation 281, 296, 313,
325–8, 330
and the history of English 2, 129–30,
148, 165–6, 167–8, 212, 214–15
and literary representation 123, 215, 216,
351–3
and pronunciation 330
societies, foundation of 291–2, 306–8
stigmatization of 213, 215, 216–18,
219–20, 221–2, 243–4, 281, 290–2,
313–14, 319, 325, 328, 329, 330, 331,
409
study of 292–5, 305–7, 308–11
and syntax 328–9
and vocabulary 311–12, 320–5, 333
dialectology 292–3, 305, 307, 361
diaries, evidence of 2, 179–80, 181, 186, 243,
247, 279, 282, 283, 287, 296
Dickens, C. 248, 279, 280, 288, 290, 296–7,
301
dictionary 139, 209, 214, 231–3, 235–7, 242,
249, 251–2, 267, 269, 270, 295, 347,
354, 365, 389, 400, 419, 422, 424, 425
cant 231
index 475
dictionary (Cont.)
Old English 220–1
and prescriptivism 251–2
and pronunciation 240
technical 233–5
Dieth, E. 308
Disraeli, D. 280, 281, 286, 287
do 149–50, 151, 180, 186, 197, 198–207, 208,
261, 269, 284, 296
as causative 199, 200, 206
Dodgson, C. 275, 300
Dodsley, R. 242, 244, 245, 246, 256, 258,
259, 263, 264, 265, 269
Dorset 2, 198, 292–3
Douglas, G. 130
drama, language of 126, 225,–6, 248
Dream of the Rood 42–3
Dryden, J. 241, 346
Dublin 314–15, 371
Durham 308
Dutch 4, 10, 20, 24, 94, 227, 338, 339, 380,
381, 382, 383, 384, 390
early modern English 2, 3, 4, 90–1, 122–3,
125–239, 336, 337–43
and dialect 212, 214–22
grammar 197–8
pronouns 149, 180, 190–6, 197
pronunciation 137, 138–9, 150, 154–76,
see also Great Vowel Shift
spelling 134, 150, 152, 179, 193, 255–7
and standardization 148, 150, 152, 214–15
syntax 130–3, 149–50, 151, 200–3, 204–7
verb (auxiliary) 197, 199–207 see also do
verbal inXection 129–30, 149, 197, 208,
216, 151–3, 180–93
vocabulary 122–5, 148, 212, 213, 217–18,
220, 222–7, 232, 235, 236
East Anglia 183, 184, 189–90, 205, 294, 316,
324 see also Norfolk, SuVolk
East Germanic 20, 21
East India Company 347, 419
East Midland dialect,
in Middle English 91–4, 101, 104–5, 110
Edgeworth, M. 357
editing of English 404–5, see also printed
texts. language of
education 275, 277, 364, 390–1, 422
and language 247–8, 291, 293–4, 305,
325, 351, 364, 408–10
Egyptian English 397, 399
eighteenth-century English 3, 196–7, 240,
272, 390
grammar 241–3, 248, 254–5, 257, 261 see
also prescriptive grammar,
prescriptivism
pronouns 241
pronunciation 240, 242, 243–4
punctuation 248, 257
spelling 242, 247–8, 254, 255, 268,
269–70
spoken English 247–8, 252–8
standardization of 241–2, 244
vocabulary 242–3, 255, 263–7
written English 247–8, 252–8
elaboration 121, 122, 133, 134
Ellis, A. J. 277, 279, 288–9, 291, 306, 364,
422
Eliot, G. 280, 285–6, 291, 297
Eliot, J. 345, 346
elocution 240, 244, 290, 370
Elstob, A. 420
Elworthy, F. 294
Elyot, Sir T. 91, 139
email 2, 368, 369, 401, 402–3, 405, 406
Empire, and language 148, 277, 297–8,
340–4, 347, 373, 375, 377–8, 386, 396,
423, 424, 225, 426, 428
English, academies of 241–2, see also Royal
Society
inXuence on other languages 395–7
status of 114–15
476 index
as a foreign language (EFL) 365, 366–7,
370, 379, 396–7, 399
English Dialect Dictionary 305, 307, 423
English Dialect Society 291, 306–7, 331, 422
Englishes 361, 362, 395–6
epenthesis 172
Essex 104
Estuary English 318, 333, 371, 427
etymology 81, 300–1, 350
euphemism 301
evaluation tests 319–29
Evelyn, J. 237
Exeter Book 32, 43, 52, 416
exploration 340–3
false syntax 283, 285
Faraday, M. 280, 284, 291
Ferne, J. 216
Fielding, H. 244, 245, 246, 247, 249, 263,
264, 265, 269
Fielding, S. 242–3, 244, 254, 246, 247,
248–9, 254, 255, 256–7, 263, 264, 265,
267, 268, 269
First Consonant Shift 19
Fisher, A. 259–69, 420
France, A. 233
Franconian 25, 26
Franks 27
French 4, 57, 63, 79, 82, 84, 114, 181, 222,
224, 227, 232, 233, 299, 337, 339, 354,
362, 363, 372, 374, 379, 377, 381, 382,
383, 384, 386, 418
and language death 69
loanwords 74, 78, 81, 97, 107–8, 128, 233,
324
and pronunciation 78, 81
and spelling 78–9, 81
use in medieval England 66–8, 70, 88
Furnivall, F. 277
futhark 22, 41
futhorc 41–2
Gaelic 129, 277, 323, 326, 329, 336, 338, 339,
373–4, 424
Garrick, D. 242, 244, 263, 265, 267, 268, 269
Gascoigne, G. 229, 235
Gaskell, E. 280, 285
Gay, J. 244, 245, 248, 253, 264, 265, 269
gender, grammatical 45, 83, 96, 106
gender, social, and language 2, 4, 61, 125,
147, 179–80, 183, 187–8, 190, 203,
208–9, 248, 259, 262, 272, 277, 291,
315, 330, 320, 404
General American 366–7
genre, and language 114, 178, 179, 181–2,
186–7, 190–1, 194, 199–200, 201, 202
German 10, 12, 19, 20, 24, 233, 340, 354, 362,
377, 379, 380, 382, 384
Germanic 16–18, 19–25, 29
Germanic Consonant Shift 19, 78
Germanic languages 10–11, 12, 19–21, 22,
34, 82
Gil, A. 154, 213–14, 215, 221, 230, 227, 230,
236, 419
Gill, J. 291
Gladstone, W. 287, 291
Glasgow 318, 321–2, 371
global English 355, 379 see also world
English
globalization 370, 371, 412
glottalization 317, 318
glottal stop 292, 317
Gower, J. 68, 112, 118, 136, 228
grammar 3, 4, 5, 33, 241–2, 364
grammaticalization 175–6, 177
Great Vowel Shift 5, 87, 140, 141, 150–1, 154,
155–76, 317
and dialectal evidence 168
inception of 162–7
in Scotland 159, 165–6
and spelling 157–8, 159, 173
Greek 227, 232, 233, 234, 339, 363, 381
Greenbaum, S. 362
index 477
Grimald, N. 220
Grimm, J. 19, 353
Grimm’s law 19
Gothic 10, 12, 20, 21–2, 23, 27–8, 29
Greek 11, 12, 13, 16, 18
Hakluyt, R. 342
Halliburton, T. C. 351
Hardy, T. 285, 291–2
Harman, T. 227, 231, 232, 233, 236, 418
Harriot, T. 343
Harrison, W. 214, 227
Hart, J., 88, 153, 155, 165, 193, 220, 224
Hawaian 398, 399
Hawkins, Sir J. 340–2, 418
Hazlitt, W. 421
/h/-dropping 154, 276–7, 289, 290, 291, 315,
315–16, 418, 419
Hebrew 232, 339
Hemingway, E. 354
Heywood, T. 220
Higden, R. 94–5, 97, 417
Hindi 363
Hittite 11, 12, 15
Hoccleve, T. 114, 110
Hodges, R. 153, 165
homophones 292
Hooke, R. 349
Hopper, P. 175
Hudson, G. 277
Hunter, J. 246, 247, 264, 268, 269
/hw/ in when, pronunciation of 315
hybridization 363, 382
hyperadaptation 140–1
hypercorrection 256
imposition 71–2, 73, 74, 84
Indai 387, 388, 390
India 425
Indian English 16–17, 349, 347–8, 362, 363,
378, 389
Indo-European 1, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15–16,
19–20, 29
inXectional endings 4, 5, 11–14, 33, 55–6,
96, 149, 151–2
loss of 78, 82–3, 106–7
-ing, pronunciation of 290, 316
Ingram, D. 342–3
initialism 301
inkhorn terms 128, 213, 217–18, 222–4, 228,
229, 232, 233
and dictionaries 231–5
inscriptions 76, 79–80, 83
as linguistic evidence 76–7
interference errors 396–7
International Phonetic Alphabet 153, 333
Internet, and language 322, 368, 376, 401,
402–3, 404–8
Ireland 130, 278, 338, 361, 373–4, 378, 424,
421
Irish 62
Irish English 314, 315, 316, 318, 319, 323, 326,
327, 329, 339, 362
pronunciation 240, 243, 247
isoglosses 309–10
Italian 8, 230, 231, 241, 380, 382, 428
Jamaican English 2, 350–1, 358, 400, 419
Japan 386–7, 399, 399
and role of English 387, 398
Japanese 354
Japlish 363, 396
jargon 228
Jespersen, O. 162–5, 166, 167, 168
Jocelin of Brakelond 62–3
Johnson, S. 2, 240n. 242, 243, 244, 249–50,
252, 261–2, 264, 265, 267, 268, 269,
277, 420
and spelling 3, 255
Jones, D. 364–5
Jonson, B. 178, 179, 215, 221–2, 229, 230
Jutes 35, 91, 95
478 index
Kachru, B. 362
Kentish 35, 36, 41, 99, 101, 141, 216
King’s English 212
King James Bible 184, 234, 237
Knox, J. 130
Knox, R. 349
Korea, use of English 354
Krapp, G. P. 366–7
Kwakiutl 374, 383
/l/, pronunciation of 318
LALME 99–101, 133, 135, 136–7, 138, 184–5
Lancashire 221, 291, 314, 315
Langland, W. 99, 110
language academies 121, 237, 241–2, 419,
420
language attitudes 284–5, 365–6, 370–1
language change 69, 79–80, 115, 121–2, 123,
147–8, 151, 154, 159–60, 163, 167,
174–5, 180, 183, 186–8, 208–9, 250,
252, 258, 268–9, 310, 322–3, 318,
395
and causation 172
and explanation 151–2
language contact 7–8, 9, 29–30, 62–3,
69–72, 75, 76, 78–9, 84–5, 91, 140,
199, 336–40 see also hybridization
language death 68–9, 74, 84, 128
language function 120, 121, 134, 144
language variety 362
Lass, R. 149, 152, 159, 160, 161, 163, 164, 165,
166, 167, 168, 169, 170–1, 172, 174–5,
176
Latin 4, 10, 12, 13–14, 16, 26, 29, 30, 33, 37,
62, 63–4, 73, 79, 84, 121, 124, 234, 343
inXuence on syntax 47, 77
loanwords 73, 74, 97, 222–4, 233
use in medieval England 65–8, 70, 88, 121
inXuence on early modern English 172,
181, 217–18, 222, 227, 228, 232, 233–4,
337, 338, 339, 340
Leeds 274, 294
legal language 99, 181–2, 183, 186, 190, 195,
201–2, 233, 339, 362, 419
Lennox, C. 250, 252,
letters 179–80, 186, 187, 188, 201, 204, 205,
275–6, 421
as evidence 2, 3, 4, 150, 183, 189, 195, 243,
247–9, 252–3, 255–7, 260, 264, 270,
280–1, 404 see also Paston letters
Lever, R. 222–3, 229
lexical diVusion 186, 203
lexicography 231, 233 see also dictionaries
Lindisfarne Gospels 42, 96, 415
linguistic anxiety 86–7, 115–16, 142,
212–14, 228, 395, 411–12
Linguistic Atlas of Late Medieval English,
see LALME
Linguistic Survey of Scotland, 308
Lister, A. 285
literacy 2, 10, 33, 125, 179, 185, 243, 247–8,
252, 255, 257, 275, 289, 345
literary language 34, 37–8, 49–51, 197,
199–200, 213, 265, 351, 397–8
Liverpool 291, 316, 317, 318, 319, 320, 321,
326, 371
loan-translations 73, 75, 76, 79, 80, 99
loanwords 8, 14, 29–30, 57, 65, 71–2, 73–4,
90–1, 212, 213, 217–18, 220, 224, 227,
232, 236–7, 264, 265–6, 267, 297–8,
323–4, 336, 340, 343, 346, 349, 354,
398
London 103, 104–5, 110, 122, 140, 141, 183,
188–9, 225, 236, 244, 262, 336, 338,
339, 340, 344, 345, 364, 371, 372
London English 103–9, 113–14, 121, 140,
183, 189, 193, 205, 205, 193, 199, 220,
313, 314, 318, 319, 324
London Philological Society 277, 361, 421,
422
Love, N. 136
Low German 94
index 479
Lowth, R. 3, 242, 244, 252, 253, 255, 256,
257, 258, 259, 260, 261, 162, 263, 264,
265, 266, 268, 269, 270, 420
Luick, K. 162, 163, 164, 167, 168
Lydgate, J. 124–5, 417
Lytton, E. B. 274, 282, 285
Magna Carta 134, 417
malapropism 217, 218, 224–5, 352
Malaysia 387, 388
Malory, T. 131, 417
Manchester 274, 314, 315, 316, 371
Mankind 126
manuscripts 3, 39, 50–2
copying of 6, 35–6, 52, 55, 57, 96, 8,
101–3, 109–10
editing of 4–5, 144
Maori English 362
Martin, B. 262, 263, 264–5, 269
Martinet, A. 163
medio-passive 23–4, 96
Mencken, H. 366
Mercia 44
Mercian 35, 36–7, 91
mergers 163, 164, 168, 292
and Great Vowel Shift 161, 162, 68–70,
171, 172, 173
Metham, J. 124
metre 39, 136
Middle English 3, 4, 5, 17, 34, 55, 56–8, 63,
78, 86–119, 122, 169, 179, 184, 337,
405, 408
adjectives 96, 130
dialects 86, 89–101
and literary representation 123
nouns 104, 106
pronouns 56–7, 93–4, 100, 101, 103
pronunciation 88–90, 96–7, 147
punctuation 113
spelling 55–7, 88, 89–90, 102, 104, 108–9,
112–14, 134, 192
sound changes 87, 88, 89
syntax 56, 108, 113–14
transition from Old English 55–8, 82
verbal inXection 93–4, 96, 104, 106, 130
vocabulary 73–4, 107–8
migration 7–8, 10, 20, 21, 24, 27, 29, 35,
104–5, 140, 244, 274, 277, 294, 326,
340, 375
Millais, J. 283, 286
Milroy, J. 69, 71, 292
Milroy, L. 251
Minkova, D. 160–2, 164, 165, 168, 169, 170,
171, 172–3, 174–5
mixed language texts 337–8, 339–40,
354–6, 398–9
modern English 122, 128, 151, 161–2, 165,
353–6, 360–413 see also world
English
and dialect 308–31
Montagu, Lady M. 247, 248, 253, 258, 260,
261, 262, 264, 266, 267, 269
Mulcaster, T. 121
multilingualism 4–5, 8, 61–72, 84, 94, 277,
334, 336, 337, 338, 340, 346, 353, 355,
347, 374, 382–3, 404
Mundy, P. 344
Murayama, M. 398
Murray, J. A. H. 5, 264, 275, 276, 277, 297,
298, 302, 361
Murray, L. 421
mutual intelligibility 82, 83, 97–8
nationalism, and language 277, 372–3
Native American 8, 9, 345
nativized English 400–1
NATO 376–7, 379
negation 202–3, 248, 262, 284, 328–9
Netherlands, and use of English 374, 379,
390
Netspeak 402–3
Newcastle 314, 316, 317, 319
480 index
New England 345
Newgrammarian Hypothesis 306
newspapers 179, 184, 275, 377, 399–400,
401, 403
New York 363, 371, 374
New Zealand 372, 374, 375, 386, 388, 423
New Zealand English 299, 362
Nigerian English 395, 425, 426
nineteenth-century, and social change 274
nineteenth-century English 274–306, 361
auxiliaries 283
and dialect 281, 290–1, 292–5, 306–7
grammar 278–9, 281–5, 286–7, 303
pronouns 285–6
pronunciation 288–92
punctuation 280–1
spelling 279–81, 288
spoken language 297
and standardization 279, 281
syntax 283, 284, 285, 287–8, 296
vocabulary 293, 297–9
nonce words 267
Norfolk 101, 104–5, 135, 183, 190, 196, 328
Norman Conquest 34, 55, 63, 66, 67, 68, 77,
88, 91, 336, 346, 354, 363, 416
Norman French 17, 74
Norn 338
Northern dialect
in Middle English 92, 95–8, 101, 123
in early modern English 213, 218–22
North Germanic 20, 22, 23–4
Northern /o:/ Fronting 166, 167
Northern Personal Pronoun rule 129
Northumbria 62
Northumbrian 35, 36, 37–8, 42–3, 75, 91,
97, 315
Norway, and use of English 374, 379
Norwegian 10, 12, 20, 23, 382
Norwich 316, 317
novel, as evidence for language 248–9
Nowell, L. 220–1, 418
occasional spellings 152, 154
Old English 4, 5, 7, 18, 20, 27, 30, 32–60,
62, 90, 97, 98, 179, 184, 199, 217–18,
229, 233, 315, 321, 324, 336, 339,
373, 420
adjectives 18–19, 33, 45–6
alphabet 41–2, 43–4
dialects 34, 35, 36–8, 40, 44, 86 see also
Anglian, Kentish, Mercian,
Northumbrian, West Saxon
gender, grammatical 45–6
grammar 50
literary language 34, 37–8, 48–51, 76
nouns 33, 45–6, 106
pronouns 28–9, 33, 45–6
prose 47–8
punctuation 52
sound changes 37–8, 55–6
spelling 36–8, 55–6, 78–9
standard 49–50, 52–4
syntax 39, 46–7, 56, 83, 108
verbal inXection 25, 33, 46–7,
55–6
vocabulary 33, 39–48, 72–3
Old Frisian 20, 24, 25–6, 27–8, 29, 30
Old High German 25, 26, 27–8, 29, 30
Old Icelandic 23–4, 137
Old Irish 16, 29
Old Norse 23, 27, 28, 29, 30, 62, 65, 66,
68–70, 79–80, 82, 84, 96, 105, 321,
323, 324–5
loanwords 73–4, 76, 78
pronouns 83–4, 103
and pronunciation 97
Old Saxon 25–7, 28, 29, 30
Optimality Theory 169–70
orality 33, 38, 287–8
Orm 81, 86, 87, 88
Ormulum, The 81, 86, 87, 88, 91, 417
orthoepists 152–4, 165
Orton, H. 308
index 481
Owl and the Nightingale, The 101–2
Oxford English Dictionary 5, 231, 249, 255,
264,300–1,302,306,354,422,424,425
Pakistan 378, 388
Palsgrave, J. 139
Paston letters 99, 113–14, 132–3, 135, 142–3,
185, 196, 417
Pecock, R. 111
Peel, Sir R. 285, 291, 299
Penny Post 275–6
periodization 179
Peterborough Chronicle 35–6, 40, 56–7,
77–8, 91, 416
philology 277, 361
phonetics 289
phonetic terminology 153–4
phonetic transcription 153, 165, 291, 333
phonograph 1, 287
phonology 140, 147–8, 150–2, 158, 172–4
phonological theory 148
Pictish 62
place-names 65, 325, 336
Plain English Campaign 371, 410
poetic diction 39–40, 53–4, 124–5, 229–30,
235
political correctness 410–11
Pope, A. 269
Portuguese 340, 342, 342, 343, 344, 372, 377,
380, 381, 383, 384
prepositions 90, 106–7, 249
prescriptive grammar 241, 248–9, 258–60,
262, 268, 269–70, 278–9, 281–4,
285–6, 303, 412
prescriptivism 3, 179, 197, 237, 252, 281–2,
284–5, 289, 300–1, 327, 408, 409,
411–12
prestige 205, 314, 330, 371, 372
Prick of Conscience, 102–3
printed texts, and language 3–4, 242–3,
254–5, 278, 279, 296, 404–5
printing 2, 79, 115, 136, 141, 150, 213, 275,
339, 346, 368, 401, 418
progressive passive 254, 287, 303
pronouns 14, 23–4, 28–9, 74, 78, 79–80, 107
and correctness 285–6
second-person (thou, thee) 107, 110, 149,
194–6, 197, 285–6, 325–6
(ye, you) 107, 149, 195–6, 197, 241, 285,
325–6
(youse) 194
indeWnite 259–60, 286
reXexive 261, 326–7
relative 283
third-person singular (he) 93 (she)
57, 94, 100–2
third-person plural (they, them,
their) 78, 93–4, 103, 110
and social marking 107, 194, 195
inXuence of Norse 79
pronunciation 8, 19–20, 71–2, 136–8,
139–41, 150–1, 240, 242, 243–4,
276–7, 288–91, 292, 308–11, 313–14,
317, 330, 364, 367–8, 370–71, 389,
410–11
Proto-Germanic 10–11, 12, 17–20, 23, 24,
28, 415
punctuation 52, 113, 248, 257, 280–1, 401,
405, 407
Puttenham, G. 138–9, 213, 214, 229, 231,
235, 236
Queen’s English Society 371
questions 149, 197, 200, 201, 206, 261, 284
Quirk, R. 361–2
/r/, loss of 152, 155, 289, 314
intrusive 292
pronunciation of 290, 314
railway 275, 293–4
Raleigh, Sir W. 215
Ray, J. 231
482 index
Reading 330, 314
Received Pronunciation (RP), 276, 290–1,
309, 314–15, 318, 319, 320, 330, 333,
364–5, 370–1, 422
reconstruction, linguistic 1, 5, 11–13, 21, 136
Redford, J. 217
reduplication 22
Reformation 130
register 81, 123–4, 125, 126, 130–2, 147, 193,
213
and change in progress 208
rhymes 136, 140
Richardson S. 244, 245, 246, 249, 256,
261–2, 263, 264, 266, 267, 268, 269
Rid, S. 226, 227
Robinson, R. 165
Roman settlement 10, 30, 63–4, 415
Rosewarne, D. 371, 427
Royal Society 237, 240–1, 348, 349, 350, 419
runes 10, 22–3, 34, 41–3
Ruskin, E. 279
Ruskin, W. 279, 286
Russia 369, 370
Russian 20, 340, 354, 369, 377, 380, 382, 399
Ruthwell Cross 42–3
Samuels, M. L. 93, 118, 133
Sanskrit 11, 12, 13, 16, 18, 19, 20
Saxons 27, 35, 91
Scandinavia 4
Scandinavian 17, 23, 66
Scandinavian settlement 63, 64, 66, 91, 415,
416
science, and language 293, 300, 349–50,
354, 384
Scotland 2, 62, 63, 129–30, 294, 308, 313,
316, 322, 324, 336, 338, 358, 371
Scots 12, 123, 129, 130, 136, 151, 182–3, 190–1,
192, 205–6, 373
Anglicisms in 130, 136, 191
inXuence on London English 151–2
prestige of 205
Scottish English 62, 96, 244, 314, 315,
317, 319, 321–2, 323, 329, 332, 333,
352–3
Scott, F. N. 366
Scott, Sir W. 280, 336, 352
Scottish Vowel Length Rule 166
scribal system 33, 37, 88–90, 110, 340
Second Consonant Shift 25
semantic bleaching 175–6
semantic change 73, 75, 76, 274–5, 300–1,
322
semantic loans 73, 75, 77
Shadwell, T. 1
Shakespeare, W. 2, 178, 182, 184, 187, 192,
211, 216, 223, 225–6, 241, 328, 379
Shaw, G. B. 366
Shelley, M. 284
Shelley, P. B. 279
Sheridan, B. 240, 243, 247, 253, 258, 261,
261, 264, 269
Sheridan, R. B. 240, 243, 258, 263, 264, 266,
269
Sheridan, T. 240, 241, 242, 243, 244, 263,
264, 265, 269, 276, 420
Shetland 338
Sir Gawain and the Green Knight 98, 101
Skaldic verse 68, 82
Skeat, W. W. 277, 306
Skelton, J. 126–7
Signet Letters 111, 199–200
Singapore 362, 374, 395
Singlish 5, 388, 395
Sinhalese 349
slang 301, 337, 376, 382
Slavonic languages 11, 12, 13, 15
Smart, B. H. 291
social networks 5, 143, 251, 257–9
sociolinguistics 154, 163–4, 255, 277
Somerset 198, 215, 216
South Africa 421, 423, 424, 425, 428
index 483
South African English 297, 372, 374, 386,
396, 400
Southern dialects
in Middle English 92, 93, 97
Smollett, T. 248, 260
Spanglish 5, 382
Spanish 3, 148, 227, 340, 341, 342, 343, 371,
374, 377, 380, 381, 382, 383, 396
spelling 3, 4, 36–8, 55–6, 78–9, 108–9,
150–2, 157–8, 159, 192, 242, 252,
269–70, 364, 375, 405, 406, 407
and private texts 3, 136–7, 247–8, 254,
255–7, 268, 280–1, 397, 401
spelling-pronunciation 289, 315
spelling reform 88, 136, 137, 153
Spenser, E. 218, 230, 235
split inWnitive 285, 409
spoken language 1–2, 32–3, 198, 247–8,
252–8, 297
Sprat, T. 237
StaVordhire 244
dialect of 326
standard English 2, 3, 121, 165, 180, 214–15,
276, 277, 281, 289, 313, 324, 325, 326,
327, 328, 330, 335, 362, 364–7, 368,
372, 397–8, 403, 405, 408–9, 411–12
in Old English 49–50, 54
standard language 408–9
standardization 79, 87, 88, 109–14, 121–2,
134, 138–9, 148, 151, 152, 240, 251–2,
269–30, 277, 279, 281
in Middle English 109–14
and printing 136
and pronunciation 136–7, 139, 141, 240,
244
and spelling 135–6
stages of 121, 144
Statute of Pleading 99
Stephenson, G. 275, 288
Sterne, L. 244, 246, 255, 264, 265,
266, 267
Stockwell, R. 160–2, 163, 164, 165, 168, 169,
170, 171, 172–3, 174–5
stress, position of 20, 83
subjunctive 33, 46, 185, 261, 282–3
SuVolk 105
Survey of Anglo-Welsh Dialects (SAWD)
308, 311, 426
Survey of English Dialects (SED) 184,
308–11, 322, 329, 333, 424, 425
Sweden, and use of English 374,
379, 396
Swedish 10, 12, 20, 23, 382
Sweet, H. 277, 291, 365–6
Swift, J. 241–2, 243, 269, 419
synonymy 324
syntax 13, 14, 46–7, 56–7, 108, 113, 130–2,
149, 151, 197, 200, 201, 206–7, 261,
283, 285, 328–9
taboo 16, 301, 304, 407
tape-recordings 125
telegram 2, 276, 348, 401
telegraph 276, 293, 368, 421
telephone 8, 276, 288, 369, 401–2,
406, 422
text messaging 402, 406–7, 427, 428
textspeak 406–7
thou, see under pronouns
Thrale, H. 246–7, 249–50, 262, 263, 264,
265, 269
Tocharian 11, 12
trade 8, 10, 29, 121
translation 44–5, 50, 108, 131–2, 136, 143,
195, 234, 338–9, 345
Traugott, E. 175
Trevisa, J. 94–5, 97, 417
Trudgill, P, 281
Truss, L. 411
Turkish 148, 354
Tyndale, W. 184, 185, 418
typology 163
484 index
u in sun 290, 291, 308–10, 313–14
Udall, N. 217
Uniformitarian principle 322–3
uniformity 148, 160, 339
Union of the Crowns 151, 183, 191, 211, 419
universal language 212, 227, 237
Usk, T. 115
variation 2, 3, 5, 179–83, 187–9, 242, 248,
249, 259, 260, 279–80, 282, 283, 292,
311, 319, 320–2, 326, 328, 330, 333, 361
Vercelli Book 42, 52, 57, 416
Verstegan, R. 219–20, 224, 237
Victoria, Queen 278, 280, 286, 290, 293, 299
vocabulary 8, 15–16, 33, 53–4, 72–3, 75, 76,
90–1, 107–8, 123, 128, 148, 212, 213,
214, 217–18, 220, 222–7, 232, 235, 236,
255, 263–7, 264–8, 270, 274–5, 293,
297–9, 311–12, 320–5, 336, 340, 343,
346, 349, 354, 363, 368, 395
vowel deletion 192–3
Wales 63, 65, 277, 338, 373, 417, 424, 426
Walker, J. 242, 290, 421
Wallis, J. 419
Walpole, H. 262, 263, 264, 265, 266, 267,
268, 269
Warner, W. 219
Webster, N. 298, 365, 420, 421
Welsh 29, 62, 233, 277, 338, 373, 424, 426, 427
Welsh English 198, 277, 308, 313, 314, 315,
317, 318, 321, 235, 333
Wenker, G. 306
West Germanic 20, 23, 26, 27
West Indian English 298
West Midland dialect,
in Middle English 92, 93, 98, 99, 101, 103
West Saxon 34, 35, 36–7, 38, 91
early West Saxon 45, 48, 49, 54
late West Saxon 45, 49, 52, 54, 55
morphology 45
sound changes in 45
spelling 45
Whittington, Dick 141
who, whom 283
William of Malmesbury 97
Williams, R. 345, 346
Wilson, T. 217, 218, 223, 225, 226, 230, 234,
235–6
Winchester 49, 50, 51, 54, 68, 76, 77, 88
word-formation 14, 40, 48, 54, 73, 90, 212,
274–5, 299–300, 354, 368
Wordsworth, D. 280
Wordsworth, W. 351
World English 5, 353, 354–5, 346, 358,
360–70, 380–1, 384–6, 390–1,
394–9, 412
spread of 369, 394–5
world languages 380
World War I 369, 370, 377, 387, 423
World War II 360, 369, 370, 373, 375, 377,
387, 424
World Wide Web 368, 376, 401, 427
Wright, J. 129, 305, 307, 308, 311,
422, 423
Wyatt, T. 229–30
Wyclif, J. 108, 110–11, 417
Wyld, H. C. 364, 365
Yiddish 382
Yorkshire, dialect of 155, 294, 307, 318, 325,
326, 327, 328, 423
you, see under pronouns
Yule, H. 347
index 485
