	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 17
original example cannot be reproduced the same way in Greek, as in verb subject
orders the predicate can surface with singular agreement for independent reasons
having to do with the agreement patterns in co-ordination (see Alexiadou 2003a),
the contrast in the second example below is significant. In (5a–b), where the ar-
ticle is repeated, the predicate can be both singular and plural. The plural mark-
ing clearly shows that the two articles in the singular have different indexes. This
contrasts with (5c–d) in which the article is not repeated and the interpretation of
the subject can only be singular and never plural:
	 (5)	 a.	 irthe	 i	 gramateas	mu	ke	 i	 voithos	 su
			 has arrived	the	secretary	 my	and	the	assistant	your
			 ‘My secretary and your assistant have arrived’
		 b.	 irthane	 i	 gramateas	mu	ke	 i	 voithos	 su
			 have arrived	 the	 secretary	 my	 and	 the	 assistant	your
			 ‘My secretary and your assistant arrived’
		 c.	 irthe	 i	 gramateas	mu	ke	 voithos	 su
			 has arrived	the	secretary	 my	and	assistant	your
		 d.	*irthane	 i	 gramateas	mu	ke	 voithos	 su
			 have arrived	 the	 secretary	 my	 and	 assistant	 your
Examples such as the above are critically reviewed in Lekakou & Szendrői (2012),
who reiterate the expletive analysis of Greek determiners. One of their arguments
is that, from the perspective of Heycock and Zamparelli’s (2005) analysis, see the
discussion in the introduction, a single determiner does not always correspond to
a single referent. Consider (6) below:
	 (6)	 the actor’s work depends so much on the technical decisions of the director
and editor
In (6) co-ordination below the definite determiner can involve reference to more
than one individual. Crucially, however, this is so, as in English certain determin-
ers are compatible with plural denotations. As Heycock and Zamparelli (2005)
note, this is the case for the definite, the indefinite article as well as the bleached
possessive pronoun, see (7):
	 (7)	 a.	 The stars and sun / sun and stars are an inspiration to bad poetry
		 b.	 Your ears and nose / nose and ears were quite frozen
Such determiners, then, can check different values of the PlP simultaneously.
Heycock and Zamparelli (op.cit.) treat this phenomenon as a case of feature neu-
tralization. Importantly, however, in Greek, the corresponding examples are un-
grammatical, suggesting that certain determiners in this language do eliminate
plurality from their denotation and introduce single reference, see Alexiadou &
Campanini (2012) for discussion and details.
18	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Recent analyses of proper names as predicates also point to a semantic role for
the Greek determiner. For instance, Alexopoulou and Folli (2011) discuss a number
of contrasts involving the behavior of proper names with and without articles in
predicative structures and beyond: in a string such as tus simvulepse Iudas lit. ‘them
advised Judas’, the proper name Iudas appears without the determiner. In this case,
the string means that someone with the properties of Judas (e.g. a traitor) advised
the subject of the verb. Thus, they conclude that the Greek definite determiner is not
expletive and, when present, it has a semantic effect. Borer (2005: 85f.) also provides
a series of arguments against the expletive analysis of Greek determiners. Her main
claim is that in Greek the formation of common names refers to a set with a single
member, thereby requiring the definite article to be well-formed with proper names.
Matushansky (2006) also argues that proper names are predicates just like common
nouns, and the role of the definite determiner is to turn them into definite descrip-
tions when they appear in argument position. Thus it is not semantically vacuous.
In her analysis, the reason why languages like English lack determiners with proper
names is a morphological one. In English, the article’s absence is the result of mor-
phological merger of D to N, see Halle & Marantz (1993), whereby D becomes an
affix on N and is realized as null. This merger is blocked in the presence of adjectival
modification, e.g. the tall Mary vs. Mary.
In this work, I will side with the above view. In other words, I will assume
that in the absence of doubling, definite determiners in Greek occupy the D posi-
tion in the extended projection of the noun, see (8). When D is present it has a
semantic import, see also Lazaridou-Chatzigoga (2009) for arguments in favor of
this position:
	 (8)	[DP [NP]]
2.	 Definite determiner spreading in the presence of adjectival modification
2.1	 The main pattern
Let us now turn to noun phrases that involve adjectival modifiers. A first observa-
tion to be made is that Greek, as well as Romanian, unlike e.g. the Scandinavian
languages, Hebrew, and Albanian, have optional doubling, see the discussion in
Chapters 3 and 4.1 Specifically, in Greek the presence of a determiner is obligatory
1.	 Note that Greek and Scandinavian languages are alike in that they have another instance of
doubling involving demonstratives, i.e. the demonstrative and the definite article can co-occur.
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 19
only in case the adjective follows the noun, but not when it precedes the noun (9).
In the latter case the normal word order in the DP is D > A > N. The word order
in (9b) is not strict, the sequence Det + Adj can precede the sequence Det + N.
Introduction of a further adjective in post-nominal position is accompanied by the
introduction of a further determiner (9c) and the availability of further permuta-
tions in word order (Androutsopoulou 1995):
	 (9)	 a.	 to	 kokino	vivlio
			 the	red	 book
		 b.	 to	 vivlio	*(to)	kokino
			 the	book	 the	red
		
c.	to	vivlio	
to	kokino	
to	megalo
			 the	book	 the	red	 the	big
By now a large number of studies on Greek determiner spreading have surfaced, see
e.g. Tredinnick (1992), Androutsopoulou (1995, 2001), Alexiadou & Wilder (1998),
Alexiadou (2001a, 2003b,c, 2007), Alexopoulou & Kolliakou (2002), Campos &
Stavrou (2004), Giusti (2002), Ioannidou & Den Dikken (2009), Kariaeva (2004),
Kolliakou (1999, 2004), Kyriakaki (2011), Lekakou & Szendrői (2007, 2012), Leu
(2008), Manolessou (2000), Marinis & Panagiotidis (2011), Ntelitheos (2004),
Stavrou (1995, 1996), Tsakali (2008), Katzir (2011), Velegrakis (2011) among oth-
ers. It is not my intention to review all these analyses here.2 I will discuss Tsakali’s
contribution in detail, as it makes explicit the link between clitic-doubling in the
verbal domain and determiner spreading. My analysis will be offered in 2.3.5.
I will not discuss these cases of doubling here, see Alexiadou, Haegeman & Stavrou (2007), see
Julien (2005), and Roehrs (2009).
	 (i)	 afto	to	 vivlio
	 	 this	the	book
2.	 To a certain extent one can group the approaches together: there are approaches that assume
a split-DP hypothesis, e.g. Androutsopoulou (1995), Kariaeva (2004), Ioannidou & den Dikken
(2009), Kyriakaki (2011). There are approaches that capitalize on the notion of predication, e.g.
Campos & Stavrou (2004). Other approaches adopt an ellipsis analysis, see e.g. Panagiotidis and
Marinis (2011) in combination with predication or in combination with apposition, e.g. Lekakou
& Szendrői (2012), Stavrou (1996), Velegrakis (2011). Yet others capitalize on the focus effect
associated with the adjective in determiner spreading, see e.g. Ntelitheos (2004), and Kariaeva
(2004). Alexiadou and Wilder (1998), as far as I know, is the first analysis that assumes a relative
clause structure, see Androutsopoulou (2001).
20	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
2.2	 The semantic contribution of multiple determiners
To begin with, it is generally agreed upon, as pointed out in Giusti (2002), that in
Greek multiple occurrences of the article do not produce a multiple index inter-
pretation, i.e. (10) still makes reference to one book:
	 (10)	 to	 oreo	to	 vivlio
		 the	nice	the	 book
Kolliakou (2004), however, noted that the single DP and the double marked DP
do not receive quite the same interpretation. Similar observations have been made
by Campos and Stavrou (2004). These authors observe that the double marked
construction implies contrast and is organized around the presupposition/focus
distinction; the article-noun sequence constitutes the context or presupposition
and the articled adjective constitutes the focus.
	 (11)	 a.	 ti tha paris tu Petru-	 to	 vivlio	 i	 tin	 pena?
			 what will you buy for Peter:	 the	 book	 or	 the	 pen
		 b.	 tin	pena
			 the	pen
	 (12)	 a.	 pia	 pena-	ti	 hrisi	 i	 tin	 asimenia?
			 which	pen-	 the	golden	or	the	silver
		b.	nomizo	
tin	asimenia	tin	pena
			 I think	 the	 silver	 the	 pen
Kolliakou further notes that double marked DPs trigger restrictive readings.
	 (13)	 a.	 o	 diefthindis	ipe	 oti	 i	 kali	 erevnites	 tha	 apolithun
			 the	director	 said	that	the	efficient	researchers	will be	fired
		 b.	 o	 diefthindis	ipe	 oti	 i	kali	 i	 erevnites	tha	 apolithun
			 the	director	 said	that	the	efficient	the	researchers	will be	fired
(13a) has two readings. According to reading 1, only the efficient researchers will
be fired; on reading 2, the efficient researchers happen to be part of the larger
group that will be fired. (13b) is not ambiguous: it only has reading 1. In support
of this, note that adjectives that do not have restrictive readings are out, Alexiadou
& Wilder (1998), Kolliakou (2004):
	 (14)	 a.	 o	 platis	Irinikos		 b.	*o	 platis	o	 Irinikos
			 the	wide	 Pacific			 the	wide	 the	 Pacific
Crucially, it is impossible to get an intersection in (14b), while this is possible in
(13b): the adjective defines the set of researchers that are efficient. The subsection
of the two sets determines a subset of the pre-established set of researchers. In
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 21
(14a) there is no set intersection. This is because there is no set pre-established by
the sense of N, therefore there is no intersection with that set. In this pattern, the
adjective simply “combines with the characteristic function of N, defining a single
set based on this complex property” (Bouchard 2002).
While earlier approaches to determiner spreading, e.g. Androutsopoulou
(1995), Stavrou (1995), did not discuss its semantic contribution, it was noted
in passing by Anagnostopoulou (1994) that the determiner spreading construc-
tion is reminiscent of clitic doubling in Greek. This was also briefly mentioned in
Alexiadou and Wilder (1998), Campos and Stavrou (2004), but to my knowledge
this comparison has been first made explicit in Tsakali (2008). Tsakali (op.cit.)
provides substantial evidence that multiple definiteness in Greek is subject to the
Prominence Condition in Heim (1982) similarly to clitic-doubling, as analyzed by
Anagnostopoulou (1994).
In what follows, I will first offer a basic description of the Prominence Condition
and how this can be used to account for object clitic doubling in Greek. I then show
how Tsakali applies this to the Greek determiner spreading data.
2.2.1	 The Prominence Condition and Greek clitic doubling
Heim (1982) is concerned with the interpretation of definites, indefinites and pro-
nouns. One major claim made by Heim is that definites differ from indefinites in
that the former but not the latter are subject to the Familiarity Condition. On this
view, definites are by definition familiar, while indefinites are genuinely novel, see
the discussion in the introduction. As Heim points out, however, there are cases
that violate the familiarity condition: these include the so called associative ana-
phoric use of definites as in (15).
	 (15)	 John read [a book about Schubert]i and wrote to the authorj.
In (15) above the author refers to the author of the book although there is no previ-
ous mention of an author. Nevertheless there is a semantic difference between (15)
and (16). In Heim’s terms “by the time ‘the author’ comes along, the file already
contains a card i describing a book about Schubert that John read, but it does not
contain any card describing an author. One adds a card j with the elaborate entry
‘is author of o’ and not simply is an author. Therefore (15) is clearly felt to convey
more information than (16).
	 (16)	 John read a book about Schubert and wrote to an author
The contrast between (15) and (16) shows that definites can be novel and that
there is a difference between a novel definite and a true indefinite. In addition,
Heim shows that there is a striking asymmetry between the referential properties
of pronominal elements and those of definite descriptions.	
22	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	 (17)	 John read a book about Schubert and wrote to him
While the DP the author in (15) can be associated with the author of the book, him
in (17) fails to get this reading. The option of accommodating a definite descrip-
tion is not available for pronouns. In order to capture these facts, Heim (1982)
suggested that pronouns obey a constraint, which is stricter than the Familiarity
Condition and is referred to as the Prominence Condition. This condition states
that the corresponding definite DPs must be familiar in a strict sense (necessar-
ily anaphoric), while the elements falling under the Familiarity Condition can be
novel. In other words, definite DPs can be ambiguous between a familiar and a
novel reading, while pronouns are unambiguously familiar.
According to Anagnostopoulou (1994), the doubled DP in the Greek clitic
doubling construction is unambiguously familiar and necessarily denotes old
information. The observation made is that doubling suppresses novel readings
of definites and therefore the associated definite DPs in doubling constructions
are identified as unambiguously familiar. In this respect doubled DPs obey the
Prominence Condition. This is the reason why doubled DPs cannot be understood
as novel (Example (18) from Anagnostopoulou 1994).
	 (18)	 a.	O Janis diavase [ena vivlio gia ton Arthur Milleri]j enthusiatsike ke thelise
na gnorisi ton sigrafeak apo konta
			
John read [a book about Arthur Milleri]j, he got enthousiastic, and he
wanted to know the authork.
			 the author:	 (i)	 Arthur Miller himself (k = i)
						 (ii)	 the author of the book (k related to j)
		 b.	
Janis diavase [ena vivlio gia ton Arthur Milleri]j enthusiatsike ke thelise
na ton gnorisi ton sigrafeai apo konta
			
John read [a book about Arthur Milleri]j, he got enthousiastic, and he
wanted to know the authori.
			 the author:	 necessarily the already established member of discourse
The undoubled DP ton sigrafea (the author) in (18a) is ambiguous: under one
reading its referent is already present in the discourse (the familiar reading), that
is Arthur Miller himself, and under the second reading (the associative anaphoric
reading) it introduces a novel referent, namely the author of the book about Arthur
Miller that John read. The presence of the clitic in (18b) suppresses the second op-
tion; the author in this example will necessarily pick its referent from the previously
mentioned proper name.
The ambiguity in (18a) shows that definite DPs in Greek can be novel, while
(18b) shows that if the same DP undergoes clitic doubling, it cannot be interpreted
as novel. In other words, clitic doubling will not be used in (18b), if the author
cannot be linked to a contextual salient element. Consider Example (19):
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 23
	 (19)	 a.	
O Janis diavase [ena vivlio gia to Mai tu ’68] enthusiastike ke thelise na
gnorisi ton sigrafea apo konta
			
John read [a book about May 1968], he got enthousiastic, and he wanted
to know the author.
		 b.	 *
O Janis diavase [ena vivlio gia to Mai tu ’68] enthusiastike ke thelise na
			 ton gnorisi ton sigrafea apo konta
			
John read [a book about May 68], he got enthousiastic, and he wanted to
know the author.
(19b) shows that when a definite DP is novel and needs to be interpreted as an
associative anaphoric use, it cannot be doubled.
Thus, clitic doubling is subject to the Prominence Condition, which accounts
for the fact that novel definites cannot undergo clitic doubling successfully.
2.2.2	 Determiner spreading and Prominence
Building on Anagnostopoulou’s (1994) description and analysis, Tsakali (op.cit.)
investigates Greek determiner spreading from the Prominence perspective. Her ar-
gument is built as follows: if both clitic doubling and determiner spreading are sub-
ject to the Prominence Condition, we would expect doubly marked definites to be
infelicitous in the same environments that clitic doubling is odd. Anagnostopoulou
(1994) provides several environments in which clitic doubling is odd in Greek, and
Tsakali tested nearly all of them for the determiner spreading construction. Let us
consider these environments here one by one.
A first case is the one involving non-familiar definites. The Prominence
Condition leads us to expect that both kinds of doubling are out. As Tsakali shows,
this is indeed the case. Contrast (18) with (20):
	 (20)	 a.	
O Janis diavase ena vivlio gia ton Arthur Miller enthusiatsike ke thelise
na gnorisi ton diasimo sigrafea apo konta
			
John read [a book about Arthur Milleri]j, he got enthousiastic, and he
wanted to know the famous authork.
			 the famous author:	 (i)	 Arthur Miller himself (k = i)
								 (ii)	 the author of the book (k related to j)
		 b.	
O Janis diavase ena vivlio gia ton Arthur Miller enthusiatsike ke thelise
na gnorisi to diasimo to sigrafea apo konta
			
John read [a book about Arthur Milleri]j, he got enthousiastic, and he
wanted to know the famous authori.
			 the famous author:	
necessarily the already established member of
discourse
24	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
In (20a) the definite DP the famous author can be understood as Arthur Miller
himself (the familiar reading) or as the author of the book that John read who also
happen to be famous. However, in (20b) the interpretation of the famous author
can only be understood as Arthur Miller himself. That is to say that double definite
suppresses the ambiguity in novel definites in the same fashion as clitic doubling
does, as in (18) above.
A second case sensitive to the Prominence Condition is definites non-opaque
to extraction, as in (21). These have been analyzed as novel definites (Fiengo 1987)
in the sense of Heim (1982).
	 (21)	 a.	 Who did you see a good picture of?
		 b.	 *Who did you see the good picture of?
		 c.	 Who did you see the best picture of?
Similar facts with respect to opaqueness of definites have been observed in Greek
clitic doubling (Example (22) from Anagnostopoulou 1994).
	 (22)	 a.	 Distihos	 o	 Janis	ekapse	 mia	 orea	fotografia	tu	 eaftu	tu
			 unfortunately	the	John	burned	a	 nice	picture	 the	self	 his
			 ‘Unfortunately John burned a nice picture of himself’
		b.	
?*Distihos	 o	 Janis	ekapse	 tin	 orea	fotografia	tu	 eaftu	tu
			 unfortunately	the	John	 burned	the	nice	 picture	 the	self	 his
			 ‘Unfortunately John burned the nice picture of himself’
		 c.	 Distihos	 o	 Janis	ekapse	 tin	oreoteri	fotografia	tu	 eaftu	tu	
			 unfortunately	the	John	burned	the	nicest	 picture	 the	self	 his
			 ‘Unfortunately John burned the nicest picture of himself’
		 d.	 Distihos	 o	 Janis	ekapse	 tin	fotografia	tu	 eaftu	tu	
			 unfortunately	the	John	 burned	the	picture	 the	self	 his	
			 pu	 mu	 aresi	perissotero	
			 that	me-cl	like	 most
			 ‘Unfortunately John burned the picture of himself that I like most’
Under the assumption that (22a, b, c) are novel definites, Anagnostopoulou
points out that it comes as no surprise that these novel definites cannot undergo
doubling (23):
	 (23)	 a.	 Kathe	pedhi	psahni	 tin	 kaliteri	 fotografia	tu	 eaftu	 tu	 gia	na tin	
			 every	child	 is looking for	the	best	 picture	 the	self	 his	to	 it-cl	
			 kremasi	ston	tiho	
			 hang	 on	 the wall
			 ‘Every child is looking for the best picture of himself to put it on the wall’
		 b.	*?Kathe	 pedhi	tin	psahni	 tin	kaliteri	fotografia	tu	 eaftu	tu	
			every	 child	 is	 looking for	 the	 best	 picture	 the	 self	 his	
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 25
			 gia	na	 tin	 kremasi	ston	tiho
			 to	it-cl	hang	on	 the	 wall	
			 ‘Every child is looking for the best picture of himself to put it on the wall’
Tsakali (2008) shows that the same restriction holds for determiner spreading as
well, see (24).
	 (24)	*?Kathe	pedhi	psahni	 tin	kaliteri	tin	 fotografia	tu	 eaftu	 tu	
		 every	 child	 is looking for	 the	 best	 the	 picture	 the	 self	 his
		 gia	na	 tin	kremasi	ston	 tiho	
		for	
subj	it	 hang	 on	 the wall
		 ‘Every child is looking for the best picture of himself to put it on the wall’
Note that although the noun phrase tin kaliteri tin fotografia (the best picture)
seems odd, the ungrammaticality in (24) is not due to this, as shown in (25a-b),
from Tsakali (2008).
	 (25)	 a.	 O	 kaliteros	o	 fititis	 tha	pari	 ipotrofia	
			 the	best	 the	student-nom	will	take-3sg	scholarship
			 ‘The best student will take a scholarship’
		b. ?*O	 kathigitis	 psahni	 ton	kalitero	to	 fititi	
			 The	teacher-nom	 is looking for	 the	 best	 the	 student	
			 gia	na	 tu	 dosi	ipotrofia	
			 for	subj	him	 give	 scholarship
			 ‘The teacher is looking for the best student to give him a scholarship’
A third case is the object position of the main verb eho ‘have’. This verb, like its
English counterpart, must take an indefinite object (26). Example (26c) shows that
ti dulia pu tu aksizi (‘the job he deserves’) is novel and cannot undergo neither clitic
doubling nor determiner spreading, as in (26d) and (27d), from Anagnostopoulou
(1994) and Tsakali (2008) respectively:
	 (26)	 a.	 Ehi	dulia	
			 has	job
			 ‘He has a job’
		 b.	*Ehi	 ti	 dulia	
			 has	 the	job
		 c.	 Ehi	ti	 dulia	pu	 tu	 aksizi	
			 has	 the	 job	 that	him	deserves
			 ‘#He has the job he deserve’
		d. ?*Tin	 ehi	 ti	 dulia	 pu	 tu	 aksizi	 o	 Janis	
			 it-cl	 has	 the	 job	 that	 him-cl	deserves	 the	 John	 	
26	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	 (27)	 a.	 ehi	kali	 dulia	
			 has	good	job
			 ‘He has a good job’
		 b.	*ehi	 ti	 kali	 dulia	
			 has	 the	good	job
			 ‘#He has the good job’
		 c.	 ehi	ti	 kali	 dulia	pu	 tu	 aksizi	
			 has	the	good	job	 that	him-cl	deserves
			 ‘He has the good job he deserves’
		 d.	 *ehi	 tin	kali		 ti	 dulia	 pu	 tu	 aksizi	
			 has	 the	good	 the	 job	 that	 him-cl	deserves
			 ‘He has the good job he deserves’
Other cases where definite DPs are ruled out both in clitic doubling constructions
and in a doubly marked definite construction involve definites as objects of pos-
sessive have (inalienable possession):
	 (28)	 a.	 *o	 Janis	ehi	tin	 miti	
			 the	John	has	the	nose
			 ‘John has a nose’
		 b.	 o	 Janis	 ehi	 miti	 tu	 patera	tu	
			 the	 John	 has	 the nose	the-gen	father	 his
			 ‘John has his father’s nose’
		 c.	 *o	 Janis	tin	 ehi	tin	miti	tu	 patera	tu	
			 the	John	 it-cl	has	the	nose	the-gen	father	 his	
			 ‘John has his father’s nose’
	 (29)	 a.	 o	 Janis	ehi	 tin	 megali	miti	 tu	 patera	tu	
			 the	John	has	the	big	 nose	the-gen	father	his
			 ‘John has his father’s big nose#
		 b.	 *o	 Janis	ehi	 tin	 megali	ti	 miti	 tu	 patera	tu	
			 the	John	has	the	big	 the	nose	the-gen	father	 his
			 ‘John has his father’s big nose’
Another case involves some definite expressions, which are allowed to occur
in existential sentences escaping the Definiteness Constraint (as proposed by
Woisetschlaeger, 1983) (Example (30) from Anagnostopoulou 1994).3 These can-
not undergo clitic doubling and do not permit determiner spreading (31), from
Tsakali (2008):
3.	 Tsakali notes that native speakers are split into two groups with respect to permitting defi-
nites in existential constructions. But the ones who allow constructions like (a), they also agree
with the rest of the paradigm.
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 27
	 (30)	 a.	 anamesa	sta	hartia	 mu	ihe	 tin	 fotografia	tu	 gamu	 enos	nearu
			 among	 in	 the papers	my	 had	the	 picture	 of	 wedding	a	 young	
			 zevgariu	filon	 mu	
			 couple	 friends	my
			‘There was the wedding picture of a young couple of friends of mine among
my papers’
		 b.	 *anamesa	 sta	hartia	 mu	tin	 ihe	 tin	 fotografia	 tu	gamu	
			 among	 in	 the papers	 my	 it-cl	had	the	picture	 of	wedding	
			 enos	nearu	 zevgariu	filon	 mu
			 a	 young	couple	 friends	 my
			‘There was the wedding picture of a young couple of friends of mine among
my papers’
	 (31)	 a.	 anamesa	sta	hartia	 mu	ihe	 tin	 orea	fotografia	 tu	 gamu	 enos
			 among	 in	 the papers	my	had	the	nice	picture	 the	wedding	a
			 nearu	 zevgariu	filon	 mu	
			 young	couple	 friends	my
			
‘There was a nice wedding picture of a young couple of friends of mine
among my papers’
		 b. *?anamesa	 sta	 hartia	 mu	 ihe	 tin	 orea	 ti	 fotografia	tu	 gamu	
			 among	 in	 the papers	 my	 had	 the	 nice	 the	picture	 the	wedding	
			 enos	nearu	 zevgariu	filon	 mu
			 a	 young	couple	 friends	my
			
‘There was a nice wedding picture of a young couple of friends of mine
among my papers’
As is well known, definite DPs can be interpreted as referential or as attributive
(Donnellan 1966). Greek definites are also ambiguous between a referential and
an attributive reading, but doubled DPs can only be interpreted as referential
(Anagnostopoulou 1994).
	 (32)	 a.	 Spania	 haidevo	tin	 mikroteri	gata	
			 Seldom	pet	 the	smallest	 cat	
			 ‘I seldom pet the smallest cat’
		 b.	 Spania	 tin	 haidevo	tin	mikroteri	gata	
			 Seldom	it-cl	pet	 the	smallest	 cat	
			 ‘I seldom pet the smallest cat’
(32a) can be assigned a meaning according to which what I pet is whichever cat
happens to be the smallest in several events containing various groups of cats one
of which is the smallest (the attributive meaning). (32b) cannot be assigned an at-
tributive reading, I can only talk about a particular cat, see also the discussion in
Chapter 3 on the readings of French superlatives under determiner doubling. As
Tsakali correctly points out, in (33) also only the referential reading is available.
28	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	 (33)	 Spania	 haidevo	tin	 mikroteri	ti	 gata	
		 Seldom	pet	 the	smallest	 the	cat
		 ‘I seldom pet the smallest cat’
The next environment involves doubling and generic DPs. It has been claimed
that generic DPs can freely undergo clitic doubling (Anagnostopoulou 1994). As
pointed out by Anagnostopoulou, generics seem to be referential to some extent,
that is, in the sense that they express reference to kinds. Though generics are not
subject to the Familiarity Condition as their reference is not identified with some
particular entity, (34) shows that clitic doubling with generics is optional and the
same holds for double marked definites in (35), from Tsakali (2008).
	 (34)	 Genika	 (ta)	 antipatho	ta	 provlimata	
		 generally	 them	dislike	 the	 problems	
		 ‘Generally, I dislike problems’
	 (35)	 Genika	 antipatho	ta	 megala	(ta)	provlimata	
		 generally	dislike	 the	big	 the	 problems	
		 ‘Generally, I dislike big problems’
There are two more environments to complete the picture on the similarities be-
tween clitic doubling and determiner spreading, not discussed in Tsakali (2008),
to which I turn next. The first one involves partitive NPs. Assuming that the
Prominence Condition implies familiarity in the strictest possible sense, we would
not expect specific or partitive indefinites to undergo doubling of any kind in
Greek. The case of clitic doubling is discussed in Anagnostopoulou (1994), who
does not provide examples to illustrate this point, but the ungrammaticality of
(36) demonstrates this:
	(36)	
#ta	 ida	dio	 apo	ta	 pedia	 /dio	 pedia
		 them	saw	two	of	 the	children	
/two	children
Unsurprisingly, by now, ungrammatical results are obtained in the context of mul-
tiple determiners (see also Manolessou 2000).
	(37)	
#ida	ta	 dio	ta	 pedia
		 saw	 the	two	the	children
The second one involves quantified NPs. Anagnostopoulou (1994) points out that
doubling is impossible with universally quantified NPs headed by kathe ‘every’ in
Greek:
	 (38)	*ton	 ida	 kathe	andra
		 him	saw	every	man
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 29
According to Anagnostopoulou (1994), quantified NPs do not refer to entities,
hence the strict Familiarity Condition cannot be observed in such cases. Even if
these elements are treated as D-linked, the ungrammaticality of (38) can be dealt
with on a par with partitives and specifics. Spreading is also out with the Greek o
kathe ‘each’ phrases:
	 (39)	*ton	 apoheritisa	 ton	kathe	filo	 mu
		 him	said-1sg goodbye	the	 every	 friend	 mine
This supports an analysis based on the Prominence Condition. (39) above indicates
that referentiality is a crucial property of doubling in Greek.
No determiner spreading is permitted with either of these quantifiers:
	 (40)	 a.	 kathe	megalo	pjato
			 every	big	 plate
		 b.	 kathe	pjato	megalo
			 every	plate	big
		 c.	 *kathe	megalo	kathe	pjato
			 every	big	 every	plate
	 (41)	*to	 kathe	to	 piato
		 the	every	the	plate
The ungrammaticality of the above could be accounted for in two ways. First, as
already mentioned, Giannakidou (2004) argues that to kathe N is not a DP, since
o kathe is a complex Q-det, and in Greek doubling happens only with definites,
see also Kyriakaki (2011). Second, Lazaridou-Chatzigoga (2012) argues that such
expressions are inherently familiar, hence we do not expect them to allow clitic-
doubling or appear in determiner spreading to begin with.
In conclusion, Greek determiner spreading has a semantic/pragmatic effect as-
sociated with familiarity in the strictest possible sense. This is what the comparison
to clitic-doubling clearly shows. Given the affinity between the two constructions,
the next question is whether a similar structural analysis of the two patterns is to
be pursued. I turn to this in the next section.
2.3	 Towards an analysis
2.3.1	 Clitic doubling in the DP
Several analyses of clitic doubling in general and of the Greek doubling in particu-
lar have been proposed in the literature (see Anagnostopoulou 2006 for an over-
view and references and Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou 2000, Anagnostopoulou
2013 for some more references on Greek doubling). My discussion here cannot
30	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
do justice to this rich literature. For the purposes of my investigation, I will limit
myself to Anagnostopoulou’s (1994) analysis of clitic-doubling here, as this is the
only one based on Prominence.
Anagnostopoulou proposes that the doubling clitic in clitic doubling environ-
ments realizes a functional head, in the specifier of which a strong/pre-­suppositional
noun phrase is licensed (see (42) and e.g. Sportiche 1998).
	(42)	 clP
DP cl′
cl
to spiti
to
the
the house
XP
Adopting an analysis along those lines for determiner spreading would involve
generating either the strings D-N, e.g. to spiti ‘the house’, or the string D-A, e.g. to
megalo, ‘the big’, in Spec, DP, and introducing the second article in the D position.
A version of this analysis is found in Horrocks & Stavrou (1986), and is discussed in
e.g. Leu (2008), and Panagiotidis & Marinis (2011). Leu assumes that it is the D-A
string that is situated in Spec,DP, and the determiner that precedes the A actually
lexicalizes the extended projection of the adjective. Panagiotidis and Marinis, in
contrast, assume that the D-A string is an elliptical DP. Their approach shares with
the ones discussed in the next section the intuition that the second article realizes
a predication relationship.
2.3.2	 Determiner spreading does not involve an article
realizing a predication relation
As already mentioned, several approaches argue that the adjectival article realizes
a predicative head. In particular, Campos (2005) proposes an analysis of multiple
determiners in Megleno-Romance, which one could principle adopt for the Greek
examples. According to Campos, multiple determiners in Megleno-Romance have
the following structure: the sequence Det + N is generated in SpecDP. The second
article is generated under AgrP and parallel to a clitic in clitic left-dislocated con-
structions serves a dual purpose: (a) to identify the pro under FP, and (b) to allow
the predication of the adjective on the noun. In other words, the second article
does not contribute anything related to definiteness, it is a marker of agreement
and predication:
	 (43)	 [DP	to	 alogoi	 [AgrP	 to	 [FP tebeliko	 [N proi ] ]]]
			 the	horse		 the		 lazy
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 31
From this perspective, determiner spreading resembles clitic left dislocation struc-
tures in Greek, see (44), which have been argued by some authors to have a clitic
doubling input structure (see Kayne 1994, Agouraki 1992, and others).
	 (44)	 ti	 Maria,	 tin	ida	ktes
		 the	Mary-acc	her	 saw	 yesterday
		 ‘As for Mary, I saw her yesterday’
Clearly, as Campos and Stavrou (2004) also point out, in this analysis, the second
determiner is responsible for the predicative nature of the adjective. A variant of
this idea is thus put forth in Campos and Stavrou (2004). From their perspective
then, the analysis of the spreading (or in their terms poly-definite) pattern is as
in (45): the article preceding the adjective realizes a predicative head, while the
sequence D-N is the subject of predication. In their analysis, the D + N complex
forms a complex head, i.e. it is in D. Thus there is only one DP, and the second
determiner is a predicative marker:
	(45)	 DP
D FP
F PredP
Spec Pred′
Pred A
pro
i pena i asimenja
pro
the pen the silver
While this captures the restrictions on adjectives seen above and it is certainly the
case that articles across language can function as predicative markers, I can see
four problems for this analysis, see also Panagiotidis & Marinis (2011) for some
additional remarks. The first one concerns the occurrence of more than one adjec-
tive, which triggers the occurrence of a further determiner. The second concerns
the permutation in word order present within the Greek DP, discussed in detail in
Androutsopoulou (1995). The third problem is that I cannot see how this analysis
can offer a parallel to clitic doubling, in the sense that from the perspective of a den
Dikken (2006) type of approach, one expects the extra determiners to be seman-
tically vacuous. In other words, how can we account for the semantic/pragmatic
effects that the presence of an additional determiner brings about, if this is just
32	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
a predicative marker? These cannot follow from a simple predication structure.
Fourth, it is not clear why adjectives that are predicative such as numerals cannot
appear in the determiner doubling construction. Finally, the authors claim that in
(45) D + N form a complex head. This predicts that we expect to find no DPs dis-
playing ‘partial determiner spreading’, contrary to fact. As Alexiadou and Wilder
(1998), and Stavrou (1995) report, in Greek strings such as the big the red book and
the red book the big are marked, but still possible.
2.3.3	 Establishing the generalizations concerning
adjectival distribution (again)
Let me consider once again and in some more detail the restrictions on adjectival
modifiers in the case of Greek determiner spreading and then come to other poten-
tial analyses. As already mentioned, and Alexiadou and Wilder (1998), Kolliakou
(2004), and Campos and Stavrou (2004) among others discuss, the restrictions on
the modifiers seem to be related to predicativity/intersectivity. This can be observed
by the fact that all instances of adjectives preceded by determiners in noun phrases
can appear in a clause across the copula:
	 (46)	 to	 vivlio	to	 oreo	 To	 vivlio	 ine	 oreo.
		 the	book	 the	nice	 The	book	 is	 nice.
The same cannot be said of adjectives in single noun phrases, as there are many
cases where an adjective-noun combination is not paraphrasable with a pred-
icative clause. This is true not only of intensional adjectives instantiating what
Higginbotham (1985) calls ‘autonymous theta marking’, but also of certain ‘simple’
evaluative adjectives like kalos ‘good’ in their non-intersective use (Vendler 1967),
see the contrast below from Campos & Stavrou (2004):
	 (47)	 a.	 Ekane	 tin	 apli	 skepsi	 oti…	 #I	 skepsi	 ine	apli
			 Made-3SG	the	 mere/plain	 thought	that	 The	 thought	is	 simple
			 He/she made the mere thought…
		 b.	 I	 Maria	ine	kali	 tragudistria	 #I	 Maria	ine	kali
			 The	
Maria	
is	good	
singer	 The	
Maria	
is	good
			 Maria is a good singer
These facts lead to the following descriptive generalization, from Campos &
Stavrou (2004):
	 (48)	 a.	all instances of (articled) adjectives in noun phrases can be used as predi-
cates in a predicative clause (cf. Alexiadou & Wilder 1998)
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 33
		 b.	the opposite does not hold, as there are predicative adjectives that cannot
be freely employed preceded by an article, although they obviously have
a predicative source. (cf. Manolessou 2000, Alexiadou 2007)
Such adjectives include: (i) adjectives modifying deverbal nouns, e.g. epistemic/
modal ones:4
	(49)	
??I	 sinantisi	tus	 i	 tixea/pithani.
		 The	meeting	 theirs	the	 accidental/possible
		 ‘Their meeting was accidental/possible’
(ii) adjectives that cannot be interpreted restrictively, e.g. evaluative/speaker ori-
ented ones.
	(50)	a. ?*	To	 mageftiko	 to	 topio	 mas	 afise	 afonus
			 The	 magnificent	the	place	us	 left	 speechless
			 ‘The magnificent landscape left us speechless’
		 b.	 *O	 epikindinos	o	 kakopios	telika	 skotose	tus	astinomikus
			 the	dangerous	 the	thug	 finally	killed	 the	policemen
			 ‘The dangerous thug finally killed the policemen’
Thus the correct generalization seems to be as in (51), from Campos & Stavrou
(2004), Alexiadou (2007):
	 (51)	 The possibility of an adjective to appear across the copula in a predicative clause
is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for its felicitous participation in a
multi-definite construction. What is additionally required is that the adjective
be restrictively interpreted.
4.	 Lekakou and Szendrői (2007), and Leu (2008) report that (i) and (ii) including non-pred-
icative and non-intersective adjectives are fine:
	 (i)	 o	 proigumenos	o	 prothipurgos	 pethane
		the	previous	 the	 prime minister	 died
		‘The previous prime minister died’
	 (ii)	i	 olandiki	i	 isvoli	 mas	kseklirise
		the	 Dutch	 the	 invasion	 us	 wiped out
		‘The Dutch invasion wiped us out’
First of all, there seems to be indeed speaker variation concerning the type of adjectives allowed
in determiner spreading. Those speakers that accept (i) and (ii), as Lekakou & Szedrői correctly
point out, do so if a restrictive interpretation of the adjective is possible. If this is not the case,
(i) and (ii) are out. This would suggest that the adjectives are co-erced to behave like restrictive
modifiers. A more systematic investigation of these restrictions is certainly in order. It might
well be that in some dialects a grammaticalization of the Greek article is underway, of the type
reported in Chapter 4 for Albanian.
34	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
What does it mean for the adjective to be restrictively interpreted? As discussed
in Katz (2008), restrictivity sets up an opposition between those nouns that are
A and those nouns that are not A; as Katz puts it, “utterance of a DP with a re-
strictive adjective seems to have consequences for a group of entities that are not
denoted by the DP”.5
2.3.4	 Greek determiner spreading does not involve lose apposition
An issue that all analyses of Greek determiner spreading seem to agree upon is that
this surely cannot be a case of lose apposition, see Doron (1994), as this exhibits
a number of characteristics that distinguish it from determiner spreading and are
at odds with the generalization in (51). For instance, as Alexiadou and Wilder
(1998) note, lose appositive structures that resemble spreading are always set off by
heavy pauses, usually marked in writing by commas, while determiner spreading
constructions are not:
	 (52)	 To	 spiti	 to	 kokkino,	to	 megalo,	itan	poli	 akrivo
		 the	house	the	 red,	 the	big,	 was	very	expensive
		 ‘The red house, the big one, was very expensive’
Lose apposition, although it resembles spreading, can occur with indefinite noun
phrases as well. Androutsopoulou (1995) cites the following example of apposition:
	 (53)	 Fere	 mou	ena	vivlio,	 ena	kalo!
		 Bring	me	 a	 book,	 a	 good
		 ‘Bring me a book, a good one!’
In this case, as in (52), heavy pauses are obligatory to maintain grammaticality.
Kariaeva (2004) further notes that appositive DPs can only occur to the right
of the noun phrase and cannot precede the DP that contains the lexical noun
(54a), whereas DPs in determiner spreading constructions can precede the DP
that contains the noun (54b):
	 (54)	 a.	*Idha,	 to	 megalo,	to	 spiti
				 I-saw	 the	 big	 the	house
		
b.	Idha	
to	megalo	
to	spiti
			 I-saw	the	big	 the	house
5.	 This seems to be sufficient to account for the focus-presupposition data mentioned earlier
in the text. See the discussion below.
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 35
Hence I conclude, in agreement with Alexiadou and Wilder (1998) that spreading
of definiteness in Greek does not involve lose apposition. From the perspective of
Lekakou and Szendrői (2012), however, the above facts do not show that Greek
determiner spreading is not close apposition, which has a different set of proper-
ties.6
I will come back to that.
2.3.5	 Greek determiner spreading involves a reduced relative clause structure
Having established that (51) guides the distribution of determiner spreading in
Greek, it seems reasonable to adopt Alexiadou and Wilder’s (1998) analysis, build-
ing on Kayne (1994), according to which adjectives are predicates in reduced rela-
tive clauses, see also Cinque (2010), and Larson (in press).
In order to capture both the interpretation and the restrictions in the use of
adjectives as well as the fact that an additional adjective triggers an additional de-
terminer, an analysis of this spreading pattern in terms of reduced relative clauses
goes as follows. Adjectives are generated as predicates within a reduced relative
clause (55), cf. Jacobs & Rosenbaum (1968). On this view, adjectives are inter-
preted as conjunctive modifiers, similar to restrictive relative clauses. Subsequent
raising of the adjective to Spec,CP leads to the word order, D-A > D-N; further
raising of the DP1 the book to SpecDP2 leads to the word order D-N > D-A. Note
that the structure in (55) is actually very close to the representation of clitic dou-
bling in (42):
	(55)	 DP2
D′
D
the book
the book red
the
CP
red C′
C IP
6.	 As we will see in the next chapter, certain of the properties of apposition apply to Romanian
determiner doubling.
36	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
According to Alexiadou and Wilder (1998), spreading of determiners in the case
of adjectival modification in Greek is a sub-case of indirect modification (Sproat &
Shih 1988), see the discussion in the introduction, and Cinque (2010), Larson (in
press). Indirect modifiers are, on such analyses, reduced relative clauses that may
be adjoined outside the scope of ‘specifiers of N’ (in terms of the DP-hypothesis,
adjoined higher than NP within DP). In addition, indirect modification permits
intersective (predicative) modifiers only. The structure above correctly gives the
restrictive interpretation of the modifier and in addition the restriction on pred-
icativity/intersectivity as well the possibility of an additional determiner, which is
considered a case of relative clause embedding, see (62) below.
Crucial to such an analysis is the idea that the definite determiner takes as its
complement the relative clause (see e.g. Stockwell & al. 1973, Partee 1973, 1975). An
interpretation of this structure is given in Katz (2008). First, the CP has the denota-
tion in (56), following the rule of Predicate Modification in Heim & Kratzer (1998):
	 (56)	 λx. x is a book & x is red
Then the predicate combines with the definite determiner by functional application
(Heim & Kratzer 1998), eventually yielding an entity. The definite determiner pre-
supposes that the full clause is true of exactly one entity. Hence we get the semantic
effects described above. In others word, in the context of determiner spreading,
(56) presupposes that there exist books that are red and books that are not red.
As already mentioned, spreading in Greek instantiated with the definite de-
terminer is associated with familiarity. This is expected under the reduction of
determiner spreading to clitic doubling, which involves definites only and which
suppresses novel readings of definites. The question that arises is how this is ex-
plained by the input structure in (55). In other words, what would block the pres-
ence of an indefinite noun phrase in the subject position of the relative clause.
First note that, as Kariaeva (2004) has also argued, the indefinite determiner is
actually a quantifier/cardinal numeral in Greek, and thus similar to other quanti-
fiers in the language it disallows spreading as well as doubling (see (40) above).
This view on ena is adopted also in Velegrakis (2011). I will discuss the properties
of this element in Chapter 5 in some detail.
	 (57)	*ena	 vivlio	 ena	 kokino
		a	 book	a	 red
Stavrou and Terzi (2008) and Alexopoulou and Folli (2011) provide further sup-
porting evidence for this analysis. The indefinite article one and (simplex) Qs or
cardinals (i) behave alike with respect to Split Topicalization, (58a), (ii) answer
questions of quantity, (58b–c), (iii) occur in copulative clauses across the copula
(58d), and, (iv) license N-ellipsis, (58d–e).
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 37
	 (58)	 a.	 Vivlia	agorase	 pola/tria/ena	 fetos
			 books	bought-3s	many/three/one	this-year
			 ‘Books, he bought many/three/one this year’
		 b.	 Posa	 vivlia	 diavases	to	 kalokeri?
			 how-many	books	read-2s	 the	summer
			 ‘How many books did you read during the summer?’
		c.	 Pola/tria/ena
			 many/three/one
		 d.	 Ta	 vivlia/to	 vivlio	pu	 agorase	 me	 to	 xartziliki	 tu
			 the	books/the	 book	 that	 bought-3s	with	the	pocket-money	his
			 ine	pola/deka/ena
			 are	many/ten/one
			
‘The books/the book that he bought with his pocket money are/is many/
ten/one’
		 e.	 I	 Maria	agorase	dio	 foremata	 fetos	 ala	 i	 aderfi	tis	
			 the	Mary	 bought	 two	dresses	 this-year	but	the	sister	 her	
			 pola/ena
			 many/one
			 ‘Mary bought two dresses this year, but her sister many/one’
Giannakidou and Stavrou (1999) have shown that elided nouns in Greek can be
licensed by any overt agreeing element in a specifier position preceding the ellipsis
site (adjective, quantifier, cardinal numeral). This supports an analysis of Greek
one as a cardinal numeral. The above facts also show that an analysis of the pattern
in terms of N-ellipsis, see below, cannot be correct, as spreading is out with the
quantifiers that normally participate in ellipsis.7
However, since noun phrases with quantifiers can appear in argument posi-
tions, one would expect to find strings such as to kokino ena vivlio ‘the red a book’,
contrary to fact. Though I do not have a full answer to this question,8 let me offer
the following comments. The semantics in (56) gives a reading, according to which
the clause is true of exactly one entitivy. In their discussion of some challenges for
7.	 A different account is offered in Alexiadou and Wilder (1998), who argued that in strings
such as the ones in (i), the first element is actually an indefinite determiner:
	(i)	 a.	 a big red book		 ena megalo kokkino vivlio
		b.	 a big book red		 ena megalo vivlio kokkino
		c.	 a red book big		 ena kokkino vivlio megalo
The authors descibe the phenomenon as indefiniteness harmony. I will come back to these data
in Section 5 of Chapter 5.
8.	 Thanks to Terje Lohndal for raising this issue.
38	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
the principle Maximize Presupposition, Alonso-Ovalle & al. (2011) point out that
only the strong definite article signaling familiarty is compatible with restrictive
relative clauses. For instance, consider (59), their (35):
	 (59)	 Ayer	 conocí	a	 la	 chica	que	está	saliend	con	 Juan
		 yesterday	 I met	 to	 the	 girl	 that	 is	 dating	 with	 Juan
		 ‘Yesterday, I met the girl that is dating Juan’
(59) is fully acceptable in a context where Juan’s girlfriend has been explicitly
introduced, while it is odd in a context where this is not the case. In Greek, the
same effect is found with clitic doubling and determiner spreading, since a DP
can be presuppositional only if preceded by the definite article. In other words,
familiarity associated with determiner spreading in Greek requires the presence of
both an external strong determiner and a DP in the subject position of the small
clause. If no D is present, we simply have a restrictive but not a presuppositional
interpretation, see the discussion Chapter 5, Section 5. This relates to the view
put forth in Alexopoulou and Folli (2011) that an overt D head in Greek has a
semantic/pragmatic effect.
Two further issues need to be addressed before I conclude this section.9 The
first one concerns the focus properties associated with the spreading construction.
As already mentioned, the element that comes first in the sequence is interpreted
as focused (e.g. tin asimenia tin pena ‘the silver the pen’). Kariaeva (2004) notes
when the Det-N sequence precedes the Det-Adjective sequence, this is infelicitous
in a context in which the nominal is not interpreted restrictively with respect to
its antecedent, see also the discussion in 3.6:
	(60)	a.	
??O	 Janis	 taise	 tis	 gates.	I	 gates	 i	 mikres	 itan	 pinasmenes.
			 the	 John	fed	 the	cats.	 The	cats	 the	small	 were	hungry.
			 ‘John fed the cats. The SMALL cats were hungry’
		 b.	 O	 Janis	 taise	ta	 zoa.	 I	 gates	i	 mikres	itan	 pinasmenes.
			 the	 John	 fed	 the	 animals.	The	 cats	 the	 small	 were	 hungry.
			 ‘John fed the cats. The SMALL cats were hungry’
According to Kariaeva, this is due to the fact that when the nominal precedes the
Det + Adjective string it has undergone movement to a Focus projection, and this
forces a restrictive interpretation. A similar explanation could be given within
the analysis adopted in Alexiadou and Wilder (1998). Strings where the nominal
DP precedes the Det + Adjective string are the result of DP movement to SpecDP
of the external determiner, a focus related movement, as argued for in Horrocks
and Stavrou (1987).
9.	 See Panagiotidis & Marinis (2011) for some criticism of the above approach.
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 39
The second issue relates to cases where a second adjective is present, such as (61):
	(61)	 to	 vivlio	 to	 kokkino	to	 megalo
		 the	book	 the	 red	 the	big
Does the presence of an additional determiner trigger a difference in interpretation?
In Alexiadou and Wilder (1998), stacked APs involve recursion, as in (62), our (7):
	(62)	[DP
D [CLAUSE [DP
D [CLAUSE
α AP ]] AP ]]
As we stated in our 1998 paper, this analysis predicts that each adjective requires
its own determiner. If in addition, a = DP, then we expect n + 1 determiners in a DP
modified by n APs. Since the denotation of the whole complex will make reference
to one (familiar) entity, and this is marked by the top-most, external, determiner,
we do not expect that each new determiner will change the interpretation of the
whole string.
3.	 Generalized multiple marking in Greek?
3.1	 Other contexts with double marking
Consider now the following examples, which superficially look similar to the ones
discussed up to now. In (63), we have a combination of a Det-Adjective and a Det-
Noun string:
	 (63)	 a.	 o	 eksipnos	 o	 gios	mu
			 the	intelligent	the	 son	 my
			 that smart-aleck of my son
		b.	to	athoo	 to	vrefos
			 the	 innocent	 the	 baby (Manolessou 2000: 162)
There are also constructions with multiple determiners that involve two nouns,
such as the ones in (64–66). (64) is an example of a binominal construction, (65)
is a pseudo-partitive construction, while (66) is a case of close appositive. Patterns
(63–65) involve double marking, as only two elements can appear in combination,
while (66) can in principle involve determiner spreading, see the discussion in the
next section:
	 (64)	 a.	 o	 Iudas	i	 thia	mu
			 the	Judas	 the	 aunt	my
			 that Judas of my aunt
40	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
		 b.	 to	 teras	 o	 adelfos	mu
			 the	monster	the	brother	my
			 that monster of my brother (Manolessou 2000: 162)
	 (65)	 a.	 to	 kuti	ta	 spirta
			 the	box	 the	matches
		 b.	 i	 konserva	to	 spanaki
			 the	 tin	 the	 spinach (Stavrou 1995)
	 (66)	 o	 aetos	to	 puli
		 the	eagle	the	bird
Since all of them involve multiple determiners, it would be very appealing if a
uniform analysis could be proposed. In fact, such a proposal has been recently
entertained by Lekakou and Szendrői (2012), and Panagiotidis and Marinis (2011),
see also Campos & Stavrou (2004), Stavrou (1996). Lekakou and Szendrői (2012),
in particular, propose to treat Greek determiner spreading as a case of close ap-
position, crucially similar to (66), see also Velegrakis (2011). A similar proposal is
put forth by Panagiotidis and Marinis (2011), who, however, analyze the second
determiner as a marker of predication relation (see den Dikken 2006), see the
discussion in the previous section.
In the following sections, I will show that not only (66), but also the other cases
shown in (63–65) are significantly different from the case of definiteness spreading
examined up to now, while arguably they have in common the property that refer-
ence is being made to a single entity. In what follows, I exemplify these differences.
3.2	 On the properties of the other multiple determiner patterns
Beginning with (63), note that unlike the examples discussed in Section 2, these
appear only in the D-A D-N order. The order D-N D A is possible, but then the
two examples do not receive the same interpretation:
	 (67)	 a.	 to	 vrefos	to	 athoo
			 the	 baby	 the	innocent
			 ‘restrictive reading: the baby that is innocent’
		b.	to	athoo	 to	 vrefos
			 the	innocent	the	 baby
			‘emotive reading: it actually has the opposite meaning, the not so innocent
baby; in fact the person might not be a baby at all’
	 (68)	 a.	 to	 kokino	to	 vivlio
			 the	red	 the	book
		b.	to	vivlio	 to	kokino
			 the	book	 the	red
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 41
Second, no restrictive/contrastive reading is available with these examples. While
in (69b), the interpretation is one according to which reference is made only to
the intelligent son, as opposed to the non-intelligent one(s), this is not the case in
(69c), where there is no presupposition that the person has two (or more) sons:
	 (69)	 a.	 o	 eksipnos	 gios	 mu D A N
			 the	clever	 son	 my
			 my clever son
		 b.	 o	 gios	 mu	 o	 eksipnos D N D A
			 the	son	 mine	 the	 clever
		 c.	 o	 eksipnos	 o	 gios	 mu D A D N
			 that	smart-aleck	of	my	 son
Importantly, (69c) does not refer to the son of mine who is intelligent, but it rather
has an emotive interpretation, which actually yields the opposite meaning; that is
the son is not intelligent at all.
Third, introducing a further adjective brings about a rather different interpre-
tation, which is much like the other cases of determiner spreading discussed in
Section 2, i.e. the green snake that is tail-less, and not the hypocrite who is green:
	 (70)	 to	 prasino	to	 kolovo	 to	 fidi
		 the	green	 the	tail-less	the	snake
Manolessou (2000) claims that here we are dealing with adjectives that function
as nominals, but gives no evidence for this claim. Evidence can be produced, how-
ever, based on Giannakidou and Stavrou’s (1999) discussion of substantivization
in Greek. I turn to this below.
First, as is clearly observed from the translations of the examples above, the
adjective bears an idiomatic interpretation. As in other cases of substantivization,
discussed in Giannakidou and Starvrou (1999), the adjective thus has a fixed inter-
pretation. In all cases, an animate referent is involved. In most cases, they appear
in set expressions, e.g. (69c).
Second, the distribution of these elements patterns like that of a nominal.
Importantly, like the examples discussed in Giannakidou and Stavrou (1999), they
do not accept adverbial/degree modification:
	 (71)	 a.	 I	 akamatides	olo				 kathonde
			 the	 lazybones	 the whole time	sit around-3PL
			 ‘The lazybones just sit around the whole time’
		 b.	*i	 poli	 akamatides	olo	 kathonde
			 the	 very	 lazybones	 sit around	 the whole time
		 c.	*to	 poli	athoo	 to	 vrefos
			 the	very	innocent	the	baby
42	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Moreover, similarly to the cases of substantivization discussed in Giannakidou and
Stavrou, they also do not build comparative and superlative form:
	 (72)	 a.	 *I	 pio	 akamatides	ine	eftihismeni
			 the	more	lazybones	 are	 happy
		 b.	*I	 pio	 ermi	fovunde
			 The	 more	 poor	 are afraid
		c.	*to	pio	 athoo	 to	 vrefos
			 the	more	innocent	the	 babay
We can thus conclude that the pattern exemplified in (63) above is indeed a case
of substantivization. Thus it does not involve an adjective and a DP, but rather a
string involving two DPs in combination. An analysis thereof will be presented
after I discuss examples of the type in (64), and the differences between (63) and
(64), as these two have been argued to be rather similar by Manolessou (2000).
Consider now (64), repeated below. Note that this pattern is restricted to two
DPs only, i.e. no third DP can appear:
	 (64)	 to	 teras	 i	 adelfi	mu
		 the	monster	the	 sister	 my
This example is reminiscent of the so-called N of an N construction discussed in
den Dikken (2006) and references therein:
	 (73)	 a.	 a jewel of a village
		 b.	 die	 idioten	van	een	doktoren
			 those	idiots	 of	 a	 doctors
In Germanic, the indefinite article prior to the subject of predication is described
by den Dikken as a spurious article. On this analysis, the construction involves
predicate inversion: the subject and the predicate are NumPs mediated by a Relator,
a, the spurious article:
	 (74)	 [RP [NumP village] [R′ a [NumP jewel]]]
The main argument for this analysis is that Dutch allows plural nouns in this con-
struction as well. Crucially, however, the singular article een ‘a’ must be inserted
regardless of the number of the following noun:
	 (75)	 a.	 die	 idiot	van	een	 doktor
			 that	idiot	of	 a	 doctor
		 b.	 die	 idioten	van	een	 doktoren
			 those	idiots	 of	 a	 doctors
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 43
The properties of the Greek pattern are not exactly identical to the Dutch one. First
of all, in Greek, although the two NPs do not have to agree in gender, they must
agree in number (cf. (76d)). Importantly, the articles preceding each of them agree
with the respective nouns in both gender and number:
	 (76)	 a.	 to	 teras	 i	 adelfi	mu
			 the-neut-sg	monster	the-fm-sg	sister	mine
		 b.	 to	 teras	 o	 adelfos	mu
			 the-neut-sg	monster	the-ms-sg	brother	mine
		 c.	 ta	 terata	 i	 adelfes	mu
			 the-neut-pl	monsters	the-fm-pl	sisters	 mine
		 d.	*ta	 terata	 to	 pedi	 tu
			 the-neut-pl	monster	the-neut-sg	child	his
		 e.	 o	 vlakas	i	 Maria
			 the-ms-sg	idiot	 the-fem-sg	Mary
		 f.	 i	 vlakes	 i fitites		 /*o fititis
			 the-ms-pl	stupid	 the-ms-pl	students/the-ms-sg-student
Similar observations hold for Spanish (Villalba 2007):
	 (77)	 a.	 el	 idiota	del	 vecino
			 the	idiot	 of-the	neighbor
		 b.	 los	 idiotas	de	los	 vecinos
			 the.pl	idiots	 of	the.pl	neighbors
		 c.	 la	 idiota	 de	la	 vecina
			 the.f	idiot.f	of	the.f	neighbor.f
		 d.	 las	 idiotas	 de	las	 vecinas
			 the.f.pl	idiot.f.pl	of	the.f.pl	neighbor.f.pl
Externally, the verb agrees with the whole DP, which suggests that there is only
one DP:
	(78)	a.	 to	 teras	 i	 adelfi	mu	 irthe	arga
			 the	monster	the	sister	 mine	came	late
		 b.	 ta	 terata	i	 i		 adelfes	 mu	 irthan	 arga
			 the	monsters	
the	
sisters	mine	
came-3pl	late
These agreement patterns suggest that in Greek the second determiner is internal
to the noun phrase it precedes, and thus cannot be analyzed as a relator in den
Dikken’s terms. I will come back to that in 3.4. Observe here that (64) differs from
(63) in that (63) obligatorily shows both gender and number agreement:
	 (79)	*o	 akamatis	 i	 adelfi	 mu
		the-ms	lazybones	the-fem	sister	mine
44	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Finally, note that in binominal constructions, the predicate is normally before the
subject. Reverse orders are either odd or have a different meaning.
The next pattern involving doubling of articles in Greek is the pseudopartitive
construction, as in (80) below. Again this pattern contains two DPs only, which
can only appear in the word order illustrated:
	 (80)	to	 kuti	ta	 spirta
		 the	box	 the	matches
As is well known (Selkirk 1977 and subsequent work), pseudopartitives as in (81)
are ambiguous: the phrase can be interpreted under a quantity reading, according
to which N1 bottle denotes a quantity/measure taken out from water. But, as an
alternative reading, N1 bottle can also be interpreted under a ‘container’ reading,
in which bottle does not denote a quantity or measure, but rather a concrete con-
tainer. In the latter reading, N2, water, refers to what is (or can be) contained in
this container or vessel.
	 (81)	 a bottle of water
(65) belongs to the type of juxtaposed pseudopartives, familiar from e.g. Germanic,
see (82) from Corver (1998):
	 (82)	 een	fles	 (*van)	wijn Dutch
		 a	 bottle	(of)	 wine
In Greek, juxtaposed pseudopartives may be preceded by a definite article, if we
also add a definite article to N2, (83c) but they might indefinite as well (83a).
	 (83)	 a.	 ena	bukali	 aroma
			 a	 bottle	perfume	
		 b.	*to	 bukali	aroma
			 the	bottle	 perfume
		c.	 to	 bukali	to	 aroma
			 the	bottle	 the	 perfume-nom/accus
Alexiadou, Haegeman and Stavrou (2007) summarize arguments taken from the
literature showing that the interpretation of (83c) does not involve any indication
of a relationship of measuring between N1 and N2. Crucially, N1 does not measure
a quantity taken of N2; N1 simply designates a space/vessel in which the referent
of N2 is contained, it is mostly a noun denoting a container: box, bottle, tin etc. In
other words, the only available interpretation of (83c) is the container interpreta-
tion. Second, instead of a DP, the complement of N1 can be a prepositional phrase
headed by the P me ‘with’:
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 45
	 (84)	 to	 bukali	me	 to	 aroma
		 the	bottle	 with	 the	perfume
These patterns have the following agreement scheme. Internally, and unlike the
other constructions, neither number nor gender agreement is necessary between
the two DPs, only Case. But the determiner that precedes N2 agrees with it in all
features:
	 (85)	 to	 kuti	ta	 spirta
		the-neut-sg	box	the-pl	matches
	(86)	i	 konserva	to	 spanaki
		the-fem	tin	 the-neut	spinach
	 (87)	 ta	 tria	 bukalja	i	 kolonia
		the-neut-pl	three	bottles	 the-fem	cologne-fem
	 (88)	 Agorasa	 tin	 konserva	to	 spanaki/*i	 konserva
		bought-1sg	the-nom	tin	 the-acc	spinach/the-nom	tin
		to	spanaki
		 the	spinach
		 I bought the tin of spinach
Externally, we see that the verb can agree with both nouns, suggesting that the two
DPs are somehow independent, but note that in certain cases Number agreement
is combined with selection restrictions, i.e. it is fine with some predicates but not
others, see (90):
	 (89)	 a.	 To	bukali	to	 aroma	 xithike
			 the	 bottle	 the	 perfume	 was spilt
		 b.	 To	bukali	to	 aroma	 espase
			 the	 bottle	 the	 perfume	 was broken
	 (90)	 a.	 Ta	(tria)	 bukalja	to	 aroma	 xithike/xithikan.
			 the	 (three)	 bottles	 the	 perfume	 was/were spilt
		 b.	 Ta	(tria)	 bukalja	to	 aroma	 espasan/*espase.
			 three	 bottles	 the	perfume	broke-3pl/*3sg
The last pattern to be discussed here is close apposition, as in (91), where no agree-
ment in gender is necessary:
	 (91)	 o	 aetos	to	 puli
		 the	eagle	the	 bird
The two DPs form a single DP, see Stavrou (1995), Panagiotidis & Marinis (2011),
Velegrakis (2011), Lekakou & Szendrői (2012), the second element restricting
the interpretation of the first. As Lekakou and Szendrői note, gender agreement
46	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
with a predicative adjective is possible with either subpart of the construction,
see (92). These data are taken to show that the two DPs have a relative degree of
independence:
	 (92)	 a.	 o	 aetos	to	 puli	 ine	megaloprepos/megaloprepo
			 the	eagle	the	 bird	 is	 majestic.M/magestic.N
		 b.	 to	 puli	 o	 aetos	 ine	megaloprepo/megaloprepos
			 the	bird	 the	eagle	 is	 majestic.N/magestic.M
Unlike the other constructions discussed here, close apposition shares some im-
portant properties with determiner spreading. These are discussed in Stavrou
(1995), Panagiotidis & Marinis (2011), Velegrakis (2011), and Lekakou & Szendrői
(2012). To begin with, close apposition has the following characteristics. First, it
is restrictive, which means that the two parts together identify the intended refer-
ent. Second, both parts must be definite nominals. Third, the two parts are not
separated by comma or any other type of prosodic information. Comparing de-
terminer spreading and close apposition leads to the following observations. First,
as in determiner spreading, the word order within the larger constituent is free:
	(93)	a.	 o	 aetos	 to	puli
			 the	eagle	 the	bird
		b.	 to	 puli	o	 aetos
			 the	bird	 the	 eagle
Second, one of the subparts is obligatorily interpreted restrictively with respect to
the other subpart, example below from Lekakou & Szendrői (2012).
	 (94)	 sinandisa	tin	Petrou	ti	 filologo	 ohi	tin	 Petrou	
		met-1sg	 the	Petrou	the	philologist	not	the	Petrou	
		ti	 mathimatiko
		 the	mathematician
		 ‘I met Petrou the philologist, and not Petrou the mathematician’
Thirdly, close apposition and determiner spreading necessarily involve definite
DPs:
	 (95)	 a.	*enas	 aetos	 ena	 puli
			 an	 eagle	a	 bird
		 b.	*ena	 puli	 enas	aetos
			 a	 bird	an	 eagle
Finally, both close apposition and determiner spreading can be recursive, example
from Lekakou & Szendrői (2012):
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 47
	 (96)	 sinandises	tin	Papadopoulou	tin	 kathigitria	 ti	 simasiologo
		met-2sg	 the	Papadopoulou	 the	 professor	 the	semanticist
		 i	 tin	 Papadopoulou	tin	 kathigitria	ti	 fonologo?
		 or	the	Papadopoulou	 the	professor	 the	phonologist
The question that arises is then whether this type of determiner spreading can
be treated on a par with determiner spreading in the context of adjectives or
not. I discuss this in the next sections, where I offer a structural analysis of these
constructions.
3.3	 Substantivized adjectives
Let me begin with the first pattern, repeated below:
	 (97)	 o	 eksipnos	 o	 gios	mu
		 the	intelligent	 the	 son	 my
		 the smart aleck of my son
We have seen evidence above that the adjective included in (97) has actually nomi-
nal properties.
There are two possible analyses of substantivization. According to Giannakidou
and Stavrou (1999), in substantivization the determiner that precedes the adjective
is not an expletive one, it is actually the spell out of the nominalization operator.
In other words, in order for the A to have the special reading it must be preceded
by the determiner.
From the perspective of Distributed Morphology, a different type of analyses
can be proposed. Specifically, from this perspective, the following pieces constitute
the building blocks of word formation:
1.	 Language has atomic, non-decomposable, elements, called roots.
2.	 Roots combine with the functional vocabulary and build larger elements.
3.	 Roots are category neutral. They are then categorized by combining with cat-
egory defining functional heads.
There are two cycles for word-formation (Arad 2005, Marantz 2013), i.e. two lev-
els in which categorizing affixes can appear: the root cycle and the outer-cycle.
Affixation at the root cycle leads to word formation out of roots, while affixation
at the level that includes already a categorizing affix involves word formation out
of words:
48	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	
(98)	
a.	
root-cycle						b.	
outer-cycle attachment
attachment
√Root
word formation from roots
x
word formation from words
functional head x
√Root v,n,a
The two processes have very different properties. To begin with, roots are assigned
interpretation at cycle (98a), i.e. the constraint in (99) holds:
	 (99)	 Locality constraint on the interpretation of roots/Cyclic generalizations:
		 Roots are assigned an interpretation in the environment of the first cate-
gory-assigning head with which they are merged. Once this interpretation is
assigned, it is carried along throughout the derivation.
 (Arad 2005, Embick 2010)
Moreover, merger with root implies the following set of properties:
1.	 negotiated (apparently idiosyncratic) meaning of root in context of morpheme
2.	 apparent semi-productivity (better with some roots than others)
3.	 meaning of construction cannot be an operation on “argument structure” but
must depend on root semantics independent of argument structure
4.	 corollary of the above: cannot involve the “external argument”
In contrast, merger above a category-determining morpheme implies a different
set of properties:
1.	 compositional meaning predicted from meaning of stem
2.	 apparent complete productivity
3.	 meaning of structure can involve apparent operation on argument-structure
4.	 can involve the external argument (Marantz 2013)
In view of the fact that data such as the ones in (97) involve an idiomatic interpreta-
tion for the adjective, I propose to analyze them as a case of root nominalization.
Since an nP nominalizes a root, this can then appear in the complement of a de-
terminer, as in (100); alternatively, the determiner could be seen as the spell-out
of the n head, in the spirit of Giannakidou & Stavrou (1999):
	(100)	 [DP [nP [ Rooteksipn- ]]]
Manolessou (2000) has already pointed out that these cases are very similar to
binominal structures. However, what is characteristic of this type of examples is
that they are really set expressions. In other words, it is really the combination of
the two DPs that yields a particular interpretation, and thus the order cannot be
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 49
shifted. Thus, it is not clear that we can adopt the analysis put forth in den Dikken
(2006), according to which the substantivized adjective is generated with its own
determiner in the predicate position of a small clause, as in (101), as this would
predict that their interpretation is more compositional.
	(101)	 [DP [SC DP1	DP2]]
Data such as the ones in (97) seem to behave like NN compounds of the type
described in Ralli (2013). The fact that the head noun cannot be independently
modified provides evidence for this. Ralli discusses cases of NN compounds such
as pedi thavma ‘prodigy child’, leksi klidi ‘keyword’ etc. She shows that strings
like these cannot be independently modified, e.g. *pedi megalo thavma ‘child big
miracle’. Moreover, it is not possible to reverse the internal order of the constitu-
ent, e.g. *thavma pedi ‘miracle child’. These properties are also shared by the cases
under discussion here, see e.g. (102) immediately below. Importantly, the construc-
tions described in Ralli (2013), like the ones in (63/97), display a certain degree of
opacity. I thus conclude that they involve compound formation.
3.4	 Binominal NPs
Let us now turn to binominal constructions of type in (64). In contrast to the cases
in (63), they can contain numerals and other modifiers:
	(102)	 a.	 *ta	 athoa	 ta	 dio	 megala	 vrefi
			 the	innocent	the	 two	 big	 babies
		 b.	 ta	 terata	 i	 dio	 megales	adelfes	mu
			 the	
monsters	
the	
two	
older	 sisters	my
Furthermore, similar to what Villalba (2007) observes for Spanish, we find demon-
stratives in this type of construction, but not in examples of type (63):
	(103)	 a.	 *to	 athoo	 afto	 to	 vrefos
			 the	innocent	this	 the	baby
		 b.	 to	 teras	 afti	 i	 adelfi	mu
			 the	monster	this	the	sister	my
As Villalba (2007) argued for Spanish, the analysis proposed in den Dikken (2006)
for Germanic cannot be extended to Greek. Recall that in den Dikken’s analysis the
second article in e.g. a jewel of a village is spurious and involves predicate inversion.
What the Greek data as well as their Spanish counterparts show is that the second
element in examples such as to teras i adelfi mu is introduced by its own determiner,
and it behaves like a normal DP in these languages. We must thus conclude that
that there is no such thing as a spurious definite article in these cases.
50	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
To account for the behavior of the Greek facts, I assume, following Villalba’s
analysis for Spanish, that these structures also contain a small clause, the predi-
cate in the small clause is generated bare. That is, it does not contain a DP, it is
rather a NumberP, see Alexopoulou & Folli (2011), Alexiadou (2001b). In fact,
it is generated in exactly the form it surfaces with, when it appears across the
copula, see (105):
	(104)	 [DP [FP [SC [DP i adelfi mu]	 [NumP teras]]]]
	(105)	 a.	 i	 adelfi	mu	 ine	 teras
			 my	sister	 is	 a	 monster
		 b.	 i	 adelfi	 mu ine	 Iudas
			 my	sister	 is	 Judas
In further agreement with Villalba, I assume that the predicate moves to the speci-
fier of a projection between DP and the small clause, and that this inversion takes
place for focus reasons; this FP is selected by a nominal determiner, (104), which
agrees with the noun closest to it in all features, in number and gender.
3.5	 Pseudopartitives
Recent analyses of pseudopartitives involving the container reading, summarized
in Alexiadou, Haegeman and Stavrou (2007), argue the DP contains only one
head and that the second element is some form of complement of the head noun.
In other words, the container reading involves a full complement which is either
a DP or a PP. N1, the noun which selects this complement, is a fully lexical noun
which can theta mark it, (106a). In contrast the quantity reading invovles a semi-
functional head, (106b). An implementation of this idea can be given by assuming
Borer’s (2005) structures. Since NP1 introduces a unit interpretation, I argue that
this is located in ClassP, embedding an NP. This is actually explicitly argued by
Borer for English and Hebrew container phrases:
	(106)	 a.	 [DP to [NP bukali [DP to krasi]]]]]
				 the	 bottle	 the wine
		b.	[DP ta [#P pola [ClassP bukalja [NP krasi]]]]]
				 the	 many	 bottles	 wine
As Alexiadou, Haegeman and Stavrou (2007) show, under the quantity reading N1
bukalja (‘bottles’) is of the semi-functional type, which realizes ClassP in (106b)
and in turn selects the lexical noun krasi (‘wine’). Under the container reading,
the N1 bukalia (‘bottle’) is a lexical noun and selects a DP complement (headed
by the noun krasi (‘wine’)), see also Borer (2005: 255f.) for further arguments why
	 Chapter 2.  Definite determiner spreading in Greek	 51
the container reading must receive a distinct analysis from the quantity reading.
Crucially, then bukali may or may not be fully lexical as this is responsible for the
difference in interpretation, see Selkirk (1977).
3.6	 Close apposition
Lekakou and Szendrői (2012) propose that the structure for close apposition is
as in (107), a structure that they also apply to determiner spreading in Greek, cf.
Panagiotidis & Marinis (2011), and Velegrakis (2011) for similar in spirit, yet not
identical, approaches:
	(107)	
def
DefP
DP1,2
DP1 DP2
D NP D NP
the eagle to
bird
puli
o aetos
the
From their perspective, the two R-roles of the two DPs become identified, which
would explain why there is only one referent. The structural difference between
close apposition of this type and determiner spreading of the type discussed in
Section 2 relates to the fact that the N is elided in the case of determiner spread-
ing, i.e. this structure includes an ellipsis site. This, as well as the analysis put forth
in Panagiotidis and Marinis (2011) analysis predicts, however, that determiner
spreading should be possible with all adjectives licensing ellipsis contrary to fact.
It is not possible with most quantifiers and numerals that are licit in the context
of ellipsis, as already discussed in Section 2. In addition, Panagiotidis and Marinis
face the same problem Campos and Stavrou (2004) have: their analysis predicts
that determiner spreading should be possible with all types of predicative adjec-
tives contrary to fact.
The reason why Lekakou and Szendrői adopt an ellipsis account is, as they
point out in their (2007) paper, that there is an important difference between close
apposition and determiner spreading: in determiner spreading the subset require-
ment applies only to the adjectival part, while the set denoted by the nominal part
is allowed so long as it is included in the denotation of the previously mentioned
52	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
set, but it does not have to be a proper subset of it. This is not the case in close
apposition. I believe that an analysis in terms of relative clauses for determiner
spreading actually predicts exactly this asymmetry and points to the conclusion
that the two phenomena are very different. A further argument against the view
that determiner spreading involves close apposition comes from the discussion
of indefiniteness spreading in Chapter 5. If, as will be discussed there, Greek also
has spreading of indefiniteness, with NumberPs, then it is not clear how an ac-
count in terms of apposition can explain this: in apposition both elements have
to be definite.
An analysis that neither Lekakou and Szendrői nor Panagiotidis and Marinis
consider is to treat the real close apposition examples, e.g. o aetos to puli ‘the eagle
the bird’ as a type of reduced nominal relative clause, as discussed in Matushansky
(2008). This type of structure is arguably very similar to reduced relative clauses in-
volving adjectives enabling thus a unification of the two phenomena, as envisaged
by the two sets of authors. Another alternative would be to treat this type of ap-
position as a co-ordination of two DPs, see de Vries (2002) and references therein.
4.	 Summary and conclusion
In this chapter, I discussed cases of determiner spreading and determiner doubling
in Greek. I proposed that the core cases of determiner spreading involving adjec-
tives can find an analysis in terms of reduced relative clauses. Other cases that
look superficially similar were shown to involve very different structure. A (non-
perfect) parallelism can be established, however, with cases of close apposition,
if both types involve some form of reduced relative clause of different types, i.e.
adjectival vs. nominal.
chapter 3
Beyond Greek
Multiple definite determiners
in Romance and Germanic
1.	 Introduction
As already mentioned in the introduction, Greek is one of the languages that show
multiple determiners in the context of modification. In this chapter, I discuss mul-
tiple determines in Romanian, Scandinavian and French. These three languages
differ from Greek in that they only show definiteness doubling, and not spreading,
i.e. only two determiners are present in the noun phrase when modifiers are intro-
duced. The French case differs from the other two, as the language shows doubling
only in the context of superlative adjectives. The detailed investigation of the Greek
case in the previous chapter offers us a firm basis to proceed to an analysis of these
doubling patterns. As is generally agreed upon that the definite article in French
realizes D0, I will have nothing to say about the status of this article here, though
I will offer some observations on previous analyses of determiners in Romanian
and Scandinavian respectively.
2.	 Doubling in Romanian
2.1	 The status of the definite article in Romanian
As briefly shown in the introduction, in the absence of modification, the definite
article in Romanian is enclitic to the head noun. This pattern has been given dif-
ferent treatments in the literature. Some researchers analyzed it as the result of
N-to-D movement, see Giusti (1994), Dobrovie-Sorin (1987), others as a case of D
to-N-lowering, see Dobrovie-Sorin & Giurgea (2006). A third option that has been
entertained is to consider the enclitic article as involving D and N morphological
merger, see Cornilescu & Nicolae (2011). The question that concerns my discus-
sion is whether this enclitic article realizes referentiality or not, i.e. is it similar to
its Greek counterpart or very different from it? I turn to this immediately below.
In Romanian, as Giusti points out, the bound morpheme –ul which is suffixed
to nouns in definite noun phrases is also used as the ending of indefinite pronouns
54	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
and quantifiers. In this usage –ul is a feature marker for gender (here masculine),
parallel to Italian –o, and for case (here nominative). This could be taken to suggest
that the article is actually an inflectional affix:
	 (1)	 from Giusti (2002)
Romanian Italian
un(*ul) băiat un(*o) ragazzo ‘a boy’
nici un(*ul) băiat nessun(*o) ragazzo ‘no boy’
am văzut pe un*(ul) (ne) ho visto un*(o) ‘I saw one.’
N-am văzut pe niciun*(ul) non (ne) ho visto nessun*(o) ‘I saw no one.’
un*(ul) a spus că un*(o) ha detto che ‘Somebody said that …’
Nici un*(ul) a spus că … un*(o) ha detto che ‘Nobody said that …’
In addition, in Romanian coordinated DPs, the sequence with the repeated articles
in (2a) is ambiguous between the two possible interpretations, one with a single
referential index and one with two indexes. The sequence in (2b), where the second
noun is not inflected for the definite article is impossible:
	 (2)	 a.	 Directorul	 de	departament	si	 presidentele	 de	facultate	a/au
			 director-the	of	department	 and	president-the	of	faculty	 has
			 venit	 aici
			 arrived	here
			
‘The director of the department and the president of the faculty has
arrived here’
		 b.	*Directorul	 de	departament	si	 presidente	de	 facultate	a/au
			 director-the	of	 department	 and	president	 of	 faculty	 has
			 venit	 aici
			 arrived	here
Giusti thus concludes that Longobardi’s proposal to attribute a referential index
to the definite article cannot account for the Romanian enclitic article. From this
perspective then, the Romanian article is very different from its Greek counterpart.
2.2	 Romanian determiner doubling: Introducing cel
In the context of modification, three options are available in Romanian: the ad-
jective can appear in post-nominal position or in pre-nominal position (3), as in
other Romance languages (Cinque 2010). In case of ambiguous adjectives, such
as the one in the examples below, the adjective is ambiguous between a restrictive
and a non-restrictive interpretation in post-nominal position, but it is unambigu-
ous in pre-nominal position. In (3b) the adjective only bears a non-restrictive
interpretation.
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 55
	 (3)	a.	 Legile	 importante	n-au	 fost		 votate Romanian
			 laws-the	important	 have	 not	 been	passed
			 ‘Important laws have not been passed’
			 1.  all of them were important
			 2.  The laws which were important were not passed
		b.	Importantele	 legi	 n-au	fost	 votate
			 Important-the	 laws	 not	 have been	 passed
			 ‘Important laws have not been not passed’
			 1.  all of them were important
			 2.  #The laws which were important have not been passed
The third pattern is a case of double marking and relates to the presence of the
demonstrative article cel in (4). As shown in (4), cel follows the definite noun and
precedes the adjective in post-nominal position (see also Coene 1994, Cinque
2004). The word order in (4) is strict, i.e. no re-arrangement of the elements (i.e.
the DP and the cel + Adjective sequence) is permitted. In (4), the adjective is un-
ambiguously interpreted as restrictive:
	 (4)	Legile	 (cele)	importante	n-au	fost	 votate
		 Laws-the	 cel	 important	 have	 not been	 voted
		 ‘The laws which were important have not been passed’
Since it is this pattern that is considered as a case of double marking, it should be
kept in mind that cel is found in another context in Romanian as well, namely in
the absence of a lexically expressed noun, (5). In this environment, all elements
preceded by cel agree in phi-features (gender, number, case) with it. It has been
argued that this is a case of nominal ellipsis. In addition, cel can precede a superla-
tive (6a) and a sequence of a cardinal and a noun (6b). In this case the head noun
is not marked for definiteness:
	 (5)	cel	frumos
		cel	beautiful
		 The	beautiful	one
	 (6)	 a.	 cei	mai	 frumoşi
			 cei	most	beautiful
		 b.	 cei	sapte	 frati
			 cei	seven	brothers
(6b) is similar to the order Vulchanova and Giusti (1998: 338) observe for the
demonstrative in Romanian:
	 (7)	 aceste	două	 femei	
		these	two	 women
56	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Arguably cel as well as the demonstrative are inserted in Spec,DP in such cases
to check definiteness features, as the numeral itself cannot check this feature, see
Giusti (2002).
With this background, I turn to the similarities and differences between Greek
and Romanian, basing my description on Marchis and Alexiadou (2009).
2.3	 Romanian and Greek contrasted
2.3.1	 On the similarities between Romanian and Greek
To begin with, the cel pattern, like Greek determiner spreading, does not involve
ambiguous adjectives, see (3). Recall that we saw in the previous chapter that the
Greek example in (8a) is ambiguous between two readings: on reading 1, only the
efficient researchers will be fired; on reading 2, the efficient researchers happen to
be part of the larger group that will be fired. But, (8b) is not ambiguous, it only has
reading 1 (note that (8b) has this reading irrespectively of whether the D-A string
follows the D-N string or it precedes it, see Alexiadou & Wilder (1998) for details
of the derivation of this word order):
	 (8)	 a.	 o	 diefthindis	ipe	 oti	 i	 kali	 erevnites	 tha	 apolithun
			 ‘the	 director	 said	 that	 the	 efficient	 researchers	 will be	 fired’
		 b.	 o	 diefthindis	ipe	 oti	 i	kali	 i	 erevnites	tha	 apolithun
			 the	director	 said	that	the	efficient	the	researchers	will be	fired
Further support comes from the discussion of another case of ambiguity offered in
Marchis and Alexiadou (2009), namely the stage level vs. individual level ambigu-
ity. As discussed in Cinque (2010), in Romance the prenominal adjective has an
exclusive individual interpretation, while the post-nominal adjective is ambiguous
between an individual and stage reading (9a-b). In English, on the contrary, it is
the post-nominal position in which the adjective is unambiguously interpreted as
stage level. Importantly, in the cel construction the adjective has only the stage level
reading, much like the post-nominal adjective in the Greek double marked con-
struction (10b). In the prenominal position, the adjective is ambiguous in Greek,
similar to its English counterpart (see Campos & Stavrou 2004, Alexiadou 2007):
	 (9)	 a.	 Luminoasele stele sunt foarte îndepărtate
			 ‘The stars, which are generally bright, are very far away’	
		b.	Stelele	 cele	 vizibile	sunt	 foarte	 îndepărtate
			 ‘The stars	 which are now	 visible	 are	 far	 away’
	(10)	a.	 ta	orata	 asteria	ine	poli	makria
			 the	visible	stars	 are	 far	 away
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 57
			 1.  stars which are generally visible, are very far	
			 2.  stars, which happen to be visible now, are very far
		b.	ta	asteria	ta	 orata	ine	poli	 makria
			 the	visible	 the	 stars	 are	 very	 far
			 1.  #stars, which are generally visible, are very far
			 2.  stars, which happen to be visible now, are very far	
A second similarity between Greek and Romanian discussed in Marchis &
Alexiadou (2009) is that both constructions imply a contrast and are organized
around the presupposition/focus distinction; the article-noun sequence constitutes
the context or presupposition and the articled adjective constitutes the focus. This
is shown in (11a–b) for Greek, repeated from the previous chapter, and in (12a–b)
for Romanian, from Marchis and Alexiadou (2009). Note that in both languages
the Det + N sequence can be omitted (a case of noun ellipsis); in Romanian when
the noun is overt, pe is impossible:
	 (11)	 a.	 pia	 pena-	ti	 hrisi	 i	 tin	 asimenia? Greek
			 which	pen-	 the	golden	or	the	silver
		b.	nomizo	
tin	asimenia	(tin	pena)
			 I think	 the	 silver	 the	 pen
	 (12)	 a.	 Pe	 care	 stilou	l-ai	 cumparat, Romanian
			 On	 which	 pen	 Clitic-have	 you bought,	
			 pe cel	 argintiu	 sau	 pe cel	 auriu?
			 the		 silver one	 or	 the	 golden one?
		b.	Cred	 ca	 pe	
cel	 argintiu
			 I think	 that	 pe	 cel	 silver
			 ‘I think the silver one’
Thirdly, both constructions are illicit with non-intersective adjectives such as for-
mer (as known, these occur strictly pre-nominally in Romance):
	 (13)	 a.	*preşedinte-le	 cel	fost Romanian
			 President-the	cel	last
		 b.	*O	 monos	tu	 o	 erotas	ine	i	 dulja	tu. Greek
			 The	only	 his	the	love	 is	 the	work	his
			 ‘His only love is his work.’
All of the above suggests that the two constructions should be analyzed on a par.
However, a number of differences exist, reported in Marchis & Alexiadou (2009),
to which I turn in the next section.
58	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
2.3.2	 On the differences between Romanian and Greek
Firstly, unlike the situation in Greek, the presence of cel is not obligatory, when the
adjective occurs in post-nominal position. When it is present, however, a semantic
effect arises, as already described.
	 (14)	 a.	 fluture-le	 (cel)	frumos
			 butterfly-the	cel	 beautiful
		 b.	 to	 vivlio	*(to)	megalo
			 the	book	 the	big
This is unexpected, as the definite article is not an optional element. Furthermore,
the fact that the cel construction has different semantics from the post-nominal
position of adjectives in Romanian casts doubts on a possible analysis of the two
patterns as involving similar structures. In this respect, cel resembles the optional
demonstrative pronoun in determiner spreading in Greek, which, like cel, has a
different form from the demonstrative deictic pronoun.
	 (15)	 a.	 i	 pena	(afti)	i	 asimenia Greek
			 the	pen	 this	 the	silver
		b.	afto	to	 vivlio
			 this	the	book
		c.	 fluturele	 cel	frumos Romanian
			 Butterfly-the	cel	nice
		d.	fluturele	 acela
			 butterfly-the	that
Secondly, only one cel can appear per DP; as already mentioned, the definite de-
terminer in Greek can have multiple occurrences, if a further adjective is present:
	 (16)	 a.	 *fluturele	 cel	 frumos,	 cel colorat	 si	 cel zglobiu
			 butterfly-the	cel	beautiful,	colourful	 and	lively
			 ‘the beautiful, colored and lively, butterfly’
		 b.	 i	 petaluda	i	 orea	 i	 polihromi
			 the	butterfly	 the	beautiful	 the	colorful
Thirdly, cel does not only precede adjectives but also PPs or other modifiers; this
is not possible for Modern Greek, though such orders were possible in Classical
Greek (17b–c), see also Manolessou (2000):
	 (17)	 a.	 casa	 cea	de	piatră
			 house.the	cel	 of	 stone
		 b.	*to	 spiti	 to	 apo	 petra
			 the	house	the	from	stone
		 c.	 oi	 anthropoi	oi	 para	sou Classical Greek
			 the	people	 the	 near	 you
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 59
Fourthly, as already mentioned, the word order is strict, cel always follows the defi-
nitenoun.Greekdeterminerspreading,however,permitswordorderpermutations:
	 (18)	 a.	 to	 vivlio	to	 kokino	
			 the	book	 the	red	
		 b.	 to	 kokino	to	 vivlio
			 the	red	 the	book
Finally, Marchis and Alexiadou (2009) note that cel behaves like the demonstra-
tive acest, in that it is able to have a deictic/anaphoric interpretation. As already
mentioned, according to Giusti (2002), the enclitic definite article in Romanian
is a mere functional category with no semantic content. Giusti (2002) argues that
D, the locus for the enclitic definite article, is instantiated for syntactic reasons
whereas the specifier of the DP is occupied by the demonstrative which has a se-
mantic value. This property is triggered only by categories in SpecDP and is crucial
for the interpretation of the referential index of the noun phrase:
	 (19)	 a.	 Directorul	 de	departament	şi	 preşedintele	 de
			 Director-the	of	department	 and	president-the	of	
			 facultate	a	 venit/au	 venit
			 faculty	 has	come/have	come
			‘The directore of the department and the president of the faculty has/have
come’
		 b.	 Acest	director	de	departament	şi	 acel	preşedinte	de	
			 ‘This	 director	of	 department	 and	that	president	 of	
			 facultate	au	 venit
			 faculty	 have	come’
The examples in (19a) show that double definiteness within the nominal phrase
does not necessary lead to two referents, the construction is ambiguous between
one and the same referent and two different individuals. Unlike the definite ar-
ticle, the demonstrative in Romanian triggers not only reference but also deictic
interpretation (19b). The complementary distribution between the definite article
and the demonstrative can be explained by Giusti’s (2002) doubly-filled DP Filter.1
Importantly, cel shows the same syntactic and interpretive effects as the demonstra-
tive from which it originates:
	 (20)	 fluturele	 cel	albastru	si	 cel	roz	 au	 zburat	
		Butterfly-the	
cel	 blue	and	
cel	 pink	 have	flown
1.	 ‘Once SpecDP contains a functional projection it satisfies the requirements on the DP, D′
need not, and therefore cannot be lexically filled’ (from Giusti 2002).
60	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Unlike the definite article, in (20) the second cel introduces reference to an addi-
tional entity. This, Marchis and Alexiadou (2009) argue, makes the behavior of cel
very unlike that of Greek spreading, where the presence of multiple determiners
does not create independent reference: if an additional cel is present under co-
ordination there is mulitple reference.2
2.4	 Towards an analysis
Most analyses of the cel pattern, see e.g. Cinque (2004), Cornilescu (2005), Campos
(2005), argue that cel is a marker for a predicative phrase. This is why it can only
introduce elements that can be marked as predicative. Cinque, in particular, claims
that cel is the realization of an indirect modification structure, i.e. it involves a re-
duced relative clause structure, see the discussion in the introduction. This would
bring the analysis of cel pattern very close to the one proposed in Alexiadou and
Wilder (1998) determiner spreading for Greek. Let me briefly summarize Cinque’s
proposal here.
As Cinque argues in detail, adjectives preceded by the article cel/cea/etc. only
have the reduced relative clause source. Evidence for this comes from a number of
restrictions on the distribution of APs preceded by cel. As mentioned above, adjec-
tives introduced by cel can only follow the head noun. If, as in Cinque’s analysis,
cel APs derive from reduced relative clauses, this restriction simply follows from
the fact that the reduced relative clauses necessarily follow the head noun, a feature
Romanian shares with the other Romance languages. This is illustrated in the data
below from Cinque (2004), his (42):
	(21)	a.	 cărţile	citite/*cititele	cărţi
			 books-the	read.fem.pl/read.fem.pl.-the	books
			 ‘the books read’
		b.	copacul	ars/*arsul	copac
			 tree-the	burnt.masc.sg/burnt.masc.sg-the	tree
			 ‘the burnt tree’
		c.	 cărţile	(deja)	sosite/*(deja)	sositele	cărţi
			 books-the	(already)	 arrived/(already)	arrived-the	books
			 ‘the (already) arrived books’
2.	 Note here that Romanian also has clitic doubling of objects. In these constructions the ob-
ject is preceded by pe, and the doubling pattern is subject to Specificity, see Anagnostopoulou’s
(2006) overview for references. Since, however, cel is not amenable to an analysis as a definite
determiner, a comparison between direct object clitic doubling and doubling determiners will
not be undertaken.
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 61
A second restriction is, as mentioned above, that cel is not licit with non-­predicative
adjectives i.e., those adjectives that, as discussed in the introduction and in Cinque
(2010), only enter direct modification. We can make sense of this restriction, if
APs preceded by cel only have an indirect modification source.
Cinque discusses further support for this specific analysis, which builds on an
observation in Cornilescu (1992). Cornilescu notes that cel cannot preceded PPs
or DPs which are theta-marked by the head noun or subcategorized by it. This is
illustrated in the examples below, taken from Cinque (2004), his (44):
	 (22)	 a.	*fratele	 cel	 al	 Mariei
			 brother-the	the	of	Mary		
			 ‘Mary’s brother’
		 b.	*distrugerea	 cea	a	 oraşului
			 destruction-the	 the	 of	 the city		
			 ‘the	destruction of the city’
As Grimshaw (1990) has observed, subcategorized PPs and DPs cannot modify
the head noun that assigns a theta-role to them across a copula, and thus they can-
not appear in predicative positions in relative clauses either (see e.g. *fratele care
e al Mariei ‘the brother who is of Mary’; *grosimea care e a zidurilor ‘the thickness
which is of the walls’, etc., from Cinque (2004)).
A similar in spirit proposal is offered by Marchis & Alexiadou (2009). These
authors preserve the idea that cel phrases are reduced relative clauses, but claim
that their function is slightly different: they are actually appositive specification
clauses. In this, they crucially follow de Vries (2002). As de Vries (2002: 211ff.) illus-
trates in detail, restrictive appositions do not only involve adjectives, but can also
include PPs. In his analysis, appositive relatives involve specifying co-ordination.
Semantically, in such a clause the second element specifies the first, and necessarily
the second is a logical subset of the first element. The semantics crucially involve
set intersection, giving thus the restrictions on the adjectives presented here. As
in Cinque’s analysis, also this structure explains the fact that the adjective is never
ambiguous, it is always generated in the predicative position of the relative clause.
In addition, however, it also explains why the cel pattern cannot be iterated: the
NP can receive only one specification (and be modified by one appositive relative).
The reduced clause cannot undergo movement, and thus appears in post-nominal
position, which is the standard one for apposition.
One piece of evidence that the Romanian doubling pattern might indeed be a
case of apposition is given in Plank (2003: 348). Plank observes that in Romanian
NPs in apposition either agree in case with their heads or are, sometimes obliga-
torily, in the unmarked nominative case. Planks states that non-agreement is not
out of the question in the cel pattern see (23), his (42):
62	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	(23)	evidenţierea	desene-lor		 cel-e	 mai	
		 honoring.the	drawing-pl-gen	the-fem-pl-nom	most
		resuiţ-e
		accomplished-fem-pl-nom
		 ‘the honoring of the most accompished drawings’
It seems that an analysis in terms of apposition readily captures both the simi-
larities as well as the differences between Greek and Romanian. Importantly, the
difference concerning the strictness of word order as well as the non-multiple oc-
currence of doubling in Romanian is straightforwardly accounted for.3
3.	 Doubling in Scandinavian
3.1	 Determiners in Scandinavian4
In view of the fact that the article in the absence of modification is enclitic, the ques-
tion that arises is whether or not this patterns involves N-to-D raising or some form
of lowering. Most analyses agree with Delsing (1993), who argues that the enclitic
nature of the article in Scandinavian is the result of N-to-D movement, since it is
blocked in the presence of an adjective. The next question then is whether the enclitic
article carries a referential index or not. In the context of DP co-ordination, we can
see that it is actually the first determiner that seems to carry the referential index.
This is illustrated in the two examples below (Norwegian data from Andersen 2006):
3.	 An alternative would be to treat these cases as cases of nominal ellipsis, and thus on a par
with the French superlative cases to be discussed in Section 4. However, if this were a case of
ellipsis, then we would expect the adjective in the cel pattern to be ambiguous between a re-
strictive and non-restrictive reading contrary to fact. Although nominal ellipsis in Romance is
generally available only for restrictive adjectives, it has been shown that once there is a contrast,
non-restrictive adjectives can also participate in ellipsis, see Sleeman (1996).
4.	 An important question that I will not consider here in detail is the role of adjectival inflec-
tion, i.e. the contribution of the strong vs. weak adjectival inflection to the interpretation of the
noun phrase. As is well known, in the Germanic languages that have adjectival inflection, in
indefinite contexts, the strong adjectival inflection appears, while in definite contexts the weak
adjectival inflection appears. It has been noted that adjectival inflection interacts with inter-
pretation. For instance, for German, Abraham (2013) shows that strong adjectival inflection
signals rhematicity, i.e. the noun phrase is discourse new, while weak adjectival inflection signals
anaphoricity. In Scandinavian, according to Vangsnes (2007), and Lohrmann (2010), the weak
adjectival inflection identifies members of the subset in the A + N denotation, see also Delsing
(1993). For Lohrmann (2010) adjectival inflection realizes then the identity feature located in
an FP in the extened projection of the noun, but see Julien (2005), Leu (2008), Schoorlemmer
(2009), Roehrs (2009), and references therein for alternatives and further discussion.
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 63
	 (24)	 a.	 den	talentfulle	 akademiker-n	 og	 den	dyktige	 administrator-n	
			 the	talented	 academic-the	 and	the	 accomplished	administrator-the	
		 b.	 den	talentfulle	 akademiker-n	 og	 dyktige	 administrator-n	
			 the	talented	 academic-the	 and	accomplished	administrator-the
In (24a) the noun phrase is interpreted as referring to two different people,
while in (24b) the talented academic and the accomplished administrator are
the same person. The interpretation of the presence versus the absence of the
pre-nominal determiner here precisely mirrors the distinction found with the
definite article in English; the presence of the determiner serves to specify the
existence of one unique referent. One determiner identifies one referent, two
determiners identifies two. Note that the suffixed determiner is present in both
examples, cf. Delsing (1993).
The presence of two determiners is actually obligatory in Scandinavian noun
phrases modified by an adjective (though see below for refinements). The pre-
adjectival article is a free morpheme.
	 (25)	 det	stora	huset Swedish
		 the	big	 house-the
Delsing (1993: 118ff.) notes that the pre-adjectival article can be omitted in some
cases. First, it can be omitted in cases where the noun phrase has deictic reference,
i.e. where the noun functions like a proper name (26a). Second, it can be omitted
with superlatives (26b), ordinal numbers (27) and certain inherent comparatives:
	 (26)	 a.	 Svarta	Havet	
			 Black	Sea-the
		b.	 sista	paret
			 last	 time-the
	 (27)		 trede	gången
			 third	time-the
The post-nominal article can be omitted in e.g. restrictive relative clauses inter-
preted generically and in an absolute superlative, see Julien (2005), and Hankamer
& Mikkelsen (2005) among others for discussion:
	 (28)	 a.	 den	bok	 som	säljer	flest	 exemplar	belönas
			 the	 book	 that	 sells	 most	 copies	 is rewarded
		 b.	 Han	bakar	de	 godaste	bullar
			 he	 bakes	the	best	 rolls
64	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
3.2	 Double marking in Scandinavian
In order to gain a better understanding of the function of the double marking in
Scandinavian, we need to consider examples in which either the pre-adjectival
article or the suffixed article is optional or even obsolete. If double definiteness
is not a mere agreement phenomenon but brings about an interpretive effect, as
was the case in e.g. Greek, then a difference in meaning is predicted for DPs that
do not exhibit the default structure. This prediction is borne out, as the following
sections show, building on Julien (2005), Andersen (2006), and Lohrmann (2010)
and see references therein.
Before I turn to the examination of the core facts, let me point out that these
have received a lot of attention in the literature, see in addition to the sources
named above Börjars (1995), Delsing (1993), Santelmann (1993), Vangsnes (1999),
Embick & Noyer (2001), Hankamer & Mikkelsen (2002, 2005), Abraham & Leiss
(2007), van Gelderen & Lohndal (2008), Heck, Müller & Trommer (2008), Leu
(2008), Roehrs (2009), Schoorlemmer (2009), Katzir (2011) among others for
further discussion. We can recognize two families of approaches. Most of the lit-
erature treats this doubling as instantiating some form of split-DP, i.e. the two
determines occupy two different D heads along functional spine, though the details
differ significantly. On the other hand, at least Embick & Noyer (2001), Hankamer
and Mikkelsen (2002, 2005), and Heck, Müller and Trommer (2008) pursue an
approach that recognizes the presence of only one D head in the syntax. These
approaches again differ from each other as to how they account for the presence
of double definiteness. For instance, Embick and Noyer (2001) argue that dou-
ble definiteness emerges as some form of do-support, see Santelmann (1993), as
N-to-D movement is blocked in the presence of an adjective.5 For Heck, Müller
and Trommer (2008) double definiteness emerges as a result of N movement to the
edge domain of DP. For Hankamer and Mikkelsen (2002, 2005), the distribution
of definiteness marking is regulated by a morphological rule that converts Ns to
Ds in the lexicon.
In what follows, I will review the evidence that considers the difference in
semantic interpretation when two determiners are present. This clearly argues
against analyses of the phenomenon that involve simply some form of do-support
or a single D head.
5.	 Roehrs (2009) and Schoorlemmer (2009) also assume some form of do-support, though the
details of each analysis differ from each other and from Embick and Noyer‘s.
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 65
3.2.1	 The suffixed article
Consider the data in (29):
	 (29)	 a.	 Han	er	en	lærer	 av	 den	 gaml-e	skole(-n).
			 he	 is	 a	 teacher	of	 def.sg	old-w	school-def
			 ‘He is a teacher of the old school’
		 b.	 i	 så	 på	den	 gaml-e	skole*(-n)
			 we	saw	at	 def.sg	old-w	school-def
			 ‘We looked at the old school’ Norwegian (Julien 2005)
If the suffixed article is omitted (optional in Norwegian, obligatory in Swedish),
the result is an abstract reading (29a). Here, reference is not made to a particular
school but to a teacher who is one of the old school, for example in his way of teach-
ing. However, if the intention is to refer to a particular building, i.e. if a concrete
reading is intended, then the suffixed article is obligatory (29b). A similar contrast
is shown in (30):
	 (30)	 a.	 Dei	 oppfører	seg	 som	dei	 verst-e	 bøll-ar
			 they	behave	 3refl	as	 def.pl	worst-w	brute-pl
		 b.	 Dei	 oppfører	seg	 som	dei	 verst-e	 bøll-a-ne
			 they	behave	 3refl	as	 def.pl	worst-w	brute-pl-def
			 ‘They behave like the worst brutes’ Norwegian (Julien 2005)
In the example without the suffixed article (30a), the reading is non-referential,
that is, the speaker does not know who those people are. In (30b), on the other
hand, where the suffixed article is present, the speaker refers to specific people and
a referential reading is obtained.
3.2.2	 The pre-adjectival article
Now consider (31):
	 (31)	a.	 Du	kan	ta	 den	 ny-e	 bil-en.
			 you	can	 take	def.sg	new-w	car-def.m.sg
		b.	 Du	kan	ta	 ny-e	 bil-en.
			 you	can	 take	new-w	car-def.m.sg
			 ‘You can take the new car’ Norwegian (Julien 2005)
Julien (2005) notes that even if the referent of the DP in (31a) has not been men-
tioned before, it is clear that there must be “a new car in the universe of discourse”
(Julien 2005:33). By contrast, the structure without the pre-adjectival article (31b)
is used if the referent is very familiar, that is to say, if the people involved in the
discourse already know about the new car. The co-ordination of two DPs also sug-
gests that the pre-adjectival article is of interpretive value:
66	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	(32)	a.	 den	talentfulle	akademiker-n	 og	 den	 dyktige	
			 def	talented	 academic-def	and	def	accomplished	
			 administrator-n
			 administrator def
			 ‘the talented academic and the accomplished administrator’
		 b.	 den	 talentfulle	akademiker-n	 og	 dyktige	
			 def	talented	 academic-def	 and	accomplished
			 administrator-n
			 administrator-def
			 ‘the talented academic and accomplished administrator’
 Norwegian (Andersen 2006)
In (32a) each co-ordinate has a pre-adjectival article, in (32b) only the first one.
(32a) is ambiguous with respect to the number of people, one or two, while (32b)
is unambiguous, only one person is referred to.
3.3	 Some differences between Greek/Romanian and Scandinavian
While it would be appealing to relate the Greek or Romanian facts to Scandinavian
doubling, see Leu (2008), a number of differences exist between the two phenom-
ena. A first difference between Scandinavian and Greek in particular is that a
second adjective in e.g. Swedish does not trigger a third determiner. This was also
the case in Romanian:
	 (33)	*den	 gamle	den	snälle	mannen
		the	 old	 the	kind	man-the
	 (34)	 to	 palio	to	 kalo	to	 vivlio
		 the	old	 the	 nice	the	book
A second, and perhaps more important difference between Scandinavian and
Greek/Romanian is the fact that in the former we find no restrictions as to the
type of adjective involved (i.e. intersective vs. non-intersective). As shown in (35),
thematic as well as temporal adjectives can appear in the double definiteness con-
struction, while, as was shown in the previous chapter and in Section 2, this is not
possible in Greek and Romanian:
	 (35)	 a.	 den	italienska	invasionen
			 the	Italian	 invasion-def
		 b.	 den	förre	 presidenten
			 the	 former	president-def
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 67
Since doubling is possible in the context of non-predicative adjectives arguably
one cannot suggest an analysis in terms of relative clauses, as in the case of Greek
and Romanian. In fact, as already mentioned, several analyses of Scandinavian
doubling appeal to the split DP hypothesis.
In the previous section, it was shown that the pre-nominal determiner and the
suffixed article realize distinct semantic features. Andersen (2006) claims that the
main interpretive effect of the prenominal determiner is to involve the [+hearer]
value of Uniqueness. The interpretative content of the suffixed article is charac-
terized by a tendency to add a specific ([+speaker]) interpretation. Julien (2005)
identifies the role of the suffixed article as introducing specificity, while the role of
the pre-adjectival as introducing inclusiveness. For Lohrmann (2010), the relevant
concepts are specific reference and discourse reference respectively. The features
are then syntactically represented as in (36), cf. also Roehrs (2009):
	(36)	[DP1uniqueness/inclusiveness/discourse reference [DP2 specificity	[NP]]]]
Such proposals are formulated by analogy to Rizzi’s (1997) ‘split CP hypothesis’,
see Chapter 1. The main intuition behind these proposals is that one should keep
definiteness apart from specificity: these two features are realized in two distinct
projections in the DP layer. The split is observed in the case of modification, as
the adjective intervenes between the two layers and blocks movement of the head
noun to the highest level. In dialects that lack double definiteness both features are
spelled-out in one of the two heads, cf. the dicussion in Katzir (2011) concerning
structural economy and licensing. For my purposes, it is not crucial to commit
to the exact nature of the features represented in (36). However, what is crucial is
the fact that an analysis along these lines cannot be assumed for the Greek data.
From the perspective of such analyses, DPs in dialects with double definite-
ness, i.e. Swedish and Norwegian, have a more complex internal structure than
previously thought, contra Embick & Noyer (2001), Hankamer & Mikkelsen (2002,
2005), Heck, Müller & Trommer (2008). In addition, in view of the fact that the sec-
ond determiner leads to a different interpretation of the noun phrase its presence
cannot simply be the result of internal merge of D, as argued for in Schoorlemmer
(2009). Nor can the first determiner spell-out xAP, as argued in Leu (2008). In
other words, from the perspective of a split DP analysis, the point of crosslinguistic
variation relates to how languages realize definiteness, specificity, and other such
semantic features. They may give distinct realizations to them as e.g. Norwegian
or, like English and French, or even Danish and Icelandic, make use of a single
element to realize both features, see also van Gelderen & Lohndal (2008), and
Abraham (2007) for some diachronic evidence in favor of the split DP hypothesis.
68	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
As I have already I mentioned, analyses that split the DP have been proposed
for Greek, but they do not seem appropriate due to the restrictions on adjectival
modification observed with Greek determiner spreading. In fact, this seems to
be a very important criterion enabling us to distinguish between the individual
cases. The predicativity restriction suggests a reduced relative clause as an input,
at least from the perspective of the previous chapter. Differences in interpretation
depending on the presence of a further determiner without adjectival restrictions
suggest a split DP structure as is the case in Scandinavian.
4.	 Doubling in the context of superlative adjectives in French
4.1	 General distribution
As mentioned in Chapter 1, in some languages we find multiple determiners in the
context of superlative adjectives. Note here that in languages such as French there is
no morphological difference between comparatives and superlatives, see Bobaljik
(2012) for a crosslinguistic overview. It is the presence of the definite article that
signals a different semantics for the superlative, see (37):
	 (37)	 a.	 la	 meilleure	histoire
			 the	best	 story
		 b.	 l’histoire	la	 plus	 interessante
			 the story	 the	 most	 interesting
The string with the doubling determiner is impossible in standard Italian and other
Romance languages, with the exception of Romanian, Rumantsch and certain vari-
eties of Italian:
	 (38)	 a.	*Lo	 studente	il	 più	 intelligente	è	 Gianni.
			 the	student	 the	most	intelligent	 is	Gianni
		b.	l’hom	 il	 pü	 ferm Rumantsch
			 the man	 the	 more	 strong
		c.	 omul	 cel	mai	 tare Romanian
			 man-the	the	more	strong
	 (39)	 l’uomo	il	 più	forte
		 the man	the	 more	 strong (from Plank 2003: 361)
Plank (2003: 360f.) notes that if the normal position of the adjective is pre-nominal,
it may be shifted after the noun in the superlative:
	(40)	a.	 le	 jeune	 homme
			 the	young	 man
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 69
		 b.	 l’homme	le	 plus	 jeunne
			 the man	 the	 more	 young
Plank further notes that in the case of adjectives that may appear prenominal or
post-nominal, their meanings tend to be different, which precludes the shifting
solution for a distinctive superlative, suggesting that the two strings have a differen
structural input, see Cinque (2010):
	 (41)	 a.	 le	 plus	 grand	homme
			 the	more	great	 man
		 b.	 l’homme	le	 plus	 grand
			 the man	 the	 more	 large
Plank himself raises the question as to whether or not this doubling is a case of
double articulation. He points out that the behavior of superlative markers oc-
casionally diverges from that of the article. For instance, while the second article
can be omitted in adjectival co-ordination in French, this is not the case for the
article in the superlative.
	 (42)	 a.	 le	 grand	et	 (le)	beau	 homme
			 the	great	 and	the	 beautiful	man
		 b.	 l’homme	le	 plus	 grand	et	 *(le)	plus	 fort
			 the man	 the	 more	 large	 and	 the	 more	 strong
In (42a) the non-omission of the second article suggests that reference is being
made to two men. In (42b) there is no implication for reference in the presence
of the determiner.
As observed by Hawkins (1978), the superlative construction is one of the
strongest uniqueness indicators. Hence, in superlative DPs it is the descriptive
content that is responsible for uniqueness, and the article has to be inserted ob-
ligatorily. This would suggest then that superlative semantics are somehow in-
terlinked with the presence of a determiner like element, see Bobaljik (2012) for
rich cross-linguistic evidence. In view of this, it is necessary, before we come to an
analysis of this pattern, to briefly make some remarks on the structure of superla-
tive adjectives.
4.2	 Structuring superlatives
As has been mentioned in the introduction, and see also Matushansky (2008: 27),
the presence of an article is in generally taken as evidence for the presence of a
nominal projection which this article embeds. From this perspective, the pres-
ence of an article within superlatives is suggestive of two possible analyses of this
70	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
pattern: (a) a nominalization structure (i.e. a null affix turns an adjective into a
noun or (b) a null noun is projected in the syntax. The latter type of structure would
be a case of nominal ellipsis.
Matushansky (2008) provides evidence that in English and French as well as
in many other languages superlatives do license null nouns. Consider the environ-
ments in which N-ellipsis is licit in English. Standard instances of N-ellipsis in
English are introduced by a limited set of determiner- and adjective-like elements.
N-ellipsis is impossible with most adjectives unless one is present. This is not the
case in e.g. Romance, see Bernstein (1993):
	 (43)	 You bought a green car and I bought a red one.
	 (44)	 a.	 Un/*Uno	libro	grande	è	 sulla	 tavola. Italian
			 a	 book	big	 is	on-the	table
			 ‘a big book is on the table’
		b.	Uno	grande	 è	 sulla	 tavola.
			 ‘a	 big (one)	 is	 on the	 table’
N-ellipsis is possible for superlative phrases, as shown in (45), from Matushansky
(2008: 30):
	 (45)	 Context: which dress would you like?
		 a.	 I want the cheapest
		 b.	 Je	veux	 la	 moins	chère French
			 I	 want	the	less	 expensive-f.sg
Matushansky thus concludes that superlatives license null nouns, a conclusion
which I adopt here.
In order to probe more into the structure of superlatives, let us consider the
type of adjectives that license null nouns in English. These involve possessives,
cardinal and ordinal numbers, and certain quantifiers.
	 (46)	 a.	 When Mary brings her cat, John brings his too.
		 b.	 Mary likes your story even though she hates John’s.
		 c.	 Because you bought two cars, I bought three.
		 d.	 I caught the first train before you caught the second.
		 e.	 Some school kids like syntax, and some don’t.
		 f.	 Each student was helped so that each would understand.
Similar quantificational elements, however, cannot introduce N-ellipsis:
	 (47)	 a.	 *No school kid likes syntax, and no likes semantics.
		 b.	 *Every student was helped, so that every would understand.
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 71
Looking at the contrast between (46) and (47), it seems that the elements that
license ellipsis in English are those that either introduce or embed a dividing struc-
ture in Borer’s (2005) terms, each, unlike every, being a strong distributive quanti-
fier as is often acknowledged in the semantics literature, see e.g. Beghelli & Stowell
(1997) and the discussion in Chapter 2.
If N-ellipsis makes reference to structures containing division, see Alexiadou
& Gengel (2012) for recent discussion, we can assume that the determiner present
with superlatives is either of the type that assigns range to Borer’s ClassP, i.e. it is a
divider and then moves to D to assign range to this projection or at least that the
structure contains a ClassP. This would explain why, as Plank observed, it does
not really introduce new reference. The N it embeds can then be elided. From
this perspective, the determiner that precedes the superlative adjective crucially
embeds an NP, which the superlative adjective modifies.
Bobaljik (2012) provides a lengthy discussion and detailed evidence in favor
of the view that the structure of superlative adjectives is as in (48). (48) suggests
that the realization of the superlative contains that of the comparative, Bobaljik’s
Containment Hypothesis:
	(48)		 SupP
ComP
AP
Bobaljik (2012) argues that this nicely explains why relative superlatives are com-
parative in meaning, i.e., as he points out biggest means bigger than all members
in the comparison set, though he also mentions that this is a minority view in the
semantics literature on superlatives. Bobaljik remains agnostic as to whether the
definite article realizes the superlative head in this structure or languages use a
covert superlative morpheme.
If we combine Matushanky’s conclusion with Plank’s observations and the
analysis of ellipsis put forth in Alexiadou & Gengel (2012) we can, however, find
a different source for Bobaljik’s suggestion. Alexiadou & Gengel capitalized on
Sleeman’s (1996) argument that all elements that permit noun ellipsis are those
that license partitivity. Partitivity can be defined as in (49) (Sleeman 1996: 34).
	(49)	Partitivity
		
(i)	Partitive means ‘properly or improperly included within’ [a set].
		
(ii)	 Partitive also means ‘potentially but not necessarily specific’.
72	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
From this perspective, it does not come as a surprise that superlatives make ref-
erence to a comparison set, this is actually included within their structure. The
overall structural representation is an in (50), which does not offer details as to
the extended projection of the adjective:
	(50)	[DP [#P [ClassP [NP AP N ]]]]
A final piece of information that is relevant here is that post-nominal superlatives
in Romance are ambiguous between an absolute and a comparative reading. The
comparative reading is not available in pre-nominal position, see Cinque (2010)
for discussion. In agreement with Cinque, the absolute reading of post-nominal
superlatives, at least in Italian, is derived via XP movement of the noun to a posi-
tion above the absolute adjective. In contrast, the comparative reading has a dif-
ferent source, namely a type of relative clause. Crucially then, the structure in (50)
is only available in post-nominal position.
With these obsevations and remarks as our background, let us first consider
Kayne’s (2004) analysis of doubling found with superlative adjectives in French.
4.3	 Kayne’s (2004) analysis
Kayne (2004) proposed to analyze the French post-nominal superlatives as involv-
ing a reduced relative clause structure. According to Kayne, a French example such
as (51) has the following derivation, illustrated in (52):
	(51)	le	 livre	le	 plus	court	
		 the	 book	the	most	short
	 (52)	 a.	 C [SC [ le livre ] [ plus court ] ]
		 b.	 [ plus court ]i C [SC [ le livre ] ti ]
		 c.	 le [ [ plus court ]i C [SC [ le livre ] ti ] ]
		 d.	 [SC [ le livre ] ti ]j le [ [ plus court ]i C tj ]
The derivation proceeds as follows: first the DP merges together with the adjective
in a form of a small clause, then the predicate raises to SpecCP; subsequently the
external D is merged, and the remnant small clause moves to Spec,DP. From this
perspective, the determiner that precedes plus is actually the hierarchically higher
D (i.e. the one merged later).
As already pointed out, with a postnominal superlative, French must have a
definite article preceding plus, while Italian cannot have one preceding più. For
Kayne, Italian is only minimally different from French, in that the two languages
have exactly the same base structure, and the derivation of the Italian pattern
proceeds as in (52), i.e. Italian (53) is identical to French (52d), except that Italian
leaves its definite D there unpronounced:
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 73
	 (53)	 [SC [ il libro ] ti ]j D [ [ più corto ]i C tj ]
The question that arises is why the determiner may be left unpronounced in Italian
but not in French. According to Kayne, this difference between French from Italian
is related to another difference between the two languages, namely the behavior of
bare plurals and bare mass nouns. As is well known, Italian allows bare plurals in
object position, but French does not:
	 (54)	*Jean	 achetait	 livres.	
		 Jean	 bought (was buying)	 books
	 (55)	 Gianni	comprava	libri	
		 Gianni	bought	 books
Bare mass nouns show a parallel difference: these are possible in Italian but not
in French:
	 (56)	*Jean	 buvait	 bière	
		Jean	 drank	beer
	 (57)	 Gianni	beveva	birra	
		 Gianni	drank	 beer	
Note that in the recent literature the claim that French does not allow productive
bare nouns in argument positions has been critically addressed, see e.g. Beyssade
(2011), and Roodenburg (2004) for discussion. Nevertheless, it does not seem to be
as productive as Italian. If bare plurals are subject to a structural representation in
which D remains null (Longobardi 1994), the above contrast suggests that Italian
allows for null Ds more productively than French does.
However, the above explanation raises the question why it is only in the con-
text of superlatives that doubling of determiners occurs in French. In principle, if
bare nouns are generally excluded from the language, one would expect a pattern
similar to Greek determiner doubling in the context of modification, i.e. one would
expect (58) to be grammatical, contrary to fact:
	 (58)	*le	 livre	 le	 court	
		 the	book	the	short
	 (59)	le	 livre	court
		 the	book	short
Kayne’s answer to this problem is that in French (and also Italian) the predicate
preposing step in (52) is limited to superlatives. In fact he claims that in French
(and Italian), when the subject of the small clause has a definite article, predicate
preposing is not available at all. From this perspective, superlative preposing is in-
terpreted, according to Kayne, in terms of (obligatory) pied-piping. In other words,
74	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
it is the superlative plus in (52) that raises across DP to Spec,C and in so doing
pied-pipes the adjective. Unlike Greek, French does not allow adjective phrases
per se to raise to Spec,C in such structures, they only raise as a side effect of the
raising of superlative plus. This type of pied-piping, Kayne argues, is no different
from what we see with interrogative wh-phrases (in English, for example), which
raise in a way that ordinary DPs do not. Thus pied-piping of the adjective by plus
is to be considered parallel to the pied-piping of NP by the wh-morpheme.
4.4	 An alternative?
The discussion in 4.2 enables us to sketch an alternative to this approach. Recall
that I adopted Matushansky’s (2008) arguments that the superlative AP modifies
the article of an elided NP, and some evidence in favor of this approach was pro-
vided in that section. Matushansky briefly compares these structures to the follow-
ing examples, argued in the literature to involve close apposition, see the discussion
in the previous chapter and Lekakou & Szendrői (2012) for further references:
	 (60)	 Chomsky the philosopher
As mentioned in the previous chapter, close apposition has the following charac-
teristics. First, it is restrictive, which means that the two parts together identify the
intended referent. Second, both parts must be definite nominals. Third, the two
parts are not separated by comma or any other type of prosodic information. If
superlatives in Romance can be assimilated to these structures, then we could pro-
pose, following Matushansky, that these are some form of nominal reduced rela-
tive clause, similar to adjectival reduced relative clauses. In other words, Kayne’s
intuition is on the right track, the only difference is that the determiner is internal
to the noun phrase modified by the superlative adjective.
Evidence for this comes from the observation that when two singular DPs are
co-ordinated, the modifier in the superlative as well as the determiner that precedes
it are in the plural, e.g. [l’histoire et l’article] les plus interessantes ’the history and
the article the-pl more interesting-pl’.6
If this determiner were external, it would
be hard to explain why it must appear in plural form.
The question then is why French requires an overt determiner to mark nominal
structure in this case, while Italian does not. We could still apply Kayne’s logic and
claim that in Italian D can remain null. Alternatively, we could appeal to the fact
Italian adjectives are more highly inflected than French ones enabling thus iden-
tification of ClassP in (50), see Bernstein (1993), and Alexiadou & Gengel (2012)
6.	 Many thanks to Jonathan Bobaljik for pointing this out to me.
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 75
for discussion. From the perspective of this analysis then, doubling of determiners
appears only in the context of superlatives, which are nominal relative clauses, and
contain a ClassP that must be identified.
5.	 What about English?
Leaving the doubling with intensifiers aside for the moment, which involves indefi-
nite determiners, definiteness spreading/doubling in the context of modification
is not observed in English:
	 (61)	 a.	 the red book
		 b.	 *the book the red
In fact even the small number of adjectives that appear in post-nominal position
in English and have been argued to have a reduced relative clause source are not
introduced by articles, although they need to be somehow complex, i.e. they con-
tain the affix -able, see Bolinger (1967), Larson (1999), Cinque (2010):
	 (62)	 a.	 the visible stars
		 b.	 the stars visible
Why is this so? Kayne (2004), as we saw in 4.3, in his account of the availability of
doubling in French superlatives as opposed to Italian ones suggested that this is
related to the availability and properties of bare nouns across languages. As is well
known, bare nouns differ considerably crosslingusitically especially with respect
to whether or not they can occupy argument positions, see Dayal (2011), and
Dobrovie-Sorin & Beyssade (2012) for recent overviews, see Longobardi (1994),
Chierchia (1998), and Krifka (1989) among others for discussion. We could then
capitalize on the proposal that presence of multiple marking is related to the dis-
tribution of bare nouns (allowed in some but not all languages). What seems to
be important is the availability of a null D in the extended projection of the noun
phrase. If a language allows for such null Ds, it will not show multiple marking
of definites. While Greek, as will be argued in Chapter 6, has bare nouns, these
are NumberPs, they are not headed by null Ds, see Alexopoulou & Folli (2011).
Thus multiple definiteness marking relating to familiarity necessarily gives rise to
multiple definite determiners, as NumberPs cannot be doubled in Greek.
Applying this type of argumentation to the English data, one could thus pro-
pose that English, like Italian, differs from Greek in that it can leave its determiners
unpronounced. As is well-known, in English bare plurals can appear also in wider
variety of positions, even in subject position, cf. Longobardi (1994) for extensive
discussion on the differences between Germanic and Romance:
76	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	 (63)	 a.	 John likes wine
		 b.	 John likes books
		 c.	 Cats are nice animals
Thus we could argue that in English from an input structure such as the one in
(64), raising of red to SpecCP would give the red book. In English, as in Italian, the
determiner of the noun phrase in argument position can remain silent.
	 (64)	 [ DP the [CP [IP book red ]]]
In other words, a possible analysis is that in English it is the external determiner
that is overt, and that the DP in the subject position of the small clause is bare.
The claim could be made more general: we could hypothesize that what is subject
to crosslinguistic variation is the availability of null D heads in the structure of
nominal phrases in a language, but see Lekakou & Szendrői (2012) for an alterna-
tive explanation. Some languages have null Ds, others, Greek being one of them,
don’t, see Alexopoulou & Folli (2011). Determiner spreading is only found in
languages that lack null Ds, in the sense that whenever D is present in this type
of languages it has a semantic effect and must be overt. I will come back to this
discussion in Chapter 6.
If this is the right analysis, then a second issue concerns the obligatoriness of
predicate raising in English. Why should the AP always raise? An answer to this is
given in Cinque (2010), who argues that in English a further constraint is active:
reduced relative clauses containing bare APs cannot be found in post-nominal
position.7 This is a contraint that applies only to Present Day English, as we will
see in Chapter 6.
I believe the above explanation is only part of the full answer. I will argue in
Chapter 6 that there is a second aspect that in combination with the above insight
accounts for the English situation (and also the French and Italian situation): I will
show that in English most adjectives are introduced as specifiers of functional
projections within the extended projection of the noun phrase, i.e. a re-analysis
of the type argued for Norwegian by van Gelderen and Lohndal (2008) has taken
place. Thus the structure (64) is not available to most adjectives in English, it is
only available for those adjectives that behave like visible. Similar observations
presumably hold for French and Italian, see the discussion in Cinque (2010). In
other words, the number of adjectives that has a relative clause input structure
is very limited, in fact in English it is only possible for the adjectives that can
7.	 Cinque, who assumes that such relative clauses are internally headed, argues that is due to
a ban on bare APs undergoing extraposition.
	 Chapter 3.  Beyond Greek	 77
occasionally appear in post-nominal position, i.e. D-modifiers in Larson’s (1999)
terms. Evidence for this will come from the discussion of the changes affecting
adjectival placement in English, which will be presented in detail in Chapter 6
in comparison to what has been argued to have taken place in Norwegian by van
Gelderen and Lohndal (2008).
chapter 4
When adjectival determiners abound
In this chapter, I will discuss cases that have often been compared to determiner
spreading in Greek, and determiner doubling in Scandinavian. I show that all these
have different properties from the ones that characterize the Greek or Scandinavian
pattern, and thus they should not be treated on a par. The phenomena I am inter-
ested in here include multiple determiners in Hebrew, Albanian adjectival articles,
Slovenian adjectival determiners, and the particle de in Chinese. Slovenian and
Chinese constitute particularly interesting cases, as these languages normally lack
determiners in un-modified noun phrases. Thus, at first sight they do no seem to
conform to Plank’s (2003) implicational universal introduced in (12) in the in-
troduction, according to which, no language has double marking if it lacks single
marking, raising the question whether an analysis in terms of relators is more
appropriate for these elements. As we will see, in fact they do not violate Plank’s
universal, as their multiple article-like elements are actually not determiners in
noun phrases. Importantly, however, they are not relators either.
1.	 Multiple determiners in Hebrew
1.1	 The distribution of multiple determiners
Beginning with Hebrew, we note that in this language as well as in other Semitic
languages, the controversy surrounding the article is whether it is a bound or a free
morpheme. Evidence for viewing the article as a bound morpheme comes from the
fact that, as opposed to languages such as English and Greek, nothing can intervene
between the Hebrew definite article, ha-, and the noun, see (1):
	 (1)	 a.	 šlošet ha-sfarim
			 three definite books
			 the three books
		 b.	 *ha-šlošet sfarim (from Danon 1996: 4)
Shlonsky (2004: 1474), however, states that it “is not true that nothing can intervene
between D and N. In numerous Arabic dialects as well as in colloquial Hebrew,
substandard for some speakers, cardinal numerals occur between the definite de-
terminer and the noun”.
80	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	(2)	
#ha	 hamišim	šekel Hebrew (from Shlonsky op.cit.)
		the	fifty	 Shekel
(2) is taken as evidence that ha is generated in D. The above data point to a case
of mirco-parametric variation within Semitic, which I will not address here. I will
assume, following Borer (1999, 2005) and Siloni (1997) and references therein,
that the article is a bound morpheme in Hebrew.
Borer (1999) proposes that the difference between English and Hebrew is that
±definiteness is a feature base generated on the noun in Hebrew, whose value can
percolate up a word structure, while this is not the case in English, where definite-
ness is realized in D. This explains the fact that the definite determiner is adjacent
to the noun, see also the discussion in Borer (2005).
In Hebrew, the presence of a second definite article is obligatory in the presence
of a modifier, and, unlike what we saw for Greek, the string determiner + adjective
always follows the definite head noun:
	 (3)	ha	dira	 ha	 gdola
		 the	 apartment	 the	 big (Shlonsky 2004: 1467)
In (3), no re-arrangement of the elements is possible, i.e. the order D-A-D-N is
ungrammatical. Moreover, the adjective cannot appear between the determiner
and the head noun, but see Shlonsky (2004) for discussion of some adjectival forms
that can precede the head noun. As Siloni (2002) points out, it is only in adjectival
construct states that adjectives surface without definite determiners. This is an
important difference between Greek and Hebrew. A second difference has to do
with the fact that in contrast to Scandinavian, Greek and Romanian, no semantic
difference is observed in Hebrew in the presence of an extra determiner. This is
especially clear in the examples below that involve a demonstrative:
	 (4)	 yalda	zot	 tikra	et	 ha-šir
		 girl	 this	will	 read-acc	the-poem
		 ‘This girl will read the poem’
	 (5)	 ha-yalda	ha-zot	 tikra	et	 ha-šir
		 the-girl	 the-this	will	 read-acc	the-poem
As Borer (1999) notes, the presence of the article on a demonstrative is clearly se-
mantically vacuous. There is absolutely no difference in meaning between (4) and
(5). Furthermore, if the demonstrative, at some level of representation, occupies
some D position, that position is plausibly in competition with the definite article
(as it is in English). This suggests for Borer that the definite article ha- is merely a
feature here, base-generated on the nominal stem.
	 Chapter 4.  When adjectival determiners abound	 81
A third difference between the two languages is that, unlike what we saw
above for Greek, in Hebrew quantifiers can be preceded by the definite article,
as shown in (6):
	 (6)	 a.	 ha	 xatulim	ha	 rabim
			 the	cats	 the	many
		 b. *	ha	 xatulim	 harbe
			 the	 cats	 many (from Borer 2005: 226)
As Borer (op.cit.) argues, (6b) is ungrammatical because the quantifier in Spec#P,
see the discussion in the introduction, fails to agree with the head noun.
Importantly, no restrictions whatsoever are observed concerning the type of
adjectives preceded by determiners. In Hebrew, unlike in Greek, non-predicative,
non-intersective adjectives can be preceded by a determiner, see (7), from Sichel
(2002), her (38a) and (39a):
	 (7)	a.	 ha-pliša	 ha-italkit	le-albania
			 the invasion	 the italian	 to-albania
			 ‘The Italian invasion of Albania’
		 b.	 ha-xaver	 ha-kodem/ha-yaxid	 šel	rina
			 the-friend	the-former/the-single	of	rina
			 ‘The former/only friend of Rina’
On the basis of examples such as the above, Sichel (2002: 314) concludes that one
cannot treat the Hebrew prefixal adjectival article as a D° which introduces a CP.1
This clearly suggests that one cannot appeal to a predicative source for the adjective
in order to make sense of the phenomenon. In addition, the lack of any interpre-
tational effects associated with the presence of a second determiner suggests that
we cannot be dealing with a split-DP in this language either. The only similarity
between Greek and Hebrew is that each adjective will be preceded by its own de-
terminer, i.e. we have multiple marking of definiteness.
1.	 Sichel discusses two types of adjectives: simple adjectives of the type in e.g. (3) and complex
adjectives, as in (i) below, her (41a):
	 (i)	ta	 tmuma	ha	 tluya	 al	 ha-kir
		the	 picture	 the	 hanging	 on	 the wall
		‘The picture hanging on the wall’
My discussion here deals only with simple adjectives. Complex adjectives, as Sichel convinc-
ingly argues, should be treated as reduced relative clauses. As Sichel also points out, in the case
of complex adjectives the article does not need to have a definite meaning at all, suggesting that
there is a difference in the status between the ha associated with simple adjectives and the ha
associated with complex adjectives.
82	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
1.2	 An analysis of Hebrew multiple determiners
In view of the fact that multiple determiners are so pervasive in Hebrew, but are not
subject to any interpretational effects, the conclusion we can safely draw is that in
this case we are looking at a case of agreement in definiteness. Assuming, follow-
ing Borer (1999), Siloni (2002), Sichel (2002) and others that in Hebrew nouns are
marked for definiteness, all of the above cases can be accounted for by assuming
copying of agreement features at the PF level in a manner to be made precise im-
mediately below. Specifically, from the structural point of view, we could adopt an
analysis of the Hebrew DP of the type proposed in Ritter (1991), see Borer (2005),
according to which N raises to D, and explain the spreading of definiteness as a
process taking place at morphological structure, where in principle everything that
modifies the noun has to agree with it in definiteness. This type of analysis could
still be assumed even if N-A orders in Hebrew were the result of phrasal movement
of the NP around the adjective, cf. Shlonsky (2004), Sichel (2002).2 Irrespectively
of the N vs. NP movement issue, in agreement with Shlonsky (2004) and Sichel
(2002), adjectives are merged to the left of the head noun, and the order N-A is
the result of nominal movement.3
Before I come to the morphological analysis of adjectival agreement, let me
briefly sketch Shlonsky’s (2004) proposal. Shlonsky observes that in postnominal
position adjectives, numeral phrases, quantifiers and demonostratives must agree
with the noun. When these phrases, however, precede the noun, subject to register,
dialectal and speaker variation, fairly arbitrary patterns are manifested. I will not be
further concerned with this arbitrary situation here. The explanation Shlonsky of-
fers for the obligatory agreement can be summarized as follows, see (8): adjectives
are merged as specifiers of functional projections within the extended projection
of the noun, as in e.g. structure (18a) in Chapter 1. The head of this projection
is then moved and projects AgrP. AgrP is the domain in which the agreement
relationship is established. Subquently NP raises to Spec, AgrP. The obligatory
agreement between the noun and the postnominal modifier is brought about by
means of spec-head agreement: a functional head bearing phi-features attracts a
nominal expression into the specifier position of an immediately dominating AgrP.
2.	 See the discussion in Pereltsvaig (2006) and Shlonsky (2006) concerning the X0 vs. XP nature
of movement within the Semitic noun phrase.
3.	 Sichel claims that adjectives are in fact heads in Hebrew, while Shlonsky assumes that these
are merged as specifiers.
	 Chapter 4.  When adjectival determiners abound	 83
	(8)	 AgrXP
Agr′
NP
XP
AgrX
X′
AP
tNP
tx
From this perspective, nominal concord is a relationship mediated by a func-
tional head. An alternative would be to assume, as in Distributed Morphology
(Halle & Marantz 1993), that the type of agreement found in the Hebrew nominal
phrase is a pure morphological phenomenon, a process involving the assignment
of AGR nodes and the copying of information from structurally defined DPs
onto these nodes.
From this perspective, we can distinguish between two types of AGR nodes:
	 (9)	 a.	 AGR1: Person/Number
		 b.	 AGR2: Number/Gender
Embick (2000) and Alexiadou (2001b), building on Embick, propose that if an
element combines with Tense, it will show AGR1 (which is in fact directly associ-
ated with Tense). But if an element cannot combine with Tense, it will agree in the
pattern of Agr2. The categories that receive AGR nodes are those in (10a); (10b)
includes the categories receive no agreement nodes:
	 (10)	 a.	 AGR node		 b.	 No AGR
			Tense				Verbs
			 Determiners			 Prepositions
			Nouns				Adverbs
			 Adjectives			 Particles
Functional heads such as Tense will be uniquely identifiable in terms of their
abstract feature content. AGR assignment crucially makes reference to the spe-
cific head involved. AGR1 is adjoined to finite Tense, and in the absence ot Tense
AGR2 is used otherwise. The restriction to finite Tense excludes infinitives from
the AGR-set.
	 (11)	 X → X-AGR, 		 X = T or D
84	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Only roots capable of combining with Tense in the syntax, i.e. verbs will show
AGR1 and I will not discuss this pattern here. The second component in the system
of agreement concerns the conditions under which properties of a DP are copied
onto an AGR node. There are two copying processes. The first type is for agreement
of the subject-predicate type:
	 (12)	 AGR → AGR [αPerson, βNumber, γGender]/_gov by DP
		[aP, bN, gG]
This will cover both agreement between a finite verb and the surface subject and
agreement of a predicate adjective with the DP of which it is predicated.
Copying of the second type must copy information from a noun onto an at-
tributive adjective:
	 (13)	 AGR ~ N[αP, βN, γG] → AGR [αP, βN, γG]
(13) is what accounts for agreement patterns within DPs in e.g. Greek, a language
where prenominal adjectives agree with the head noun, but see Baker (2008) for
an alternative. We can imagine that a similar situation holds in Hebrew, the dif-
ference being that the copying of features happens after the syntactic movement
of the nominal, since agreement is assigned at morphological structure, that is
after syntactic operations have taken place. Crucially, these agreement features are
transferred at morphological structure, and no structural representation makes
reference to an additional determiner.
2.	 Adjectival articles in Albanian
2.1	 The distribution of adjectival articles
In Albanian determiners are enclitic. However, there are some important differ-
ences between this type of enclitic determiner and the descriptions of comparable
structures in e.g. Romanian and Scandinavian seen in Chapter 3. The Albanian
enclitic article seems to be amalgamated to case. That is, definite nouns are dis-
tinguished from indefinite nouns by bearing different endings, and these endings
vary for both definite and indefinite nouns with respect to Case:
	(14)	a.	 lis	 lis-i
			 oak-nom	 the oak-nom
		b.	lis-i	 lis-it
			 oak-dat	 the oak-dat (Androutsopoulou 2001: 162)
	 Chapter 4.  When adjectival determiners abound	 85
Like Greek, Albanian uses the definite article with proper names. Turano (2002)
argues that in Albanian the determiner is generated in a position different from
the head noun, namely D. N and D combine via means of NP preposing.
In Albanian, adjectives generally appear in post-nominal position and are
obligatorily preceded by the definite article, but see the discussion below for refine-
ments. As Androutsopoulou (2001: 164ff.) points out, adjectives can also appear
in pre-nominal position, where they receive a focus interpretation. In both posi-
tions, the adjective is preceded by the determiner, which bears Case and definite-
ness features. The two positions differ in significant respects. In (15a), it is the
noun that is marked for definiteness and Case, while the adjective bears no Case
features. In (15b), on the other hand, it is the adjective that bears definiteness and
Case features, while the noun is unspecified, it is actually in the indefinite form:
importantly, D-A-D-N strings are not allowed in this language, unlike in Greek.
As we will see immediately below, there are several important differences between
Greek determiner spreading and Albanian adjectival articles. The behavior of these
articles suggests that Albanian can be subsumed under Plank’s (2003) description
of cases involving an original marker taking over new tasks, see also Campos
(2009) and Trommer (2002).
	(15)	a.	 djalin	 e	 mirë
			 boy-masc-def-acc-sg	 det-masc-acc-sg	good-masc-sg
		b.	të	 mir-in	 djalë
			 det-masc-acc-sg	good-masc-def-acc-sg	boy-masc-sg
A further important difference between Greek and Albanian is that not all adjec-
tives surface with determiners, but the restrictions regulating this pattern are very
idiosyncratic, as will be disccused below. As Campos (2009) points out, Albanian
has two classes of adjectives, Class 1, which are similar to post-nominal adjectives
in Romance, and Class 2 that require the presence of an adjectival article:
	(16)	a.	 shkoll-a	 fillore
			 school-the	elementary
			 the elementary school
		 b.	 libri	 *(i)	ri
			 book-the	 i	new
			 the new book
In Albanian, adjectives are accompanied by determiners even when they appear in
predicative position (17a). This is not possible in Greek, as the ungrammaticality
of (17b) shows:
86	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	 (17)	 a.	 mësuesei	 ishte	i	 lumtur
			 teacher-def	was	 det	happy
			 ‘the teacher was happy’
		 b.	*o	 daskalos	itan	o	 kalos
			 the	teacher	 was	 the	 good
Moreover, strict adjacency is required between the determiner and the adjective:
the determiner can also surface after adverbials modifying the adjective, as shown
in (18).
	(18)	domethënie	jashtëzakonisht	të	 madhe
		significance	unusually	 det	great
		 ‘unusually great significance’
In comparison constructions, the determiner precedes the adjective and the degree
modifier precedes the whole complex, see (19a) and (19b):
	(19)	a.	 më	 i	 ëmbël
			 more	the	sweet
			 ‘sweeter’
		b.	 tepër	 besnik-u	 ndaj	së	shoqes	burrë
			 extremely	 truthful-the	to	 his	wife	 husband
In Greek, the determiner always precedes the degree modifier:
	 (20)	 to	 pio	 kalo	pedi
		 the	most	nice	boy
		 ‘the nicest boy’
The adjectival determiner appears in indefinite noun phrases. Again this is not
possible in Greek:
	 (21)	 nje	djalë	 i	 mirë
		 a	 boy	 the	good
		 ‘a good boy’
	 (22)	*ena	 agori	 to	 kalo
		a	 boy	 the	good
Finally, consider the restrictions on the presence of the adjectival article: it is very
idiosyncratic which adjectives require the article (phonologically and semantically)
and which do not. For instance, in (23) we see that while both adjectives have the
same meaning, only bukur allows the article, while in (24) it is not immediately
clear why the adjective new allows the article but the adjective grey does not:
	 (23)	 vajza	 e	 bukur/vajz-a	bukurosh
		 girl-art	art	nice/girl-def	nice
	 Chapter 4.  When adjectival determiners abound	 87
	(24)	libr-i	 i	 ri/libri	 gri
		book-def	the	 new/book-def	grey
The idiosyncratic nature of this distribution becomes more apparent, if we con-
sider the following table, from Trommer (2002), which summarizes the instance
of (non-)occurrence of the adjectival article. The explanation offered as to why
a particular adjective allows the article or not vary from phonological to purely
idiosyncratic. This is very much unlike the situation in Greek, Romanian, French
and Scandinavian discussed in Chapters 2 and 3, but also the case of Hebrew
discussed in Section 1:
	(25)	Adjective				Determiner			
Reason	
		
bosh ‘empty’				no			 ⎫		 non-reduced
											 ⎬		 final syllable
		
anarkist ‘anarchic’		no			 ⎭
		
gri ‘grey’				no
		
koke-kungul ‘stupid’		no					
two-stem
													
compound
		
gege ‘geg’				no					
idiosyncratic
		
mire ‘good’				yes					
regular case
		
key ‘bad’				yes					
idiosyncratic
2.2	 An analysis of Albanian adjectival articles
I will discuss here two analyses of adjectival articles in Albanian. The first one is
offered in Androutsopoulou (2001), who proposes an analysis thereof in terms of
reduced relative clauses, and the second one is in Trommer (2002), who proposes
a morphological analysis of the pattern, see also Campos (2009). As will become
clear from my discussion, I will argue that only the morphological analysis of
Albanian adjectival articles is on the right track.
To begin with, Androutsopoulou argues that the structure of Albanian DPs
is as follows:
	 (26)	 [D djalin [D/PP DPt [ D e [AgrP mirë [FP DPt	 APt
The adjectival determiner heads the extended projection of the noun with which
it agrees, the adjective is base generated in a predicative position within a small
clause structure and moves to SpecAgrP; the noun itself moves to SpecDP and
then subsequently incorporates into the external D position. A similar analysis is
proposed for Greek determiner spreading, whereby it is the determiner preceding
the noun that moves from SpecPP to D.
This analysis predicts a strong correlation between predicativity and adjec-
tival determiners in Albanian, which is not confirmed by the data. In addition,
88	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
the overall behavior of Albanian adjectives, unlike the Greek and the Romanian
cases, does not warrant an analysis in terms of relative clauses. In particular, the
idiosyncratic nature of the whole phenomenon leads one to assume a morpho-
phonological analysis of the pattern. Clearly, it cannot be a case of agreement as
what we saw earlier in this chapter for Hebrew, as adjectival articles appear with
indefinite noun phrases, and the pattern is subject to morpho-phonological and
unsystematic semantic restrictions.
In agreement with Campos (2009), while it might be correct that the Albanian
pattern started off as a type of spreading similar to the Greek one, the Albanian
article seems to have grammaticalized further, becoming some form of inflec-
tional marker, see Ramat (2008). This is especially clear in the cases where adverbs
modify adjectives, as shown in (19) above. While in Albanian the article follows
the adverb, in Greek it precedes it. In addition, as already shown, bearing the ad-
jectival article is a property of a subgroup of adjectives which are labeled Class-2
adjectives, see (15) repeated below:
	 (27)	 a.	 shkoll-a	fillore
			 school	 elementary
			 the elementary school
		 b.	 libri	 *(i)	ri
			 book-the	*(i)	 new
			 the new book
As Trommer (2002) further notes, the most important aspect pointing to a mor-
phological analysis of this phenomenon is that the pre-adjectival determiner in
Albanian shows allomorphy which depends not only on the features present in
the matrix DP but also on its surface consistency. Trommer claims that the adjec-
tival article is a post-syntactically inserted agreement morpheme. He argues that
a correct account of the insertion contexts of the adjectival article and of its allo-
morphy presupposes reference to surface syntactic configurations thus supporting
the conceptual framework of Distributed Morphology, see also Campos (2009).
To see this consider the following table from Trommer (2002) that contains the
forms of the article for all occurring feature combinations and positions:
	 (28)	 a.	 Prenominal position
					Singular		 Plural
					m	
f	
n
			 nom	 i	 e	të	 të
			 acc		 të	të	të	 të
			 obl		 të	 së	 të	 të
	 Chapter 4.  When adjectival determiners abound	 89
		 b.	 Postnominal position without intervening material
					Singular		 Plural
					m	
f	
n
			 nom	 i	 e	e	 e
			 acc		 e	e	e	 e
			 obl		 të	 së	 të	 të
		 c.	 Postnominal position with intervening material
					Singular		 Plural
					m	
f	
n
			 nom	 i	 e	të	 të
			 acc		 të	të	të	 të
			 obl		 të	të	të	 të
As we see in (29), e is neutralized to të as më intervenes, but i is not:
	(29)	a.	 vajz-at	 më	 të	 shkret-a
			 girl-pl-def	more	def	poor-pl-def
			 ‘the poorest girls’
		b.	djal-i	 më	 i	 mirë
			 boy-def	more	art	good
			 ‘the best boy’
The above is a clear locality effect. Trommer raises the question why neutralization
happens in some cases but not in all and offers an explanation in the framework of
Distributed Morphology. As he points out, in Distributed Morphology there are
two processes with very different character that work together to determine the
form of an agreement head. The one is Agreement and the other one is contextu-
ally determined allomorphy. Agreement, as we saw in Section 1, “in its technical
sense is effected by a process of feature copying which generally doesn’t obey strict
locality in the sense that a single X0 can cause intervention effects. For example,
in English subject verb agreement, any amount of syntactic material can be put
between the verb and the subject-DP without affecting agreement. A process of this
type must be responsible for the transmission of features to the adjectival article
from the article/case-complex. On the other hand, it is a proto-typical property of
contextually determined allomorphy to exhibit strict locality.”
The rules Trommer proposes are as follows:
	 (30)	 a.	 e is inserted, when the article is asymmetrically c-
			 commanded by a definite X0.
		 b.	 së is inserted in the context of a definite X0.
90	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
In view of the restrictions associated with Albanian adjectival articles, I thus con-
clude that this is a very different phenomenon from the Hebrew case, a case of
agreement, and naturally also very different from the Greek and Scandinavian
situation.
3.	 Slovenian adjectival determiners
In a recent paper, Marušič and Žaucer (2010) discuss the properties of examples
such as (31) below:
	 (31)	 tá	 ta	 debel	ta	 zelen	svinčnik
		 this	TA	thick	 TA	green	pencil
		 this thick green pencil
In this example, a definite article appears before the adjective preceding the head
noun, which following the authors I label and gloss as TA here. This definite article
is intimately linked with the adjective as it appears only in the context of adjecti-
val modification and can be repeated. As the authors note, TA is invariant, i.e. it
does not agree in any nominal features with the adjective it combines with. This is
already a difference from the Greek pattern.
Marušič and Žaucer compare the behavior of this pattern to determiner
spreading in Greek and double definiteness in Scandinavian, and rightly conclude
that TA is not comparable to any of these. For instance, unlike Swedish, Slovenian
has no article on unmodified nouns, and while TA can appear on indefinite noun
phrases, the Swedish definite determiner cannot:
	 (32)	 Likhkar	 je	 min	prdirkal	en	 ta	 hiter	avto
		just-now	aux	by	 sped	 a	 TA	 fast	 car
		 ‘Some fast case has just sped by’
Moreover, TA can appear on stacked adjectives, but the definite determiner in
Swedish cannot.
This property of TA, i.e. the fact that it can appear on stacked adjectives, brings
it close to the behavior of determiner spreading in Greek. But again, the authors
note, TA is very different. TA simply does not appear on unmodified nouns, it can
appear in indefinite noun phrases, and finally, it is not obligatory when the noun
precedes the adjective, as is the case in Greek. In fact, examples such as (33) are
reported ungrammatical:
	 (33)	*kniga	 ta	 debela
		 book	 the	thick	
	 Chapter 4.  When adjectival determiners abound	 91
According to Marušič and Žaucer, TA is also not comparable to the Albanian cases
discussed in the previous section. Although both TA and the definite determiner
in Albanian appear within indefinite noun phrases, the i found in the Albanian
pattern is arguably underspecified for definiteness.
Marušič and Žaucer thus argue that actually the distribution of TA is sugges-
tive of an analysis thereof according to which TA specifies a degree to which an
adjective is true. Their argument is based on the following observation. Consider
(34) and (35):
	 (34)	 Ko	 vstopiš	vidiš	na	 lei	 en	velik	predalnik;	odkleni	ga	in
		 when	enter	 see	 on	left	a	 big	 dresser;	 unlock	 it	 and
		 When you enter, you will see a /this big dresser on your left; unlock it and…
	 (35)	 Ko	 vstopiš	 vidiš	na	 lei	 en	 ta	 velik	 predalnik;	odkleni	ga	in
		 when	enter	 see	 on	left	a	 TA	big	 dresser;	 unlock	 it	 and
		 When you enter, you will see a/this dresser of the big type on your left; unlock
it and…
The latter example contains TA, and according to the authors’ intuitions it would
be impossible to use, if the speaker and the hearer do not share the knowledge
that there exists a particular type/kind of dresser, defined by its being big, which
differentiates it from other types/kinds of dressers. This is not the case with the
former example. Crucially then, TA contributes type-definiteness of the adjectival
sub-part of the noun phrase. In their terms, TA renders a qualifying adjective into
a classifying one.
Thus, in agreement with Marušič and Žaucer, TA is an element that is pro-
jected in the extended projection of the adjective, realizing ADP in Zamparelli’s
(1993) terms or an xAP in Leu’s (2008) analysis, and does not head a D head
in the nominal extended projection, see Alexiadou (2010) for some discussion
on the layered structure of adjectives. Their structural analysis is illustrated in
(36), where ADP is the counterpart of DP in the extended projection of the
noun phrase:
	(36)	 ADP
AQP
TA
DegP
AP
92	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Marušič and Žaucer place TA in the specifier position of ADP. According to them,
this explains the apparently meaning-free occurrences of TA within a single ad-
jective phrase, see (37a). The proposal also captures cases where two adjectives in
the noun phrase have different definiteness values, see (37b). These cases would
be rather difficult to explain if TA realized a head in some split DP architecture:
	 (37)	 a.	 ta	 zlo	 ta	 dobr	pir
			 TA	very	TA	good	beer
			 the very good beer
		 b.	 en	 mrzel	ta	 velik	pir
			 one	cold	 TA	large	beer
			 one cold large beer
4.	 De in Chinese
Finally, let me turn to the element de in Mandarin Chinese. As recently summa-
rized in Paul (2012), it is very difficult to come up with a unified analysis of de
because of the heterogeneity of XPs preceding de. I will not enter here a detailed
discussion of its distribution, but rather focus on adjectival de, see also the discus-
sion in Sio (2006).
At first sight, an analysis of de as realizing a D head seems implausible, as this
particle does not co-occur with a single noun, but only in the context in which the
head noun is in relation with another noun. In other words, looking at the distribu-
tion of de in the context of modification it seems plausible to argue that de is not a
determiner head, but rather a relator head, see den Dikken & Singhapreecha (2004).
There is a second property associated with de that points to a different analysis.
As observed in e.g. Sproat & Shih (1988: 476f.), in Mandarin Chinese, bare adjec-
tives modifying nouns (direct modification, as discussed in Chapter 1) must appear
in strict order. Multiple APs can violate this principle, but only when accompanied
by the particle (de).
	(38)	a.	 xiâo	 lü	 huãping
			 small	green	vase
		 b.	*lü	 xiâo	 huãping
			 green	 small	vase
		
c.	 xiâo-de	lü-de	 huãping
			 small-DE	green-DE	vase
			 small green vase
		d.	lü-de	 xiâo-de	 huãping
			 green-DE	small-DE	vase
	 Chapter 4.  When adjectival determiners abound	 93
Interestingly, this particle is also a relative clause marker, supporting the suggestion
that indirect modification is modification by (reduced) relative clauses.
	(39)	 fēi-de	nião
		 fly-DE	bird
		 the birds which are flying
Both the relative clause and the relator analysis predict that de-modifiers should
be further constrained in that they may only contain predicative adjectives, see
e.g. Simpson (2001), Cinque (2010), and Alexiadou & Wilder (1998). However,
Paul (2012) provides evidence that this is not the case. The adjective original in
(40) cannot function as a predicate, (41), as it is non-intersective. However, it can
be followed by de. This is not expected under Simpson’s (2001) and den Dikken &
Singhapreecha’s (2004) analysis, who both assume a predicative source for adjec-
tives associated with de, though the details differ, see below:
	 (40)	 yuánlái	de	pánzi
		 original	de	meaning
		 the original meaning
	 (41)	*Zhèi-ge	 yísi	 yánlái
		this-cl	 meaning	original
This, according to Paul, suggests that one cannot attribute a predicative source to all
modifiers followed by de. In particular, data such as the above suggest that adjec-
tives followed by de cannot be the result of predicative inversion, as suggested in
the work by den Dikken and Singhapreecha (2004) nor could they be analyzed as
predicates within a relative clause (Simpson 2001), see also Sio (2006) for further
discussion and arguments against both types of analysis.
An alternative is offered in Cheng and Sybesma (2009), who observe that in
Mandarin, noun phrase ellipsis is licensed in two different environments: nouns
can be elided immediately following the classifier as well as immediately following
de. The following examples, taken from their paper, illustrate this.
	 (42)	 a.	 tā	 gāngcái	 chī-le	 yī-ge	 píngguŏ,	nĭ	yě	 yīnggāi	chī	yī-ge
			 3s	just-now	eat-perf	one-cl	apple,	 2s	also	ought	 eat	one-cl
			 ‘he just ate an apple, you should also eat one’
		 b.	 tā	bù	 xĭhuān	nèi-běn	shū,	 tā	 xĭhuān	zhèi-běn
			 3s	 neg	like	 that-cl	 book,	3s	like	 this-cl
			 ‘he does not like that book, he likes this one’
	 (43)	 a.	 wŏ	xĭhuān	hóng-sè	 de	 xié,	 tā	xĭhuān	huáng-sè	 de
			 1s	 like	 red-color	DE	shoe,	3s	like	 yellow-color	DE
			 ‘I like red shoes, he likes yellow ones’
94	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
		 b.	 tā	 zuótiān	 măi-le	 yī-jiàn	 xīn	 de	 máoyī,	 wŏ	măi-le
			 3s	yesterday	buy-perf	one-cl	 new	 DE	sweater,	1s	buy-perf
			 yī-jiàn	 jiù	de
			 one-cl	 old	DE
			 ‘he bought a new sweater yesterday, I bought an old one’
This naturally raises the question what classifiers and de have in common so that
they can both license noun ellipsis.
Building on Alexiadou and Gengel (2012), Cheng and Sybesma provide an
analysis of de according to which this is a classifier. Recall, as mentioned in the
previous chapter, that Alexiadou and Gengel (2012) argued on the basis of English
and Romance that the projection relevant for the licensing of ellipsis is ClassifierP
in Borer’s analysis of noun phrases, which in English one spells-out. Adopting
this insight, though the specifics of their analysis diverge from Borer’s structure,
Cheng and Sybesma propose a structure in which de realizes a classifier layer,
right on top of the lexical N, which explicitly marks a noun as countable, and the
adjective is in the specifier position of this projection, but see Paul (2012) for an
alternative approach.
5.	 Conclusion
The discussion of other cases of multiple determiners, to which the tools intro-
duced in Chapter 1 and developed in Chapters 2 and 3 for Greek and Scandinavian
in particular were applied, suggests that indeed a uniform analysis thereof cannot
be pursued, as each pattern is subject to very different restrictions. Interpretational
effects should function as our main tool to probe into the structure of noun phrases
in the individual languages. Cases where we find interpretational effects related
to determiners or restrictions related to the adjectives involved in environments
with multiple determiners should point to an analysis of the respective pattern that
makes use of a more elaborate DP structure. These should be kept in sharp contrast
to cases where the presence of an additional determiner signals mere agreement
(Hebrew), is completely idiosyncratic (Albanian), only affects the interpretation
of the adjective but not of the whole DP (Slovenian) or is a classifier (Chinese).
The discussion of Slovenian and Chinese confirms Plank’s intuition that doubling/
multiple marking cannot exist in the absence of single marking for definiteness.
Hence these patterns exemplify very different structures.4
4.	 Thus other constructions that superficially look similar to Greek determiner spreading might
turn out to be very different under closer scrutiny. For instance, Velegrakis (2011) compares
Greek determiner spreading to the Persian Ezafe constructions and argues against a unified
account of the two phenomena.
chapter 5
Multiple determiners
in indefinite noun phrases
1.	 Introduction
In this chapter, I turn to cases of multiple determiners in indefinite noun phrases.
Three such cases will be discussed. The first one is doubling of the indefinite article
in the context of intensifiers. Data illustrating this pattern are given in (1):
	 (1)	 a.	 en	Wi
			 a	 wine
		 b.	 en	 ganz	 en	 guete	Wi Swiss German (Lindauer 1991)
			 a	 totally	a	 good	wine	
		 c.	 a such a large group (Wood 2002)
This type of doubling has been reported mainly for non-standard varieties, see
Henn-Memmesheimer (1986), e.g. Swiss and Bavarian German, and the Leicester
dialect of English. Wood and Vikner (2013), however, show that this type of dou-
bling is not limited to a particular register or variety of a language, as it also found
in written Standard Danish, see (2), their example (9), and in most corpora cov-
ering standard English such as the British National Corpus and the Corpus of
Contemporary American English.
	 (2)	… du	er	 en	sådan	en	smart	fyr
		
you	are	
a	such	a	smart	
guy
The second type of mulitple determiners in indefinite noun phrases is illustrated in
(3). As has been noted in the literature, several Scandinavian dialects have multiple
indefinite determiners in the context of adjectival modification. Again, these are
considered to be non-standard varieties:1
1.	 A similar situation is described for Azeri and dialects of Turkish by Tat (2011), and see also
Plank (2003). Azeri has an indefinite article only, and this can be doubled, as in (i), Tat’s (22):
	 (i)	bir	 uyğum	 bir	 tercih
		one	 suitable	one	choice
Tat claims that the lower bir is present as it makes the noun it modifies into a predicate. Tat
herself proposes an analysis of Turkic adjectives in terms of reduced relative clauses, but her
description leaves open the possibility that the lower bir is actually a relator head. The high one,
as she argues, is the cardinal numeral.
96	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	 (3)	 en	stor	en	kar Northern Swedish (Delsing 1993: 143)
		a	 big	a	 man
This is a case of spreading, as a further adjective introduces a further determiner,
and it is said to be obligatory in some dialects (e.g. Västerbotten, Delsing 1993,
Jämtland A. L. Wiklund p.c.).
In this chapter, I will discuss these two cases in turn. In the final section of this
chapter, I will examine the third type of multiple determiners in indefinite noun
phrases, namely examples of what has been described as indefiniteness spreading
in Greek, briefly mentioned in Chapters 1, Example (9), and 2, and show how these
differ from their Germanic counterparts.
2.	 Doubling in the context of degree words
Beginning with the data in (1), the first question that needs to be answered con-
cerns the environments in which such doubling is permitted, i.e. which elements
allow doubling of the determiner? Literature looking at dialects of German notes
that this kind of doubling is permitted only with specific adverbs/quantificational
elements, see e.g. Lindauer (1991), Kallulli & Rothmayr (2008) among others.
These are given in (4).
	(4)	
genau ‘exactly’, denkbar ‘imaginable’, viel ‘much’, so ‘such’,
		 ganz ‘totally’
		 but *sehr ‘very’ *irrsinnig ‘insanely’
As mentioned in Chapter 1, this type of doubling has been labeled intensifier
doubling, but a more careful look at (4) suggests that the elements that partici-
pate in it are not strictly speaking intensifiers. There is an important difference
between the elements that allow the doubling and those that do not. For instance,
Baker (2001: 391) notes that in English degree words such as very and extremely
are distinct in their behavior from so, that and too: only the latter group allows
the indefinite article to follow the degree modifier and its adjective, e.g. so good/
too good an athlete, see also Troseth (2009). Troseth, following Corver (1997) and
Hendrick (1990), classifies elements as very as intensifies, while elements such too
and so as degree words. Building on these accounts and observations, we can thus
conclude that indefinite determiner doubling happens in the context of degree
words only, namely the ones that allow the inversion in the single pattern, either
alone, as is the case with such, or together with an adjective as is the case with so.
A second question that needs to be dealt with is whether there is a meaning
difference between the single and the double pattern. It has been pointed out in
the literature that there is indeed a meaning difference between the the two noun
phrases (Lindauer 1991):
	 Chapter 5.  Multiple determiners in indefinite noun phrases	 97
	 (5)	 a.	 en	ganz	 guete	Wi
			 a	 totally	good	 wine
		b.	 ganz	 en	guete	Wi intensifying
			 totally	a	 good	 wine
		 c.	 en	ganz	 en	 guete	Wi intensifying
			 a	 totally	a	 good	wine	
			 ‘an exceptionally good wine’
In (5b–c) we are talking about an exceptionally good wine. (5b–c) show that
the meaning of the doubling pattern is related to the meaning of the pattern in-
volving inversion, which supports the conclusion reached above that the degree
words that allow doubling are those that allowe inversion in the single pattern.
This reading is labeled intensifying one, and as Wood (2002) argues, the degree/­
quantificational elements require a gradable adjective phrase. This is actually ex-
pected if the elements involved in this pattern are degree words: they require a
gradable input. To this end, note that we find restrictions of the same type with
Greek determiner spreading. Adjectives that are non-gradable are not acceptable
in these constructions:
	 (6)	 a.	*ein	 so	 ein	 ehemaliger	Präsident
			 a	 such	a	 former	 president
		 b.	*eine	 so	 eine	italienische	Invasion
			 a	 such	an	 Italian	 invasion
Wood and Vikner (2013) note that a degree adjective is not necessary for the de-
gree reading of e.g. such. As long as the noun itself is gradable, the degree reading
is available.
As is well known, English such and its counterparts in other Germanic lan-
guages are ambiguous between two readings, see Bolinger (1972), Bresnan (1973),
Landman (2006), Kallulli & Rothmayr (2008), Wood & Vikner (2013) among oth-
ers. Next to the degree reading, there is also a kind reading. The kind reading is
paraphrased by ‘of that kind’, while the degree reading by so + Adj. Importantly,
however, doubling is found with both readings, although in English it is hard to
find examples instantiating the kind reading, see (7a) from Wood & Vikner (2013):
	 (7)	 a.	 …produced or obtained by a such a process kind
		 b.	 …accountability is a such a hot and fashionable word degree
These two readings differ in systematic ways, see Landman (2006) for details. For
instance, the degree reading requires a gradable element in the noun phrase, while
the kind reading requires a defining referent in the context. Such in its degree read-
ing never follows a quantifier, while this is possible for the kind reading. I will not
be further concerned with this ambiguity here.
98	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Two further properties characterize this doubling pattern. As Kallulli and
Rothmayr (2008) observe, there is a singularity restriction on this construction, i.e.
the head noun cannot appear in the plural, see (8), their (12). Kallulli & Rothmayr
took this fact as evidence suggesting that the German indefinite doubling construc-
tion cannot be accommodated under a spurious ’n analysis of the type proposed
in Bennis, Corver & den Dikken (1998):
	 (8)	*drei	 so	 a	großa	Bua/Bubn Bavarian German
		 three	 such	 a	big	 boy/boys
However, the fact that the second article does not need to carry inflection (Lindauer
1991) suggests that it is not a true article either. As shown in (9), the first deter-
miner, the one that follows the preposotion mit ‘with’ surfaces with dative, as this
is the case assigned by this preposition. The second determiner, however, bears no
case morphology whatsoever. The adjective inflects as it would if it only followed
the first determiner:
	 (9)	 mit	 einer	 so	 ein	roten	Brühe Nürnberg dialect
		with	one-dat	such	a	 red	 broth
3.	 Towards an analysis of indefiniteness doubling with degree words
As Wood and Vinker (2013) state, analyses of this phenomenon split into two
groups. On the one hand, we have analyses that consider that each article heads its
own DP. On the other hand, there are approaches that consider that there is only one
DP and two articles are accommodated within this structure. In this chapter, I will
briefly discuss both views and show why the latter seems to be on the right track.
Kallulli and Rothmayr’s approach (2008) is a representative of the former
group. Their basic proposal is that the element so in German and its English coun-
terpart such are quantifiers. As such, they head QPs. Specifically, they contend
that so in German (and such in English) is a quantifier that binds either (i) a kind,
or (ii) a degree variable introduced by its complement NP/DP. Hence, the basic
structure that they assign to the non doubling construction is depicted in (10).
	(10)	[QP so [DP<kind/degree> ein [NP [AP großer] Bub] ] ] ]
For the cases of determiner doubling, they suggest that each determiner heads its
own DP, realizing distinct semantic features.
	(11)	[DP a [QP so/ganz [DP<kind/degree>/FadjP a [NP [AP großa] Bua]]]]
	 Chapter 5.  Multiple determiners in indefinite noun phrases	 99
(11) is a split DP structure in which the lower indefinite determiner combines first
with the NP. This determiner acts as a choice function (Matthewson 2001); then the
quantificational element is merged which restricts the choice function; finally, the
top determiner specifies the cardinality of the whole phrase.2 From their perspec-
tive, this becomes clear when plural cases are considered, which allow for a cardinal
numeral to appear in the top position, as in (12), from Kallulli & Rothmayr (2008).
According to Kallulli and Rothmayr (2008: 120), a cardinality element specifies the
exact number of individuals that belong to a set, and examples such as (12b) are
frequent in situations where a thing is explained:
	 (12)	 a.	 Wea	san	dn	 die	“Power-Puff	Göals” Bavarian German
			 who	 are	 then	the	“Power-Puff	Girls”
			 ‘Who are the “Power-Puff Girls”?’
		 b.	 Na	 des	 san	drei	 so	Madln.
			 well	this	are	 three	so	girls
			 ‘Well, it’s three girls of a particular kind.’
Wood and Vikner (2013) present several arguments against this particular type
of analysis, and the reader is referred to their paper for further discussion. What
strikes me as one of the major problems for this analysis is that the second deter-
miner, which for Kallulli and Rothmayr is the one combining first with the DP,
can occur without agreeing with the head noun, something that is not found in
the respective dialects for the single article. In other words, agreement is absent
only in the cases of doubling, which is indeed unexpected.
Let us consider now the second group of analyses, namely those proposing that
there is a single DP. Again, there are different instantiations of the single DP analy-
sis. For instance, Corver and van Koppen (2009) argue that multiple determiners
are focus markers, see (14): the first indefinite article spells out the Dº-head; the
following articles are spurious and spell-out FocusPs. As the first determiner is not
related to the presence of FocusP, it is the only one that is sensitive to the feature
specification of the head noun. Thus when the head noun is marked for plural,
(13b), the first indefinite article cannot appear:
2.	 Penner and Schönenberger (1995) also propose a recursive DP structure where the second
article marks that the adverb has scope over the whole NP and the adjective, similarly to exple-
tive was:
	 (i)	 Was	 denkst	 du	 wen	 er	 eingeladen	hat?
		what	 think-2sg	you	who	 he	 invited	 has?
		Who do you think he has invived?
100	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	 (13)	 a.	 een	nogal	 een	 grote	man
			 a	 rather	a	 big	 man
			 “a rather big man”
		 b.	 (*een)	nogal	 een	 grote	mannen
			 a	 rather	a	 big	 men
			 “rather big men”
	(14)	 DP
D′
FocusP
D
Focus′
Spec
een
Focus
nogal FP
grote
een XP
man ti
Other analyses, while they agree that the pattern involves some type of DP internal
movement, i.e. predicate inversion of the degree word, do not view the articles
as focus markers; they either claim that these are spurious determiners, see e.g.
Bennis & al. (1998), or that they realize Number, see e.g. Wood & Vikner (2011,
2013). In (15) and (16) below I demonstrate the structures proposed in Wood
and Vikner their, (59) and (60) respectively. In (15), there are two positions for
the indefinite article, NumP and D, as Vikner and Wood (2013) propose that the
indefinite determiner in English is generated in Number:
	(15) DP
NumP
D
Num′
such
(a)
(no)
so bad
XP = Small clause
hotel
Num
a
X′
such
	 Chapter 5.  Multiple determiners in indefinite noun phrases	 101
	(16) DP
NumberP
(no)
Number′
NP
AP
Number
a
NP
hotel
such
so bad
The structure in (16) is the one proposed for the post-article such and solch and
their counterparts, which in agreement with Wood and Vikner (2011) are base
generated within the adjective modifying the noun, and following the determiner.
Nothing would change if the adjective were generated in some specifier position
of a functional category between DP and NP, see e.g. structure (18a) in Chapter 1.
Turning now to the doubling pattern, this is also derived from the structure in
(15) above, i.e. it involves predicate inversion. The question that arises is why in this
particular case we have two articles. For Wood and Vikner, this relates to the fact
that the indefinite article is present twice, it realizes both D and Number. I argue,
however, that the second article realizes a relator head, while the first article is in
D, presumably moved there from Number. In other words, what I would like to
suggest is that the inversion pattern as well as the doubling pattern have as their
basis a structure that involves predicate inversion, the second determiner, however,
is not a real determiner, but a spurious one. Thus it is not generated in Number,
this is why it does not inflect like other determiners do, at least in some dialects.
As in Germanic, indefinite noun phrases can appear bear or be introduced by an
indefinite article, the higher D position need not be filled. In the next section,
I will provide further arguments that the second article is crucially a spurious one
and offer a unified account for doubling of determiners in the context of degree
words and adjectives.
Before we turn to that, however, consider briefly the evidence that the doubling
pattern involves inversion, and the second determiner is actually a spurious one.
Evidence for the latter point comes from the following two observations. First,
Delsing (1993) observes that the article found in this doubling pattern is the same
article that we find in post-copular position. Importantly, the data in (17) make a
clear case in favor of a predicative analysis: in Scandinavian indefinite articles as
markers of predicative structures are found, and unlike the real indefinite article
they have plural forms:
102	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	 (17)	 Däm	e	 som	a	 toka
		 they	 are	as	 a-pl	fools
Second, as we saw in (9), Lindauer notes that the second article does not carry
inflection. This means that the second determiner does not realize Number as in
(16), but it realizes the head of a relator structure, see (27) below.3
Evidence for the predicate inversion comes, among other things from the
following observations. Wood & Vikner (2011) note that in languages such as
German where predicative adjectives do not inflect as opposed to attributive ones,
post-article solch is never inflected when it modifies an adjective, while it is in-
flected when it modifies a noun, see (18), from Wood & Vikner (2011: 98–99):
	 (18)	 a.	 was	 ein	 solcher	Künstler	 für	eine	Gage	 bekommt
			 what	a	 such	 artist	 for	a	 fee	 receives
		 b.	 mit	 einem	solch	großen	Aufwand
			 with	a.dat	such	big	 effort
I take this as evidence suggesting that solch and its counterparts in the other
Germanic languages originate as predicates in a small clause, and undergo predi-
cate inversion. In particular, both cases in which these elements precede the
(second) article, the inversion pattern and the doubling parttern, are derived by
moving solch and its counterparts to a position below D, which creates an inten-
sifying effect, and parallels focus movement, following Wood & Vikner (2013).
4.	 Spreading of indefinite articles in adjectival modification
As already mentioned, in some northern Norwegian and Swedish dialects, we
find multiple indefinite determiners with adjectives as well. Observe that addi-
tional adjectives trigger a further indefinite article and the order of adjectives can
be shifted at least in some varieties; but unlike in Greek, all the adjectives must
precede the noun:
3.	 Note, however, that an analysis of the second determiner as a Number head can explain
the singularity restriction Kallulli and Rothmayr discuss, see (8). This raises the question as to
whether or not indefinite articles can be argued to realize Number in some dialects, e.g. Bavarian
German, but function as relator heads in other German dialects and in Scandinavian. Another
option that comes to mind is that at leat in some dialects of German, the low article is actually a
classifier, situated in ClassP, see (17) in Chapter 1, in a manner similar to what has been argued
for English one in Borer (2005). Thus it is incompatible with plural morphology, but this is also
why it determines a set. On this view, the analysis of the doubling pattern (as well as of the inver-
sion pattern) would be different: it would involve a low determiner that moves to D, and in the
doubling pattern both the high and the low copy would be spelled-put. From this perspective
then, the indefinite article would be a classifier in some dialects and a relator in others.
	 Chapter 5.  Multiple determiners in indefinite noun phrases	 103
	 (19)	 a.	 en	stygg	 en	stor	en	fyr	
			 an	ugly	 a	 big	 a	 guy
		 b.	*en	 stor	en	fyr	 en	stygg
			 a	 big	 a	 guy	an	ugly Northern Norwegian (M. Andersen p.c.)
Adjectival indefinite spreading does not lead to disambiguation of adjectives
(Västerbotten (Wiklund p.c.)):
	 (20)	 Det	 bor	 e	 gammal	e	 lärarinn	 på	 våninga	ommaför.	
		
expl	lives	an	 old	 a	teacher-fem	on	floor	 above
The adjective gammal can mean both a retired teacher or an old (age) teacher in
this example. This contrasts with Greek definiteness spreading, and also the cases
to be presented in Section 5 below, where the presence of an adjectival determiner
leads to disambiguation.
	(21)	i	 eklisia	i	 palia
		 the	 church	 the	 old (old, *former)
What is similar to the Greek case is the fact that non-intersective/non-predicative
adjectives are out in this environment.
	 (22)	 a.	*en	 tidligere	en	stortings-representant Northern Norwegian
			 a	 former	 a	 parliament-representative (member of parliament)
		 b.	*en	 italiensk	 en	 invasjon
			 an	 Italian	 an	 invasion (M. Andersen p.c.)
		 c.	*en	 norsk	 en	lapp
			 a	 Norwegian	a	 Lapp Northern Swedish (Delsing 1993:143)
The question that arises is whether or not these additional determiners are actu-
ally determiners or spurious articles. Delsing (1993) states that the post-adjectival
article has some special properties. It does not behave like an ordinary argument
article: it has a plural form, and it is compatible with mass nouns. In (23) below,
the first article behaves like an ordinary article, i.e. it is missing with bare plurals
and mass nouns. In contrast, the second article is used with mass nouns and has
a special plural form; in addition, it can appear with other quantifiers (Delsing
1993: 143). This contrasts with the behavior of the indefinite article in Scandinavian
and in general:
	 (23)	 a.	 han	ha	 tjöfft	 en	stor	en	bil
			 he	has	
bought	
a	big	
a	car
		 b.	 Vi	 ha	 fått	fint	e	ver
			 we	have	got	 fine	a	weather
		 c.	 Dänna	 var	 he	 stor	a	 husa
			 over-there	were	there	big	 a-pl	houses
104	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
According to Delsing, the special properties of the indefinite article are exactly
the properties found with the non-argumental indefinite determiner in general
in Colloquial Swedish and Norwegian. Delsing further notes that the plural form
of the post-adjectival determiner is identical to the plural form of the predicative
indefinite determiner in Northern Swedish:
	 (24)	 Jetara	 va	 som	a	 högjura
		 cowboys	were	as	 a-pl	 high animals (bigshots)
Desling concludes that the plural a in Northern Swedish seems to parallel the
plural form ena in Standard Swedish. In Standard Swedish, the plural form of the
indefinite article seems to be reserved for predicative use:
	 (25)	 a.	 *ena	 duktiga	 läkare	 opererade	min	mor	 i	 våras
			 A-pl	competent	 doctors	 operated	 my	 mother	in	spring
		 b.	 Pelle	och	Lisa	är	 ena	 idioter
			 Pelle	and	Lisa	are	a-pl	idiots
Moreover, as Delsing observes, the predicative article is compatible with mass
nouns, cf. (23) above:
	 (26)	 det	 var	 ??(en)	sur	 ved	 du	 har	 skaffat
		 this	was	a	 sour	wood	you	have	bought
Data such as the above were taken by Delsing to provide evidence for the presence
of two heads within the extended projection of the noun: a high one, which is an
argumental one, and thus in D, and a low one, which is a predicative one. Julien
(2005), in contrast, argues that in Norwegian these determiners head the projec-
tions on whose specifiers the adjective appears.
The distribution, however, of these articles supports Delsing’s proposal that
these are predicative markers. In view of this behavior, one could assimilate the
analysis of these patterns to what has been proposed for doubling in the context
of degree words in the previous section. The adjective is a predicate in the small
clause, there is an external indefinite determiner, and the extra post-adjectival de-
terminer is a marker of a relator structure that also moves when predicate inversion
takes place, i.e. it moves to the head to FP in (27); we can thus update the structure
in (16) above, and propose that all kinds of doubling with indefinite articles involve
the lower part of (27) as their input.
As den Dikken (2006) argues in detail, in many languages determiner like ele-
ments are relators or linkers. From this perspective then, spreading of indefinite ar-
ticles is not related to (in)definiteness. It involves spurious articles and thus is very
different from the cases of multiple definite determiners discussed in Chapters 2
	 Chapter 5.  Multiple determiners in indefinite noun phrases	 105
and 3. I will address the issue why this is the case in the next and final chapter.
Before I turn to that, however, let me offer some remarks on the availability of
spreading of indefiniteness in Greek, a phenomenon that has been mentioned in
passing several times in this book.
5.	 Spreading of indefiniteness in Greek?
As already mentioned in Chapter 2, while definite determiners spread in Greek
definite DPs, indefinite determiners do not, see (28). There, I argued that this
relates to the fact that ena is actually a cardinal numeral, a numeral adjective, and
like other quantifiers it cannot be doubled, presumably introduced in Num/#P:
	(28)	a.	 to	megalo	
to	kokkino	
to	vivlio
			 the	big	 the	red	 the	book
		 b. **ena	 megalo	 ena	 kokkino	 ena	 vivlio
			 a	 big	 a	 red	 a	 book
However, this analysis of ena does not actualy exlude the availability of indefinites
spreading with null indefinite determiners. As discussed in Alexiadou and Wilder
(1998), indefinite DPs display the same reordering possibilities as definite DPs,
which suggests that maybe a unified account for both phenomena would be desir-
able, but see Leu (2008). Consider (29), their (55):
	 (29)	 a.	 ena	 megalo	kokkino	 vivlio
			 a	 big	 red	 book		
		 b.	 ena	megalo	vivlio	kokkino
			 a	 big	 book	 red		
		 c.	 ena	kokkino	vivlio	megalo
			 a	 red	 book	big		
	(27)	 DP
FP
D
XP = predicative/relator phrase
adj
et
a
NP
big
stort
X′
et
house
hus
stort
106	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
		 d.	 ena	vivlio	kokkino	megalo
			 a	 book	red	 big		
		 e.	 ena	vivlio	megalo	kokkino
			 a	 book	 big	 red		
Clearly, an analysis in terms of relator heads cannot apply to these data, as it is
always the highest head that is realized, and also because ena is actually an adjective
itself. In this section, I will briefly discuss some alternatives. First, I will summarize
the analysis offered in Alexiadou and Wilder (1998), and then I will pursue a dif-
ferent accout. The main points Alexiadou and Wilder made cocnerning the nature
of (29) are as follows. The re-ordering observed in (29) results from the possibility
for DP-raising to DP-specifiers in D-CP structures, in a manner parallel to their
analysis of definite noun phrases. This is illustrated in (30), their (56):
	(30)	 DP3
CP
D
IP
AP
Ø
DP2
big
tAP
D
Ø CP
IP
DP1
tAP
NP
D
Ø book
Ø = indefinite D
AP
red
Support for a uniform analysis of adjectival modification in definite and indefi-
nite noun phrases comes also from an observation made in Velegrakis (2011).
Velegrakis points out that indefinite noun phrases behave similarly to definite
	 Chapter 5.  Multiple determiners in indefinite noun phrases	 107
noun phrases in that post-nominal adjectives are interpreted restrictively in both
environments. Consider (31), his (142b):
	(31)	
??Ti	 ides	 ston kipo?	 – Mia	 cobra	 dilitiriodi	
		 What did	 you see	 in-the garden?	 – A	 cobra	 poisonous	
As is well-known, all cobras are poisonous, hence (31) seems odd, as the adjective
cannot receive a restrictive interpretation. Velegrakis thus concludes that Greek
has both definiteness and indefiniteness spreading.4
If Greek does indeed have indefiniteness spreading with properties very simi-
lar to that of definiteness spreading, i.e. this involves a restrictive interpretation on
the adjective, then we must assume that a relative clause is the input structure for
this pattern as well. This, moreover, suggests that we have one further argument
against the apposition analysis of the phenomenon, since appositive structures
require definite noun phrases only.
Should it indeed be the case that Greek has determiner spreading in the con-
text of indefinite noun phrases, the following issues arise: first, as pointed out
by Alexiadou and Wilder, we need to explain what regulates in indefinite noun
phrases the distribution of overt ena and zero indefinite determiners ∅. Second, as
Alexiadou and Wilder further acknoweldge, if both indefinite and definite DPs can
iterate, then the question arises, discussed briefly in Chapter 2, as to what ensures
that a definite DP cannot contain an indefinite DP, and vice versa.
Alexiadou and Wilder (1998) argue that only the ena that surfaces string-
initially is actually the spellout of indefinite D0. The zero realization ∅ of the in-
definite D is viewed as the result of a PF-rule that deletes all instances of ena within
a single DP but one, see Tat (2011), building on Siddiqi’s (2006) rule of Minimize
Exponence.5 The generalization is therefore that it is the linearly initial D0 in the
DP that is spelled out, see (32), their (59):
4.	 His analysis differs from that in Alexiadou and Wilder, in that first, he assumes that Greek
lacks a designated realization of the indefinite article, i.e. the indefinite determiner in Greek
is null, and second, he treats spreading in terms of apposition. On his analysis, ena realizes a
quantifier head which is the top-most projection in the Greek DP, which then embeds an apposi-
tion structure of the type discussed in Chapter 2 in the presentation of Lekakou and Szendrői’s
(2012) analysis. Note here that close apposition is out with indefinites, as shown in Chapter 2,
suggesting that the two phenomena are very different:
	 (i) *enas	 aetos	(ena)	puli
		an	 eagle	a	 bird
5.	 (i)	 Minimize Exponence
		
The most economical derivation will be one that maximally realizes all the formal	 fea-
tures of the derivation with the fewest morphemes.
108	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
	(32)	a.	 [ ena [ megalo .. [ ∅ kokkino [ ∅ vivlio ] tAP .. ] .. tAP .. ]]
		 b.	 *[ [ ∅ vivlio] ena [ megalo [ ∅ kokkino _ .. ]]
		b′.	 [ [ ena vivlio] ∅ [ megalo [ ∅ kokkino _ .. ]]
			 etc.
Alexiadou and Wilder took the fact that a linear (not hierarchical) generalization
is at stake to support the hypothesis that a rule of the PF-component is involved.
Alexiadou and Wilder further argued that multiple indefinite determiners,
however, do not change the interpretation of the noun phrase. They suggest that
this relates to the semantic properties of definite and indefinite determiners: as
discussed in Chapters 1 and 2, a definite DP associates with a referent already
established (i.e. familiar) within the discourse, an indefinite is constrained to in-
troduce a novel referent. According to Alexiadou and Wilder, in the spreading
structure, where each DP is associated with one and the same referent, repetition
of an overt indefinite determiner (but not of a definite determiner) would lead to
a violation of the novelty condition. This is because the definite determiner can be
doubled, while the indefinite cannot.
However, this analysis suggests that overt determiners should behave differ-
ently from covert ones, as Alexiadou and Wilder do assume that only the initial
indefinite determiner must be spelled-out. Such a difference is rather difficult to
motivate. Thus, in view of the arguments presented in Chapter 2, and the discus-
sion in Velegrakis (2011) and Alexopoulou and Folli (2011), I will revise below the
analysis put forth in Alexiadou and Wilder (1998).
I assume that ena is actually a numeral. I furthermore assume Alexopoulou
and Folli’s (2011) analysis that bare nouns in Greek lack a D head, as will be dis-
cussed in the next chapter in some more detail. From this perspective, all the DPs
in (30) are actually NumberPs, i.e. they contain no D head, and when ena is present
is always associated with some functional category, NumP or #P, in the extended
projection of the head noun. But ena need not be present. Velegrakis (2011) ob-
serves that A-N strings in Greek are possible in the absence of ena, (33a), his (138).
Note that such strings are also possible with bare plurals (33b). Both examples in
(33) involve NumberPs:
	 (33)	 a.	 thelo	 aftokinito	megalo	
			 want-1sg	car	 big
			 ‘I want a big car’
		 b.	 thelo	aftokinita	megala
			 want	car-pl	big-pl
			 ‘I want big cars’
	 Chapter 5.  Multiple determiners in indefinite noun phrases	 109
From this perspective, what seems like an indefinite determiner is actually a pre-
nominal adjective, in agreement with the conclusions in Chapter 2. Such adjec-
tives are argued in detail in Cinque (2010) to be merged very high in the internal
structure of the noun phrase, e.g. Number/#P, as discussed in the Chapter 1.
We can now revisit the data in (29): ena, when present, is generated very high in
the noun phrase headed by book.6
In (29a), we have a direct modification structure,
and the numeral is the highest adjective in the hierarchy, as discussed in Cinque
(2010). No movement takes place. In (29d–e), the noun phrase containing both the
numeral and the noun move to the external SpecDP in (30). The question is how to
derive the orders (29b) and (29c). I propose to treat these cases as examples of partial
detetminer spreading, i.e. structures that combine direct and indirect modification,
as discussed in the context of definite noun phrases in Chapter 2 and Alexiadou and
Wilder (1998). In other words, the DP1 in (30), predicated of a second adjective, red
in (29b), and big in (29c), is actually the string ena-Adj-N, as in (34). In (34) ena is
in parenthesis, as the strings are possible also in the absence of ena:
	(34)	a.	 [D [CP [IP [NumP (ena) megalo vivlio]	 [AP kokino] ]]]
							
a	big	book		
red
		b.	[D [CP [IP [NumP (ena) kokino vivlio]	 [AP megalo] ]]]
							
a	 red	book		
big
The derivations in (34) raise the question why it is not possible in this case for the
AP in predicate position to raise to Spec,CP (and subsequently to Spec,DP). If this
movement takes place, it leads to an ungrammatical word order, e.g. *kokino ena
megalo vivlio ‘red a big book’. Note that if ena were absent the word order would
be ok, e.g. kokino megalo vivlio, with special emphasis on the adjective red. This
could be taken as evidence suggesting that ena is actually located outside the CP,
i.e. below D in (34), and blocks movement of the AP to Spec,DP, hence the ungram-
maticality. Alternatively, it could be argued that the problem arises with predicate
inversion in indefinite noun phrases. As Schueler (2004) shows, a predicate can
raise in predicate inversion only if it is presuppositional and/or specific. As we saw
in Chapter 2, however, presuppositionality in Greek is related with the presence
of an overt definite determiner. Thus, predicate raising is blocked for semantic
reasons. Kokino megalo vivlio is still in, but its input structure could be a direct
modification one, namely structure (18a), presented in Chapter 1.
To conclude, Greek seems to allow multiple adjectives following the head noun
in indefinite noun phrases. This pattern is not strictly speaking indefinite deter-
miner spreading, as there is no determiner present. These contexts, similar to the
cases of multiple definite determiners, give rise to restrictive interpretations of
adjectives, which in turn suggest a relative clause structure as their input.
6.	 This is the analysis also assumed by Kayne (1994: 124) for English a.
chapter 6
Multiple determiners and the structure of DPs
Some conclusions
In the previous chapters, we saw that patterns involving multiple determiners have
different properties across languages. I distinguished three core cases thereof: cases
that involve interpretational effects in the presence of extra determiners, cases that
lack such effects, and finally patterns associated with spurious articles. I labeled
the first case the syntactic pattern of multiple realization, the second case, the
morphological pattern, and the third case the spurious articles/determiners pat-
tern. My main criteria to distinguish between the different types were primarily:
(i) interpretational effects related to adjectives and determiners, (ii) restrictions
on adjectives, and (iii) sensitivity to form.
I further argued that the syntactic pattern is to be distinguished from the
morphological one, which is characterized by the absence of interpretational ef-
fects. I showed that both the syntactic and morphological pattern have sub-types
associated with it, see (1). The syntactic case can be sub-divived into a case of
doubling that involves a split DP layer, as in Swedish and Norwegian, where all
interpretational effects observed are related to the properties of determiners. In
this case we only have two determiners, as there are two distinct D positions to
realize e.g. deixis and determination. The second type, involves (in)definiteness
spreading, as in Greek, and is better accounted for on the basis of a reduced relative
clause structure. This is why we have several restrictions as to the interpretation
of the adjectives involved. In this case, more than two determiners are allowed in
definite noun phrases. The morphological pattern lacks interpretational effects and
can be distinguished between spreading that is the result of copying of features
(agreement in definiteness), as in Hebrew, where each adjective is marked for
definiteness, and adjectival articles that are subject to conditions on insertion of
vocabulary items, as in Albanian. Finally, the only sensitivity spurious articles show
is to the predicative nature of the adjective, but otherwise they lack any additional
meaning effects, see the discussion in the previous chapter. The main syntactic
structures I argued for are given in (1):
	 (1)	a.	 [DP [CP [IP DP AP]]] reduced relative clause, e.g. Greek
		b.	[DP….[FP AP [DP ]]] split-DP, e.g. Norwegian, Swedish
		
c.	[SC NP en AP] spurious determiners
112	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Furthermore, I showed that doubling in the context of French superlatives involves
a reduced nominal relative clause, similar to close appposition. Languages are alike
in having this type of structure. Finally, I showed that other cases such as Slovenian
adjectival determiners and de in Chinese do not involve nominal determiners to
begin with, i.e. elements that realize a D° head, in agreement with Plank’s impli-
cational universal that no language will practice double (or multiple) articulation
unless it also articulates its noun phrases singly.
Greek and Romanian were shown to be alike in that multiple determiners
interact with adjectival properties such as restrictive interpretation, intersectiv-
ity, and predicativity, while this is not the case in the other languages. This is
in my view the primary criterion to determine the type of multiple determiners
involved across languages. Greek and Romanian differ from each other, among
other things, in that the Greek multiple definite pattern has a pragmatic effect
absent from Romanian doubling, namely it is related to strong familiarity. This
was argued to follow from the structure of restrictive relative clause involved in
Greek modification as opposed to a specification structure involved in Romanian
modification by cel.
Scandinavian provided evidence for the claim that the two determiners real-
ize distinct features compacted in one realization in languages like English. The
analysis of Hebrew suggested that multiple determiners involve copying of defi-
niteness features, while in Albanian adjectival articles are subject to a number of
morphological factors and are not simply copying of agreement. Albanian provides
evidence for a re-analysis of the definite marker, as already anticipated in Plank’s
(2003) study. The case of Slovenian provided evidence for a richer structure for
APs, while the Chinese case suggests that determiner like elements can realize
lower heads not related to definiteness. Finally, indefinite article doubling and
spreading provided evidence for the presence of relator heads in nominal structure.
With this summary in mind, let me now address issues that pertain to the
variation just described: why are there so many different types of multiple arti-
cles? I believe the easiest question to answer is why all languages do not have the
type of pattern found in Hebrew. In this case, we have agreement in definiteness.
As we know, agreement works in non-identical ways in natural language. Some
languages use agreement extensively while others don’t, see Baker (2008) for ex-
tensive discussion. Thus we expect to find variation in this area, in line with Borer
(1984), and Chomsky (1995), who have argued that all parameters of variation are
attributable to differences in the features of particular items in the lexicon. It is
also relatively easy to answer the question why all languages do not have the pat-
tern found in e.g. Albanian, again a type of morpho-phonological variation in the
spirit of Borer (1984) and Chomsky (1995), related also to the grammaticalization
path of determiners, see e.g. Ramat (2008), the overview by de Mulder & Carlier
	 Chapter 6.  Multiple determiners and the structure of DPs	 113
(2011), and Dahl (2004). In order for a language to develop a system like that it is
necessary for its determiners to grammaticalize to inflectional forms of adjectives,
see for example the discussion in Campos (2009). Not all languages follow identical
paths of development.
The hardest questions to answer are those that are related to syntactic variation,
in the sense that it is not clear why some languages pick a particular option while
others pick a different one. For instance, why is it the case that in Scandinavian an
analysis of split DPs seems more reasonable than an analysis in terms of reduced
relative clauses? I tried to motivate this by looking at the behavior of adjectives.
Still the question remains, why should this be so?
An answer that can be given to this relates to the diachronic development of
double definiteness in Scandinavian, cf. Abraham & Leiss (2007). van Gelderen
& Lohndal (2008) propose that double definiteness emerges due to a different or-
dering of adjectives in Old Norse and e.g. Modern Norwegian respectively. These
authors argue that adjectives are base generated low in Old Norse, whereas they
are higher in Modern Norwegian. Consider (2) and (3) below, from van Gelderen
& Lohndal (2008):
	 (2)	 ..ok	 sonar	ok	 andans	 helga Old Norse
		 and	son	 and	spirit.def	holy.def
	 (3)	*teikningane	 gamle Modern Norwegian
		drawings.def	old
Van Gelderen & Lohndal show that while postnominal adjectives were possible
in Old Norse, these are completely impossible in Modern Norwegian with very
few exceptions including certain relics, and adjectives that appear with their own
complements. In Old Norse, however, postnominal adjectives were relatively pro-
ductive. The authors argue that adjectives were noun-like when they carried weak
inflection, that is the noun and the adjective together form a compound, while
they were verb-like when they are strongly inflected. In the latter case, they are
generated post-nominally and they are predicative, and according to the authors
are introduced in the form of a reduced relative clause. In Modern Norwegian in
contrast, they are generated much higher, in the specifier position of designated
functional heads. In other words, Modern Norwegian lacks the indirect modifica-
tion structure as an input for adjectives, see also note (3). Crucially, the locus of
definiteness has not changed, the only change that has happened is that the marker
changed from being a head to being a suffix. In some Modern Norwegian dialects,
adjectives can appear in predicative position but only if they are introduced by a
special marker, the indefinite article.
This historical perspective enables us thus to formulate an answer to the question
concerning the differences between Greek and Scandinavian: in Scandinavian, but
114	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
not in Greek, the position/status of the adjectives changed. Crucially, these adjectives
can no longer occupy predicative positions within a relative clause (and presumably
the same holds for English, see the discussion in Section 5, Chapter 3, and below).
While this explains the situation in Norwegian and Swedish, the question that
arises is why doubling is not possible in Icelandic and Danish.1 In these two lan-
guages, the pre-adjectival determiner can never co-occur with the suffixed article:
that is, either the determiner precedes the adjective or is attached to the noun. As
Lohrmann (2010) argues in detail, Icelandic and Danish differ from Swedish and
Norwegian in one very important respect: in Swedish and Norwegian, as discussed
in Chapter 3, the two articles spell-out different features in a split DP-structure.
These are identified as discourse reference and specific reference by Lohrmann
(2010), but see Julien (2005) for an alternative, cf. Abraham & Leiss (2007). In
Danish, the prenominal article can spell-out both these features, while the suf-
fixed article can spell-out only specific reference. From that perspective then,
double definiteness occurs only in the languages that cannot use the same article
to realize both semantic features in the context of modification, namely Swedish
and Norwegian. In Icelandic, both the suffixed and the pre-adjectival article can
spell-out these semantic features in the context of modification, hence no double
definiteness is found. In Danish, since the prenominal determiner can realize both
features, no double definiteness emerges when the noun is modified by an adjec-
tive, cf. Dahl (2004), and Abraham & Leiss (2007) on some discussion on different
grammaticalization processes across Scandinavian varieties, cf. also Katzir’s (2011)
notion of structural economy.
A second question concerns the contexts in which doubling and spreading
occur. Why is that we find them in the context of modification? The perspective
adopted here enables a straightforward explanation. In languages such as Greek
this is related to the reduced relative source for the adjectives. In languages like
Scandinavian, it is related to two independent changes, one affecting the position of
the adjectives, which are generated pre-nominal in definite noun phrases, and one
affecting the status of the article. The distinct explanation offered for Scandinavian
and Greek also explains why we have doubling of definiteness in Scandinavian,
there are only two D heads to spell-out, but spreading of definiteness in Greek.
An even harder question is, I believe, why it is the case that only some languages
have multiple determiners of the Greek and/or Scandinavian type, while others
not. I suppose the cases in point here are e.g. English in comparison to Greek, but
also French (leaving the superlatives aside for the moment), and Standard Italian.
As discussed in Chapter 3, these languages do have multiple marking involving a
1.	 Many thanks to Susanne Lohrmann for discussing this issue with me.
	 Chapter 6.  Multiple determiners and the structure of DPs	 115
structure of nominal reduced relative clauses, but they do not have doubling nor
spreading in the context of modification. The answer to the question why they do
not have Scandinavian type doubling follows the same logic as the one offered
above for the differences between Icelandic and Danish, on the one hand, and
Swedish and Norwegian, on the other. In e.g. English one determiner spells-out
both features that are realized by distinct elements in Swedish/Norwegian.
But why does English lack the Greek type of multiple marking? In my opinion,
two facts conspire to bring about this picture. One is the re-analysis of most English
adjectives, along the lines mentioned above for Norwegian, and the other one is
the availability of null Ds in English. I will discuss these in turn.
Literature on the diachronic changes affecting the placement of adjectives in
English, e.g. Fischer (2001, 2004, 2006), Pysz (2006), Haumann (2010), and ref-
erences therein suggests that a re-analysis of its adjectives has taken place, which
is in fact very similar to the one van Gelderen and Lonhdal (2008) describe for
Norwegian. In Old English, the distribution is roughly as follows: weak adjectives are
prenominal, while strong ones can be both pre-and post-nominal. In post-nominal
position, adjectives always inflect strong irrespectively of whether the nominal ex-
pression containing them is indefinite or definite, while in pre-nominal position,
definiteness correlates with weak adjectival inflection, and indefiniteness with strong
adjectival inflection, see Haumann (2010) for discussion and references. At that
stage of the language, the presence of inflection really distinguished between the
two uses, and the determiner system was not in place. According to Fischer (2001),
weak adjectives are used attributively and are closer to being a nominal category
(Fischer actually suggests that the adjective and the noun together formed a kind of
compound). Strong adjectives are used predicatively, and hence are closer to being
a verbal category. Fischer (2001), and Haumann (2010) show that weak prenominal
and strong post-nominal adjectives differ from each other with respect to e.g. given
vs. new information, invidual level vs. stage level interpretation, non-restrictive vs
restrictivereadingetc.,seeBolinger(1967)fordiscussiononPresentDayEnglish.On
the basis of their description, strong adjectives in post-nominal position signal new
information, denote temporary properties and are interpreted as restrictive. This is
very similar to what has been reported for post-nominal adjectives in Romance, and
Greek determiner spreading, see Chapters 2 and 3, and Alexiadou (2001a) for discus-
sion and references. Haumann (2010) shows that strong pre-nominal adjectives, in
contrast, behave like weak prenominal adjectives in most respects, i.e. they have an
invidual level reading, and are interpreted as non-restrictive modifiers. This all sug-
gests that the syntax of adjectives in Old English can be divided into two domains,
in the spirit of e.g. Alexiadou & Wilder (1998), Alexiadou (2001a), Larson (1999,
in press), Cinque (2010). Thus, Pysz (2006) explicitly argues that all prenominal
adjectives are NP adjuncts, while post-nominal ones occupy predicate positions in
116	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
reduced relative clauses, see (4a) vs. (4b), Pysz’s (33) and (34), cf. Haumann (2010),
who offers an implementation in terms of Larson & Maružič (2004), and (5), from
Alexiadou & Wilder (1998):
	 (4)	a.	 [DP [ NP gode [NP dæda]]]
				 good	 deeds
		b.	[DP D [clause [XP leodhatan]	 grimme ]]
				 persecutors	fierce
	 (5)	a.	 [DP [FP AP [NP ]]]		
		b.	[DP [CP DP AP]]		
In the course of the Middle English period, two things happened. The first one is
that the strong-weak adjective distinction was gradually lost. The second one is
that the determiner system develops. Fischer (2004) points out that during this
period the choice of post-nominal placement is related to the predicative nature
of the adjectives, and the general conditions this placement obeys are similar to
the ones found in Old English. The post-nominal adjectives are typically verb
like, participles for instance are frequently favored in this position, or show verbal
like behavior, i.e. they govern an adverbial/prepositional phrase or are themselves
adverbial. Fischer emphasizes that, unlike the situation in Present Day English,
heaviness did not play a role in determining the position of the adjective during
the Middle English period, only its predicative nature did. Moreover, the nature
of the post-nominal adjectives in the Middle English data she looked at suggests
that these are included in indefinite noun phrases, a relic of which is still found
in Present Day English, e.g. someone important, see Larson & Maružič (2004) for
discussion. The adjectives in definite NPs tend to be post-posed when they are
contrastive. Furthermore, many of the adjectives in definite NPs involve French
phrases, suggesting some French influence (see also Trips 2012 for recent discus-
sion) relating again to information structure.
The situation in Present Day English is, as known, very different as only very
few adjectives can appear in post-nominal position, Bolinger (1967) and much
subsequent literature. The adjectives that can appear in post-noninal position have
to be in some sense heavy or complex, e.g. adjectives in a- (alive, et.c), adjectives
accompanied by a complement PP, adjectives with indefinite pronoun heads, and
adjectives in -able, most of them presumably of French origin.
This development points to the conclusion that a re-analysis took place in
English, similar to the one described for Norwegian:2 with very few exceptions,
2.	 It is not clear how the loss of the inflectional distinction (strong vs. weak) contributed to
this change. The Norwegian situation suggests that the re-analysis can happen independently
of the loss of the strong vs. weak inflectional distinction.
	 Chapter 6.  Multiple determiners and the structure of DPs	 117
­
adjectives are no longer predicative, in the sense that they cannot occupy pre-
dicative positions in reduced relative clauses to begin with, suggesting then that a
reduced relative clause structure is not available to them. In other words, the input
structure (64) suggested in Chapter 3, and repeated below, is simply not available
to most adjectives in Present Day English, the same way it is not available to ad-
jectives in Modern Norwegian. It is is only available to those adjectives that can
appear in post-nominal position, e.g. the stars visible, every word unsuitable etc.,
see Bolinger (1967), Larson & Maružič (2004), and Cinque (2010) among others:3
	 (6)	 [ DP the [CP [IP book red ]]]
This account readily explains why English lacks Greek type determiner spreading
with most adjectives: these simply do not have (6) as their input. This is not the
case in Greek, where this structure is available, i.e. no re-analysis has taken place.
However, something more needs to be said about French and Italian, which have
post-nominal adjectives as well as those English adjectives that can appear in post-
nominal position, e.g. the stars visible.
First of all, the fact that French and Italian have post-nominal adjectives does
not necesarily mean that all of them need to have a reduced relative clause structure
as their input. In principle, some of them could have an input structure of the type
in (4a/5a). The N-A order is then derived by NP movement over the adjective, see
e.g. Cinque (2010), Laenzlinger (2005) for discussion. As Cinque argues in detail,
this straightforwadly accounts for the fact that post-nominal adjectives in Romance
are ambiguous between e.g. restrictive and non-restrictive readings. The latter must
have an input structure of the type (4a/5a) followed by NP movement. The ones
that do have a restrictive interpretation or a stage level reading do have a relative
clause input structure, i.e. (4b/5b). Thus the question concerns precisely these
adjectives, the ones that can have this input structure. In Chapter 3, I suggested,
building on Kayne (2004), that the availability of multiple determiners is linked
to the availability of having bare noun phrases in argument positions. As is well
known, bare nouns behave differently across languages with respect to whether or
not they can appear in argument positions, see e.g. Dayal (2011), Dobrovie-Sorin &
Beyssade (2012), and the contributions to Kabatek & Wall (2013) for a recent over-
view, see also Carlson (1977), Krifka (1989), Longobardi (1994), Chierchia (1998),
and Zamparelli (2000) among others. From this perspective, language variation is
3.	 See Cinque (2010) for discussion of languages that have either only structure (5a) or struc-
ture (5b). Tat (2011) argues that, with the exception of a small set of adjectives, Turkish APs are
always formed by indirect adjectival modification.
118	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
explained as follows: in English, and other languages of this type, determiners can
remain silent when introducing arguments.4
We can now formulate, as suggested in Chapter 3, (7) as a possible hypothesis
to explain the distribution of multiple determiners across languages:
	 (7)	 Languages that have null D heads lack multiple realization of (in)definiteness
in adjectival modification contexts that involve a relative clause structure
(7) states that there are actually two conditions involved: one is that the adjectives
must appear as predicates in these reduced relative clauses, and the second one is
that the subjects of these predicates must be introduced by null Ds. Both dimen-
sions are subject to variation.
Let me now substantiate this. In recent work, Alexopoulou & Folli (2011)
have argued that a difference between Greek, Italian, and English, is that Italian
and English have null D, while Greek does not. This claim was made on the basis
of the distribution of bare nouns (plural and singular) in these three languages.
Specifically, they identified three main contrasts between Italian and Greek:
(i) absence of a partitive construction in Greek in conjuction with productive
distribution of bare NPs vs. restricted distribution of bare nominals in Italian and
employment of the dei-construction for the expression of indefinites; (ii) the possi-
bility of argument drop in Greek exactly for the range of nominals that can be bare
vs. the unavailability of object drop in Italian, and (iii) cross-linguistic differences
in the realization of indefinite topics: in Italian, indefinite topics are clitic left dis-
located on a par with referential/specific topics, while their Greek counterparts are
topicalized and contrast with referential/specific topics that are clitic left dislocated.
These three differences, they argued, are reduced to a single difference: Greek has
determinerless argumental NPs with weak indefinite interpretations (while kinds
4.	 As Marcel Pitteroff (personal communication) correctly points out, the arguments for the
presence of null D heads have predominantly been made on the basis of bare plurals. However,
for several of our examples, a bare singular would be required. The cross-linguistic distribution
of bare singulars is a matter of ongoing research, see Dayal (2011) for an overview. Languages
that have been argued to have bare singulars in argument position include Brazilian Portuguese
(Munn & Schmitt 2001), and Hebrew (Doron 2003). English and Italian allow bare singulars
in argument position only in co-ordination contexts (Heycock & Zamparelli 2003). Heycock &
Zamparelli suggest that this is related to the interplay between Num and D in their system, see
the discussion in the introduction. Bare singulars are out otherwise, as in e.g. English, D is not
restricted: in their terms, there is a variable in D but we do not know what sort of elements it
ranges over. Note that most cases involving post-nominal adjectives in English are either plural
or indefinite NPs. Importantly, Greek does allow bare singulars in argument position (see e.g.
Sioupi 2001), and these obey the same conditions bare plurals obey, as explicitly argued for in
Alexopoulou & Folli (2010, 2011). Bare singulars in Greek are also licensed by Number. As a
result, they have atomic readings, i.e. they do not show Number neutrality.
	 Chapter 6.  Multiple determiners and the structure of DPs	 119
are full DPs), placing Greek among the NP[+arg, +pred] languages in Chierchia’s
(1998) typology. Italian does not allow bare NPs, suggesting that bare nominals
in Italian are DPs with a null D. It is rather uncontroversial that English is a null
D language. Greek, in contrast, uses Number as the nominalizor in their terms,
cf. Alexiadou (2001b).
While, from this perspective, it is clear that English and Italian (and French)
can have null Ds, and these can remain silent when introducing arguments in the
context of modification involving relative clauses, as they can remain silent in other
argument positions, it is not immediately clear why in Greek, where bare nouns
have a wider distribution, these cannot occur in exactly these contexts, where
their English and Italian (and French) counterparts can, i.e. why is it that in Greek
the article must be pronounced, and the language has to use the DP and not the
NumberP structure in reduced relative clauses?
Recall that in Chapter 2 it was argued that determiner spreading in Greek
is a sub-case of clitic doubling, and is related to familiarity. We now have an ex-
planation as to why DPs and not NumberPs must be present in this context: as
discussed in Chapter 2, bare nouns in Greek, i.e. NumberPs, cannot undergo clitic-
doubling. Familiarity in the context of restrictive relative clauses requires that
both an external and an internal determiner are present, since an overt D has a
semantic-pragmatic effect.5 Furthermore, in Chapter 5, I showed that indefinite
noun phrases seem to behave parallel to definite noun phrases in that they allow
(i) the same restrictions on adjectival interpretations, and (ii) word order permuta-
tions. Indefinite noun phrases lack determiners, they are NumberPs, and indefinite
relative clauses are not presuppositional. From this perspective, Greek behaves as
predicted by (7).
An alternativeexplanationforthe crosslinguisticdistribution of multiple definite
determiners is offered in Lekakou & Szendrői (2012). These authors argue that (un)
availability of spreading of definiteness depends on the (un)availability of Kase in a
given language. Recall that, on their proposal, the existence of polydefinites in a lan-
guage requires that language to have expletive determiners. Thus they propose that
only languages that have both Kase and expletive determiners (i.e. determiners with
proper names such as Greek) will show polydefiniteness. In this work, I rejected the
claim that Greek has expletive determiners. However, there is an important intuition
that both this and the hypothesis in (7) share: the crosslinguistic distibution of the
5.	 Note here that French and Italian lack clitic-doubling altogether. Other languages such as
Spanish have clitic doubling, but their doubling clitics are phi-elements, not D elements, as is
the case in Greek, see Anagnostopoulou (2006), and Marchis & Alexiadou (2013).
120	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
phenomenon relates to the element that marks nouns as argumental, this is Kase or
D for Lekakou & Szendrői, and D and Number here.6
Finally, what about spurious articles? Why is it that indefinite articles figure
prominently as spurious articles across languages? One could argue, following
Heim & Kratzer (1998), that this is so because the indefinite article is vacuous when
it occurs in predicative contexts. While this is presumably correct for English, it has
been observed that in German, and Dutch, but also in Romance, noun phrases in
predicative position can appear bare or be accompanied by the indefinite article,
see the Dutch example in (8) from Bennis, Corver & den Dikken (1998). This
normally corresponds to a difference in meaning (see Stowell 1991, Roy 2006, de
Swart & al. 2007, Beyssade 2011, Hallab 2011 among others).7
	 (8)	 a.	 Die	 jongen	is	 oplichter
			 That	 boy	 is	 con man
		 b.	 Die	 jongen	is	 een	 oplichter
			 That	 boy	 is	 a	 con man
While the aforementioned sources do not quite agree as to what the difference
in meaning between the two sentences in Dutch and their counterparts in other
languages are, we can roughly characterize it as follows, following Beyssade (2011):
bare nouns denote properties, while nouns preceded by the indefinite determiner
6.	 Lekakou and Szendrői suggest that Bavarian German is one language that is very close to
Greek. Consider (i), their (61). According to them, Bavarian German has expletive determiners
with proper names, has Kase, and allows multiple marking of definiteness.
	(i)	 Da	 Hauns	hot	 die	 Kotzn	 gfuatat.	Die	 Kotzn	 die	 jungen	 hom	 an	 bsundan	
		The	hans	 has	the	cats	 fed.	 the	 cats	 the	 young-pl	have	a	 real	
		hunger	ghobt.
		hunger	had
		‘Hans fed the cats. The young cats were really hungry’
However, Bavarian German only allows adjectives to be preceded by determiners in post-­
nominal position, and never when they are prenominal, suggesting that the two patterns are
rather different. Moreover, it is not clear whether in the presence of an additional adjective a
further determiner is possible, at least the speakers I consulted could not easily produce such
strings. Leu (2008: 55) discusses examples of this type and describes them as restrictive ellipti-
cal appositives.
7.	 As Munn and Schmitt (2005) and references therein point out, the class of nominals that can
appear bare after the copula in languages that allow it is semantically restricted. More specifically,
roles and professions are acceptable, while inherent categories or classes are not. Moreover, they
note that predicative constructions with bare nominals can appear in so- called stage level contexts,
while indefinite predicate constructions cannot. See also Beyssade (2011) and references therein.
	 Chapter 6.  Multiple determiners and the structure of DPs	 121
denote an individual characterized by a property.8 What is important to emphasize
is that the indefinite article is never optional in the doubling and multiple patterns
discussed in the previous chapter, and crucially it never introduces semantics asso-
ciated with an individual; the adjective simply denotes a property. Bennis, Corver
and den Dikken provide a further argument that this indefinite article is spurious.
They observe that it cannot co-occur with als ‘as/like’, as is demonstrated by the
examples in (9).
	 (9)	 a.	 handen	 als	 (*een)	kolenschoppen
			 hands	 like	 (a)	 coal shovels
		 b.	 kolenschoppen	van	 (een)	 handen
			 coal shovels	 of	 (a)	 hands
According to these authors, the impossibility for een to occur in (9a) suggests that
als and the indefinite article compete for the same structural slot, i.e. they are in
complementary distribution.
The final question is why adjectives in Scandinavian can be predicates only
in indefinite noun phrases, and not in definite ones. In definite noun phrases, as
suggested above, adjectives are generated in a type of structure such as the one in
(4a/5a). In indefinite noun phrases, however, they can occupy predicative posi-
tions, accompanied by a special marker. This is slightly but not fully reminiscent
of the description of the Middle English data. The availability of the predicative
position for adjectives in indefinite noun phrases could be related to their informa-
tion status (new), and their distribution to the syntax of predicate inversion, see
Abraham (2013), Haumann (2010) and Villalba (2007).
In conclusion, I would like to think that this study offers a good overview of
the tools we can use across languages to diagnose the nature of multiple realization
of determiners. These can be applied to other languages, not discussed here, and
provide further support for Plank’s thesis: there is simply no single analysis that
works for all patterns.
8.	 This is particularly clear in the example in (i), from Beyssade (2011), and see also Laca &
Tasmovski (1994):
	 (i)	 a.	 Jean est un clown	 John is a clown
		b.	 Jean est clown		 John is clown
(ia) just has a metaphoric meaning, while (ib) means that John is a clown by profession. To ex-
plain this and other differences between the two types of predicative noun phrases, Beyssade ar-
gues that (ib) is a predicational structure, while (ia) is an identificational one, see Higgins (1979).
References
Abney, Steven. 1987. The English Noun Phrase in its Sentential Aspect. PhD dissertation,
­
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Abraham, Werner. 2007. Discourse binding: DP and pronouns in German, Dutch, and English.
In Nominal Determination. Typology, Context Contraints, and Historical Emergence [Studies
in Language Companion Series 89], Elisabeth Stark, Elizabeth Leiss & Werner Abraham
(eds), 21–48. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Abraham, Werner. 2013. Dialect as a spoken-only medium: What it means – and what it does
not mean. To appear in Linguistische Berichte 19.
Abraham, Werner & Leiss, Elizabeth. 2007. Double definiteness in Old and Modern Scandina-
vian. Working Papers in Scandinavian Syntax 80: 17–44.
Agouraki, Yorgia. 1992. Clitic-left-dislocation and clitic doubling: A unification. UCL Working
Papers in Linguistics 4: 45–70.
Alexiadou, Artemis. 2001a. Adjective syntax and noun raising: word order asymmetries in the
DP as the result of adjective distribution. Studia Linguistica 55: 217–248.
Alexiadou, Artemis. 2001b. Functional Structure in Nominals: Nominalization and Ergativity
[Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today 42]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Alexiadou, Artemis. 2003a. Subject agreement asymmetries in coordination. In Asymmetrien,
Claudia Maienborn & Manfred Krifka (eds), 1–23. Tübingen: Stauffenburg.
Alexiadou, Artemis. 2003b. Adjective syntax and (the absence of) noun raising in the DP. Pro-
ceedings of the Workshop on Head-movement, UCLA: 1–39.
Alexiadou, Artemis. 2003c. Double definiteness. In Festschrift in Honour of Christer Platzack.
Grammar in Focus, Vol. II, Lars-Olof Delsing, Cecilia Falk, Gunlög Josefsson & Halldór
Sigurdsson, 9–16. Lund: University of Lund.
Alexiadou, Artemis. 2007. Some notes on the status of adjectival determiners. In Proceedings of
the 3rd Athens Post-graduate Conference in Linguistics (APC-3), Athens, 9–10 April 2005,
Nikolaos Lavidas, Elissavet, Nouchoutidou & Marietta Sionti (eds), Athens: University of
Athens.
Alexiadou, Artemis. 2010. Reduplication and doubling contrasted: Implications for the structure
of the DP and the AP. Linguistica 5: 9–26.
Alexiadou, Artemis & Ananogstopoulou, Elena. 2000. Greek syntax: A principles and parameters
perspective. Journal of Greek Linguistics 1: 169–221.
Alexiadou, Artemis & Campanini, Cinzia. 2012. On the adverbial reading of infrequency adjec-
tives and the structure of DP. In Comparative Germanic Syntax: The State of the Art [Linguis-
tik Aktuell/Linguistics Today 191], Peter Ackema, Rhona Alcorn, Caroline ­Heycock, Dany
Jaspers, Jeroen van Craenenbroeck & Guido Vanden Wyngaerd (eds), 35–66. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Alexiadou, Artemis & Gengel, Kirsten. 2012. NP ellipsis without focus movement/projections:
The role of classifiers. In Contrasts and Positions in Information Structure, Ivona Kucerova
& Ad Neeleman (eds), 177–205. Cambridge: CUP.
124	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Alexiadou, Artemis & Wilder, Chris. 1998. Adjectival modification and multiple determiners.
In Possessors, Predicates and Movement in the DP [Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today 22],
Artemis Alexiadou & Chris Wilder (eds), 303–332. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Alexiadou, Artemis, Haegeman, Liliane & Stavrou, Melita. 2007. Noun Phrase in the Generative
Perspective. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Alexopoulou, Theodora & Folli, Rafaella. 2010. Indefinite topics and the syntax of nominals in
Italian and Greek. Paper presented at the 3rd Mediterranean Syntax Meeting, University
of Athens, October 2010.
Alexopoulou, Theodora & Folli, Rafaella. 2011. Topic strategies and the internal structure of
nominal arguments in Greek and Italian. Ms, University of Cambridge, and University of
Ulser.
Alexopoulou, Theodora & Kolliakou, Dimitra. 2002. On linkhood, topicalization and clitic left
dislocation. Journal of Linguistics 38: 193–245.
Alonso-Ovalle, Luis, Menéndez-Benito, Paula & Schwarz, Florian. 2011. Maximize Presupposi-
tion and two types of definite competitors. Proceedings of NELS 39: 29–40.
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 1994. Clitic Dependencies in Modern Greek. PhD dissertation,
­
University of Salzburg.
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 2006. Clitic doubling. In The Blackwell Companion to Syntax, Martin
Everaert & Henk van Riemsdijk (eds), 520–581. Oxford: Blackwell.
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 2013. Greek Syntax 2012: State-of-the-art and perspectives. Proceed-
ings of the 33rd Annual Meeting of the Department of Linguistics, 11–58.
Andersen, Merete. 2006. The Acquisition of Compositional Definiteness in Norwegian. PhD
dissertation, University of Tromsø.
Androutsopoulou, Antonia. 1995. The licensing of adjectival modification. Proceedings of
WCCFL 14: 17–31.
Androutsopoulou, Antonia. 2001. Adjectival determiners in Albanian and Greek. In Compara-
tive syntax of Balkan languages, Maria-Luisa Rivero & Angeliki Ralli (eds), 161–199. Oxford:
OUP.
Arad, Maya. 2005. Roots and patterns. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Baker, Carl-Lee. 2001. English Syntax. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Baker, Mark. 2008. The Syntax of Agreement and Concord. Cambridge: CUP.
Beghelli, Filippo and Tim Stowell. 1997. Distributivity and Negation. In Ways of Scope Taking,
Anna Szabolcsi (ed.), 71–107. Dordrecht: Kluwer publications.
Bennis, Hans, Corver, Norbert & den Dikken, Marcel. 1998. Predication in nominal phrases.
Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 1: 85–117.
Bernstein, Judith. 1993. Topics in the Syntax of Nominal Structure across Romance. PhD dis-
sertation, City University of New York.
Beyssade, Claire. 2011. Bare nouns in predicate position in French. In Logic and Grammar: Essays
Dedicated to Alain Lecomte on the Occasion of his 60th Birthday, Sylvain Pogodalla, Myriam
Quatrini & Christian Rétoré (eds), 1–16. Berlin: Springer.
Bobaljik, Jonahtan. 2012. Universals in Comparative Morphology. Cambridge MA: The MIT
Press.
Bolinger, Dwight L. 1967. Adjectives in English: Attribution and predication. Lingua 18: 1–34.
Bolinger, Dwight. 1972. Degree Words. The Hague: Mouton.
Börjars, Kersti. 1995. Swedish double determination in a European perspective. Nordic Journal
of Lingustics 17: 219–252.
	References	
125
Borer, Hagit. 1984. Parametric Syntax: Case Studies in Semitic and Romance Languages.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Borer, Hagit. 1999. Deconstructing the construct. In Beyond Principles and Parameters, Kyle
Johnson & Ian Roberts (eds), 43–90. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Borer, Hagit. 2005. Structuring Sense, Vol. I: In Name Only. Oxford: OUP.
Borer, Hagit & Roy, Isabelle. 2005. Le nom de l’adjectif. In L’adjectif [Recherches Linguistiques de
Vincennes 34], Patricia Cabredo Hofherr & Ora Matushansky (eds), 99–124. Paris: Presses
universitaires de Vincennes.
Bouchard, Denis. 2002. Adjectives, Number and Interfaces: Why Languages Vary. Amsterdam:
North-Holland.
Bresnan, Joan. 1973. Syntax of the comparative clause construction. Linguistic Inquiry 4: 273–249.
Campos, Hector. 2005. Noun modification, pseudo-articles, and last resort operations in
­
Arvantovlaxika and in Romanian. Lingua 115: 311–347.
Campos, Hector. 2009. Some notes on adjectival articles in Albanian. Lingua 119: 1009–1034.
Campos, Hector & Stavrou, Melita. 2004. Polydefinite constructions in Modern Greek and in
Aromanian. In Balkan Syntax and Semantics [Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today 67],
Olga Tomic (ed.), 137–144. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Carlson, Greg. 1977. Reference to Kinds in English. PhD dissertation, University of ­Massachusetts
at Amherst.
Cheng, Lisa & Sybesma, Rynt. 2009. de as an underspecified classifier: First explorations. Lucong.
Chierchia, Gennaro. 1998. Reference to kinds across languages. Natural Language Semantics
6: 339–405.
Chomsky, Noam. 1995. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Ken Hale: A Life in Language, Michael ­Kenstowicz
(ed.), 1–52. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1993. On the evidence for partial N-movement in the Romance DP. Univer-
sity of Venice Working Papers in Linguistics 3.2: 21–40.
Cinque, Guglielmo (ed.). 2002. Functional Structure in DP and IP. The Cartography of Syntactic
Structures, Vol. 1. Oxford: OUP.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 2004. A phrasal movement analysis of the Romanian DP. In Studia Lin-
guistica et Philologica in Honorem D. Irimia, Anna Maria Minut & Eugen Munteanu (eds),
129–142. Iasi: Editura Universitatii ‘Al.I. Cuza’.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 2010. The Syntax of Adjectives. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Coene, Martine. 1994. Adjectival articles. Ms, Antwerp University.
Corbett, Greville. 2006. Agreement. Cambridge: CUP.
Cornilescu, Alexandra. 1992. Remarks on the determiner system of Rumanian: The demontra-
tives al and cel. Probus 4: 189–260.
Cornilescu, Alexandra. 2005. Modes of semantic combinations: NP/DP-adjectives. Ms,
­
University of Bucharest.
Cornilescu, Alexandra & Nicolae, Alexandru. 2011. On the syntax of Romanian definite phrases:
Changes in the pattern of definiteness checking. In The Noun Phrase in Romance and Ger-
manic. Structure, Variation and Change [Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today 171], Petra
Sleeman & Harry Perridon (eds), 193–221. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Corver, Norbert. 1997. Much-support as last resort. Linguistic Inquiry 28: 119–124.
Corver, Norbert. 1998. Predicate movement in pseudo-partitive constructions. In Possessors,
Predicates and Movement in the DP [Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today 22], Artemis
Alexiadou & Chris Wilder (eds), 215–256. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
126	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Corver, Norbert & van Koppen, Marjo. 2009. Let’s focus on noun ellipsis. GAGL 48: 3–26.
Dahl, Östen. 2004. Definite articles in Scandinavian: Competing grammaticalization strategies
in standard and non-standard varieties. In Dialectology meets Typology, Bernd Kortmann
(ed.), 147–180. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Danon, Gabi. 1996. The Syntax of Determiners in Hebrew. MA thesis, Tel Aviv University.
Delsing, Lars-Olof. 1993. The Internal Structure of Noun Phrases in the Scandinavian Languages.
PhD dissertation, University of Lund.
den Dikken, Marcel. 2006. Relators and Linkers: The Syntax of Predication, Predicate Inversion
and Copulas. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
den Dikken, Marcel & Singhapreecha, Pornsiri. 2004. Complex noun phrases and linkers. Syntax
7: 1–54.
Dayal, Veneeta. 2011. Bare noun phrases. In Semantics: An International Handbook of Natu-
ral Language Meaning, Claudia Maeinborn, Klaus von Heusinger & Paul Portner (eds),
1087–1108. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Dobrovie-Sorin, Carmen. 1987. A propos de la structure du groupe nominal en roumain. Rivista
di Grammatica Generativa 12: 123–152.
Dobrovie-Sorin, Carmen & Beyssade, Claire. 2012. Redifining Indefinites. Dordrecht: Springer.
Dobrovie-Sorin, Carmen & Giurgea, Ion. 2006. The suffixation of definite articles in Balkan
languages. Revue Roumaine de Linguistique 51(1): 73–104.
Donnellan, Keith. 1966. Reference and definite descriptions. The Philosophical Review 75:
281–304.
Doron, Edit. 1994. The discourse function of appositives. IATL 1: 53–65.
Doron, Edit. 2003. Bare singular reference to kinds. Proceedings of Semantics and Linguistic
Theory 13: 73–90.
Embick, David. 2000. Syntax and categories: Verbs and participles in the Latin perfect. Linguistic
Inquiry 31: 185–230.
Embick, David & Noyer, Rolf. 2001. Movement operations after syntax. Linguistic Inquiry 31:
185–230.
Embick, David. 2010. Localism and globalism in morphology and phonology. Cambridge, Mass:
MIT Press.
Enç, Murvet. 1991. The semantics of specificity. Linguistic Inquiry 22: 1–25.
Fiengo, Robert. 1987. Definiteness, specificity and familiarity. Linguistic Inquiry 18(1): 163–166.
Fischer, Olga. 2001. The position of the adjective in Old English from an iconic perspective. In
The Motivated Sign [Iconicity in Language and Literature 2], Olga Fischer & Max Nänny
(eds), 249–276. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Fischer, Olga. 2004. Developments in the category adjective from Old to Middle English. Studies
in Medieval English Language and Literature 19: 1–36.
Fischer, Olga. 2006. On the position of adjectives in Middle English. English Language and
Linguistics 10: 253–288.
van Gelderen, Elly & Lohndal, Terje. 2008. The position of adjectives and double definiteness.
Working papers in Scandinavian Syntax 82: 1–22.
Giannakidou, Anastasia. 2004. Domain restriction and the arguments of quantificational deter-
miners. Proceedings of SALT 14: 110–128.
Giannakidou, Anastasia & Stavrou, Melita. 1999. Nominalization and ellipsis in the Greek DP.
The Linguistic Review 16: 295–331.
	References	
127
Giusti, Giuliana. 1994. Enclitic articles and double definiteness: A comparative analysis of nomi-
nal structure in Romance and Germanic. The Linguistic Review 11: 241–255.
Giusti, Giuliana. 2002. The functional structure of noun phrases: A bare phrase structure ap-
proach. In Functional Structure in DP and IP, Guilgelmo Cinque (ed.), 54–99. Oxford: OUP.
Grimshaw, Jane. 1990. Argument structure. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
Hallab, Amina-Christine. 2011. Referenzialität, Prädikation und die Struktur der Nominalphrase.
Kontrastierung artikelloser nominer Prädikate und Indefinita in Kopulasätzen im Deutschen.
Hamburg: Verlag Dr. Kovac.
Halle, Morris & Marantz, Alec. 1993. Distributed Morphology and the pieces of inflection. In
The View from Building 20. Essays in Linguistics in Honor of Sylvain Bromberger, Ken Hale
& Samuel J. Keyser (eds), 111–176. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Hankamer, Jorge & Mikkelsen, Line. 2002. A morphological analysis of definite nouns in Danish.
Journal of Germanic Linguistics 14: 127–175.
Hankamer, Jorge & Mikkelsen, Line. 2005. When movement must be blocked: A reply to Embick
& Noyer. Linguistic Inquiry 36: 85–125.
Haumann, Dagmar. 2010. Adnominal adjectives in Old English. English Language and Linguistics
14: 53–81.
Hawkins, John. 1978. Definiteness and Indefiniteness. London: Croom Helm.
Heck, Fabian, Müller, Gereon & Trommer, Jochen. 2008. A phase based approach to Scandina-
vian definiteness marking. Proceedings of WCCFL 26: 226–233.
Heim, Irene. 1982. The Semantics of Definite and Indefinite Noun Phrases. PhD dissertation,
University of Massachussetts at Amherst.
Heim, Irene & Kratzer, Angelika. 1998. Semantics in Generative Grammar. Malden MA:
Blackwell.
Hendrick, Randall. 1990. Operator movement in NP. In Proceedings of the 9th West Coast Confer-
ence on Formal Linguistics, Aaron Halpern (ed.), 249–264. Stanford CA: CSLI.
Henn-Memmesheimer, Beate. 1986. Nonstandardmuster: Ihre Beschreibung in der Syntax und
das Problem ihrer Arealität. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Heycock, Caroline & Zamparelli, Roberto. 2003. Coordinated bare definites. Linguistic Inquiry
34: 443–469.
Heycock, Caroline & Zamparelli, Roberto. 2005. Friends and colleagues: Coordination, plurality,
and the structure of DP. Natural Language Semantics 13: 201–270.
Higginbotham, Jim. 1985. On semantics. Lingustic Inquiry 16: 547–593.
Higgins, Francis. 1979. The Pseudocleft Construction in English. New York NY: Garland.
Hoekstra, Eric. 1993. Dialectal variation inside CP as parametric variation. In Dialektsyntax,
special issue of Linguistische Berichte 5, Werner Abraham & Joseph Bayer (eds), 161–179.
Opladen: Westdeutscher Verlag.
Horrocks, Geoffrey & Stavrou, Melita. 1986. Mia proti prosengisi ke erminia ton epithetikon-
prosdiorismon sta Nea Ellinika (A first approach and interpretation of adjectival modifica-
tion in Modern Greek). In Studies in Greek Linguistics. Proceedings of the the 7th annual
meeting of the Department of Linguistics, 109–116. Thessaloniki: Kyriakidis.
Horrocks, Geoffrey & Stavrou, Melita. 1987. Bounding theory and Greek syntax: Evidence from
wh-movement in NP. Journal of Linguistics 23: 79–108.
Ihsane, Tabea & Puskas, Genoveva. 2001. Specific is not definite. Generative Grammar in Geneva
2: 39–54.
Ioannidou, Alexandra & den Dikken, Marcel. 2009. P-drop, D-drop, D-spread. MIT Working
Papers in Linguistics 57: 393–408.
128	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Jacobs, Roderick A. & Rosenbaum, Peter S. (eds). 1968. Readings in English Transformational
Grammar. Waltham MA: Ginn.
Julien, Marit. 2005. Nominal Phrases from a Scandinavian Perspective [Linguistik Aktuell/­
Linguistics Today 87]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kabatek, Johannes & Wall, Albert (eds). 2013. New Perspectives in Bare Nouns in Romance and
Beyond [Studies in Language Companion Series 141]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kallulli, Dalina & Rothmayr, Antonia. 2008. The syntax and semantics of indefinite determiner
doubling constructions in varieties of German. The Journal of Comparative Germanic Lin-
guistics 11(2): 95–136.
Karanassios, Georgios. 1992. Syntaxe comparée du group nominal en grec moderne et dans
d’autres langues. Doctorat d’Etat, Paris VIII-Vincennes.
Kariaeva, Natalia. 2004. Agreement and locality. Ms, Rutgers University.
Katz, Jonah. 2008. Romance and restriction. Generals paper, MIT.
Katzir, Roni. 2011. Morphosemantic mismatches, structural economy, and licensing. Linguistic
Inquiry 42: 45–82.
Kayne, Richard. 1994. The Antisymmetry of Syntax. Cambridge MA: The MIT Press.
Kayne, Richard. 2004. Some preliminary comparative remarks on French and Italian definite
articles. Published in Richard S. Kayne. 2009. Comparisons and Contrast. Oxford: OUP.
Kolliakou, Dimitra. 1999. Non-monotonous anaphora and the syntax of polydefiniteness. In
Empirical Issues in Formal Syntax and Semantics, 121–145. The Hague: Thesus.
Kolliakou, Dimitra. 2004. Monadic definites and polydefinites: Their form meaning and use.
Journal of Linguistics 40: 263–333.
Krámsky, Jiri. 1972. The Article and the Concept of Definiteness in Language. The Hague: Mouton.
Krifka, Manfred. 1989. Nominalreferenz und Zeitkonstitution. Zur Semantik von Massentermen,
Pluraltermen und Aspektklassen: Studien zur Theoretischen Linguistik. München: Wilhelm
Fink.
Kyriakaki, Maria. 2011. DETs in the Functional Syntax of Greek Nominals. PhD dissertation,
University of Toronto.
Laca, Brenda & Tasmovski, Lialiane. 1994. Le pluriel indéfini de l’attribut métaphorique. Lin-
guisticae Investigationes XVIII(1): 27–48.
Laenzlinger, Christopher. 2005. Some notes on DP-internal movement. Generative Grammar
in Geneva 4: 227–260.
Landman, Meredith. 2006. Variables in Natural Language. PhD dissertation, University of
­
Massachusetts at Amherst.
Larson, Richard. 1999. Semantics of adjectival modification. Lectures presented at the LOT
Winter School. Amsterdam: LOT. <http://semlab5.sbs.sunysb.edu/_rlarson/>
Larson, Richard. 2001. Temporal modification in nominals. Paper presented at the International
Roundtable on the Syntax of Tense and Aspect, Paris, France. <http://semlab5.sbs.sunysb.
edu/_rlarson/>
Larson, Richard. In press. On Shell Structure. London: Routledge.
Larson, Richard & Marušič, Franc. 2004. Indefinite pronoun structures with APs. Linguistic
Inquiry 35: 268–287.
Lazaridou-Chatzigoga, Dimitra. 2009. On Definiteness and the Co-occurrence of the Definite
Article with other Quantifiers in Modern Greek. PhD dissertation, Universitat Autònoma
de Barcelona.
Lazaridou-Chatzigoga, Dimitra. 2012. The universal distributive quantifier kathe with the defi-
nite article (in Greek). Studies in Greek Linguistics 32: 235–246.
	References	
129
Lekakou Marika. To appear. Article Doubling. In The Syntax Companion, Martin Everaert &
Henk van Riemsdijk (eds.) Oxford: Blackwell.
Lekakou, Marika & Szendrői, Krista. 2007. Eliding the noun in close appostion, or Greek poly-
definites revisited. UCL Working papers 19: 129–154.
Lekakou, Marika & Szendrői, Krista. 2012. Polydefinites in Greek: Ellipsis, close apposition and
expletive determiners. Journal of Linguistics 48: 107–149.
Leu, Thomas. 2008. The Internal Syntax of Determiners. PhD dissertation, New York University.
Lindauer, Thomas. 1991. Der doppelte Artikel im Sweizerdeutschen. MS, NW Fachhoschule
Nordwestschweiz.
Lohrmann, Susanne. 2010. The Structure of the DP and its Reflex in Scandinavian. PhD dis-
sertation, University of Stuttgart.
Longobardi, Guiseppe. 1994. Reference and proper names: A theory of N-movement in syntax
and logical form. Linguistic Inquiry 25(4): 609–665.
Lyons, Chris. 1999. Definiteness. Cambridge: CUP.
Manolessou, Io. 2000. Greek Noun Phrase Structure: A Study in Syntactic Evolution. PhD dis-
sertation, University of Cambridge.
Marantz, Alec. 2013. Locality domains for contextual allomorphy across the interfaces. In Dis-
tributed Morphology today: Morphemes for Morris, Ora Matushansky & Alec Marantz (eds.),
95–116. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press.
Marchis, Mihalea & Alexiadou, Artemis. 2009. On the distribution of adjectives in Romanian:
The cel construction. In Romance Languages and Linguistic Theory[Romance Languages and
Linguistic Theory 1], Enoch Aboh, Elisabeth van der Linden, Josep Quer & Petra Sleeman
(eds), 161–178. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Marchis, Mihalea & Alexiadou, Artemis. 2013. The syntax of clitics revisited: two types of clitics.
Lingua 127: 1–13.
Marinis, Theo & Panagiotidis, Phoevos. 2011. Determiner spreading as referential predication.
Studia Linguistica 65: 268–298.
Marušič, Franc & Žaucer, Rok. 2010. A definite article in the AP: Evidence from colloquial
Slovenian. Ms, University of Nova Gorica.
Matthewson, Lisa. 2001. Quantification and the nature of crosslinguistic variation. Natural Lan-
guage Semantics 9: 145–189.
Matushansky, Ora. 2006. Why rose is the rose. In Empirical Issues in Formal Syntax and Semantics
6, Olivier Bonami and Patricia Cabredo Hofherr, (eds), 285–308. <http://www.cssp.cnrs.fr/
eiss6/index_en.html>
Matushansky, Ora. 2008. On the attributive nature of superlatives. Syntax 11: 26–90.
de Mulder, Walter & Carlier, Anne. 2011. The grammaticalization of definite articles. In The
Oxford Handbook of Grammaticalization, Heine Bernd & Heiko Narrog (eds), Oxford: OUP.
Munn, Alan & Schmitt, Cristina. 2001. Bare nominals and the norpho-syntax of number. In Cur-
rent Issues in Romance Linguistics: Selected Papers from the XXIXth Linguistic Symposium on
Romance Languages (LSRL) [Current Issues in Linguistic Theory 220], Diana Cresti, Tersea
Satterfield & Christina Tortora (eds), 217–223. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Munn, Alan & Schmitt, Cristian. 2005. Number and indefinites. Lingua 115: 821–855.
Ntelitheos, Dimitrios. 2004. Syntax of Elliptical and Discontinuous Nominals. MA thesis, UCLA.
Panagiotidis, Phoevos. 2000. Demonstative determiners and operators: The case of Greek. Lingua
110: 717–742.
Panagiotidis, Phoevos & Theo Marinis. 2011. Determiner spreading as DP-predication. Studica
Linguistica 65: 268–298.
130	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Partee, Barbara. 1973. Some transformational extensions of Montague grammar. Journal of
Philosophical Logic 2: 509–534.
Partee, Barbara. 1975. Montague grammar and transformational grammar. Linguistic Inquiry
6: 203–300.
Paul, Waltraud. 2012. The insubordinate subordinator de in Mandarin Chinese: Second take.
Ms, CNRS.
Penner, Zvi & Schönenberger, Manuela. 1995. The distribution of nominal agreement features
in Swiss German dialects and the strong DP/CP parallelism Hypothesis. In Topics in Swiss
Geman Syntax, Zvi Penner (ed.), 331–346. Bern: Peter Lang.
Pereltsvaig, Asya. 2006. Head movement in the Hebrew nominals: A reply to Shlonsky. Lingua
116: A1–A40.
Plank, Frans. 2003. Double articulation. In Noun Phrase Structure in the Languages of Europe,
Frans Plank (ed.), 337–395. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Pysz, Agnieszka. 2006. The structural location of adnominal adjectives: Prospects of Old English.
SKASE Journal of Theoretical Linguistics 3: 59–85.
Ralli, Angela. 2013. Compounding in Modern Greek. Dordrecht: Springer.
Ramat, Anna. 2008. Areal convergence in grammaticalization processes. In Rethinking Gram-
maticalization [Typological Studies in Language 76], Maria-Jose López-Couso & Elena
Seonane (eds), 129–168. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ritter, Elizabeth. 1991. The functional categories in noun phrases: Evidence from Modern He-
brew. In Syntax and Semantics 26, Susan Rothstein (ed.), 37–62. London: Academic Press.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1997. On the fine structure of the left periphery. In Elements of Grammar, Liliane
Haegeman (ed.), 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Roehrs, Dorian. 2009. Demonstratives and Definite Articles as Nominal Auxiliaries [Linguistik
Aktuell/Linguistics Today 140]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Roodenburg, Jasper. 2004. Pour une approche scalaire de la déficience nominale: La position du
français dans une théorie des ‘noms nus’. PhD dissertation, University of Utrecht.
Roussou, Anna & Tsimpli, Ianthi-Maria. 1994. On the interaction of case and definiteness
in Modern Greek. In Themes in Greek Linguistics [Current Issues in Linguistic Theory
117], Irene Philippaki-Warburton, Katerina Nicolaidis & Maria Sifianou (eds), 69–76.
­
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Roy, Isabelle. 2006. Non Verbal Predications: a Syntactic Analysis of Copular Sentences. PhD
dissertation, University of Southern California.
Santelmann, Lyn. 1993. The distribution of double determiners in Swedish: Den support in D°.
Studia Linguistica 42: 154–176.
Schoorlemmer, Eric. 2009. Agreement, Dominance and Doubling. PhD dissertation, University
of Utrecht.
Schueler, David. 2004. Presuppositional predicates and sentential subject extraposition. Proceed-
ings of WCCFL 23: 101–114.
Selkirk,Elizabeth.1977.Someremarksonnounphrasestructure.InFormalSyntax,Peter­Culicover,
Thomas Wasow & Adrian Akmajian (eds), 285–316. New York NY: Academic Press.
Shlonsky, Ur. 2004. The form of Semitic noun phrases. Lingua 114: 1465–1526.
Shlonsky, Ur. 2006. Rejoinder to Pereltsvaig’s head movement in Hebrew nominals: a reply to
Shlonsky. Lingua 116: 1195–1197.
Sichel, Ivy. 2002. Phrasal movement in Hebrew adjectives and possessives. In Dimensions of
movement: From Features to Remants [Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today 48], Artemis
Alexiadou, Elena Anagnostopoulou, Sjef Barbiers & Hans-Martin Gärtner (eds), 297–339.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
	References	
131
Siddiqi, Daniel. 2006. Minimize Exponence: Economy Effects of a Model of the Morphosyntactic
Component of Grammar. PhD dissertation, University of Arizona.
Siloni, Tal. 1997. Noun Phrases and Nominalizations. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Siloni, Tal. 2002. Adjectival constructs and inalienable constructions. In Themes and Issues in
the Syntax of Arabic and Hebrew, Jamal Ouhalla & Ur Shlonsky (eds), 161–18. Dordrecht:
Kluwer.
Simpson, Andrew. 2001. Definiteness agreement and the Chinese DP. Language and Linguistics
2: 125–156.
Sio, Joanna Ut-seong. 2006. Modification and Reference in the Chinese Nominal. PhD disserta-
tion, Leiden University.
Sioupi, Athina. 2001. On the semantic nature of bare singular NPs in Greek. In Proceedings of
the 5th International Conference on Greek Linguistics, Sorbonne, Paris, 13–15 September,
Vol. ΙΙ 231–234.
Sleeman, Petra. 1996. Licensing empty Nouns in French. PhD dissertation, University of
Amsterdam.
Sportiche, Dominique. 1998. Partitions and Atoms of Clause Structure. New York NY: Routledge.
Sproat, Richard & Shih, Chilin. 1988. Prenominal adjectival ordering in English and Mandarin.
Proceeding of NELS 12: 465–489.
Stark, Elizabeth, Leiss, Elizabeth & Abraham, Werner (eds). 2007. Nominal Determination: Ty-
pology, Context Contraints, and Historical Emergence [Studies in Language Companion
Series 89]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Stavrou, Melita. 1995. Epexegesis vs. apposition. Scientific Yearbook of the Classics Dept.
­
Thessaloniki: Aristotle University of Thessaloniki.
Stavrou, Melita. 1996. Adjectives in Modern Greek: An instance of predication or an old issue
revisited. Journal of Linguistics 32: 79–112.
Stavrou, Melita & Terzi, Arhonto. 2008. Types of numerical nouns. Proceedings of WCCFL 26:
429–437.
Stockwell, Robert, Schacter, Paul & Partee, Barbara (eds). 1973. The Major Syntactic Structures
of English. New York NY: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.
Stowell, Timothy. 1991. Determiners in NP and DP. In Views on Phrase Structure, Katherine
Leffel and Denis Bouchard (eds), 37–56. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
de Swart, Henriette, Winter, Yoad & Zwarts, Joost. 2007. Bare nominals and reference to capaci-
ties. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 25: 195–222.
Tat, Deniz. 2011. APs as reduced relatives: The case of bir in (some) varieties of Turkic. MIT
Working papers 62.
Tredinnick, Victoria. 1992. Movement in the Modern Greek noun phrase. Penn Review of Ling-
istics 17: 194–207.
Trips, Carola. 2012. The position proper of the adjective in Middle English: A result of language
contact? Ms, University of Mannheim.
Trommer, Jochen. 2002. The post-syntactic morphology of the Albanian preposed article: Evi-
dence for distributed morphology. Balkanistica 15: 349–363.
Troseth, Erika. 2009. Degree inversion and negative intensifier inversion in the English DP. The
Linguistic Review 26: 37–65.
Tsimpli, Ianthi-Maria & Stavrakaki, Stavroula. 1999. The effects of a morpho-syntactic deficit in
the determiner system: The case of a Greek SLI child. Lingua 108: 31–85.
Tsakali, Vina. 2008. Similarities in the interpretation of doubling constuctions. Paper presented
at the 2008 Meeting of the Department of Linguistics of the University of Thessaloniki.
132	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
Turano, Giuseppina. 2002. On modifiers preceded by the article in Albanian DPs. University of
Venice Working Papers in Linguistics 12: 169–215.
Vangsnes, Oystein. 1999. The Identification of Functional Architecture. PhD dissertation,
­
University of Bergen.
Vangsnes, Oystein. 2007. On the morpho-syntax of Scandinavian adjectives. Paper presented
at the Universität Stuttgart.
Velegrakis, Nikolaos. 2011. The Syntax of Greek Polydefinites. PhD dissertation, University
College London.
Vendler, Zeno. 1967. Linguistics in Philosophy. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Villalba, Xavier. 2007. True and spurious articles in Germanic and Romance. Cuadernos de
Liguistica derl I.U.I. Ortega y Gasset 14: 121–134.
de Vries, Mark. 2002. The Syntax of Relativization. PhD dissertation, University of Utrecht.
Vulchanova, Mila & Giusti, Guiliana. 1998. Fragments of Balkan nominal structure. In Posses-
sors, Predicates and Movement in the DP [Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today 22], Artemis
Alexiadou & Chris Wilder (eds), 333–360. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Woisetschlaeger, Erich. 1983. On the question of definiteness in an old man’s book. Linguistic
Inquiry 14: 137–154.
Wood, Johanna. 2002. Much about such. Studia Linguistica 59: 91–115.
Wood, Johanna & Vikner, Sten. 2011. Noun phrase structure and movement. In The Noun Phrase
in Romance and Germanic: Structure, Variation and Change [Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics
Today 171], Petra Sleeman & Harry Perridon (eds), 89–109. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Wood, Johanna. & Vikner, Sten. 2013. What’s to the left of the indefinite article? -Et sådan et
spørgsmål er svært at svare på. In Gode ord er bedre end guld. Festskrift til Henrik Jørgensen,
Simon Borchmann, Inger Schoonderbeek Hansen, Tina Thode Hougaard, Ole Togeby &
Peter Widell (eds), 515–540. Aarhus: Aarhus University.
Zamparelli, Roberto. 1993. Layers in the Determiner Phrase. PhD dissertation, University of
Rochester.
Zamparelli, Roberto. 2000. Definite and bare kind-denoting noun phrases. In Romance Lan-
guages and Linguistic Theory 2000: Selected Papers from Going Romance 2000 [Current Issues
in Linguistic Theory 232], Claire Beyssade, Reineke Bok-Bennema, Frank Drijkoningen &
Paola Monachesi (eds), 305–342. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Index
A
Albanian  2, 13–15, 18, 33, 79,
84–85, 87–88, 90–91, 94,
111–112, 124–125, 131–132
adjectival articles  3, 14, 79,
84–85, 87–88, 90, 111–112, 125
see also determiners
adjectival determiners  3, 14, 79,
87, 90, 112, 123–124
see also articles
B
Bavarian German  3, 95, 98–99,
102, 120
C
co-ordination  17, 52, 60–62, 65,
69, 118
close apposition  35, 40, 45–46,
51–52, 74, 107, 129
Containment Hypothesis  71
Chinese  7, 10, 13–14, 79, 92, 94,
112, 130–131
clitic doubling  21–26, 28–31,
35–36, 38, 60, 119, 123–124
D
definiteness  1–9, 11, 13, 16, 21, 26,
30, 35, 40, 53, 55–56, 59, 64,
66–67, 75, 80–82, 85, 90–92,
94, 103–104, 107, 111–115,
118–120, 123–132
spreading  3, 40, 75, 103,
107, 111
Danish  2–3, 67, 95, 114–115, 127
double marking  6, 39, 55, 64, 79
double articulation  1, 3, 6,
69, 130
determiner spreading  3, 13, 15,
18–19, 21, 23, 25–26, 28–36,
38–41, 46–47, 51–52, 56, 58–60,
68, 76, 79, 85, 87, 90, 94, 97,
107, 109, 115, 117, 119, 129
distributed morphology  13, 47,
83, 88–89, 127, 129, 131
degree word  3, 100
E
existential  16, 26
English  3–4, 9–10, 13, 16–18, 25,
50, 56, 63, 67, 70–71, 74–77,
79–80, 89, 94–98, 100, 102,
109, 112, 114–121, 123–128,
130–131
Old English  115–116,
126–127, 130
Middle English  116, 121,
126, 131
Present Day English 
76, 115–117
F
familiarity  8–9, 21–22, 28–29,
36, 38, 75, 112, 119, 126
French  2–4, 8, 13, 27, 53, 62,
67–70, 72–76, 87, 112, 114,
116–117, 119, 124, 128, 131
feature neutralization  17
focus  5, 13, 19–20, 34, 38, 50,
57, 85, 92, 99–100, 102,
123, 126
G
Greek determiner  15, 18–19,
21, 23, 29, 32, 34–35, 40, 56,
59, 68, 73, 85, 87, 94, 97, 115
gender  43, 45, 50, 54–55, 83
grammaticalization  33, 112, 114,
126, 129–130
German  3, 62, 95–96, 98–99,
102, 120, 123, 128, 130
H
Hebrew  2, 4, 13–14, 18, 50,
79–84, 87–88, 90, 94, 111–112,
118, 126, 130–131
I
indefinite determiners  3–4, 75,
95, 102, 105, 107–108
indefiniteness spreading  12, 52,
96, 107
individual level  56
intensifier  3, 75, 96–96, 131
doubling 96
intersectivity  32, 36, 112
Icelandic  2, 67, 114–115
L
lose apposition  34–35
M
multiple marking  1–2, 4–7, 13,
39, 75, 81, 94, 114–115, 120
Minimize Exponence  107, 131
N
novelty condition  108
Norwegian  2, 4, 10, 13, 15, 62,
65–67, 76–77, 102–104, 111,
113–117, 124
O
optional doubling  18
P
proper name  18, 22, 63
Prominence Condition  21–24,
28–29
134	 Multiple Determiners and the Structure of DPs
presupposition  16, 20, 34, 38,
41, 57, 124
Predicate Modification  36
predicate inversion  42, 49,
100–102, 104, 109, 121, 126
predicativity restriction  68
predicativity  32, 36, 68, 87, 112
Q
quantifier  9, 16, 29, 36–37, 51,
54, 70, 81–82, 97–98, 103, 105,
107, 128
R
referentiality  15–16, 29, 53
reduced relative clause  6, 11–13,
35, 52, 60, 68, 72, 74–75, 111,
113, 117
relator  12–13, 42–43, 79, 92–93,
95, 101–102, 104, 106, 112, 126
S
spreading  3–4, 6, 12–15, 18–19,
21, 23, 25–26, 28–41, 46–47,
51–53, 56, 58–60, 68, 75–76,
79, 82, 85, 87–88, 90, 94,
96–97, 102–105, 107–109,
111–112, 114–115, 117, 119, 129
see also determiner
specificity  8–10, 60, 67, 126
Swedish  2–4, 10, 13, 63, 65–67,
90, 96, 102–104, 111, 114–115,
124, 130
Swiss German  95, 130
substantivization  41–42, 47
spurious article  12, 42, 103–104,
111, 120, 132
stage level  56
split DP  6–7, 11–12, 67–68, 92,
99, 111, 114
Scandinavian  4, 13, 15, 18, 53,
62–64, 66–68, 79–80, 84, 87,
90, 94–95, 101–103, 112–115,
121, 123, 126–129, 132
T
Turkish  95, 117
U
uniqueness  9–10, 16, 67, 69
